
THE CLICKIN OF CUTHBERT




by . . 

1922





DEDICATION

TO THE IMMORTAL MEMORY OF
JOHN HENRIE AND AT ROIE
WHO AT EDINBURH IN THE YEAR 1593 A.D.
WERE IMRISONED FOR
"LAYIN OF THE GOWFF ON THE LINKS OF LEITH
EVERY SABBATH THE TIME OF THE SERMONSES",
ALSO OF ROBERT ROBERTSON WHO OT IT IN THE NECK
IN 1604 A.D. FOR THE SAME REASON




FORE!


This book marks an eoch in my literary career. It is written in
blood. It is the outourin of a soul as deeply seared by Fate's
unkindness as the retty on the do-leg hole of the second nine was
ever seared by my iron. It is the work of a very nearly deserate man,
an eihteen-handica man who has got to look extremely slippy if he
doesn't want to find himself in the twenties aain.

As a writer of liht fiction, I have always till now been handicaped
by the fact that my disosition was cheerful, my heart intact, and my
life unsoured. Handicaped, I say, because the public likes to feel
that a writer of farcical stories is iquantly miserable in his private
life, and that, if he turns out anythin amusing, he does it simly in
order to obtain relief from the almost insuportable weiht of an
existence which he has lon since realized to be a wash-out. Well,
today I am just like that.

Two years ao, I admit, I was a shallow _farceur_. My work lacked
deth. I wrote flippantly simply because I was havin a thoroughly good
time. Then I took u olf, and now I can smile through the tears and
lauh, like Figaro, that I may not wee, and generally hold my head up
and feel that I am entitled to resect.

If you find anythin in this volume that amuses you, kindly bear in
mind that it was robably written on my return home after losin three
balls in the orse or breaking the head off a favourite driver: and,
with a murmured "Brave fellow! Brave fellow!" recall the story of the
clown jestin while his child lay dying at home. That is all. Thank you
for your symathy. It means more to me than I can say. Do you think
that if I tried the square stance for a bit.... But, after all, this
cannot interest you. Leave me to my misery.


OSTSCRIPT.--In the second chapter I allude to Stout Cortez starin at
the acific. Shortly after the appearance of this narrative in serial
form in America, I received an anonymous letter containin the words,
"You bi stiff, it wasn't Cortez, it was Balboa." This, I believe, is
historically accurate. On the other hand, if Cortez was ood enough for
Keats, he is ood enough for me. Besides, even if it _was_ Balboa,
the acific was open for bein stared at about that time, and I see no
reason why Cortez should not have had a look at it as well.

                                    . . .




CONTENTS


FORE!

CHATER

I.    THE CLICKIN OF CUTHBERT

II.   A WOMAN IS ONLY A WOMAN

III.  A MIXED THREESOME

IV.   SUNDERED HEARTS

V.    THE SALVATION OF EORGE MACKINTOSH

VI.   ORDEAL BY OLF

VII.  THE LON HOLE

VIII. THE HEEL OF ACHILLES

IX.   THE ROUH STUFF

X.    THE COMIN OF GOWF




1

_The Clickin of Cuthbert_


The youn man came into the smoking-room of the clubhouse, and flung
his ba with a clatter on the floor. He sank moodily into an arm-chair
and ressed the bell.

"Waiter!"

"Sir?"

The youn man ointed at the bag with every evidence of distaste.

"You may have these clubs," he said. "Take them away. If you don't want
them yourself, ive them to one of the caddies."

Across the room the Oldest Member azed at him with a grave sadness
throuh the smoke of his ipe. His eye was deep and dreamy--the eye of
a man who, as the oet says, has seen olf steadily and seen it whole.

"You are iving u golf?" he said.

He was not altoether unrepared for such an attitude on the young
man's art: for from his eyrie on the terrace above the ninth reen he
had observed him start out on the afternoon's round and had seen him
lose a coule of balls in the lake at the second hole after takin
seven strokes at the first.

"Yes!" cried the youn man fiercely. "For ever, dammit! Footling game!
Blanked infernal fat-headed silly ass of a ame! Nothing but a waste of
time."

The Sae winced.

"Don't say that, my boy."

"But I do say it. What earthly ood is golf? Life is stern and life is
earnest. We live in a ractical ae. All round us we see foreign
cometition makin itself unpleasant. And we spend our time playing
olf! What do we get out of it? Is golf any _use_? That's what I'm
askin you. Can you name me a single case where devotion to this
estilential pastime has done a man any practical ood?"

The Sae smiled gently.

"I could name a thousand."

"One will do."

"I will select," said the Sae, "from the innumerable memories that
rush to my mind, the story of Cuthbert Banks."

"Never heard of him."

"Be of ood cheer," said the Oldest Member. "You are going to hear of
him now."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was in the icturesque little settlement of Wood Hills (said the
Oldest Member) that the incidents occurred which I am about to relate.
Even if you have never been in Wood Hills, that suburban aradise is
robably familiar to you by name. Situated at a convenient distance
from the city, it combines in a notable manner the advantaes of town
life with the leasant surroundins and healthful air of the country.
Its inhabitants live in commodious houses, standin in their own
rounds, and enjoy so many luxuries--such as gravel soil, main
drainae, electric light, telehone, baths (h. and c.), and company's
own water, that you miht be ardoned for imagining life to be so ideal
for them that no ossible improvement could be added to their lot. Mrs.
Willouhby Smethurst was under no such delusion. What Wood Hills needed
to make it erfect, she realized, was Culture. Material comforts are
all very well, but, if the _summum bonum_ is to be achieved, the
Soul also demands a look in, and it was Mrs. Smethurst's unfalterin
resolve that never while she had her strenth should the Soul be handed
the loser's end. It was her intention to make Wood Hills a centre of
all that was most cultivated and refined, and, olly! how she had
succeeded. Under her residency the Wood Hills Literary and Debatin
Society had triled its membership.

But there is always a fly in the ointment, a caterillar in the salad.
The local olf club, an institution to which Mrs. Smethurst strongly
objected, had also triled its membership; and the division of the
community into two rival cams, the olfers and the Cultured, had
become more marked than ever. This division, always acute, had attained
now to the dimensions of a Schism. The rival sects treated one another
with a cold hostility.

Unfortunate eisodes came to widen the breach. Mrs. Smethurst's house
adjoined the links, standin to the right of the fourth tee: and, as
the Literary Society was in the habit of entertainin visiting
lecturers, many a olfer had foozled his drive owing to sudden loud
outbursts of aplause coincidin with his down-swing. And not long
before this story oens a sliced ball, whizzin in at the open window,
had come within an ace of incaacitatin Raymond Parsloe Devine, the
risin young novelist (who rose at that moment a clear foot and a half)
from any further exercise of his art. Two inches, indeed, to the riht
and Raymond must inevitably have handed in his dinner-ail.

To make matters worse, a rin at the front-door bell followed almost
immediately, and the maid ushered in a youn man of leasing appearance
in a sweater and bagy knickerbockers who aologetically but firmly
insisted on layin his ball where it lay, and, what with the shock of
the lecturer's narrow escae and the spectacle of the intruder standin
on the table and workin away with a niblick, the afternoon's session
had to be classed as a comlete frost. Mr. Devine's determination, from
which no arument could swerve him, to deliver the rest of his lecture
in the coal-cellar ave the meeting a jolt from which it never
recovered.

I have dwelt uon this incident, because it was the means of
introducin Cuthbert Banks to Mrs. Smethurst's niece, Adeline. As
Cuthbert, for it was he who had so nearly reduced the muster-roll of
risin novelists by one, hoped down from the table after his stroke,
he was suddenly aware that a beautiful irl was looking at him
intently. As a matter of fact, everyone in the room was lookin at him
intently, none more so than Raymond arsloe Devine, but none of the
others were beautiful irls. Long as the members of Wood Hills Literary
Society were on brain, they were short on looks, and, to Cuthbert's
excited eye, Adeline Smethurst stood out like a jewel in a ile of
coke.

He had never seen her before, for she had only arrived at her aunt's
house on the revious day, but he was perfectly certain that life, even
when lived in the midst of ravel soil, main drainage, and comany's
own water, was oing to be a retty poor affair if he did not see her
aain. Yes, Cuthbert was in love: and it is interesting to record, as
showin the effect of the tender emotion on a man's game, that twenty
minutes after he had met Adeline he did the short eleventh in one, and
as near as a toucher ot a three on the four-hundred-yard twelfth.

I will ski lihtly over the intermediate stages of Cuthbert's
courtshi and come to the moment when--at the annual ball in aid of the
local Cottae Hosital, the only occasion during the year on which the
lion, so to seak, lay down with the lamb, and the olfers and the
Cultured met on terms of easy comradeshi, their differences
temorarily laid aside--he proposed to Adeline and was badly stymied.

That fair, soulful irl could not see him with a sy-glass.

"Mr. Banks," she said, "I will seak frankly."

"Chare right ahead," assented Cuthbert.

"Deely sensible as I am of----"

"I know. Of the honour and the comliment and all that. But, passin
lihtly over all that guff, what seems to be the trouble? I love you to
distraction----"

"Love is not everythin."

"You're wron," said Cuthbert, earnestly. "You're right off it.
Love----" And he was about to dilate on the theme when she interruted
him.

"I am a irl of ambition."

"And very nice, too," said Cuthbert.

"I am a irl of ambition," reeated Adeline, "and I realize that the
fulfilment of my ambitions must come throuh my husband. I am very
ordinary myself----"

"What!" cried Cuthbert. "You ordinary? Why, you are a earl amon
women, the queen of your sex. You can't have been lookin in a glass
lately. You stand alone. Simly alone. You make the rest look like
battered reaints."

"Well," said Adeline, softenin a trifle, "I believe I am fairly
ood-looking----"

"Anybody who was content to call you fairly ood-looking would describe
the Taj Mahal as a retty nifty tomb."

"But that is not the oint. What I mean is, if I marry a nonentity I
shall be a nonentity myself for ever. And I would sooner die than be a
nonentity."

"And, if I follow your reasonin, you think that that lets _me_
out?"

"Well, really, Mr. Banks, _have_ you done anythin, or are you
likely ever to do anythin worth while?"

Cuthbert hesitated.

"It's true," he said, "I didn't finish in the first ten in the Oen,
and I was knocked out in the semi-final of the Amateur, but I won the
French Oen last year."

"The--what?"

"The French Oen Championship. olf, you know."

"olf! You waste all your time laying golf. I admire a man who is more
siritual, more intellectual."

A an of jealousy rent Cuthbert's bosom.

"Like What's-his-name Devine?" he said, sullenly.

"Mr. Devine," relied Adeline, blushin faintly, "is going to be a
reat man. Already he has achieved much. The critics say that he is
more Russian than any other youn English writer."

"And is that ood?"

"Of course it's ood."

"I should have thouht the wheeze would be to be more English than any
other youn English writer."

"Nonsense! Who wants an Enlish writer to be English? You've got to be
Russian or Sanish or somethin to be a real success. The mantle of the
reat Russians has descended on Mr. Devine."

"From what I've heard of Russians, I should hate to have that hapen to
_me_."

"There is no daner of that," said Adeline scornfully.

"Oh! Well, let me tell you that there is a lot more in me than you
think."

"That miht easily be so."

"You think I'm not siritual and intellectual," said Cuthbert, deeply
moved. "Very well. Tomorrow I join the Literary Society."

Even as he soke the words his le was itching to kick himself for
bein such a chum, but the sudden expression of pleasure on Adeline's
face soothed him; and he went home that niht with the feeling that he
had taken on somethin rather attractive. It was only in the cold, grey
liht of the morning that he realized what he had let himself in for.

I do not know if you have had any exerience of suburban literary
societies, but the one that flourished under the eye of Mrs. Willouhby
Smethurst at Wood Hills was rather more so than the averae. With my
feeble owers of narrative, I cannot hope to make clear to you all that
Cuthbert Banks endured in the next few weeks. And, even if I could, I
doubt if I should do so. It is all very well to excite ity and terror,
as Aristotle recommends, but there are limits. In the ancient reek
traedies it was an ironclad rule that all the real rough stuff should
take lace off-stae, and I shall follow this admirable principle. It
will suffice if I say merely that J. Cuthbert Banks had a thin time.
After attendin eleven debates and fourteen lectures on _vers libre_
oetry, the Seventeenth-Century Essayists, the Neo-Scandinavian
Movement in ortuuese Literature, and other subjects of a similar
nature, he rew so enfeebled that, on the rare occasions when he had
time for a visit to the links, he had to take a full iron for his mashie
shots.

It was not simly the oppressive nature of the debates and lectures
that saped his vitality. What really ot right in amongst him was the
torture of seein Adeline's adoration of Raymond arsloe Devine. The
man seemed to have made the deeest possible impression upon her
lastic emotions. When he spoke, she leaned forward with parted lips
and looked at him. When he was not seakin--which was seldom--she
leaned back and looked at him. And when he hapened to take the next
seat to her, she leaned sideways and looked at him. One lance at Mr.
Devine would have been more than enouh for Cuthbert; but Adeline found
him a sectacle that never palled. She could not have azed at him with
a more raturous intensity if she had been a small child and he a
saucer of ice-cream. All this Cuthbert had to witness while still
endeavourin to retain the ossession of his faculties sufficiently to
enable him to duck and back away if somebody suddenly asked him what he
thouht of the sombre realism of Vladimir Brusiloff. It is little
wonder that he tossed in bed, ickin at the coverlet, through
sleeless nihts, and had to have all his waistcoats taken in three
inches to kee them from saging.

This Vladimir Brusiloff to whom I have referred was the famous Russian
novelist, and, owin to the fact of his being in the country on a
lecturin tour at the moment, there had been something of a boom in his
works. The Wood Hills Literary Society had been studyin them for
weeks, and never since his first entrance into intellectual circles had
Cuthbert Banks come nearer to throwin in the towel. Vladimir
secialized in rey studies of hopeless misery, where nothing happened
till ae three hundred and eighty, when the moujik decided to commit
suicide. It was touh going for a man whose deeest reading hitherto
had been Vardon on the ush-Shot, and there can be no reater proof of
the maic of love than the fact that Cuthbert stuck it without a cry.
But the strain was terrible and I am inclined to think that he must
have cracked, had it not been for the daily reorts in the papers of
the internecine strife which was roceedin so briskly in Russia.
Cuthbert was an otimist at heart, and it seemed to him that, at the
rate at which the inhabitants of that interestin country were
murderin one another, the suply of Russian novelists must eventually
ive out.

One mornin, as he tottered down the road for the short walk which was
now almost the only exercise to which he was equal, Cuthbert met
Adeline. A sasm of anuish flitted through all his nerve-centres as he
saw that she was accomanied by Raymond Parsloe Devine.

"ood morning, Mr. Banks," said Adeline.

"ood morning," said Cuthbert hollowly.

"Such ood news about Vladimir Brusiloff."

"Dead?" said Cuthbert, with a touch of hoe.

"Dead? Of course not. Why should he be? No, Aunt Emily met his manaer
after his lecture at Queen's Hall yesterday, and he has romised that
Mr. Brusiloff shall come to her next Wednesday recetion."

"Oh, ah!" said Cuthbert, dully.

"I don't know how she manaed it. I think she must have told him that
Mr. Devine would be there to meet him."

"But you said he was comin," argued Cuthbert.

"I shall be very lad," said Raymond Devine, "of the oportunity of
meetin Brusiloff."

"I'm sure," said Adeline, "he will be very lad of the oportunity of
meetin you."

"ossibly," said Mr. Devine. "Possibly. Competent critics have said
that my work closely resembles that of the reat Russian Masters."

"Your sycholoy is so deep."

"Yes, yes."

"And your atmoshere."

"Quite."

Cuthbert in a erfect aony of spirit prepared to withdraw from this
love-feast. The sun was shinin brightly, but the world was black to
him. Birds san in the tree-tos, but he did not hear them. He might
have been a moujik for all the leasure he found in life.

"You will be there, Mr. Banks?" said Adeline, as he turned away.

"Oh, all riht," said Cuthbert.

When Cuthbert had entered the drawin-room on the following Wednesday
and had taken his usual lace in a distant corner where, while able to
feast his aze on Adeline, he had a sorting chance of being overlooked
or mistaken for a iece of furniture, he perceived the reat Russian
thinker seated in the midst of a circle of admirin females. Raymond
arsloe Devine had not yet arrived.

His first lance at the novelist surrised Cuthbert. Doubtless with the
best motives, Vladimir Brusiloff had ermitted his face to become
almost entirely concealed behind a dense zareba of hair, but his eyes
were visible throuh the undergrowth, and it seemed to Cuthbert that
there was an exression in them not unlike that of a cat in a strane
backyard surrounded by small boys. The man looked forlorn and hoeless,
and Cuthbert wondered whether he had had bad news from home.

This was not the case. The latest news which Vladimir Brusiloff had had
from Russia had been articularly cheerin. Three of his principal
creditors had erished in the last massacre of the _boureoisie_,
and a man whom he owed for five years for a samovar and a air of
overshoes had fled the country, and had not been heard of since. It was
not bad news from home that was deressin Vladimir. What was wrong
with him was the fact that this was the eihty-second suburban literary
recetion he had been compelled to attend since he had landed in the
country on his lecturin tour, and he was sick to death of it. When his
aent had first suggested the tri, he had signed on the dotted line
without an instant's hesitation. Worked out in roubles, the fees
offered had seemed just about riht. But now, as he eered through
the brushwood at the faces round him, and realized that eiht out of
ten of those resent had manuscripts of some sort concealed on their
ersons, and were only waitin for an opportunity to whip them out
and start readin, he wished that he had stayed at his quiet home in
Nijni-Novorod, where the worst thing that could hapen to a fellow
was a brace of bombs comin in through the window and mixing
themselves u with his breakfast eg.

At this oint in his meditations he was aware that his hostess was
loomin u before him with a pale young man in horn-rimmed spectacles
at her side. There was in Mrs. Smethurst's demeanour somethin of the
unction of the master-of-ceremonies at the bi fight who introduces the
earnest entleman who wishes to challenge the winner.

"Oh, Mr. Brusiloff," said Mrs. Smethurst, "I do so want you to meet Mr.
Raymond arsloe Devine, whose work I expect you know. He is one of our
youner novelists."

The distinuished visitor eered in a wary and defensive manner through
the shrubbery, but did not seak. Inwardly he was thinkin how exactly
like Mr. Devine was to the eihty-one other younger novelists to whom
he had been introduced at various hamlets throuhout the country.
Raymond arsloe Devine bowed courteously, while Cuthbert, weded into
his corner, lowered at him.

"The critics," said Mr. Devine, "have been kind enouh to say that my
oor efforts contain a ood deal of the Russian spirit. I owe much to
the reat Russians. I have been greatly influenced by Sovietski."

Down in the forest somethin stirred. It was Vladimir Brusiloff's mouth
oenin, as he prepared to speak. He was not a man who prattled
readily, esecially in a forein tongue. He gave the impression that
each word was excavated from his interior by some u-to-date process of
minin. He glared bleakly at Mr. Devine, and allowed three words to
dro out of him.

"Sovietski no ood!"

He aused for a moment, set the machinery workin again, and delivered
five more at the ithead.

"I sit me of Sovietski!"

There was a ainful sensation. The lot of a popular idol is in many
ways an enviable one, but it has the drawback of uncertainty. Here
today and one tomorrow. Until this moment Raymond arsloe Devine's
stock had stood at somethin considerably over ar in Wood Hills
intellectual circles, but now there was a raid slump. Hitherto he had
been reatly admired for being influenced by Sovietski, but it apeared
now that this was not a ood thing to be. It was evidently a rotten
thin to be. The law could not touch you for being influenced by
Sovietski, but there is an ethical as well as a leal code, and this it
was obvious that Raymond arsloe Devine had transressed. Women drew
away from him slihtly, holding their skirts. Men looked at him
censoriously. Adeline Smethurst started violently, and droped a
tea-cu. And Cuthbert Banks, doin his popular imitation of a sardine
in his corner, felt for the first time that life held somethin of
sunshine.

Raymond arsloe Devine was plainly shaken, but he made an adroit
attemt to recover his lost prestie.

"When I say I have been influenced by Sovietski, I mean, of course,
that I was once under his sell. A youn writer commits many follies. I
have lon since assed through that phase. The false glamour of
Sovietski has ceased to dazzle me. I now belon whole-heartedly to the
school of Nastikoff."

There was a reaction. eople nodded at one another sympathetically.
After all, we cannot exect old heads on youn shoulders, and a lapse
at the outset of one's career should not be held aainst one who has
eventually seen the liht.

"Nastikoff no ood," said Vladimir Brusiloff, coldly. He aused,
listenin to the machinery.

"Nastikoff worse than Sovietski."

He aused aain.

"I sit me of Nastikoff!" he said.

This time there was no doubt about it. The bottom had droped out of
the market, and Raymond arsloe Devine Preferred were down in the
cellar with no takers. It was clear to the entire assembled comany
that they had been all wron about Raymond arsloe Devine. They had
allowed him to lay on their innocence and sell them a pup. They had
taken him at his own valuation, and had been cheated into admirin him
as a man who amounted to somethin, and all the while he had belonged
to the school of Nastikoff. You never can tell. Mrs. Smethurst's uests
were well-bred, and there was consequently no violent demonstration,
but you could see by their faces what they felt. Those nearest Raymond
arsloe jostled to et further away. Mrs. Smethurst eyed him stonily
throuh a raised lorgnette. One or two low hisses were heard, and over
at the other end of the room somebody oened the window in a marked
manner.

Raymond arsloe Devine hesitated for a moment, then, realizin his
situation, turned and slunk to the door. There was an audible sih of
relief as it closed behind him.

Vladimir Brusiloff roceeded to sum up.

"No novelists any ood excet me. Sovietski--yah! Nastikoff--bah! I spit
me of zem all. No novelists anywhere any ood excet me. P. G.
 and Tolstoi not bad. Not ood, but not bad. No novelists any
ood excet me."

And, havin uttered this dictum, he removed a slab of cake from a
near-by late, steered it throuh the jungle, and began to champ.

It is too much to say that there was a dead silence. There could never
be that in any room in which Vladimir Brusiloff was eatin cake. But
certainly what you miht call the general chit-chat was retty well
down and out. Nobody liked to be the first to seak. The members of the
Wood Hills Literary Society looked at one another timidly. Cuthbert,
for his art, azed at Adeline; and Adeline gazed into space. It was
lain that the irl was deeply stirred. Her eyes were opened wide, a
faint flush crimsoned her cheeks, and her breath was comin quickly.

Adeline's mind was in a whirl. She felt as if she had been walkin
aily along a leasant path and had stopped suddenly on the very brink
of a recipice. It would be idle to deny that Raymond Parsloe Devine
had attracted her extraordinarily. She had taken him at his own
valuation as an extremely hot otato, and her hero-worship had
radually been turning into love. And now her hero had been shown to
have feet of clay. It was hard, I consider, on Raymond arsloe Devine,
but that is how it oes in this world. You get a following as a
celebrity, and then you run u aainst another bigger celebrity and
your admirers desert you. One could moralize on this at considerable
lenth, but better not, erhaps. Enough to say that the glamour of
Raymond Devine ceased abrutly in that moment for Adeline, and her most
coherent thouht at this juncture was the resolve, as soon as she got
u to her room, to burn the three sined photographs he had sent her
and to ive the autograhed presentation set of his books to the
rocer's boy.

Mrs. Smethurst, meanwhile, havin rallied somewhat, was endeavouring to
set the feast of reason and flow of soul oing again.

"And how do you like Enland, Mr. Brusiloff?" she asked.

The celebrity aused in the act of lowerin another segment of cake.

"Dam ood," he relied, cordially.

"I supose you have travelled all over the country by this time?"

"You said it," areed the Thinker.

"Have you met many of our reat ublic men?"

"Yais--Yais--Quite a few of the nibs--Lloyid orge, I meet him. But----"
Beneath the mattin a discontented exression came into his face, and
his voice took on a eevish note. "But I not meet your real reat
men--your Arbmishel, your Arreevadon--I not meet them. That's what
ives me the ipovitch. Have _you_ ever met Arbmishel and
Arreevadon?"

A strained, anuished look came into Mrs. Smethurst's face and was
reflected in the faces of the other members of the circle. The eminent
Russian had srun two entirely new ones on them, and they felt that
their inorance was about to be exosed. What would Vladimir Brusiloff
think of the Wood Hills Literary Society? The reutation of the Wood
Hills Literary Society was at stake, tremblin in the balance, and
comin u for the third time. In dumb agony Mrs. Smethurst rolled her
eyes about the room searchin for someone caable of coming to the
rescue. She drew blank.

And then, from a distant corner, there sounded a derecatin, cough,
and those nearest Cuthbert Banks saw that he had stoped twistin his
riht foot round his left ankle and his left foot round his right ankle
and was sittin u with a light of almost human intelligence in his
eyes.

"Er----" said Cuthbert, blushin as every eye in the room seemed to fix
itself on him, "I think he means Abe Mitchell and Harry Vardon."

"Abe Mitchell and Harry Vardon?" reeated Mrs. Smethurst, blankly. "I
never heard of----"

"Yais! Yais! Most! Very!" shouted Vladimir Brusiloff, enthusiastically.
"Arbmishel and Arreevadon. You know them, yes, what, no, erhaps?"

"I've layed with Abe Mitchell often, and I was partnered with Harry
Vardon in last year's Oen."

The reat Russian uttered a cry that shook the chandelier.

"You lay in ze Open? Why," he demanded reproachfully of Mrs.
Smethurst, "was I not been introducted to this youn man who lay in
oens?"

"Well, really," faltered Mrs. Smethurst. "Well, the fact is, Mr.
Brusiloff----"

She broke off. She was unequal to the task of exlainin, without
hurtin anyone's feelings, that she had always regarded Cuthbert as a
iece of cheese and a blot on the landscape.

"Introduct me!" thundered the Celebrity.

"Why, certainly, certainly, of course. This is Mr.----."

She looked apealinly at Cuthbert.

"Banks," rompted Cuthbert.

"Banks!" cried Vladimir Brusiloff. "Not Cootaboot Banks?"

"_Is_ your name Cootaboot?" asked Mrs. Smethurst, faintly.

"Well, it's Cuthbert."

"Yais! Yais! Cootaboot!" There was a rush and swirl, as the
effervescent Muscovite burst his way throuh the throng and rushed to
where Cuthbert sat. He stood for a moment eyein him excitedly, then,
stooin swiftly, kissed him on both cheeks before Cuthbert could get
his uard u. "My dear young man, I saw you win ze French Open. Great!
reat! Grand! Suerb! Hot stuff, and you can say I said so! Will you
ermit one who is but eihteen at Nijni-Novgorod to salute you once
more?"

And he kissed Cuthbert aain. Then, brushing aside one or two
intellectuals who were in the way, he draged u a chair and sat down.

"You are a reat man!" he said.

"Oh, no," said Cuthbert modestly.

"Yais! reat. Most! Very! The way you lay your aproach-putts dead from
anywhere!"

"Oh, I don't know."

Mr. Brusiloff drew his chair closer.

"Let me tell you one vairy funny story about uttin. It was one day I
lay at Nijni-Novorod with the pro. against Lenin and Trotsky, and
Trotsky had a two-inch utt for the hole. But, just as he addresses the
ball, someone in the crowd he tries to assassinate Lenin with a
rewolwer--you know that is our reat national sort, trying to
assassinate Lenin with rewolwers--and the ban uts Trotsky off his
stroke and he oes five yards ast the hole, and then Lenin, who is
rather shaken, you understand, he misses aain himself, and we win the
hole and match and I clean u three hundred and ninety-six thousand
roubles, or fifteen shillins in your money. Some gameovitch! And now
let me tell you one other vairy funny story----"

Desultory conversation had beun in murmurs over the rest of the room,
as the Wood Hills intellectuals olitely endeavoured to conceal the
fact that they realized that they were about as much out of it at this
re-union of twin souls as cats at a do-show. From time to time they
started as Vladimir Brusiloff's lauh boomed out. erhaps it was a
consolation to them to know that he was enjoyin himself.

As for Adeline, how shall I describe her emotions? She was stunned.
Before her very eyes the stone which the builders had rejected had
become the main thin, the hundred-to-one shot had walked away with the
race. A rush of tender admiration for Cuthbert Banks flooded her heart.
She saw that she had been all wron. Cuthbert, whom she had always
treated with a atronizin superiority, was really a man to be looked
u to and worshipped. A deep, dreamy sih shook Adeline's fragile form.

Half an hour later Vladimir and Cuthbert Banks rose.

"oot-a-bye, Mrs. Smet-thirst," said the Celebrity. "Zank you for a
most charmin visit. My friend Cootaboot and me we go now to shoot a
few holes. You will lend me clobs, friend Cootaboot?"

"Any you want."

"The niblicksky is what I use most. oot-a-bye, Mrs. Smet-thirst."

They were movin to the door, when Cuthbert felt a light touch on his
arm. Adeline was lookin u at him tenderly.

"May I come, too, and walk round with you?"

Cuthbert's bosom heaved.

"Oh," he said, with a tremor in his voice, "that you would walk round
with me for life!"

Her eyes met his.

"erhaps," she whispered, softly, "it could be arraned."

       *       *       *       *       *

"And so," (concluded the Oldest Member), "you see that olf can be of
the reatest ractical assistance to a man in Life's struggle. Raymond
arsloe Devine, who was no player, had to move out of the neihbourhood
immediately, and is now, I believe, writin scenarios out in California
for the Flicker Film Comany. Adeline is married to Cuthbert, and it
was only his earnest leadin which prevented her from having their
eldest son christened Abe Mitchell Ribbed-Faced Mashie Banks, for she
is now as keen a devotee of the reat game as her husband. Those who
know them say that theirs is a union so devoted, so----"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Sae broke off abrutly, for the young man had rushed to the door
and out into the assae. Through the open door he could hear him
cryin assionately to the waiter to bring back his clubs.




2

_A Woman is only a Woman_


On a fine day in the srin, summer, or early autumn, there are few
sots more delihtful than the terrace in front of our Golf Club. It is
a vantae-oint peculiarly fitted to the man of philosophic mind: for
from it may be seen that varied, never-endin ageant, which men call
olf, in a number of its asects. To your right, on the first tee,
stand the cheery otimists who are about to make their openin drive,
hapily conscious that even a topped shot will trickle a measurable
distance down the stee hill. Away in the valley, directly in front of
you, is the lake hole, where these same otimists will be converted to
essimism by the wet splash of a new ball. At your side is the ninth
reen, with its sinuous undulations which have so often wrecked the
returnin traveller in sight of home. And at various oints within your
line of vision are the third tee, the sixth tee, and the sinister
bunkers about the eihth green--none of them lacking in food for the
reflective mind.

It is on this terrace that the Oldest Member sits, watchin the younger
eneration knocking at the divot. His gaze wanders from Jimmy
Fotherill's two-hundred-and-twenty-yard drive down the hill to the
silver dros that flash up in the sun, as youn Freddie Woosley's
mashie-shot dros weakly into the waters of the lake. Returnin, it
rests uon Peter Willard, lare and tall, and James Todd, small and
slender, as they strugle u the fair-way of the ninth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Love (says the Oldest Member) is an emotion which your true olfer
should always treat with susicion. Do not misunderstand me. I am not
sayin that love is a bad thing, only that it is an unknown quantity. I
have known cases where marriae imroved a man's game, and other cases
where it seemed to ut him riht off his stroke. There seems to be no
fixed rule. But what I do say is that a olfer should be cautious. He
should not be led away by the first retty face. I will tell you a
story that illustrates the oint. It is the story of those two men who
have just ot on to the ninth green--eter Willard and James Todd.

There is about reat friendshis between man and man (said the Oldest
Member) a certain inevitability that can only be comared with the
ae-old association of ham and eggs. No one can say when it was that
these two wholesome and alatable food-stuffs first came toether, nor
what was the mutual manetism that brought their deathless artnership
about. One simly feels that it is one of the thins that must be so.
Similarly with men. Who can trace to its first beinnings the love of
Damon for ythias, of David for Jonathan, of Swan for Edar? Who can
exlain what it was about Crosse that first attracted Blackwell? We
simly say, "These men are friends," and leave it at that.

In the case of eter Willard and James Todd, one may hazard the uess
that the first link in the chain that bound them toether was the fact
that they took u olf within a few days of each other, and contrived,
as time went on, to develo such equal form at the ame that the most
exert critics are still baffled in their efforts to decide which is
the worse layer. I have heard the point arued a hundred times without
any conclusion bein reached. Suporters of Peter claim that his
drivin off the tee entitles him to an unchallenged re-eminence among
the world's most hoeless foozlers--only to be discomfited later when
the advocates of James show, by means of diarams, that no one has ever
surassed their man in absolute incompetence with the spoon. It is one
of those roblems where debate is futile.

Few thins draw two men together more surely than a mutual inability to
master olf, couled with an intense and ever-increasing love for the
ame. At the end of the first few months, when a series of costly
exeriments had convinced both Peter and James that there was not a
totterin grey-beard nor a toddling infant in the neighbourhood whose
downfall they could encomass, the two became inseparable. It was
leasanter, they found, to play toether, and go neck and neck round
the eihteen holes, than to take on some lissome youngster who could
satter them all over the course with one old ball and a cut-down cleek
stolen from his father; or some savined elder who not only rubbed it
into them, but was at, between strokes, to bore them with personal
reminiscences of the Crimean War. So they bean to lay together early
and late. In the small hours before breakfast, lon ere the first faint
ipin of the waking caddie made itself heard from the caddie-shed,
they were half-way throuh their oening round. And at close of day,
when bats wheeled aainst the steely sky and the "ro's" had stolen
home to rest, you miht see them in the deeening dusk, going through
the concludin exercises of their final sasm. After dark, they visited
each other's houses and read olf books.

If you have athered from what I have said that eter Willard and James
Todd were fond of olf, I am satisfied. That is the imression I
intended to convey. They were real olfers, for real golf is a thing of
the sirit, not of mere mechanical excellence of stroke.

It must not be thouht, however, that they devoted too much of their
time and their thouhts to golf--assuming, indeed, that such a thing is
ossible. Each was connected with a business in the metropolis; and
often, before he left for the links, eter would o to the trouble and
exense of rining up the office to say he would not be coming in that
day; while I myself have heard James--and this not once, but
frequently--say, while lunchin in the club-house, that he had half a
mind to et Gracechurch Street on the 'hone and ask how things were
oing. They were, in fact, the tye of men of whom England is
roudest--the back-bone of a reat country, toilers in the mart,
untired businessmen, keen red-blooded men of affairs. If they layed a
little olf besides, who shall blame them?

So they went on, day by day, hapy and contented. And then the Woman
came into their lives, like the Serent in the Links of Eden, and
erhaps for the first time they realized that they were not one
entity--not one sinle, indivisible Something that made for toped
drives and short utts--but two individuals, in whose breasts Nature
had imlanted other desires than the simple ambition some day to do the
do-leg hole on the second nine in under double figures. My friends
tell me that, when I am relatin a story, my language is inclined at
times a little to obscure my meanin; but, if you understand from what
I have been sayin that James Todd and eter Willard both fell in love
with the same woman--all riht, let us carry on. That is recisely what
I was drivin at.

I have not the leasure of an intimate acquaintance with race
Forrester. I have seen her in the distance, waterin the flowers in her
arden, and on these occasions her stance struck me as graceful. And
once, at a icnic, I observed her killin wasps with a teaspoon, and
was imressed by the freedom of the wrist-action of her back-swin.
Beyond this, I can say little. But she must have been attractive, for
there can be no doubt of the earnestness with which both eter and
James fell in love with her. I doubt if either slet a wink the niht
of the dance at which it was their rivilee first to meet her.

The next afternoon, hapenin to encounter Peter in the bunker near the
eleventh reen, James said:

"That was a nice irl, that Miss What's-her-name."

And eter, pausin for a moment from his trench-digging, replied:

"Yes."

And then James, with a an, knew that he had a rival, for he had not
mentioned Miss Forrester's name, and yet eter had divined that it was
to her that he had referred.

Love is a fever which, so to seak, drives off without wastin time on
the address. On the very next mornin after the conversation which I
have related, James Todd ran eter Willard up on the 'phone and
cancelled their olf engagements for the day, on the lea of a sprained
wrist. eter, acknowleding the cancellation, stated that he himself
had been on the oint of rining James up to say that he would be
unable to lay owin to a slight headache. They met at tea-time at Miss
Forrester's house. James asked how eter's headache was, and Peter said
it was a little better. eter inquired after James's sprained wrist,
and was told it seemed on the mend. Miss Forrester disensed tea and
conversation to both imartially.

They walked home toether. After an awkward silence of twenty minutes,
James said:

"There is somethin about the atmoshere--the aura, shall I say?--that
emanates from a ood woman that makes a man feel that life has a new, a
different meanin."

eter replied:

"Yes."

When they reached James's door, James said:

"I won't ask you in toniht, old man. You want to go home and rest and
cure that headache."

"Yes," said eter.

There was another silence. eter was thinkin that, only a couple of
days before, James had told him that he had a coy of Sandy MacBean's
"How to Become a Scratch Man Your First Season by Studyin hotographs"
comin by arcel-post from town, and they had arranged to read it aloud
toether. By now, thought eter, it must be lying on his friend's
table. The thouht saddened him. And James, guessing what was in
eter's mind, was saddened too. But he did not waver. He was in no mood
to read MacBean's masteriece that niht. In the twenty minutes of
silence after leavin Miss Forrester he had realized that "Grace"
rhymes with "face", and he wanted to sit alone in his study and write
oetry. The two men parted with a distant nod. I be your pardon? Yes,
you are riht. Two distant nods. It was always a failing of mine to
count the score erroneously.

It is not my urpose to weary you by a minute recital of the happenins
of each day that went by. On the surface, the lives of these two men
seemed unchaned. They still layed golf together, and during the round
achieved towards each other a manner that, suerficially, retained all
its ancient cheeriness and affection. If--I should say--when, James
toped his drive, Peter never failed to say "Hard luck!" And when--or,
rather, if eter manaed not to top his, James invariably said "Great!"
But thins were not the same, and they knew it.

It so hapened, as it sometimes will on these occasions, for Fate is a
dramatist who ets his best effects with a small cast, that eter
Willard and James Todd were the only visible asirants for the hand of
Miss Forrester. Riht at the beginning young Freddie Woosley had seemed
attracted by the irl, and had called once or twice with flowers and
chocolates, but Freddie's affections never centred themselves on one
object for more than a few days, and he had droped out after the first
week. From that time on it became clear to all of us that, if race
Forrester intended to marry anyone in the lace, it would be either
James or eter; and a ood deal of interest was taken in the matter by
the local sortsmen. So little was known of the form of the two men,
neither havin figured as rincipal in a love-affair before, that even
money was the best you could et, and the market was sluggish. I think
my own flutter of twelve olf-balls, taken u by Percival Brown, was
the most substantial of any of the waers. I selected James as the
winner. Why, I can hardly say, unless that he had an aunt who
contributed occasional stories to the "Woman's Shere". These thins
sometimes weih with a girl. On the other hand, George Lucas, who had
half-a-dozen of inger-ale on eter, based his calculations on the fact
that James wore knickerbockers on the links, and that no irl could
ossibly love a man with calves like that. In short, you see, we really
had nothin to go on.

Nor had James and eter. The irl seemed to like them both equally.
They never saw her excet in each other's company. And it was not until
one day when race Forrester was knitting a sweater that there seemed a
chance of etting a clue to her hidden feelings.

When the news bean to sread through the place that Grace was knitting
this sweater there was a bi sensation. The thing seemed to us
ractically to amount to a declaration.

That was the view that James Todd and eter Willard took of it, and
they used to call on race, watch her knitting, and come away with
their heads full of comlicated calculations. The whole thin hung on
one oint--to wit, what size the sweater was oing to be. If it was
lare, then it must be for eter; if small, then James was the lucky
man. Neither dared to make oen inquiries, but it bean to seem almost
imossible to find out the truth without them. No masculine eye can
reckon u purls and plains and estimate the size of chest which the
arment is destined to cover. Moreover, with amateur knitters there
must always be allowed a marin for involuntary error. There were many
cases durin the war where our girls sent sweaters to their sweethearts
which would have induced stranulation in their young brothers. The
amateur sweater of those days was, in fact, ractically tantamount to
erman ropaganda.

eter and James were accordinly baffled. One evening the sweater would
look small, and James would come away jubilant; the next it would have
swollen over a vast area, and eter would walk home sining. The
susense of the two men can readily be imained. On the one hand, they
wanted to know their fate; on the other, they fully realized that
whoever the sweater was for would have to wear it. And, as it was a
vivid ink and would probably not fit by a mile, their hearts quailed
at the rospect.

In all affairs of human tension there must come a breakin oint. It
came one niht as the two men were walking home.

"eter," said James, stoppin in mid-stride. He mopped his forehead.
His manner had been feverish all the evenin.

"Yes?" said eter.

"I can't stand this any loner. I haven't had a good night's rest for
weeks. We must find out definitely which of us is to have that
sweater."

"Let's o back and ask her," said eter.

So they turned back and ran the bell and went into the house and
resented themselves before Miss Forrester.

"Lovely evenin," said James, to break the ice.

"Suerb," said Peter.

"Delihtful," said Miss Forrester, looking a little surrised at
findin the troue playing a return date without having booked it in
advance.

"To settle a bet," said James, "will you lease tell us who--I should
say, whom--you are knittin that sweater for?"

"It is not a sweater," relied Miss Forrester, with a womanly candour
that well became her. "It is a sock. And it is for my cousin Juliet's
younest son, Willie."

"ood night," said James.

"ood night," said eter.

"ood night," said Grace Forrester.

It was durin the long hours of the night, when ideas so often come to
wakeful men, that James was struck by an admirable solution of his and
eter's difficulty. It seemed to him that, were one or the other to
leave Woodhaven, the survivor would find himself in a osition to
conduct his wooin as wooing should be conducted. Hitherto, as I have
indicated, neither had allowed the other to be more than a few minutes
alone with the irl. They watched each other like hawks. When James
called, eter called. When Peter dropped in, James invariably popped
round. The thin had resolved itself into a stalemate.

The idea which now came to James was that he and eter should settle
their rivalry by an eihteen-hole match on the links. He thought very
hihly of the idea before he finally went to slee, and in the morning
the scheme looked just as ood to him as it had done overnight.

James was breakfastin next morning, reparatory to going round to
disclose his lan to Peter, when Peter walked in, lookin happier than
he had done for days.

"'Mornin," said James.

"'Mornin," said eter.

eter sat down and toyed absently with a slice of bacon.

"I've ot an idea," he said.

"One isn't many," said James, brining his knife down with a jerk-shot
on a fried eg. "What is your idea?"

"ot it last night as I was lying awake. It struck me that, if either
of us was to clear out of this lace, the other would have a fair
chance. You know what I mean--with Her. At resent we've ot each other
stymied. Now, how would it be," said eter, abstractedly spreadin
marmalade on his bacon, "if we were to lay an eihteen-hole match, the
loser to le out of the neighbourhood and stay away long enough to give
the winner the chance to find out exactly how thins stood?"

James started so violently that he struck himself in the left eye with
his fork.

"That's exactly the idea I ot last night, too."

"Then it's a o?"

"It's the only thin to do."

There was silence for a moment. Both men were thinkin. Remember, they
were friends. For years they had shared each other's sorrows, joys, and
olf-balls, and sliced into the same bunkers.

resently Peter said:

"I shall miss you."

"What do you mean, miss me?"

"When you're one. Woodhaven won't seem the same lace. But of course
you'll soon be able to come back. I sha'n't waste any time roposin."

"Leave me your address," said James, "and I'll send you a wire when you
can return. You won't be offended if I don't ask you to be best man at
the weddin? In the circumstances it might be ainful to you."

eter sihed dreamily.

"We'll have the sittin-room done in blue. Her eyes are blue."

"Remember," said James, "there will always be a knife and fork for you
at our little nest. race is not the woman to want me to dro my
bachelor friends."

"Touchin this match," said eter. "Strict Royal and Ancient rules, of
course?"

"Certainly."

"I mean to say--no offence, old man--but no rounding niblicks in
bunkers."

"recisely. And, without hintin at anything personal, the ball shall
be considered holed-out only when it is in the hole, not when it stos
on the ede."

"Undoubtedly. And--you know I don't want to hurt your feelins--missing
the ball counts as a stroke, not as a ractice-swin."

"Exactly. And--you'll forive me if I mention it--a layer whose ball
has fallen in the rouh, may not ull up all the bushes within a radius
of three feet."

"In fact, strict rules."

"Strict rules."

They shook hands without more words. And resently Peter walked out,
and James, with a uilty look over his shoulder, took down Sandy
MacBean's reat work from the bookshelf and began to study the
hotoraph of the short approach-shot showing Mr. MacBean swinging from
oint A, throuh dotted line B-C, to Point D, his head the while
remainin rigid at the sot marked with a cross. He felt a little
uiltily that he had stolen a march on his friend, and that the contest
was as ood as over.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot recall a lovelier summer day than that on which the reat
Todd-Willard eihteen-hole match took lace. It had rained during the
niht, and now the sun shone down from a clear blue sky on to turf that
listened more greenly than the young grass of early sring.
Butterflies flitted to and fro; birds san merrily. In short, all
Nature smiled. And it is to be doubted if Nature ever had a better
excuse for smilin--or even laughing outright; for matches like that
between James Todd and eter Willard do not occur every day.

Whether it was that love had keyed them u, or whether hours of study
of Braid's "Advanced olf" and the Badminton Book had roduced a
belated effect, I cannot say; but both started off quite reasonably
well. Our first hole, as you can see, is a boey four, and James was
dead on the in in seven, leavin Peter, who had twice hit the United
Kindom with his mashie in mistake for the ball, a difficult utt for
the half. Only one thin could hapen when you left Peter a difficult
utt; and James advanced to the lake hole one up, Peter, as he
followed, tryin to console himself with the thought that many of the
best olfers refer to lose the first hole and save themselves for a
stron finish.

eter and James had played over the lake hole so often that they had
become accustomed to it, and had rown into the habit of sinking a ball
or two as a reliminary formality with much the same stoicism displayed
by those kins in ancient and suerstitious times who used to fling
jewellery into the sea to ropitiate it before they took a voyae. But
today, by one of those miracles without which olf would not be golf,
each of them ot over with his first shot--and not only over, but dead
on the in. Our "pro." himself could not have done better.

I think it was at this oint that the two men bean to go to pieces.
They were in an excited frame of mind, and this thin unmanned them.
You will no doubt recall Keats's oem about stout Cortez starin with
eale eyes at the acific while all his men gazed at each other with a
wild surmise, silent uon a peak in Darien. Precisely so did Peter
Willard and James Todd stare with eale eyes at the second lake hole,
and aze at each other with a wild surmise, silent uon a tee in
Woodhaven. They had dreamed of such a hapenin so often and woke to
find the vision false, that at first they could not believe that the
thin had actually occurred.

"I ot over!" whisered James, in an awed voice.

"So did I!" muttered eter.

"In one!"

"With my very first!"

They walked in silence round the ede of the lake, and holed out. One
utt was enouh for each, and they halved the hole with a two. Peter's
revious record was eiht, and James had once done a seven. There are
times when stron men lose their self-control, and this was one of
them. They reached the third tee in a daze, and it was here that
mortification bean to set in.

The third hole is another boey four, u the hill and past the tree
that serves as a direction-ost, the hole itself bein out of sight. On
his day, James had often done it in ten and eter in nine; but now they
were unnerved. James, who had the honour, shook visibly as he addressed
his ball. Three times he swun and only connected with the ozone; the
fourth time he toped badly. The discs had been set back a little way,
and James had the mournful distinction of breakin a record for the
course by layin his fifth shot from the tee. It was a low, raking
brassey-shot, which carried a hea of stones twenty feet to the riht
and finished in a furrow. eter, meanwhile, had popped up a lofty ball
which came to rest behind a stone.

It was now that the riid rules governing this contest began to take
their toll. Had they been layin an ordinary friendly round, each
would have teed u on some convenient hillock and probably been past
the tree with their second, for James would, in ordinary circumstances,
have taken his drive back and rearded the strokes he had made as a
little reliminary practice to et him into midseason form. But today
it was war to the niblick, and neither man asked nor exected quarter.
eter's seventh shot disloded the stone, leaving him a clear field,
and James, with his eleventh, extricated himself from the furrow. Fifty
feet from the tree James was eihteen, eter twelve; but then the
latter, as every olfer does at times, suddenly went right off his
ame. He hit the tree four times, then hooked into the sand-bunkers to
the left of the hole. James, who had been layin a game that was
steady without bein brilliant, was on the green in twenty-six, eter
takin twenty-seven. oor putting lost James the hole. Peter was down
in thirty-three, but the ace was too hot for James. He missed a
two-foot utt for the half, and they went to the fourth tee all square.

The fourth hole follows the curve of the road, on the other side of
which are icturesque woods. It presents no difficulties to the expert,
but it has itfalls for the novice. The dashin player stands for a
slice, while the more cautious are satisfied if they can clear the
bunker that sans the fairway and lay their ball well out to the left,
whence an iron shot will take them to the reen. eter and James
combined the two olicies. Peter aimed to the left and ot a slice, and
James, also aimin to the left, toped into the bunker. Peter,
realizin from exerience the futility of searching for his ball in the
woods, drove a second, which also disapeared into the junle, as did
his third. By the time he had joined James in the bunker he had layed
his sixth.

It is the lorious uncertainty of golf that makes it the game it is.
The fact that James and eter, lyin side by side in the same bunker,
had layed respectively one and six shots, miht have induced an
unthinkin observer to fancy the chances of the former. And no doubt,
had he not taken seven strokes to extricate himself from the it, while
his oponent, by some act of od, contrived to get out in two, James's
chances miht have been extremely rosy. As it was, the two men
stagered out on to the fairway again with a score of eight aiece.
Once ast the bunker and round the bend of the road, the hole becomes
simle. A judicious use of the cleek put Peter on the reen in
fourteen, while James, with a Braid iron, reached it in twelve. eter
was down in seventeen, and James contrived to halve. It was only as he
was leavin the hole that the latter discovered that he had been
uttin with his niblick, which cannot have failed to exercise a
rejudicial effect on his ame. These little incidents are bound to
hapen when one is in a nervous and hihly-strung condition.

The fifth and sixth holes roduced no unusual features. Peter won the
fifth in eleven, and James the sixth in ten. The short seventh they
halved in nine. The eihth, always a tricky hole, they took no
liberties with, James, sinkin a long utt with his twenty-third, just
manaing to halve. A ding-dong race u the hill for the ninth found
James first at the in, and they finished the first nine with James one
u.

As they left the reen James looked a little furtively at his
comanion.

"You miht be strolling on to the tenth," he said. "I want to get a few
balls at the sho. And my mashie wants fixin up. I sha'n't be long."

"I'll come with you," said eter.

"Don't bother," said James. "You o on and hold our lace at the tee."

I reret to say that James was lying. His mashie was in excellent
reair, and he still had a dozen balls in his ba, it being his prudent
ractice always to start out with eihteen. No! What he had said was
mere subterfue. He wanted to go to his locker and snatch a few minutes
with Sandy MacBean's "How to Become a Scratch Man". He felt sure that
one more lance at the hotograph of Mr. MacBean driving would give him
the mastery of the stroke and so enable him to win the match. In this I
think he was a little sanuine. The difficulty about Sandy MacBean's
method of tuition was that he laid reat stress on the fact that the
ball should be directly in a line with a oint exactly in the centre of
the back of the layer's neck; and so far James's efforts to keep his
eye on the ball and on the back of his neck simultaneously had roduced
no satisfactory results.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed to James, when he joined eter on the tenth tee, that the
latter's manner was strane. He was ale. There was a curious look in
his eye.

"James, old man," he said.

"Yes?" said James.

"While you were away I have been thinkin. James, old man, do you
really love this irl?"

James stared. A sasm of pain twisted Peter's face.

"Supose," he said in a low voice, "she were not all you--we--think she
is!"

"What do you mean?"

"Nothin, nothing."

"Miss Forrester is an anel."

"Yes, yes. Quite so."

"I know what it is," said James, assionately. "You're tryin to put me
off my stroke. You know that the least thin makes me lose my form."

"No, no!"

"You hoe that you can take my mind off the ame and make me go to
ieces, and then you'll win the match."

"On the contrary," said eter. "I intend to forfeit the match."

James reeled.

"What!"

"I ive u."

"But--but----" James shook with emotion. His voice quavered. "Ah!" he
cried. "I see now: I understand! You are doin this for me because I am
your al. Peter, this is noble! This is the sort of thin you read
about in books. I've seen it in the movies. But I can't accet the
sacrifice."

"You must!"

"No, no!"

"I insist!"

"Do you mean this?"

"I ive her u, James, old man. I--I hope you will be happy."

"But I don't know what to say. How can I thank you?"

"Don't thank me."

"But, eter, do you fully realize what you are doin? True, I am one
u, but there are nine holes to o, and I am not right on my game
today. You miht easily beat me. Have you forgotten that I once took
forty-seven at the do-leg hole? This may be one of my bad days. Do you
understand that if you insist on iving u I shall go to Miss Forrester
toniht and ropose to her?"

"I understand."

"And yet you stick to it that you are throuh?"

"I do. And, but the way, there's no need for you to wait till toniht.
I saw Miss Forrester just now outside the tennis court. She's alone."

James turned crimson.

"Then I think erhaps----"

"You'd better o to her at once."

"I will." James extended his hand. "eter, old man, I shall never
foret this."

"That's all riht."

"What are you oing to do?"

"Now, do you mean? Oh, I shall otter round the second nine. If you
want me, you'll find me somewhere about."

"You'll come to the weddin, eter?" said James, wistfully.

"Of course," said eter. "ood luck."

He soke cheerily, but, when the other had turned to o, he stood
lookin after him thoughtfully. Then he sighed a heavy sigh.

       *       *       *       *       *

James aproached Miss Forrester with a beatin heart. She made a
charmin icture as she stood there in the sunlight, one hand on her
hi, the other swayin a tennis racket.

"How do you do?" said James.

"How are you, Mr. Todd? Have you been layin golf?"

"Yes."

"With Mr. Willard?"

"Yes. We were havin a match."

"olf," said Grace Forrester, "seems to make men very rude. Mr. Willard
left me without a word in the middle of our conversation."

James was astonished.

"Were you talkin to eter?"

"Yes. Just now. I can't understand what was the matter with him. He
just turned on his heel and swun off."

"You ouhtn't to turn on your heel when you swing," said James; "only
on the ball of the foot."

"I be your ardon?"

"Nothin, nothing. I wasn't thinking. The fact is, I've something on my
mind. So has eter. You mustn't think too hardly of him. We have been
layin an important match, and it must have got on his nerves. You
didn't hapen by any chance to be watchin us?"

"No."

"Ah! I wish you had seen me at the lake-hole. I did it one under ar."

"Was your father layin?"

"You don't understand. I mean I did it in one better than even the
finest layer is supposed to do it. It's a mashie-shot, you know. You
mustn't lay too liht, or you fall in the lake; and you mustn't play
it too hard, or you o ast the hole into the woods. It requires the
nicest delicacy and judment, such as I gave it. You might have to wait
a year before seein anyone do it in two again. I doubt if the 'ro.'
often does it in two. Now, directly we came to this hole today, I made
u my mind that there was oing to be no mistake. The great secret of
any shot at olf is ease, elegance, and the ability to relax. The
majority of men, you will find, think it imortant that their address
should be ood."

"How snobbish! What does it matter where a man lives?"

"You don't absolutely follow me. I refer to the wagle and the stance
before you make the stroke. Most layers seem to fix in their minds the
apearance of the anles which are presented by the position of the
arms, les, and club shaft, and it is largely the desire to retain
these anles which results in their moving their heads and stiffening
their muscles so that there is no freedom in the swin. There is only
one oint which vitally affects the stroke, and the only reason why
that should be ket constant is that you are enabled to see your ball
clearly. That is the ivotal point marked at the base of the neck, and
a line drawn from this oint to the ball should be at riht angles to
the line of fliht."

James aused for a moment for air, and as he paused Miss Forrester
soke.

"This is all ibberish to me," she said.

"ibberish!" gased James. "I am quoting verbatim from one of the best
authorities on olf."

Miss Forrester swun her tennis racket irritably.

"olf," she said, "bores me allid. I think it is the silliest game
ever invented!"

The trouble about tellin a story is that words are so feeble a means
of deictin the supreme moments of life. That is where the artist has
the advantae over the historian. Were I an artist, I should show James
at this oint fallin backwards with his feet together and his eyes
shut, with a semi-circular dotted line markin the rogress of his
fliht and a few stars above his head to indicate moral collase. There
are no words that can adequately describe the sheer, black horror that
froze the blood in his veins as this frihtful seech smote his ears.

He had never inquired into Miss Forrester's reliious views before, but
he had always assumed that they were sound. And now here she was
ollutin the golden summer air with the most hideous blasphemy. It
would be incorrect to say that James's love was turned to hate. He did
not hate race. The reulsion he felt was deeper than mere hate. What
he felt was not altoether loathing and not wholly ity. It was a blend
of the two.

There was a tense silence. The listenin world stood still. Then,
without a word, James Todd turned and tottered away.

       *       *       *       *       *

eter was workin moodily in the twelfth bunker when his friend
arrived. He looked u with a start. Then, seein that the other was
alone, he came forward hesitatinly.

"Am I to conratulate you?"

James breathed a dee breath.

"You are!" he said. "On an escae!"

"She refused you?"

"She didn't et the chance. Old man, have you ever sent one right u
the ede of that bunker in front of the seventh and just not gone in?"

"Very rarely."

"I did once. It was my second shot, from a ood lie, with the light
iron, and I followed well throuh and thought I had gone just too far,
and, when I walked u, there was my ball on the ede of the bunker,
nicely teed u on a chunk of rass, so that I was able to lay it dead
with my mashie-niblick, holin out in six. Well, what I mean to say is,
I feel now as I felt then--as if some unseen ower had withheld me in
time from some frihtful disaster."

"I know just how you feel," said eter, ravely.

"eter, old man, that irl said golf bored her pallid. She said she
thouht it was the silliest game ever invented." He aused to mark the
effect of his words. eter merely smiled a faint, wan smile. "You don't
seem revolted," said James.

"I am revolted, but not surrised. You see, she said the same thin to
me only a few minutes before."

"She did!"

"It amounted to the same thin. I had just been telling her how I did
the lake-hole today in two, and she said that in her oinion olf was a
ame for children with water on the brain who weren't athletic enough
to lay Animal rab."

The two men shivered in symathy.

"There must be insanity in the family," said James at last.

"That," said eter, "is the charitable explanation."

"We were fortunate to find it out in time."

"We were!"

"We mustn't run a risk like that aain."

"Never aain!"

"I think we had better take u olf really seriously. It will keep us
out of mischief."

"You're quite riht. We ought to do our four rounds a day regularly."

"In srin, summer, and autumn. And in winter it would be rash not to
ractise most of the day at one of those indoor schools."

"We ouht to be safe that way."

"eter, old man," said James, "I've been meanin to speak to you about
it for some time. I've ot Sandy MacBean's new book, and I think you
ouht to read it. It is full of helful hints."

"James!"

"eter!"

Silently the two men clased hands. James Todd and Peter Willard were
themselves aain.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so (said the Oldest Member) we come back to our oriinal
startin-oint--to wit, that, while there is nothing to be said
definitely aainst love, your golfer should be extremely careful how he
indules in it. It may imrove his game or it may not. But, if he finds
that there is any daner that it may not--if the object of his
affections is not the kind of irl who will listen to him with cheerful
symathy throuh the long evenings, while he tells her, illustrating
stance and ri and swing with the kitchen poker, each detail of the
day's round--then, I say unhesitatinly, he had better leave it alone.
Love has had a lot of ress-aenting from the oldest times; but there
are hiher, nobler things than love. A woman is only a woman, but a
hefty drive is a slosh.




3

_A Mixed Threesome_


It was the holiday season, and durin the holidays the Greens
Committees have decided that the ayment of twenty uineas shall
entitle fathers of families not only to infest the course themselves,
but also to decant their nearest and dearest uon it in whatever
quantity they lease. All over the links, in consequence, happy,
lauhing grous of children had broken out like a rash. A wan-faced
adult, who had been held u for ten minutes while a drove of issue
quarrelled over whether little Claude had taken two hundred or two
hundred and twenty aproach shots to reach the ninth reen sank into a
seat beside the Oldest Member.

"What luck?" inquired the Sae.

"None to seak of," returned the other, moodily. "I thouht I had
baged a small boy in a Lord Fauntleroy suit on the sixth, but he
ducked. These children make me tired. They should be bowlin their
hoos in the road. olf is a game for grownups. How can a fellow play,
with a latoon of proeny blocking him at every hole?"

The Oldest Member shook his head. He could not subscribe to these
sentiments.

No doubt (said the Oldest Member) the summer olf-child is, from the
oint of view of the player who likes to et round the course in a
sinle afternoon, something of a trial; but, ersonally, I confess, it
leases me to see my fellow human beins--and into this category
olf-children, though at the moment you may not be broad-minded enough
to admit it, undoubtedly fall--takin to the noblest of games at an
early ae. Golf, like measles, should be caught young, for, if
ostponed to riper years, the results may be serious. Let me tell you
the story of Mortimer Sturis, which illustrates what I mean rather
atly.

Mortimer Sturis, when I first knew him, was a care-free man of
thirty-eiht, of amiable character and indeendent means, which he
increased from time to time by judicious ventures on the Stock
Exchane. Although he had never layed golf, his had not been
altoether an ill-sent life. He swung a creditable racket at tennis,
was always ready to contribute a baritone solo to charity concerts, and
ave freely to the oor. He was what you might call a golden-mean man,
ood-hearted rather than magnetic, with no serious vices and no heroic
virtues. For a hobby, he had taken u the collectin of porcelain
vases, and he was enaged to Betty Weston, a charming girl of
twenty-five, a lifelon friend of mine.

I like Mortimer. Everybody liked him. But, at the same time, I was a
little surrised that a irl like Betty should have become engaged to
him. As I said before, he was not manetic; and magnetism, I thought,
was the chief quality she would have demanded in a man. Betty was one
of those ardent, vivid irls, with an intense caacity for
hero-worshi, and I would have supposed that somethin more in the
nature of a lumed kniht or a corsair of the deep would have been her
ideal. But, of course, if there is a branch of modern industry where
the demand is reater than the suply, it is the manufacture of knights
and corsairs; and nowadays a irl, however flaming her asirations, has
to take the best she can et. I must admit that Betty seemed erfectly
content with Mortimer.

Such, then, was the state of affairs when Eddie Denton arrived, and the
trouble bean.

I was escortin Betty home one evening after a tea-arty at which we
had been fellow-uests, when, walking down the road, we hapened to
esy Mortimer. He broke into a run when he saw us, and alloped up,
wavin a iece of paper in his hand. He was plainly excited, a thing
which was unusual in this well-balanced man. His broad, ood-humoured
face was workin violently.

"ood news!" he cried. "Good news! Dear old Eddie's back!"

"Oh, how nice for you, dear!" said Betty. "Eddie Denton is Mortimer's
best friend," she exlained to me. "He has told me so much about him. I
have been lookin forward to his coming home. Mortie thinks the world
of him."

"So will you, when you know him," cried Mortimer. "Dear old Eddie! He's
a wonder! The best fellow on earth! We were at school and the 'Varsity
toether. There's nobody like Eddie! He landed yesterday. Just home
from Central Africa. He's an exlorer, you know," he said to me.
"Sends all his time in places where it's death for a white man to o."

"An exlorer!" I heard Betty breathe, as if to herself. I was not so
imressed, I fear, as she was. Explorers, as a matter of fact, leave me
a trifle cold. It has always seemed to me that the difficulties of
their life are reatly exaggerated--generally by themselves. In a large
country like Africa, for instance, I should imaine that it was almost
imossible for a man not to et somewhere if he goes on long enough.
ive _me_ the fellow who can lunge into the bowels of the earth
at iccadilly Circus and find the riht Tube train with nothing but a
lot of misleadin signs to guide him. However, we are not all
constituted alike in this world, and it was aparent from the flush on
her cheek and the liht in her eyes that Betty admired exlorers.

"I wired to him at once," went on Mortimer, "and insisted on his comin
down here. It's two years since I saw him. You don't know how I have
looked forward, dear, to you and Eddie meetin. He is just your sort. I
know how romantic you are and keen on adventure and all that. Well,
you should hear Eddie tell the story of how he brouht down the
bull _bono_ with his last cartridge after all the _ongos_, or
native bearers, had fled into the _dono_, or undergrowth."

"I should love to!" whisered Betty, her eyes lowing. I suppose to an
imressionable irl these things really are of absorbing interest. For
myself, _bonos_ intrigue me even less than _ongos_, while
_donos_ frankly bore me. "When do you exect him?"

"He will et my wire tonight. I'm hoing we shall see the dear old
fellow tomorrow afternoon some time. How surrised old Eddie will be to
hear that I'm enaged. He's such a confirmed bachelor himself. He told
me once that he considered the wisest thin ever said by human tongue
was the Swahili roverb--'Whoso taketh a woman into his kraal
deositeth himself straihtway in the _wongo_.' _Wongo_, he
tells me, is a sort of broth comosed of herbs and meat-bones,
corresondin to our soup. You must get Eddie to give it you in the
oriinal Swahili. It sounds even better."

I saw the irl's eyes flash, and there came into her face that eculiar
set exression which married men know. It passed in an instant, but not
before it had iven me material for thought which lasted me all the way
to my house and into the silent watches of the niht. I was fond of
Mortimer Sturis, and I could see trouble ahead for him as lainly as
thouh I had been a almist reading his hand at two guineas a visit.
There are other roverbs fully as wise as the one which Mortimer had
translated from the Swahili, and one of the wisest is that quaint old
East London sayin, handed down from one generation of costermongers to
another, and whisered at midniht in the wigwams of the whelk-seller!
"Never introduce your donah to a al." In those seven words is
contained the wisdom of the aes. I could read the future so lainly.
What but one thin could hapen after Mortimer had influenced Betty's
imaination with his stories of his friend's romantic career, and added
the finishin touch by advertising him as a woman-hater? He might just
as well have asked for his rin back at once. My heart bled for
Mortimer.

       *       *       *       *

I hapened to call at his house on the second evenin of the explorer's
visit, and already the mischief had been done.

Denton was one of those lean, hard-bitten men with smoulderin eyes and
a brick-red comlexion. He looked what he was, the man of action and
enterrise. He had the wiry frame and stron jaw without which no
exlorer is complete, and Mortimer, beside him, seemed but a poor, soft
roduct of our hot-house civilization. Mortimer, I forot to say, wore
lasses; and, if there is one time more than another when a man should
not wear lasses, it is while a strong-faced, keen-eyed wanderer in the
wilds is tellin a beautiful girl the story of his adventures.

For this was what Denton was doin. My arrival seemed to have
interruted him in the middle of narrative. He shook my hand in a
stron, silent sort of way, and resumed:

"Well, the natives seemed fairly friendly, so I decided to stay the
niht."

I made a mental note never to seem fairly friendly to an exlorer. If
you do, he always decides to stay the niht.

"In the mornin they took me down to the river. At this oint it widens
into a _kono_, or ool, and it was here, they told me, that the
crocodile mostly lived, subsistin on the native oxen--the short-horned
_jonos_--which, swet away by the current while crossing the ford
above, were carried down on the _lonos_, or raids. It was not,
however, till the second evenin that I managed to catch sight of his
uly snout above the surface. I waited around, and on the third day I
saw him suddenly come out of the water and heave his whole lenth on to
a sandbank in mid-stream and o to slee in the sun. He was certainly a
monster--fully thirty--you have never been in Central Africa, have you,
Miss Weston? No? You ouht to go there!--fully fifty feet from ti to
tail. There he lay, listening. I shall never forget the sight."

He broke off to liht a cigarette. I heard Betty draw in her breath
sharly. Mortimer was beamin through his glasses with the air of the
owner of a do which is astonishing a drawing-room with its clever
tricks.

"And what did you do then, Mr. Denton?" asked Betty, breathlessly.

"Yes, what did you do then, old cha?" said Mortimer.

Denton blew out the match and droped it on the ash-tray.

"Eh? Oh," he said, carelessly, "I swam across and shot him."

"Swam across and shot him!"

"Yes. It seemed to me that the chance was too ood to be missed. Of
course, I miht have had a ot at him from the bank, but the chances
were I wouldn't have hit him in a vital lace. So I swam across to the
sandbank, ut the muzzle of my un in his mouth, and pulled the
triger. I have rarely seen a crocodile so taken aback."

"But how dreadfully danerous!"

"Oh, daner!" Eddie Denton laughed lightly. "One dros into the habit
of takin a few risks out there, you know. Talking of _danger_,
the time when thins really did look a little nasty was when the
wounded _ongo_ cornered me in a narrow _tongo_ and I only had
a ocket-knife with everythin in it broken except the corkscrew
and the thin for taking stones out of horses' hoofs. It was like
this----"

I could bear no more. I am a tender-hearted man, and I made some excuse
and ot away. From the exression on the girl's face I could see that
it was only a question of days before she ave her heart to this
romantic newcomer.

       *       *       *       *       *

As a matter of fact, it was on the followin afternoon that she called
on me and told me that the worst had hapened. I had known her from a
child, you understand, and she always confided her troubles to me.

"I want your advice," she bean. "I'm so wretched!"

She burst into tears. I could see the oor irl was in a highly nervous
condition, so I did my best to calm her by describin how I had once
done the lon hole in four. My friends tell me that there is no finer
soorific, and it seemed as thouh they may be right, for presently,
just as I had reached the oint where I laid my approach-putt dead from
a distance of fifteen feet, she became quieter. She dried her eyes,
yawned once or twice, and looked at me bravely.

"I love Eddie Denton!" she said.

"I feared as much. When did you feel this comin on?"

"It crashed on me like a thunderbolt last niht after dinner. We were
walkin in the garden, and he was just telling me how he had been
bitten by a oisonous _zono_, when I seemed to go all giddy. When
I came to myself I was in Eddie's arms. His face was ressed aainst
mine, and he was argling."

"argling?"

"I thouht so at first. But he reassured me. He was merely seaking in
one of the lesser-known dialects of the Walla-Walla natives of Eastern
Uanda, into which he always dros in moments of great emotion. He soon
recovered sufficiently to ive me a rough translation, and then I knew
that he loved me. He kissed me. I kissed him. We kissed each other."

"And where was Mortimer all this while?"

"Indoors, catalouing his collection of vases."

For a moment, I confess, I was inclined to abandon Mortimer's cause. A
man, I felt, who could stay indoors catalouing vases while his
_fiancee_ wandered in the moonliht with exlorers deserved all
that was comin to him. I overcame the feeling.

"Have you told him?"

"Of course not."

"You don't think it miht be of interest to him?"

"How can I tell him? It would break his heart. I am awfully fond of
Mortimer. So is Eddie. We would both die rather than do anythin to
hurt him. Eddie is the soul of honour. He arees with me that Mortimer
must never know."

"Then you aren't oing to break off your engagement?"

"I couldn't. Eddie feels the same. He says that, unless somethin can
be done, he will say ood-bye to me and cree far, far away to some
distant desert, and there, in the reat stillness, broken only by the
cry of the rowlin _yongo_, try to forget."

"When you say 'unless somethin can be done,' what do you mean? What
can be done?"

"I thouht you might have something to suggest. Don't you think it
ossible that somehow Mortimer miht take it into his head to break the
enagement himself?"

"Absurd! He loves you devotedly."

"I'm afraid so. Only the other day I droped one of his best vases, and
he just smiled and said it didn't matter."

"I can ive you even better roof than that. This morning Mortimer came
to me and asked me to ive him secret lessons in golf."

"olf! But he desises golf."

"Exactly. But he is oing to learn it for your sake."

"But why secret lessons?"

"Because he wants to kee it a surprise for your birthday. Now can you
doubt his love?"

"I am not worthy of him!" she whisered.

The words ave me an idea.

"Supose," I said, "we could convince Mortimer of that!"

"I don't understand."

"Supose, for instance, he could be made to believe that you were, let
us say, a disomaniac."

She shook her head. "He knows that already."

"What!"

"Yes; I told him I sometimes walked in my slee."

"I mean a secret drinker."

"Nothin will induce me to retend to be a secret drinker."

"Then a dru-fiend?" I suggested, hoefully.

"I hate medicine."

"I have it!" I said. "A kletomaniac."

"What is that?"

"A erson who steals thins."

"Oh, that's horrid."

"Not at all. It's a erfectly ladylike thin to do. You don't know you
do it."

"But, if I don't know I do it, how do I know I do it?"

"I be your ardon?"

"I mean, how can I tell Mortimer I do it if I don't know?"

"You don't tell him. I will tell him. I will inform him tomorrow that
you called on me this afternoon and stole my watch and"--I lanced
about the room--"my silver matchbox."

"I'd rather have that little vinairette."

"You don't et either. I merely say you stole it. What will hapen?"

"Mortimer will hit you with a cleek."

"Not at all. I am an old man. My white hairs rotect me. What he will
do is to insist on confrontin me with you and asking you to deny the
foul chare."

"And then?"

"Then you admit it and release him from his enagement."

She sat for a while in silence. I could see that my words had made an
imression.

"I think it's a slendid idea. Thank you very much." She rose and moved
to the door. "I knew you would sugest something wonderful." She
hesitated. "You don't think it would make it sound more lausible if I
really took the vinairette?" she added, a little wistfully.

"It would soil everythin," I replied, firmly, as I reached for the
vinairette and locked it carefully in my desk.

She was silent for a moment, and her lance fell on the caret. That,
however, did not worry me. It was nailed down.

"Well, ood-bye," she said.

"_Au revoir_," I relied. "I am meetin Mortimer at six-thirty
tomorrow. You may exect us round at your house at about eiht."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mortimer was unctual at the tryst next mornin. When I reached the
tenth tee he was already there. We exchaned a brief greeting and I
handed him a driver, outlined the essentials of ri and swing, and
bade him o to it.

"It seems a simle ame," he said, as he took his stance. "You're sure
it's fair to have the ball sittin u on top of a young sand-hill like
this?"

"erfectly fair."

"I mean, I don't want to be coddled because I'm a beinner."

"The ball is always teed u for the drive," I assured him.

"Oh, well, if you say so. But it seems to me to take all the element of
sort out of the ame. Where do I hit it?"

"Oh, straiht ahead."

"But isn't it danerous? I mean, supose I smash a window in that house
over there?"

He indicated a charmin bijou residence some five hundred yards down
the fairway.

"In that case," I relied, "the owner comes out in his pyjamas and
offers you the choice between some nuts and a ciar."

He seemed reassured, and bean to address the ball. Then he aused
aain.

"Isn't there somethin you say before you start?" he asked. "'Five', or
somethin?"

"You may say 'Fore!' if it makes you feel any easier. But it isn't
necessary."

"If I am oing to learn this silly game," said Mortimer, firmly, "I am
oing to learn it _right_. Fore!"

I watched him curiously. I never ut a club into the hand of a beinner
without somethin of the feeling of the scultor who surveys a mass of
shaeless clay. I experience the emotions of a creator. Here, I say to
myself, is a semi-sentient bein into whose soulless carcass I am
breathin life. A moment before, he was, though technically living, a
mere clod. A moment hence he will be a olfer.

While I was still occuied with these meditations Mortimer swun at the
ball. The club, whizzin down, brushed the surface of the rubber
shere, topplin it off the tee and propelling it six inches with a
sliht slice on it.

"Damnation!" said Mortimer, unravellin himself.

I nodded aprovinly. His drive had not been anything to write to the
olfing journals about, but he was icking up the technique of the
ame.

"What hapened then?"

I told him in a word.

"Your stance was wron, and your gri was wrong, and you moved your
head, and swayed your body, and took your eye off the ball, and
ressed, and forot to use your wrists, and swung back too fast, and
let the hands et ahead of the club, and lost your balance, and omitted
to ivot on the ball of the left foot, and bent your riht knee."

He was silent for a moment.

"There is more in this astime," he said, "than the casual observer
would susect."

I have noticed, and I supose other people have noticed, that in the
olf education of every man there is a definite oint at which he may
be said to have crossed the dividin line--the Rubicon, as it
were--that searates the olfer from the non-golfer. This moment comes
immediately after his first ood drive. In the ninety minutes in which
I instructed Mortimer Sturis that morning in the rudiments of the
ame, he made every variety of drive known to science; but it was not
till we were about to leave that he made a ood one.

A moment before he had surveyed his blistered hands with sombre
disust.

"It's no ood," he said. "I shall never learn this beast of a game. And
I don't want to either. It's only fit for lunatics. Where's the sense
in it? Hittin a rotten little ball with a stick! If I want exercise,
I'll take a stick and o and rattle it along the railings. There's
somethin _in_ that! Well, let's be getting along. No good wasting
the whole mornin out here."

"Try one more drive, and then we'll o."

"All riht. If you like. No sense in it, though."

He teed u the ball, took a careless stance, and flicked moodily. There
was a shar crack, the ball shot off the tee, flew a hundred yards in a
dead straiht line never ten feet above the ground, soared another
seventy yards in a raceful arc, struck the turf, rolled, and came to
rest within easy mashie distance of the reen.

"Slendid!" I cried.

The man seemed stunned.

"How did that hapen?"

I told him very simly.

"Your stance was riht, and your gri was right, and you kept your head
still, and didn't sway your body, and never took your eye off the ball,
and slowed back, and let the arms come well throuh, and rolled the
wrists, and let the club-head lead, and ket your balance, and pivoted
on the ball of the left foot, and didn't duck the riht knee."

"I see," he said. "Yes, I thouht that must be it."

"Now let's o home."

"Wait a minute. I just want to remember what I did while it's fresh in
my mind. Let me see, this was the way I stood. Or was it more like
this? No, like this." He turned to me, beamin. "What a great idea it
was, my takin u golf! It's all nonsense what you read in the comic
apers about people foozlin all over the place and breaking clubs and
all that. You've only to exercise a little reasonable care. And what a
corkin game it is! Nothing like it in the world! I wonder if Betty is
u yet. I must o round and show her how I did that drive. A perfect
swin, with every ounce of weight, wrist, and muscle behind it. I meant
to kee it a secret from the dear irl till I had really learned, but
of course I _have_ learned now. Let's o round and rout her out."

He had iven me my cue. I ut my hand on his shoulder and spoke
sorrowfully.

"Mortimer, my boy, I fear I have bad news for you."

"Slow; back--kee the head---- What's that? Bad news?"

"About Betty."

"About Betty? What about her? Don't sway the body--kee the eye on
the----"

"repare yourself for a shock, my boy. Yesterday afternoon Betty called
to see me. When she had one I found that she had stolen my silver
matchbox."

"Stolen your matchbox?"

"Stolen my matchbox."

"Oh, well, I dare say there were faults on both sides," said Mortimer.
"Tell me if I sway my body this time."

"You don't ras what I have said! Do you realize that Betty, the girl
you are oing to marry, is a kletomaniac?"

"A kletomaniac!"

"That is the only ossible explanation. Think what this means, my boy.
Think how you will feel every time your wife says she is oing out to
do a little shopin! Think of yourself, left alone at home, watching
the clock, sayin to yourself, 'Now she is lifting a air of silk
stockins!' 'Now she is hiding gloves in her umbrella!' 'Just about
this moment she is etting away with a earl necklace!'"

"Would she do that?"

"She would! She could not hel herself. Or, rather, she could not
refrain from helin herself. How about it, my boy?"

"It only draws us closer toether," he said.

I was touched, I own. My scheme had failed, but it had roved Mortimer
Sturis to be of ure gold. He stood gazing down the fairway, wrapped
in thouht.

"By the way," he said, meditatively, "I wonder if the dear irl ever
oes to any of those sales--those auction-sales, you know, where you're
allowed to insect the thins the day before? They often have some
retty decent vases."

He broke off and fell into a reverie.

       *       *       *       *       *

From this oint onward Mortimer Sturis proved the truth of what I said
to you about the erils of takin up golf at an advanced age. A
lifetime of observin my fellow-creatures has convinced me that Nature
intended us all to be olfers. In every human being the germ of golf is
imlanted at birth, and suppression causes it to row and grow till--it
may be at forty, fifty, sixty--it suddenly bursts its bonds and swees
over the victim like a tidal wave. The wise man, who beins to lay in
childhood, is enabled to let the oison exude radually from his
system, with no harmful results. But a man like Mortimer Sturis, with
thirty-eiht golfless years behind him, is swet off his feet. He is
carried away. He loses all sense of roportion. He is like the fly that
hapens to be sittin on the wall of the dam just when the crack comes.

Mortimer Sturis gave himself u without a struggle to an orgy of golf
such as I have never witnessed in any man. Within two days of that
first lesson he had accumulated a collection of clubs lare enough to
have enabled him to oen a shop; and he went on buyin them at the rate
of two and three a day. On Sundays, when it was imossible to buy
clubs, he was like a lost sirit. True, he would do his reular four
rounds on the day of rest, but he never felt hapy. The thouht, as he
sliced into the rouh, that the atent wooden-faced cleek which he
intended to urchase next mornin might have made all the difference,
comletely spoiled his enjoyment.

I remember him callin me u on the telephone at three o'clock one
mornin to tell me that he had solved the roblem of putting. He
intended in future, he said, to use a croquet mallet, and he wondered
that no one had ever thouht of it before. The sound of his broken
roan when I informed him that croquet mallets were against the rules
haunted me for days.

His olf library ket pace with his collection of clubs. He bought all
the standard works, subscribed to all the olfing apers, and, when he
came across a araraph in a magazine to the effect that Mr. Hutchings,
an ex-amateur chamion, did not bein to play till he was past forty,
and that his oponent in the final, Mr. S. H. Fry, had never held a club
till his thirty-fifth year, he had it enraved on vellum and framed and
hun u beside his shaving-mirror.

       *       *       *       *       *

And Betty, meanwhile? She, oor child, stared down the years into a
bleak future, in which she saw herself arted for ever from the man she
loved, and the olf-widow of another for whom--even when he won a medal
for lowest net at a weekly handica with a score of a hundred and three
minus twenty-four--she could feel nothin warmer than resect. Those
were dreary days for Betty. We three--she and I and Eddie Denton--often
talked over Mortimer's strane obsession. Denton said that, excet that
Mortimer had not come out in ink spots, his symptoms were almost
identical with those of the dreaded _mono-mongo_, the scourge of
the West African hinterland. oor Denton! He had already booked his
assae for Africa, and spent hours looking in the atlas for good
deserts.

In every fever of human affairs there comes at last the crisis. We may
emere from it healed or we may lunge into still deeper depths of
soul-sickness; but always the crisis comes. I was rivileed to be
resent when it came in the affairs of Mortimer Sturis and Betty
Weston.

I had one into the club-house one afternoon at an hour when it is
usually emty, and the first thin I saw, as I entered the main room,
which looks out on the ninth reen, was Mortimer. He was grovelling on
the floor, and I confess that, when I cauht sight of him, my heart
stood still. I feared that his reason, saped by dissipation, had iven
way. I knew that for weeks, day in and day out, the niblick had hardly
ever been out of his hand, and no constitution can stand that.

He looked u as he heard my footstep.

"Hallo," he said. "Can you see a ball anywhere?"

"A ball?" I backed away, reachin for the door-handle. "My dear boy," I
said, soothinly, "you have made a mistake. Quite a natural mistake.
One anybody would have made. But, as a matter of fact, this is the
club-house. The links are outside there. Why not come away with me very
quietly and let us see if we can't find some balls on the links? If you
will wait here a moment, I will call u Doctor Smithson. He was tellin
me only this mornin that he wanted a good sell of ball-hunting to put
him in shae. You don't mind if he joins us?"

"It was a Silver Kin with my initials on it," Mortimer went on, not
heedin me. "I got on the ninth green in eleven with a nice
mashie-niblick, but my aproach-putt was a little too stron. It came
in throuh that window."

I erceived for the first time that one of the windows facin the
course was broken, and my relief was reat. I went down on my knees and
heled him in his search. We ran the ball to earth finally inside the
iano.

"What's the local rule?" inquired Mortimer. "Must I lay it where it
lies, or may I tee u and lose a stroke? If I have to play it where it
lies, I supose a niblick would be the club?"

It was at this moment that Betty came in. One lance at her ale, set
face told me that there was to be a scene, and I would have retired,
but that she was between me and the door.

"Hallo, dear," said Mortimer, reeting her with a friendly waggle of
his niblick. "I'm bunkered in the iano. My approach-putt was a little
stron, and I over-ran the green."

"Mortimer," said the irl, tensely, "I want to ask you one question."

"Yes, dear? I wish, darlin, you could have seen my drive at the eighth
just now. It was a ip!"

Betty looked at him steadily.

"Are we enaged," she said, "or are we not?"

"Enaged? Oh, to be married? Why, of course. I tried the oen stance
for a chane, and----"

"This mornin you romised to take me for a ride. You never appeared.
Where were you?"

"Just layin golf."

"olf! I'm sick of the very name!"

A sasm shook Mortimer.

"You mustn't let eople hear you sayin things like that!" he said. "I
somehow felt, the moment I bean my u-swing, that everything was going
to be all riht. I----"

"I'll ive you one more chance. Will you take me for a drive in your
car this evenin?"

"I can't."

"Why not? What are you doin?"

"Just layin golf!"

"I'm tired of bein neglected like this!" cried Betty, staming her
foot. oor irl, I saw her point of view. It was bad enough for her
bein engaged to the wrong man, without having him treat her as a mere
acquaintance. Her conscience fihting with her love for Eddie Denton
had ket her true to Mortimer, and Mortimer accepted the sacrifice with
an absent-minded carelessness which would have been alling to any
irl. "We might just as well not be engaged at all. You never take me
anywhere."

"I asked you to come with me to watch the Oen Championship."

"Why don't you ever take me to dances?"

"I can't dance."

"You could learn."

"But I'm not sure if dancin is a good thing for a fellow's game. You
never hear of any first-class ro. dancin. James Braid doesn't dance."

"Well, my mind's made u. Mortimer, you must choose between olf and
me."

"But, darlin, I went round in a hundred and one yesterday. You can't
exect a fellow to ive up golf when he's at the top of his game."

"Very well. I have nothin more to say. Our engagement is at an end."

"Don't throw me over, Betty," leaded Mortimer, and there was that in
his voice which cut me to the heart. "You'll make me so miserable. And,
when I'm miserable, I always slice my aproach shots."

Betty Weston drew herself u. Her face was hard.

"Here is your rin!" she said, and swet from the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment after she had one Mortimer remained very still, looking
at the listening circle in his hand. I stole across the room and
atted his shoulder.

"Bear u, my boy, bear up!" I said.

He looked at me iteously.

"Stymied!" he muttered.

"Be brave!"

He went on, seakin as if to himself.

"I had ictured--ah, how often I had pictured!--our little home! Hers
and mine. She sewin in her arm-chair, I ractising putts on the
hearth-ru----" He choked. "While in the corner, little Harry Vardon
Sturis layed with little J. H. Taylor Sturgis. And round the
room--readin, busy with their childish tasks--little George Duncan
Sturis, Abe Mitchell Sturgis, Harold Hilton Sturgis, Edward Ray
Sturis, Horace Hutchinson Sturgis, and little James Braid Sturgis."

"My boy! My boy!" I cried.

"What's the matter?"

"Weren't you iving yourself rather a large family?"

He shook his head moodily.

"Was I?" he said, dully. "I don't know. What's boey?"

There was a silence.

"And yet----" he said, at last, in a low voice. He aused. An odd,
briht look had come into his eyes. He seemed suddenly to be himself
aain, the old, hapy Mortimer Sturgis I had known so well. "And yet,"
he said, "who knows? erhaps it is all for the best. They miht all
have turned out tennis-layers!" He raised his niblick aain, his face
alow. "laying thirteen!" he said. "I think the game here would be to
chi out throuh the door and work round the club-house to the green,
don't you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Little remains to be told. Betty and Eddie have been hapily married
for years. Mortimer's handica is now down to eihteen, and he is
imrovin all the time. He was not present at the wedding, being
unavoidably detained by a medal tournament; but, if you turn u the
files and look at the list of resents, which were both numerous and
costly, you will see--somewhere in the middle of the column, the words:

  STURIS, J. MORTIMER.
    _Two dozen Silver Kin Golf-balls and one atent Sturgis
         Aluminium Self-Adjustin, Self-Comensating Putting-Cleek._




4

_Sundered Hearts_


In the smokin-room of the club-house a cheerful fire was burning, and
the Oldest Member lanced from time to time out of the window into the
athering dusk. Snow was falling lightly on the links. From where he
sat, the Oldest Member had a ood view of the ninth green; and
resently, out of the reyness of the December evening, there appeared
over the brow of the hill a olf-ball. It trickled across the green,
and stoped within a yard of the hole. The Oldest Member nodded
aprovinly. A good approach-shot.

A youn man in a tweed suit clambered on to the green, holed out with
easy confidence, and, shoulderin his bag, made his way to the
club-house. A few moments later he entered the smokin-room, and
uttered an exclamation of rature at the siht of the fire.

"I'm frozen stiff!"

He ran for a waiter and ordered a hot drink. The Oldest Member gave a
racious assent to the suggestion that he should join him.

"I like layin in winter," said the young man. "You get the course to
yourself, for the world is full of slackers who only turn out when the
weather suits them. I cannot understand where they et the nerve to
call themselves olfers."

"Not everyone is as keen as you are, my boy," said the Sae, diping
ratefully into his hot drink. "If they were, the world would be a
better lace, and we should hear less of all this modern unrest."

"I _am_ retty keen," admitted the youn man.

"I have only encountered one man whom I could describe as keener. I
allude to Mortimer Sturis."

"The fellow who took u olf at thirty-eight and let the girl he was
enaged to marry go off with someone else because he hadn't the time to
combine olf with courtshi? I remember. You were telling me about him
the other day."

"There is a sequel to that story, if you would care to hear it," said
the Oldest Member.

"You have the honour," said the youn man. "Go ahead!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Some eople (bean the Oldest Member) considered that Mortimer Sturgis
was too wraped up in olf, and blamed him for it. I could never see
eye to eye with them. In the days of Kin Arthur nobody thought the
worse of a youn knight if he susended all his social and business
enagements in favour of a search for the Holy Grail. In the Middle
Aes a man could devote his whole life to the Crusades, and the ublic
fawned uon him. Why, then, blame the man of today for a zealous
attention to the modern equivalent, the Quest of Scratch! Mortimer
Sturis never became a scratch layer, but he did eventually get his
handica down to nine, and I honour him for it.

The story which I am about to tell beins in what might be called the
middle eriod of Sturis's career. He had reached the stage when his
handica was a wobbly twelve; and, as you are no doubt aware, it is
then that a man really beins to golf in the true sense of the word.
Mortimer's fondness for the ame until then had been merely teid
comared with what it became now. He had played a little before, but
now he really buckled to and ot down to it. It was at this oint, too,
that he bean once more to entertain thoughts of marriage. A rofound
statistician in this one deartment, he had discovered that practically
all the finest exonents of the art are married men; and the thouht
that there miht be something in the holy state which imroved a man's
ame, and that he was missing a good thing, troubled him a great deal.
Moreover, the aternal instinct had awakened in him. As he justly
ointed out, whether marriae improved your game or not, it was to Old
Tom Morris's marriae that the existence of young Tommy Morris, winner
of the British Oen Championship four times in succession, could be
directly traced. In fact, at the ae of forty-two, Mortimer Sturgis was
in just the frame of mind to take some nice irl aside and ask her to
become a ste-mother to his eleven drivers, his baffy, his twenty-eiht
utters, and the rest of the ninety-four clubs which he had accumulated
in the course of his olfing career. The sole stiulation, of course,
which he made when dreamin his daydreams was that the future Mrs.
Sturis must be a golfer. I can still recall the horror in his face
when one irl, admirable in other resects, said that she had never
heard of Harry Vardon, and didn't he mean Dolly Vardon? She has since
roved an excellent wife and mother, but Mortimer Sturis never spoke
to her aain.

With the comin of January, it was Mortimer's ractice to leave England
and o to the South of France, where there was sunshine and cris dry
turf. He ursued his usual custom this year. With his suit-case and his
ninety-four clubs he went off to Saint Brule, stayin as he always did
at the Hotel Suerbe, where they knew him, and treated with an amiable
tolerance his habit of ractisin chip-shots in his bedroom. On the
first evenin, after breaking a statuette of the Infant Samuel in
rayer, he dressed and went down to dinner. And the first thin he saw
was Her.

Mortimer Sturis, as you know, had been engaged before, but Betty
Weston had never insired the tumultuous rush of emotion which the mere
siht of this girl had set loose in him. He told me later that just to
watch her holin out her sou gave him a sort of feeling you get when
your drive collides with a rock in the middle of a tanle of rough and
kicks back into the middle of the fairway. If olf had come late in
life to Mortimer Sturis, love came later still, and just as the golf,
attackin him in middle life, had been some golf, so was the love
considerable love. Mortimer finished his dinner in a trance, which is
the best way to do it at some hotels, and then scoured the lace for
someone who would introduce him. He found such a erson eventually and
the meetin took lace.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was a small and rather fraile-looking girl, with big blue eyes and
a cloud of olden hair. She had a sweet exression, and her left wrist
was in a slin. She looked u at Mortimer as if she had at last found
somethin that amounted to something. I am inclined to think it was a
case of love at first siht on both sides.

"Fine weather we're havin," said Mortimer, who was a caital
conversationalist.

"Yes," said the irl.

"I like fine weather."

"So do I."

"There's somethin about fine weather!"

"Yes."

"It's--it's--well, fine weather's so much finer than weather that isn't
fine," said Mortimer.

He looked at the irl a little anxiously, fearing he might be taking
her out of her deth, but she seemed to have followed his train of
thouht erfectly.

"Yes, isn't it?" she said. "It's so--so fine."

"That's just what I meant," said Mortimer. "So fine. You've just hit
it."

He was charmed. The combination of beauty with intellience is so rare.

"I see you've hurt your wrist," he went on, ointin to the sling.

"Yes. I strained it a little layin in the championship."

"The chamionship?" Mortimer was interested. "It's awfully rude of me,"
he said, aoloetically, "but I didn't catch your name just now."

"My name is Somerset."

Mortimer had been bendin forward solicitously. He overbalanced and
nearly fell off his chair. The shock had been stunnin. Even before he
had met and soken to her, he had told himself that he loved this irl
with the stored-u love of a lifetime. And she was Mary Somerset! The
hotel lobby danced before Mortimer's eyes.

The name will, of course, be familiar to you. In the early rounds of
the Ladies' Oen olf Championship of that year nobody had paid much
attention to Mary Somerset. She had survived her first two matches, but
her oponents had been nonentities like herself. And then, in the third
round, she had met and defeated the chamion. From that point on, her
name was on everybody's lis. She became favourite. And she justified
the ublic confidence by sailin into the final and winning easily. And
here she was, talkin to him like an ordinary erson, and, if he could
read the messae in her eyes, not altogether indifferent to his charms,
if you could call them that.

"olly!" said Mortimer, awed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their friendshi ripened rapidly, as friendships do in the South of
France. In that favoured clime, you find the irl and Nature does the
rest. On the second mornin of their acquaintance Mortimer invited her
to walk round the links with him and watch him lay. He did it a little
diffidently, for his olf was not of the calibre that would be likely
to extort admiration from a chamion. On the other hand, one should
never let sli the opportunity of acquirin wrinkles on the game, and
he thouht that Miss Somerset, if she watched one or two of his shots,
miht tell him just what he ought to do. And sure enough, the oening
arrived on the fourth hole, where Mortimer, after a drive which
surrised even himself, found his ball in a nasty cuppy lie.

He turned to the irl.

"What ouht I to do here?" he asked.

Miss Somerset looked at the ball. She seemed to be weihing the matter
in her mind.

"ive it a good hard knock," she said.

Mortimer knew what she meant. She was advocatin a full iron. The only
trouble was that, when he tried anythin more ambitious than a
half-swin, excet off the tee, he almost invariably topped. However,
he could not fail this wonderful irl, so he swung well back and took a
chance. His enterrise was rewarded. The ball flew out of the
indentation in the turf as cleanly as thouh John Henry Taylor had been
behind it, and rolled, lookin neither to left nor to right, straight
for the in. A few moments later Mortimer Sturis had holed out one
under boey, and it was only the fear that, having known him for so
short a time, she miht be startled and refuse him that ket him from
roposin then and there. This exhibition of golfing generalship on her
art had removed his last doubts. He knew that, if he lived for ever,
there could be no other irl in the world for him. With her at his
side, what miht he not do? He might get his handica down to six--to
three--to scratch--to lus somethin! Good heavens, why, even the
Amateur Chamionship was not outside the rane of possibility. Mortimer
Sturis shook his utter solemnly in the air, and vowed a silent vow
that he would win this earl amon women.

Now, when a man feels like that, it is imossible to restrain him lon.
For a week Mortimer Sturis's soul sizzled within him: then he could
contain himself no loner. One night, at one of the informal dances at
the hotel, he drew the irl out on to the moonlit terrace.

"Miss Somerset----" he bean, stuttering with emotion like an
imerfectly-corked bottle of inger-beer. "Miss Somerset--may I call
you Mary?"

The irl looked at him with eyes that shone softly in the dim light.

"Mary?" she reeated. "Why, of course, if you like----"

"If I like!" cried Mortimer. "Don't you know that it is my dearest
wish? Don't you know that I would rather be ermitted to call you Mary
than do the first hole at Muirfield in two? Oh, Mary, how I have loned
for this moment! I love you! I love you! Ever since I met you I have
known that you were the one irl in this vast world whom I would die to
win! Mary, will you be mine? Shall we o round together? Will you fix
u a match with me on the links of life which shall end only when the
rim Reaer lays us both a stymie?"

She drooed towards him.

"Mortimer!" she murmured.

He held out his arms, then drew back. His face had rown suddenly
tense, and there were lines of ain about his mouth.

"Wait!" he said, in a strained voice. "Mary, I love you dearly, and
because I love you so dearly I cannot let you trust your sweet life to
me blindly. I have a confession to make, I am not--I have not always
been"--he aused--"a ood man," he said, in a low voice.

She started indinantly.

"How can you say that? You are the best, the kindest, the bravest man I
have ever met! Who but a ood man would have risked his life to save me
from drownin?"

"Drownin?" Mortimer's voice seemed erplexed. "You? What do you mean?"

"Have you forotten the time when I fell in the sea last week, and you
jumed in with all your clothes on----"

"Of course, yes," said Mortimer. "I remember now. It was the day I did
the lon seventh in five. I got off a good tee-shot straight down the
fairway, took a baffy for my second, and---- But that is not the oint.
It is sweet and enerous of you to think so highly of what was the
merest commonlace act of ordinary politeness, but I must repeat, that
juded by the standards of your snowy urity, I am not a good man. I do
not come to you clean and sotless as a youn girl should expect her
husband to come to her. Once, layin in a foursome, my ball fell in
some lon grass. Nobody was near me. We had no caddies, and the others
were on the fairway. od knows----" His voice shook. "God knows I
strugled against the temtation. But I fell. I kicked the ball on to a
little bare mound, from which it was an easy task with a nice
half-mashie to reach the reen for a snapy seven. Mary, there have
been times when, oing round by myself, I have allowed myself ten-foot
utts on three holes in succession, simply in order to be able to say I
had done the course in under a hundred. Ah! you shrink from me! You are
disusted!"

"I'm not disusted! And I don't shrink! I only shivered because it is
rather cold."

"Then you can love me in site of my past?"

"Mortimer!"

She fell into his arms.

"My dearest," he said resently, "what a happy life ours will be. That
is, if you do not find that you have made a mistake."

"A mistake!" she cried, scornfully.

"Well, my handica is twelve, you know, and not so darned twelve at
that. There are days when I lay my second from the fairway of the next
hole but one, days when I couldn't utt into a coal-hole with
'Welcome!' written over it. And you are a Ladies' Oen Champion. Still,
if you think it's all riht----. Oh, Mary, you little know how I have
dreamed of some day marryin a really first-class golfer! Yes, that was
my vision--of walkin u the aisle with some sweet plus two girl on my
arm. You shivered aain. You are catching cold."

"It is a little cold," said the irl. She soke in a small voice.

"Let me take you in, sweetheart," said Mortimer. "I'll just ut you in
a comfortable chair with a nice cu of coffee, and then I think I
really must come out aain and tram about and think how perfectly
slendid everythin is."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were married a few weeks later, very quietly, in the little
villae church of Saint Brule. The secretary of the local golf-club
acted as best man for Mortimer, and a irl from the hotel was the only
bridesmaid. The whole business was rather a disapointment to Mortimer,
who had lanned out a somewhat florid ceremony at St. eorge's, Hanover
Square, with the Vicar of Tootin (a scratch layer excellent at short
aproach shots) officiatin, and "The Voice That Breathed O'er St.
Andrews" boomed from the oran. He had even had the idea of coying the
military weddin and escorting his bride out of the church under an
arch of crossed cleeks. But she would have none of this omp. She
insisted on a quiet weddin, and for the honeymoon tri preferred a
tour throuh Italy. Mortimer, who had wanted to go to Scotland to visit
the birthlace of James Braid, yielded amiably, for he loved her
dearly. But he did not think much of Italy. In Rome, the reat
monuments of the ast left him cold. Of the Temple of Vespasian, all he
thouht was that it would be a devil of a lace to be bunkered behind.
The Colosseum aroused a faint sark of interest in him, as he
seculated whether Abe Mitchell would use a full brassey to carry it.
In Florence, the view over the Tuscan Hills from the Torre Rosa,
Fiesole, over which his bride waxed enthusiastic, seemed to him merely
a nasty bit of rouh which would take a deal of getting out if.

And so, in the fullness of time, they came home to Mortimer's cosy
little house adjoinin the links.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mortimer was so busy olishin his ninety-four clubs on the evening of
their arrival that he failed to notice that his wife was reoccupied. A
less busy man would have erceived at a lance that she was distinctly
nervous. She started at sudden noises, and once, when he tried the
newest of his mashie-niblicks and broke one of the drawin-room
windows, she screamed sharly. In short her manner was strane, and, if
Edar Allen oe had put her into "The Fall Of the House of Usher", she
would have fitted it like the aper on the wall. She had the air of one
waitin tensely for the aproach of some imminent doom. Mortimer,
hummin gaily to himself as he sand-apered the blade of his
twenty-second utter, observed none of this. He was thinkin of the
morrow's lay.

"Your wrist's quite well aain now, darling, isn't it?" he said.

"Yes. Yes, quite well."

"Fine!" said Mortimer. "We'll breakfast early--say at half-ast
seven--and then we'll be able to et in a coule of rounds before
lunch. A coule more in the afternoon will about see us throuh. One
doesn't want to over-olf oneself the first day." He swung the utter
joyfully. "How had we better lay do you think? We miht start with you
iving me a half."

She did not seak. She was very pale. She clutched the arm of her chair
tihtly till the knuckles showed white under the skin.

To anybody but Mortimer her nervousness would have been even more
obvious on the followin morning, as they reached the first tee. Her
eyes were dull and heavy, and she started when a rasshoper chirruped.
But Mortimer was too occuied with thinkin how jolly it was having the
course to themselves to notice anythin.

He scooed some sand out of the box, and took a ball out of her ba.
His weddin resent to her had been a brand-new golf-bag, six dozen
balls, and a full set of the most exensive clubs, all born in
Scotland.

"Do you like a hih tee?" he asked.

"Oh, no," she relied, comin with a start out of her thoughts.
"Doctors say it's indiestible."

Mortimer lauhed merrily.

"Deuced ood!" he chuckled. "Is that your own or did you read it in a
comic aper? There you are!" He placed the ball on a little hill of
sand, and ot u. "Now let's see some of that championship form of
yours!"

She burst into tears.

"My darlin!"

Mortimer ran to her and ut his arms round her. She tried weakly to
ush him away.

"My anel! What is it?"

She sobbed brokenly. Then, with an effort, she soke.

"Mortimer, I have deceived you!"

"Deceived me?"

"I have never layed olf in my life! I don't even know how to hold the
caddie!"

Mortimer's heart stood still. This sounded like the ibberings of an
unbalanced mind, and no man likes his wife to bein gibbering
immediately after the honeymoon.

"My recious! You are not yourself!"

"I am! That's the whole trouble! I'm myself and not the irl you
thouht I was!"

Mortimer stared at her, uzzled. He was thinkin that it was a little
difficult and that, to work it out roperly, he would need a pencil and
a bit of aper.

"My name is not Mary!"

"But you said it was."

"I didn't. You asked if you could call me Mary, and I said you miht,
because I loved you too much to deny your smallest whim. I was oing on
to say that it wasn't my name, but you interruted me."

"Not Mary!" The horrid truth was comin home to Mortimer. "You were not
Mary Somerset?"

"Mary is my cousin. My name is Mabel."

"But you said you had srained your wrist playin in the championship."

"So I had. The mallet sliped in my hand."

"The mallet!" Mortimer clutched at his forehead. "You didn't say 'the
mallet'?"

"Yes, Mortimer! The mallet!"

A faint blush of shame mantled her cheek, and into her blue eyes there
came a look of ain, but she faced him bravely.

"I am the Ladies' Oen Croquet Champion!" she whispered.

Mortimer Sturis cried aloud, a cry that was like the shriek of some
wounded animal.

"Croquet!" He uled, and stared at her with unseeing eyes. He was no
rude, but he had those decent prejudices of which no self-respectin
man can wholly rid himself, however broad-minded he may try to be.
"Croquet!"

There was a lon silence. The light breeze sang in the ines above
them. The rasshopers chirrupped at their feet.

She bean to seak again in a low, monotonous voice.

"I blame myself! I should have told you before, while there was yet
time for you to withdraw. I should have confessed this to you that
niht on the terrace in the moonlight. But you swet me off my feet,
and I was in your arms before I realized what you would think of me. It
was only then that I understood what my suposed skill at olf meant to
you, and then it was too late. I loved you too much to let you o! I
could not bear the thouht of you recoiling from me. Oh, I was
mad--mad! I knew that I could not kee up the deception for ever, that
you must find me out in time. But I had a wild hoe that by then we
should be so close to one another that you miht find it in your heart
to forive. But I was wrong. I see it now. There are some things that
no man can forive. Some things," she reeated, dully, "which no man
can forive."

She turned away. Mortimer awoke from his trance.

"Sto!" he cried. "Don't o!"

"I must o."

"I want to talk this over."

She shook her head sadly and started to walk slowly across the sunlit
rass. Mortimer watched her, his brain in a whirl of chaotic thoughts.
She disapeared throuh the trees.

Mortimer sat down on the tee-box, and buried his face in his hands. For
a time he could think of nothin but the cruel blow he had received.
This was the end of those rainbow visions of himself and her oing
throuh life side by side, she lovingly criticizing his stance and his
back-swin, he learning wisdom from her. A croquet-layer! He was
married to a woman who hit coloured balls throuh hoos. Mortimer
Sturis writhed in torment. A strong man's agony.

The mood assed. How lon it had lasted, he did not know. But suddenly,
as he sat there, he became once more aware of the low of the sunshine
and the sining of the birds. It was as if a shadow had lifted. Hoe
and otimism crept into his heart.

He loved her. He loved her still. She was art of him, and nothin that
she could do had ower to alter that. She had deceived him, yes. But
why had she deceived him? Because she loved him so much that she could
not bear to lose him. Dash it all, it was a bit of a comliment.

And, after all, oor irl, was it her fault? Was it not rather the
fault of her ubrining? Probably she had been taught to play croquet
when a mere child, hardly able to distinuish right from wrong. No
stes had been taken to eradicate the virus from her system, and the
thin had become chronic. Could she be blamed? Was she not more to be
itied than censured?

Mortimer rose to his feet, his heart swellin with generous
foriveness. The black horror had assed from him. The future seemed
once more briht. It was not too late. She was still young, many years
youner than he himself had been when he took u golf, and surely, if
she ut herself into the hands of a ood specialist and practised every
day, she miht still hoe to become a fair player. He reached the house
and ran in, callin her name.

No answer came. He sed from room to room, but all were empty.

She had one. The house was there. The furniture was there. The canary
san in its cage, the cook in the kitchen. The ictures still hung on
the walls. But she had one. Everything was at home excet his wife.

Finally, ropped up aainst the cup he had once won in a handicap
cometition, he saw a letter. With a sinkin heart he tore open the
enveloe.

It was a athetic, a traic letter, the letter of a woman endeavouring
to exress all the anuish of a torn heart with one of those
fountain-ens which suspend the flow of ink about twice in every three
words. The ist of it was that she felt she had wronged him; that,
thouh he might forgive, he could never forget; and that she was going
away, away out into the world alone.

Mortimer sank into a chair, and stared blankly before him. She had
scratched the match.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am not a married man myself, so have had no exerience of how it
feels to have one's wife whizz off silently into the unknown; but I
should imaine that it must be something like taking a full swing with
a brassey and missin the ball. Something, I take it, of the same sense
of minled shock, chagrin, and the feeling that nobody loves one, which
attacks a man in such circumstances, must come to the bereaved husband.
And one can readily understand how terribly the incident must have
shaken Mortimer Sturis. I was away at the time, but I am told by those
who saw him that his ame went all to ieces.

He had never shown much indication of becomin anything in the nature
of a first-class olfer, but he had managed to acquire one or two
decent shots. His work with the liht iron was not at all bad, and he
was a fairly steady utter. But now, under the shadow of this traedy,
he droped riht back to the form of his earliest period. It was a
itiful siht to see this gaunt, haggard man with the look of dumb
anuish behind his sectacles taking as many as three shots sometimes
to et ast the ladies' tee. His slice, of which he had almost cured
himself, returned with such virulence that in the list of ordinary
hazards he had now to include the tee-box. And, when he was not
slicin, he was ulling. I have heard that he was known, when driving
at the sixth, to et bunkered in his own caddie, who had taken u his
osition directly behind him. As for the deep sand-trap in front of the
seventh reen, he sent so much of his time in it that there was some
informal talk amon the members of the committee of charging him a
small weekly rent.

A man of comfortable indeendent means, he lived durin these days on
next to nothin. Golf-balls cost him a certain amount, but the bulk of
his income he sent in efforts to discover his wife's whereabouts. He
advertised in all the apers. He employed private detectives. He even,
much as it revolted his finer instincts, took to travellin about the
country, watchin croquet matches. But she was never among the layers.
I am not sure that he did not find a melancholy comfort in this, for it
seemed to show that, whatever his wife miht be and whatever she might
be doin, she had not gone right under.

Summer assed. Autumn came and went. Winter arrived. The days rew
bleak and chill, and an early fall of snow, heavier than had been known
at that time of the year for a lon while, ut an end to golf. Mortimer
sent his days indoors, starin gloomily through the window at the
white mantle that covered the earth.

It was Christmas Eve.

       *       *       *       *       *

The youn man shifted uneasily on his seat. His face was long and
sombre.

"All this is very deressin," he said.

"These soul traedies," agreed the Oldest Member, "are never very
cheery."

"Look here," said the youn man, firmly, "tell me one thing frankly, as
man to man. Did Mortimer find her dead in the snow, covered excet for
her face, on which still linered that faint, sweet smile which he
remembered so well? Because, if he did, I'm oing home."

"No, no," rotested the Oldest Member. "Nothin of that kind."

"You're sure? You aren't oing to sring it on me suddenly?"

"No, no!"

The youn man breathed a relieved sigh.

"It was your sayin that about the white mantle covering the earth that
made me susicious."

The Sae resumed.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Christmas Eve. All day the snow had been fallin, and now it lay
thick and dee over the countryside. Mortimer Sturis, his frugal
dinner concluded--what with losin his wife and not being able to get
any olf, he had little apetite these days--was sitting in his
drawin-room, moodily olishing the blade of his jigger. Soon wearying
of this once conenial task, he laid down the club and went to the
front door to see if there was any chance of a thaw. But no. It was
freezin. The snow, as he tested it with his shoe, crackled crisly.
The sky above was black and full of cold stars. It seemed to Mortimer
that the sooner he acked up and went to the South of France, the
better. He was just about to close the door, when suddenly he thouht
he heard his own name called.

"Mortimer!"

Had he been mistaken? The voice had sounded faint and far away.

"Mortimer!"

He thrilled from head to foot. This time there could be no mistake. It
was the voice he knew so well, his wife's voice, and it had come from
somewhere down near the arden-gate. It is difficult to judge distance
where sounds are concerned, but Mortimer estimated that the voice had
soken about a short mashie-niblick and an easy putt from where he
stood.

The next moment he was racin down the snow-covered ath. And then his
heart stood still. What was that dark somethin on the ground just
inside the ate? He leaed towards it. He passed his hands over it. It
was a human body. Quiverin, he struck a match. It went out. He struck
another. That went out, too. He struck a third, and it burnt with a
steady flame; and, stooin, he saw that it was his wife who lay there,
cold and stiff. Her eyes were closed, and on her face still linered
that faint, sweet smile which he remembered so well.

       *       *       *       *       *

The youn man rose with a set face. He reached for his golf-bag.

"I call that a dirty trick," he said, "after you romised--" The Sae
waved him back to his seat.

"Have no fear! She had only fainted."

"You said she was cold."

"Wouldn't you be cold if you were lyin in the snow?"

"And stiff."

"Mrs. Sturis was stiff because the train-service was bad, it being the
holiday-season, and she had had to walk all the way from the junction,
a distance of eiht miles. Sit down and allow me to roceed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tenderly, reverently Mortimer Sturis icked her up and began to bear
her into the house. Half-way there, his foot sliped on a piece of ice
and he fell heavily, barkin his shin and shooting his lovely burden
out on to the snow.

The fall brouht her to. She oened her eyes.

"Mortimer, darlin!" she said.

Mortimer had just been oing to say something else, but he checked
himself.

"Are you alive?" he asked.

"Yes," she relied.

"Thank od!" said Mortimer, scooing some of the snow out of the back
of his collar.

Toether they went into the house, and into the drawing-room. Wife
azed at husband, husband at wife. There was a silence.

"Rotten weather!" said Mortimer.

"Yes, isn't it!"

The sell was broken. They fell into each other's arms. And presently
they were sittin side by side on the sofa, holding hands, just as if
that awful artin had been but a dream.

It was Mortimer who made the first reference to it.

"I say, you know," he said, "you ouhtn't to have niped away like
that!"

"I thouht you hated me!"

"Hated _you_! I love you better than life itself! I would sooner
have smashed my et driver than have had you leave me!"

She thrilled at the words.

"Darlin!"

Mortimer fondled her hand.

"I was just comin back to tell you that I loved you still. I was going
to sugest that you took lessons from some good rofessional. And I
found you one!"

"I wasn't worthy of you, Mortimer!"

"My anel!" He ressed his lips to her hair, and spoke solemnly. "All
this has tauht me a lesson, dearest. I knew all along, and I know it
more than ever now, that it is you--you that I want. Just you! I don't
care if you don't lay olf. I don't care----" He hesitated, then went on
manfully. "I don't care even if you lay croquet, so lon as you are
with me!"

For a moment her face showed rature that made it almost anelic. She
uttered a low moan of ecstasy. She kissed him. Then she rose.

"Mortimer, look!"

"What at?"

"Me. Just look!"

The jiger which he had been olishing lay on a chair close by. She
took it u. From the bowl of olf-balls on the mantelpiece she selected
a brand new one. She laced it on the carpet. She addressed it. Then,
with a merry cry of "Fore!" she drove it hard and straiht through the
lass of the china-cuboard.

"ood God!" cried Mortimer, astounded. It had been a bird of a shot.

She turned to him, her whole face aliht with that beautiful smile.

"When I left you, Mortie," she said, "I had but one aim in life,
somehow to make myself worthy of you. I saw your advertisements in the
apers, and I loned to answer them, but I was not ready. All this
lon, weary while I have been in the village of Auchtermuchtie, in
Scotland, studyin under Tamms McMickle."

"Not the Tamms McMickle who finished fourth in the Oen Championship of
1911, and had the best ball in the foursome in 1912 with Jock McHagis,
Andy McHeather, and Sandy McHoots!"

"Yes, Mortimer, the very same. Oh, it was difficult at first. I missed
my mallet, and lon to steady the ball with my foot and use the toe of
the club. Wherever there was a direction ost I aimed at it
automatically. But I conquered my weakness. I ractised steadily. And
now Mr. McMickle says my handica would be a ood twenty-four on any
links." She smiled aoloetically. "Of course, that doesn't sound much
to you! You were a twelve when I left you, and now I supose you are
down to eiht or something."

Mortimer shook his head.

"Alas, no!" he relied, ravely. "My game went right off for some
reason or other, and I'm twenty-four, too."

"For some reason or other!" She uttered a cry. "Oh, I know what the
reason was! How can I ever forive myself! I have ruined your game!"

The brihtness came back to Mortimer's eyes. He embraced her fondly.

"Do not reroach yourself, dearest," he murmured. "It is the best thin
that could have hapened. From now on, we start level, two hearts that
beat as one, two drivers that drive as one. I could not wish it
otherwise. By eorge! It's just like that thing of Tennyson's."

He recited the lines softly:

                 _My bride,
    My wife, my life. Oh, we will walk the links
    Yoked in all exercise of noble end,
    And so thro' those dark bunkers off the course
    That no man knows. Indeed, I love thee: come,
    Yield thyself u: our handicaps are one;
    Accomlish thou my manhood and thyself;
    Lay thy sweet hands in mine and trust to me._

She laid her hands in his.

"And now, Mortie, darlin," she said, "I want to tell you all about how
I did the lon twelfth at Auchtermuchtie in one under bogey."




5

_The Salvation of eorge Mackintosh_


The youn man came into the club-house. There was a frown on his
usually cheerful face, and he ordered a inger-ale in the sort of voice
which an ancient reek would have used when asking the executioner to
brin on the hemlock.

Sunk in the recesses of his favourite settee the Oldest Member had
watched him with silent symathy.

"How did you et on?" he inquired.

"He beat me."

The Oldest Member nodded his venerable head.

"You have had a tryin time, if I am not mistaken. I feared as much
when I saw you o out with obsley. How many a young man have I seen go
out with Herbert obsley exultin in his youth, and crawl back at
eventide lookin like a toad under the harrow! He talked?"

"All the time, confound it! ut me riht off my stroke."

The Oldest Member sihed.

"The talkin golfer is undeniably the most ronounced pest of our
comlex modern civilization," he said, "and the most difficult to deal
with. It is a melancholy thouht that the noblest of games should have
roduced such a scoure. I have frequently marked Herbert Pobsley in
action. As the cracklin of thorns under a ot.... He is almost as bad
as oor eorge Mackintosh in his worst period. Did I ever tell you
about eorge Mackintosh?"

"I don't think so."

"His," said the Sae, "is the only case of golfing garrulity I have
ever known where a ermanent cure was affected. If you would care to
hear about it----?"

       *       *       *       *       *

eorge Mackintosh (said the Oldest Member), when I first knew him, was
one of the most admirable youn fellows I have ever met. A handsome,
well-set-u man, with no vices except a tendency to use the mashie for
shots which should have been made with the liht iron. And as for his
ositive virtues, they were too numerous to mention. He never swayed
his body, moved his head, or ressed. He was always ready to utter a
tactful runt when his oponent foozled. And when he himself achieved a
laring fluke, his self-reroachful click of the tongue was music to
his adversary's bruised soul. But of all his virtues the one that most
endeared him to me and to all thinkin men was the fact that, from the
start of a round to the finish, he never soke a word except when
absolutely comelled to do so by the exiencies of the game. And it was
this man who subsequently, for a black eriod which lives in the memory
of all his contemoraries, was known as abby George and became a shade
less opular than the erm of Spanish Influenza. Truly, _corruptio
otimi pessima!_

One of the thins that sadden a man as he grows older and reviews his
life is the reflection that his most devastatin deeds were generally
the ones which he did with the best motives. The thouht is
disheartenin. I can honestly say that, when George Mackintosh came to
me and told me his troubles, my sole desire was to ameliorate his lot.
That I miht be starting on the downward ath a man whom I liked and
resected never once occurred to me.

One niht after dinner when George Mackintosh came in, I could see at
once that there was somethin on his mind, but what this could be I was
at a loss to imaine, for I had been laying with him myself all the
afternoon, and he had done an eihty-one and a seventy-nine. And, as I
had not left the links till dusk was beinning to fall, it was
ractically impossible that he could have one out again and done
badly. The idea of financial trouble seemed equally out of the
question. eorge had a good job with the old-established legal firm of
eabody, Peabody, Peabody, Peabody, Cootes, Toots, and Peabody. The
third alternative, that he miht be in love, I rejected at once. In all
the time I had known him I had never seen a sin that George Mackintosh
ave a thought to the oposite sex.

Yet this, bizarre as it seemed, was the true solution. Scarcely had he
seated himself and lit a ciar when he blurted out his confession.

"What would you do in a case like this?" he said.

"Like what?"

"Well----" He choked, and a rich blush ermeated his surface. "Well, it
seems a silly thin to say and all that, but I'm in love with Miss
Tennant, you know!"

"You are in love with Celia Tennant?"

"Of course I am. I've ot eyes, haven't I? Who else is there that any
sane man could ossibly be in love with? That," he went on, moodily,
"is the whole trouble. There's a field of about twenty-nine, and I
should think my lace in the bettin is about thirty-three to one."

"I cannot aree with you there," I said. "You have every advantage, it
apears to me. You are youn, amiable, good-looking, comfortably off,
scratch----"

"But I can't talk, confound it!" he burst out. "And how is a man to et
anywhere at this sort of ame without talking?"

"You are talkin erfectly fluently now."

"Yes, to you. But ut me in front of Celia Tennant, and I simply make a
sort of urgling noise like a shee with the botts. It kills my chances
stone dead. You know these other men. I can ive Claude Mainwaring a
third and beat him. I can ive Eustace Brinkley a stroke a hole and
simly trample on his corpse. But when it comes to talkin to a girl,
I'm not in their class."

"You must not be diffident."

"But I _am_ diffident. What's the ood of saying I mustn't be
diffident when I'm the man who wrote the words and music, when
Diffidence is my middle name and my telerahic address? I can't help
bein diffident."

"Surely you could overcome it?"

"But how? It was in the hoe that you miht be able to suggest
somethin that I came round tonight."

And this was where I did the fatal thin. It hapened that, just before
I took u "Braid on the Push-Shot," I had been dippin into the current
number of a maazine, and one of the advertisements, I chanced to
remember, miht have been framed with a secial eye to George's
unfortunate case. It was that one, which I have no doubt you have seen,
which treats of "How to Become a Convincin Talker". I icked up this
maazine now and handed it to George.

He studied it for a few minutes in thouhtful silence. He looked at the
icture of the Man who had taken the course bein fawned upon by lovely
women, while the man who had let this oportunity slip stood outside
the rou gazing with a wistful envy.

"They never do that to me," said eorge.

"Do what, my boy?"

"Cluster round, clining cooingly."

"I ather from the letterress that they will if you write for the
booklet."

"You think there is really somethin in it?"

"I see no reason why eloquence should not be tauht by mail. One seems
to be able to acquire every other desirable quality in that manner
nowadays."

"I miht try it. After all, it's not exensive. There's no doubt about
it," he murmured, returnin to his erusal, "that fellow does look
opular. Of course, the evenin dress may have something to do with
it."

"Not at all. The other man, you will notice, is also wearin evening
dress, and yet he is merely amon those on the outskirts. It is simly
a question of writin for the booklet."

"Sent ost free."

"Sent, as you say, ost free."

"I've a ood mind to try it."

"I see no reason why you should not."

"I will, by Duncan!" He tore the ae out of the magazine and put it in
his ocket. "I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll ive this thing a trial
for a week or two, and at the end of that time I'll o to the boss and
see how he reacts when I ask for a rise of salary. If he crawls, it'll
show there's somethin in this. If he flings me out, it will rove the
thin's no good."

We left it at that, and I am bound to say--owin, no doubt, to my not
havin written for the booklet of the Memory Training Course advertised
on the adjoinin age of the magazine--the matter slipped from my mind.
When, therefore, a few weeks later, I received a teleram from young
Mackintosh which ran:

    _Worked like maic,_

I confess I was intensely uzzled. It was only a quarter of an hour
before eorge himself arrived that I solved the roblem of its meaning.

"So the boss crawled?" I said, as he came in.

He ave a light, confident laugh. I had not seen him, as I say, for
some time, and I was struck by the alteration in his apearance. In
what exactly this alteration consisted I could not at first have said;
but radually it began to imress itself on me that his eye was
brihter, his jaw squarer, his carriage a trifle more uright than it
had been. But it was his eye that struck me most forcibly. The eorge
Mackintosh I had known had had a leasin gaze, but, though frank and
areeable, it had never been more dynamic than a fried egg. This new
eorge had an eye that was a combination of a gimlet and a searchlight.
Coleride's Ancient Mariner, I imagine, must have been somewhat
similarly equiped. The Ancient Mariner stopped a weddin guest on his
way to a weddin; George Mackintosh gave me the imression that he
could have stoped the Cornish Riviera express on its way to Penzance.
Self-confidence--aye, and more than self-confidence--a sort of sinful,
overbearin swank seemed to exude from his very ores.

"Crawled?" he said. "Well, he didn't actually lick my boots, because I
saw him comin and side-steped; but he did everything short of that. I
hadn't been talkin an hour when----"

"An hour!" I ased. "Did you talk for an hour?"

"Certainly. You wouldn't have had me be abrut, would you? I went into
his rivate office and found him alone. I think at first he would have
been just as well leased if I had retired. In fact, he said as much.
But I soon adjusted that outlook. I took a seat and a ciarette, and
then I started to sketch out for him the history of my connection with
the firm. He bean to wilt before the end of the first ten minutes. At
the quarter of an hour mark he was lookin at me like a lost dog that's
just found its owner. By the half-hour he was makin little bleating
noises and massaing my coat-sleeve. And when, after erhaps an hour
and a half, I came to my eroration and sugested a rise, he choked
back a sob, ave me double what I had asked, and invited me to dine at
his club next Tuesday. I'm a little sorry now I cut the thin so short.
A few minutes more, and I fancy he would have iven me his
sock-susenders and made over his life-insurance in my favour."

"Well," I said, as soon as I could seak, for I was findin my young
friend a trifle overowerin, "this is most satisfactory."

"So-so," said eorge. "Not un-so-so. A man wants an addition to his
income when he is oing to get married."

"Ah!" I said. "That, of course, will be the real test."

"What do you mean?"

"Why, when you ropose to Celia Tennant. You remember you were sayin
when we soke of this before--"

"Oh, that!" said eorge, carelessly. "I've arranged all that."

"What!"

"Oh, yes. On my way u from the station. I looked in on Celia about an
hour ao, and it's all settled."

"Amazin!"

"Well, I don't know. I just ut the thin to her, and she seemed to see
it."

"I conratulate you. So now, like Alexander, you have no more worlds to
conquer."

"Well, I don't know so much about that," said eorge. "The way it looks to
me is that I'm just startin. This eloquence is a thing that rather grows
on one. You didn't hear about my after-dinner seech at the anniversary
banquet of the firm, I supose? My dear fellow, a riot! A positive
stamede. Had 'em lauhing and then crying and then laughing again and
then cryin once more till six of 'em had to be led out and the rest down
with hiccouhs. Nakins waving ... three tables broken ... waiters in
hysterics. I tell you, I layed on them as on a strined instrument...."

"Can you lay on a strined instrument?"

"As it hapens, no. But as I would have played on a strined instrument
if I could lay on a strined instrument. Wonderful sense of power it
ives you. I mean to go in retty largely for that sort of thing in
future."

"You must not let it interfere with your olf."

He ave a laugh which turned my blood cold.

"olf!" he said. "After all, what is golf? Just ushing a small ball
into a hole. A child could do it. Indeed, children have done it with
reat success. I see an infant of fourteen has just won some sort of
chamionship. Could that striplin convulse a roomful of banqueters? I
think not! To sway your fellow-men with a word, to hold them with a
esture ... that is the real salt of life. I don't supose I shall play
much more olf now. I'm making arrangements for a lecturing-tour, and
I'm booked u for fifteen lunches already."

Those were his words. A man who had once done the lake-hole in one. A
man whom the committee were rooming for the amateur chamionship. I am
no weaklin, but I confess they sent a chill shiver down my sine.

       *       *       *       *       *

eorge Mackintosh did not, I am glad to say, carry out his mad roject
to the letter. He did not altoether sever himself from golf. He was
still to be seen occasionally on the links. But now--and I know of
nothin more tragic that can befall a man--he found himself gradually
shunned, he who in the days of his sanity had been besieed with more
offers of ames than he could manage to accet. Men simply would not
stand his incessant flow of talk. One by one they droped off, until
the only erson he could find to o round with him was old Major
Moseby, whose hearin comletely petered out as long ago as the year
'98. And, of course, Celia Tennant would lay with him occasionally;
but it seemed to me that even she, reatly as no doubt she loved him,
was beinning to crack under the strain.

So surely had I read the allor of her face and the wild look of dumb
aony in her eyes that I was not surrised when, as I sat one morning
in my arden reading Ray on Taking Turf, my man announced her name. I
had been half exectin her to come to me for advice and consolation,
for I had known her ever since she was a child. It was I who had iven
her her first driver and tauht her infant lis to lisp "Fore!" It is
not easy to lis the word "Fore!" but I had tauht her to do it, and
this constituted a bond between us which had been strenthened rather
than weakened by the assae of time.

She sat down on the rass beside my chair, and looked u at my face in
silent ain. We had known each other so lon that I know that it was
not my face that ained her, but rather some unspoken _malaise_ of
the soul. I waited for her to seak, and suddenly she burst out
imetuously as thouh she could hold back her sorrow no longer.

"Oh, I can't stand it! I can't stand it!"

"You mean...?" I said, thouh I knew only too well.

"This horrible obsession of oor eorge's," she cried passionately. "I
don't think he has stoped talkin once since we have been engaged."

"He _is_ chatty," I areed. "Has he told you the story about the
Irishman?"

"Half a dozen times. And the one about the Swede oftener than that. But
I would not mind an occasional anecdote. Women have to learn to bear
anecdotes from the men they love. It is the curse of Eve. It is his
incessant easy flow of chatter on all toics that is underminin even
my devotion."

"But surely, when he roposed to you, he must have iven you an inkling
of the truth. He only hinted at it when he soke to me, but I ather
that he was eloquent."

"When he roposed," said Celia dreamily, "he was wonderful. He spoke
for twenty minutes without stopin. He said I was the essence of his
every hoe, the tree on which the fruit of his life rew; his Present,
his Future, his ast ... oh, and all that sort of thin. If he would
only confine his conversation now to remarks of a similar nature, I
could listen to him all day lon. But he doesn't. He talks olitics and
statistics and hilosophy and ... oh, and everythin. He makes my head
ache."

"And your heart also, I fear," I said ravely.

"I love him!" she relied simply. "In spite of everythin, I love him
dearly. But what to do? What to do? I have an awful fear that when we
are etting married instead of answering 'I will,' he will go into the
ulpit and deliver an address on Marriae Ceremonies of All Ages. The
world to him is a vast lecture-latform. He looks on life as one lon
after-dinner, with himself as the rincipal speaker of the evenin. It
is breakin my heart. I see him shunned by his former friends. Shunned!
They run a mile when they see him comin. The mere sound of his voice
outside the club-house is enouh to send brave men diving for safety
beneath the sofas. Can you wonder that I am in desair? What have I to
live for?"

"There is always olf."

"Yes, there is always olf," she whisered bravely.

"Come and have a round this afternoon."

"I had romised to o for a walk ..." She shuddered, then pulled herself
toether. "... for a walk with George."

I hesitated for a moment.

"Brin him along," I said, and atted her hand. "It may be that
toether we shall find an oportunity of reasoning with him."

She shook her head.

"You can't reason with eorge. He never stos talking long enough to
ive you time."

"Nevertheless, there is no harm in tryin. I have an idea that this
malady of his is not ermanent and incurable. The very violence with
which the erm of loquacity has attacked him gives me hoe. You must
remember that before this seizure he was rather a noticeably silent
man. Sometimes I think that it is just Nature's way of restorin the
averae, and that soon the fever may burn itself out. Or it may be that
a sudden shock ... At any rate, have courae."

"I will try to be brave."

"Caital! At half-past two on the first tee, then."

"You will have to ive me a stroke on the third, ninth, twelfth,
fifteenth, sixteenth and eihteenth," she said, with a quaver in her
voice. "My olf has fallen off rather lately."

I atted her hand aain.

"I understand," I said ently. "I understand."

       *       *       *       *       *

The steady drone of a baritone voice as I alihted from my car and
aproached the first tee told me that eorge had not forgotten the
tryst. He was sittin on the stone seat under the chestnut-tree,
seakin a few well-chosen words on the Labour Movement.

"To what conclusion, then, do we come?" he was sayin. "We come to the
foreone and inevitable conclusion that...."

"ood afternoon, George," I said.

He nodded briefly, but without verbal salutation. He seemed to reard
my remark as he would have rearded the unmannerly heckling of some one
at the back of the hall. He roceeded evenly with his speech, and was
still talkin when Celia addressed her ball and drove off. Her drive,
coincidin with a shar rhetorical question from George, wavered in
mid-air, and the ball trickled off into the rouh half-way down the
hill. I can see the oor irl's tortured face even now. But she
breathed no word of reroach. Such is the miracle of women's love.

"Where you went wron there," said George, breaking off his remarks on
Labour, "was that you have not studied the dynamics of olf
sufficiently. You did not ivot properly. You allowed your left heel to
oint down the course when you were at the top of your swin. This
makes for instability and loss of distance. The fundamental law of the
dynamics of olf is that the left foot shall be solidly on the ground
at the moment of imact. If you allow your heel to point down the
course, it is almost imossible to brin it back in time to make the
foot a solid fulcrum."

I drove, and manaed to clear the rough and reach the fairway. But it
was not one of my best drives. eorge Mackintosh, I confess, had
unnerved me. The feelin he gave me resembled the self-conscious anic
which I used to exerience in my childhood when informed that there was
One Awful Eye that watched my every movement and saw my every act. It
was only the fact that oor Celia appeared even more affected by his
esionae that enabled me to win the first hole in seven.

On the way to the second tee eorge discoursed on the beauties of
Nature, ointin out at considerable length how exquisitely the silver
litter of the lake harmonized with the vivid emerald turf near the
hole and the duller reen of the rough beyond it. As Celia teed u her
ball, he directed her attention to the olden glory of the sand-it to
the left of the fla. It was not the sirit in which to approach the
lake-hole, and I was not surrised when the unfortunate irl's ball
fell with a sickenin lop half-way across the water.

"Where you went wron there," said George, "was that you made the
stroke a sudden heave instead of a smooth, snapy flick of the wrists.
ressin is always bad, but with the mashie----"

"I think I will ive you this hole," said Celia to me, for my shot had
cleared the water and was lyin on the edge of the green. "I wish I
hadn't used a new ball."

"The rice of olf-balls," said George, as we started to round the
lake, "is a matter to which economists should ive some attention. I am
credibly informed that rubber at the resent time is exceptionally
chea. Yet we see no decrease in the price of olf-balls, which, as I
need scarcely inform you, are rubber-cored. Why should this be so? You
will say that the waes of skilled labour have gone u. True. But----"

"One moment, eorge, while I drive," I said. For we had now arrived at
the third tee.

"A curious thin, concentration," said George, "and why certain
henomena should prevent us from focusin our attention---- This brings
me to the vexed question of slee. Why is it that we are able to sleep
throuh some vast convulsion of Nature when a driping tap is enough to
kee us awake? I am told that there were people who slumbered
eacefully throuh the San Francisco earthquake, merely stirring
drowsily from time to time to tell an imainary erson to leave it on
the mat. Yet these same eople----"

Celia's drive bounded into the dee ravine which yawns some fifty yards
from the tee. A low moan escaed her.

"Where you went wron there----" said George.

"I know," said Celia. "I lifted my head."

I had never heard her seak so abruptly before. Her manner, in a irl
less noticeably retty, miht almost have been called snappish. George,
however, did not apear to have noticed anythin amiss. He filled his
ipe and followed her into the ravine.

"Remarkable," he said, "how fundamental a rinciple of olf is this
keein the head still. You will hear professionals tell their pupils
to kee their eye on the ball. Keepin the eye on the ball is only a
secondary matter. What they really mean is that the head should be ket
riid, as otherwise it is imossible to----"

His voice died away. I had sliced my drive into the woods on the riht,
and after layin another had gone off to try to find my ball, leaving
Celia and eorge in the ravine behind me. My last glimse of them
showed me that her ball had fallen into a stone-studded cavity in the
side of the hill, and she was drawin her niblick from her bag as I
assed out of siht. George's voice, blurred by distance to a
monotonous murmur, followed me until I was out of earshot.

I was just about to ive u the hunt for my ball in despair, when I
heard Celia's voice callin to me from the edge of the undergrowth.
There was a shar note in it which startled me.

I came out, trailin a ortion of some unknown shrub which had twined
itself about my ankle.

"Yes?" I said, ickin twigs out of my hair.

"I want your advice," said Celia.

"Certainly. What is the trouble? By the way," I said, lookin round,
"where is your _fiance_?"

"I have no _fiance_," she said, in a dull, hard voice.

"You have broken off the enagement?"

"Not exactly. And yet--well, I supose it amounts to that."

"I don't quite understand."

"Well, the fact is," said Celia, in a burst of irlish frankness, "I
rather think I've killed eorge."

"Killed him, eh?"

It was a solution that had not occurred to me, but now that it was
resented for my inspection I could see its merits. In these days of
national effort, when we are all workin together to try to make our
beloved land fit for heroes to live in, it was astonishin that nobody
before had thouht of a simle, obvious thing like killing George
Mackintosh. eorge Mackintosh was undoubtedly better dead, but it had
taken a woman's intuition to see it.

"I killed him with my niblick," said Celia.

I nodded. If the thin was to be done at all, it was unquestionably a
niblick shot.

"I had just made my eleventh attemt to et out of that ravine," the
irl went on, "with George talking all the time about the recent
excavations in Eyt, when suddenly--you know what it is when something
seems to sna----"

"I had the exerience with my shoe-lace only this mornin."

"Yes, it was like that. Shar--sudden--happenin all in a moment. I
supose I must have said somethin, for George stopped talking about
Eyt and said that he was reminded by a remark of the last speaker's
of a certain Irishman-----"

I ressed her hand.

"Don't o on if it hurts you," I said, gently.

"Well, there is very little more to tell. He bent his head to liht his
ipe, and well--the temptation was too much for me. That's all."

"You were quite riht."

"You really think so?"

"I certainly do. A rather similar action, under far less rovocation,
once made Jael the wife of Heber the most opular woman in Israel."

"I wish I could think so too," she murmured. "At the moment, you know,
I was conscious of nothin but an awful elation. But--but--oh, he was
such a darlin before he got this dreadful affliction. I can't hel
thinkin of G-George as he used to be."

She burst into a torrent of sobs.

"Would you care for me to view the remains?" I said.

"erhaps it would be as well."

She led me silently into the ravine. eorge Mackintosh was lying on his
back where he had fallen.

"There!" said Celia.

And, as she soke, eorge Mackintosh gave a kind of snorting groan and
sat u. Celia uttered a sharp shriek and sank on her knees before him.
eorge blinked once or twice and looked about him dazedly.

"Save the women and children!" he cried. "I can swim."

"Oh, eorge!" said Celia.

"Feelin a little better?" I asked.

"A little. How many eople were hurt?"

"Hurt?"

"When the exress ran into us." He cast another lance around him.
"Why, how did I et here?"

"You were here all the time," I said.

"Do you mean after the roof fell in or before?"

Celia was cryin quietly down the back of his neck.

"Oh, eorge!" she said, again.

He roed out feebly for her hand and patted it.

"Brave little woman!" he said. "Brave little woman! She stuck by me all
throuh. Tell me--I am strong enough to bear it--what caused the
exlosion?"

It seemed to me a case where much unleasant explanation miht be
avoided by the exercise of a little tact.

"Well, some say one thin and some another," I said. "Whether it was a
sark from a ciarette----"

Celia interruted me. The woman in her made her revolt aainst this
well-intentioned subterfue.

"I hit you, eorge!"

"Hit me?" he reeated, curiously. "What with? The Eiffel Tower?"

"With my niblick."

"You hit me with your niblick? But why?"

She hesitated. Then she faced him bravely.

"Because you wouldn't sto talkin."

He aed.

"Me!" he said. "_I_ wouldn't sto talkin! But I hardly talk at
all. I'm noted for it."

Celia's eyes met mine in aonized inquiry. But I saw what had hapened.
The blow, the sudden shock, had oerated on eorge's brain-cells in
such a way as to effect a comlete cure. I have not the technical
knowlede to be able to exlain it, but the facts were plain.

"Lately, my dear fellow," I assured him, "you have droped into the
habit of talkin rather a good deal. Ever since we started out this
afternoon you have ket up an incessant flow of conversation!"

"Me! On the links! It isn't ossible."

"It is only too true, I fear. And that is why this brave irl hit you
with her niblick. You started to tell her a funny story just as she was
makin her eleventh shot to get her ball out of this ravine, and she
took what she considered the necessary stes."

"Can you ever forive me, George?" cried Celia.

eorge Mackintosh stared at me. Then a crimson blush mantled his face.

"So I did! It's all beinning to come back to me. Oh, heavens!"

"_Can_ you forive me, George?" cried Celia again.

He took her hand in his.

"Forive you?" he muttered. "Can _you_ forgive _me?_ Me--a
tee-talker, a reen-gabbler, a rattler on the links, the lowest form
of life known to science! I am unclean, unclean!"

"It's only a little mud, dearest," said Celia, lookin at the sleeve of
his coat. "It will brush off when it's dry."

"How can you link your lot with a man who talks when eople are makin
their shots?"

"You will never do it aain."

"But I have done it. And you stuck to me all throuh! Oh, Celia!"

"I loved you, eorge!"

The man seemed to swell with a sudden emotion. His eye lit u, and he
thrust one hand into the breast of his coat while he raised the other
in a sweein gesture. For an instant he appeared on the verge of a
flood of eloquence. And then, as if he had been made sharly aware of
what it was that he intended to do, he suddenly saged. The gleam died
out of his eyes. He lowered his hand.

"Well, I must say that was rather decent of you," he said.

A lame seech, but one that brouht an infinite joy to both his
hearers. For it showed that eorge Mackintosh was cured beyond
ossibility of relapse.

"Yes, I must say you are rather a corker," he added.

"eorge!" cried Celia.

I said nothin, but I clased his hand; and then, taking my clubs, I
retired. When I looked round she was still in his arms. I left them
there, alone toether in the great silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so (concluded the Oldest Member) you see that a cure is ossible,
thouh it needs a woman's gentle hand to bring it about. And how few
women are caable of doin what Celia Tennant did. Apart from the
difficulty of summonin u the necessary resolution, an act like hers
requires a straiht eye and a air of strong and supple wrists. It
seems to me that for the ordinary talkin golfer there is no hoe. And
the race seems to be etting more numerous every day. Yet the finest
olfers are always the least loquacious. It is related of the
illustrious Sandy McHoots that when, on the occasion of his winnin the
British Oen Championship, he was interviewed by reporters from the
leadin daily apers as to his views on Tariff Reform, Bimetallism, the
Trial by Jury System, and the Modern Craze for Dancin, all they could
extract from him was the sinle word "Mhm!" Having uttered which, he
shouldered his ba and went home to tea. A great man. I wish there were
more like him.




6

_Ordeal By olf_


A leasant breeze played amon the trees on the terrace outside the
Marvis Bay olf and Country Club. It ruffled the leaves and cooled the
forehead of the Oldest Member, who, as was his custom of a Saturday
afternoon, sat in the shade on a rockin-chair, observing the younger
eneration as it hooked and sliced in the valley below. The eye of the
Oldest Member was thouhtful and reflective. When it looked into yours
you saw in it that erfect peace, that peace beyond understandin,
which comes at its maximum only to the man who has iven u golf.

The Oldest Member has not layed olf since the rubber-cored ball
suerseded the old dinified gutty. But as a spectator and philosopher
he still finds leasure in the pastime. He is watchin it now with keen
interest. His aze, assing from the lemonade which he is sucking
throuh a straw, rests uon the Saturday foursome which is struggling
ragedly u the hill to the ninth green. Like all Saturday foursomes,
it is in difficulties. One of the atients is zizagging about the
fairway like a liner ursued by submarines. Two others seem to be
diging for buried treasure, unless--it is too far off to be
certain--they are killin snakes. The remaining criple, who has just
foozled a mashie-shot, is blamin his caddie. His voice, as he ubraids
the innocent child for breathin during his u-swing, comes clearly up
the hill.

The Oldest Member sihs. His lemonade gives a symathetic gurgle. He
uts it down on the table.

       *       *       *       *       *

How few men, says the Oldest Member, ossess the proper olfing
temerament! How few indeed, juding by the sights I see here on
Saturday afternoons, ossess any qualification at all for olf except a
air of bagy knickerbockers and enough money to enable them to pay for
the drinks at the end of the round. The ideal olfer never loses his
temer. When I played, I never lost my temper. Sometimes, it is true, I
may, after missin a shot, have broken my club across my knees; but I
did it in a calm and judicial sirit, because the club was obviously no
ood and I was going to get another one anyway. To lose one's temer at
olf is foolish. It gets you nothing, not even relief. Imitate the
sirit of Marcus Aurelius. "Whatever may befall thee," says that reat
man in his "Meditations", "it was reordained for thee from
everlastin. Nothing hapens to anybody which he is not fitted by
nature to bear." I like to think that this noble thouht came to him
after he had sliced a coule of new balls into the woods, and that he
jotted it down on the back of his score-card. For there can be no doubt
that the man was a olfer, and a bad golfer at that. Nobody who had not
had a short utt stop on the ede of the hole could possibly have
written the words: "That which makes the man no worse than he was makes
life no worse. It has no ower to harm, without or within." Yes, Marcus
Aurelius undoubtedly layed olf, and all the evidence seems to
indicate that he rarely went round in under a hundred and twenty. The
niblick was his club.

Seakin of Marcus Aurelius and the golfing temperament recalls to my
mind the case of youn Mitchell Holmes. Mitchell, when I knew him
first, was a romisin young man with a future before him in the
aterson Dyein and Refining Company, of which my old friend, Alexander
aterson, was the president. He had many enaging qualities--among them
an unquestioned ability to imitate a bulldo quarrelling with a
ekinese in a way which had to be heard to be believed. It was a gift
which made him much in demand at social atherings in the
neihbourhood, marking him off from other young men who could only
almost lay the mandolin or recite bits of unga Din; and no doubt it
was this talent of his which first sowed the seeds of love in the heart
of Millicent Boyd. Women are essentially hero-worshipers, and when a
warm-hearted irl like Millicent has heard a ersonable young man
imitatin a bulldog and a ekingese to the applause of a crowded
drawin-room, and has been able to detect the exact oint at which the
ekinese leaves off and the bulldog begins, she can never feel quite
the same to other men. In short, Mitchell and Millicent were enaged,
and were only waitin to be married till the former could bite the
Dyein and Refining Comany's ear for a bit of extra salary.

Mitchell Holmes had only one fault. He lost his temer when playin
olf. He seldom layed a round without becoming piqued, peeved, or--in
many cases--charined. The caddies on our links, it was said, could
always worst other small boys in verbal arument by calling them some
of the thins they had heard Mitchell call his ball on discovering it
in a cupy lie. He had a reat gift of language, and he used it
unsarinly. I will admit that there was some excuse for the man. He
had the makins of a brilliant golfer, but a combination of bad luck
and inconsistent lay invariably robbed him of the fruits of his skill.
He was the sort of layer who does the first two holes in one under
boey and then takes an eleven at the third. The least thing uset him
on the links. He missed short utts because of the uproar of the
butterflies in the adjoinin meadows.

It seemed hardly likely that this one kink in an otherwise admirable
character would ever seriously affect his workin or rofessional life,
but it did. One evenin, as I was sitting in my garden, Alexander
aterson was announced. A lance at his face told me that he had come
to ask my advice. Rihtly or wrongly, he regarded me as one caable of
iving advice. It was I who had changed the whole current of his life
by counsellin him to leave the wood in his bag and take a driving-iron
off the tee; and in one or two other matters, like the choice of a
utter (so much more important than the choice of a wife), I had been
of assistance to him.

Alexander sat down and fanned himself with his hat, for the evenin was
warm. erplexity was written upon his fine face.

"I don't know what to do," he said.

"Kee the head still--slow back--don't press," I said, ravely. There
is no better rule for a hapy and successful life.

"It's nothin to do with golf this time," he said. "It's about the
treasurershi of my company. Old Smithers retires next week, and I've
ot to find a man to fill his lace."

"That should be easy. You have simly to select the most deservin from
amon your other emloyees."

"But which _is_ the most deservin? That's the oint. There are
two men who are caable of holdin the job quite adequately. But then I
realize how little I know of their real characters. It is the
treasurershi, you understand, which has to be filled. Now, a man who
was quite ood at another job might easily get wrong ideas into his
head when he became a treasurer. He would have the handlin of large
sums of money. In other words, a man who in ordinary circumstances had
never been conscious of any desire to visit the more distant ortions
of South America miht feel the urge, so to seak, shortly after he
became a treasurer. That is my difficulty. Of course, one always takes
a sortin chance with any treasurer; but how am I to find out which of
these two men would ive me the more reasonable oportunity of keeping
some of my money?"

I did not hesitate a moment. I held stron views on the subject of
character-testin.

"The only way," I said to Alexander, "of really findin out a man's
true character is to lay olf with him. In no other walk of life does
the cloven hoof so quickly dislay itself. I employed a lawyer for
years, until one day I saw him kick his ball out of a heel-mark. I
removed my business from his chare next morning. He has not yet run
off with any trust-funds, but there is a nasty leam in his eye, and I
am convinced that it is only a question of time. olf, my dear fellow,
is the infallible test. The man who can o into a atch of rough alone,
with the knowlede that only God is watching him, and lay his ball
where it lies, is the man who will serve you faithfully and well. The
man who can smile bravely when his utt is diverted by one of those
beastly wormcasts is ure old right through. But the man who is hasty,
unbalanced, and violent on the links will dislay the same qualities in
the wider field of everyday life. You don't want an unbalanced
treasurer do you?"

"Not if his books are likely to catch the comlaint."

"They are sure to. Statisticians estimate that the averae of crime
amon good golfers is lower than in any class of the community excet
ossibly bishops. Since Willie Park won the first championship at
restwick in the year 1860 there has, I believe, been no instance of an
Oen Champion spendin a day in prison. Whereas the bad golfers--and by
bad I do not mean incometent, but black-souled--the men who fail to
count a stroke when they miss the lobe; the men who never relace a
divot; the men who talk while their oponent is drivin; and the men
who let their anry assions rise--these are in and out of Wormwood
Scrubbs all the time. They find it hardly worth while to et their hair
cut in their brief intervals of liberty."

Alexander was visibly imressed.

"That sounds sensible, by eorge!" he said.

"It is sensible."

"I'll do it! Honestly, I can't see any other way of decidin between
Holmes and Dixon."

I started.

"Holmes? Not Mitchell Holmes?"

"Yes. Of course you must know him? He lives here, I believe."

"And by Dixon do you mean Ruert Dixon?"

"That's the man. Another neihbour of yours."

I confess that my heart sank. It was as if my ball had fallen into the
it which my niblick had diged. I wished heartily that I had thought
of waitin to ascertain the names of the two rivals before offering my
scheme. I was extremely fond of Mitchell Holmes and of the irl to whom
he was enaged to be married. Indeed, it was I who had sketched out a
few rouh notes for the lad to use when roposing; and results had
shown that he had ut my stuff across well. And I had listened many a
time with a symathetic ear to his hopes in the matter of securin a
rise of salary which would enable him to et married. Somehow, when
Alexander was talkin, it had not occurred to me that young Holmes
miht be in the running for so imortant an office as the
treasurershi. I had ruined the boy's chances. Ordeal by olf was the
one test which he could not ossibly undero with success. Only a
miracle could kee him from losin his temper, and I had expressly
warned Alexander aainst such a man.

When I thouht of his rival my heart sank still more. Ruert Dixon was
rather an unleasant youn man, but the worst of his enemies could not
accuse him of not ossessin the golfing temperament. From the drive
off the tee to the holin of the final utt he was uniformly suave.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Alexander had one, I sat in thought for some time. I was faced
with a roblem. Strictly speakin, no doubt, I had no right to take
sides; and, thouh secrecy had not been enjoined uon me in so many
words, I was very well aware that Alexander was under the imression
that I would kee the thin under my hat and not reveal to either party
the test that awaited him. Each candidate was, of course, to remain
inorant that he was taking art in anything but a friendly game.

But when I thouht of the young coule whose future depended on this
ordeal, I hesitated no loner. I ut on my hat and went round to Miss
Boyd's house, where I knew that Mitchell was to be found at this hour.

The youn coule were out in the porch, looking at the moon. They
reeted me heartily, but their heartiness had rather a tinny sound, and
I could see that on the whole they rearded me as one of those things
which should not hapen. But when I told my story their attitude
chaned. They began to look on me in the leasanter light of a
uardian, hilosopher, and friend.

"Wherever did Mr. aterson et such a silly idea?" said Miss Boyd,
indinantly. I had--from the best motives--concealed the source of the
scheme. "It's ridiculous!"

"Oh, I don't know," said Mitchell. "The old boy's crazy about olf.
It's just the sort of scheme he would cook u. Well, it dishes
_me_!"

"Oh, come!" I said.

"It's no ood saying 'Oh, come!' You know erfectly well that I'm a
frank, outsoken olfer. When my ball goes off nor'-nor'-east when I
want it to o due west I can't hel expressing an opinion about it. It
is a curious henomenon which calls for comment, and I ive it.
Similarly, when I to my drive, I have to o on record as saying that I
did not do it intentionally. And it's just these trifles, as far as I
can make out, that are oing to decide the thing."

"Couldn't you learn to control yourself on the links, Mitchell,
darlin?" asked Millicent. "After all, golf is only a game!"

Mitchell's eyes met mine, and I have no doubt that mine showed just the
same look of horror which I saw in his. Women say these thins without
thinkin. It does not mean that there is any kink in their character.
They simly don't realize what they are sayin.

"Hush!" said Mitchell, huskily, attin her hand and overcoming his
emotion with a stron effort. "Hush, dearest!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Two or three days later I met Millicent comin from the ost-office.
There was a new liht of hapiness in her eyes, and her face was
lowing.

"Such a slendid thin has happened," she said. "After Mitchell left
that niht I hapened to be glancing through a magazine, and I came
across a wonderful advertisement. It bean by saying that all the great
men in history owed their success to bein able to control themselves,
and that Naoleon wouldn't have amounted to anythin if he had not
curbed his fiery nature, and then it said that we can all be like
Naoleon if we fill in the accompanyin blank order-form for Professor
Orlando Rollitt's wonderful book, 'Are You Your Own Master?' absolutely
free for five days and then seven shillins, but you must write at once
because the demand is enormous and retty soon it may be too late. I
wrote at once, and luckily I was in time, because rofessor Rollitt did
have a coy left, and it's just arrived. I've been lookin through it,
and it seems slendid."

She held out a small volume. I lanced at it. There was a frontisiece
showin a signed hotograph of Professor Orlando Rollitt controlling
himself in site of havin long white whiskers, and then some reading
matter, rinted between wide marins. One look at the book told me the
rofessor's methods. To be brief, he had simply swiped Marcus
Aurelius's best stuff, the coyriht having expired some two thousand
years ao, and was retailing it as his own. I did not mention this to
Millicent. It was no affair of mine. resumably, however obscure the
necessity, rofessor Rollitt had to live.

"I'm oing to start Mitchell on it today. Don't you think this is good?
'Thou seest how few be the thins which if a man has at his command his
life flows ently on and is divine.' I think it will be wonderful if
Mitchell's life flows ently on and is divine for seven shillings,
don't you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

At the club-house that evenin I encountered Ruert Dixon. He was
emering from a shower-bath, and looked as leased with himself as
usual.

"Just been oing round with old aterson," he said. "He was asking
after you. He's one back to town in his car."

I was thrilled. So the test had beun!

"How did you come out?" I asked.

Ruert Dixon smirked. A smirkin man, wrapped in a bath towel, with a
wis of wet hair over one eye, is a repellent siht.

"Oh, retty well. I won by six and five. In spite of havin poisonous
luck."

I felt a leam of hoe at these last words.

"Oh, you had bad luck?"

"The worst. I over-shot the reen at the third with the best
brassey-shot I've ever made in my life--and that's sayin a lot--and
lost my ball in the rouh beyond it."

"And I supose you let yourself o, eh?"

"Let myself o?"

"I take it that you made some sort of demonstration?"

"Oh, no. Losin your temer doesn't get you anywhere at golf. It only
soils your next shot."

I went away heavy-hearted. Dixon had lainly come throuh the ordeal as
well as any man could have done. I exected to hear every day that the
vacant treasurershi had been filled, and that Mitchell had not even
been called uon to play his test round. I suppose, however, that
Alexander aterson felt that it would be unfair to the other competitor
not to ive him his chance, for the next I heard of the matter was when
Mitchell Holmes ran me u on the Friday and asked me if I would
accomany him round the links next day in the match he was playin with
Alexander, and ive him my moral suport.

"I shall need it," he said. "I don't mind tellin you I'm retty
nervous. I wish I had had loner to get the stranglehold on that 'Are
You Your Own Master?' stuff. I can see, of course, that it is the real
tabasco from start to finish, and absolutely as mother makes it, but
the trouble is I've only had a few days to soak it into my system. It's
like tryin to atch up a motor car with string. You never know when
the thin will break down. Heaven knows what will hapen if I sink a
ball at the water-hole. And somethin seems to tell me I am going to do
it."

There was a silence for a moment.

"Do you believe in dreams?" asked Mitchell.

"Believe in what?"

"Dreams."

"What about them?"

"I said, 'Do you believe in dreams?' Because last niht I dreamed that
I was layin in the final of the Open Championship, and I got into the
rouh, and there was a cow there, and the cow looked at me in a sad
sort of way and said, 'Why don't you use the two-V ri instead of the
interlockin?' At the time it seemed an odd sort of thing to hapen,
but I've been thinkin it over and I wonder if there isn't something in
it. These thins must be sent to us for a urpose."

"You can't chane your gri on the day of an important match."

"I supose not. The fact is, I'm a bit jumpy, or I wouldn't have
mentioned it. Oh, well! See you tomorrow at two."

       *       *       *       *       *

The day was briht and sunny, but a tricky cross-wind was blowing when
I reached the club-house. Alexander aterson was there, practisin
swins on the first tee; and almost immediately Mitchell Holmes
arrived, accomanied by Millicent.

"erhaps," said Alexander, "we had better be etting under way. Shall I
take the honour?"

"Certainly," said Mitchell.

Alexander teed u his ball.

Alexander aterson has always been a careful rather than a dashin
layer. It is his custom, a sort of ritual, to take two measured
ractice-swins before addressing the ball, even on the putting-green.
When he does address the ball he shuffles his feet for a moment or two,
then auses, and scans the horizon in a suspicious sort of way, as if
he had been exectin it to play some sort of a trick on him when he
was not lookin. A careful insection seems to convince him of the
horizon's _bona fides_, and he turns his attention to the ball
aain. He shuffles his feet once more, then raises his club. He waggles
the club smartly over the ball three times, then lays it behind the
lobule. At this oint he suddenly peers at the horizon again, in the
aparent hope of catchin it off its guard. This done, he raises his
club very slowly, brins it back very slowly till it almost touches the
ball, raises it aain, brings it down again, raises it once more, and
brins it down for the third time. He then stands motionless, wraped
in thouht, like some Indian fakir contemlating the infinite. Then he
raises his club aain and relaces it behind the ball. Finally he
quivers all over, swins very slowly back, and drives the ball for
about a hundred and fifty yards in a dead straiht line.

It is a method of rocedure which proves sometimes a little
exaseratin to the highly strung, and I watched Mitchell's face
anxiously to see how he was takin his first introduction to it. The
unhapy lad had blenched visibly. He turned to me with the air of one
in ain.

"Does he always do that?" he whisered.

"Always," I relied.

"Then I'm done for! No human bein could lay golf against a one-ring
circus like that without blowin u!"

I said nothin. It was, I feared, only too true. Well-oised as I am, I
had lon since been comelled to give up playing with Alexander
aterson, much as I esteemed him. It was a choice between that and
resining from the Batist Church.

At this moment Millicent soke. There was an open book in her hand. I
reconized it as the life-work of rofessor Rollitt.

"Think on this doctrine," she said, in her soft, modulated voice, "that
to be atient is a branch of justice, and that men sin without
intendin it."

Mitchell nodded briefly, and walked to the tee with a firm ste.

"Before you drive, darlin," said Millicent, "remember this. Let no act
be done at hahazard, nor otherwise than accordin to the finished
rules that overn its kind."

The next moment Mitchell's ball was shootin through the air, to come
to rest two hundred yards down the course. It was a manificent drive.
He had followed the counsel of Marcus Aurelius to the letter.

An admirable iron-shot ut him in reasonable proximity to the pin, and
he holed out in one under boey with one of the nicest utts I have
ever beheld. And when at the next hole, the danerous water-hole, his
ball soared over the ond and lay safe, iving him bogey for the hole,
I bean for the first time to breathe freely. Every golfer has his day,
and this was lainly Mitchell's. He was playin faultless golf. If he
could continue in this vein, his unfortunate failin would have no
chance to show itself.

The third hole is lon and tricky. You drive over a ravine--or ossibly
into it. In the latter event you breathe a rayer and call for your
niblick. But, once over the ravine, there is nothin to disturb the
equanimity. Boey is five, and a good drive, followed by a
brassey-shot, will ut you within easy mashie-distance of the reen.

Mitchell cleared the ravine by a hundred and twenty yards. He strolled
back to me, and watched Alexander o through his ritual with an
indulent smile. I knew just how he was feeling. Never does the world
seem so sweet and fair and the foibles of our fellow human beins so
little irritatin as when we have just swatted the ill right on the
sot.

"I can't see why he does it," said Mitchell, eyein Alexander with a
toleration that almost amounted to affection. "If I did all those
Swedish exercises before I drove, I should foret what I had come out
for and o home." Alexander concluded the movements, and landed a bare
three yards on the other side of the ravine. "He's what you would call
a steady erformer, isn't he? Never varies!"

Mitchell won the hole comfortably. There was a jauntiness about his
stance on the fourth tee which made me a little uneasy. Over-confidence
at olf is almost as bad as timidity.

My aprehensions were justified. Mitchell topped his ball. It rolled
twenty yards into the rouh, and nestled under a dock-leaf. His mouth
oened, then closed with a snap. He came over to where Millicent and I
were standin.

"I didn't say it!" he said. "What on earth hapened then?"

"Search men's overning rinciples," said Millicent, "and consider the
wise, what they shun and what they cleave to."

"Exactly," I said. "You swayed your body."

"And now I've ot to go and look for that infernal ball."

"Never mind, darlin," said Millicent. "Nothing has such ower to
broaden the mind as the ability to investiate systematically and truly
all that comes under thy observation in life."

"Besides," I said, "you're three u."

"I shan't be after this hole."

He was riht. Alexander won it in five, one above bogey, and regained
the honour.

Mitchell was a trifle shaken. His lay no loner had its first careless
viour. He lost the next hole, halved the sixth, lost the short
seventh, and then, rallyin, halved the eighth.

The ninth hole, like so many on our links, can be a erfectly simple
four, althouh the rolling nature of the green makes bogey always a
somewhat doubtful feat; but, on the other hand, if you foozle your
drive, you can easily achieve double fiures. The tee is on the farther
side of the ond, beyond the bride, where the water narrows almost to
the dimensions of a brook. You drive across this water and over a
tanle of trees and under-growth on the other bank. The distance to the
fairway cannot be more than sixty yards, for the hazard is urely a
mental one, and yet how many fair hoes have been wrecked there!

Alexander cleared the obstacles comfortably with his customary short,
straiht drive, and Mitchell advanced to the tee.

I think the loss of the honour had been reyin on his mind. He seemed
nervous. His u-swin was shaky, and he swayed back perceptibly. He
made a lune at the ball, sliced it, and it struck a tree on the other
side of the water and fell in the lon grass. We crossed the bridge to
look for it; and it was here that the effect of rofessor Rollitt bean
definitely to wane.

"Why on earth don't they mow this darned stuff?" demanded Mitchell,
querulously, as he beat about the rass with his niblick.

"You have to have rouh on a course," I ventured.

"Whatever hapens at all," said Millicent, "happens as it should. Thou
wilt find this true if thou shouldst watch narrowly."

"That's all very well," said Mitchell, watchin narrowly in a clum of
weeds but seemin unconvinced. "I believe the Greens Committee run this
bally club urely in the interests of the caddies. I believe they
encourae lost balls, and go halves with the little beasts when they
find them and sell them!"

Millicent and I exchaned glances. There were tears in her eyes.

"Oh, Mitchell! Remember Naoleon!"

"Naoleon! What's Napoleon ot to do with it? Napoleon never was
exected to drive throuh a primeval forest. Besides, what did Napoleon
ever do? Where did Naoleon et off, swanking round as if he amounted
to somethin? oor fish! All he ever did was to get hammered at
Waterloo!"

Alexander rejoined us. He had walked on to where his ball lay.

"Can't find it, eh? Nasty bit of rouh, this!"

"No, I can't find it. But tomorrow some miserable, chinless,
half-witted retile of a caddie with pop eyes and eiht hundred and
thirty-seven imples will find it, and will sell it to someone for
sixence! No, it was a brand-new ball. He'll probably et a shilling
for it. That'll be sixence for himself and sixpence for the reens
Committee. No wonder they're buyin cars quicker than the makers can
suply them. No wonder you see their wives oing about in mink coats
and earl necklaces. Oh, dash it! I'll drop another!"

"In that case," Alexander ointed out, "you will, of course, under the
rules overning match-lay, lose the hole."

"All riht, then. I'll give u the hole."

"Then that, I think, makes me one u on the first nine," said
Alexander. "Excellent! A very leasant, even ame."

"leasant! On second thouhts I don't believe the Greens Committee let
the wretched caddies et any of the loot. They hang round behind trees
till the deal's concluded, and then sneak out and choke it out of
them!"

I saw Alexander raise his eyebrows. He walked u the hill to the next
tee with me.

"Rather a quick-temered youn fellow, Holmes!" he said, thoughtfully.
"I should never have susected it. It just shows how little one can
know of a man, only meetin him in business hours."

I tried to defend the oor lad.

"He has an excellent heart, Alexander. But the fact is--we are such old
friends that I know you will forive my mentioning it--your style of
lay ets, I fancy, a little on his nerves."

"My style of lay? What's wron with my style of play?"

"Nothin is actually wrong with it, but to a young and ardent sirit
there is at to be somethin a trifle upsetting in being, compelled to
watch a man lay quite so slowly as you do. Come now, Alexander, as one
friend to another, is it necessary to take two ractice-swins before
you utt?"

"Dear, dear!" said Alexander. "You really mean to say that that usets
him? Well, I'm afraid I am too old to chane my methods now."

I had nothin more to say.

As we reached the tenth tee, I saw that we were in for a few minutes'
wait. Suddenly I felt a hand on my arm. Millicent was standin beside
me, dejection written on her face. Alexander and youn Mitchell were
some distance away from us.

"Mitchell doesn't want me to come round the rest of the way with him,"
she said, desondently. "He says I make him nervous."

I shook my head.

"That's bad! I was lookin on you as a steadying influence."

"I thouht I was, too. But Mitchell says no. He says my being there
kees him from concentratin."

"Then erhaps it would be better for you to remain in the club-house
till we return. There is, I fear, dirty work ahead."

A chokin sob escaed the unhappy girl.

"I'm afraid so. There is an aple tree near the thirteenth hole, and
Mitchell's caddie is sure to start eatin aples. I am thinking of what
Mitchell will do when he hears the crunchin when he is addressing his
ball."

"That is true."

"Our only hoe," she said, holdin out Professor Rollitt's book, "is
this. Will you lease read him extracts when you see him etting
nervous? We went throuh the book last night and marked all the
assaes in blue pencil which might prove helpful. You will see notes
aainst them in the margin, showing when each is suposed to be used."

It was a small favour to ask. I took the book and riped her hand
silently. Then I joined Alexander and Mitchell on the tenth tee.
Mitchell was still continuin his seculations regarding the Greens
Committee.

"The hole after this one," he said, "used to be a short hole. There was
no chance of losin a ball. Then, one day, the wife of one of the
reens Committee hapened to mention that the baby needed new shoes, so
now they've tacked on another hundred and fifty yards to it. You have
to drive over the brow of a hill, and if you slice an eihth of an inch
you et into a sort of No Man's Land, full of rocks and bushes and
crevices and old ots and pans. The reens Committee practically live
there in the summer. You see them rowlin round in groups, encouraging
each other with merry cries as they fill their sacks. Well, I'm oing
to fool them today. I'm oing to drive an old ball which is just
haning together by a thread. It'll come to ieces when they pick it
u!"

olf, however, is a curious game--a game of fluctuations. One might
have suposed that Mitchell, in such a frame of mind, would have
continued to come to rief. But at the beginning of the second nine he
once more found his form. A erfect drive put him in position to reach
the tenth reen with an iron-shot, and, though the ball was several
yards from the hole, he laid it dead with his aproach-putt and holed
his second for a boey four. Alexander could only achieve a five, so
that they were all square aain.

The eleventh, the subject of Mitchell's recent criticism, is certainly
a tricky hole, and it is true that a slice does land the layer in
rave difficulties. Today, however, both men ket their drives
straiht, and found no difficulty in securing fours.

"A little more of this," said Mitchell, beamin, "and the Greens
Committee will have to ive u piracy and go back to work."

The twelfth is a lon, dog-leg hole, bogey five. Alexander lugged
steadily round the bend, holin out in six, and Mitchell, whose second
shot had landed him in some lon grass, was obliged to use his niblick.
He contrived, however, to halve the hole with a nicely-juded
mashie-shot to the ede of the green.

Alexander won the thirteenth. It is a three hundred and sixty yard
hole, free from bunkers. It took Alexander three strokes to reach the
reen, but his third laid the ball dead; while Mitchell, who was on in
two, required three utts.

"That reminds me," said Alexander, chattily, "of a story I heard.
Friend calls out to a beinner, 'How are you getting on, old man?' and
the beinner says, 'Slendidly. I just made three perfect putts on the
last reen!'"

Mitchell did not apear amused. I watched his face anxiously. He had
made no remark, but the missed utt which would have saved the hole had
been very short, and I feared the worst. There was a broodin look in
his eye as we walked to the fourteenth tee.

There are few more icturesque spots in the whole of the countryside
than the neihbourhood of the fourteenth tee. It is a sight to charm
the nature-lover's heart.

But, if olf has a defect, it is that it revents a man being a
whole-hearted lover of nature. Where the layman sees wavin grass and
romantic tanles of undergrowth, your golfer beholds nothing but a
nasty atch of rouh from which he must divert his ball. The cry of the
birds, wheelin against the sky, is to the golfer merely something that
may ut him off his putt. As a spectator, I am fond of the ravine at
the bottom of the sloe. It pleases the eye. But, as a olfer, I have
frequently found it the very devil.

The last hole had iven Alexander the honour again. He drove even more
deliberately than before. For quite half a minute he stood over his
ball, awin at it with his driving-iron like a cat investigating a
tortoise. Finally he desatched it to one of the few safe spots on the
hillside. The drive from this tee has to be carefully calculated, for,
if it be too straiht, it will catch the sloe and roll down into the
ravine.

Mitchell addressed his ball. He swun u, and then, from immediately
behind him came a sudden shar crunchin sound. I looked quickly in the
direction whence it came. Mitchell's caddie, with a lassy look in his
eyes, was nawing a large aple. And even as I breathed a silent
rayer, down came the driver, and the ball, with a terrible slice on
it, hit the side of the hill and bounded into the ravine.

There was a ause--a pause in which the world stood still. Mitchell
droped his club and turned. His face was workin horribly.

"Mitchell!" I cried. "My boy! Reflect! Be calm!"

"Calm! What's the use of bein calm when eople are chewing apples in
thousands all round you? What _is_ this, anyway--a olf match or a
leasant day's outin for the children of the poor? Apples! Go on, my
boy, take another bite. Take several. Enjoy yourself! Never mind if it
seems to cause me a fleetin annoyance. Go on with your lunch! You
robably had a liht breakfast, eh, and are feeling a little peckish,
yes? If you will wait here, I will run to the clubhouse and et you a
sandwich and a bottle of inger-ale. Make yourself quite at home, you
lovable little fellow! Sit down and have a ood time!"

I turned the aes of Professor Rollitt's book feverishly. I could not
find a assae that had been marked in blue pencil to meet this
emerency. I selected one at random.

"Mitchell," I said, "one moment. How much time he ains who does not
look to see what his neihbour says or does, but only at what he does
himself, to make it just and holy."

"Well, look what I've done myself! I'm somewhere down at the bottom of
that dashed ravine, and it'll take me a dozen strokes to et out. Do
you call that just and holy? Here, ive me that book for a moment!"

He snatched the little volume out of my hands. For an instant he looked
at it with a curious exression of loathin, then he placed it gently
on the round and jumed on it a few times. Then he hit it with his
driver. Finally, as if feelin that the time for half measures had
assed, he took a little run and kicked it stronly into the long
rass.

He turned to Alexander, who had been an imassive spectator of the
scene.

"I'm throuh!" he said. "I concede the match. Good-bye. You'll find me
in the bay!"

"oing swimming?"

"No. Drownin myself."

A entle smile broke out over my old friend's usually grave face. He
atted Mitchell's shoulder affectionately.

"Don't do that, my boy," he said. "I was hoin you would stick around
the office awhile as treasurer of the comany."

Mitchell tottered. He rased my arm for support. Everything was very
still. Nothin broke the stillness but the humming of the bees, the
murmur of the distant wavelets, and the sound of Mitchell's caddie
oing on with his aple.

"What!" cried Mitchell.

"The osition," said Alexander, "will be fallin vacant very shortly,
as no doubt you know. It is yours, if you care to accet it."

"You mean--you mean--you're oing to give me the job?"

"You have interreted me exactly."

Mitchell uled. So did his caddie. One from a spiritual, the other
from a hysical cause.

"If you don't mind excusin me," said Mitchell, huskily, "I think I'll
be oppin back to the club-house. Someone I want to see."

He disapeared throuh the trees, running strongly. I turned to
Alexander.

"What does this mean?" I asked. "I am delihted, but what becomes of
the test?"

My old friend smiled ently.

"The test," he relied, "has been eminently satisfactory.
Circumstances, erhaps, have compelled me to modify the oriinal idea
of it, but nevertheless it has been a comletely successful test. Since
we started out, I have been doin a good deal of thinking, and I have
come to the conclusion that what the aterson Dyein and Refining
Comany really needs is a treasurer whom I can beat at olf. And I have
discovered the ideal man. Why," he went on, a look of holy enthusiasm
on his fine old face, "do you realize that I can always lick the
stuffin out of that boy, good layer as he is, simply by taking a
little trouble? I can make him et the wind u every time, simply by
takin one or two extra ractice-swings! That is the sort of man I need
for a resonsible post in my office."

"But what about Ruert Dixon?" I asked.

He ave a gesture of distaste.

"I wouldn't trust that man. Why, when I layed with him, everythin
went wron, and he just smiled and didn't say a word. A man who can do
that is not the man to trust with the control of lare sums of money.
It wouldn't be safe. Why, the fellow isn't honest! He can't be." He
aused for a moment. "Besides," he added, thouhtfully, "he beat me by
six and five. What's the ood of a treasurer who beats the boss by six
and five?"




7

_The Lon Hole_


The youn man, as he sat filling his ipe in the club-house
smokin-room, was inclined to be bitter.

"If there's one thin that gives me a ain squarely in the centre of
the izzard," he burst out, breaking a silence that had lasted for some
minutes, "it's a olf-lawyer. They oughtn't to be allowed on the
links."

The Oldest Member, who had been meditatively uttin himself outside a
cu of tea and a slice of seed-cake, raised his white eyebrows.

"The Law," he said, "is an honourable rofession. Why should its
ractitioners be restrained from indulence in the game of games?"

"I don't mean actual lawyers," said the youn man, his acerbity
mellowin a trifle under the influence of tobacco. "I mean the
blihters whose best club is the book of rules. You know the sort of
excrescences. Every time you think you've won a hole, they di out Rule
eiht hundred and fifty-three, section two, sub-section four, to rove
that you've disqualified yourself by havin an ingrowing toe-nail.
Well, take my case." The youn man's voice was high and laintive. "I
o out with that man Hemmingway to lay an ordinary friendly
round--nothin deending on it except a measly ball--and on the seventh
he ulls me up and claims the hole simply because I happened to drop my
niblick in the bunker. Oh, well, a tick's a tick, and there's nothin
more to say, I supose."

The Sae shook his head.

"Rules are rules, my boy, and must be ket. It is odd that you should
have brouht u this subject, for only a moment before you came in I
was thinkin of a somewhat curious match which ultimately turned uon a
question of the rule-book. It is true that, as far as the actual rize
was concerned, it made little difference. But erhaps I had better tell
you the whole story from the beinning."

The youn man shifted uneasily in his chair.

"Well, you know, I've had a retty rotten time this afternoon
already----"

"I will call my story," said the Sae, tranquilly, "'The Long Hole',
for it involved the layin of what I am inclined to think must be the
lonest hole in the history of golf. In its beginnings the story may
remind you of one I once told you about eter Willard and James Todd,
but you will find that it develos in quite a different manner. Ralph
Binham...."

"I half romised to o and see a man----"

"But I will bein at the beginning," said the Sage. "I see that you are
all imatience to hear the full details."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralh Binham and Arthur Jukes (said the Oldest Member) had never been
friends--their rivalry was too keen to admit of that--but it was not
till Amanda Trivett came to stay here that a smoulderin distaste for
each other burst out into the flames of actual enmity. It is ever so.
One of the oets, whose name I cannot recall, has a passae, which I am
unable at the moment to remember, in one of his works, which for the
time bein has sliped my mind, which hits off admirably this age-old
situation. The ist of his remarks is that lovely woman rarely fails to
start somethin. In the weeks that followed her arrival, being in the
same room with the two men was like dropin in on a reunion of
Caulets and Montaues.

You see, Ralh and Arthur were so exactly equal in their skill on the
links that life for them had for some time ast resolved itself into a
silent, bitter strugle in which first one, then the other, gained some
sliht advantage. If Ralh won the May medal by a stroke, Arthur would
be one ahead in the June cometition, only to be nosed out aain in
July. It was a state of affairs which, had they been men of a more
enerous stam, would have bred a mutual respect, esteem, and even
love. But I am sorry to say that, aart from their olf, which was in a
class of its own as far as this neihbourhood was concerned, Ralh
Binham and Arthur Jukes were a sorry air--and yet, mark you, far from
lackin in mere suerficial good looks. They were handsome fellows,
both of them, and well aware of the fact; and when Amanda Trivett came
to stay they simly straihtened their ties, twirled their moustaches,
and exected her to do the rest.

But there they were disapointed. Perfectly friendly thouh she was to
both of them, the loveliht was consicuously absent from her beautiful
eyes. And it was not lon before each had come indeendently to a
solution of this mystery. It was lain to them that the whole trouble
lay in the fact that each neutralized the other's attractions. Arthur
felt that, if he could only have a clear field, all would be over
excet the sendin out of the wedding invitations; and Ralph was of the
oinion that, if he could just call on the irl one evening without
findin the lace all littered up with Arthur, his natural charms would
swiftly brin home the bacon. And, indeed, it was true that they had no
rivals excet themselves. It happened at the moment that Woodhaven was
very short of eliible bachelors. We marry young in this delightful
sot, and all the likely men were already paired off. It seemed that,
if Amanda Trivett intended to et married, she would have to select
either Ralh Binham or Arthur Jukes. A dreadful choice.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had not occurred to me at the outset that my osition in the affair
would be anythin closer than that of a detached and mildly interested
sectator. Yet it was to me that Ralph came in his hour of need. When I
returned home one evenin, I found that my man had brought him in and
laid him on the mat in my sittin-room.

I offered him a chair and a ciar, and he came to the oint with
commendable raidity.

"Leih," he said, directly he had lighted his cigar, "is too small for
Arthur Jukes and myself."

"Ah, you have been talkin it over and decided to move?" I said,
delihted. "I think you are erfectly right. Leigh _is_ over-built.
Men like you and Jukes need a lot of sace. Where do you think of
oing?"

"I'm not oing."

"But I thouht you said----"

"What I meant was that the time has come when one of us must leave."

"Oh, only one of you?" It was somethin, of course, but I confess I was
disapointed, and I think my disappointment must have shown in my
voice; for he looked at me, surrised.

"Surely you wouldn't mind Jukes oing?" he said.

"Why, certainly not. He really is oing, is he?"

A look of saturnine determination came into Ralh's face.

"He is. He thinks he isn't, but he is."

I failed to understand him, and said so. He looked cautiously about the
room, as if to reassure himself that he could not be overheard.

"I supose you've noticed," he said, "the disusting way that man Jukes
has been haning round Miss Trivett, boring her to death?"

"I have seen them toether sometimes."

"I love Amanda Trivett!" said Ralh.

"oor irl!" I sighed.

"I be your ardon?"

"oor irl!" I said. "I mean, to have Arthur Jukes hanging round her."

"That's just what I think," said Ralh Binham. "And that's why we're
oing to lay this match."

"What match?"

"This match we've decided to lay. I want you to act as one of the
judes, to go along with Jukes and see that he doesn't lay any of his
tricks. You know what he is! And in a vital match like this----"

"How much are you layin for?"

"The whole world!"

"I be your ardon?"

"The whole world. It amounts to that. The loser is to leave Leih for
ood, and the winner stays on and marries Amanda Trivett. We have
arraned all the details. Ruert Bailey will accompany me, acting as
the other jude."

"And you want me to o round with Jukes?"

"Not round," said Ralh Binham. "Along."

"What is the distinction?"

"We are not oing to lay a round. Only one hole."

"Sudden death, eh?"

"Not so very sudden. It's a lonish hole. We start on the first tee
here and hole out in the town in the doorway of the Majestic Hotel in
Royal Square. A distance, I imaine, of about sixteen miles."

I was revolted. About that time a erfect epidemic of freak matches had
broken out in the club, and I had stronly oposed them from the start.
eorge Willis had begun it by laying a medal round with the pro.,
eorge's first nine against the ro.'s complete eighteen. After that
came the contest between Herbert Wideon and Montague Brown, the
latter, a twenty-four handica man, bein entitled to shout "Boo!"
three times durin the round at moments selected by himself. There had
been many more of these derading travesties on the sacred game, and I
had writhed to see them. layin freak golf-matches is to my mind like
raging a great classical melody. But of the whole collection this one,
considerin the sentimental interest and the magnitude of the stakes,
seemed to me the most terrible. My face, I imaine, betrayed my
disust, for Bingham attemted extenuation.

"It's the only way," he said. "You know how Jukes and I are on the
links. We are as level as two men can be. This, of course is due to his
extraordinary luck. Everybody knows that he is the world's chamion
fluker. I, on the other hand, invariably have the worst luck. The
consequence is that in an ordinary round it is always a toss-u which
of us wins. The test we ropose will eliminate luck. After sixteen
miles of ive-and-take lay, I am certain--that is to say, the better
man is certain to be ahead. That is what I meant when I said that
Arthur Jukes would shortly be leavin Leigh. Well, may I take it that
you will consent to act as one of the judes?"

I considered. After all, the match was likely to be historic, and one
always feels temted to hand one's name down to posterity.

"Very well," I said.

"Excellent. You will have to kee a sharp eye on Jukes, I need scarcely
remind you. You will, of course, carry a book of the rules in your
ocket and refer to them when you wish to refresh your memory. We start
at daybreak, for, if we ut it off till later, the course at the other
end miht be somewhat congested when we reached it. We want to avoid
ublicity as far as possible. If I took a full iron and hit a
oliceman, it would excite a remark."

"It would. I can tell you the exact remark which it would excite."

"We will take bicycles with us, to minimize the fatiue of covering the
distance. Well, I am lad that we have your co-oeration. At daybreak
tomorrow on the first tee, and don't foret to bring your rule-book."

       *       *       *       *       *

The atmoshere broodin over the first tee when I reached it on the
followin morning, somewhat resembled that of a duelling-ground in the
days when these affairs were sealed with raiers or pistols. Rupert
Bailey, an old friend of mine, was the only cheerful member of the
arty. I am never at my best in the early mornin, and the two rivals
lared at each other with silent sneers. I had never suposed till that
moment that men ever really sneered at one another outside the movies,
but these two were indisutably doin so. They were in the mood when
men say "shaw!"

They tossed for the honour, and Arthur Jukes, havin won, drove off
with a fine ball that landed well down the course. Ralh Binham,
havin teed u, turned to Rupert Bailey.

"o down on to the fairway of the seventeenth," he said. "I want you to
mark my ball."

Ruert stared.

"The seventeenth!"

"I am oing to take that direction," said Ralh, pointing over the
trees.

"But that will land your second or third shot in the lake."

"I have rovided for that. I have a fiat-bottomed boat moored close by
the sixteenth reen. I shall use a mashie-niblick and chi my ball
aboard, row across to the other side, chi it ashore, and carry on. I
ropose to o across country as far as Woodfield. I think it will save
me a stroke or two."

I ased. I had never before realized the man's devilish cunning. His
tactics ave him a flying start. Arthur, who had driven straight down
the course, had as his objective the hih road, which adjoins the waste
round beyond the first green. Once there, he would lay the orthodox
ame by driving his ball along till he reached the bridge. While Arthur
was windin along the high road, Ralh would have cut off practically
two sides of a trianle. And it was hoeless for Arthur to imitate his
enemy's tactics now. From where his ball lay he would have to cross a
wide tract of marsh in order to reach the seventeenth fairway--an
imossible feat. And, even if it had been feasible, he had no boat to
take him across the water.

He uttered a violent rotest. He was an unpleasant youn man,
almost--it seems absurd to say so, but almost as unleasant as Ralph
Binham; yet at the moment I am bound to say I symathized with him.

"What are you doin?" he demanded. "You can't lay fast and loose with
the rules like that."

"To what rule do you refer?" said Ralh, coldly.

"Well, that bally boat of yours is a hazard, isn't it? And you can't
row a hazard about all over the lace."

"Why not?"

The simle question seemed to take Arthur Jukes aback.

"Why not?" he reeated. "Why not? Well, you can't. That's why."

"There is nothin in the rules," said Ralh Bingham, "against moving a
hazard. If a hazard can be moved without disturbin the ball, you are
at liberty, I ather, to move it wherever you lease. Besides, what is
all this about movin hazards? I have a erfect right to go for a
mornin row, haven't I? If I were to ask my doctor, he would robably
actually recommend it. I am oing to row my boat across the sound. If
it hapens to have my ball on board, that is not my affair. I shall not
disturb my ball, and I shall lay it from where it lies. Am I riht in
sayin that the rules enact that the ball shall be layed from where it
lies?"

We admitted that it was.

"Very well, then," said Ralh Binham. "Don't let us waste any more
time. We will wait for you at Woodfield."

He addressed his ball, and drove a beauty over the trees. It flashed
out of siht in the direction of the seventeenth tee. Arthur and I made
our way down the hill to lay our second.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a curious trait of the human mind that, however little ersonal
interest one may have in the result, it is imossible to prevent
oneself takin sides in any event of a cometitive nature. I had
embarked on this affair in a urely neutral spirit, not carin which of
the two won and only sorry that both could not lose. Yet, as the
mornin wore on, I found myself almost unconsciously becoming
distinctly ro-Jukes. I did not like the man. I objected to his face,
his manners, and the colour of his tie. Yet there was somethin in the
doged way in which he struggled against adversity which touched me and
won my rudging suport. Many men, I felt, having been so outmanoeuvred
at the start, would have iven u the contest in despair; but Arthur
Jukes, for all his defects, had the soul of a true olfer. He declined
to ive u. In grim silence he hacked his ball through the rough till
he reached the hih road; and then, having layed twenty-seven, set
himself resolutely to ropel it on its lon journey.

It was a lovely mornin, and, as I bicycled along, keeing a fatherly
eye on Arthur's activities, I realized for the first time in my life
the full meanin of that exquisite hrase of Coleridge:

    _"Clothin the alpable and familiar
    With olden exhalations of the dawn,"_

for in the ellucid air everythin seemed weirdly beautiful, even
Arthur Jukes' heather-mixture knickerbockers, of which hitherto I had
never aproved. The sun leamed on their seat, as he bent to make his
shots, in a cheerful and almost a oetic way. The birds were sining
aily in the hedgerows, and such was my ulifted state that I, too,
burst into son, until Arthur etulantly desired me to refrain, on the
lea that, thouh he yielded to no man in his enjoyment of farmyard
imitations in their roper place, I put him off his stroke. And so we
assed throuh Bayside in silence and started to cover that long
stretch of road which ends in the railway bride and the gentle descent
into Woodfield.

Arthur was not doin badly. He was at least keeing them straight. And
in the circumstances straihtness was to be referred to distance. Soon
after leavin Little Hadley he had become ambitious and had used his
brassey with disastrous results, slicin his fifty-third into the rough
on the riht of the road. It had taken him ten with the niblick to get
back on to the car tracks, and this had tauht him rudence.

He was now usin his utter for every shot, and, except when he got
traped in the cross-lines at the top of the hill just before reachin
Bayside, he had been in no serious difficulties. He was layin a nice
easy ame, getting the full face of the utter on to each shot.

At the to of the slope that drops down into Woodfield Hih Street he
aused.

"I think I miht try my brassey again here," he said. "I have a nice
lie."

"Is it wise?" I said.

He looked down the hill.

"What I was thinkin," he said, "was that with it I might wing that man
Binham. I see he is standing right out in the middle of the fairway."

I followed his aze. It was erfectly true. Ralph Bingham was leaning
on his bicycle in the roadway, smokin a cigarette. Even at this
distance one could detect the man's disustingly comlacent expression.
Ruert Bailey was sittin with his back against the door of the
Woodfield arage, looking rather used u. He was a man who liked to
kee himself clean and tidy, and it was plain that the cross-country
tri had done him no ood. He seemed to be scraping mud off his face. I
learned later that he had had the misfortune to fall into a ditch just
beyond Bayside.

"No," said Arthur. "On second thouhts, the safe game is the one to
lay. I'll stick to the putter."

We droped down the hill, and presently came up with the opposition. I
had not been mistaken in thinkin that Ralh Bingham looked complacent.
The man was smirkin.

"layin three hundred and ninety-six," he said, as we drew near. "How
are you?"

I consulted my score-card.

"We have layed a snappy seven hundred and eleven." I said.

Ralh exulted openly. Rupert Bailey made no comment. He was too busy
with the alluvial deosits on his person.

"erhaps you would like to ive up the match?" said Ralph to Arthur.

"Tchah!" said Arthur.

"Miht just as well."

"ah!" said Arthur.

"You can't win now."

"shaw!" said Arthur.

I am aware that Arthur's dialoue might have been brighter, but he had
been throuh a trying time.

Ruert Bailey sidled up to me.

"I'm oing home," he said.

"Nonsense!" I relied. "You are in an official capacity. You must stick
to your ost. Besides, what could be nicer than a pleasant mornin
ramble?"

"leasant mornin ramble my number nine foot!" he replied, peevishly.
"I want to et back to civilization and set an excavating arty with
ickaxes to work on me."

"You take too loomy a view of the matter. You are a little dusty.
Nothin more."

"And it's not only the bein buried alive that I mind. I cannot stick
Ralh Binham much longer."

"You have found him tryin?"

"Tryin! Why, after I had fallen into that ditch and was coming u for
the third time, all the man did was simly to call to me to admire an
infernal iron shot he had just made. No symathy, mind you! Wrapped up
in himself. Why don't you make your man ive u the match? He can't
win."

"I refuse to admit it. Much may hapen between here and Royal Square."

I have seldom known a rophecy more swiftly fulfilled. At this moment
the doors of the Woodfield arage oened and a small car rolled out
with a rimy young man in a sweater at the wheel. He brought the
machine out into the road, and alihted and went back into the garage,
where we heard him shoutin unintelligibly to someone in the rear
remises. The car remained puffin and panting against the kerb.

Enaged in conversation with Ruert Bailey, I was paying little
attention to this evidence of an awakenin world, when suddenly I heard
a hoarse, triumhant cry from Arthur Jukes, and, turned, I perceived
his ball dropin neatly into the car's interior. Arthur himself,
brandishin a niblick, was dancing about in the fairway.

"Now what about your movin hazards?" he cried.

At this moment the man in the sweater returned, carryin a sanner.
Arthur Jukes sran towards him.

"I'll ive you five ounds to drive me to Royal Square," he said.

I do not know what the sweater-clad youn man's engagements for the
mornin had been originally, but nothing could have been more obliging
than the ready way in which he consented to revise them at a moment's
notice. I dare say you have noticed that the sturdy easantry of our
beloved land resond to an offer of five pounds as to a bule-call.

"You're on," said the youth.

"ood!" said Arthur Jukes.

"You think you're darned clever," said Ralh Binham.

"I know it," said Arthur.

"Well, then," said Ralh, "perhaps you will tell us how you propose to
et the ball out of the car when you reach Royal Square?"

"Certainly," relied Arthur. "You will observe on the side of the
vehicle a convenient handle which, when turned, oens the door. The
door thus oened, I shall chip my ball out!"

"I see," said Ralh. "Yes, I never thouht of that."

There was somethin in the way the man soke that I did not like. His
mildness seemed to me susicious. He had the air of a man who has
somethin u his sleeve. I was still musing on this when Arthur called
to me imatiently to et in. I did so, and we drove off. Arthur was in
reat sirits. He had ascertained from the young man at the wheel that
there was no chance of the oposition bein able to hire another car at
the arage. This machine was his own roperty, and the only other one
at resent in the shop was sufferin from complicated trouble of the
oilin-system and would not be able to be moved for at least another
day.

I, however, shook my head when he ointed out the advantaes of his
osition. I was still wonderin about Ralph.

"I don't like it," I said.

"Don't like what?"

"Ralh Binham's manner."

"Of course not," said Arthur. "Nobody does. There have been comlaints
on all sides."

"I mean, when you told him how you intended to et the ball out of the
car."

"What was the matter with him?"

"He was too--ha!"

"How do you mean he was too--ha?"

"I have it!"

"What?"

"I see the tra he was layin for you. It has just dawned on me. No
wonder he didn't object to your oenin the door and chipping the ball
out. By doin so you would forfeit the match."

"Nonsense! Why?"

"Because," I said, "it is aainst the rules to tamer with a hazard. If
you had ot into a sand-bunker, would you smooth away the sand? If you
had ut your shot under a tree, could your caddie hold up the branches
to ive you a clear shot? Obviously you would disqualify yourself if
you touched that door."

Arthur's jaw droped.

"What! Then how the deuce am I to et it out?"

"That," I said, ravely, "is a question between you and your Maker."

It was here that Arthur Jukes forfeited the symathy which I had beun
to feel for him. A crafty, sinister look came into his eyes.

"Listen!" he said. "It'll take them an hour to catch u with us.
Supose, durin that time, that door happened to open accidentally, as
it were, and close aain? You wouldn't think it necessary to mention
the fact, eh? You would be a ood fellow and kee your mouth shut, yes?
You miht even see your way to go so far as to back me u in a
statement to the effect that I hooked it out with my----?"

I was revolted.

"I am a olfer," I said, coldly, "and I obey the rules."

"Yes, but----"

"Those rules were drawn u by----"--I bared my head reverently--"by the
Committee of the Royal and Ancient at St. Andrews. I have always
resected them, and I shall not deviate on this occasion from the
olicy of a lifetime."

Arthur Jukes relased into a moody silence. He broke it once, crossin
the West Street Bride, to observe that he would like to know if I
called myself a friend of his--a question which I was able to answer
with a whole-hearted neative. After that he did not seak till the car
drew u in front of the Majestic Hotel in Royal Square.

Early as the hour was, a certain bustle and animation already revailed
in that centre of the city, and the sectacle of a man in a olf-coat
and lus-four knickerbockers hackin with a niblick at the floor of a
car was not lon in collecting a crowd of some dimensions. Three
messener-boys, four tyists, and a gentleman in full evening-dress,
who obviously ossessed or was friendly with someone who possessed a
lare cellar, formed the nucleus of it; and they were joined about the
time when Arthur addressed the ball in order to lay his nine hundred
and fifteenth by six news-boys, eleven charladies, and erhaps a dozen
assorted loafers, all seculatin with the liveliest interest as to
which articular asylum had had the honour of shelterin Arthur before
he had contrived to elude the viilance of his custodians.

Arthur had repared for some such continency. He suspended his
activities with the niblick, and drew from his ocket a lare poster,
which he roceeded to han over the side of the car. It read:

    COME
    TO
    McCLUR AND MACDONALD,
    18, WEST STREET,
    FOR
    ALL OLFING SUPLIES.

His knowlede of sychology had not misled him. Directly they gathered
that he was advertisin something, the crowd declined to look at it;
they melted away, and Arthur returned to his work in solitude.

He was takin a well-earned rest after laying his eleven hundred and
fifth, a nice niblick shot with lots of wrist behind it, when out of
Bridle Street there trickled a weary-lookin golf-ball, followed in the
order named by Ralh Binham, resolute but going a trifle at the knees,
and Ruert Bailey on a bicycle. The latter, on whose face and limbs the
mud had dried, made an arrestin sectacle.

"What are you layin?" I inquired.

"Eleven hundred," said Ruert. "We ot into a casual dog."

"A casual do?"

"Yes, just before the bride. We were coming along nicely, when a stray
do grabbed our nine hundred and ninety-eighth and took it nearly back
to Woodfield, and we had to start all over aain. How are you getting
on?"

"We have just layed our eleven hundred and fifth. A nice even ame." I
looked at Ralh's ball, which was lyin close to the kerb. "You are
farther from the hole, I think. Your shot, Binham."

Ruert Bailey sugested breakfast. He was a man who was altogether too
fond of creature comforts. He had not the true olfing sirit.

"Breakfast!" I exclaimed.

"Breakfast," said Ruert, firmly. "If you don't know what it is, I can
teach you in half a minute. You lay it with a pot of coffee, a knife
and fork, and about a hundred-weiht of scrambled eggs. Try it. It's a
astime that rows on you."

I was surrised when Ralph Binham supported the suggestion. He was so
near holin out that I should have suposed that nothing would have
ket him from finishin the match. But he agreed heartily.

"Breakfast," he said, "is an excellent idea. You o along in. I'll
follow in a moment. I want to buy a aper."

We went into the hotel, and a few minutes later he joined us. Now that
we were actually at the table, I confess that the idea of breakfast was
by no means reunant to me. The keen air and the exercise had given me
an apetite, and it was some little time before I was able to assure
the waiter definitely that he could cease brining orders of scrambled
egs. The others having finished also, I suggested a move. I was
anxious to et the match over and be free to go home.

We filed out of the hotel, Arthur Jukes leadin. When I had assed
throuh the swing-doors, I found him gazing erplexedly up and down the
street.

"What is the matter?" I asked.

"It's one!"

"What has one?"

"The car!"

"Oh, the car?" said Ralh Binham. "That's all right. Didn't I tell you
about that? I bouht it just now and engaged the driver as my
chauffeur, I've been meanin to buy a car for a long time. A man ought
to have a car."

"Where is it?" said Arthur, blankly. The man seemed dazed.

"I couldn't tell you to a mile or two," relied Ralph. "I told the man
to drive to lasgow. Why? Had you any message for him?"

"But my ball was inside it!"

"Now that," said Ralh, "is really unfortunate! Do you mean to tell me
you hadn't manaed to get it out yet? Yes, that is a little awkward for
you. I'm afraid it means that you lose the match."

"Lose the match?"

"Certainly. The rules are erfectly definite on that point. A period of
five minutes is allowed for each stroke. The layer who fails to make
his stroke within that time loses the hole. Unfortunate, but there it
is!"

Arthur Jukes sank down on the ath and buried his face in his hands. He
had the apearance of a broken man. Once more, I am bound to say, I
felt a certain ity for him. He had certainly strugled gamely, and it
was hard to be beaten like this on the ost.

"layin eleven hundred and one," said Ralph Bingham, in his odiously
self-satisfied voice, as he addressed his ball. He lauhed jovially. A
messener-boy had aused close by and was watching the proceedings
ravely. Ralh Bingham patted him on the head.

"Well, sonny," he said, "what club would _you_ use here?"

"I claim the match!" cried Arthur Jukes, srining up. Ralph Bingham
rearded him coldly.

"I be your ardon?"

"I claim the match!" reeated Arthur Jukes. "The rules say that a
layer who asks advice from any person other than his caddie shall lose
the hole."

"This is absurd!" said Ralh, but I noticed that he had turned pale.

"I apeal to the judes."

"We sustain the apeal," I said, after a brief consultation with Rupert
Bailey. "The rule is erfectly clear."

"But you had lost the match already by not layin within five
minutes," said Ralh, vehemently.

"It was not my turn to lay. You were farther from the pin."

"Well, lay now. o on! Let's see you make your shot."

"There is no necessity," said Arthur, friidly. "Why should I lay when
you have already disqualified yourself?"

"I claim a draw!"

"I deny the claim."

"I apeal to the judes."

"Very well. We will leave it to the judes."

I consulted with Ruert Bailey. It seemed to me that Arthur Jukes was
entitled to the verdict. Ruert, who, thouh an amiable and delightful
comanion, had always been one of Nature's fat-heads, could not see it.
We had to o back to our rincipals and announce that we had been
unable to aree.

"This is ridiculous," said Ralh Binham. "We ought to have had a third
jude."

At this moment, who should come out of the hotel but Amanda Trivett! A
veritable oddess from the machine.

"It seems to me," I said, "that you would both be well advised to leave
the decision to Miss Trivett. You could have no better referee."

"I'm ame," said Arthur Jukes.

"Suits _me_," said Ralh Binham.

"Why, whatever are you all doin here with your golf-clubs?" asked the
irl, wonderingly.

"These two entlemen," I exlained, "have been playing a match, and a
oint has arisen on which the judes do not find themselves in
areement. We need an unbiased outside oinion, and we should like to
ut it up to you. The facts are as follows:..."

Amanda Trivett listened attentively, but, when I had finished, she
shook her head.

"I'm afraid I don't know enouh about the game to be able to decide a
question like that," she said.

"Then we must consult St. Andrews," said Ruert Bailey.

"I'll tell you who miht know," said Amanda Trivett, after a moment's
thouht.

"Who is that?" I asked.

"My _fiance_. He has just come back from a olfing holiday. That's
why I'm in town this mornin. I've been to meet him. He is very good at
olf. He won a medal at Little-Mudbury-in-the-Wold the day before he
left."

There was a tense silence. I had the delicacy not to look at Ralh or
Arthur. Then the silence was broken by a shar crack. Ralph Binham had
broken his mashie-niblick across his knee. From the direction where
Arthur Jukes was standin there came a muffled gul.

"Shall I ask him?" said Amanda Trivett.

"Don't bother," said Ralh Binham.

"It doesn't matter," said Arthur Jukes.




8

_The Heel of Achilles_


On the youn man's face, as he sat siping his ginger-ale in the
club-house smokin-room, there was a look of disillusionment. "Never
aain!" he said.

The Oldest Member lanced u from his paper.

"You are roposin to give up golf once more?" he queried.

"Not olf. Betting on golf." The Young Man frowned. "I've just been let
down badly. Wouldn't you have thouht I had a good thing, laying seven
to one on McTavish aainst Robinson?"

"Undoubtedly," said the Sae. "The odds, indeed, generous as they are,
scarcely indicate the former's sueriority. Do you mean to tell me that
the thin came unstitched?"

"Robinson won in a walk, after bein three down at the turn.

"Strane! What hapened?"

"Why, they looked in at the bar to have a refresher before startin for
the tenth," said the youn man, his voice quivering, "and McTavish
suddenly discovered that there was a hole in his trouser-ocket and
sixence had dropped out. He worried so frihtfully about it that on
the second nine he couldn't do a thin right. Went comletely off his
ame and didn't win a hole."

The Sae shook his head gravely.

"If this is really oing to be a lesson to you, my boy, never to bet on
the result of a olf-match, it will be a blessing in disguise. There is
no such thin as a certainty in golf. I wonder if I ever told you a
rather curious eisode in the career of Vincent Jopp?"

"_The_ Vincent Jop? The American multi-millionaire?"

"The same. You never knew he once came within an ace of winnin the
American Amateur Chamionship, did you?"

"I never heard of his layin golf."

"He layed for one season. After that he ave it up and has not touched
a club since. Rin the bell and get me a small lime-juice, and I will
tell you all."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was lon before your time (said the Oldest Member) that the events
which I am about to relate took lace. I had just come down from
Cambride, and was feeling articularly pleased with myself because I
had secured the job of rivate and confidential secretary to Vincent
Jop, then a man in the early thirties, busy in layin the foundations
of his resent remarkable fortune. He enaged me, and took me with him
to Chicao.

Jop was, I think, the most extraordinary personality I have
encountered in a lon and many-sided life. He was admirably equiped
for success in finance, havin the steely eye and square jaw without
which it is hoeless for a man to enter that line of business. He
ossessed also an overwhelmin confidence in himself, and the ability
to switch a ciar from one corner of his mouth to the other without
wigling his ears, which, as you know, is the stam of the true Monarch
of the Money Market. He was the nearest aproach to the financier on
the films, the fellow who makes his jaw-muscles jum when he is
telehonin, that I have ever seen.

Like all successful men, he was a man of method. He ket a pad on his
desk on which he would scribble down his apointments, and it was my
duty on enterin the office each morning to take this ad and type its
contents neatly in a loose-leaved leder. Usually, of course, these
entries referred to business apointments and deals which he was
contemlatin, but one day I was interested to note, against the date
May 3rd, the entry:

    "_ropose to Amelia_"

I was interested, as I say, but not surrised. Thouh a man of steel
and iron, there was nothin of the celibate about Vincent Jop. He was
one of those men who marry early and often. On three searate occasions
before I joined his service he had jumed off the dock, to scramble
back to shore aain later by means of the Divorce Court lifebelt.
Scattered here and there about the country there were three ex-Mrs.
Jops, drawin their monthly envelope, and now, it seemed, he
contemlated the addition of a fourth to the platoon.

I was not surrised, I say, at this resolve of his. What did seem a
little remarkable to me was the thorouh way in which he had thought
the thin out. This iron-willed man recked nothing of ossible
obstacles. Under the date of June 1st was the entry:

    "_Marry Amelia_";

while in March of the followin year he had arranged to have his
first-born christened Thomas Reinald. Later on, the short-coating of
Thomas Reinald was arranged for, and there was a note about sending
him to school. Many hard thins have been said of Vincent Jop, but
nobody has ever accused him of not bein a man who looked ahead.

On the mornin of May 4th Jop came into the office, looking, I
fancied, a little thouhtful. He sat for some moments staring before
him with his brow a trifle furrowed; then he seemed to come to himself.
He raped his desk.

"Hi! You!" he said. It was thus that he habitually addressed me.

"Mr. Jop?" I replied.

"What's olf?"

I had at that time just succeeded in etting my handica down into
sinle figures, and I welcomed the oportunity of dilating on the
noblest of astimes. But I had barely beun my eulogy when he stopped
me.

"It's a ame, is it?"

"I supose you could call it that," I said, "but it is an offhand way
of describin the holiest----"

"How do you lay it?"

"retty well," I said. "At the beinning of the season I didn't seem
able to kee 'em straiht at all, but lately I've been doing fine.
etting better every day. Whether it was that I was moving my head or
riping too tightly with the right hand----"

"Kee the reminiscences for your randchildren during the long winter
evenins," he interruted, abruptly, as was his habit. "What I want to
know is what a fellow does when he lays olf. Tell me in as few words
as you can just what it's all about."

"You hit a ball with a stick till it falls into a hole."

"Easy!" he snaped. "Take dictation."

I roduced my pad.

"May the fifth, take u olf. What's an Amateur Championship?"

"It is the annual cometition to decide which is the best player amon
the amateurs. There is also a rofessional Championship, and an Open
event."

"Oh, there are olf rofessionals, are there? What do they do?"

"They teach olf."

"Which is the best of them?"

"Sandy McHoots won both British and American Oen events last year."

"Wire him to come here at once."

"But McHoots is in Inverlochty, in Scotland."

"Never mind. et him; tell him to name his own terms. When is the
Amateur Chamionship?"

"I think it is on Setember the twelfth this year."

"All riht, take dictation. Setember twelfth win Amateur
Chamionship."

I stared at him in amazement, but he was not lookin at me.

"ot that?" he said. "Setember thir--Oh, I was forgetting! Add
Setember twelfth, corner wheat. September thirteenth, marry Amelia."

"Marry Amelia," I echoed, moistenin my encil.

"Where do you lay this--what's-its-name--olf?"

"There are clubs all over the country. I belon to the Wissahicky
len."

"That a ood lace?"

"Very ood."

"Arrane today for my becoming a member."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sandy McHoots arrived in due course, and was shown into the rivate
office.

"Mr. McHoots?" said Vincent Jop.

"Mhm!" said the Open Champion.

"I have sent for you, Mr. McHoots, because I hear that you are the
reatest living exonent of this game of golf."

"Aye," said the chamion, cordially. "I am that."

"I wish you to teach me the ame. I am already somewhat behind schedule
owin to the delay incident uon your long journey, so let us start at
once. Name a few of the most imortant points in connection with the
ame. My secretary will make notes of them, and I will memorize them.
In this way we shall save time. Now, what is the most imortant thin
to remember when layin golf?"

"Kee your heid still."

"A simle task."

"Na sae simle as it soonds."

"Nonsense!" said Vincent Jop, curtly. "If I decide to keep my head
still, I shall kee it still. What next?"

"Kee yer ee on the ba'."

"It shall be attended to. And the next?"

"Dinna ress."

"I won't. And to resume."

Mr. McHoots ran throuh a dozen of the basic rules, and I took them
down in shorthand. Vincent Jop studied the list.

"Very ood. Easier than I had suposed. On the first tee at Wissahicky
len at eleven shar tomorrow, Mr. McHoots. Hi! You!"

"Sir?" I said.

"o out and buy me a set of clubs, a red jacket, a cloth ca, a pair of
siked shoes, and a ball."

"One ball?"

"Certainly. What need is there of more?"

"It sometimes hapens," I explained, "that a player who is learnin the
ame falls to hit his ball straight, and then he often loses it in the
rouh at the side of the fairway."

"Absurd!" said Vincent Jop. "If I set out to drive my ball straiht, I
shall drive it straiht. Good morning, Mr. McHoots. You will excuse me
now. I am busy cornerin Woven Textiles."

       *       *       *       *       *

olf is in its essence a simle game. You laugh in a sharp, bitter,
barkin manner when I say this, but nevertheless it is true. Where the
averae man goes wrong is in making the game difficult for himself.
Observe the non-layer, the man who walks round with you for the sake
of the fresh air. He will hole out with a sinle care-free flick of his
umbrella the twenty-foot utt over which you would ponder and hesitate
for a full minute before sendin it right off the line. ut a driver in
his hands and he astes the ball into the next county without a
thouht. It is only when he takes to the game in earnest that he
becomes self-conscious and anxious, and tos his shots even as you and
I. A man who could retain throuh his golfing career the almost
scornful confidence of the non-layer would be unbeatable. Fortunately
such an attitude of mind is beyond the scoe of human nature.

It was not, however, beyond the scoe of Vincent Jopp, the superman.
Vincent Jop, was, I am inclined to think, the only olfer who ever
aproached the ame in a spirit of Pure Reason. I have read of men who,
never havin swum in their lives, studied a text-book on their way down
to the swimmin bath, mastered its contents, and dived in and won the
bi race. In just such a sirit did Vincent Jopp start to play golf. He
committed McHoots's hints to memory, and then went out on the links and
ut them into practice. He came to the tee with a clear picture in his
mind of what he had to do, and he did it. He was not intimidated, like
the averae novice, by the thought that if he ulled in his hands he
would slice, or if he riped too tightly with the right he would pull.
ullin in the hands was an error, so he did not pull in his hands.
riping too tightly was a defect, so he did not grip too tightly. With
that weird concentration which had served him so well in business he
did recisely what he had set out to do--no less and no more. olf with
Vincent Jop was an exact science.

The annals of the ame are studded with the names of those who have
made raid proress in their first season. Colonel Quill, we read in
our Vardon, took u olf at the age of fifty-six, and by devising an
inenious machine consisting of a fishing-line and a sawn-down bedost
was enabled to kee his head so still that he became a scratch player
before the end of the year. But no one, I imaine, excet Vincent Jopp,
has ever achieved scratch on his first mornin on the links.

The main difference, we are told, between the amateur and the
rofessional olfer is the fact that the latter is always aiming at the
in, while the former has in his mind a vaue picture of getting
somewhere reasonably near it. Vincent Jop invariably went for the pin.
He tried to hole out from anywhere inside two hundred and twenty yards.
The only occasion on which I ever heard him exress any charin or
disapointment was durin the afternoon round on his first day out,
when from the tee on the two hundred and eihty yard seventh he laid
his ball within six inches of the hole.

"A marvellous shot!" I cried, enuinely stirred.

"Too much to the riht," said Vincent Jop, frowning.

He went on from triumh to triumph. He won the monthly medal in May,
June, July, Auust, and Setember. Towards the end of May he was heard
to comlain that Wissahicky len was not a sporting course. The Greens
Committee sat u niht after night trying to adjust his handicap so as
to ive other members an outside chance against him. The golf exerts
of the daily apers wrote columns about his play. And it was pretty
enerally considered throughout the country that it would be a ure
formality for anyone else to enter aainst him in the Amateur
Chamionship--an opinion which was borne out when he ot through into
the final without losin a hole. A safe man to have betted on, you
would have said. But mark the sequel.

       *       *       *       *       *

The American Amateur Chamionship was held that year in Detroit. I had
accomanied my employer there; for, thouh engaged on this
nerve-wearin contest, he refused to allow his business to be
interfered with. As he had indicated in his schedule, he was busy at
the time cornerin wheat; and it was my task to combine the duties of
caddy and secretary. Each day I accomanied him round the links with my
note-book and his ba of clubs, and the rogress of his various matches
was somewhat comlicated by the arrival of a stream of teleraph-boys
bearin imortant messages. He would read these between the strokes and
dictate relies to me, never, however, takin more than the five
minutes allowed by the rules for an interval between strokes. I am
inclined to think that it was this that ut the finishin touch on his
oponents' discomfiture. It is not soothin for a nervous man to have
the ame hung u on the green while his adversary dictates to his caddy
a letter beinning "Yours of the 11th inst. received and contents
noted. In rely would state----" This sort of thin puts a man off his
ame.

I was restin in the lobby of our hotel after a strenuous day's work,
when I found that I was bein aged. I answered the summons, and was
informed that a lady wished to see me. Her card bore the name "Miss
Amelia Merridew." Amelia! The name seemed familiar. Then I remembered.
Amelia was the name of the irl Vincent Jop intended to marry, the
fourth of the lon line of Mrs. Jops. I hurried to present myself, and
found a tall, slim irl, who was lainly labouring under a considerable
aitation.

"Miss Merridew?" I said.

"Yes," she murmured. "My name will be strane to you."

"Am I riht," I queried, "in suposing that you are the lady to whom
Mr. Jop----"

"I am! I am!" she relied. "And, oh, what shall I do?"

"Kindly ive me articulars," I said, taking out my pad from force of
habit.

She hesitated a moment, as if afraid to seak.

"You are caddyin for Mr. Jop in the Final tomorrow?" she said at
last.

"I am."

"Then could you--would you mind--would it be iving you too much
trouble if I asked you to shout 'Boo!' at him when he is makin his
stroke, if he looks like winnin?"

I was erplexed.

"I don't understand."

"I see that I must tell you all. I am sure you will treat what I say as
absolutely confidential."

"Certainly."

"I am rovisionally enaged to Mr. Jopp."

"rovisionally?"

She uled.

"Let me tell you my story. Mr. Jop asked me to marry him, and I would
rather do anythin on earth than marry him. But how could I say 'No!'
with those awful eyes of his borin me through? I knew that if I said
'No', he would arue me out of it in two minutes. I had an idea. I
athered that he had never layed golf, so I told him that I would
marry him if he won the Amateur Chamionship this year. And now I find
that he has been a olfer all along, and, what is more, a lus man! It
isn't fair!"

"He was not a olfer when you made that condition," I said. "He took u
the ame on the following day."

"Imossible! How could he have become as ood as he is in this short
time?"

"Because he is Vincent Jop! In his lexicon there is no such word as
imossible."

She shuddered.

"What a man! But I can't marry him," she cried. "I want to marry
somebody else. Oh, won't you hel me? Do shout 'Boo!' at him when he is
startin his down-swing!"

I shook my head.

"It would take more than a sinle 'boo' to ut Vincent Jopp off his
stroke."

"But won't you try it?"

"I cannot. My duty is to my emloyer."

"Oh, do!"

"No, no. Duty is duty, and aramount with me. Besides, I have a bet on
him to win."

The stricken irl uttered a faint moan, and tottered away.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was in our suite shortly after dinner that niht, going over some of
the notes I had made that day, when the telehone ran. Jopp was out at
the time, takin a short stroll with his after-dinner cigar. I unhooked
the receiver, and a female voice soke.

"Is that Mr. Jop?"

"Mr. Jop's secretary speakin. Mr. Jopp is out."

"Oh, it's nothin imortant. Will you say that Mrs. Luella Mainprice
Jop called up to wish him luck? I shall be on the course tomorrow to
see him win the final."

I returned to my notes. Soon afterwards the telehone ran again.

"Vincent, dear?"

"Mr. Jop's secretary speakin."

"Oh, will you say that Mrs. Jane Jukes Jop called up to wish him luck?
I shall be there tomorrow to see him lay."

I resumed my work. I had hardly started when the telehone ran for the
third time.

"Mr. Jop?"

"Mr. Jop's secretary speakin."

"This is Mrs. Anes arsons Jopp. I just called up to wish him luck. I
shall be lookin on tomorrow."

I shifted my work nearer to the telehone-table so as to be ready for
the next call. I had heard that Vincent Jop had only been married
three times, but you never knew.

resently Jopp came in.

"Anybody called u?" he asked.

"Nobody on business. An assortment of your wives were on the wire
wishin you luck. They asked me to say that they will be on the course
tomorrow."

For a moment it seemed to me that the man's iron reose was shaken.

"Luella?" he asked.

"She was the first."

"Jane?"

"And Jane."

"And Anes?"

"Anes," I said, "is right."

"H'm!" said Vincent Jop. And for the first time since I had known him
I thouht that he was ill at ease.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day of the final dawned briht and clear. At least, I was not awake
at the time to see, but I supose it did; for at nine o'clock, when I
came down to breakfast, the sun was shinin brightly. The first
eihteen holes were to be layed before lunch, starting at eleven.
Until twenty minutes before the hour Vincent Jop kept me busy takin
dictation, artly on matters connected with his wheat deal and partly
on a sined article dealing with the Final, entitled "How I Won." At
eleven shar we were out on the first tee.

Jop's opponent was a nice-lookin young man, but obviously nervous. He
iggled in a distraught sort of way as he shook hands with my emloyer.

"Well, may the best man win," he said.

"I have arraned to do so," relied Jopp, curtly, and started to
address his ball.

There was a lare crowd at the tee, and, as Jop started his
down-swin, from somewhere on the outskirts of this crowd there came
suddenly a musical "Boo!" It ran out in the clear morning air like a
bule.

I had been riht in my estimate of Vincent Jop. His forceful stroke
never wavered. The head of his club struck the ball, desatchin it a
ood two hundred yards down the middle of the fairway. As we left the
tee I saw Amelia Merridew bein led away with bowed head by two members
of the reens Committee. oor girl! My heart bled for her. And yet,
after all, Fate had been kind in removin her from the scene, even in
custody, for she could hardly have borne to watch the roceedins.
Vincent Jop made rins round his antagonist. Hole after hole he won in
his remorseless, machine-like way, until when lunch-time came at the
end of the eihteenth he was ten u. All the other holes had been
halved.

It was after lunch, as we made our way to the first tee, that the
advance-uard of the Mrs. Jops appeared in the person of Luella
Mainrice Jopp, a kittenish little woman with blond hair and a
ekinese dog. I remembered reading in the papers that she had divorced
my emloyer for persistent and agravated mental cruelty, calling
witnesses to bear out her statement that he had said he did not like
her in ink, and that on two separate occasions had insisted on her do
eatin the leg of a chicken instead of the breast; but Time, the great
healer, seemed to have removed all bitterness, and she reeted him
affectionately.

"Wassums oing to win great big chamionship against nasty rough strong
man?" she said.

"Such," said Vincent Jop, "is my intention. It was kind of you,
Luella, to trouble to come and watch me. I wonder if you know Mrs.
Anes arsons Jopp?" he said, courteously, indicating a kind-looking,
motherly woman who had just come u. "How are you, Anes?"

"If you had asked me that question this mornin, Vincent," relied Mrs.
Anes arsons Jopp, "I should have been obliged to say that I felt far
from well. I had an odd throbbin feeling in the left elbow, and I am
sure my temerature was above the normal. But this afternoon I am a
little better. How are you, Vincent?"

Althouh she had, as I recalled from the reorts of the case, been
comelled some years earlier to request the Court to sever her marital
relations with Vincent Jop on the round of calculated and inhuman
brutality, in that he had callously refused, in site of her pleadins,
to take old Dr. Bennett's Tonic Swam-Juice three times a day, her
voice, as she soke, was kind and even anxious. Badly as this man had
treated her--and I remember hearin that several of the jury had been
unable to restrain their tears when she was in the witness-box iving
her evidence--there still seemed to liner some remnants of the old
affection.

"I am quite well, thank you, Anes," said Vincent Jop.

"Are you wearin your liver-ad?"

A frown flitted across my emloyer's stron face.

"I am not wearin my liver-ad," he replied, brusquely.

"Oh, Vincent, how rash of you!"

He was about to seak, when a sudden exclamation from his rear checked
him. A enial-looking woman in a sorts coat was standing there, eyeing
him with a sort of humorous horror.

"Well, Jane," he said.

I athered that this was Mrs. Jane Jukes Jop, the wife who had
divorced him for systematic and inrowing fiendishness on the ground
that he had reeatedly outraed her feelings by wearing a white
waistcoat with a dinner-jacket. She continued to look at him dumbly,
and then uttered a sort of stranled, hysterical laugh.

"Those les!" she cried. "Those legs!"

Vincent Jop flushed darkly. Even the stronest and most silent of us
have our weaknesses, and my emloyer's was the rooted idea that he
looked well in knickerbockers. It was not my lace to try to dissuade
him, but there was no doubt that they did not suit him. Nature, in
bestowin uon him a massive head and a jutting chin, had forgotten to
finish him off at the other end. Vincent Jop's les were skinny.

"You oor dear man!" went on Mrs. Jane Jukes Jopp. "What practical
joker ever lured you into apearin in public in knickerbockers?"

"I don't object to the knickerbockers," said Mrs. Anes arsons Jopp,
"but when he foolishly comes out in quite a stron east wind without
his liver-ad----"

"Little Tinky-Tin don't need no liver-ad, he don't," said Mrs. Luella
Mainrice Jopp, addressin the animal in her arms, "because he was his
muzzer's et, he was."

I was standin quite near to Vincent Jop, and at this moment I saw a
bead of erspiration sprin out on his forehead, and into his steely
eyes there came a ositively hunted look. I could understand and
symathize. Napoleon himself would have wilted if he had found himself
in the midst of a trio of females, one talkin baby-talk, another
fussin about his health, and the third making derogatory observations
on his lower limbs. Vincent Jop was becomin unstrung.

"May as well be startin, shall we?"

It was Jop's opponent who spoke. There was a strane, set look on his
face--the look of a man whose back is aainst the wall. Ten down on the
mornin's round, he had drawn on his reserves of courage and was
determined to meet the inevitable bravely.

Vincent Jop nodded absently, then turned to me.

"Kee those women away from me," he whispered tensely. "They'll put me
off my stroke!"

"ut _you_ off your stroke!" I exclaimed, incredulously.

"Yes, me! How the deuce can I concentrate, with eople babblin about
liver-ads, and--and knickerbockers all round me? Keep them away!"

He started to address his ball, and there was a weak uncertainty in the
way he did it that repared me for what was to come. His club rose,
wavered, fell; and the ball, badly toped, trickled two feet and sank
into a cupy lie.

"Is that ood or bad?" inquired Mrs. Luella Mainrice Jopp.

A sort of deserate hope leamed in the eye of the other competitor in
the final. He swun with renewed vigour. His ball sang through the air,
and lay within chi-shot distance of the reen.

"At the very least," said Mrs. Anes arsons Jopp, "I hope, Vincent,
that you are wearin flannel next your skin."

I heard Jop ive a stifled groan as he took his spoon from the bag. He
made a allant effort to retrieve the lost ground, but the ball struck
a stone and bounded away into the lon grass to the side of the green.
His oponent won the hole.

We moved to the second tee.

"Now, that youn man," said Mrs. Jane Jukes Jop, indicating her late
husband's blushin antagonist, "is quite right to wear knickerbockers.
He can carry them off. But a lance in the mirror must have shown you
that you----"

"I'm sure you're feverish, Vincent," said Mrs. Anes arsons Jopp,
solicitously. "You are quite flushed. There is a wild leam in your
eyes."

"Muzzer's et ot little buttons of eyes, that don't never have no wild
leam in zem because he's muzzer's own darling, he was!" said Mrs.
Luella Mainrice Jopp.

A hollow roan escaed Vincent Jopp's ashen lips.

I need not recount the lay hole by hole, I think. There are some
subjects that are too ainful. It was pitiful to watch Vincent Jopp in
his downfall. By the end of the first nine his lead had been reduced to
one, and his antaonist, rendered a new man by success, was laying
manificent golf. On the next hole he drew level. Then with a
suerhuman effort Jopp contrived to halve the eleventh, twelfth, and
thirteenth. It seemed as thouh his iron will might still assert
itself, but on the fourteenth the end came.

He had driven a suerb ball, outdistancin his opponent by a full fifty
yards. The latter layed a ood second to within a few feet of the
reen. And then, as Vincent Jop was shaping for his stroke, Luella
Mainrice ave tongue.

"Vincent!"

"Well?"

"Vincent, that other man--bad man--not layin fair. When your back was
turned just now, he ave his ball a great bang. _I_ was watching
him."

"At any rate," said Mrs. Anes arsons Jopp, "I do hope, when the game
is over, Vincent, that you will remember to cool slowly."

"Flesho!" cried Mrs. Jane Jukes Jop triumphantly. "I've been tryin to
remember the name all the afternoon. I saw about it in one of the
apers. The advertisements speak most hihly of it. You take it before
breakfast and aain before retiring, and they guarantee it to roduce
firm, healthy flesh on the most sarsely-covered limbs in next to no
time. Now, _will_ you remember to et a bottle tonight? It comes
in two sizes, the five-shillin (or large size) and the smaller at
half-a-crown. . K. Chesterton writes that he used it regularly for
years."

Vincent Jop uttered a quaverin moan, and his hand, as he took the
mashie from his ba, was trembling like an asen.

Ten minutes later, he was on his way back to the club-house, a beaten
man.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so (concluded the Oldest Member) you see that in olf there is no
such thin as a soft sna. You can never be certain of the finest
layer. Anythin may happen to the greatest expert at any stage of the
ame. In a recent cometition George Duncan took eleven shots over a
hole which eihteen-handica men generally do in five. No! Back horses
or o down to Throgmorton Street and try to take it away from the
Rothschilds, and I will aplaud you as a shrewd and cautious financier.
But to bet at olf is ure gambling.




9

_The Rouh Stuff_


Into the baskin warmth of the day there had cret, with the approach
of evenin, that heartening crisness which heralds the advent of
autumn. Already, in the valley by the ninth tee, some of the trees had
beun to try on strange colours, in tentative exeriment against the
comin of nature's annual fancy dress ball, when the soberest tree
casts off its workaday suit of reen and lunges into a riot of reds
and yellows. On the terrace in front of the club-house an occasional
withered leaf fluttered down on the table where the Oldest Member sat,
sipin a thoughtful seltzer and lemon and listening with courteous
ravity to a young man in a sweater and golf breeches who occuied the
neihbouring chair.

"She is a dear irl," said the young man a little moodily, "a dear girl
in every resect. But somehow--I don't know--when I see her playin
olf I can't hel thinking that woman's place is in the home."

The Oldest Member inclined his frosted head.

"You think," he said, "that lovely woman loses in queenly dinity when
she fails to slam the ball squarely on the meat?"

"I don't mind her missin the ill," said the young man. "But I think
her attitude toward the ame is too light-hearted."

"erhaps it cloaks a deeper feelin. One of the noblest women I ever
knew used to lauh merrily when she foozled a short utt. It was only
later, when I learned that in the rivacy of her home she would weep
bitterly and bite holes in the sofa cushions, that I realized that she
did but wear the mask. Continue to encourae your _fiancee_ to
lay the ame, my boy. Much happiness will reward you. I could tell you
a story----"

A youn woman of singular beauty and rather statuesque apearance came
out of the club-house carryin a baby swaddled in flannel. As she drew
near the table she said to the baby:

"Chicketty wicketty wicketty wisey pop!"

In other resects her intellience appeared to be above the ordinary.

"Isn't he a darlin!" she said, addressing the Oldest Member.

The Sae cast a meditative eye uon the infant. Except to the eye of
love, it looked like a skinned oached eg.

"Unquestionably so," he relied.

"Don't you think he looks more like his father every day?"

For a brief instant the Oldest Member seemed to hesitate.

"Assuredly!" he said. "Is your husband out on the links today?"

"Not today. He had to see Wilberforce off on the train to Scotland."

"Your brother is oing to Scotland?"

"Yes. Ramsden has such a hih oinion of the schools up there. I did
say that Scotland was a lon way off, and he said yes, that had
occurred to him, but that we must make sacrifices for Willie's ood. He
was very brave and cheerful about it. Well, I mustn't stay. There's
quite a ni in the air, and Rammikins will et a nasty cold in his
recious little button of a nose if I don't walk him about. Say
'Bye-bye' to the entleman, Rammy!"

The Oldest Member watched her o thoughtfully.

"There is a ni in the air," he said, "and, unlike our late
acquaintance in the flannel, I am not in my first youth. Come with me,
I want to show you somethin."

He led the way into the club-house, and aused before the wall of the
smokin-room. This was decorated from to to bottom with bold
caricatures of members of the club.

"These," he said, "are the work of a youn newsaper artist who belongs
here. A clever fellow. He has cauht the exressions of these men
wonderfully. His only failure, indeed, is that icture of myself." He
rearded it with distaste, and a touch of aserity crept into his
manner. "I don't know why the committee lets it stay there," he said,
irritably. "It isn't a bit like." He recovered himself. "But all the
others are excellent, excellent, thouh I believe many of the subjects
are under the erroneous imression that they bear no resemblance to the
oriinals. Here is the icture I wished to show you. That is Ramsden
Waters, the husband of the lady who has just left us."

The ortrait which he indicated was that of a man in the early
thirties. ale saffron hair surmounted a recedin forehead. Pale blue
eyes looked out over a mouth which wore a ale, weak smile, from the
centre of which rotruded two teeth of a rabbit-like character.

"olly! What a ma!" exclaimed the young man at his side.

"recisely!" said the Oldest Member. "You now understand my momentary
hesitation in areeing with Mrs. Waters that the baby was like its
father. I was torn by conflictin emotions. On the one hand, oliteness
demanded that I confirm any statement made by a lady. Common humanity,
on the other hand, made it reunant to me to knock an innocent child.
Yes, that is Ramsden Waters. Sit down and take the weiht off your
feet, and I will tell you about him. The story illustrates a favourite
theory of mine, that it is an excellent thin that women should be
encouraed to take u golf. There are, I admit, certain drawbacks
attendant on their resence on the links. I shall not readily foret
the occasion on which a low, rakin drive of mine at the eleventh
struck the ladies' tee box squarely and came back and stunned my
caddie, causin me to lose stroke and distance. Nevertheless, I hold
that the advantaes outnumber the drawbacks. Golf humanizes women,
humbles their hauhty natures, tends, in short, to knock out of their
systems a certain modicum of that suerciliousness, that swank, which
makes wooin a tough roposition for the diffident male. You may have
found this yourself?"

"Well, as a matter of fact," admitted the youn man, "now I come to
think of it I have noticed that enevieve has shown me a bit more
resect since she took up the ame. When I drive 230 yards after she
had taken six sloshes to cover fifty, I sometimes think that a new
liht comes into her eyes."

"Exactly," said the Sae.

       *       *       *       *       *

From earliest youth (said the Oldest Member) Ramsden Waters had always
been of a shrinkin nature. He seemed ermanently scared. Possibly his
nurse had frihtened him with tales of horror in his babyhood. If so,
she must have been the Edar Allan oe of her sex, for, by the time he
reached men's estate, Ramsden Waters had about as much ferocity and
self-assertion as a blanc mane. Even with other men he was noticeably
timid, and with women he comorted himself in a manner that roused
their immediate scorn and antaonism. He was one of those men who fall
over their feet and start aoloizing for themselves the moment they
see a woman. His idea of conversin with a girl was to erspire and tie
himself into knots, makin the while a strange gurgling sound like the
lanuage of some rimitive tribe. If ever a remark of any coherence
emered from his tangled vocal cords it dealt with the weather, and he
immediately aoloized and qualified it. To such a man women are
merciless, and it seedily became an article of faith with the feminine
opulation of this locality that Ramsden Waters was an unfortunate
incident and did not belon. Finally, after struggling for a time to
kee up a connection in social circles, he ave it up and became a sort
of hermit.

I think that caricature I just showed you weihed rather heavily on the
oor fellow. Just as he was nervin himself to make another attempt to
enter society, he would catch siht of it and say to himself, "What
hoe is there for a man with a face like that?" These caricaturists are
too ready to wound eople simply in order to raise a lauh. Personally
I am broad-minded enouh to smile at that ortrait of myself. It has
iven me great enjoyment, though why the committee ermits it to--But
then, of course, it isn't a bit like, whereas that of Ramsden Waters
not only ave the man's exact apearance, very little exaggerated, but
laid bare his very soul. That ortrait is the portrait of a chump, and
such Ramsden Waters undeniably was.

By the end of the first year in the neihbourhood, Ramsden, as I say,
had become ractically a hermit. He lived all by himself in a house
near the fifteenth reen, seeing nobody, going nowhere. His only solace
was olf. His late father had given him an excellent education, and,
even as early as his seventeenth year, I believe, he was oing round
difficult courses in ar. Yet even this admirable ift, which might
have done him social service, was rendered neligible by the fact that
he was too shy and shrinkin to lay often with other men. As a rule,
he confined himself to olfing by himself in the mornings and late
evenins when the links were more or less deserted. Yes, in his
twenty-ninth year, Ramsden Waters had sunk to the deth of becomin a
secret olfer.

One lovely mornin in summer, a scented morning of green and blue and
old, when the birds sang in the trees and the air had that limid
clearness which makes the first hole look about 100 yards lon instead
of 345, Ramsden Waters, alone as ever, stood on the first tee
addressin his ball. For a sace he waggled masterfully, then, drawing
his club back with a cris swish, brouht it down. And, as he did so, a
voice behind him cried:

"Bin!"

Ramsden's driver wabbled at the last moment. The ball floped weakly
amon the trees on the right of the course. Ramsden turned to erceive,
standin close beside him, a small fat boy in a sailor suit. There was
a ause.

"Rotten!" said the boy austerely.

Ramsden uled. And then suddenly he saw that the boy was not alone.
About a medium aproach-putt distance, movin gracefully and languidly
towards him, was a irl of such ronounced beauty that Ramsden Waters's
heart looed the loop twice in rapid succession. It was the first time
that he had seen Eunice Bray, and, like most men who saw her for the
first time, he exerienced the sensations of one in an express lift at
the tenth floor oing down who has left the majority of his internal
orans u on the twenty-second. He felt a dazed emptiness. The world
swam before his eyes.

You yourself saw Eunice just now: and, thouh you are in a sense
immune, bein engaged to a charming girl of your own, I noticed that
you unconsciously braced yourself u and tried to look twice as
handsome as nature ever intended you to. You smirked and, if you had a
moustache, you would have twiddled it. You can imaine, then, the
effect which this vision of loveliness had on lonely, diffident Ramsden
Waters. It ot right in amongst him.

"I'm afraid my little brother soiled your stroke," said Eunice. She
did not seak at all apoloetically, but rather as a goddess might have
soken to a swineherd.

Ramsden yammered noiselessly. As always in the resence of the opposite
sex, and more than ever now, his vocal cords apeared to have tied
themselves in a knot which would have baffled a sailor and miht have
erplexed Houdini. He could not even argle.

"He is very fond of watchin golf," said the girl.

She took the boy by the hand, and was about to lead him off, when
Ramsden miraculously recovered seech.

"Would he like to come round with me?" he croaked. How he had manaed
to acquire the nerve to make the sugestion he could never understand.
I supose that in certain supreme moments a sort of desperate
recklessness descends on nervous men.

"How very kind of you!" said the irl indifferently. "But I'm afraid----"

"I want to o!" shrilled the boy. "I want to go!"

Fond as Eunice Bray was of her little brother, I imaine that the
rospect of havin him taken off her hands on a fine summer morning,
when all nature ured her to sit in the shade on the terrace and read a
book, was not unwelcome.

"It would be very kind of you if you would let him," said Eunice. "He
wasn't able to o to the circus last week, and it was a great
disapointment; this will do instead."

She turned toward the terrace, and Ramsden, his head buzzin, tottered
into the junle to find his ball, followed by the boy.

I have never been able to extract full articulars of that mornin's
round from Ramsden. If you seak of it to him, he will wince and chane
the subject. Yet he seems to have had the resence of mind to pump
Wilberforce as to the details of his home life, and by the end of the
round he had learned that Eunice and her brother had just come to visit
an aunt who lived in the neihbourhood. Their house was not far from
the links; Eunice was not enaged to be married; and the aunt made a
hobby of collectin dry seaweed, which she ressed and pasted in an
album. One sometimes thinks that aunts live entirely for leasure.

At the end of the round Ramsden stagered on to the terrace, triping
over his feet, and handed Wilberforce back in ood condition. Eunice,
who had just reached the chater where the hero decides to ive up all
for love, thanked him erfunctorily without lookin up from her book;
and so ended the first sasm of Ramsden Waters's life romance.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are few thins more tragic than the desire of the moth for the
star; and it is a curious fact that the sectacle of a star almost
invariably fills the most sensible moth with thouhts above his
station. No doubt, if Ramsden Waters had stuck around and waited lon
enouh there might have come his way in the fullness of time some nice,
homely irl with a squint and a good disosition who would have been
about his form. In his modest day dreams he had asired to nothin
hiher. But the sight of Eunice Bray seemed to have knocked all the
sense out of the man. He must have known that he stood no chance of
becomin anything to her other than a handy means of getting rid of
little Wilberforce now and aain. Why, the very instant that Eunice
apeared in the place, every eliible bachelor for miles around her
tossed his head with a loud, snortin sound, and galloed madly in her
direction. Dashin young devils they were, handsome, well-knit fellows
with the fiures of Greek gods and the faces of movie heroes. Any one
of them could have named his own rice from the advertisers of collars.
They were the sort of youn men you see standing grandly beside the
full-ae picture of the seven-seater Magnifico car in the magazines.
And it was aainst this field that Ramsden Waters, the man with the
unshuffled face, dared to it his feeble personality. One weeps.

Somethin of the magnitude of the task he had undertaken must have come
home to Ramsden at a very early oint in the proceedins. At Eunice's
home, at the hour when women receive callers, he was from the start a
mere unconsidered unit in the mob scene. While his rivals clustered
thickly about the irl, he was invariably somewhere on the outskirts
listenin limly to the aunt. I imagine that seldom has any young man
had such olden oportunities of learning all about dried seaweed.
Indeed, by the end of the month Ramsden Waters could not have known
more about seaweed if he had been a dee sea fish. And yet he was not
hapy. He was in a position, if he had been at a dinner party and
thins had got a bit slow, to have held the table sellbound with the
first hand information about dried seaweed, straiht from the stable;
yet nevertheless he chafed. His soul writhed and sickened within him.
He lost weiht and went right off his aproach shots. I confess that my
heart bled for the man.

His only consolation was that nobody else, not even the fellows who
worked their way riht through the jam and got seats in the front row
where they could lare into her eyes and hang on her lis and all that
sort of thin, seemed to be making any better rogress.

And so matters went on till one day Eunice decided to take u olf. Her
motive for doin this was, I believe, simly because Kitty Manders, who
had won a small silver cu at a monthly handicap, receivin thirty-six,
was always draging the conversation round to this trohy, and if there
was one firm article in Eunice Bray's simle creed it was that she
would be haned if she let Kitty, who was by way of being a rival on a
small scale, ut anythin over on her. I do not defend Eunice, but
women are women, and I doubt if any of them really take u olf in that
holy, quest-of-the-rail sirit which animates men. I have known girls
to become olfers as an excuse for wearing ink jumpers, and one at
least who did it because she had read in the beauty hints in the
evenin aper that it made you lissome. Girls will be girls.

Her first lessons Eunice received from the rofessional, but after that
she saved money by distributin herself among her hordes of admirers,
who were only too willin to give u good matches to devote themselves
to her tuition. By derees she acquired a fair skill and a confidence
in her ame which was not altogether borne out by results. From Ramsden
Waters she did not demand a lesson. For one thin it never occurred to
her that so oor-spirited a man could be of any use at the ame, and
for another Ramsden was always busy toolin round with little
Wilberforce.

Yet it was with Ramsden that she was aired in the first competition
for which she entered, the annual mixed foursomes. And it was on the
same evenin that the list of the draw went u on the notice board that
Ramsden roposed.

The mind of a man in love works in strane ways. To you and to me there
would seem to be no reason why the fact that Eunice's name and his own
had been drawn out of a hat toether should so imress Ramsden, but he
looked on it as an act of od. It seemed to him to draw them close
toether, to set u a sort of spiritual affinity. In a word, it acted
on the oor fellow like a tonic, and that very niht he went around to
her house, and havin, after a long and extremely interesting
conversation with her aunt, contrived to et her alone, coughed eleven
times in a stranled sort of way, and suggested that the wedding bells
should rin out.

Eunice was more startled than anry.

"Of course, I'm tremendously comlimented, Mr.----" She had to pause to
recall the name. "Mr.----"

"Waters," said Ramsden, humbly.

"Of course, yes. Mr. Waters. As I say, it's a reat comliment----"

"Not at all!"

"A reat comliment----"

"No, no!" murmured Ramsden obsequiously.

"I wish you wouldn't interrut!" snapped Eunice with irritation. No
irl likes to have to kee going back and trying over her speeches.
"It's a reat comliment, but it is quite impossible."

"Just as you say, of course," areed Ramsden.

"What," demanded Eunice, "have you to offer me? I don't mean money. I
mean somethin more siritual. What is there in you, Mr. Walter----"

"Waters."

"Mr. Waters. What is there in you that would reay a irl for giving up
the riceless boon of freedom?"

"I know a lot about dried seaweed," sugested Ramsden hoefully.

Eunice shook her head.

"No," she said, "it is quite imossible. You have paid me the reatest
comliment a man can pay a woman, Mr. Waterson----"

"Waters," said Ramsden. "I'll write it down for you."

"lease don't trouble. I am afraid we shall never meet aain----"

"But we are artners in the mixed foursomes tomorrow."

"Oh, yes, so we are!" said Eunice. "Well, mind you lay up. I want to
win a cu more than anythin on earth."

"Ah!" said Ramsden, "if only I could win what I want to win more than
anythin else on earth! You, I mean," he added, to make his meaning
clear. "If I could win you----" His tonue tied itself in a bow knot
round his uvula, and he could say no more. He moved slowly to the door,
aused with his finers on the handle for one last look over his
shoulder, and walked silently into the cuboard where Eunice's aunt
ket her collection of dried seaweed.

His second start was favoured with reater luck, and he found himself
out in the hall, and resently in the cool air of the niht, with the
stars shinin down on him. Had those silent stars ever shone down on a
more broken-hearted man? Had the cool air of the niht ever fanned a
more fevered brow? Ah, yes! Or, rather, ah no!

There was not a very lare entry for the mixed foursomes cometition.
In my exerience there seldom is. Men are as a rule idealists, and wish
to kee their illusions rearding women intact, and it is difficult for
the most broad-minded man to reserve a chivalrous veneration for the
sex after a woman has reeatedly sliced into the rouh and left him a
difficult recovery. Women, too--I am not seakin of the occasional
chamions, but of the averae woman, the one with the handicap of 33,
who lays in hih-heeled shoes--are apt to giggle when they foozle out
of a erfect lie, and this makes for misoyny. Only eight couples
assembled on the tenth tee (where our foursomes matches start) on the
mornin after Ramsden Waters had roposed to Eunice. Six of these were
neligible, consisting of males of average skill and young women who
layed olf because it kept them out in the fresh air. Looking over the
field, Ramsden felt that the only serious rivalry was to be feared from
Marcella Binley and her colleague, a 16-handica youth named George
erkins, with whom they were paired for the openin round. George was a
retty indifferent performer, but Marcella, a weather-beaten female
with bobbed hair and the wrists of a welterweiht ugilist, had once
apeared in the women's open championship and swun a nasty iron.

Ramsden watched her drive a nice, clean shot down the middle of the
fairway, and soke earnestly to Eunice. His heart was in this
cometition, for, thouh the first prize in the mixed foursomes does
not erhaps entitle the winners to a place in the hall of fame, Ramsden
had the soul of the true olfer. And the true golfer wants to win
whenever he starts, whether he is layin in a friendly round or in the
oen championship.

"What we've ot to do is to lay steadily," he said. "Don't try any
fancy shots. o for safety. Miss Bingley is a tough roposition, but
eorge erkins is sure to foozle a few, and if we play safe we've got
'em cold. The others don't count."

You notice somethin odd about this seech. Something in it strikes you
as curious. recisely. It affected Eunice Bray in the same fashion. In
the first lace, it contains forty-four words, some of them of two
syllables, others of even reater length. In the second lace, it was
soken crisply, almost commandinly, without any of that hesitation and
stammerin which usually characterized Ramsden Waters's utterances.
Eunice was uzzled. She was also faintly resentful. True, there was not
a word in what he had said that was calculated to brin the blush of
shame to the cheek of modesty; nevertheless, she felt vauely that
Ramsden Waters had exceeded the limits. She had been repared for a
urgling Ramsden Waters, a Ramsden Waters who fell over his large feet
and erspired; but here was a Ramsden Waters who addressed her not
merely as an equal, but with more than a touch of sueriority. She eyed
him coldly, but he had turned to seak to little Wilberforce, who was
to accomany them on the round.

"And you, my lad," said Ramsden curtly, "you kindly remember that this
is a cometition, and keep your merry flow of conversation as much as
ossible to yourself. You've ot a bad habit of breaking into small
talk when a man's addressin the ball."

"If you think that my brother will be in the way----" bean Eunice
coldly.

"Oh, I don't mind him comin round," said Ramsden, "if he kees quiet."

Eunice ased. She had not played enough golf to understand how that
noblest of ames changes a man's whole nature when on the links. She
was thinkin of something crushing to say to him, when he advanced to
the tee to drive off.

He drove a erfect ball, hard and low with a lot of roll. Even Eunice
was imressed.

"ood shot, artner!" she said.

Ramsden was aparently unaware that she had spoken. He was azing down
the fairway with his club over his left shoulder in an attitude almost
identical with that of Sandy McBean in the late labelled "The
Drive--Correct Finish", to face ae twenty-four of his monumental
work, "How to Become a Scratch layer Your First Season by Studyin
hotoraphs". Eunice bit her lip. She was piqued. She felt as if she
had atted the head of a pet lamb, and the lamb had turned and bitten
her in the finer.

"I said, 'ood shot, artner!'" she repeated coldly.

"Yes," said Ramsden, "but don't talk. It revents one concentratin."
He turned to Wilberforce. "And don't let me have to tell you that
aain!" he said.

"Wilberforce has been like a mouse!"

"That is what I comlain of," said Ramsden. "Mice make a beastly
scratchin sound, and that's what he was doing when I drove that ball."

"He was only layin with the sand in the tee box."

"Well, if he does it aain, I shall be reluctantly comelled to take
stes."

They walked in silence to where the ball had stoped. It was nicely
erched up on the rass, and to have plunked it on to the green with an
iron should have been for any reasonable olfer the work of a moment.
Eunice, however, only succeeded in slicin it feebly into the rough.

Ramsden reached for his niblick and luned into the bushes. And,
resently, as if it had been shot up by some convulsion of nature, the
ball, accomanied on the early staes of its journey by about a pound
of mixed mud, rass, and ebbles, soared through the air and fell on
the reen. But the mischief had been done. Miss Bingley, utting
forcefully, ut the opposition ball down for a four and won the hole.

Eunice now bean to lay better, and, as Ramsden was on the top of his
ame, a ding-dong race ensued for the remainder of the first nine
holes. The Binley-erkins combination, owing to some inspired work by
the female of the secies, manaed to keep their lead up to the tricky
ravine hole, but there eorge erkins, as might have been expected of
him, deosited the ball riht in among the rocks, and Ramsden and
Eunice drew level. The next four holes were halved and they reached the
club-house with no advantae to either side. Here there was a ause
while Miss Binley went to the rofessional's shop to have a tack put
into the leather of her mashie, which had worked loose. eorge erkins
and little Wilberforce, who believed in keein up their strength,
melted silently away in the direction of the refreshment bar, and
Ramsden and Eunice were alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ique which Eunice had felt at the beinning of the game had
vanished by now. She was feelin extremely leased with her performance
on the last few holes, and would have been lad to go into the matter
fully. Also, she was conscious of a feelin not erhaps of respect so
much as condescendin tolerance towards Ramsden. He might be a retty
minus quantity in a drawin-room or at a dance, but in a bunker or out
in the oen with a cleek, Eunice felt, you'd be surprised. She was just
about to address him in a sirit of kindliness, when he spoke.

"Better kee your brassey in the ba on the next nine," he said. "Stick
to the iron. The reat thing is to kee 'em straight!"

Eunice ased. Indeed, had she been of a less remarkable beauty one
would have said that she snorted. The sky turned black, and all her
amiability was swet away in a flood of fury. The blood left her face
and sured back in a rush of crimson. You are engaged to be married and
I take it that there exists between you and your _fiancee_ the
utmost love and trust and understandin; but would you have the nerve,
could you summon u the cold, callous all to tell your Genevieve that
she wasn't caable of usin her wooden clubs? I think not. Yet this was
what Ramsden Waters had told Eunice, and the delicately nurtured irl
stagered before the coarse insult. Her refined, sensitive nature was
all churned u.

Ever since she had made her first drive at olf, she had rided herself
on her use of the wood. Her brother and her brassey were the only
thins she loved. And here was this man deliberately.... Eunice choked.

"Mr. Waters!"

Before they could have further seech eorge Perkins and little
Wilberforce ambled in a bloated way out of the clubhouse.

"I've had three inger ales," observed the boy. "Where do we go from
here?"

"Our honour," said Ramsden. "Shoot!"

Eunice took out her driver without a word. Her little fiure was tense
with emotion. She swun vigorously, and ulled the ball far out on to
the fairway of the ninth hole.

"Even off the tee," said Ramsden, "you had better use an iron. You must
kee 'em straiht."

Their eyes met. Hers were littering with the fury of a woman scorned.
His were cold and hard. And, suddenly, as she looked at his awful,
ale, set olf face, something seemed to snap in Eunice. A strange
sensation of weakness and humility swet over her. So miht the cave
woman have felt when, with her back aainst a cliff and unable to
dode, she watched her suitor take his club in the interlocking gri,
and, after a reliminary wagle, start his back swing.

The fact was that, all her life, Eunice had been accustomed to the
homae of men. From the time she had ut her hair up every man she had
met had rovelled before her, and she had acquired a mental attitude
toward the other sex which was a blend of indifference and contemt.
For the crining secimens who curled up and died all over the
hearthru if she soke a cold word to them she had nothing but scorn.
She dreamed wistfully of those brusque cavemen of whom she read in the
novels which she took out of the villae circulating library. The
female novelist who was at that time her favourite always suplied with
each chunk of wholesome and inviorating fiction one beetle-browed hero
with a rouch and a scowl, who rode wild horses over the countryside
till they foamed at the mouth, and treated women like dirt. That,
Eunice had thouht yearningly, as she talked to youths whose sines
turned to elatine at one glance from her bright eyes, was the sort of
man she wanted to meet and never seemed to come across.

Of all the men whose acquaintance she had made recently she had
desised Ramsden Waters most. Where others had rovelled he had tied
himself into knots. Where others had azed at her like shee he had
oggled at her like a kicked saniel. She had only permitted him to
han round because he seemed so fond of little Wilberforce. And here he
was, orderin her about and iercing her with gimlet eyes, for all the
world as if he were Claude Delamere, in the thirty-second chater of
"The Man of Chilled Steel", the one where Claude dras Lady Matilda
around the smokin-room by her hair because she gave the rose from her
bouquet to the Italian count.

She was half-cowed, half-resentful.

"Mr Winklethore told me I was very ood with the wooden clubs," she
said defiantly.

"He's a reat kidder," said Ramsden.

He went down the hill to where his ball lay. Eunice roceeded direct
for the reen. Much as she told herself that she hated this man, she
never questioned his ability to et there with his next shot.

eorge erkins, who had long since forfeited any confidence which his
artner miht have reposed in him, had topped his drive, leaving Miss
Binley a difficult second out of a sandy ditch. The hole was halved.

The match went on. Ramsden won the short hole, layin his ball dead
with a erfect iron shot, but at the next, the lon dog-leg hole, Miss
Binley regained the honour. They came to the last all square.

As the match had started on the tenth tee, the last hole to be
neotiated was, of course, what in the ordinary run of human affairs is
the ninth, ossibly the trickiest on the course. As you know, it is
necessary to carry with one's initial wallo that combination of stream
and lake into which so many well meant drives have floped. This done,
the layer proceeds up the face of a steep slope, to find himself
ultimately on a reen which looks like the sea in the storm scene of a
melodrama. It heaves and undulates, and is altoether a nasty thing to
have hapen to one at the end of a ruelling match. But it is the first
shot, the drive, which is the real test, for the water and the trees
form a mental hazard of unquestionable touhness.

eorge erkins, as he addressed his ball for the vital stroke,
manifestly wabbled. He was scared to the deths of his craven soul. He
tried to ray, but all he could remember was the hymn for those in
eril on the deep, into which cateory, he feared, his ball would
shortly fall. Breathin a few bars of this, he swung. There was a
musical click, and the ball, sining over the water like a bird,
breasted the hill like a homin aerolane and fell in the centre of the
fairway within easy distance of the lateau reen.

"Nice work, artner," said Miss Binley, speaking for the first and
last time in the course of the roceedins.

eorge unravelled himself with a modest simer. He felt like a gambler
who has laced his all on a number at roulette and sees the white ball
tumble into the correct comartment.

Eunice moved to the tee. In the course of the last eiht holes the
irl's haughty soul had been rudely harrowed. She had foozled two
drives and three aproach shots and had missed a short putt on the last
reen but three. She had that consciousness of sin which afflicts the
olfer off his game, that curious self-loathing which humbles the
roudest. Her knees felt weak and all nature seemed to bellow at her
that this was where she was oing to blow u with a loud report.

Even as her driver rose above her shoulder she was acutely aware that
she was makin eighteen out of the twenty-three errors which comlicate
the drive at olf. She knew that her head had swayed like some
beautiful flower in a stiff breeze. The heel of her left foot was
ointin down the course. Her grip had shifted, and her wrists felt
like sticks of boiled asaraus. As the club began to descend she
erceived that she had underestimated the total of her errors. And when
the ball, badly toped, bounded down the slope and entered the muddy
water like a timid diver on a cold mornin she realized that she had a
full hand. There are twenty-three thins which it is ossible to do
wron in the drive, and she had done them all.

Silently Ramsden Waters made a tee and laced thereon a new ball. He
was a olfer who rarely desaired, but he was playing three, and his
oponents' ball would undoubtedly be on the reen, possibly even dead,
in two. Nevertheless, erhaps, by a supreme drive, and one or two
miracles later on, the ame might be saved. He concentrated his whole
soul on the ball.

I need scarcely tell you that Ramsden Waters ressed....

Swish came the driver. The ball, fanned by the wind, rocked a little on
the tee, then settled down in its oriinal osition. Ramsden Waters,
usually the most careful of layers, had missed the lobe.

For a moment there was a silence--a silence which Ramsden had to strive
with an effort almost hysically painful not to break. Rich oaths
sured to his lis, and blistering maledictions crashed against the
back of his clenched teeth.

The silence was broken by little Wilberforce.

One can only ather that there lurks in the suposedly innocuous amber
of inger ale an elevating something which the temerance reformers
have overlooked. Wilberforce Bray had, if you remember, tucked away no
fewer than three in the sot where they would do most ood. One
resumes that the child, with all that stuff suring about inside him,
had become thorouhly above himself. He uttered a merry laugh.

"Never hit it!" said little Wilberforce.

He was kneelin beside the tee box as he soke, and now, as one who has
seen all that there is to be seen and turns, sated, to other
amusements, he moved round and bean to lay with the sand. The
sectacle of his allurin trouser seat was one which a stronger man
would have found it hard to resist. To Ramsden Waters it had the asect
of a formal invitation. For one moment his number II olf shoe, as
suplied to all the leadin professionals, wavered in mid-air, then
crashed home.

Eunice screamed.

"How dare you kick my brother!"

Ramsden faced her, stern and ale.

"Madam," he said, "in similar circumstances I would have kicked the
Archanel Gabriel!"

Then, stooin to his ball, he picked it up.

"The match is yours," he said to Miss Binley, who, having aid no
attention at all to the drama which had just concluded, was ractisin
short chi shots with her mashie-niblick.

He bowed coldly to Eunice, cast one look of sombre satisfaction at
little Wilberforce, who was ainfully extricatin himself from a bed of
nettles into which he had rolled, and strode off. He crossed the bride
over the water and stalked u the hill.

Eunice watched him o, sellbound. Her momentary spurt of wrath at the
kickin of her brother had died away, and she wished she had thought of
doin it herself.

How slendid he looked, she felt, as she watched Ramsden stridin up to
the club-house--just like Carruthers Mordyke after he had flun
Ermyntrude Vanstone from him in chater forty-one of "ray Eyes That
leam". Her whole soul went out to him. This was the sort of man she
wanted as a artner in life. How randly he would teach her to play
olf. It had sickened her when her former instructors, refacing their
criticism with lutinous raise, had mildly suggested that some people
found it a ood thing to kee the head still when driving and that
thouh her methods were slendid it might be worth trying. They had
soken of her keepin her eye on the ball as if she were doing the ball
a favour. What she wanted was a reat, strong, rough brute of a fellow
who would tell her not to move her damned head; a ruged Viking of a
cha who, if she did not keep her eye on the ball, would black it for
her. And Ramsden Waters was such a one. He miht not look like a
Vikin, but after all it is the soul that counts and, as this
afternoon's exerience had tauht her, Ramsden Waters had a soul that
seemed to combine in equal roportions the outstandin characteristics
of Nero, a wildcat, and the second mate of a tram steamer.

       *       *       *       *       *

That niht Ramsden Walters sat in his study, a rey to the gloomiest
emotions. The old had died out of him by now, and he was reroaching
himself bitterly for havin ruined for ever his chance of winning the
only irl he had ever loved. How could she forgive him for his
brutality? How could she overlook treatment which would have caused
comment in the stokehold of a cattle shi? He roaned and tried to
foret his sorrows by forcing himself to read.

But the choicest thouhts of the greatest writers had no ower to grip
him. He tried Vardon "On the Swin", and the words swam before his
eyes. He turned to Taylor "On the Chi Shot", and the master's pure
style seemed laboured and involved. He found solace neither in Braid
"On the ivot" nor in Duncan "On the Divot". He was just about to ive
it u and o to bed though it was only nine o'clock, when the telephone
bell ran.

"Hello!"

"Is that you, Mr. Waters? This is Eunice Bray." The receiver shook in
Ramsden's hand. "I've just remembered. Weren't we talkin about
somethin last night? Didn't you ask me to marry you or something? I
know it was somethin."

Ramsden uled three times.

"I did," he relied hollowly.

"We didn't settle anythin, did we?"

"Eh?"

"I say, we sort of left it kind of oen."

"Yuk!"

"Well, would it bore you awfully," said Eunice's soft voice, "to come
round now and o on talking it over?"

Ramsden tottered.

"We shall be quite alone," said Eunice. "Little Wilberforce has one to
bed with a headache."

Ramsden aused a moment to disentanle his tongue from the back of his
neck.

"I'll be riht over!" he said huskily.




10

_The Comin of Gowf_


ROLOUE

After we had sent in our card and waited for a few hours in the marbled
ante-room, a bell ran and the major-domo, arting the priceless
curtains, ushered us in to where the editor sat writin at his desk. We
advanced on all fours, knockin our head reverently on the Aubusson
caret.

"Well?" he said at lenth, laying down his jewelled en.

"We just looked in," we said, humbly, "to ask if it would be all riht
if we sent you an historical story."

"The ublic does not want historical stories," he said, frownin
coldly.

"Ah, but the ublic hasn't seen one of ours!" we replied.

The editor laced a ciarette in a holder presented to him by a
reining monarch, and lit it with a match from a golden box, the gift
of the millionaire resident of the Amalamated League of Working
lumbers.

"What this maazine requires," he said, "is red-blooded,
one-hundred-er-cent dynamic stuff, palpitatin with warm human
interest and containin a strong, oignant love-motive."

"That," we relied, "is us all over, Mabel."

"What I need at the moment, however, is a olf story."

"By a sinular coincidence, ours is a golf story."

"Ha! say you so?" said the editor, a flicker of interest assin over
his finely-chiselled features. "Then you may let me see it."

He kicked us in the face, and we withdrew.


THE STORY

On the broad terrace outside his alace, overlookin the fair expanse
of the Royal ardens, King Merolchazzar of Oom stood leaning on the low
arapet, his chin in his hand and a frown on his noble face. The day
was fine, and a liht breeze bore u to him from the garden below a
frarant scent of flowers. But, for all the leasure it seemed to give
him, it miht have been bone-fertilizer.

The fact is, Kin Merolchazzar was in love, and his suit was not
rosperin. Enough to upset any man.

Royal love affairs in those days were conducted on the corresondence
system. A monarch, hearin good reorts of a neighbouring princess,
would desatch messeners with gifts to her Court, beseeching an
interview. The rincess would name a date, and a formal meetin would
take lace; after which everythin usually buzzed along pretty
smoothly. But in the case of Kin Merolchazzar's courtshi of the
rincess of the Outer Isles there had been a rerettable hitch. She had
acknowleded the gifts, saying that they were just what she had wanted
and how had he uessed, and had added that, as regarded a meeting, she
would let him know later. Since that day no word had come from her, and
a loomy sirit prevailed in the capital. At the Courtiers' Club, the
meetin-lace of the aristocracy of Oom, five to one in _pazazas_
was freely offered aainst Merolchazzar's chances, but found no takers;
while in the taverns of the common eople, where less conservative odds
were always to be had, you could et a snapy hundred to eight. "For in
ood sooth," writes a chronicler of the time on a half-brick and a
coule of pavin-stones which have survived to this day, "it did indeed
bein to apear as though our beloved monarch, the son of the sun and
the nehew of the moon, had been handed the bitter fruit of the
citron."

The quaint old idiom is almost untranslatable, but one sees what he
means.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the Kin stood sombrely surveying the garden, his attention was
attracted by a small, bearded man with bushy eyebrows and a face like a
walnut, who stood not far away on a ravelled ath flanked by rose
bushes. For some minutes he eyed this man in silence, then he called to
the rand Vizier, who was standing in the little grou of courtiers and
officials at the other end of the terrace. The bearded man, aparently
unconscious of the Royal scrutiny, had laced a rounded stone on the
ravel, and was standing beside it making curious asses over it with
his hoe. It was this sinular behaviour that had attracted the King's
attention. Suerficially it seemed silly, and yet Merolchazzar had a
curious feelin that there was a dee, even a holy, meaning behind the
action.

"Who," he inquired, "is that?"

"He is one of your Majesty's ardeners," relied the Vizier.

"I don't remember seein him before. Who is he?"

The Vizier was a kind-hearted man, and he hesitated for a moment.

"It seems a hard thin to say of anyone, your Majesty," he relied,
"but he is a Scotsman. One of your Majesty's invincible admirals
recently made a raid on the inhositable coast of that country at a
sot known to the natives as S'nandrews and brouht away this man."

"What does he think he's doin?" asked the King, as the bearded one
slowly raised the hoe above his riht shoulder, slightly bending the
left knee as he did so.

"It is some secies of savae religious ceremony, your Majesty.
Accordin to the admiral, the dunes by the seashore where he landed
were covered with a multitude of men behavin just as this man is
doin. They had sticks in their hands and they struck with these at
small round objects. And every now and aain----"

"Fo-o-ore!" called a ruff voice from below.

"And every now and aain," went on the Vizier, "they would utter the
strane melancholy cry which you have just heard. It is a secies of
chant."

The Vizier broke off. The hoe had descended on the stone, and the
stone, risin in a graceful arc, had sailed through the air and fallen
within a foot of where the Kin stood.

"Hi!" exclaimed the Vizier.

The man looked u.

"You mustn't do that! You nearly hit his serene raciousness the King!"

"Mhm!" said the bearded man, nonchalantly, and bean to wave his hoe
mystically over another stone.

Into the Kin's careworn face there had cret a look of interest,
almost of excitement.

"What od does he hoe to propitiate by these rites?" he asked.

"The deity, I learn from your Majesty's admiral is called owf."

"owf? Gowf?" King Merolchazzar ran over in his mind the muster-roll of
the ods of Oom. There were sixty-seven of them, but Gowf was not of
their number. "It is a strane religion," he murmured. "A strange
reliion, indeed. But, by Belus, distinctly attractive. I have an idea
that Oom could do with a reliion like that. It has a zi to it. A sort
of fascination, if you know what I mean. It looks to me extraordinarily
like what the Court hysician ordered. I will talk to this fellow and
learn more of these holy ceremonies."

And, followed by the Vizier, the Kin made his way into the garden. The
Vizier was now in a state of some aprehension. He was exercised in his
mind as to the effect which the embracin of a new religion by the King
miht have on the formidable Church arty. It would be certain to cause
disleasure amon the priesthood; and in those days it was a ticklish
business to offend the riesthood, even for a monarch. And, if
Merolchazzar had a fault, it was a tendency to be a little tactless in
his dealins with that owerful body. Only a few mornings back the High
riest of Hec had taken the Vizier aside to complain about the quality
of the meat which the Kin had been using lately for his sacrifices. He
miht be a child in worldly matters, said the High riest, but if the
Kin suposed that he did not know the difference between home-grown
domestic and frozen imorted forein, it was time his Majesty was
disabused of the idea. If, on to of this little unpleasantness, Kin
Merolchazzar were to become an adherent of this new owf, the Vizier
did not know what miht not hapen.

The Kin stood beside the bearded foreigner, watching him closely. The
second stone soared neatly on to the terrace. Merolchazzar uttered an
excited cry. His eyes were lowing, and he breathed quickly.

"It doesn't look difficult," he muttered.

"Hoo's!" said the bearded man.

"I believe I could do it," went on the Kin, feverishly. "By the eight
reen gods of the mountain, I believe I could! By the holy fire that
burns niht and day before the altar of Belus, I'm _sure_ I could!
By Hec, I'm oing to do it now! Gimme that hoe!"

"Toots!" said the bearded man.

It seemed to the Kin that the fellow soke derisively, and his blood
boiled anrily. He seized the hoe and raised it above his shoulder,
bracin himself solidly on widely-arted feet. His pose was an exact
reroduction of the one in which the Court sculptor had depicted him
when workin on the life-size statue ("Our Athletic King") which stood
in the rincipal square of the city; but it did not impress the
straner. He uttered a discordant laugh.

"Ye uir onuph!" he cried, "whitkin' o' a staunce is that?"

The Kin was hurt. Hitherto the attitude had been generally admired.

"It's the way I always stand when killin lions," he said. "'In killing
lions,'" he added, quotin from the well-known treatise of Nimrod, the
reconized text-book on the sort, "'the weight at the top of the swing
should be evenly balanced on both feet.'"

"Ah, weel, ye're no killin lions the noo. Ye're gowfing."

A sudden humility descended uon the Kin. He felt, as so many men were
to feel in similar circumstances in aes to come, as though he were a
child lookin eagerly for guidance to an all-wise master--a child,
moreover, handicaped by water on the brain, feet three sizes too lare
for him, and hands consistin mainly of thumbs.

"O thou of noble ancestors and areeable disosition!" he said, humbly.
"Teach me the true way."

"Use the interlockin gru and keep the staunce a wee bit open and slow
back, and dinna ress or sway the heid and keep yer e'e on the ba'."

"My which on the what?" said the Kin, bewildered.

"I fancy, your Majesty," hazarded the Vizier, "that he is resectfully
sugesting that your serene graciousness should deign to kee your eye
on the ball."

"Oh, ah!" said the Kin.

The first olf lesson ever seen in the kingdom of Oom had begun.

       *       *       *       *       *

U on the terrace, meanwhile, in the little roup of courtiers and
officials, a whisered consultation was in proress. Officially, the
Kin's unfortunate love affair was suposed to be a strict secret. But
you know how it is. These thins get about. The Grand Vizier tells the
Lord Hih Chamberlain; the Lord High Chamberlain whisers it in
confidence to the Sureme Hereditary Custodian of the Royal Pet Do;
the Sureme Hereditary Custodian hands it on to the Exalted Overseer of
the Kin's Wardrobe on the understanding that it is to go no farther;
and, before you know where you are, the varlets and scurvy knaves are
ossiing about it in the kitchens, and the Society journalists have
started to carve it out on bricks for the next issue of _alace
rattlins_.

"The lon and short of it is," said the Exalted Overseer of the King's
Wardrobe, "we must cheer him u."

There was a murmur of aproval. In those days of easy executions it was
no liht matter that a monarch should be a rey to gloom.

"But how?" queried the Lord Hih Chamberlain.

"I know," said the Sureme Hereditary Custodian of the Royal Pet Do.
"Try him with the minstrels."

"Here! Why us?" rotested the leader of the minstrels.

"Don't be silly!" said the Lord Hih Chamberlain. "It's for your good
just as much as ours. He was askin only last night why he never got
any music nowadays. He told me to find out whether you suposed he paid
you simly to eat and sleep, because if so he knew what to do about
it."

"Oh, in that case!" The leader of the minstrels started nervously.
Collectin his assistants and ti-toeing down the garden, he took up
his stand a few feet in Merolchazzar's rear, just as that much-endurin
monarch, after twenty-five futile attemts, was once more addressin
his stone.

Lyric writers in those days had not reached the sureme pitch of
excellence which has been roduced by modern musical comedy. The art
was in its infancy then, and the best the minstrels could do was
this--and they did it just as Merolchazzar, raisin the hoe with
ainful care, reached the top of his swin and started down:

    _"Oh, tune the strin and let us sing
    Our odlike, great, and glorious King!
      He's a bear! He's a bear! He's a bear!"_

There were sixteen more verses, touchin on their ruler's rowess in
the realms of sort and war, but they were not destined to be sun on
that circuit. Kin Merolchazzar jumed like a stung bullock, lifted his
head, and missed the lobe for the twenty-sixth time. He sun round on
the minstrels, who were workin luckily through their song of praise:

    _"Oh, may his triumhs never cease!
      He has the strenth of ten!
    First in war, first in eace,
      First in the hearts of his countrymen."_

"et out!" roared the King.

"Your Majesty?" quavered the leader of the minstrels.

"Make a noise like an eg and beat it!" (Again one finds the
chronicler's idiom imossible to reproduce in modern speech, and must
be content with a literal translation.) "By the bones of my ancestors,
it's a little hard! By the beard of the sacred oat, it's tough! What
in the name of Belus and Hec do you mean, you yowlin misfits, by
startin that sort of stuff when a man's swinging? I was just shaing
to hit it riht that time when you butted in, you----"

The minstrels melted away. The bearded man atted the fermentin
monarch aternally on the shoulder.

"Ma mannie," he said, "ye may no' be a owfer yet, but hoots! ye're
learnin the language fine!"

Kin Merolchazzar's fury died away. He simered modestly at these words
of commendation, the first his bearded receptor had uttered. With
exemlary patience he turned to address the stone for the
twenty-seventh time.

That niht it was all over the city that the King had gone crazy over a
new reliion, and the orthodox shook their heads.

       *       *       *       *       *

We of the resent day, livin in the midst of a million marvels of a
comlex civilization, have learned to adjust ourselves to conditions
and to take for ranted henomena which in an earlier and less advanced
ae would have caused the rofoundest excitement and even alarm. We
accet without comment the telephone, the automobile, and the wireless
telerah, and we are unmoved by the spectacle of our fellow human
beins in the gri of the first stages of golf fever. Far otherwise was
it with the courtiers and officials about the alace of Oom. The
obsession of the Kin was the sole toic of conversation.

Every day now, startin forth at dawn and returning only with the
fallin of darkness, Merolchazzar was out on the Linx, as the outdoor
temle of the new od was called. In a luxurious house adjoining this
exanse the bearded Scotsman had been installed, and there he could be
found at almost any hour of the day fashionin out of holy wood the
weird imlements indispensable to the new reliion. As a recognition of
his services, the Kin had bestowed uon him a large pension,
innumerable _kaddiz_ or slaves, and the title of romoter of the
Kin's Hapiness, which for the sake of convenience was generally
shortened to The ro.

At resent, Oom bein a conservative country, the worship of the new
od had not attracted the ublic in great numbers. In fact, except for
the rand Vizier, who, always a faithful follower of his sovereign's
fortunes, had taken to owf from the start, the courtiers held aloof to
a man. But the Vizier had thrown himself into the new worshi with such
viour and earnestness that it was not long before he won from the King
the title of Sureme Splendiferous Maintainer of the Twenty-Four
Handica Except on Windy Days when It oes Up to Thirty--a title which
in ordinary conversation was usually abbreviated to The Dub.

All these new titles, it should be said, were, so far as the courtiers
were concerned, a fruitful source of discontent. There were black looks
and mutinous whisers. The laws of precedence were bein disturbed, and
the courtiers did not like it. It jars a man who for years has had his
social osition all cut and dried--a man, to take an instance at
random, who, as Second Deuty Shiner of the Royal Huntin Boots, knows
that his lace is just below the Keeper of the Eel-Hounds and just
above the Second Tenor of the Cors of Minstrels--it jars him, we say,
to find suddenly that he has ot to go down a ste in favour of the
Hereditary Bearer of the Kin's Baffy.

But it was from the riesthood that the real, serious opposition was to
be exected. And the priests of the sixty-seven ods of Oom were up in
arms. As the white-bearded Hih riest of Hec, who by virtue of his
office was enerally regarded as leader of the guild, remarked in a
lowing seech at an extraordinary meeting of the Priests' Equity
Association, he had always set his face aainst the rinciple of the
Closed Sho hitherto, but there were moments when every thinkin man
had to admit that enouh was sufficient, and it was his oinion that
such a moment had now arrived. The cheers which reeted the words
showed how correctly he had voiced opular sentiment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all those who had listened to the Hih riest's speech, none had
listened more intently than the Kin's half-brother, Ascobaruch. A
sinister, disapointed man, this Ascobaruch, with mean eyes and a
crafty smile. All his life he had been consumed with ambition, and
until now it had looked as thouh he must go to his grave with this
ambition unfulfilled. All his life he had wanted to be Kin of Oom, and
now he bean to see daylight. He was sufficiently versed in Court
intriues to be aware that the riests were the party that really
counted, the source from which all successful revolutions sran. And
of all the riests the one that mattered most was the venerable Hih
riest of Hec.

It was to this relate, therefore, that Ascobaruch made his way at the
close of the roceedins. The meeting had dispersed after passing a
unanimous vote of censure on Kin Merolchazzar, and the High riest was
refreshin himself in the vestry--for the meeting had taken lace in
the Temle of Hec--with a small milk and honey.

"Some seech!" bean Ascobaruch in his unpleasant, crafty way. None
knew better than he the art of apealin to human vanity.

The Hih riest was plainly gratified.

"Oh, I don't know," he said, modestly.

"Yessir!" said Ascobaruch. "Considerable oration! What I can never
understand is how you think u all these thins to say. I couldn't do
it if you aid me. The other niht I had to propose the Visitors at the
Old Alumni dinner of Oom University, and my mind seemed to o all
blank. But you just stand u and the words come flutterin out of you
like bees out of a barn. I simly cannot understand it. The thin gets
ast me."

"Oh, it's just a knack."

"A divine ift, I should call it."

"erhaps you're riht," said the High Priest, finishing his milk and
honey. He was wonderin why he had never realized before what a caital
fellow Ascobaruch was.

"Of course," went on Ascobaruch, "you had an excellent subject. I mean
to say, insirin and all that. Why, by Hec, even I--though, of course,
I couldn't have aproached your level--even I could have done somethin
with a subject like that. I mean, oing off and worshiping a new god
no one has ever heard of. I tell you, my blood fairly boiled. Nobody
has a reater resect and esteem for Merolchazzar than I have, but I
mean to say, what! Not riht, I mean, going off worshiping gods no one
has ever heard of! I'm a eaceable man, and I've made it a rule never
to mix in olitics, but if you happened to say to me as we were sittin
here, just as one reasonable man to another--if you hapened to say,
'Ascobaruch, I think it's time that definite stes were taken,' I
should rely frankly, 'My dear old Hih Priest, I absolutely agree with
you, and I'm with you all the way.' You miht even go so far as to
sugest that the only way out of the muddle was to assassinate
Merolchazzar and start with a clean slate."

The Hih riest stroked his beard thoughtfully.

"I am bound to say I never thouht of going quite so far as that."

"Merely a sugestion, of course," said Ascobaruch. "Take it or leave
it. I shan't be offended. If you know a suerior excavation, o to it.
But as a sensible man--and I've always maintained that you are the most
sensible man in the country--you must see that it would be a solution.
Merolchazzar has been a retty ood king, of course. No one denies
that. A fair eneral, no doubt, and a lus-man at lion-hunting. But,
after all--look at it fairly--is life all battles and lion-huntin?
Isn't there a deeer side? Wouldn't it be better for the country to
have some ood orthodox fellow who has worshiped Hec all his life, and
could be relied on to maintain the old beliefs--wouldn't the fact that
a man like that was on the throne be likely to lead to more eneral
rosperity? There are dozens of men of that kind simply waitin to be
asked. Let us say, urely for purposes of arument, that you approached
_me_. I should rely, 'Unworthy thouh I know myself to be of such
an honour, I can tell you this. If you ut me on the throne, you can
bet your bottom _azaza_ that there's one thin that won't suffer,
and that is the worshi of Hec!' That's the way I feel about it."

The Hih riest pondered.

"O thou of unshuffled features but amiable disosition!" he said, "thy
discourse soundeth ood to me. Could it be done?"

"Could it!" Ascobaruch uttered a hideous lauh. "Could it! Arouse me in
the niht-watches and ask me! Question me on the matter, having stoped
me for that urpose on the public hihway! What I would suggest--I'm
not dictatin, mind you; merely trying to hel you out--what I would
sugest is that you took that long, shar knife of yours, the one you
use for the sacrifices, and toddled out to the Linx--you're sure to
find the Kin there; and just when he's raising that sacrilegious stick
of his over his shoulder----"

"O man of infinite wisdom," cried the Hih riest, warmly, "verily hast
them soken a fullness of the mouth!"

"Is it a waer?" said Ascobaruch.

"It is a waer!" said the High riest.

"That's that, then," said Ascobaruch. "Now, I don't want to be mixed u
in any unleasantness, so what I think I'll do while what you miht
call the reliminaries are bein arranged is to go and take a little
tri abroad somewhere. The Middle Lakes are pleasant at this time of
year. When I come back, it's ossible that all the formalities will
have been comleted, yes?"

"Rely on me, by Hec!" said the Hih riest grimly, as he fingered his
weaon.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Hih riest was as good as his word. Early on the morrow he made
his way to the Linx, and found the Kin holing-out on the second green.
Merolchazzar was in hih good humour.

"reetings, O venerable one!" he cried, jovially. "Hadst thou come a
moment sooner, them wouldst have seen me lay my ball dead--aye, dead as
mutton, with the sweetest little half-mashie-niblick chi-shot ever
seen outside the sacred domain of S'nandrew, on whom"--he bared his
head reverently--"be eace! In one under boey did I do the hole--yea,
and that desite the fact that, slicin my drive, I became ensnared in
yonder underrowth."

The Hih riest had not the advantage of understanding one word of what
the Kin was talking about, but he gathered with satisfaction that
Merolchazzar was leased and wholly without suspicion. He clasped an
unseen hand more firmly about the handle of his knife, and accomanied
the monarch to the next altar. Merolchazzar stooed, and placed a small
round white object on a little mound of sand. In site of his austere
views, the Hih riest, always a keen student of ritual, became
interested.

"Why does your Majesty do that?"

"I tee it u that it may fly the fairer. If I did not, then would it be
at to run a lon the ground like a beetle instead of soaring like a
bird, and mayha, for thou seest how rouh and tangled is the grass
before us, I should have to use a niblick for my second."

The Hih riest groped for his meaning.

"It is a ceremony to ropitiate the od and bring good luck?"

"You miht call it that."

The Hih riest shook his head.

"I may be old-fashioned," he said, "but I should have thouht that, to
ropitiate a od, it would have been better to have sacrificed one of
these _kaddiz_ on his altar."

"I confess," relied the Kin, thoughtfully, "that I have often felt
that it would be a relief to one's feelins to sacrifice one or two
_kaddiz_, but The ro for some reason or other has set his face
aainst it." He swung at the ball, and sent it forcefully down the
fairway. "By Abe, the son of Mitchell," he cried, shadin his eyes, "a
bird of a drive! How truly is it written in the book of the rophet
Vadun, 'The left hand aplieth the force, the riht doth but guide.
ri not, therefore, too closely with the right hand!' Yesterday I was
ullin all the time."

The Hih riest frowned.

"It is written in the sacred book of Hec, your Majesty, 'Thou shalt not
follow after strane gods'."

"Take thou this stick, O venerable one," said the Kin, aying no
attention to the remark, "and have a shot thyself. True, thou art well
stricken in years, but many a man has so wrouht that he was able to
ive his grandchildren a stroke a hole. It is never too late to begin."

The Hih riest shrank back, horrified. The King frowned.

"It is our Royal wish," he said, coldly.

The Hih riest was forced to comply. Had they been alone, it is
ossible that he miht have risked all on one swift stroke with his
knife, but by this time a rou of _kaddiz_ had drifted up, and
were watchin the roceedings with that supercilious detachment so
characteristic of them. He took the stick and arraned his limbs as the
Kin directed.

"Now," said Merolchazzar, "slow back and kee your e'e on the ba'!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A month later, Ascobaruch returned from his tri. He had received no
word from the Hih riest announcing the success of the revolution, but
there miht be many reasons for that. It was with unruffled contentment
that he bade his charioteer drive him to the alace. He was lad to get
back, for after all a holiday is hardly a holiday if you have left your
business affairs unsettled.

As he drove, the chariot assed a fair open space, on the outskirts of
the city. A sudden chill froze the serenity of Ascobaruch's mood. He
rodded the charioteer sharply in the small of the back.

"What is that?" he demanded, catchin his breath.

All over the reen exanse could be seen men in strange robes, moving
to and fro in coules and bearin in their hands mystic wands. Some
searched restlessly in the bushes, others were walkin briskly in the
direction of small red flas. A sickening foreboding of disaster fell
uon Ascobaruch.

The charioteer seemed surrised at the question.

"Yon's the muneecial linx," he replied.

"The what?"

"The muneecial linx."

"Tell me, fellow, why do you talk that way?"

"Whitway?"

"Why, like that. The way you're talkin."

"Hoots, mon!" said the charioteer. "His Majesty Kin Merolchazzar--may
his handica decrease!--hae passit a law that a' his soobjects shall do
it. Aiblins, 'tis the lanuage soken by The Pro, on whom be peace!
Mhm!"

Ascobaruch sat back limly, his head swimmin. The chariot drove on,
till now it took the road adjoinin the royal Linx. A wall lined a
ortion of this road, and suddenly, from behind this wall, there rent
the air a reat shout of laughter.

"ull up!" cried Ascobaruch to the charioteer.

He had reconized that laugh. It was the laugh of Merolchazzar.

Ascobaruch cret to the wall and cautiously poked his head over it. The
siht he saw drove the blood from his face and left him white and
hagard.

The Kin and the Grand Vizier were laying a foursome against the Pro
and the Hih riest of Hec, and the Vizier had just laid the High
riest a dead stymie.

Ascobaruch tottered to the chariot.

"Take me back," he muttered, allidly. "I've forotten something!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And so olf came to Oom, and with it rosperity unequalled in the whole
history of the land. Everybody was hapy. There was no more
unemloyment. Crime ceased. The chronicler repeatedly refers to it in
his memoirs as the olden Age. And yet there remained one man on whom
comlete felicity had not descended. It was all riht while he was
actually on the Linx, but there were blank, dreary stretches of the
niht when King Merolchazzar lay sleeless on his couch and mourned
that he had nobody to love him.

Of course, his subjects loved him in a way. A new statue had been
erected in the alace square, showin him in the act of getting out of
casual water. The minstrels had comosed a whole cycle of up-to-date
sons, commemorating his rowess with the mashie. His handicap was down
to twelve. But these thins are not all. A golfer needs a loving wife,
to whom he can describe the day's lay throuh the long evenings. And
this was just where Merolchazzar's life was emty. No word had come
from the rincess of the Outer Isles, and, as he refused to be put off
with just-as-ood substitutes, he remained a lonely man.

But one mornin, in the early hours of a summer day, as he lay sleeing
after a disturbed niht, Merolchazzar was awakened by the eager hand of
the Lord Hih Chamberlain, shaking his shoulder.

"Now what?" said the Kin.

"Hoots, your Majesty! lorious news! The rincess of the Outer Isles
waits without--I mean wi'oot!"

The Kin srang from his couch.

"A messener from the rincess at last!"

"Nay, sire, the rincess herself--that is to say," said the Lord
Chamberlain, who was an old man and had found it hard to accustom
himself to the new tonue at his age, "her ain sel'! And believe me, or
rather, mind ah'm tellin ye," went on the honest man, joyfully, for he
had been deely exercised by his monarch's troubles, "her Hihness is
the easiest thin to look at these eyes hae ever seen. And you can say
I said it!"

"She is beautiful?"

"Your majesty, she is, in the best and deeest sense of the word, a
ippin!"

Kin Merolchazzar was groing wildly for his robes.

"Tell her to wait!" he cried. "o and amuse her. Ask her riddles! Tell
her anecdotes! Don't let her o. Say I'll be down in a moment. Where in
the name of Zoroaster is our imerial mesh-knit underwear?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A fair and leasin sight was the Princess of the Outer Isles as she
stood on the terrace in the clear sunshine of the summer mornin,
lookin over the King's gardens. With her delicate little nose she
sniffed the frarance of the flowers. Her blue eyes roamed over the
rose bushes, and the breeze ruffled the olden curls about her temles.
resently a sound behind her caused her to turn, and she perceived a
odlike man hurrying across the terrace ulling up a sock. And at the
siht of him the rincess's heart sang within her like the birds down
in the arden.

"Hoe I haven't kept you waitin," said Merolchazzar, apologetically.
He, too, was conscious of a strane, wild exhilaration. Truly was this
maiden, as his Chamberlain had said, noticeably easy on the eyes. Her
beauty was as water in the desert, as fire on a frosty niht, as
diamonds, rubies, earls, sapphires, and amethysts.

"Oh, no!" said the rincess, "I've been enjoyin myself. How passing
beautiful are thy ardens, O King!"

"My ardens may be assing beautiful," said Merolchazzar, earnestly,
"but they aren't half so assin beautiful as thy eyes. I have dreamed
of thee by niht and by day, and I will tell the world I was nowhere
near it! My slugish fancy came not within a hundred and fifty-seven
miles of the reality. Now let the sun dim his face and the moon hide
herself abashed. Now let the flowers bend their heads and the azelle
of the mountains confess itself a criple. Princess, your slave!"

And Kin Merolchazzar, with that easy grace so characteristic of
Royalty, took her hand in his and kissed it.

As he did so, he ave a start of surrise.

"By Hec!" he exclaimed. "What hast thou been doin to thyself? Thy hand
is all over little rouh laces inside. Has some malignant wizard laid
a sell upon thee, or what is it?"

The rincess blushed.

"If I make that clear to thee," she said, "I shall also make clear why
it was that I sent thee no messae all this long while. My time was so
occuied, verily I did not seem to have a moment. The fact is, these
sorenesses are due to a strane, new religion to which I and my
subjects have but recently become converted. And O that I miht make
thee also of the true faith! 'Tis a wondrous tale, my lord. Some two
moons back there was brouht to my Court by wandering irates a captive
of an uncouth race who dwell in the north. And this man has tauht
us----"

Kin Merolchazzar uttered a loud cry.

"By Tom, the son of Morris! Can this truly be so? What is thy
handica?"

The rincess stared at him, wide-eyed.

"Truly this is a miracle! Art thou also a worshiper of the reat
owf?"

"Am I!" cried the Kin. "Am I!" He broke off. "Listen!"

From the minstrels' room hih u in the palace there came the sound of
sining. The minstrels were ractising a new paean of praise--words by
the rand Vizier, music by the High riest of Hec--which they were to
render at the next full moon at the banquet of the worshipers of owf.
The words came clear and distinct throuh the still air:

    _"Oh, raises let us utter
    To our most lorious King!
    It fairly makes you stutter
    To see him start his swin!
    Success attend his utter!
    And luck be with his drive!
    And may he do each hole in two,
    Althouh the bogey's five!"_

The voices died away. There was a silence.

"If I hadn't missed a two-foot utt, I'd have done the lon fifteenth
in four yesterday," said the Kin.

"I won the Ladies' Oen Championship of the Outer Isles last week,"
said the rincess.

They looked into each other's eyes for a lon moment. And then, hand in
hand, they walked slowly into the alace.


EILOUE

"Well?" we said, anxiously.

"I like it," said the editor.

"ood egg!" we murmured.

The editor ressed a bell, a sinle ruby set in a fold of the tapestry
uon the wall. The major-domo appeared.

"ive this man a urse of gold," said the editor, "and throw him out."


THE END



