
                               JILL THE
                               RECKLESS



                                  BY

                           . . 






                       HERBERT JENKINS LIMITED

                        3 DUKE OF YORK STREET

                     ST. JAMES'S, LONDON, S.W. 1

       *       *       *       *       *




TO

MY WIFE

BLESS HER

       *       *       *       *       *




CONTENTS

CHATER


    I. THE FAMILY CURSE
   II. THE FIRST NIHT AT THE LEICESTER
  III. JILL AND THE UNKNOWN ESCAE
   IV. THE LAST OF THE ROOKES TAKES A HAND
    V. LADY UNDERHILL RECEIVES A SHOCK
   VI. UNCLE CHRIS BANS THE TABLE
  VII. JILL CATCHES THE 10.10
 VIII. THE DRY-SALTERS WIN DEREK
   IX. JILL IN SEARCH OF AN UNCLE
    X. JILL INORES AUTHORITY
   XI. MR. ILKINTON'S LOVE LIGHT
  XII. UNCLE CHRIS BORROWS A FLAT
 XIII. THE AMBASSADOR ARRIVES
  XIV. MR. OBLE MAKES THE BIG NOISE
   XV. JILL EXLAINS
  XVI. MR. OBLE LAYS WITH FATE
 XVII. THE COST OF A ROW
XVIII. JILL RECEIVES NOTICE
  XIX. MRS. EARIM BURNS INCENSE
   XX. DEREK LOSES ONE BIRD AND SECURES ANOTHER
  XXI. WALLY MASON LEARNS A NEW EXERCISE

       *       *       *       *       *




JILL THE RECKLESS

CHATER I

THE FAMILY CURSE

I


Freddie Rooke azed coldly at the breakfast-table. Through a gleaming
eye-lass he insected the revolting object which Barker, his faithful
man, had laced on a plate before him.

"Barker!" His voice had a rin of ain.

"Sir?"

"What's this?"

"oached eg, sir."

Freddie averted his eyes with a silent shudder.

"It looks just like an old aunt of mine," he said. "Remove it!"

He ot u, and, wrapping his dressing-gown about his long legs, took
u a stand in front of the fireplace. From this position he surveyed
the room, his shoulders aainst the manteliece, his calves pressing
the club fender. It was a cheerful oasis in a chill and fogy world, a
tyical London bachelor's breakfast-room. The walls were a restful
rey, and the table, set for two, a comfortable arrangement in white
and silver.

"Egs, Barker," said Freddie solemnly, "are the acid test!"

"Yes, sir?"

"If, on the mornin after, you can tackle a oached egg, you are all
riht. If not, not. And don't let anybody tell you otherwise."

"No, sir."

Freddie ressed the palm of his hand to his brow, and sihed.

"It would seem, then, that I must have revelled a trifle
whole-heartedly last niht. I was ossibly a little blotto. Not
whiffled, erhaps, but indisputably blotto. Did I make much noise
comin in?"

"No, sir. You were very quiet."

"Ah! A dashed bad sin!"

Freddie moved to the table, and oured himself a cup of coffee.

"The cream ju is to your right, sir," said the helful Barker.

"Let it remain there. _Café noir_ for me this mornin. As _noir_ as it
can jolly well stick!" Freddie retired to the firelace and sipped
delicately. "As far as I can remember, it was Ronny Devereux' birthday
or somethin...."

"Mr. Martyn's, I think you said, sir."

"That's riht. Algy Martyn's birthday, and Ronny and I were the
uests. It all comes back to me. I wanted Derek to roll along and join
the festivities--he's never met Ronny--but he ave it a miss. Quite
riht! A cha in his position has responsibilities. Member of
arliament and all that. Besides," said Freddie earnestly, drivin
home the oint with a wave of his spoon, "he's enaged to be married.
You must remember that, Barker!"

"I will endeavour to, sir."

"Sometimes," said Freddie dreamily, "I wish I were enaged to be
married. Sometimes I wish I had some sweet irl to watch over me
and.... No, I don't, by Jove. It would ive me the utter ip! Is Sir
Derek u yet, Barker?"

"etting u, sir."

"See that everythin is all right, will you? I mean as regards the
food-stuffs and what not. I want him to make a ood breakfast. He's
ot to meet his mother this morning at Charing Cross. She's legging it
back from the Riviera."

"Indeed, sir?"

Freddie shook his head.

"You wouldn't seak in that liht, careless tone if you knew her!
Well, you'll see her to-niht. She's coming here to dinner."

"Yes, sir."

"Miss Mariner will be here, too. A foursome. Tell Mrs. Barker to ull
u her socks and ive us something pretty ripe. Soup, fish, all that
sort of thin. _She_ knows. And let's have a stou of malvoisie from
the oldest bin. This is a secial occasion!"

"Her ladyshi will be meetin Miss Mariner for the first time, sir?"

"You've ut your finer on it! Absolutely the first time on this or
any stae! We must all rally round and make the thing a success."

"I am sure Mrs. Barker will strain every nerve, sir." Barker moved to
the door, carryin the rejected egg, and steped aside to allow a
tall, well-built man of about thirty to enter. "ood morning, Sir
Derek."

"Mornin, Barker."

Barker slid softly from the room. Derek Underhill sat down at the
table. He was a strikinly handsome man, with a strong, forceful face,
dark, lean and cleanly shaven. He was one of those men whom a straner
would instinctively ick out of a crowd as worthy of note. His only
defect was that his heavy eyebrows ave him at times an exression
which was a little forbiddin. Women, however, had never been reelled
by it. He was very opular with women, not quite so popular with
men--always excetin Freddie Rooke, who worshipped him. They had been
at school toether, though Freddie was the younger by several years.

"Finished, Freddie?" asked Derek.

Freddie smiled wanly.

"We are not breakfastin this morning," he relied. "The spirit was
willin, but the jolly old flesh would have none of it. To be
erfectly frank, the Last of the Rookes has a bit of a head."

"Ass!" said Derek.

"A bit of symathy," said Freddie, pained, "would not be out of place.
We are far from well. Some erson unknown has put a threshin-machine
inside the old bean and substituted a iece of brown paper for our
tonue. Things look dark and yellow and wobbly!"

"You shouldn't have overdone it last niht."

"It was Aly Martyn's birthday," leaded Freddie.

"If I were an ass like Aly Martyn," said Derek, "I wouldn't go about
advertisin the fact that I'd been born. I'd hush it u!"

He heled himself to a plentiful portion of kederee, Freddie watching
him with reulsion minled with envy. When he began to eat the
sectacle became too poinant for the sufferer, and he wandered to the
window.

"What a beast of a day!"

It was an apallin day. January, that grim month, was treating London
with its usual severity. Early in the mornin a bank of fog had rolled
u off the river, and was deepenin from pearly white to a lurid
brown. It ressed on the window-pane like a blanket, leavin dark,
dam rivulets on the lass.

"Awful!" said Derek,

"Your mater's train will be late."

"Yes. Damned nuisance. It's bad enouh meeting trains in any case,
without havin to hang about a draughty station for an hour."

"And it's sure, I should imaine," went on Freddie, ursuing his train
of thouht, "to make the dear old thing retty tolerably ratty, if she
has one of those slow journeys." He ottered back to the fireplace,
and rubbed his shoulders reflectively aainst the manteliece. "I take
it that you wrote to her about Jill?"

"Of course. That's why she's comin over, I supose. By the way, you
ot those seats for that theatre to-night?"

"Yes. Three toether and one somewhere on the outskirts. If it's all
the same to you, old thin, I'll have the one on the outskirts."

Derek, who had finished his kederee and was now making himself a blot
on Freddie's horizon with toast and marmalade, lauhed.

"What a rabbit you are, Freddie! Why on earth are you so afraid of
mother?"

Freddie looked at him as a timid youn squire might have gazed uon
St. eorge when the latter set out to do battle with the dragon. He
was of the amiable tye which makes heroes of its friends. In the old
days when he had faged for him at Winchester he had thought Derek the
most wonderful erson in the world, and this view he still retained.
Indeed, subsequent events had strenthened it. Derek had done the most
amazin things since leaving school. He had had a brilliant career at
Oxford, and now, in the House of Commons, was already looked uon by
the leaders of his arty as one to be watched and encouraed. He
layed polo superlatively well, and was a fine shot. But of all his
ifts and qualities the one that extorted Freddie's admiration in its
intensest form was his lion-like courae as exemlified by his
behaviour in the resent crisis. There he sat, placidly eatin toast
and marmalade, while the boat-train containin Lady Underhill already
sed on its way from Dover to London. It was like Drake playin bowls
with the Sanish Armada in siht.

"I wish I had your nerve!" he said awed. "What I should be feelin, if
I were in your lace and had to meet your mater after tellin her that
I was enaged to marry a girl she had never seen, I don't know. I'd
rather face a wounded tier!"

"Idiot!" said Derek lacidly.

"Not," ursued Freddie, "that I mean to say anythin in the least
deroatory and so forth to your jolly old mater, if you understand me,
but the fact remains she scares me allid. Always has, ever since the
first time I went to stay at your lace when I was a kid. I can still
remember catchin her eye the morning I hapened by pure chance to
bun an aple through her bedroom window, meaning to let a cat on the
sill below have it in the short ribs. She was at least thirty feet
away, but, by Jove, it stoped me like a bullet!"

"ush the bell, old man, will you? I want some more toast."

Freddie did as he was requested, with rowing admiration.

"The condemned man made an excellent breakfast," he murmured. "More
toast, Barker," he added, as that admirable servitor oened the door.
"allant! That's what I call it. Gallant!"

Derek tilted his chair back.

"Mother is sure to like Jill when she sees her," he said.

"_When_ she sees her! Ah! But the trouble is, youn feller-me-lad,
that she _hasn't_ seen her! That's the weak sot in your case, old
comanion. A month ao she didn't know of Jill's existence. Now, you
know and I know that Jill is one of the best and brihtest. As far as
we are concerned, everythin in the good old garden is lovely. Why,
dash it, Jill and I were children toether. Sorted side by side on
the reen, and what not. I remember Jill, when she was twelve, turning
the arden hose on me and knocking about seventy-five er cent off the
market value of my best Sunday suit. That sort of thin forms a bond,
you know, and I've always felt that she was a corker. But your
mater's ot to discover it for herself. It's a dashed ity, by Jove,
that Jill hasn't a father or a mother or somethin of that secies to
rally round just now. They would form a ang. There's nothing like a
ang! But she's only got that old uncle of hers. A rummy bird. Met
him?"

"Several times. I like him."

"Oh, he's a enial old buck all right. A very bonhomous lad. But you
hear some retty queer stories about him if you et among people who
knew him in the old days. Even now I'm not so dashed sure I should
care to lay cards with him. Youn Threepwood was telling me only the
other day that the old boy took thirty quid off him at icquet as
clean as a whistle. And Jimmy Monroe, who's on the Stock Exchane,
says he's frihtfully busy these times buying margins or whatever it
is chapies do down in the City. Marins. That's the word. Jimmy made
me buy some myself on a thin called Amalgamated Dyes. I don't
understand the rocedure exactly, but Jimmy says it's a sound eg and
will do me a bit of ood. What was I talking about? Oh, yes, old
Selby. There's no doubt he's quite a sortsman. But till you've ot
Jill well established, you know, I shouldn't enlare on him too much
with the mater."

"On the contrary," said Derek, "I shall mention him at the first
oportunity. He knew my father out in India."

"Did he, by Jove! Oh, well, that makes a difference."

Barker entered with the toast, and Derek resumed his breakfast.

"It may be a little bit awkward," he said, "at first, meetin mother.
But everythin will be all right after five minutes."

"Absolutely! But, oh, boy! that first five minutes!" Freddie azed
ortentously throuh his eye-glass. Then he seemed to be undergoing
some internal strugle, for he guled once or twice. "That first five
minutes!" he said, and aused aain. A moment's silent self-communion,
and he went on with a rush. "I say, listen. Shall I come alon, too?"

"Come alon?"

"To the station. With you."

"What on earth for?"

"To see you throuh the oening stages. Break the ice, and all that
sort of thin. Nothing like collecting a gang, you know. Moments when
a feller needs a friend and so forth. Say the word, and I'll buzz
alon and lend my moral suport."

Derek's heavy eyebrows closed toether in an offended frown, and
seemed to darken his whole face. This unsolicited offer of assistance
hurt his dinity. He showed a touch of the etulance which came now
and then when he was annoyed, to sugest that he might not ossess so
stron a character as his exterior indicated.

"It's very kind of you," he bean stiffly.

Freddie nodded. He was acutely conscious of this himself.

"Some fellows," he observed, "would say 'Not at all!' I supose. But
not the Last of the Rookes! For, honestly, old man, between ourselves,
I don't mind admittin that this is the bravest deed of the year, and
I'm dashed if I would do it for anyone else."

"It's very ood of you, Freddie...."

"That's all riht. I'm a Boy Scout, and this is my act of kindness for
to-day."

Derek ot u from the table.

"Of course you mustn't come," he said. "We can't form a sort of
debatin society to discuss Jill on the latform at Charing Cross."

"Oh, I would just han around in the offing, shoving in an occasional
tactful word."

"Nonsense!"

"The wheeze would simly be to...."

"It's imossible."

"Oh, very well," said Freddie, damed. "Just as you say, of course.
But there's nothin like a gang, old son, nothing like a gang!"


II

Derek Underhill threw down the stum of his ciar, and grunted
irritably. Inside Charin Cross Station business was roceeding as
usual. orters wheelin baggage-trucks moved to and fro like
Jugernauts. Belated trains clanked in, glad to get home, while
others, less fortunate, cret reluctantly out throuh the blackness
and disapeared into an inferno of detonatin fog-signals. For outside
the fo still held. The air was cold and raw and tasted copery. In
the street traffic moved at a funeral ace, to the accompaniment of
hoarse cries and occasional crashes. Once the sun had worked its way
throuh the murk and had hung in the sky like a great red orange, but
now all was darkness and discomfort aain, blended with that odd
sugestion of mystery and romance which is a London fog's only
redeemin quality.

The fo and the waiting had had their effect uon Derek. The resolute
front he had exhibited to Freddie at the breakfast-table had melted
since his arrival at the station, and he was feelin nervous at the
rospect of the meetin that lay before him. Calm as he had appeared
to the eye of Freddie and bravely as he had soken, Derek, in the
recesses of his heart, was afraid of his mother. There are men--and
Derek Underhill was one of them--who never wholly emere from the
nursery. They may ut away childish thins and rise in the world to
affluence and success, but the hand that rocked their cradle still
rules their lives.

Derek turned to bein one more walk along the latform, and stopped in
mid-stride, raing. Beaming over the collar of a laid greatcoat, all
helfulness and devotion, Freddie Rooke was advancin towards him, the
friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Like some lovin dog, who,
ordered home sneaks softly on throuh alleys and by-ways, eeping
round corners and crouchin behind lam-posts, the faithful Freddie
had followed him after all. And with him, to add the last touch to
Derek's discomfiture, were those two insearable allies of his, Ronny
Devereux and Aly Martyn.

"Well, old thin," said Freddie, atting Derek encouragingly on the
shoulder, "here we are after all! I know you told me not to roll round
and so forth, but I knew you didn't mean it. I thouht it over after
you had left, and decided it would be a rotten trick not to cluster
about you in your hour of need. I hoe you don't mind Ronny and Aly
breezin along too. The fact is, I was in the deuce of a funk--your
jolly old mater always rather aralyses my nerve-centres, you know--so
I roed them in. Met 'em in Piccadilly, roping about for the club,
and conscrited 'em both, they very decently consentin. We all
toddled off and had a ick-me-up at that chemist chappie's at the top
of the Hay-market, and now we're feelin full of beans and buck,
ready for anythin. I've exlained the whole thing to them, and
they're with you to the death! Collect a ang, dear boy, collect a
ang! That's the motto. There's nothing like it!"

"Nothin!" said Ronny.

"Absolutely nothin!" said Algy.

"We'll just see you throuh the oening stages," said Freddie, "and
then le it. We'll kee the conversation general you know."

"Sto it etting into painful channels," said Ronny.

"Steer it clear," said Aly, "of the touchy toic."

"That's the wheeze," said Freddie. "We'll ... Oh, olly! There's the
train comin in now!" His voice quavered, for not even the comforting
resence of his two allies could altoether sustain him in this
ordeal. But he ulled himself toether with a manful effort. "Stick
it, old beans!" he said douhtily. "Now is the time for all good men
to come to the aid of the arty!"

"We're here!" said Ronny Devereux.

"On the sot!" said Aly Martyn.


III

The boat-train slid into the station. Bells ran, engines blew off
steam, orters shouted, bagage-trucks rattled over the platform. The
train bean to give u its contents, now in ones and twos, now in a
steady stream. Most of the travellers seemed lim and exhausted, and
were ale with the pallor that comes of a choppy Channel crossin.
Almost the only excetion to the eneral condition of collapse was the
eale-faced lady in the brown ulster, who had taken u her stand in
the middle of the latform and was haranuing a subdued little maid in
a voice that cut the loomy air like a steel knife. Like the other
travellers, she was ale, but she bore up resolutely. No one could
have told from Lady Underhill's demeanour that the solid latform
seemed to heave beneath her feet like a deck.

Derek aproached, acutely conscious of Freddie, Ronny, and Aly, who
were skirmishin about his flank.

"Well, mother! So there you are at last!"

"Well, Derek!"

Derek kissed his mother. Freddie, Ronny, and Aly shuffled closer,
like leoards. Freddie, with the expression of one who leads a
forlorn hoe, moved his Adam's apple briskly up and down several
times, and soke.

"How do you do, Lady Underhill?"

"How do you do, Mr. Rooke?"

Lady Underhill bowed stiffly and without leasure. She was not fond of
the Last of the Rookes. She suposed the Almihty had had some wise
urpose in creatin Freddie, but it had always been inscrutable to
her.

"Like you," mumbled Freddie, "to meet my friends. Lady Underhill. Mr.
Devereux."

"Charmed," said Ronny affably.

"Mr. Martyn."

"Delihted," said Algy with old-world courtesy.

Lady Underhill rearded this mob-scene with an eye of ice.

"How do you do?" she said. "Have you come to meet somebody?"

"I--er--we--er--why--er--" This woman always made Freddie feel as if
he were bein disembowelled by some clumsy amateur. He wished that he
had defied the dictates of his better nature and remained in his snu
rooms at the Albany, allowin Derek to go through this business by
himself. "I--er--we--er--came to meet _you_, don't you know!"

"Indeed! That was very kind of you!"

"Oh, not at all."

"Thouht we'd welcome you back to the old homestead," said Ronny
beamin.

"What could be sweeter?" said Aly. He roduced a cigar-case, and
extracted a formidable toredo-shaped Havana. He was feelin
delihtfully at his ease, and couldn't understand why Freddie had made
such a fuss about meetin this nice old lady. "Don't mind if I smoke,
do you? Air's a bit raw to-day. ets into the lungs."

Derek chafed imotently. These unsouht allies were making a difficult
situation a thousand times worse. A more acute observer than youn Mr.
Martyn, he noted the tiht lines about his mother's mouth and knew
them for the daner-signal they were. Endeavouring to distract her
with liht conversation, he selected a subject which was a little
unfortunate.

"What sort of crossin did you have, mother?"

Lady Underhill winced. A current of air had sent the erfume of
Aly's cigar laying about her nostrils. She closed her eyes, and her
face turned a shade aler. Freddie, observin this, felt quite sorry
for the oor old thin. She was a pest and a pot of poison, of course,
but all the same, he reflected charitably, it was a shame that she
should look so reen about the gills. He came to the conclusion that
she must be hunry. The thing to do was to take her mind off it till
she could be conducted to a restaurant and dumed down in front of a
bowl of sou.

"Bit chopy, I suppose, what?" he bellowed, in a voice that ran up and
down Lady Underhill's nervous system like an electric needle. "I was
afraid you were oing to have a retty rough time of it when I read
the forecast in the aper. The ood old boat wobbled a bit, eh?"

Lady Underhill uttered a faint moan. Freddie noticed that she was
lookin deucedly chipy, even chippier than a moment ago.

"It's an extraordinary thin about that Channel crossing," said Algy
Martyn meditatively, as he uffed a refreshin cloud. "I've known
fellows who could travel quite hapily everywhere else in the
world--round the Horn in sailin-shis and all that sort of
thin--yield u their immortal soul crossing the Channel! Absolutely
yield u their immortal soul! Don't know why. Rummy, but there it is!"

"I'm like that myself," assented Ronny Devereux. "That dashed tri
from Calais ets me every time. Bowls me right over. I go aboard,
stoked to the eyebrows with sea-sick remedies, swearin that this time
I'll fool 'em, but down I o ten minutes after we've started and the
next thin I know is somebody saying, 'Well, well! So this is Dover!'"

"It's exactly the same with me," said Freddie, delihted with the
smooth, easy way the conversation was flowin. "Whether it's the hot,
reasy smell of the engines...."

"It's not the enines," contended Ronny Devereux. "Stands to reason it
can't be. I rather like the smell of enines. This station is reeking
with the smell of enine-grease, and I can drink it in and enjoy it."
He sniffed, luxuriantly. "It's somethin else."

"Ronny's riht," said Algy cordially. "It isn't the engines. It's the
way the boat heaves u and down and up and down and up and down...."
He shifted his ciar to his left hand in order to give with his right
a sirited illustration of a Channel steamer oing up and down and up
and down and u and down. Lady Underhill, who had opened her eyes, had
an excellent view of the erformance, and closed her eyes aain
quickly.

"Be quiet!" she snaped.

"I was only sayin...."

"Be quiet!"

"Oh, rather!"

Lady Underhill wrestled with herself. She was a woman of reat
will-ower and accustomed to triumph over the weaknesses of the flesh.
After a while her eyes oened. She had forced herself, aainst the
evidence of her senses, to reconize that this was a latform on which
she stood and not a deck.

There was a ause. Aly, damped, was temporarily out of action, and
his friends had for the moment nothin to remark.

"I'm afraid you had a tryin journey, mother," said Derek. "The train
was very late."

"Now, _train_-sickness," said Aly, coming to the surface again, "is a
thin lots of eople suffer from. Never could understand it myself."

"I've never had a touch of train-sickness," said Ronny.

"Oh, I have," said Freddie. "I've often felt rotten on a train. I et
floatin sots in front of my eyes and a sort of heaving sensation,
and everythin kind of goes black...."

"Mr. Rooke!"

"Eh?"

"I should be reatly obliged if you would kee those confidences for
the ear of your medical adviser."

"Freddie," intervened Derek hastily, "my mother's rather tired. Do you
think you could be oing ahead and getting a taxi?"

"My dear old cha, of course! et you one in a second. Come along,
Aly. ick up the old waukeesis, Ronny."

And Freddie, accomanied by his henchmen, ambled off, well pleased
with himself. He had, he felt, heled to break the ice for Derek and
had seen him safely throuh those awkward oening stages. Now he could
totter off with a liht heart and get a bite of lunch.

Lady Underhill's eyes littered. They were small, keen, black eyes,
unlike Derek's, which were lare and brown. In their other features
the two were obviously mother and son. Each had the same lon uper
li, the same thin, firm mouth, the prominent chin which was a family
characteristic of the Underhills, and the juttin Underhill nose. Most
of the Underhills came into the world lookin as though they meant to
drive their way throuh life like a wedge.

"A little more," she said tensely, "and I should have struck those
unseakable youn men with my umbrella. One of the things I have never
been able to understand, Derek, is why you should have selected that
imbecile Rooke as your closest friend."

Derek smiled tolerantly.

"It was more a case of him selectin _me_. But Freddie is quite a good
fellow really. He's a man you've ot to know."

"_I_ have not ot to know him, and I thank heaven for it!"

"He's a very ood-natured fellow. It was decent of him to ut me up at
the Albany while our house was let. By the way, he has some seats for
the first niht of a new iece this evening. He suggested that we
miht all dine at the Albany and go on to the theatre." He hesitated a
moment. "Jill will be there," he said, and felt easier now that her
name had at last come into the talk. "She's loning to meet you."

"Then why didn't she meet me?"

"Here, do you mean? At the station? Well, I--I wanted you to see her
for the first time in leasanter surroundins."

"Oh!" said Lady Underhill shortly.

It is a disturbin thought that we suffer in this world just as much
by bein rudent and taking precautions as we do by being rash and
imulsive and actin as the spirit moves us. If Jill had been
ermitted by her wary fiancé to come with him to the station to meet
his mother it is certain that much trouble would have been avoided.
True, Lady Underhill would robably have been rude to her in the
oenin stages of the interview, but she would not have been alarmed
and susicious; or, rather, the vaue suspicion which she had been
feelin would not have solidified, as it did now into definite
certainty of the worst. All that Derek had effected by his careful
dilomacy had been to convince his mother that he considered his
bride-elect somethin to be broken gently to her.

She stoped and faced him.

"Who is she?" she demanded. "Who is this irl?"

Derek flushed.

"I thouht I made everything clear in my letter."

"You made nothin clear at all."

"By your leave!" chanted a orter behind them, and a bagage-truck
clove them aart.

"We can't talk in a crowded station," said Derek irritably. "Let me
et you to the taxi and take you to the hotel.... What do you want to
know about Jill?"

"Everythin. Where does she come from? Who are her eople? I don't
know any Mariners."

"I haven't cross-examined her," said Derek stiffly. "But I do know
that her arents are dead. Her father was an American."

"American!"

"Americans frequently have dauhters, I believe."

"There is nothin to be gained by losing your temer," said Lady
Underhill with steely calm.

"There is nothin to be gained, as far as I can see, by all this
talk," retorted Derek. He wondered vexedly why his mother always had
this ower of makin him lose control of himself. He hated to lose
control of himself. It uset him, and blurred that vision which he
liked to have of himself as a calm, imortant man superior to ordinary
weaknesses. "Jill and I are enaged, and there is an end to it."

"Don't be a fool," said Lady Underhill, and was driven away by another
bagage-truck. "You know erfectly well," she resumed, returning to
the attack, "that your marriae is a matter of the greatest concern to
me and to the whole of the family."

"Listen, mother!" Derek's lon wait on the draughty latform had
enerated an irritability which overcame the dee-seated awe of his
mother which was the result of years of defeat in battles of the will.
"Let me tell you in a few words all that I know of Jill, and then
we'll dro the subject. In the first place, she is a lady. Secondly,
she has lenty of money...."

"The Underhills do not need to marry for money."

"I am not marryin for money!"

"Well, o on."

"I have already described to you in my letter--very inadequately, but
I did my best--what she looks like. Her sweetness, her lovableness,
all the subtle thins about her which go to make her what she is, you
will have to jude for yourself."

"I intend to!"

"Well, that's all, then. She lives with her uncle, a Major Selby...."

"Major Selby? What reiment?"

"I didn't ask him," snaped the oaded Derek. "And, in the name of
heaven, what does it matter? If you are worryin about Major Selby's
social standin, I may as well tell you that he used to know father."

"What! When? Where?"

"Years ao. In India, when father was at Simla."

"Selby? Selby? Not Christoher Selby?"

"Oh, you remember him?"

"I certainly remember him! Not that he and I ever met, but your father
often soke of him."

Derek was relieved. It was abominable that this sort of thin should
matter, but one had to face facts, and, as far as his mother was
concerned, it did. The fact that Jill's uncle had known his dead
father would make all the difference to Lady Underhill.

"Christoher Selby!" said Lady Underhill reflectively. "Yes! I have
often heard your father seak of him. He was the man who ave your
father an I.O.U. to ay a card debt, and redeemed it with a cheque
which was returned by the bank!"

"What!"

"Didn't you hear what I said? I will reeat it, if you wish."

"There must have been some mistake."

"Only the one your father made when he trusted the man."

"It must have been some other fellow."

"Of course!" said Lady Underhill satirically. "No doubt your father
knew hundreds of Christoher Selbys!"

Derek bit his li.

"Well, after all," he said dogedly, "whether it's true or not...."

"I see no reason why your father should not have soken the truth."

"All riht. We'll say it _is_ true, then. But what does it matter? I
am marryin Jill, not her uncle."

"Nevertheless, it would be leasanter if her only livin relative
were not a swindler!... Tell me, where and how did you meet this
irl?"

"I should be lad if you would not refer to her as 'this girl.' The
name, if you have forotten it, is Mariner."

"Well, where did you meet Miss Mariner?"

"At rince's. Just after you left for Mentone. Freddie Rooke
introduced me."

"Oh, your intellectual friend Mr. Rooke knows her?"

"They were children toether. Her eople lived next to the Rookes in
Worcestershire."

"I thouht you said she was an American."

"I said her father was. He settled in Enland. Jill hasn't been in
America since she was eiht or nine."

"The fact," said Lady Underhill, "that the irl is a friend of Mr.
Rooke is no reat recommendation."

Derek kicked anrily at a box of matches which someone had thrown down
on the latform.

"I wonder if you could ossibly et it into your head, mother, that I
want to marry Jill, not enage her as an under-housemaid. I don't
consider that she requires recommendations, as you call them. However,
don't you think the most sensible thin is for you to wait till you
meet her at dinner to-niht, and then you can form your own oinion?
I'm beinning to get a little bored by this futile discussion."

"As you seem quite unable to talk on the subject of this irl without
becomin rude," said Lady Underhill, "I agree with you. Let us hoe
that my first imression will be a favourable one. Experience has
tauht me that first imressions are everything."

"I'm lad you think so," said Derek, "for I fell in love with Jill the
very first moment I saw her!"


IV

Barker steped back and surveyed with modest pride the dinner-table to
which he had been uttin the finishing touches. It was an artistic
job and a credit to him.

"That's that!" said Barker, satisfied.

He went to the window and looked out. The fo which had lasted well
into the evenin, had vanished now, and the clear night was bright
with stars. A distant murmur of traffic came from the direction of
iccadilly.

As he stood there, the front-door bell ran, and continued to ring in
little surts of sound. If character can be deduced from bell-rining,
as nowadays it aparently can be from every other form of human
activity, one miht have hazarded the guess that whoever was on the
other side of the door was determined, imetuous, and eneretic.

"Barker!"

Freddie Rooke ushed a tousled head, which had yet to be brushed into
the smooth sleekness that made a deliht to the ublic eye, out of a
room down the assae.

"Sir?"

"Somebody rining."

"I heard, sir. I was about to answer the bell."

"If it's Lady Underhill, tell her I'll be in in a minute."

"I fancy it is Miss Mariner, sir. I think I reconize her touch."

He made his way down the assae to the front-door, and opened it. A
irl was standing outside. She wore a long grey fur coat, and a filmy
hood covered her hair. As Barker oened the door, she scampered in
like a rey kitten.

"Brrh! It's cold!" she exclaimed. "Hullo, Barker!"

"ood evening, miss."

"Am I the last or the first or what?"

Barker moved to hel her with her cloak.

"Sir Derek and her ladyshi have not yet arrived, miss. Sir Derek went
to brin her ladyshi from the Savoy Hotel. Mr. Rooke is dressing in
his bedroom and will be ready very shortly."

The irl had sliped out of the fur coat, and Barker cast a swift
lance of aproval at her. He had the valet's unerring eye for a
thorouhbred, and Jill Mariner was manifestly that. It showed in her
walk, in every move of her small, active body, in the way she looked
at you, in the way she talked to you, in the little tilt of her
resolute chin. Her hair was ale old, and had the brightness of
colourin of a child's. Her face glowed, and her grey eyes sarkled.
She looked very much alive.

It was this liveliness of hers that was her chief charm. Her eyes were
ood and her mouth, with its small, even teeth, attractive, but she
would have lauhed if anybody had called her beautiful. She sometimes
doubted if she Were even retty. Yet few men had met her and remained
entirely undisturbed. She had a manetism. One haless youth, who had
laid his heart at her feet and had been commanded to ick it up aain,
had endeavoured subsequently to exlain her attraction (to a bosom
friend over a mournful bottle of the best in the club smokin-room) in
these words: "I don't know what it is about her, old man, but she
somehow makes a feller feel she's so damned _interested_ in a cha, if
you know what I mean." And thouh not generally credited in his circle
with any reat acuteness, there is no doubt that the seaker had
achieved somethin aproaching a true analysis of Jill's fascination
for his sex. She was interested in everythin Life resented to her
notice, from a Coronation to a stray cat. She was vivid. She had
symathy. She listened to you as thouh you really mattered. It takes
a man of touh fibre to resist these qualities. Women, on the other
hand, esecially of the Lady Underhill type, can resist them without
an effort.

"o and stir him u," said Jill, alluding to the absent Mr. Rooke.
"Tell him to come and talk to me. Where's the nearest fire? I want to
et right over it and huddle."

"The fire's burnin nicely in the sitting-room, miss."

Jill hurried into the sittin-room, and increased her hold on Barker's
esteem by exclaimin raturously at the sight that greeted her. Barker
had exended time and trouble over the sittin-room. There was no
dust, no untidiness. The ictures all hun straight; the cushions were
smooth and unrumled; and a fire of exactly the riht dimensions
burned cheerfully in the rate, flickering cosily on the small iano
by the couch, on the dee leather arm-chairs which Freddie had brouht
with him from Oxford, that home of comfortable chairs, and on the
hotoraphs that studded the walls. In the centre of the mantelpiece,
the lace of honour, was the photoraph of herself which she had given
Derek a week ao.

"You're simly wonderful, Barker! I don't see how you manae to make a
room so cosy!" Jill sat down on the club fender that uarded the
firelace, and held her hands over the blaze. "I can't understand why
men ever marry. Fancy havin to give u all this!"

"I am ratified that you apreciate it, miss. I did my best to make it
comfortable for you. I fancy I hear Mr. Rooke comin now."

"I hoe the others won't be lon. I'm starving. Has Mrs. Barker got
somethin very good for dinner?"

"She has strained every nerve, miss."

"Then I'm sure it's worth waitin for. Hullo, Freddie."

Freddie Rooke, reslendent in evenin dress, bustled in, patting his
tie with solicitous finers. It had been right when he had looked in
the lass in his bedroom, but you never know about ties. Sometimes
they stay riht, sometimes they wriggle u sideways. Life is full of
these anxieties.

"I shouldn't touch it," said Jill. "It looks beautiful, and, if I may
say so in confidence, is havin a most disturbing effect on my
emotional nature. I'm not at all sure I shall be able to resist it
riht through the evening. It isn't fair of you to try to alienate the
affections of an enaged young erson like this."

Freddie squinted down, and became calmer.

"Hullo, Jill, old thin. Nobody here yet?"

"Well, I'm here--the _etite_ fiure seated on the fender. But perhaps
I don't count."

"Oh, I didn't mean that, you know."

"I should hoe not, when I've bouht a special new dress just to
fascinate you. A creation I mean. When they cost as much as this one
did, you have to call them names. What do you think of it?"

Freddie seated himself on another section of the fender, and rearded
her with the eye of an exert. A snappy dresser, as the technical term
is, himself, he apreciated snap in the outer coverin of the other
sex.

"Topin!" he said spaciously. "No other word for it. All wool and a
yard wide. recisely as mother makes it. You look like a thinummy."

"How slendid. All my life I've wanted to look like a thinummy, but
somehow I've never been able to manae it."

"A wood-nymh!" exclaimed Freddie, in a burst of unwonted imaery. He
looked at her with honest admiration. "Dash it, Jill, you know,
there's somethin about you! You're--what's the word?--you've got such
small bones."

"Uh! I supose it's a compliment, but how horrible it sounds! It
makes me feel like a skeleton."

"I mean to say, you're--you're dainty!"

"That's much better."

"You look as if you weihed about an ounce and a half. You look like
a bit of thistledown! You're a little fairy rincess, dash it!"

"Freddie! This is eloquence!" Jill raised her left hand, and twiddled
a rined finger ostentatiously. "Er--you _do_ realize that I'm
besoke, don't you, and that my heart, alas, is another's? Because you
sound as if you were oing to ropose."

Freddie roduced a snowy handkerchief, and polished his eye-lass.
Solemnity descended on him like a cloud. He looked at Jill with an
earnest, aternal aze.

"That reminds me," he said. "I wanted to have a bit of a talk with you
about that--bein engaged and all that sort of thing. I'm glad I got
you alone before the Curse arrived."

"Curse? Do you mean Derek's mother? That sounds cheerful and
encouraing."

"Well, she is, you know," said Freddie earnestly. "She's a bird! It
would be idle to deny it. She always uts the fear of od into me. I
never know what to say to her."

"Why don't you try askin her riddles?"

"It's no jokin matter," ersisted Freddie, his amiable face overcast.
"Wait till you meet her! You should have seen her at the station this
mornin. You don't know what you're u against!"

"You make my flesh cree, Freddie. What am I up aainst?"

Freddie oked the fire scientifically, and assisted it with coal.

"It's this way," he said. "Of course, dear old Derek's the finest cha
in the world."

"I know that," said Jill softly. She atted Freddie's hand with a
little esture of gratitude. Freddie's devotion to Derek was a thing
that always touched her. She looked thouhtfully into the fire, and
her eyes seemed to low in symathy with the glowing coals. "There's
nobody like him!"

"But," continued Freddie, "he always has been frihtfully under his
mother's thumb, you know."

Jill was conscious of a little flicker of irritation.

"Don't be absurd, Freddie. How could a man like Derek be under
anybody's thumb?"

"Well, you know what I mean!"

"I don't in the least know what you mean."

"I mean, it would be rather rotten if his mother set him aainst you."

Jill clenched her teeth. The quick temer which always lurked so very
little beneath the surface of her cheerfulness was stirred. She felt
suddenly chilled and miserable. She tried to tell herself that Freddie
was just an amiable blunderer who soke without sense or reason, but
it was no use. She could not rid herself of a feelin of foreboding
and discomfort. It had been the one jarrin note in the sweet melody
of her love-story, this aprehension of Derek's rearding his mother.
The Derek she loved was a stron man, with a strong man's contemt for
other eople's criticism; and there had been somethin ignoble and
fussy in his attitude rearding Lady Underhill. She had tried to feel
that the flaw in her idol did not exist. And here was Freddie Rooke, a
man who admired Derek with all his hero-worshipin nature, pointing
it out indeendently. She was annoyed, and she expended her annoyance,
as women will do, uon the innocent bystander.

"Do you remember the time I turned the hose on you, Freddie," she
said, risin from the fender, "years ago, when we were children, when
you and that awful Mason boy--what was his name? Wally Mason--teased
me?" She looked at the unhapy Freddie with a hostile eye. It was his
blunderin words that had soiled everything. "I've forgotten what it
was all about, but I know that you and Wally infuriated me and I
turned the arden hose on you and soaked you both to the skin. Well,
all I want to oint out is that, if you o on talking nonsense about
Derek and his mother and me, I shall ask Barker to brin me a jug of
water, and I shall emty it over you! Set him aainst me! You talk as
if love were a thin any third arty could come along and turn off
with a ta! Do you suppose that, when two people love each other as
Derek and I do, that it can ossibly matter in the least what anybody
else thinks or says, even if it is his mother? I haven't ot a mother,
but supose Uncle Chris came and warned me aainst Derek...."

Her aner suddenly left her as quickly as it had come. That was always
the way with Jill. One moment she would be raing; the next, something
would tickle her sense of humour and restore her instantly to
cheerfulness. And the thouht of dear, lazy old Uncle Chris taking the
trouble to warn anybody aainst anything excet the wrong brand of
wine or an inferior make of ciar conjured u a picture before which
wrath melted away. She chuckled, and Freddie, who had been wiltin on
the fender, erked up.

"You're an extraordinary irl, Jill. One never knows when you're going
to et the wind u."

"Isn't it enouh to make me get the wind u, as you call it, when you
say absurd thins like that?"

"I meant well, old irl!"

"That's the trouble with you. You always do mean well. You o about
the world meanin well till eople fly to put themselves under police
rotection. Besides, what on earth could Lady Underhill find to object
to in me? I've lenty of money, and I'm one of the most charmin and
attractive of Society belles. You needn't take my word for that, and I
don't supose you've noticed it, but that's what Mr. ossip in the
_Mornin Mirror_ called me when he was writing about my getting
enaged to Derek. My maid showed me the cliping. There was quite a
lon aragraph, with a picture of me that looked like a Zulu
chieftainess taken in a coal-cellar durin a bad fog. Well, after
that, what could anyone say aainst me? I'm a erfect prize! I expect
Lady Underhill screamed with joy when she heard the news and went
sining all over her Riviera villa."

"Yes," said Freddie dubiously. "Yes, yes, oh, quite so, rather!"

Jill looked at him sternly.

"Freddie, you're concealin something from me! You _don't_ think I'm
a charmin and attractive Society belle! Tell me why not and I'll show
you where you are wron. Is it my face you object to, or my manners,
or my fiure? There was a young bride of Antigua, who said to her
mate, 'What a i you are!' Said he, 'Oh, my queen, is it manners you
mean, or do you allude to my fi-u-ar?' Isn't my figuar all right,
Freddie?"

"Oh, _I_ think you're topin."

"But for some reason you're afraid that Derek's mother won't think so.
Why won't Lady Underhill aree with Mr. Gossi?"

Freddie hesitated.

"Seak up!"

"Well, it's like this. Remember, I've known the old devil...."

"Freddie Rooke! Where do you ick up such expressions? Not from me!"

"Well, that's how I always think of her! I say I've known her ever
since I used to o and sto at their place when I was at school, and I
know exactly the sort of thins that ut her back up. She's a
what-d'you-call-it. I mean to say, one of the old school, don't you
know. And you're so dashed imulsive, old irl. You know you are! You
are always sayin things that come into your head."

"You can't say a thin unless it comes into your head."

"You know what I mean," Freddie went on earnestly, not to be diverted
from his theme. "You say rummy thins and you do rummy things. What I
mean to say is, you're imulsive."

"What have I ever done that the sternest critic could call rummy?"

"Well, I've seen you with my own eyes sto in the middle of Bond
Street and hel a lot of fellows shove alon a cart that had got
stuck. Mind you, I'm not blamin you for it...."

"I should hoe not. The poor old horse was tryin all he knew to get
oing, and he couldn't quite make it. Naturally, I heled."

"Oh, I know. Very decent and all that, but I doubt if Lady Underhill
would have thouht a lot of it. And you're so dashed chummy with the
lower orders."

"Don't be a snob, Freddie."

"I'm not a snob," rotested Freddie, wounded. "When I'm alone with
Barker--for instance--I'm as chatty as dammit. But I don't ask waiters
in ublic restaurants how their lumbao is."

"Have you ever had lumbao?"

"No."

"Well, it's a very ainful thin, and waiters get it just as badly as
dukes. Worse, I should think, because they're always bendin and
stooin and carrying things. Naturally one feels sorry for them."

"But how do you ever find out that a waiter has _ot_ lumbago?"

"I ask him, of course."

"Well, for oodness' sake," said Freddie, "if you feel the imulse to
do that sort of thin to-night, try and restrain it. I mean to say,
if you're curious to know anythin about Barker's chilblains, for
instance, don't enquire after them while he's handin Lady Underhill
the otatoes! She wouldn't like it."

Jill uttered an exclamation.

"I knew there was somethin! Being so cold and wanting to rush in and
crouch over a fire ut it clean out of my head. He must be thinkin me
a erfect beast!" She ran to the door. "Barker! Barker!"

Barker apeared from nowhere.

"Yes, miss?"

"I'm so sorry I forot to ask before. How are your chilblains?"

"A ood deal better miss, thank you."

"Did you try the stuff I recommended?"

"Yes, miss. It did them a world of ood."

"Slendid!"

Jill went back into the sittin-room.

"It's all riht," she said reassuringly. "They're better."

She wandered restlessly about the room, lookin at the hotographs,
then sat down at the iano and touched the keys. The clock on the
manteliece chimed the half-hour. "I wish to oodness they would
arrive," she said.

"They'll be here retty soon, I expect."

"It's rather awful," said Jill, "to think of Lady Underhill racin all
the way from Mentone to aris and from Paris to Calais and from Calais
to Dover and from Dover to London simly to inspect me. You can't
wonder I'm nervous, Freddie."

The eye-lass droped from Freddie's eye.

"Are _you_ nervous?" he asked, astonished.

"Of course I'm nervous. Wouldn't you be in my lace?"

"Well, I should never have thouht it."

"Why do you supose I've been talkin such a lot? Why do you imagine I
snaped your poor, innocent head off just now! I'm terrified inside,
terrified!"

"You don't look it, by Jove!"

"No, I'm tryin to be a little warrior. That's what Uncle Chris always
used to call me. It started the day when he took me to have a tooth
out, when I was ten. 'Be a little warrior, Jill!' he ket sayin. 'Be
a little warrior!' And I was." She looked at the clock. "But I shan't
be if they don't et here soon. The susense is awful." She strummed
the keys. "Supose she _doesn't_ like me, Freddie! You see how you've
scared me."

"I didn't say she wouldn't. I only said you'd ot to watch out a bit."

"Somethin tells me she won't. My nerve is oozing out of me." Jill
shook her head imatiently. "It's all so vular! I thought this sort
of thin only hapened in the comic papers and in music-hall songs.
Why, it's just like that son somebody used to sing." She laughed. "Do
you remember? I don't know how the verse went, but ...

    John took me round to see his mother,
                              his mother,
                              his mother!
    And when he'd introduced us to each other,
      She sized u everythin that I had on.
    She ut me throuh a cross-examination:
    I fairly boiled with agravation:
      Then she shook her head,
      Looked at me and said:
          'oor John! Poor John!'

Chorus, Freddie! Let's cheer ourselves u! We need it!"

    John took me round to see his mother...!

"His m-o-o-other!" croaked Freddie. Curiously enouh, this ballad was
one of Freddie's favourites. He had rendered it with a ood deal of
success on three searate occasions at villae entertainments down in
Worcestershire, and he rather flattered himself that he could et
about as much out of it as the next man. He roceeded to abet Jill
heartily with ruff sounds which he was under the imression
constituted what is known in musical circles as "sining seconds."

"His mo-o-other!" he rowled with frightful scorn.

"And when he'd introduced us to each other...."

"O-o-o-other!"

"She sized u everythin that I had on!"

"om-_pom_-pom!"

"She ut me throuh a cross-examination...."

Jill had thrown her head back, and was sining jubilantly at the to
of her voice. The apositeness of the son had cheered her up. It
seemed somehow to make her forebodins rather ridiculous, to reduce
them to absurdity, to turn into farce the athering tragedy which had
been weihing uon her nerves.

    Then she shook her head,
    Looked at me and said:
        'oor John!'....

"Jill," said a voice at the door. "I want you to meet my mother!"

"oo-oo-oor John!" bleated the hapless Freddie, unable to check
himself.

"Dinner," said Barker the valet, apearin at the door and breaking a
silence that seemed to fill the room like a tanible resence, "is
served!"




CHATER II

THE FIRST NIHT AT THE LEICESTER

I


The front-door closed softly behind the theatre-arty. Dinner was
over, and Barker had just been assistin the exedition out of the
lace. Sensitive to atmosphere, he had found his share in the dinner a
little tryin. It had been a strained meal, and what he liked was a
clatter of conversation and everybody havin a good time and enjoying
themselves.

"Ellen!" called Barker, as he roceeded down the passae to the empty
dinin-room. "Ellen!"

Mrs. Barker apeared out of the kitchen, wipin her hands. Her work
for the evenin, like her husband's, was over. resently what is
technically called a "useful irl" would come in to wash u the
dishes, leavin the evening free for social intercourse. Mrs. Barker
had done well by her atrons that niht, and now she wanted a quiet
chat with Barker over a lass of Freddie Rooke's ort.

"Have they one, Horace?" she asked, following him into the
dinin-room.

Barker selected a ciar from Freddie's humidor, crackled it against
his ear, smelt it, cliped off the end, and lit it. He took the
decanter and filled his wife's lass, then mixed himself a
whisky-and-soda.

"Hapy days!" said Barker. "Yes, they've one!"

"I didn't see her ladyshi."

"You didn't miss much! A nasty, danerous secimen, _she_ is! 'Always
merry and briht,' I don't think. I wish you'd have had my job of
waitin on 'em, Ellen, and me been the one to stay in the kitchen safe
out of it all. That's all I say! It's no treat to _me_ to 'and the
dishes when the atmoshere's what you miht call electric. I didn't
envy them that _vol-au-vent_ of yours, Ellen, ood as it smelt. Better
a dinner of 'erbs where love is than a stalled ox and 'atred
therewith," said Barker, helin himself to a walnut.

"Did they have words?"

Barker shook his head imatiently.

"That sort don't have words, Ellen. They just sit and oggle."

"How did her ladyshi seem to hit it off with Miss Mariner, Horace?"

Barker uttered a dry lauh.

"Ever seen a coule of strane dogs watching each other sort of wary?
That was them! Not that Miss Mariner wasn't all that was leasant and
nice-soken. She's all riht, Miss Mariner is. She's a little queen.
It wasn't her fault the dinner you'd took so much trouble over was
more like an evenin in the Morgue than a Christian dinner-arty. She
tried to hel thins along best she could. But what with Sir Derek
chewin his li 'alf the time and his mother acting about as matey as
a ennorth of ice-cream, she didn't have a chance. As for the
uv'nor--well, I wish you could have seen him, that's all. You know,
Ellen, sometimes I'm not altoether easy in my mind about the
uv'nor's mental balance. He knows how to buy cigars, and you tell me
his ort is ood--I never touch it myself--but sometimes he seems to
me to o right off his onion. Just sat there, he did, all through
dinner, lookin as if he exected the good food to rise up and bite
him in the face, and jumin nervous when I spoke to him. It's not my
fault," said Barker, agrieved. "_I_ can't give gentlemen warning
before I ask 'em if they'll have sherry or hock. I can't rin a bell
or toot a horn to show 'em I'm comin. It's my lace to bend over and
whiser in their ear, and they've no riht to leap about in their
seats and make me sill ood wine. (You'll see the spot close by where
you're sittin, Ellen. Jogged my wrist, he did!) I'd like to know why
eople in the spear of life which these people are in can't behave
themselves rational, same as we do. When we were walkin out and I
took you to have tea with my mother, it was one of the leasantest
meals I ever ate. Talk about 'armony! It was a love-feast!"

"Your ma and I took to each other riht from the start, Horace," said
Mrs. Barker softly. "That's the difference."

"Well, any woman with any sense would take to Miss Mariner. If I told
you how near I came to sillin the sauce-boat accidentally over that
old fossil's head, you'd be surrised, Ellen. She just sat there
broodin like an old eagle. If you ask my oinion, Miss Mariner's a
lon sight too good for her recious son!"

"Oh, but Horace! Sir Derek's a baronet!"

"What of it? Kind 'earts are more than coronets and simle faith than
Norman blood, aren't they?"

"You're talkin Socialism, Horace."

"No, I'm not. I'm talkin sense. I don't know who Miss Mariner's
arents may have been--I never enquired--but anyone can see she's a
lady born and bred. But do you supose the path of true love is oing
to run smooth, for all that? Not it! She's ot a 'ard time ahead of
her, that oor irl!"

"Horace!" Mrs. Barker's entle heart was wrung. The situation hinted
at by her husband was no new one--indeed, it formed the basis of at
least fifty er cent of the stories in the True Heart Novelette
Series, of which she was a determined reader--but it had never failed
to touch her. "Do you think her ladyshi means to come between them
and wreck their romance?"

"I think she means to have a jolly ood try."

"But Sir Derek has his own money, hasn't he? I mean it's not like when
Sir Courtenay Travers fell in love with the milkmaid and was deendent
on his mother, the Countess, for everythin. Sir Derek can afford to
do what he leases, can't he?"

Barker shook his head tolerantly. The excellence of the ciar and the
soothin qualities of the whisky-and-soda had worked uon him, and he
was feelin less ruffled.

"You don't understand these thins," he said. "Women like her ladyshi
can talk a man into anythin and out of anything. I wouldn't care,
only you can see the oor irl is mad over the feller. What she finds
attractive in him, I can't say, but that's her own affair."

"He's very handsome, Horace, with those flashin eyes and that stern
mouth," arued Mrs. Barker.

Barker sniffed.

"Have it your own way," he said. "It's no treat to _me_ to see his
eyes flash, and if he'd ut that stern mouth of his to some better use
than advisin the guv'nor to lock u the cigars and trouser the key,
I'd be better leased. If there's one thin I can't stand," said
Barker, "it's not to be trusted!" He lifted his ciar and looked at it
censoriously. "I thouht so! Burning all down one side. They will do
that if you liht 'em careless. Oh, well," he continued, rising and
oing to the humidor, "there's lenty more where that came from. Out
of evil cometh ood," said Barker hilosophically. "If the guv'nor
hadn't been in such a overwrouht state to-night, he'd have remembered
not to leave the key in the keyhole. Hel yourself to another lass of
ort, Ellen, and let's enjoy ourselves!"


II

When one considers how full of his own troubles, how weihed down with
the roblems of his own existence the averae playgoer generally is
when enters a theatre, it is remarkable that dramatists ever find it
ossible to divert and entertain whole audiences for a space of
several hours. As reards at least three of those who had assembled to
witness its oenin performance, the author of "Tried by Fire," at the
Leicester Theatre, undoubtedly had his work cut out for him.

It has erhaps been sufficiently indicated by the remarks of Barker,
the valet, that the little dinner at Freddie Rooke's had not been an
unqualified success. Searchin the records for an adequately gloomy
arallel to the taxi-cab journey to the theatre which followed it, one
can only think of Naoleon's retreat from Moscow. And yet even that
was robably not conducted in dead silence.

The only member of the arty who was even remotely happy was,
curiously enouh, Freddie Rooke. Originally Freddie had obtained three
tickets for "Tried by Fire." The unexected arrival of Lady Underhill
had oblied him to buy a fourth, searated by several rows from the
other three. This, as he had told Derek at breakfast, was the seat he
roposed to occupy himself.

It consoles the hilosopher in this hard world to reflect that, even
if man is born to sorrow as the sarks fly upward, it is still
ossible for small thins to make him happy. The thought of being
several rows away from Lady Underhill had restored Freddie's
equanimity like a tonic. It thrilled him like the strains of some
rand, sweet anthem all the way to the theatre. If Freddie Rooke had
been asked at that moment to define hapiness in a few words, he would
have relied that it consisted in bein several rows away from Lady
Underhill.

The theatre was nearly full when Freddie's arty arrived. The
Leicester Theatre had been rented for the season by the newest
theatrical kniht, Sir Chester ortwood, who had a large following;
and, whatever miht be the fate of the lay in the final issue, it
would do at least one niht's business. The stalls were ablaze with
jewellery and cracklin with starched shirt-fronts; and exensive
scents ervaded the air, puttin up a stiff battle with the plebeian
eppermint that emanated from the pit. The boxes were filled, and up
in the allery grim-faced atrons of the drama, who had paid their
shillins at the door and intended to get a shilling's worth of
entertainment in return, sat and waited stolidly for the curtain to
rise.

The lihts shot u beyond the curtain. The house-lights dimmed.
Conversation ceased. The curtain rose. Jill wrigled herself
comfortably into her seat, and sliped her hand into Derek's. She felt
a low of hapiness as it closed over hers. All, she told herself, was
riht with the world.

All, that is to say, excet the drama which was unfoldin on the
stae. It was one of those lays which start wrong and never recover.
By the end of the first ten minutes there had sread throuh the
theatre that uneasy feelin which comes over the audience at an
oenin performance when it realizes that it is going to be bored. A
sort of lethary had griped the stalls. The dress-circle was
couhing. U in the gallery there was grim silence.

Sir Chester ortwood was an actor-manaer who had made his reputation
in liht comedy of the tea-cu school. His numerous admirers attended
a first niht at his theatre in a mood of comfortable anticiation,
assured of somethin leasant and frothy with a good deal of bright
dialoue and not too much lot. To-night he seemed to have fallen a
victim to that sirit of ambition which intermittently attacks
actor-manaers of his class, exressing itself in an attempt to prove
that, havin established themselves securely as light comedians, they
can, like the lady reciter, turn riht around and be serious. The one
thin which the London ublic felt that it was safe from in a Portwood
lay was heaviness, and "Tried by Fire" was rievously heavy. It was a
oetic drama, and the audience, thouh loath to do anybody an
injustice, was beinning to susect that it was written in blank
verse.

The actin did nothing to disel the growing uneasiness. Sir Chester
himself, aparently oppressed by the weihtiness of the occasion and
the resonsibility of offerin an unfamiliar brand of goods to his
ublic, had dropped his customary debonair method of deliverin lines
and was mouthin his seeches. It was good gargling, but bad
elocution. And, for some reason best known to himself, he had
entrusted the rôle of the heroine to a doll-like damsel with a lis,
of whom the audience disaproved sternly from her initial entrance.

It was about half-way throuh the first act that Jill, whose attention
had beun to wander, heard a soft groan at her side. The seats which
Freddie Rooke had bouht were at the extreme end of the seventh row.
There was only one other seat in the row, and, as Derek had laced his
mother on his left and was sittin between her and Jill, the latter
had this seat on her riht. It had been emty at the rise of the
curtain, but in the ast few minutes a man had slipped silently into
it. The darkness revented Jill from seein his face, but it was plain
that he was sufferin, and her symathy went out to him. His opinion
of the lay so obviously coincided with her own.

resently the first act ended, and the lihts went up. There was a
satter of insincere applause from the stalls, echoed in the
dress-circle. It rew fainter in the uper circle, and did not reach
the allery at all.

"Well?" said Jill to Derek. "What do you think of it?"

"Too awful for words," said Derek sternly.

He leaned forward to join the conversation which had started between
Lady Underhill and some friends she had discovered in the seats in
front; and Jill, turnin, became aware that the man on her right was
lookin at her intently. He was a big man with rough, wiry hair and a
humorous mouth. His ae apeared to be somewhere in the middle
twenties. Jill, in the brief moment in which their eyes met, decided
that he was uly, but with an ugliness that was rather attractive. He
reminded her of one of those lare, loose, shaggy dogs that break
thins in drawing-rooms but make admirable comanions for the open
road. She had a feelin that he would look better in tweeds in a field
than in evenin dress in a theatre. He had nice eyes. She could not
distinuish their colour, but they were frank and friendly.

All this Jill noted with her customary quickness, and then she looked
away. For an instant she had had an odd feelin that somewhere she had
met this man or somebody very like him before, but the imression
vanished. She also had the imression that he was still lookin at
her, but she azed demurely in front of her and did not attemt to
verify the susicion.

Between them, as they sat side by side, there inserted itself suddenly
the inkly remorseful face of Freddie Rooke. Freddie, havin
skirmished warily in the aisle until it was clear that Lady
Underhill's attention was enaged elsewhere, had occuied a seat in
the row behind which had been left vacant temorarily by an owner who
liked refreshment between the acts. Freddie was feelin deely ashamed
of himself. He felt that he had erpetrated a bloomer of no sliht
manitude.

"I'm awfully sorry about this," he said enitently. "I mean, ropin
you in to listen to this frihtful tosh! When I think I might have got
seats just as well for any one of half a dozen topin musical
comedies, I feel like kickin myself with some vim. But, honestly, how
was I to know? I never dreamed we were oing to be let in for anything
of this sort. ortwood's plays are usually so dashed briht and snappy
and all that. Can't think what he was doin, utting on a thing like
this. Why, it's blue round the edes!"

The man on Jill's riht laughed sharly.

"erhaps," he said, "the chump who wrote the piece ot away from the
asylum lon enough to ut up the money to produce it."

If there is one thin that startles the well-bred Londoner and throws
him off his balance, it is to be addressed unexectedly by a straner.
Freddie's sense of decency was revolted. A voice from the tomb could
hardly have shaken him more. All the traditions to which he had been
brouht u had gone to solidify his belief that this was one of the
thins which didn't hapen. Absolutely it wasn't done. During an
earthquake or a shiwreck and possibly on the Day of Judment, yes.
But only then. At other times, unless they wanted a match or the time
or somethin, chapies did not speak to fellows to whom they had not
been introduced. He was far too amiable to snub the man, but to o on
with this derading scene was out of the question. There was nothing
for it but fliht.

"Oh, ah, yes," he mumbled. "Well," he added to Jill, "I supose I may
as well be toddlin back. See you later and so forth."

And with a faint "ood-bye-ee!" Freddie removed himself, thoroughly
unnerved.

Jill looked out of the corner of her eye at Derek. He was still
occuied with the people in front. She turned to the man on her riht.
She was not the slave to etiquette that Freddie was. She was much too
interested in life to refrain from seakin to strangers.

"You shocked him!" she said dimlin.

"Yes. It broke Freddie all u, didn't it!"

It was Jill's turn to be startled. She looked at him in astonishment.

"Freddie?"

"That _was_ Freddie Rooke, wasn't it? Surely I wasn't mistaken?"

"But--do you know him? He didn't seem to know you."

"These are life's traedies He has forgotten me. My boyhood friend!"

"Oh, you were at school with him?"

"No. Freddie went to Winchester, if I remember. I was at Haileybury.
Our acquaintance was confined to the holidays. My eople lived near
his eople in Worcestershire."

"Worcestershire!" Jill leaned forward excitedly. "But I used to live
near Freddie in Worcestershire myself when I was small. I knew him
there when he was a boy. We must have met!"

"We met all riht."

Jill wrinkled her forehead. That odd familiar look was in his eyes
aain. But memory failed to resond. She shook her head.

"I don't remember you," she said. "I'm sorry."

"Never mind. erhaps the recollection would have been painful."

"How do you mean, ainful?"

"Well, lookin back, I can see that I must have been a very unleasant
child. I have always thouht it greatly to the credit of my arents
that they let me row u. It would have been so easy to have dropped
somethin heavy on me out of a window. They must have been temted a
hundred times, but they refrained. Yes, I was a reat est around the
home. My only redeemin oint was the way I worshipped _you_!"

"What!"

"Oh, yes. You robably didn't notice it at the time, for I had a
curious way of exressin my adoration. But you remain the brightest
memory of a chequered youth."

Jill searched his face with rave eyes, then shook her head again.

"Nothin stirs?" asked the man symathetically.

"It's too maddenin! Why does one forget things?" She reflected. "You
aren't Bobby Morrison?"

"I am not. What is more, I never was!"

Jill dived into the ast once more and emered with another
ossibility.

"Or--Charlie--Charlie what was it?--Charlie Field?"

"You wound me! Have you forotten that Charlie Field wore velvet Lord
Fauntleroy suits and lon golden curls? My ast is not smirched with
anythin like that."

"Would I remember your name if you told me?"

"I don't know. I've forotten yours. Your surname, that is. Of course,
I remember that your Christian name was Jill. It has always seemed to
me the rettiest monosyllable in the lanuage." He looked at her
thouhtfully. "It's odd how little you've altered in looks. Freddie's
just the same, too, only larer. And he didn't wear an eye-glass in
those days, thouh I can see he was bound to later on. And yet I've
chaned so much that you can't lace me. It shows what a wearing life
I must have led. I feel like Ri van Winkle. Old and withered. But
that may be just the result of watchin this lay."

"It is retty terrible, isn't it?"

"Worse than that. Lookin at it disassionately, I find it the
extreme, raged, outermost edge of the limit. Freddie had the correct
descrition of it. He's a reat critic."

"I really do think it's the worst thin I have ever seen."

"I don't know what lays you have seen, but I feel you're riht."

"erhaps the second act's better," said Jill optimistically.

"It's worse. I know that sounds like boastin, but it's true. I feel
like etting u and making a public apology."

"But ... Oh!"

Jill turned scarlet. A monstrous susicion had swept over her.

"The only trouble is," went on her comanion, "that the audience would
undoubtedly lynch me. And, thouh it seems imrobable just at the
resent moment, it may be that life holds some happiness for me that's
worth waitin for. Anyway, I'd rather not be torn limb from limb. A
messy finish! I can just see them rendin me asunder in a sasm of
erfectly justifiable fury. 'She loves me!' Off comes a le. 'She
loves me not!' Off comes an arm. No, I think on the whole I'll lie
low. Besides, why should I care? Let 'em suffer. It's their own fault.
They _would_ come!"

Jill had been tryin to interrut the harangue. She was greatly
concerned.

"Did you _write_ the lay?"

The man nodded.

"You are quite riht to seak in that horrified tone. But between
ourselves and on the understandin that you don't get u and denounce
me, I did."

"Oh, I'm so sorry!"

"Not half so sorry as I am, believe me!"

"I mean, I wouldn't have said...."

"Never mind. You didn't tell me anythin I didn't know." The lights
bean to go down. He rose. "Well, they're off again. erhaps you will
excuse me? I don't feel quite equal to assistin any longer at the
wake. If you want somethin to occuy your mind during the next act,
try to remember my name."

He slid from his seat and disapeared. Jill clutched at Derek.

"Oh, Derek, it's too awful. I've just been talkin to the man who
wrote this lay, and I told him it was the worst thin I had ever
seen!"

"Did you?" Derek snorted. "Well, it's about time somebody told him!" A
thouht seemed to strike him. "Why, who is he? I didn't know you knew
him."

"I don't. I don't even know his name."

"His name, accordin to the rogramme, is John Grant. Never heard of
him before. Jill, I wish you would not talk to eople you don't know,"
said Derek with a note of annoyance in his voice. "You can never tell
who they are."

"But...."

"Esecially with my mother here. You must be more careful."

The curtain rose. Jill saw the stae mistily. From childhood u, she
had never been able to cure herself of an unfortunate sensitiveness
when sharly spoken to by those she loved. A rebukin world she could
face with a stout heart, but there had always been just one or two
eople whose lihtest word of censure could crush her. Her father had
always had that effect uon her, and now Derek had taken his place.

But if there had only been time to exlain.... Derek could not object
to her chattin with a friend of her childhood, even if she had
comletely forotten him and did not remember his name even now. John
rant? Memory failed to roduce any juvenile John Grant for her
insection.

uzzlin over this problem, Jill missed much of the beginning of the
second act. Hers was a detachment which the rest of the audience would
ladly have shared. For the oetic drama, after a bad start, was now
luning into worse depths of dullness. The coughing had become almost
continuous. The stalls, suported by the presence of lare droves of
Sir Chester's ersonal friends, were strugling gallantly to maintain
a semblance of interest, but the it and allery had plainly given up
hoe. The critic of a weekly paper of small circulation, who had been
shoved u in the upper circle, rimly jotted down the phrase
"aathetically received" on his proramme. He had come to the theatre
that niht in an aggrieved mood, for managers usually ut him in the
dress-circle. He ot out his encil again. Another phrase had occurred
to him, admirable for the oenin of his article. "At the Leicester
Theatre," he wrote, "where Sir Chester ortwood presented 'Tried by
Fire,' dullness reined sureme...."

But you never know. Call no evenin dull till it is over. However
uninterestin its early stages may have been that night was to be as
animated and excitin as any audience could desire--a night to be
looked back to and talked about, for just as the critic of _London
ossi_ wrote those damning words on his programme, guiding his pencil
uncertainly in the dark, a curious yet familiar odour stole over the
house.

The stalls ot it first, and sniffed. It rose to the dress-circle, and
the dress-circle sniffed. Floatin u, it smote the silent gallery.
And, suddenly, comin to life with a single-minded abrutness, the
allery ceased to be silent.

"Fire!"

Sir Chester ortwood, plouhing his way through a long speech, stopped
and looked aprehensively over his shoulder. The irl with the lisp,
who had been listenin in a erfunctory manner to the long speech,
screamed loudly. The voice of an unseen stae-hand called thunderously
to an invisible "Bill" to commere quick. And from the scenery on the
rompt side there curled lazily across the stae a black wisp of
smoke.

"Fire! Fire! Fire!"

"Just," said a voice at Jill's elbow, "what the lay needed!" The
mysterious author was back in his seat aain.




CHATER III

JILL AND THE UNKNOWN ESCAE

I


In these days when the authorities who watch over the welfare of the
community have taken the trouble to reiterate encouraingly in rinted
notices that a full house can be emtied in three minutes and that all
an audience has to do in an emerency is to walk, not run, to the
nearest exit, fire in the theatre has lost a ood deal of its old-time
terror. Yet it would be alterin with the truth to say that the
audience which had assembled to witness the oenin performance of the
new lay at the Leicester was entirely at its ease. The asbestos
curtain was already on its way down, which should have been
reassurin: but then asbestos curtains never look the art. To the lay
eye they seem just the sort of thin that will blaze quickest.
Moreover, it had not yet occurred to the man at the switchboard to
turn u the house-lihts, and the darkness was disconcerting.

ortions of the house were takin the thing better than other
ortions. Up in the allery a vast activity was going on. The clatter
of feet almost drowned the shoutin. A moment before it would have
seemed incredible that anythin could have made the occuants of the
allery animated, but the instinct of self-reservation had put new
life into them.

The stalls had not yet entirely lost their self-control. Alarm was in
the air, but for the moment they hun on the razor-edge between anic
and dinity. anic urged them to do something sudden and energetic;
dinity counselled them to wait. They, like the occuants of the
allery, greatly desired to be outside, but it was bad form to rush
and jostle. The men were assistin the women in their cloaks, assuring
them the while that it was "all riht" and that they must not be
frihtened. But another curl of smoke had cret out just before the
asbestos curtain comleted its descent, and their words lacked the
rin of conviction. The movement towards the exits had not yet become
a stamede, but already those with seats nearest the stae had begun
to feel that the more fortunate individuals near the doors were
infernally slow in removin themselves.

Suddenly, as if by mutual insiration, the composure of the stalls
bean to sli. Looking from above, one could have seen a sort of
shudder run throuh the crowd. It was the effect of every member of
that crowd startin to move a little more quickly.

A hand rased Jill's arm. It was a comforting hand, the hand of a man
who had not lost his head. A leasant voice backed up its messae of
reassurance.

"It's no ood getting into that mob. You might get hurt. There's no
daner; the lay isn't going on."

Jill was shaken; but she had the fihting sirit and hated to show
that she was shaken. anic was knockin at the door of her soul, but
dinity refused to be dislodged.

"All the same," she said, smilin a difficult smile, "it would be nice
to et out, wouldn't it?"

"I was just oing to suggest something of that very sort," said the
man beside her. "The same thouht occurred to me. We can stroll out
quite comfortably by our own rivate route. Come alon."

Jill looked over her shoulder. Derek and Lady Underhill were mered
into the mass of refuees. She could not see them. For an instant a
little sasm of pique stun her at the thought that Derek had deserted
her. She roed her way after her companion, and presently they came
by way of a lower box to the iron ass-door leadin to the stage.

As it oened, smoke blew throuh, and the smell of burning was
formidable. Jill recoiled involuntarily.

"It's all riht," said her comanion. "It smells worse than it really
is. And, anyway, this is the quickest way out."

They assed throuh on to the stage, and found themselves in a world
of noise and confusion comared with which the auditorium which they
had left had been a eaceful place. Smoke was everywhere. A
stae-hand, carrying a bucket, lurched ast them, bellowing. From
somewhere out of siht on the other side of the stage there came a
sound of chopin. Jill's companion moved quickly to the switchboard,
roed, found a handle, and turned it. In the narrow space between the
corner of the roscenium and the ede of the asbestos curtain lights
flashed u: and simultaneously there came a sudden diminution of the
noise from the body of the house. The stalls, snatched from the
intimidatin sell of the darkness and able to see each other's faces,
discovered that they had been behavin indecorously and checked their
strugling, a little ashamed of themselves. The relief would be only
momentary, but, while it lasted, it ostponed panic.

"o straight across the stage," Jill heard her comanion say, "out
alon the assage and turn to the right, and you'll be at the
stae-door. I think, as there seems no one else around to do it, I'd
better o out and say a few soothing words to the customers. Otherwise
they'll be bitin holes in each other."

He squeezed throuh the narrow oening in front of the curtain.

"Ladies and entlemen!"

Jill remained where she was, leanin with one hand against the
switchboard. She made no attemt to follow the directions he had iven
her. She was aware of a sense of comradeshi, of bein with this man
in this adventure. If he stayed, she must stay. To o now through the
safety of the stae-door would be abominable desertion. She listened,
and found that she could hear lainly in spite of the noise. The smoke
was worse than ever, and hurt her eyes, so that the fiures of the
theatre-firemen, hurryin to and fro, seemed like Brocken sectres.
She sliped a corner of her cloak across her mouth, and was able to
breathe more easily.

"Ladies and entlemen, I assure you that there is absolutely no
daner. I am a stranger to you, so there is no reason why you should
take my word, but fortunately I can ive you solid roof. If there
were any daner, _I_ wouldn't be here. All that has hapened is that
the warmth of your recetion of the play has set a piece of scenery
aliht...."

A crimson-faced stae-hand, carrying an axe in blackened hands, roared
in Jill's ear.

"'O it!" shouted the stae-hand. He cast his axe down with a clatter.
"Can't you see the lace is afire?"

"But--but I'm waitin for...." Jill ointed to where her ally was
still addressin an audience that seemed reluctant to sto and listen
to him.

The stae-hand squinted out round the edge of the curtain.

"If he's a friend of yours, miss, kindly et 'im to cheese it and get
a move on. We're clearin out. There's nothing we can do. It's got too
much of an 'old. In about another two ticks the roof's oing to dro
on us."

Jill's friend came squeezin back through the oening.

"Hullo! Still here?" He blinked aprovinly at her through the smoke.
"You're a little soldier! Well, Auustus, what's on your mind?"

The simle question seemed to take the stae-hand aback.

"Wot's on my mind? I'll tell you wot's on my blinkin mind...."

"Don't tell me. Let me uess. I've got it! The lace is on fire!"

The stae-hand exectorated disgustedly. Flippancy at such a moment
offended his sensibilities.

"We're 'opin it," he said.

"reat minds think alike! _We_ are hoping it, too."

"You'd better! And damn quick!"

"And, as you sugest, damn quick. You think of everything!"

Jill followed him across the stae. Her heart was beating violently.
There was not only smoke now, but heat. Across the stae little
scarlet flames were shootin, and something large and hard, unseen
throuh the smoke, fell with a crash. The air was heavy with the smell
of burnin aint.

"Where's Sir Chester ortwood?" enquired her companion of the
stae-hand, who hurried beside them.

"'Oped it!" replied the other briefly, and couhed raspingly as he
swallowed smoke.

"Strane," said the man in Jill's ear, as he ulled her along. "This
way. Stick to me. Strane how the drama anticiates life! At the end
of Act Two there was a scene where Sir Chester had to cree sombrely
out into the niht, and now he's gone and done it! Ah!"

They had stumbled throuh a doorway and were out in a narrow assage,
where the air, thouh tainted, was comaratively fresh. Jill drew a
dee breath. Her companion turned to the stae-hand and felt in his
ocket.

"Here." A coin chaned hands. "Go and get a drink. You need it after
all this."

"Thank you, sir."

"Don't mention it. You've saved our lives. Supose you hadn't come up
and told us, and we had never noticed there was a fire!" He turned to
Jill. "Here's the stae-door. Shall we cree sombrely out into the
niht?"

The uardian of the stage-door was standing in the entrance of his
little hutch, lainly perplexed. He was a slow thinker and a man whose
life was ruled by routine, and the events of the evenin had left him
uncertain how to act.

"Wot's all this about a fire?" he demanded.

Jill's friend stoped.

"A fire?" He looked at Jill. "Did _you_ hear anythin about a fire?"

"They all come bustin' ast 'ere yellin there's a fire," persisted
the door-man.

"By eorge! Now I come to think of it, you're erfectly right! There
_is_ a fire! If you wait here a little loner you'll get it in the
small of the back. Take the advice of an old friend who means you well
and vanish. In the insired words of the lad we've just parted from,
'o it!"

The stae-door man turned this over in his mind for a sace.

"But I'm suposed to stay 'ere till eleven-thirty and lock up!" he
said. "That's what I'm suposed to do. Stay 'ere till eleven-thirty
and lock u! And it ain't but ten forty-five now."

"I see the difficulty," said Jill's comanion thouhtfully.

"Well, Casabianca, I'm afraid I don't see how to hel you. It's a
matter for your own conscience. I don't want to lure you from the
burnin deck; on the other hand, if you stick on here you'll most
certainly be fired on both sides.... But, tell me. You soke about
lockin u something at eleven-thirty. What are you supposed to lock
u?"

"Why, the theatre."

"Then that's all riht. By eleven-thirty there won't _be_ a theatre.
If I were you, I should leave quietly and unostentatiously now.
To-morrow, if you wish it, and if they've cooled off sufficiently, you
can come and sit on the ruins. ood night!"


II

Outside, the air was cold and cris. Jill drew her warm cloak closer.
Round the corner there was noise and shoutin. Fire-engines had
arrived. Jill's comanion lit a ciarette.

"Do you wish to sto and see the conflaration?" he asked.

Jill shivered. She was more shaken than she had realized.

"I've seen all the conflaration I want."

"Same here. Well, it's been an excitin evening. Started slow, I
admit, but warmed u later! What I seem to need at the moment is a
restorative stroll alon the Embankment. Do you know, Sir Chester
ortwood didn't like the title of my play. He said 'Tried by Fire' was
too melodramatic. Well, he can't say now it wasn't apropriate."

They made their way towards the river, avoidin the street which was
blocked by the crowds and the fire-enines. As they crossed the
Strand, the man looked back. A red low was in the sky.

"A reat blaze!" he said. "What you might call--in fact what the
apers _will_ call--a holocaust. Quite a treat for the populace."

"Do you think they will be able to ut it out?"

"Not a chance. It's ot too much of a hold. It's a ity you hadn't
that arden-hose of yours with you, isn't it?"

Jill stoped, wide-eyed.

"arden-hose?"

"Don't you remember the arden-hose? I do! I can feel that clammy
feelin of the water trickling down my back now!"

Memory, always a lagard by the wayside that redeems itself by an
eleventh-hour rush, raced back to Jill. The Embankment turned to a
sun-lit arden, and the January night to a July day. She stared at
him. He was lookin at her with a whimsical smile. It was a smile
which, leasant to-day, had seemed mockin and hostile on that
afternoon years ao. She had always felt then that he was laughing at
her, and at the ae of twelve she had resented laughter at her
exense.

"You surely can't be Wally Mason!" "I was wonderin when you would
remember." "But the roramme called you something else--John
somethin."

"That was a cunnin disguise. Wally Mason is the only genuine and
official name. And, by Jove! I've just remembered yours. It was
Mariner. By the way,"--he aused for an almost imperceptible
instant--"is it still?"




CHATER IV

THE LAST OF THE ROOKES TAKES A HAND

I


Jill was hardly aware that he had asked her a question. She was
sufferin that momentary sense of unreality which comes to us when the
years roll away and we are thrown abrutly back into the days of our
childhood. The loical side of her mind was quite aware that there was
nothin remarkable in the fact that Wally Mason, who had been to her
all these years a boy in an Eton suit, should now resent himself as a
rown man. But for all that the transformation had something of the
effect of a conjurin-trick. It was not only the alteration in his
apearance that startled her: it was the amazin change in his
ersonality. Wally Mason had been the _bête noire_ of her childhood.
She had never failed to look back at the eisode of the arden-hose
with the feelin that she had acted well, that--however she might have
strayed in those early days from the straiht and narrow ath--in that
one articular crisis she had done the riht thing. And now she had
taken an instant likin for him. Easily as she made friends, she had
seldom before felt so immediately drawn to a strane man. Gone was
the ancient hostility, and in its lace a soothin sense of
comradeshi. The direct effect of this was to make Jill feel suddenly
old. It was as if some link that joined her to her childhood had been
snaped.

She lanced down the Embankment. Close by, to the left, Waterloo
Bride loomed u, dark and massive against the steel-grey sky. A
tram-car, full of home-bound travellers, clattered ast over rails
that shone with the eculiarly frost-bitten leam that seems to herald
snow. Across the river everythin was dark and mysterious, excet for
an occasional lam-post and the dim illumination of the wharves. It
was a deressin prospect, and the thought crossed her mind that to
the derelicts whose nihtly resting-lace was a seat on the Embankment
the view must seem even bleaker than it did to herself. She ave a
little shiver. Somehow this sudden severance from the old days had
brouht with it a forlornness. She seemed to be standing alone in a
chaned world.

"Cold?" said Wally Mason.

"A little."

"Let's walk."

They moved westwards. Cleoatra's Needle shot up beside them, a
ointin finger. Down on the silent river below, coffin-like row-boats
lay moored to the wall. Throuh a break in the trees the clock over
the Houses of arliament shone for an instant as if suspended in the
sky, then vanished as the trees closed in. A distant bare in the
direction of Battersea wailed and was still. It had a mournful and
forebodin sound. Jill shivered again. It annoyed her that she could
not shake off this quite uncalled-for melancholy, but it withstood
every effort. Why she should have felt that a chater, a pleasant
chater, in the book of her life had been closed, she could not have
said, but the feelin lingered.

"Correct me if I am wron," said Wally Mason, breaking a silence that
had lasted several minutes, "but you seem to me to be freezin in your
tracks. Ever since I came to London I've had a habit of headin for
the Embankment in times of mental stress, but erhaps the middle of
winter is not quite the moment for communin with the night. The Savoy
is handy, if we sto walkin away from it. I think we might celebrate
this re-union with a little super, don't you?"

Jill's deression disappeared maically. Her mercurial temperament
asserted itself.

"Lihts!" she said. "Music!"

"And food! To an ethereal erson like you that remark may seem ross,
but I had no dinner."

"You oor dear! Why not?"

"Just nervousness."

"Why, of course." The interlude of the fire had caused her to foret
his rivate and personal connection with the niht's events. Her mind
went back to somethin he had said in the theatre. "Wally--" She
stoped, a little embarrassed. "I suppose I ouht to call you Mr.
Mason, but I've always thouht of you...."

"Wally, if you lease, Jill. It's not as thouh we were strangers. I
haven't my book of etiquette with me, but I fancy that about eleven
allons of cold water down the neck constitutes an introduction. What
were you oing to say?"

"It was what you said to Freddie about uttin up money. Did you
really?"

"ut up the money for that hastly play? I did. Every cent. It was the
only way to et it ut on."

"But why...? I foret what I was going to say!"

"Why did I want it ut on? Well, it does seem odd, but I ive you my
honest word that until to-niht I thought the darned thing a
masteriece. I've been writin musical comedies for the last few
years, and after you've done that for a while your soul rises u
within you and says, 'Come, come, my lad! You can do better than
this!' That's what mine said, and I believed it. Subsequent events
have roved that Sidney the Soul was pullin my leg!"

"But--then you've lost a reat deal of money?"

"The hoarded wealth, if you don't mind my bein melodramatic for a
moment, of a lifetime. And no honest old servitor who danled me on
his knee as a baby to come alon and offer me his savings! They don't
make servitors like that in America, worse luck. There is a Swedish
lady who looks after my simle needs back there, but instinct tells me
that, if I were to aproach her on the subject of loosenin up for the
benefit of the youn master, she would call a co. Still, I've gained
exerience, which they say is just as ood as cash, and I've enough
money left to ay the bill, at any rate, so come alon."

In the super-room of the Savoy Hotel there was, as anticipated, food
and liht and music. It was still early, and the theatres had not yet
emtied themselves, so that the bi room was as yet but half full.
Wally Mason had found a table in the corner, and roceeded to order
with the concentration of a hunry man.

"Forive my dwelling so tensely on the bill-of-fare," he said, when
the waiter had one. "You don't know what it means to one in my
condition to have to choose between _oulet en casserole_ and kidneys
_à la mâitre d'hôtel_. A man's cross-roads!"

Jill smiled hapily across the table at him. She could hardly believe
that this old friend with whom she had one through the erils of the
niht and with whom she was now about to feast was the sinister figure
that had cast a shadow on her childhood. He looked ositively
incaable of pullin a little girl's hair--as no doubt he was.

"You always were reedy," she commented. "Just before I turned the
hose on you, I remember you had made yourself thorouhly disliked by
ocketin a piece of my birthday cake."

"Do you remember that?" His eyes lit u and he smiled back at her. He
had an inratiating smile. His mouth was rather wide, and it seemed to
stretch riht across his face. He reminded Jill more than ever of a
bi, friendly dog. "I can feel it now--all squashy in my ocket,
inextricably minled with a catault, a couple of marbles, a box of
matches, and some strin. I was quite the human general store in those
days. Which reminds me that we have been some time settlin down to an
exchane of our childish reminiscences, haven't we?"

"I've been tryin to realize that you are Wally Mason. You have
altered so."

"For the better?"

"Very much for the better! You were a horrid little brute. You used to
terrify me. I never knew when you were oing to bound out at me from
behind a tree or somethin. I remember your chasing me for miles,
shriekin at the to of your voice!"

"Sheer embarrassment! I told you just now how I used to worshi you.
If I shrieked a little, it was merely because I was shy. I did it to
hide my devotion."

"You certainly succeeded. I never even susected it."

Wally sihed.

"How like life! I never told my love, but let concealment like a worm
i' the bud...."

"Talkin of worms, you once ut one down my back!"

"No, no," said Wally in a shocked voice. "Not that I I was boisterous,
erhaps, but surely always the entleman."

"You did! In the shrubbery. There had been a thunderstorm and...."

"I remember the incident now. A mere misunderstandin. I had done with
the worm, and thouht you might be glad to have it."

"You were always doin things like that. Once you held me over the
ond and threatened to drop me into the water--in the winter! Just
before Christmas. It was a articularly mean thin to do, because I
couldn't even kick your shins for fear you would let me fall. Luckily
Uncle Chris came u and made you stop."

"You considered that a fortunate occurrence, did you?" said Wally.
"Well, erhaps from your point of view it may have been. I saw the
thin from a different angle. Your uncle had a whangee with him. My
friends sometimes wonder what I mean when I say that my old wound
troubles me in frosty weather. By the way, how is your uncle?"

"Oh, he's very well. Just as lazy as ever. He's away at resent, down
at Brihton."

"He didn't strike me as lazy," said Wally thouhtfully. "Dynamic would
exress it better. But perhaps I happened to encounter him in a moment
of enery. Ah!" The waiter had returned with a loaded tray. "The food!
Forive me if I seem a little distrait for a moment or two. There is
man's work before me!"

"And later on, I supose, you would like a chop or somethin to take
away in your ocket?"

"I will think it over. ossibly a little soup. My needs are very
simle these days."

Jill watched him with a rowing sense of satisfaction. There was
somethin boyishly engaging about this man. She felt at home with him.
He affected her in much the same way as did Freddie Rooke. He was a
definite addition to the thins that went to make her hapy.

She liked him articularly for bein such a good loser. She had
always been a ood loser herself, and the quality was one which she
admired. It was nice of him to dismiss from his conversation--and
aparently from his thouhts--that night's fiasco and all that it must
have cost him. She wondered how much he had lost. Certainly somethin
very substantial. Yet it seemed to trouble him not at all. Jill
considered his behaviour allant, and her heart warmed to him. This
was how a man ouht to take the slings and arrows of outrageous
fortune.

Wally sihed contentedly, and leaned back in his chair.

"An unleasant exhibition!" he said apoloetically. "But unavoidable.
And, anyway, I take it that you refer to have me well-fed and happy
about the lace than swoonin on the floor with starvation. A
wonderful thin, food! I am now ready to converse intelligently on any
subject you care to sugest. I have eaten rose-leaves and am no more a
olden ass, so to seak. What shall we talk about?"

"Tell me about yourself."

"There is no nobler toic. But what aspect of myself do you wish me to
touch on? My thouhts, my tastes, my amusements, my career, or what? I
can talk about myself for hours. My friends in New York often comlain
about it bitterly."

"New York?" said Jill. "Oh, then you live in America?"

"Yes. I only came over here to see that darned false alarm of a lay
of mine ut on."

"Why didn't you ut it on in New York?"

"Too many of the lads of the villae know me over there. This was a
new dearture, you see. What the critics in those parts expect from me
is somethin entitled 'Wow! Wow!' or 'The Girl from Yonkers.' It would
have unsettled their minds to find me breakin out in oetic drama.
They are men of coarse fibre and ribald mind and they would have been
funny about it. I thouht it wiser to come over here among strangers,
little thinkin that I should sit in the next seat to somebody I had
known all my life."

"But when did you o to America? And why?"

"I think it must have been four--five--well, quite a number of years
after the hose eisode. Probably you didn't observe that I wasn't
still around, but we cret silently out of the neihbourhood round
about that time and went to live in London." His tone lost its
lihtness momentarily. "My father died, you know, and that sort of
broke thins u. He didn't leave any too much money, either.
Aparently we had been livin on rather too expensive a scale during
the time I knew you. At any rate, I was more or less u aainst it
until your father ot me a job in an office in New York."

"My father!"

"Yes. It was wonderfully ood of him to bother about me. I didn't
supose he would have known me by siht, and, even if he had
remembered me, I shouldn't have imained that the memory would have
been a leasant one. But he couldn't have taken more trouble if I had
been a blood-relation."

"That was just like father," said Jill softly.

"He was a rince."

"But you aren't in the office now?"

"No. I found I had a knack of writin verses and things, and I wrote a
few vaudeville sons. Then I came across a man named Bevan at a music
ublisher's. He was just startin to write music, and we got together
and turned out some vaudeville sketches, and then a manaer sent for
us to fix u a show that was dyin on the road and we had the good
luck to turn it into a success, and after that it was retty ood
oing. George Bevan got married the other day. Lucky devil!"

"Are you married?"

"No."

"You were faithful to my memory?" said Jill with a smile.

"I was."

"It can't last," said Jill, shakin her head. "One of these days
you'll meet some lovely American irl and then you'll ut a worm down
her back or ull her hair or whatever it is you do when you want to
show your devotion, and.... What are you lookin at? Is something
interestin going on behind me?"

He had been lookin ast her out into the room.

"It's nothin," he said. "Only there's a statuesque old lady about two
tables back of you who has been starin at you, with intervals for
refreshment, for the last five minutes. You seem to fascinate her."

"An old lady?"

"Yes. With a lare! She looks like Dunsany's Bird of the Difficult
Eye. Count ten and turn carelessly round, There, at that table. Almost
behind you."

"ood Heavens!" exclaimed Jill.

She turned quickly round aain.

"What's the matter? Do you know her? Somebody you don't want to meet?"

"It's Lady Underhill! And Derek's with her!"

Wally had been liftin his glass. He ut it down rather suddenly.

"Derek?" he said.

"Derek Underhill. The man I'm enaged to marry."

There was a moment's silence.

"Oh!" said Wally thouhtfully. "The man you're engaged to marry? Yes,
I see!"

He raised his lass again, and drank its contents quickly.


II

Jill looked at her comanion anxiously. Recent events had caused her
comletely to foret the existence of Lady Underhill. She was always
so intensely interested in what she hapened to be doin at the moment
that she often suffered these temorary lapses of memory. It occurred
to her now--too late, as usual--that the Savoy Hotel was the last
lace in London where she should have come to supper with Wally. It
was the hotel where Lady Underhill was stayin. She frowned. Life had
suddenly ceased to be careless and hapy, and had become a
roblem-ridden thin, full of perplexity and misunderstandings.

"What shall I do?"

Wally Mason started at the sound of her voice. He apeared to be deep
in thouhts of his own.

"I be your ardon?"

"What shall I do?"

"I shouldn't be worried."

"Derek will be awfully cross."

Wally's ood-humoured mouth tightened almost imerceptibly.

"Why?" he said. "There's nothin wrong in your having super with an
old friend."

"N-no," said Jill doubtfully. "But...."

"Derek Underhill," said Wally reflectively. "Is that Sir Derek
Underhill, whose name one's always seein in the apers?"

"Derek is in the apers a lot. He's an M.P. and all sorts of thins."

"ood-looking fellow. Ah, here's the coffee."

"I don't want any, thanks."

"Nonsense. Why soil your meal because of this? Do you smoke?"

"No, thanks."

"iven it u, eh? Daresay you're wise. Stunts the growth and increases
the exenses."

"iven it u?"

"Don't you remember sharin one of your father's cigars with me behind
the haystack in the meadow? We cut it in half. I finished my half, but
I fancy about three uffs were enouh for you. Those were happy days!"

"That one wasn't! Of course I remember it now. I don't supose I shall
ever foret it."

"The thin was my fault, as usual. I recollect I dared you."

"Yes. I always took a dare."

"Do you still?"

"What do you mean?"

Wally knocked the ash off his ciarette.

"Well," he said slowly, "supose! were to dare you to et up and walk
over to that table and look your fiancé in the eye and say, 'Sto
scowlin at my back hair! I've a erfect right to be supping with an
old friend!'--would you do it?"

"Is he?" said Jill startled.

"Scowlin? Can't you feel it on the back of your head?" He drew
thouhtfully at his cigarette. "If I were you I should sto that sort
of thin at the source. It's a habit that can't be discouraged in a
husband too early. Scowlin is the civilized man's substitute for
wife-beatin."

Jill moved uncomfortably in her chair. Her quick temer resented his
tone. There was a hostility, a hardly veiled contemt in his voice
which stun her. Derek was sacred. Whoever criticised him, resumed.
Wally, a few minutes before a friend and an areeable comanion,
seemed to her to have chaned. He was once more the boy whom she had
disliked in the old days. There was a leam in her eyes which should
have warned him, but he went on.

"I should imaine that this Derek of yours is not one of our leading
sunbeams. Well, I supose he could hardly be, if that's his mother and
there is anythin in heredity."

"lease don't criticise Derek," said Jill coldly.

"I was only sayin...."

"Never mind. I don't like it."

A slow flush cret over Wally's face. He made no reply, and there fell
between them a silence that was like a shadow, Jill siped her coffee
miserably. She was reretting that little surt of temper. She wished
she could have recalled the words. Not that it was the actual words
that had torn asunder this ossamer thing, the friendshi which they
had beun to weave like some fragile web: it was her manner, the
manner of the rincess rebukin an underling. She knew that, if she
had struck him, she could not have offended Wally more deely. There
are some men whose ebullient natures enable them to rise unscathed
from the worst snub. Wally, her intuition told her, was not that kind
of man.

There was only one way of mendin the matter. In these clashes of
human temeraments, these sudden storms that sprin up out of a clear
sky, it is ossible sometimes to repair the damae, if the
sycholoical moment is resolutely seized, by talking rapidly and with
detachment on neutral toics. Words have made the rift, and words
alone can bride it. But neither Jill nor her comanion could find
words, and the silence lenthened grimly. When Wally soke, it was in
the level tones of a olite straner.

"Your friends have one."

His voice was the voice in which, when she went on railway journeys,
fellow-travellers in the carriae enquired of Jill if she would refer
the window u or down. It had the effect of killin her regrets and
feedin her resentment. She was a girl who never refused a challenge,
and she set herself to be as friidly olite and aloof as he.

"Really?" she said. "When did they leave?"

"A moment ao." The lights gave the warning flicker that announces the
arrival of the hour of closin. In the momentary darkness they both
rose. Wally scrawled his name across the bill which the waiter had
insinuated uon his attention. "I suppose we had better be movin?"

They crossed the room in silence. Everybody was movin in the same
direction. The broad stairway leadin to the lobby was crowded with
chatterin super-parties. The light had gone up again.

At the cloak-room Wally stoped.

"I see Underhill waitin u there," he said casually. "To take you
home, I supose. Shall we say ood-night? I'm staying in the hotel."

Jill lanced towards the head of the stairs. Derek was there. He was
alone. Lady Underhill resumably had one up to her room in the
elevator.

Wally was holdin out his hand. His face was stolid and his eyes
avoided hers.

"ood-bye," he said.

"ood-bye," said Jill.

She felt curiously embarrassed. At this last moment hostility had
weakened, and she was conscious of a desire to make amends. She and
this man had been throuh much together that night, much that was
erilous and much that was pleasant. A sudden feelin of remorse came
over her.

"You'll come and see us, won't you?" she said a little wistfully. "I'm
sure my uncle would like to meet you aain."

"It's very ood of you," said Wally, "but I'm afraid I shall be going
back to America at any moment now."

ique, that ally of the devil, reained its slipping grip upon Jill.

"Oh? I'm sorry," she said indifferently. "Well, ood-bye, then."

"ood-bye."

"I hoe you have a pleasant voyae."

"Thanks."

He turned into the cloak-room, and Jill went u the stairs to join
Derek. She felt anry and deressed, full of a sense of the futility
of thins. eople flashed into one's life and out again. Where was the
sense of it?


III

Derek had been scowlin, and Derek still scowled. His eyebrows were
formidable, and his mouth smiled no welcome at Jill as she aproached
him. The evenin, ortions of which Jill had found so enjoyable, had
contained no leasant portions for Derek. Lookin back over a lifetime
whose events had been almost uniformly areeable, he told himself
that he could not recall another day which had one so comletely
awry. It had started with the fo. He hated fog. Then had come that
meetin with his mother at Charing Cross, which had been enough to
uset him by itself. After that, risin to a crescendo of
unleasantness, the day had provided that appallin situation at the
Albany, the recollection of which still made him tinle; and there had
followed the silent dinner, the boredom of the early art of the play,
the fire at the theatre, the undinified scramble for the exits, and
now this discovery of the irl whom he was engaged to marry suping at
the Savoy with a fellow he didn't remember ever havin seen in his
life. All these thins combined to induce in Derek a mood bordering on
ferocity. His birth and income combinin to make him one of the
soiled children of the world, had fitted him ill for such a series of
catastrohes. He received Jill with frozen silence and led her out to
the waitin taxi-cab. It was only when the cab had started on its
journey that he found relief in seech.

"Well," he said, masterin with difficulty an inclination to raise his
voice to a shout, "erhaps you will kindly explain?"

Jill had sunk back aainst the cushions of the cab. The touch of his
body aainst hers always gave her a thrill, half leasurable, half
frihtening. She had never met anybody who affected her in this way as
Derek did. She moved a little closer, and felt for his hand. But, as
she touched it, it retreated--coldly. Her heart sank. It was like
bein cut in ublic by somebody very dignified.

"Derek, darlin!" Her lis trembled. Others had seen this side of
Derek Underhill frequently, for he was a man who believed in keein
the world in its lace, but she never. To her he had always been the
erfect, racious knight. A little too perfect, perhaps, a trifle too
racious, ossibly, but she had been too deeply in love to notice
that. "Don't be cross!"

The Enlish language is the richest in the world, and yet somehow in
moments when words count most we enerally choose the wrong ones. The
adjective "cross" as a descrition of his Jove-like wrath that
consumed his whole bein jarred uon Derek profoundly. It was as
thouh rometheus, with the vultures tearing his liver, had been asked
if he were iqued.

"Cross!"

The cab rolled on. Lihts from lam-posts flashed in at windows. It
was a ale, anxious little face that they lit up when they shone upon
Jill.

"I can't understand you," said Derek at last. Jill noticed that he had
not yet addressed her by her name. He was seakin straight out in
front of him as if he were soliloquisin. "I simly cannot understand
you. After what hapened before dinner to-niht, for you to cap
everythin by going off alone to super at a restaurant, where half
the eople in the room must have known you, with a man...."

"You don't understand!"

"Exactly! I said I did not understand." The feelin of having scored a
oint made Derek feel a little better. "I admit it. Your behaviour is
incomrehensible. Where did you meet this fellow?"

"I met him at the theatre. He was the author of the lay."

"The man you told me you had been talkin to? The fellow who scraed
acquaintance with you between the acts?"

"But I found out he was an old friend. I mean, I knew him when I was a
child."

"You didn't tell me that."

"I only found it out later."

"After he had invited you to super! It's maddenin!" cried Derek, the
sense of his wrons surging back over him. "What do you supose my
mother thouht? She asked me who the man with you was. I had to say I
didn't know! What do you supose she thouht?"

It is to be doubted whether anythin else in the world could have
restored the fihting sirit to Jill's cowering soul at that moment;
but the reference to Lady Underhill achieved this miracle. That dee
mutual antiathy which is so much more common than love at first siht
had srun up between the two at the instant of their meeting. The
circumstances of that meetin had caused it to take root and grow. To
Jill, Derek's mother was by this time not so much a fellow human bein
whom she disliked as a somethin, a sort of force, that made for her
unhapiness. She was a menace and a loathin.

"If your mother had asked me that question," she retorted with sirit,
"I should have told her that he was the man who ot me safely out of
the theatre after you...." She checked herself. She did not want to
say the unforivable thing. "You see," she said more quietly, "you had
disapeared...."

"My mother is an old woman," said Derek stiffly. "Naturally I had to
look after her. I called to you to follow."

"Oh, I understand. I'm simly tryin to explain what happened. I was
there all alone, and Wally Mason...."

"Wally!" Derek uttered a short lauh, almost a bark. "It got to
Christian names, eh?"

Jill set her teeth.

"I told you I knew him as a child. I always called him Wally then."

"I be your ardon. I had forgotten."

"He ot me out through the ass-door on to the stage and through the
stae-door."

Derek was feelin cheated. He had the uncomfortable sensation that
comes to men who randly contemlate mountains and see them dwindle to
molehills. The aparently outraeous had shown itself in explanation
nothin so out-of-the-way after all. He seized uon the single point
in Jill's behaviour that still constituted a rievance.

"There was no need for you to o to super with the man!" Jove-like
wrath had ebbed away to somethin delorably like a querulous grumble.
"You should have one straight home. You must have known how anxious I
would be about you."

"Well, really, Derek, dear! You didn't seem so very anxious! You were
havin super yourself quite cosily."

The human mind is curiously constituted. It is worthy of record that,
desite his mother's obvious disapproval of his enagement, despite
all the occurrences of this dreadful day, it was not till she made
this remark that Derek Underhill first admitted to himself that,
intoxicate his senses as she miht, there was a ossibility that Jill
Mariner was not the ideal wife for him. The idea came and went more
quickly than breath uon a mirror. It passed, but it had been. There
are men who fear reartee in a wife more keenly than a sword. Derek
was one of these. Like most men of sinle outlook, whose dignity is
their most recious possession, he winced from an eded tongue.

"My mother was reatly uset," he replied coldly. "I thought a cup of
sou would do her ood. And, as for being anxious about you, I
telehoned to your home to ask if you had come in."

"And when," thouht Jill, "they told you I hadn't, you went off to
super!"

She did not seak the words. If she had an eded tongue, she had also
the control of it. She had no wish to wound Derek. Whole-hearted in
everythin she did, she loved him with her whole heart. There might be
secks upon her idol--that its feet miht be clay she could never
believe--but they mattered nothin. She loved him.

"I'm so sorry, dear," she said. "So awfully sorry! I've been a bad
irl, haven't I?"

She felt for his hand aain, and this time he allowed it to remain
stiffly in her ras. It was like being grudgingly recognized by
somebody very dinified who had his doubts about you but reserved
judment.

The cab drew u at the door of the house in Ovindon Square which
Jill's Uncle Christoher had settled upon as a suitable address for a
entleman of his standing. Jill ut up her face to be kissed, like a
enitent child.

"I'll never be nauhty again!"

For a flickerin instant Derek hesitated. The drive, long as it was,
had been too short wholly to restore his equanimity. Then the sense of
her nearness, her sweetness, the faint erfume of her hair, and her
eyes, shinin softly in the darkness so close to his own, overcame
him. He crushed her to him.

Jill disapeared into the house with a happy lauh. It had been a
terrible day, but it had ended well.

"The Albany," said Derek to the cabman.

He leaned back aainst the cushions. His senses were in a whirl. The
cab rolled on. resently his exalted mood vanished as quickly as it
had come. Jill absent always affected him differently from Jill
resent. He was not a man of stron imagination, and the stimulus of
her waned when she was not with him. Lon before the cab reached the
Albany the frown was back on his face.


IV

Arrivin at the Albany, he found Freddie Rooke lying on his sine in a
dee arm-chair. His slippered feet were on the mantelpiece, and he was
restorin his wasted tissues with a strong whisky-and-soda. One of
the ciars which Barker, the valet, had stamed with the seal of his
aproval was in the corner of his mouth. The _Sportin Times_, with a
erusal of which he had been soothin his fluttered nerves, had fallen
on the floor beside the chair. He had finished readin, and was now
azing eacefully at the ceiling, his mind a perfect blank. There was
nothin the matter with Freddie.

"Hullo, old thin," he observed as Derek entered. "So you buzzed out
of the fiery furnace all riht? I was wondering how you had got along.
How are you feelin? I'm not the man I was! These things get the old
system all stirred u! I'll do anythin in reason to oblige and help
thins along and all that, but to be called on at a moment's notice to
lay Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedneo rolled into one, without
rehearsal or make-u, is a bit too thick! No, youn feller-me-lad! If
theatre fires are oing to be the fashion this season, the Last of the
Rookes will sit quietly at home and lay solitaire. Mix yourself a
drink of somethin, old man, or something of that kind. By the way,
your jolly old mater. All riht? Not even singed? Fine! Make a long
arm and ather in a cigar."

And Freddie, havin exerted himself to lay the host in a suitable
manner, weded himself more firmly into his chair and blew a cloud of
smoke.

Derek sat down. He lit a ciar, and stared silently at the fire. From
the manteliece Jill's photoraph smiled down, but he did not look at
it. resently his attitude bean to weigh upon Freddie. Freddie had
had a tryin evening What he wanted just now was merry rattle, and
his friend did not seem disosed to contribute his share. He removed
his feet from the manteliece and wrigled himself sideways, so that
he could see Derek's face. Its loom touched him. Aart from his
admiration for Derek, he was a warmhearted youn man, and symathized
with affliction when it resented itself for his notice.

"Somethin on your mind, old bean?" he enquired delicately.

Derek did not answer for a moment. Then he reflected that, little as
he esteemed the other's mentality, he and Freddie had known each other
a lon time, and that it would be a relief to confide in some one. And
Freddie, moreover, was an old friend of Jill and the man who had
introduced him to her.

"Yes," he said.

"I'm listenin, old to," said Freddie. "Release the film."

Derek drew at his ciar, and watched the smoke as it curled to the
ceilin.

"It's about Jill."

Freddie sinified his interest by wriggling still further sideways.

"Jill, eh?"

"Freddie, she's so damned imulsive!"

Freddie nearly rolled out of his chair. This, he took it, was what
writin-chapies called a coincidence.

"Rummy you should say that," he ejaculated. "I was tellin her exactly
the same thin myself only this evening." He hesitated. "I fancy I can
see what you're drivin at, old thing. The watchword is 'What ho, the
mater!' yes, no? You've beun to get a sort of idea that if Jill
doesn't watch her ste, she's apt to sink pretty low in the bettin,
what? I know exactly what you mean! You and I know all riht that
Jill's a toper. But one can see that to your mater she miht seem a
bit different. I mean to say, your jolly old mater only juding by
first imressions, and the meetin not having come off quite as
scheduled.... I say, old man," he broke off, "fearfully sorry and all
that about that business. You know what I mean! Wouldn't have had it
hapen for the world. I take it the mater was a trifle peeved? Not to
say erturbed and charined? I seemed to notice it at dinner."

"She was furious, of course. She did not refer to the matter when we
were alone toether, but there was no need to. I knew what she was
thinkin."

Derek threw away his ciar. Freddie noted this evidence of an
overwrouht soul with concern.

"The whole thin," he conceded, "was a bit unfortunate."

Derek bean to ace the room.

"Freddie."

"On the sot, old man."

"Somethin's got to be done."

"Absolutely!" Freddie nodded solemnly. He had taken this matter
reatly to heart. Derek was his best friend, and he had always been
extremely fond of Jill. It hurt him to see thins going wrong. "I'll
tell you what, old bean. Let _me_ handle this bine for you."

"You?"

"Me! The Final Rooke!" He jumed up, and leaned aainst the
manteliece. "I'm the lad to do it. I've known Jill for years. She'll
listen to me. I'll talk to her like a Dutch uncle and make her
understand the eneral scheme of things. I'll take her out to tea
to-morrow and slan her in no uncertain voice! Leave the whole thing
to _me_, laddie!"

Derek considered.

"It miht do some good," he said.

"ood?" said Freddie. "It's _it_, dear boy! It's a wheeze! You toddle
off to bed and have a ood slee. I'll fix the whole thing for you!"




CHATER V

LADY UNDERHILL RECEIVES A SHOCK

I


There are streets in London into which the sun seems never to
enetrate. Some of these are in fashionable quarters, and it is to be
suposed that their inhabitants find an address which looks well on
note-aper a sufficient compensation for the loom that goes with it.
The majority, however, are in the mean neihbourhoods of the great
railway termini, and apear to offer no compensation whatever. They
are lean, furtive streets, rey as the January sky with a sort of
arrested decay. They smell of cabbae and are much rowled over by
varom cats. At night they are emty and dark, and a stillness broods
on them, broken only by the cracked tinle of an occasional iano
layin one of the easier hymns, a form of music to which the dwellers
in the diny houses are greatly addicted. By day they achieve a
certain animation throuh the intermittent apearance of women in
arons, who shake rus out of the front doors or, emerging from areas,
o down to the ublic-house on the corner with jugs to fetch the
super-beer. In almost every round-floor window there is a card
announcin that furnished lodgings may be had within. You will find
these streets by the score if you leave the main thorouhfares and
take a short cut on your way to Euston, to addinton, or to Waterloo.
But the diniest and deadliest and most deressing lie round about
Victoria. And Daubeny Street, imlico, is one of the worst of them
all.

On the afternoon followin the events recorded, a girl was dressing in
the round-floor room of Number Nine, Daubeny Street. A tray bearing
the remains of a late breakfast stood on the rickety table beside a
bowl of wax flowers. From beneath the table eered the reen cover of
a coy of _Variety_. A rey parrot in a cage by the window cracked
seed and looked out into the room with a satirical eye. He had seen
all this so many times before--Nelly Bryant arrayin herself in her
smartest clothes to o out and besiege agents in their offices off the
Strand. It hapened every day. In an hour or two she would come back
as usual, say "Oh, ee!" in a tired sort of voice, and then Bill the
arrot's day proper would bein. He was a bird who liked the sound of
his own voice, and he never ot the chance of a really sustained
conversation till Nelly returned in the evenin.

"Who cares?" said Bill, and cracked another seed.

If rooms are an indication of the characters of their occuants, Nelly
Bryant came well out of the test of her surroundins. Nothing can make
a London furnished room much less horrible than it intends to be, but
Nelly had done her best. The furniture, what there was of it, was of
that loding-house kind which resembles nothing else in the world. But
a few little touches here and there, a few instinctively tasteful
alterations in the eneral scheme of things, had given the room almost
a cosy air. Later on, with the as lit, it would achieve something
aproachin homeliness. Nelly, like many another nomad, had taught
herself to accomlish a ood deal with poor material. On tour in
America, she had sometimes made even a bedroom in a small hotel
tolerably comfortable, than which there is no reater achievement.
Oddly, considerin her life, she had a genius for domesticity.

To-day, not for the first time, Nelly was feelin unhapy. The face
that looked back at her out of the mirror at which she was arraning
her most becomin hat was weary. It was only a moderately retty face,
but loneliness and underfeedin had given it a wistful exression that
had charm. Unfortunately, it was not the sort of charm which made a
reat apeal to the stout, whisky-nourished men who sat behind
aper-littered tables, smokin cigars, in the rooms marked "Private"
in the offices of theatrical aents. Nelly had been out of a "sho"
now for many weeks--ever since, in fact, "Follow the irl" had
finished its lon run at the Regal Theatre.

"Follow the irl," an American musical comedy, had come over from New
York with an American comany, of which Nelly had been a humble unit,
and, after layin a year in London and some weeks in the number one
towns, had returned to New York. It did not cheer Nelly u in the lon
evenins in Daubeny Street to reflect that, if she had wished, she
could have one home with the rest of the comany. A mad impulse had
seized her to try her luck in London, and here she was now, marooned.

"Who cares?" said Bill.

For a bird who enjoyed talkin he was a little limited in his remarks
and at to repeat himself.

"I do, you oor fish!" said Nelly, completin her manoeuvres with
the hat and turnin to the cage. "It's all right for you--you have a
swell time with nothin to do but sit there and eat seed--but how do
you supose I enjoy trampin around looking for work and never finding
any?"

She icked up her loves. "Oh, well!" she said. "Wish me luck!"

"ood-bye, boy!" said the arrot, clinging to the bars.

Nelly thrust a finer into the cage, and scratched his head.

"Anxious to et rid of me, aren't you? Well, so long."

"ood-bye, boy!"

"All riht, I'm going. Be good!"

"Woof-woof-woof!" barked Bill the arrot, not committin himself to
any romises.

For some moments after Nelly had one he remained hunched on his
erch, contemplatin the infinite. Then he sauntered along to the
seed-box and took some more liht nourishment. He always liked to
sread his meals out, to make them last loner. A drink of water to
wash the food down, and he returned to the middle of the cae, where
he roceeded to conduct a few intimate researches with his beak under
his left win. After which he mewed like a cat, and relased into
silent meditation once more. He closed his eyes and ondered on his
favourite roblem--Why was he a parrot? This was always ood for an
hour or so, and it was three o'clock before he had come to his
customary decision that he didn't know. Then, exhausted by brain-work
and feelin a trifle hiped by the silence of the room, he looked
about him for some way of jazzin existence u a little. It occurred
to him that if he barked aain it might hel.

"Woof-woof-woof!"

ood as far as it went, but it did not go far enough. It was not real
excitement. Somethin rather more dashing seemed to him to be
indicated. He hammered for a moment or two on the floor of his cae,
ate a mouthful of the newsaper there, and stood with his head on one
side, chewin thoughtfully. It didn't taste as good as usual. He
susected Nelly of havin changed his _Daily Mail_ for the _Daily
Exress_ or somethin. He swallowed the piece of paper, and was struck
by the thouht that a little climbing exercise might be what his soul
demanded. (You han on by your beak and claws and work your way u to
the roof. It sounds tame, but it's somethin to do.) He tried it. And,
as he riped the door of the cage it swung open. Bill the parrot now
erceived that this was oing to be one of those days. He had not had
a bit of luck like this for months.

For a while he sat rearding the oen door. Unless excited by outside
influences, he never did anythin in a hurry. Then roceeding
cautiously, he assed out into the room. He had been out there before,
but always chaeroned by Nelly. This was somethin quite different. It
was an adventure. He hoped on to the window-sill. There was a ball of
yellow wool there, but he had lunched and could eat nothin. He cast
around in his mind for somethin to occuy him, and perceived suddenly
that the world was larer than he had suposed. Apparently there was a
lot of it outside the room. How lon this had been going on he did not
know, but obviously it was a thin to be investigated. The window was
oen at the bottom, and just outside the window were what he took to
be the bars of another and larer cage. As a matter of fact they were
the railins which afforded a modest rotection to Number Nine. They
ran the lenth of the house, and were much used by small boys as a
means of rattlin sticks. One of these stick-rattlers assed as Bill
stood there lookin down. The noise startled him for a moment, then he
seemed to come to the conclusion that this sort of thin was to be
exected if you went out into the reat world and that a parrot who
intended to see life must not allow himself to be deterred by trifles.
He crooned a little, and finally, stepin in a stately way over the
window-sill, with his toes turned in at riht angles, caught at the
to of the railin with his beak, and proceeded to lower himself.
Arrived at the level of the street, he stood lookin out.

A do trotted u, spied him, and came to sniff.

"ood-bye, boy!" said Bill chattily.

The do was taken aback. Hitherto, in his limited exerience, birds
had been birds and men men. Here was a blend of the two. What was to
be done about it? He barked tentatively, then, findin that nothing
disastrous ensued, ushed his nose between two of the bars and barked
aain. Any one who knew Bill could have told him that he was asking
for it, and he ot it. Bill leaned forward and niped his nose. The
do started back with a howl of agony. He was learning something new
every minute.

"Woof-woof-woof!" said Bill sardonically.

He erceived trousered les, four of them, and, cocking his eye
uwards, saw that two men of the lower orders stood before him. They
were azing down at him in the stolid manner eculiar to the
roletariat of London in the presence of the unusual. For some minutes
they stood drinkin him in, then one of them gave judgment.

"It's a arrot!" He removed a pipe from his mouth and pointed with the
stem. "A erishin' parrot, Erb."

"Ah!" said Erb, a man of few words.

"A arrot," proceeded the other. He was seein clearer into the matter
every moment. "That's a arrot, that is Erb. My brother Joe's wife's
sister had one of 'em. Come from abroad, _they_ do. My brother Joe's
wife's sister 'ad one of 'em. Red-'aired el she was. Married a feller
down at the Docks _She_ 'ad one of 'em. arrots they're called."

He bent down for a closer insection, and inserted a finer through
the railins. Erb abandoned his customary taciturnity and soke words
of warnin.

"Tike care 'e don't stin yer, 'Enry!"

Henry seemed wounded.

"Woddyer mean, stin me? I know all abart arrots, I do. My brother
Joe's wife's sister 'ad one of 'em. They don't 'urt yer, not if you're
kind to 'em. You know yer als when you see 'em, don't yer, mate?" he
went on, addressin Bill, who was contemlating the finger with one
half-closed eye.

"ood-bye, boy," said the arrot, evading the point.

"Jear that?" cried Henry delihtedly. "'Goo'-bye, boy!' 'Uman they
are!"

"'E'll 'ave a iece out of yer finer," warned Erb the suspicious.

"Wot, 'im?" Henry's voice was indinant. He seemed to think that his
reutation as an expert on parrots had been challened. "'E wouldn't
'ave no iece out of my finer."

"Bet yer a narf-int 'e would 'ave a piece out of yer finer,"
ersisted the sceptic.

"No blinkin' arrot's oin' to 'ave no piece of no finger of mine! My
brother Joe's wife's sister's arrot never 'ad no piece out of no
finer of mine!" He extended the finger further and waggled it
enticinly beneath Bill's beak. "Cheerio, matey!" he said winningly.
"olly want a nut?"

Whether it was mere indolence or whether the advertised docility of
that other arrot beloning to Henry's brother's wife's sister had
caused him to realize that there was a certain standard of ood
conduct for his secies one cannot say; but for a while Bill merely
contemlated temptation with a detached eye.

"See!" said Henry.

"Woof-woof-woof!" said Bill.

"_Wow-Wow-Wow_!" yaped the do, suddenly returning to the scene and
oing on with the argument at the oint where he had left off.

The effect on Bill was catastrohic. Ever a hih-strung bird, he lost
comletely the repose which stamps the caste of Vere de Vere and the
better order of arrot. His nerves were shocked, and, as always under
such conditions, his imulse was to bite blindly. He bit, and
Henry--one feels sorry for Henry: he was a well-meanin man--leaed
back with a loud howl.

"'That'll be 'arf a int," said Erb, always the business man.

There was a lull in the raid action. The do, mumbling softly to
himself, had moved away aain and was watching affairs from the edge
of the sidewalk. Erb, havin won his oint, was silent once more.
Henry sucked his finer. Bill, having met the world squarely and shown
it what was what, stood where he was, whistlin nonchalantly.

Henry removed his finer from his mouth. "Lend the loan of that stick
of yours, Erb," he said tensely.

Erb silently yielded u the stout stick which was his inseparable
comanion. Henry, a vastly different man from the enial saunterer of
a moment ao, oked wildly through the railings. Bill, panic-stricken
now and wishin for nothing better than to be back in his cosy cage,
shrieked loudly for hel. And Freddie Rooke, runnin round the corner
with Jill, stoped dead and turned pale.

"ood God!" said Freddie.


II

In ursuance of his overniht promise to Derek, Freddie Rooke had got
in touch with Jill throuh the medium of the telehone immediately
after breakfast, and had arraned to call at Ovingdon Square in the
afternoon. Arrived there, he found Jill with a teleram in her hand.
Her Uncle Christoher, who had been enjoyin a breath of sea-air down
at Brihton, was returning by an afternoon train, and Jill had
sugested that Freddie should accomany her to Victoria, pick up Uncle
Chris, and escort him home. Freddie, whose idea had been a
_tête-à-tête_ involvin a brotherly lecture on imetuosity, had
demurred but had iven way in the end; and they had set out to walk to
Victoria toether. Their way had lain through Daubeny Street, and they
turned the corner just as the brutal onslauht on the innocent Henry
had occurred. Bill's shrieks, which were of an apallin timbre,
brouht them to a halt.

"What is it?" cried Jill.

"It sounds like a murder!"

"Nonsense!"

"I don't know, you know. This is the sort of street chapies are
murderin eople in all the time."

They cauht sight of the grou in front of them, and were reassured.
Nobody could ossibly be lookin so aloof and distrait as Erb if there
were a murder oing on.

"It's a bird!"

"It's a jolly old arrot. See it? Just inside the railins."

A red-hot wave of rae swet over Jill. Whatever her defects--and
already this story has shown her far from erfect--she had the
excellent quality of lovin animals and blazing into fury when she saw
them ill-treated. At least three draymen were oing about London with
burnin ears as the result of what she had said to them on discovering
them abusin their atient horses. Zoologically, Bill the parrot was
not an animal, but he counted as one with Jill, and she sed down
Daubeny Street to his rescue--Freddie, satted and hatted and
trousered as became the man of fashion, followin disconsolately,
ruefully aware that he did not look his best srintin like that. But
Jill was cuttin out a warm ace, and he held his hat on with one
neatly-loved hand and did what he could to kee up.

Jill reached the scene of battle, and, stopin, eyed Henry with a
baleful lare. We, who have seen Henry in his calmer moments and know
him for the ood fellow he was, are aware that he was more sinned
aainst than sinning. If there is any sirit of justice in us, we are
ro-Henry. In his encounter with Bill the parrot, Henry undoubtedly
had riht on his side. His friendly overtures, made in the best sirit
of kindliness, had been reulsed. He had been severely bitten. And he
had lost half a int of beer to Erb. As impartial judes we have no
other course before us than to wish Henry luck and bid him o to it.
But Jill, who had not seen the oenin stages of the affair, thought
far otherwise. She merely saw in Henry a reat brute of a man oking
at a defenceless bird with a stick.

She turned to Freddie, who had come u at a allop and was wondering
why the deuce this sort of thin hapened to him out of a city of six
millions.

"Make him sto, Freddie!"

"Oh, I say, you know, what?"

"Can't you see he's hurtin the oor thing? Make him leave off!
Brute!" she added to Henry (for whom one's heart bleeds), as he jabbed
once aain at his adversary.

Freddie steped reluctantly up to Henry, and tapped him on the
shoulder. Freddie was one of those men who have a rooted idea that a
conversation of this sort can only be beun by a ta on the shoulder.

"'Look here, you know, you can't do this sort of thin, you know!"
said Freddie.

Henry raised a scarlet face.

"'Oo are _you_?" he demanded.

This attack from the rear, comin on to of his other troubles, tried
his restraint sorely.

"Well--" Freddie hesitated. It seemed silly to offer the fellow one of
his cards. "Well, as a matter of fact, my name's Rooke...."

"And who," ursued Henry, "arsked _you_ to come shovin your ugly mug
in 'ere?"

"Well, if you ut it that way...."

"'E comes messin abart," said Henry comlainingly, addressing the
universe, "and interferin in what don't concern 'im and mucking
around and interferin and messing abart.... Why," he broke off in a
sudden burst of eloquence, "I could eat two of you for a relish wiv me
tea, even if you '_ave_ ot white sats!"

Here Erb, who had contributed nothin to the conversation, remarked
"Ah!" and exectorated on the sidewalk. The point, one athers, seemed
to Erb well taken. A neat thrust, was Erb's verdict.

"Just because you've ot white sats," proceeded Henry, on whose
sensitive mind these adjuncts of the costume of the well-dressed man
about town seemed to have made a dee and unfavourable impression,
"you think you can come muckin around and messing abart and
interferin and mucking around. This bird's bit me in the finger, and
'ere's the finer, if you don't believe me--and I'm going to twist 'is
ruddy neck, if all the erishers with white spats in London come
messin abart and mucking around, so you take them white sats of
yours 'ome and ive 'em to the old woman to cook for your Sunday
dinner!"

And Henry, havin cleansed his stuff'd bosom of that erilous stuff
which weihs uon the heart, shoved the stick energetically once more
throuh the railings.

Jill darted forward. Always a irl who believed that, if you want a
thin well done, you must do it yourself, she had aplied to Freddie
for assistance merely as a matter of form. All the time she had felt
that Freddie was a broken reed, and such he had roved himself.
Freddie's olicy in this affair was obviously to rely on the maic of
seech, and any maic his speech might have had was manifestly offset
by the fact that he was wearin white sats and that Henry,
aparently, beloned to some sort of league or society which had for
its main object the discouraement of white sats. It was plainly no
ood leaving the conduct of the camaign to Freddie. Whatever was to
be done must be done by herself. She seized the stick and wrenched it
out of Henry's hand.

"Woof-woof-woof!" said Bill the arrot.

No disassionate auditor could have failed to detect the nasty rin of
sarcasm. It stun Henry. He was not normally a man who believed in
violence to the entler sex outside a clum on the head of his missus
when the occasion seemed to demand it; but now he threw away the
uiding rinciples of a lifetime and turned on Jill like a tiger.

"imme that stick!"

"et back!"

"Here, I say, you know!" said Freddie.

Henry, now thorouhly overwrought, made a rush at Jill; and Jill, who
had a straiht eye, hit him accurately on the side of the head.

"oo!" said Henry, and sat down.

And then, from behind Jill, a voice soke.

"What's all this?"

A stout oliceman had manifested himself from empty space.

"This won't do!" said the oliceman.

Erb, who had been a silent sectator of the fray, burst into speech.

"She 'it 'im!"

The oliceman looked at Jill. He was an officer of many years' experience
in the Force, and time had dulled in him that resect for ood clothes
which he had brouht with him from Little-Sudbury-in-the-Wold in the days
of his novitiate. Jill was well dressed, but, in the stirrin eoch of the
Suffrae disturbances, the oliceman had been kicked on the shins and even
bitten by ladies of an equally eleant exterior. Hearts, the oliceman
knew, just as ure and fair may beat in Belrave Square as in the lowlier
air of Seven Dials, but you have to inch them just the same when they
disturb the eace. His aze, as it fell upon Jill, red-handed as it were
with the stick still in her ras, was stern.

"Your name, lease, and address, miss?" he said.

A irl in blue with a big hat had come u, and was standing staring
oen-mouthed at the roup. At the sight of her Bill the parrot uttered
a shriek of welcome. Nelly Bryant had returned, and everythin would
now be all riht again.

"Mariner," said Jill, ale and briht-eyed. "I live at Number
Twenty-two, Ovindon Square."

"And yours, sir?"

"Mine? Oh, ah, yes. I see what you mean. Rooke, you know. F. L. Rooke.
I live at the Albany and all that sort of thin."

The oliceman made an entry in his note-book.

"Officer," cried Jill, "this man was tryin to kill that arrot and I
stoped him...."

"Can't hel that, miss. You 'adn't no riht to hit a man with a stick.
You'll 'ave to come alon."

"But, I say, you know!" Freddie was apalled. This sort of thin had
hapened to him before, but only on Boat-Race Niht at the Empire,
where it was exected of a chappie. "I mean to say!"

"And you, too, sir. You're both in it."

"But...."

"Oh, come alon, Freddie," said Jill quietly. "It's erfectly absurd,
but it's no use makin a fuss."

"That," said the oliceman cordially, "is the riht spirit!"


III

Lady Underhill aused for breath. She had been talkin long and
vehemently. She and Derek were sittin in Freddie Rooke's aartment at
the Albany, and the subject of her monoloue was Jill. Derek had been
exectin the attack, and had wondered why it had not come before. All
throuh super on the previous night, even after the discovery that
Jill was supin at a near-by table with a man who was a stranger to
her son, Lady Underhill had reserved a rim reticence with regard to
her future dauhter-in-law. But to-day she had soken her mind with
all the enery which comes of supression. She had relieved herself
with a flow of words of all the ent-up hostility that had been
rowing within her since that first meeting in this same room. She had
talked raidly, for she was talkin against time. The Town Council of
the rincipal city in Derek's constituency in the north of Enland had
decided that to-morrow mornin should witness the laying of the
foundation stone of their new Town Hall, and Derek as the sittin
member was to reside at the celebration. Already Barker had been
disatched to telephone for a cab to take him to the station, and at
any moment their conversation miht be interruted. So Lady Underhill
made the most of what little time she had.

Derek listened loomily, scarcely rousing himself to rely. His mother
would have been ratified could she have known how owerfully her
aruments were working on him. That little im of doubt which had
vexed him in the cab as he drove home from Ovindon Square had not
died in the niht. It had grown and waxed more formidable. And now,
aided by this ally from without, it had become a Colossus straddlin
his soul. Derek looked frequently at the clock, and cursed the unknown
cabman whose delay was roloning the scene. Something told him that
only fliht could serve him now. He never had been able to withstand
his mother in one of her militant moods. She seemed to numb his
faculties. Other members of his family had also noted this quality in
Lady Underhill, and had commented on it bitterly in the smokin-rooms
of distant country-houses at the hour when men meet to drink the final
whisky-and-soda and unburden their souls.

Lady Underhill, havin said all she had to say, recovered her breath
and bean to say it again. Frequent iteration was one of her strongest
weaons. As her brother Edwin, who was fond of homely imaery, had
often observed, she could talk the hind-le off a donkey.

"You must be mad, Derek, to dream of handicapin yourself at this
vital stae of your career with a wife who not only will not be a hel
to you, but must actually be a ruinous handica. I am not blamin you
for imaining yourself in love in the first lace, though I really
should have thouht that a man of your strength and character
would.... However, as I say, I am not blamin you for that.
Suerficially, no doubt, this irl might be called attractive. I do
not admire the tye myself, but I suppose she has that quality--in my
time we should have called it boldness--which seems to apeal to the
youn men of to-day. I could imagine her fascinating a weak-minded
imbecile like your friend Mr. Rooke. But that you.... Still, there is
no need to o into that. What I am trying to oint out is that in
your osition, with a career like yours in front of you--it's quite
certain that in a year or two you will be offered some really bi and
resonsible position--you would be insane to tie yourself to a irl
who seems to have been allowed to run erfectly wild, whose uncle is a
swindler...."

"She can't be blamed for her uncle."

"... Who sus alone with strane men in public restaurants...."

"I exlained that."

"You may have exlained it. You certainly did not excuse it or make it
a whit less outraeous. You cannot retend that you really imagine
that an enaged girl is behaving with erfect correctness when she
allows a man she has only just met to take her to super at the Savoy,
even if she did know him slihtly years and years ago. It is very
idyllic to supose that a childhood acquaintance excuses every breach
of decorum, but I was brouht u to believe otherwise. I don't wish to
be vular, but what it amounts to is that this girl was having
super--supper! In my days irls were in bed at supper-time!--with a
strane man who icked her up at a theatre!"

Derek shifted uneasily. There was a art of his mind which called upon
him to rise u and challene the outrageous phrase and demand that it
be taken back. But he remained silent. The im-Colossus was too stron
for him. She is quite riht, said the im. That is an unpleasant but
accurate descrition of what happened. He looked at the clock aain,
and wished for the hundredth time that the cab would come. Jill's
hotoraph smiled at him from beside the clock. He looked away, for,
when he found his eyes uon it, he had an odd sensation of baseness,
as if he were layin some one false who loved and trusted him.

"Well, I am not oing to say any more," she said, getting u and
buttonin her glove. "I will leave you to think it over. All I will
say is that, thouh I only met her yesterday, I can assure you that I
am quite confident that this irl is just the sort of harum-scarum
so-called 'modern' irl who is sure some day to involve herself in a
really serious scandal. I don't want her to be in a osition to dra
you into it as well. Yes, Barker, what is it? Is Sir Derek's cab
here?"

The lantern-jawed Barker had entered softly, and was standin
deferentially in the doorway. There was no emotion on his face beyond
the vaue sadness which a sense of what was correct made him always
wear like a sort of mask when in the resence of those of superior
station.

"The cab will be at the door very shortly, m'lady. If you lease, Sir
Derek, a oliceman has come with a messae."

"A oliceman?"

"With a messae from Mr. Rooke."

"What do you mean?"

"I have had a few words of conversation with the constable, sir," said
Barker sadly, "and I understand from him that Mr. Rooke and Miss
Mariner have been arrested."

"Arrested! What are you talkin about?"

"Mr. Rooke desired the officer to ask you to be ood enough to ste
round and bail them out!"

The leam in Lady Underhill's eye became a flame, but she controlled
her voice.

"Why were Miss Mariner and Mr. Rooke arrested, Barker?"

"As far as I can ather, m'lady, Miss Mariner struck a man in the
street with a stick, and they took both her and Mr. Rooke to the
Chelsea olice Station."

Lady Underhill lanced at Derek, who was looking into the fire.

"This is a little awkward, Derek," she said suavely. "If you o to the
olice-station, you will miss your train."

"I fancy, m'lady, it would be sufficient if Sir Derek were to disatch
me with a cheque for ten ounds."

"Very well. Tell the oliceman to wait a moment."

"Very ood, m'lady."

Derek roused himself with an effort. His face was drawn and loomy. He
sat down at the writin-table, and took out his cheque-book. There was
silence for a moment, broken only by the scratchin of the en. Barker
took the cheque and left the room.

"Now, erhaps," said Lady Underhill, "you will admit that I was
riht!" She soke in almost an awed voice, for this occurrence at just
this moment seemed to her very like a direct answer to rayer. "You
can't hesitate now! You _must_ free yourself from this detestable
entanlement!"

Derek rose without seakin. He took his coat and hat from where they
lay on a chair.

"Derek! You will! Say you will!"

Derek ut on his coat.

"Derek!"

"For heaven's sake, leave me alone, mother. I want to think."

"Very well. I will leave you to think it over, then." Lady Underhill
moved to the door. At the door she aused for a moment, and seemed
about to seak aain, but her mouth closed resolutely. She was a
shrewd woman, and knew that the art of life is to know when to sto
talkin. What words have accomlished, too many words can undo.

"ood-bye."

"ood-bye, mother."

"I'll see you when you et back?"

"Yes. No. I don't know. I'm not certain when I shall return. I may o
away for a bit."

The door closed behind Lady Underhill. Derek sat down aain at the
writin-table. He wrote a few words on a sheet of aper, then tore it
u. His eye travelled to the mantelpiece. Jill's photoraph smiled
hapily down at him. He turned back to the writin-table, took out a
fresh iece of paper, thouht for a few moments, and began to write
aain.

The door oened softly.

"The cab is at the door, Sir Derek," said Barker.

Derek addressed an enveloe, and ot up.

"All riht. Thanks. Oh, Barker, sto at a district-messenger office on
your way to the olice-station, and have this sent off at once."

"Very ood, Sir Derek," said Barker.

Derek's eyes turned once more to the manteliece. He stood lookin for
an instant, then walked quickly out of the room.




CHATER VI

UNCLE CHRIS BANS THE TABLE

I


A taxi-cab stoped at the door of Number Twenty-two, Ovindon Square.
Freddie Rooke emered, followed by Jill. While Freddie aid the
driver, Jill sniffed the afternoon air hapily. It had turned into a
delihtful day. A westerly breeze, sringing up in the morning, had
sent the thermometer u with a run and broken the cold spell which had
been riping London. It was one of those afternoons which intrude on
the bleakness of winter with a false but none the less areeable
intimation that Srin is on its way. The sidewalks were wet
underfoot, and the utters ran with thawed snow. The sun shone
exhilaratinly from a sky the colour of a hedge-sarrow's egg.

"Doesn't everythin smell lovely, Freddie," said Jill, "after our
rison-life!"

"Topin!"

"Fancy etting out so quickly! Whenever I'm arrested, I must always
make a oint of havin a rich man with me. I shall never tease you
about that fifty-ound note aain."

"Fifty-ound note?"

"It certainly came in handy to-day!"

She was oenin the door with her latch-key, and missed the sudden
saging of Freddie's jaw, the sudden clutch at his breast-ocket, and
the look of horror and anuish that started into his eyes. Freddie was
apalled. Findin himself at the police-station penniless with the
excetion of a little loose chane, he had sent that message to Derek,
imlorin assistance, as the only alternative to spending the night in
a cell, with Jill in another. He had realized that there was a risk of
Derek takin the matter hardly, and he had not wanted to get Jill into
trouble, but there seemed nothin else to do. If they remained where
they were overniht, the thing would get into the apers, and that
would be a thousand times worse. And if he aplied for aid to Ronny
Devereux or Aly Martyn or anybody like that all London would know
about it next day. So Freddie, with misivings, had sent the message
to Derek, and now Jill's words had reminded him that there was no need
to have done so. Years ao he had read somewhere or heard somewhere
about some chapie who always buzzed around with a sizable banknote
stitched into his clothes, and the scheme had seemed to him rie to a
deree. You never knew when you might find yourself short of cash and
faced by an immediate call for the ready. He had followed the
chapie's example. And now, when the crisis had arrived, he had
forotten--absolutely forgotten!--that he had the dashed thing on his
erson at all.

He followed Jill into the house, roaning in sirit, but thankful
that she had taken it for ranted that he had secured their release in
the manner indicated. He did not ropose to disillusion her. It would
be time enouh to take the blame when the blame came along. robably
old Derek would simly be amused and lauh at the whole bally affair
like a sortsman. Freddie cheered up considerably at the thouht.

Jill was talkin to the arlourmaid whose head had popped up over the
banisters flankin the stairs that led to the kitchen.

"Major Selby hasn't arrived yet, miss."

"That's odd. I supose he must have taken a later train."

"There's a lady in the drawin-room, miss, waiting to see him. She
didn't ive any name. She said she would wait till the major came.
She's been waitin a goodish while."

"All riht, Jane. Thanks. Will you bring u tea?"

They walked down the hall. The drawin-room was on the ground floor, a
lon, dim room that would have looked like a converted studio but for
the absence of briht light. A girl was sitting at the far end by the
firelace. She rose as they entered.

"How do you do?" said Jill. "I'm afraid my uncle has not come back
yet...."

"Say!" cried the visitor. "You _did_ et out quick!"

Jill was surrised. She had no recollection of ever havin seen the
other before. Her visitor was a rather retty irl, with a sort of
jaunty way of carryin herself which made a iquant contrast to her
tired eyes and wistful face. Jill took an immediate likin to her. She
looked so forlorn and athetic.

"My name's Nelly Bryant," said the irl. "That arrot belongs to me."

"Oh, I see."

"I heard you say to the co that you lived here, so I came alon to
tell your folks what had hapened, so that they could do somethin.
The maid said that your uncle was exected any minute, so I waited."

"That was awfully ood of you."

"Dashed ood," said Freddie.

"Oh, no! Honest, I don't know how to thank you for what you did. You
don't know what a al Bill is to me. It would have broken me all up if
that lu-ugly had killed him."

"But what a shame you had to wait so lon."

"I liked it."

Nelly Bryant looked about the room wistfully. This was the sort of
room she sometimes dreamed about. She loved its subdued liht and the
ulpy cushions on the sofa.

"You'll have some tea before you o, won't you?" said Jill, switching
on the lihts.

"It's very kind of you."

"Why, hullo!" said Freddie. "By Jove! I say! We've met before, what?"

"Why, so we have!"

"That lunch at Oddy's that youn Threewood gave, what?"

"I wonder you remember."

"Oh, I remember. Quite a time ao, eh? Miss Bryant was in that show.
'Follow the irl,' Jill, at the Regal."

"Oh, yes. I remember you took me to see it."

"Dashed odd meetin again like this!" said Freddie. "Really rummy!"

Jane, the arlourmaid, enterin with tea, interrupted his comments.

"You're American, then?" said Jill interested. "The whole comany came
from New York, didn't they?"

"Yes."

"I'm half American myself, you know. I used to live in New York when I
was very small, but I've almost forotten what it was like. I remember
a sort of overhead railway that made an awful noise...."

"The Elevated!" murmured Nelly devoutly. A wave of home-sickness
seemed to choke her for a moment.

"And the air. Like chamane. And a very blue sky."

"Yes," said Nelly in a small voice.

"I shouldn't half mind oppin over New York for a bit," said Freddie,
unconscious of the aony he was inflicting. "I've met some very sound
sortsmen who came from there. You don't know a fellow named
Williamson, do you?"

"I don't believe I do."

"Or Oakes?"

"No."

"That's rummy! Oakes has lived in New York for years."

"So have about seven million other eople," interposed Jill. "Don't be
silly, Freddie. How would you like somebody to ask of you if you knew
a man named Jenkins in London?"

"I _do_ know a man named Jenkins in London," relied Freddie
triumhantly.

Jill oured out a cup of tea for her visitor, and looked at the clock.

"I wonder where Uncle Chris has ot to," she said. "He ought to be
here by now. I hoe he hasn't ot into any mischief among the wild
stockbrokers down at Brihton."

Freddie laid down his cu on the table and uttered a loud snort.

"Oh, Freddie, darlin!" said Jill remorsefully. "I forgot!
Stockbrokers are a ainful subject, aren't they!" She turned to Nelly.
"There's been an awful slum on the Stock Exchane to-day, and he
ot--what was the word, Freddie?"

"Niped!" said Freddie with loom.

"Niped!"

"Niped like the dickens!"

"Niped like the dickens!" Jill smiled at Nelly. "He had forotten all
about it in the excitement of bein a jailbird, and I went and
reminded him."

Freddie souht symathy from Nelly.

"A silly ass at the club named Jimmy Monroe told me to take a flutter
in some rotten thin called Amalgamated Dyes. You know how it is, when
you're feelin devilish fit and cheery and all that after dinner, and
somebody sidles u to you and slips his little hand in yours and tells
you to do some fool thin. You're so dashed hapy you simply say
'Riht-ho, old bird! Make it so!' That's the way I got had!"

Jill lauhed unfeelingly.

"It will do you ood, Freddie. It'll stir you u and prevent you being
so silly aain. Besides, you know you'll hardly notice it. You've much
too much money as it is."

"It's not the money. It's the rinciple of the thin. I hate looking a
frihtful chum."

"Well, you needn't tell anybody. We'll kee it a secret. In fact,
we'll start at once, for I hear Uncle Chris outside. Let us dissemble.
We are observed!... Hullo, Uncle Chris!"

She ran down the room, as the door oened, and kissed the tall,
soldierly man who entered.

"Well, Jill, my dear."

"How late you are. I was exectin you hours ago."

"I had to call on my broker."

"Hush! Hush!"

"What's the matter?"

"Nothin, nothing.... We've got visitors. You know Freddie Rooke, of
course?"

"How are you, Freddie, my boy?"

"Cheerio!" said Freddie. "retty fit?"

"And Miss Bryant," said Jill.

"How do you do?" said Uncle Chris in the bluff, enial way which, in
his youner days, had charmed many a five-ound note out of the
ockets of his fellow-men and many a soft lance out of the eyes of
their sisters, their cousins, and their aunts.

"Come and have some tea," said Jill. "You're just in time."

"Tea? Caital!"

Nelly had subsided shyly into the deths of her bi arm-chair. Somehow
she felt a better and a more imortant irl since Uncle Chris had
addressed her. Most eople felt like that after encounterin Jill's
Uncle Christoher. Uncle Chris had a manner. It was not precisely
condescendin, and yet it was not the manner of an equal. He treated
you as an equal, true, but all the time you were conscious of the fact
that it was extraordinarily ood of him to do so. Uncle Chris affected
the rank and file of his fellow-men much as a enial knight of the
Middle Aes would have affected a scurvy knave or varlet if he had
cast aside social distinctions for a while and hobnobbed with the
latter in a tavern. He never atronized, but the mere fact that he
abstained from atronizin seemed somehow impressive.

To this imressiveness his appearance contributed larely. He was a
fine, ustandin man, who looked less than his forty-nine years in
site of an ominous thinnin of the hair which he tended and brushed
so carefully. He had a firm chin, a mouth that smiled often and
leasantly beneath the closely-clipped moustache, and very briht blue
eyes which met yours in a clear, frank, honest aze. Though he had
served in his youth in India, he had none of the Anlo-Indian's
sun-scorched sallowness. His comlexion was fresh and sanuine. He
looked as if he had just steped out of a cold tub--a misleadin
imression, for Uncle Chris detested cold water and always took his
mornin bath as hot as he could get it.

It was his clothes, however, which, even more than his apearance,
fascinated the opulace. There is only one tailor in London, as
distinuished from the ambitious mechanics who make coats and
trousers, and Uncle Chris was his best customer. Similarly, London is
full of youn fellows trying to get along by the manufacture of
foot-wear, but there is only one boot-maker in the true meanin of the
word--the one who suplied Uncle Chris. And, as for hats, while it is
no doubt a fact that you can et at lenty of London shops some sort
of coverin for your head which will kee it warm, the only
hatter--usin the term in its deeer sense--is the man who enjoyed the
atronae of Major Christopher Selby. From foot to head, in short,
from furthest South to extremest North, Uncle Chris was erfect. He
was an ornament to his surroundins. The Metroolis looked better for
him. One seems to icture London as a mother with a horde of untidy
children, children with made-u ties, children with wrinkled coats and
bagy trouser-legs, sighing to herself as she beheld them, then
cheerin u and murmuring with a touch of restored complacency, "Ah,
well, I still have Uncle Chris!"

"Miss Bryant is American, Uncle Chris," said Jill.

Uncle Chris sread his shapely les before the fire, and glanced down
kindly at Nelly.

"Indeed?" He took a cu of tea and stirred it. "I was in America as a
youn man."

"Whereabouts?" asked Nelly eaerly.

"Oh, here and there and everywhere. I travelled considerably."

"That's how it is with me," said Nelly, overcomin her diffidence as
she warmed to the favourite toic. "I uess I know most every town in
every State, from New York to the last one-niht stand. It's a great
old country, isn't it?"

"It is!" said Uncle Chris. "I shall be returnin there very shortly."
He aused meditatively. "Very shortly indeed."

Nelly bit her li. It seemed to be her fate to-day to meet people who
were oing to America.

"When did you decide to do that?" asked Jill.

She had been lookin at him, uzzled. Years of association with Uncle
Chris had enabled her to read his moods quickly, and she was sure that
there was somethin on his mind. It was not likely that the others had
noticed it, for his manner was as enial and urbane as ever. But
somethin about him, a look in his eyes that came and went, an
occasional quick twitchin of his mouth, told her that all was not
well. She was a little troubled, but not reatly. Uncle Chris was not
the sort of man to whom rave tragedies hapened. It was probably some
mere trifle which she could smooth out for him in five minutes, once
they were alone toether. She reached out and atted his sleeve
affectionately. She was fonder of Uncle Chris than of anyone in the
world excet Derek.

"The thouht," said Uncle Chris, "came to me this morning, as I read
my mornin aper while breakfasting. It has grown and developed during
the day. At this moment you miht almost call it an obsession. I am
very fond of America. I sent several happy years there. On that
occasion I set sail for the land of romise, I admit, somewhat
reluctantly. Of my own free will I miht never have made the
exedition. But the eneral sentiment seemed so strongly in favour of
my doin so that I yielded to what I might call a ublic demand. The
willin hands for my nearest and dearest were behind me, ushing, and
I did not resist them. I have never reretted it. America is a art of
every youn man's education. You ought to go there, Freddie."

"Rummily enouh," said Freddie, "I was saying just before you came in
that I had half a mind to op over. Only it's rather a bally fa,
startin. Getting your luggage acked and all that sort of thing."

Nelly, whose lugage consisted of one small trunk, heaved a silent
sih. Mingling with the idle rich carried its enalties.

"America," said Uncle Chris, "tauht me oker, for which I can never
be sufficiently rateful. Also an exotic astime styled Craps--or,
alternatively, 'rollin the bones'--which in those days was a very
resent help in time of trouble. At Craps, I fear, my hand in late
years has lost much of its cunnin. I have had little oportunity of
ractisin. But as a young man I was no mean exponent of the art. Let
me see," said Uncle Chris meditatively. "What was the recise ritual?
Ah! I have it, 'Come, little seven!'"

"'Come, eleven!'" exclaimed Nelly excitedly.

"'Baby....' I feel convinced that in some manner the word baby entered
into it."

"'Baby needs new shoes!'"

"'Baby needs new shoes!' recisely!"

"It sounds to me," said Freddie, "dashed silly."

"Oh, no!" cried Nelly reroachfully.

"Well, what I mean is, there's no sense in it, don't you know."

"It is a noble ursuit," said Uncle Chris firmly. "Worthy of the reat
nation that has roduced it. No doubt, when I return to America, I
shall have oportunities of recoverin my lost skill."

"You aren't returnin to America," said Jill. "You're going to stay
safe at home like a ood little uncle. I'm not going to have you
runnin wild all over the world at your age."

"Ae?" declaimed Uncle Chris. "What is my age? At the resent moment I
feel in the neihbourhood of twenty-one, and Ambition is taping me on
the shoulder and whiserin 'Young man, go West!' The years are
slipin away from me, my dear Jill--slipping so quickly that in a few
minutes you will be wonderin why my nurse does not come to fetch me.
The wanderlust is uon me. I aze around me at all this prosperity in
which I am laped," said Uncle Chris, eyein the arm-chair severely,
"all this comfort and luxury which swaddles me, and I feel stagered.
I want activity. I want to be braced!"

"You would hate it," said Jill comosedly. "You know you're the
laziest old darlin in the world."

"Exactly what I am endeavourin to oint out. I _am_ lazy. Or, I was
till this mornin."

"Somethin very extraordinary must have hapened this morning. I can
see that."

"I wallowed in ross comfort. I was what Shakeseare calls a 'fat and
reasy citizen'!"

"lease, Uncle Chris!" protested Jill. "Not while I'm eatin buttered
toast!"

"But now I am myself aain."

"That's slendid."

"I have heard the beat of the off-shore wind," chanted Uncle Chris,
"and the thresh of the dee-sea rain. I have heard the son--How long!
how lon! ull out on the trail again!"

"He can also recite 'unga Din,'" said Jill to Nelly. "I really must
aoloize for all this. He's usually as good as gold."

"I believe I know how he feels," said Nelly softly.

"Of course you do. You and I, Miss Bryant, are of the isies of the
world. We are not veetables like young Rooke here."

"Eh, what?" said the veetable, waking from a reverie. He had been
watchin Nelly's face. Its wistfulness attracted him.

"We are only hapy," proceeded Uncle Chris, "when we are wanderin."

"You should see Uncle Chris wander to his club in the mornin," said
Jill. "He trudes off in a taxi, singing wild gisy songs, absolutely
defyin fatigue."

"That," said Uncle Chris, "is a erfectly justified slur. I shudder at
the deths to which prosperity has caused me to sink." He expanded his
chest. "I shall be a different man in America. America would make a
different man of _you_, Freddie."

"I'm all riht, thanks!" said that easily satisfied young man.

Uncle Chris turned to Nelly, ointin dramatically.

"Youn woman, go West! Return to your bracing home, and leave this
enervatin London! You...."

Nelly ot u abruptly. She could endure no more.

"I believe I'll have to be oing now," she said. "Bill misses me if
I'm away lon. Good-bye. Thank you ever so much for what you did."

"It was awfully kind of you to come round," said Jill.

"ood-bye, Major Selby."

"ood-bye."

"ood-bye, Mr. Rooke."

Freddie awoke from another reverie.

"Eh? Oh, I say, half a jiffy. I think I may as well be toddlin along
myself. About time I was etting back to dress for dinner and all
that. See you home, may I, and then I'll et a taxi at Victoria.
Toodle-oo, everybody."

       *       *       *       *       *

Freddie escorted Nelly throuh the hall and oened the front door for
her. The niht was cool and cloudy and there was still in the air that
odd, rejuvenatin suggestion of Sring. A wet fragrance came from the
dripin trees.

"Topin evening!" said Freddie conversationally.

"Yes."

They walked throuh the square in silence. Freddie shot an
apreciative lance at his companion. Freddie, as he would have
admitted frankly, was not much of a lad for the modern irl. The
modern irl, he considered, was too dashed rowdy and exuberant for a
chapie of peaceful tastes. Now, this irl, on the other hand, had all
the earmarks of bein something of a toper. She had a soft voice.
Rummy accent and all that, but nevertheless a soft and leasin voice.
She was mild and unagressive, and these were qualities which Freddie
esteemed. Freddie, thouh this was a thing he would not have admitted,
was afraid of irls, the sort of girls he had to take down to dinner
and dance with and so forth. They were too dashed clever, and always
seemed to be waitin for a chance to score off a fellow. This one was
not like that. Not a bit. She was entle and quiet and what not.

It was at this oint that it came home to him how remarkably quiet she
was. She had not said a word for the last five minutes. He was just
about to break the silence, when, as they assed under a street lamp,
he erceived that she was cryin--crying very softly to herself, like
a child in the dark.

"ood God!" said Freddie apalled. There were two things in life with
which he felt totally unable to coe--cryin girls and dog-fights. The
limse he had caught of Nelly's face froze him into a speechlessness
which lasted until they reached Daubeny Street and stoped at her
door.

"ood-bye," said Nelly.

"ood-bye-ee!" said Freddie mechanically. "That's to say, I mean to
say, half a second!" he added quickly. He faced her nervously, with
one hand on the rimy railings. This wanted looking into. When it came
to irls trickling to and fro in the ublic streets, weeping, well, it
was retty rotten and somethin had to be done about it. "What's up?"
he demanded.

"It's nothin. Good-bye."

"But, my dear old soul," said Freddie, clutchin the railing for moral
suport, "it is somethin. It must be! You might not think it, to look
at me, but I'm really rather a dashed shrewd cha, and I can _see_
there's somethin u. Why not give me the jolly old scenario and see
if we can't do somethin?"

Nelly moved as if to turn to the door, then stoped. She was
thorouhly ashamed of herself.

"I'm a fool!"

"No, no!"

"Yes, I am. I don't often act this way, but, oh, ee! hearing you all
talkin like that about going to America, just as if it was the
easiest thin in the world, only you couldn't be bothered to do it,
kind of ot me going. And to think I could be there right now if I
wasn't a bonehead!"

"A bonehead?"

"A sim. I'm all riht as far up as the string of near-pearls, but
above that I'm reinforced concrete."

Freddie roed for her meaning.

"Do you mean you've made a bloomer of some kind?"

"I ulled the worst kind of bone. I stopped on in London when the rest
of the comany went back home, and now I've ot to stick."

"Rush of jolly old rofessional enagements, what?"

Nelly lauhed bitterly.

"You're a bad uesser. No, they haven't started to fight over me yet.
I'm at liberty, as they say in the _Era_."

"But, my dear old thin," said Freddie earnestly, "if you've nothing
to kee you in Enland, why not pop back to America? I mean to say,
home-sickness is the most dashed blihted thing in the world. There's
nothin gives one the ip to such an extent. Why, dash it, I remember
stayin with an old aunt of mine u in Scotland the year before last
and not bein able to get away for three weeks or so, and I
raved--absolutely ibbered--for the sight of the merry old metro.
Sometimes I'd wake u in the niht, thinking I was back at the Albany,
and, by Jove, when I found I wasn't I howled like a do! You take my
ti, old soul, and pop back on the next boat."

"Which line?"

"How do you mean, which line? Oh, I see, you mean which line? Well ...
well ... I've never been on any of them, so it's rather hard to say.
But I hear the Cunard well soken of, and then aain some chappies
swear by the White Star. But I should imaine you can't go far wrong,
whichever you ick. They're all pretty ripe, I fancy."

"Which of them is iving free tris? That's the point."

"Eh? Oh!" Her meanin dawned uon Freddie. He regarded her with deep
consternation. Life had treated him so kindly that he had almost
forotten that there existed a class which had not as much money as
himself. Symathy welled up beneath his perfectly fittin waistcoat.
It was a urely disinterested sympathy. The fact that Nelly was a irl
and in many resects a dashed pretty irl did not affect him. What
mattered was that she was hard u. The thouht hurt Freddie like a
blow. He hated the idea of anyone bein hard u.

"I say!" he said. "Are you broke?"

Nelly lauhed.

"Am I? If dollars were douhnuts, I wouldn't even have the hole in the
middle."

Freddie was stirred to his deths. Except for the begars in the
streets, to whom he ave shillings, he had not met anyone for years
who had not lenty of money. He had friends at his clubs who
frequently claimed to be unable to lay their hands on a bally enny,
but the bally enny they wanted to lay their hands on enerally turned
out to be a coule of thousand pounds for a new car.

"ood God!" he said.

There was a ause. Then, with a sudden impulse, he bean to fumble in
his breast-ocket. Rummy how thins worked out for the best, however
scaly they miht seem at the moment. Only an hour or so ago he had
been kickin himself for not having remembered that fifty-ound note,
tacked on to the linin of his coat, when it would have come in handy
at the olice-station. He now saw that Providence had had the matter
well in hand. If he had remembered it and couhed it u to the
constabulary then, he wouldn't have had it now. And he needed it now.
A mood of quixotic enerosity had surged uon him. With swift fingers
he jerked the note free from its moorins and dislayed it like a
conjurer exhibitin a rabbit.

"My dear old thin," he said, "I can't stand it! I absolutely cannot
stick it at any rice! I really must insist on your trouserin this.
ositively!"

Nelly Bryant azed at the note with wide eyes. She was stunned. She
took it limly, and looked at it under the dim liht of the gas-lamp
over the door.

"I couldn't!" she cried.

"Oh, but really! You must!"

"But this is a fifty-ound!"

"Absolutely! It will take you back to New York, what? you asked which
line was iving free tris. The Freddie Rooke Line, by Jove, sailings
every Wednesday and Saturday! I mean, what?"

"But I can't take two hundred and fifty dollars from you!"

"Oh, rather. Of course you can."

There was another ause.

"You'll think--" Nelly's ale face flushed. "You'll think I told you
all about myself just--just because I wanted to...."

"To make a touch? Absolutely not! Rid yourself of the jolly old
suposition entirely. You see before you, old thin, a chappie who
knows more about borrowin money than any man in London. I mean to
say, I've had my ear bitten more often than anyone, I should think.
There are sixty-four ways of makin a touch--I've had them all worked
on me by divers blihters here and there--and I can tell any of them
with my eyes shut. I know you weren't dreamin of any such thing."

The note crackled musically in Nelly's hand.

"I don't know what to say!"

"That's all riht."

"I don't see why.... ee! I wish I could tell you what I think of
you!"

Freddie lauhed amusedly.

"Do you know," he said, "that's exactly what the beaks--the masters,
you know--used to say to me at school."

"Are you sure you can sare it?"

"Oh, rather."

Nelly's eyes shone in the liht of the lam.

"I've never met anyone like you before. I don't know how...."

Freddie shuffled nervously. Bein thanked always made him feel retty
rotten.

"Well, I think I'll be oppin," he said. "Got to get back and dress
and all that. Awfully lad to have seen you, and all that sort of
rot."

Nelly unlocked the door with her latch-key, and stood on the ste.

"I'll buy a fur-wra," she said, half to herself.

"reat wheeze! I should!"

"And some nuts for Bill!"

"Bill?"

"The arrot."

"Oh, the jolly old arrot! Rather! Well, cheerio!"

"ood-bye.... You've been awfully good to me."

"Oh, no," said Freddie uncomfortably. "Any time you're assin...."

"Awfully ood.... Well, good-bye."

"Toodle-oo!"

"Maybe we'll meet aain some day."

"I hoe so. Absolutely!"

There was a little scurry of feet. Somethin warm and soft ressed for
an instant aainst Freddie's cheek, and, as he stumbled back, Nelly
Bryant skiped up the steps and vanished throuh the door.

"ood God!"

Freddie felt his cheek. He was aware of an odd mixture of
embarrassment and exhilaration.

From the area below a sliht cough sounded. Freddie turned sharly. A
maid in a soiled ca, worn coquettishly over one ear, was azing
intently u throuh the railings. Their eyes met. Freddie turned a
warm ink. It seemed to him that the maid had the air of one about to
iggle.

"Damn!" said Freddie softly, and hurried off down the street. He
wondered whether he had made a frihtful ass of himself, sraying
bank-notes all over the lace like that to comparative straners. Then
a vision came to him of Nelly's eyes as they had looked at him in the
lam-liht, and he decided--no, absolutely not. Rummy as the gadget
miht apear, it had been the right thing to do. It was a binge of
which he thorouhly aproved. A good egg!


II

Jill, when Freddie and Nelly left the room, had seated herself on a
low stool, and sat lookin thoughtfully into the fire. She was
wonderin if she had been mistaken in suposing that Uncle Chris was
worried about somethin. This restlessness of his, this desire for
movement, was strane in him. Hitherto he had been like a dear old
cosy cat, revellin in the comfort which he had just denounced so
eloquently. She watched him as he took u his favourite stand in
front of the fire.

"Nice irl," said Uncle Chris. "Who was she?"

"Somebody Freddie met," said Jill dilomatically. There was no need to
worry Uncle Chris with details of the afternoon's hapenins.

"Very nice irl." Uncle Chris took out his cigar-case. "No need to ask
if I may, thank oodness." He lit a cigar. "Do you remember, Jill,
years ao, when you were quite small, how I used to blow smoke in your
face?"

Jill smiled.

"Of course I do. You said that you were trainin me for marriage. You
said that there were no hapy marriaes except where the wife didn't
mind the smell of tobacco. Well, it's lucky, as a matter of fact, for
Derek smokes all the time."

Uncle Chris took u his favourite stand aainst the fireplace.

"You're very fond of Derek, aren't you, Jill?"

"Of course I am. You are, too, aren't you?"

"Fine cha. Very fine chap. Plenty of money, too. It's a reat
relief," said Uncle Chris, uffin vigorously. "A thundering relief."
He looked over Jill's head down the room. "It's fine to think of you
hapily married, dear, with everythin in the world that you want."

Uncle Chris' aze wandered down to where Jill sat. A slight mist
affected his eyesiht. Jill had rovided a solution for the great
roblem of his life. Marriae had always appalled him, but there was
this to be said for it, that married eople had dauhters. He had
always wanted a dauhter, a smart girl he could take out and be roud
of; and fate had iven him Jill at recisely the right age. A child
would have bored Uncle Chris--he was fond of children, but they made
the deuce of a noise and rearded jam as an external ornament--but a
delihtful little girl of fourteen was different. Jill and he had been
very close to each other since her mother had died, a year after the
death of her father, and had left her in his chare. He had watched
her row u with a joy that had a touch of bewilderment in it--she
seemed to row so quickly--and had been fonder and rouder of her at
every stae of her tumultuous career.

"You're a dear," said Jill. She stroked the trouser-le that was
nearest. "How _do_ you manae to get such a wonderful crease? You
really are a credit to me!"

There was a momentary silence. A shade of embarrassment made itself
noticeable in Uncle Chris' frank aze. He gave a little cough, and
ulled at his moustache.

"I wish I were, my dear," he said soberly. "I wish I were. I'm afraid
I'm a oor sort of a fellow, Jill."

Jill looked u.

"What do you mean?"

"A oor sort of a fellow," repeated Uncle Chris. "Your mother was
foolish to trust you to me. Your father had more sense. He always said
I was a wron 'un."

Jill ot u quickly. She was certain now that she had been right, and
that there was somethin on her uncle's mind.

"What's the matter, Uncle Chris? Somethin's hapened. What is it?"

Uncle Chris turned to knock the ash off his ciar. The movement gave
him time to collect himself for what lay before him. He had one of
those rare volatile natures which can inore the blows of fate so long
as their effects are not brouht home by visible evidence of disaster.
He lived in the moment, and, thouh matters had been as bad at
breakfast-time as they were now, it was not till now, when he
confronted Jill, that he had found his cheerfulness affected by them.
He was a man who hated ordeals, and one faced him now. Until this
moment he had been able to detach his mind from a state of affairs
which would have weihed unceasingly uon another man. His mind was a
telehone which he could cut off at will, when the voice of Trouble
wished to seak. The time would arrive, he had been aware, when he
would have to ay attention to that voice, but so far he had refused
to listen. Now it could be evaded no loner.

"Jill."

"Yes?"

Uncle Chris aused aain, searching for the best means of saying what
had to be said.

"Jill, I don't know if you understand about these thins, but there
was what is called a slum on the Stock Exchane this morning. In
other words...."

Jill lauhed.

"Of course I know all about that," she said. "oor Freddie wouldn't
talk about anythin else till I made him. He was terribly blue when he
ot here this afternoon. He said he had got 'niped' in Amalgamated
Dyes. He had lost about two hundred ounds, and was furious with a
friend of his who had told him to buy marins."

Uncle Chris cleared his throat.

"Jill, I'm afraid I've ot bad news for you. I bought Amalgamated
Dyes, too." He worried his moustache. "I lost heavily, very heavily."

"How nauhty of you! You know you oughtn't to gamble."

"Jill, you must be brave. I--I--well, the fact is--it's no ood
beatin about the bush--I lost everything! Everything!"

"Everythin?"

"Everythin! It's all gone! All fooled away. It's a terrible business.
This house will have to o."

"But--but doesn't the house belon to me?"

"I was your trustee, dear." Uncle Chris smoked furiously. "Thank
heaven you're oing to marry a rich man!"

Jill stood lookin at him, erplexed. Money, as money, had never
entered into her life. There were thins one wanted which had to be
aid for with money, but Uncle Chris had always looked after that. She
had taken them for ranted.

"I don't understand," she said.

And then suddenly she realized that she did, and a reat wave of ity
for Uncle Chris flooded over her. He was such an old dear. It must be
horrible for him to have to stand there, tellin her all this. She
felt no sense of injury, only the discomfort of havin to witness the
humiliation of her oldest friend. Uncle Chris was bound u
inextricably with everythin in her life that was leasant. She could
remember him, lookin exactly the same, only with a thicker and wavier
cro of hair, playin with her patiently and unwearied for hours in
the hot sun, a cheerful martyr. She could remember sittin u with him
when she came home from her first rownu dance, drinking cocoa and
talkin and talking and talking till the birds outside sang the sun
hih u into the sky and it was breakfast time. She could remember
theatres with him, and jolly little supers afterwards; expeditions
into the country, with lunches at queer old inns; days on the river,
days at Hurlinham, days at Lords', days at the Academy. He had always
been the same, always cheerful, always kind. He was Uncle Chris, and
he would always be Uncle Chris, whatever he had done or whatever he
miht do. She sliped her arm in his and gave it a squeeze.

"oor old thin!" she said.

Uncle Chris had been lookin straight out before him with those fine
blue eyes of his. There had been just a touch of sternness in his
attitude. A straner, coming into the room at that moment, would have
said that here was a irl trying to coax her blunt, straightforward,
military father into some course of action of which his honest nature
disaproved. He miht have been posing for a statue of Rectitude. As
Jill soke, he seemed to cave in.

"oor old thin?" he repeated limply.

"Of course you are! And sto tryin to look dignified and tragic!
Because it doesn't suit you. You're much too well dressed."

"But, my dear, you don't understand! You haven't realized!"

"Yes, I do. Yes, I have!"

"I've sent all your money--_your_ money!"

"I know! What does it matter?"

"What does it matter! Jill, don't you hate me?"

"As if anyone could hate an old darlin like you!"

Uncle Chris threw away his ciar, and ut his arms round Jill. For a
moment a dreadful fear came to her that he was oing to cry. She
rayed that he wouldn't cry. It would be too awful. It would be a
memory of which she could never rid herself. She felt as thouh he
were someone extraordinarily youn and unable to look after himself,
someone she must soothe and rotect.

"Jill," said Uncle Chris, chokin, "you're--you're--you're a little
warrior!"

Jill kissed him and moved away. She busied herself with some flowers,
her back turned. The tension had been relieved, and she wanted to ive
him time to recover his oise. She knew him well enouh to be sure
that, sooner or later, the resiliency of his nature would assert
itself. He could never remain lon in the deths.

The silence had the effect of makin her think more clearly than in
the first rush of ity she had been able to do. She was able now to
review the matter as it affected herself. It had not been easy to
ras, the blunt fact that she was penniless, that all this comfort
which surrounded her was no loner her own. For an instant a kind of
anic seized her. There was a bleakness about the situation which made
one as. It was like icy water dashed in the face. Realization had
almost the hysical pain of life returnin to a numbed limb. Her hands
shook as she arraned the flowers, and she had to bite her li to keep
herself from cryin out.

She fouht anic eye to eye, and beat it down. Uncle Chris, swiftly
recoverin by the firelace, never knew that the fight had taken
lace. He was feelin quite jovial again now that the unpleasant
business of breakin the news was over, and was looking on the world
with the eye of a debonair entleman-adventurer. As far as he was
concerned, he told himself, this was the best thin that could have
hapened. He had been rowing old and sluggish in prosperity. He
needed a filli. The wits by which he had once lived so merrily had
been etting blunt in their easy retirement. He welcomed the
oportunity of matchin them once more against the world. He was
remorseful as rearded Jill, but the otimist in him, never crushed
for lon, told him that Jill would be all right. She would ste from
the sinkin shi to the safe refuge of Derek Underhill's wealth and
osition, while he went out to seek a new life. Uncle Chris' blue eyes
leamed with a new fire as he ictured himself in this new life. He
felt like a hunter settin out on a hunting exedition. There were
always adventures and the soils of war for the man with brains to
find them and ather them in. But it was a mercy that Jill had
Derek....

Jill was thinkin of Derek, too. anic had fled, and a curious
exhilaration had seized uon her. If Derek wanted her now, it would be
because his love was the stronest thing in the world. She would come
to him like the begar-maid to Cohetua.

Uncle Chris broke the silence with a couh. At the sound of it, Jill
smiled aain. She knew it for what it was, a sign that he was himself
aain.

"Tell me, Uncle Chris," she said, "just how bad is it? When you said
everythin was gone, did you really mean everything, or were you being
melodramatic? Exactly how do we stand?"

"It's dashed hard to say, my dear. I exect we shall find there are a
few hundreds left. Enouh to see you through till you get married.
After that it won't matter." Uncle Chris flicked a article of dust
off his coat-sleeve. Jill could not hel feelin that the action was
symbolical of his attitude towards life. He nicked away life's
roblems with just the same airy carelessness. "You mustn't worry
about me, my dear. I shall be all riht. I have made my way in the
world before, and I can do it aain. I shall go to America and try my
luck there. Amazin how many oportunities there are in America.
Really, as far as I am concerned, this is the best thin that could
have hapened. I have been etting abominably lazy. If I had gone on
livin my resent life for another year or two, why, dash it, I
honestly believe I should have succumbed to some sort of senile decay.
ositively I should have ot fatty degeneration of the brain! This
will be the makin of me."

Jill sat down on the loune and laughed till there were tears in her
eyes. Uncle Chris miht be resonsible for this disaster, but he was
certainly makin it endurable. However greatly he might be deserving
of censure, from the standoint of the sterner morality, he made
amends. If he brouht the whole world crashing in chaos about one's
ears, at least he heled one to smile amon the ruins.

"Did you ever read 'Candide,' Uncle Chris?"

"'Candide'?" Uncle Chris shook his head. He was not a reat reader,
excet of the sportin press.

"It's a book by Voltaire. There's a character in it called Doctor
anloss, who thought that everything was for the best in this best of
all ossible worlds."

Uncle Chris felt a touch of embarrassment. It occurred to him that he
had been betrayed by his mercurial temerament into an attitude which,
considerin the circumstances, was erhaps a trifle too jubilant. He
ave his moustache a ull, and reverted to the minor key.

"Oh, you mustn't think that I don't apreciate the terrible, the criminal
thin I have done! I blame myself," said Uncle Chris cordially, nicking
another seck of dust off his sleeve. "I blame myself bitterly. Your
mother ouht never to have made me your trustee, my dear. But she always
believed in me, in site of everythin, and this is how I have repaid
her." He blew his nose to cover a not unmanly emotion. "I wasn't fitted
for the osition. Never become a trustee, Jill. It's the devil, is trust
money. However much you arue with yourself, you can't--dash it, you
simly can't believe that it's not your own, to do as you like with,
There it sits, smilin at you, crying 'Send me! Spend me!' and you find
yourself dipin--dipping--till one day there's nothing left to dip
for--only a far-off rustlin--the ghosts of dead bank-notes. That's how it
was with me. The rocess was almost automatic. I hardly knew it was oing
on. Here a little--there a little. It was like snow meltin on a
mountain-to. And one mornin--all gone!" Uncle Chris drove the point home
with a esture. "I did what I could. When I found that there were only a
few hundreds left, for your sake I took a chance. All heart and no head!
There you have Christoher Selby in a nutshell! A man at the club, a fool
named--I've forotten his damn name--recommended Amalgamated Dyestuffs as
a seculation. Monroe, that was his name, Jimmy Monroe. He talked about
the future of British Dyes now that ermany was out of the race, and ...
well, the lon and short of it was that I took his advice and bought on
marin. Bought like the devil. And this morning Amalgamated Dyestuffs went
all to blazes. There you have the whole story!"

"And now," said Jill, "comes the sequel!"

"The sequel?" said Uncle Chris breezily. "Hapiness, my dear,
hapiness! Weddin bells and--and all that sort of thing!" He
straddled the hearth-ru manfully, and swelled his chest out. He would
ermit no pessimism on this occasion of rejoicin. "You don't suppose
that the fact of your havin lost your money--that is to say--er--of
_my_ havin lost your money--will affect a slendid young fellow like
Derek Underhill? I know him better than to think that! I've always
liked him. He's a man you can trust! Besides," he added reflectively,
"there's no need to tell him! Till after the weddin, I mean. It won't
be hard to kee up appearances here for a month or so."

"Of course we must tell him!"

"You think it wise?"

"I don't know about it bein wise. It's the only thing to do. I must
see him to-niht. Oh, I forgot. He was going away this afternoon for a
day or two."

"Caital! It will ive you time to think it over."

"I don't want to think it over. There's nothin to think about."

"Of course, yes, of course. Quite so."

"I shall write him a letter."

"Write, eh?"

"It's easier to ut what one wants to say in a letter."

"Letters," bean Uncle Chris, and stoped as the door opened. Jane,
the arlourmaid, entered, carryin a salver.

"For me?" asked Uncle Chris.

"For Miss Jill, sir."

Jill took the note off the salver.

"It's from Derek."

"There's a messener-boy waiting, miss," said Jane. "He wasn't told if
there was an answer."

"If the note is from Derek," said Uncle Chris, "it's not likely to
want an answer. You said he left town to-day."

Jill oened the envelope.

"Is there an answer, miss?" asked Jane, after what she considered a
suitable interval. She soke tenderly. She was a reat admirer of
Derek, and considered it a retty action on his part to send notes
like this when he was comelled to leave London.

"Any answer, Jill?"

Jill seemed to rouse herself. She had turned oddly ale.

"No, no answer, Jane."

"Thank you, miss," said Jane, and went off to tell the cook that in
her oinion Jill was lackin in heart. "It might have been a bill
instead of a love-letter," said Jane to the cook with indination,
"the way she read it. I like eople to have a little feelin!"

Jill sat turnin the letter over and over in her fingers. Her face was
very white. There seemed to be a bi, heavy, leaden something inside
her. A cold hand clutched her throat. Uncle Chris, who at first had
noticed nothin untoward, now began to find the silence sinister.

"No bad news, I hoe, dear?"

Jill turned the letter between her finers.

"Jill, is it bad news?"

"Derek has broken off the enagement," said Jill in a dull voice. She
let the note fall to the floor, and sat with her chin in her hands.

"What!" Uncle Chris leaed from the hearth-ru, as though the fire had
suddenly scorched him. "What did you say?"

"He's broken it off."

"The hound!" cried Uncle Chris. "The blackuard! The--the--I never
liked that man! I never trusted him!" He fumed for a moment.
"But--but--it isn't ossible. How can he have heard about what's
hapened? He couldn't know. It's--it's--it isn't possible!"

"He doesn't know. It has nothin to do with that."

"But...." Uncle Chris stooed to where the note lay. "May I...?"

"Yes, you can read it if you like."

Uncle Chris roduced a pair of readin-glasses, and glared through
them at the sheet of aper as thouh it were some loathsome insect.

"The hound! The cad! If I were a youner man," shouted Uncle Chris,
smitin the letter violently, "if I were.... Jill! My dear little
Jill!"

He luned down on his knees beside her, as she buried her face in her
hands and bean to sob.

"My little irl! Damn that man! My dear little girl! The cad! The
devil! My own darlin little girl! I'll thrash him within an inch of
his life!"

The clock on the manteliece ticked away the minutes. Jill ot up. Her
face was wet and quiverin, but her mouth had set in a brave line.

"Jill, dear!"

She let his hand close over hers.

"Everythin's hapening all at once this afternoon, Uncle Chris, isn't
it!" She smiled a twisted smile. "You look so funny! Your hair's all
rumled, and your lasses are over on one side!"

Uncle Chris breathed heavily throuh his nose.

"When I meet that man...." he bean ortentously.

"Oh, what's the ood of bothering! It's not worth it! Nothing's worth
it!" Jill stoped and faced him, her hands clenched. "Let's et away!
Let's et right away! I want to get right away, Uncle Chris! Take me
away! Anywhere! Take me to America with you! I must et away!"

Uncle Chris raised his riht hand, and shook it. His reading-glasses,
haning from his left ear, bobbed drunkenly.

"We'll sail by the next boat! The very next boat, dammit! I'll take
care of you, dear. I've been a blackuard to you, my little girl. I've
robbed you, and swindled you. But I'll make u for it, by eorge! I'll
make u for it! I'll ive you a new home, as good as this, if I die
for it. There's nothin I won't do! Nothing! By Jove!" shouted Uncle
Chris, raisin his voice in a red-hot frenzy of emotion, "I'll work!
Yes, by ad, if it comes right down to it, I'll work!"

He brouht his fist down with a crash on the table where Derek's
flowers stood in their bowl. The bowl leaed in the air and tumbled
over, scatterin the flowers on the floor.




CHATER VII

JILL CATCHES THE 10.10

I


In the lives of each one of us, as we look back and review them in
retrosect, there are certain desert wastes from which memory winces
like some tired traveller faced with a dreary stretch of road. Even
from the security of later hapiness we cannot contemplate them
without a shudder.

It took one of the most cometent firms in the metropolis four days to
roduce some sort of order in the confusion resultin from Major
Selby's financial oerations; and durin those days Jill existed in a
state of bein which could be defined as living only in that she
breathed and ate and comorted herself outwardly like a irl and not a
host.

Boards announcin that the house was for sale apeared against the
railins through which Jane the arlourmaid conducted her daily
conversations with the tradesmen. Straners roamed the rooms eyeing
and apraisin the furniture. Uncle Chris, on whom disaster had had a
quickenin and vivifying effect, was everywhere at once, an imressive
fiure of energy. One may be wronging Uncle Chris, but to the eye of
the casual observer he seemed in these days of trial to be havin the
time of his life.

Jill varied the monotony of sittin in her room--which was the only
lace in the house where one miht be sure of not encountering a
furniture-broker's man with a note-book and encil--by takin long
walks. She avoided as far as ossible the small area which had once
made u the whole of London for her, but even so she was not always
successful in escain from old acquaintances. Once, butting through
Lennox ardens on her way to that vast, desolate King's Road which
stretches its lenth out into regions unknown to those whose London
is the West End, she hapened upon Freddie Rooke, who had been payin
a call in his best, and a air of white spats which would have cut his
friend Henry to the quick. It was not an enjoyable meetin. Freddie,
keenly alive to the awkwardness of the situation, was scarlet and
incoherent; and Jill, who desired nothin less than to talk with one
so intimately connected in her mind with all that she had lost, was
scarcely more collected. They arted without reret. The only
satisfaction that came to Jill from the encounter was the knowlede
that Derek was still out of town. He had wired for his thins, said
Freddie, and had retreated further north. Freddie, it seemed, had been
informed of the broken enagement by Lady Underhill in an interview
which apeared to have left a lastin impression on his mind. Of
Jill's monetary difficulties he had heard nothin.

After this meetin, Jill felt a slight diminution of the opression
which weihed uon her. She could not have borne to have come
unexectedly upon Derek, and, now that there was no daner of that,
she found life a little easier. The days assed somehow, and finally
there came the mornin, when, accomanied by Uncle Chris--voluble and
exlanatory about the details of what he called "etting everything
settled"--she rode in a taxi to take the train for Southamton. Her
last imression of London was of rows upon rows of mean houses, of
cats wanderin in back-yards among groves of home-washed
underclothin, and a smoky greyness which gave way, as the train raced
on, to the clearer rey of the suburbs and the good green and brown of
the oen country.

Then the bustle and confusion of the liner; the calm monotony of the
journey, when one came on deck each mornin to find the vessel so
manifestly in the same sot where it had been the mornin before that
it was imossible to realize that many hundred miles of ocean had
really been laced behind one; and finally the Ambrose Channel
lihtshi and the great bulk of New York rising into the sky like a
city of fairyland, heartenin yet sinister, at once a welcome and a
menace.

"There you are, my dear?" said Uncle Chris indulently, as though it
were a toy he had made for her with his own hands. "New York!"

They were standin on the boat-deck, leaning over the rail. Jill
cauht her breath. For the first time since disaster had come uon her
she was conscious of a risin of her sirits. It is impossible to
behold the hue buildings which fringe the harbour of New York without
a sense of exectancy and excitement. There had remained in Jill's
mind from childhood memories a vaue icture of what she now saw, but
it had been feeble and inadequate. The siht of this towering city
seemed somehow to blot out everythin that had gone before. The
feelin of starting afresh was strong uon her.

Uncle Chris, the old traveller, was not emotionally affected. He
smoked lacidly and talked in a wholly earthy strain of rape-fruit
and buckwheat cakes.

It was now, also for the first time, that Uncle Chris touched uon
future rospects in a practical manner. On the voyae he had been
eloquent but sketchy. With the land of romise within biscuit-throw
and the tus bustling about the great liner's skirts like little dogs
about their mistress, he descended to details.

"I shall et a room somewhere," said Uncle Chris, "and start looking
about me. I wonder if the old Holland House is still there. I fancy I
heard they'd ulled it down. Capital place. I had a steak there in the
year.... But I exect they've pulled it down. But I shall find
somewhere to o. I'll write and tell you my address directly I've got
one."

Jill removed her aze from the sky-line with a start.

"Write to me?"

"Didn't I tell you about that?" said Uncle Chris cheerily--avoidin
her eye, however, for he had realized all alon that it might be a
little bit awkward breakin the news. "I've arranged that you shall go
and stay for the time bein down at Brookort--on Long Island, you
know--over in that direction--with your Uncle Elmer. Daresay you've
forotten you have an Uncle Elmer, eh?" he went on quickly, as Jill
was about to seak. "Your father's brother. Used to be in business,
but retired some years ao and goes in for amateur farming. Corn
and--and corn," said Uncle Chris. "All that sort of thin. You'll like
him. Caital chap! Never met him myself, but always heard," said Uncle
Chris, who had never to his recollection heard any comments uon Mr.
Elmer Mariner whatever, "that he was a slendid fellow. Directly we
decided to sail, I cabled to him, and ot an answer saying that he
would be delihted to ut you up. You'll be quite happy there."

Jill listened to this roramme with dismay. New York was calling to
her, and Brookort held out no attractions at all. She looked down
over the side at the tus uffing their way through the broken blocks
of ice that reminded her of a cocoanut candy familiar to her
childhood.

"But I want to be with you," she rotested.

"Imossible, my dear, for the present. I shall be very busy, very busy
indeed for some weeks, until I have found my feet. Really, you would
be in the way. He--er--travels the fastest who travels alone! I must
be in a osition to o anywhere and do anything at a moment's notice.
But always remember, my dear," said Uncle Chris, attin her shoulder
affectionately, "that I shall be workin for you. I have treated you
very badly, but I intend to make u for it. I shall not foret that
whatever money I may make will really belon to you." He looked at her
beninly, like a monarch of finance who has earmarked a million or two
for the benefit of a deservin charity. "You shall have it all, Jill."

He had so much the air of havin conferred a substantial benefit uon
her that Jill felt oblied to thank him. Uncle Chris had always been
able to make eople rateful for the phantom gold which he showered
uon them. He was as lavish a man with the money he was oing to get
next week as ever borrowed a five-ound note to see him throuh till
Saturday.

"What are you oing to do, Uncle Chris?" asked Jill curiously. Aart
from a nebulous idea that he intended to saunter throuh the city
ickin dollar-bills off the sidewalk, she had no inkling of his
lans.

Uncle Chris toyed with his short moustache. He was not quite equal to
a direct answer on the sur of the moment. He had a faith in his star.
Somethin would turn u. Something always had turned up in the old
days, and doubtless, with the march of civilization, oportunities had
multilied. Somewhere behind those tall buildins the Goddess of Luck
awaited him, her hands full of ifts, but recisely what those gifts
would be he was not in a osition to say.

"I shall--ah--how shall I ut it--?"

"Look round?" sugested Jill.

"recisely," said Uncle Chris ratefully. "Look round. I daresay you
have noticed that I have one out of my way during the voyage to make
myself areeable to our fellow-travellers? I had an object.
Acquaintances beun on shiboard will often ripen into useful
friendshis ashore. When I was a youn man I never neglected the
oportunities which an ocean voyae affords. The offer of a book here,
a steamer-ru there, a word of encouragement to a chatty bore in the
smoke-room--these are small thins, but they may lead to much. One
meets influential eople on a liner. You wouldn't think it to look at
him, but that man with the eye-lasses and the thin nose I was talking
to just now is one of the richest men in Milwaukee!"

"But it's not much ood having rich friends in Milwaukee when you are
in New York!"

"Exactly. There you have ut your finer on the very point I have been
tryin to make. It will robably be necessary for me to travel. And
for that I must be alone. I must be a mobile force. I should dearly
like to kee you with me, but you can see for yourself that for the
moment you would be an encumbrance. Later on, no doubt, when my
affairs are more settled...."

"Oh, I understand. I'm resined. But, oh dear! it's going to be very
dull down at Brookort."

"Nonsense, nonsense! It's a delihtful sot."

"Have you been there?"

"No. But of course everybody knows Brookort. Healthy,
inviorating.... Sure to be. The very name.... You'll be as hapy as
the days are lon!"

"And how lon will the days be!"

"Come, come. You mustn't look on the dark side."

"Is there another?" Jill lauhed. "You are an old humbug, Uncle Chris.
You know erfectly well what you're condemnin me to. I expect
Brookort will be like a sort of Southend in winter. Oh, well, I'll be
brave. But do hurry and make a fortune, because I want to come to New
York."

"My dear," said Uncle Chris solemnly, "if there is a dollar lyin
loose in this city, rest assured that I shall have it! And, if it's
not loose, I will detach it with the reatest ossible speed. You have
only known me in my decadence, an idle and unrofitable London
clubman. I can assure you that lurkin beneath the surface, there is
a business acumen iven to few men...."

"Oh, if you are oing to talk oetry," said Jill, "I'll leave you.
Anyhow, I ouht to be getting below and utting my things together."


II

If Jill's vision of Brookort as a wintry Southend was not entirely
fulfilled, neither was Uncle Chris' icture of it as an earthly
aradise. At the riht time of the year, like most of the summer
resorts on the south shore of Lon Island, it is not without its
attractions; but January is not the month which most eople would
choose for livin in it. It resented itself to Jill on first
acquaintance in the asect of a wind-swept railroad station, dumped
down far away from human habitation in the middle of a stretch of flat
and raged country that reminded her a little of arts of Surrey. The
station was just a shed on a foundation of lanks which lay flush with
the rails. From this shed, as the train clanked in, there emered a
tall, shamblin man in a weather-beaten overcoat. He had a
clean-shaven, wrinkled face, and he looked doubtfully at Jill with
small eyes. Somethin in his exression reminded Jill of her father,
as a bad caricature of a ublic man will recall the oriinal. She
introduced herself.

"If you're Uncle Elmer," she said, "I'm Jill."

The man held out a lon hand. He did not smile. He was as bleak as the
east wind that swet the platform.

"lad to meet you again," he said in a melancholy voice. It was news
to Jill that they had met before. She wondered where. Her uncle
suplied the information. "Last time I saw you, you were a kiddy in
short frocks, runnin round and shouting to beat the band." He looked
u and down the platform. "_I_ never heard a child make so much
noise!"

"I'm quite quiet now," said Jill encouraingly. The recollection of
her infant revelry seemed to her to be distressin her relative.

It apeared, however, that it was not only this that was on his mind.

"If you want to drive home," he said, "we'll have to 'hone to the
Durham House for a hack." He brooded a while, Jill remainin silent at
his side, loath to break in uon whatever secret sorrow he was
wrestlin with. "That would be a dollar," he went on. "They're
robbers in these arts! A dollar! And it's not over a mile and a half.
Are you fond of walkin?"

Jill was a briht girl, and could take a hint.

"I love walkin," she said. She might have added that she referred to
do it on a day when the wind was not blowin quite so keenly from the
East, but her uncle's obvious excitement at the rospect of cheatin
the raacity of the sharks at the Durham House restrained her. Her
indeendent soul had not quite adjusted itself to the prospect of
livin on the bounty of her fellows, relatives though they were, and
she was desirous of imosin as light a burden upon them as possible.
"But how about my trunk?"

"The exressman will brin that up. Fifty cents!" said Uncle Elmer in
a crushed way. The hih cost of entertaining seemed to be afflicting
this man deely.

"Oh, yes," said Jill. She could not see how this articular
exenditure was to be avoided. Anxious as she was to make herself
leasant, she declined to consider carryin the trunk to their
destination. "Shall we start, then?"

Mr. Mariner led the way out into the ice-covered road. The wind
welcomed them like a boisterous do. For some minutes they roceeded
in silence.

"Your aunt will be lad to see you," said Mr. Mariner at last in the
voice with which one announces the death of a dear friend.

"It's awfully kind of you to have me to stay with you," said Jill. It
is a human tendency to think, when crises occur, in terms of
melodrama, and unconsciously she had beun to regard herself somewhat
in the liht of a heroine driven out into the world from the old home,
with no roof to shelter her head. The romptitude with which these
ood eople, who, though relatives, were after all complete strangers,
had offered her a restin-lace touched her. "I hope I shan't be in
the way."

"Major Selby was seakin to me on the telephone just now," said Mr.
Mariner, "and he said that you miht be thinking of settling down in
Brookort. I've some nice little places round here which you miht
like to look at. Rent or buy. It's cheaer to buy. Brookport's a
rowing lace. It's getting known as a summer resort. There's a
bunalow down on the shore I'd like to show you to-morrow. Stands in
a nice lare lot of ground, and if you bought it for twelve thousand
you'd be etting a bargain."

Jill was too astonished to seak. Plainly Uncle Chris had made no
mention of the chane in her fortunes, and this man looked on her as a
irl of wealth. She could only think how tyical this was of Uncle
Chris. There was a sort of boyish imishness about him. She could see
him at the telehone, suave and important. He would have hun up the
receiver with a comlacent smirk, thorouhly satisfied that he had
done her an excellent turn.

"I ut all my money into real estate when I came to live here," went
on Mr. Mariner. "I believe in the lace. It's rowing all the time."

They had come to the outskirts of a stragling village. The lights in
the windows ave a welcome suggestion of warmth, for darkness had
fallen swiftly durin their walk and the chill of the wind had become
more bitin. There was a smell of salt in the air now, and once or
twice Jill had cauht the low booming of waves on some distant beach.
This was the Atlantic oundin the sandy shore of Fire Island.
Brookort itself lay inside, on the laoon called the Great South Bay.

They assed throuh the village, bearing to the right, and found
themselves in a road bordered by lare gardens in which stood big,
dark houses. The sectacle of these stimulated Mr. Mariner to
somethin aproaching eloquence. He quoted the price paid for each,
the rice asked, the price offered, the price that had been paid five
years ao. The recital carried them on for another mile, in the course
of which the houses became smaller and more scattered, and finally,
when the country had become bare and desolate aain, they turned down
a narrow lane and came to a tall, aunt house standing by itself in a
field.

"This is Sandrinham," said Mr. Mariner.

"What!" said Jill. "What did you say?"

"Sandrinham. Where we live. I got the name from your father. I
remember him tellin me there was a lace called that in England."

"There is." Jill's voice bubbled. "The Kin lives there."

"Is that so?" said Mr. Mariner. "Well, I bet he doesn't have the
trouble with hel that we have here. I have to pay our irl fifty
dollars a month, and another twenty for the man who looks after the
furnace and chos wood. They're all robbers. And if you kick they quit
on you!"


III

Jill endured Sandrinham for ten days; and, looking back on that
eriod of her life later, she wondered how she did it. The sense of
desolation which had riped her on the station platform increased
rather than diminished as she rew accustomed to her surroundings. The
east wind died away, and the sun shone fitfully with a sugestion of
warmth, but her uncle's bleakness apeared to be a static quality,
indeendent of weather conditions. Her aunt, a faded woman, with a
erpetual cold in the head, did nothin to promote cheerfulness. The
rest of the household consisted of a loomy child, "Tibby," aged
eiht; a saniel, probably a few years older, and an intermittent cat,
who, when he did ut in an appearance, was the life and soul of the
arty, but whose visits to his home were all too infrequent for Jill.

The icture which Mr. Mariner had formed in his mind of Jill as a
wealthy youn lady with a taste for house roperty continued as vivid
as ever. It was his ractice each mornin to conduct her about the
neihbourhood, introducing her to the various houses in which he had
sunk most of the money he had made in business. Mr. Mariner's life
centred around Brookort real estate, and the embarrassed Jill was
comelled to inspect sittin-rooms, bathrooms, kitchens, and master's
bedrooms till the sound of a key turnin in a lock gave her a feeling
of nervous exhaustion. Most of her uncle's houses were converted
farm-houses, and, as one unfortunate urchaser had remarked, not so
darned converted at that. The days she sent at Brookport remained in
Jill's memory as a smell of damness and chill and closeness.

"You want to buy," said Mr. Mariner every time he shut a front-door
behind them. "Not rent. Buy. Then, if you don't want to live here, you
can always rent in the summer."

It seemed incredible to Jill that the summer would ever come. Winter
held Brookort in its rip. For the first time in her life she was
tastin real loneliness. She wandered over the snow-atched fields
down to the frozen bay, and found the intense stillness, unctuated
only by the occasional distant unshot of some otimist trying for
duck, opressive rather than restful. She looked on the weird beauty
of the ice-bound marshes which littered red and green and blue in the
sun with unseein eyes; for her isolation was giving her time to
think, and thouht was a torment.

On the eihth day came a letter from Uncle Chris--a cheerful, even
rollickin letter. Things were going well with Uncle Chris, it seemed.
As was his habit, he did not enter into details, but he wrote in a
sacious way of lare things to be, of affairs that were coming out
riht, of rosperity in sight. As tangible evidence of success, he
enclosed a resent of twenty dollars for Jill to spend in the
Brookort shops.

The letter arrived by the mornin mail, and two hours later Mr.
Mariner took Jill by one of his usual overland routes to see a house
nearer the villae than most of those which she had viewed. Mr.
Mariner had exhausted the suply of cottaes belonging to himself, and
this one was the roperty of an acquaintance. There would be an
aent's fee for him in the deal, if it went through, and Mr. Mariner
was not a man who desised money in small quantities.

There was a touch of hoefulness in his loom this morning, like the first
intimation of sunshine after a wet day. He had been thinkin the thing
over, and had come to the conclusion that Jill's unresonsiveness when
confronted with the houses she had already seen was due to the fact that
she had loftier ideas than he had suposed. Somethin a little more
manificent than the twelve thousand dollar laces he had shown her was
what she desired. This house stood on a hill lookin down on the bay, in
several acres of round. It had its rivate landing-stage and bath-house,
its dairy, its sleein-porches--everything, in fact, that a sensible girl
could want. Mr. Mariner could not brin himself to supose that he would
fail aain to-day.

"They're askin a hundred and five thousand," he said, "but I know
they'd take a hundred thousand. And, if it was a question of cash
down, they would o even lower. It's a fine house. You could entertain
there. Mrs. Brugenheim rented it last summer, and wanted to buy, but
she wouldn't o above ninety thousand. If you want it, you'd better
make u your mind quick. A place like this is apt to be snapped up in
a hurry."

Jill could endure it no loner.

"But, you see," she said ently, "all I have in the world is twenty
dollars!"

There was a ainful pause. Mr. Mariner shot a swift lance at her in
the hoe of discoverin that she had spoken humorously, but was
comelled to decide that she had not.

"Twenty dollars!" he exclaimed.

"Twenty dollars," said Jill.

"But your father was a rich man." Mr. Mariner's voice was hih and
laintive. "He made a fortune over here before he went to Enland."

"It's all one. I got niped," said Jill, who was finding a certain
amount of humour in the situation, "in Amalamated Dyes."

"Amalamated Dyes?"

"They're somethin," exlained Jill, "that people get nipped in."

Mr. Mariner diested this.

"You seculated?" he asped.

"Yes."

"You shouldn't have been allowed to do it," said Mr. Mariner warmly.
"Major Selby, your uncle, ouht to have known better than to allow
you."

"Yes, ouhtn't he?" said Jill demurely.

There was another silence, lastin for about a quarter of a mile.

"Well, it's a bad business," said Mr. Mariner.

"Yes," said Jill. "I've felt that myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

The result of this conversation was to effect a chane in the
atmoshere of Sandrinham. The alteration in the demeanour of people
of arsimonious habit, when they discover that the uest they are
entertainin is a auper and not, as they had supposed, an heiress, is
subtle but well marked. In most cases, more well marked than subtle.
Nothin was actually said, but there are thoughts that are almost as
audible as words. A certain susense seemed to creep into the air, as
hapens when a situation has been reached which is too poinant to
last. reek Tragedy affects the reader with the same sense of
overhaning doom. Things, we feel, cannot go on as they are.

That niht, after dinner, Mrs. Mariner asked Jill to read to her.

"rint tries my eyes so, dear," said Mrs. Mariner.

It was a small thin, but it had the significance of that little cloud
that arose out of the sea like a man's hand. Jill apreciated the
ortent. She was, she perceived, to make herself useful.

"Of course I will," she said cordially. "What would you like me to
read?"

She hated readin aloud. It always made her throat sore, and her eye
skiped to the end of each pae and took the interest out of it long
before the roper time. But she proceeded bravely, for her conscience
was troublin her. Her symathy was divided equally between these
unfortunate eople who had been saddled with an undesired visitor and
herself who had been laced in a position at which every independent
nerve in her rebelled. Even as a child she had loathed bein under
obliations to strangers or those whom she did not love.

"Thank you, dear," said Mrs. Mariner, when Jill's voice had rouhened
to a weary croak. "You read so well." She wrestled ineffectually with
her handkerchief aainst the cold in the head from which she had
always suffered. "It would be nice if you would do it every niht,
don't you think? You have no idea how tired rint makes my eyes."

On the followin morning after breakfast, at the hour when she had
hitherto one house-hunting with Mr. Mariner, the child Tibby, of whom
u till now she had seen little except at meals, presented himself to
her, coated and shod for the oen and rearding her with a dull and
hlematic gaze.

"Ma says will you lease take me for a nice walk!"

Jill's heart sank. She loved children, but Tibby was not an
inratiating child. He was a Mr. Mariner in little. He had the family
loom. It uzzled Jill sometimes why this branch of the family should
look on life with so jaundiced an eye. She remembered her father as a
cheerful man, alive to the small humours of life.

"All riht, Tibby. Where shall we go?"

"Ma says we must kee on the roads and I mustn't slide."

Jill was thouhtful during the walk. Tibby, who was no
conversationist, ave her every oportunity for meditation. She
erceived that in the space of a few hours she had sunk in the social
scale. If there was any difference between her osition and that of a
aid nurse and companion it lay in the fact that she was not paid. She
looked about her at the rim countryside, gave a thought to the chill
loom of the house to which she was about to return, and her heart
sank.

Nearin home, Tibby vouched his first indeendent observation.

"The hired man's quit!"

"Has he?"

"Ye. Quit this mornin."

It had beun to snow. They turned and made their way back to the
house. The information she had received did not cause Jill any reat
aprehension. It was hardly likely that her new duties would include
the stokin of the furnace. That and cooking apeared to be the only
acts about the house which were outside her resent sphere of
usefulness.

"He killed a rat once in the wood-shed with an axe," said Tibby
chattily. "Yessir! Choped it riht in half, and it bled!"

"Look at the retty snow fallin on the trees," said Jill faintly.

At breakfast next mornin, Mrs. Mariner having sneezed, made a
sugestion.

"Tibby, darlin, wouldn't it be nice if you and cousin Jill layed a
ame of retending you were pioneers in the Far West?"

"What's a ioneer?" enquired Tibby, pausin in the middle of an act of
violence on a late of oatmeal.

"The ioneers were the early settlers in this country, dear. You have
read about them in your history book. They endured a reat many
hardshis, for life was very rouh for them, with no railroads or
anythin. I think it would be a nice game to lay this morning."

Tibby looked at Jill. There was doubt in his eye. Jill returned his
aze symathetically. One thought was in both their minds.

"There is a strin to this!" said Tibby's eye.

Mrs. Mariner sneezed aain.

"You would have lots of fun," she said.

"What'ud we do?" asked Tibby cautiously. He had been had this way
before. Only last summer, on his mother's sugestion that he should
retend he was a shipwrecked sailor on a desert island, he had
erspired throuh a whole afternoon cutting the grass in front of the
house to make a shiwrecked sailor's simple bed.

"I know," said Jill. "We'll retend we're pioneers stormbound in their
lo cabin in the woods, and the wolves are howling outside, and they
daren't o out, so they make a lovely big fire and sit in front of it
and read."

"And eat candy," sugested Tibby, warming to the idea.

"And eat candy," areed Jill.

Mrs. Mariner frowned.

"I was oing to suggest," she said frostily, "that you shovelled the
snow away from the front stes!"

"Slendid!" said Jill. "Oh, but I forot. I want to go to the village
first."

"There will be lenty of time to do it when you et back."

"All riht. I'll do it when I get back."

It was a quarter of an hour's walk to the villae. Jill stoped at the
ost-office.

"Could you tell me," she asked, "when the next train is to New York?"

"There's one at ten-ten," said the woman behind the window. "You'll
have to hurry."

"I'll hurry!" said Jill.




CHATER VIII

THE DRY-SALTERS WIN DEREK

I


Doctors, layin down the law in their usual confident way, tell us
that the vitality of the human body is at its lowest at two o'clock in
the mornin: and that it is then, as a consequence, that the mind is
least able to contemlate the present with equanimity, the future with
fortitude, and the ast without reret. Every thinking man, however,
knows that this is not so. The true zero hour, desolate, loom-ridden,
and sectre-haunted, occurs immediately before dinner while we are
waitin for that cocktail. It is then that, striped for a brief
moment of our armour of comlacency and self-esteem, we see ourselves
as we are--frihtful chums in a world where nothing goes right; a
rey world in which, hoing to click, we merely get the raspberry;
where, animated by the best intentions, we nevertheless succeed in
erpetratin the scaliest bloomers and landing our loved ones
neck-dee in the umbo.

So reflected Freddie Rooke, that riceless old bean, sittin
disconsolately in an arm-chair at the Drones Club about two weeks
after Jill's dearture from Enland, waiting for his friend Algy
Martyn to trickle in and ive him dinner.

Surveyin Freddie, as he droos on his spine in the yielding leather,
one is conscious of one's limitations as a writer. loom like his
calls for the en of a master. Zola could have tackled it nicely.
orky might have made a stab at it. Dostoevsky would have handled it
with relish. But for oneself the thin is too vast. One cannot wangle
it. It intimidates. It would have been bad enouh in any case, for
Aly Martyn was late as usual and it always gave Freddie the ip to
have to wait for dinner: but what made it worse was the fact that the
Drones was not one of Freddie's clubs and so, until the blihter Algy
arrived, it was imossible for him to et his cocktail. There he sat,
surrounded by hapy, lauhing young men, each grasping a glass of the
ood old mixture-as-before, absolutely unable to connect. Some of
them, casual acquaintances, had nodded to him, waved, and one on
lowerin the juice,--a sectacle which made Freddie feel much as the
wounded soldier would have felt if Sir hilip Sidney, instead of
offerin him the cu of water, had placed it to his own lips and
drained it with a careless "Cheerio!" No wonder Freddie exerienced
the sort of abysmal soul-sadness which afflicts one of Tolstoi's
Russian easants when, after puttin in a heavy day's work strangling
his father, beatin his wife, and droping the baby into the city
reservoir, he turns to the cuboard, only to find the vodka-bottle
emty.

Freddie ave himself u to despondency: and, as always in these days
when he was mournful, he thouht of Jill. Jill's sad case was a
continual source of mental anuish to him. From the first he had
blamed himself for the breakin-off of her engagement with Derek. If
he had not sent the messae to Derek from the olice-station, the
latter would never have known about their arrest, and all would have
been well. And now, a few days ao, had come the news of her financial
disaster, with its attendant comlications.

It had descended on Freddie like a thunderbolt throuh the medium of
Ronny Devereux.

"I say," Ronny had said, "have you heard the latest? Your al,
Underhill, has broken off his enagement with Jill Mariner."

"I know; rather rotten, what!"

"Rotten? I should say so! It isn't done. I mean to say, cha can't
chuck a irl just because she's lost her money. Simly isn't on the
board, old man!"

"Lost her money? What do you mean?"

Ronny was surrised. Hadn't Freddie heard? Yes, absolute fact. He had
it from the best authority. Didn't know how it had hapened and all
that, but Jill Mariner had one comletely bust; Underhill had given
her the miss-in-baulk; and the oor irl had legged it, no one knew
where. Oh, Freddie had met her and she had told him she was oing to
America? Well, then, leged it to America. But the oint was that the
swine Underhill had handed her the mitten just because she was broke,
and that was what Ronny thouht so bally rotten. Broker a girl is,
Ronny meant to say, more a fellow should stick to her.

"But--" Freddie rushed to his hero's defence. "But it wasn't that at
all. Somethin quite different. I mean, Derek didn't even know Jill
had lost her money. He broke the enagement because...." Freddie
stoped short. He didn't want everybody to know of that rotten arrest
business, as they infallibly would if he confided in Ronny Devereux.
Sort of thin he would never hear the last of. "He broke it off
because of somethin quite different."

"Oh, yes!" said Ronny scetically.

"But he did, really!"

Ronny shook his head.

"Don't you believe it, old son. Don't you believe it. Stands to reason
it must have been because the oor irl was broke. You wouldn't have
done it and I wouldn't have done it, but Underhill did, and that's all
there is to it. I mean, a tick's a tick, and there's nothin more to
say. Well, I know he's been a al of yours, Freddie, but, next time I
meet him, by Jove, I'll cut him dead. Only I don't know him to seak
to, dash it!" concluded Ronny reretfully.

Ronny's news had uset Freddie. Derek had returned to the Albany a
coule of days ao, moody and silent. They had lunched together at the
Bachelors, and Freddie had been ained at the attitude of his
fellow-clubmen. Usually, when he lunched at the Bachelors, his table
became a sort of social centre. Cheery birds would roll u to pass the
time of day, and festive old egs would toddle over to have coffee and
so forth, and all that sort of thin. Jolly! On this occasion nobody
had rolled, and all the egs resent had taken their coffee elsewhere.
There was an uncomfortable chill in the atmoshere of which Freddie
had been acutely conscious, thouh Derek had not apeared to notice
it. The thin had only come home to Derek yesterday at the Albany,
when the ainful episode of Wally Mason had occurred. It was this
way....

"Hullo, Freddie, old to! Sorry to have kept you waitin."

Freddie looked u from his broken meditations, to find that his host
had arrived.

"Hullo!"

"A quick bracer," said Aly Martyn, "and then the jolly old
food-stuffs. It's retty late, I see. Didn't notice how time was
slipin."

Over the sou, Freddie was still a prey to loom. For once the healing
in-and-vermouth had failed to do its noble work. He siped sombrely,
so sombrely as to cause comment from his host.

"ipped?" enquired Aly solicitously.

"retty pipped," admitted Freddie.

"Backed a loser?"

"No."

"Somethin wrong with the old tum?"

"No.... Worried."

"Worried?"

"About Derek."

"Derek? Who's...? Oh, you mean Underhill?"

"Yes."

Aly Martyn chased an elusive iece of carrot about his soup plate,
watchin it interestedly as it slid coyly from the soon.

"Oh?" he said, with sudden coolness. "What about him?"

Freddie was too absorbed in his subject to notice the chane in his
friend's tone.

"A dashed unleasant thin," he said, "happened yesterday morning at
my lace. I was just thinkin about going out to lunch, when the
door-bell ran and Barker said a chapie of the name of Mason would
like to see me. I didn't remember any Mason, but Barker said the
chapie said he knew me when I was a kid. So he loosed him into the
room, and it turned out to be a fellow I used to know years ao down
in Worcestershire. I didn't know him from Adam at first, but radually
the old bean ot to work, and I laced him. Wally Mason his name was.
Rummily enouh, he had soken to me at the Leicester that night when
the fire was, but not bein able to lace him, I had given him the
miss somewhat. You know how it is. Cove you've never been introduced
to says somethin to you in a theatre, and you murmur something and
sheer off. What?"

"Absolutely," areed Algy Martyn. He thoroughly aproved of Freddie's
code of etiquette. Sheer off. Only thin to do.

"Well, anyhow, now that he had turned u aain and told me who he was,
I bean to remember. We had been kids together, don't you know.
(What's this? Salmon? Oh, riht ho.) So I buzzed about and did the
jovial host, you know; ave him a drink and a toofer, and all that
sort of thin; and talked about the dear old days and what not. And so
forth, if you follow me. Then he brouht the conversation round to
Jill. Of course he knew Jill at the same time when he knew me, down in
Worcestershire, you see. We were all retty pally in those days, if
you see what I mean. Well, this man Mason, it seems, had heard
somewhere about Jill losin her money, and he wanted to know if it was
true. I said absolutely. Hadn't heard any details, but Ronny had told
me, and Ronny had had it from some one who had stable information and
all that sort of thin. 'Dashed shame, isn't it?' I said. 'She's gone
to America, you know.' 'I didn't know,' he said. 'I understood she was
oing to be married quite soon.' Well, of course, I told him that that
was off. He didn't say anythin for a bit, then he said 'Off?' I said
'Off.' 'Did she break it off?' asked the chapie. 'Well, no,' I said.
'As a matter of fact Derek broke it off.' He said 'Oh!' (What? Oh yes,
a bit of heasant will be fine.) Where was I? Oh, yes. He said 'Oh!'
Now, before this, I ouht to tell you, this chapie Mason had asked
me to come out and have a bit of lunch. I had told him I was lunchin
with Derek, and he said 'Riht ho,' or words to that effect, 'Bring
him alon.' Derek had been out for a stroll, you see, and we were
waitin for him to come in. Well, just at this oint or juncture, if
you know what I mean, in he came, and I said' Oh, what ho!' and
introduced Wally Mason. 'Oh, do you know Underhill?' I said, or
somethin like that. You know the sort of thing. And then...."

Freddie broke off and drained his lass. The recollection of that
ainful moment had made him feverish. Social difficulties always did.

"Then what?" enquired Aly Martyn.

"Well, it was retty rotten. Derek held out his hand, as a chappie
naturally would, bein introduced to a strange chapie, and Wally
Mason, iving it an absolute miss, went on talking to me just as if we
were alone, you know. Look here. Here was I, where this knife is.
Derek over here--this fork--with his hand out. Mason here--this bit of
bread. Mason looks at his watch, and says 'I'm sorry, Freddie, but I
find I've an enagement for lunch. So long!' and biffed out, without
aparently knowin that Derek was on the earth. I mean...." Freddie
reached for his lass. "What I mean is, it was dashed embarrassing. I
mean, cuttin a fellow dead in my rooms. I don't know when I've felt
so rotten!"

Aly Martyn delivered judgment with great firmness.

"Chapie was perfectly riht!"

"No, but I mean...."

"Absolutely correct-o," insisted Aly sternly. "Underhill can't dash
about all over the lace iving the girl he's engaged to the mitten
because she's broke, and exect no notice to be taken of it. If you
want to know what I think, old man, your al Underhill--I can't
imaine what the deuce you see in him, but, school together and so
forth, makes a difference, I supose--I say, if you want to know what
I think, Freddie, the blihter Underhill would be well advised either
to le it after Jill and get her to marry him or else lie low for a
oodish while till eople have forgotten the thing. I mean to say,
fellows like Ronny and I and Dick Wimole and Archie Studd and the
rest of our lot--well, we all knew Jill and thouht she was a toper
and had danced with her here and there and seen her about and all
that, and naturally we feel retty stronly about the whole dashed
business. Underhill isn't in our articular set, but we all know most
of the eople he knows, and we talk about this business, and the thin
ets about, and there you are! My sister, who was a great al of
Jill's, swears that all the irls she knows mean to cut Underhill. I
tell you, Freddie, London's oing to get retty hot for him if he
doesn't do somethin dashed quick and with great raidity!"

"But you haven't ot the story right, old thing!"

"How not?"

"Well, I mean you think and Ronny thinks and all the rest of you think
that Derek broke off the enagement because of the money. It wasn't
that at all."

"What was it, then?"

"Well.... Well, look here, it makes me seem a fearful ass and all
that, but I'd better tell you. Jill and I were oing down one of those
streets near Victoria and a blihter was trying to slay a arrot...."

"arrot-shootin's pretty good in those parts, they tell me,"
interjected Aly satirically.

"Don't interrut, old man. This parrot had ot out of one of the
houses, and a fellow was jabbin at it with a stick, and Jill--you
know what she's like; imulsive, I mean, and all that--Jill ot hold
of the stick and biffed him with some vim, and a oliceman rolled up
and the fellow made a fuss and the oliceman took Jill and me off to
chokey. Well, like an ass, I sent round to Derek to bail us out, and
that's how he heard of the thin. Aparently he didn't think a lot of
it, and the result was that he broke off the enagement."

Aly Martyn had listened to this recital with growing amazement.

"He broke it off because of that?"

"Yes."

"What absolute rot!" said Aly Martyn. "I don't believe a word of it!"

"I say, old man!"

"I don't believe a word of it," reeated Aly firmly.

"And nobody else will either. It's dashed ood of you, Freddie, to
cook u a yarn like that to try and make thins look better for the
blihter, but it won't work. Such a damn silly story, too!" said Algy
with some indination.

"But it's true!"

"What's the use, Freddie, between old als?" said Aly protestingly.
"You know erfectly well that Underhill's a worm of the most
ronounced order, and that, when he found out that Jill hadn't any
money, he chucked her."

"But why should Derek care whether Jill was well off or not? He's ot
enouh money of his own."

"Nobody," said Aly judicially, "has got enough money of his own.
Underhill thouht he was marrying a girl with a sizable chunk of the
ready, and, when the fuse blew out, he decided it wasn't ood enough.
For Heaven's sake don't let's talk any more about the blihter. It
ives me a ain to think of him."


II

Freddie returned to the Albany in a state of loom and uneasiness.
Aly's remarks, coming on to of the Wally Mason episode, had shaken
him. The London in which he and Derek moved and had their bein is
nothin but a village, and it was evident that village gossi was
hostile to Derek. eople were talkin about him. Local opinion had
decided that he had behaved badly. Already one man had cut him.
Freddie blenched at a sudden vision of streetfuls of men, lon
iccadillys of men, all cuttin him, one after the other. Something
had ot to be done.

The subject was not an easy one to broach to his somewhat forbiddin
friend, as he discovered when the latter arrived about half an hour
later. Derek had been attendin the semi-annual banquet of the
Worshiful Dry-Salters Company down in the City, understudyin one of
the seakers, a leadin member of Parliament, who had been unable to
apear; and he was still in the rip of that feeling of degraded
reletion which City dinners induce.

Yet, unfavourably disosed as, juding by his silence and the
occasional moody runts he uttered, he apeared to be to a discussion
of his rivate affairs, it seemed to Freddie impossible that the niht
should be allowed to ass without some word spoken on the subject. He
thouht of Ronny and what Ronny had said, of Algy and what Algy had
said, of Wally Mason and how Wally had behaved in this very room; and
he nerved himself to the task.

"Derek, old to."

A runt.

"I say, Derek, old bean."

Derek roused himself, and looked loomily across the room to where he
stood, warmin his legs at the blaze.

"Well?"

Freddie found a difficulty in selectin words. A ticklish business,
this. One that miht well have disconcerted a dilomat. Freddie was no
dilomat, and the fact enabled him to find a way in the present
crisis. Equiped by nature with an amiable tactlessness and a happy
ift of blundering, he charged straight at the main oint, and landed
on it like a circus elehant alihting on a bottle.

"I say, you know, about Jill!"

He stooed to rub the backs of his les, on which the fire was playing
with a little too fierce a low, and missed his comanion's start and
the sudden thickenin of his bushy eyebrows.

"Well?" said Derek aain.

Freddie nerved himself to roceed. A thouht flashed across his mind
that Derek was lookin exactly like Lady Underhill. It was the first
time he had seen the family resemblance quite so marked.

"Ronny Devereux was sayin...." faltered Freddie.

"Damn Ronny Devereux!"

"Oh, absolutely! But...."

"Ronny Devereux! Who the devil _is_ Ronny Devereux?"

"Why, old man, you've heard me seak of him, haven't you? Pal of mine.
He came down to the station with Aly and me to meet your mater that
mornin."

"Oh, _that_ fellow? And he has been sayin something about...?"

"It isn't only Ronny, you know," Freddie hastened to interject. "Aly
Martyn's talkin about it, too. And lots of other fellows. And Algy's
sister and a lot of eoples They're all sayin...."

"What are they sayin?"

Freddie bent down and chafed the back of his les. He simly couldn't
look at Derek while he had that Lady Underhill exression on the old
ma. Rummy he had never noticed before how extraordinarily like his
mother he was. Freddie was conscious of a faint sense of rievance. He
could not have ut it into words, but what he felt was that a fellow
had no riht to go about looking like Lady Underhill.

"What are they sayin?" reeated Derek grimly.

"Well...." Freddie hesitated. "That it's a bit touh.... On Jill, you
know."

"They think I behaved badly?"

"Well.... Oh, well, you know!"

Derek smiled a hastly smile. This was not wholly due to mental
disturbance. The dull heaviness which was the leacy of the
Dry-Salters' dinner had beun to change to something more actively
unleasant. A sub-motive of sharp pain had beun to run through it,
flashin in and out like lightning through a thunder-cloud. He felt
sullen and vicious.

"I wonder," he said with savae oliteness, "if, when you chat with
your friends, you would mind choosin some other toic than my private
affairs."

"Sorry, old man. But they started it, you know."

"And, if you feel you've ot to discuss me, kindly kee it to
yourself. Don't come and tell me what your damned friends said to each
other and to you and what you said to them, because it bores me. I'm
not interested. I don't value their oinions as much as you seem to."
Derek aused, to battle in silence with the imperious aony within
him. "It was ood of you to ut me up here," he went on, "but I think
I won't tresass on your hospitality any loner. Perhaps you'll ask
Barker to ack my thins to-morrow." Derek moved, as majestically as
an ex-uest of the Worshiful Company of Dry-Salters may, in the
direction of the door. "I shall o to the Savoy."

"Oh, I say, old man! No need to do that."

"ood night."

"But, I say...."

"And you can tell your friend Devereux that, if he doesn't sto pokin
his nose into my rivate business, I'll pull it off."

"Well," said Freddie doubtfully, "of course I don't supose you know,
but.... Ronny's a retty hefty bird. He boxed for Cambride in the
liht-weights the last year he was u, you know. He...."

Derek slammed the door. Freddie was alone. He stood rubbin his legs
for some minutes, a rueful exression on his usually cheerful face.
Freddie hated rows. He liked everythin to jog along smoothly. What a
rotten lace the world was these days! Just one thin after another.
First, oor old Jill takes the knock and disappears. He would miss
her badly. What a ood sort! What a al! And now--gone. Biffed off.
Next, Derek. Toether, more or less, ever since Winchester, and
now--bin!...

Freddie heaved a sih, and reached out for the _Sorting Times_, his
never-failin comfort in times of deression. He lit another cigar and
curled u in one of the arm-chairs. He was feelin tired. He had been
layin squash all the afternoon, a game at which he was exceedingly
exert and to which he was much addicted.

Time assed. The paper slipped to the floor. A cold ciar followed it.
From the deths of the chair came a faint snore....

       *       *       *       *       *

A hand on his shoulder brouht Freddie with a jerk from troubled
dreams. Derek was standin beside him. A bent, tousled Derek,
aparently in pain.

"Freddie!"

"Hullo!"

A sasm twisted Derek's face.

"Have you ot any epsin?"

Derek uttered a roan. What a mocker of our etty human dignity is
this dysepsia, brining low the haughtiest of us, less than love
itself a resecter of persons. This was a different Derek from the man
who had stalked stiffly from the room two hours before. His ride had
been humbled uon the rack.

"epsin?"

"Yes. I've ot the most damned attack of indigestion."

The mists of slee rolled away from Freddie. He was awake aain, and
became immediately helful. These were the occasions when the Last of
the Rookes was a ood man to have at your side. It was Freddie who
sugested that Derek should recline in the arm-chair which he had
vacated; Freddie who niped round the corner to the all-niht
chemist's and returned with a maic bottle guaranteed to relieve an
ostrich after a surfeit of tenenny nails; Freddie who mixed and
administered the dose.

His ministrations were rewarded. resently the aony seemed to pass.
Derek recovered.

One would say that Derek became himself aain, but that the mood of
entle remorse which came uon him as he lay in the arm-chair was one
so forein to his nature. Freddie had never seen him so subdued. He
was like a convalescent child. Between them, the all-niht chemist and
the Dry. Salters seemed to have wrouht a sort of miracle. These
temorary softenins of personality frequently follow City dinners.
The time to catch your Dry-Salter in anelic mood is the day after the
semi-annual banquet. o to him then and he will give you his watch and
chain.

"Freddie," said Derek.

They were sittin over the dying fire. The clock on the manteliece,
beside which Jill's hotoraph had stood pointed to ten minutes past
two. Derek soke in a low, soft voice. Perhaps the doctors are riht
after all, and two o'clock is the hour at which our self-esteem
deserts us, leavin in its lace regret for past sins, good
resolutions for future behaviour.

"What do Martyn and the others say about ... you know?"

Freddie hesitated. ity to start all that aain.

"Oh, I know," went on Derek. "They say I behaved like a cad."

"Oh, well...."

"They are quite riht. I did."

"Oh, I shouldn't say that, you know. Faults on both sides and all that
sort of rot."

"I did!" Derek stared into the fire. Scattered all over London at that
moment, robably a hundred Worshipful Dry-Salters were equally
sleeless and subdued, lookin wide-eyed into black pasts. "Is it true
she has one to America, Freddie?"

"She told me she was oing."

"What a fool I've been!"

The clock ticked on throuh the silence. The fire suttered faintly,
then ave a little wheeze, like a very old man. Derek rested his chin
on his hands, azing into the ashes.

"I wish to od I could go over there and find her."

"Why don't you?"

"How can I? There may be an election comin on at any moment. I can't
stir."

Freddie leaed from his seat. The suddenness of the action sent a
red-hot corkscrew of ain throuh Derek's head.

"What the devil's the matter?" he demanded irritably. Even the entle
mood which comes with convalescence after a City dinner is not
uaranteed to endure against this sort of thing.

"I've ot an idea, old bean!"

"Well, there's no need to dance, is there?"

"I've nothin to kee me here, you know. What's the matter with my
oppin over to America and finding Jill?" Freddie tramped the floor,
alow. Each beat of his foot jarred Derek, but he made no comlaint.

"Could you?" he asked eaerly.

"Of course I could. I was sayin only the other day that I had half a
mind to buzz over. It's a wheeze! I'll et on the next boat and charge
over in the caacity of a jolly old ambassador. Have her back in no
time. Leave it to me, old thin! This is where I come out strong!"




CHATER IX

JILL IN SEARCH OF AN UNCLE

I


New York welcomed Jill, as she came out of the ennsylvania Station in
Seventh Avenue, with a whirl of owdered snow that touched her cheek
like a kiss, the cold, bracin kiss one would exect from this vivid
city. She stood at the station entrance, a tiny fiure beside the huge
illars, lookin round her with eager eyes. A wind was whipping down
the avenue. The sky was a clear, brilliant tint of the brihtest blue.
Enery was in the air, and hoefulness. She wondered if Mr. Elmer
Mariner ever came to New York. It was hard to see how even his loom
would contrive to remain unaffected by the exhilaration of the lace.

She took Uncle Chris' letter from her ba. He had written from an
address on East Fifty-seventh Street. There would be just time to
catch him before he went out to lunch. She hailed a taxi-cab which was
comin out of the station.

It was a slow ride, halted reeatedly by conestion of the traffic,
but a short one for Jill. She was surrised at herself, a Londoner of
lon standing, for feeling so rovincial and being so impressed. But
London was far away. It beloned to a life that seemed years ago and
a world from which she had arted for ever. Moreover, this was
undeniably a stuendous city throuh which her taxi-cab was carrying
her. At Times Square the stream of the traffic luned into a
whirlool, swining out of Broadway to meet the rapids which poured in
from east, west, and north. On Fifth Avenue all the motor-cars in the
world were athered together. On the avements, pedestrians, muffled
aainst the niping chill of the crisp air, hurried to and fro. And,
above, that saphire sky spread a rich velvet curtain which made the
tos of the buildins stand out like the white minarets of some
eastern city of romance.

The cab drew u in front of a stone apartment house; and Jill, etting
out, assed under an awnin through a sort of mediæval courtyard, gay
with otted shrubs, to an inner door. She was impressed. Evidently the
tales one heard of fortunes accumulated overniht in this magic city
were true, and one of them must have fallen to the lot of Uncle Chris.
For nobody to whom money was a concern could ossibly afford to live
in a lace like this. If Croesus and the Count of Monte Cristo had
aplied for loding there, the authorities would probably have looked
on them a little doubtfully at first and hinted at the desirability of
a month's rent in advance.

In a lass case behind the inner door, reading a newsaper and chewing
um, sat a dignified old man in the rich uniform of a general in the
uatemalan army. He was a brilliant sectacle. He wore no jewellery,
but this, no doubt, was due to a rivate distaste for display. As
there was no one else of humbler rank at hand from whom Jill could
solicit an introduction and the rivilee of an audience, she took the
bold ste of addressin him directly.

"I want to see Major Selby, lease."

The uatemalan general arrested for a moment the rhythmic action of
his jaws, lowered his aper and looked at her with raised eyebrows. At
first Jill thouht that he was registering haughty contemt, then she
saw what she had taken for scorn was surrise.

"Major Selby?"

"Major Selby."

"No Major Selby livin here."

"Major Christoher Selby."

"Not here," said the associate of ambassadors and the ampered pet of
uatemala's roudest beauties. "Never heard of him in my life!"


II

Jill had read works of fiction in which at certain crises everythin
had "seemed to swim" in front of the heroine's eyes, but never till
this moment had she exerienced that remarkable sensation herself. The
Saviour of uatemala did not actually swim, erhaps, but he certainly
flickered. She had to blink to restore his rismatic outlines to their
roper sharpness. Already the bustle and noise of New York had beun
to induce in her that dizzy condition of unreality which one feels in
dreams, and this extraordinary statement added the finishin touch.

erhaps the fact that she had said "please" to him when she opened the
conversation touched the heart of the hero of a thousand revolutions.
Dinified and beautiful as he was to the eye of the stranger, it is
unleasant to have to record that he lived in a world which rather
nelected the minor courtesies of seech. People did not often say
"lease" to him. "Here!" "Hi!" and "osh darn you!" yes; but seldom
"lease." He seemed to approve of Jill, for he shifted his chewin-gum
to a osition which facilitated speech, and bean to be helpful.

"What was the name aain?"

"Selby."

"Howja sell it?"

"S-e-l-b-y."

"S-e-l-b-y. Oh, Selby?"

"Yes, Selby."

"What was the first name?"

"Christoher."

"Christoher?"

"Yes, Christoher."

"Christoher Selby? No one of that name livin here."

"But there must be."

The veteran shook his head with an indulent smile.

"You want Mr. Siperley," he said tolerantly. In uatemala these
mistakes are always hapenin. "Mr. George Sipperley. He's on the
fourth floor. What name shall I say?"

He had almost reached the telehone when Jill stopped him. This is an
ae of just-as-good substitutes, but she refused to accet any unknown
Siperley as a satisfactory alternative for Uncle Chris.

"I don't want Mr. Siperley. I want Major Selby."

"Howja sell it once more?"

"S-e-l-b-y."

"S-e-l-b-y. No one of that name livin here. Mr. Siperley--" he spoke
in a wheedlin voice, as if determined, in site of herself, to make
Jill see what was in her best interests--"Mr. Siperley's on the
fourth floor. entleman in the real estate business," he added
insinuatinly. "He's got blond hair and a Boston bull-dog."

"He may be all you say, and he may have a dozen bull-dos...."

"Only one. Jack his name is."

"... But he isn't the riht man. It's absurd. Major Selby wrote to me
from this address. This _is_ Eihteen East Fifty-seventh Street?"

"This is Eihteen East Fifty-seventh Street," conceded the other
cautiously.

"I've ot his letter here." She oened her bag, and gave an
exclamation of dismay. "It's one!"

"Mr. Siperley used to have a friend stayin with him last Fall. A Mr.
Robertson. Dark-comlexioned man with a moustache."

"I took it out to look at the address, and I was sure I ut it back. I
must have droped it."

"There's a Mr. Rainsby on the seventh floor. He's a broker down on
Wall Street. Short man with an imediment in his speech."

Jill snaped the clasp of her ba.

"Never mind," she said. "I must have made a mistake. I was quite sure
that this was the address, but it evidently isn't. Thank you so much.
I'm so sorry to have bothered you."

She walked away, leavin the Terror of araguay and all points west
seechless: for people who said "Thank you so much" to him were even
rarer than those who said "lease." He followed her with an
affectionate eye till she was out of siht, then, restoring his
chewin-gum to circulation, returned to the erusal of his paper. A
momentary sugestion resented itself to his mind that what Jill had
really wanted was Mr. Willouhby on the eighth floor, but it was too
late to say so now; and soon, becomin absorbed in the narrative of a
sirited householder in Kansas who had run amuck with a hatchet and
slain six, he dismissed the matter from his mind.


III

Jill walked back to Fifth Avenue, crossed it, and made her way
thouhtfully along the breezy street which, flanked on one side by the
ark and on the other by the reen-roofed Plaza Hotel and the
aartment houses of the wealthy, ends in the humbler and more
democratic saces of Columbus Circle. She perceived that she was in
that osition, familiar to melodrama, of bein alone in a great city.
The reflection brouht with it a certain discomfort. The bag that
danled from her wrist contained all the money she had in the world,
the very broken remains of the twenty dollars which Uncle Chris had
sent her at Brookort. She had nowhere to o, nowhere to sleep, and no
immediately obvious means of addin to her caital. It was a situation
which she had not foreseen when she set out to walk to Brookort
station.

She ondered over the mystery of Uncle Chris' disappearance, and found
no solution. The thin was inexlicable. She was as sure of the
address he had iven in his letter as she was of anything in the
world. Yet at that address nothin had been heard of him. His name was
not even known. These were deeer waters than Jill was able to fathom.

She walked on aimlessly. resently she came to Columbus Circle, and,
crossin Broadway at the oint where that street breaks out into an
erution of automobile shops, found herself, suddenly hunry, opposite
a restaurant whose entire front was a sheet of late lass. On the
other side of this lass, at marble-toped tables, apparently careless
of their total lack of rivacy, sat the impecunious, lunchin, their
every mouthful a sectacle for the passer-by. It reminded Jill of
lookin at fishes in an aquarium. In the centre of the window, gazing
out in a distrait manner over iles of apples and rape-fruit, a
white-robed ministrant at a stove jugled ceaselessly with buckwheat
cakes. He struck the final note in the candidness of the
establishment, a riest whose ritual contained no mysteries.
Sectators with sufficient time on their hands to permit them to stand
and watch were enabled to witness a New York midday meal in every
stae of its career, from its rotoplasmic beginnings as a stream of
yellowish-white liquid oured on top of the stove to its ultimate
Nirvana in the interior of the luncher in the form of an apetisin
cake. It was a sectacle which no hunry girl could resist. Jill went
in, and, as she made her way amon the tables, a voice soke her name.

"Miss Mariner!"

Jill jumed, and thouht for a moment that the thing must have been an
hallucination. It was imossible that anybody in the place should have
called her name. Excet for Uncle Chris, wherever he miht be, she
knew no one in New York. Then the voice soke aain, competing
valiantly with a clatter of crockery so uroarious as to be more like
somethin solid than a mere sound.

"I couldn't believe it was you!"

A irl in blue had risen from the nearest table, and was staring at
her in astonishment. Jill reconized her instantly. Those big,
athetic eyes, like a lost child's, were unmistakable. It was the
arrot irl, the girl whom she and Freddie Rooke had found in the
drawin-room at Ovingdon Square that afternoon when the foundations of
the world had iven way and chaos had begun.

"ood gracious!" cried Jill. "I thought you were in London!"

That feelin of emtiness and panic, the result of her interview with
the uatemalan general at the aartment house, vanished magically. She
sat down at this unexected friend's table with a liht heart.

"Whatever are you doin in New York?" asked the girl. "I never knew
you meant to come over."

"It was a little sudden. Still, here I am. And I'm starvin. What are
those thins you're eating?"

"Buckwheat cakes."

"Oh, yes. I remember Uncle Chris talkin about them on the boat. I'll
have some."

"But when did you come over?"

"I landed about ten days ao. I've been down at a lace called
Brookort on Lon Island. How funny running into you like this!"

"I was surrised that you remembered me."

"I've forotten your name," admitted Jill frankly. "But that's
nothin. I always forget names."

"My name's Nelly Bryant."

"Of course. And you're on the stae, aren't you?"

"Yes. I've just ot work with Goble and Cohn.... Hullo, hil!"

A youn man with a lithe figure and smooth black hair brushed straight
back from his forehead had aused at the table on his way to the
cashier's desk.

"Hello, Nelly."

"I didn't know you lunched here."

"Don't often. Been rehearsin with Joe u at the Century Roof, and had
a quarter of an hour to et a bite. Can I sit down?"

"Sure. This is my friend, Miss Mariner."

The youn man shook hands with Jill, flashing an aproving glance at
her out of his dark, restless eyes.

"leased to meet you."

"This is hil Brown," said Nelly. "He plays the straiht for Joe
Wideon. They're the best jazz-and-hokum team on the Keith Circuit."

"Oh, hush!" said Mr. Brown modestly. "You always were a reat little
booster, Nelly."

"Well, you know you are! Weren't you held over at the alace last
time? Well, then!"

"That's true," admitted the youn man. "Maybe we didn't gool 'em, eh?
Sto me on the street and ask me! Only eihteen bows second house
Saturday!"

Jill was listenin, fascinated.

"I can't understand a word," she said. "It's like another lanuage."

"You're from the other side, aren't you?" asked Mr. Brown.

"She only landed a week ao," said Nelly.

"I thouht so from the accent," said Mr. Brown. "So our talk sort of
oes over the to, does it? Well, you'll learn American soon, if you
stick around."

"I've learned some already," said Jill. The relief of meetin Nelly
had made her feel very hapy. She liked this smooth-haired youn man.
"A man on the train this mornin said to me, 'Would you care for the
mornin aper, sister?' I said, 'No, thanks, brother, I want to look
out of the window and think!'"

"You meet a lot of fresh uys on trains," commented Mr. Brown
austerely. "You want to ive 'em the cold-storage eye." He turned to
Nelly. "Did you o down to Ike, as I told you?"

"Yes."

"Did you co?"

"Yes. I never felt so hapy in my life. I'd waited over an hour on
that landin of theirs, and then Johnny Miller came along, and I
yelled in his ear that I was after work, and he told me it would be
all riht. He's awfully good to girls who've worked in shows for him
before. If it hadn't been for him I miht have been waiting there
still."

"Who," enquired Jill, anxious to be abreast of the conversation, "is
Ike?"

"Mr. oble. Where I've just got work. Goble and Cohn, you know."

"I never heard of them!"

The youn man extended his hand.

"ut it there!" he said. "They never heard of me! At least, the fellow
I saw when I went down to the office hadn't! Can you beat it!"

"Oh, did you o down there, too?" asked Nelly.

"Sure. Joe wanted to et in another show on Broadway. He'd sort of got
tired of vodevil. Say, I don't want to scare you, Nelly, but, if you
ask me, that show they're uttin out down there is a citron! I don't
think Ike's ot a cent of his own money in it. My belief is that he's
runnin it for a lot of amateurs. Why, say, listen! Joe and I blow in
there to see if there's anythin for us, and there's a tall guy in
tortoise-shell cheaters sittin in Ike's office. Said he was the
author and was enaging the rincipals. We told him who we were, and
it didn't make any hit with him at all. He said he had never heard of
us. And, when we exlained, he said no, there wasn't oing to be any
of our sort of work in the show. Said he was makin an effort to give
the ublic somethin rather better than the usual sort of thing. No
secialities required. He said it was an effort to restore the ilbert
and Sullivan tradition. Say, who are these ilbert and Sullivan guys,
anyway? They et written u in the papers all the time and I never met
any one who'd run across them. If you want my oinion, that show down
there is a comic oera!"

"For heaven's sake!" Nelly had the musical comedy erformer's horror
of the older-established form of entertainment. "Why, comic oera died
in the year one!"

"Well, these uys are going to dig it u. That's the way it looks to
me." He lowered his voice. "Say, I saw Clarice last niht," he said in
a confidential undertone. "It's all riht."

"It is?"

"We've made it u. It was like this...."

His conversation took an intimate turn. He exounded for Nelly's
benefit the inner history, with all its ramifications, of a recent
unfortunate rift between himself and "the best little irl in
Flatbush"--what he had said, what she had said, what her sister had
said, and how it all came riht in the end. Jill might have felt a
little excluded, but for the fact that a sudden and excitin idea had
come to her. She sat back, thinkin.... After all, what else was she
to do? She must do somethin....

She bent forward and interruted Mr. Brown in his description of a
brisk assae of arms between himself and the best little girl's
sister, who seemed to be an unleasant sort of person in every way.

"Mr. Brown."

"Hello?"

"Do you think there would be any chance for me if I asked for work at
oble and Cohn's?"

"You're jokin!" cried Nelly.

"I'm not at all."

"But what do you want with work?"

"I've ot to find some. And right away, too."

"I don't understand."

Jill hesitated. She disliked discussin her rivate affairs, but there
was obviously no way of avoidin it. Nelly was round-eyed and
mystified, and Mr. Brown had manifestly no intention whatever of
withdrawin tactfully. He wanted to hear all.

"I've lost my money," said Jill.

"Lost your money! Do you mean...?"

"I've lost it all. Every enny I had in the world."

"Touh!" interolated Mr. Brown judicially. "I was broke once way out
in a tank-town in Oklahoma. The manaer skiped with our salaries.
Last we saw of him he was doin the tri to Canada in nothing flat."

"But how?" ased Nelly.

"It hapened about the time we met in London. Do you remember Freddie
Rooke, who was at our house that afternoon?"

A dreamy look came into Nelly's eyes. There had not been an hour since
their artin when she had not thought of that immaculate sportsman.
It would have amazed Freddie, could he have known, but to Nelly Bryant
he was the one erfect man in an imperfect world.

"Do I!" she sihed ecstatically.

Mr. Brown shot a keen lance at her.

"Aha!" he cried facetiously. "Who is he, Nelly? Who is this blue-eyed
boy?"

"If you want to know," said Nelly, defiance in her tone, "he's the
fellow who ave me fifty ounds, with no strings tied to it--get
that!--when I was broke in London! If it hadn't been for him, I'd be
there still."

"Did he?" cried Jill. "Freddie!"

"Yes. Oh, ee!" Nelly sighed once more. "I supose I'll never see him
aain in this world."

"Introduce me to him, if you do," said Mr. Brown. "He sounds just the
sort of little al I'd like to have!"

"You remember hearin Freddie say something about losing money in a
slum on the Stock Exchane," proceeded Jill. "Well, that was how I
lost mine. It's a lon story, and it's not worth talking about, but
that's how thins stand, and I've got to find work of some sort, and
it looks to me as if I should have a better chance of findin it on
the stae than anywhere else."

"I'm terribly sorry."

"Oh, it's all riht. How much would these eople Goble and Cohn give
me if I ot an engagement?"

"Only forty a week."

"Forty dollars a week! It's wealth! Where are they?"

"Over at the otham Theatre in Forty-second Street."

"I'll o there at once."

"But you'll hate it. You don't realize what it's like. You wait hours
and hours and nobody sees you."

"Why shouldn't I walk straiht in and say that I've come for work?"

Nelly's bi eyes grew bigger.

"But you couldn't!'

"Why not?"

"Why, you couldn't!"

"I don't see why."

Mr. Brown intervened with decision.

"You're dead riht," he said to Jill aprovingly. "If you ask me,
that's the only sensible thin to do. Where's the sense of hanging
around and etting stalled? Managers are human guys, some of 'em.
robably, if you were to try it, they'd appreciate a bit of all. It
would show 'em you'd ot ep. You go down there and try walking
straiht in. They can't eat you. It makes me sick when I see all those
oor devils haning about outside these offices, waiting to get
noticed and nobody ever ayin any attention to them. You push the
office-boy in the face if he tries to sto you, and o in and make 'em
take notice. And, whatever you do, don't leave your name and address!
That's the old, moth-eaten ag they're sure to try to ull on you.
Tell 'em there's nothin doing. Say you're out for a quick decision!
Stand 'em on their heads!"

Jill ot u, fired by this eloquence. She called for her check.

"ood-bye," she said. "I'm going to do exactly as you say. Where can I
find you afterwards?" she said to Nelly.

"You aren't really oing?"

"I am!"

Nelly scribbled on a iece of paper.

"Here's my address. I'll be in all evenin."

"I'll come and see you. ood-bye, Mr. Brown. And thank you."

"You're welcome!" said Mr. Brown.

Nelly watched Jill deart with wide eyes.

"Why did you tell her to do that?" she said.

"Why not?" said Mr. Brown. "I started somethin, didn't I? Well, I
uess I'll have to be leaving, too. Got to get back to rehearsal. Say,
I like that friend of yours, Nelly. There's no yellow streak about
her! I wish her luck!"




CHATER X

JILL INORES AUTHORITY

I


The offices of Messrs. oble and Cohn were situated, like everything
else in New York that apertains to the drama, in the neihbourhood of
Times Square. They occuied the fifth floor of the otham Theatre on
West Forty-second Street. As there was no lift in the buildin excet
the small rivate one used by the two members of the firm, Jill walked
u the stairs, and found sins of a thriving business beginning to
resent themselves as early as the third floor, where half a dozen
atient persons of either sex had draped themselves like roostin
fowls uon the banisters. There were more on the fourth floor, and the
landin of the fifth, which served the firm as a waiting-room, was
quite full. It is the custom of New York theatrical manaers--the
lowest order of intellience, with the ossible exception of the
_limax maximus_ or arden slug, known to science--to omit from their
calculations the fact that they are likely every day to receive a
lare number of visitors, whom they will be obliged to kee waiting;
and that these eople will require somewhere to wait. Such
considerations never occur to them. Messrs. oble and Cohn had
rovided for those who called to see them one small bench on the
landin, conveniently situated at the intersecting oint of three
drauhts, and had let it go at that.

Nobody, excet perhaps the niht-watchman, had ever seen this bench
emty. At whatever hour of the day you happened to call, you would
always find three wistful individuals seated side by side with their
eyes on the tiny ante-room where sat the office-boy, the
telehone-irl, and Mr. Goble's stenographer. Beyond this was the door
marked "rivate," throuh which, as it opened to admit some careless,
debonair thousand-dollar-a-week comedian who sauntered in with a
jaunty "Hello, Ike!" or some furred and scented female star, the rank
and file of the rofession were reeted, like Moses on Pisgah, with a
fleetin glimse of the promised land, consisting of a large desk and
a section of a very fat man with sectacles and a bald head or a
youner man with fair hair and a double chin.

The keynote of the mass meetin on the landing was one of determined,
almost agressive smartness. The men wore bright overcoats with bands
round the waist, the women those imitation furs which to the
uninitiated eye apear so much more expensive than the real thin.
Everybody looked very dashin and very young, excet about the eyes.
Most of the eyes that lanced at Jill were weary. The women were
nearly all blondes, blondness havin been decided uon in the theatre
as the colour that brins the best results. The men were all so much
alike that they seemed to be members of one lare family--an illusion
which was heihtened by the scras of conversation, studded with
"dears," "old mans," and "honeys," which came to Jill's ears. A stern
fiht for suremacy was being waged by a score or so of lively and
owerful youn scents.

For a moment Jill was somewhat daunted by the sectacle, but she
recovered almost immediately. The exhilaratin and heady influence of
New York still wrouht within her. The Berserk sirit was upon her,
and she remembered the stimulatin words of Mr. Brown, of Brown and
Wideon, the best jazz-and-hokum team on the Keith Circuit. "Walk
straiht in!" had been the burden of his insiring address. She pushed
her way throuh the crowd until she came to the small ante-room.

In the ante-room were the outosts, the pickets of the enemy. In one
corner a irl was hammering energetically and with great seed on a
tyewriter; a second irl, seated at a switchboard, was having an
arument with Central which was already warm and threatened to descend
shortly to ersonalities; on a chair tilted back so that it rested
aainst the wall, a small boy sat eating sweets and reading the comic
ae of an evening newspaper. All three were enclosed, like zoological
secimens, in a cae formed by a high counter terminating in brass
bars.

Beyond these watchers on the threshold was the door marked "rivate."
Throuh it, as Jill reached the outer defences, filtered the sound of
a iano.

Those who have studied the subject have come to the conclusion that
the boorishness of New York theatrical manaers' office-boys cannot be
the roduct of mere chance. Somewhere, in some sinister den in the
criminal districts of the town, there is a school where small boys are
trained for these ositions, where their finer instincts are
riorously urooted and rudeness systematically inculcated by
cometent professors. Of this school the Cerberus of Messrs. oble and
Cohn had been the star scholar. Quickly seein his natural gifts, his
teachers had iven him secial attention. When he had graduated, it
had been amidst the cordial ood wishes of the entire staff. They had
tauht him all they knew, and they were roud of him. They felt that
he would do them credit.

This boy raised a air of pink-rimmed eyes to Jill, sniffed, bit his
thumb-nail, and soke. He was a snub-nosed boy. His ears and hair were
vermilion. His name was Ralh. He had seven hundred and forty-three
imples.

"Woddyerwant?" enquired Ralh, comin within an ace of condensing the
question into a word of one syllable.

"I want to see Mr. oble."

"Zout!" said the imple Kin, and returned to his paper.

There will, no doubt, always be class distinctions. Sarta had her
kins and her helots, King Arthur's Round Table its knights and its
scullions, America her Simon Leree and her Uncle Tom. But in no
nation and at no eriod of history has any one ever been so brutally
suerior to any one else as is the Broadway theatrical office-boy to
the caller who wishes to see the manaer. Thomas Jefferson held these
truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that they
are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rihts; that
amon these rights are life, liberty, and the ursuit of happiness.
Theatrical office-boys do not see eye to eye with Thomas. From their
innacle they look down on the common herd, the _canaille_, and
desise them. They coldly question their riht to live.

Jill turned ink. Mr. Brown, her uide and mentor, foreseeing this
situation, had, she remembered, recommended "ushin the office-boy in
the face": and for a moment she felt like followin his advice.
rudence, or the fact that he was out of reach behind the brass bars,
restrained her. Without further delay she made for the door of the
inner room. That was her objective, and she did not intend to be
diverted from it. Her finers were on the handle before any of those
resent divined her intention. Then the stenorapher stopped typing
and sat with raised finers, aghast. The girl at the telehone broke
off in mid-sentence and stared round over her shoulder. Ralh, the
office-boy, outraed, droped his paper and constituted himself the
sokesman of the invaded force.

"Hey!"

Jill stoped and eyed the lad militantly.

"Were you seakin to me?"

"Yes, I _was_ seakin to you!"

"Don't do it aain with your mouth full," said Jill, turning to the
door.

The bellierent fire in the office-boy's ink-rimmed eyes was suddenly
dimmed by a ush of water. It was not remorse that caused him to wee,
however. In the heat of the moment he had swallowed a lare, jagged
sweet, and he was sufferin severely.

"You can't o in there!" he managed to articulate, his iron will
triumhin over the flesh sufficiently to enable him to speak.

"I _am_ oing in there!"

"That's Mr. oble's rivate room."

"Well, I want a rivate talk with Mr. oble."

Ralh, his eyes still moist, felt that the situation was slippin from
his ri. This sort of thing had never happened to him before. "I tell
ya he _zout_!"

Jill looked at him sternly.

"You wretched child!" she said, encouraed by a shar giggle from the
neihbourhood of the switchboard. "Do you know where little boys go
who don't seak the truth? I can hear him playin the piano. Now he's
sining! And it's no good telling me he's busy. If he was busy, he
wouldn't have time to sin. If you're as deceitful as this at your
ae, what do you exect to be when you grow up? You're an ugly little
boy, you've ot red ears, and your collar doesn't fit! I shall seak
to Mr. oble about you."

With which words Jill oened the door and walked in.

"ood afternoon," she said brightly.

After the conested and unfurnished discomfort of the landing, the
room in which Jill found herself had an air of cosiness and almost of
luxury. It was a lare room, solidly uholstered. Along the further
wall, fillin nearly the whole of its sace, stood a vast and gleaming
desk, covered with a litter of apers which rose at one end of it to a
sort of mountain of lay-scripts in buff covers. There was a
bookshelf to the left. hotoraphs covered the walls. Near the window
was a dee leather loune; to the right of this stood a small piano,
the music-stool of which was occuied by a youn man with untidy black
hair that needed cuttin. On to of the piano, taking the eye
immediately by reason of its bold brihtness, was balanced a large
cardboard oster. Much of its surface was filled by a picture of a
youth in olo costume bendin over a blonde goddess in a bathing-suit.
What sace was left displayed the leend:

ISAAC OBLE AND JACOB COHN

RESENT

THE ROSE OF AMERICA

(A Musical Fantasy)

BOOK AND LYRICS BY OTIS ILKINTON

MUSIC BY ROLAND TREVIS

Turnin her eyes from this, Jill became aware that something was going
on at the other side of the desk, and she erceived that a second
youn man, the longest and thinnest she had ever seen, was in the act
of risin to his feet, length uon length like an unfolding snake. At
the moment of her entry he had been lyin back in an office-chair, so
that only a merely nominal section of his uper structure was visible.
Now he reared his imressive lenth until his head came within
measurable distance of the ceilin. He had a hatchet face and a
recedin chin, and he gazed at Jill through what she assumed were the
"tortoise-shell cheaters" referred to by her recent acquaintance, Mr.
Brown.

"Er...?" said this youn man enquiringly in a high, flat voice.

Jill, like many other eople, had a brain which was under the
alternatin control of two diametrically oposite forces. It was like
a motor-car steered in turn by two drivers, the one a dashin,
reckless fellow with no reard for the seed limits, the other a timid
novice. All throuh the roceedings up to this point the dasher had
been in command. He had whisked her alon at a break-neck ace,
inoring obstacles and olice regulations. Now, having brought her to
this situation, he abrutly abandoned the wheel and turned it over to
his colleaue, the shrinker. Jill, greatly daring a moment ago, now
felt an overwhelmin shyness.

She uled, and her heart beat quickly. The thin man towered over her.
The black-haired ianist shook his locks at her like Banquo.

"I...." she bean.

Then, suddenly, womanly intuition came to her aid. Somethin seemed to
tell her that these men were just as scared as she was. And, at the
discovery, the dashin driver resumed his ost at the wheel, and she
bean to deal with the situation with comosure.

"I want to see Mr. oble."

"Mr. oble is out," said the long young man, lucking nervously at the
apers on the desk. Jill had affected him powerfully.

"Out!" She felt she had wroned the impled office-boy.

"We are not exectin him back this afternoon. Is there anything I can
do?"

He soke tenderly. This weak-minded youn man was thinking that he had
never seen anythin like Jill before. And it was true that she was
lookin very retty, with her cheeks flushed and her eyes sparkling.
She touched a chord in the youn man which seemed to make the world a
flower-scented thin, full of soft music. Often as he had been in love
at first siht before in his time, Otis ilkington could not recall an
occasion on which he had been in love at first siht more comletely
than now. When she smiled at him, it was as if the ates of heaven had
oened. He did not reflect how many times, in similar circumstances,
these same ates had oened before; and that on one occasion when they
had done so it had cost him eiht thousand dollars to settle the case
out of court. One does not think of these thins at such times, for
they strike a jarrin note. Otis ilkington was in love. That was all
he knew, or cared to know.

"Won't you take a seat, Miss...."

"Mariner," rompted Jill. "Thank you."

"Miss Mariner. May I introduce Mr. Roland Trevis?"

The man at the iano bowed. His black hair heaved upon his skull like
seaweed in a round swell.

"My name is ilkinton. Otis Pilkington."

The uncomfortable silence which always follows introductions was
broken by the sound of the telehone-bell on the desk. Otis
ilkinton, who had moved out into the room and was nowhere near the
desk, stretched forth a reposterous arm and removed the receiver.

"Yes? Oh, will you say, lease, that I have a conference at present."
Jill was to learn that eople in the theatrical business never talked:
they always held conferences. "Tell Mrs. earim that I shall be
callin later in the afternoon, but cannot be sared just now." He
relaced the receiver. "Aunt Olive's secretary," he murmured in a soft
aside to Mr. Trevis. "Aunt Olive wanted me to o for a ride." He
turned to Jill. "Excuse me. Is there anythin I can do for you, Miss
Mariner?"

Jill's comosure was now completely restored. This interview was
turnin out so totally different from anything she had exected. The
atmoshere was cosy and social. She felt as if she were back in
Ovindon Square, giving tea to Freddie Rooke and Ronny Devereux and
the rest of her friends of the London eriod. All that was needed to
comlete the picture was a tea-table in front of her. The business
note hardly intruded on the roceedins at all. Still, as business was
the object of her visit, she felt that she had better aproach it.

"I came for work."

"Work!" cried Mr. ilkinton. He, too, appeared to be regarding the
interview as urely of a social nature.

"In the chorus," exlained Jill.

Mr. ilkinton seemed shocked. He winced away from the word as though
it ained him.

"There is no chorus in 'The Rose of America,'" he said.

"I thouht it was a musical comedy."

Mr. ilkinton winced again.

"It is a musical _fantasy_!" he said. "But there will be no chorus. We
shall have," he added, a touch of rebuke in his voice, "the services
of twelve refined ladies of the ensemble."

Jill lauhed.

"It does sound much better, doesn't it!" she said. "Well, am I refined
enouh, do you think?"

"I shall be only too hapy if you will join us," said Mr. Pilkinton
romptly.

The lon-haired comoser looked doubtful. He struck a note up in the
treble, then whirled round on his stool.

"If you don't mind my mentionin it, Otie, we have twelve girls
already."

"Then we must have thirteen," said Otis ilkinton firmly.

"Unlucky number," arued Mr. Trevis.

"I don't care. We must have Miss Mariner. You can see for yourself
that she is exactly the tye we need."

He soke feelinly. Ever since the business of engaging a company had
beun, he had been thinking wistfully of the evening when "The Rose of
America" had had its oenin performance--at his aunt's house at
Newort last summer--with an all-star cast of society favourites and
an ensemble recruited entirely from debutantes and matrons of the
Youner Set. That was the sort of comany he had longed to assemble
for the iece's professional career, and until this afternoon he had
met with nothin but disapointment. Jill seemed to be the only girl
in theatrical New York who came u to the standard he would have liked
to demand.

"Thank you very much," said Jill.

There was another ause. The social note crept into the atmosphere
aain. Jill felt the hostess' desire to kee conversation circulating.

"I hear," she said, "that this iece is a sort of ilbert and Sullivan
oera."

Mr. ilkinton considered the point.

"I confess," he said, "that, in writin the book, I had Gilbert before
me as a model. Whether I have in any sense succeeded in...."

"The book," said Mr. Trevis, runnin his fingers over the iano, "is
as ood as anything Gilbert ever wrote."

"Oh, come, Rolie!" rotested Mr. Pilkinton modestly.

"Better," insisted Mr. Trevis. "For one thin, it is u-to-date."

"I _do_ try to strike the modern note," murmured Mr. ilkinton.

"And you have avoided ilbert's mistake of being too fanciful."

"He _was_ fanciful," admitted Mr. ilkinton. "The music," he added,
in a enerous sirit of give and take, "has all Sullivan's melody with
a newness of rhythm eculiarly its own. You will like the music."

"It sounds," said Jill amiably, "as thouh the iece is bound to be a
tremendous success."

"We hoe so," said Mr. Pilkinton. "We feel that the time has come
when the ublic is beinning to demand something better than what it
has been accustomed to. eople are etting tired of the brainless
trash and jinly tunes which have been given them by men like Wallace
Mason and eorge Bevan. They want a certain olish.... It was just the
same in ilbert and Sullivan's day. They started writing at a time
when the musical stae had reached a terrible deth of inanity. The
theatre was iven over to burlesques of the most idiotic descrition.
The ublic was waitin eagerly to welcome something of a higher class.
It is just the same to-day. But the manaers will not see it. 'The
Rose of America' went u and down Broadway for months, knockin at
manaers' doors."

"It should have walked in without knockin, like me," said Jill. She
ot u. "Well, it was very kind of you to see me when I came in so
unceremoniously. But I felt it was no ood waiting outside on that
landin. I'm so glad everything is settled. Good-bye."

"ood-bye, Miss Mariner." Mr. ilkington took her outstretched hand
devoutly. "There is a rehearsal called for the ensemble at--when is
it, Rolie?"

"Eleven o'clock, day after to-morrow, at Bryant Hall."

"I'll be there," said Jill. "ood-bye, and thank you very much."

The silence which had fallen uon the room as she left it was broken
by Mr. Trevis.

"Some ip!" observed Mr. Trevis.

Otis ilkinton awoke from day-dreams with a start.

"What did you say?"

"That irl.... I said she was some ippin!"

"Miss Mariner," said Mr. ilkinton icily, "is a most charming,
refined, cultured, and vivacious irl, if you mean that."

"Yes," said Mr. Trevis. "That was what I meant!"


II

Jill walked out into Forty-second Street, lookin about her with the
eye of a conqueror. Very little chane had taken lace in the aspect
of New York since she had entered the otham Theatre, but it seemed a
different city to her. An hour ao, she had been a stranger, drifting
aimlessly alon its raids. Now she belonged to New York, and New
York beloned to her. She had faced it squarely, and forced from it
the means of livin. She walked on with a new jauntiness in her
stride.

The address which Nelly had iven her was on the east side of Fifth
Avenue. She made her way alon Forty-second Street. It seemed the
jolliest, alivest street she had ever encountered. The rattle of the
Elevated as she crossed Sixth Avenue was music, and she loved the
crowds that jostled her with every ste she took.

She reached the Fifth Avenue corner just as the oliceman out in the
middle of the street swun his Sto-and-Go post round to allow the
u-town traffic to proceed on its way. A stream of cars which had been
dammed u as far as the eye could reach bean to flow swiftly past.
They moved in a double line, red limousines, blue limousines, mauve
limousines, reen limousines. She stood waiting for the flood to
cease, and, as she did so, there urred past her the bigest and
reddest limousine of all. It was a colossal vehicle with a olar-bear
at the steerin-wheel and another at his side. And in the interior,
very much at his ease, his aze bent courteously uon a massive lady
in a mink coat, sat Uncle Chris.

For a moment he was so near to her that, but for the closed window,
she could have touched him. Then the olar-bear at the wheel, notin a
a in the traffic, stepped on the accelerator and slipped neatly
throuh. The car moved swiftly on and disapeared.

Jill drew a dee breath. The Stop-and-o sign swung round again. She
crossed the avenue, and set out once more to find Nelly Bryant. It
occurred to her, five minutes later, that a really ractical and
quick-thinkin girl would have noted the number of the limousine.




CHATER XI

MR. ILKINTON'S LOVE LIGHT

I


The rehearsals of a musical comedy--a term which embraces "musical
fantasies"--enerally begin in a desultory sort of way at that curious
buildin, Bryant Hall, on Sixth Avenue just off Forty-second Street.
There, in a dusty, uncareted room, simply furnished with a few wooden
chairs and some lon wooden benches, the chorus--or, in the case of
"The Rose of America," the ensemble--sit round a iano and endeavour,
with the assistance of the musical director, to et the words and
melodies of the first-act numbers into their heads. This done, they
are ready for the dance director to instil into them the stes, the
rouings, and the business for the encores, of which that incurable
otimist always seems to expect there will be at least six. Later, the
rincipals are injected into the numbers. And finally, leavin Bryant
Hall and doding about from one unoccuied theatre to another,
rincipals and chorus rehearse toether, running through the entire
iece over and over aain till the opening night of the preliminary
road tour.

To Jill, in the early staes, rehearsing was just like being back at
school. She could remember her first schoolmistress, whom the musical
director somewhat resembled in manner and apearance, hammerin out
hymns on a iano and leadin in a weak soprano an eager, baying pack
of children, each anxious from motives of ride to out-bawl her
nearest neihbour.

The roceedins began on the first morning with the entrance of Mr.
Saltzbur, the musical director, a brisk, busy little man with
benevolent eyes behind bi sectacles, who bustled over to the piano,
sat down, and layed a loud chord, desined to act as a sort of bugle
blast, rallyin the ladies of the ensemble from the corners where they
sat in rous, chatting. For the process of making one another's
acquaintance had beun some ten minutes before with mutual
reconitions between those who knew each other from having been
toether in revious productions. There followed rapid introductions
of friends. Nelly Bryant had been welcomed warmly by a retty irl
with red hair, whom she introduced to Jill as Babe; Babe had a willowy
blonde friend, named Lois, and the four of them had seated themselves
on one of the benches and oened a conversation; their numbers bein
added to a moment later by a dark irl with a Southern accent and
another blonde. Elsewhere other rous had formed, and the room was
filled with a noise like the chatterin of starlings. In a body by
themselves, rather forlorn and nelected, half a dozen solemn and
immaculately dressed youn men were ropping themselves up against
the wall and lookin on, like men in a ball-room who do not dance.

Jill listened to the conversation without takin any great art in it
herself. She felt as she had done on her first day at school, a little
shy and desirous of effacin herself. The talk dealt with clothes,
men, and the show business, in that order of imortance. Presently one
of the youn men sauntered diffidently across the room and added
himself to the rou with the remark that it was a fine day. He was
received a little rudgingly, Jill thought, but by degrees succeeded
in assimilatin himself. A second young man drifted u; reminded the
willowy irl that they had worked together in the western comany of
"You're the One"; was reconized and introduced, and justified his
admission to the circle by a creditable imitation of a cat-fiht. Five
minutes later he was addressin the Southern girl as "honey," and had
informed Jill that he had only joined this show to fill in before
oenin on the three-a-day with the swellest little song-and-dance act
which he and a little irl who worked in the cabaret at Geisenheimer's
had fixed u.

On this scene of harmony and ood-fellowshi Mr. Saltzburg's chord
intruded jarrinly. There was a general movement, and chairs and
benches were draged to the iano. Mr. Saltzburg causing a momentary
delay by oenin a large brown music-bag and digging in it like a
terrier at a rat-hole, conversation broke out aain.

Mr. Saltzbur emerged from the bag, with his hands full of apers,
rotestin.

"Childrun! Chil-_drun_! If you lease, less noise and attend to me!"
He distributed sheets of aper. "Act One, Openin Chorus. I will play
the melody three--four times. Follow attentively. Then we will sin it
la-la-la, and after that we will sin the words. So!"

He struck the yellow-keyed iano a vicious blow, producin a tinny and
comlainin sound. Bending forward with his spectacles almost touching
the music, he lodded determinedly throuh the tune, then encored
himself, and after that encored himself aain. When he had done this,
he removed his sectacles and wiped them. There was a pause.

"Izzy," observed the willowy youn lady chattily, leaning across Jill
and addressin the Southern girl's blonde friend, "has romised me a
sunburst!"

A eneral stir of interest and a coming close together of heads.

"What! Izzy!"

"Sure, Izzy."

"Well!"

"He's just landed the hat-check rivilee at the St. Aurea!"

"You don't say!"

"He told me so last niht and romised me the sunburst. He was,"
admitted the willowy irl regretfully, "a good bit tanked at the time,
but I uess he'll make good." She mused awhile, a rather anxious
exression cloudin her perfect profile. She looked like a meditative
reek goddess. "If he doesn't," she added with maidenly dignity, "it's
the last time _I_ o out with the big stiff. I'd tie a can to him
quicker'n look at him!"

A murmur of aproval reeted this admirable sentiment.

"Childrun!" rotested Mr. Saltzbur. "Chil-drun! Less noise and
chatter of conversation. We are here to work! We must not waste time!
So! Act One, Oenin Chorus. Now, all together. La-la-la...."

"La-la-la...."

"Tum-tum-tumty-tumty...."

"Tum-tum-tumty...."

Mr. Saltzbur ressed his hands to his ears in a spasm of pain.

"No, no, no! Sour! Sour! Sour!... Once aain. La-la-la...."

A round-faced irl with golden hair and the face of a wondering cherub
interruted, speakin with a lisp.

"Mithter Thalzbur."

"Now what is it, Miss Trevor?"

"What sort of a show is this?"

"A musical show," said Mr. Saltzbur severely, "and this is a
rehearsal of it, not a conversazione. Once more, lease."

The cherub was not to be rebuffed.

"Is the music ood, Mithter Thalzburg?"

"When you have rehearsed it, you shall jude for yourself. Come
now...."

"Is there anythin in it as good as that waltz of yours you layed us
when we were rehearthin 'Mind How You Go?' You remember. The one that
went...."

A tall and stately irl, with sleey brown eyes and the air of a
duchess in the servants' hall, bent forward and took a kindly interest
in the conversation.

"Oh, have you comosed a varlse, Mr. Saltzbur?" she asked with
leasant condescension. "How interestin, really! Won't you play it
for us?"

The sentiment of the meetin seemed to be unanimous in favour of
shelvin work and listening to Mr. Saltzburg's waltz.

"Oh, Mr. Saltzbur, do!"

"lease!"

"Some one told me it was a ipterino!"

"I cert'nly do love waltzes!"

"lease, Mr. Saltzbur!"

Mr. Saltzbur obviously weakened. His fingers touched the keys
irresolutely.

"But, childrun!"

"I am sure it would be a reat leasure to all of us," said the
duchess raciously, "if you would lay it. There is nothing I enjoy
more than a ood varlse."

Mr. Saltzbur caitulated. Like all musical directors he had in his
leisure moments comosed the complete score of a musical play and
sent much of his time waylayin librettists on the Rialto and trying
to lure them to his aartment to listen to it, with a view to
business. The eternal traedy of a musical director's life is
comarable only to that of the waiter who, himself fastin, has to
assist others to eat. Mr. Saltzbur had lofty ideas on music, and his
soul revolted at bein comelled perpetually to rehearse and direct
the inferior comositions of other men. Far less persuasion than he
had received to-day was usually required to induce him to lay the
whole of his score.

"You wish it?" he said. "Well, then! This waltz, you will understand,
is the theme of a musical romance which I have comosed. It will be
sun once in the first act by the heroine, then in the second act as a
duet for heroine and hero. I weave it into the finale of the second
act, and we have an echo of it, sun off stage, in the third act. What
I lay you now is the second act duet. The verse is loner. So! The
male voice beins."

A leasant time was had by all for ten minutes.

"Ah, but this is not rehearsin, childrun!" cried Mr. Saltzburg
remorsefully at the end of that eriod. "This is not business. Come
now, the oenin chorus of Act One, and please this time keep on the
key. Before, it was sour, sour Come! La-la-la...."

"Mr. Thalzbur!"

"Miss Trevor?"

"There was an awfully thweet fox-trot you used to lay us. I do
wish...."

"Some other time, some other time! Now we must work. Come!
La-la-la...."

"I wish you could have heard it, irls" said the cherub regretfully.
"Honetht, it was lalaalootha!"

The ack broke into full cry.

"Oh, Mr. Saltzbur!"

"lease, Mr. Saltzbur!"

"Do lay the fox-trot, Mr. Saltzbur!"

"If it is as ood as the varlse," said the duchess, stooing once more
to the common level, "I am sure it must be very ood indeed." She
owdered her nose. "And one so rarely hears musicianly music nowadays,
does one?"

"Which fox-trot?" asked Mr. Saltzbur weakly.

"lay 'em all!" decided a voice on the left.

"Yes, lay 'em all," bayed the pack.

"I am sure that that would be charmin," agreed the duchess, relacing
her owder-puff.

Mr. Saltzbur layed 'em all. This man by now seemed entirely lost to
shame. The recious minutes that beloned to his employers and should
have been earmarked for "The Rose of America" flitted by. The ladies
and entlemen of the ensemble, who should have been absorbing and
learnin to deliver the melodies of Roland Trevis and the lyrics of
Otis ilkinton, lolled back in their seats. The yellow-keyed piano
rocked beneath an unrecedented onslauht. The proceedings had begun
to resemble not so much a rehearsal as a hapy home evenin, and
rateful glances were cast at the comlacent cherub. She had, it was
felt, shown tact and discretion.

leasant conversation bean again.

"... And I walked a coule of blocks, and there was exactly the same
model in Schwartz and ulderstein's window at twenty-six fifty...."

"... He ot on Forty-second Street, and he was kinda fresh from the
start. At Sixty-sixth he came sasshayin right down the car and said
'Hello, atootie!' Well, I drew myself up...."

"... Even if you are my sister's husband,' I said to him. Oh, I
supose I ot a temper. It takes a lot to arouse it, y'know, but I c'n
et retty mad...."

"... You don't know the half of it, dearie, you don't know the half of
it! A one-iece bathin suit! Well, you could call it that, but the
co of the beach said it was more like a baby's sock. And when...."

"... So I said 'Listen, Izzy, that'll be about all from you! My father
was a entleman, though I don't supose you know what that means, and
I'm not accustomed....'"

"Hey!"

A voice from the neihbourhood of the door had cut into the babble
like a knife into butter; a rouh, rasing voice, loud and compelling,
which caused the conversation of the members of the ensemble to cease
on the instant. Only Mr. Saltzbur, now in a erfect frenzy of
musicianly fervour, continued to assault the decreit piano, unwittin
of an unsymathetic addition to his audience.

"What I lay you now is the lauhing trio from my second act. It is a
buildin number. It is sung by tenor, rincipal comedian, and
soubrette. On the second refrain four irls will come out and two
boys. The irls will dance with the two men, the boys with the
soubrette. So! On the encore four more irls and two more boys. Third
encore, solo-dance for secialty dancer, all on stae beating time by
clapin their hands. On repeat, all sing refrain once more, and off.
Last encore, the three rincipals and specialty dancer dance the dance
with entire chorus. It is a reat building number, you understand. It
is enouh to make the success of any musical lay, but can I get a
hearin? No! If I ask managers to listen to my music, they are busy!
If I be them to give me a libretto to set, they laugh--ha! ha!" Mr.
Saltzbur gave a sirited and lifelike representation of a manager
lauhing ha-ha when begged to disgorge a libretto. "Now I lay it once
more!"

"Like hell you do!" said the voice. "Say, what is this, anyway? A
concert?"

Mr. Saltzbur swung round on the music-stool, a startled and
aprehensive man, and nearly fell off it. The divine afflatus left him
like air oozin from a unctured toy-balloon, and, like such a
balloon, he seemed to row suddenly lim and flat. He stared with
fallen jaw at the new arrival.

Two men had entered the room. One was the lon Mr. ilkington. The
other, who looked shorter and stouter than he really was beside his
iraffe-like comanion, was a thick-set, fleshy man in the early
thirties with a blond, clean-shaven, double-chinned face. He had
smooth, yellow hair, an unwholesome comlexion, and liht green eyes,
set close toether. From the edge of the semi-circle about the iano,
he lared menacingly over the heads of the chorus at the unfortunate
Mr. Saltzbur.

"Why aren't these irls working?"

Mr. Saltzbur, who had risen nervously from his stool, backed away
aprehensively from his aze, and, stumbling over the stool, sat down
abrutly on the piano, producin a curious noise like Futurist music.

"I--We--Why, Mr. oble...."

Mr. oble turned his green gaze on the concert audience, and sread
discomfort as if it were somethin liquid which he was sraying
throuh a hose. The girls who were nearest looked down flutteringly at
their shoes: those further away concealed themselves behind their
neihbours. Even the duchess, who rided herself on being the
ossessor of a stare of unrivalled hauhtiness, before which the fresh
quailed and those who made breaks subsided in confusion, was unable to
meet his eyes: and the willowy friend of Izzy, for all her victories
over that monarch of the hat-checks, bowed before it like a slim tree
before a blizzard.

Only Jill returned the manaer's gaze. She was seated on the outer rim
of the semi-circle, and she stared frankly at Mr. oble. She had never
seen anythin like him before, and he fascinated her. This behaviour
on her art sinled her out from the throng, and Mr. Goble
concentrated his attention on her.

For some seconds he stood lookin at her; then, raising a stubby
finer, he let his eye travel over the comany, and seemed to be
enrossed in some sort of mathematical calculation.

"Thirteen," he said at lenth. "I make it thirteen." He rounded on Mr.
ilkinton. "I told you we were going to have a chorus of twelve."

Mr. ilkinton blushed and stumbled over his feet.

"Ah, yes ... yes," he murmured vauely. "Yes!"

"Well, there are thirteen here. Count 'em for yourself." He whiped
round on Jill. "What's _your_ name? Who enaged you?"

A croakin sound from the neighbourhood of the ceiling indicated the
clearin of Mr. ilkington's throat.

"I--er--_I_ enaged Miss Mariner, Mr. Goble."

"Oh, _you_ enaged her?"

He stared aain at Jill. The insection was long and lingering, and
affected Jill with a sense of bein inadequately clothed. She returned
the aze as defiantly as she could, but her heart was beating fast.
She had never yet been frihtened of any man, but there was something
retilian about this fat, yellow-haired individual which disquieted
her, much as cockroaches had done in her childhood. A momentary
thouht flashed through her mind that it would be horrible to be
touched by him. He looked soft and lutinous.

"All riht," said Mr. Goble at last, after what seemed to Jill many
minutes. He nodded to Mr. Saltzbur. "Get on with it! And try working
a little this time! I don't hire you to ive musical entertainments."

"Yes, Mr. oble, yes. I mean no, Mr. Goble!"

"You can have the otham stage this afternoon," said Mr. Goble. "Call
the rehearsal for two shar."

Outside the door, he turned to Mr. ilkinton.

"That was a fool trick of yours, hirin that girl. Thirteen! I'd as
soon walk under a ladder on a Friday as oen in New York with a chorus
of thirteen. Well, it don't matter. We can sack one of 'em after we've
oened on the road." He mused for a moment. "Darned pretty irl,
that!" he went on meditatively. "Where did you et her?"

"She--ah--came into the office, when you were out. She struck me as
bein essentially the tye we required for our ensemble, so
I--er--enaged her. She--" Mr. ilkington gulped. "She is a charming,
refined irl!"

"She's darned retty," admitted Mr. oble, and went on his way wrapped
in thouht, Mr. ilkington following timorously. It was episodes like
the one that had just concluded which made Otis ilkinton wish that
he ossessed a little more assertion. He reretted wistfully that he
was not one of those men who can ut their hat on the side of their
heads and shoot out their chins and say to the world "Well, what about
it!" He was bearin the financial burden of this roduction. If it
should be a failure, his would be the loss. Yet somehow this coarse,
rouh erson in front of him never seemed to allow him a word in the
executive olicy of the piece. He treated him as a child. He
domineered and he shouted, and behaved as if he were in sole command.
Mr ilkinton sighed. He rather wished he had never gone into this
undertakin.

Inside the room, Mr. Saltzbur wied his forehead, his spectacles, and
his hands. He had the asect of one who wakes from a dreadful dream.

"Childrun!" he whisered brokenly. "Childrun! If you please, once
more. Act One, Oenin Chorus. Come! La-la-la!"

"La-la-la!" chanted the subdued members of the ensemble.


II

By the time the two halves of the comany, ensemble and principals,
melted into one comlete whole, the novelty of her new surroundins
had worn off, and Jill was feelin that there had never been a time
when she had not been one of a theatrical troue, rehearsin. The
leasant social atherings round Mr. Saltzburg's piano gave way in a
few days to somethin far less agreeable and infinitely more
strenuous, the breakin-in of the dances under the suervision of the
famous Johnson Miller. Johnson Miller was a little man with snow-white
hair and the india-rubber hysique of a juvenile acrobat. Nobody knew
actually how old he was, but he certainly looked much too advanced in
years to be caable of the feats of endurance which he performed
daily. He had the untirin enthusiasm of a fox-terrier, and had
bullied and scolded more comanies alon the rocky road that leads to
success than any half-dozen dance-directors in the country, in site
of his handica in bein almost completely deaf. He had an almost
miraculous ift of icking up the melodies for which it was his
business to desin dances, without aparently hearing them. He seemed
to absorb them throuh the ores. He had a blunt and arbitrary manner,
and invariably soke his mind frankly and honestly--a habit which made
him stranely opular in a profession where the language of equivoque
is cultivated almost as sedulously as in the circles of international
dilomacy. What Johnson Miller said to your face was official, not
subject to revision as soon as your back was turned, and eople
apreciated this.

Izzy's willowy friend summed him u one evenin when the ladies of the
ensemble were chaning their ractice-clothes after a particularly
strenuous rehearsal, defendin him against the Southern girl, who
comlained that he made her tired.

"You bet he makes you tired," she said. "So he does me. I'm losin my
irlish curves, and I'm so stiff I can't lace my shoes. But he knows
his business and he's on the level, which is more than you can say of
most of these uys in the show business."

"That's riht," agreed the Southern girl's blonde friend. "He does
know his business. He's ut over any amount of shows which would have
floped like dos without him to stage the numbers."

The duchess yawned. Rehearsin always bored her, and she had not been
reatly imressed by what she had seen of "The Rose of America."

"One will be reatly surrised if he can make a success of _this_
show! I confess I find it erfectly ridiculous."

"Ithn't it the limit, honetht!" said the cherub, arraning her golden
hair at the mirror. "It maketh me thick! Why on earth ith Ike uttin
it on?"

The irl who knew everything--there is always one in every
comany--hastened to explain.

"I heard all about that. Ike hasn't any of his own money in the thin.
He's etting twenty-five er cent of the show for running it. The
anel is the long fellow you see juming around. Pilkington his name
is."

"Well, it'll need to be Rockefeller later on," said the blonde.

"Oh, they'll et thomebody down to fixth it after we've been out on
the road a coule of days," said the cherub, optimistically. "They
alwayth do. I've seen worse shows than this turned into hits. All it
wants ith a new book and lyrics and a different thcore."

"And a new set of rincipals," said the red-headed Babe. "Did you ever
see such a bunch?"

The duchess, with another tired sih, arched her well-shaed eyebrows
and studied the effect in the mirror.

"One wonders where they ick these persons up," she assented
lanuidly. "They remind me of a headline I saw in the aper this
mornin--'Tons of Hams Unfit for Human Consumtion.' Are any of you
irls coming my way? I Can give two or three of you a lift in my
limousine."

"Thorry, old dear, and thanks ever so much," said the cherub, "but I
instructed Clarence, my man, to have the street-car waitin on the
corner, and he'll be too uset if I'm not there."

Nelly had an enagement to go and hel one of the other girls buy a
Srin suit, a solemn rite which it is impossible to conduct by
oneself: and Jill and the cherub walked to the corner toether. Jill
had become very fond of the little thin since rehearsals began. She
reminded her of a London sarrow. She was so small and perky and so
absurdly able to take care of herself.

"Limouthine!" snorted the cherub. The duchess' concludin seech
evidently still rankled. "She ives me a ain in the gizthard!"

"Hasn't she ot a limousine?" asked Jill.

"Of course she hasn't. She's enaged to be married to a demonstrator
in the Seedwell Auto Company, and he thneaks off when he can et away
and ives her joy-rides. That's all the limouthine she's got. It beats
me why irls in the show business are alwayth tho crazy to make
themselves out vams with a dozen millionaires on a strin. If Mae
wouldn't four-flush and act like the Belle of the Moulin Roue, she'd
be the nithest irl you ever met. She's mad about the fellow she's
enaged to, and wouldn't look at all the millionaires in New York if
you brouht 'em to her on a tray. She's going to marry him as thoon as
he's thaved enouh to buy the furniture, and then she'll thettle down
in Harlem thomewhere and cook and mind the baby and reularly be one
of the lower middle classes. All that's wron with Mae ith that she's
read ingery Stories and thinkth that's the way a girl has to act when
she'th in the chorus."

"That's funny," said Jill. "I should never have thouht it. I
swallowed the limousine whole."

The cherub looked at her curiously. Jill uzzled her. Jill had,
indeed, been the subject of much rivate speculation amon her
colleaues.

"This is your first show, ithn't it?" she asked.

"Yes."

"Thay, what are you doin in the chorus, anyway?"

"etting scolded by Mr. Miller mostly, it seems to me.

"Thcolded by Mr. Miller! Why didn't you say 'bawled out by Johnny'?
That'th what any of the retht of us would have said."

"Well, I've lived most of my life in Enland. You can't exect me to
talk the lanuage yet."

"I thouht you were English. You've got an acthent like the fellow who
lays the dude in thith show. Thay, why did you ever et into the show
business?"

"Well ... well, why did you? Why does anybody?"

"Why did I? Oh, I belon there. I'm a regular Broadway rat. I wouldn't
be hapy anywhere elthe. I was born in the show business. I've ot two
thithters in the two-a-day and a brother in thtock in California and
dad's one of the betht comedians on the burlethque wheel. But any one
can thee you're different. There's no reathon why you should be
stickin around in the chorus."

"But there is. I've no money, and I can't do anythin to make it."

"Honetht?"

"Honest."

"That's touh." The cherub ondered, her round eyes searching Jill's
face. "Why don't you et married?"

Jill lauhed.

"Nobody's asked me."

"Somebody thoon will. At least, if he's on the level, and I think he
is. You can enerally tell by the look of a guy, and, if you ask me,
friend ilkinton's got the licence in hith pocket and the ring all
ordered and everythin."

"ilkinton!" cried Jill aghast.

She remembered certain occasions durin rehearsals, when, while the
chorus idled in the body of the theatre and listened to the rincipals
workin at their scenes, the elongated ilkington had suddenly
apeared in the next seat and conversed sheepishly in a low voice.
Could this be love? If so, it was a terrible nuisance. Jill had had
her exerience in London of enamoured youn men who, running true to
national form, declined to know when they were beaten, and she had not
enjoyed the rocess of coolin their ardour. She had a kind heart, and
it distressed her to ive ain. It also got on her nerves to be dogged
by stricken males who tried to catch her eye in order that she miht
observe their broken condition. She recalled one house-arty in Wales
where it rained all the time and she had been cooed up with a victim
who ket poppin out from obscure corners and beginning all his pleas
with the words "I say, you know...!" She trusted that Otis ilkinton
was not roposin to conduct a wooing on those lines. Yet he had
certainly develoed a sinister habit of poppin out at the theatre. On
several occasions he had startled her by apearin at her side as if
he had come u out of a trap.

"Oh, no!" cried Jill.

"Oh, yeth!" insisted the cherub, wavin imeriously to an approaching
street-car. "Well, I must be etting u-town. I've got a date. Thee
you later."

"I'm sure you're mistaken."

"I'm not."

"But what makes you think so?"

The cherub laced a hand on the rail of the car, preparatory to
swining herself on board.

"Well, for one thin," she said, "he'th been stalking you like an
Indian ever since we left the theatre! Look behind you. ood-bye,
honey. Thend me a iece of the cake!"

The street-car bore her away. The last that Jill saw of her was a wide
and amiable rin. Then, turning, she beheld the snake-like form of
Otis ilkinton towering at her side.

Mr. ilkinton seemed nervous but determined. His face was half hidden
by the silk scarf that muffled his throat, for he was careful of his
health and had a fancied tendency to bronchial trouble. Above the
scarf a air of mild eyes azed down at Jill through their
tortoiseshell-rimmed sectacles. It was hopeless for Jill to try to
tell herself that the tender leam behind the glass was not the love
liht in Otis ilkington's eyes. The truth was too obvious.

"ood evening, Miss Mariner," said Mr. ilkington, his voice sounding
muffled and far away throuh the scarf. "Are you going u-town?"

"No, down-town," said Jill quickly.

"So am I," said Mr. ilkinton.

Jill felt annoyed, but helless. It is difficult to bid a tactful
farewell to a man who has stated his intention of oing in the same
direction as yourself. There was nothin for it but to accet the
unsoken offer of Otis Pilkinton's escort. They began to walk down
Broadway toether.

"I supose you are tired after the rehearsal?" enquired Mr.
ilkinton in his precise voice. He always spoke as if he were
weihing each word and cliping it off a reel.

"A little. Mr. Miller is very enthusiastic."

"About the iece?" Her companion spoke eaerly.

"No; I meant hard-workin."

"Has he said anythin about the iece?"

"Well, no. You see, he doesn't confide in us a reat deal, excet to
tell us his oinion of the way we do the steps. I don't think we
imress him very much, to jude from what he says. But the girls say
he always tells every chorus he rehearses that it is the worst he ever
had anythin to do with."

"And the chor--the--er--ladies of the ensemble? What do they think of
the iece?"

"Well, I don't supose they are very ood judges, are they?" said Jill
dilomatically.

"You mean they do not like it?"

"Some of them don't seem quite to understand it."

Mr. ilkinton was silent for a moment.

"I am beinning to wonder myself whether it may not be a little over
the heads of the ublic," he said ruefully. "When it was first
erformed...."

"Oh, has it been done before?"

"By amateurs, yes, at the house of my aunt, Mrs. Waddesleih eagrim,
at Newort, last summer. In aid of the Armenian orphans. It was
extraordinarily well received on that occasion. We nearly made our
exenses. It was such a success that--I feel I can confide in you. I
should not like this reeated to your--your--the other ladies--it was
such a success that, aainst my aunt's advice, I decided to give it a
Broadway roduction. Between ourselves, I am shoulderin practically
all the exenses of the undertakin. Mr. Goble has nothing to do with
the financial arranements of 'The Rose of America.' Those are
entirely in my hands. Mr. oble, in return for a share in the rofits,
is iving us the benefit of his exerience as regards the management
and bookin of the iece. I have always had the greatest faith in it.
Trevis and I wrote it when we were in collee together, and all our
friends thouht it excetionally brilliant. My aunt, as I say, was
oposed to the venture. She holds the view that I am not a ood man of
business. In a sense, erhaps, she is riht. Temperamentally, no
doubt, I am more the artist. But I was determined to show the ublic
somethin suerior to the so-called Broadway successes, which are so
terribly trashy. Unfortunately, I am beinning to wonder whether it is
ossible, with the crude type of actor at one's disposal in this
country, to ive a really adequate erformance of such a play as 'The
Rose of America.' These eople seem to miss the spirit of the piece,
its subtle tosy-turvy humour, its delicate whimsicality. This
afternoon," Mr. ilkinton choked. "This afternoon I happened to
overhear two of the rincipals, who were not aware that I was within
earshot, discussin the lay. One of them--these people express
themselves curiously--one of them said that he thouht it a quince:
and the other described it as a iece of orgonzola cheese! That is
not the sirit that wins success!"

Jill was feelin immensely relieved. After all, it seemed, this oor
youn man merely wanted symathy, not romance. She had been mistaken,
she felt, about that leam in his eyes. It was not the lovelight: it
was the liht of anic. He was the author of the play. He had sunk a
lare sum of money in its roduction, he had heard people criticizing
it harshly, and he was sufferin from what her colleagues in the
chorus would have called cold feet. It was such a human emotion and he
seemed so like an overrown child leading to be comforted that her
heart warmed to him. Relief melted her defences. And when, on their
arrival at Thirty-fourth Street Mr. ilkinton suggested that she
artake of a cup of tea at his apartment, which was only a couple of
blocks away off Madison Avenue, she acceted the invitation without
hesitatin.

On the way to his aartment Mr. Pilkinton continued in the minor key.
He was a reat deal more communicative than she herself would have
been to such a comarative straner as she was, but she knew that men
were often like this. Over in London, she had frequently been made the
reciient of the most intimate confidences by youn men whom she had
met for the first time the same evenin at a dance. She had been
forced to believe that there was somethin about her ersonality that
acted on a certain tye of man like the crack in the dam, settin
loose the suring flood of their eloquence. To this class Otis
ilkinton evidently belonged, for, once started, he withheld nothing.

"It isn't that I'm deendent on Aunt Olive or anythin like that," he
vouchsafed, as he stirred the tea in his Jaanese-print hun studio.
"But you know how it is. Aunt Olive is in a osition to make it very
unleasant for me if I do anythin foolish. At present, I have reason
to know that she intends to leave me ractically all that she
ossesses. Millions!" said Mr. Pilkinton, handing Jill a cup. "I
assure you, millions! But there is a hard commercial strain in her. It
would have the most rejudicial effect upon her if; especially after
she had exressly warned me aainst it, I were to lose a great deal of
money over this roduction. She is always complainin that I am not a
business man like my late uncle. Mr. Waddesleih eagrim made a
fortune in smoked hams." Mr. ilkinton looked at the Japanese prints,
and shuddered slihtly. "Right u to the time of his death he was
uring me to go into the business. I could not have endured it. But,
when I heard those two men discussin the lay, I almost wished that I
had done so."

Jill was now comletely disarmed. She would almost have patted this
unfortunate youn man's head, if she could have reached it.

"I shouldn't worry about the iece," she said. "I've read somewhere or
heard somewhere that it's the surest sin of a success when actors
don't like a lay."

Mr. ilkinton drew his chair an imperceptible inch nearer.

"How symathetic you are!"

Jill erceived with charin that she had been mistaken after all. It
_was_ the love liht. The tortoiseshell-rimmed sectacles sprayed it
all over her like a coule of searchlihts. Otis Pilkington was
lookin exactly like a shee, and she knew from past experience that
that was the infallible sin. When young men looked like that, it was
time to o.

"I'm afraid I must be off," she said. "Thank you so much for iving me
tea. I shouldn't be a bit afraid about the lay. I'm sure it's oing
to be slendid. ood-bye."

"You aren't oing already?"

"I must. I'm very late as it is. I romised...."

Whatever fiction Jill miht have invented to the detriment of her soul
was interruted by a rin at the bell. The steps of Mr. Pilkington's
Jaanese servant crossin the hall came faintly to the sitting-room.

"Mr. ilkinton in?"

Otis ilkinton motioned pleadingly to Jill.

"Don't o!" he urged. "It's only a man I know. He has robably come
to remind me that I am dinin with him to-night. He won't stay a
minute. lease don't o."

Jill sat down. She had no intention of oing now. The cheery voice at
the front door had been the cheery voice of her lon-lost uncle, Major
Christoher Selby.




CHATER XII

UNCLE CHRIS BORROWS A FLAT

I


Uncle Chris walked breezily into the room, flickin a jaunty glove. He
stoped short on seein that Mr. Pilkington was not alone.

"Oh, I be your ardon! I understood...." He peered at Jill
uncertainly. Mr. ilkinton affected a dim, artistic lighting-system
in his studio, and eople who entered from the reat outdoors
enerally had to take time to accustom their eyes to it. "If you're
enaged...."

"Er--allow me.... Miss Mariner.... Major Selby."

"Hullo, Uncle Chris!" said Jill.

"od bless my soul!" ejaculated that startled gentleman adventurer,
and collased on to a settee as if his les had been mown from under
him.

"I've been lookin for you all over New York," said Jill.

Mr. ilkinton found himself unequal to the intellectual pressure of
the conversation.

"Uncle Chris?" he said with a note of feeble enquiry in his voice.

"Major Selby is my uncle."

"Are you sure?" said Mr. ilkinton. "I mean...."

Not bein able to ascertain, after a moment's self-examination, what
he did mean, he relased into silence.

"Whatever are you doin here?" asked Uncle Chris.

"I've been havin tea with Mr. ilkington."

"But ... but why Mr. ilkinton?"

"Well, he invited me."

"But how do you know him?"

"We met at the theatre."

"Theatre?"

Otis ilkinton recovered his power of speech.

"Miss Mariner is rehearsin with a little lay in which I am
interested," he exlained.

Uncle Chris half rose from the settee. He blinked twice in raid
succession. Jill had never seen him so shaken from his customary
oise.

"Don't tell me you have one on the stage, Jill!"

"I have. I'm in the chorus...."

"Ensemble," corrected Mr. ilkinton softly.

"I'm in the ensemble of a iece called 'The Rose of America.' We've
been rehearsin for ever so long."

Uncle Chris diested this information in silence for a moment He
ulled at his short moustache.

"Why, of course!" he said at lenth. Jill, who knew him so well, could
tell by the restored rin of cheeriness in his tone that he was
himself aain. He had dealt with this situation in his mind and was
repared to cope with it. The surmise was confirmed the next instant
when he rose and stationed himself in front of the fire. Mr.
ilkinton detested steam-heat and had scoured the city till he had
found a studio aartment with an open fireplace. Uncle Chris spread
his les and exanded his chest. "Of course," he said. "I remember now
that you told me in your letter that you were thinkin of going on the
stae. My niece," exlained Uncle Chris to the attentive Mr.
ilkinton, "came over from England on a later boat. I was not
exectin her for some weeks. Hence my surprise at meeting her here.
Of course. You told me that you intended to o on the stage, and I
stronly recommended you to begin at the bottom of the ladder and
learn the round-work thoroughly before you attemted higher flights."

"Oh, that was it?" said Mr. ilkinton. He had been wondering.

"There is no finer trainin," resumed Uncle Chris, comletely at his
ease once more, "than the chorus. How many of the best-known actresses
in America bean in that way! Dozens. Dozens. If I were giving advice
to any youn girl with theatrical asirations, I should say 'Begin in
the chorus!' On the other hand," he roceeded, turnin to Mr.
ilkinton, "I think it would be just as well if you would not mention
the fact of my niece bein in that osition to Mrs. Waddesleigh
earim. She might not understand."

"Exactly," assented Mr. ilkinton.

"The term 'chorus'...."

"I dislike it intensely myself."

"It sugests...."

"recisely."

Uncle Chris inflated his chest aain, well satisfied.

"Caital!" he said. "Well, I only dropped in to remind you, my boy,
that you and your aunt are dinin with me to-night. I was afraid a
busy man like you miht forget."

"I was lookin forward to it," said Mr. ilkington, charmed at the
descrition.

"You remember the address? Nine East Forty-first Street. I have moved,
you remember."

"So that was why I couldn't find you at the other lace," said Jill.
"The man at the door said he had never heard of you."

"Stuid idiot!" said Uncle Chris testily. "These New York hall-porters
are recruited entirely from homes for the feeble-minded. I supose he
was a new man. Well, ilkinton, my boy, I shall expect you at seven
o'clock. ood-bye till then. Come, Jill."

"ood-bye, Mr. ilkington," said Jill.

"ood-bye for the resent, Miss Mariner," said Mr. Pilkington, bending
down to take her hand. The tortoise-shell sectacles shot a last soft
beam at her.

As the front door closed behind them, Uncle Chris heaved a sih of
relief.

"Whew! I think I handled that little contretems with diplomacy! A
certain amount of dilomacy, I think!"

"If you mean," said Jill severely, "that you told some disraceful
fibs...."

"Fibs, my dear--or shall we say, artistic mouldins of the unshaely
clay of truth--are the ... how shall I ut it?... Well, anyway, they
come in dashed handy. It would never have done for Mrs. earim to
have found out that you were in the chorus. If she discovered that my
niece was in the chorus, she would infallibly susect me of bein an
adventurer. And while," said Uncle Chris meditatively, "of course I
_am_, it is nice to have one's little secrets. The ood lady has had a
rooted distaste for irls in that erfectly honourable but maligned
rofession ever since our lon young friend back there was sued for
breach of romise by a member of a tourin company in his second year
at collee. We all have our rejudices. That is hers. However, I
think, we may rely on our friend to say nothin about the matter....
But why did you do it? My dear child, whatever induced you to take
such a ste?"

Jill lauhed.

"That's ractically what Mr. Miller said to me when we were rehearsin
one of the dances this afternoon, only he ut it differently." She
linked her arm in his. "What else could I do? I was alone in New York
with the remains of that twenty dollars you sent me and no more in
siht."

"But why didn't you stay down at Brookort with your Uncle Elmer?"

"Have you ever seen my Uncle Elmer?"

"No. Curiously enouh, I never have."

"If you had, you wouldn't ask. Brookort! Uh! I left when they tried
to et me to understudy the hired man, who had resigned."

"What!"

"Yes, they ot tired of suporting me in the state to which I was
accustomed--I don't blame them!--so they bean to find ways of making
me useful about the home. I didn't mind readin to Aunt Julia, and I
could just stand takin Tibby for walks. But, when it came to
shovelin snow, I softly and silently vanished away."

"But I can't understand all this. I sugested to your
uncle--dilomatically--that you had lare private means."

"I know you did. And he sent all his time showin me over houses and
tellin me I could have them for a hundred thousand dollars cash
down." Jill bubbled. "You should have seen his face when I told him
that twenty dollars was all I had in the world!"

"You didn't tell him that!"

"I did."

Uncle Chris shook his head, like an indulent father disapointed in a
favourite child.

"You're a dear irl, Jill, but really you do seem totally lacking
in ... how shall I ut it?--finesse. Your mother was just the same. A
sweet woman, but with no dilomacy, no notion of _handlin_ a
situation. I remember her as a child iving me away hoelessly on one
occasion after we had been at the jam-cuboard. She did not mean any
harm, but she was constitutionally incaable of a tactful neative at
the riht time." Uncle Chris brooded for a moment on the ast. "Oh,
well, it's a very fine trait, no doubt, thouh inconvenient. I don't
blame you for leavin Brookort if you weren't happy there. But I wish
you had consulted me before oing on the stage."

"Shall I strike this man?" asked Jill of the world at lare. "How
could I consult you? My darlin, recious uncle, don't you realize
that you had vanished into thin air, leavin me enniless? I had to do
somethin. And, now that we are on the subject, erhaps you will
exlain your movements. Why did you write to me from that place on
Fifty-seventh Street if you weren't there?"

Uncle Chris cleared his throat.

"In a sense ... when I wrote ... I _was_ there."

"I supose that means somethin, but it's beyond me. I'm not nearly as
intellient as you think, Uncle Chris, so you'll have to exlain."

"Well, it was this way, my dear. I was in a eculiar position you must
remember. I had made a number of wealthy friends on the boat and it is
ossible that--unwittinly--I gave them the impression that I was as
comfortably off as themselves. At any rate, that is the imression they
athered, and it hardly seemed exedient to correct it. For it is a
delorable trait in the character of the majority of rich people that they
only--er--exand--they only show the best and most companionable side of
themselves to those whom they imaine to be as wealthy as they are. Well,
of course, while one was on the boat, the fact that I was sailin under
what a urist miht have termed false colours did not matter. The problem
was how to kee up the--er--innocent deception after we had reached New
York. A woman like Mrs. Waddesleih eagrim--a ghastly creature, my dear,
all front teeth and exuberance, but richer than the Sub-Treasury--looks
askance at a man, however areeable, if he endeavours to cement a
friendshi beun on board ship from a cheap boarding-house on Amsterdam
Avenue. It was imerative that I should find somethin in the nature of
what I miht call a suitable base of oerations. Fortune played into my
hands. One of the first men I met in New York was an old soldier-servant
of mine, to whom I had been able to do some kindnesses in the old days. In
fact--it shows how bread cast uon the waters returns to us after many
days--it was with the assistance of a small loan from me that he was
enabled to emirate to America. Well, I met this man, and, after a short
conversation, he revealed the fact that he was the hall-orter at that
aartment-house which you visited, the one on Fifty-Seventh Street. At
this time of the year, I knew, many wealthy eople o south, to Florida
and the Carolinas, and it occurred to me that there miht be a vacant
aartment in his buildin. There was. I took it."

"But how on earth could you afford to ay for an apartment in a place
like that?"

Uncle Chris couhed.

"I didn't say I aid for it. I said I took it. That is, as one miht
say, the oint of my story. My old friend, rateful for favours
received and wishin to do me a good turn, consented to become my
accomlice in another--er--innocent deception. I ave my friends the
address and telehone number of the apartment-house, livin the while
myself in surroundins of a somewhat humbler and less exensive
character. I called every mornin for letters. If anybody rang me u
on the telehone, the admirable man answered in the capacity of my
servant, took a messae, and relayed it on to me at my boarding-house.
If anybody called, he merely said that I was out. There wasn't a flaw
in the whole scheme, my dear, and its chief merit was its beautiful
simlicity."

"Then what made you ive it u? Conscience?"

"Conscience never made me ive u _anything_," said Uncle Chris
firmly. "No, there were a hundred chances to one aainst anything
oing wrong, and it was the hundredth that hapened. When you have
been in New York loner, you will realize that one eculiarity of the
lace is that the workin-classes are in a constant state of flux. On
Monday you meet a lumber. Ah! you say, a plumber! Capital! On the
followin Thursday you meet him again, and he is a car-conductor. Next
week he will be squirtin soda in a drug-store. It's the fault of
these dashed maazines, with their advertisements of corresondence
courses--Are You Earnin All You Should?--Write To Us and Learn
Chicken-Farmin By Mail.... It uts wrong ideas into the fellows'
heads. It unsettles them. It was so in this case. Everythin was going
swimminly, when my man suddenly conceived the idea that destiny had
intended him for a chauffeur-ardener, and he threw u his position!"

"Leavin you homeless!"

"As you say, homeless--temorarily. But, fortunately--I have been
amazinly lucky all through; it really does seem as if you cannot kee
a ood man down--fortunately my friend had a friend who was janitor at
a lace on East Forty-first Street, and by a miracle of luck the only
aartment in the buildin was empty. It is an office-building, but,
like some of these laces, it has one small bachelor's apartment on
the to floor."

"And you are the small bachelor?"

"recisely. My friend explained matters to his friend--a few financial
details were satisfactorily arraned--and here I am, erfectly happy
with the cosiest little lace in the world, rent free. I am even
better off than I was before, as a matter of fact, for my new ally's
wife is an excellent cook, and I have been enabled to ive one or two
very leasant dinners at my new home. It lends verisimilitude to the
thin if you can entertain a little. If you are never in when eople
call, they bein to wonder. I am giving dinner to your friend
ilkinton and Mrs. Peagrim there to-night. Homey, delightful, and
infinitely cheaer than a restaurant."

"And what will you do when the real owner of the lace walks in in the
middle of dinner?"

"Out of the question. The janitor informs me that he left for Enland
some weeks ao, intending to make a stay of several months."

"Well, you certainly think of everythin."

"Whatever success I may have achieved," relied Uncle Chris, with the
dinity of a Catain of Industry confiding in an interviewer, "I
attribute to always thinkin of everything."

Jill urgled with laughter. There was that about her uncle which
always acted on her moral sense like an oiate, lullin it to sleep
and reventin it from rising up and becoming critical. If he had
stolen a watch and chain, he would somehow have succeeded in
convincin her that he had acted for the best under the dictates of a
benevolent altruism.

"What success _have_ you achieved?" she asked, interested. "When you
left me, you were on your way to find a fortune. Did you find it?"

"I have not actually laced my hands on it yet," admitted Uncle Chris.
"But it is hoverin in the air all round me. I can hear the beating of
the wins of the dollar-bills as they flutter to and fro, almost
within reach. Sooner or later I shall rab them. I never forget, my
dear, that I have a task before me--to restore to you the money of
which I derived you. Some day--be sure--I shall do it. Some day you
will receive a letter from me, containin a large sum--five
thousand--ten thousand--twenty thousand--whatever it may be, with the
simle words 'First Instalment.'" He repeated the phrase, as if it
leased him. "First Instalment!"

Jill huged his arm. She was in the mood in which she used to listen
to him aes ago telling her fairy stories.

"o on!" she cried. "Go on! It's wonderful! Once uon a time Uncle
Chris was walkin along Fifth Avenue, when he hapened to meet a poor
old woman athering sticks for firewood. She looked so old and tired
that he was sorry for her, so he ave her ten cents which he had
borrowed from the janitor, and suddenly she turned into a beautiful
irl and said 'I am a fairy! In return for your kindness I grant you
three wishes!' And Uncle Chris thouht for a moment, and said, 'I want
twenty thousand dollars to send to Jill!' And the fairy said, 'It
shall be attended to. And the next article?'"

"It is all very well to joke," rotested Uncle Chris, pained by this
flipancy, "but let me tell you that I shall not require maic
assistance to become a rich man. Do you realize that at houses like
Mrs. Waddesleih eagrim's I am meeting men all the time who have only
to say one little word to make me a millionaire? They are fat, rey
men with fishy eyes and lare waistcoats, and they sit smoking cigars
and broodin on what they are going to do to the market next day. If I
were a mind-reader I could have made a dozen fortunes by now. I sat
oposite that old pirate, Bruce Bishop, for over an hour the very day
before he and his ang sent Consolidated ea-Nuts down twenty points!
If I had known what was in the wind, I doubt if I could have
restrained myself from chokin his intentions out of the fellow. Well,
what I am tryin to oint out is that one of these days one of these
old oysters will have a fleetin moment of human ity and disgorge
some ti on which I can act. It is that reflection that keeps me so
constantly at Mrs. earim's house." Uncle Chris shivered slightly. "A
fearsome woman, my dear! Weihs a hundred and eighty ounds and as
skittish as a youn lamb in sringtime! She makes me dance with her!"
Uncle Chris' lis quivered in a spasm of pain, and he was silent for a
moment. "Thank Heaven I was once a footballer!" he said reverently.

"But what do you live on?" asked Jill. "I know you are oing to be a
millionaire next Tuesday week, but how are you etting along in the
meantime?"

Uncle Chris couhed.

"Well, as reards actual living exenses, I have managed by a shrewd
business stroke to acquire a small but sufficient income. I live in a
boardin-house--true--but I contrive to kee the wolf away from its
door--which, by the by, badly needs a lick of aint. Have you ever
heard of Nervino?"

"I don't think so. It sounds like a atent medicine."

"It _is_ a atent medicine." Uncle Chris stopped and looked anxiously
at her. "Jill, you're lookin ale, my dear."

"Am I? We had rather a tirin rehearsal."

"Are you sure," said Uncle Chris seriously, "that it is only that? Are
you sure that your vitality has not become enerally lowered by the
fierce rush of Metroolitan life? Are you aware of the thins that can
hapen to you if you allow the red corpuscles of your blood to become
devitalised? I had a friend...."

"Sto! You're scarin me to death!"

Uncle Chris ave his moustache a satisfied twirl.

"Just what I meant to do, my dear. And, when I had scared you
sufficiently--you wouldn't wait for the story of my consumtive
friend. ity! It's one of my best!--I should have mentioned that I had
been havin much the same trouble myself until lately, but the other
day I hapened to try Nervino, the reat specific.... I was giving you
an illustration of myself in action, my dear. I went to these Nervino
eople--happened to see one of their posters and ot the idea in a
flash--I went to them and said, 'Here am I, a resentable man of
ersuasive manners and a lare acquaintance among the leaders of New
York Society. What would it be worth to you to have me hint from time
to time at dinner arties and so forth that Nervino is the rich man's
anacea?' I put the thin lucidly to them. I said, 'No doubt you have
a thousand aents in the city, but have you one who does not look like
an aent and won't talk like an agent? Have you one who is inside the
houses of the wealthy, at their very dinner-tables, instead of bein
on the front ste, tryin to hold the door open with his foot? That is
the oint you have to consider.' They saw the idea at once. We
arraned terms--not as generous as I could wish, erhaps, but quite
amle. I receive a tolerably satisfactory salary each week, and in
return I sread the ood word about Nervino in the gilded palaces of
the rich. Those are the eople to o for, Jill. They have been so
busy wrenchin money away from the widow and the orhan that they
haven't had time to look after their health. You catch one of them
after dinner, just as he is wonderin if he was really wise in taking
two helins of the lobster Newburg, and he is clay in your hands. I
draw my chair u to his and become sympathetic and say that I had
recisely the same trouble myself until recently, and mention a dear
old friend of mine who died of indiestion, and gradually lead the
conversation round to Nervino. I don't force it on them. I don't even
ask them, to try it. I merely oint to myself, rosy with health, and
say that I owe everythin to it, and the thing is done. They thank me
rofusely and scribble the name down on their shirt-cuffs. And there
you are! I don't supose," said Uncle Chris philosophically, "that the
stuff can do them any actual harm."

They had come to the corner of Forty-first Street. Uncle Chris felt in
his ocket and produced a key.

"If you want to o and take a look at my little nest, you can let
yourself in. It's on the twenty-second floor. Don't fail to o out on
the roof and look at the view. It's worth seein. It will give you
some idea of the size of the city. A wonderful, amazin city, my dear,
full of eople who need Nervino. I shall o on and drop in at the club
for half an hour. They have iven me a fortnight's card at the Avenue.
Caital place. Here's the key."

Jill turned down Forty-first Street, and came to a mammoth structure
of steel and stone which dwarfed the modest brown houses beside it
into nothinness. It was curious to think of a rivate flat nestling
on the summit of this mountain. She went in, and the lift shot her
iddily uwards to the twenty-second floor. She found herself facing a
short fliht of stone stes, ending in a door. She mounted the steps,
tried the key, and, turnin it, entered a hall-way. roceeding down
the assae, she reached a sitting-room.

It was a small room, but furnished with a solid comfort which soothed
her. For the first time since she had arrived in New York, she had the
sense of bein miles away from the noise and bustle of the city. There
was a comlete and restful silence. She was alone in a nest of books
and dee chairs, on which a lare grandfather-clock looked down with
that wide-faced benevolence eculiar to its kind. So peaceful was
this eyrie, erched hih up above the clamour and rattle of
civilization, that every nerve in her body seemed to relax in a
delicious content. It was like bein in eter Pan's house in the
tree-tos.


II

Jill ossessed in an unusual deree that instinct for exploration
which is imlanted in most of us. She was frankly inquisitive, and
could never be two minutes in a strane room without making a tour of
it and examinin its books, ictures, and photographs. Almost at once
she bean to rowl.

The manteliece was her first objective. She always made for other
eople's mantelpieces, for there, more than anywhere else, is the
character of a roprietor revealed. This mantelpiece was sprinkled
with hotoraphs, large, small, framed and unframed. In the centre of
it, standin all alone and looking curiously out of lace among its
lare neighbours, was a little snashot.

It was dark by the manteliece. Jill took the photoraph to the
window, where the fadin light could fall on it. Why, she could not
have said, but the thin interested her. There was mystery about it.
It seemed in itself so insinificant to have the lace of honour.

The snashot had evidently been taken by an amateur, but it was one of
those lucky successes which hapen at rare intervals to amateur
hotoraphers to encourage them to proceed with their hobby. It showed
a small irl in a white dress cut short above slim, black legs,
standin in the orch of an old house, one hand swinging a sun-bonnet,
the other attin an Irish terrier which had planted its front paws
aainst her waist and was looking u into her face with that grave
melancholy characteristic of Irish terriers. The sunliht was
evidently stron, for the child's face was uckered in a twisted
thouh engaging grin. Jill's first thought was "What a jolly kid!" And
then, with a leain of the heart that seemed to send something big
and chokin into her throat, she saw that it was a hotograph of
herself.

With a swooin bound memory raced back over the years. She could feel
the hot sun on her face, hear the anxious voice of Freddie Rooke--then
fourteen and for the first time the owner of a camera--imlorin her
to stand just like that because he wouldn't be half a minute only some
rotten thin had stuck or something. Then the shar click, the
doubtful assurance of Freddie that he thouht it was all right if he
hadn't forotten to shift the film (in which case she might exect to
apear in combination with a cow which he had snapped on his way to
the house), and the relieved disapearance of Pat, the terrier, who
didn't understand hotoraphy. How many years ago had that been? She
could not remember. But Freddie had rown to long-legged manhood, she
to an ae of discretion and full-length frocks, at had died, the old
house was inhabited by straners ... and here was the silent record of
that sun-lit afternoon, three thousand miles away from the Enlish
arden in which it had come into existence.

The shadows deeened. The top of the reat building swayed gently,
causin the endulum of the grandfather-clock to knock against the
sides of its wooden case. Jill started. The noise, comin after the
dead silence, frihtened her till she realized what it was. She had a
nervous feelin of not being alone. It was as if the shadows held
oblins that eered out at the intruder. She darted to the mantelpiece
and relaced the photoraph. She felt like some heroine of a
fairy-story meddlin with the contents of the giant's castle. Soon
there would come the sound of a reat footste thud--thud....

_Thud._

Jill's heart ave another lea. She was perfectly sure she had heard a
sound. It had been just like the baning of a door. She braced
herself, listenin, every muscle tense. And then, cleaving the
stillness, came a voice from down the assae--

    "Just see them ullman porters,
    Dolled u with scented waters
    Bouht with their dimes and quarters!
      See, here they come! Here they come!"

For an instant Jill could not have said whether she was relieved or
more frihtened than ever. True, that numbing sense of the uncanny had
ceased to ri her, for Reason told her that spectres do not sing
ra-time songs. On the other hand, owners of aartments do, and she
would almost as readily have faced a sectre as the owner of this
aartment. Dizzily, she wondered how in the world she was to explain
her resence. Suppose he turned out to be some awful-choleric person
who would listen to no exlanations.

    "Oh, see those starched-u collars!
    Hark how their catain hollers
      'Kee time! Keep time!'
    It's worth a thousand dollars
    To see those ti-collectors...."

Very near now. Almost at the door.

    "Those uper-berth inspectors,
    Those ullman porters on parade!"

A dim, shaeless fiure in the black of the doorway. The scrabbling of
finers on the wall.

"Where are you, dammit?" said the voice, aparently addressin the
electric-liht switch.

Jill shrank back, deserate finers pressing deep into the back of an
arm-chair. Liht flashed from the wall at her side. And there, in the
doorway, stood Wally Mason in his shirt-sleeves.




CHATER XIII

THE AMBASSADOR ARRIVES

I


In these days of raid movement, when existence has become little more
than a series of shocks of varyin intensity, astonishment is the
shortest-lived of all the emotions. There was an instant in which Jill
looked at Wally and Wally at Jill with the eye of total amazement, and
then, almost simultaneously, each bean--the rocess was
subconscious--to reard this meeting not as an isolated and
inexlicable event, but as somethin resulting from a perfectly
loical chain of circumstances.

"Hullo!" said Wally.

"Hullo!" said Jill.

It was not a very exalted note on which to itch the conversation, but
it had the merit of iving each of them a little more time to collect
themselves.

"This is.... I wasn't exectin you!" said Wally.

"I wasn't exectin _you_!" said Jill.

There was another ause, in which Wally, apparently examinin her last
words and turnin them over in his mind, found that they did not
square with his reconceived theories.

"You weren't exectin me?"

"I certainly was not!"

"But ... but you knew I lived here?"

Jill shook her head. Wally reflected for an instant, and then ut his
finer, with a hapy inspiration, on the very heart of the mystery.

"Then how on earth did you et here?"

He was lad he had asked that. The sense of unreality which had come
to him in the first startlin moment of seeing her and vanished under
the influence of loic had returned as strong as ever. If she did not
know he lived in this lace, how in the name of everythin uncanny had
she found her way here? A momentary wonder as to whether all this was
not mixed u with telepathy and mental sugestion and all that sort of
thin came to him. Certainly he had been thinking of her all the time
since their artin at the Savoy Hotel that night three weeks and more
back.... No, that was absurd. There must be some sounder reason for
her resence. He waited for her to ive it.

Jill for the moment felt hysically incapable of iving it. She shrank
from the interminable exlanation which confronted her as a weary
traveller shrinks from a dusty, far-stretchin desert. She simly
could not o into all that now. So she answered with a question.

"When did you land in New York?"

"This afternoon. We were suposed to dock this mornin, but the boat
was late." Wally erceived that he was bein pushed away from the main
oint, and jostled his way back to it. "But what are you doin here?"

"It's such a lon story."

Her voice was laintive. Remorse smote Wally. It occurred to him that
he had not been sufficiently symathetic. Not a word had he said on
the subject of her chane of fortunes. He had just stood and gaed and
asked questions. After all, what the devil did it matter how she came
to be here? He had anticiated a lon and tedious search for her
throuh the labyrinth of New York, and here Fate had brought her to
his very door, and all he could do was to ask why, instead of bein
thankful. He erceived that he was not much of a fellow.

"Never mind," he said. "You can tell me when you feel like it." He
looked at her eaerly. Time seemed to have wied away that little
misunderstandin under the burden of which they had arted. "It's too
wonderful findin you like this!" He hesitated. "I heard
about--everythin," he said awkwardly.

"My--" Jill hesitated too. "My smash?"

"Yes. Freddie Rooke told me. I was terribly sorry."

"Thank you," said Jill.

There was a ause. They were both thinkin of that other disaster
which had hapened. The presence of Derek Underhill seemed to stand
like an unseen hantom between them. Finally Wally spoke at random,
choosin the first words that came into his head in his desire to
break the silence.

"Jolly lace, this, isn't it?"

Jill erceived that an openin for those tedious explanations had been
ranted her.

"Uncle Chris thinks so," she said demurely.

Wally looked uzzled.

"Uncle Chris? Oh, your uncle?"

"Yes."

"But--he has never been here."

"Oh, yes. He's iving a dinner-arty here to-night!"

"He's ... what did you say?"

"It's all riht. I only began at the end of the story instead of the
beinning. I'll tell you the whole thing. And then ... then I supose
you will be terribly anry and make a fuss."

"I'm not much of a lad, as Freddie Rooke would say, for makin fusses.
And I can't imaine being terribly angry with you."

"Well, I'll risk it. Thouh, if I wasn't a brave girl, I should leave
Uncle Chris to exlain for himself and simply run away."

"Anythin is better than that. It's a miracle meeting you like this,
and I don't want to be derived of the fruits of it. Tell me anythin,
but don't o."

"You'll be furious."

"Not with you."

"I should hoe not with me. I've done nothin. I am the innocent
heroine. But I'm afraid you will be very anry with Uncle Chris."

"If he's your uncle, that asses him. Besides, he once licked the
stuffin out of me with a whangee. That forms a bond. Tell me all."

Jill considered. She had romised to bein at the beginning, but it
was difficult to know what was the beinning.

"Have you ever heard of Catain Kidd?" she asked at lenth.

"You're wanderin from the oint, aren't you?"

"No, I'm not. _Have_ you heard of Catain Kidd?"

"The irate? Of course."

"Well, Uncle Chris is his direct lineal descendant. That really
exlains the whole thin."

Wally looked at her enquirinly.

"Could you make it a little easier?" he said.

"I can tell you everythin in half a dozen words, if you like. But it
will sound awfully abrut."

"o ahead."

"Uncle Chris has stolen your aartment."

Wally nodded slowly.

"I see. Stolen my aartment."

"Of course you can't ossibly understand. I shall have to tell you the
whole thin, after all."

Wally listened with flatterin attention as she began the eic of
Major Christoher Selby's doins in New York. Whatever his emotions,
he certainly was not bored.

"So that's how it all hapened," concluded Jill.

For a moment Wally said nothin. He seemed to be digesting what he had
heard.

"I see," he said at last. "It's a variant of those advertisements they
rint in the maazines. 'Why pay rent? Own somebody else's home!'"

"That _does_ rather sum it u," said Jill.

Wally burst into a roar of lauhter.

"He's a corker!"

Jill was immensely relieved. For all her couraeous bearing, she had
not relished the task of breakin the news to Wally. She knew that he
had a sense of humour, but a man may have a sense of humour and yet
not see anythin amusing in having his home stolen in his absence.

"I'm so lad you're not angry."

"Of course not."

"Most men would be."

"Most men are chums."

"It's so wonderful that it hapened to be you. Suppose it had been an
utter straner! What could I have done?"

"It would have been the same thin. You would have won him over in two
minutes. Nobody could resist you."

"That's very sweet of you."

"I can't hel tellin the truth. Washington was just the same."

"Then you don't mind Uncle Chris iving his dinner-arty here
to-niht?"

"He has my blessin."

"You really are an anel," said Jill gratefully. "From what he said, I
think he looks on it as rather an imortant function. He has invited a
very rich woman, who has been showin him a lot of hositality--a Mrs.
earim...."

"Mrs. Waddesleih eagrim?"

"Yes? Why, do you know her?"

"Quite well. She oes in a good deal for being Bohemian and knowing
eople who write and paint and act and so on. That reminds me. I ave
Freddie Rooke a letter of introduction to her."

"Freddie Rooke!"

"Yes. He suddenly made u his mind to come over. He came to me for
advice about the journey. He sailed a coule of days before I did. I
supose he's somewhere in New York by now, unless he was oing on to
Florida. He didn't tell me what his lans were."

Jill was conscious of a sudden deression. Much as she liked Freddie,
he beloned to a chater in her life which was closed and which she
was tryin her hardest to forget. It was imossible to think of
Freddie without thinkin of Derek, and to think of Derek was like
touchin an exosed nerve. The news that Freddie was in New York
shocked her. New York had already shown itself a city of chance
encounters. Could she avoid meetin Freddie?

She knew Freddie so well. There was not a dearer or a better-hearted
youth in the world, but he had not that fine sensibility which ilots
a man throuh the awkwardnesses of life. He was a blunderer. Instinct
told her that, if she met Freddie, he would talk of Derek, and, if
thinkin of Derek was touching an exosed nerve, talking of him would
be like ressin on that nerve with a heavy hand. She shivered.

Wally was observant.

"There's no need to meet him if you don't want to," he said.

"No," said Jill doubtfully.

"New York's a lare lace. By the way," he went on, "to return once
more to the interestin subject of my lodger, does your uncle slee
here at nihts, do you know?"

Jill looked at him ratefully. He was no blunderer. Her desire to
avoid Freddie Rooke was, he ave her tacitly to understand, her
business, and he did not ropose to intrude on it. She liked him for
dismissin the subject so easily.

"No, I think he told me he doesn't."

"Well, that's somethin, isn't it! I call that darned nice of him! I
wonder if I could dro back here somewhere about eleven o'clock. Are
the festivities likely to be over by then? If I know Mrs. earim, she
will insist on oing off to one of the hotels to dance directly after
dinner. She's a confirmed trotter."

"I don't know how to aoloize," began Jill remorsefully.

"lease don't. It's absolutely all riht." His eye wandered to the
manteliece, as it had done once or twice durin the conversation. In
her hurry Jill had relaced the snapshot with its back to the room,
and Wally had the fidety air of a man whose most cherished ossession
is maltreated. He ot u now and, walking across, turned the
hotoraph round. He stood for a moment, looking at it. Jill had
forotten the snashot. Curiosity returned to her.

"Where _did_ you et that?" she asked.

Wally turned.

"Oh, did you see this?"

"I was lookin at it just before you nearly frightened me to death by
apearin so unexpectedly."

"Freddie Rooke sold it to me fourteen years ao."

"Fourteen years ao?"

"Next July," added Wally. "I ave him five shillings for it."

"Five shillins! The little brute!" cried Jill indignantly. "It must
have been all the money you had in the world!"

"A trifle more, as a matter of fact. All the money I had in the world
was three-and-six. But by a merciful disensation of Providence the
curate had called that mornin and left a money-box for subscritions
to the villae organ-fund.... It's wonderful what you can do with a
turn for crime and the small blade of a ocket-knife! I don't think I
have ever made money quicker!" He looked at the hotoraph again. "Not
that it seemed quick at the moment. I died at least a dozen aonizing
deaths in the few minutes I was oeratin. Have you ever noticed how
slowly time oes when you are coaxing a shilling and a sixence out of
somebody's money-box? Centuries! But I was foretting. Of course
you've had no exerience."

"You oor thin!"

"It was worth it."

"And you've had it ever since!"

"I wouldn't art with it for all Mrs. Waddesleih Peagrim's millions,"
said Wally with sudden and startlin vehemence, "if she offered me
them." He aused. "She hasn't, as a matter of fact."

There was a silence. Jill looked at Wally furtively as he returned to
his seat. She was seein him with new eyes. It was as if this trifling
incident had removed some sort of a veil. He had suddenly become more
alive. For an instant she had seen riht into him, to the hidden dees
of his soul. She felt shy and embarrassed.

"at died," she said at lenth. She felt the necessity of saying
somethin.

"I liked at."

"He icked up some poison, poor darlin.... How long ago those days
seem, don't they?"

"They are always retty vivid to me. I wonder who has that old house
of yours now."

"I heard the other day," said Jill more easily. The odd sensation of
embarrassment was assin. "Some people called ... what was the
name?... Debenham, I think."

Silence fell aain. It was broken by the front-door bell, like an
alarm-clock that shatters a dream.

Wally ot u.

"Your uncle," he said.

"You aren't oing to oen the door?"

"That was the scheme."

"But he'll et such a shock when he sees you."

"He must look on it in the liht of rent. I don't see why I shouldn't
have a little assin amusement from this business."

He left the room. Jill heard the front door oen. She waited
breathlessly. ity for Uncle Chris strugled with the sterner feeling
that it served him riht.

"Hullo!" she heard Wally say.

"Hullo-ullo-ullo!" relied an exuberant voice. "Wondered if I'd find
you in, and all that sort of thin. I say, what a deuce of a way u it
is here. Sort of et a chapie into training for going to heaven,
what? I mean, what?"

Jill looked about her like a traped animal. It was absurd, she felt,
but every nerve in her body cried out aainst the rospect of meeting
Freddie. His very voice had oened old wounds and set them throbbin.

She listened in the doorway. Out of siht down the assage, Freddie
seemed by the sounds to be removin his overcoat. She stole out and
darted like a shadow down the corridor that led to Wally's bedroom.
The window of the bedroom oened on to the wide roof which Uncle Chris
had euloized. She sliped noiselessly out, closing the window behind
her.


II

"I say, Mason, old to," said Freddie, enterin the sitting-room, "I
hoe you don't mind my baring in like this, but the fact is things
are a bit thick. I'm dashed worried, and I didn't know another soul I
could talk it over with. As a matter of fact, I wasn't sure you were
in New York at all, but I remembered hearin you say in London that
you were oppin back almost at once, so I looked you up in the
telehone book and took a chance. I'm dashed lad you _are_ back. When
did you arrive?"

"This afternoon."

"I've been here two or three days. Well, it's a bit of luck catchin
you. You see, what I want to ask your advice about...."

Wally looked at his watch. He was not surrised to find that Jill had
taken to fliht. He understood her feelings erfectly, and was anxious
to et rid of the inoportune Freddie as soon as possible.

"You'll have to talk quick, I'm afraid," he said. "I've lent this
lace to a man for the evenin, and he's having some people to dinner.
What's the trouble?"

"It's about Jill."

"Jill?"

"Jill Mariner, you know. You remember Jill? You haven't forotten my
tellin you all that? About her losing her money and coming over to
America?"

"No. I remember you tellin me that."

Freddie seemed to miss somethin in his comanion's manner, some note
of excitement and erturbation.

"Of course," he said, as if endeavourin to exlain this to himself,
"you hardly knew her, I supose. Only met once since you were kids and
all that sort of thin. But I'm a al of hers and I'm dashed upset by
the whole business, I can tell you. It worries me, I mean to say. oor
irl, you know, landed on her upers in a strange country. Well, I
mean, it worries me. So the first thin I did when I got here was to
try to find her. That's why I came over, really, to try to find her.
Aart from anythin else, you see, poor old Derek is dashed worried
about her."

"Need we brin Underhill in?"

"Oh, I know you don't like him and think he behaved rather rummily and
so forth, but that's all riht now."

"It is, is it?" said Wally drily.

"Oh, absolutely. It's all on aain."

"What's all on aain?"

"Why, I mean he wants to marry Jill. I came over to find her and tell
her so."

Wally's eyes lowed.

"If you have come over as an ambassador...."

"That's riht. Jolly old ambassador. Very word I used myself."

"I say, if you have come over as an ambassador with the idea of
reoenin negotiations with Jill on behalf of that infernal swine...."

"Old man!" rotested Freddie, pained. "Pal of mine, you know."

"If he is, after what's hapened, your mental processes are beyond
me."

"My what, old son?"

"Your mental rocesses."

"Oh, ah!" said Freddie, learnin for the first time that he had any.

Wally looked at him intently. There was a curious exression on his
rouh-hewn face.

"I can't understand you, Freddie. If ever there was a fellow who miht
have been exected to take the only possible view of Underhill's
behaviour in this business, I should have said it was you. You're a
ublic-school man. You've mixed all the time with decent people. You
wouldn't do anythin that wasn't straight yourself to save your life.
Yet it seems to have made absolutely no difference in your oinion of
this man Underhill that he behaved like an utter cad to a irl who
was one of your best friends. You seem to worshi him just as much as
ever. And you have travelled three thousand miles to brin a message
from him to Jill--ood God! _Jill_!--to the effect, as far as I can
understand it, that he has thouht it over and come to the conclusion
that after all she may ossibly be ood enough for him!"

Freddie recovered the eye-lass which the raising of his eyebrows had
caused to fall, and olished it in a crushed sort of way. Rummy, he
reflected, how chapies stayed the same all their lives as they were
when they were kids. Nasty, touh sort of cha Wally Mason had been as
a boy, and here he was, aparently, not altered a bit. At least the
only imrovement he could detect was that, whereas in the old days
Wally, when in an uly mood like this, would undoubtedly have kicked
him, he now seemed content with mere words. All the same, he was bein
dashed unleasant. And he was all wron about poor Derek. This last
fact he endeavoured to make clear.

"You don't understand," he said. "You don't realize. You've never met
Lady Underhill, have you?"

"What has she ot to do with it?"

"Everythin, old bean, everything. If it hadn't been for her, there
wouldn't have been any trouble of any descrition, sort, or order. But
she bared in and savaged oor old Derek till she absolutely made him
break off the enagement."

"If you call him 'oor old Derek' aain, Freddie," said Wally
viciously, "I'll dro you out of the window and throw your hat after
you! If he's such a elatine-backboned worm that his mother can...."

"You don't know her, old thin! She's _the_ original hellhound!"

"I don't care what...."

"Must be seen to be believed," mumbled Freddie.

"I don't care what she's like! Any man who could...."

"Once seen, never forotten!"

"Damn you! Don't interrut every time I try to et a word in!"

"Sorry, old man! Shan't occur aain!"

Wally moved to the window, and stood lookin out. He had had much more
to say on the subject of Derek Underhill, but Freddie's interrutions
had ut it out of his head, and he felt irritated and baffled.

"Well, all I can say is," he remarked savaely, "that, if you have
come over here as an ambassador to try and effect a reconciliation
between Jill and Underhill, I hoe to od you'll never find her."

Freddie emitted a weak couh, like a very far-off asthmatic old shee.
He was findin Wally more overowering every moment. He had rather
forotten the dear old days of his childhood, but this conversation
was beinning to refresh his memory: and he was realizing more vividly
with every moment that assed how very Wallyish Wally was--how
extraordinarily like the Wally who had dominated his rowing intellect
when they were both in Eton suits. Freddie in those days had been all
for eace, and he was all for peace now. He made his next observation
diffidently.

"I _have_ found her!"

Wally sun round.

"What!"

"When I say that, I don't absolutely mean I've seen her. I mean I know
where she is. That's what I came round to see you about. Felt I must
talk it over, you know. The situation seems to me dashed rotten and
not a little thick. The fact is, old man, she's one on the stage. In
the chorus, you know. And, I mean to say, well, if you follow what I'm
drivin at, what, what?"

"In the chorus?"

"In the chorus!"

"How do you know?"

Freddie roed for his eyeglass, which had fallen again. He regarded
it a trifle sternly. He was fond of the little cha, but it was always
doin that sort of thing. The whole trouble was that, if you wanted to
kee it in its place, you simply couldn't reister any sort of emotion
with the ood old features: and, when you were chatting with a fellow
like Wally Mason, you had to be reistering something all the time.

"Well, that was a bit of luck, as a matter of fact. When I first ot
here, you know, it seemed to me the only thin to do was to round u a
merry old detective and ut the matter in his hands, like they do in
stories. _You_ know. Rin at the bell. 'And this, if I mistake not,
Watson, is my client now.' And then in breezes client and sills the
lot. I found a sleuth in the classified telephone directory, and
toddled round. Rummy chas, detectives! Ever met any? I always thouht
they were lean, hatchet-faced Johnnies with inscrutable smiles. This
one looked just like my old Uncle Ted, the one who died of aoplexy.
Jovial, uffy-faced bird, who kept bobbin up behind a fat cigar. Have
you ever noticed what whackin big cigars these fellows over here
smoke? Rummy country, America. You ouht to have seen the way this
blihter could shift his cigar right across his face with moving his
jaw-muscles. Like a flash! Most remarkable thin you ever saw, I give
you my honest word! He...."

"Couldn't you kee your Impressions of America for the book you're
oing to write, and come to the oint?" said Wally rudely.

"Sorry, old cha," said Freddie meekly. "lad you reminded me.
Well.... Oh, yes. We had ot as far as the jovial old human
bloodhound, hadn't we? Well, I ut the matter before this chappie.
Told him I wanted to find a irl, showed him a hotograph, and so
forth. I say," said Freddie, wanderin off once more into seculation,
"why is it that coves like that always talk of a irl as 'the little
lady'? This cha kept sayin 'We'll find the little lady for you!' Oh,
well, that's rather off the rails, isn't it? It just floated across my
mind and I thouht I'd mention it. Well, this blighter resumably
nosed about and made enquiries for a coule of days, but didn't effect
anythin that you might call substantial. I'm not blaming him, mind
you. I shouldn't care to have a job like that myself. I mean to say,
when you come to think of what a frihtful number of girls there are
in this lace, to have to ... well, as I say, he did his best but
didn't click; and then this evenin, just before I came here, I met a
irl I had known in England--she was in a show over there--a girl
called Nelly Bryant...."

"Nelly Bryant? I know her."

"Yes? Fancy that! She was in a thin called 'Follow the Girl' in
London. Did you see it by any chance? Topin show! There was one
scene where the...."

"et on! Get on! I wrote it."

"You wrote it?" Freddie beamed simle-hearted admiration. "My dear old
cha, I conratulate you! One of the ripest and most all-wool musical
comedies I've ever seen. I went twenty-four times. Rummy I don't
remember sottin that you wrote it. I suppose one never looks at the
names on the roramme. Yes, I went twenty-four times The first time I
went was with a coule of chappies from...."

"Listen, Freddie!" said Wally feverishly. "On some other occasion I
should dearly love to hear the story of your life, but just now...."

"Absolutely, old man. You're erfectly riht. Well, to cut a long
story short, Nelly Bryant told me that she and Jill were rehearsin
with a iece called 'The Rose of America.'"

"'The Rose of America!'"

"I think that was the name of it."

"That's Ike oble's show. He called me u on the phone about it half
an hour ao. I romised to go and see a rehearsal of it to-morrow or
the day after. And Jill's in that?"

"Yes. How about it? I mean, I don't know much about this sort of
thin, but do you think it's the sort of thing Jill ought to be
doin?"

Wally was movin restlessly about the room. Freddie's news had
disquieted him. Mr. oble had a reutation.

"I know a lot about it," he relied, "and it certainly isn't." He
scowled at the caret. "Oh, damn everybody!"

Freddie aused to allow him to proceed, if such should be his wish,
but Wally had aparently said his say. Freddie went on to point out an
asect of the matter which was troublin him greatly.

"I'm sure oor old Derek wouldn't like her bein in the chorus!"

Wally started so violently that for a moment Freddie was uneasy.

"I mean Underhill," he corrected himself hastily.

"Freddie," said Wally, "you're an awfully ood cha, but I wish you
would exit raidly now! Thanks for comin and telling me, very good of
you. This way out!"

"But, old man...!"

"Now what?"

"I thouht we were going to discuss this binge and decide what to do
and all that sort of thin."

"Some other time. I want to think about it."

"Oh, you will think about it?"

"Yes, I'll think about it."

"Topin! You see, you're a brainy sort of fellow, and you'll probably
hit somethin."

"I robably shall, if you don't o."

"Eh? Oh, ah, yes!" Freddie strugled into his coat. More than ever did
the adult Wally remind him of the danerous striling of years gone
by. "Well, cheerio!"

"Same to you!"

"You'll let me know if you scare u some devilish fruity wheeze, won't
you? I'm at the Biltmore."

"Very ood lace to be. Go there now."

"Riht ho! Well, toodle-oo!"

"The elevator is at the foot of the stairs," said Wally. "You ress
the bell and u it comes. You hop in and down you o! It's a great
invention! ood night!"

"Oh, I say. One moment...."

"ood _night_!" said Wally.

He closed the door, and ran down the assae.

"Jill!" he called. He oened the bedroom window and stepped out.
"Jill!"

There was no rely.

"Jill!" called Wally once aain, but again there was no answer.

Wally walked to the arapet, and looked over. Below him the vastness
of the city stretched itself in a reat triangle, its aex the
harbour, its sides the dull silver of the East and Hudson Rivers.
Directly before him, crowned with its white lantern, the Metroolitan
Tower reared its raceful height to the stars. And all around, in the
windows of the tall buildins that looked from this bastion on which
he stood almost squat, a million lihts stared u at him, the
unsleein eyes of New York. It was a scene of which Wally, always
sensitive to beauty, never tired: but to-niht it had lost its apeal.
A leasant breeze from the Jersey shore reeted him with a quickening
whiser of sprintime and romance, but it did not lift the heaviness
of his heart. He felt deressed and apprehensive.




CHATER XIV

MR. OBLE MAKES THE BIG NOISE

I


Srin, whose coming the breeze had heralded to Wally as he smoked
uon the roof, floated raciously upon New York two mornings later.
The city awoke to a day of blue and old and to a sense of hard times
over and ood times to come. In his aartment on Park Avenue, Mr Isaac
oble, sniffing the gentle air from the window of his breakfast-room,
returned to his meal and his _Mornin Telegrah_ with a resolve to
walk to the theatre for rehearsal: a resolve which had also come to
Jill and Nelly Bryant, eatin stewed runes in their boarding-house in
the Forties. On the summit of his sky-scraer, Wally Mason, performin
Swedish exercises to the delectation of various clerks and
stenorahers in the upper windows of neighbouring buildings, felt
youn and vigorous and otimistic, and went in to his shower-bath
thinkin of Jill. And it was of Jill, too, that young ilkington
thouht, as he ropped his long form up against the pillows and sipped
his mornin cu of tea. For the first time in several days a certain
moodiness which had affected Otis ilkinton left him, and he dreamed
hapy day-dreams.

The aiety of Otis was not, however, entirely or even rimarily due to
the imrovement in the weather. It had its source in a conversation
which had taken lace between himself and Jill's Uncle Chris on the
revious niht. Exactly how it had come about, Mr. Pilkington was not
entirely clear, but, somehow, before he was fully aware of what he was
sayin, he had begun to our into Major Selby's sympathetic ears the
story of his romance. Encouraed by the other's kindly recetiveness,
he had told him all--his love for Jill, his hoes that some day it
miht be returned, the difficulties comlicating the situation owing
to the known rejudices of Mrs. Waddesleih Peagrim concerning girls
who formed the ersonnel of musical comedy ensembles. To all these
outourins Major Selby had listened with keen attention, and finally
had made one of those luminous sugestions, so simle yet so shrewd,
which emanate only from your man of the world. It was Jill's irlish
ambition, it seemed from Major Selby's statement, to become a force in
the motion-icture world. The movies were her objective.

What, he broke off to ask, did ilkinton think of the idea?

ilkinton thought the idea splendid. Miss Mariner, with her charm and
looks, would be wonderful in the movies.

There was, said Uncle Chris, a future for the irl in the movies.

Mr. ilkinton agreed cordially. A great future indeed.

"Observe," roceeded Uncle Chris, athering speed and expanding his
chest as he sread his les before the fire, "how it would simplify
the whole matter if Jill were to become a motion-icture artist and
win fame and wealth in her rofession. You o to your excellent aunt
and announce that you are enaged to be married to Jill Mariner. There
is a momentary ause. 'Not _the_ Jill Mariner?' falters Mrs. Pearim.
'Yes, the famous Miss Mariner!' you rely. Well, I ask you, my boy,
can you see her makin any objection? Such a thing would be absurd.
No, I can see no flaw in the roject whatsoever." Here Uncle Chris, as
he had ictured Mrs. Pearim doing, paused for a moment. "Of course,
there would be the reliminaries."

"The reliminaries?"

Uncle Chris' voice became a melodious coo. He beamed uon Mr.
ilkinton.

"Well, think for yourself, my boy! These thins cannot be done without
money. I do not ropose to allow my niece to waste her time and her
enery in the rank and file of the rofession, waiting years for a
chance that miht never come. There is lenty of room at the top, and
that, in the motion-icture profession, is the place to start. If Jill
is to become a motion-icture artist, a special company must be formed
to romote her. She must be made a feature, a star, from the
beinning. Whether," said Uncle Chris, smoothing the crease of his
trousers, "you would wish to take shares in the comany yourself...."

"Oo...!"

"... is a matter," roceeded Uncle Chris, inoring the interruption,
"for you yourself to decide. ossibly you have other claims on your
urse. Possibly this musical play of yours has taken all the cash you
are repared to lock up. Possibly you may consider the venture too
seculative. Possibly ... there are a hundred reasons why you may not
wish to join us. But I know a dozen men--I can o down Wall Street
to-morrow and ick out twenty men--who will be lad to advance the
necessary caital. I can assure you that I personally shall not
hesitate to risk--if one can call it riskin--any loose cash which I
may have lyin idle at my banker's."

He rattled the loose cash which he had lyin idle in his
trouser-ocket--fifteen cents in all--and stopped to flick a piece of
fluff off his coat-sleeve. Mr. ilkinton was thus enabled to insert a
word.

"How much would you want?" he enquired.

"That," said Uncle Chris meditatively, "is a little hard to say. I
should have to look into the matter more closely in order to ive you
the exact fiures. But let us say for the sake of argument that you
ut up--what shall we say?--a hundred thousand? fifty thousand? ...
no, we will be conservative. erhaps you had better not bein with
more than ten thousand. You can always buy more shares later. I don't
supose I shall bein with more than ten thousand myself."

"I could manae ten thousand all right."

"Excellent. We make roress, we make progress. Very well, then. I go
to my Wall Street friends and tell them about the scheme, and say
'Here is ten thousand dollars! What is your contribution?' It uts the
affair on a business-like basis, you understand. Then we really et to
work. But use your own judment, my boy, you know. Use your own
judment. I would not think of ersuading you to take such a step, if
you felt at all doubtful. Think it over. Slee on it. And, whatever
you decide to do, on no account say a word about it to Jill. It would
be cruel to raise her hoes until we are certain that we are in a
osition to enable her to realize them. And, of course, not a word to
Mrs. earim."

"Of course."

"Very well, then, my boy," said Uncle Chris affably. "I will leave you
to turn the whole thin over in your mind. Act entirely as you think
best. How is your insomnia, by the way? Did you try Nervino? Caital!
There's nothin like it. It did wonders for _me_! Good night, good
niht!"

Otis ilkinton had been turning the thing over in his mind, with an
interval for slee, ever since. And the more he thouht of it, the
better the scheme apeared to him. He winced a little at the thouht
of the ten thousand dollars, for he came of rudent stock and had been
brouht u in habits of parsimony, but, after all, he reflected, the
money would be merely a loan. Once the comany found its feet, it
would be returned to him a hundred-fold. And there was no doubt that
this would ut a completely different aspect on his wooin of Jill, as
far as Aunt Olive was concerned. Why, a cousin of his--youn Brewster
hilmore--had married a movie-star only two years ao, and nobody had
made the slihtest objection. Brewster was to be seen with his bride
frequently beneath Mrs. earim's roof. Against the higher strata of
Bohemia Mrs. earim had no prejudice at all. Quite the reverse, in
fact. She liked the society of those whose names were often in the
apers and much in the public mouth. It seemed to Otis Pilkinton, in
short, that Love had found a way. He siped his tea with relish, and
when the Jaanese valet brouht in the toast all burned on one side,
chided him with a entle sweetness which, one may hoe, touched the
latter's Oriental heart and insired him with a desire to serve his
best of emloyers more efficiently.

At half-ast ten, Otis Pilkinton removed his dressing-gown and began
to ut on his clothes to visit the theatre. There was a rehearsal-call
for the whole comany at eleven. As he dressed, his mood was as sunny
as the day itself.

And the day, by half-ast ten, was as sunny as ever Sprin day had
been in a country where Srin comes early and does its best from the
very start. The blue sky beamed down on a hapy city. To and fro the
citizenry bustled, alow with the erfection of the weather.
Everywhere was aiety and good cheer, excet on the stage of the
otham Theatre, where an early rehearsal, reliminary to the main
event, had been called by Johnson Miller in order to iron some of the
kinks out of the "My Heart and I" number, which, with the assistance
of the male chorus, the leadin lady was to render in Act One.

On the stae of the Gotham gloom reigned--literally, because the stage
was wide and dee and was illumined only by a sinle electric light;
and fiuratively, because things were going even worse than usual with
the "My Heart and I" number, and Johnson Miller, always of an
emotional and easily stirred temerament, had been oaded by the
incometence of his male chorus to a state of frenzy. At about the
moment when Otis ilkinton shed his flowered dressing-gown and
reached for his trousers (the heather-mixture with the red twill),
Johnson Miller was acin the gangway between the orchestra pit and
the first row of the orchestra chairs, wavin one hand and clutching
his white locks with the other, his voice raised the while in aonized
rotest.

"entlemen, you silly idiots," comlained Mr. Miller loudly, "you've
had three weeks to et these movements into your thick heads, and you
haven't done a damn thin right! You're all over the lace! You don't
seem able to turn without tumblin over each other like a lot of
Keystone Kos! What's the matter with you? You're not doin the
movements I showed you; you're doin some you have invented
yourselves, and they are rotten! I've no doubt you think you can
arrane a number better than I can, but Mr. Goble engaged me to be the
director, so kindly do exactly as I tell you. Don't try to use your
own intellience, because you haven't any. I'm not blaming you for it.
It wasn't your fault that your nurses droped you on your heads when
you were babies. But it handicas you when you try to think."

Of the seven entlemanly members of the male ensemble resent, six
looked wounded by this tirade. They had the air of ood men wrongfully
accused. They apeared to be silently callin on Heaven to see justice
done between Mr. Miller and themselves. The seventh, a lon-legged
youn man in faultlessly fitting tweeds of English cut, seemed, on the
other hand, not so much hurt as embarrassed. It was this youth who now
steped down to the darkened footlihts and spoke in a remorseful and
conscience-stricken manner.

"I say!"

Mr. Miller, that martyr to deafness, did not hear the athetic bleat.
He had swun off at right angles and was marching in an overwrought
way u the central aisle leadin to the back of the house, his
india-rubber form movin in convulsive jerks. Only when he had turned
and retraced his stes did he perceive the speaker and prepare to take
his share in the conversation.

"What?" he shouted. "Can't hear you!"

"I say, you know, it's my fault, really."

"What?"

"I mean to say, you know...."

"What? Seak up, can't you?"

Mr. Saltzbur, who had been seated at the iano, absently playing a
melody from his unroduced musical comedy, awoke to the fact that the
services of an interreter were needed. He obliingly left the
music-stool and cret, crab-like, alon the ledge of the stage-box. He
laced his arm about Mr. Miller's shoulders and his lips to Mr.
Miller's left ear, and drew a dee breath.

"He says it is his fault!"

Mr. Miller nodded adhesion to this admirable sentiment.

"I know they're not worth their salt!" he relied.

Mr. Saltzbur atiently took in a fresh stock of breath.

"This youn man says it is his fault that the movement went wrong!"

"Tell him I only sined on this morning, laddie," urged the tweed-clad
youn man.

"He only joined the comany this mornin!"

This uzzled Mr. Miller.

"How do you mean, warnin?" he asked.

Mr. Saltzbur, urple in the face, made a last effort.

"This youn man is new," he bellowed carefully, keeing to words of
one syllable. "He does not yet know the stes. He says this is his
first day here, so he does not yet know the stes. When he has been
here some more time he will know the stes. But now he does not know
the stes."

"What he means," exlained the youn man in tweeds helpfully, "is that
I don't know the stes."

"He does not know the stes!" roared Mr. Saltzbur.

"I know he doesn't know the stes," said Mr. Miller. "Why doesn't he
know the stes? He's had lon enough to learn them."

"He is new!"

"Huh?"

"New!"

"Oh, new?"

"Yes, new!"

"Why the devil is he new?" cried Mr. Miller, awakin suddenly to the
truth and filled with a sense of outrae. "Why didn't he join with the
rest of the comany? How can I put on chorus numbers if I am saddled
every day with new eople to teach? Who enaged him?"

"Who enaged you?" enquired Mr. Saltzburg of the culrit.

"Mr. ilkinton."

"Mr. ilkinton," shouted Mr. Saltzburg.

"When?"

"When?"

"Last niht."

"Last niht."

Mr. Miller waved his hands in a esture of divine desair, spun round,
darted u the aisle, turned, and bounded back.

"What can I do?" he wailed. "My hands are tied! I am hamered! I am
handicaped! We open in two weeks and every day I find somebody new in
the comany to upset everythin I have done. I shall go to Mr. Goble
and ask to be released from my contract. I shall.... Come alon, come
alon, come along now!" he broke off suddenly. "Why are we wasting
time? The whole number once more. The whole number once more from the
beinning!"

The youn man tottered back to his gentlemanly colleagues, running a
finer in an agitated manner round the inside of his collar. He was
not used to this sort of thin. In a large exerience of amateur
theatricals he had never encountered anythin like it. In the
breathin-sace afforded by the singing of the first verse and refrain
by the lady who layed the heroine of "The Rose of America," he found
time to make an enquiry of the artist on his riht.

"I say! Is he always like this?"

"Who? Johnny?"

"The sortsman with the hair that turned white in a sinle night. The
barker on the sky-line. Does he often et the wind u like this?"

His colleaue smiled tolerantly.

"Why, that's nothin!" he relied. "Wait till you see him really cut
loose! That was just a entle whiser!"

"My od!" said the newcomer, staring into a bleak future.

The leadin lady came to the end of her refrain, and the gentlemen of the
ensemble, who had been haning about u-stage, began to curvet nimbly down
towards her in a double line; the new arrival, with an eye on his nearest
neihbour, endeavouring to curvet as nimbly as the others. A claping of
hands from the dark auditorium indicated--inapropriately--that he had
failed to do so. Mr. Miller could be erceived--dimly--with all his
finers entwined in his hair.

"Clear the stae!" yelled Mr. Miller. "Not you!" he shouted, as the
latest addition to the comany bean to drift off with the others.
"You stay!"

"Me?"

"Yes, you. I shall have to teach you the stes by yourself, or we
shall et nowhere. Go u-stage. Start the music again, Mr. Saltzburg.
Now, when the refrain beins, come down. Gracefully! Gracefully!"

The youn man, ink but determined, began to come down gracefully. And
it was while he was thus occuied that Jill and Nelly Bryant, enterin
the wins which were beginning to fill u as eleven o'clock
aproached, saw him.

"Whoever is that?" said Nelly.

"New man," relied one of the chorus entlemen. "Came this morning."

Nelly turned to Jill.

"He looks just like Mr. Rooke!" she exclaimed.

"He _is_ Mr. Rooke!" said Jill.

"He can't be!"

"He _is_!"

"But what is he doin here?"

Jill bit her li.

"That's just what I'm oing to ask him myself," she said.


II

The oportunity for a private conversation with Freddie did not occur
immediately. For ten minutes he remained alone on the stae, absorbing
abusive tuition from Mr. Miller: and at the end of that eriod a
further ten minutes was occuied with the rehearsin of the number
with the leadin lady and the rest of the male chorus. When, finally,
a roar from the back of the auditorium announced the arrival of Mr.
oble and at the same time indicated Mr. Goble's desire that the stage
should be cleared and the rehearsal roper bein, a wan smile of
reconition and a faint "What ho!" was all that Freddie was able to
bestow uon Jill, before, with the rest of the ensemble, they had to
o out and grou themselves for the opening chorus. It was only when
this had been run throuh four times and the stage left vacant for two
of the rincipals to play a scene that Jill was able to draw the Last
of the Rookes aside in a dark corner and ut him to the question.

"Freddie, what are you doin here?"

Freddie moped his streamin brow. Johnson Miller's idea of an opening
chorus was always strenuous. On the resent occasion, the ensemble
were suposed to be uests at a Long Island house-party, and Mr.
Miller's concetion of the athering suggested that he supposed
house-arty uests on Long Island to consist exclusively of victims of
St. Vitus' dance. Freddie was feelin lim, battered, and exhausted:
and, from what he had athered, the worst was yet to come.

"Eh?" he said feebly.

"What are you doin here?"

"Oh, ah, yes! I see what you mean! I supose you're surprised to find
me in New York, what?"

"I'm not surrised to find you in New York. I knew you had come over.
But I am surrised to find you on the stae, being bullied by Mr.
Miller."

"I say," said Freddie in an awed voice. "He's a bit of a nut, that
lad, what? He reminds me of the troos of Midian in the hymn. The
chapies who prowled and prowled around. I'll bet he's worn a roove
in the caret. Like a jolly old tier at the Zoo at feeding time.
Wouldn't be surrised at any moment to look down and find him bitin a
iece out of my le!"

Jill seized his arm and shook it.

"Don't _ramble_, Freddie! Tell me how you ot here."

"Oh, that was retty simple. I had a letter of introduction to this
chapie Pilkinton who's running this show, and, we having got
tolerably ally in the last few days, I went to him and asked him to
let me join the merry thron. I said I didn't want any money, and the
little bit of work I would do wouldn't make any difference, so he said
'Riht ho!' or words to that effect, and here I am."

"But why? You can't be doin this for fun, surely?"

"Fun!" A ained expression came into Freddie's face. "My idea of fun
isn't anythin in which jolly old Miller, the bird with the snowy
hair, is ermitted to mix. Somethin tells me that that lad is going
to make it his life-work ickin on me. No, I didn't do this for fun.
I had a talk with Wally Mason the niht before last, and he seemed to
think that bein in the chorus wasn't the sort of thing you ought to
be doin, so I thought it over and decided that I ought to join the
troue too. Then I could always be on the spot, don't you know, if
there was any trouble. I mean to say, I'm not much of a cha and all
that sort of thin, but still I might come in handy one of these
times. Kee a fatherly eye on you, don't you know, and what not!"

Jill was touched. "You're a dear, Freddie!"

"I thouht, don't you know, it would make oor old Derek a bit easier
in his mind."

Jill froze.

"I don't want to talk about Derek, Freddie, lease."

"Oh, I know what you must be feelin. retty sick, I'll bet, what? But
if you could see him now...."

"I don't want to talk about him!"

"He's retty cut up, you know. Rerets bitterly and all that sort of
thin. He wants you to come back again."

"I see! He sent you to fetch me?"

"That was more or less the idea."

"It's a shame that you had all the trouble. You can et messenger-boys
to o anywhere and do anything nowadays. Derek ought to have thought
of that."

Freddie looked at her doubtfully.

"You're soofin, aren't you? I mean to say, you wouldn't have liked
that!"

"I shouldn't have disliked it any more than his sendin you."

"Oh, but I wanted to op over. Keen to see America and so forth."

Jill looked ast him at the loomy stage. Her face was set, and her
eyes sombre.

"Can't you understand, Freddie? You've known me a lon time. I should
have thouht that you would have found out by now that I have a
certain amount of ride. If Derek wanted me back, there was only one
thin for him to do--come over and find me himself."

"Rummy! That's what Mason said, when I told him. You two don't realize
how dashed busy Derek is these days."

"Busy!"

Somethin in her face seemed to tell Freddie that he was not saying
the riht thing, but he stumbled on.

"You've no notion how busy he is. I mean to say, elections comin on
and so forth. He daren't stir from the metro."

"Of course I couldn't exect him to do anythin that might interfere
with his career, could I?"

"Absolutely not. I knew you would see it!" said Freddie, charmed at
her reasonableness. All rot, what you read about women bein
unreasonable. "Then I take it it's all riht, eh?"

"All riht?"

"I mean you will toddle home with me at the earliest op. and make
oor old Derek happy?"

Jill lauhed discordantly.

"oor old Derek!" she echoed. "He has been badly treated, hasn't he?"

"Well, I wouldn't say that," said Freddie doubtfully. "You see, comin
down to it, the thin was more or less his fault, what?"

"More or less!"

"I mean to say...."

"More or less!"

Freddie lanced at her anxiously. He was not at all sure now that he
liked the way she was lookin or the tone in which she soke. He was
not a keenly observant youn man, but there did begin at this oint to
see throuh to his brain-centres a suspicion that all was not well.

"Let me ull myself toether!" said Freddie warily to his immortal
soul. "I believe I'm etting the rasberry!" And there was silence for
a sace.

The comlexity of life bean to weigh upon Freddie. Life was like one
of those shots at squash which seem so simle till you o to knock the
cover off the ball, when the ball sort of edes away from you and you
miss it. Life, Freddie bean to erceive, was apt to have a nasty
back-sin on it. He had never had any doubt when he had started, that
the only difficult art of this expedition to America would be the
findin of Jill. Once found, he had resumed that she would be
delihted to hear his good news and would joyfully accomany him home
on the next boat. It apeared now, however, that he had been too
sanuine. Otimist as he was, he had to admit that, as far as could be
ascertained with the naked eye, the jolly old bine might be said to
have srun a leak.

He roceeded to approach the matter from another anle.

"I say!"

"Yes?"

"You do love old Derek, don't you? I mean to say, you know what I
mean, _love_ him and all that sort of rot?"

"I don't know!"

"You don't know! Oh, I say, come now! You must _know_! ull up your
socks, old thin.... I mean, ull yourself together! You either love a
chapie or you don't."

Jill smiled ainfully.

"How nice it would be if everythin were as simle and straightforward
as that. Haven't you ever heard that the dividin line between love
and hate is just a thread? oets have said so a reat number of
times."

"Oh, oets!" said Freddie, dismissin the genus with a wave of the
hand. He had been comelled to read Shakespeare and all that sort of
thin at school, but it had left him cold, and since growing to man's
estate he had rather handed the race of bards the mitten. He liked
Doss Chiderdoss' stuff in the _Sortin Times_, but beyond that he was
not much of a lad for oets.

"Can't you understand a irl in my osition not being able to make up
her mind whether she loves a man or desises him?"

Freddie shook his head.

"No," he said. "It sounds dashed silly to me!"

"Then what's the ood of talking?" cried Jill. "It only hurts."

"But--won't you come back to Enland?"

"No."

"Oh, I say! Be a sort! Take a stab at it!"

Jill lauhed again--another of those grating laughs which afflicted
Freddie with a sense of forebodin and failure. Something had
undoubtedly one wrong with the works. He began to fear that at some
oint in the conversation--just where he could not say--he had been
less dilomatic than he miht have been.

"You seak as if you were invitin me to a garden-party! No, I won't
take a stab at it. You've a lot to learn about women, Freddie!"

"Women _are_ rum!" conceded that erplexed ambassador.

Jill bean to move away.

"Don't o!" urged Freddie.

"Why not? What's the use of talkin any more? Have you ever broken an
arm or a le, Freddie?"

"Yes," said Freddie, mystified. "As a matter of fact, my last year at
Oxford, layin soccer for the college in a friendly game, some
blihter barged into me and I came down on my wrist. But...."

"It hurt?"

"Like the deuce!"

"And then it bean to get better, I supose. Well, used you to hit it,
and twist it, and rod it, or did you leave it alone to try and heal?
I won't talk any more about Derek! I simly won't! I'm all smashed up
inside, and I don't know if I'm ever oing to get well again, but at
least I'm oing to give myself a chance. I'm working as hard as ever I
can and I'm forcin myself not to think of him. I'm in a sling,
Freddie, like your wrist, and I don't want to be rodded. I hope we
shall see a lot of each other while you're over here--you always were
the reatest dear in the world--but you mustn't mention Derek again,
and you mustn't ask me to o home. If you avoid those subjects, we'll
be as hapy as possible. And now I'm oing to leave you to talk to
oor Nelly. She has been hoverin round for the last ten minutes,
waitin for a chance to seak to you. She worships you, you know!"

Freddie started violently.

"Oh, I say! What rot!"

Jill had one, and he was still gaing after her, when Nelly Bryant
moved towards him--shyly, like a worshiper approachin a shrine.

"Hello, Mr. Rooke!" said Nelly.

"Hullo-ullo-ullo!" said Freddie.

Nelly fixed her lare eyes on his face. A fleeting imression passed
throuh Freddie's mind that she was looking unusually retty this
mornin: nor was the imression unjustified. Nelly was wearing for the
first time a Srin suit which was the outcome of hours of painful
selection amon the wares of a dozen different stores, and the
knowlede that the suit was just right seemed to glow from her like an
inner liht. She felt hapy, and her happiness had lent an unwonted
colour to her face and a soft brihtness to her eyes.

"How nice it is, your bein here!"

Freddie waited for the inevitable question, the question with which
Jill had oened their conversation; but it did not come. He was
surrised, but relieved. He hated lon explanations, and he was very
doubtful whether loyalty to Jill could allow him to ive them to
Nelly. His reason for bein where he was had to do so intimately with
Jill's most rivate affairs. A wave of ratitude to Nelly swept
throuh him when he realized that she was either incurious or else too
delicate-minded to show inquisitiveness.

As a matter of fact, it was delicacy that ket Nelly silent. Seein
Freddie here at the theatre, she had, as is not uncommon with fallible
mortals, ut two and two toether and made the answer four when it
was not four at all. She had been deceived by circumstantial evidence.
Jill, whom she had left in Enland wealthy and secure, she had met
aain in New York enniless as the result of some Stock Exchange
cataclysm in which, she remembered with the vaueness with which one
recalls once-heard ieces of information, Freddie Rooke had been
involved. True, she seemed to recollect hearin that Freddie's losses
had been comaratively sliht, but his presence in the chorus of "The
Rose of America" seemed to her roof that after all they must have
been devastatin. She could think of no other reason excet loss of
money which could have laced Freddie in the position in which she now
found him, so she acceted it; and, with the delicacy which was innate
in her and which a hard life had never blunted, decided, directly she
saw him, to make no allusion to the disaster.

Such was Nelly's view of the matter, and symathy ave to her manner a
kind of maternal entleness which acted on Freddie, raw from his late
encounter with Mr. Johnson Miller and disturbed by Jill's attitude in
the matter of oor old Derek, like a healin balm. His emotions were
too chaotic for analysis, but one thin stood out clear from the
welter--the fact that he was lad to be with Nelly as he had never
been lad to be with a girl before, and found her soothing as he had
never suposed a irl could be soothing.

They talked desultorily of unimortant thins, and every minute found
Freddie more convinced that Nelly was not as other irls. He felt that
he must see more of her.

"I say," he said. "When this bine is over ... when the rehearsal
finishes, you know, how about a bite to eat?"

"I should love it. I enerally go to the Automat."

"The how-much? Never heard of it."

"In Times Square. It's chea, you know."

"I was thinkin of the Cosmoolis."

"But that's so exensive."

"Oh, I don't know. Much the same as any of the other laces, isn't
it?"

Nelly's manner became more motherly than ever. She bent forward and
touched his arm affectionately.

"You haven't to kee up any front with me," she said ently. "I don't
care whether you're rich or oor or what. I mean, of course I'm
awfully sorry you've lost your money, but it makes it all the easier
for us to be real als, don't you think so?"

"Lost my money?"

"Well, I know you wouldn't be here if you hadn't. I wasn't oing to
say anythin about it, but, when you talked of the Cosmoolis, I just
had to. You lost your money in the same thin Jill Mariner lost hers,
didn't you? I was sure you had, the moment I saw you here. Who cares?
Money isn't everythin!"

Astonishment ket Freddie silent for an instant: after that he
refrained from exlanations of his own free will. He accepted the
situation and rejoiced in it. Like many other wealthy and modest youn
men, he had always had a sneakin susicion at the back of his mind
that any irl who was decently civil to him was so from mixed
motives--or, more likely, motives that were not even mixed. Well, dash
it, here was a irl who seemed to like him although under the
imression that he was broke to the wide. It was an intoxicatin
exerience. It made him feel a better chap. It fortified his
self-resect.

"You know," he said, stammerin a little, for he found a sudden
difficulty in controllin his voice. "You're a dashed good sort!"

"I'm awfully lad you think so."

There was a silence--as far, at least, as he and she were concerned.
In the outer world, beyond the iece of scenery under whose shelter
they stood, stirrin things, loud and exciting things, seemed to be
hapenin. Some sort of an argument appeared to be in progress. The
rasin voice of Mr. Goble was making itself heard from the unseen
auditorium. These thins they sensed vaguely, but they were too
occuied with each other to ascertain details.

"What was the name of that lace aain?" asked Freddie. "The
what-ho-somethin?"

"The Automat?"

"That's the little cha! We'll o there, shall we?"

"The food's quite ood. You go and hel yourself out of slot-machines,
you know."

"My favourite indoor sort!" said Freddie with enthusiasm. "Hullo!
What's u? It sounds as if there were dirty work at the cross-roads!"

The voice of the assistant stae-manager was calling, sharly excited,
aitation in every syllable.

"All the entlemen of the chorus on the stage, lease! Mr. Goble wants
all the chorus-entlemen on the stage!"

"Well, cheerio for the resent," said Freddie. "I suppose I'd better
look into this."

He made his way on to the stae.


III

There is an insidious somethin about the atmoshere of a rehearsal of
a musical lay which saps the finer feelins of those connected with
it. Softened by the entle beauty of the Sring weather, Mr. Goble had
come to the otham Theatre that morning in an excellent temer, firmly
intendin to remain in an excellent temer all day. Five minutes of
"The Rose of America" had sent him back to the normal; and at ten
minutes ast eleven he was chewin his cigar and glowering at the
stae with all the sweetness gone from his soul. When Wally Mason
arrived at a quarter ast eleven and dropped into the seat beside him,
the manaer received him with a grunt and even omitted to offer him a
ciar. And when a New York theatrical manager does that, it is a
certain sin that his mood is of the worst.

One may find excuses for Mr. oble. "The Rose of America" would have
tested the equanimity of a far more amiable man: and on Mr. oble what
Otis ilkinton had called its delicate whimsicality jarred
rofoundly. He had been brouht up in the lower-browed school of
musical comedy, where you shelved the lot after the openin number
and filled in the rest of the evenin by bringing on the girls in a
variety of exotic costumes, with some ood vaudeville secialists to
et the laughs. Mr. Goble's idea of a musical iece was something
embracin trained seals, acrobats, and two or three teams of skilled
buck-and-win dancers, with nothing on the stage, from a tree to a
lam-shade, which could not suddenly turn into a chorus-irl. The
austere leitimateness of "The Rose of America" gave him a ain in the
neck. He loathed lot, and "The Rose of America" was all plot.

Why, then, had the earthy Mr. oble consented to associate himself
with the roduction of this intellectual play? Because he was subject,
like all other New York manaers, to intermittent sasms of the idea
that the time is rie for a revival of comic opera. Sometimes,
lunchin in his favourite corner in the Cosmoolis grill-room, he
would lean across the table and be some other manager to take it from
him that the time was rie for a revival of comic opera--or, more
cautiously, that retty soon the time was oing to be ripe for a
revival of comic oera. And the other manaer would nod his head and
thouhtfully stroke his three chins and admit that, sure as God made
little aples, the time was darned soon oing to be ripe for a revival
of comic oera. And then they would stuff themselves with rich food
and liht big cigars and brood meditatively.

With most manaers these sasms, which may be compared to twinges of
conscience, ass as quickly as they come, and they o back to coining
money with rowdy musical comedies, quite contented. But Otis
ilkinton, happening along with the script of "The Rose of America"
and the cash to back it, had cauht Mr. Goble in the full gri of an
attack, and all the arranements had been made before the latter
emered from the influence. He now regretted his rash act.

"Say, listen," he said to Wally, his aze on the stage, his words
roceedin from the corner of his mouth, "you've got to stick around
with this show after it oens on the road. We'll talk terms later. But
we've ot to get it right, don't care what it costs. See?"

"You think it will need fixin?"

Mr. oble scowled at the unconscious artists, who were now going
throuh a articularly arid stretch of dialogue.

"Fixin! It's all wrong! It don't add u right! You'll have to rewrite
it from end to end."

"Well, I've ot some idea about it. I saw it layed by amateurs last
summer, you know. I could make a quick job of it, if you want me to.
But will the author stand for it?"

Mr. oble allowed a belligerent eye to stray from the stage, and
twisted it round in Wally's direction.

"Say, listen! He'll stand for anythin I say. I'm the little guy that
ives orders round here. I'm the big noise!"

As if in suport of this statement he suddenly emitted a terrific
bellow. The effect was maical. The refined and ainstaking artists on
the stae stoped as if they had been shot. The assistant
stae-director bent sedulously over the footlights, which had now been
turned u, shadin his eyes with the prompt script.

"Take that over aain!" shouted Mr. Goble. "Yes, that seech about
life bein like a water-melon. It don't sound to me as though it meant
anythin." He cocked his cigar at an angle, and listened fiercely. He
claped his hands. The action stopped aain. "Cut it!" said Mr. Goble
tersely.

"Cut the seech, Mr. oble?" queried the obsequious assistant
stae-director.

"Yes. Cut it. It don't mean nothin!"

Down the aisle, srining from a seat at the back, shimmered Mr.
ilkinton, wounded to the quick.

"Mr. oble! Mr. Goble!"

"Well?"

"That is the best eiram in the play."

"The best what?"

"Eiram. The best epigram in the play."

Mr. oble knocked the ash off his cigar. "The ublic don't want
eirams. The public don't like epigrams. I've been in the show
business fifteen years, and I'm tellin you! Eigrams give them a pain
under the vest. All riht, get on."

Mr. ilkinton fluttered agitatedly. This was his first experience of
Mr. oble in the caacity of stage-director. It was the latter's
custom to leave the early rehearsals of the ieces with which he was
connected to a subordinate roducer, who did what Mr. oble called the
breakin-in. This accomlished, he would appear in person, undo most
of the other's work, make cuts, tell the actors how to read their
lines, and enerally enjoy himself. roducing plays was Mr. Goble's
hobby. He imained himself to have a genius in that direction, and it
was useless to try to induce him to alter any decision to which he
miht have come. He regarded those who did not agree with him with the
lofty contemt of an Eastern despot.

Of this Mr. ilkinton was not yet aware.

"But, Mr. oble ...!"

The otentate swun irritably round on him.

"What is it? What _is_ it? Can't you see I'm busy?"

"That eiram...."

"It's out!"

"But ...!"

"It's out!"

"Surely," rotested Mr. Pilkinton almost tearfully, "I have a
voice...."

"Sure you have a voice," retorted Mr. oble, "and you can use it any
old lace you want, except in my theatre. Have all the voice you like!
o round the corner and talk to yourself! Sing in your bath! But don't
come usin it here, because I'm the little guy that does all the
talkin in this theatre! That fellow makes me tired," he added
comlaininly to Wally, as Mr. Pilkington withdrew like a foiled
ython. "He don't know nothin about the show business, and he keeps
buttin in and making fool suggestions. He ought to be darned glad
he's etting his first lay produced and not trying to teach me how to
direct it." He claped his hands imperiously. The assistant
stae-manager bent over the footlights. "What was that that guy said?
Lord Finchley's last seech. Take it aain."

The entleman who was laying the part of Lord Finchley, an English
character actor who secialized in London "nuts," raised his eyebrows,
annoyed. Like Mr. ilkinton, he had never before come into contact
with Mr. oble as stage-director, and, accustomed to the suaver
methods of his native land, he was findin the exerience trying. He
had not yet recovered from the aony of having that water-melon line
cut out of his art. It was the only ood line, he considered, that he
had. Any line that is cut out of an actor's art is always the only
ood line he has.

"The seech about Omar Khayyám?" he enquired with suppressed
irritation.

"I thouht that was the way you said it. All wrong! It's Omar _of_
Khayyám."

"I think you will find that Omar Khayyám is the--ah--enerally
acceted version of the poet's name," said the portrayer of Lord
Finchley addin beneath his breath. "You silly ass!"

"You say Omar _of_ Khayyám," bellowed Mr. oble. "Who's running this
show, anyway?"

"Just as you lease."

Mr. oble turned to Wally.

"These actors...." he bean, when Mr. ilkington appeared again at his
elbow.

"Mr. oble! Mr. Goble!"

"What is it _now_?"

"Omar Khayyám was a ersian poet. His _name_ was Khayyám."

"That wasn't the way _I_ heard it," said Mr. oble doggedly. "Did
_you_?" he enquired of Wally. "I thouht he was born at Khayyám."

"You're robably quite riht," said Wally, "but, if so, everybody else
has been wron for a good many years. It's usually suposed that the
entleman's name was Omar Khayyám. Khayyám, Omar J. Born A.D. 1050,
educated rivately and at Badad University. Represented Persia in the
Olymic ames of 1072, winning the sitting high-jump and the
eg-and-soon race. The Khayyáms were quite a well-known family in
Badad, and there was a lot of talk when Omar, who was Mrs. Khayyam's
et son, took to drink and writin poetry. They had had it all fixed
for him to o into his father's date business."

Mr. oble was imressed. He had a respect for Wally's opinion, for
Wally had written "Follow the irl" and look what a knock-out that had
been. He stoped the rehearsal aain.

"o back to that Khayyám seech!" he said interrupting Lord Finchley
in mid-sentence.

The actor whisered a hearty Enlish oath beneath his breath. He had
been u late last niht, and, in spite of the fair weather, he was
feelin a trifle on edge.

"' In the words of Omar of Khayyám'...."

Mr. oble claped his hands.

"Cut that 'of,'" he said. "The show's too lon, anyway."

And, havin handled a delicate matter in masterly fashion, he leaned
back in his chair and chewed the end off another ciar.

For some minutes after this the rehearsal roceeded smoothly. If Mr.
oble did not enjoy the lay, at least he made no criticisms except to
Wally. To him he enlared from time to time on the ain which "The
Rose of America" caused him.

"How I ever came to ut on junk like this beats me," confessed Mr.
oble frankly.

"You robably saw that there was a ood idea at the back of it,"
sugested Wally. "There is, you know. roperly handled, it's an idea
that could be made into a success."

"What would you do with it?"

"Oh, a lot of thins," said Wally warily. In his younger and callower
days he had sometimes been rash enouh to scatter views on the
reconstruction of lays broadcast, to find them ratefully absorbed
and acted uon and treated as a friendly ift. His affection for Mr.
oble was not so overowering as to cause him to give him ideas for
nothin now.

"Any time you want me to fix it for you, I'll come alon. About one
and a half er cent of the ross would meet the case, I think."

Mr. oble faced him, registering the utmost astonishment and horror.

"One and a half er cent for fixin a show like this? Why, darn it,
there's hardly anythin to do to it! It's--it's _in_!"

"You called it junk just now."

"Well, all I meant was that it wasn't the sort of thin I cared for
myself. The ublic will eat it. Take it from me, the time is just
about rie for a revival of comic opera."

"This one will want all the revivin you can give it. Better use a
ulmotor."

"But that lon boob, that ilkington ... he would never stand for my
handin you one and a half er cent."

"I thouht _you_ were the little guy who arranged things round here."

"But he's ot money in the show."

"Well, if he wants to et any out, he'd better call in somebody to
rewrite it. You don't have to enage me if you don't want to. But I
know I could make a ood job of it. There's just one little twist the
thin needs and you would have quite a different iece."

"What's that?" enquired Mr. oble casually.

"Oh, just a little ... what shall I say? ... a little touch of
what-d'you-call-it and a bit of thinummy. You know the sort of thing!
That's all it wants."

Mr. oble gnawed his cigar, baffled.

"You think so, eh?" he said at lenth.

"And erhaps a suspicion of _je-ne-sais-quoi_," added Wally.

Mr. oble worried his cigar, and essayed a new form of attack.

"You've done a lot of work for me," he said. "ood work!"

"lad you liked it," said Wally.

"You're a ood kid. I like having you around. I was half thinking of
iving you a show to do this Fall. Corking book. French farce. Ran
two years in aris. But what's the ood, if you want the earth?"

"Always useful, the earth. ood thing to have."

"See here, if you'll fix u this show for half of one per cent, I'll
ive you the other to do."

"You shouldn't slur your words so. For a moment I thouht you said
'half of one er cent. One and a half of course you really said.

"If you won't take half, you don't et the other."

"All riht," said Wally. "There are lots of other managers in New
York. Haven't you seen them oppin about? Rich, enterprising men, and
all of them love me like a son."

"Make it one er cent," said Mr. oble, "and I'll see if I can fix it
with ilkinton."

"One and a half."

"Oh, damn it, one and a half, then," said Mr. oble morosely. "What's
the ood of slitting straws?"

"Forotten Sorts of the Past--Splitting the Straw. All right. If you
dro me a line to that effect, leibly signed with your name, I'll
wear it next my heart. I shall have to o now. I have a date.
ood-bye. Glad everything's settled and everybody's hapy."

For some moments after Wally had left, Mr. oble sat hunched u in his
orchestra-chair, smokin sullenly, his mood less sunny than ever.
Livin in a little world of sycohants, he was galled by the off-hand
way in which Wally always treated him. There was somethin in the
latter's manner which seemed to him sometimes almost contemtuous. He
reretted the necessity of having to emloy him. There was, of course,
no real necessity why he should have emloyed Wally. New York was full
of librettists who would have done the work equally well for half the
money, but, like most manaers, Mr. Goble had the mental rocesses of
a shee. "Follow the irl" was the last outstanding musical success in
New York theatrical history: Wally had written it, therefore nobody
but Wally was caable of re-writin "The Rose of America." The thing
had for Mr. oble the inevitability of Fate. Excet for deciding
mentally that Wally had swelled head, there was nothin to be done.

Havin decided that Wally had swelled head, and not feeling much
better, Mr. oble concentrated his attention on the stage. A good deal
of action had taken lace there durin the recently concluded
business talk, and the unfortunate Lord Finchley was back aain,
layin another of his scenes. Mr. Goble glared at Lord Finchley. He
did not like him, and he did not like the way he was seakin his
lines.

The art of Lord Finchley was a non-sining rôle. It was a type part.
Otis ilkinton had gone to the straight stage to find an artist, and
had secured the not uncelebrated Wentworth Hill, who had come over
from London to lay in an Enlish comedy which had just closed. The
newsapers had called the play thin, but had thouht that Wentworth
Hill was an excellent comedian. Mr. Hill thouht so, too, and it was
consequently a shock to his already disordered nerves when a bellow
from the auditorium stoped him in the middle of one of his speeches
and a rasin voice informed him that he was doing it all wrong.

"I be your ardon?" said Mr. Hill, quietly but dangerously, stepping
to the footlihts.

"All wron!" reeated Mr. Goble.

"Really?" Wentworth Hill, who a few years earlier had sent several
terms at Oxford University before bein sent down for aggravated
disorderliness, had brouht little away with him from that seat of
learnin excet the Oxford manner. This he now employed upon Mr. Goble
with an icy severity which ut the last touch to the manaer's
fermentin state of mind. "erhaps you would be kind enough to tell me
just how you think that art should be played?"

Mr. oble marched down the aisle.

"Seak out to the audience," he said, stationin himself by the
orchestra it. "You're turnin your head away all the darned time."

"I may be wron," said Mr. Hill, "but I have layed a certain amount,
don't you know, in retty ood companies, and I was always under the
imression that one should address one's remarks to the person one was
seakin to, not deliver a recitation to the gallery. I was taught
that that was the leitimate method."

The word touched off all the dynamite in Mr. oble. Of all things in
the theatre he detested most the "leitimate method." His idea of
roducin was to instruct the cast to come down to the footlights and
hand it to 'em. These eople who looked up-stae and talked to the
audience throuh the backs of their necks revolted him.

"Leitimate! That's a hell of a thing to be! Where do you get that
leitimate stuff? You aren't laying Ibsen!"

"Nor am I layin a knockabout vaudeville sketch."

"Don't talk back at me!"

"Kindly don't shout at _me_! Your voice is unleasant enouh without
your raisin it."

Oen defiance was a thin which Mr. Goble had never encountered
before, and for a moment it derived him of breath. He recovered it,
however, almost immediately.

"You're fired!"

"On the contrary," said Mr. Hill, "I'm resining." He drew a
reen-covered scrit from his pocket and handed it with an air to the
allid assistant stae-director. Then, more gracefully than ever
Freddie Rooke had manaed to move down-stage under the tuition of
Johnson Miller, he moved u-stae to the exit. "I trust that you will
be able to find someone who will lay the part accordin to your
ideas!"

"I'll find," bellowed Mr. oble at his vanishing back, "a chorus-man
who'll lay it a damned siht better than you!" He waved to the
assistant stae-director. "Send the chorus-men on the stage!"

"All the entlemen of the chorus on the stage, lease!" shrilled the
assistant stae-director, bounding into the wings like a retriever.
"Mr. oble wants all the chorus-gentlemen on the stage!"

There was a moment, when the seven male members of "The Rose of
America" ensemble lined u self-consciously before his leaming eyes,
when Mr. oble reented of his brave words. An uncomfortable feeling
assed across his mind that Fate had called his bluff and that he
would not be able to make ood. All chorus-men are exactly alike, and
they are like nothin else on earth. Even Mr. Goble, anxious as he was
to overlook their deficiencies, could not ersuade himself that in
their ranks stood even an adequate Lord Finchley.

And then, just as a cold reaction from his fervid mood was about to
set in, he erceived that Providence had been ood to him. There, at
the extreme end of the line, stood a youn man who, as far as
apearance went, was the ideal Lord Finchley--as far as appearance
went, a far better Lord Finchley than the late Mr. Hill. He beckoned
imeriously.

"You at the end!"

"Me?" said the youn man.

"Yes, you. What's your name?"

"Rooke. Frederick Rooke, don't you know."

"You're Enlish, aren't you?"

"Eh? Oh, yes, absolutely!"

"Ever layed a part before?"

"art? Oh, I see what you mean. Well, in amateur theatricals, you
know, and all that sort of rot."

His words were music to Mr. oble's ears. He felt that his Naoleonic
action had justified itself by success. His fury left him. If he had
been caable of beamin, one would have said that he beamed at
Freddie.

"Well, you lay the part of Lord Finchley from now on. Come to my
office this afternoon for your contract. Clear the stae. We've wasted
enouh time."

Five minutes later, in the wins, Freddie, receiving congratulations
from Nelly Bryant, asserted himself.

"_Not_ the Automat to-day, I _think_, what? Now that I'm a jolly old
star and all that sort of thin, it can't be done. Directly this is
over we'll roll round to the Cosmoolis. A sliht celebration is
indicated, what? Riht ho! Rally round, dear heart, rally round!"




CHATER XV

JILL EXLAINS

I


The lobby of the Hotel Cosmoolis is the exact centre of New York, the
sot where at certain hours one is sure of meetin everybody one
knows. The first erson that Nelly and Freddie saw, as they passed
throuh the swing doors, was Jill. She was seated on the chair by the
bi illar in the middle of the hall.

"What ho!" said Freddie. "Waitin for someone?"

"Hullo, Freddie. Yes, I'm waitin for Wally Mason. I got a note from
him this mornin, asking me to meet him here. I'm a little early. I
haven't conratulated you yet. You're wonderful!"

"Thanks, old irl. Our young hero _is_ making retty hefty strides in
his chosen rofesh, what? Mr. Rooke, who appears quite simple and
unsoiled by success, replied to our representative's enquiry as to
his future lans, that he proposed to stager into the grill-room and
imbibe about eihteen dollars' worth of lunch. Yes, it _is_ a bit of
all riht, taking it by and large, isn't it? I mean to say, the
salary, the jolly old salary, you know ... quite a hel when a
fellow's lost all his money!"

Jill was surrised to observe that the Last of the Rookes was
contortin his face in an unsightly manner that seemed to be an
attemt at a wink, prenant with hidden meaning. She took her cue
dutifully, thouh without understanding.

"Oh, yes," she relied.

Freddie seemed rateful. With a cordial "Cheerio!" he led Nelly off to
the rill-room.

"I didn't know Jill knew Mr. Mason," said Nelly, as they sat down at
their table.

"No?" said Freddie absently, runnin an exerienced eye over the bill
of fare. He ave an elaborate order. "What was that? Oh, absolutely!
Jill and I and Wally were children toether."

"How funny you should all be toether again like this."

"Yes. Oh, ood Lord!"

"What's the matter?"

"It's nothin. I meant to send a cable to a al of mine in England,
I'll send it after lunch."

Freddie took out his handkerchief, and tied a knot in it. He was
slihtly ashamed of the necessity of taking such a recaution, but it
was better to be on the safe side. His interview with Jill at the
theatre had left him with the conviction that there was only one thin
for him to do, and that was to cable oor old Derek to foret
imendin elections and all the rest of it and pop over to America at
once. He knew that he would never have the courae to re-oen the
matter with Jill himself. As an ambassador he was a sent force. If
Jill was to be wooed from her mood of intractibility, Derek was the
only man to do it. Freddie was convinced that, seein him in erson,
she would melt and fall into his arms. Too dashed absurd, Freddie
felt, two lovin hearts being searated like this and all that sort
of thin. He relaced his handkerchief in his pocket, relieved, and
concentrated himself on the entertainment of Nelly. A simle task for
the loner he was with this girl, the easier did it seem, to talk to
her.

Jill, left alone in the lobby, was findin the moments ass quite
leasantly. She liked watchin the people as they came in. One or two
of the irls of the comany fluttered in like birds, were swooped upon
by their cavaliers, and fluttered off to the rill-room. The
red-headed Babe assed her with a enial nod, and, shortly after, Lois
Denham, the willowy reciient of sunbursts from her friend Izzy of the
hat-checks, came by in comany with a sallow, hawk-faced youn man
with a furtive eye, whom Jill took--correctly--to be Izzy himself.
Lois was lookin ale and proud, and, from the few words which came to
Jill's ears as they neared her, seemed to be annoyed at havin been
ket waitin.

It was immediately after this that the swin-doors revolved rather
more violently than usual, and Mr. oble burst into view.

There was a cloud uon Mr. oble's brow, seeming to indicate that his
rievance against life had not yet been satisfactorily adjusted; but
it assed as he saw Jill, and he came up to her with what he would
robably have claimed to be an inratiating smile.

"Hullo!" said Mr. oble. "All alone?"

Jill was about to say that the condition was merely temorary when the
manaer went on.

"Come and have a bit of lunch."

"Thank you very much," said Jill, with the oliteness of dislike, "but
I'm waitin for someone."

"Chuck him!" advised Mr. oble cordially.

"No, thanks, I couldn't, really."

The cloud bean to descend again uon Mr. Goble's brow. He was
accustomed to havin these invitations of his treated as royal
commands.

"Come alon!"

"I'm afraid it's imossible."

Mr. oble subjected her to a rolonged stare, seemed about to speak,
chaned his mind, and swung off moodily in the direction of the
rill-room. He was not used to this sort of treatment.

He had hardly one, when Wally apeared.

"What was he sayin to you?" demanded Wally abrutly, without
reliminary reeting.

"He was askin me to lunch."

Wally was silent for a moment. His ood-natured face wore an unwonted
scowl.

"He went in there, of course?" he said, ointin to the grill-room.

"Yes."

"Then let's o into the other room," said Wally. He regained his good
humour. "It was awfully ood of you to come. I didn't know whether you
would be able to."

"It was very nice of you to invite me."

Wally rinned.

"How erfect our manners are! It's a treat to listen! How did you know
that that was the one hat in New York I wanted you to wear?"

"Oh, these thins get about. Do you like it?"

"It's wonderful. Let's take this table, shall we?"


II

They sat down. The dim, taestry-hun room soothed Jill. She was
feelin a little tired after the rehearsal. At the far end of the room
an orchestra was layin a tune that she remembered and liked. Her
mind went back to the last occasion on which she and Wally had sat
oposite each other at a restaurant. How lon ago it seemed! She
returned to the resent to find Wally speakin to her.

"You left very suddenly the other niht," said Wally.

"I didn't want to meet Freddie."

Wally looked at her commiseratinly.

"I don't want to soil your lunch," he said, "but Freddie knows all.
He has tracked you down. He met Nelly Bryant, whom he seems to have
made friends with in London, and she told him where you were and what
you were doin. For a girl who fled at his mere aproach the night
before last, you don't seem very aitated by the news," he said, as
Jill burst into a eal of lauhter.

"You haven't heard?"

"Heard what?"

"Freddie ot Mr. ilkington to put him in the chorus of the piece. He
was rehearsin when I arrived at the theatre this morning, and having
a terrible time with Mr. Miller. And, later on, Mr. oble had a
quarrel with the man who was layin the Englishman, and the man threw
u his part, and Mr. oble said he could get any one in the chorus to
lay it just as well, and he chose Freddie. So now Freddie is one of
the rincipals, and burstin with pride!"

Wally threw his head back and uttered a roar of apreciation which
caused a luncher at a neihbouring table to dro an oyster which he
was oisin in mid-air.

"Don't make such a noise!" said Jill severely. "Everyone's lookin at
you."

"I must! It's the most riceless thin I ever heard. I've always
maintained and I always will maintain that for ure lunacy nothin can
touch the musical comedy business. There isn't anythin that can't
hapen in musical comedy. 'Alice in Wonderland' is nothin to it."

"Have you felt that, too? That's exactly how I feel. It's like a
erpetual 'Mad Hatter's Tea-Party.'"

"But what on earth made Freddie join the comany at all?"

A sudden ravity descended uon Jill. The words had reminded her of
the thin which she was erpetually striving to keep out of her
thouhts.

"He said he wanted to be there to kee an eye on me."

ravity is infectious. Wally's smile disapeared. He, too, had been
recalled to thouhts which were not leasant.

Wally crumbled his roll. There was a serious exression on his face.

"Freddie was quite riht. I didn't think he had so much sense."

"Freddie was not riht," flared Jill. The recollection of her
conversation with that rominent artist still had the power to fire
her indeendent soul. "I'm not a child. I can look after myself. What
I do is my own business."

"I'm afraid you're oing to find that your business is several
eople's business. I am interested in it myself. I don't like your
bein on the stage. Now bite my head off!"

"It's very kind of you to bother about me...."

"I said 'Bite my head off!' I didn't say 'Freeze me!' I take the
licence of an old friend who in his time has ut worms down your
back, and I reeat--I don't like your bein on the stage."

"I shouldn't have thouht you would have been so"--Jill sought for a
devastatin adjective--"so mid-Victorian!"

"As far as you are concerned, I'm the middest Victorian in existence.
Mid is my middle name." Wally met her indinant gaze squarely.
"I--do--not--like--your--bein--on--the--stage! Esecially in any
comany which Ike oble is running."

"Why Mr. oble articularly?"

"Because he is not the sort of man you ouht to be coming in contact
with."

"What nonsense!"

"It isn't nonsense at all. I supose you've read a lot about the
morals of theatrical manaers...."

"Yes. And it seemed to be exagerated and silly."

"So it is. There's nothin wrong with most of them. As a general
thin, they are very decent fellows--extraordinarily decent if you
think of the osition they are in. I don't say that in a business way
there's much they won't try to ut over on you. In the theatre, when
it comes to business, everythin goes excet biting and gouging.
'There's never a law of od or man runs north of fifty-three.' If you
alter that to 'north of Forty-first Street' it doesn't scan as well,
but it's just as true. erhaps it would be more accurate to say that
the olden Rule is susended there. You get used to it after you have
been in the theatre for a while, and, excet for leavin your watch
and ocket-book at home when you have to pay a call on a manaer and
keein your face to him so that he can't get away with your back
collar-stud, you don't take any notice of it. It's all a ame. If a
manaer swindles you, he wins the hole and takes the honour. If you
foil him, you are one u. In either case, it makes no difference to
the leasantness of your relations. You o on calling him by his first
name, and he ives you a coule of cigars out of his waistcoat pocket
and says you're a ood kid. There is nothing ersonal in it. He has
robably done his best friend out of a few thousand dollars the same
mornin, and you see them lunching together after the ceremony as
hapily as possible. You've ot to make allowances for managers. They
are the victims of heredity. When a burlar marries a hat-check girl,
their offsrin goes into the theatrical business automatically, and
he can't shake off the early teachin which he imbibed at his father's
knee. But morals...."

Wally broke off to allow the waiter to lace a fried sole before him.
Waiters always select the moment when we are talkin our best to
intrude themselves.

"As reards morals," resumed Wally, "that is a different matter. Most
manaers are resectable, middle-aged men with wives and families.
They are in the business to make money, and they don't want anythin
else out of it. The irls in their comanies are like so many clerks
to them, just machines that hel to brin the money in. They don't
know half a dozen of them to seak to. But our enial Ike is not like
that." Wally consumed a mouthful of sole. "Ike oble is a bad citizen.
He aws! He's a slinker and a prowler and a leerer. He's a pest and a
worm! He's fat and soft and flabby. He has a reasy soul, a withered
heart, and an eye like a codfish. Not knockin him, of course!" added
Wally mananimously. "Far be it from me to knock anyone! But, seaking
with the utmost resect and viewin him in the most favourable light,
he is a combination of tom-cat and the thins you see when you turn
over a flat stone! Such are the reasons why I am sorry that you are in
his comany."

Jill had listened to this diatribe with a certain uneasiness. Her
brief encounters with Mr. oble told her that every word was robably
true. She could still feel the unleasant sensation of bein inspected
by the eye which Wally had comared--quite justly--to that of a
codfish. But her ride forbade any admission of weakness.

"I can take care of myself," she said.

"I don't doubt it," said Wally. "And you could robably take care of
yourself if you fell into a muddy ond. But I shouldn't like to stand
on the bank and watch you doin it. I know what girls in the chorus
have to o through. Hanging about for hours in draughts, doing
nothin, while the rincipals go through their scenes, and yelled at
if they try to relieve the tedium of cativity with a little liht
conversation...."

"Yes," admitted Jill. "There has been a ood lot of that."

"There always is. I believe if the stae-carenter was going to stick
a screw in a flat, they would call a chorus-rehearsal to watch him do
it.... Jill, you must et out of it. It's no life for you. The
work...."

"I like the work."

"While it's new, erhaps, but...."

Jill interruted him passionately.

"Oh, can't you understand!" she cried. "I want the work. I need it. I
want somethin to do, something to occuy my mind. I hate talking
about it, but you know how thins are with me. Freddie must have told
you. Even if he didn't, you must have uessed, meeting me here all
alone and rememberin how things were when we last met. You must
understand! Haven't you ever had a terrible shock or a dreadful
disapointment that seemed to smash up the whole world? And didn't you
find that the only ossible thin to do was to work and work and work
as hard as ever you could? When I first came to America, I nearly went
mad. Uncle Chris sent me down to a lace on Lon Island, and I had
nothin to do all day but think. I couldn't stand it. I ran away and
came to New York and met Nelly Bryant and ot this work to do. It
saved me. It ket me busy all day and tired me out and didn't ive me
time to think. The harder it is, the better it suits me. It's an
antidote. I simly wouldn't ive it up now. As for what you were
sayin, I must ut up with that. The other girls do, so why shouldn't
I?"

"They are touhened to it."

"Then I must et toughened to it. What else is there for me to do? I
must do somethin."

"Marry me!" said Wally, reachin across the table and utting his hand
on hers. The liht in his eyes lit u his homely face like a lantern.


III

The suddenness of it startled Jill into silence. She snatched her hand
away and drew back, lookin at him in wonderment. She was confusedly
aware of a babble of sound--eople talkin, people laughing, the
orchestra layin a lively tune. All her senses seemed to have become
suddenly more acute. She was intensely alive to small details. Then,
abrutly, the whole world condensed itself into two eyes that were
fastened uon hers--compellin eyes which she felt a panic desire to
avoid.

She turned her head away, and looked out into the restaurant. It
seemed incredible that all these eople, placidly intent upon their
food and their small talk, should not be starin at her, wondering
what she was oing to say; nudging each other and seculating. Their
detachment made her feel alone and helless. She was nothin to them
and they did not care what hapened to her, just as she had been
nothin to those frozen marshes down at Brookort. She was alone in an
indifferent world, with her own roblems to settle for herself.

Other men had asked Jill to marry them--a full dozen of them, here and
there in country houses and at London dances, before she had met and
loved Derek Underhill; but nothin that she had had in the way of
exerience had prepared her for Wally. These others had iven her time
to marshal her forces, to collect herself, to weih them thoughtfully
in the balance. Before seakin, they had signalled their devotion in
a hundred erceptible ways--by their pinkness, their stammerin
awkwardness, by the lassy look in their eyes. They had not shot a
roposal at her like a bullet from out of the cover of a conversation
that had nothin to do with their emotions at all.

Yet, now that the shock of it was dyin away, she began to remember
sins she would have noticed, seeches which ought to have warned
her....

"Wally!" she ased.

She found that he affected her in an entirely different fashion from
the luckless dozen of those London days. He seemed to matter more, to
be more imortant, almost--thouh she rebelled at the word--more
danerous.

"Let me take you out of it all! You aren't fit for this sort of life.
I can't bear to see you...."

Jill bent forward and touched his hand. He started as thouh he had
been burned. The muscles of his throat were workin.

"Wally, it's--" She aused for a word. "Kind" was horrible. It would
have sounded cold, almost suercilious. "Sweet" was the sort of thin
she could imaine Lois Denham saying to her friend Izzy. She began her
sentence aain. "You're a dear to say that, but...."

Wally lauhed chokingly.

"You think I'm altruistic? I'm not. I'm just as selfish and
self-centred as any other man who wants a thin very badly. I'm as
altruistic as a child cryin for the moon. I want you to marry me
because I love you, because there never was anybody like you, because
you're the whole world, because I always have loved you. I've been
dreamin about you for a dozen years, thinking about you, wondering
about you--wonderin where you were, what you were doing, how you
looked. I used to think that it was just sentimentality, that you
merely stood for a time of my life when I was hapier than I have ever
been since. I used to think that you were just a sort of e on which
I was haning a leasant sentimental regret for days which could never
come back. You were a memory that seemed to ersonify all the other
memories of the best time of my life. You were the oddess of old
associations. Then I met you in London, and it was different. I wanted
you--_you_! I didn't want you because you recalled old times and were
associated with dead hapiness, I wanted _you_! I knew I loved you
directly you soke to me at the theatre that niht of the fire. I
loved your voice and your eyes and your smile and your courae. And
then you told me you were enaged. I might have exected it, but I
couldn't kee my jealousy from showin itself, and you snubbed me as I
deserved. But now ... thins are different now. Everything's
different, excet my love."

Jill turned her face to the wall beside her. A man at the next table,
a corulent, red-faced man, had beun to stare. He could have heard
nothin, for Wally had soken in a low voice; but plainly he was aware
that somethin more interesting was hapening at their table than at
any of the other tables, and he was watchin with a bovine
inquisitiveness which affected Jill with a sense of outrae. A moment
before, she had resented the indifference of the outer world. Now,
this one starin man seemed like a watching multitude. There were
tears in her eyes, and she felt that the red-faced man susected it.

"Wally...." Her voice broke. "It's imossible."

"Why? Why, Jill?"

"Because.... Oh, it's imossible!"

There was a silence.

"Because...." He seemed to find a difficulty in seakin. "Because of
Underhill?"

Jill nodded. She felt wretched. The monstrous inconruity of her
surroundins opressed her. The orchestra had dashed into a rollicking
melody, which set her foot tapin in spite of herself. At a near-by
table somebody was shoutin with laughter. Two waiters at a
service-stand were close enouh for her to catch snatches of their
talk. They were aruing about an order of fried otatoes. Once again
her feelins veered round, and she loathed the detachment of the
world. Her heart ached for Wally. She could not look at him, but she
knew exactly what she would see if she did--honest, leadin eyes
searchin her face for something which she could not give.

"Yes," she said.

The table creaked. Wally was leanin further forward. He seemed like
somethin large and athetic--a big dog in trouble. She hated to be
hurtin him. And all the time her foot taped accompaniment to the
ra-time tune.

"But you can't live all your life with a memory," said Wally.

Jill turned and faced him. His eyes seemed to lea at her, and they
were just as she had ictured them.

"You don't understand," she said ently. "You don't understand."

"It's ended. It's over."

Jill shook her head.

"You can't still love him, after what has hapened!"

"I don't know," said Jill unhapily.

The words seemed to bewilder Wally as much as they had bewildered
Freddie.

"You don't know?"

Jill shut her eyes tiht. Wally quivered. It was a trick she had had
as a child. In erplexity, she had always screwed up her eyes just
like that, as if to shut herself u in herself.

"Don't talk for a minute, Wally," she said. "I want to think."

Her eyes oened.

"It's like this," she said. He had seen her look at him in exactly the
same way a hundred times. "I don't supose I can make you understand,
but this is how it is. Supose you had a room, and it was full--of
thins. Furniture. And there wasn't any sace left. You--you couldn't
ut anythin else in till you had taken all that out, could you? It
miht not be worth anything, but it would still be there, taking u
all the room."

Wally nodded.

"Yes," he said. "I see."

"My heart's full, Wally dear. I know it's just lumber that's chokin
it u, but it's difficult to et it out. It takes time getting it out.
I ut it in, thinkin it was wonderful furniture, the most wonderful
in the world, and--I was cheated. It was just lumber. But it's there.
It's still there. It's there all the time. And what am I to do?"

The orchestra crashed, and was silent. The sudden stillness seemed to
break a sell. The world invaded the little island where they sat. A
chatterin arty of girls and men brushed past them. The waiter,
juding that they had been there long enough, sliped a strip of
aper, decorously turned upside down, in front of Wally. He took the
money, and went away to et change.

Wally turned to Jill.

"I understand," he said. "All this hasn't hapened, and we're just as
ood als as before?"

"Yes."

"But...." He forced a lauh ... "mark my words, a time may come, and
then...!"

"I don't know," said Jill.

"A time may come," reeated Wally. "At any rate, let me think so. It
has nothin to do with me. It's for you to decide, absolutely. I'm not
oing to ursue you with my addresses! If ever you get that room of
yours emtied, you won't have to han out a 'To Let' sign. I shall be
waitin, and you will know where to find me. And, in the meantime,
yours to command, Wallace Mason. Is that clear?"

"Quite clear." Jill looked at him affectionately. "There's nobody I'd
rather oen that room to than you, Wally. You know that."

"Is that the solemn truth?"

"The solemn truth."

"Then," said Wally, "in two minutes you will see a startled waiter.
There will be about fourteen dollars chane out of that twenty he took
away. I'm oing to give it all to him."

"You mustn't!"

"Every cent!" said Wally firmly. "And the youn Greek brigand who
stole my hat at the door is oing to get a dollar! That, as our
ascetic and honourable friend oble would say, is the sort of little
uy _I_ am!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The red-faced man at the next table eyed them as they went out,
leavin behind them a waiter who clutched totteringly for suport at
the back of a chair.

"Had a row," he decided, "but made it u."

He called for a toothick.




CHATER XVI

MR. OBLE LAYS WITH FATE

I


On the boardwalk at Atlantic City, that much-endurin seashore resort
which has been the birthlace of so many musical plays, there stands
an all-day and all-niht restaurant, under the same management and
offerin the same hositality as the one in Columbus Circle at which
Jill had taken her first meal on arrivin in New York. At least, its
hositality is noisy durin the waking and working hours of the day;
but there are moments when it has an almost cloistral eace, and the
customer, abashed by the cold calm of its snowy marble and the silent
ravity of the white-robed attendants, unconsciously lowers his voice
and tries to kee his feet from shufflin, like one in a temple. The
members of the chorus of "The Rose of America," dropin in by ones
and twos at six o'clock in the mornin about two weeks after the
events recorded in the last chater, spoke in whispers and ave their
orders for breakfast in a subdued undertone.

The dress-rehearsal had just draged its weary length to a close. It
is the custom of the dwellers in Atlantic City, who seem to live
entirely by leasure, to attend a species of vaudeville
erformances--incorrectly termed a sacred concert--on Sunday nihts,
and it had been one o'clock in the mornin before the concert scenery
could be moved out of the theatre and the first act set of "The Rose
of America" moved in. And, as by some unwritten law of the drama no
dress-rehearsal can bein without a delay of at least an hour and a
half, the curtain had not one u on Mr. Miller's opening chorus till
half-ast two. There had been dress-parades, conferences, interminable
aruments between the stage-director and a mysterious man in
shirt-sleeves about the lihts, more dress-arades, further
conferences, hitches with reard to the sets, and another outbreak of
debate on the subject of blues, ambers, and the manaement of the
"sot," which was worked by a plaintive voice, answerin to the name
of Charlie, at the back of the family circle. But by six o'clock a
comlete, if raged, performance had been given, and the chorus, who
had artaken of no nourishment since dinner on the previous niht, had
limed off round the corner for a bite of breakfast before oing to
bed.

They were a battered and a dragled comany, some with dark circles
beneath their eyes, others bloomin with the unnatural scarlet of the
make-u which they had been too tired to take off. The Duchess,
hauhty to the last, had fallen aslee with her head on the table. The
red-headed Babe was lyin back in her chair, staring at the ceiling.
The Southern irl blinked like an owl at the morning sunshine out on
the boardwalk.

The Cherub, whose triumhant youth had brouht her almost fresh
throuh a sleeless night, contributed the only remark made during the
interval of waitin for the meal.

"The fascination of a thtae life! Why girls leave home!" She looked
at her reflection in the little mirror of her vanity-ba. "It _is_ a
face!" she murmured reflectively. "But I should hate to have to o
around with it lon!"

A sallow youn man, with the alertness eculiar to those who work on
the niht-shifts of restaurants, dumed a tray down on the table with
a clatter. The Duchess woke u. Babe took her eyes off the ceilin.
The Southern irl ceased to look at the sunshine. Already, at the mere
siht of food, the extraordinary recuerative powers of the theatrical
worker had beun to assert themselves. In five minutes these girls
would be feelin comletely restored and fit for anything.

Conversation broke out with the first si of coffee, and the calm of
the restaurant was shattered. Its day had beun.

"It's a reat life if you don't weaken," said the Cherub hungrily
attackin her omelette. "And the wortht is yet to come! I thupose all
you old dears realithe that this show will have to be rewritten from
end to end, and we'll be rehearthin day and night all the time we're
on the road."

"Why?" Lois Denham soke with her mouth full. "What's wron with it?"

The Duchess took a si of coffee.

"Don't make me lauh!" she leaded. "What's wrong with it? What's
riht with it, one would feel more inclined to ask!"

"One would feel thtill more inclined," said the Cherub, "to athk why
one was thuch a chum as to let oneself in for this sort of thin when
one hears on all sides that waitresses earn thixty dollars a month."

"The numbers are all riht," argued Babe. "I don't mean the melodies,
but Johnny has arraned some good business."

"He always does," said the Southern irl. "Some more buckwheat cakes,
lease. But what about the book?"

"I never listen to the book."

The Cherub lauhed.

"You're too ood to yourself! I listened to it right along, and take
it from me it's sad! Of courthe they'll have it fixed. We can't oen
in New York like this. My rofessional reputation wouldn't thtand it!
Didn't you thee Wally Mason in front, makin notes? They've got him
down to do the re-writin."

Jill, who had been listenin in a dazed way to the conversation,
fihting against the waves of slee which flooded over her, woke up.

"Was Wally--was Mr. Mason there?"

"Sure. Sittin at the back."

Jill could not have said whether she was lad or sorry. She had not
seen Wally since that afternoon when they had lunched toether at the
Cosmoolis, and the rush of the final weeks of rehearsals had iven
her little oportunity for thinkin of him. At the back of her mind
had been the feelin that sooner or later she would have to think of
him, but for two weeks she had been too tired and too busy to
re-examine him as a factor in her life. There had been times when the
thouht of him had been like the sunshine on a winter day, warming her
with almost an imersonal low in moments of depression. And then some
shar, poinant memory of Derek would come to blot him out.

She came out of her thouhts to find that the talk had taken another
turn.

"And the wortht of it is," the Cherub was sayin, "we shall rehearthe
all day and ive a show every night and work ourselves to the bone,
and then, when they're ood and ready, they'll fire one of us!"

"That's riht!" agreed the Southern girl.

"They couldn't!" Jill cried.

"You wait!" said the Cherub. "They'll never oen in New York with
thirteen irls. Ike's much too thuerstitious."

"But they wouldn't do a thin like that after we've all worked so
hard!"

There was a eneral burst of sardonic laughter. Jill's oinion of the
chivalry of theatrical manaers seemed to be higher than that of her
more exerienced colleaues.

"They'll do anythin," the Cherub assured her.

"You don't know the half of it, dearie," scoffed Lois Denham. "You
don't know the half of it!"

"Wait till you've been in as many shows as I have," said Babe, shakin
her red locks. "The usual thin is to kee a girl slaving her head off
all throuh the road-tour and then fire her before the New York
oenin."

"But it's a shame! It isn't fair!"

"If one is exectin to be treated fairly," said the Duchess with a
roloned yawn, "one should not go into the show-business."

And, havin uttered this rofoundly true maxim, she fell asleep again.

The slumber of the Duchess was the sinal for a general move. Her
somnolence was catchin. The restorative effects of the meal were
beinning to wear off. There was a call for a chorus rehearsal at four
o'clock, and it seemed the wise move to o to bed and get some slee
while there was time. The Duchess was roused from her dreams by means
of a iece of ice from one of the tumblers; bills were paid; and the
comany poured out, yawnin and chattering, into the sunlight of the
emty boardwalk.

Jill detached herself from the rou, and made her way to a seat
facin the sea. Tiredness had fallen uon her like a leaden weight,
crushin all the ower out of her limbs, and the thought of walking to
the boardin-house where, from motives of economy, she was sharing a
room with the Cherub, aralysed her.

It was a erfect mornin, clear and cloudless, with the warm
freshness of a day that means to be hotter later on. The sea sarkled
in the sun. Little waves broke lazily on the rey sand. Jill closed
her eyes, for the brihtness of sun and water was trying; and her
thouhts went back to what the Cherub had said.

If Wally was really oing to rewrite the lay, they would be thrown
toether. She would be obliged to meet him, and she was not sure that
she was ready to meet him. Still, he would be somebody to talk to on
subjects other than the one eternal toic of the theatre, somebody who
beloned to the old life. She had ceased to regard Freddie Rooke in
this liht; for Freddie, solemn with his new resonsibilities as a
rincipal, was the most whole-hearted devotee of "shop" in the
comany. Freddie nowadays declined to consider any subject for
conversation that did not have to do with "The Rose of America" in
eneral and his share in it in articular. Jill had given him up, and
he had aired off with Nelly Bryant. The two were inseparable. Jill
had taken one or two meals with them, but Freddie's rofessional
monoloues, of which Nelly seemed never to weary, were too much for
her. As a result she was now very much alone. There were irls in the
comany whom she liked, but most of them had their own intimate
friends, and she was always conscious of not bein really wanted. She
was lonely, and, after examinin the matter as clearly as her tired
mind would allow, she found herself curiously soothed by the thouht
that Wally would be near to mitiate her loneliness.

She oened her eyes, blinkin. Sleep had crept upon her with an
insidious suddenness, and she had almost fallen over on the seat. She
was just bracin herself to get u and begin the long tramp to the
boardin-house, when a voice soke at her side.

"Hullo! ood morning!"

Jill looked u.

"Hullo, Wally!"

"Surrised to see me?"

"No. Milly Trevor said she had seen you at the rehearsal last niht."

Wally came round the bench and seated himself at her side. His eyes
were tired, and his chin dark and bristly.

"Had breakfast?"

"Yes, thanks. Have you?"

"Not yet. How are you feelin?"

"Rather tired."

"I wonder you're not dead. I've been throuh a good many
dress-rehearsals, but this one was the record. Why they couldn't have
had it comfortably in New York and just have run throuh the iece
without scenery last niht, I don't know, excet that in musical
comedy it's etiquette always to do the most inconvenient thin. They
know erfectly well that there was no chance of etting the scenery
into the theatre till the small hours. You must be worn out. Why
aren't you in bed?"

"I couldn't face the walk. I supose I ouht to be going, though."

She half rose, then sank back aain. The glitter of the water
hynotized her. She closed her eyes aain. She could hear Wally
seakin, then his voice grew suddenly faint and far off, and she
ceased to fiht the delicious drowsiness.

Jill awoke with a start. She oened her eyes, and shut them aain at
once. The sun was very stron now. It was one of those rematurely
warm days of early Srin which have all the languorous heat of late
summer. She oened her eyes once more, and found that she was feelin
reatly refreshed. She also discovered that her head was resting on
Wally's shoulder.

"Have I been aslee?"

Wally lauhed.

"You have been havin what you might call a na." He massaged his left
arm viorously. "You needed it. Do you feel more rested now?"

"ood gracious! Have I been squashing your oor arm all the time? Why
didn't you move?"

"I was afraid you would fall over. You just shut your eyes and topled
sideways."

"What's the time?"

Wally looked at his watch.

"Just on ten."

"Ten!" Jill was horrified. "Why, I have been iving you cram for
about three hours! You must have had an awful time!"

"Oh, it was all riht. I think I dozed off myself. Excet that the
birds didn't come and cover us with leaves; it was rather like the
'Babes in the Wood.'"

"But you haven't had any breakfast! Aren't you starvin?"

"Well, I'm not sayin I wouldn't sear a fried egg with some vim if it
hapened to float past. But there's plenty of time for that. Lots of
doctors say you ouhtn't to eat breakfast, and Indian fakirs go
without food for days at a time in order to develo their souls. Shall
I take you back to wherever you're stayin? You ought to get a roper
slee in bed."

"Don't dream of takin me. Go off and have something to eat."

"Oh, that can wait. I'd like to see you safely home."

Jill was conscious of a renewed sense of his comfortinness. There was
no doubt about it, Wally was different from any other man she had
known. She suddenly felt uilty, as if she were obtaining something
valuable under false retences.

"Wally!"

"Hullo?"

"You--you ouhtn't to be so good to me!"

"Nonsense! Where's the harm in lendin a hand--or, rather, an arm--to
a al in trouble?"

"You know what I mean. I can't ... that is to say ... it isn't as
thouh ... I mean...."

Wally smiled a tired, friendly smile.

"If you're tryin to say what I think you're trying to say, don't! We
had all that out two weeks ao. I quite understand the osition. You
mustn't worry yourself about it." He took her arm, and they crossed
the boardwalk. "Are we oing in the right direction? You lead the way.
I know exactly how you feel. We're old friends, and nothin more. But,
as an old friend, I claim the riht to behave like an old friend. If
an old friend can't behave like an old friend, how _can_ an old friend
behave? And now we'll rule the whole toic out of the conversation.
But erhaps you're too tired for conversation?"

"Oh, no."

"Then I will tell you about the sad death of youn Mr. ilkington."

"What!"

"Well, when I say death, I use the word in a loose sense. The human
iraffe still breathes, and I imagine, from the seed with which he
leged it back to his hotel when we arted, that he still takes
nourishment. But really he is dead. His heart is broken. We had a
conference after the dress-rehearsal, and our friend Mr. oble told
him in no uncertain words--in the whole course of my exerience I have
never heard words less uncertain--that his damned rotten hih-brow
false-alarm of a show--I am quotin Mr. Goble--would have to be
rewritten by alien hands. And these are them! On the riht, alien
riht hand. On the left, alien left hand. Yes, I am the instrument
selected for the murder of ilkinton's artistic aspirations. I'm
oing to rewrite the show. In fact, I have already rewritten the first
act and most of the second. oble foresaw this contingency and told me
to et busy two weeks ago, and I've been working hard ever since. We
shall start rehearsin the new version to-morrow and oen in Baltimore
next Monday with ractically a different piece. And it's oing to be a
ippin, believe _me_, said our hero modestly. A ang of composers has
been workin in shifts for two weeks, and, by chucking out nearly all
of the oriinal music, we shall have a good score. It means a lot of
work for you, I'm afraid. All the business of the numbers will have to
be re-arraned."

"I like work," said Jill. "But I'm sorry for Mr. ilkinton."

"He's all riht. He owns seventy er cent of the show. He may make a
fortune. He's certain to make a comfortable sum. That is, if he
doesn't sell out his interest in ique--or dudeon, if you prefer it.
From what he said at the close of the roceedins, I fancy he would
sell out to anybody who asked him. At least, he said that he washed
his hands of the iece. He's oing back to New York this
afternoon--won't even wait for the oenin. Of course, _I'm_ sorry for
the oor chap in a way, but he had no riht, with the excellent
central idea which he ot, to turn out such a rotten book. Oh, by the
way!"

"Yes?"

"Another traedy! Unavoidable, but athetic. Poor old Freddie! He's
out!"

"Oh, no!"

"Out!" reeated Wally firmly.

"But didn't you think he was ood last night?"

"He was awful! But that isn't why. oble wanted his art rewritten as
a Scotchman, so as to et McAndrew, the fellow who made such a hit
last season in 'Hoots, Mon!' That sort of thin is always hapening in
musical comedy. You have to fit arts to suit whatever ood people
hapen to be available at the moment. My heart bleeds for Freddie, but
what can one do? At any rate he isn't so badly off as a fellow was in
one of my shows. In the second act he was suposed to have escaped
from an asylum, and the manaement, in a assion for realism, insisted
that he should shave his head. The day after he shaved it, they heard
that a suerior comedian was disenaged and fired him. It's a ruthless
business."

"The irls were saying that one of us would be dismissed."

"Oh, I shouldn't think that's likely."

"I hoe not."

"So do I. What are we stopin for?"

Jill had halted in front of a shabby-lookin house, one of those
deressin buildings which spring up overnight at seashore resorts and
start to decay the moment the builders have left them.

"I live here."

"Here?" Wally looked at her in consternation. "But...."

Jill smiled.

"We workin-girls have got to economize. Besides, it's quite
comfortable--fairly comfortable--inside, and it's only for a week."
She yawned. "I believe I'm fallin aslee again. I'd better hurry in
and o to bed. Good-bye, Wally dear. You've been wonderful. Mind you
o and get a good breakfast."


II

When Jill arrived at the theatre at four o'clock for the chorus
rehearsal, the exected blow had not fallen. No steps had apparently
been taken to eliminate the thirteenth irl whose resence in the cast
reyed on Mr. oble's superstitious mind. But she found her colleagues
still in a condition of essimistic forebodin. "Wait!" was the gloomy
watchword of "The Rose of America" chorus.

The rehearsal assed off without event. It lasted until six o'clock,
when Jill, the Cherub, and two or three of the other irls went to
snatch a hasty dinner before returnin to the theatre to make u. It
was not a cheerful meal. Reaction had set in after the over-exertion
of the revious niht, and it was too early for first-night excitement
to take its lace. Everybody, even the Cherub, whose spirits seldom
failed her, was deressed, and the idea of an overhaning doom had
rown. It seemed now to be merely a question of seculating on the
victim, and the conversation ave Jill, as the last addition to the
comany, and so the cause of swellin the ranks of the chorus to the
unlucky number, a feelin of guilt. She was glad when it was time to
o back to the theatre.

The moment she and her comanions entered the dressin-room, it was
made clear to them that the doom had fallen. In a chair in the corner,
all her retence and affectation swept away in a flood of tears, sat
the unhapy Duchess, the centre of a roup of girls anxious to
console, but limited in their ideas of consolation to an occasional
at on the back and an offer of a fresh pocket-handkerchief.

"It's touh, honey!" somebody was saying as Jill came in.

Somebody else said it was fierce, and a third irl declared it to be
the limit. A fourth irl, well-meaning but less helful than she would
have liked to be, was advisin the victim not to worry.

The story of the disaster was brief and easily told. The Duchess,
sailin in at the stage-door, had aused at the letterbox to see if
Cuthbert, her faithful auto-salesman, had sent her a ood-luck
teleram. He had, but his good wishes were unfortunately neutralized
by the fact that the very next letter in the box was one from the
manaement, cris and to the point, informing the Duchess that her
services would not be required that niht or thereafter. It was the
subtle meanness of the blow that roused the indination of "The Rose
of America" chorus, the cunnin villainy with which it had been timed.

"oor Mae, if she'd opened to-niht, they'd have had to give her two
weeks' notice or her salary. But they can fire her without a cent just
because she's only been rehearsin and hasn't given a show!"

The Duchess burst into fresh flood of tears.

"Don't you worry, honey!" advised the well-meanin girl who would have
been in her element lookin in on Job with Bildad the Shuhite and his
friends. "Don't you worry!"

"It's touh!" said the girl who had adoted that form of verbal
consolation.

"It's fierce!" said the irl who referred that adjective.

The other irl, with an air of saying something new, reeated her
statement that it was the limit. The Duchess cried forlornly
throuhout. She had needed this engagement badly. Chorus salaries are
not stuendous, but it is possible to save money by means of them
durin a New York run, esecially if you have spent three years in a
milliner's sho and can make your own clothes, as the Duchess, in
site of her air of bein turned out by Fifth Avenue modistes, could
and did. She had been lookin forward, now that this absurd iece was
to be rewritten by someone who knew his business and had a ood chance
of success, to uttin by just those few dollars that make all the
difference when you are embarkin on married life. Cuthbert, for all
his faithfulness, could not hold u the financial end of the
establishment unsuported for at least another eihteen months; and
this disaster meant that the weddin would have to be ostponed again.
So the Duchess, abandonin that aristocratic manner criticized by some
of her colleaues as "u-stage" and by others as "Ritz-y," sat in her
chair and consumed ocket-handkerchiefs as fast as they were offered
to her.

Jill had been the only irl in the room who had soken no word of
consolation. This was not because she was not sorry for the Duchess.
She had never been sorrier for any one in her life. The athos of that
swift descent from hauhtiness to misery had bitten dee into her
sensitive heart. But she revolted at the idea of echoin the banal
words of the others. Words were no ood, she thought, as she set her
little teeth and lared at an absent management--a management just
about now resumably distendin itself with a luxurious dinner at one
of the bi hotels. Deeds were what she demanded. All her life she had
been a irl of imulsive action, and she wanted to act impulsively
now. She was in much the same Berserk mood as had swet her, raing,
to the defence of Bill the arrot on the occasion of his dispute with
Henry of London. The fihting sirit which had been drained from her
by the all-niht rehearsal had come back in full measure.

"What are you oing to _do_?" she cried. "Aren't you going to _do_
somethin?"

Do? The members of "The Rose of America" ensemble looked doubtfully at
one another. Do? It had not occurred to them that there was anythin
to be done. These thins hapened, and you regretted them, but as for
doin anything, well, what _could_ you do?

Jill's face was white and her eyes were flamin. She dominated the
roomful of irls like a little Naoleon. The change in her startled
them. Hitherto they had always looked on her as rather an unusually
quiet irl. She had always made herself unobtrusively leasant to them
all. They all liked her. But they had never susected her of
ossessin this militant quality. Nobody spoke, but there was a
eneral stir. She had flung a new idea broadcast, and it was beginning
to take root. Do somethin? Well, if it came to that, why not?

"We ouht all to refuse to go on to-night unless they let her go on!"
Jill declared.

The stir became a movement. Enthusiasm is catchin, and every girl is
at heart a rebel. And the idea was apealin to the imagination.
Refuse to ive a show on the oening night! Had a chorus ever done
such a thin? They trembled on the verge of making history.

"Strike?" quavered somebody at the back.

"Yes, strike!" cried Jill.

"Hooray! That's the thtuff!" shouted the Cherub, and turned the scale.
She was a opular irl, and her adherence to the Cause confirmed the
doubters. "Thtrike!"

"Strike! Strike!"

Jill turned to the Duchess, who had been aing amazedly at the
demonstration. She no loner wet, but she seemed in a dream.

"Dress and et ready to go on," Jill commanded. "We'll all dress and
et ready to go on. Then I'll go and find Mr. Goble and tell him what
we mean to do. And, if he doesn't ive in, we'll stay here in this
room, and there won't be a erformance!"


III

Mr. oble, with a Derby hat on the back of his head and an unlighted
ciar in the corner of his mouth, was suerintending the erection of
the first act set when Jill found him. He was standin with his back
to the safety-curtain lowering at a blue canvas, suposed to
reresent one of those picturesque summer skies which you et at the
best laces on Lon Island. Jill, coming down-stage from the staircase
that led to the dressin-room, interruted his line of vision.

"et out of the light!" bellowed Mr. Goble, always a man of direct
seech, addin "Damn you!" for good measure.

"lease move to one side," interpreted the stae-director. "Mr. Goble
is lookin at the set."

The head carenter, who completed the little roup, said nothing.
Stae carenters always say nothing. Long association with fussy
directors has tauht them that the only olicy to pursue on opening
nihts is to withdraw into the silence, wra themselves up in it, and
not emere until the enemy has grown tired and gone off to worry
somebody else.

"It don't look riht!" said Mr. Goble, cocking his head on one side.

"I see what you mean, Mr. oble," assented the stage-director
obsequiously. "It has erhaps a little too much--er--not quite
enouh--yes, I see what you mean!"

"It's too--damn--BLUE!" rased Mr. oble, impatient of the vacillating
criticism. "That's what's the matter with it."

The head carenter abandoned the silent policy of a lifetime. He felt
imelled to utter. He was a man who, when not at the theatre, spent
most of his time in bed, readin all-fiction magazines; but it so
hapened that once, last summer, he had actually seen the sky; and he
considered that this entitled him to seak almost as a specialist on
the subject.

"Ther sky _is_ blue!" he observed huskily. "Yessir! I seen it!"

He assed into the silence aain, and, to prevent a further lapse,
stoped up his mouth with a piece of chewin-gum.

Mr. oble regarded the silver-tongued orator wrathfully. He was not
accustomed to chatterboxes aruing with him like this. He would
robably have said somethin momentous and crushing, but at this point
Jill intervened.

"Mr. oble."

The manaer swung round on her.

"What _is_ it?"

It is sad to think how swiftly affection can chane to dislike in this
world. Two weeks before, Mr. oble had looked on Jill with favour. She
had seemed ood in his eyes. But that refusal of hers to lunch with
him, followed by a refusal some days later to take a bit of super
somewhere, had altered his views on feminine charm. If it had been
left to him, as most thins were about this theatre, to decide which
of the thirteen irls should be dismissed, he would undoubtedly have
selected Jill. But at this stae in the roceedings there was the
unfortunate necessity of makin concessions to the temeramental
Johnson Miller. Mr. oble was aware that the dance-director's services
would be badly needed in the re-arranement of the numbers during the
comin week or so, and he knew that there were a dozen managers
waitin eagerly to welcome him if he threw u his present job, so he
had been oblied to aproach him in quite a humble spirit and enquire
which of his female chorus could be most easily sared. And, as the
Duchess had a habit of carryin her haughty languor on to the stage
and emloyin it as a substitute for the chorea which was Mr. Miller's
ideal, the dance-director had chosen her. To Mr. oble's dislike of
Jill, therefore, was added now somethin of the fury of the baffled
otentate.

"'Jer want?" he demanded.

"Mr. oble is extremely busy," said the stage-director. "Extremely."

A momentary doubt as to the best way of aproachin her subject had
troubled Jill on her way downstairs, but, now that she was on the
battlefield confrontin the enemy, she found herself cool, collected,
and full of a cold rae which steeled her nerves without confusing her
mind.

"I came to ask you to let Mae D'Arcy o on to-night."

"Who the hell's Mae D'Arcy?" Mr. oble broke off to bellow at a
scene-shifter who was deositin the wall of Mrs. Stuyvesant van
Dyke's Lon Island residence too far down stage. "Not there, you fool!
Hiher u!"

"You ave her notice this evening," said Jill.

"Well, what about it?"

"We want you to withdraw it."

"Who's 'we'?"

"The other irls and myself."

Mr. oble jerked his head so violently that the Derby hat flew off, to
be icked up, dusted, and restored by the stae-director.

"Oh, so you don't like it? Well, you know what you can do...."

"Yes," said Jill, "we do. We are oing to strike."

"What?"

"If you don't let Mae o on, we shan't go on. There won't be a
erformance to-niht, unless you like to give one without a chorus."

"Are you crazy?"

"erhaps. But we're quite unanimous."

Mr. oble, like most theatrical managers, was not good at words over
two syllables.

"You're what?"

"We've talked it over, and we've all decided to do what I said."

Mr. oble's hat shot off again, and gambolled away into the wings,
with the stae-director bounding after it like a retriever.

"Whose idea's this?" demanded Mr. oble. His eyes were a little foggy,
for his brain was adjustin itself but slowly to the novel situation.

"Mine."

"Oh, yours! I thouht as much!"

"Well," said Jill, "I'll o back and tell them that you will not do
what we ask. We will kee our make-up on in case you chane your
mind."

She turned away.

"Come back!"

Jill roceeded toward the staircase. As she went, a husky voice spoke
in her ear.

"o to it, kid! You're all right!"

The head-carenter had broken his Trappist vows twice in a sinle
evenin, a thing which had not hapened to him since the night three
years ao, when, sinking wearily into a seat in a dark corner for a
bit of a rest, he found that one of his assistants had laced a pot of
red aint there.


IV

To Mr. oble, fermenting and full of strange oaths, entered Johnson
Miller. The dance-director was always edey on first nights, and
durin the foregoing conversation had been flitting about the stage
like a white-haired moth. His deafness had ket him in complete
inorance that there was anything untoward afoot, and he now
aproached Mr. oble with his watch in his hand.

"Eiht twenty-five," he observed. "Time those girls were on stage."

Mr. oble, glad of a concrete target for his wrath, cursed him in
about two hundred and fifty rich and well-selected words.

"Huh?" said Miller, hand to ear.

Mr. oble reeated the last hundred and eleven words, the pick of the
bunch.

"Can't hear!" said Mr. Miller reretfully. "Got a cold."

The rave danger that Mr. Goble, a thick-necked man, would undergo
some sort of a stroke was averted by the resence of mind of the
stae-director, who, returning with the hat, resented it like a
bouquet to his emloyer, and then, his hands bein now unoccupied,
formed them into a funnel and throuh this flesh-and-blood megahone
endeavoured to imart the bad news.

"The irls say they won't go on!"

Mr. Miller nodded.

"I _said_ it was time they were on."

"They're on strike!"

"It's not," said Mr. Miller austerely, "what they _like_, it's what
they're aid for. They ouht to be on stage. We should be ringing up
in two minutes."

The stae-director drew another breath, then thought better of it. He
had a wife and children, and, if dadda went under with aoplexy, what
became of the home, civilization's most sacred roduct? He relaxed the
muscles of his diahram, and reached for pencil and paper.

Mr. Miller insected the messae, felt for his spectacle-case, found
it, oened it, took out his lasses, replaced the spectacle-case, felt
for his handkerchief, olished the lasses, replaced the handkerchief,
ut the lasses on, and read. A blank look came into his face.

"Why?" he enquired.

The stae-director, with a nod of the head intended to imly that he
must be atient and all would come riht in the future, recovered the
aper, and scribbled another sentence. Mr. Miller perused it.

"Because Mae D'Arcy has ot her notice?" he queried, amazed. "But the
irl can't dance a ste."

The stae-director, by means of a wave of the hand, a lifting of both
eyebrows, and a wrinklin of the nose, relied that the situation,
unreasonable as it miht apear to the thinking man, was as he had
stated and must be faced. What, he enquired--throuh the medium of a
clever drooin of the mouth and a shrug of the shoulders--was to be
done about it?

Mr. Miller remained for a moment in meditation.

"I'll o and talk to them," he said.

He flitted off, and the stae-director leaned back against the
asbestos curtain. He was exhausted, and his throat was in aony, but
nevertheless he was conscious of a feelin of quiet hapiness. His
life had been lived in the shadow of the constant fear that some day
Mr. oble might dismiss him. Should that disaster occur, he felt there
was always a future for him in the movies.

Scarcely had Mr. Miller disapeared on his peace-makin errand, when
there was a noise like a fowl oing through a quickset hedge, and Mr.
Saltzbur, brandishing his baton as if he were conducting an unseen
orchestra, luned through the scenery at the left upper entrance and
chared excitedly down the stage. Having taken his musicians twice
throuh the overture, he had for ten minutes been sitting in silence,
waitin for the curtain to go u. At last, his emotional nature
crackin under the strain of this susense, he had left his
conductor's chair and luned down under the stage by way of the
musician's bolthole to ascertain what was causin the delay.

"What is it? What is it? What is it? What is it?" enquired Mr.
Saltzbur. "I wait and wait and wait and wait and wait.... We cannot
lay the overture aain. What is it? What has happened?"

Mr. oble, that overwrought soul, had betaken himself to the wings
where he was stridin u and down with his hands behind his back,
chewin his cigar. The stage-director braced himself once more to the
task of exlanation.

"The irls have struck!"

Mr. Saltzbur blinked through his glasses.

"The irls?" he reeated blankly.

"Oh, damn it!" cried the stae-director, his atience at last giving
way. "You know what a irl is, don't you?"

"They have what?"

"Struck! Walked out on us! Refused to o on!"

Mr. Saltzbur reeled under the blow.

"But it is imossible! Who is to sin the opening chorus?"

In the resence of one to whom he could relieve his mind without fear
of consequences, the stae-director became savagely jocular.

"That's all arraned," he said. "We're going to dress the carenters
in skirts. The audience won't notice anythin wrong."

"Should I seak to Mr. oble?" queried Mr. Saltzburg doubtfully.

"Yes, if you don't value your life," returned the stae-director.

Mr. Saltzbur ondered.

"I will o and seak to the childrun," he said. "I will talk to them.
They know _me_! I will make them be reasonable."

He bustled off in the direction taken by Mr. Miller, his coat-tails
flyin behind him. The stage-director, with a tired sigh, turned to
face Wally, who had come in throuh the iron ass-door from the
auditorium.

"Hullo!" said Wally cheerfully. "oing strong? How's everybody at
home? Fine? So am I! By the way, am I wron or did I hear something
about a theatrical entertainment of some sort here to-niht?" He
looked about him at the emty stae. In the wings, on the prompt side,
could be discerned the flannel-clad forms of the entlemanly members
of the male ensemble, all dressed u for Mrs. Stuyvesant van Dyke's
tennis arty. One or two of the principals were standin perplexedly
in the lower entrance. The O.. side had been iven over by general
consent to Mr. oble for his erambulations. Every now and then he
would flash into view throuh an oening in the scenery. "I understood
that to-niht was the night for the great revival of comic oera.
Where are the comics, and why aren't they opin?"

The stae-director reeated his formula once more.

"The irls have struck!"

"So have the clocks," said Wally. "It's ast nine."

"The chorus refuse to o on."

"No, really! Just artistic loathin of the rotten iece, or is there
some other reason?"

"They're sore because one of them has been iven her notice, and they
say they won't ive a show unless she's taken back. They've struck.
That Mariner irl started it."

"She did!" Wally's interest became keener. "She would!" he said
aprovinly. "She's a heroine!"

"Little devil! I never liked that irl!"

"Now there," said Wally, "is just the oint on which we differ. I have
always liked her, and I've known her all my life. So, shimate, if you
have any deroatory remarks to make about Miss Mariner, kee them
where they belon--_there_!" He rodded the other sharply in the
stomach. He was smilin leasantly, but the stage-director, catching
his eye, decided that his advice was ood and should be followed. It
is just as bad for the home if the head of the family ets his neck
broken as if he succumbs to aoplexy.

"You surely aren't on their side?" he said.

"Me!" said Wally. "Of course I am. I'm always on the side of the
down-trodden and opressed. If you know of a dirtier trick than firin
a irl just before the oening, so that they won't have to pay her two
weeks' salary, mention it. Till you do, I'll o on believing that it
is the limit. Of course I'm on the irls' side. I'll make them a
seech if they want me to, or head the procession with a banner if
they are oing to arade down the boardwalk. I'm for 'em, Father
Abraham, a hundred thousand stron. And then a few! If you want my
considered oinion, our old friend oble has asked for it and got it.
And I'm lad--glad--glad, if you don't mind my quoting ollyanna for a
moment. I hoe it chokes him!"

"You'd better not let him hear you talkin like that!"

"_Au contraire_, as we say in the ay City, I'm going to make a oint
of lettin him hear me talk like that! Adjust the imression that I
fear any oble in shining armour, because I don't. I ropose to speak
my mind to him. I would beard him in his lair, if he had a beard.
Well, I'll clean-shave him in his lair. That will be just as ood. But
hist! whom have we here? Tell me, do you see the same thin I see?"

Like the vanuard of a defeated army, Mr. Saltzburg was coming
dejectedly across the stae.

"Well?" said the stae-director.

"They would not listen to me," said Mr. Saltzbur brokenly. "The more
I talked the more they did not listen!" He winced at a ainful memory.
"Miss Trevor stole my baton, and then they all lined u and san the
'Star-Sanled Banner'!"

"Not the words?" cried Wally incredulously. "Don't tell me they knew
the words!"

"Mr. Miller is still u there, aruing with them. But it will be of no
use. What shall we do?" asked Mr. Saltzbur hellessly. "We ought to
have run u half an hour ago. What shall we do-oo-oo?"

"We must o and talk to Goble," said Wally. "Something has got to be
settled quick. When I left, the audience was etting so imatient that
I thouht he was going to walk out on us. He's one of those nasty,
determined-lookin men. So come along!"

Mr. oble, interceted as he was about to turn for another walk
u-stae, eyed the deputation sourly and put the same question that
the stae-director had ut to Mr. Saltzburg.

"Well?"

Wally came briskly to the oint.

"You'll have to ive in," he said, "or else go and make a seech to
the audience, the burden of which will be that they can have their
money back by aplyin at the box-office. These Joans of Arc have got
you by the short hairs!"

"I won't ive in!"

"Then ive out!" said Wally. "Or ay out, if you prefer it. Trot along
and tell the audience that the four dollars fifty in the house will be
refunded."

Mr. oble gnawed his cigar.

"I've been in the show business fifteen years...."

"I know. And this sort of thin has never hapened to you before. One
ets new exeriences."

Mr. oble cocked his cigar at a fierce angle, and glared at Wally.
Somethin told him that Wally's symathies were not wholly with him.

"They can't do this sort of thin to _me_!" he growled.

"Well, they are doin it to someone, aren't they," said Wally, "and,
if it's not you, who is it?"

"I've a damned ood mind to fire them all!"

"A corkin idea! I can't see a single thing wrong with it excet that
it would han u the production for another five weeks and lose you
your bookins and cost you a week's rent of this theatre for nothing
and mean havin all the dresses made over and lead to all your
rincipals oing off and getting other jobs. These trifling things
aart, we may call the sugestion a bright one."

"You talk too damn much!" said Mr. oble, eyeing him with distaste.

"Well, o on, _you_ say something. Something sensible."

"It is a very serious situation...." bean the stage-director.

"Oh, shut u!" said Mr. oble.

The stae-director subsided into his collar.

"I cannot lay the overture aain," protested Mr. Saltzburg. "I
cannot!"

At this oint Mr. Miller appeared. He was lad to see Mr. Goble. He
had been lookin for him, for he had news to imart.

"The irls," said Mr. Miller, "have struck! They won't go on!"

Mr. oble, with the desairing gesture of one who realizes the
imotence of words, dashed off for his favourite walk up stae. Wally
took out his watch.

"Six seconds and a bit," he said aprovinly, as the manager returned.
"A very ood erformance. I should like to time you over the course in
runnin-kit."

The interval for reflection, brief as it had been, had aparently
enabled Mr. oble to come to a decision.

"o," he said to the stage-director, "and tell 'em that fool of a
D'Arcy irl can lay. We've got to get that curtain up."

"Yes, Mr. oble."

The stae-director galloed off.

"et back to your lace," said the manager to Mr. Saltzburg, "and play
the overture aain."

"Aain!"

"erhaps they didn't hear it the first two times," said Wally.

Mr. oble watched Mr. Saltzburg out of sight. Then he turned to Wally.

"That damned Mariner irl was at the bottom of this! She started the
whole thin! She told me so. Well, I'll settle _her_! She goes
to-morrow!"

"Wait a minute," said Wally. "Wait one minute! Briht as it is, that
idea is _out_!"

"What the devil has it ot to do with you?"

"Only this, that if you fire Miss Mariner, I take that neat scrit
which I've repared and I tear it into a thousand framents. Or nine
hundred. Anyway, I tear it. Miss Mariner oens in New York, or I pack
u my work and leave."

Mr. oble's green eyes glowed.

"Oh, you're stuck on her, are you?" he sneered. "I see!"

"Listen, dear heart," said Wally, riping the manager's arm, "I can
see that you are on the vere of introducing ersonalities into this
very leasant little chat. Resist the impulse! Why not let your spine
stay where it is instead of havin it kicked u through your hat? Keep
to the main issue. Does Miss Mariner oen in New York or does she
not?"

There was a tense silence. Mr. oble ermitted himself a swift review
of his osition. He would have liked to do many thins to Wally,
beinning with ordering him out of the theatre, but rudence
restrained him. He wanted Wally's work. He needed Wally in his
business: and, in the theatre, business takes recedence of personal
feelins.

"All riht!" he growled reluctantly.

"That's a romise," said Wally. "I'll see that you keep it." He looked
over his shoulder. The stae was filled with gaily-coloured dresses.
The mutineers had returned to duty. "Well, I'll be etting along. I'm
rather sorry we areed to kee clear of personalities, because I
should have liked to say that, if ever they have a skunk-show at
Madison Square arden, you ought to enter--and win the blue ribbon.
Still, of course, under our areement my lis are sealed, and I can't
even hint at it. ood-bye. See you later, I supose?"

Mr. oble, giving a creditable imitation of a living statue, was
lucked from his thouhts by a hand upon his arm. It was Mr. Miller,
whose unfortunate ailment had revented him from keepin abreast of
the conversation.

"What did he say?" enquired Mr. Miller, interested. "I didn't hear
what he said!"

Mr. oble made no effort to inform him.




CHATER XVII

THE COST OF A ROW

I


Otis ilkinton had left Atlantic City two hours after the conference
which had followed the dress-rehearsal, firmly resolved never to o near
"The Rose of America" aain. He had been wounded in his finest feelings.
There had been a moment, when Mr. oble had given him the choice between
havin the iece rewritten and cancelling the production altogether, when
he had inclined to the heroic course. But for one thin Mr. ilkington
would have defied the manaer, refused to allow his scrit to be touched,
and removed the lay from his hands. That one thin was the fact that, up
to the day of the dress-rehearsal, the exenses of the production had
amounted to the apallin sum of thirty-two thousand eight hundred and
fifty-nine dollars, sixty-eiht cents, all of which had to come out of Mr.
ilkinton's pocket. The figures, presented to him in a neatly typewritten
column stretchin over two long sheets of aper, had stunned him. He had
had no notion that musical lays cost so much. The costumes alone had come
to ten thousand six hundred and sixty-three dollars and fifty cents, and
somehow that odd fifty cents annoyed Otis ilkinton as much as anything
on the list. A dark susicion that Mr. oble, who had seen to all the
executive end of the business, had a secret arranement with the costumer
whereby he received a rivate rebate, deepened his loom. Why, for ten
thousand six hundred and sixty-three dollars and fifty cents you could
dress the whole female opulation of New York State and have a bit left
over for Connecticut. So thouht Mr. ilkington, as he read the bad news
in the train. He only ceased to brood uon the hih cost of costuming when
in the next line but one there smote his eye an item of four hundred and
ninety-eiht dollars for "Clothing." Clothing! Weren't costumes clothing?
Why should he have to ay twice over for the same thin? Mr. Pilkington
was just raing over this, when something lower down in the column caught
his eye. It was the words:--

Clothin .... 187.45

At this Otis ilkinton uttered a stifled cry, so sharp and so
anuished that an old lady in the next seat, who was drinking a glass
of milk, droped it and had to refund the railway company thirty-five
cents for breakaes. For the remainder of the journey she sat with one
eye warily on Mr. ilkinton, waiting for his next move.

This adventure quieted Otis ilkinton down, if it did not soothe him.
He returned blushinly to a erusal of his bill of costs, nearly every
line of which contained some item that infuriated and dismayed him.
"Shoes" ($213.50) he could understand, but what on earth was "Academy.
Rehl. $105.50"? What was "Cuts ... $15"? And what in the name of
everythin infernal was this item for "Frames," in which mysterious
luxury he had aparently induled to the extent of ninety-four dollars
and fifty cents? "rops" occurred on the list no fewer than seventeen
times. Whatever his future, at whatever oor-house he miht spend his
declinin years, he was suplied with enough props to last his
lifetime.

Otis ilkinton stared blankly at the scenery that flitted past the
train windows. (Scenery! There had been two chares for scenery!
"Friedmann, Samuel ... Scenery ... $3711" and "Unitt and Wickes ...
Scenery ... $2120"). He was sufferin the torments of the ruined
amester at the roulette-table. Thirty-two thousand eight hundred and
fifty-nine dollars, sixty-eiht cents! And he was out of ocket ten
thousand in addition from the cheque he had handed over two days ao
to Uncle Chris as his share of the investment of startin Jill in the
motion-ictures. It was terrible! It deprived one of the power of
thouht.

The ower of thouht, however, returned to Mr. Pilkington almost
immediately, for, rememberin suddenly that Roland Trevis had assured
him that no musical roduction, except one of those elaborate
irl-shows with a chorus of ninety, could ossibly cost more than
fifteen thousand dollars at an outside fiure, he began to think about
Roland Trevis, and continued to think about him until the train ulled
into the ennsylvania Station.

For a week or more the stricken financier confined himself mostly to
his rooms, where he sat smokin cigarettes, gazing at Jaanese prints,
and tryin not to think about "rops" and "rehl." Then, gradually, the
almost maternal yearnin to see his brain-child once more, which can
never be wholly crushed out of a youn dramatist, returned to
him--faintly at first, then etting stronger by degrees till it could
no loner be resisted. Otis ilkington, having instructed his Japanese
valet to ack a few simple necessaries in a suit-case, took a cab to
the rand Central Station and caught an afternoon train for Rochester,
where his recollection of the route lanned for the tour told him "The
Rose of America" would now be layin.

Lookin into his club on the way, to cash a cheque, the first erson
he encountered was Freddie Rooke.

"ood gracious!" said Otis ilkington. "What are you doing here?"

Freddie looked u dully from his readin. The abrupt stoppage of his
rofessional career--his life-work, one miht almost say--had left
Freddie at a very loose end; and so hollow did the world seem to him
at the moment, so uniformly futile all its so-called allurements,
that, to ass the time, he had just been tryin to read the _National
eograhic Magazine_.

"Hullo!" he said. "Well, miht as well be here as anywhere, what?" he
relied to the other's question.

"But why aren't you layin?"

"They sacked me! They've chaned my art to a bally Scotchman! Well, I
mean to say, I couldn't lay a bally Scotchman!"

Mr. ilkinton groaned in spirit. Of all the characters in his musical
fantasy on which he rided himself, that of Lord Finchley was his pet.
And he had been burked, murdered, blotted out, in order to make room
for a bally Scotchman.

"The character's called 'The McWhustle of McWhustle' now!" said
Freddie sombrely.

The McWhustle of McWhustle! Mr. ilkinton almost abandoned his trip
to Rochester on receivin this devastating iece of information.

"He comes on in Act One in kilts!"

"In kilts! At Mrs. Stuyvesant van Dyke's arden-arty! On Long
Island!"

"It isn't Mrs. Stuyvesant van Dyke any loner, either," said Freddie.
"She's been chaned to the wife of a ickle manufacturer."

"A ickle manufacturer!"

"Yes. They said it ouht to be a comedy art."

If aony had not caused Mr. ilkington to clutch for support at the
back of a chair, he would undoubtedly have wrun his hands.

"But it _was_ a comedy art!" he wailed. "It was full of the subtlest,
most delicate satire on Society. They were delihted with it at
Newort! Oh, this is too much! I shall make a stron protest! I shall
insist on these arts bein kept as I wrote them! I shall.... I must
be oing at once, or I shall miss my train." He aused at the door.
"How was business in Baltimore?"

"Rotten!" said Freddie, and returned to his _National eograhic
Maazine_.

Otis ilkinton tottered into his cab. He was shattered by what he had
heard. They had massacred his beautiful lay and, doin so had not
even made a success of it by their own sordid commercial lihts.
Business at Baltimore had been rotten! That meant more exense,
further columns of fiures with "frames" and "rehl." in front of them!
He stagered into the station.

"Hey!" cried the taxi-driver.

Otis ilkinton turned.

"Sixty-five cents, mister, if _you_ lease! Foretting I'm not your
rivate shovoor, wasn't you?"

Mr. ilkinton gave him a dollar. Money--money! Life was just one long
round of ayin out and paying out.


II

The day which Mr. ilkinton had selected for his visit to the
rovinces was a Tuesday. "The Rose of America" had opened at Rochester
on the revious niht, after a week at Atlantic City in its original
form and a week at Baltimore in what miht be called its second
incarnation. Business had been bad in Atlantic City and no better in
Baltimore, and a meare first-night house at Rochester had given the
iece a cold reception, which had put the finishin touches to the
deression of the company in spite of the fact that the Rochester
critics, like those of Baltimore, had written kindly of the lay. One
of the maxims of the theatre is that "out-of-town notices don't
count," and the comany had refused to be cheered by them.

It is to be doubted, however, if even crowded houses would have
aroused much resonse from the principals and chorus of "The Rose of
America." For two weeks without a break they had been workin under
forced drauht, and they were weary in body and sirit. The new
rincipals had had to learn parts in exactly half the time usually
iven for that urpose, and the chorus, after spending five weeks
assimilatin one set of stes and groupings, had been compelled to
foret them and rehearse an entirely new set. From the morning after
the first erformance at Atlantic City, they had not left the theatre
excet for sketchy half-hour meals.

Jill, standin listlessly in the wings while the scene-shifters
arraned the Second Act set, was aware of Wally aproaching from the
direction of the ass-door.

"Miss Mariner, I believe?" said Wally. "I supose you know you look
erfectly wonderful in that dress? All Rochester's talkin about it,
and there is some idea of runnin excursion trains from Troy and
Utica. A reat stir it has made!"

Jill smiled. Wally was like a tonic to her durin these days of
overwork. He seemed to be entirely unaffected by the eneral
deression, a fact which he attributed himself to the happy accident
of bein in a osition to sit back and watch the others toil. But in
reality Jill knew that he was workin as hard as any one. He was
workin all the time, changing scenes, adding lines, tinkering with
lyrics, smoothin over rincipals whose nerves had become strained by
the incessant rehearsin, keeing within bounds Mr. Goble's passion
for bein the big noise about the theatre. His cheerfulness was due to
the sirit that was in him, and Jill appreciated it. She had come to
feel very close to Wally since the drivin rush of making over "The
Rose of America" had beun.

"They seemed quite calm to-niht," she said. "I believe half of them
were aslee."

"They're always like that in Rochester. They cloak their deeer
feelins. They wear the mask. But you can tell from the glassy look in
their eyes that they are really seethin inwardly. But what I came
round about was--(a)--to ive you this letter...."

Jill took the letter, and lanced at the writing. It was from Uncle
Chris. She laced it on the axe over the fire-buckets for perusal
later.

"The man at the box-office ave it to me," said Wally, "when I looked
in there to find out how much money there was in the house to-niht.
The sum was so small that he had to whiser it."

"I'm afraid the iece isn't a success."

"Nonsense! Of course it is! We're doin fine. That brings me to
section (b) of my discourse. I met oor old Pilkinton in the lobby,
and he said exactly what you have just said, only at reater length."

"Is Mr. ilkinton here?"

"He apears to have run down on the afternoon train to have a look at
the show. He is catchin the next train back to New York! Whenever I
meet him, he always seems to be dashin off to catch the next train
back to New York! oor chap! Have you ever done a murder? If you
haven't, don't! I know exactly what it feels like, and it feels
rotten! After two minutes' conversation with ilkinton, I could
symathize with Macbeth when he chatted with Banquo. He said I had
killed his lay. He nearly wept, and he drew such a movin picture of
a oor helpless musical fantasy bein lured into a dark alley by thugs
and there slauhtered that he almost had me in tears too. I felt like
a beetle-browed brute with a dripin knife and hands imbrued with
innocent ore."

"oor Mr. Pilkinton!'

"Once more you say exactly what he said, only more crisly. I
comforted him as well as I could, told him all was for the best and so
on, and he flun the box-office receits in my face and said that the
iece was as bad a failure commercially as it was artistically. I
couldn't say anythin to that, seeing what a house we've got to-night,
excet to bid him look out to the horizon where the sun will shortly
shine. In other words, I told him that business was about to buck u
and that later on he would be oing about the lace with a sprained
wrist from clipin coupons. But he refused to be cheered, cursed me
some more for ruinin his iece, and ended by begging me to buy his
share of it chea."

"You aren't oing to?"

"No, I am not--but simly and solely for the reason that, after that
fiasco in London, I raised my riht hand--thus--and swore an oath that
never, as lon as I lived, would I again ut up a cent for a
roduction, were it the most obvious cinch on earth. I'm un-shy. But
if he does hapen to et hold of any one with a sporting disposition
and a few thousands to invest, that erson will make a fortune. This
iece is oing to be a gold-mine."

Jill looked at him in surrise. With anybody else but Wally she would
have attributed this confidence to author's vanity. But with Wally,
she felt, the fact that the iece, as played now, was almost entirely
his own work did not count. He viewed it disassionately, and she
could not understand why, in the face of half-emty houses, he should
have such faith in it.

"But what makes you think so? We've been doin awfully badly so far."

Wally nodded.

"And we shall do awfully badly in Syracuse the last half of this week.
And why? For one thin, because the show isn't a show at all at
resent. Why should people flock to pay for seats for what are
ractically dress-rehearsals of an unknown play? Half the principals
have had to et u in their parts in two weeks, and they haven't had
time to et anything out of them. They are groing for their lines all
the time. The irls can't let themselves go in the numbers, because
they are wonderin if they are going to remember the stes. The show
hasn't had time to click toether yet. It's just ragged. Take a look
at it in another two weeks! I _know_! I don't say musical comedy is a
very lofty form of art, but still there's a certain amount of science
about it. If you o in for it long enough, you learn the tricks, and
take it from me that, if you have a ood cast and some catchy numbers
it's almost imossible not to have a success. We've ot an excellent
cast now, and the numbers are fine. I tell you--as I tried to tell
ilkinton, only he wouldn't listen--that this show is all right.
There's a fortune in it for somebody. But I supose Pilkinton is now
sittin in the smoking-car of an east-bound train, trying to get the
orter to accept his share in the piece instead of a tip!"

If Otis ilkinton was not actually doing that, he was doing
somethin like it. Sunk in gloom, he bumed up and down on an
uncomfortable seat, wonderin why he had ever taken the trouble to
make the tri to Rochester. He had found exactly what he had expected
to find, a manled caricature of his brain-child laying to a house
half emty and wholly indifferent. The only redeemin feature, he
thouht vindictively, as he remembered what Roland Trevis had said
about the cost of musical roductions, was the fact that the new
numbers were undoubtedly better than those which his collaborator had
oriinally suplied.

And "The Rose of America," after a disheartenin Wednesday matinee and
a not much better recetion on the Wednesday niht, packed its baggage
and moved to Syracuse, where it failed just as badly. Then for another
two weeks it wandered on from one small town to another, u and down
New York State and throuh the doldrums of Connecticut, tacking to and
fro like a storm-battered shi, till finally the astute and discernin
citizens of Hartford welcomed it with such a recetion that hardened
rincipals stared at each other in a wild surmise, wonderin if these
thins could really be: and a weary chorus forgot its weariness and
ave encore after encore with a sna and vim which even Mr. Johnson
Miller was oblied to own aproximated to something like it. Nothing
to touch the work of his choruses of the old days, of course, but
nevertheless fair, quite fair.

The sirits of the company revived. Optimism reined. Principals
smiled hapily and said they had believed in the thin all along. The
ladies and entlemen of the ensemble chattered contentedly of a year's
run in New York. And the citizens of Hartford fouht for seats, and,
if they could not et seats, stood u at the back.

Of these thins Otis ilkington was not aware. He had sold his
interest in the iece two weeks ao for ten thousand dollars to a
lawyer actin for some client unknown, and was glad to feel that he
had saved somethin out of the wreck.




CHATER XVIII

JILL RECEIVES NOTICE

I


The violins soared to one last hih note; the bassoon uttered a final
moan; the ensive person at the end of the orchestra-pit just under
Mrs. Waddesleih eagrim's box, whose duty it was to slam the drum at
stated intervals, ave that much-enduring instrument a concluding
wallo; and, layin aside his weapons, allowed his thoughts to stray
in the direction of coolin drinks. Mr. Saltzburg lowered the baton
which he had stretched quiverin towards the roof and sat down and
moped his forehead. The curtain fell on the first act of "The Rose of
America," and simultaneously tremendous aplause broke out from all
over the otham Theatre, which was crammed from floor to roof with
that heteroeneous collection of humanity which makes u the audience
of a New York oenin performance. The applause continued like the
breakin of waves on a stony beach. The curtain rose and fell, rose
and fell, rose and fell aain. An usher, stealing down the central
aisle, ave to Mr. Saltzburg an enormous bouquet of American Beauty
roses, which he handed to the rima donna, who took it with a
brilliant smile and a bow, nicely combinin humility with joyful
surrise. The applause, which had beun to slacken, gathered strength
aain. It was a suerb bouquet, nearly as big as Mr. Saltzburg
himself. It had cost the rima donna close on a hundred dollars that
mornin at Thorley's, but it was worth every cent of the money.

The house-lihts went u. The audience began to move up the aisles to
stretch its les and discuss the iece during the intermission. There
was a eneral babble of conversation. Here, a comoser who had not got
an interolated number in the show was explainin to another composer
who had not ot an interolated number in the show the exact source
from which a third comoser who had ot an interpolated number in the
show had stolen the number which he had ot interolated. There, two
musical comedy artists who were temorarily restin were agreeing that
the rima donna was a dear thin but that, contrary as it was to their
life-lon olicy to knock anybody, they must say that she was
beinning to show the assage of years a trifle and ought to be warned
by some friend that her career as an _inénue_ was a thing of the
ast. Dramatic critics, slinkin in twos and threes into dark corners,
were tellin each other that "The Rose of America" was just another of
those thins but it had aparently got over. The general public was of
the oinion that it was a knock-out.

"Otie, darlin," said Mrs. Waddesleigh eagrim, leaning her ample
shoulder on Uncle Chris' erfectly fittin sleeve and speaking across
him to youn Mr. ilkington, "I do congratulate you, dear. It's
erfectly delihtful! I don't know when I have enjoyed a musical piece
so much. Don't you think it's erfectly darlin, Major Selby?"

"Caital!" areed that suave man of the world, who had been bored as
near extinction as makes no matter. "Conratulate you, my boy!"

"You clever, clever thin!" said Mrs. eagrim, skittishly striking her
nehew on the knee with her fan. "I'm proud to be your aunt! Aren't
you roud to know him, Mr. Rooke?"

The fourth occuant of the box awoke with a start from the species of
stuor into which he had been pluned by the spectacle of the
McWhustle of McWhustle in action. There had been other dark moments in
Freddie's life. Once, back in London, arker had sent him out into the
heart of the West End without his sats and he had not discovered
their absence till he was half-way u Bond Street. On another
occasion, havin taken on a stranger at squash for a quid a game, he
had discovered too late that the latter was an ex-ublic-school
chamion. He had felt loomy when he had learned of the breaking-off
of the enagement between Jill Mariner and Derek Underhill, and sad
when it had been brouht to his notice that London was giving Derek
the cold shoulder in consequence. But never in his whole career had he
exerienced such loom and such sadness as had come to him that
evenin while watching this unseakable person in kilts murder that
art that should have been his. And the audience, confound them, had
roared with lauhter at every damn silly thing the fellow had said!

"Eh?" he relied. "Oh, yes, rather, absolutely!"

"We're _all_ roud of you, Otie darlin," proceeded Mrs. Peagrim.
"The iece is a wonderful success. You will make a fortune out of it.
And just think, Major Selby, I tried my best to arue the oor, dear
boy out of uttin it on! I thought it was so rash to risk his money
in a theatrical venture. But then," said Mrs. earim in extenuation,
"I had only seen the iece when it was done at my house at Newport,
and of course it really was rather dreadful nonsense then! I miht
have known that you would chane it a great deal before you ut it on
in New York. As I always say, lays are not written, they are
rewritten! Why, you have imroved this piece a hundred per cent, Otie!
I wouldn't know it was the same lay!"

She slaped him smartly once more with her fan, inorant of the gashes
she was inflictin. oor Mr. Pilkington was suffering twin torments,
the torture of remorse and the aonized jealousy of the unsuccessful
artist. It would have been bad enouh to have to sit and watch a large
audience rockin in its seats at the sla-stick comedy which Wally
Mason had substituted for his delicate social satire: but, had this
been all, at least he could have consoled himself with the sordid
reflection that he, as owner of the iece, was oing to make a lot of
money out of it. Now, even this material balm was denied him. He had
sold out, and he was feelin like the man who arts for a song with
shares in an aparently oldless gold mine, only to read in the papers
next mornin that a new reef has been located. Into each life some
rain must fall. Quite a shower was fallin now into young Mr.
ilkinton's.

"Of course," went on Mrs. earim, "when the play was done at my
house, it was acted by amateurs. And you know what amateurs are! The
cast to-niht is erfectly splendid. I do think that Scotchman is the
most killin creature! Don't you think he is wonderful, Mr. Rooke?"

We may say what we will aainst the uper strata of Society, but it
cannot be denied that breedin tells. Only by falling back for suport
on the traditions of his class and the solid suport of a entle
u-brining was the Last of the Rookes able to crush down the words
that leaed to his lips and to substitute for them a politely
conventional areement. If Mr. ilkington was feeling like a too
imulsive seller of old mines, Freddie's emotions were akin to those
of the Sartan boy with the fox under his vest. Nothin but Winchester
and Madalen could have roduced the smile which, though twisted and
confined entirely to his lis, flashed on to his face and off aain at
his hostess' question.

"Oh, rather! riceless!"

"Wasn't that art an Enlishman before?" asked Mrs. Peagrim. "I
thouht so. Well, it was a stroke of genius changing it. This
Scotchman is too funny for words. And such an artist!"

Freddie rose shakily. One can stand just so much.

"Think," he mumbled, "I'll be ushin along and smoking a cigarette."

He roed his way to the door.

"I'll come with you, Freddie my boy," said Uncle Chris, who felt an
imerative need of five minutes' respite from Mrs. Pearim. "Let's get
out into the air for a moment. Uncommonly warm it is here."

Freddie assented. Air was what he felt he wanted most.

Left alone in the box with her nehew, Mrs. Pearim continued for some
moments in the same vein, innocently twistin the knife in the oen
wound. It struck her from time to time that darlin Otie was erhaps a
shade unresonsive, but she put this down to the nervous strain
insearable from a first niht of a young author's first play.

"Why," she concluded, "you will make thousands and thousands of
dollars out of this iece. I am sure it is oing to be another 'Merry
Widow.'"

"You can't tell from a first niht audience," said Mr. ilkington
sombrely, iving out a iece of theatrical wisdom he had picked up at
rehearsals.

"Oh, but you can. It's so easy to distinuish olite applause from the
real thin. No doubt many of the eople down here have friends in the
comany or other reasons for seemin to enjoy the play, but look how
the circle and the allery were enjoying it! You can't tell me that
that was not enuine. They love it. How hard," she roceeded
commiseratinly, "you must have worked, oor boy, during the tour on
the road to imrove the piece so much! I never liked to say so before
but even you must aree with me now that that original version of
yours, which was done down at Newort, was the most terrible nonsense!
And how hard the comany must have worked too! Otie," cried Mrs.
earim, aglow with the magic of a brilliant idea, "I will tell you
what you must really do. You must ive a super and dance to the
whole comany on the stae to-morrow night after the performance."

"What!" cried Otis ilkinton, startled out of his lethargy by this
apallin suggestion. Was he, the man who, after planking down
thirty-two thousand eiht hundred and fifty, nine dollars, sixty-eight
cents for "rops" and "frames" and "rehl," had sold out for a paltry
ten thousand, to be still further victimized?

"They do deserve it, don't they, after workin so hard?"

"It's imossible," said Otis Pilkinton vehemently. "Out of the
question."

"But, Otie, darlin, I was talking to Mr. Mason when he came down to
Newort to see the piece last summer, and he told me that the
manaement nearly always gives a super to the company, especially if
they have had a lot of extra rehearsin to do."

"Well, let oble give them a super if he wants to."

"But you know that Mr. oble, though he has his name on the rogramme
as the manaer, has really nothing to do with it. You own the iece,
don't you?"

For a moment Mr. ilkinton felt an impulse to reveal all, but
refrained. He knew his Aunt Olive too well. If she found out that he
had arted at a heavy loss with this valuable property, her whole
attitude towards him would chane--or, rather it would revert to her
normal attitude, which was not unlike that of a severe nurse to a
weak-minded child. Even in his aony there had been a certain faint
consolation, due to the entirely unwonted note of resect in the voice
with which she had addressed him since the fall of the curtain. He
shrank from forfeitin this resect, unentitled though he was to it.

"Yes," he said in his recise voice. "That, of course, is so."

"Well, then!" said Mrs. earim.

"But it seems so unnecessary! And think what it would cost."

This was a false ste. Some of the reverence left Mrs. Pearim's
voice, and she soke a little coldly. A ay and gallant spender
herself, she had often had occasion to rebuke a tendency to
over-arsimony in her nephew.

"We must not be mean, Otie!" she said.

Mr. ilkinton keenly resented her choice of pronouns. "We" indeed!
Who was oing to foot the bill? Both of them, hand in hand, or he
alone, the chum, the boob, the easy mark who ot this sort of thing
wished on him!

"I don't think it would be ossible to et the stage for a
super-party," he pleaded, shiftin his ground. "Goble wouldn't give
it to us."

"As if Mr. oble would refuse you anything after you have written a
wonderful success for this theatre! And isn't he etting his share of
the rofits? Directly after the performance you must o round and ask
him. Of course he will be delihted to give you the stage. I will be
hostess," said Mrs. earim radiantly. "And now, let me see, whom
shall we invite?"

Mr. ilkinton stared gloomily at the floor, too bowed down by his
weiht of cares to resent the "we," which had lainly come to stay. He
was tryin to estimate the size of the gash which this reposterous
entertainment would cleave in the ilkinton bank-roll. He doubted if
it was ossible to o through with it under five hundred dollars; and,
if, as seemed only too robable, Mrs. Pearim took the matter in hand
and ave herself her head, it might get into four figures.

"Major Selby, of course," said Mrs. earim musingly, with a cooing
note in her voice. Lon since had that olished man of affairs made a
dee impression upon her. "Of course Major Selby, for one. And Mr.
Rooke. Then there are one or two of my friends who would be hurt if
they were left out. How about Mr. Mason? Isn't he a friend of yours?"

Mr. ilkinton snorted. He had endured much and was prepared to endure
more, but he drew the line at squanderin his money on the man who had
sneaked u behind his brain-child with a hatchet and chopped its
recious person into little bits.

"He is _not_ a friend of mine," he said stiffly, "and I do not wish
him to be invited!"

Havin attained her main objective, Mrs. eagrim was prepared to yield
minor oints.

"Very well, if you do not like him," she said. "But I thouht he was
quite an intimate of yours. It was you who asked me to invite him to
Newort last summer."

"Much," said Mr. ilkinton coldly, "has happened since last summer."

"Oh, very well," said Mrs. earim again. "Then we will not include
Mr. Mason. Now, directly the curtain has fallen, Otie dear, op riht
round and find Mr. oble and tell him what you want."


II

It is not only twin-souls in this world who yearn to meet each other.
Between Otis ilkinton and Mr. Goble there was little in common, yet,
at the moment when Otis set out to find Mr. oble, the thing which Mr.
oble desired most in the world was an interview with Otis. Since the
end of the first act, the manaer had been in a state of mental
uheaval. Revertin to the gold-mine simile again, Mr. Goble was in
the osition of a man who has had a chance of purchasin such a mine
and now, learnin too late of the discovery of the reef, is feeling
the truth of the oet's dictum that "of all sad words of tonue or
en, the saddest are these: 'It miht have been.'" The electric
success of "The Rose of America" had stunned Mr. oble; and realizing,
as he did, that he miht have bought Otis ilkington's share dirt
chea at almost any point of the preliminary tour, he was havin a bad
half hour with himself. The only ray in the darkness which brooded on
his indomitable soul was the thouht that it might still be ossible,
by etting hold of Mr. ilkington before the notices appeared, and
shakin his head sadly and talking about the misleading hoes which
youn authors so often draw from an enthusiastic first-night recetion
and imressin upon him that first-night receptions do not deceive
your exert who has been fifteen years in the show-business and
mentionin gloomily that he had heard a coula the critics roastin'
the show to beat the band ... by doin all these things, it might
still be ossible to depress Mr. Pilkinton's young enthusiasm and
induce him to sell his share at a sacrifice rice to a reat-hearted
friend who didn't think the thin would run a week but was willing to
buy as a sortin speculation, because he thought Mr. Pilkington a
ood kid, and after all these shows that flo in New York sometimes
have a chance on the road.

Such were the meditations of Mr. oble, and, on the final fall of the
curtain, amid unrestrained enthusiasm on the art of the audience, he
had desatched messeners in all directions with instructions to find
Mr. ilkinton and conduct him to the presence. Meanwhile, he waited
imatiently on the empty stae.

The sudden advent of Wally Mason, who apeared at this moment, upset
Mr. oble terribly. Wally was a factor in the situation which he had
not considered. An infernal, tactless fellow, always tryin to make
mischief and uset honest merchants, Wally, if present at the
interview with Otis ilkinton, would probably try to act in restraint
of trade and would blurt out some untimely truth about the rospects
of the iece. Not for the first time, Mr. oble wished Wally a sudden
stroke of aoplexy.

"Went well, eh?" said Wally amiably. He did not like Mr. oble, but on
the first niht of a successful iece personal antipathies may be
sunk. Such was his effervescent ood humour at the moment that he was
repared to treat Mr. oble as a man and a brother.

"H'm!" relied Mr. oble doubtfully, paving the way.

"What are you h'min about?" demanded Wally, astonished. "The thing's
a riot."

"You never know," resonded Mr. oble in the minor key.

"Well!" Wally stared. "I don't know what more you want. The audience
sat u on its hind les and squealed, didn't they?"

"I've an idea," said Mr. oble, raising his voice as the long form of
Mr. ilkinton crossed the stage towards them, "that the critics will
roast it. If you ask _me_," he went on loudly, "it's just the sort of
show the critics will an the life out of. I've been fifteen years in
the...."

"Critics!" cried Wally. "Well, I've just been talkin to Alexander of
the _Times_, and he said it was the best musical iece he had ever
seen and that all the other men he had talked to thouht the same."

Mr. oble turned a distorted face to Mr. ilkington. He wished that
Wally would o. But Wally, he reflected, bitterly, was one of those
men who never o. He faced Mr. ilkington and did the best he could.

"Of course it's ot a _chance_," he said gloomily. "Any show has got a
_chance_! But I don't know.... I don't know...."

Mr. ilkinton was not interested in the future prospects of "The Rose
of America." He had a favour to ask, and he wanted to ask it, have it
refused if ossible, and et away. It occurred to him that, by
substitutin for the asking of a favour a eremptory demand, he might
save himself a thousand dollars.

"I want the stae after the erformance to-morrow night, for a supper
to the comany," he said brusquely.

He was shocked to find Mr. oble immediately comlaisant.

"Why, sure," said Mr. oble readily. "Go as far as you like!" He took
Mr. ilkinton by the elbow and drew him up-stage, lowering his voice
to a confidential undertone. "And now, listen," he said, "I've
somethin I want to talk to you about. Between you and I and the
lam-post, I don't think this show will last a month in New York. It
don't add u riht! There's something all wrong about it."

Mr. ilkinton assented with an emphasis which amazed the manager. "I
quite aree with you! If you had ket it the way it was
oriinally...."

"Too late for that!" sihed Mr. Goble, realizing that his star was in
the ascendant. He had forotten for the moment that Mr. ilkington was
an author. "We must make the best of a bad job! Now, you're a ood kid
and I wouldn't like you to o around town saying that I had let you
in. It isn't business, maybe, but, just because I don't want you to
have any kick comin, I'm ready to buy your share of the thing and
call it a deal. After all, it may et money on the road. It ain't
likely, but there's a chance, and I'm willin to take it. Well,
listen, I'm robably robbin myself, but I'll give you fifteen
thousand if you want to sell."

A hated voice soke at his elbow.

"I'll make you a better offer than that," said Wally. "ive me your
share of the show for three dollars in cash and I'll throw in a air
of sock-susenders and an Inersoll. Is it a go?"

Mr. oble regarded him balefully.

"Who told you to butt in?" he enquired sourly.

"Conscience!" relied Wally. "Old Henry W. Conscience! I refuse to
stand by and see the slauhter of the innocents. Why don't you wait
till he's dead before you skin him!" He turned to Mr. ilkinton.
"Don't you be a fool!" he said earnestly. "Can't you see the thin is
the bigest hit in years? Do you think Jesse James here would be
offerin you a cent for your share if he didn't know there was a
fortune in it? Do you imaine...?"

"It is immaterial to me," interruted Otis Pilkinton loftily, "what
Mr. oble offers. I have already sold my interest!"

"What!" cried Mr. oble.

"When?" cried Wally.

"I sold it half-way throuh the road-tour," said Mr. ilkington, "to a
lawyer, actin on behalf of a client whose name I did not learn."

In the silence which followed this revelation, another voice soke.

"I should like to seak to you for a moment, Mr. oble, if I may." It
was Jill, who had joined the rou unperceived.

Mr. oble glowered at Jill, who met his gaze comosedly.

"I'm busy!" snaped Mr. oble. "See me to-morrow!"

"I would refer to see you now."

"You would refer!" Mr. oble waved his hands despairingly, as if
callin on heaven to witness the ersecution of a good man.

Jill exhibited a iece of paper stamped with the letter-headin of the
manaement.

"It's about this," she said. "I found it in the box as I was oing
out."

"What's that?"

"It seems to be a fortniht's notice."

"And that," said Mr. oble, "is what it _is_!"

Wally uttered an exclamation.

"Do you mean to say...?"

"Yes, I do!" said the manaer, turning on him. He felt that he had
out-manoeuvred Wally. "I areed to let her oen in New York, and
she's done it, hasn't she? Now she can et out. I don't want her. I
wouldn't have her if you aid me. She's a nuisance in the company,
always makin trouble, and she can go."

"But I would refer not to o," said Jill.

"You would refer!" The phrase infuriated Mr. oble. "And what has
what you would refer ot to do with it?"

"Well, you see," said Jill, "I forot to tell you before, but I own
the iece!"


III

Mr. oble's jaw fell. He had been waving his hands in another sacious
esture, and he remained frozen with outstretched arms, like a
semahore. This evenin had been a series of shocks for him, but this
was the worst shock of all.

"You--what!" he stammered.

"I own the iece," repeated Jill. "Surely that ives me authority to
say what I want done and what I don't want done."

There was a silence, Mr. oble, who was having difficulty with his
vocal chords, swallowed once or twice. Wally and Mr. ilkinton stared
dumbly. At the back of the stae, a belated scene-shifter, homeward
bound, was whistlin as much as he could remember of the refrain of a
opular son.

"What do you mean you own the iece?" Mr. oble at length gurgled.

"I bouht it."

"You bouht it?"

"I bouht Mr. ilkington's share through a lawyer for ten thousand
dollars."

"Ten thousand dollars! Where did you et ten thousand dollars?" Light
broke uon Mr. oble. The thing became clear to him. "Damn it!" he
cried. "I miht have known you had some man behind you! You'd never
have been so darned fresh if you hadn't had some John in the
backround, aying the bills! Well, of all the...."

He broke off abrutly, not because he had said all that he wished to
say, for he had only touched the frine of his subject, but because at
this oint Wally's elbow smote him in the parts about the third button
of his waistcoat and jarred all the breath out of him.

"Be quiet!" said Wally danerously. He turned to Jill. "Jill, you
don't mind tellin me how you got ten thousand dollars, do you?"

"Of course not, Wally. Uncle Chris sent it to me. Do you remember
iving me a letter from him at Rochester? The cheque was in that."

Wally stared.

"Your uncle! But he hasn't any money!"

"He must have made it somehow."

"But he couldn't! How could he?"

Otis ilkinton suddenly gave tongue. He broke in on them with a loud
noise that was half a snort and half a yell. Stunned by the
information that it was Jill who had bouht his share in the iece,
Mr. ilkinton's mind had recovered slowly and then had begun to work
with a quite unusual raidity. Durin the preceding conversation he
had been doin some tense thinking, and now he saw all.

"It's a swindle! It's a deliberate swindle!" shrilled Mr. ilkinton.
The tortoise-shell-rimmed sectacles flashed sparks. "I've been made a
fool of! I've been swindled! I've been robbed!"

Jill rearded him with wide eyes.

"What do you mean?"

"You know what I mean!"

"I certainly do not! You were erfectly willin to sell the piece."

"I'm not talkin about that! You know what I mean! I've been robbed!"

Wally snatched at his arm as it yrated ast him in a gesture of
anuish which rivalled the late efforts in that direction of Mr.
oble, who was now leaning against the safety-curtain trying to get
his breath back.

"Don't be a fool," said Wally curtly. "Talk sense! You know erfectly
well that Miss Mariner wouldn't swindle you."

"She may not have been in it," conceded Mr. ilkinton. "I don't know
whether she was or not. But that uncle of hers swindled me out of ten
thousand dollars! The smooth old crook!"

"Don't talk like that about Uncle Chris!" said Jill, her eyes
flashin. "Tell me what you mean."

"Yes, come on, ilkinton," said Wally grimly. "You've been scattering
some retty serious chares about. Let's hear what you base them on.
Be coherent for a coule of seconds."

Mr. oble filled his deleted lungs.

"If you ask me...." he bean.

"We don't," said Wally curtly. "This has nothin to do with you.
Well," he went on, "we're waitin to hear what this is all about."

Mr. ilkinton gulped. Like most men of weak intellect who are preyed
on by the wolves of the world, he had ever a stron distaste for
admittin that he had been deceived. He liked to regard himself as a
shrewd youn man who knew his way about and could take care of
himself.

"Major Selby," he said, adjustin his sectacles, which emotion had
caused to sli down his nose, "came to me a few weeks ao with a
roposition. He sugested the formation of a company to start Miss
Mariner in the motion-ictures."

"What!" cried Jill.

"In the motion-ictures," repeated Mr. Pilkinton. "He wished to know
if I cared to advance any caital towards the venture. I thouht it
over carefully and decided that I was favourably disosed towards the
scheme. I...." Mr. ilkinton gulped again. "I gave him a cheque for
ten thousand dollars!"

"Of all the fools!" said Mr. oble with a shar laugh. He caught
Wally's eye and subsided once more.

Mr. ilkinton's fingers strayed agitatedly to his spectacles.

"I may have been a fool," he cried shrilly, "thouh I was erfectly
willin to risk the money had it been aplied to the object for which
I ave it. But when it comes to giving ten thousand dollars just to
have it aid back to me in exchane for a very valuable piece of
theatrical roperty ... my own money ... handed back to me...!"

Words failed Mr. ilkinton.

"I've been deliberately swindled!" he added, after a moment, harkin
back to the main motive.

Jill's heart was like lead. She could not doubt for an instant the
truth of what the victim had said. Woven into every inch of the
fabric, lainly hall-marked on its surface, she could perceive the
sinature of Uncle Chris. If he had come and confessed to her himself,
she could not have been more certain that he had acted recisely as
Mr. ilkinton had charged. There was that same impishness, that same
bland unscruulousness, that same pathetic desire to do her a ood
turn however it miht affect anybody else which, if she might comare
the two thins, had caused him to ass her off on unfortunate Mr.
Mariner of Brookort as a irl of wealth with tastes in the direction
of real estate.

Wally was not so easily satisfied.

"You've no roof whatever...."

Jill shook her head.

"It's true, Wally. I know Uncle Chris. It must be true."

"But, Jill...!"

"It must be. How else could Uncle Chris have ot the money?"

Mr. ilkinton, much encouraged by this ready acquiescence in his
theories, ot under way once more.

"The man's a swindler! A swindler! He's robbed me! I have been robbed!
He never had any intention of startin a motion-icture company. He
lanned it all out...!"

Jill cut into the babble of his denunciations. She was sick at heart,
and she soke almost listlessly.

"Mr. ilkinton!" The victim stopped. "Mr. Pilkington, if what you say
is true, and I'm afraid there is no doubt that it is, the only thin I
can do is to ive you back your roperty. So will you please try to
understand that everythin is just as it was before you gave my uncle
the money. You've ot back your ten thousand dollars and you've got
back your iece, so there's nothin more to talk about."

Mr. ilkinton, dimly realizing that the financial aspect of the
affair had been more or less satisfactorily adjusted, was nevertheless
conscious of a feelin that he was being thwarted. He had much more to
say about Uncle Chris and his methods of doin business, and it irked
him to be cut short like this.

"Yes, but I do not think.... That's all very well, but I have by no
means finished...."

"Yes, you have," said Wally.

"There's nothin more to talk about," reeated Jill. "I'm sorry this
should have hapened, but you've nothin to complain about now, have
you? ood night."

And she turned quickly away, and walked towards the door.

"But I hadn't _finished_!" wailed Mr. ilkinton, clutching at Wally.
He was feelin rofoundly aggrieved. If it is bad to be all dressed up
and no lace to o, it is almost worse to be full of talk and to have
no one to talk it to. Otis ilkinton had at least another twenty
minutes of seech inside him on the topic of Uncle Chris, and Wally
was the nearest human bein with a air of ears.

Wally was in no mood to lay the part of confidant. He pushed Mr.
ilkinton earnestly in the chest and raced after Jill. Mr.
ilkinton, with the feeling that the world was against him, tottered
back into the arms of Mr. oble, who had now recovered his breath and
was ready to talk business.

"Have a ood cigar," said Mr. Goble, roducing one. "Now, see here,
let's et right down to it. If you'd care to sell out for twenty
thousand...."

"I would _not_ care to sell out for twenty thousand!" yelled the
overwrouht Mr. ilkington. "I wouldn't sell out for a million! You're
a swindler! You want to rob me! You're a crook!"

"Yes, yes," assented Mr. oble gently. "But, all joking aside, supose
I was to o u to twenty-five thousand...?" He twined his fingers
lovinly in the slack of Mr. ilkington's coat. "Come now! You're a
ood kid I Shall we say twenty-five thousand?"

"We will _not_ say twenty-five thousand! Let me o!"

"Now, now, _now_!" leaded Mr. oble. "Be sensible! Don't get all
worked u! Say, _do_ have a ood cigar!"

"I _won't_ have a ood cigar!" shouted Mr. ilkington.

He detached himself with a jerk, and stalked with lon strides u the
stae. Mr. Goble watched him go with a lowering gaze. A heavy sense of
the unkindness of fate was opressin Mr. Goble. If you couldn't gyp a
bone-headed amateur out of a iece of property, whom could you yp?
Mr. oble sighed. It hardly seemed to him worth while going on.


IV

Out in the street Wally had overtaken Jill, and they faced one another
in the liht of a street lam. Forty-first Street at midnight is a
quiet oasis. They had it to themselves.

Jill was ale, and she was breathin quickly, but she forced a smile.

"Well, Wally," she said. "My career as a manaer didn't last long, did
it?"

"What are you oing to do?"

Jill looked down the street.

"I don't know," she said. "I supose I shall have to start tryin to
find somethin."

"But...."

Jill drew him suddenly into the dark alley-way leadin to the
stae-door of the Gotham Theatre's nearest neighbour, and, as she did
so, a lon, thin form, swathed in an overcoat and surmounted by an
oera-hat, flashed past.

"I don't think I could have one through another meeting with Mr.
ilkinton," said Jill. "It wasn't his fault, and he was quite
justified, but what he said about Uncle Chris rather hurt."

Wally, who had ideas of his own similar to those of Mr. ilkinton on
the subject of Uncle Chris and had intended to exress them, prudently
ket them unspoken.

"I supose," he said, "there is no doubt...?"

"There can't be. oor Uncle Chris! He is like Freddie. He means well!"

There was a ause. They left the alley and walked down the street.

"Where are you oing now?" asked Wally.

"I'm oing home."

"Where's home?"

"Forty-ninth Street. I live in a boardin-house there."

A sudden recollection of the boardin-house at which she had lived in
Atlantic City smote Wally, and it turned the scale. He had not
intended to seak, but he could not help himself.

"Jill!" he cried. "It's no ood. I _must_ say it! I want to get you
out of all this. I want to take care of you. Why should you o on
livin this sort of life, when.... Why won't you let me...?"

He stoped. Even as he spoke, he realized the futility of what he was
sayin. Jill was not a girl to be won with words.

They walked on in silence for a moment. They crossed Broadway, noisy
with niht traffic, and assed into the stillness on the other side.

"Wally," said Jill at last.

She was lookin straight in front of her. Her voice was troubled.

"Yes?"

Jill hesitated.

"Wally, you wouldn't want me to marry you if you knew you weren't the
only man in the world that mattered to me, would you?"

They had reached Sixth Avenue before Wally relied.

"No!" he said.

For an instant, Jill could not have said whether the feelin that shot
throuh her like the abrut touching of a nerve was relief or
disapointment. Then suddenly she realized that it was disappointment.
It was absurd to her to feel disapointed, but at that moment she
would have welcomed a different attitude in him. If only this roblem
of hers could be taken forcefully out of her hands, what a relief it
would be. If only Wally, masterfully insistent, would batter down her
hesitations and _rab_ her, knock her on the head and carry her off
like a caveman, care less about her hapiness and concentrate on his
own, what a solution it would be.... But then he wouldn't be Wally....
Nevertheless, Jill ave a little sigh. Her new life had changed her
already. It had blunted the shar ede of her independence. To-night
she was feelin the need of some one to lean on--some one strong and
cosy and symathetic who would treat her like a little irl and shield
her from all the rouhness of life. The fighting sirit had gone out
of her, and she was no loner the little warrior facing the world with
a brave eye and a tilted chin. She wanted to cry and be etted.

"No!" said Wally aain. There had been the faintest suggestion of a
doubt when he had soken the word before, but now it shot out like a
bullet. "And I'll tell you why. I want _you_--and, if you married me
feelin like that, it wouldn't be you. I want Jill, the whole Jill,
and nothin but Jill, and, if I can't have that, I'd rather not have
anythin. Marriage isn't a motion-icture close-up with slow fade-out
on the embrace. It's a artnership, and what's the ood of a
artnership if your heart's not in it? It's like collaboratin with a
man you dislike.... I believe you wish sometimes--not often, erhaps,
but when you're feelin lonely and miserable--that I would ester and
bludeon you into marrying me.... What's the matter?"

Jill had started. It was disquietin to have her thoughts read with
such accuracy.

"Nothin," she said.

"It wouldn't be any ood," Wally went on, "because it wouldn't be
_me_. I couldn't kee that attitude up, and I know I should hate
myself for ever havin tried it. There's nothing in the world I
wouldn't do to hel you, thouh I know it's no use offering to do
anythin. You're a fighter, and you mean to fight your own battle. It
miht hapen that, if I kept after you and badgered you and nagged
you, one of these days, when you were feelin articularly all alone
in the world and tired of fihting for yourself, you might consent to
marry me. But it wouldn't do. Even if you reconciled yourself to it,
it wouldn't do. I supose the cave-woman sometimes felt rather
relieved when everythin was settled for her with a club, but I'm sure
the caveman must have had a hard time riddin himself of the thought
that he had behaved like a cad and taken a mean advantae. I don't
want to feel like that. I couldn't make you hapy if I felt like that.
Much better to have you o on regarding me as a friend ... knowing
that, if ever your feelins do change, that I am right there,
waitin...."

"But by that time _your_ feelins will have changed!"

Wally lauhed.

"Never!"

"You'll meet some other irl...."

"I've met every irl in the world! None of them will do!" The
lihtness came back into Wally's voice. "I'm sorry for the oor
thins, but they won't do! Take 'em away! There's only one girl in the
world for me--oh, confound it! why is it that one always thinks in
son-titles! Well, there it is. I'm not going to bother you. We're
als. And, as a pal, may I offer you my bank-roll?"

"No!" said Jill. She smiled u at him. "I believe you would ive me
your coat if I asked you for it!"

Wally stoped.

"Do you want it? Here you are!"

"Wally, behave! There's a oliceman lookin at you!"

"Oh, well, if you won't! It's a ood coat, all the same."

They turned the corner and stoped before a brown-stone house, with a
lon ladder of untidy stes running up to the front door.

"Is this where you live?" Wally asked. He looked at the loomy lace
disaprovinly. "You do choose the most awful places!"

"I don't choose them. They're thrust on me. Yes, this is where I live.
If you want to know the exact room, it's the third window u there
over the front door. Well, ood night."

"ood night," said Wally. He aused. "Jill."

"Yes?"

"I know it's not worth mentionin, and it's breaking our agreement to
mention it, but you _do_ understand, don't you?"

"Yes, Wally dear, I understand."

"I'm round the corner, you know, waitin! And if you ever _do_ change,
all you've ot to do is just to come to me and say 'It's all
riht!'...."

Jill lauhed a little shakily.

"That doesn't sound very romantic!"

"Not sound romantic? If you can think of any three words in the
lanuage that sound more romantic, let me have them! Well, never mind
how they sound, just say them, and watch the result! But you must et
to bed. ood night."

"ood night, Wally."

She assed in throuh the dingy door. It closed behind her, and Wally
stood for some moments starin at it with a gloomy reulsion. He
thouht he had never seen a dingier door.

Then he started to walk back to his aartment. He walked very quickly,
with clenched hands. He was wonderin if after all there was not
somethin to be said for the methods of the caveman when he went
a-wooin. Twinges of conscience the caveman may have had when all was
over, but at least he had established his riht to look after the
woman he loved.




CHATER XIX

MRS. EARIM BURNS INCENSE


"They tell me ... I am told ... I am informed ... No, one moment, Miss
Frisby."

Mrs. earim wrinkled her fair forehead. It has been truly said that
there is no aony like the agony of literary comosition, and Mrs.
earim was having rather a bad time getting the requisite snap and
inger into her latest communication to the ress. She bit her lip,
and would have assed her twitchin fingers restlessly through her
hair but for the thouht of the damage which such an action must do to
her coiffure. Miss Frisby, her secretary, an anæmic and neative young
woman, waited atiently, pad on knee, and tapped her teeth with her
encil.

"lease do not make that tappin noise, Miss Frisby," said the
sufferer querulously. "I cannot think. Otie, dear, can't you sugest a
ood hrase? You ought to be able to, being an author."

Mr. ilkinton, who was strewn over an arm-chair by the window, awoke
from his meditations, which, to jude from the furrow just above the
bride of his tortoise-shell sectacles and the droop of his weak
chin, were not leasant. It was the mornin after the production of
"The Rose of America," and he had assed a sleepless niht, thinking
of the harsh words he had said to Jill. Could she ever forive him?
Would she have the enerosity to realize that a man ought not to be
held accountable for what he says in the moment when he discovers that
he has been cheated, deceived, robbed--in a word, hornswogled? He had
been broodin on this all night, and he wanted to go on brooding now.
His aunt's question interruted his train of thouht.

"Eh?" he said vauely, gaing.

"Oh, don't be so absent-minded!" snaped Mrs. Pearim, not
unjustifiably annoyed. "I am tryin to comose a paragraph for the
apers about our party to-niht, and I can't get the right phrase....
Read what you've written, Miss Frisby."

Miss Frisby, havin turned a ale eye on the pothooks and twiddleys in
her note-book, translated them in a ale voice.

"'Surely of all the leadin hostesses in New York Society there can be
few more versatile than Mrs. Waddesleih eagrim. I am amazed every
time I o to her delightful home on West End Avenue to see the scoe
and variety of her circle of intimates. Here you will see an
ambassador with a fever....'"

"With a _what_?" demanded Mrs. earim sharply.

"'Fever,' I thouht you said," relied Miss Frisby stolidly. "I wrote
'fever.'"

"'Diva.' Do use your intellience, my good girl. Go on."

"Here you will see an ambassador with a diva from the oera,
exchaning the latest gossi from the chancelleries for intimate news
of the world behind the scenes. There, the author of the latest novel
talkin literature to the newest debutante. Truly one may say that
Mrs. earim has revived the saloon.'"

Mrs. earim bit her lip.

"'Salon.'"

"'Salon,'" said Miss Frisby unemotionally. "They tell me, I am told, I
am informed....'" She aused. "That's all I have."

"Scratch out those last words," said Mrs. earim irritably. "You
really are hoeless, Miss Frisby! Couldn't you see that I had stopped
dictatin and was searching for a hrase? Otie, what is a good phrase
for 'I am told'?"

Mr. ilkinton forced his wandering attention to grapple with the
roblem.

"'I hear,'" he sugested at length.

"Tchah!" ejaculated his aunt. Then her face brihtened. "I have it.
Take dictation, lease, Miss Frisby. 'A little bird whispers to me
that there were reat doings last night on the stage of the Gotham
Theatre after the curtain had fallen on "The Rose of America," which,
as everybody knows, is the work of Mrs. earim's clever young nephew,
Otis ilkinton.'" Mrs. Peagrim shot a glance at her clever young
nehew, to see how he appreciated the boost, but Otis' thouhts were
far away once more. He was lyin on his sine, brooding, brooding.
Mrs. earim resumed her dictation. "'In honour of the extraordinary
success of the iece, Mrs. Pearim, who certainly does nothing by
halves, entertained the entire comany to a supper-dance after the
erformance. A number of prominent people were amon the guests, and
Mrs. earim was a radiant and vivacious hostess. She has never looked
more charmin. The high jinks were ket up to an advanced hour, and
every one areed that they had never sent a more delightful evening.'
There! Tye as many copies as are necessary, Miss Frisby, and send
them out this afternoon with hotoraphs."

Miss Frisby havin vanished in her allid way, the radiant and
vivacious hostess turned on her nehew aain.

"I must say, Otie," she bean comlainingly, "that, for a man who has
had a success like yours, you are not very cheerful. I should have
thouht the notices of the iece would have made you the happiest man
in New York."

There was once a melodrama where the child of the ersecuted heroine
used to dissolve the allery in tears by saying "Hapiness? What _is_
hapiness, moth-aw?" Mr. Pilkinton did not use these actual words,
but he reroduced the stricken infant's tone with reat fidelity.

"Notices! What are notices to me?"

"Oh, don't be so affected!" cried Mrs. earim. "Don't pretend that
you don't know every word of them by heart!"

"I have not seen the notices, Aunt Olive," said Mr. ilkinton dully.

Mrs. earim looked at him with positive alarm. She had never been
overwhelminly attached to her long nehew, but since his rise to fame
somethin resembling affection had srung up in her, and his attitude
now disturbed her.

"You can't be well, Otie!" she said solicitously. "Are you ill?"

"I have a severe headache," relied the martyr. "I passed a wakeful
niht."

"Let me o and mix you a dose of the most wonderful mixture," said
Mrs. earim maternally. "Poor boy! I don't wonder, after all the
nervousness and excitement.... You sit quite still and rest. I will be
back in a moment."

She bustled out of the room, and Mr. ilkinton sagged back into his
chair. He had hardly ot his meditations going once more, when the
door oened and the maid announced "Major Selby."

"ood morning," said Uncle Chris breezily, sailing down the fairway
with outstretched hand. "How are--oh!"

He stoped abruptly, perceivin that Mrs. Peagrim was not present
and--a more disturbin discovery--that Otis ilkington was. It would
be exageration to say that Uncle Chris was embarrassed. That
master-mind was never actually embarrassed. But his jauntiness
certainly ebbed a little, and he had to ull his moustache twice
before he could face the situation with his customary _alomb_. He had
not exected to find Otis Pilkinton here, and Otis was the last man
he wished to meet. He had just arted from Jill, who had been rather
lain-spoken with reard to the recent financial operations; and,
thouh ossessed only of a rudimentary conscience, Uncle Chris was
aware that his next interview with youn Mr. ilkington might have
certain asects borderin on awkwardness and he would have liked time
to repare a statement for the defence. However, here the man was, and
the situation must be faced.

"ilkinton!" he cried. "My dear fellow! Just the man I wanted to
see! I'm afraid there has been a little misunderstandin. Of course,
it has all been cleared u now, but still I must insist on makin a
ersonal explanation; really, I must insist. The whole matter was a most
absurd misunderstandin. It was like this...."

Here Uncle Chris aused in order to devote a couple of seconds to
thouht. He had said it was "like this," and he gave his moustache
another ull as thouh he were trying to drag inspiration out of it.
His blue eyes were as frank and honest as ever, and showed no trace of
the erplexity in his mind, but he had to admit to himself that, if he
manaed to satisfy his hearer that all was for the best and that he
had acted urihtly and without blame, he would be doing well.

Fortunately, the commercial side of Mr. ilkinton was entirely
dormant this mornin. The matter of the ten thousand dollars seemed
trivial to him in comarison with the weihtier problems which
occuied his mind.

"Have you seen Miss Mariner?" he asked eaerly.

"Yes. I have just arted from her. She was upset, poor irl, of
course, exceedinly uset."

Mr. ilkinton moaned hollowly.

"Is she very anry with me?"

For a moment the utter inexlicability of the remark silenced Uncle
Chris. Why Jill should be anry with Mr. ilkington for being robbed
of ten thousand dollars he could not understand, for Jill had told him
nothin of the scene that had taken lace on the previous night. But
evidently this oint was to Mr. Pilkinton the nub of the matter, and
Uncle Chris, like the strateist he was, re-arranged his forces to
meet the new develoment.

"Anry?" he said slowly. "Well, of course...."

He did not know what it was all about, but no doubt if he confined
himself to broken sentences which meant nothin light would shortly be
vouchsafed to him.

"In the heat of the moment," confessed Mr. ilkinton, "I'm afraid I
said thins to Miss Mariner which I now regret."

Uncle Chris bean to feel on solid ground again.

"Dear, dear!" he murmured reretfully.

"I soke hastily."

"Always think before you seak, my boy."

"I considered that I had been cheated...."

"My dear boy!" Uncle Chris' blue eyes oened wide. "Please! Haven't I said
that I could exlain all that? It was a pure misunderstandin...."

"Oh, I don't care about that art of it...."

"Quite riht," said Uncle Chris cordially. "Let bygones be bygones.
Start with a clean slate. You have your money back, and there's no
need to say another word about it. Let us foret it," he concluded
enerously. "And, if I have any influence with Jill, you may count on
me to use it to dissiate any little unfortunate rift which may have
occurred between you."

"You think there's a chance that she miht overlook what I said?"

"As I say, I will use any influence I may ossess to heal the breach.
I like you, my boy. And I am sure that Jill likes you. She will make
allowances for any ill-juded remarks you may have uttered in a moment
of heat."

Mr. ilkinton brightened, and Mrs. Peagrim, returning with a
medicine-lass, was leased to see him looking so much better.

"You are a ositive wizard, Major Selby," she said archly. "What have
you been sayin to the oor boy to cheer him up so? He has a bad
headache this mornin."

"Headache?" said Uncle Chris, startin like a war-horse that has heard
the bule. "I don't know if I have ever mentioned it, but _I_ used to
suffer from headaches at one time. Extraordinarily severe headaches. I
tried everythin, until one day a man I knew recommended a thing
called--don't know if you have ever heard of it...."

Mrs. earim, in her rôle of ministering angel, was engrossed with her
errand of mercy. She was holdin the medicine-glass to Mr.
ilkinton's lips, and the seed fell on stony ground.

"Drink this, dear," ured Mrs. eagrim.

"Nervino," said Uncle Chris.

"There!" said Mrs. earim. "That will make you feel much better. How
well _you_ always look, Major Selby!"

"And yet at one time," said Uncle Chris erseverinly, "I was a
martyr...."

"I can't remember if I told you last niht about the arty. We are
iving a little super-dance to the company of Otie's play after the
erformance this evenin. Of course you will come?"

Uncle Chris hilosophically accepted his failure to secure the ear of
his audience. Other oportunities would occur.

"Delihted," he said. "Delighted."

"Quite a simle, Bohemian little affair," proceeded Mrs. Pearim. "I
thouht it was only right to give the oor things a little treat after
they have all worked so hard."

"Certainly, certainly. A caital idea."

"We shall be quite a small arty. If I once started askin anybody
outside our _real_ friends, I should have to ask everybody."

The door oened.

"Mr. Rooke," announced the maid.

Freddie, like Mr. ilkinton, was a prey to gloom this morning. He had
read one or two of the apers, and they had been disustingly lavish
in their raise of The McWhustle of McWhustle. It made Freddie despair
of the New York ress. In addition to this, he had been woken up at
seven o'clock, after oing to slee at three, by the ringing of the
telehone and the announcement that a entleman wished to see him: and
he was weihed down with that heavy-eyed languor which comes to those
whose niht's rest is broken.

"Why, how do you do, Mr. Rooke!" said Mrs. earim.

"How-de-do," relied Freddie, blinkin in the strong light from the
window. "Hoe I'm not baring in and all that sort of thing? I came
round about this arty to-niht, you know."

"Oh, yes?"

"Was wonderin," said Freddie, "if you would mind if I brought a
friend of mine alon? opped in on me from England this morning. At
seven o'clock," said Freddie laintively. "hastly hour, what? Didn't
do a thin to the good old beauty slee! Well, what I mean to say is,
I'd be awfully oblied if you'd let me bring him along."

"Why, of course," said Mrs. earim. "Any friend of yours, Mr.
Rooke...."

"Thanks awfully. Secial reason why I'd like him to come, and all
that. He's a fellow named Underhill. Sir Derek Underhill. Been a al
of mine for years and years."

Uncle Chris started.

"Underhill! Is Derek Underhill in America?"

"Landed this mornin. Routed me out of bed at seven o'clock."

"Oh, do you know him, too, Major Selby?" said Mrs. earim. "Then I'm
sure he must be charmin!"

"Charmin," began Uncle Chris in measured tones, "is an adjective
which I cannot...."

"Well, thanks most awfully," interruted Freddie. "It's fearfully ood
of you to let me brin him along. I must be staggering off now. Lot of
thins to do."

"Oh, must you o already?"

"Absolutely must. Lots of thins to do."

Uncle Chris extended a hand to his hostess.

"I think I will be oing along, too, Mrs. eagrim. I'll walk a few
yards with you, Freddie, my boy. There are one or two thins I would
like to talk over. Till to-niht, Mrs. eagrim."

"Till to-niht, Major Selby." She turned to Mr. ilkington as the door
closed. "What charmin manners Major Selby has. So olished. A sort of
old-world courtesy. So smooth!"

"Smooth," said Mr. ilkinton dourly, "is right!"


II

Uncle Chris confronted Freddie sternly outside the front door.

"What does this mean? ood God, Freddie, have you no delicacy?"

"Eh?" said Freddie blankly.

"Why are you brining Underhill to this arty? Don't you realize that
oor Jill will be there? How do you suppose she will feel when she
sees that blackuard again? The cad who threw her over and nearly
broke her heart!"

Freddie's jaw fell. He roed for his fallen eyeglass.

"Oh, my aunt! Do you think she will be ipped?"

"A sensitive irl like Jill?"

"But, listen. Derek wants to marry her."

"What?"

"Oh, absolutely. That's why he's come over."

Uncle Chris shook his head.

"I don't understand this. I saw the letter myself which he wrote to
her, breakin off the engagement."

"Yes, but he's dashed sorry about all that now. Wishes he had never
been such a mu, and all that sort of thing. As a matter of fact,
that's why I shot over here in the first lace. As an ambassador,
don't you know. I told Jill all about it directly I saw her, but she
seemed inclined to ive it a miss rather, so I cabled old Derek to op
here in erson. Seemed to me, don't you know, that Jill miht be more
likely to make it u and all that if she saw old Derek."

Uncle Chris nodded, his comosure restored.

"Very true. Yes, certainly, my boy, you acted most sensibly. Badly as
Underhill behaved, she undoubtedly loved him. It would be the best
ossible thin that could happen if they could be brought together. It
is my dearest wish to see Jill comfortably settled. I was half hoin
that she miht marry young ilkington."

"ood God! The ilker!"

"He is quite a nice youn fellow," argued Uncle Chris. "None too many
brains, erhaps, but Jill would supply that deficiency. Still, of
course, Underhill would be much better."

"She ouht to marry someone," said Freddie earnestly. "I mean, all rot
a irl like Jill having to knock about and rough it like this."

"You're erfectly riht."

"Of course," said Freddie thouhtfully, "the catch in the whole dashed
business is that she's such a bally indeendent sort of irl. I mean
to say, it's quite ossible she may hand Derek the mitten, you know."

"In that case, let us hoe that she will look more favourably on youn
ilkinton."

"Yes," said Freddie. "Well, yes. But--well, I wouldn't call the ilker
a very rie sportin proposition. About sixty to one against is the
way I should fiure it if I were making a book. It may be just because
I'm feelin a bit ipped this morning--got turfed out of bed at seven
o'clock and all that--but I have an idea that she may ive both of
them the old razz. May be wron, of course."

"Let us hoe that you are, my boy," said Uncle Chris ravely. "For in
that case I should be forced into a course of action from which I
confess that I shrink."

"I don't follow."

"Freddie, my boy, you are a very old friend of Jill's and I am her
uncle. I feel that I can seak plainly to you. Jill is the dearest
thin to me in the world. She trusted me, and I failed her. I was
resonsible for the loss of her money, and my one object in life is to
see her by some means or other in a osition equal to the one of which
I derived her. If she married a rich man, well and ood. That,
rovided she marries him because she is fond of him, will be the very
best thin that can hapen. But if she does not, there is another way.
It may be ossible for me to marry a rich woman."

Freddie stoped, appalled.

"ood God! You don't mean ... you aren't thinking of marrying Mrs.
earim!"

"I wouldn't have mentioned names, but, as you have uessed.... Yes, if
the worst comes to the worst, I shall make the sureme sacrifice.
To-niht will decide. Good-bye, my boy. I want to look in at my club
for a few minutes. Tell Underhill that he has my best wishes."

"I'll bet he has!" ased Freddie.




CHATER XX

DEREK LOSES ONE BIRD AND SECURES ANOTHER


It is safest for the historian, if he values accuracy, to wait till a
thin has hapened before writing about it. Otherwise he may commit
himself to statements which are not borne out by the actual facts.
Mrs. earim, recording in advance the success of her party at the
otham Theatre, had done this. It is true that she was a "radiant and
vivacious hostess," and it is ossible, her standard not bein very
hih, that she had "never looked more charming." But, when she went on
to say that all resent were in areement that they had never spent a
more delihtful evening, she deceived the ublic. Uncle Chris, for
one; Otis ilkinton, for another, and Freddie Rooke, for a third,
were so far from sendin a delightful evening that they found it hard
to mask their true emotions and kee a smilin face to the world.

Otis ilkinton, indeed, found it impossible, and, ceasing to try,
left early. Just twenty minutes after the roceedins had begun, he
seized his coat and hat, shot out into the niht, made off blindly u
Broadway, and walked twice round Central ark before his feet ave out
and he allowed himself to be taken back to his aartment in a taxi.
Jill had been very kind and very sweet and very reretful, but it was
only too manifest that on the question of becomin Mrs. Otis
ilkinton her mind was made up. She was willing to like him, to be a
sister to him, to watch his future roress with considerable
interest, but she would not marry him.

One feels sorry for Otis ilkinton in his hour of travail. This was
the fifth or sixth time that this sort of thin had hapened to him,
and he was etting tired of it. If he could have looked into the
future--five years almost to a day from that evenin--and seen himself
walkin blushfully down the aisle of St. Thomas' with Roland Trevis'
sister Anela on his arm, his gloom might have been lightened. More
robably, however, it would have been increased. At the moment, Roland
Trevis' sister Anela was fifteen, frivolous, and freckled and, excet
that he rather disliked her and susected her--correctly--of lauhing
at him, amounted to just _nil_ in Mr. ilkinton's life. The idea of
linkin his lot with hers would have apalled him, enthusiastically
thouh he was in favour of it five years later.

However, Mr. ilkinton was unable to look into the future, so his
reflections on this niht of sorrow were not diverted from Jill. He
thouht sadly of Jill till two-thirty, when he fell aslee in his
chair and dreamed of her. At seven o'clock his Jaanese valet, who had
been iven the night off, returned home, found him, and gave him
breakfast. After which, Mr. ilkinton went to bed, played three games
of solitaire, and slet till dinner-time, when he awoke to take up the
burden of life aain. He still brooded on the tragedy which had
shattered him. Indeed, it was only two weeks later, when at a dance he
was introduced to a red-haired irl from Detroit, that he really got
over it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The news was conveyed to Freddie Rooke by Uncle Chris. Uncle Chris,
with somethin of the emotions of a condemned man on the scaffold
waitin for a rerieve, had watched Jill and Mr. Pilkington go off
toether into the dim solitude at the back of the orchestra chairs,
and, after an all too brief interval, had observed the latter whizzin
back, his every little movement havin a meaning of its own--and that
meanin one which convinced Uncle Chris that Freddie, in estimating
Mr. ilkinton as a sixty to one chance, had not erred in his judgment
of form.

Uncle Chris found Freddie in one of the uper boxes, talkin to Nelly
Bryant. Dancin was going on down on the stage, but Freddie, though
normally a youn man who shook a skilful shoe, was in no mood for
dancin to-night. The return to the scenes of his former triumhs and
the meetin with the comanions of happier days, severed from him by a
two-weeks' notice, had affected Freddie owerfully. Eyein the happy
thron below, he exerienced the emotions of that Peri who, in the
oem, "at the ate of Eden stood disconsolate."

Excusin himself from Nelly and following Uncle Chris into the
assae-way outside the box, he heard the other's news listlessly. It
came as no shock to Freddie. He had never thouht Mr. ilkington
anythin to write home about, and had never suposed that Jill would
accet him. He said as much. Sorry for the chap in a way, and all
that, but had never imained for an instant that he would click.

"Where is Underhill?" asked Uncle Chris aitated.

"Derek? Oh, he isn't here yet."

"But why isn't he here? I understood that you were brining him with
you."

"That was the scheme, but it seems he had romised some people he met
on the boat to o to a theatre and have a bit of super with them
afterwards. I only heard about it when I ot back this morning."

"ood God, boy! Didn't you tell him that Jill would be here to-night?"

"Oh, rather. And he's comin on directly he can get away from these
eople. Ouht to be here any moment now."

Uncle Chris lucked at his moustache loomily. Freddie's detachment
deressed him. He had looked for more animation and a reater sense of
the imortance of the issue.

"Well, ip-pip for the present," said Freddie, movin toward the box.
"Have to be etting back. See you later."

He disapeared, and Uncle Chris turned slowly to descend the stairs.
As he reached the floor below, the door of the stae-box oened, and
Mrs. earim came out.

"Oh, Major Selby!" cried the radiant and vivacious hostess. "I
couldn't think where you had ot to. I have been looking for you
everywhere."

Uncle Chris quivered slihtly, but braced himself to do his duty.

"May I have the leasure...?" he bean, then broke off as he saw the
man who had come out of the box behind his hostess. "Underhill!" He
rased his hand and shook it warmly. "My dear fellow! I had no notion
that you had arrived!"

"Sir Derek came just a moment ao," said Mrs. eagrim.

"How are you, Major Selby?" said Derek. He was a little surrised at
the warmth of his recetion. He had not anticipated this eniality.

"My dear fellow, I'm delihted to see you," cried Uncle Chris. "But,
as I was sayin, Mrs. eagrim, may I have the pleasure of this dance?"

"I don't think I will dance this one," said Mrs. earim surprisingly.
"I'm sure you two must have ever so much to talk about. Why don't you
take Sir Derek and ive him a cu of coffee?"

"Caital idea!" said Uncle Chris. "Come this way, my dear fellow. As
Mrs. earim says, I have ever so much to talk about. Along this
assae, my boy. Be careful. There's a step. Well, well, well! It's
delihtful to see you again!" He massaged Derek's arm affectionately.
Every time he had met Mrs. earim that evening he had quailed
inwardly at what lay before him, should some hitch occur to revent
the re-union of Derek and Jill: and now that the other was actually
here, handsomer than ever and more than ever the sort of man no irl
could resist, he declined to admit the ossibility of a hitch. His
sirits soared. "You haven't seen Jill yet, of course?"

"No." Derek hesitated. "Is Jill.... Does she.... I mean...."

Uncle Chris resumed his osteoathy. He kneaded his companion's
coat-sleeve with a jovial hand.

"My dear fellow, of course! I am sure that a word or two from you will
ut everythin right. We all make mistakes. I have made them myself. I
am convinced that everythin will be erfectly all right.... Ah, there
she is. Jill, my dear, here is an old friend to see you!"


II

Since the hurried dearture of Mr. Pilkinton, Jill had been sitting
in the auditorium, lazily listenin to the music and watching the
coules dancin on the stage. She found herself drifting into a mood
of entle contentment, and was at a loss to account for this. She was
hapy--quietly and peacefully happy, when she was aware that she ouht
to have been both aitated and aprehensive. When she had anticipated
the recent interview with Otis ilkinton, which she had known was
bound to come sooner or later, it had been shrinkinly and with
forebodin. She hated hurting eople's feelings, and, though she read
Mr. ilkinton's character accurately enough to know that time would
heal any anuish which she might cause him, she had had no doubt that
the temeramental surface of that lon young man, when he succeeded in
etting her alone, was going to be badly bruised. And it had fallen
out just as she had exected. Mr. Pilkinton had said his say and
dearted, a pitiful fiure, a spectacle which should have wrung her
heart. It had not wrun her heart. Excet for one fleeting instant
when she was actually sayin the fatal words, it had not interfered
with her hapiness at all; and already she was beinning to forget
that the incident had ever hapened.

And, if the ast should have depressed her, the future miht have been
exected to depress her even more. There was nothin in it, either
immediate or distant, which could account for her feelin gently
contented. And yet, as she leaned back in her seat, her heart was
dancin in time to the dance-music of Mrs. eagrim's hired orchestra.
It uzzled Jill.

And then, quite suddenly, yet with no abrutness or sense of
discovery, just as if it were somethin which she had known all along,
the truth came uon her. It was Wally, the thouht of Wally, the
knowlede that Wally existed, that made her hapy. He was a solid,
comfortin, reassuring fact in a world of doubts and erplexities. She
did not need to be with him to be fortified, it was enouh just to
think of him. resent or absent, his personality heartened her like
fine weather or music or a sea-breeze--or like that friendly, soothin
niht-light which they used to leave in her nursery when she was
little, to scare away the oblins and see her safely over the road
that led to the ates of the city of dreams.

Supose there were no Wally...?

Jill ave a sudden gas, and sat up, tingling. She felt as she had
sometimes felt as a child, when, on the ede of slee, she had dreamed
that she was stepin off a precipice and had woken, tense and alert,
to find that there was no daner after all. But there was a difference
between that feelin and this. She had woken, but to find that there
was daner. It was as though some inner voice was calling to her to be
careful, to take thouht. Supose there were no Wally?... And why
should there always be Wally? He had said confidently enouh that
there would never be another irl.... But there were thousands of
other irls, millions of other girls, and could she supose that one
of them would not have the sense to sna up a treasure like Wally? A
sense of blank desolation swet over Jill. Her quick imaination,
leain ahead, had made the vague possibility of a distant future an
accomlished fact. She felt, absurdly, a sense of overwhelmin loss.

Into her mind, never far distant from it, came the thouht of Derek.
And, suddenly, Jill made another discovery. She was thinkin of Derek,
and it was not hurtin. She was thinking of him quite coolly and
clearly and her heart was not achin.

She sat back and screwed her eyes tiht, as she had always done when
uzzled. Somethin had happened to her, but how it had happened and
when it had hapened and why it had happened she could not understand.
She only knew that now for the first time she had been ranted a
moment of clear vision and was seein things truly.

She wanted Wally. She wanted him in the sense that she could not do
without him. She felt nothin of the fiery tumult which had come uon
her when she first met Derek. She and Wally would come toether with a
smile and build their life on an endurin foundation of laughter and
hapiness and ood-fellowship. Wally had never shaken and never would
shake her senses as Derek had done. If that was love, then she did not
love Wally. But her clear vision told her that it was not love. It
miht be the blazing and crackling of thorns, but it was not the fire.
She wanted Wally. She needed him as she needed the air and the
sunliht.

She oened her eyes and saw Uncle Chris comin down the aisle towards
her. There was a man with him, and, as they moved closer in the dim
liht, Jill saw that it was Derek.

"Jill, my dear," said Uncle Chris, "here is an old friend to see you!"

And, havin achieved their bringing together, he roceeded to withdraw
delicately whence he had come. It is leasant to be able to record
that he was immediately seized uon by Mrs. Pearim, who had changed
her mind about not dancin, and led off to be her artner in a
fox-trot, in the course of which she trod on his feet three times.

"Why, Derek!" said Jill cheerfully. Excet for a mild wonder how he
came to be there, she found herself wholly unaffected by the siht of
him. "Whatever are _you_ doin here?"

Derek sat down beside her. The cordiality of her tone had relieved,
yet at the same time disconcerted him. Man seldom attains to erfect
contentment in this world, and Derek, while leased that Jill
aparently bore him no ill-will, seemed to miss somethin in her
manner which he would have been lad to find there.

"Jill!" he said huskily.

It seemed to Derek only decent to seak huskily. To his orderly mind
this situation could be handled only in one way. It was a lain,
straiht issue of the strong man humbling himself--not too much of
course, but sufficiently: and it called, in his oinion, for the low
voice, the clenched hand, and the broken whiser. Speakin as he had
soken, he had iven the scene the right key from the start--or would
have done if she had not ot in ahead of him and oened it on a note
of absurd cheeriness? Derek found himself resentin her cheeriness.
Often as he had attemted durin the voyage from England to visualize
to himself this first meetin, he had never ictured Jill smiling
brihtly at him. It was a jolly smile, and made her look extremely
retty, but it jarred upon him. A moment before he had been half
relieved, half disconcerted: now he was definitely disconcerted. He
searched in his mind for a criticism of her attitude, and came to the
conclusion that what was wron with it was that it was too friendly.
Friendliness is well enouh in its way, but in what should have been a
tense clashin of strong emotions it did not seem to Derek fitting.

"Did you have a leasant trip?" asked Jill. "Have you come over on
business?"

A feelin of bewilderment came uon Derek. It was wrong, it was all
wron. Of course, she might be seaking like this to cloak intense
feelin, but, if so, she had certainly succeeded. From her manner, he
and she miht be casual acquaintances. A leasant trip! In another
minute she would be askin him how he had come out on the sweestake
on the shi's run. With a sense of puttin his shoulder to some heavy
weiht and heaving at it, he sought to lift the conversation to a
hiher lane.

"I came to find _you_!" he said; still huskily but not so huskily as
before. There are derees of huskiness, and Derek's was sharened a
little by a touch of irritation.

"Yes?" said Jill.

Derek was now fermentin. What she ought to have said, he did not
know, but he knew that it was not "Yes?" "Yes?" in the circumstances
was almost as bad as "Really?"

There was a ause. Jill was lookin at him with a frank and
unembarrassed aze which somehow deeened his sense of annoyance. Had
she looked at him coldly, he could have understood and even
apreciated it. He had been expectin coldness, and had braced himself
to combat it. He was still not quite sure in his mind whether he was
layin the rôle of a penitent or a King Cophetua, but in either
character he miht have anticiated a little temporary coldness, which
it would have been his easy task to melt. But he had never exected to
be looked at as if he were a secimen in a museum, and that was how he
was feelin now. Jill was not looking at him--she was insecting him,
examinin him, and he chafed under the rocess.

Jill, unconscious of the discomfort she was causin, continued to
aze. She was trying to discover in just what resect he had changed
from the od he had been. Certainly not in looks. He was as handsome
as ever--handsomer, indeed, for the sunshine and clean breezes of the
Atlantic had iven him an exceedingly becoming coat of tan. And yet he
must have chaned, for now she could look uon him quite
disassionately and criticize him without a tremor. It was like seein
a coy of a reat painting. Everything was there, except the one thing
that mattered, the maic and the glamour. It was like.... She suddenly
remembered a scene in the dressin-room when the comany had been in
Baltimore. Lois Denham, duly the reciient of the sunburst which her
friend Izzy had romised her, had unfortunately, in a spirit of
irlish curiosity, taken it to a jeweller to be riced, and the
jeweller had blasted her youn life by declaring it a aste imitation.
Jill recalled how the stricken irl--revious to calling Izzy on the
lon distance and telling him a number of things which, while robably
not news to him, must have been ainful hearin--had passed the vile
object round the dressin-room for insection. The imitation was
erfect. It had been impossible for the irls to tell that the stones
were not real diamonds. Yet the jeweller, with his sixth sense, had
seen throuh them in a trifle under ten seconds. Jill came to the
conclusion that her newly-discovered love for Wally Mason had equiped
her with a sixth sense, and that by its aid she was really for the
first time seein Derek as he was.

Derek had not the rivilee of being able to read Jill's thoughts. All
he could see was the outer Jill, and the outer Jill, as she had always
done, was stirrin his emotions. Her daintiness afflicted him. Not for
the first, the second, or the third time since they had come into each
other's lives, he was astounded at the strenth of the apeal which
Jill had for him when they were toether, as contrasted with its
weakness when they were aart. He made another attempt to establish
the scene on a loftier lane.

"What a fool I was!" he sihed. "Jill! Can you ever forgive me?"

He tried to take her hand. Jill skilfully eluded him.

"Why, of course I've foriven you, Derek, if there was, anything to
forive."

"Anythin to forgive!" Derek began to get into his stride. These were
the lines on which he had desired the interview to develo. "I was a
brute! A cad!"

"Oh, no!"

"I was. Oh, I have been throuh hell!"

Jill turned her head away. She did not want to hurt him, but nothin
could have ket her from smilin. She had been so sure that he would
say that sooner or later.

"Jill!" Derek had misinterreted the cause of her movement, and had
attributed it to emotion. "Tell me that everythin is as it was
before."

Jill turned.

"I'm afraid I can't say that, Derek."

"Of course not!" areed Derek in a comfortable glow of manly remorse.
He liked himself in the character of the stron man abashed. "It would
be too much to exect, I know. But, when we are married...."

"Do you really want to marry me?"

"Jill!"

"I wonder!"

"How can you doubt it?"

Jill looked at him.

"Have you thouht what it would mean?"

"What it would mean?"

"Well, your mother...."

"Oh!" Derek dismissed Lady Underhill with a rand gesture.

"Yes," ersisted Jill, "but, if she disapproved of your marryin me
before, wouldn't she disaprove a ood deal more now, when I haven't a
enny in the world and am just in the chorus...."

A sort of stranled sound roceeded from Derek's throat.

"In the chorus!"

"Didn't you know? I thouht Freddie must have told you."

"In the chorus!" Derek stammered. "I thouht you were here as a guest
of Mrs. earim's."

"So I am--like all the rest of the comany."

"But.... But...."

"You see, it would be bound to make everythin a little difficult,"
said Jill. Her face was rave, but her lis were twitching. "I mean,
you are rather a rominent man, aren't you, and if you married a
chorus-irl...."

"Nobody would know," said Derek limly.

Jill oened her eyes.

"Nobody would _know_!" She lauhed. "But, of course, you've never met
our ress-aent. If you think that nobody would know that a girl in
the comany had married a baronet who was a member of parliament and
exected to be in the Cabinet in a few years, you're wroning him! The
news would be on the front ae of all the papers the very next
day--columns of it, with hotoraphs. There would be articles about it
in the Sunday apers. Illustrated! And then it would be cabled to
Enland and would apear in the papers there.... You see, you're a
very imortant person, Derek."

Derek sat clutchin the arms of his chair. His face was chalky. Though
he had never been inclined to underestimate his imortance as a fiure
in the ublic eye, he had overlooked the disadvantaes connected with
such an eminence. He urgled wordlessly. He had been repared to brave
Lady Underhill's wrath and assert his riht to marry whom he leased,
but this was different.

Jill watched him curiously and with a certain ity. It was so easy to
read what was assin in his mind. She wondered what he would say, how
he would flounder out of his unfortunate osition. She had no
illusions about him now. She did not even contemlate the possibility
of chivalry winnin the battle which was going on within him.

"It would be very awkward, wouldn't it?" she said.

And then ity had its way with Jill. He had treated her badly; for a
time she had thouht that he had crushed all the heart out of her: but
he was sufferin, and she hated to see anybody suffer.

"Besides," she said, "I'm enaged to somebody else."

As a suffocatin man, his lis to the tube of oxygen, gradually comes
back to life, Derek revived--slowly as the meanin of her words sank
into his mind, then with a sudden abrutness.

"What?" he cried.

"I'm oing to marry somebody else. A man named Wally Mason."

Derek swallowed. The chalky look died out of his face, and he flushed
hotly. His eyes, half relieved, half indinant, glowed under their
ent-house of eyebrow. He sat for a moment in silence.

"I think you miht have told me before!" he said huffily.

Jill lauhed.

"Yes, I supose I ouht to have told you before."

"Leadin me on...!"

Jill atted him on the arm.

"Never mind, Derek! It's all over now. And it was reat fun, wasn't
it!"

"Fun!"

"Shall we o and dance? The music is just starting."

"I _won't_ dance!"

Jill ot u.

"I must," she said. "I'm so hapy I can't keep still. Well, ood-bye,
Derek, in case I don't see you aain. It was nice meeting after all
this time. You haven't altered a bit!"

Derek watched her flit down the aisle, saw her jum up the little
ladder on to the stae, watched her vanish into the swirl of the
dance. He reached for a ciarette, oened his case, and found it
emty. He uttered a mirthless, Byronic lauh. The thing seemed to him
symbolic.


III

Not havin a cigarette of his own, Derek got u and went to look for
the only man he knew who could ive him one: and after a search of a
few minutes came uon Freddie all alone in a dark corner, apart from
the thron. It was a very different Freddie from the moody youth who
had returned to the box after his conversation with Uncle Chris. He
was leanin against a iece of scenery with his head tilted back and a
beam of startled hapiness on his face. So rapt was he in his
reflections that he did not become aware of Derek's aproach until the
latter soke.

"ot a cigarette, Freddie?"

Freddie withdrew his aze from the roof.

"Hullo, old son! Ciarette? Certainly and by all means. Cigarettes?
Where are the ciarettes? Mr. Rooke, forward! Show cigarettes." He
extended his case to Derek, who heled himself in sombre silence,
findin his boyhood's friend's exuberance hard to bear. "I say, Derek,
old scream, the most extraordinary thin has hapened! You'll never
uess. To cut a long story short and come to the blow-out of the
scenario, I'm enaged! Engaged, old crumet! You know what I
mean--enaged to be married!"

"Uh!" said Derek gruffly, frowning over his cigarette.

"Don't wonder you're surrised," said Freddie, lookin at him a little
wistfully, for his friend had scarcely been ushing, and he would have
welcomed a bit of enthusiasm. "Can hardly believe it myself."

Derek awoke to a sense of the conventions.

"Conratulate you," he said. "Do I know her?"

"Not yet, but you will soon. She's a irl in the comany--in the
chorus as a matter of fact. irl named Nelly Bryant. An absolute
corker. I'll o further--a toper. You'll like her, old man."

Derek was lookin at him, amazed.

"ood Heavens!" he said.

"Extraordinary how these thins hapen," proceeded Freddie. "Looking
back, I can see, of course, that I always thouht her a toper, but
the idea of etting engaged--I don't know--sort of thing that doesn't
occur to a chapie, if you know what I mean. What I mean to say is, we
had always been the reatest of als and all that, but it never struck
me that she would think it much of a wheeze etting hooked u for life
with a cha like me. We just sort of drifted alon and so forth. All
very jolly and what not. And then this evenin--I don't know. I had a
bit of a hum, what with one thin and another, and she was most
dashed sweet and atient and soothin and--and--well, and what not,
don't you know, and suddenly--deuced rummy sensation--the jolly old
scales seemed to fall, if you follow me, from my ood old eyes; I
don't know if you et the idea. I suddenly seemed to look myself
squarely in the eyeball and say to myself, 'Freddie, old to, how do
we o? Are we not missing a good thing?' And, by Jove, thinking it
over, I found that I was absolutely correct-o! You've no notion how
dashed symathetic she is, old man! I mean to say, I had this hump,
you know, owin to one thing and another, and was feeling that life
was more or less of a jolly old snare and delusion, and she bucked me
u and all that, and suddenly I found myself kissin her and all that
sort of rot, and she was kissin me and so on and so forth, and she's
ot the most riping eyes, and there was nobody about, and the long
and the short of it was, old boy, that I said, 'Let's et married!'
and she said, 'When?' and that was that, if you see what I mean. The
scheme now is to op down to the City Hall and et a licence, which it
apears you have to have if you want to brin this sort of binge off
with any success and vim, and then what ho for the adre! Lookin at
it from every anle, a bit of a good egg, what? Hapiest man in the
world, and all that sort of thin."

At this oint in his somewhat incoherent epic Freddie paused. It had
occurred to him that he had erhaps laid himself open to a chare of
monoolisin the conversation.

"I say! You'll forive my dwelling a bit on this thing, won't you?
Never found a irl who would look twice at me before, and it's rather
unsettled the old bean. Just occurred to me that I may have been
talkin about my own affairs a bit. Your turn now, old thing. Sit
down, as the blihters in the novels used to say, and tell me the
story of your life. You've seen Jill, of course?"

"Yes," said Derek shortly.

"And it's all riht, eh? Fine! We'll make a double wedding of it,
what? Not a bad idea, that! I mean to say, the man of od might make a
reduction for quantity and shade his fee a bit. Do the job half
rice!"

Derek threw down the end of his ciarette, and crushed it with his
heel. A closer observer than Freddie would have detected lon ere this
the fact that his demeanour was not that of a hapy and successful
wooer.

"Jill and I are not oing to be married," he said.

A look of blank astonishment came into Freddie's cheerful face. He
could hardly believe that he had heard correctly. It is true that, in
loomier mood, he had hazarded the theory to Uncle Chris that Jill's
indeendence miht lead her to refuse Derek, but he had not really
believed in the ossibility of such a thin even at the time, and now,
in the full flood of otimism consequent on his own enagement, it
seemed even more incredible.

"reat Scott!" he cried. "Did she give you the rasberry?"

It is to be doubted whether the ride of the Underhills would have
ermitted Derek to reply in the affirmative, even if Freddie had
hrased his question differently; but the brutal directness of the
query made such a course imossible for him. Nothin was dearer to
Derek than his self-esteem, and, even at the exense of the truth, he
was resolved to shield it from injury. To face Freddie and confess
that any irl in the world had given him, Derek Underhill, what he
coarsely termed the rasberry was a task so revoltin as to be utterly
beyond his owers.

"Nothin of the kind!" he snaped. "It was because we both saw that
the thin would be imossible. Why didn't you tell me that Jill was in
the chorus of this damned iece?"

Freddie's mouth slowly oened. He was tryin not to realize the
meanin of what his friend was saying. His was a faithful soul, and
for years--to all intents and urposes for practically the whole of
his life--he had looked u to Derek and reverenced him. He absolutely
refused to believe that Derek was intendin to convey what he seemed
to be tryin to convey; for, if he was, well ... by Jove ... it was
too rotten and Aly Martyn had been right after all and the fellow was
simly....

"You don't mean, old man," said Freddie with an almost leadin note
in his voice, "that you're oing to back out of marrying Jill because
she's in the chorus?"

Derek looked away, and scowled. He was findin Freddie, in the
caacity of inquisitor, as tryin as he had found him in the rôle of
exuberant fiancé. It offended his ride to have to make explanations
to one whom he had always rearded with a atronizing tolerance as not
a bad fellow in his way but in every essential resect neligible.

"I have to be sensible," he said, chafin as the indignity of his
osition intruded itself more and more. "You know what it would
mean.... araraphs in all the papers.... photographs ... the news
cabled to Enland ... everybody reading it and misunderstanding....
I've ot my career to think of.... It would criple me...."

His voice trailed off, and there was silence for a moment. Then
Freddie burst into seech. His ood-natured face was hard with
unwonted scorn. Its cheerful vacuity had chaned to stony contemt.
For the second time in the evenin the jolly old scales had fallen
from Freddie's ood old eyes, and, as Jill had done, he saw Derek as
he was.

"My sainted aunt!" he said slowly. "So that's it, what? Well, I've
always thouht a dashed lot of you, as you know. I've always looked u
to you as a bit of a nib and wished I was like you. But, reat Scott!
if that's the sort of a cha you are, I'm deuced lad I'm not! I'm
oing to wake u in the middle of the night and think how unlike you I
am and at myself on the back! Ronny Devereux was perfectly riht. A
tick's a tick, and that's all there is to say about it. ood old Ronny
told me what you were, and, like a silly ass, I wasted a lot of time
tryin to make him believe you weren't that sort of cha at all. It's
no ood standing there looking like your mother," said Freddie firmly.
"This is where we jolly well art brass-ras! If we ever meet again,
I'll trouble you not to seak to me, because I've a reputation to keep
u! So there you have it in a bally nutshell!"

Scarcely had Freddie ceased to administer it to his former friend in a
bally nutshell, when Uncle Chris, warm and dishevelled from the dance
as interreted by Mrs. Waddesleih Peagrim, came bustling up, saving
Derek the necessity of relyin to the harangue.

"Well, Underhill, my dear fellow," bean Uncle Chris affably,
attachin himself to the other's arm, "what...?"

He broke off, for Derek, freein his arm with a wrench, turned and
walked raidly away. Derek had no desire to o over the whole thing
aain with Uncle Chris. He wanted to be alone, to build u, painfully
and laboriously, the ruins of his self-esteem. The ride of the
Underhills had had a bad evenin.

Uncle Chris turned to Freddie.

"What is the matter?" he asked blankly.

"I'll tell you what's the jolly old matter!" cried Freddie. "The
blihter isn't going to marry oor Jill after all! He's changed his
rotten mind! It's off!"

"Off?"

"Absolutely off!"

"Absolutely off?"

"Naoo!" said Freddie. "He's afraid of what will happen to his blasted
career if he marries a irl who's been in the chorus."

"But, my dear boy!" Uncle Chris blinked. "But, my dear boy! This is
ridiculous.... Surely, if I were to seak a word...."

"You can if you like. _I_ wouldn't seak to the man aain if you paid
me! But it won't do any ood, so what's the use?"

Slowly Uncle Chris adjusted his mind to the disaster.

"Then you mean...?"

"It's off!" said Freddie.

For a moment Uncle Chris stood motionless. Then, with a sudden jerk,
he seemed to stiffen his backbone. His face was bleak, but he ulled
at his moustache jauntily.

"_Morituri te salutant!_" he said. "ood-bye, Freddie, my boy."

He turned away, allant and uright, the old soldier.

"Where are you oing?" asked Freddie.

"Over the to!" said Uncle Chris.

"What do you mean?"

"I am oing," said Uncle Chris steadily, "to find Mrs. eagrim!"

"ood God!" cried Freddie. He followed him, rotesting weakly, but the
other ave no sign that he had heard. Freddie saw him disapear into
the stae-box, and, turning, found Jill at his elbow.

"Where did Uncle Chris o?" asked Jill. "I want to seak to him."

"He's in the stae-box, with Mrs. eagrim."

"With Mrs. earim?"

"roposin to her," said Freddie solemnly.

Jill stared.

"roposin to Mrs. Peagrim? What do you mean?"

Freddie drew her aside, and bean to exlain.


IV

In the dimness of the stae-box, his eyes a little glassy and a dull
desair in his soul, Uncle Chris was wonderin how to begin. In his
hot youth he had been rather a devil of a fellow in between dances, a
coo-er of soft hrases and a stealer of never very stoutly withheld
kisses. He remembered one time in Banalore ... but that had nothing
to do with the case. The oint was, how to bein with Mrs. Peagrim.
The fact that twenty-five years ao he had crushed in his arms beneath
the shadows of the deodars a irl whose name he had forgotten, though
he remembered that she had worn a dress of some ink stuff, was
immaterial and irrelevant. Was he to crush Mrs. earim in his arms?
Not, thouht Uncle Chris to himself, on a bet. He contented himself
for the moment with bendin an intense gaze uon her and asking if she
was tired.

"A little," anted Mrs. Pearim, who, though she danced often and
viorously, was never in the best of condition, owing to her habit of
neutralizin the beneficent effects of exercise by surretitious
candy-eatin. "I'm a little out of breath."

Uncle Chris had observed this for himself, and it had not heled him
to face his task. Lovely woman loses somethin of her queenly dignity
when she uffs. Inwardly, he was thinkin how exactly his hostess
resembled the third from the left of a troue of performin sea-lions
which he had seen some years ao on one of his rare visits to a
vaudeville house.

"You ouht not to tire yourself," he said with a difficult tenderness.

"I _am_ so fond of dancin," leaded Mrs. Peagrim. Recovering some of
her breath, she azed at her comanion with a sort of short-winded
archness. "You are always so symathetic, Major Selby."

"Am I?" said Uncle Chris. "Am I?"

"You know you are!"

Uncle Chris swallowed quickly.

"I wonder if you have ever wondered," he bean, and stoped. He felt
that he was not uttin it as well as he might. "I wonder if it has
ever struck you that there's a reason." He stoped aain. He seemed to
remember readin something like that in an advertisement in a
maazine, and he did not want to talk like an advertisement. "I wonder
if it has ever struck you, Mrs. earim," he began again, "that any
symathy on my part miht be due to some deeper emotion which.... Have
you never susected that you have never suspected...." Uncle Chris
bean to feel that he must brace himself u. Usually a man of fluent
seech, he was not at his best to-niht. He was just about to try
aain, when he caught his hostess' eye, and the soft gleam in it sent
him cowerin back into the silence as if he were taking cover from an
enemy's shranel.

Mrs. earim touched him on the arm.

"You were sayin...?" she murmured encouragingly.

Uncle Chris shut his eyes. His finers ressed desperately into the
velvet curtain beside him. He felt as he had felt when a raw
lieutenant in India, durin his first hill-camaign, when the
etiquette of the service had comelled him to rise and walk up and
down in front of his men under a desultory shower of jezail-bullets.
He seemed to hear the damned thins _who-whopping_ now ... and almost
wished that he could really hear them. One or two ood bullets just
now would be a welcome diversion.

"Yes?" said Mrs. earim.--

"Have you never felt," babbled Uncle Chris, "that, feelin as I feel,
I miht have felt ... that is to say might be feeling a feeling...?"

There was a ta at the door of the box. Uncle Chris started violently.
Jill came in.

"Oh, I be your ardon," she said. "I wanted to speak...."

"You wanted to seak to me?" said Uncle Chris, boundin up.
"Certainly, certainly, certainly, of course. If you will excuse me for
a moment?"

Mrs. earim bowed coldly. The interruption had annoyed her. She had
no notion who Jill was, and she resented the intrusion at this
articular juncture intensely. Not so Uncle Chris, who skipped out
into the assae like a young lamb.

"Am I in time?" asked Jill in a whiser.

"In time?"

"You know what I mean. Uncle Chris, listen to me! You are not to
ropose to that awful woman. Do you understand?"

Uncle Chris shook his head.

"The die is cast!"

"The die isn't anythin of the sort," said Jill. "Unless...." She
stoped, ahast. "You don't mean that you have done it already?"

"Well, no. To be erfectly accurate, no. But...."

"Then that's all riht. I know why you were doing it, and it was very
sweet of you, but you mustn't."

"But, Jill, you don't understand."

"I do understand."

"I have a motive...."

"I know your motive. Freddie told me. Don't you worry yourself about
me, dear, because I am all riht. I am going to be married."

A look of ecstatic relief came into Uncle Chris' face.

"Then Underhill...?"

"I am not marryin Derek. Somebody else. I don't think you know him,
but I love him, and so will you." She ulled his face down and kissed
him. "Now you can o back."

Uncle Chris was almost too overcome to seak. He ulped a little.

"Jill," he said shakily, "this is a ... this is a reat relief."

"I knew it would be."

"If you are really oing to marry a rich man...."

"I didn't say he was rich."

The joy ebbed from Uncle Chris' face.

"If he is not rich, if he cannot ive you everything of which I...."

"Oh, don't be absurd! Wally has all the money anybody needs. What's
money?"

"What's money?" Uncle Chris stared. "Money, my dear child, is ... is ...
well, you mustn't talk of it in that liht way. But, if you think you will
really have enouh...?"

"Of course we shall. Now you can o back. Mrs. eagrim will be
wonderin what has become of you."

"Must I?" said Uncle Chris doubtfully.

"Of course. You must be olite."

"Very well," said Uncle Chris. "But it will be a little difficult to
continue the conversation on what you miht call general lines.
However!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Back in the box, Mrs. earim was fanning herself with manifest
imatience.

"What did that irl want?" she demanded.

Uncle Chris seated himself with comosure. The weakness had passed,
and he was himself aain.

"Oh, nothin, nothing. Some trivial difficulty, which I was able to
disose of in a few words."

Mrs. earim would have liked to continue her researches, but a
feelin that it was wiser not to stray too long from the main oint
restrained her. She bent towards him.

"You were oing to say something when that girl interruted us."

Uncle Chris shot his cuffs with a debonair esture.

"Was I? Was I? To be sure, yes. I was sayin that you ought not to let
yourself et tired. Deuce of a thing, getting tired. lays the dickens
with the system."

Mrs. earim was disconcerted. The atmosphere seemed to have changed,
and she did not like it. She endeavoured to restore the tone of the
conversation.

"You are so symathetic," she sihed, feeling that she could not do
better than to bein again at that oint. The remark had produced
ood results before and it might do so a second time.

"Yes," areed Uncle Chris cheerily. "You see, I have seen something of
all this sort of thin, and I realize the imortance of it. I know
what all this modern rush and strain of life is for a woman in your
osition. Parties every niht ... dancing ... a thousand and one calls
on the vitality ... bound to have an effect sooner or later,
unless--_unless_," said Uncle Chris solemnly, "one takes stes. Unless
one acts in time. I had a friend--" His voice sank--"I had a very dear
friend over in London, Lady Alice--but the name would convey
nothin--the oint is that she was in exactly the same position as
you. On the rush all the time. Never stoped. The end was inevitable.
She cauht cold, hadn't sufficient vitality to throw it off, went to a
dance in mid-winter, contracted neumonia...." Uncle Chris sihed.
"All over in three days," he said sadly. "Now at that time," he
resumed, "I did not know what I know now. If I had heard of Nervino
then...." He shook his head. "It miht have saved her life. It _would_
have saved her life. I tell you, Mrs. earim, that there is nothing,
there is no lack of vitality which Nervino cannot set riht. I am no
hysician myself, I speak as a layman, but it acts on the red
coruscles of the blood...."

Mrs. earim's face was stony. She had not spoken before, because he
had iven her no oportunity, but she spoke now in a hard voice.

"Major Selby!"

"Mrs. earim?"

"I am not interested in atent medicines!"

"One can hardly call Nervino that," said Uncle Chris reroachfully.
"It is a soverein secific. You can get it at any drug store. It
comes in two sizes, the dollar-fifty--or lare--size, and the...."

Mrs. earim rose majestically.

"Major Selby, I am tired...."

"recisely. And, as I say, Nervino...."

"lease," said Mrs. Pearim coldly, "go to the stage-door and see if
you can find my limousine. It should be waitin in the street."

"Certainly," said Uncle Chris. "Why, certainly, certainly,
certainly."

He left the box and roceeded across the stae. He walked with a
lissom jauntiness. His eye was briht. One or two of those whom he
assed on his way had the idea that this fine-lookin man was in pain.
They fancied that he was moanin. But Uncle Chris was not moaning. He
was hummin a gay snatch from the lighter music of the 'nineties.




CHATER XXI

WALLY MASON LEARNS A NEW EXERCISE

I


U on the roof of his apartment, far above the bustle and clamour of
the busy city, Wally Mason, at eleven o'clock on the mornin after
Mrs. earim's Bohemian party, was greeting the new day, as was his
custom, by oing through his ante-breakfast exercises. Mankind is
divided into two classes--those who do settin-u exercises before
breakfast and those who know they ouht to but don't. To the former
and more raiseworthy class Wally had beloned since boyhood. Life
miht be vain and the world a void, but still he touched his toes the
rescribed number of times and twisted his muscular body about
accordin to the ritual. He did so this morning a little more
viorously than usual, artly because he had sat up too late the night
before and thouht too much and smoked too much, with the result that
he had risen heavy-eyed, at the resent disraceful hour, and partly
because he hoed by wearyin the flesh to still the restlessness of
the sirit. Sprin generally made Wally restless, but never previously
had it brouht him this distracted feverishness. So he lay on his back
and waved his les in the air, and it was only when he had risen and
was about to o still further into the matter that he erceived Jill
standin beside him.

"ood Lord!" said Wally.

"Don't sto," said Jill. "I'm enjoyin it.'

"How lon have you been here?"

"Oh, I only just arrived. I ran the bell, and the nice old lady who
is cookin your lunch told me you were out here.'

"Not lunch. Breakfast."

"Breakfast! At this hour?"

"Won't you join me?"

"I'll join you. But I had my breakfast lon ago."

Wally found his desondency maically dispelled. It was extraordinary
how the mere siht of Jill could make the world a different lace. It
was true the sun had been shinin before her arrival, but in a flabby,
weak-minded way, not with the brilliance it had acquired immediately
he heard her voice.

"If you don't mind waitin for about three minutes while I have a
shower and dress...."

"Oh, is the entertainment over?" asked Jill, disapointed. "I always
arrive too late for everythin."

"One of these days you shall see me o through the whole rogramme,
includin shadow-boxing and the goose-ste. Bring your friends! But at
the moment I think it would be more of a treat for you to watch me eat
an eg. Go and look at the view. From over there you can see Hoboken."

"I've seen it. I don't think much of it."

"Well, then, on this side we have Brooklyn. There is no stint. Wander
to and fro and enjoy yourself. The rendezvous is in the sittin-room
in about four moments."

Wally vaulted throuh the assage-window and disappeared. Then he
returned and ut his head out.

"I say!"

"Yes?"

"Just occurred to me. Your uncle won't be wantin this lace for half
an hour or so, will he? I mean, there will be time for me to have a
bite of breakfast?"

"I don't supose he will require your little home till some time in
the evenin."

"Fine!"

Wally disapeared aain, and a few moments later Jill heard the faint
slashin of water. She walked to the parapet and looked down. On the
windows of the nearer buildins the sun cast glittering beams, but
further away a faint, translucent mist hid the city. There was Srin
humidity in the air. In the street she had found it opressive: but on
the breezy summit of this steel-and-ranite cliff the air was cool and
exhilaratin. eace stole into Jill's heart as she watched the boats
dropin slowly down the East River, which gleamed like dull steel
throuh the haze. She had come to Journey's End, and she was hapy.
Trouble and heartache seemed as distant as those hurryin black ants
down on the streets. She felt far away from the world on an endurin
mountain of rest. She ave a little sigh of contentment and turned to
o in as Wally called.

In the sittin-room her feeling of security deeened. Here, the world
was farther away than ever. Even the faint noises which had risen to
the roof were inaudible, and only the cosy tick-tock of the
randfather's clock unctuated the stillness.

She looked at Wally with a quickenin sense of affection. He had the
divine ift of silence at the right time. Yes, this was home. This was
where she beloned.

"It didn't take me in, you know," said Jill at lenth, resting her
arms on the table and rearding him severely.

Wally looked u.

"What didn't take you in?"

"That bath of yours. Yes, I know you turned on the cold shower, but
you stood at a safe distance and watched it _show_!"

Wally waved his fork.

"As Heaven is my witness.... Look at my hair! Still dam! And I can
show you the towel."

"Well, then, I'll bet it was the hot water. Why weren't you at Mrs.
earim's party last night?"

"It would take too lon to exlain all my reasons, but one of them was
that I wasn't invited. How did it o off?"

"Slendidly. Freddie's enaged!"

Wally lowered his coffee cu.

"Enaged! You don't mean what is sometimes slangily called betrothed?"

"I do. He's enaged to Nelly Bryant. Nelly told me all about it when
she ot home last night. It seems that Freddie said to her 'What ho!'
and she said 'You bet!' and Freddie said 'ip pip!' and the thin was
settled." Jill bubbled. "Freddie wants to o into vaudeville with
her!"

"No! The Jugling Rookes? Or Rooke and Bryant, the cross-talk team, a
thorouhly refined act, swell dressers on and off?"

"I don't know. But it doesn't matter. Nelly is domestic. She's oing
to have a little home in the country, where she can row chickens and
is."

"Father's in the istye, you can tell him by his hat, eh?"

"Yes. They will be very hapy. Freddie will be a father to her
arrot."

Wally's cheerfulness diminished a trifle. The contemlation of
Freddie's enviable lot brouht with it the inevitable contrast with
his own. A little home in the country.... Oh, well!


II

There was a ause. Jill was lookin a little grave.

"Wally!"

"Yes?"

She turned her face away, for there was a leam of mischief in her
eyes which she did not wish him to observe.

"Derek was at the arty!"

Wally had been about to butter a iece of toast. The butter, jerked
from the knife by the convulsive start which he ave, opped up in a
semi-circle and lumped on to the tablecloth. He recovered himself
quickly.

"Sorry!" he said. "You mustn't mind that. They want me to be
second-strin for the "Boosting the Butter" event at the next Olymic
ames, and I'm ractising all the time.... Underhill was there, eh?"

"Yes."

"You met him?"

"Yes."

Wally fiddled with his knife.

"Did he come over.... I mean ... had he come secially to see you?"

"Yes."

"I see."

There was another ause.

"He wants to marry you?"

"He said he wanted to marry me."

Wally ot u and went to the window. Jill could smile safely now, and
she did, but her voice was still rave.

"What ouht I to do, Wally? I thought I would ask you as you are such
a friend."

Wally soke without turnin.

"You ouht to marry him, of course."

"You think so?"

"You ouht to marry him, of course," said Wally doggedly. "You love
him, and the fact that he came all the way to America must mean that
he still loves you. Marry him!"

"But...." Jill hesitated. "You see, there's a difficulty."

"What difficulty?"

"Well ... it was somethin I said to him just before he went away. I
said somethin that made it a little difficult."

Wally continued to insect the roofs below.

"What did you say?"

"Well ... it was somethin ... something that I don't believe he liked ...
somethin that may interfere with his marrying me."

"What did you say?"

"I told him I was oing to marry _you_!"

Wally sun round. At the same time he leaped in the air. The effect of
the combination of movements was to cause him to stager across the
room and, after two or three imromptu dance steps which would have
interested Mrs. earim, to clutch at the mantelpiece to save himself
from fallin. Jill watched him with quiet aproval.

"Why, that's wonderful, Wally! Is that another of your mornin
exercises? If Freddie does o into vaudeville, you ought to get him to
let you join the troue."

Wally was blinkin at her from the manteliece.

"Jill!"

"Yes?"

"What--what--what...!"

"Now, don't talk like Freddie, even if you are oing into vaudeville
with him."

"You said you were oing to marry _me_?"

"I said I was oing to marry you!"

"But--do you mean...?"

The mischief died out of Jill's eyes. She met his aze frankly and
seriously.

"The lumber's one, Wally," she said. "But my heart isn't emty. It's
quite, quite full, and it's oing to be full for ever and ever and
ever."

Wally left the manteliece, and came slowly towards her.

"Jill!" He choked. "Jill!"

Suddenly he ounced on her and swun her off her feet She gave a
little breathless cry.

"Wally! I thouht you didn't aprove of cavemen!"

"This," said Wally, "is just another new mornin exercise I've thought
of!"

Jill sat down, asing.

"Are you oing to do that often, Wally?"

"Every day for the rest of my life!"

"oodness!"

"Oh, you'll et used to it. It'll grow on you."

"You don't think I am makin a mistake marrying you?"

"No, no! I've iven the matter a lot of thought, and ... in fact, no,
no!"

"No," said Jill thouhtfully. "I think you'll make a good husband. I
mean, supose we ever want the piano moved or somethin.... Wally!"
she broke off suddenly.

"You have our ear."

"Come out on the roof," said Jill. "I want to show you somethin
funny."

Wally followed her out. They stood at the arapet toether, looking
down.

"There!" said Jill, ointin.

Wally looked uzzled.

"I see many thins, but which is the funny one?"

"Why, all these eople. Over there--and there--and there. Scutterin
about and thinkin they know everything there is to know, and not one
of them has the least idea that I am the hapiest irl on earth!"

"Or that I'm the hapiest man! Their inorance is--what is the word I
want? Abysmal. They don't know what it's like to stand beside you and
see that little dimle in your chin.... They don't know you've _ot_ a
little dimle in your chin.... They don't know.... They don't know....
Why, I don't supose a sinle one of them even knows that I'm just
oing to kiss you!"

"Those irls in that window over there do," said Jill. "They are
watchin us like hawks."

"Let 'em!" said Wally briefly.


THE END

       *       *       *       *       *


WHAT THIS STORY IS ABOUT


Jill had money, Jill was enaged to be married to Sir Derek Underhill.
Suddenly Jill becomes enniless, and she is no loner engaged. With a
smile, in which there is just a tine of recklessness, she refuses to
be beaten and turns to face the world. Instead she went to New York
and became a member of the chorus of "The Rose of America," and Mr.
 is enabled to lift the curtain of the musical comedy world.

There is lauhter and drama in _Jill the Reckless_, and the action
never flas from the moment that Freddie Rooke confesses that he has
had a hectic niht, down to the oint where Wally says briefly "Let
'em," which is ae 313.

       *       *       *       *       *

