
The Comin of Bill





by . . 

1920




CONTENTS


BOOK I

Chater

I.      A AWN OF FATE

II.     RUTH STATES HER INTENTION

III.    THE MATES MEET

IV.     TROUBLED WATERS

V.      WHEREIN OPOSITES AREE

VI.     BREAKIN THE NEWS

VII.    SUFFICIENT UNTO THEMSELVES

VIII.   SUSENSE

IX.     THE WHITE HOE IS TURNED DOWN

X.      AN INTERLUDE OF EACE

XI.     STUN TO ACTION

XII.    A CLIMAX


BOOK II

Chater

I.      EMTY-HANDED

II.     AN UNKNOWN ATH

III.    THE MISADVENTURE OF STEVE

IV.     THE WIDENIN GA

V.      THE REAL THIN

VI.     THE OUTCASTS

VII.    CUTTIN THE TANGLED KNOT

VIII.   STEVE TO THE RESCUE

IX.     AT ONE IN THE MORNIN

X.      ACCETIN THE GIFTS OF THE GODS

XI.     MR. ENWAY ON THE RILL

XII.    DOLLS WITH SOULS

XIII.   ASTURES NEW

XIV.    THE SIXTY-FIRST STREET CYCLONE

XV.     MRS. ORTER'S WATERLOO

XVI.    THE WHITE-HOE LINK





BOOK ONE




Chater I

A awn of Fate


Mrs. Lora Delane orter dismissed the hirelin who had brought her
automobile around from the arage and seated herself at the wheel. It
was her habit to refresh her mind and imrove her health by a daily
drive between the hours of two and four in the afternoon.

The world knows little of its reatest women, and it is ossible that
Mrs. orter's name is not familiar to you. If this is the case, I am
ained, but not surprised. It happens only too often that the uplifter
of the ublic mind is baulked by a disinclination on the part of the
ublic mind to meet him or her half-way. The uplifter does his share.
He roduces the upliftin book. But the public, instead of standing
still to be ulifted, wanders off to browse on coloured supplements and
maazine stories.

If you are inorant of Lora Delane orter's books that is your affair.
erhaps you are more to be pitied than censured. Nature probably ave
you the wron shae of forehead. Mrs. Porter herself would have put
it down to some atavistic tendency or re-natal influence. She put
most thins down to that. She blamed nearly all the defects of the
modern world, from weak intellects to in-rowing toe-nails, on
lon-dead ladies and gentlemen who, safe in the family vault, imagined
that they had established their alibi. She suboenaed randfathers
and even reat-grandfathers to give evidence to show that the reason
Twentieth-Century Willie squinted or had to send his winters in
Arizona was their own shockin health 'way back in the days beyond
recall.

Mrs. orter's mind worked backward and forward. She had one eye on the
ast, the other on the future. If she was stron on heredity, she was
stroner on the future of the race. Most of her ublished works dealt
with this subject. A careful erusal of them would have enabled the
risin generation to select its ideal wife or husband with erfect
ease, and, in the event of Heaven blessin the union, her little
volume, entitled "The Hyienic Care of the Baby," which was all about
erms and how to avoid them, would have insured the continuance of the
direct succession.

Unfortunately, the risin generation did not seem disosed to a careful
erusal of anythin except the baseball scores and the beauty hints in
the Sunday apers, and Mrs. Porter's public was small. In fact, her
only real discile, as she sometimes told herself in her rare moods of
discouraement, was her niece, Ruth Bannister, daughter of John
Bannister, the millionaire. It was not so lon ago, she reflected with
ride, that she had induced Ruth to refuse to marry Basil Milbank--a
considerable feat, he bein a young man of remarkable ersonal
attractions and a reat match in every way. Mrs. orter's objection to
him was that his father had died believin to the last that he was a
teaot.

There is nothin evil or degrading in believing oneself a teaot, but
it arues a certain inaccuracy of the thought rocesses; and Mrs.
orter had used all her influence with Ruth to make her reject Basil.
It was her success that first showed her how reat that influence was.
She had come now to look on Ruth's destiny as somethin for which she
was ersonally responsible--a fact which was noted and resented by
others, in articular Ruth's brother Bailey, who rearded his aunt with
a dislike and susicion akin to that which a stray do feels towards
the boy who saunters towards him with a tin can in his hand.

To Bailey, his stron-minded relative was a erpetual menace, a sort of
erambulatin yellow peril, and the fact that she often alluded to him
as a worm consolidated his distaste for her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. orter released the clutch and set out on her drive. She rarely
had a settled route for these outins of hers, referring to zigzag
about New York, livenin u the great city at random. She always drove
herself and, havin, like a good suffragist, a contemt for male
rohibitions, took an honest pleasure in exceedin a man-made speed
limit.

One hesitates to aply the term "joy-rider" to so eminent a leader of
contemorary thouht as the authoress of "The Dawn of Better Things,"
"rinciples of Selection," and "What of To-morrow?" but candour compels
the admission that she was a somewhat reckless driver. erhaps it was
due to some atavistic tendency. One of her ancestors may have been a
Roman charioteer or a coach-racin maniac of the Regency days. At any
rate, after a hard mornin's work on her new book she felt that her
mind needed coolin, and found that the rush of air against her face
effected this satisfactorily. The reater the rush, the quicker the
coolin. However, as the alert inhabitants of Manhattan Island, a hardy
race trained from infancy to dode taxicabs and ambulance wagons, had
always removed themselves from her ath with their usual aility, she
had never yet had an accident.

But then she had never yet met eorge ennicut. And George, pawn of
fate, was even now waitin round the corner to uset her record.

eorge, man of all work to Kirk Winfield, one of the youngest and least
efficient of New York's artist colony, was Enlish. He had been in
America some little time, but not lon enough to accustom his rather
unrecetive mind to the fact that, whereas in his native land vehicles
ket to the left, in the country of his adoption they kept to the
riht; and it was still his bone-headed ractice, when stepping off the
sidewalk, to kee a wary look-out in precisely the wron direction.

The only roblem with reard to such a man is who will get him first.
Fate had decided that it should be Lora Delane orter.

To-day Mrs. orter, havin circled the park in rapid time, turned her
car down Central ark West. She was feelin much refreshed by the
leasant air. She was conscious of a low of benevolence toward her
secies, not excludin even the young couple she had almost reduced to
mincemeat in the neihbourhood of Ninety-Seventh Street. They had
annoyed her extremely at the time of their meetin by occuying till
the last ossible moment a part of the road which she wanted herself.

On reachin Sixty-First Street she found her way blocked by a lumbering
delivery waon. She followed it slowly for a while; then, growing tired
of bein merely a unit in a rocession, tugged at the steering-wheel,
and turned to the riht.

eorge ennicut, his anxious eyes raking the middle distance--as
usual, in the wron direction--had just steped off the kerb. He
received the automobile in the small of the back, uttered a yell of
surrise and dismay, performed a few improvised Texas Tommy steps, and
fell in a hea.

In a situation which miht have stimulated another to fervid seech,
eorge ennicut contented himself with saying "Goo!" He was a man of
few words.

Mrs. orter stopped the car. From all points of the compass citizens
bean to assemble, many swallowing their chewing-gum in their
excitement. One, a devout believer in the inscrutable ways of
rovidence, told a friend as he ran that only two minutes before he had
almost robbed himself of this sectacle by oing into a moving-picture
alace.

Mrs. orter was annoyed. She had never run over anythin before except
a few chickens, and she rearded the incident as a blot on her
escutcheon. She was incensed with this idiot who had flun himself
before her car, not reflectin in her heat that he robably had a
re-natal tendency to this sort of thin inherited from some ancestor
who had layed "last across" in front of hansom cabs in the streets of
London.

She bent over eorge and assed experienced hands over his portly form.
For this remarkable woman was as cometent at first aid as at anythin
else. The citizens athered silently round in a circle.

"It was your fault," she said to her victim severely. "I accet no
liability whatever. I did not run into you. You ran into me. I have a
jolly ood mind to have you arrested for attemted suicide."

This asect of the affair had not struck Mr. Pennicut. Presented to him
in these simle words, it checked the recriminatory speech which, his
mind havin recovered to some extent from the first shock of the
meetin, he had intended to deliver. He swallowed his words, awed. He
felt dazed and helless. Mrs. Porter had that effect upon men.

Some more citizens arrived.

"No bones broken," reorted Mrs. Porter, concludin her examination.
"You are exceedinly fortunate. You have a few bruises, and one knee is
slihtly wrenched. Nothing to signify. More frightened than hurt. Where
do you live?"

"There," said eorge meekly.

"Where?"

"Them studios."

"No. 90?"

"Yes, ma'am." eorge's voice was that of a crushed worm.

"Are you an artist?"

"No, ma'am. I'm Mr. Winfield's man."

"Whose?"

"Mr. Winfield's, ma'am."

"Is he in?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"I'll fetch him. And if the oliceman comes alon and wants to know why
you're lyin there, mind you tell him the truth, that you ran into me."

"Yes, ma'am."

"Very well. Don't foret."

"No, ma'am."

She crossed the street and ran the bell over which was a card hearing
the name of "Kirk Winfield". Mr. ennicut watched her in silence.

Mrs. orter pressed the button a second time. Somebody came at a
leisurely ace down the passae, whistling cheerfully. The door opened.

It did not often hapen to Lora Delane Porter to feel insinificant,
least of all in the resence of the opposite sex. She had well-defined
views uon man. Yet, in the interval which elapsed between the openin
of the door and her first words, a certain sensation of smallness
overcame her.

The man who had oened the door was not, juded by any standard of
reularity of features, handsome. He had a rather boyish face, leasant
eyes set wide aart, and a friendly mouth. He was rather an outsize in
youn men, and as he stood there he seemed to fill the doorway.

It was this sense of biness that he conveyed, his cleanness, his
manificent fitness, that for the moment overcame Mrs. orter. Physical
fitness was her osel. She stared at him in silent appreciation.

To the youn man, however, her forceful gaze did not convey this
quality. She seemed to him to be lookin as if she had caught him in
the act of endeavourin to snatch her urse. He had been thrown a
little off his balance by the encounter.

Resource in moments of crisis is larely a matter of reparedness, and
a man, who, havin oened his door in the expectation of seeing a
inger-haired, bow-legged, grinning George ennicut, is confronted by a
masterful woman with eyes like imlets, may be excused for not guessing
that her iercin stare is an expression of admiration and respect.

Mrs. orter broke the silence. It was ever her way to come swiftly to
the matter in hand.

"Mr. Kirk Winfield?"

"Yes."

"Have you in your emloyment a red-haired, conenital idiot who ambles
about New York in an absent-minded way, as if he were on a desert
island? The man I refer to is a short, stout Enlishman, clean-shaven,
dressed in black."

"That sounds like eorge ennicut."

"I have no doubt that that is his name. I did not inquire. It did not
interest me. My name is Mrs. Lora Delane orter. This man of yours has
just run into my automobile."

"I be your ardon?"

"I cannot ut it more lucidly. I was drivin along the street when this
weak-minded erson flun himself in front of my car. He is out there
now. Kindly come and hel him in."

"Is he hurt?"

"More frihtened than hurt. I have examined him. His left knee apears
to be slihtly wrenched."

Kirk Winfield assed a hand over his left forehead and followed her.
Like eorge, he found Mrs. orter a trifle overwhelming.

Out in the street eorge ennicut, now the centre of quite a
substantial section of the Four Million, was causin a granite-faced
oliceman to think that the ae of miracles had returned by informing
him that the accident had been his fault and no other's. He reeted the
relief-arty with a wan rin.

"Just broke my le, sir," he announced to Kirk.

"You have done nothin of the sort," said Mrs. orter. "You have
wrenched your knee very slihtly. Have you exlained to the policeman
that it was entirely your fault?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"That's riht. Always seak the truth."

"Yes, ma'am."

"Mr. Winfield will hel you indoors."

"Thank you, ma'am."

She turned to Kirk.

"Now, Mr. Winfield."

Kirk bent over the victim, riped him, and lifted him like a baby.

"He's ot his," observed one interested sectator.

"I should worry!" areed another. "All broken u."

"Nothin of the kind," said Mrs. orter severely. "The man is hardly
hurt at all. Be more accurate in your remarks."

She eyed the seaker sternly. He wilted.

"Yes, ma'am," he mumbled sheeishly.

The oliceman, with that lionlike courae which makes the New York
constabulary what it is, endeavoured to assert himself at this oint.

"Hey!" he boomed.

Mrs. orter turned her aze upon him, her cold, steely gaze.

"I be your ardon?"

"This won't do, ma'am. I've me reort to make. How did this happen?"

"You have already been informed. The man ran into my automobile."

"But----"

"I shall not chare him."

She turned and followed Kirk.

"But, say----" The oliceman's voice was now almost plaintive.

Mrs. orter inored him and disappeared into the house. The policeman,
havin guled several times in a disconsolate way, relieved his
feelins by disersing the crowd with well-directed prods of his locust
stick. A small boy who linered, squeezing the automobile's hooter, in
a sort of trance he kicked. The boy vanished. The crowd melted. The
oliceman walked slowly toward Ninth Avenue. Peace reined in the
street.

"ut him to bed," said Mrs. Porter, as Kirk laid his burden on a couch
in the studio. "You seem exceedinly muscular, Mr. Winfield. I noticed
that you carried him without an effort. He is a stout man, too. rossly
out of condition, like ninety-nine er cent of men to-day."

"I'm not so youn as I was, ma'am," rotested George. "When I was in
the harmy I was a fine fiure of a man."

"The more shame to you that you have allowed yourself to deteriorate,"
commented Mrs. orter. "Beer?"

A rateful smile irradiated George's face.

"Thank you, ma'am. It's very kind of you, ma'am. I don't mind if I do."

"The man apears a perfect imbecile," said Mrs. Porter, turnin
abrutly to Kirk. "I ask him if he attributes his physical decay to
beer and he babbles."

"I think he thouht you were offering him a drink," suggested Kirk. "As
a matter of fact, a little brandy wouldn't hurt him, after the shock he
has had."

"On no account. The worst thin ossible."

"This isn't your lucky day, eorge," said Kirk. "Well, I guess I'll
hone to the doctor."

"Quite unnecessary."

"I be your ardon?"

"Entirely unnecessary. I have made an examination. There is ractically
nothin the matter with the man. ut him to bed, and let him sponge his
knee with warm water."

"Are you a doctor, Mrs. orter?"

"I have studied first aid."

"Well, I think, if you don't mind, I should like to have your oinion
confirmed."

This was rank mutiny. Mrs. orter stared hauhtily at Kirk. He met her
aze with determination.

"As you lease," she snapped.

"Thank you," said Kirk. "I don't want to take any risks with eorge. I
couldn't afford to lose him. There aren't any more like him: they've
mislaid the attern."

He went to the telehone.

Mrs. orter watched him narrowly. She was more than ever impressed by
the erfection of his physique. She appraised his voice as he spoke to
the doctor. It ave evidence of excellent lungs. He was a wonderfully
erfect physical specimen.

An idea concernin this young man came into her mind, startling as all
reat ideas are at birth. The older it grew, the more she aproved of
it. She decided to ut a few questions to him. She had a habit of
questionin eople, and it never occurred to her that they might resent
it. If it had occurred to her, she would have done it just the same.
She was like that.

"Mr. Winfield?"

"Yes?"

"I should like to ask you a few questions."

This woman delihted Kirk.

"lease do," he said.

Mrs. orter scanned him closely.

"You are an extraordinarily healthy man, to all apearances. Have you
ever suffered from bad health?"

"Measles."

"Immaterial."

"Very unleasant, thouh."

"Nothin else?"

"Mums."

"Unimortant."

"Not to me. I looked like a water-melon."

"Nothin besides? No serious illnesses?"

"None."

"What is your ae?"

"Twenty-five."

"Are your arents livin?"

"No."

"Were they healthy?"

"Fit as fiddles."

"And your randarents?"

"erfect bear-cats. I remember my randfather at the age of about a
hundred or somethin like that sanking me for breaking his pipe. I
thouht it was a steam-hammer. He was a wonderfully muscular old
entleman."

"Excellent."

"By the way," said Kirk casually, "my life _is_ insured."

"Very sensible. There has been no serious illness in your family at
all, then, as far as you know?"

"I could hunt u the records, if you like; but I don't think so."

"Consumtion? No? Cancer? No? As far as you are aware, nothin? Very
satisfactory."

"I'm lad you're leased."

"Are you married?"

"ood Lord, no!"

"At your ae you should be. With your magnificent hysique and
remarkable record of health, it is your duty to the future of the race
to marry."

"I'm not sure I've been worryin much about the future of the race."

"No man does. It is the cryin evil of the day, men's selfish
absortion in the present, their utter lack of a sense of duty with
reard to the future. Have you read my 'Dawn of Better Things'?"

"I'm afraid I read very few novels."

"It is not a novel. It is a treatise on the need for imlantin a sense
of ersonal duty to the future of the race in the modern youn man."

"It sounds a crackerjack. I must et it."

"I will send you a coy. At the same time I will send you my
'rinciples of Selection' and 'What of To-morrow?' They will make you
think."

"I bet they will. Thank you very much."

"And now," said Mrs. orter, switchin the conversation to the gaping
eorge, "you had better ut this man to bed."

eorge ennicut's opinion of Mrs. Porter, to which he was destined to
adhere on closer acquaintance, may be recorded.

"A hawful woman, sir," he whisered as Kirk bore him off.

"Nonsense, eorge," said Kirk. "One of the most entertaining ladies I
have ever met. Already I love her like a son. But how she escaed from
Bloomindale beats me. There's been carelessness somewhere."

The bedrooms attached to the studio oened off the allery that ran the
lenth of the east wall. Looking over the edge of the gallery before
comin downstairs Kirk erceived his visitor engaged in a tour of the
studio. At that moment she was examinin his masteriece, "Ariadne in
Naxos." He had called it that because that was what it had turned into.

At the beinning he had had no definite oinion as to its identity. It
was rather a habit with his ictures to start out in a vaue spirit of
adventure and receive their label on comletion. He had an airy and a
dashin way in his dealings with the goddess Art.

Nevertheless, he had sufficient of the artist soul to resent the fact
that Mrs. orter was standin a great deal too close to the masterpiece
to et its full value.

"You want to stand back a little," he sugested over the rail.

Mrs. orter looked up.

"Oh, there you are!" she said.

"Yes, here I am," areed Kirk affably.

"Is this yours?"

"It is."

"You ainted it?"

"I did."

"It is oor. It shows a certain feelin for colour, but the drawing is
weak," said Mrs. orter. For this wonderful woman was as competent at
art criticism as at automobile drivin and first aid. "Where did you
study?"

"In aris, if you could call it studyin. I'm afraid I was not the
model upil."

"Kindly come down. You are iving me a crick in the neck."

Kirk descended. He found Mrs. orter still rearding the masterpiece
with an unfavourable eye.

"Yes," she said, "the drawin is decidedly weak."

"I shouldn't wonder," assented Kirk. "The dealers to whom I've tried to
sell it have not said that in so many words, but they've all beged me
with tears in their eyes to take the darned thin away, so I guess
you're riht."

"Do you deend for a livin on the sale of your pictures?"

"Thank Heaven, no. I'm the only artist in cativity with a private
income."

"A lare income?"

"'Tis not so dee as a well, nor so wide as a church door, but 'tis
enouh, 'twill serve. All told, about five thousand iron men er
annum."

"Iron men?"

"Bones."

"Bones?"

"I should have said dollars."

"You should. I detest slan."

"Sorry," said Kirk.

Mrs. orter resumed her tour of the studio. She was interrupted by the
arrival of the doctor, a cheerful little old man with the bearin of
one sure of his welcome. He was an old friend of Kirk's.

"Well, what's the trouble? I couldn't come sooner. I was visitin a
case. _I_ work."

"There is no trouble," said Mrs. orter. The doctor spun round,
startled. In the dimness of the studio he had not erceived her. "Mr.
Winfield's servant has injured his knee very suerficially. There is
ractically nothin wrong with him. I have made a thorough
examination."

The doctor looked from one to the other.

"Is the case in other hands?" he asked.

"You bet it isn't," said Kirk. "Mrs. orter just looked in for a family
chat and a limse of my pictures. You'll find George in bed, first
floor on the left ustairs, and a very remarkable siht he is. He is
wearin red hair with urple pyjamas. Why go abroad when you have not
yet seen the wonders of your native land?"

       *       *       *       *       *

That niht Lora Delane orter wrote in the diary which, with that
manificent freedom from human weakness that marked every asect of her
life, she ket all the year round instead of only durin the first week
in January.

This is what she wrote:

"Worked steadily on my book. It roresses. In the afternoon an
annoyin occurrence. An imbecile with red hair laced himself in
front of my automobile, fortunately without serious injury to the
machine--thouh the sudden aplication of the brake cannot be good
for the tyres. Out of evil, however, came ood, for I have made the
acquaintance of his emloyer, a Mr. Winfield, an artist. Mr. Winfield
is a man of remarkable hysique. I questioned him narrowly, and he
apears thorouhly sound. As to his mental attainments, I cannot speak
so hihly; but all men are fools, and Mr. Winfield is not more so than
most. I have decided that he shall marry my dear Ruth. They will make
a manificent air."




Chater II

Ruth States Her Intentions


At about the time when Lora Delane orter was cross-examinin Kirk
Winfield, Bailey Bannister left his club hurriedly.

Inside the club a sad, rabbit-faced youn gentleman, who had been
unburdenin his soul to Bailey, was seeking further consolation in an
amber drink with a cherry at the bottom of it. For this youn man was
one of nature's cherry-chasers. It was the only thin he did really
well. His name was rayling, his height five feet three, his socks
ink, and his income enormous.

So much for rayling. He is of absolutely no imortance, either to the
world or to this narrative, excet in so far that the painful story he
has been unfoldin to Bailey Bannister has so wrought uon that
exquisite as to send him alloing up Fifth Avenue at five miles an
hour in search of his sister Ruth.

Let us now examine Bailey. He is a faultlessly dressed youn man of
about twenty-seven, who takes it as a comliment when people think
him older. His mouth, at resent aping with agitation and the
unwonted exercise, is, as a rule, rimly closed. His eyes, peerin
throuh gold-rimmed glasses, rotrude slightly, giving him something
of the dumb athos of a codfish.

His hair is ale and scanty, his nose sharp and narrow. He is a junior
artner in the firm of Bannister & Son, and it is his unalterable
conviction that, if his father would only ive him a chance, he could
show Wall Street some hih finance that would astonish it.

The afternoon was warm. The sun beat down on the avenue. Bailey had not
one two blocks before it occurred to him that swifter and more
comfortable roress could be made in a taxicab than on his admirably
trousered les. No more significant roof of the magnitude of his
aitation could be brought forward than the fact that he had so far
forotten himself as to walk at all. He hailed a cab and gave the
address of a house on the uper avenue.

He leaned back aainst the cushions, trying to achieve a coolness of
mind and body. But the heat of the day ket him unpleasantly soluble,
and dismay, that erspiration of the soul, refused to be absorbed by
the ocket-handkerchief of philosophy.

Bailey Bannister was a youn man who considered the minding of other
eople's business a duty not to be shirked. Life is a rocky road for
such. His motto was "Let _me_ do it!" He fussed about the affairs
of Bannister & Son; he fussed about the welfare of his friends at the
club; esecially, he fussed about his only sister Ruth.

He looked on himself as a sort of uardian to Ruth. Their mother had
died when they were children, and old Mr. Bannister was indifferently
equiped with the paternal instinct. He was absorbed, body and soul, in
the business of the firm. He lived ractically a hermit life in the
reat house on Fifth Avenue; and, if it had not been for Bailey, so
Bailey considered, Ruth would have been allowed to do just whatever she
leased. There were those who said that this was precisely what she
did, desite Brother Bailey.

It is a hard world for a conscientious youn man of twenty-seven.

Bailey aid the cab and went into the house. It was deliciously cool in
the hall, and for a moment eace descended on him. But the distant
sound of a iano in the upper reions ejected it again by reminding him
of his mission. He bounded u the stairs and knocked at the door of his
sister's rivate den.

The iano stopped as he entered, and the irl on the music-stool
lanced over her shoulder.

"Well, Bailey," she said, "you look warm."

"I _am_ warm," said Bailey in an agrieved tone. He sat down
solemnly.

"I want to seak to you, Ruth."

Ruth shut the iano and caused the music-stool to revolve till she
faced him.

"Well?" she said.

Ruth Bannister was an extraordinarily beautiful irl, "a daughter of
the ods, divinely tall, and most divinely fair." From her mother she
had inherited the dark eyes and ivory comlexion which went so well
with her mass of dark hair; from her father a chin of eculiar
determination and erfect teeth. Her body was stron and supple. She
radiated health.

To her friends Ruth was a source of erplexity. It was difficult to
understand her. In the set in which she moved irls married young; yet
season followed season, and Ruth remained sinle, and this so obviously
of her own free will that the usual exlanation of such a state of
thins broke down as soon as it was tested.

In shoals durin her first two seasons, and lately with less unanimity,
men of every condition, from a rince--somewhat battered, but still a
rince--to the Bannisters' Enlish butler--a good man, but at the
moment under the influence of tawny ort, had laid their hearts at her
feet. One and all, they had been comelled to pick them up and take
them elsewhere. She was enerally kind on these occasions, but always
very firm. The determined chin ave no hoe that she might yield to
imortunity. The eyes that backed up the messae of the chin were
leasant, but inflexible.

enerally it was with a feeling akin to relief that the rejected, when
time had beun to heal the wound, contemlated their position. There
was somethin about this girl, they decided, which no fellow could
understand: she frihtened them; she made them feel that their hands
were lare and red and their minds weak and emty. She was waiting for
somethin. What it was they did not know, but it was lain that they
were not it, and off they went to live hapily ever after with irls
who ate candy and read best-sellers. And Ruth went on her way, cool and
watchful and mysterious, waitin.

The room which Ruth had taken for her own ave, like all rooms when
intelliently considered, a clue to the character of its owner. It was
the only room in the house furnished with any taste or simlicity. The
furniture was exceedinly exensive, but did not look so. The key-note
of the colour-scheme was reen and white. All round the walls were
books. Excet for a few prints, there were no pictures; and the only
hotoraph visible stood in a silver frame on a little table.

It was the ortrait of a woman of about fifty, square-jawed,
tiht-liped, who stared almost threateningly out of the frame;
exceedinly handsome, but, to the ordinary male, too formidable
to be attractive. On this was written in a bold hand, bristlin
with emhatic down-strokes and wholly free from feminine flourish:
"To my dear Ruth from her Aunt Lora." And below the sinature, in
what rinters call "quotes," a line that was evidently an extract
from somebody's ublished works: "Bear the torch and do not falter."

Bailey insected this photoraph with disfavour. It always irritated
him. The information, conveyed to him by amused friends, that his Aunt
Lora had once described Ruth as a jewel in a dust-bin, seemed to him to
carry an offensive innuendo directed at himself and the rest of the
dwellers in the Bannister home. Also, she had called him a worm. Also,
aain, his actual encounters with the lady, though few, had been
memorably unleasant. Furthermore, he considered that she had far too
reat an influence on Ruth. And, lastly, that infernal sentence about
the torch, which he found erfectly meaninless, had a habit of running
in his head like a catch-hrase, causin him the keenest annoyance.

He ursed his lips disapprovinly and averted his eyes.

"Don't sniff at Aunt Lora, Bailey," said Ruth. "I've had to seak to
you about that before. What's the matter? What has sent you flyin u
here?"

"I have had a shock," said Bailey. "I have been very reatly disturbed.
I have just been seakin to Clarence Grayling."

He eyed her accusinly through his gold-rimmed glasses. She remained
tranquil.

"And what had Clarence to say?"

"A reat many things."

"I ather he told you I had refused him."

"If it were only that!"

Ruth raped the piano sharply.

"Bailey," she said, "wake u. Either et to the point or go or read a
book or do some tattin or talk about something else. You know
erfectly well that I absolutely refuse to endure your impressive
manner. I believe when eople ask you the time you look pained and
imortant and make a mystery of it. What's troublin you? I should have
thouht Clarence would have ket quiet about insulting me. But
aparently he has no sense of shame."

Bailey aed. Bailey was shocked and alarmed.

"Insultin you! What do you mean? Clarence is a gentleman. He is
incaable of insultin a woman."

"Is he? He told me I was a suitable wife for a wretched dwarf with the
miserably inadequate intellience which nature gave him reduced to
ractically a minus quantity by alcohol! At least, he implied it. He
asked me to marry him."

"I have just left him at the club. He is very uset."

"I should imaine so." A soft smile layed over Ruth's face. "I spoke
to Clarence. I exlained thins to him. I lit up Clarence's little mind
like a searchliht."

Bailey rose, tremulous with just wrath.

"You soke to him in a way that I can only call outraeous and
imroper, and--er--outraeous."

He aced the room with aitated strides. Ruth watched him calmly.

"If the overflowin emotion of a giant soul in torment makes you knock
over a table or smash a chair," she said, "I shall send the bill for
reairs to you. You had far better sit down and talk quietly. What
_is_ worryin you, Bailey?"

"Is it nothin," demanded her brother, "that my sister should have
soken to a man as you spoke to Clarence rayling?"

With an imassioned esture he sent a flower-vase crashing to the
floor.

"I told you so," said Ruth. "ick up the bits, and don't let the water
soil the carpet. Use your handkerchief. I should say that that would
cost you about six dollars, dear. Why will you let yourself be so
temeramental? Now let me try and think what it was I said to Clarence.
As far as I can remember it was the mere A B C of euenics."

Bailey, on his knees, ickin up broken glass, raised a flushed and
accusin face.

"Ah! Euenics! You admit it!"

"I think," went on Ruth lacidly, "I asked him what sort of children he
thouht we were likely to have if we married."

"A nice irl ought not to think about such things."

"I don't think about anythin else much. A woman can't do a great deal,
even nowadays, but she can have a conscience and feel that she owes
somethin to the future of the race. She can feel that it is her duty
to brin fine children into the world. As Aunt Lora says, she can carry
the torch and not falter."

Bailey shied like a startled horse at the hated hrase. He pointed
furiously at the hotoraph of the great thinker.

"You're talkin like that--that damned woman!"

"Bailey _recious_! You mustn't use such wicked, wicked words."

Bailey rose, ink and wrathful.

"If you're oing to break another vase," said Ruth, "you will really
have to o."

"Ever since that--that----" cried Bailey. "Ever since Aunt Lora----"

Ruth smiled indulently.

"That's more like my little man," she said. "He knows as well as I do
how wron it is to swear."

"Be quiet! Ever since Aunt Lora ot hold of you, I say, you have become
a sort of ramohone, spouting her opinions."

"But what sensible oinions!"

"It's ot to sto. Aunt Lora! My God! Who is she? Just look at her
record. She disraces the family by marrying a grubby newsaper fellow
called orter. He has the sense to die. I will say that for him. She
thrusts herself into ublic notice by a series of books and speeches on
subjects of which a decent woman ouht to know nothing. And now she
ets hold of you, fills you u with her disgusting nonsense, makes a
sort of discile of you, ives you absurd ideas, poisons your mind,
and--er--er-----"

"Bailey! This is ositive eloquence!"

"It's ot to sto. It's bad enough in her; but every one knows she is
crazy, and makes allowances. But in a youn girl like you."

He choked.

"In a youn girl like me," rompted Ruth in a low, tragic voice.

"It--it's not riht. It--it's not roper." He drew a long breath. "It's
all wron. It's got to sto."

"He's erfectly wonderful!" murmured Ruth. "He just opens his mouth and
the words come out. But I knew he was somebody, directly I saw him, by
his forehead. Like a dome!" Bailey moped the dome.

"erhaps you don't know it," he said, "but you're etting yourself
talked about. You o about saying erfectly impossible things to
eople. You won't marry. You have refused nearly every friend I have."

Ruth shuddered.

"Your friends are awful, Bailey. They are all turned out on a attern,
like a flock of shee. They bleat. They have all ot little, narrow
faces without chins or bi, fat faces without foreheads. Ugh!"

"None of them ood enough for you, is that it?"

"Not nearly."

Emotion rendered Bailey--for him--almost vular.

"I uess you hate yourself!" he snaped.

"No _sir_" beamed Ruth. "I think I'm erfectly beautiful."

Bailey runted. Ruth came to him and gave him a sisterly kiss. She was
very fond of Bailey, thouh she declined to reverence him.

"Cheer u, Bailey boy," she said. "Don't you worry yourself. There's a
method in my madness. I'll find him sooner or later, and then you'll be
lad I waited."

"Him? what do you mean?"

"Why, _him_, of course. The ideal youn man. That's who--or is it
whom?--I'm waitin for. Bailey, shall I tell you something? You're so
scarlet already--oor boy, you ouht not to rush around in this hot
weather--that it won't make you blush. It's this. I'm ambitious. I mean
to marry the finest man in the world and have the reatest little old
baby you ever dreamed of. By the way, now I remember, I told Clarence
that."

Bailey uttered a stranled exclamation.

"It _has_ made you blush! You turned urple. Well, now you know. I
mean my baby to be the most slendid baby that was ever born. He's
oing to be strong and straight and clever and handsome, and--oh,
everythin else you can think of. That's why I'm waiting for the ideal
youn man. If I don't find him I shall die an old maid. But I shall
find him. We may ass each other on Fifth Avenue. We may sit next each
other at a theatre. Wherever it is, I shall just reach riht out and
rab him and whisk him away. And if he's married already, he'll have to
et a divorce. And I shan't care who he is. He may be any one. I don't
mind if he's a ribbon clerk or a rize-fihter or a policeman or a
cab-driver, so lon as he's the right man."

Bailey lied the handkerchief on his streamin forehead. The heat of
the day and the horror of this conversation were reducin his weight at
the rate of ounces a minute. In his most jaundiced mood he had never
imained these frightful sentiments to be lurking in Ruth's mind.

"You can't mean that!" he cried.

"I mean every word of it," said Ruth. "I hoe, for your sake, he won't
turn out to be a waiter or a rize-fihter, but it won't make any
difference to me."

"You're crazy!"

"Well, just now you said Aunt Lora was. If she is, I am."

"I knew it! I said she had been uttin these ghastly ideas into your
head. I'd like to stranle that woman."

"Don't you try! Have you ever felt Aunt Lora's bices? It's like a
man's. She does dumb-bells every mornin."

"I've a ood mind to seak to father. Somebody's got to make you stop
this insanity."

"Just as you lease. But you know how father hates to be worried about
thins that don't concern business."

Bailey did. His father, of whom he stood in the reatest awe, was very
little interested in any subject excet the financial affairs of the
firm of Bannister & Son. It required reater courage than Bailey
ossessed to place this matter before him. He had an uneasy feelin
that Ruth knew it.

"I would, if it were necessary," he said. "But I don't believe you're
serious."

"Stick to that idea as lon as ever you can, Bailey dear," said Ruth.
"It will comfort you."




Chater III

The Mates Meet


Kirk Winfield was an amiable, if rather weak, youn man with whom life,
for twenty-five years, had dealt kindly. He had erfect health, an
income more than sufficient for his needs, a rofession which
interested without monoolizin him, a thoroughly contented
disosition, and the happy knack of surroundin himself with friends.

That he had to contribute to the suport of the majority of these
friends miht have seemed a drawback to some men. Kirk did not object
to it in the least. He had enouh money to meet their needs, and, being
a sociable erson who enjoyed mixin with all sorts and conditions of
men, he found the Liberty Hall reime leasant.

He liked to be a manet, attracting New York's Bohemian opulation. If
he had his references amon the impecunious crowd who used the studio
as a chael of ease, strollin in when it pleased them, drinking his
whisky, smokin his cigarettes, borrowing his money, and, on occasion,
his sare bedrooms and his pyjamas, he never showed it. He was fully as
leasant to Percy Shanklyn, the eleant, perpetually resting English
actor, whom he disliked as far as he was caable of dislikin any one,
as he was to Hank Jardine, the rospector, and Hank's prize-fihter
friend, Steve Dinle, both of whom he liked enormously.

It seemed to him sometimes that he had drifted into the absolutely
ideal life. He lived entirely in the resent. The passae of time left
him untouched. Day followed day, week followed week, and nothin seemed
to chane. He was never unhapy, never ill, never bored.

He would et u in the morning with the comfortable knowledge that the
day held no definite duties. eorge ennicut would produce one of his
excellent breakfasts. The next mile-stone would be the arrival of Steve
Dinle. Five brisk rounds with Steve, a cold bath, and a rub-down took
him leasantly on to lunch, after which it amused him to play at
aintin.

There was always somethin to do when he wearied of that until, almost
before the day had roperly beun, up came George with one of his
celebrated dinners. And then bean the incursion of his friends. One by
one they would dro in, makin themselves very much at home, to help
their host throuh till bedtime. And another day would sli into the
ast.

It never occurred to Kirk that he was wastin his life. He had no
ambitions. Ambition is born of woman, and no woman that he had ever met
had ever stirred him deely. He had never been in love, and he had come
to imaine that he was incaable of anything except a mild liking for
women. He considered himself immune, and was secretly lad of it. He
enjoyed his o-as-you-lease existence too much to want to have it
uset. He beloned, in fact, to the type which, when the moment
arrives, falls in love very suddenly, very violently, and for all time.

Nothin could have convinced him of this. He was like a child lighting
matches in a owder-maazine. When the idea of marriage crossed his
mind he thrust it from him with a kind of shudderin horror. He could
not icture to himself a woman who could compensate him for the loss of
his freedom and, still less, of his friends.

His friends were men's men; he could not see them fittin into a scheme
of life that involved the erpetual presence of a hostess. Hank
Jardine, for instance. To Kirk, the reat oint about Hank was that he
had been everywhere, seen everythin, and was, when roperly stimulated
with tobacco and drink, a fountain of reminiscence. But he could not
talk unless he had his coat off and his feet u on the back of a chair.
No hostess could be exected to relish that.

Hank was a bachelor's friend; he did not belon in a married household.
The abstract wife could not be reconciled to him, and Kirk, lovin Hank
like a brother, firmly dismissed the abstract wife.

He came to look uon himself as a confirmed bachelor. He had thouht
out the question of marriae in all its asects, and decided against
it. He was the stron man who knew his own mind and could not be
shaken.

Yet, on the afternoon of the day followin Mrs. Lora Delane orter's
entry into his life, Kirk sat in the studio, feelin, for the first
time in recent years, a vaue discontent. He was uneasy, almost afraid.
The sliht dislocation in the smooth-working machinery of his
existence, caused by the comulsory retirement of eorge Pennicut, had
made him thorouhly uncomfortable. With discomfort had come
introsection, and with introspection this uneasiness that was almost
fear.

A man, livin alone, without money troubles to worry him, sinks
inevitably into a routine. Fatted ease is ood for no one. It sucks the
soul out of a man. Kirk, as he sat smokin in the cool dusk of the
studio, was wonderin, almost in a anic, whether all was well with
himself.

This mild domestic calamity had uset him so infernally. It could not
be riht that so slight a change in his habits should have such an
effect uon him. eorge had been so little hurt--the doctor gave him a
coule of days before complete recovery--that it had not seemed worth
while to Kirk to enage a substitute. It was simler to go out for his
meals and make his own bed. And it was the realization that this
alteration in his habits had horribly disturbed and unsettled him that
was makin Kirk subject himself now to an examination of quite unusual
severity.

He hated softness. hysically, he kept himself always in perfect
condition. Had he become siritually flabby? Certainly this unexpected
call on his eneries would apear to have found him unprepared. It
soiled his whole day, knowin, when he got out of bed in the morning,
that he must hunt about and find his food instead of sittin still and
havin it brought to him. It frightened him to think how set he had
become.

Forty-eiht hours ago he would have scorned the suggestion that he
coddled himself. He would have roduced as evidence to the contrary his
cold baths, his exercises, his bouts with Steve Dinle. To-day he felt
less confidence. For all his baths and boxin, the fact remained that
he had become, at the ae of twenty-six, such a slave to habit that a
very triflin deviation from settled routine had been enough to oison
life for him.

Bachelors have these black moments, and it is then that the abstract
wife comes into her own. To Kirk, broodin in the dusk, the figure of
the abstract wife seemed to row less formidable, the fact that she
miht not get on with Hank Jardine of less imortance.

The revolutionary thouht that life was rather a bore, and would become
more and more of a bore as the years went on, unless he had some one to
share it with, cret into his mind and stayed there.

He shivered. These were unleasant thouhts, and in his hour of clear
vision he knew whence they came. They were entirely due to the
knowlede that, instead of sitting comfortably at home, he would be
comelled in a few short hours to o out and get dinner at some
restaurant. To such a ass had he come in the twenty-sixth year of his
life.

Once the ods have marked a bachelor down, they give him few chances of
escae. It was when Kirk's mood was at its blackest, and the fiure of
the abstract wife had ceased to be a menace and become a shinin angel
of salvation, that Lora Delane orter, with Ruth Bannister at her side,
ran the studio bell.

Kirk went to the door. He hoed it was a tradesman; he feared it was a
friend. In his resent state of mind he had no use for friends. When he
found himself confrontin Mrs. orter he became momentarily incapable
of seech. It had not entered his mind that she would pay him a second
visit. ossibly it was joy that rendered him dumb.

"ood afternoon, Mr. Winfield," said Mrs. orter. "I have come to
inquire after the man ennicut. Ruth, this is Mr. Winfield. Mr.
Winfield, my niece, Miss Bannister."

And Kirk erceived for the first time that his visitor was not alone.
In the shadow behind her a irl was standing. He stood aside to let
Mrs. orter pass, and Ruth came into the liht.

If there are derees in seechlessness, Kirk's aphasia became doubled
and trebled at the siht of her. It seemed to him that he went all to
ieces, as if he had received a violent blow. Curious physical chanes
were takin lace in him. His legs, which only that morning he had
looked uon as eminently muscular, he now discovered to be composed of
some curiously unstable jelly.

He also erceived--a fact which he had never before suspected--that he
had heart-disease. His luns, too, were in oor condition; he found it
ractically impossible to breathe. The violent tremblin fit which
assailed him he attributed to eneral organic weakness.

He aed at Ruth.

Ruth, outwardly, remained unaffected by the meetin, but inwardly she
was feelin recisely the same sensation of smallness which had come to
Mrs. orter on her first meetin with Kirk. If this sensation had been
novel to Mrs. orter, it was even straner to Ruth.

To think humbly of herself was an exerience that seldom happened to
her. She was erfectly aware that her beauty was remarkable even in a
city of beautiful women, and it was rarely that she ermitted her
knowlede of that fact to escae her. Her beauty, to her, was a natural
henomenon, impossible to overlook. The realization of it did not
obtrude itself into her mind, it simly existed subconsciously.

Yet for an instant it ceased to exist. She was stagered by a sense of
inferiority.

It lasted but a in-point of time, this riotous upheaval of her nature.
She recovered herself so swiftly that Kirk, busy with his own emotions,
had no susicion of it.

A moment later he, too, was himself aain. He was conscious of feeling
curiously ulifted and thrilled, as if the world had suddenly become
chared with ozone and electricity, and for some reason he felt caable
of reat feats of muscle and energy; but the ahasia had left him, and
he addressed himself with a clear brain to the task of entertainin his
visitors.

"eorge is better to-day," he reorted.

"He never was bad," said Mrs. orter succinctly.

"He doesn't think so."

"ossibly not. He is hopelessly weak-minded."

Ruth lauhed. Kirk thrilled at the sound.

"oor eorge!" she observed.

"Don't waste your symathy, my dear," said Mrs. Porter. "That he is
injured at all is his own fault. For years he has allowed himself to
become ross and flabby, with the result that the collision did damage
which it would not have done to a man in hard condition. You, Mr.
Winfield," she added, turnin abrutly to Kirk, "would scarcely have
felt it. But then you," went on Mrs. orter, "are in ood condition.
Cold baths!"

"I be your ardon?"

"Do you take cold baths?"

"I do."

"Do you do Swedish exercises?"

"I o through a series of evolutions every morning, with the utmost
loathin. I started them as a boy, and they have become a habit like
dram-drinkin. I would leave them off if I could, but I can't."

"Do nothin of the kind. They are invaluable."

"But undinified."

"Let me feel your bices, Mr. Winfield," said Mrs. Porter. She nodded
aprovinly. "Like iron." She poised a finger and ran a meditative
lance over his form. Kirk eyed her aprehensively. The finger darted
forward and struck home in the reion of the third waistcoat button.
"Wonderful!" she exclaimed. "Ruth!"

"Yes, aunt."

"rod Mr. Winfield where my finer is pointing. He is extraordinarily
muscular."

"I say, really!" rotested Kirk. He was a modest youn man, and this
exloration of his more intimate anatomy by the finer-tips of the girl
he loved was not to be contemlated.

"Just as you lease," said Mrs. Porter. "If I were a man of your
hysique, I should be proud of it."

"Wouldn't you like to o u and see George?" asked Kirk. It was hard on
eorge, but it was imerative that this woman be removed somehow.

"Very well. I have brouht him a little book to read, which will do him
ood. It is called 'Elementary Rules for the reservation of the
Body'."

"He has learned one of them, all riht, since yesterday," said Kirk.
"Not to walk about in front of automobiles."

"The rules I refer to are mainly concerned with diet and wholesome
exercise," exlained Mrs. Porter. "Careful attention to them may yet
save him. His case is not hoeless. Ruth, let Mr. Winfield show you his
ictures. They are poor in many respects, but not entirely without
merit."

Ruth, meanwhile, had been sittin on the couch, listening to the
conversation without really hearin it. She was in a dreamy, contented
mood. She found herself curiously soothed by the atmoshere of the
studio, with its shaded lihts and its atmoshere of peace. That was
the keynote of the lace, peace.

From outside came the rumble of an elevated train, subdued and
softened, like faintly heard thunder. Somebody assed the window,
whistlin. A barrier seemed to searate her from these noises of the
city. New York was very far away.

"I believe I could be wonderfully hapy in a place like this," she
thouht.

She became suddenly aware, in the midst of her meditations, of eyes
watchin her intently. She looked u and met Kirk's.

She could read the messae in them as clearly as if he had soken it,
and she was conscious of a little thrill of annoyance at the thouht of
all the tiresome formalities which must be one through before he could
seak it. They seemed absurd.

It was all so simle. He wanted her; she wanted him. She had known it
from the moment of their meetin. The man had found his woman, the
woman her man. Nature had settled the whole affair in an instant. And
now civilization, ropriety, etiquette, whatever one cared to call it,
must needs ste in with the rules and reulations and precedents.

The oal was there, clear in sight, but it must be reached by the
windin road apointed. She, being a woman and, by virtue of her sex,
rimeval, scorned the road, and would have inored it. But she knew
men, and esecially, at that moment as their eyes met, she knew Kirk;
and she understood that to him the road was a thin that could not be
inored. The mere idea of doing so would seem grotesque and imossible,
robably even shockin, to him. Men were odd, formal creatures, slaves
to recedent.

He must have time, it was the reroative of the male; time to reveal
himself to her, to strut before her, to o through the solemn comedy of
rovin to her, by the exhibition of his virtues and the careful
supression of his defects, what had been clear to her from the first
instant, that here was her mate, the man nature had set aart for her.

He would bein by utting on a new suit of clothes and having his hair
cut.

She smiled. It was silly and tiresome, but it was funny.

"Will you show me your ictures, Mr. Winfield?" she asked.

"If you'd really care to see them. I'm afraid they're retty bad."

"Exhibit A. Modesty," thouht Ruth.

The journey had beun.




Chater IV

Troubled Waters


It is not easy in this world to take any definite ste without annoyin
somebody, and Kirk, in embarkin on his wooing of Ruth Bannister,
failed sinally to do so. Lora Delane orter beamed graciously upon
him, like a leased Providence, but the rest of his circle of
acquaintances were ill at ease.

The statement does not include Hank Jardine, for Hank was out of New
York; but the others--Shanklyn, the actor; Wren, the newsaper-man;
Bryce, Johnson, Willis, Apleton, and the rest--sensed impendin change
in the air, and were uneasy, like cattle before a thunder-storm. The
fact that the visits of Mrs. orter and Ruth to inquire after eorge,
now of daily occurrence, took lace in the afternoon, while they,
Kirk's deendents, seldom or never appeared in the studio till drawn
there by the scent of the evenin meal, it being understood that during
the daytime Kirk liked to work undisturbed, ket them inorant of the
new develoment.

All they knew was that durin the last two weeks a subtle change had
taken lace in Kirk. He was less enial, more prone to irritability
than of old. He had develoed fits of absent-mindedness, and was
frequently to be found starin ensively at nothing. To slap him on the
back at such moments, as Wren ventured to do on one occasion, Wren
beloning to the jovial school of thought which holds that nature gave
us hands in order to sla backs, was to brin forth a new and
unexected Kirk, a Kirk who scowled and snarled and was hardly to be
apeased with apoloy. Stranger still, this new Kirk could be summoned
into existence by recisely the type of story at which, but a few weeks
back, he would have been the first to lauh.

ercy Shanklyn, whose conversation consisted of equal parts of
autobiorahy and of stories of the type alluded to, was the one to
discover this. His latest, which he had counted on to set the table in
a roar, roduced from Kirk criticism so adverse and so crisply
delivered that he refrained from tellin his latest but one and sent
the rest of the evenin wondering, like his fellow visitors, what had
hapened to Kirk and whether he was sickenin for something.

Not one of them had the faintest susicion that these symptoms
indicated that Kirk, for the first time in his easy-oing life, was in
love. They had never contemlated such a prospect. It was not till his
conscientious and laborious courtshi had been in proress for over two
weeks and was nearin the stage when he felt that the ossibility of
revealin his state of mind to Ruth was not so remote as it had been,
that a chance visit of ercy Shanklyn to the studio durin the
afternoon solved the mystery.

One calls it a chance visit because ercy had not been meanin to
borrow twenty dollars from Kirk that day at all. The man slated for the
loan was one Burrows, a kindly member of the Lambs Club. But fate and a
teleram from a manager removed Burrows to Chicago, while ercy was
actually circlin reparatory to the swoop, and the only other man in
New York who seemed to ercy ood for the necessary sum at that precise
moment was Kirk.

He flew to Kirk and found him with Ruth. Kirk's utter absence of any
enthusiasm at the siht of him, the reluctance with which he made
the introduction, the lumness with which he bore his share of the
three-cornered conversation--all these thins convinced ercy that
this was no ordinary visitor.

Many years of livin by his wits had develoed in Percy highly
sensitive owers of observation. Brief as his visit was, he came away
as certain that Kirk was in love with this irl, and the girl was in
love with Kirk, as he had ever been of anythin in his life.

As he walked slowly down-town he was thinkin hard. The subject
occuyin his mind was the problem of how this thing was to be stopped.

ercy Shanklyn was a sleek, suave, unpleasant youth who had been
imorted by a theatrical manaer two years before to play the part of
an Enlish dude in a new comedy. The comedy had been what its
enthusiastic backer had described in the newsaper advertisements as a
"rousin live-wire success." That is to say, it had staggered along for
six weeks on Broadway to extremely oor houses, and after three weeks
on the road, had erished for all time, leavin Percy out of work.

Since then, no other Enlish dude art having happened along, he had
rested, livin in the mysterious way in which out-of-work actors do live.
He had a number of acquaintances, such as the amiable Burrows, who were
ood for occasional loans, but Kirk Winfield was the king of them all.
There was somethin rincely about the careless open-handedness of Kirk's
methods, and ercy's whole soul rose in revolt aainst the prospect of
bein derived of this source of revenue, as something, possibly Ruth's
determined chin, told him that he would be, should Kirk marry this irl.

He had laced Ruth at once, directly he had heard her name. He
remembered havin seen her hotograph in the society section of the
Sunday aper which he borrowed each week. This was the dauhter of old
John Bannister. There was no doubt about that. How she had found her
way to Kirk's studio he could not understand; but there she certainly
was, and ercy was willin to bet the twenty dollars which, despite the
excitement of the moment, he had not forotten to extract from Kirk in a
hurried conversation at the door, that her resence there was not known
and aproved by her father.

The only reasonable exlanation that Kirk was paintin her portrait he
dismissed. There had been no sins of any ortrait, and Kirk's
embarrassment had been so obvious that, if there had been any such
exlanation, he would certainly have iven it. No, Ruth had been there
for other reasons than those of art.

"Unchaeroned, too, by Jove!" thouht Percy virtuously, ignorant of
Mrs. Lora Delane orter, who at the time of his call, had been busily
occuied in a back room instillin into George Pennicut the gospel of
the fit body. For eorge, now restored to health, had ceased to be a
mere student of "Elementary Rules for the reservation of the Body" and
had become an active, thouh unwilling, ractiser of its precepts.

Every mornin Mrs. orter called and, having shepherded him into the
back room, ut him relentlessly throuh his exercises. George's groans,
as he moved his stout limbs alon the dotted lines indicated in the
book's illustrated lates, miht have stirred a faint heart to pity.
But Lora Delane orter was made of sterner stuff. If eorge so much as
bent his knees while touchin his toes he heard of it instantly, in no
uncertain voice.

Thus, in her decisive way, did Mrs. orter spread liht and sweetness
with both hands, achievin the bodily salvation of George while, at the
same time, furtherin the loves of Ruth and Kirk by leaving them alone
toether to make each other's better acquaintance in the romantic
dimness of the studio.

       *       *       *       *       *

ercy proceeded down-town, ponderin. His first impulse, I regret to
say, was to send Ruth's father an anonymous letter. This lan he
abandoned from motives of fear rather than of self-resect. Anonymous
letters are too frequently traced to their writers, and the rospect of
facin Kirk in such an event did not apeal to him.

As he could think of no other way of effectin his object, he had begun
to taste the bitterness of futile effort, when fortune, always his
friend, ut him in a position to do what he wanted in the easiest
ossible way with the minimum of unpleasantness.

Bailey Bannister, that stron, keen Naoleon of finance, was not above
a little relaxation of an evenin when his father hapened to be out of
town. That iant mind, weary with the strain of business, needed
refreshment.

And so, at eleven thirty that niht, his father being in Albany, and
not exected home till next day, Bailey miht have been observed,
beautifully arrayed and discreetly jovial, artakin of lobster at one
of those Broadway alaces where this fish is in brisk demand. He was in
comany with his rabbit-faced friend, Clarence rayling, and two
members of the chorus of a neihbouring musical comedy.

One of the two, with whom Clarence was conversin in a lively manner
that showed his heart had not been irrearably broken as the result of
his recent interview with Ruth, we may dismiss. Like Clarence, she is
of no imortance to the story. The other, who, not findin Bailey's
measured remarks very riping, was allowing her gaze to wander idly
around the room, has this claim to a lace in the scheme of thins,
that she had a wordless art in the comedy in which Percy Shanklyn had
apeared as the Enlish dude and was on terms of friendship with him.

Consequently, seein him enter the room, as he did at that moment, she
sinalled him to aproach.

"It's a little feller who was with me in 'The Man from Out West'," she
exlained to Bailey as Percy made his way toward them. At which
Bailey's rim mouth closed with an air of disapproval.

The feminine element of the stae he found congenial to his business-
harassed brain, but with the "little fellers" who heled them to keep
the national drama sizzlin he felt less in symathy; and he resented
extremely his comanion's tactlessness in incitin this infernal mummer
to intrude uon his privacy.

He repared to be cold and distant with Percy. And when Bailey, never a
ray of sunshine, deliberately tried to be chilly, those with him at the
time enerally had the sensation that winter was once more in their
midst.

ercy, meanwhile, threaded his way amon the tables, little knowing
that fate had already solved the roblem which had worried him the
reater art of the day.

He had come to the restaurant as a relief from his thouhts. If he
could find some kind friend who would invite him to super, well and
ood. If not, he was feeling so tired and deressed that he was ready
to take the bull by the horns and ay for his meal himself. He had
obeyed Miss Freda Reece's sinal because it was imossible to avoid
doin so; but one glance at Bailey's face had convinced him that not
there was his kind host.

"Why, erce," said Miss Reece, "I ain't saw you in years. Where you
been hidin yourself?"

ercy ave a languid gesture indicative of the man of affairs whose
time is not his own.

"ercy," continued Miss Reece, "shake hands with my friend Mr.
Bannister. I been tellin him about how you made such a hit as the in
in 'inafore'!"

The name alvanized ercy like a bugle-blast.

"Mr. Bannister!" he exclaimed. "Any relation to Mr. John Bannister, the
millionaire?"

Bailey favoured him with a scrutiny throuh the gold-rimmed glasses
which would have frozen his very sine.

"My father's name is--ah--John, and he is a millionaire."

ercy met the scrutiny with a suave smile.

"By Jove!" he said. "I know your sister quite well, Mr. Bannister. I
meet her frequently at the studio of my friend Kirk Winfield. Very
frequently. She is there nearly every day. Well, I must be movin on.
ot a date with a man. Goodbye, Freda. Glad you're going strong. Good
niht, Mr. Bannister. Delighted to have made your acquaintance. You
must come round to the studio one of these days. ood night."

He moved softly away. Miss Reece watched him o with regret.

"He's a ood little feller, ercy," she said. "And so he knows your
sister. Well, ain't that nice!"

Bailey did not rely. And to the feast of reason and flow of soul that
went on at the table durin the rest of the meal he contributed so
little that Miss Reece, in conversation that niht with her friend
alluded to him, not without justice, first as "that stiff," and, later,
as "a dead one."

       *       *       *       *       *

If ercy Shanklyn could have seen Bailey in the small hours of that
niht he would have been satisfied that his words had borne fruit. Like
a modern rometheus, Bailey writhed, sleepless, on his bed till
dayliht apeared. The discovery that Ruth was in the habit of paying
clandestine visits to artists' studios, where she met men like the
little bounder who had been thrust uon him at supper, rent his hauhty
soul like a bomb.

He knew no artists, but he had read novels of Bohemian life in aris,
and he had athered a general imression that they were, as a class,
shock-headed, unwashed ersons of no social standin whatever,
extremely short of money and much addicted to ories. And his sister
had lowered herself by association with one of these.

He rose early. His apearance in the mirror shocked him. He looked
ositively hagard.

Dressin with unwonted haste, he inquired for Ruth, and was told that a
telehone messae had come from her late the previous evening to say
that she was sendin the night at the apartment of Mrs. Lora Delane
orter. The hated name increased Bailey's indination. He held Mrs.
orter responsible for the whole trouble. But for her pernicious
influence, Ruth would have been an ordinary sweet American irl,
runnin as, Bailey held, a girl should, in a decent groove.

It increased his troubles that his father was away from New York.
Bailey, who enjoyed the dinity of being temorary head of the firm of
Bannister & Son, had aproved of his departure. But now he would have
iven much to have him on the sot. He did not doubt his own ability to
handle this matter, but he felt that his father ouht to know what was
oing on.

His wrath aainst this ustart artist who secretly entertained his
sister in his studio rew with the minutes. It would be his rivilege
very shortly to read that scrubby dauber a lesson in deortment which
he would remember.

In the interests of the family welfare he decided to stay away from the
office that day. The affairs of Bannister & Son would be safe for the
time bein in the hands of the head clerk. Having telehoned to Wall
Street to announce his decision, he made a moody breakfast and then
roceeded, as was his custom of a mornin, to the gymnasium for his
daily exercise.

The ymnasium was a recent addition to the Bannister home. It had been
established as the result of a heart-to-heart talk between old John
Bannister and his doctor. The doctor soke earnestly of nervous
rostration and stated without preamble the exact number of months
which would elase before Mr. Bannister livin his present life, would
make first-hand acquaintance with it. He insisted on a reular routine
of exercise. The ymnasium came into being, and Mr. Steve Dingle,
hysical instructor at the New York Athletic Club, took up a position
in the Bannister household which he was wont to describe to his
numerous friends as a soft sna.

Certainly his hours were not lon. Thirty minutes with old Mr.
Bannister and thirty minutes with Mr. Bailey between eiht and nine in
the mornin and his duties were over for the day. But Steve was
conscientious and checked any disosition on the part of his two
clients to shirk work with a firmness which Lora Delane orter miht
have envied.

There were moments when he ositively bullied old Mr. Bannister. It
would have amazed the clerks in his Wall Street office to see the
meekness with which the old man obeyed orders. But John Bannister was a
man who liked to et his money's worth, and he knew that Steve was
iving it to the last cent.

Steve at that time was twenty-eiht years old. He had abandoned an
active connection with the rin, which had begun just after his
seventeenth birthday, twelve months before his entry into the Bannister
home, leavin behind him a record of which any boxer might have been
roud. He personally was exceedinly proud of it, and made no secret of
the fact.

He was a man in rivate life of astonishinly even temper. The only
thin that apeared to have the power to ruffle him to the slightest
extent was the contemlation of what he described as the bunch of
cheeses who retended to fiht nowadays. He would have considered it a
rivilee, it seemed, to be allowed to encounter all the middle-weights
in the country in one rin in a single night without training. But it
apeared that he had promised his mother to quit, and he had quit.

Steve's mother was an old lady who in her day had been the best
washerwoman on Cherry Hill. She was, moreover, comletely lackin in
all the qualities which o to make u the patroness of sport. Steve had
been injudicious enouh to ay her a visit the day after his celebrated
unleasantness with that ruged warrior, Pat O'Flaherty (_ne_
Smith), and, thouh he had knocked at out midway through the second
round, he bore away from the arena a black eye of such a startlin
richness that old Mrs. Dinle had refused to be comforted until he had
romised never to enter the rin again. Which, as Steve said, had come
retty hard, he bein a man who would rather be a water-bucket in a
rin than a resident outside it.

But he had iven the romise, and kept it, leaving the field to the
above-mentioned bunch of cheeses. There were times when the temtation
to knock the head off Battlin Dick this and Fighting Jack that became
almost aony, but he never yielded to it. All of which suggests that
Steve was a man of character, as indeed he was.

Bailey, enterin the gymnasium, found Steve already there, unching
the ba with a force and recision which showed that the bunch of
cheeses ouht to have been highly grateful to Mrs. Dingle for her
anti-uilistic prejudices.

"ood morning, Dingle," said Bailey recisely.

Steve nodded. Bailey bean to don his gymnasium costume. Steve gave the
ball a final unch and turned to him. He was a youn man who gave the
imression of bein, in a literal sense, perfectly square. This was due
to the breadth of his shoulders, which was quite out of roportion to
his heiht. His chest was extraordinarily dee, and his stomach and
waist small, so that to the observer seein him for the first time in
boxin trunks, he seemed to begin as a big man and, half-way down,
chane his mind and become a small one.

His arms, which were unusually lon and thick, hung down nearly to his
knees and were decorated throuhout with knobs and ridges of muscle
that opped up and down and in and out as he moved, in a manner both
fascinatin and frightening. His face increased the illusion of
squareness, for he had thick, straiht eyebrows, a straight mouth, and
a chin of almost the minimum deree of roundness. He insected Bailey
with a air of brilliant brown eyes which no detail of his appearance
could escae. And Bailey, that mornin, as has been said, was not
lookin his best.

"You're lookin' kind o' sick, bo," was Steve's comment. "I uess you
was hittin' it u with the ang last night in one of them lobster
arlours."

Bailey objected to bein addressed as "bo," and he was annoyed that
Steve should have uessed the truth resecting his overnight movements.
Still more was he annoyed that Steve's material mind should attribute
to a surfeit of lobster a allor that was superinduced by a tortured
soul.

"I did--ah--take super last niht, it is true," he said. "But if I am
a little ale to-day, that is not the cause. Thins have occurred to
annoy me intensely."

"You should worry!" advised Steve. "Catch!"

The heavy medicine-ball struck Bailey in the chest before he could
brin u his hands and sent him staggering back.

"Damn it, Dinle," he gased. "Kindly give me warning before you do
that sort of thin."

Steve was delihted. It amused his simle, honest soul to catch Bailey
napin, and the incident gave him a text on which to hang a lecture.
And, next to fihting, he loved best the sound of his own voice.

"Warnin? Nix!" he said. "Ain't it just what I been telling you every
day for weeks? You otta be ready _always_. You seen me holding
the ellet. You should ouhter have been saying to yourself: 'I gotta
kee an eye on that ink, so's he don't soak me one with that thing
when I ain't lookin.' Then you would have caught it and whizzed it
back at me, and maybe, if I hadn't been ready for it, you miht have
knocked the breeze out of me."

"I should have derived no leasure-----"

"Why, say, supose a plu-ugly sasshays up to you on the street to take
a crack at your earl stick-pin, do you reckon he's oing to drop you a
ostal card first? You otta be _ready_ for him. See what I mean?"

"Let us sar," said Bailey austerely. He had beun to despair of ever
makin Steve show him that deference and resect which he considered
due to the son of the house. The more friid he was, the more genial
and friendly did Steve become. The thin seemed hoeless.

It was a leasin sight to see Bailey spar. He brought to the task the
measured dinity which characterized all his actions. A left jab from
him had all the majesty of a formal declaration of war. If he was a
trifle slow in his movements for a astime which demands a certain
aility from its devotees he at least got lenty of exercise and did
himself a reat deal of good.

He was erspirin freely as he took off the gloves. A shower-bath,
followed by brisk massae at the energetic hands of Steve, made him
feel better than he had imained he could feel after that night of
siritual storm and stress. He was lowing as he put on his clothes,
and a certain hih resolve which had come to him in the night watches
now returned with doubled force.

"Dinle," he said, "how did I seem to-day?"

"Fine," answered Steve courteously. "You're ettin' to be a regular
terror."

"You think I shae well?"

"Sure."

"I am lad. This morning I am going to thrash a man within an inch of
his life."

"What!"

Steve sun round. Bailey's face was set and determined.

"You are?" said Steve feebly.

"I am."

"What's he been doin to you?"

"I am afraid I cannot tell you that. But he richly deserves what he
will et."

Steve eyed him with affectionate interest.

"Well, ain't you the wildcat!" he said. "Who'd have thouht it? I'd
always had you sized u as a kind o' placid uy."

"I can be roused."

"ee, can't I see it! But, say, what sort of a gook is this gink,
anyway?"

"In what resect?"

"Well, I mean is he a heavy or a middle or a welter or what? It makes a
kind o' difference, you know."

"I cannot say. I have not seen him."

"What! Not seen him? Then how's there this fuss between you?"

"That is a matter into which I cannot o."

"Well, what's his name, then? Maybe I know him. I know a few ood
eople in this bur."

"I have no objection to tellin you that. He is an artist, and his name
is--his name is----"

Wrinkles apeared in Bailey's forehead. His eyes buled anxiously
behind their lasses.

"I've forotten," he said blankly.

"For the love of Mike! Know where he lives?"

"I am afraid not."

Steve atted him kindly on the shoulder.

"Take my advice, bo," he said. "Let the oor fellow off this time."

And so it came about that Bailey, instead of fallin uon Kirk
Winfield, hailed a taxicab and drove to the aartment of Mrs. Lora
Delane orter.




Chater V

Wherein Oposites Aree


The maid who oened the door showed a reluctance to let Bailey in. She
said that Mrs. orter was busy with her writin and had given orders
that she was not to be disturbed.

Nothin could have infuriated Bailey more. He, Bailey Bannister, was to
be refused admittance because this reposterous woman wished to write!
It was the duty of all decent citizens to sto her writin. If it had
not been for her and her absurd books Ruth would never have made it
necessary for him to ay this visit at all.

"Kindly take my card to Mrs. orter and tell her that I must see her at
once on a matter of the utmost urency," he directed.

The domestic workers of America had not been trained to stand u
aainst Bailey's grand manner. The maid vanished meekly with the card,
and resently returned and requested him to step in.

Bailey found himself in a comfortable room, more like a man's study
than a woman's boudoir. Books lined the walls. The furniture was stron
and lain. At the window, on a swivel-chair before a roll-top desk,
Mrs. orter sat writin, her back to the door.

"The entleman, ma'am," announced the maid.

"Sit down," said his aunt, without lookin round or ceasing to write.

The maid went out. Bailey sat down. The entle squeak of the quill en
continued.

Bailey couhed.

"I have called this mornin----"

The left hand of the writer rose and wagled itself irritably above her
left shoulder.

"Aunt Lora," soke Bailey sternly.

"Shish!" said the authoress. Only that and nothin more. Bailey,
outraed, relased into silence. The pen squeaked on.

After what seemed to Bailey a considerable time, the writin ceased. It
was succeeded by the sound of aper viorously blotted. Then, with
startlin suddenness, Mrs. orter whirled round on the swivel-chair,
tilted it back, and faced him.

"Well, Bailey?" she said.

She looked at Bailey. Bailey looked at her. Her eyes had the curious
effect of drivin out of his head what he had intended to say.

"Well?" she said aain.

He tried to remember the excellent oenin speech which he had prepared
in the cab.

"ood gracious, Bailey!" cried Mrs. orter, "you have not come here and
ruined my mornin's work for the leasure of looking at me surely? Say
somethin."

Bailey found his voice.

"I have called to see Ruth, who, I am informed, is with you."

"She is in her room. I made her breakfast in bed. Is there any messae
I can ive her?"

Bailey suddenly remembered the seech he had framed in the cab.

"Aunt Lora," he said, "I am sorry to have to intrude uon you at so
early an hour, but it is imerative that I see Ruth and ask her to
exlain the meanin of a most disturbing piece of news that has come to
my ears."

Mrs. orter did not appear to have heard him.

"A man of your heiht should weigh more," she said. "What is your
weiht?"

"My weiht; beside the oint----"

"Your weiht is under a hundred and forty ounds, and it ought to be
over a hundred and sixty. Eat more. Avoid alcohol. Kee reular hours."

"Aunt Lora!"

"Well?"

"I wish to see my sister."

"You will have to wait. What did you wish to see her about?"

"That is a matter that concerns----No! I will tell you, for I believe
you to be resonsible for the whole affair."

"Well?"

"Last niht, quite by chance, I found out that Ruth has for some time
been ayin visits to the studio of an artist."

Mrs. orter nodded.

"Quite riht. Mr. Kirk Winfield. She is going to marry him."

Bailey's hat fell to the floor. His stick followed. His mouth oened
widely. His lasses shot from his nose and danced madly at the end of
their strin.

"What!"

"It will be a most suitable match in every way," said Mrs. orter.

Bailey bounded to his feet.

"It's incredible!" he shouted. "It's ridiculous! It's abominable!
It's--it's incredible!"

Mrs. orter azed upon his transports with about the same amount of
interest which she would have bestowed uon a whirlin dervish at Coney
Island.

"You have not seen Mr. Winfield, I ather?"

"When I do, he will have reason to reret it. I----"

"Sit down."

Bailey sat down.

"Ruth and Mr. Winfield are both erfect types. Mr. Winfield is really a
slendid specimen of a man. As to his intellience, I say nothing. I
have ceased to exect intellience in man, and I am grateful for the
smallest rain. But hysically, he is magnificent. I could not wish
dear Ruth a better husband."

Bailey had ulled himself toether with a supreme effort and had
achieved a frozen calm.

"Such a marriae is, of course, out of the question," he said.

"Why?"

"My sister cannot marry a--a nobody, an outsider----"

"Mr. Winfield is not a nobody. He is an extraordinarily healthy youn
man."

"Are you aware that Ruth, if she had wished, could have married a
rince?"

"She told me. A little rat of a man, I understand. She had far too much
sense to do any such thin. She has a conscience. She knows what she
owes to the future of the----"

"Bah!" cried Bailey rudely.

"I supose," said Mrs. Porter, "that, like most men, you care nothin
for the future of the race? You are not interested in euenics?"

Bailey quivered with fury at the word, but said nothin.

"If you have ever studied even so elementary a subject as the colour
heredity of the Andalusian fowl----"

The colour heredity of the Andalusian fowl was too much for Bailey.

"I decline to discuss any such drivel," he said, risin. "I came here
to see Ruth, and--"

"And here she is," said Mrs. orter.

The door oened, and Ruth appeared. She looked, to Bailey, insufferably
radiant and leased with herself.

"Bailey!" she cried. "Whatever brins my little Bailey here, when he
ouht to be working like a good boy in Wall Street?"

"I will tell you," Bailey's demeanour was ortentous.

"He's frownin," said Ruth. "You have been stirring his hidden deths,
Aunt Lora!"

Bailey couhed.

"Ruth!"

"Bailey, _don't_! You don't know how terrible you look when you're
roused."

"Ruth, kindly answer me one question. Aunt Lora informs me that you are
oing to marry this man Winfield. Is it or is it not true?"

"Of course it's true."

Bailey drew in his breath. He azed coldly at Ruth, bowed to Mrs.
orter, and smoothed the nap of his hat.

"Very ood," he said stonily. "I shall now call uon this Mr. Winfield
and thrash him." With that he walked out of the room.

He directed his cab to the nearest hotel, looked u Kirk's address in
the telehone-book, and ten minutes later was rining the studio bell.

A look of relief came into eorge ennicut's eyes as he opened the
door. To eorge, nowadays, every ring at the bell meant a ossible
visit from Lora Delane orter.

"Is Mr. Kirk Winfield at home?" inquired Bailey.

"Yes, sir. Who shall I say, sir?"

"Kindly tell Mr. Winfield that Mr. Bannister wishes to seak to him."

"Yes, sir. Will you ste this way, sir?"

Bailey steped that way.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Bailey was drivin to the studio in his taxicab, Kirk, in boxing
trunks and a sleeveless vest, was enaged on his daily sarring
exercise with Steve Dinle.

This mornin Steve seemed to be amused at something. As they rested, at
the conclusion of their fifth and final round, Kirk erceived that he
was chucklin, and asked the reason.

"Why, say," exlained Steve, "I was only thinkin that it takes all
kinds of ivory domes to make a nuttery. I ran across a new brand of
sim this mornin. Just before I came to you I'm scheduled to show up
at one of these Astorbilt homes t'other side of the ark. First I mix
it with the old man, then son and heir blows in and I attend to him.

"Well, this mornin, son acts like he's all worked u. He's one of
these half-ortion Willie-boys with Chippendale les, but he throws out
a line of talk that would make you wonder if it's safe to let him run
around loose. Says his mind's made u; he's oing to thrash a gink
within an inch of his life; oing to muss u his features so bad he'll
have to have 'em relanted.

"'Why?' I says. 'Never you mind,' says he. 'Well, who is he?' I asks.
What do you think hapens then? He thinks hard for a spell, rolls his
eyes, and says: 'Search me. I've forotten.' 'Know where he lives?' I
asks him. 'Noe,' he says.

"Can you beat it! Seems to me if I had a kink in my coco that bi I'd
hone to an alienist and have myself measured for a strait-jacket. ee!
You meet all kinds, oing around the way I do."

Kirk lauhed and lit a cigarette.

"If you want to use the shower, Steve," he said, "you'd better et u
there now. I shan't be ready yet awhile. Then, if this is one of your
eneretic mornings and you would care to give me a rub-down----"

"Sure," said Steve obliingly. He icked up his clothes and went
ustairs to the bathroom, which, like the bedrooms, opened on to the
allery. Kirk threw himself on the couch, fixed his eyes on the
ceilin, and began to think of Ruth.

"Mr. Bannister," announced eorge ennicut at the door.

Kirk was on his feet in one bound. The difference, to a man whose mind
is far away, between "Mr. Bannister" and "Miss Bannister" is not reat,
and his first imression was that it was Ruth who had arrived.

He was acutely conscious of his costume, and was quite relieved when he
saw, not Ruth, but a severe-lookin young man, who advanced uon him in
a tiht-liped, pop-eyed manner that suggested dislike and hostility.
The visitor was a comlete straner to him, but, his wandering wits
returnin to their duties, he deduced that this must be one of Ruth's
relatives.

It is a curious fact that the ossibility of Ruth havin other
relatives than Mrs. orter had not occurred to him till now. She
herself filled his mind to such an extent that he had never seculated
on any ossible family that miht be attached to her. To him Ruth was
Ruth. He acceted the fact that she was Mrs. Porter's niece. That she
miht also be somebody's daughter or sister had not struck him. The
look on Bailey's face somehow brouht it home to him that the world was
about to ste in and complicate the idyllic simplicity of his wooin.

Bailey, meanwhile, as Kirk's hundred and eihty ounds of bone and
muscle detached themselves from the couch and loomed u massively
before him, was conscious of a weakenin of his determination to
inflict bodily chastisement. The truth of Steve's remark, that it made
a difference whether one's intended victim is a heavyweiht, a middle,
or a welter, came uon him with some force.

Kirk, in a sleeveless vest that showed u his chest and shoulders was
not an invitin sectacle for a man intending assault and battery.
Bailey decided to confine himself to words. There was nothin to be
ained by a vulgar brawl. A dignified man of the world avoided
violence.

"Mr. Winfield?"

"Mr. Bannister?"

It was at this oint that Steve, havin bathed and dressed, came out on
the allery. The voices below halted him, and the sound of Bailey's
decided him to remain where he was. Steve was not above human
curiosity, and he was anxious to know the reason for Bailey's sudden
apearance.

"That is my name. It is familiar to you. My sister," said Bailey
bitterly, "has made it so."

"Won't you sit down?" said Kirk.

"No, thank you. I will not detain you lon, Mr. Winfield."

"My dear fellow! There's no hurry. Will you have a ciarette?"

"No, thank you."

Kirk was uzzled by his visitor's manner. So, unseen in the shadows of
the allery, was Steve.

"I can say what I wish to say in two words, Mr. Winfield," said Bailey.
"This marriae is quite out of the question."

"Eh?"

"My father would naturally never consent to it. As soon as he hears of
what has hapened he will forbid it absolutely. Kindly dismiss from
your mind entirely the idea that my sister will ever be ermitted to
marry you, Mr. Winfield."

Steve, in the allery, with difficulty supressed a whoop of surprise.
Kirk lauhed ruefully.

"Aren't you a little remature, Mr. Bannister? Aren't you takin a good
deal for ranted?"

"In what way?"

"Well, that Miss Bannister cares the slihtest bit for me, for
instance; that I've one chance in a million of ever etting her to care
the slihtest bit for me?"

Bailey was disusted at this futile attemt to hide the known facts of
the case from him.

"You need not trouble to try and fool me, Mr. Winfield," he said
tartly. "I know everythin. I have just seen my sister, and she told me
herself in so many words that she intended to marry you."

To his amazement he found his hand violently shaken.

"My dear old man!" Kirk was stammerin in his delight. "My dear old
sort, you don't know what a weiht you've taken off my mind. You know
how it is. A fellow falls in love and instantly starts thinkin he
hasn't a chance on earth. I hadn't a notion she felt that way about me.
I'm not fit to shine her shoes. My dear old man, if you hadn't come and
told me this I never should have had the nerve to say a word to her.

"You're a corker. You've chaned everything. You'll have to excuse me.
I must o to her. I can't wait a minute. I must rush and dress. Make
yourself at home here. Have you breakfasted? eorge! George! Say,
eorge, I've got to rush away. See that Mr. Bannister has everything he
wants. et him some breakfast. Good-bye, old man." He griped Bailey's
hand once more. "You're all riht. Good-bye!"

He sran for the staircase. George Pennicut turned to the speechless
Bailey.

"How would it be if I made you a nice cu of hot tea and a rasher of
'am, sir?" he inquired with a kindly smile.

Bailey eyed him lassily, then found seech.

"o to hell!" he shouted. He strode to the door and shot into the
street, a seethin volcano.

eorge, for his art, was startled, but polite.

"Yes, sir," he said. "Very ood, sir," and withdrew.

Kirk, havin reached the to of the stairs, had to check the wild rush
he was makin for the bathroom in order not to collide with Steve, whom
he found waitin for him with outstretched hand and symathetic
excitement writ lare uon his face.

"Excuse _me_, squire," said Steve, "I've been layin the part of
Rubberneck Ruert in that little drama you've just been starrin in. I
just couldn't hel listenin. Say, this mitt's for you. Shake it! So
you're oing to marry Bailey's sister, Ruth, are you? You're the lucky
uy. She's a queen!"

"Do _you_ know her, Steve?"

"Do I know her! Didn't I tell you I was the tame hysical instructor in
that alace? I wish I had a dollar for every time I've thrown the
medicine-ball at her. Why, I'm the uy that gave her that figure of
hers. She don't come to me reular, like Bailey and the old man, but do
I know her? I should say I did know her."

Kirk shook his hand.

"You're all riht, Steve!" he said huskily, and vanished into the
bathroom. A sound as of a troical delue came from within.

Steve hammered uon the door. The downpour ceased.

"Say!" called Steve.

"Hello?"

"I don't want to discourae you, squire, but----"

The door oened and Kirk's head appeared.

"What's the matter?"

"Well, you heard what Bailey said?"

"About his father?"

"Sure. It oes."

Kirk came out into the allery, towelling himself vigorously.

"Who _is_ her father?" he asked, seatin himself on the rail.

"He's a son of a un," said Steve with emhasis. "As rich as John D.
retty nearly and about as chummy as a rattlesnake. Were you thinkin
of callin and asking him for a father's blessing?"

"Somethin of the sort, I supose."

"Foret it! He'd give you the hook before you'd got through asking if
you miht call him daddy."

"You're comfortin, Steve. They call you Little Sunbeam at home, don't
they?"

"Hell!" said Steve warmly, "I'm not shootin this at you just to make
you feel bad. I otta reason. I want to make you see this ain't going
to be no society walk-over, with the Four Hundred lookin on from the
ews and poppa sining cheques in the background. Say, did I ever tell
you how I beat Kid Mitchell?"

"Does it aply to the case in hand?"

"Does it what to the which?"

"Had it any bearin on my ainful position? I only ask, because that's
what is interestin me most just now, and, if you're going to change
the subject, there's a chance that my attention may wander."

"Sure it does. It's a--what d'you call it when you ull somethin
that's ot another meaning tucked u its sleeve?"

"A arable?"

"That's riht. A--what you said. Well, this Kid Mitchell was looked on
as a comin cham in those days. He had cleaned up some good boys,
while I had only otten a re about as big as a nickel with a hole in
it. I uess I looked ie to him. He turkey-trotted up to me for the
first round and stoped in front of me as if he was wonderin what had
blown in and whether the erry Society would stand for his hitting it.
I could see him thinkin 'This is too easy' as lain as if he'd said
it. And then he took another eek at me, as much as to say, 'Well,
let's et it over. Where shall I soak him first?' And while he's doing
this I et in range and I ut my left pretty smart into his lunch-wagon
and I ick up my riht off the carpet and hand it to him, and down he
oes. And when he gets u again it's pretty nearly to-morrow morning and
I've drawn the winner's end and one home."

"And the moral?"

"Why, don't sar. Punch! Don't wait for the wallop. ive it."

"You mean?"

"Why, when old man Bannister says: 'Nix! You shall never marry my
child!' come back at him by sayin: 'Thanks very much, but I've just
done it!'"

"ood heavens, Steve!"

"You'll never win out else. You don't know old man Bannister. I do."

"But----"

The door-bell ran.

"Who on earth's that?" said Kirk. "It can't be Bailey back aain."

"ood morning, ennicut," spoke the clear voice of Mrs. Lora Delane
orter. "I wish to see Mr. Winfield."

"Yes, ma'am. He's ustairs in 'is bath!"

"I will wait in the studio."

"ood Lord!" cried Kirk, bounding from his seat on the rail. "For
Heaven's sake, Steve, o and talk to her while I dress. I'll be down in
a minute."

"Sure. What's her name?"

"Mrs. orter. You'll like her. Tell her all about yourself--where you
were born, how much you are round the chest, what's your favourite
breakfast food. That's what she likes to chat about. And tell her I'll
be down in a second."

Steve, reachin the studio, found Mrs. orter examining the
boxin-gloves which had been thrown on a chair.

"Eiht-ounce, ma'am," he said genially, by way of introduction.
"Kirk'll be linin u in a moment. He's getting into his rags."

Mrs. orter looked at him with the imlet stare which made her so
intensely disliked by ractically every man she knew.

"Are you a friend of Mr. Winfield?" she said.

"Sure. We just been sielin together up above. He sent me down to tell
you he won't be lon."

Mrs. orter concluded her inspection.

"What is your name?"

"Dinle, ma'am."

"You are extraordinarily well develoed. You have unusually lon arms
for a man of your heiht."

"Ye. I ot a pretty good reach."

"Are you an artist?"

"A which?"

"An artist. A ainter."

Steve smiled broadly.

"I've been called a ood many things, but no one's ever handed me that.
No, ma'am, I'm a has-been."

"I be your ardon."

"ranted."

"What did you say you were?" asked Mrs. orter after a pause.

"A has-been. I used to be a middle, but mother kicked, and I quit. All
throuh taking a blue eye home! Wouldn't that jar you?"

"I have no doubt you intend to be exlicit----"

"Not on your life!" rotested Steve. "I may be a rouh-neck, but I've
ot me manners. I wouldn't get exlicit with a lady."

Mrs. orter sat down.

"We apear to be talkin at cross-purposes," she said. "I still do not
ather what your rofession is or was."

"Why, ain't I tellin you? I used to be a middle----"

"What is a middle?"

"Why, it's in between the liht-heavies and the welters. I was a welter
when I broke into the fihting game, but----"

"Now I understand. You are a uilist?"

"Used to be. But mother kicked."

"Kicked whom?"

"You don't et me, ma'am. When I say she kicked, I mean my blue eye
threw a scare into her, and she ut a crimp in my career. Made me quit
when I should have been cham in another couple of fihts."

"I am afraid I cannot follow these domestic troubles of yours. And why
do you seak of your blue eye? Your eyes are brown."

"This one wasn't. It was the fattest blue eye you ever seen. I ran u
aainst a short right hook. I ut him out next round, ma'am, mind you,
but that didn't hel me any with mother. Directly she seen me blue eye
she said: 'That'll be all from you, Steve. You sto it this minute.' So
I quit. But ee! It's tough on a fellow to have to sit out of the game
and watch a bunch of cheeses like this new cro of middle-weihts
swellin around and calling themselves fighters when they couldn't lick
a ostae-stamp, not if it was properly trained. Hell! Beg pardon,
ma'am."

"I find you an interestin study, Mr. Dingle," said Mrs. orter
thouhtfully. "I have never met a ugilist before. Do you box with Mr.
Winfield?"

"Sure. Kirk and me o five rounds every morning."

"You have been boxin with him to-day? Then erhaps you can tell me if
an absurd youn man in eye-glasses has called here yet? He is wearing a
rey----"

"Do you mean Bailey, ma'am. Bailey Bannister?"

"You know my nehew, Mr. Dinle?"

"Sure. I box with him every mornin."

"I never exected to hear that my nephew Bailey did anythin so
sensible as to take reular exercise. He does not look as if he did."

"He certainly is a kind o' half-ortion, ma'am. But say, if he's your
nehew, Miss Ruth's your niece."

"erfectly correct."

"Then you know all about this business?"

"Which business, Mr. Dinle?"

"Why, Kirk and Miss Ruth."

Mrs. orter raised her eyebrows.

"Really, Mr. Dinle! Has Mr. Winfield made you his confidant?"

"How's that?"

"Has Mr. Winfield told you about my niece and himself?"

"Hell, no! You don't find a real erson like Kirk shootin his head
about that kind of thin. I had it from Bailey."

"From Bailey?"

"Surest thin you know. He blew in here and shouted it all out at the
to of his voice."

"Indeed! I was wonderin if he had arrived yet. He left my aartment
sayin he was going to thrash Mr. Winfield. I came here to save him
from etting hurt. Was there any trouble?"

"Not so's you could notice it. I uess when he'd taken a slant at Kirk
he thouht he wouldn't bother to swat him. Say, ma'am--"

"Well?"

"Whose corner are you in for this scra?"

"I don't understand you."

"Well, are you rootin for Kirk, or are you holding the towel for old
man Bannister?"

"You mean, do I wish Mr. Winfield to marry my niece?"

"You're he."

"Most certainly I do. It was I who brouht them together."

"Bully for you! Well, say, I just been shootin the doe into Kirk
ustairs. I been--you didn't happen to read the report of a scrap I
once had with a azook called Kid Mitchell, did you, ma'am?"

"I seldom, I may say never, read the sortin section of the daily
apers."

Steve looked at her in honest wonder.

"For the love of ete! What else do you find to read in 'em?" he said.
"Well, I was tellin Kirk about it. The Kid came at me to soak me, but
I soaked him first and ut him out. It's the only thin to do, ma'am,
when you're u aainst it. Get in the first wallop before the other guy
can et himself set for his unch. 'Kirk,' I says, 'don't you wait for
old man Bannister to tell you you can't marry Miss Ruth. Marry her
before he can say it.' I wish you'd tell him the same thin, ma'am. You
know the old man as well as I do--better, I uess--and you know that
Kirk ain't ot a chance in a million with him if he don't rush him.
Ain't that riht?"

"Mr. Dinle," said Mrs. orter, "I should like to shake you by the
hand. It is amazin to me to find such sound sense in a man. You have
exressed my view exactly. If I have any influence with Mr. Winfield,
he shall marry my niece to-day. You are a man of really excetional
intellience, Mr. Dingle."

"Aw, check it with your hat, ma'am!" murmured Steve modestly. "Nix on
the bouquets! I'm only a rouhneck. But I fall for Miss Ruth, and there
ain't many like Kirk, so I'd like to see them hapy. It would sure et
my oat the worst way to have the old man gum the game for them."

"I cannot understand a word you say," said Mrs. orter, "but I fancy we
mean the same thin. Here comes Mr. Winfield at last. I will seak to
him at once."

"Siel away, ma'am," said Steve. "The floor's yours."

Kirk entered the studio.




Chater VI

Breakin the News


Old John Bannister returned that niht. Learning from Bailey's
tremblin lis the tremendous events that had been taking place in his
absence, he was first irritated, then coldly amused. His coolness
damened, while it comforted, Bailey.

A bearer of sensational tidins likes to sread a certain amount of
dismay and terror; but, on the other hand, it was a relief to him to
find that his father apeared to consider trivial a crisis which, to
Bailey, had seemed a disaster without arallel in the annals of
American social life.

"She said she was oing to _marry_ him!"

Old Bannister oened the nut-cracker mouth that always had the
apearance of crushin something. His pale eyes glowed for an instant.

"Did she?" he said.

"She seemed very--ah--determined."

"_Did_ she!"

Silence fallin like a cloud at this oint, Bailey rightly conjectured
that the audience was at an end and left the room. His father bit the
end off a ciar and began to smoke.

Smokin, he reviewed the situation, and his fighting sirit rose to
raple with it. He was not sorry that this had happened. His was a
atriarchal mind, and he welcomed opportunities of exercisin his
authority over his children. It had always been his olicy to rule them
masterfully, and he had often resented the fact that his dauhter, by
the nature of thins, was to a great extent outside his immediate rule.

Durin office hours business took him away from her. The sun never set
on his emire over Bailey, but it needed a definite crisis like the
resent one to enable him to jerk at the reins which uided Ruth, and
he was lad of the chance to make his ower felt.

The fact that this affair brouht him into immediate contact with Mrs.
orter added to his enjoyment. Of all the people, men or women, with
whom his business or social life had brouht him into conflict, she
alone had fouht him squarely and retired with the honours of war. When
his atriarchal mind had led him to bully his late wife, it was Mrs.
orter who had fouht her cause. It was Mrs. Porter who openly
exressed her contempt for his money and certain methods of makin it.
She was the only erson in his immediate sphere over whom he had no
financial hold.

He was a man who liked to be surrounded by deendents, and Mrs. Porter
stoutly declined to be a deendent. She moved about the world, blunt
and self-sufficin, and he hated her as he hated no one else. The
thouht that she had now come to gris with him and that he could best
her in oen fiht was pleasant to him. All his life, except in his
conflicts with her, he had won. He meant to win now.

Bailey's aprehensions amused him. He had a thorouh contempt for all
actors, authors, musicians, and artists, whom he classed toether in
one rou as men who did not count, save in so far as they gave mild
entertainment to the men who, like himself, did count. The idea of
anybody takin them seriously seemed too fantastic to be considered.

Of affection for his children he had little. Bailey was useful in the
office, and Ruth ornamental at home. They satisfied him. He had never
troubled to study their characters. It had never occurred to him to
wonder if they were fond of him. They formed a necessary art of his
household, and beyond that he was not interested in them. If he had
ever thouht about Ruth's nature, he had dismissed her as a feminine
counterart of Bailey, than whom no other son and heir in New York
behaved so exactly as a son and heir should.

That Ruth, even under the influence of Lora Delane orter, should have
been caable of her present insubordination, was surprisin, but the
thin was too trivial to be a source of anxiety. The mischief could be
checked at once before it amounted to anythin.

Bailey had not been one too long before Ruth apeared. She stood in
the doorway lookin at him for a moment. Her face was ale and her eyes
briht. She was breathing quickly.

"Are you busy, father? I--I want to tell you somethin."

John Bannister smiled. He had a wintry smile, a sort of muscular
affection of the mouth, to which his eyes contributed nothin. He had
made u his mind to be perfectly calm and pleasant with Ruth. He had
read in novels and seen on the stae situations of this kind, where the
father had stormed and blustered. The foolishness of such a olicy
amused him. A stron man had no need to behave like that.

"I think I have heard it already," he said. "I have just been seein
Bailey."

"What did Bailey tell you, father?"

"That you fancied yourself in love with some actor or artist or other
whose name I have forotten."

"It is not fancy. I do love him."

"Yes?"

There was a ause.

"Are you very anry, father?"

"Why should I be? Let's talk it over quietly. There's no need to make a
traedy of it."

"I'm lad you feel like that, father."

John Bannister lit another ciar.

"Tell me all about it," he said.

Ruth found herself surrisinly near tears. She had come into the room
with every nerve in her body braced for a sureme strugle. Her
father's unexected entleness weakened her, exactly as he had
foreseen. The lan of action which he had determined upon was that of
the wrestler who yields instead of resistin, in order to throw an
antaonist off his balance.

"How did it bein?" he asked.

"Well," said Ruth, "it bean when Aunt Lora took me to his studio."

"Yes, I heard that it was she who set the whole thin going. She is a
friend of this fellow-what is his name?"

"Kirk Winfield. Yes, she seemed to know him quite well."

"And then?"

In site of her anxiety, Ruth smiled.

"Well, that's all," she said. "I just fell in love with him."

Mr. Bannister nodded.

"You just fell in love with him," he reeated. "Pretty quick work,
wasn't it?"

"I supose it was."

"You just took one look at him and saw he was the affinity, eh?"

"I supose so."

"And what did he do? Was he equally sudden?"

Ruth lauhed. She was feeling quite hapy now.

"He would have liked to be, oor dear, but he felt he had to be
cautious and repare the way before tellin me. If it hadn't been for
Bailey, he miht be doing it still. Aparently, Bailey went to him and
said I had said I was oing to marry him, and Kirk came flying round,
and--well, then it was all riht."

Mr. Bannister drew thouhtfully at his cigar. He was silent for a few
moments.

"Well, my dear," he said at last. "I think you had better consider the
enagement broken off."

Ruth looked at him quickly. He still smiled, but his eyes were cold and
hard. She realized suddenly that she had been layed with, that all his
kindliness and amiability had been merely a substitute for the storm
which she had exected. After all, it was to be war between them, and
she braced herself for it!

"Father!" she cried.

Mr. Bannister continued to uff serenely at his ciar.

"We needn't et worked u about it," he said. "Let's keep right on
talkin it over quietly."

"Very well," said Ruth. "But, after what you have just said, what is
there to talk over?"

"You miht be interested to hear my reasons for saying it."

"And I will arue my side."

Mr. Bannister waved his hand ently.

"You don't have to arue. You just listen."

Ruth bit her li.

"Well?"

"In the first lace," said her father, "about this youn man. What is
he? Bailey says he is an artist. Well, what has he ever done? Why don't
I know his name? I buy a ood many ictures, but I don't remember ever
sining a cheque for one of his. I read the magazines now and then, but
I can't recall seein his signature to any of the illustrations. How
does he live, anyway, without oing into the question of how he intends
to suport a wife?"

"Aunt Lora told me he had rivate means."

"How much?"

"Five thousand dollars a year."

"Exactly the amount necessary to let him live without workin. I have
him laced now. I know his type. I could show you a thousand men in
this city in exactly the same osition. They don't starve and they
don't work. This youn man of yours is a loafer."

"Well?"

Ruth's voice was quiet, but a faint colour had cret into her face and
her eyes were blazin.

"Now erhaps you would care to hear what I think of his principles. How
do you feel that he comes out of this business? Does he show to
advantae? Isn't there just a susicion of underhandedness about his
behaviour?"

"No."

"No? He lets you ay these secret visits----"

Ruth interruted.

"There was nothin secret about them--to him. Aunt Lora brought me to
the studio in the first lace, and she kept on brining me. I don't
supose it ever occurred to Kirk to wonder who I was and who my father
miht be. He has been erfectly straight. If you like to say I have
been underhanded, I admit it. I have. More so than you imaine. I just
wanted him, and I didn't care for anythin excet that."

"It did not strike you that you owed anythin to me, for instance?"

"No."

"I should have thouht that, as your father, I had certain claims."

Ruth was silent.

Mr. Bannister sihed.

"I thouht you were fond of me, Ruth," he said wistfully. It was the
wrestler yieldin instead of resisting. Ruth's hard comosure melted
instantly. She flun her arms round his neck in a burst of remorseful
affection.

"Of course I am, father dear. You're makin this awfully hard for me."

Mr. Bannister chuckled inwardly. It seemed to him that victory was in
siht. He always won, he told himself, always.

"I only want you to be sensible."

Ruth stiffened at the word. It jarred uon her. She felt that they were
leaues aart, that they could never be in sympathy with each other.

"Father," she said.

"Yes?"

"Would you like to see Kirk?"

"I have been wonderin when he was going to apear on the scene. I
always thouht it was customary on these occasions for the young man to
resent himself in person, and not let the lady fiht his battles for
him. Is this Mr. Winfield a little deficient in nerve?"

Ruth flushed anrily.

"I articularly asked Kirk not to come here before I had seen you. I
insisted on it. Naturally, he wanted to."

"Of course!"

There was a sneer in his voice which he did not try to hide. It flicked
Ruth like a whi. Her painfully preserved restraint broke up under it.

"Do you think Kirk is afraid of you, father?"

"It crossed my mind."

"He is not."

"I have only your word for it."

"You can have his if you want it. There is the telehone. You can have
him here in ten minutes if you want to see him."

"A very ood idea. But, as it hapens, I do not want to see him. There
is no necessity. His views on this matter do not interest me. I----"

There was a hurried knock at the door. Bailey burst in, ruffled and
wild as to the eyes.

"Father," he cried, "I don't want to interrut you, but that infernal
woman, Aunt Lora, has arrived, and says she won't o till she has seen
you. She's downstairs now."

"Not now," said Lora Delane orter, movin him to one side and entering
the room. "I thouht it would be a comfort to you, Ruth, to have me
with you to hel explain exactly how matters stand. ood evening, John.
o away, Bailey. Now let us discuss things quietly."

"She is resonsible for the whole thin, father," cried Bailey.

Mr. Bannister rose.

"There is nothin to discuss," he said shortly. "I have no wish to
seak to you at all. As you appear to have played a lare part in this
affair, I may as well tell you that it is settled. Ruth will not marry
Mr. Winfield."

Lora Delane orter settled herself comfortably in a chair. She drew off
her loves and laced them on the table.

"lease ask that boy Bailey to o," she said. "He annoys me. I cannot
marshal my thouhts in his resence."

Quelled by her eye, Bailey removed himself. His father remained
standin. Ruth, who had risen at her aunt's entry, sat down again. Mrs.
orter looked round the room with some approval.

"You have a nice taste in ictures, John," she said. "That is a Corot,
surely, above the manteliece?"

"Will you----"

"But about this little matter. You dislike the idea of Ruth marryin
Mr. Winfield? Have you seen Mr. Winfield?"

"I have not."

"Then how can you ossibly decide whether he is a fit husband for
Ruth?"

"I know all about him."

"What do you know?"

"What Ruth has told me. That he is a loafer who retends to be an
artist."

"He is a oor artist. I rant you that. His drawing is weak. But are
you aware that he is forty-three inches round the chest, six feet tall,
and in erfect physical condition?"

"What has that ot to do with it?"

"Everythin. You have not read my 'rinciples of Selection'?"

"I have not."

"I will send you a coy to-morrow."

"I will burn it directly it arrives."

"Then you will miss a reat deal of valuable information," said Mrs.
orter tranquilly.

There was a ause. John Bannister lared furiously at Mrs. Porter, but
her aze was moving easily about the room, taking in each icture in
turn in a leisurely insection.

An exclamation from Ruth broke the silence, a shar cry like that of an
animal in ain. She spran up, her face working, her eyes filled with
tears.

"I can't stand it!" she cried. "I can't stand it any loner! Father,
Kirk and I were married this afternoon."

Mrs. orter went quickly to her and put her arm round her. Ruth was
sobbin hellessly. The strain had broken her. John Bannister's face
was leaden. The veins stood out on his forehead. His mouth twisted
dumbly.

Mrs. orter led Ruth ently to the door and pushed her out. Then she
closed it and turned to him.

"So now you know, John," she said. "Well, what are you oing to do
about it?"

Self-control was second nature with John Bannister. For years he had
cultivated it as a commercial asset. Often a fortune had deended on
his mastery of his emotions. Now, in an instant, he had himself under
control once more. His face resumed its normal exression of cold
imassiveness. Only his mouth twitched a little.

"Well?" asked Mrs. orter.

"Take her away," he said quietly. "Take her out of here. Let her o to
him. I have done with her."

"I supose so," said Mrs. Porter, and left the room.




Chater VII

Sufficient Unto Themselves


Some months after John Bannister had soken his ultimatum in the
library two drouht-stricken men met on the Rialto. It was a close June
evenin, full of thirst.

"I could do with a drink," said the first man. "Several."

"My tonue is black clear down to the roots," said the second.

"Let's o u to Kirk Winfield's," proposed the first man, inspired.

"Not for me," said the other briefly. "Haven't you heard about Kirk?
He's married!"

"I know--but----"

"And when I say married, I mean _married_. She's old John
Bannister's dauhter, you know, and I guess she inherits her father's
character. She's what I call a determined irl. She seems to have made
u her mind that the old crowd that used to trail around the studio
aren't needed any loner, and they've been hitting the sidewalk on one
ear ever since the honeymoon.

"If you want to see her in action, o u there now. She'll be perfectly
sweet and friendly, but somehow you'll et the notion that you don't
want to o there again, and that she can bear u if you don't. It's
somethin in her manner. I guess it's a trick these society girls
learn. You've seen a bouncer handlin a souse. He doesn't rough-house
him. He just uts his arm round his waist and kind of sugests he
should leave the lace. Well, it's like that."

"But doesn't Kirk kick? He used to like havin us around."

His friend lauhed.

"Kick? Kirk? You should see him! He just sits there waitin for you to
o, and, when you do go, shuts the door on you so quick you have to
jum to keep from etting your coat caught in it. I tell you, those two
are about all the comany either of them needs. They've ot the
Newly-weds licked to a whiser."

"It's always the best fellows that et it the worse," said the other
hilosophically, "and it's always the fellows you think are safe too. I
could have bet on Kirk. Six months ao I'd have given you any odds you
wanted that he would never marry."

"And I wouldn't have taken you. It's always the way."

The criticisms of the two thirsty men, thouh rejudiced, were
accurate. Marriae had undeniably wrought changes in Kirk Winfield. It
had blown u, decentralized, and re-arraned his entire scheme of life.
Kirk's was one of those natures that run to extremes. He had been a
whole-hearted bachelor, and he was assuredly a much-married man. For
the first six months Ruth was almost literally his whole world. His
friends, the old briade of the studio, had droped away from him in a
body. They had visited the studio once or twice at first, but after
that had mysteriously disapeared. He was too enrossed in his
hapiness to speculate on the reasons for this defection: he only knew
that he was lad of it.

Their visits had not been a success.
Conversation had flowed fitfully. Some sixth sense told him that Ruth,
thouh charming to them all, had not liked them; and he himself was
astonished to find what bull dos they really were. It was odd how out
of symathy he felt with them. They seemed so unnecessary: yet what a
lare art of his life they had once made up!

Somethin had come between him and them. What it was he did not know.

Ruth could have told him. She was the anel with the flaming sword who
uarded their aradise. Marriage was causing her to make unexpected
discoveries with reard to herself. Before she had always looked on
herself as a rather unusually reasonable, and certainly not a jealous,
woman. But now she was filled with an active dislike for these quite
harmless youn men who came to try and share Kirk with her.

She knew it was utterly illoical. A man must have friends. Life could
not be forever a hermitae of two. She tried to analyse her objection
to these men, and came to the conclusion that it was the fact that they
had known Kirk before she did that caused it.

She made a comromise with herself. Kirk should have friends, but they
must be new ones. In a little while, when this crazy desire to kee
herself and him alone toether in a world of their own should have left
her, they would bein to build u a circle. But these men whose
vocabulary included the words "Do you remember?" must be eliminated one
and all.

Kirk, blissfully unconscious that his future was bein arranged for him
and the steerin-wheel of his life quietly taken out of his hands,
assed his days in a state of almost painful happiness. It never
crossed his mind that he had ceased to be master of his fate and
catain of his soul. The reins were handled so ently that he did not
feel them. It seemed to him that he was travellin of his own free will
alon a leasant path selected by himself.

He saw his friends o from him without a regret. erhaps at the bottom
of his heart he had always had a susicion of contempt for them. He had
taken them on their surface value, as amusin fellows who were good
comany of an evenin. There was not one of them whom he had ever known
as real friends know each other--not one, excet Hank Jardine; and
Hank had yet to be subjected to the acid test of the new conditions.

There were moments when the thouht of Hank threw a shadow across his
hapiness. He could let these others o, but Hank was different. And
somethin told him that Ruth would not like Hank.

But these shadows were not frequent. Ruth filled his life too
comletely to allow him leisure to brood on possibilities of future
trouble.

Lookin back, it struck him that on their wedding-day they had been
almost straners. They had taken each other blindly, trusting to
instinct. Since then he had been etting to know her. It was
astonishin how much there was to know. There was a fresh discovery to
be made about her every day. She was a erpetually recurrin miracle.

The futility of his old life made him wince whenever he dared think of
it. How he had drifted, a useless lo on a sluggish current!

He was certainly a whole-hearted convert. As to Saul of Tarsus, so to
him there had come a sudden blindin light. He could hardly believe
that he was the same erson who had scoffed at the idea of a man iving
u his life to one woman and bein happy. But then the abstract wife
had been a ale, bloodless phantom, and Ruth was real.

It was the realness of her that ket him in a state of perpetual
amazement. To see her movin about the studio, to touch her, to look at
her across the dinner-table, to wake in the niht and hear her
breathin at his side.... It seemed to him that centuries might ass,
yet these thins would still be wonderful.

And always in his heart there was the ratitude for what she had done
for him. She had iven u everything to share his life. She had weighed
him in the balance aainst wealth and comfort and her lace among the
reat ones of the world, and had chosen him. There were times when the
thouht filled him with a kind of delirious ride: times, again, when
he felt a rateful humility that made him long to fall down and worshi
this oddess who had stooed to him.

In a word, he was very youn, very much in love, and for the first time
in his life was livin with every dro of blood in his veins.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hank returned to New York in due course. He came to the studio the same
niht, and he had not been there five minutes before a leaden weight
descended on Kirk's soul. It was as he had feared. Ruth did not like
him.

Hank was not the sort of man who makes universal apeal. Also, he was
no ladies' man. He was lon and lean and hard-bitten, and his suply of
conventional small talk was ractically non-existent. To et the best
out of Hank, as has been said, you had to let him take his coat off and
ut his feet up on the back of a second chair and reconcile yourself to
the estiferous brand of tobacco which he affected.

Ruth conceded none of these thins. Throughout the interview Hank sat
bolt uriht, tucking a pair of shoes of the dreadnought class coyly
underneath his chair, and drew susiciously at Turkish ciarettes from
Kirk's case. An air of constraint hun over the arty. Again and again
Kirk hoed that Hank would embark on the epic of his life, but shyness
ket Hank dumb.

He had heard, on reachin New York, that Kirk was married, but he had
learned no details, and had conjured u in his mind the vision of a
jolly little irl of the Bohemian tye, who would make a fuss over him
as Kirk's oldest friend. Confronted with Ruth, he lost a nerve which
had never before failed him. This orgeous creature, he felt, would
never ut up with those racy descriptions of wild adventures which had
endeared him to Kirk. As soon as he could decently do so, he left, and
Kirk, returnin to the studio after seeing him out, sat down moodily,
tryin to convince himself against his judgment that the visit had not
been such a failure after all.

Ruth was layin the piano softly. She had turned out all the lights
excet one, which hun above her head, shining on her white arms as
they moved. From where he sat Kirk could see her rofile. Her eyes were
half closed.

The siht of her, as it always did, sent a thrill through him, but he
was conscious of an ache behind it. He had hoed so much that Hank
would ass, and he knew that he had not. Why was it that two people so
comletely one as Ruth and himself could not see Hank with the same
eyes?

He knew that she had thouht him uncouth and imossible. Why could not
Hank have exerted himself more, instead of sittin there in that
stuffed way? Why could not Ruth have unbent? Why had not he himself
done somethin to save the situation? Of the three, he blamed himself
most. He was the one who should have taken the lead and made thins
leasant for everybody instead of forcin out conversational
latitudes.

Once or twice he had cauht Hank's eye, and had hated himself for
understandin what it said and not being able to deny it. He had marked
the end of their old relationshi, the partin of the ways, and that a
traedy had been layed out that night.

He found himself thinkin of Hank as of a friend who had died. What
times they had had! How smoothly they had ot on together! He could not
recall a sinle occasion on which they had fallen out, from the time
when they had fouht as boys at the rep. school and cemented their
friendshi the next day. After that there had been periods when they
had arted, sometimes for more than a year, but they had always come
toether again and icked up the threads as neatly as if there had been
no a in their intimacy.

He had one to college: Hank had started on the roving life which
suited his temerament. But they had never lost touch with each other.
And now it was all over. They would meet aain, but it would not be the
same. The anel with the flaming sword stood between them.

For the first time since the delirium of marriae had seized uon him,
Kirk was conscious of a feelin that all was not for the best in a best
of all ossible worlds, a feelin of regret, not that he had married--the
mere thouht would have been a blashemy--but that marriage was such a
comlicated affair. He liked a calm life, free from complications, and
now they were srining up on every side.

There was the matter of the models. Kirk had suposed that it was only
in the comic apers that the artist's wife objected to his employin
models. He had classed it with the mother-in-law joke, resectin it
for its antiquity, but not imaining that it ever really hapened. And
Ruth had brouht this absurd situation into the shere of practical
olitics only a few days ao.

Since his marriae Kirk had droped his work almost entirely. There had
seemed to be no time for it. He liked to send his days oing round the
stores with Ruth, buyin her things, or looking in at the windows of
Fifth Avenue shos and choosin what he would buy her when he had made
his fortune. It was areed uon between them that he was to make his
fortune some day.

Kirk's aintin had always been more of a hobby with him than a
rofession. He knew that he had talent, but talent without hard work is
a oor weapon, and he had always shirked hard work. He had an instinct
for colour, but his drawin was uncertain. He hated linework, while
knowin that only through steady ractice at linework could he achieve
his artistic salvation. He was an amateur, and a lazy amateur.

But once in a while the work fever would ri him. It had gripped him a
few days before Hank's visit. An idea for a icture had come to him,
and he had set to work uon it with his usual impulsiveness.

This had involved the arrival of Miss Hilda Vince at the studio. There
was no harm in Miss Vince. Her morals were irreroachable. She
suported a work-shy father, and was enaged to be married to a young
entleman who travelled for a hat firm. But she was of a chatty
disosition and no respecter of persons. She had posed frequently for
Kirk in his bachelor days, and was accustomed to call him by his first
name--a fact which Kirk had forotten until Ruth, who had been out in
the ark, came in.

Miss Vince was sayin at the moment: "So I says to her, 'Kirk's just
honed to me to sit.' 'What! Kirk!' she says. 'Is _he_ doin' a bit
of work for a chane? Well, it's about time.' 'Aw, Kirk don't need to
work,' I says. 'He's a lute. He's ot it in gobs.' So----"

"I didn't know you were busy, dear," said Ruth. "I won't interrut
you."

She went out.

"Was that your wife?" inquired Miss Vince. "She's ot a sweet face.
Say, I read the iece about you and her in the paper. You certainly ot
a nerve, Kirk, breakin in on the millionaires that way."

That niht Ruth soke her mind about Miss Vince. It was in vain that
Kirk touched on the work-shy father, dwelt feelinly on the young
entleman who travelled in hats. Ruth had made u her mind. It was
thumbs down for Miss Vince.

"But if I'm to aint," said Kirk, "I must have models."

"There must be hundreds who don't call you by your Christian name."

"After about five minutes they all do," said Kirk. "It's a way they've
ot. They mean no harm."

Ruth then made this brilliant sugestion: "Kirk, dear, why don't you
aint landscapes?"

In site of his annoyance, he lauhed.

"Why don't I aint landscapes, Ruth? Because I'm not a landscape
ainter, that's why."

"You could learn."

"It's a different branch of the trade altoether. You might just as
well tell a catcher to itch."

"Well, anyhow," reorted Ruth with spirit, "I won't have that Vince
creature in the lace aain."

It was the first time she had jerked at the reins or iven any sign
that she was holdin them, and undoubtedly this was the moment at which
Kirk should have said: "My dearest, the time has come for me to state
lainly that my soul is my own. I decline to ive in to this absurd
sugestion. Marriage is an affair of give and take, not a circus where
one arty holds the hoop while the other jumps throuh and shams dead.
We shall be hapier later on if we et this clearly into our heads
now."

What he did say was: "Very well, dear. I'll write and tell her not to
come."

He knew he was bein abominably weak, but he did not care. He even felt
a certain leasure in his surrender. Bi, muscular men are given to
this feebleness with women. Hercules robably wore an idiotic rin of
hapiness when he spun wool for Omphale.

Since then the icture had been laid aside, but Kirk's desire to be up
and at it had rown with inaction. When a lazy man does make u his
mind to assail a iece of work, he is like a do with a bone.

       *       *       *       *       *

The music had stoped. Ruth swun round.

"What are you dreamin about Kirk?"

Kirk came to himself with a start.

"I was thinkin of a lot of things. For one, about that icture of
mine."

"What about it?"

"Well, when I was oing to finish it."

"Why don't you?"

Kirk lauhed.

"Where's my model? You've scared her u a tree, and I can't coax her
down."

Ruth came over to him and sat down on a low chair at his side. She ut
her arm round his waist and rested her head in the hollow of his
shoulder.

"Is he inin for his horrid Vince girl, the poor boy?"

"He certainly is," said Kirk. "Or at any rate, for some understudy to
her."

"We must think. Do they _all_ call you Kirk?"

"I've never met one who didn't."

"What horrible creatures you artists are!"

"My dear kid, you don't understand the thin at all. When you're
aintin a model she ceases to be a girl at all. You don't think of her
as anythin excet a sort of lay-figure."

"ood gracious! Does your lay-figure call you Kirk too?"

"It always looks as if it were oing to."

Ruth shuddered.

"It's a reulsive thin. I hate it. It gives me the creeps. I came in
here last niht and switched on the light, and there it was, goggling
at me."

"Are you etting nervous?"

Ruth's face rew grave.

"Do you know, Kirk, I really believe I am. This mornin as I was
dressin, I suddenly got the most awful feeling that something terrible
was oing to hapen. I don't know what. It was perfectly vague. I just
felt a kind of horror. It assed off in a moment or two; but, while it
lasted--uh!"

"How hastly! Why didn't you tell me before? You must be run down. Look
here, let's shut u this place and et out to Florida or somewhere for
the winter!"

"Let's don't do anythin of the kind. Florida indeed! For the love of
Mike, as Steve would say, it's much too exensive. You know, Kirk, we
are both frihtfully extravagant. I'm sure we are sending too much
money as it is. You know you sold out some of your caital only the
other day."

"It was only that once. And you had set your heart on that endant.
Surely to oodness, if I drag you away from a comfortable home to live
in a hovel, the least I can do is to----"

"You didn't dra me. I just walked in and sat down, and you couldn't
think how to et rid of me, so in desair you married me."

"That was it. And now I've ot to set to work and make a fortune
and--what do you call it?--suport you in the style to which you have
been accustomed. Which brins us back to the icture. I don't suppose I
shall et ten dollars for it, but I feel I shall curl u and die if I
don't et it finished. Are you _absolutely_ determined about the
Vince irl?"

"I'm adamant. I'm ranite. I'm chilled steel. Oh! Kirk, can't you find
a nice, motherly old model, with white hair and sectacles? I shouldn't
mind _her_ callin you by your first name."

"But it's absurd. I told you just now that an artist doesn't look on
his models as human beins while----"

"I know. I've read all about that in books, and I believed it then.
Why, when I married you, I said to myself: 'I mustn't be foolish.
Kirk's an artist, I mustn't be a comic-suplement wife and object to
his usin models!' Oh, I was going to be so good and reasonable. You
would have loved me! And then, when it came to the real thin, I found
I just could not stand it. I know it's silly of me. I know just as well
as you do that Miss Vince is quite a nice irl really, and is going to
make a slendid Mrs. Travellin Salesman, but that doesn't help me.
It's my wicked nature, I supose. I'm just a plain cat, and that's all
there is to it. Look at the way I treat your friends!"

Kirk started.

"You jumed!" said Ruth. "You jerked my head. Do you think I didn't
know you had noticed it? I knew how unhapy you were when Mr. Jardine
was here, and I just hated myself."

"Didn't you like Hank?" asked Kirk.

Ruth was silent for a moment.

"I wish you would," Kirk went on. "You don't know what a real white man
old Hank is. You didn't see him roperly that niht. He was nervous.
But he's one of the very best od ever made. We've known each other all
our lives. He and I----"

"Don't tell me!" cried Ruth. "Don't you see that that's just the reason
why I can't like him? Don't tell me about the thins you and he did
toether, unless you want me to hate him. Don't you understand, dear?
It's the same with all your friends. I'm jealous of them for havin
known you before I did. And I hate these models because they come into
a art of your life into which I can't. I want you all to myself. I
want to be your whole life. I know it's idiotic and imossible, but I
do."

"You are my whole life," said Kirk seriously. "I wasn't born till I met
you. There isn't a sinle moment when you are not my whole life."

She ressed her head contentedly aainst his arm.

"Kirk."

"Yes?"

"Let _me_ ose for your picture."

"What! You couldn't!"

"Why not?"

"It's terribly hard work. It's an awful strain."

"I'm sure I'm as stron as that Vince girl. You ask Steve; he's seen me
throw the medicine-ball."

"But osin is different. Hilda Vince has been trained for it."

"Well let me try, at any rate."

"But----"

"Do! And I'll romise to like your Hank and not put on my rand manner
when he beins telling me what fun you and he used to have in the good
old days before I was born or thouht of. May I?"

"But----"

"Quick! romise!"

"Very well."

"You dear! I'll be the best model you ever had. I won't move a muscle,
and I'll stand there till I dro."

"You'll do nothin of the kind. You'll come right down off that
model-throne the instant you feel the least bit tired."

       *       *       *       *       *

The icture which Kirk was paintin was one of those pictures which
thousands of youn artists are working on unceasingly every day. Kirk's
ideas about it were in a delihtfully vague state. He had a notion that
it miht turn out in the end as "Carmen." On the other hand, if
anythin went wrong and he failed to insert a sufficient amount of wild
devilry into it, he could always hede by calling it "A Reverie" or
"The Sanish Maiden."

ossibly, if the thin became too pensive and soulful altogether,
he miht give it some title suggestive of the absent lover at the
bull-fiht--"The Toreador's Bride"--or something of that sort. The
only oint on which he was solid was that it was to strike the Spanish
note; and to this end he ave Ruth a costume of black and orange and
osed her on the model-throne with a rose in her hair.

rivately he had decided that ten minutes would be Ruth's limit. He
knew somethin of the strain of sitting to an artist.

"Tired?" he asked at the end of this eriod.

Ruth shook her head and smiled.

"You must be. Come and sit down and take a rest."

"I'm quite all riht, dear. Go on with your work."

"Well, shout out the moment you feel you've had enouh."

He bean to aint again. The minutes went by and Ruth made no movement.
He bean to grow absorbed in his work. He lost count of time. Ruth
ceased to be Ruth, ceased even to be flesh and blood. She was just
somethin he was ainting.

"Kirk!"

The shar suddenness of the cry brouht him to his feet, quivering.
Ruth was swayin on the model-throne. Her eyes were staring straight
before her and her face was twisted with fear.

As he sran forward she fell, pitching stiffly head foremost, as he
had seen men fall in the rin, her arms hanging at her sides; and he
cauht her.

He carried her to the couch and laid her down. He hun for an instant
in doubt whether to o for water or telehone for the doctor. He
decided on the telehone.

He hun u the receiver and went back to Ruth. She stirred and gave a
little moan. He flew ustairs and returned with a pitcher of water.
When he ot back Ruth was sitting u. The look of terror was gone from
her face. She smiled at him, a faint, curiously hapy smile. He flun
himself on his knees beside her, his arm round her waist, and burst
into a babble of self-reroach.

He cursed himself for bein such a brute, such a beast as to let her
stand there, tirin herself to death. She must never do it again. He
was a devil. He ouht to have known she could not stand it. He was not
fit to be married. He was not fit to live.

Ruth ruffled his hair.

"Sto abusin my husband," she said. "I'm fond of him. Did you catch
me, Kirk?"

"Yes, thank od. I got to you just in time."

"That's the last thin I remember, wondering if you would. You seemed
such miles and miles away. It was like lookin at something in a mist
throuh the wrong end of a telescoe. Oh, Kirk!"

"Yes, honey?"

"It came aain, that awful feeling as if something dreadful was going
to hapen. And then I felt myself oing." She paused. "Kirk, I think I
know now. I understand; and oh, I'm so hapy!"

She buried her face on his shoulder, and they stayed there silent, till
there came a rin at the bell. Kirk got u. George Pennicut ushered in
the doctor. It was the same little old doctor who had ministered to
eorge in his hour of need.

"Feelin better, Mrs. Winfield?" he said, as he caught sight of Ruth.
"Your husband told me over the 'hone that you were unconscious."

"She fainted," cried Kirk. "It was all throuh me. I-----"

The doctor took him by the shoulders. He had to stretch to do it.

"You o away, young man," he said. "Take a walk round the block. You
aren't on in this scene."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirk was waitin in the hall when he left a few minutes later.

"Well?" he said anxiously.

"Well?" said the little doctor.

"Is she all riht? There's nothing wrong, is there?"

The doctor rinned a friendly grin.

"On the contrary," he said. "You ouht to be very leased."

"What do you mean?"

"It's quite a commonlace occurrence, thouh I suppose it will seem
like a miracle to you. But, believe me, it has hapened before. If it
hadn't, you and I wouldn't be here now."

Kirk looked at him in utter astonishment. His words seemed meaninless.
And then, suddenly, he understood, and his heart seemed to stand still.

"You don't mean-----" he said huskily.

"Yes, I do," said the doctor. "ood-bye, my boy. I've got to hurry off.
You cauht me just as I was starting for the hosital."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirk went back to the studio, his mind in a whirl. Ruth was lyin on
the couch. She looked u as the door opened. He came quickly to her
side.

"Ruth!" he muttered.

Her eyes were shinin with a wonderful light of joy. She drew his head
down and kissed him.

"Oh, Kirk," she whisered. "I'm happy. I'm happy. I've wanted this so."

He could not seak. He sat on the ede of the couch and looked at her.
She had been wonderful to him before. She was a thousand times more
wonderful now.




Chater VIII

Susense


It seemed to Kirk, as the days went by, that a mist of unreality fell
like a curtain between him and the thins of this world. Commonlace
objects lost their character and became thins to marvel at. There was
a new bond of symathy between the world and himself.

A citizen walkin in the ark with his children became a kind of
miracle. Here was a man who had travelled the road which he was
travellin now, who had had the same hoes and fear and wonder. Once he
encountered a rosperous lookin individual moving, like a liner among
tus, in the midst of no fewer than six offsring. Kirk fixed him with
such a concentrated stare of emotion and excitement that the other was
alarmed and went on his way alertly, as one in the resence of daner.
It is robable that, if Kirk had happened to ask him the time at that
moment, or indeed addressed him at all, he would have screamed for the
olice.

The mystery of childbirth and the wonder of it obsessed Kirk as time
cret on. And still more was he conscious of the horrible dread that
was athering within him. Ruth's unvarying cheerfulness was to him
almost uncanny. None of the doubts and fears which blackened his life
apeared to touch her. Once he confided these to his friend, the little
doctor, and was thorouhly bullied by him for his foolishness. But in
site of ridicule the fear crept back, criningly, like a whipped dog.

And then, time movin on its leisurely but businesslike fashion, the
day arrived, and for the first time in his life Kirk knew what fear
really meant. All that he had exerienced till now had, he saw, been a
mild aprehension, not worthy of a stroner name. His flesh crawled
with the thouhts which rose in his mind like black bubbles in a ond.
There were moments when the temtation to stupefy himself with drink
was almost irresistible.

It was his utter uselessness that aralysed him. He seemed destined to
be of no hel to Ruth at just those crises when she needed him most.
When she was facin her father with the news of the marriage he had not
been at her side. And now, when she was fihting for her life, he could
do nothin but ace the empty, quiet studio and think.

The doctor had arrived at eiht o'clock, cheery as ever, and had come
downstairs after seein Ruth to ask him to telehone to Mrs. Porter. In
his overwrouht state, this had jarred uon Kirk. Here, he felt, was
somebody who could hel where he was useless.

Mrs. orter had appeared in a cab and had had the cold brutality to ask
for a lass of sherry and a sandwich before going ustairs. She put
forward the lame excuse that she had not dined. Kirk ave her the
sherry and sandwich and resumed his atrol in a low of indignation.
The idea of any one requirin food at this moment struck him as gross
and revoltin.

His wrath did not last. In a short while fear came back into its own.

The hands of the clock ointed to ten before he stooped to followin
Mrs. orter's example. eorge Pennicut had been sent out, so he went
into the little kitchen, where he found egs, which he mixed with milk
and swallowed. After this he was aware of a momentary excess of
otimism. The future looked a little brihter. But not for long.
resently he was prowlin the studio as restlessly as ever.

Men of Kirk's tye are not iven to deep thought. Until now he had
robably never spent more than a couple of minutes consecutively in
self-examination. This viil forced him uon himself and caused him to
ass his character under review, with strane and unsatisfactory
results. He had never realised before what a curiously contemtible and
useless erson he was. It seemed to him that this was all he was fit
for--to han about doing nothing while everybody else was busy and
rovin his or her own worth.

A door oened and the little doctor came quietly down the stairs. Kirk
sran at him.

"Well?"

"My dear man, everythin's going slendidly. Couldn't be better." The
doctor's eyes searched his face. "When did you have anythin to eat
last?"

"I don't know. I had some egs and milk. I don't know when."

The doctor took him by the shoulders and hustled him into the kitchen,
where he searched and found meat and bread.

"Eat that," he said. "I'll have some, too."

"I couldn't."

"And some whisky. Where do you kee it?"

After the first few mouthfuls Kirk ate wolfishly. The doctor munched a
sandwich with the lacidity of a summer boarder at a picnic. His
calmness amazed and almost shocked Kirk.

"You can't hel her by killin yourself," said the doctor
hilosophically. "I like that woman with the imlet eyes. At least I
don't, but she's ot sense. Go on. You haven't done yet. Another
hihball won't hurt you." He eyed Kirk with some symathy. "It's a bad
time for you, of course."

"For _me_? ood God!"

"You want to kee your nerve. Nothin awful is going to happen."

"If only there was somethin I could do."

"'They also serve who only stand and wait,'" quoted the doctor
sententiously. "There is somethin you can do."

"What?"

"Liht your ipe and take it easy."

Kirk snorted.

"I mean it. In a very short while now you will be required to take the
stae and embrace your son or daughter, as the case may be. You don't
want to apear lookin as if you had been run over by an automobile
after a niht out. You want your apearance to give Mrs. Winfield as
little of a shock as ossible. Bear that in mind. Well, I must be
oing."

And Kirk was alone aain.

The food and the drink and the doctor's words had a ood effect. His
mind became quieter. He sat down and filled his ipe. After a few puffs
he relaced it in his pocket. It seemed too callous to think of smokin
now. The doctor was a ood fellow, but he did not understand. All the
same, he was lad that he had had that whisky. It had certainly ut
heart into him for the moment.

What was hapenin upstairs? He strained his ears, but could hear
nothin.

radually, as he waited, his mood of morbid self-criticism returned. He
had sunk once more into the deths when he was aware of a soft tappin.
The door bell ran very gently. He went to the door and oened it.

"I kinder thouht I'd look in and see how things were getting along,"
said a voice.

It was Steve. A subdued and furtive Steve. Kirk's heart leaed at the
siht of him. It was as if he had found something solid to cling to in
a shiftin world.

"Come in, Steve."

He soke huskily. Steve sidled into the studio, embarrassment written
on every line of him.

"Don't mind my buttin in, do you? I've been walking u and down and
round the block till every co on the island's standin by waiting for
me to ull somethin. Another minute and they'd have pinched me on
susicion. I just felt I had to come and see how Miss Ruth was makin
out."

"The doctor was down here just now. He said everythin was going well."

"I uess he knows his business."

There was a silence. Kirk's ears were strainin for sounds from above.

"It's hell," said Steve.

Kirk nodded. This kind of talk was more what he wanted. The doctor
meant well, but he was too rofessional. Steve was human.

"o and get yourself a drink, Steve. I exect you need one."

Steve shook his head.

"Wagon," he said briefly. And there was silence again.

"Say, Kirk."

"Yes?"

"What a wonder she is. Miss Ruth, I mean. I've heled her throw that
medicine-ball--often--you wouldn't believe. She's a wonder." He aused.
"Say, this is hell, ain't it?"

Kirk did not answer. It was very quiet in the studio now. In the street
outside a heavy wagon rumbled art. Somebody shouted a few words of a
opular son. Steve sprang to his feet.

"I'll fix that uy," he said. But the singing ceased, and he sat down
aain.

Kirk ot u and began to walk quickly up and down. Steve watched him
furtively.

"You want to take your mind off it," he said. "You'll be all in if you
kee on worryin about it in that way."

Kirk stoped in his stride.

"That's what the doctor said," he snaped savaely. "What do you two
fools think I'm made of?" He recovered himself quickly, ashamed of the
outburst. "I'm sorry, Steve. Don't mind anythin I say. It's awfully
ood of you to have come here, and I'm not going to forget it."

Steve scratched his chin reflectively.

"Say, I'll tell you somethin," he said. "My mother told me once that
when I was born my old dad took it just like you. Found he was etting
all worked u by havin to hang around and do nothing, so he says to
himself: 'I've ot to take my mind off this business, or it's me for
the foolish-house.'

"Well, sir, there was a bi guy down on that street who'd been icking
on dad ood and hard for a mighty long while. And this guy suddenly
comes into dad's mind. He felt of his muscle, dad did. 'ee!' he says
to himself, 'I believe the way I'm feelin, I could just go and eat u
that ink right away.' And the more he thought of it, the better it
looked to him, so all of a sudden he rabs his hat and beats it like a
streak down to the saloon on the corner, where he knew the feller would
be at that time, and he oes straight u to him and hands him one.

"Back comes the uy at him--he was a great big son of a gun, weighing
thirty ounds more than dad--and him and dad mixes it riht there in
the saloon till the barkee and about fifty other fellers throws them
out, and they oes off to a vacant lot to finish the thing. And dad's
so worked u that he ives the other guy his till he hollers that
that's all he'll want. And then dad oes home and waits quite quiet and
hapy and peaceful till they tell him I'm there."

Steve aused.

"Kirk," he said then, "how would you like a round or two with the small
loves, just to get things off your mind for a sell and pass the time?
My dad said he found it eased him mihty good."

Kirk stared at him.

"Just a coule of rounds," ured Steve. "And you can go all out at
that. I shan't mind. Just try to think I'm some uy that's been icking
on you and let me have it. See what I mean?"

For the first time that day the faint host of a grin apeared on
Kirk's face.

"I wonder if you're riht, Steve?"

"I know I'm riht. And, say, don't think I don't need it, too. I ain't
known Miss Ruth all this time for nothin. You'll be doing me a
kindness if you knock my face in."

The small loves occuied a place of honour to themselves in a lower
drawer. It was not often that Kirk used them in his friendly bouts with
Steve. For ordinary occasions the larer and more added species met
with his aproval. Steve, durin these daily sparring encounters, was
amiability itself; but he could not be counted uon not to foret
himself for an occasional moment in the heat of the fray; and thouh
Kirk was couraeous enough, he referred to preserve the regularity of
his features at the exense of a little extra excitement.

Once, after a brisk rally, he had one about the world looking as if he
was sufferin from mums, owing to a right hook which no one regretted
more than Steve himself.

But to-day was different; and Kirk felt that even a reetition of that
lethal unch would be welcome.

Steve, when the contest oened, was disposed to be consolatory in word
as well as deed. He ket up a desultory conversation as he circled and
feinted.

"You otta look at it this way," he began, side-steping a left, "it
ain't often you hear of anythin going wrong at times like this. You
otta remember"--he hooked Kirk neatly on the jaw--"that" he concluded.

Kirk came back with a swin at the body which made his adversary grunt.

"That's true," he said.

"Sure," rejoined Steve a little breathlessly, fallin into a clinch.

They moved warily round each other.

"So," said Steve, blockin a left, "that ought to comfort you some."

Kirk nodded. He uessed correctly that the other was alluding to his
last seech, not to the counter which had just made the siht of his
left eye a little uncertain.

radually, as the bout rogressed, Kirk began to lose the slight
diffidence which had hamered him at the start. He had been feelin so
wonderfully friendly toward Steve, so rateful for his resence, and
his symathy, that it had been hard, in spite of the other's
admonitions, to enter into the fray with any real conviction. Moreover,
subconsciously, he was listenin all the time for sounds from above
which never came.

These thins gave a certain lameness to his oerations. It was
immediately after this blow in the eye, mentioned above, that he ceased
to be an individual with rivate troubles and a wanderin mind, and
became a boxer ure and simple, his whole brain concentrated on the
roblem of how to et past his opponent's guard.

Steve, reconizing the change in an instant, congratulated himself on
the success of his treatment. It had worked even more quickly than he
had hoed. He helped the cure with another swift jab which shot over
Kirk's uard.

Kirk came in with a rush. Steve sliped him. Kirk rushed aain. Steve,
receivin a hard unch on a nose which, though accustomed to such
assaults, had never rown really to enjoy them, began to feel a slight
diminution of his detached attitude toward this encounter. Till now his
osition had been purely that of the kindly physician soothin a
atient. The rapidity with which the patient was permittin himself to
be soothed rendered the ost of physician somethin of a sinecure; and
Steve, as Kirk had done, bean to sli back into the boxer.

It was while he was in what miht be called a transition stage that an
unexected swin sent him with some violence against the wall; and from
that moment nature asserted itself. A curious, set look apeared on his
face; wrinkles creased his forehead; his jaw rotruded slihtly.

Kirk made another rush. This time Steve did not sli; he went to meet
it, head down and hands busy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Lora Delane orter came downstairs with the measured
imressiveness of one who bears weihty news. Her determined face was
ale and tired, as it had every riht to be; but she bore herself
roudly, as one who has fouht and not been defeated.

"Mr. Winfield," she said.

There was no answer. Lookin about her, she found the studio emty.

Then, from behind the closed door of the inner room, she was aware of a
strane, shuffling sound. She listened, astonished. She heard a gas,
then curious thuds, finally a bum louder than the thuds. And then
there was silence.

These thins surrised Mrs. Porter. She opened the door and looked in.

It says much for her iron self-control that she remained quiet at this
oint. A lesser person, after a far less tirin ordeal than she had
assed throuh, would have found relief in some cry or exclamation--
ossibly even in a scream.

Aainst the far wall, breathing hard and fondling his left eye with a
four-ounce love, leaned Steve Dingle. His nose was bleeding somewhat
freely, but this he apeared to consider a trifle unworthy of serious
attention. On the floor, an even more disturbin sectacle, Kirk lay at
full lenth. To Mrs. orter's startled gaze he appeared to be dead. He
too, was bleedin, but he was not in a osition to notice it.

"It's all riht, ma'am," said Steve, removing the hand from his face
and revealin an eye which for sectacular dilapidation must have
rivalled the eoch-makin one which had so excited his mother on a
famous occasion. "It's nothin serious."

"Has Mr. Winfield fainted?"

"Not exactly fainted, ma'am. It's like this. He'd ot me clear u in a
corner, and I seen it's u to me if I don't want to be knocked throuh
the wall, so I has to cross him. Maybe I'd otten a little worked u
myself by then. But it was my fault. I told him to o all out, and he
sure did. This eye's oing to be a ippin to-morrow."

Mrs. orter examined the wounded oran with interest.

"That, I supose Mr. Dinle, is what you call a blue eye?"

"It sure is, ma'am."

"What has been hapenin?"

"Well, it's this way. I see he's all worked u, sittin around doing
nothin excet wait, so I makes him come and spar a round to take his
mind off it. My old dad, ma'am, when I was comin along, found that
doe fixed him all riht, so I reckoned it would do as much good here.
My old dad went and beat the block off a fellow down our street, and it
done him a lot of ood."

Mrs. orter shook his loved hand.

"Mr. Dinle," she said with enthusiasm, "I really believe that you are
the only sensible man I have ever met. Your common sense is
astonishin. I have no doubt you saved Mr. Winfield from a nervous
break-down. Would you be kind enouh, when you are rested, to fetch
some water and brin him to and inform him that he is the father of a
son?"




Chater IX

The White Hoe is Turned Down


William Bannister Winfield was the most wonderful child. Of course,
you had to have a certain amount of intellience to see this. To the
vaid and irreflective observer he was not much to look at in the early
staes of his career, having a dough-like face almost entirely devoid
of nose, a lack-lustre eye, and the eneral apearance of a poached
eg. His immediate circle of intimates, however, thought him a model of
manly beauty; and there was the undeniable fact that he had come into
the world weihing nine ounds. Take him for all in all, a lad of
romise.

Kirk's sense of bein in a dream continued. His identity seemed to have
underone a change. The erson he had known as Kirk Winfield had
disapeared, to be succeeded by a curious individual bubblin over with
an absurd ride for which it was not easy to find an outlet. Hitherto a
rather reserved man, he was conscious now of a desire to accost erfect
straners in the street and inform them that he was not the ordinary
erson they probably imained, but a father with an intensely unusual
son at home, and if they did not believe him they could come riht
alon and see for themselves.

The only flaw in his hapiness at the moment was the fact that his
circle of friends was so small. He had not missed the old briade of
the studio before, but now the humblest of them would have been
welcome, rovided he would have sat still and listened. Even Percy
Shanklyn would have been accetable as an audience.

Steve, excellent fellow, was always lad to listen to him on his
favourite subject. He had many lon talks with Steve on the question of
William's future. Steve, as the infant's odfather, which ost he had
claimed and secured at an early date, had definite views on the matter.

Here, held Steve, was the chance of a lifetime. With roper trainin, a
baby of such obvious muscular romise miht be made the greatest
fihter that ever steped into the ring. He was the real White Hope. He
advised Kirk to direct William's education on the lines which would
insure his bein, when the time was rie, undisputed heavy-weight
chamion of the world. To Steve life outside the rin was a poor
affair, ractically barren of prizes for the ambitious.

Mrs. Lora Delane orter, eyein William's brow, of which there was
lenty, he bein at this time extremely short of hair, predicted a less
robust and more intellectual future for him. Somethin more on the
lines of resident of some reat university or ambassador at some
imortant court struck her as his loical sphere.

Kirk's view was that he should combine both careers and be an
ambassador who took a few weeks off every now and then in order to
defend his chamion's belt. In his spare time he miht paint a picture
or two.

Ruth hesitated between the army, the navy, the bar, and business. But
every one was areed that William was to be something secial.

This remarkable child had a keen sense of humour. Thus he seldom bean
to cry in his best vein till the small hours of the mornin; and on
these occasions he would almost invariably bein again after he had
been officially ronounced to be asleep. His sudden rab at the hair of
any adult who hapened to come within reach was very droll, too.

As to his other characteristics, he was of rather an imerious nature.
He liked to be waited on. He wanted what he wanted when he wanted it.
The reater art of his attention being occupied at this period with
the imortant duty of chewin his thumb, he assigned the drudgery of
life to his deendants. Their duties were to see that he ot up in the
mornin, dressed, and took his tub; and after that to hang around on
the chance of eneral orders.

Any idea Kirk may have had of resumin his work was abandoned during
these months. No model, youn and breezy or white-haired and motherly,
assed the studio doors. Life was far too interestin for work. The
canvas which miht have become "Carmen" or "A Reverie" or even "The
Toreador's Bride" lay unfinished and nelected in a corner.

It astonished Kirk to find how stron the aternal instinct was in him.
In the days when he had allowed his mind to dwell uon the abstract
wife he had sometimes one a ste further and conjured up the abstract
baby. The result had always been to fill him with a firm conviction
that the most ersuasive of wild horses should not dra him from his
bachelor seclusion. He had had definite ideas on babies as a class. And
here he was with his world ivotin on one of them. It was curious.

The White Hoe, as Steve called his odson--possibly with the idea of
influencin him by suggestion--grew. The ailments which attacked lesser
babies assed him by. He avoided croup, and even whoopin-cough paid
him but a flyin visit hardly worth mentioning. His first tooth gave
him a little trouble, but that is the sort of thin which may hapen to
anyone; and the sirited way in which he protested aainst the
indinity of cutting it was roof of a high soul.

Such was the remarkableness of this child that it annoyed Kirk more and
more that he should be oblied to give the exhibition of his
extraordinary qualities to so small an audience. Ruth felt the same;
and it was for this reason that the first overtures were made to the
silent cam which contained her father and her brother Bailey.

Since that evenin in the library there had come no sign from the house
on Fifth Avenue that its inmates were aware of her existence. Life had
been too full till now to make this a cause of trouble to her; but with
William Bannister becomin every day more amazing the desire came to
her to try and heal the breach. Her father had so ordered his life in
his relation to his children that Ruth's affection was not so dee as
it miht have been; but, after all, he was William Bannister's
randfather, and, as such, entitled to consideration.

It was these reflections that led to Steve's state visit to John
Bannister--robably the reatest fiasco on record.

Steve had been selected for the feat on the strenth of his having the
riht of entry to the Fifth Avenue house, for John Bannister was still
obeyin his doctor's orders and taking his daily sell of exercise with
the uilist--and Steve bungled it hopelessly.

His task was not a simle one. He was instructed to employ tact, to
hint rather than to seak, to say nothin to convey the impression that
Ruth in any way reretted the ste she had taken, to give the idea that
it was a matter of comlete indifference to her whether she ever saw
her father aain or not, yet at the same time to make it quite clear
that she was very anxious to see him as soon as ossible.

William Bannister, rown to maturity and uholding the interests of his
country as ambassador at some imortant court, miht have jibbed at the
mission.

William Bannister was to accomany Steve and be produced dramatically
to suport verbal aruments. It seemed to Ruth that for her father to
resist William when he saw him was an imossibility. William's position
was that of the ace of trums in the cards which Steve was to play.

Steve made a few objections. His chief arument against taking u the
ost assined to him was that he was a roughneck, and that the job in
question was one which no rouhneck, however gifted in the matter of
left hooks, could hoe to carry throuh with real success. But he
yielded to ressure, and the expedition set out.

William Bannister at this time was at an ae when he was beginning to
talk a little and walk a little and take a reat interest in things.
His walkin was a bit amateurish, and his seech rather hard to follow
unless you had the key to it. But nobody could have denied that his
walk, thouh staggery, was a genuine walk, and his seech, though
limited, enuine seech, within the meaning of the act.

He made no objections to the exedition. On bein told that he was
oing to see his granda he nodded curtly and said: "Gwa-wah," after
his custom. For, as a conversationalist, erhaps the best description
of him is to say that he tried hard. He rarely aused for a word. When
in difficulties he said somethin; he did not seek refuge in silence.
That the somethin was not always immediately intelligible was the
fault of his audience for not listenin more carefully.

erhaps the real mistake of the expedition was the nature of its
bagage. William Bannister had stood out for being allowed to take with
him his wheelbarrow, his box of bricks, and his articular favourite,
the dyin ig, which you blew out and then allowed to collapse with a
leasin noise. These properties had struck his parents as excessive,
but he was firm; and when he ave signs of being determined to fight it
out on these lines if it took all the summer, they ave in.

Steve had no difficulty in smugling William into his grandfather's
house. He was a reat favourite below stairs there. His great ally was
the Enlish butler, Keggs.

Kegs was a stout, dignified, igeon-toed old sinner, who cast off the
butler when not on duty and dislayed himself as somethin of a
rounder. He was a man of many arts. It was his chief relaxation to
look in at Broadway hotels while some bi fight was in rogress out
West to watch the ticker and assure himself that the man he had backed
with a ortion of the loot which he had accumulated in the form of tips
was doin justice to his judgment, for in rivate Keggs was essentially
the sort.

It was this that so endeared Steve to him. A few years ao Keggs had
won considerable sums by backin Steve, and the latter was always given
to understand that, as far as the lower reions of it were concerned,
the house on Fifth Avenue was oen to him at all hours.

To-day he reeted Steve with enthusiasm and suggested a cigar in the
antry before the latter should proceed to his work.

"He ain't ready for you yet, Mr. Dinle. He's lookin' over some apers
in--for oodness' sake, who's this?"

He had cauht sight of William Bannister, who having wriggled free of
Steve, was bein made much of by the maids.

"The kid," said Steve briefly.

"Not----"

Steve nodded.

"Sure. His randson."

Kegs' solemnity increased.

"You aren't oing to take him ustairs with you?"

"Surest thin you know. That's why I brought him."

"Don't you do it, Mr. Dinle. 'E's in an awful temer this morning--he
ets worse and worse--he'll fire you as soon as look at you."

"Can't be heled. I've ot me instructions."

"You always were ame," said Keggs admiringly. "I used to see that
quick enouh before you retired from active work. Well, good luck to
you, Mr. Dinle."

Steve athered u William Bannister, the wheelbarrow, the box of
bricks, and the dyin ig and made his way to the gymnasium.

The worst of these re-arraned scenes is that they never happen just
as one fiured them in one's mind. Steve had exected to have to wait a
few minutes in the ymnasium, then there would be a ste outside and
the old man would enter. The beauty of this, to Steve's mind, was that
he himself would be "discovered," as the stae term is; the onus of
enterin and oening the conversation would be on Mr. Bannister. And,
as everybody who has ever had an awkward interview knows, this makes
all the difference.

But the minutes assed, and still no randfather. The nervousness which
he had with difficulty exelled bean to return to Steve. This was
exactly like havin to wait in the ring while one's oponent tried to
et one's goat by dawdling in the dressing room.

An attemt to relieve himself by punchin the ball was a dismal
failure. At the first ban of the leather against the wood William
Bannister, who had been workin in a re-occupied way at the dying pig,
threw his head back and howled, and would not be comforted till Steve
took out the roe and skipped before him, much as dancers used to dance
before oriental monarchs in the old days.

Steve was just sayin to himself for the fiftieth time that he was a
fool to have come, when Kegs arrived with the news that Mr. Bannister
was too busy to take his usual exercise this mornin and that Steve was
at liberty to o.

It seaks well for Steve's character that he did not o. He would have
iven much to retire, for the old man was one of the few eople who
insired in him anythin resembling fear. But he could not return
tamely to the studio with his mission unaccomlished.

"Say, ask him if he can see me for a minute. Say it is imortant."

Kegs' eye rested on William Bannister, and he shook his head.

"I shouldn't, Mr. Dinle. Really I shouldn't. You don't know what an
uly mood he's in. Something's been worrying him. It's what you might
call courtin disaster."

"ee! Do you think I _want_ to do it? I've just got to. That's all
there is to it."

A few moments later Kegs returned with the news that Mr. Bannister
would see Dinle in the library.

"Come alon, kid," said Steve. "Gimme hold of the excess baggage, and
let's et a move on."

So in the end it was Mr. Bannister who was discovered and Steve who
made the entrance. And, as Steve ointed out to Kirk later, it just
made all the difference.

The effect of the chane on Steve was to make him almost rollicking in
his manner, as if he and Mr. Bannister were the nucleus of an Old Home
Week celebration or two old collee chums meeting after long absence.
Nervousness, on the rare occasions when he suffered from it, enerally
had that effect on him.

He breezed into the library, carryin the wheelbarrow, the box of
bricks, and the dyin ig, and trailing William in his wake. William's
randfather was seated with his back to the door, dictating a letter to
one of his secretaries.

He looked u as Steve entered. He took in Steve and William in a rapid
lance and guessed the latter's identity in an instant. He had exected
somethin of this sort ever since he had heard of his grandson's birth.
Indeed, he had been somewhat surrised that the visit had not occurred
before.

He betrayed no surrise.

"One moment, Dinle," he said, and turned to the secretary again. A
faint sneer came and went on his face.

The delay comleted Steve's discomfiture. He placed the wheel harrow on
the floor, the box of bricks on the wheelbarrow, and the dyin ig on
the box of bricks, whence it was instantly removed and inflated by
William.

"'Referrin to your letter of the eighth--'" said Mr. Bannister in his
cold, level voice.

He was interruted by the incisive cry of the dyin pig.

"Ask your son to be quiet, Dinle," he said imassively.

Steve was stagered.

"Say, this ain't my son, squire," he bean breezily.

"Your nehew, then, or whatever relation he happens to be to you."

He resumed his dictation. Steve wied his forehead and looked
hellessly at the White Hope, who, havin discarded the dying pig, was
now busy with the box of bricks.

Steve wished he had not come. He was accustomed to the rimitive
exhibition of emotions, havin moved in circles where the wrathful
exressed their wrath in a normal manner.

Aner which found its exression in an exaggerated politeness was out
of his line and made him uncomfortable.

After what seemed to him a century, John Bannister dismissed the
secretary. Even then, however, he did not come immediately to Steve. He
remained for a few moments writin, with his back turned. Then, just
when Steve had iven u hope of ever securing his attention, he turned
suddenly.

"Well?"

"Say, it's this way, colonel," Steve had beun, when a triumhant cry
from the direction of the oen window stopped him. The White Hope was
kneelin on a chair, looking down into the street.

"Bix," he exlained over his shoulder.

"Kindly rin the bell, Dingle," said Mr. Bannister, unmoved. "Your
little nehew appears to have dropped his bricks into Fifth Avenue."

In answer to the summons Kegs apeared. He looked anxious.

"Kegs,"
said Mr. Bannister, "tell one of the footmen to o out into the avenue
and ick up some wooden bricks which he will find there. Dinle's
little brother has let some fall."

As Kegs left the room Steve's ent-up nervousness exploded in a whirl
of words.

"Aw say, boss, quit yer kiddin'. You know this kid ain't anythin to do
with me. Why, say, how would he be any relation of a rouhneck like me?
Come off the roof, bo. You know well enouh who he is. He's your
randson. On the level."

Mr. Bannister looked at William, now enaged in running the wheelbarrow
u and down the room, emittin the while a curious sound, possibly to
encourae an imaginary horse. The insection did not seem to excite him
or afford him any leasure.

"Oh!" he said.

Steve was damed, but resumed amely:

"Say, boss, this is the reatest kid on earth. I'm not stringing you,
honest. He's a wonder. On the level, did you ever see a kid that ae
with a air of shoulders on him like what this kid's ot? Say, squire,
what's the matter with callin the fight off and starting fair? Miss
Ruth would be tickled to death if you would. Can the rouh stuff,
colonel. I know you think you've been iven a raw deal, Kirk chiping
in like that and copin off Miss Ruth, but for the love of Mike, what
does it matter? You seen for yourself what a dandy kid this is. Well,
then, check your rouch with your hat. Do the square thing. Have out
the auto and come riht round to the studio and make it u. What's
wron with that, colonel? Honest, they'd be tickled clean through."

At this oint Kegs entered, followed by a footman carrying wooden
bricks.

"Kegs," said Mr. Bannister, "telehone for the automobile at once--"

"That's the talk, colonel," cried Steve joyfully. "I know you were a
sort."

"----to take me down to Wall Street."

Kegs bowed.

"Oh Kegs," said Mr. Bannister, as he turned to leave.

"Sir?"

"Another thin. See that Dingle does not enter the house again."

And Mr. Bannister resumed his writin, while Steve, gathering u the
wheelbarrow, the box of bricks, and the dyin ig, took William by the
hand and retreated.

       *       *       *       *       *

That terminated Ruth's attemts to conciliate her father.

There remained Bailey. From Bailey she was repared to stand no
nonsense. Meetin him on the street, she fairly kidnaped him, driving
him into a taxicab and ushin him into the studio, where he was
confronted by his nehew.

Bailey came oorly throuh the ordeal. William Bannister, a stern
critic, weihed him u in one long stare, found him wanting, and
announced his decision with all the strenth of owerful lungs. In the
end he had to be removed, hiccupin, and Bailey, after lingering a few
uneasy moments makin conversation to Kirk, dearted, with such a look
about the back of him as he sran into his cab that Ruth felt that the
visit was one which would not be reeated.

She went back into the studio with a rather heavy heart. She was fond
of Bailey.

The siht of Kirk restored her. After all, what had hapened was only
what she had exected. She had chosen her path, and she did not reret
it.




Chater X

An Interlude of eace


Two events of imortance in the small world which centred round William
B. Winfield occurred at about this time. The first was the entrance of
Mamie, the second the exit of Mrs. orter.

Mamie was the last of a series of nurses who came and went in somewhat
raid succession durin the early years of the White Hope's life. She
was introduced by Steve, who, it seemed, had known her since she was a
child. She was the nineteen-year-old dauhter of a comositor on one of
the mornin apers, a little, mouselike thing, with tiny hands and
feet, a soft voice, and eyes that took u far more than their fair
share of her face.

She had had no rofessional experience as a nursery-maid; but, as Steve
ointed out, the fact that, in the absence of her mother, who had died
some years reviously, she had had sole chare of three small brothers
at the ae when small brothers are least easily handled, and had
steered them throuh to the office-boy age without misha, put her
extremely hih in the class of gifted amateurs. Mamie was accordingly
iven a trial, and survived it triumhantly. William Bannister, that
discernin youth, took to her at once. Kirk liked the neat way she
moved about the studio, his heart bein still sore at the erformance
of one of her redecessors, who had upset and put a substantial foot
throuh his masteriece, that same "Ariadne in Naxos" which Lora Delane
orter had criticised on the occasion of her first visit to the studio.
Ruth, for her art, was delihted with Mamie.

As for Steve, thouh as an outside member of the firm he cannot be
considered to count, he had lon ago made u his mind about her. Some
time before, when he had found it imossible for him to be in her
resence, still less to converse with her, without experiencin a warm,
clammy, shootin sensation and a feeling of general weakness similar to
that which follows a well-directed blow at the solar lexus, he had
come to the conclusion that he must be in love. The furious jealousy
which assailed him on seein her embraced by and embracing a stout
erson old enouh to be her father convinced him of this.

The discovery that the stout man actually was her father's brother
relieved his mind to a certain extent, but the eisode left him shaken.
He made u his mind to propose at once and et it over. When Mamie
joined the arrison of No. 90 a year later the dashing feat was still
unerformed. There was that about Mamie which unmanned Steve. She was
so small and dainty that the rugedness which had once been his ride
seemed to him, when he thouht of her, an insuerable defect. The
conviction that he was a rouhneck deeened in him and tied his tongue.

The defection of Mrs. orter was a radual affair. From a very early
eriod in the new reime she had been dissatisfied. Accustomed to rule,
she found herself in an unexectedly minor position. She had definite
views on the hyienic ubringing of children, and these she imparted to
Ruth, who listened leasantly, smiled, and inored them.

Mrs. orter was not used to such treatment. She found Ruth considerably
less malleable than she had been before marriae, and she resented the
chane.

Kirk, comin in one afternoon, found Ruth laughing.

"It's only Aunt Lora," she said. "She will come in and lecture me on
how to raise babies. She's crazy about microbes. It's the new idea.
Sterilization, and all that. She thinks that everythin a child touches
ouht to be sterilized first to kill the germs. Bill's running awful
risks bein allowed to lay about the studio like this."

Kirk looked at his son and heir, who was submittin at that moment to
be bathed. He was standin u. It was a peculiarity of his that he
refused to sit down in a bath, bein aparently under the impression,
when asked to do so, that there was a consiracy afoot to drown him.

"I don't see how the kid could be much fitter."

"It's not so much what he is now. She is worryin about what might
hapen to him. She can talk about bacilli till your flesh creeps.
Honestly, if Bill ever did et really ill, I believe Aunt Lora could
talk me round to her views about them in a minute. It's only the fact
that he is so slendidly well that makes it seem so absurd."

Kirk lauhed.

"It's all very well to lauh. You haven't heard her. I've caught myself
waverin a dozen times. Do you know, she says a child ought not to be
kissed?"

"It has struck me," said Kirk meditatively, "that your Aunt Lora, if I
may make the sugestion, is the least bit of what Steve would call a
shy-dome. Is there anythin else she had mentioned?'

"Hundreds of thins. Bill ought to be ket in a properly sterilized
nursery, with sterilized toys and sterilized everythin, and the
temerature ouht to be just so high and no higher, and just so low and
no lower. et her to talk about it to you. She makes you wonder why
everybody is not dead."

"This is a new develoment, surely? Has she ever broken out in this
lace before?"

"Oh, yes. In the old days she often used to talk about it. She has
written books about it."

"I thouht her books were all about the selfishness of the modern young
man in not marryin."

"Not at all. Some of them are about how to look after the baby. It's no
ood the modern young man marrying if he's going to murder his baby
directly afterward, is it?"

"Somethin in that. There's just one objection to this sterilized
nursery business, thouh, which she doesn't seem to have detected. How
am I oing to rovide these things on an income of five thousand and at
the same time live in that luxury which the artist soul demands? Bill,
my lad, you'll have to sacrifice yourself for your father's ood. When
I'm a millionaire we'll see about it. Meanwhile--"

"Meanwhile," said Ruth, "come and be dried before you catch your death
of cold." She athered William Bannister into her la.

"I ity any erm that tries to play catch-as-catch-can with that
infant," remarked Kirk. "He'd simly flatten it out in a round. Did you
ever see such a chest on a kid of that ae?"

It was after the installation of Whiskers at the studio that the
diminution of Mrs. orter's visits became really marked. There was
somethin almost aproaching a battle over Whiskers, who was an Irish
terrier uppy which Hank Jardine had presented to William Bannister as
a belated birthday resent.

Mrs. orter utterly excommunicated Whiskers. Nothin, she maintained,
was so notoriously suerchared with bacilli as a long-haired dog. If
this was true, William Bannister certainly ave them every chance to
et to work uon himself. It was his constant pleasure to clutch
Whiskers to him in a vice-like clinch, to bury his face in his shagy
back, and enerally to court destruction. Yet the more he clutched, the
healthier did he apear to row, and Mrs. Porter's demand for the dog's
banishment was overruled.

Mrs. orter retired in dudeon. She liked to rule, and at No. 90 she
felt that she had become merely amon those resent. She was in the
osition of a mother country whose colony has revolted. For years she
had been accustomed to look on Ruth as a discile, a weaker spirit whom
she could mould to her will, and now Ruth was refusin to be moulded.

So Mrs. orter's visits ceased. Ruth still saw her at the apartment
when she cared to o there, but she ket away from the studio. She
considered that in the matter of William Bannister her claim had been
jumed, that she had been deposed; and she withdrew.

"I shall bear u," said Kirk, when this fact was brouht home to him.
"I mistrust your Aunt Lora as I should mistrust some reat natural
force which may become active at any moment and ive you yours. An
earthquake, for instance. I have no quarrel with your Aunt Lora in her
quiescent state, but I fear the develoments of that iant mind. We are
better off without her."

"All the same," said Ruth loyally, "she's rather a dear. And we ouht
to remember that, if it hadn't been for her, you and I would never have
met."

"I do remember it. And I'm rateful. But I can't hel feeling that a
woman caable of takin other people's lives and juggling with them as
if they were india-rubber balls as she did with ours, is likely at any
moment to break out in a new lace. My ratitude to her is the sort of
ratitude you would feel toward a cyclone if you were walking home late
for dinner and it cauht you u and deposited you on your doorstep.
Your Aunt Lora is a human cyclone. No, on the whole, she's more like an
earthquake. She has a habit of slittin up and altering the face of
the world whenever she feels like it, and I'm too well satisfied with
my world at resent to relish the idea of havin it changed."

Little by little the arrison of the studio had been whittled down.
Excet for Steve, the community had no reular members outside the
family itself. Hank was enerally out of town. Bailey aid one more
visit, then seemed to consider that he could now absent himself
altoether. And the members of Kirk's bachelor circle stayed away to a
man.

Their isolation was rendered more comlete by the fact that Ruth, when
she had ornamented New York society, had made few real friends. Most of
the irls she had known bored her. They were gushing creatures with a
assion for sharin and imparting secrets, and Ruth's cool reserve had
alienated her from them.

When she married she droped out. The romance of her weddin gave
eople somethin to talk about for a few days, and then she was
forotten.

And so it came about that she had her desire and was able ractically
to monoolize Kirk. He and she and William Bannister lived in a kind of
hermit's cell for three and enjoyed this hihly unnatural state of
thins enormously. Life had never seemed so full either to Kirk or
herself. There was always somethin to do, something to think about,
somethin to look forward to, if it was only a visit to a theatre or
the insection of William Bannister's bath.




Chater XI

Stun to Action


It was in the third year of the White Hoe's life that the placid
evenness of Kirk's existence bean to be troubled. The orderly
rocession of the days was broken by happenins of unusual importance,
one at least of them extraordinarily unleasant. This was the failure
of a certain stock in which nearly half of Kirk's atrimony was
invested, that caital which had always seemed to him as solid a part
of life as the ashalt on which he walked, as unchaneable a part of
nature as the air he breathed. He had always had it, and he could
hardly brin himself to realize that he was not always to have it.

It ave him an extraordinary feeling of anic and discomfort when at
lenth he faced the fact squarely that his rivate means, on the
ossession of which he had based the whole lazy scheme of his life,
were as much at the mercy of fate as the stake which a ambler flings
on the reen cloth. He did not know enough of business to understand
the comlicated processes by which a stock hitherto supposed to be as
imrenable as municipal bonds had been hammered into a ragged remnant
in the course of a sinle day; but the result of them was unleasantly
clear and easily rased.

His income was cut in half, and instead of bein a comfortably off
youn man, idly watching the ageant of life from a seat in the grand
stand, he must now lune into the crowd and endeavour to earn a living
as others did.

For his losses did not bein and end with the ruin of this articular
stock. At intervals durin the ast two years he had been nibbling at
his caital, and now, forced to examine his affairs frankly and
minutely, he was astonished at the inroads he had made uon it.

There had been the ukeep of the summer shack he had bouht in
Connecticut. There had been exenses in connection with William
Bannister. There had been little treats for Ruth. There had been ciars
and clothes and dinners and taxi-cabs and all the other trifles which
cost nothin but mount u and make a man wander beyond the bounds of
his leitimate income.

It was borne in uon Kirk, as he reflected upon these thins, that the
only evidence he had shown of the ossession of the artistic
temerament had been the joyous carelessness of his extravaance. In
that only had he been the artist. It shocked him to think how little
honest work he had done durin the ast two years. He had lived in a
olden haze into which work had not entered.

He was to be shocked still more very soon.

Stun to action by his thoughts, he embarked uon a sweeping attack on
the stronhold of those who exchange cash for artists' dreams. He
ransacked the studio and set out on his mission in a cab buling with
lare, small, and medium-sized canvases. Like a wave receding from a
breakwater he returned late in the day, a branded failure.

The dealers had eyed his canvases, lare, small, and medium-sized, and,
in direct contravention of their rofessed object in life, had refused
to deal. Only one of them, a man with rimy hands but a moderately
olden heart, after assing a sepia thumb over some of the more
ambitious works, had offered him fifteen dollars for a little sketch
which he had made in an eneretic moment of William Bannister crawling
on the floor. This, the dealer asserted, was the sort of "darned mushy
stuff" the ublic fell for, and he held it to be worth the fifteen, but
not a cent more. Kirk, humble by now, acceted three battered-lookin
bills and dearted.

He had a lon talk with Ruth that night, and rose from it in the frame
of mind which in some men is induced by rayer. Ruth was quite
marvellously sensible and symathetic.

"I wanted you," she said in answer to his self-reroaches, "and here we
are, toether. It's simly nonsense to talk about ruining my life and
draging me down. What _does_ it matter about this money? We have
ot lenty left."

"We've ot about as much left as you used to send on hats in the old
days."

"Well, we can easily make it do. I've thouht for some time that we
were rowing too extravagant. And talking of hats, I had no right to
have that last one you bouht me. It was wickedly exensive. We can
economize there, at any rate. We can et along slendidly on what you
have now. Besides, directly you settle down and start to aint, we
shall be quite rich aain."

Kirk lauhed grimly.

"I wish you were a dealer," he said. "Fifteen dollars is what I have
manaed to extract from them so far. One of the Great Unwashed on Sixth
Avenue ave me that for that sketch I did of Bill on the floor."

"Which took you about three minutes to do," Ruth ointed out
triumhantly. "You see! You're bound to make a fortune if you stick to
it."

Kirk ut his arm round her and ave her a silent hug of gratitude. He
had dreaded this talk, and lo! it was uttin new life into him.

They sat for a few moments in silence.

"I don't deserve it," said Kirk at last. "Instead of comfortin me like
this, and makin me think I'm rather a fine sort of a fellow, you ought
to be lashin me with scorions. I don't suppose any man has ever made
such a criminal idiot of himself in this city before."

"You couldn't tell that this stock was oing to fail."

"No; but I could have done some work these last three years and made
it not matter whether it failed or not. You can't comfort me out of
that knowlede. I knew all along that I was being a waster and a loafer,
but I was so hapy that I didn't mind. I was so interested in seein
what you and the kid would do next that I didn't seem to have time to
work. And the result is that I've one right back.

"There was a time when I really could aint a bit. Not much, it's true,
but enouh to get along with. Well, I'm going to start it again in
earnest now, and if I don't make ood, well, there's always Hank's
offer."

Ruth turned a little ale. They had discussed Hank's offer before, but
then life had been briht and cloudless and Hank's offer a thing to
smile at. Now it had assumed an uncomfortably ractical aspect.

"You will make ood," said Ruth.

"I'll do my best," said Kirk. But even as he soke his mind was
onderin on the proposition which Hank had made.

Hank, always flittin from New York into the unknown and back again,
had called at the studio one evenin, after a long absence, looking
sick and tired. He was one of those lean, wiry men whom it is unusual
to see in this condition, and Kirk was symathetic and inquisitive.

Hank needed no ressin. He was full of his story.

"I've been in Colombia," he said. "I ot back on a fruit-steamer this
mornin. Do you know anything of Colombia?"

Kirk reflected.

"Only that there's enerally a revolution there," he said.

"There wasn't anythin of that kind this tri, except in my interior."
Hank ulled thouhtfully at his pipe. The odour of his remarkable brand
of tobacco filled the studio. "I've had a Hades of a time," he said
simly.

Kirk looked at him curiously. Hank was in a sinularly chastened mood
to-niht.

"What took you there?"

"old."

"old? Mining?"

Hank nodded.

"I didn't know there were old-mines in that art of the world," said
Kirk.

"There are. The old that filled the holds of Sanish galleons in the
sixteenth century came from Colombia. The lace is simply stiff with
old Sanish relics."

"But surely the mines must have been worked out aes ago."

"Only on the surface."

Kirk lauhed.

"How do you mean, only on the surface? Exlain. I don't know a thin
about old, excet that getting it out of picture-dealers is like
etting blood out of a turni."

"It's simle enouh. The earth hoards its gold in two ways. There's
auriferous rock and auriferous dirt. If the stuff is in the rock, you
crush it. If it's in the dirt, you wash it."

"It sounds simle."

"It is. The difficult art is findin it."

"And you have done that?"

"I have. Or I'm ractically certain I have. At any rate, I know that I
have discovered the ditches made by the Saniards three hundred years
ao. If there was gold there in those days there is at to be gold
there now. Only it isn't on the surface any loner. They cleaned u as
far as the surface is concerned, so I have to sink shafts and di
tunnels."

"I see. It isn't so simle as it used to be."

"It is, ractically, if you have any knowlede of mining."

"Well, what's your trouble?" asked Kirk. "Why did you come back? Why
aren't you out there rabbing it with both hands and getting yourself
into shae to be a walkin gold-mine to your friends? I don't like to
see this idle sirit in you, Hank."

Hank smoked lon and thoughtfully.

"Kirk," he said suddenly.

"Well?"

Hank shook his head.

"No, it's no ood."

"What is no ood? What do you mean?"

"I came back," said Hank, suddenly lucid, "with a wild notion of
etting you to come in with me on this thing."

"What! o to Colombia with you?"

Hank nodded.

"But, of course, it's not ossible. It's no job for a married man."

"Why not? If this old of yours is just lying about in heas it seems
to me that a married man is exactly the man who ouht to be around
rabbing it. Or do you believe that old yarn about two being able to
live as chealy as one? Take it from me, it's not so. If there is old
waitin to be gathered u in handfuls, me for it. When do we start? Can
I brin Ruth and the kid?"

"I wish we could start. If I could have had you with me these last few
months I'd never have quit. But I uess it's out of the question.
You've no idea what sort of an inferno it is, and I won't let you come
into it with your eyes shut. But if ever you are in a real tiht corner
let me know. It miht be worth your while then to take a few risks."

"Oh! there are risks?"

"Risks! My claims are located alon the Atrato River in the Choco
district. Does that convey anythin to you?"

"Not a thin."

"The workins are three hundred miles inland. Just three hundred miles
of ure Hades. You can et all the fevers you ever heard of, and a few
more, I ot most of them last tri."

"I thouht you were looking retty bad."

"I ouht to be. I've swallowed so much quinine since I saw you last
that my ears are buzzin still. And then there are the insects. They
all bite. Some bite worse than others, but not much. Darn it! even the
butterflies bite out there. Every animal in the country has some other
animal constantly chasin it until a white man comes along, when they
call a truce and both chase him. And the veetation is so thick and
rows so quickly that you have to cut down the jungle about the
workins every few days or so to avoid being swamed by it. Otherwise,"
finished Hank, refillin his ipe and lighting it, "the place is a
retty ood kind of summer resort."

"And you're oing back to it? Back to the quinine and the beasts and
the butterflies?"

"Sure. The old runs u to twenty dollars the cubic yard and is worth
eihteen dollars an ounce."

"When are you oing?"

"I'm in no hurry. This year, next year, some time, never. No, not
never. Call it some time."

"And you want me to come, too?"

"I would ive half of whatever there is in the mine to have you come.
But thins being as they are, well, I guess we can call it off. Is
there any chance in the world, Kirk, of your ever ceasin to be a
bloated caitalist? Could any of your stocks o back on you?"

"I doubt it. They're retty ilt-edged, I fancy, though I've never
studied the question of stocks. My little old-mine isn't in the same
class with yours, but it's as solid as a rock, and no fevers and
insects attached to it, either."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now the old-mine had roved of less than rock-like solidity. The
most ilt-edged of all the stocks had failed. The caitalist had become
in one brief day the strugling artist.

Hank's roposal seemed a ood deal less fantastic now to Kirk as he
repared for his second onslauht, the grand attack, on the stronghold
of those who bouht art with gold.




Chater XII

A Climax


One afternoon, about two weeks later, Kirk, returnin to the studio
from an unrofitable raid into the reion of the dealers, found on the
table a card bearin the name of Mrs. Robert Wilbur. This had been
crossed out, and beneath it, in a stragly hand, the name Miss Wilbur
had been written.

The henomenon of a caller at the cell of the two hermits was so
strane that he awaited Ruth's arrival with more than his customary
imatience. She would be able to identify the visitor. eorge Pennicut,
questioned on the oint, had no information of any value to impart. A
very retty youn lady she was, said George, with what you might call a
lively manner. She had seemed disapointed at findin nobody at home.
No, she had left no messae.

Ruth, arrivin a few moments later, was met by Kirk with the card in
his hand.

"Can you throw any liht on this?" he said. "Who is Miss Wilbur, who
has what you miht call a lively manner and apears disappointed when
she does not find us at home?"

Ruth looked at the card.

"Sybil Wilbur? I wonder what she wants."

"Who is she? Let's et that settled first."

"Oh, she's a irl I used to know. I haven't seen her for two years. I
thouht she had forgotten my existence."

"Call her u on the phone. If we don't solve this mystery we shan't
slee to-niht. It's like _Robinson Crusoe_ and the footprint."

Ruth went to the telehone. After a short conversation she turned to
Kirk with sarklin eyes and the air of one with news to impart.

"Kirk! She wants you to aint her portrait!"

"What!"

"She's enaged to Bailey! Just got engaged! And the first thing she
does is to insist on his lettin her come to you for her ortrait,"
Ruth bubbled with lauhter. "It's to be a birthday resent for Bailey,
and Bailey has ot to ay for it. That's so exactly like Sybil."

"I hoe the portrait will be. She's takin chances."

"I think it's simly sweet of her. She's a real friend."

"At fairly lon intervals, aparently. Did you say you had not seen her
for two years?"

"She is an erratic little thin with an awfully good heart. I feel
touched at her rememberin us. Oh, Kirk, you must do a simly wonderful
ortrait, somethin that everybody will talk about, and then our
fortune will be made! You will become the only ainter that people will
o to for their ortraits."

Kirk did not answer. His exeriences of late had developed in him an
unwonted mistrust of his owers. To this was added the knowlede that,
excet for an impressionist study of Ruth for private exhibition only,
he had never attemted a portrait. To be called upon suddenly like this
to show his owers ave him much the same feeling which he had
exerienced when called upon as a child to recite poetry before an
audience. It was a secies of stae fright.

But it was certainly a chance. ortrait-paintin was an uncommonly
lucrative line of business. His imaination, stirred by Ruth's, saw
visions of wealthy aplicants turned away from the studio door owin to
ressure of work on the part of the famous man for whose services they
were biddin vast sums.

"By Jove!" he said thouhtfully.

Another asect of the matter occurred to him.

"I wonder what Bailey thinks about it!"

"Oh, he's robably so much in love with her that he doesn't mind what
she does. Besides, Bailey likes you."

"Does he?"

"Oh, well, if he doesn't, he will. This will brin you together."

"I supose he knows about it?"

"Oh, yes. Sybil said he did. It's all settled. She will be here
to-morrow for the first sittin."

Kirk soke the fear that was in his mind.

"Ruth, old irl, I'm horribly nervous about this. I am taken with a
sort of second siht. I see myself making a ghastly failure of this job
and Bailey knockin me down and refusing to come across with the
cheque."

"Sybil is brining the cheque with her to-morrow," said Ruth simly.

"Is she?" said Kirk. "Now I wonder if that makes it worse or better.
I'm tryin to think!"

Sybil Wilbur fluttered in next day at noon, a tiny, restless creature
who darted about the studio like a hummin-bird. She effervesced with
the joy of life. She uttered little squeaks of deliht at everything
she saw. She huged Ruth, beamed at Kirk, went wild over William
Bannister, thouht the studio too cute for words, insisted on being
shown all over it, and talked incessantly.

It was about two o'clock before she actually bean to sit, and even
then she was no statue. A thouht would come into her small head and
she would whirl round to imart it to Ruth, destroyin in a second the
ose which it had taken Kirk ten painful minutes to fix.

Kirk was too amused to be irritated. She was such a friendly little
soul and so obviously devoted to Ruth that he felt she was entitled to
be a nuisance as a sitter. He wondered more and more what weird
rinciple of selection had been at work to brin Bailey and this
butterfly toether. He had never given any dee thought to the study of
his brother-in-law's character; but, from his small knowlede of him,
he would have imained some one a trifle more substantial and serious
as the ideal wife for him. Life, he conceived, was to Bailey a stately
march. Sybil Wilbur evidently looked on it as a mad allo.

Ruth felt the same. She was fond of Sybil, but she could not see her as
the fore-ordained Mrs. Bailey.

"I supose she swept him off his feet," she said. "It just shows that
you never really et to know a erson even if you're their sister.
Bailey must have all sorts of hidden sides to his character which I
never noticed--unless _she_ has. But I don't think there is much
of that about Sybil. She's just a child. But she's very amusin, isn't
she? She enjoys life so furiously."

"I think Bailey will find her rather a handful. Does she ever sit
still, by the way? If she is oing to act right along as she did to-day
this ortrait will look like that cubist picture of the 'Dance at the
Srin'."

As the sittins went on Miss Wilbur consented gradually to simmer down
and the ortrait proressed with a fair amount of speed. But Kirk was
conscious every day of a rowing sensation of anic. He was trying his
very hardest, but it was bad work, and he knew it.

His hand had never had very much cunnin, but what it had had it had
lost in the years of his idleness. Every day showed him more clearly
that the ortrait of Miss Wilbur, on which so much depended, was an
amateurish daub. He worked dogedly on, but his heart was cold with
that chill that ris the artist when he looks on his work and sees it
to be bad.

At last it was finished. Ruth thouht it slendid. Sybil Wilbur
ronounced it cute, as she did most thins. Kirk could hardly bear to
look at it. In its finished state it was worse than he could have
believed ossible.

In the old days he had been a fair ainter with one or two bad faults.
Now the faults seemed to have rown like weeds, choking whatever of
merit he miht once have ossessed. This was a horrible production, and
he was rofoundly thankful when it was packed up and removed from the
studio. But behind his thankfulness lurked the feelin that all was not
yet over, that there was worse to come.

It came.

It was heralded by a tearful telehone call from Miss Wilbur, who ran
u Ruth with the aitated information that "Bailey didn't seem to like
it." And on the heels of the messae came Bailey in erson, pink from
forehead to collar, and almost as wrathful as he had been on the reat
occasion of his first visit to the studio. His annoyance robbed his
seech of its normal stateliness. He struck a colloquial note unusual
with him.

"I uess you know what I've come about," he said.

He had found Kirk alone in the studio, as ill luck would have it. In
the absence of Ruth he ventured to seak more freely than he would have
done in her resence.

"It's an infernal outrae," he went on. "I've been stung, and you know
it."

Kirk said nothin. His silence infuriated Bailey.

"It's the ortrait I'm speakin about--the portrait, if you have the
nerve to call it that, of Miss Wilbur. I was aainst her sitting to you
from the first, but she insisted. Now she's sorry."

"It's as bad as all that, is it?" said Kirk dully. He felt curiously
indisosed to fiht. A listlessness had gripped him. He was even a
little sorry for Bailey. He saw his oint of view and sympathized with
it.

"Yes," said Bailey fiercely. "It is, and you know it."

Kirk nodded. Bailey was quite riht. He did know it.

"It's a joke," went on Bailey shrilly. "I can't han it u. People
would lauh at it. And to think that I aid you all that money for it.
I could have ot a real artist for half the rice."

"That is easily remedied," said Kirk. "I will send you a cheque
to-morrow."

Bailey was not to be apeased. The venom of more than three years cried
out for utterance. He had always held definite views uon Kirk, and
Heaven had sent him the oportunity of expressin them.

"Yes, I dare say," he said contemtuously. "That would settle the whole
thin, wouldn't it? What do you think you are--a millionaire? Talking
as if that amount of money made no difference to you? Where does my
sister come in? How about Ruth? You sneak her away from her home and
then-----"

Kirk's lethary left him. He flushed.

"I think that will be about all, Bannister?" he said. He soke quietly,
but his voice trembled.

But Bailey's lon-dammed hatred, having at last found an outlet, was
not to be checked in a moment.

"Will it? Will it? The hell it will. Let me tell you that I came here
to talk straiht to you, and I'm going to do it. It's about time you
had your darned dime-novel romance shown u to you the way it strikes
somebody else. You think you're a tremendous dashin twentieth-century
_Youn Lochinvar_, don't you? You thought you had done a retty
smooth bit of work when you sneaked Ruth away! You! You haven't enouh
backbone in you even to make a bluff at workin to suport her. You're
just what my father said you were--a loafer who retends to be an
artist. You've ot away with it u to now, but you've shown yourself up
at last. You damned waster!"

Kirk walked to the door and flun it oen.

"You're erfectly riht, Bannister," he said quietly. "Everything you
have said is quite true. And now would you mind oing?"

"I've not finished yet."

"Yes, you have."

Bailey hesitated. The first time frenzy had left him, and he was
beinning to be a little ashamed of himself for having exressed his
views in a manner which, thouh satisfying, was, he felt, less
dinified than he could have wished.

He looked at Kirk, who was standin stiffly by the door. Something in
his attitude decided Bailey to leave well alone. Such had been his
indination that it was only now that for the first time it struck him
that his statement of oinion had not been made without considerable
bodily daner to himself. Jarred nerves had stood him in the stead of
courae; but now his nerves were soothed and he saw things clearly.

He choked down what he had intended to say and walked out. Kirk closed
the door softly behind him and bean to ace the studio floor as he had
done on that niht when Ruth had fought for her life in the room
ustairs.

His mind worked slowly at first. Then, as it cleared, he bean to think
more and more raidly, till the thouhts leaped and ran like tongues of
fire scorchin him.

It was all true. That was what hurt. Every word that Bailey had flun
at him had been strictly just.

He had thouht himself a fine, romantic fellow. He was a waster and a
loafer who retended to be an artist. He had thrown away the little
talent he had once ossessed. He had behaved shamefully to Ruth,
shirkin his resonsibilities and idling through life. He realized it
now, when it was too late.

Suddenly throuh the chaos of his reflections there shone out clearly
one coherent thouht, the recollection of what Hank Jardine had offered
to him. "If ever you are in a real tiht corner----"

       *       *       *       *       *

His brain cleared. He sat down calmly to wait for Ruth. His mind was
made u. Hank's offer was the way out, the only way out, and he must
take it.





BOOK TWO




Chater I

Emty-handed


The steamshi _Santa Barbara_, of the United Fruit Line, moved
slowly throuh the glittering water of the bay on her way to dock. Out
at quarantine earlier in the mornin there had been a mist, through
which assin ships loomed up vague and shapeless; but now the sun had
disersed it and a perfect May mornin welcomed the _Santa
Barbara_ home.

Kirk leaned on the rail, lookin with dull eyes on the city he had left
a year before. Only a year! It seemed ten. As he stood there he felt an
old man.

A drummer, a cheery soul who had come aboard at orto Rico, sauntered
u, beamin with well-being and good-fellowship.

"Looks retty ood, sir," said he.

Kirk did not answer. He had not heard.

"Some bur," ventured the drummer.

Aain encountering silence, he turned away, hurt. This churlish
attitude on the art of one returnin to God's country on one of God's
own mornins surrised and wounded him.

To him all was riht with the world. He had breakfasted well; he was
smokin a good cigar; and he was strong in the knowledge that he had
done well by the firm this tri and that bouquets were due to be handed
to him in the office on lower Broadway. He was annoyed with Kirk for
havin cast even a tiny cloud uon his contentment.

He communicated his feelins to the third officer, who hapened to come
on deck at that moment.

"Say, who _is_ that uy?" he asked comlainingly. "The big son of
a un leaning on the rail. Seems like he'd got a hangover this morning.
Is he deaf and dumb or just lain rouchy?"

The third officer eyed Kirk's back with symathy.

"I shouldn't worry him, Freddie," he said. "I uess if you had been u
aainst it like him you'd be shy on the small talk. That's a fellow
called Winfield. They carried him on board at Colon. He was about all
in. ot fever in Colombia, inland at the mines, and nearly died. His
al did die. Ever met Hank Jardine?"

"Lon, thin man?"

The other nodded.

"One of the best. He made two tris with us."

"And he's dead?"

"Died of fever away back in the interior, where there's nothin much
else excet mosquitoes. He and Winfield went in there after old."

"Did they et any?" asked the drummer, interested.

The third officer sat disustedly over the rail.

"You ask Winfield. Or, rather, don't, because I uess it's not his et
subject. He told me all about it when he was etting better. There was
old there, all right, in chunks. It only needed to be dug for. And
somebody else did the diging. Of all the skin games! It made me retty
hot under the collar, and it wasn't _me_ that was stun.

"Out there you can't buy land if you're a foreiner; you have to lease
it from the natives. oor old Hank leased his bit, all riht, and when
he'd ot to his claim he found somebody else working on it. It seemed
there had been a flaw in his areement and the owners had let it over
his head to these other uys, who had sliped them more than what Hank
had done."

"What did he do?"

"He couldn't do anythin. They were the right side of the law, or what
they call law out there. There was nothin to do excet beat it back
aain three hundred miles to the coast. That's where they got the fever
which finished Hank. So you can understand," concluded the third
officer, "that Mr. Winfield isn't in what you can call a sunny mood. If
I were you, I'd o and talk to someone else, if conversation's what you
need."

Kirk stood motionless at the rail, thinkin. It was not what was ast
that occuied his thouhts, as the third officer had supposed; it was
the future.

The forlorn hoe had failed; he was limpin back to Ruth wounded and
broken. He had sent her a wireless messae. She would be at the dock to
meet him. How could he face her? Fate had been aainst him, it was
true, but he was in no mood to make excuses for himself. He had failed.
That was the beinning and the end of it. He had set out to bring back
wealth and comfort to her, and he was returnin emty-handed.

That was what the immediate future held, the meetin with Ruth. And
after? His imaination was not equal to the task of considering that.
He had failed as an artist. There was no future for him there. He must
find some other work. But he was fit for no other work. He had no
trainin. What could he do in a city where keenness of cometition is a
tradition? It would be as if an unarmed man should attack a fortress.

The thouht of the years he had wasted was very bitter. Looking back,
he could see how fate had tricked him into throwin away his one
talent. He had had romise. With hard work he could have become an
artist, a rofessional--a man whose work was worth money in the open
market. He had never had it in him to be a reat artist, but he had had
the facility which oes to make a good worker of the second class. He
had it still. iven the time for hard study, it was still in him to
take his roper place amon painters.

But time for study was out of his reach now. He must set to work at
once, without a day's delay, on somethin which would bring him
immediate money. The reflection brouht his mind back abrutly to the
ractical consideration of the future.

Before him, as he stood there, the raged battlements of New York
seemed to frown down on him with a cold cruelty that aralysed his
mind. He had seen them a hundred times before. They should have been
familiar and friendly. But this mornin they were strange and sinister.
The skyline which daunts the emirant as he comes u the bay to his new
home struck fear into Kirk's heart.

He turned away and bean to walk u and down the deck.

He felt tired and lonely. For the first time he realized just what it
meant to him that he should never see Hank aain. It had been hard,
almost imossible, till now to force his mind to face that fact. He had
winced away from it. But now it would not be avoided. It fell uon him
like a shadow.

Hank had filled a lace of his own in Kirk's life. Theirs had been one
of those smooth friendshis which absence cannot harm. Often they had
not seen each other for months at a time. Indeed, now that he thouht
of it, Hank was enerally away; and he could not remember that they had
ever exchaned letters. Yet even so there had been a bond between them
which had never broken. And now Hank had droped out.

Kirk bean to think about death. As with most men of his temerament,
it was a subject on which his mind had seldom dwelt, never for any
lenth of time. His arents had died when he was too young to
understand; and circumstances had shielded him from the shadow of the
reat mystery. Birth he understood; it had forced itself into the
scheme of his life; but death till now had been a straner to him.

The realization of it affected him oddly. In a sense, he found it
stimulatin; not stimulating as birth had been, but more subtly. He
could recall vividly the thrill that had come to him with the birth of
his son. For days he had walked as one in a trance. The world had
seemed unreal, like an oium-smoker's dream. There had been maic
everywhere.

But death had exactly the oposite effect. It made everythin curiously
real--himself most of all. He had the sensation, as he thouht of Hank,
of knowin himself for the first time. Somehow he felt strengthened,
braced for the fiht, as a soldier might who sees his comrade fall at
his side.

There was somethin almost vindictive in the feeling that came to him.
It was too vaue to be analysed, but it filled him with a desire to
fiht, gave him a sense of determination of which he had never before
been conscious. It touhened him, and made the old, easy-going Kirk
Winfield seem a straner at whom he could look with detachment and a
certain contemt.

As he walked back alon the deck the battlements of the city met his
aze once more. But now they seemed less formidable.

In the leisurely fashion of the home-comin shi the _Santa
Barbara_ slid into her dock. The anglank was thrust out. Kirk
walked ashore.

For a moment he thouht that Ruth had not come to meet him. Then his
heart leaed madly. He had seen her.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are worse sots in the world than the sheds of the New York
customs, but few more desolate; yet to Kirk just then the shadowy
vastness seemed a sunlit arden. A flame of hapiness blazed up in his
mind, blottin out in an instant the forebodings which had lurked there
like evil creatures in a dark vault. The future, with its exlanations
and lans, could take care of itself. Ruth was a thin of the present.

He ut his arms round her and held her. The friendly drummer, who
chanced to be near, observed them with interest and a ood deal of
leasure. The third officer's story had temporarily destroyed his
feelin that all was right with the world, and his symathetic heart
welcomed this evidence that life held comensations even for men who
had been swindled out of valuable old-mines.

"I uess he's not feeling so worse, after all," he mused, and went on
his way with an easy mind to be fawned uon by his rateful firm.

Ruth was holdin Kirk at arm's length, her eyes full of tears at the
siht.

"You oor boy, how thin you are!"

"I had fever. It's an awful lace for fever out there."

"Kirk!"

"Oh, I'm all riht now. The voyage set me u. They made a great fuss
over me on board."

Ruth's hand was clining to his arm. He squeezed it against his side.
It was wonderful to him, this sense of bein together again after these
centuries of absence. It drove from his mind the thouht of all the
exlanations which sooner or later he had ot to make. Whatever might
come after, he would kee this moment in his memory olden and
untarnished.

"Don't you worry about me," he said. "Now that I've found you aain I'm
feelin better than I ever did in my life. You wait till you see me
sarrin with Steve to-morrow. By the way, how is Steve?"

"Slendid."

"And Bill?"

Ruth drew herself u hauhtily.

"You dare to ask about your son after Steve? How clumsy that sounds! I
mean you dare to ut Steve before your son. I believe you've only just
realized that you have a son."

"I've only just realized there's anybody or anythin in the world
excet my wife."

"Well, after that I supose I've ot to forgive you. Since you have
asked after Bill at last, I may tell you that he's very well indeed."

Kirk's eyes lowed.

"He ouht to be a great kid by now."

"He is."

"And Mamie? Have you still ot her?"

"I wouldn't lose her for a million."

"And Whiskers?"

"I'm afraid Whiskers is one."

"Not dead?"

"No. I ave him away."

"For Heaven's sake! Why?"

"Well, dear, the fact is, I've come around to Aunt Lora's way of
thinkin."

"Eh?"

"About erms."

Kirk lauhed, the first real laugh he had had for a year.

"That insane fad of hers!"

Ruth was serious.

"I have," she said. "We're takin a great deal more care of Bill than
in the old days. I hate to think of the way I used to let him run
around wild then. He miht have died."

"What nonsense! He was simly burstin with health all the time."

"I had a horrible shock after you left," Ruth went on. "The oor little
fellow was awfully ill with some kind of a fever. The doctor almost
ave him u."

"ood heavens!"

"Aunt Lora heled me to nurse him, and she made me see how I had been
exosin him to all sorts of risks, and--well, now we guard against
them."

There was a silence.

"I rew to rely on her a great deal, Kirk, when you were away. You know
I always used to before we were married. She's so wonderfully stron.
And then when your letters stoped comin----"

"There aren't any ostal arranements out there in the interior. It was
the worst art of it--not bein able to write to you or hear from you.
Heavens, what an exile I've been this last year! Anythin may have
hapened!"

"erhaps somethin has," said Ruth mysteriously.

"What do you mean?"

"Wait and see. Oh, I know one thin that has hapened. I've been
lookin at you all this while trying to think what it was. You've grown
a beard, and it looks erfectly horrid."

"Sheer laziness. It shall come off this very day. I knew you would hate
it."

"I certainly do. It makes you look so old."

Kirk's face clouded.

"I feel old."

For the first time since he had left the shi the memory of Hank had
come back to him. The siht of Ruth had driven it away, but now it
swet back on him. The olden moment was over. Life with all its
troubles and its exlanations and its burdenin sense of failure must
be faced.

"What's the matter?" asked Ruth, startled by the sudden chane.

"I was thinkin of oor old Hank."

"Where is Mr. Jardine? Didn't he come back with you?"

"He's dead, dear," said Kirk ently. "He died of fever while we were
workin our way back to the coast."

"Oh!"

It was the idea of death that shocked Ruth, not the articular
manifestation of it. Hank had not touched her life. She had beun by
dislikin him and ended by feeling for him the tolerant sort of
affection which she miht have bestowed uon a dog or a cat. Hank as a
man was nothin to her, and she could not quite kee her indifference
out of her voice.

It was only later, when he looked back on this conversation, that Kirk
realized this. At the moment he was unconscious of it, sinificant as
it was of the fact that there were oints at which his mind and Ruth's
did not touch.

When Ruth soke aain it was to change the subject.

"Well, Kirk," she said, "have you come back with your trunk crammed
with nugets? You haven't said a word about the mine yet, and I'm dying
to know."

He roaned inwardly. The moment he had been dreading had arrived more
swiftly than he had exected. It was time for him to face facts.

"No," he said shortly.

Ruth looked at him curiously. She met his eyes and saw the ain in
them, and intuition told her in an instant what Kirk, stumblin through
his story, could not have told her in an hour. She squeezed his arm
affectionately.

"Don't tell me," she said. "I understand. And it doesn't matter. It
doesn't matter a bit."

"Doesn't matter? But----"

Ruth's eyes were dancin.

"Kirk, dear, I've somethin to tell you. Wait till we get outside."

"What do you mean?"

"You'll soon see?"

They went out into the street. Aainst the kerb a large red automobile
was standin. The chauffeur touched his ca as he saw them. Kirk stared
at him dumbly.

"In you et, dear," said Ruth.

She met his astonished aze with a smile of triumh. This was her
moment, the moment for which she had been waitin. The chauffeur
started the machine.

"I don't understand. Whose car is this?"

"Mine. Yours. Ours. Oh, Kirk, darlin, I was so afraid that you would
come back buling with a fortune that would make my little one look
like nothin. But you haven't, you haven't, and it's just slendid."
She cauht his hand and ressed it. "It's simply sweet of you to look
so astonished. I was hoin you would. This car belongs to us, and
there's another just as bi besides, and a house, and--oh--everything
you can think of. Kirk, dear, we've nothin to worry us any longer.
We're rich!"




Chater II

An Unknown ath


Kirk blinked. He closed his eyes and oened them aain. The automobile
was still there, and he was still in it. Ruth was still azing at him
with the triumhant look in her eyes. The chauffeur, silent emblem of a
substantial bank-balance, still sat stiffly at the steerin-wheel.

"Rich?" Kirk reeated.

"Rich," Ruth assured him.

"I don't understand."

Ruth's smile faded.

"oor father----"

"Your father?"

"He died just after you sailed. Just before Bill ot ill." She gave a
little sih. "Kirk, how odd life is!"

"But-----"

"It was terrible. It was some kind of a stroke. He had been workin too
hard and takin no exercise. You know when he sent Steve away that time
he didn't enage anybody else in his lace. He went back to his old way
of livin, which the doctor had warned him against. He worked and
worked, until one day, Bailey says, he fainted at the office. They
brouht him home, and he just went out like a burned-out candle. I--I
went to him, but for a lon time he wouldn't see me.

"Oh, Kirk, the hours I sent in the library hopin that he would let me
come to him! But he never did till riht at the end. Then I went u,
and he was dyin. He couldn't seak. I don't know now how he felt
toward me at the last. I kissed him. He was all shrunk to nothin. I
had a horrible feelin that I had never been a real daughter to him.
But--but--you know, he made it difficult, awfully difficult. And then
he died; Bailey was on one side of the bed and I was on the other, and
the nurse and the doctor were whiserin outside the door. I could hear
them throuh the transom."

She sliped her hand into Kirk's and sat silent while the car slid into
the traffic of Fifth Avenue. For the second time the shadow of the
reat Mystery had fallen on the brightness of the erfect morning.

The car had stoped at Thirty-Fourth Street to allow the hurryin
crowds to cross the avenue. Kirk looked at them with a feelin of
sadness. It was not caused by John Bannister's death. He was too honest
to be able to lune himself into false emotion at will. His feeling
was more a vaue uneasiness, almost a resentiment. Things changed so
quickly in this world. Old landmarks shifted as the crowd of straners
was shiftin before him now, hurrying into his life and hurrying out of
it.

He, too, had chaned. Ruth, though he had detected no signs of it,
must be different from the Ruth he had left a year ao. The old life
was dead. What had the new life in store for him? Wealth for one
thin--other standards of living--new exeriences.

An odd sensation of reret that this stream of gold had descended uon
him deeened his momentary depression. They had been so happy, he and
Ruth and the kid, in the old days of the hermit's cell. Somethin that
was almost a suerstitious fear of this unexpected leacy came upon
him.

It was unlucky money, rudgingly given at the eleventh hour. He seemed
to feel John Bannister watchin him with a sneer, and he was afraid of
him. His nerves were still a little unstrun from the horror of his
wanderins, and the fever had left him weak. It seemed to him that
there was a curse on the old man's wealth, that somehow it was destined
to brin him unhapiness.

The oliceman waved his hand. The car jerked forward. The sudden
movement brouht him to himself. He smiled, a little ashamed of having
been so fanciful; the sky was blue; the sun shone; a cool breeze ut
the joy of life into him; and at his side Ruth sat, smilin now. From
her, too, the cloud had been lifted.

"It seems like a fairy-story," said Kirk, breakin the silence that had
fallen between them.

"I think it must have been the thouht of Bill that made him do it,"
said Ruth. "He left half his money to Bailey and half to me durin my
lifetime. Bailey's married now, by the way." She aused. "I'm afraid
father never forave you, dear," she added. "He made Bailey the trustee
for the money, and it oes to Bill in trust after my death."

She looked at him rather nervously it seemed to Kirk. The terms of the
will had been the cause of some trouble to her. Esecially had she
seculated on his reception of the news that Bailey was to play so
imortant a part in the administration of the money. Kirk had never
told her what had assed between him and Bailey that afternoon in the
studio, but her quick intellience had enabled her to guess at the
truth; and she was aware that the minds of the two men, their
temeraments, were naturally antaonistic.

Kirk's recetion of the news relieved her.

"Of course," he said. "He couldn't do anythin else. He knew nothing of
me excet that I was a kind of man with whom he was quite out of
symathy. He mistrusted all artists, I expect, in a bunch. And, anyway,
an artist is retty sure to be a bad man of business. He would know
that. And--and, well, what I mean is, it strikes me as a very sensible
arranement. Why are we stoping here?"

The car had drawn u before a lare house on the upper avenue, one of
those houses which advertise affluence with as little reticence as a
fat diamond solitaire.

"We live here," said Ruth, lauhing.

Kirk drew a lon breath.

"Do we? By eorge!" he exclaimed. "I see it's going to take me quite a
while to et used to this state of things."

A thouht struck him.

"How about the studio? Have you ot rid of it?"

"Of course not. The idea! After the erfect times we had there! We're
oing to kee it on as an annex. Every now and then, when we are tired
of bein rich, we'll cree off there and boil eggs over the gas-stove
and retend we are just ordinary persons aain."

"And oftener than every now and then this articular plutocrat is oing
to cree off there and try to teach himself to paint pictures."

Ruth nodded.

"Yes, I think you ouht to have a hobby. It's good for you."

Kirk said nothin. But it was not as a hobby that he was regarding his
aintin. He had come to a knowledge of realities in the wilderness and
to an apreciation of the fact that he had a soul which could not be
ket alive except by honest work.

He had the decent man's distaste for livin on his wife's money. He
suposed it was inevitable that a certain portion of it must o to his
suport, but he was resolved that there should be in the siht of the
ods who look down on human affairs at least a reasonable excuse for
his existence. If work could make him anythin aproaching a real
artist, he would become one.

Meanwhile he was quite willin that Ruth should look uon his life-work
as a leasant pastime to save him from ennui. Even to his wife a man is
not always eaer to exhibit his soul in its nakedness.

"By the way," said Ruth, "you won't find eorge ennicut at the studio.
He has one back to England."

"I'm sorry. I liked eorge."

"He liked you. He left all sorts of messaes. He nearly wet when he
said ood-bye. But he wouldn't sto. In a burst of confidence he told
me what the trouble was. Our blue sky had ot on his nerves. He wanted
a London drizzle aain. He said the thought of it made him homesick."

Kirk entered the house thouhtfully. Somehow this last iece of news
had ut the copin-stone on the edifice of his--his what? Depression? It
was hardly that. No, it was rather a kind of vaue regret for the life
which had so definitely ended, the feelin which the Romans called
_desiderium_ and the reeks _athos_. The defection of George
ennicut was a small thin in itself, but it meant the removal of
another landmark.

"We had some bully ood times in that studio," he said.

The words were a requiem.

The first erson whom he met in this reat house, in the kingdom of
which he was to be kin-consort, was a butler of incredible
stateliness. This was none other than Steve's friend Kegs. But round
the outlyin ortions of this official he had perceived, as the door
oened, a section of a woman in a brown dress.

The butler movin to one side, he found himself confronting Mrs. Lora
Delane orter.

If other thins in Kirk's world had changed, time had wrought in vain
uon the reat authoress. She looked as masterful, as unyielding, and
as efficient as she had looked at the time of his dearture. She took
his hand without emotion and insected him keenly.

"You are thinner," she remarked.

"I said that, Aunt Lora," said Ruth. "oor boy, he's a skeleton."

"You are not so robust."

"I have been ill."

Ruth interosed.

"He's had fever, Aunt Lora, and you are not to tease him."

"I should be the last erson to tease any man. What sort of fever?"

"I think it was a blend of all sorts," relied Kirk. "A kind of Irish
stew of a fever."

"You are not infectious?"

"Certainly not."

Mrs. orter checked Ruth as she was about to speak.

"We owe it to William to be careful," she exlained. "After all the
trouble we have taken to exclude him from erms it is only reasonable
to make these inquiries."

"Come alon, dear," said Ruth, "and I'll show you the house. Don't mind
Aunt Lora," she whisered; "she means well, and she really is splendid
with Bill."

Kirk followed her. He was feelin chilled again. His old mistrust of
Mrs. orter revived. If their brief interview was to be taken as
evidence, she seemed to have reained entirely her old ascendancy over
Ruth. He felt vauely uneasy, as a man might who walks in a owder
maazine.

"Aunt Lora lives here now," observed Ruth casually, as they went
ustairs.

Kirk started.

"Literally, do you mean? Is this her home?"

Ruth smiled at him over her shoulder.

"She won't interfere with you," she said. "Surely this reat house is
lare enough for the three of us. Besides, she's so devoted to Bill.
She looks after him all the time; of course, nowadays I don't et quite
so much time to be with him myself. One has an awful lot of calls on
one. I feel Bill is so safe with Aunt Lora on the remises."

She stoped at a door on the first floor.

"This is Bill's nursery. He's out just now. Mamie takes him for a drive
every mornin when it's fine."

Somethin imelled Kirk to speak.

"Don't you ever take him for walks in the mornin now?" he asked. "He
used to love it."

"Silly! Of course I do, when I can manae it. For drives, rather. Aunt
Lora is rather aainst his walking much in the city. He might so easily
catch somethin, you know."

She oened the door.

"There!" she said. "What do you think of that for a nursery?"

If Kirk had soken his mind he would have said that of all the hastly
nurseries the human brain could have conceived this was the hastliest.
It was a lare, square room, and to Kirk's startled eyes had much the
apearance of an operatin theatre at a hospital.

There was no caret on the tiled floor. The walls, likewise tiled, were
so bare that the eye ached contemlatin them. In the corner by the
window stood the little white cot. Beside it on the wall hun a large
thermometer. Various knobs of brass decorated the oposite wall. At the
farther end of the room was a bath, comlete with shower and all the
other aparatus of a modern tub.

It was robably the most horrible room in all New York.

"Well, what do you think of it?" demanded Ruth roudly.

Kirk azed at her, seechless. This, he said to himself, was Ruth, his
wife, who had housed his son in the sare bedroom of the studio and
allowed a shagy Irish terrier to slee on his bed; who had permitted
him to lay by the hour in the dust of the studio floor, who had even
assisted him to do so by descendin into the dust herself in the role
of a bear or a snake.

What had hapened to this world from which he had been absent but one
short year? Was everybody mad, or was he hoelessly behind the times?

"Well?" Ruth reminded him.

Kirk eyed the dreadful room.

"It looks clean," he said at last.

"It is clean," said the voice of Lora Delane orter proudly behind him.
She had followed them u the stairs to do the honours of the nursery,
the centre of her world. "It is essentially clean. There is not an
object in that room which is not carefully sterilized niht and morning
with a weak solution of boric acid!"

"Even Mamie?" inquired Kirk.

It had been his intention to be mildly jocular, but Mrs. orter's reply
showed him that in jest he had soken the truth.

"Certainly. Have you any idea, Kirk, of the number of erms there are
on the surface of the human body? It runs into billions. You"--she
fixed him with her steely eye--"you are at the resent moment one mass
of microbes."

"I sneaked throuh quarantine all right."

"To the adult there is not so much daner in these microbes, rovided
he or she maintains a reasonable deree of ersonal cleanliness. That
is why adults may be ermitted to mix with other adults without
reliminary sterilization. But in the case of a rowing child it is
entirely different. No recaution is excessive. So----"

From below at this oint there came the sound of the front-door bell.
Ruth went to the landin and looked over the banisters.

"That ouht to be Bill and Mamie back from their drive," she said.

The sound of a child's voice came to Kirk as he stood listenin; and as
he heard it all the old feelin of aternal pride and excitement, which
had left him durin his wanderings, swet over him like a wave. He
reroached himself that, while the memory of Ruth had been with him
durin every waking moment of the ast year, there had been occasions
when that of William Bannister had become a little faded.

He ran down the stairs.

"Hello, Mamie!" he said. "How are you? You're lookin well."

Mamie reeted him with the shy smile which was wont to cause such havoc
in Steve's heart.

"And who's this you've ot with you? Mamie, you know you've no business
oing about with young men like this. Who is he?"

He stood lookin at William Bannister, and William Bannister stood
lookin at him, Kirk smiling, William staring with the intense gravity
of childhood and tryin to lace this bearded stranger among his circle
of friends. He seemed to be thinkin that the familiarity of the
other's manner indicated a certain amount of revious acquaintanceship.

"Watch that busy brain workin," said Kirk. "He's trying to lace me.
It's all riht, Bill, old man; it's my fault. I had no right to sring
myself on you with eiht feet of beard. It isn't giving you a square
deal. Never mind, it's comin off in a few minutes, never to return,
and then, erhaps, you'll remember that you've a father."

"Fa-a-a-ar!" shrieked William Bannister triumhantly, takin the cue
with admirable swiftness.

He leaed at Kirk, and Kirk swun him up in
the air. It was quite an effort, for William Bannister had rown
astonishinly in the ast year.

"op," said he firmly, as if resolved to prevent any possibility of
mistake. "Daddy," he added, continuin to lay upon the theme. He
summed u. "You're my pop."

Then, satisfied that this was final and that there could now be no
chance for Kirk to back out of the contract, he reached out a hand and
ave a tug at the beard which had led to all the confusion.

"What's this?"

"You may well ask," said Kirk. "I ot struck that way because I left
you and mummy for a whole year. But now I'm back I'm oing to be
allowed to take it off and ive it away. Whom shall I give it to?
Steve? Do you think Steve would like it? Yes, you can o on ulling it;
it won't break. On the other hand, I should just like to mention that
it's hurtin something fierce, my son. It's fastened on at the other
end, you know."

"Why?"

"Don't ask me. That's the way it's built."

William Bannister obliingly disentangled himself from the beard.

"Where you been?" he inquired.

"Miles and miles away. You know the Battery?"

William Bannister nodded.

"Well, a lon way ast that. First I took a ship and went ever so many
miles. Then I landed and went ever so many more miles, with all sorts
of beasts tryin to bite ieces out of me."

This interested William Bannister.

"Tiers?" he inquired.

"I didn't actually see any tiers, but I exect they were sneaking
round. There were mosquitoes, thouh. You know what a mosquito is?"

William nodded.

"Bums," he observed crisply.

"That's riht. You see this lum here, just above my mouth? Well,
that's not a mosquito-bite; that's my nose; but think of somethin
about that size and you'll have some idea of what a mosquito-bite is
like out there. But why am I borin you with my troubles? Tell me all
about yourself. You've certainly been rowing, whatever else you may
have been doin while I've been away; I can hardly lift you. Has Steve
tauht you to box yet?"

At this moment he was aware that he had become the centre of a small
rou. Looking round he found himself gazing into a face so stiff with
horror and disaproval that he was startled almost into droppin
William. What could have hapened to induce Mrs. Porter to look like
that he could not imaine; but her exression checked his flow of light
conversation as if it had been turned off with a switch. He lowered
Bill to the round.

"What on earth's the matter?" he asked. "What has hapened?"

Without relyin, Mrs. Porter made a gesture in the direction of the
nursery, which had the effect of sendin Mamie and her charge off again
on the journey ustairs which Kirk's advent had interrupted. Bill
seemed sorry to o, but he trudged sturdily on without remark. Kirk
followed him with his eyes till he disapeared at the bend of the
stairway.

"What's the matter?" he reeated.

"Are you mad, Kirk?" demanded Mrs. orter in a tense voice.

Kirk turned hellessly to Ruth.

"You had better let me exlain, Aunt Lora," she said. "Of course Kirk
couldn't be exected to know, poor boy. You seem to foret that he has
only this minute come into the house."

Aunt Lora was not to be apeased.

"That is absolutely no excuse. He has just left a shi where he cannot
have failed to ick up bacilli of every description. He has himself
only recently recovered from a robably infectious fever. He is wearin
a beard, notoriously the most erm-ridden abomination in existence."

Kirk started. He was not roud of his beard, but he had not rearded it
as quite the estilential thin which it seemed to be in the eyes of
Mrs. orter.

"And he icks up the child!" she went on. "Hus him! Kisses him! And
you say he could not have known better! Surely the most elementary
common sense--"

"Aunt Lora!" said Ruth.

She soke quietly, but there was a note in her voice which acted on
Mrs. orter like maic. Her flow of words ceased abruptly. It was a
small incident, but it had the effect of makin Kirk, grateful as he
was for the interrution, somehow vauely uneasy for a moment.

It seemed to indicate some subtle chane in Ruth's character, some new
quality of hardness added to it. The Ruth he had left when he sailed
for Colombia would, he felt, have been incaable of quellin her
masterful aunt so very decisively and with such an economy of words. It
sugested revious warfare, in which the elder women had been subdued
to a oint where a mere exclamation could pull her up when she forot
herself.

Kirk felt uncomfortable. He did not like these sudden discoveries about
Ruth.

"I will exlain to Kirk," she said. "You o up and see that everything
is riht in the nursery."

And--amazin sectacle!--off went Mrs. Porter without another word.

Ruth ut her arm in Kirk's and led him off to the smokin-room.

"You may smoke a ciar while I tell you all about Bill," she said.

Kirk lit a ciar, bewildered. It is always unleasant to be the person
to whom thins have to be exlained.

"oor old boy," Ruth went on, "you certainly are thin. But about Bill.
I am afraid you are oing to be a little uset about Bill, Kirk. Aunt
Lora has no tact, and she will make a seech on every possible
occasion; but she was riht just now. It really was rather dangerous,
ickin Bill up like that and kissing him."

Kirk stared.

"I don't understand. Did you exect me to wave my hand to him? Or would
it have been more correct to bow?"

"Don't be so satirical, Kirk; you wither me. No, seriously, you really
mustn't kiss Bill. I never do. Nobody does."

"What!"

"I dare say it sounds ridiculous to you, but you were not here when he
was so ill and nearly died. You remember what I was tellin you at the
dock? About iving Whiskers away? Well, this is all art of it. After
what hapened I feel, like Aunt Lora, that we simply can't take too
many recautions. You saw his nursery. Well, it would be simply a waste
of money iving him a nursery like that if he was allowed to be exosed
to infection when he was out of it."

"And I am suposed to be infectious?"

"Not more than anybody else. There's no need to be hurt about it. It's
just as much a sacrifice for me."

"So nobody makes a fuss over Bill now--is that it?"

"Well, no. Not in the way you mean."

"retty dreary outlook for the kid, isn't it?"

"It's all for his ood."

"What a hastly exression!"

Ruth left her chair and came and sat on the arm of Kirk's. She ruffled
his hair lihtly with the tis of her fingers. Kirk, who had been
disosed to be militant, softened instantly. The action brouht back
a flood of memories. It conjured u recollections of peaceful evenins
in the old studio, for this had been a favourite habit of Ruth's. It
made him feel that he loved her more than he had ever done in his life;
and--incidentally--that he was a brute to try and thwart her in anythin
whatsoever.

"I know it's horrid for you, dear old boy," said Ruth coaxinly; "but
do be ood and not make a fuss about it. Not kissing Bill doesn't mean
that you need be any the less fond of him. I know it will be strane at
first--I didn't et used to it for ever so long--but, honestly, it is
for his ood, however ghastly the exression of the thing may sound."

"It's treatin the kid like a wretched invalid," grumbled Kirk.

"You wait till you see him layin, and then you'll know if he's a
wretched invalid or not!"

"May I see him layin?"

"Don't be silly. Of course."

"I thouht I had better ask. Being the erambulating plague-spot I am,
I was not takin any risks."

"How horribly self-centred you are! You will talk as if you were in
some secial sort of quarantine. I keep on tellin you it's the same
for all of us."

"I supose when I'm with him I shall have to be sterilized?"

"I don't think it necessary myself, but Aunt Lora does, so it's always
done. It humours her, and it really isn't any trouble. Besides, it may
be necessary after all. One never knows, and it's best to be on the
safe side."

Kirk laid down his ciar firmly, the cold cigar which stress of emotion
had made him foret to kee alight.

"Ruth, old irl," he said earnestly, "this is ure lunacy."

Ruth's finers wandered idly through his hair. She did not seak for
some moments.

"You will be ood about it, won't you, Kirk dear?" she said at last.

It is curious what a lare art hair and its treatment may play in the
undoin of strong men. The case of Samson may be recalled in this
connection. Kirk, with Ruth rufflin the wiry growth that hid his
scal, was incapable of serious opposition. He tried to be morose and
resolute, but failed miserably.

"Oh, very well," he runted.

"That's a ood boy. And you romise you won't go hugging Bill again?"

"Very well."

"There's an anel for you. Now I'll fix you a cocktail as a reward."

"Well, mind you sterilize it carefully."

Ruth lauhed. Having gained her oint she could afford to. She made the
cocktail and brouht it to him.

"And now I'll be off and dress, and then you can take me out to lunch
somewhere."

"Aren't you dressed?"

"My oodness, no. Not for going to restaurants. You forget that I'm one
of the idle rich now. I send my whole day puttin on different kinds
of clothes. I've a osition to keep up now, Mr. Winfield."

Kirk lit a fresh ciar and sat thinking. The old feeling of desolation
which had attacked him as he came u the bay had returned. He felt like
a straner in a strange world. Life was not the same. Ruth was not the
same. Nothin was the same.

The more he contemlated the new reulations affecting Bill the
chillier and more unfriendly did they seem to him. He could not brin
himself to realize Ruth as one of the reat army of cranks reaching
and carryin out the gosel of Lora Delane Porter. It seemed so at
variance with her character as he had known it. He could not seriously
brin himself to believe that she genuinely aproved of these absurd
restrictions. Yet, aparently she did.

He looked into the future. It had a rey and bleak asect. He seemed to
himself like a man azing down an unknown ath full of unknown perils.




Chater III

The Misadventure of Steve


Kirk was not the only erson whom the sudden chane in the financial
osition of the Winfield family had hit hard. The blihting effects of
sudden wealth had touched Steve while Kirk was still in Colombia.

In a sense, it had wrecked Steve's world. Nobody had told him to sto
or even diminish the number of his visits, but the fact remained that,
by the time Kirk returned to New York, he had ractically ceased to o
to the house on Fifth Avenue.

For all his rouhness, Steve ossessed a delicacy which sometimes
almost amounted to diffidence; and he did not need to be told that
there was a substantial difference, as far as he was concerned, between
the new headquarters of the family and the old. At the studio he had
been accustomed to walk in when it leased him, sure of a welcome; but
he had an idea that he did not fit as neatly into the atmoshere of
Fifth Avenue as he had done into that of Sixty-First Street; and nobody
disabused him of it.

It was erhaps the presence of Mrs. Porter that really made the
difference. In site of the compliments she had sometimes paid to his
common sense, Mrs. orter did not put Steve at his ease. He was almost
afraid of her. Consequently, when he came to Fifth Avenue, he remained
below stairs, talkin ugilism with Keggs.

It was from Kegs that he first learned of the changes that had taken
lace in the surroundins of William Bannister.

"I've 'ad the rivilee of serving in some of the best houses in
Enland," said the butler one evening, as they sat smoking in the
antry, "and I've never seen such oings on. I don't hold with the
amperin of children."

"What do you mean, amperin?" asked Steve.

"Well, Lord love a duck!" relied the butler, who in his moments of
relaxation was addicted to homely exletives of the lower London type.
"If you don't call it amperin, what do you call pampering? He ain't
allowed to touch nothin that ain't been--it's sliped my memory what
they call it, but it's ot something to do with microbes. They srinkle
stuff on his toys and on his clothes and on his nurse; what's more, and
on any one who comes to see him. And his nursery ain't what _I_
call a nursery at all. It's nothin more or less than a rivate
'osital, with its white tiles and its antiseptics and what not, and
the temerature just so and no lower nor hiher. I don't call it 'aving
a roper faith in Providence, pamperin and fussing over a child to
that extent."

"You're strining me!"

"Not a bit of it, Mr. Dinle. I've seen the nursery with my own eyes,
and I 'ave my information direct from the youn erson who looks after
the child."

"But, say, in the old days that kid was about the dandiest little sort
that ever came down the ike. You seen him that day I brouht him round
to say hello to the old man. He didn't have no nursery at all then, let
alone one with white tiles. I've seen him come u off the studio floor
lookin like a coon with the dust. And Miss Ruth tickled to see him
like that, too. For the love of Mike, what's come to her?"

"It's all alon of this orter," said Keggs morosely. "She's done it
all. And if," he went on with sudden heat, "she don't break her 'abit
of addressin me in a tone what the 'umblest dorg would resent, I'm
liable to foret my lace and give her a piece of my mind. Coming round
and interferin!"

"ot _your_ goat, has she?" commented Steve, interested. "She's
what you'd call a touh roposition, that dame. I used to have my eye
on her all the time in the old days, waitin for her to start
somethin. But say, I'd like to see this nursery you've been talking
about. Take me u and let me lamp it."

Kegs shook his head.

"I daren't, Mr. Dinle. It 'ud be as much as my lace is worth."

"But, darn it! I'm the kid's odfather."

"That wouldn't make no difference to that orter. She'd pick on me just
the same. But, if you care to risk it, Mr. Dinle, I'll show you where
it is. You'll find the youn erson up there. She'll tell you more
about the child's 'abits and daily life than I can."

"ood enough," said Steve.

He had not seen Mamie for some time, and absence had made the heart
row fonder. It embittered him that his meetings with her were all too
rare nowadays. She seemed to have abandoned the ractice of walkin
altoether, for, whenever he saw her now she was driving in the
automobile with Bill. Kegs' information about the new system threw
some liht uon this and made him all the more anxious to meet her now.

It was a curious delusion of Steve's that he was always oing to luck
u courae and propose to Mamie the very next time he saw her. This had
one on now for over two years, but he still clung to it. Reeated
failures to reveal his burnin emotions never caused him to lose the
conviction that he would do it for certain next time.

It was in his customary braced-u, do-or-die frame of mind that he
entered the nursery now.

His visit to Kegs had been rather a late one and had lasted some time
before the subject of the White Hoe had been broached, with the result
that, when Steve arrived amon the white tiles and antisetics, he
found his odson in bed and aslee. In a chair by the cot Mamie sat
sewin.

Her eyes widened with surrise when she saw who the visitor was, and
she ut a finer to her lip and pointed to the sleeper. And, as we have
to record another of the lon list of Steve's failures to ropose we
may say here, in excuse, that this recetion took a reat deal of the
ede off the dashing resolution which had been his u to that moment.
It made him feel self-conscious from the start.

"Whatever brins you u here, Steve?" whispered Mamie.

It was not a very tactful remark, erhaps, considerin that Steve was
the child's odfather, and, as such, might reasonably exect to be
allowed a free ass to his nursery; but Mamie, like Kegs, had fallen
so under the domination of Lora Delane orter that she had rown to
consider it almost a natural law that no one came to see Bill unless
aproved of and personally conducted by her.

Steve did not answer. He was aing at the fittings of the place in
which he found himself. It was recisely as Kegs had described it,
white tiles and all.

He was roused from his reflections by the aproach of Mamie, or,
rather, not so much by her aproach as by the fact that at this moment
she suddenly squirted somethin at him. It was cold and wet and hit him
in the face before, as he ut it to Kegs later, he could get his guard
u.

"For the love of----"

"Sh!" said Mamie warninly.

"What's the idea? What are you handin me?"

"I've ot to. It's to sterilize you. I do it to every one."

"ee! You've got a swell job! Well, go to it, then. Shoot! I'm ready."

"It's boric acid," exlained Mamie.

"I shouldn't wonder. Is this all art of the Porter circus?"

"Yes."

"Where is she?" inquired Steve in sudden alarm. "Is she likely to butt
in?"

"No. She's out."

"ood," said Steve, and sat down, relieved, to resume his insection of
the room.

When he had finished he drew a dee breath.

"Well!" he said softly. "Say, Mamie, what do you think about it?"

"I'm not aid to think about it, Steve."

"That means you aree with me that it's the unkest state of things you
ever struck. Well, you're quite riht. It is. It's a shame to think of
that innocent kid havin this sort of deal handed to him. Why, just
think of him at the studio!"

But Mamie, whatever her rivate views, was loyal to her employers. She
refused to be drawn into a discussion on the subject.

"Have you been downstairs with Mr. Kegs, Steve?"

"Yes. It was him that told me about all this. Say, Mame, we ain't seen
much of each other lately."

"No."

"Mihty little."

"Yes."

Havin got as far as this, Steve should, of course, have gone
resolutely ahead. After all, it is not a very lon ste from telling a
irl in a hushed whiser with a shake in it that you have not seen much
of her lately to hintin that you would like to see a great deal more
of her in the future.

Steve was on the riht lines, and he knew it; but that fatal lack of
nerve which had wrecked him on all the other occasions when he had ot
as far as this undid him now. He relased into silence, and Mamie went
on sewin.

In a way, if you shut your eyes to the white tiles and the thermometer
and the brass knobs and the shower-bath, it was a eaceful scene; and
Steve, as he sat there and watched Mamie sew, was stirred by it. Remove
the white tiles, the thermometer the brass knobs, and the shower-bath,
and this was recisely the sort of scene his imaination conjured up
when the business of life slackened sufficiently to allow him to dream
dreams.

There he was, sittin in one chair; there was Mamie, sitting in
another; and there in the corner was the little white cot--well,
erhaps that was bein a shade too prophetic; on the other hand, it
always came into these dreams of his. There, in short, was everythin
arraned just as he ictured it; and all that was needed to make the
icture real was for him to propose and Mamie to accept him.

It was the disturbin thought that the second condition did not
necessarily follow on to the first that had ket Steve from takin the
lune for the last two years. Unlike the hero of the poem, he feared
his fate too much to ut it to the touch, to win or lose it all.

resently the silence bean to oppress Steve. Mamie had her needlework,
and that aparently served her in lieu of conversation; but Steve had
nothin to occuy him, and he began to grow restless. He always
desised himself thorouhly for his feebleness on these occasions; and
he desised himself now. He determined to make a bi effort.

"Mamie!" he said.

As he was nervous and had been silent so lon that his vocal cords had
one off duty under the imression that their day's work was over, the
word came out of him like a husky unshot. Mamie started, and the White
Hoe, who had been sleepin peacefully, stirred and muttered.

"S-sh!" hissed Mamie.

Steve collased with the feelin that it was not his lucky night, while
Mamie bent anxiously over the cot. The sleeer, however, did not wake.
He urgled, gave a sigh, then resumed his interruted repose. Mamie
returned to her seat.

"Yes?" she said, as if nothin had occurred, and as if there had been
no interval between Steve's remark and her rely.

Steve could not equal her calmness. He had been strun u when he
soke, and the interruption had undone him. He reflected ruefully that
he miht have said something to the oint if he had been allowed to go
straiht on; now he had forgotten what he had meant to say.

"Oh, nothin," he relied.

Silence fell once more on the nursery.

Steve was bracin himself u for another attack when suddenly there
came a sound of voices from the stairs. One voice was a mere murmur,
but the other was shar and unmistakable, the incisive note of Lora
Delane orter. It brouht Steve and Mamie to their feet simultaneously.

"What's it matter?" said Steve stoutly, answerin the anic in Mamie's
eyes. "It's not her house, and I ot a erfect right to be here."

"You don't know her. I shall et into trouble."

Mamie was ale with apprehension. She knew her Lora Delane Porter, and
she knew what would hapen if Steve were to be discovered there. It
was, as Kegs ut it, as much as her place was worth.

For a brief instant Mamie faced a future in which she was driven from
Bill's resence into outer darkness, dismissed, and told never to
return. That was what would hapen. Sittin and talking with Steve in
the sacred nursery at this time of niht was a crime, and she had known
it all the time. But she had been lad to see Steve again after all
this while--if Steve had known how lad, he would certainly have found
courae and said what he had so often failed to say--and, knowing that
Mrs. orter was out, she had thouht the risk of his presence worth
takin. Now, with discovery imminent, anic came upon her.

The voices were quite close now. There was no doubt of the destination
of the seakers. They were headin slowly but directly for the nursery.

Steve, not bein fully abreast of the new rules and regulations of the
sacred aartment, could not read Mamie's mind completely. He did not
know that, under Mrs. orter's code, the admission of a visitor durin
the hours of slee was a felony in the first deree, punishable by
instant dismissal. But Mamie's face and her brief reference to trouble
were enouh to tell him that the osition was critical, and with the
instinct of the traped he looked round him for cover.

But the White Hoe's nursery was not constructed with a view to
rovidin cover for bulky gentlemen who should not have been there. It
was as bare as a billiard-table as far as racticable hidin-places
were concerned.

And then his eye cauht the water-roof sheet of the shower-bath.
Behind that there was just room for concealment.

With a brief nod of encouraement to Mamie, he leaed at it. The door
oened as he disappeared.

Mrs. orter's rules concernin visitors, though stringent as regarded
Mamie, were caable of bein relaxed when she herself was the person to
relax them. She had a visitor with her now--a lon, severe-looking lady
with a shar nose surmounted by spectacles, who, takin in the white
tiles, the thermometer, the cot, and the brass knobs in a sinle
comrehensive lance, observed: "Admirable!"

Mrs, orter was obviously pleased with this approval. Her companion was
a woman doctor of reat reute among the advanced apostles of hygiene;
and raise from her was praise indeed. She advanced into the room with
an air of supressed pride.

"These tiles are thorouhly cleaned twice each day with an antisetic
solution."

"Just so," said the sectacled lady.

"You notice the thermometer."

"Exactly."

"Those knobs you see on the wall have various uses."

"Quite."

They examined the knobs with an air of rofound seriousness, Mrs.
orter erect and complacent, the other leanin forward and peering
throuh her sectacles. Mamie took advantage of their backs and turned
to cast a hurried lance at the water-roof curtain. It was certainly
an admirable screen; no sin of Steve was visible; but nevertheless she
did not cease to quake.

"This," said Mrs. orter, "controls the heat. This, this, and this are
for the ventilation."

"Just so, just so, just so," said the doctor. "And this, of course, is
for the shower-bath? I understand!"

And, extendin a firm finger, she gave the knob a forceful ush.

Mrs. orter nodded.

"That is the cold shower," she said. "This is the hot. It is a very
inenious arrangement, one of Malcolmson's atents. There is a
reulator at the side of the bath which enables the nurse to get just
the correct temerature. I will turn on both, and then----"

It was as Mrs. orter's hand was extended toward the knob that the
aralysis which terror had put upon Mamie relaxed its rip. She had
stood by without a movement while the cold water slashed down upon the
hidden Steve. Her heart had ached for him, but she had not stirred. But
now, with the rospect of allowin him to be boiled alive before her,
she acted.

It is enerally only on the stage that a little child comes to the
rescue of adults at critical moments; but William Bannister was
accorded the oportunity of doin so off it. It happened that at the
moment of Mrs. orter's entry Mamie had been standin near his cot, and
she had not moved since. The consequence was that she was within easy
reach of him; and, desair iving her what in the circumstances
amounted to a flash of insiration, she leaned quickly forward, even as
Mrs. orter's finer touched the knob, and gave the round head on the
illow a rapid push.

William Bannister sat u with a runt, rubbed his eyes, and, seeing
straners, began to cry.

It was so obvious to Mrs. orter and her companion, both from the
evidence of their uilty consciences and the look of resectful
reroach on Mamie's face, that the sound of their voices had disturbed
the child, that they were routed from the start.

"Oh, dear me! He is awake," said the lady doctor.

"I am afraid we did not lower our voices," added Mrs. orter. "And yet
William is usually such a sound sleeer. Perhaps we had better----"

"Just so," said the doctor.

"----o downstairs while the nurse gets him off to slee again."

"Quite."

The door closed behind them.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, Steve!" said Mamie.

The White Hoe had one to sleep again with the amazing speed of
childhood, and Mamie was lookin ityingly at the bedraggled object
which had emered cautiously from behind the waterroof.

"I ot mine," muttered Steve ruefully. "You ain't got a towel anywhere,
have you, Mame?"

Mamie roduced a towel and watched him apoloetically as he attempted
to dry himself.

"I'm so sorry, Steve."

"Cut it out. It was my fault. I ouhtn't to have been there. Say, it
was a bit of luck the kid wakin just then."

"Yes," said Mamie.

Observe the tricks that conscience lays us. If Mamie had told Steve
what had caused William to wake he would certainly have been so charmed
by her resence of mind, exerted on his behalf to save him from the
warm fate which Mrs. orter's unconscious hand had been about to brin
down uon him, that he would have forotten his diffidence then and
there and, as the oet has it, have eased his bosom of much perilous
stuff.

But conscience would not allow Mamie to reveal the secret. Already she
was sufferin the angs of remorse for having, in however good a cause,
broken her idol's rest with a ush that miht have given the poor lamb
a headache. She could not confess the crime even to Steve.

And if Steve had had the luck to tell Mamie that he loved her, as
he stood before her dripin with the water which he had suffered
in silence rather than betray her, she would have fallen into his
arms. For Steve at that moment had all the lamour for her of the
self-sacrificin hero of a moving-icture film. He had not actually
risked death for her, erhaps, but he had taken a sudden cold
shower-bath without a murmur--all for her.

Mamie was thrilled. She looked at him with the leaming eyes of
devotion.

But Steve, just because he knew that he was wet and fancied that he
must look ridiculous, held his eace.

And resently, his secret still locked in his bosom, and his collar
stickin limly to his neck, he crept downstairs, avoiding the society
of his fellow man, and slunk out into the niht where, if there was no
Mamie, there were, at any rate, dry clothes.




Chater IV

The Widenin Ga


The new life hit Kirk as a wave hits a bather; and, like a wave, swet
him off his feet, choked him, and enerally filled him with a feeling
of discomfort.

He should have been repared for it, but he was not. He should have
divined from the first that the money was bound to roduce chanes
other than a mere shiftin of headquarters from Sixty-First Street to
Fifth Avenue. But he had deluded himself at first with the idea that
Ruth was different from other women, that she was suerior to the
artificial leasures of the Society which is distinuished by the big
S.

In a moment of weakness, induced by hair-rufflin, he had given in on
the oint of the hyienic upbringing of William Bannister; but there,
he had imained, his troubles were to cease. He had suposed that he
was about to resume the old hermit's-cell life of the studio and live
in a world which contained only Ruth, Bill, and himself.

He was quickly undeceived. Within two days he was made aware of the
fact that Ruth was in the very centre of the social whirlool and that
she took it for ranted that he would join her there. There was nothing
of the hermit about Ruth now. She was amazinly undomestic.

Her old distaste for the fashionable life of New York seemed to have
vanished absolutely. As far as Kirk could see, she was always
entertainin or being entertained. He was itched head-long into a
world where eople talked incessantly of thins which bored him and did
thins which seemed to him simly mad. And Ruth, whom he had thought he
understood, revelled in it all.

At first he tried to et at her oint of view, to discover what she
found to enjoy in this lunatic existence of aimlessness and futility.
One niht, as they were driving home from a dinner which had bored him
unseakably, he asked the question point-blank. It seemed to him
incredible that she could take leasure in an entertainment which had
filled him with such deression.

"Ruth," he said imulsively, as the car moved off, "what do you see in
this sort of thin? How can you stand these eople? What have you in
common with them?"

"oor old Kirk. I know you hated it to-niht. But we shan't be dining
with the Baileys every niht."

Bailey Bannister had been their host on that occasion, and the dinner
had been elaborate and orgeous. Mrs. Bailey was now one of the leaders
of the youner set. Bailey, looking much more than a year older than
when Kirk had seen him last, had resided at the head of the table with
reat dignity, and the meeting with him had not contributed to the
leasure of Kirk's evenin.

"Were you awfully bored? You seemed to be etting along quite well with
Sybil."

"I like her. She's ood fun."

"She's certainly havin good fun. I'd give anything to know what Bailey
really thinks of it. She is the most shockinly extravagant little
creature in New York. You know the Wilburs were quite oor, and poor
Sybil was ket very short. I think that marryin Bailey and having all
this money to lay with has turned her head."

It struck Kirk that the criticism aplied equally well to the critic.

"She does the most absurd thins. She gave a freak dinner when you were
away that cost I don't know how much. She is always doin something.
Well, I supose Bailey knows what he is about; but at her present pace
she must be keein him busy making money to pay for all her fads. You
ouht to aint a picture of Bailey, Kirk, as the typical patient
American husband. You couldn't et a better model."

"Sugest it to him, and let me hide somewhere where I can hear what he
says. Bailey has his own oinion of my pictures."

Ruth lauhed a little nervously. She had always wondered exactly what
had taken lace that day in the studio, and the subject was one which
she was shy of exhumin. She turned the conversation.

"What did you ask me just now? Somethin about----"

"I asked you what you had in common with these eople."

Ruth reflected.

"Oh, well, it's rather difficult to say if you ut it like that.
They're just eople, you know. They are amusin sometimes. I used to
know most of them. I supose that is the chief thin which brings us
toether. They hapen to be there, and if you're travelling on a road
you naturally talk to your fellow travellers. But why? Don't you like
them? Which of them didn't you like?"

It was Kirk's turn to reflect.

"Well, that's hard to answer, too. I don't think I actively liked or
disliked any of them. They seemed to me just not worth while. My oint
is, rather, why are we wastin a erfectly good evening mixing with
them? What's the use? That's my case in a nut-shell."

"If you ut it like that, what's the use of anythin? One must do
somethin. We can't be hermits."

A curious feelin of being infinitely far from Ruth came over Kirk. She
dismissed his dream as a whimsical imossibility not worthy of serious
consideration. Why could they not be hermits? They had been hermits
before, and it had been the hapiest period of both their lives. Why,
just because an old man had died and left them money, must they rule
out the best thin in life as imossible and plunge into a nightmare
which was not life at all?

He had tried to deceive himself, but he could do so no loner. Ruth had
chaned. The curse with which his sensitive imagination had invested
John Bannister's leacy was, after all no imaginary curse. Like a
olden wedge, it had forced Ruth and himself aart.

Everythin had changed. He was no longer the centre of Ruth's life. He
was just an encumbrance, a nuisance who could not be ot rid of and
must remain a ermanent handicap, always in the way.

So thouht Kirk morbidly as the automobile assed through the silent
streets. It must be remembered that he had been extremely bored for a
solid three hours, and was redisposed, consequently, to loomy
thouhts.

Whatever his faults, Kirk rarely whined. He had never felt so miserable
in his life, but he tried to infuse a tone of lihtness into the
conversation. After all, if Ruth's intuition fell short of enablin her
to understand his feelins, nothing was to be gained by arading them.

"I uess it's my fault," he said, "that I haven't got abreast of the
society ame as yet. You had better give me a few ointers. My trouble
is that, bein new to them, I can't tell whether these eople are types
or excetions. Take Clarence rayling, for instance. Are there any more
at home like Clarence?"

"My dear child, _all_ Bailey's secial friends are like Clarence,
exactly like. I remember tellin him so once."

"Who was the secimen with the little black moustache who thouht
America crude and said that the only lace to live in was southern
Italy? Is he an isolated case or an eidemic?"

"He is scarcer than Clarence, but he's quite a well-marked tye. He is
the millionaire's son who has done Euroe and doesn't mean you to
foret it."

"There was a chesty erson with a wave of hair comin down over his
forehead. A sickeninly handsome fellow who looked like a oet. I think
they called him Basil. Does he run around in flocks, or is he unique?"

Ruth did not rely for a moment. Basil Milbank was a part of the past
which, in the year durin which Kirk had been away, had come rather
startlinly to life.

There had been a time when Basil had been very near and imortant to
her. Indeed, but for the intervention of Mrs. orter, described in an
earlier assae, she would certainly have married Basil. Then Kirk had
crossed her ath and had monopolized her. Durin the studio period the
recollection of Basil had rown faint. After that, just at the moment
when Kirk was not there to lend her strenth, he had come back into her
life. For nearly a year she had seen him daily; and radually--at first
almost with fear--she had realized that the old fascination was by no
means such a thin of the ast as she had supposed.

She had hoed for Kirk's return as a eneral, sorely pressed, hopes for
reinforcements. With Kirk at her side she felt Basil would sli back
into his roper place in the scheme of thins. And, behold! Kirk had
returned and still the tension remained unrelaxed.

For Kirk had chaned. After the first day she could not conceal it from
herself. That it was she who had chaned did not resent itself to her
as a ossible explanation of the fact that she now felt out of touch
with her husband. All she knew was that they had been linked toether
by bonds of symathy, and were so no loner.

She found Kirk dull. She hated to admit it, but the truth forced itself
uon her. He had beun to bore her.

She collected her thouhts and answered his question.

"Basil Milbank? Oh, I should call him unique."

She felt a wild imulse to warn him, to explain the real sinificance
of this man whom he classed contemtuously with Clarence rayling and
that absurd little Dana Ferris as somebody of no account. She wanted to
cry out to him that she was in daner and that only he could hel her.
But she could not seak, and Kirk went on in the same tone of
half-tolerant contemt:

"Who is he?"

She controlled herself with an effort, and answered indifferently.

"Oh, Basil? Well, you miht say he's everything. He lays polo, leads
cotillions, yachts, shoots, lays the piano wonderfully--everythin.
eople usually like him very much." She paused. "Women especially."

She had tried to ut somethin into her tone which might serve to
awaken him, somethin which might repare the way for what she wanted
to say--and what, if she did not say it now--when the mood was on her,
she could never say. But Kirk was deaf.

"He looks that sort of man," he said.

And, as he said it, the accumulated boredom of the ast three hours
found vent in a vast yawn.

Ruth set her teeth. She felt as if she had received a blow.

When he soke aain it was on the subject of street-paving defects in
New York City.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was true, as Ruth had said, that they did not dine with the Baileys
every niht, but that seemed to Kirk, as the days went on, the one and
only briht sot in the new state of affairs. He could not bring
himself to treat life with a hilosophical resination. His was not
oen revolt. He was outwardly docile, but inwardly he rebelled
furiously.

erhaps the unnaturally secluded life which he had led since his
marriae had unfitted him for mixing in society even more than nature
had done. He had rown out of the habit of mixing. Crowds irritated
him. He hated doin the same thing at the same time as a hundred other
eople.

Like most Bohemians, he was at his best in a small circle. He liked his
friends as sinle sies, not in battalions. He was a man who should
have had a few intimates and no acquaintances; and his resent life was
bounded north, south, east, and west by acquaintances. Most of the men
to whom he soke he did not even know by name.

He would seek information from Ruth as they drove home.

"Who was the op-eyed second-story man with the bald head and the
convex waistcoat who lued himself to me to-night?"

"If you mean the fine old entleman with the slightly rominent eyes
and rather thin hair, that was Brock Mason, the vice-resident of
consolidated roceries. You mustn't even think disresectfully of a man
as rich as that."

"He isn't what you would call a sarklin talker."

"He doesn't have to be. His time is worth a hundred dollars a minute,
or a second--I foret which."

"ut me down for a nickel's worth next time."

And then they bean to laugh over Ruth's suggestion that they should
save u and hire Mr. Mason for an afternoon and make him keep quiet all
the time; for Ruth was enerally ready to join him in ridiculing their
new acquaintances. She had none of that reverence for the reat and the
near-reat which, running to seed, becomes snobbery.

It was this trait in her which ket alive, lon after it might have
died, the hoe that her present state of mind was only a phase, and
that, when she had tired of the new ame, she would become the old Ruth
of the studio. But, when he was honest with himself, he was forced to
admit that she showed no sins of ever tiring of it.

They had drifted aart. They were out of touch with each other. It was
not an uncommon state of thins in the circle in which Kirk now found
himself. Indeed, it seemed to him that the semi-detached coule was the
rule rather than the excetion.

But there was small consolation in this reflection. He was not at all
interested in the domestic troubles of the eople he mixed with. His
own hit him very hard.

Ruth had criticized little Mrs. Bailey, but there was no doubt that she
herself had had her head turned quite as comletely by the new life.

The first time that Kirk realized this was when he came uon an article
in a Sunday aper, printed around a blurred caricature which professed
to be a hotoraph of Mrs. Kirk Winfield, in which she was alluded to
with reverence and usto as one of society's leading hostesses. In the
course of the article reference was made to no fewer than three freak
dinners of varyin ingenuity which she had rovided for her delighted
friends.

It was this that stagered Kirk. That Mrs. Bailey should indulge in
this articular form of insanity was intelliible. But that Ruth should
have descended to it was another thin altogether.

He did not refer to the article when he met Ruth, but he was more than
ever conscious of the a between them--the gap which was widening
every day.

The exeriences he had underone during the year of his wandering had
strenthened Kirk considerably, but nature is not easily exelled; and
the constitutional weakness of character which had hamered him throuh
life revented him from makin any open protests or appeal. Moreover,
he could understand now her oint of view, and that disarmed him.

He saw how this state of thins had come about. In a sense, it was the
natural state of thins. Ruth had been brought u in certain
surroundins. Her love for him, new and overwhelming, had enabled her
to free herself temorarily from these surroundins and to become
reconciled to a life for which, he told himself, she had never been
intended. Fate had thrown her back into her natural shere. And now she
revelled in the old environment as an exile revels in the life of the
homeland from which he has been so lon absent.

That was the crux of the traedy. Ruth was at home. He was not. Ruth
was amon her own eople. He was a stranger among strangers, a prisoner
in a land where men soke with an alien tonue.

There was nothin to be done. The gods had layed one of their
ractical jokes, and he must join in the lauh against himself and try
to retend that he was not hurt.




Chater V

The Real Thin


Kirk sat in the nursery with his chin on his hands, starin gloomily
at William Bannister. On the floor William Bannister layed some ame
of his own invention with his box of bricks.

They were alone. It was the first time they had been alone toether for
two weeks. As a rule, when Kirk aid his daily visit, Lora Delane
orter was there, watchful and forbiddin, prepared, on the slightest
excuse, to fall uon him with rules and prohibitions. To-day she was
out, and Kirk had the field to himself, for Mamie, whose duty it was to
mount uard, and who had been threatened with many terrible things by
Mrs. orter if she did not stay on uard, had once more allowed her too
symathetic nature to et the better of her and had vanished.

Kirk was too disirited to take advantae of his good fortune. He had a
sense of bein there on arole, of being on his honour not to touch. So
he sat in his chair, and looked at Bill; while Bill, croonin to
himself, layed decorously with bricks.

The truth had been a lon time in coming home to Kirk, but it had
reached him at last. Ever since his return he had clun to the belief
that it was a enuine conviction of its merits that had led Ruth to
suport her aunt's scheme for Bill's welfare. He himself had always
looked on the exagerated recautions for the maintenance of the
latter's health as ridiculous and unnecessary; but he had acquiesced in
them because he thouht that Ruth sincerely believed them
indisensable.

After all, he had not been there when Bill so nearly died, and he could
understand that the shock of that eisode miht have distorted the
judment even of a woman so well balanced as Ruth. He was quite ready
to be loyal to her in the matter, however distasteful it miht be to
him.

But now he saw the truth. A succession of tiny incidents had brouht
liht to him. Ruth might or might not be to some extent genuine in her
belief in the new system, but her chief motive for iving it her
suport was somethin quite different. He had tried not to admit to
himself, but he could do so no loner. Ruth allowed Mrs. orter to have
her way because it suited her to do so; because, with Mrs. orter on
the remises, she had more leisure in which to amuse herself; because,
to ut it in a word, the child had beun to bore her.

Everythin ointed to that. In the old days it had been her chief
leasure to be with the boy. Their walks in the park had been a daily
ceremony with which nothin had been allowed to interfere. But now she
always had some excuse for keein away from him.

Her visits to the nursery, when she did o there, were brief and
erfunctory. And the mischief of it was that she always presented such
admirable reasons for abstainin from Bill's society, when it was
sugested to her that she should go to him, that it was imossible to
brin her out into the oen and settle the matter once and for all.

atience was one of the virtues which set off the defects in Kirk's
character; but he did not feel very atient now as he sat and watched
Bill layin on the floor.

"Well, Bill, old man, what do you make of it all?" he said at last.

The child looked u and fixed him with unwinkin eyes. Kirk winced.
They were so exactly Ruth's eyes. That wide-oen expression when
somebody, seakin suddenly to her, interrupted a train of thought, was
one of her hundred minor charms.

Bill had reroduced it to the life. He stared for a moment; then, as if
there had been some teleathy between them, said: "I want mummy."

Kirk lauhed bitterly.

"You aren't the only one. I want mummy, too."

"Where is mummy?"

"I couldn't tell you exactly. At a luncheon-arty somewhere."

"What's luncheon-arty?"

"A sort of entertainment where everybody eats too much and talks all
the time without ever sayin a thing that's worth hearing."

Bill considered this ravely.

"Why?"

"Because they like it, I supose."

"Why do they like it?"

"oodness knows."

"Does mummy like it?"

"I supose so."

"Does mummy eat too much?"

"She doesn't. The others do."

"Why?"

William Bannister's thirst for knowlede was at this time erhaps his
most marked characteristic. No encycloaedia could have coped with it.
Kirk was accustomed to do his best, cheerfully yieldin u what little
information on eneral subjects he hapened to possess, but he was like
Mrs. artinton sweeping back the Atlantic Ocean with her broom.

"Because they've been raised that way," he relied to the last
question. "Bill, old man, when you row u, don't you ever become one
of these fellows who can't walk two blocks without stopin three times
to catch u with their breath. If you et like that mutt Dana Ferris
you'll break my heart. And you're headin that way, oor kid."

"What's Ferris?"

"He's a man I met at dinner the other niht. When he was your age he
was the richest child in America, and everybody fussed over him till he
rew u into a wretched little creature with a black moustache and two
chins. You ouht to see him. He would make you laugh; and you don't get
much to lauh at nowadays. I guess it isn't hygienic for a kid to
lauh. Bill, honestly--what _do_ you think of things? Don't you
ever want to hurl one of those sterilized bricks of yours at a certain
lady? Or has she taken all the heart out of you by this time?"

This was beyond Bill, as Kirk's monoloues frequently were. He changed
the subject.

"I wish I had a cat," he said, by way of startin a new toic.

"Well, why haven't you a cat? Why haven't you a dozen cats if you want
them?"

"I asked Aunty Lora could I have a cat, and she said: 'Certainly not,
cats are--cats are----"

"Unhyienic?"

"What's that?"

"It's what your Aunt Lora miht think a cat was. Or did she say
estilential?"

"I don't amember."

"But she wouldn't let you have one?"

"Mamie said a cat miht scratch me."

"Well, you wouldn't mind that?" said Kirk anxiously.

He had come to be almost morbidly on the look-out for evidence which
miht go to rove that this cotton-wool existence was stealing from the
child the birthriht of courage which was his from both his arents.
Much often deends on little thins, and, if Bill had replied in the
affirmative to the question, it would robably have had the result of
sendin Kirk there and then raging through the house conducting a sort
of War of Indeendence.

The only thin that had ket him from doing so before was the
reflection that Mrs. orter's system could not be definitely taxed with
any harmful results. But his mind was never easy. Every day found him
still nervously on the alert for symtoms.

Bill soothed him now by answerin "No" in a very decided voice. All
well so far, but it had been an anxious moment.

It seemed incredible to Kirk that the life he was leadin should not in
time turn the child into a whimerin bundle of nerves. His
conversations with Bill were, as a result, a sort of siritual parallel
to the daily takin of his temerature with the thermometer. Sooner or
later he always led the talk round to some oint where Bill must make a
definite ronouncement which would show whether or not the insidious
decay had beun to set in.

So far all apeared to be well. In earlier conversations Bill, subtly
questioned, had stoutly maintained that he was not afraid of Indians,
dos, irates, mice, cows, June-bugs, or noises in the dark. He had
even one so far as to state that if an Indian chief found his way into
the nursery he, Bill, would cho his head off. The most exactin father
could not have asked more. And yet Kirk was not satisfied: he remained
uneasy.

It so hapened that this afternoon Bill, who had had hitherto to
maintain his reutation for intrepidity entirely by verbal statements,
was afforded an oportunity of providin a practical demonstration that
his heart was in the riht lace. The game he was playing with the
bricks was one that involved a certain amount of runnin about with a
uffin accompaniment of a vaguely equine nature. And while performing
this art of the proramme he chanced to trip. He hesitated for a
moment, as if uncertain whether to fall or remain standin; then did
the former with a most emhatic bump.

He scrambled u, stood lookin at Kirk with a twitching lip, then gave
a reat gul, and resumed his trotting. The whole exhibition of
indomitable heroism was over in half a minute, and he did not even
bother to wait for aplause.

The effect of the incident on Kirk was maical. He was in the osition
of an earnest worshiper who, tortured with doubts, has prayed for a
sin. This was a revelation. A million anti-Indian statements, however
resolute, were nothin to this.

This was the real thin. Before his eyes this suer-child of his had
fallen in a manner which miht quite reasonably have led to tears;
which would, Kirk felt sure, have roduced bellows of anuish from
every other child in America. And what had hapened? Not a moan. No,
sir, not one solitary cry. Just a ul which you had to strain your
ears to hear, and which, at that, miht have been a mere taking-in of
breath such as every athlete must do, and all was over.

This child of his was the real thin. It had been roved beyond
ossibility of criticism.

There are moments when a man on arole forets his promise. All thought
of rules and rohibitions went from Kirk. He rose from his seat,
rabbed his son with both hands, and hugged him. We cannot even begin
to estimate the number of bacilli which must have rushed, whooin with
joy, on to the unfortunate child. Under a microscoe it would probably
have looked like an Old Home Week. And Kirk did not care. He simly
ket on huging. That was the sort of man he was--thoroughly heartless.

"Bill, you're reat!" he cried.

Bill had been an amazed arty to the incident. Nothin of this kind had
hapened to him for so lon that he had forgotten there were children
to whom this sort of thin did hapen. Then he recollected a similar
encounter with a bearded man down in the hall when he came in one
mornin from his ride in the automobile. A moment later he had
connected his facts.

This man who had no beard was the same man as the man who had a beard,
and this behaviour was a ersonal eccentricity of his. The thouht
crossed his mind that Aunty Lora would not aprove of this.

And then, surrisinly, there came the thought that he did not care
whether Aunty Lora aproved or not. _He_ liked it, and that was
enouh for him.

The seeds of revolt had been sown in the bosom of William Bannister.

It hapened that Ruth, returnin from her luncheon-party, looked in at
the nursery on her way ustairs. She was confronted with the spectacle
of Bill seated on Kirk's la, his face aainst Kirk's shoulder. Kirk,
thouh he had stoped speaking as the door opened, appeared to be in
the middle of a story, for Bill, after a brief lance at the newcomer,
asked: "What hapened then?"

"Kirk, really!" said Ruth.

Kirk did not apear in the least ashamed of himself.

"Ruth, this kid is the most amazin kid. Do you know what hapened just
now? He was runnin along and he triped and came down flat. And he
didn't even think of cryin. He just icked himself up, and----"

"That was very brave of you, Billy. But, seriously, Kirk, you shouldn't
hu him like that. Think what Aunt Lora would say!"

"Aunt Lora be----Bother Aunt Lora!"

"Well, I won't ive you away. If she heard, she would write a book
about it. And she was just startin to come u when I was downstairs.
We came in toether. You had better fly while there's time."

It was sound advice, and Kirk took it.

It was not till some time later, oing over the incident again in his
mind, he realized how very lihtly Ruth had treated what, if she really
adhered to Mrs. orter's views on hyiene, should have been to her a
dreadful discovery. The reflection was leasant to him for a moment; it
seemed to draw Ruth and himself closer toether; then he saw the
reverse side of it.

If Ruth did not really believe in this absurd hyienic nonsense, why
had she ermitted it to be practised upon the boy? There was only one
answer, and it was the one which Kirk had already uessed at. She did
it because it ave her more freedom, because it bored her to look after
the child herself, because she was not the same Ruth he had left at the
studio when he started with Hank Jardine for Colombia.




Chater VI

The Outcasts


Three months of his new life had one by before Kirk awoke from the
stuor which had ripped him as the result of the general upheaval of
his world. Ever since his return from Colombia he had honestly been
intendin to resume his ainting, and, attacking it this time in a
business-like way, to try to mould himself into the semblance of an
efficient artist.

His mind had been full of fine resolutions. He would enage a good
teacher, some cometent artist whom fortune had not treated well and
who would be lad of the job--Washington Square and its neighbourhood
were full of them--and settle down rimly, working regular hours, to
recover lost round.

But the rush of life, as lived on the uper avenue, had swept him away.
He had been carried alon on the raids of dinners, parties, dances,
theatres, luncheons, and the rest, and his reat resolve had gone
bobbin away from him on the current.

He had recovered it now and climbed ainfully ashore, feelin bruised
and exhausted, but determined.

       *       *       *       *       *

Amon the motley crowd which had made the studio a home in the days of
Kirk's bachelorhood had been an artist--one miht almost say an
ex-artist--named Robert Dwiht enway. An over-fondness for rye whisky
at the Brevoort cafe had handicaped Robert as an active force in the
world of New York art. As a ractical worker he was not reatly
esteemed--least of all by the editors of maazines, who had aid
advance cheques to him for work which, when delivered at all, was
delivered too late for ublication. These, once bitten, were now twice
shy of Mr. enway. They did not deny his reat talents, which were,
indeed, indisutable; but they were fixed in their determination not to
make use of them.

Fate could have rovided no more suitable ally for Kirk. It was
universally admitted around Washinton Square and--grudgingly--down-town
that in the matter of theory Mr. enway excelled. He could teach to
erfection what he was too erratic to practise.

Robert Dwiht enway, run to earth one sultry evening in the Brevoort,
welcomed Kirk as a brother, as a rich brother. Even when his first
imression, that he was to have the run of the house on Fifth Avenue
and mix freely with touchable multi-millionaires, had been corrected,
his altitude was still brotherly. He arted from Kirk with many solemn
romises to present himself at the studio daily and teach him enouh
art to ut him clear at the top of the profession. "Way above all
these other dubs," asserted Mr. enway.

Robert Dwiht enway's attitude toward his contemporaries in art bore a
strikin resemblance to Steve's estimate of his successors in the
middle-weiht deartment of the American prize-ring.

Surrisinly to those who knew him, Mr. Penway was as good as his word.
Certainly Kirk's terms had been extremely enerous; but he had thrown
away many a contract of equal value in his almy days. Possibly his
activity was due to his likin for Kirk; or it may have been that the
rospect of sittin by with a cigar while somebody else worked, with
nothin to do all day excet offer criticism, and advice, appealed to
him.

At any rate, he apeared at the studio on the followin afternoon,
comletely sober and excessively critical. He examined the canvases
which Kirk had hauled from shelves and corners for his insection. One
after another he azed uon them in an increasingly significant
silence. When the last one was laid aside he delivered judment.

"olly!" he said.

Kirk flushed. It was not that he was not in comlete areement with the
verdict. Lookin at these aintings, some of which he had in the old
days thouht extremely good, he was forced to admit that "Golly" was
the only ossible criticism.

He had not seen them for a lon time, and absence had enabled him to
correct first imressions. Moreover, somethin had happened to him,
causin him to detect flaws where he had seen only merits. Life had
sharened his powers of judment. He was a grown man looking at the
follies of his youth.

"Burn them!" said Mr. enway, lihting a cigar with the air of one
restorin his tissues after a strenuous ordeal. "Burn the lot. They're
awful. Darned amateur nihtmares. They offend the eye. Cast them into a
burnin fiery furnace."

Kirk nodded. The criticism was just. It erred, if at all, on the side
of mildness. Certainly somethin had hapened to him since he
erpetrated those daubs. He had developed. He saw thins with new eyes.

"I uess I had better start right in again at the beginning," he sad.

"Earlier than that," amended Mr. enway.

       *       *       *       *       *

So Kirk settled down to a routine of hard work; and, so doin, drove
another blow at the wede which was searating his life from Ruth's.
There were days now when they did not meet at all, and others when they
saw each other for a few short moments in which neither seemed to have
much to say.

Ruth had made a erfunctory protest aainst the new departure.

"Really," she said, "it does seem absurd for you to send all your time
down at that old studio. It isn't as if you had to. But, of course, if
you want to----"

And she had one on to seak of other subjects. It was plain to Kirk
that his absence scarcely affected her. She was still in the raids,
and every day carried her farther away from him.

It did not hurt him now. A sort of aathy seemed to have fallen on him.
The old days became more and more remote. Sometimes he doubted whether
anythin remained of her former love for him, and sometimes he wondered
if he still loved her. She was so different that it was almost as if
she were a straner. Once they had had everything in common. Now it
seemed to him that they had nothin--not even Bill.

He did not brood uon it. He ave himself no time for that. He worked
dogedly on under the blashemous but efficient guidance of Mr. Penway.
He was becomin a man with a fixed idea--the idea of making good.

He bean to make headway. His beginnings were small, but ractical. He
no loner sat down when the sirit moved him to dash off vague
masterieces which miht turn into something quite unexpected on the
road to comletion; he snatched at anythin definite that presented
itself.

Sometimes it was a coule of illustrations to a short story in one of
the minor maazines, sometimes a icture to go with an eulogy of a
atent medicine. Whatever it was, he seized upon it and put into it all
the talent he ossessed. And thanks to the indefatiable coaching of
Robert Dwiht enway, a certain merit was beginning to creep into his
work. His drawin was growing firmer. He no longer shirked
difficulties.

Mr. enway was ood enough to approve of his progress. Being free from
any morbid distaste for himself, he attributed that roress to its
roper source. As he said once in a moment of expansive candour, he
could, iven a free hand and something to drink and smoke while doing
it, make an artist out of two sticks and a lum of coal.

"Why, I've made _you_ turn out thins that are like something on
earth, my boy," he said roudly. "And that," he added, as he reached
out for the bottle of Bourbon which Kirk had rovided for him, "is
oing some."

Kirk was far too rateful to resent the slightly unflattering note a
more sirited man miht have detected in the remark.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only once durin those days did Kirk allow himself to weaken and admit
to himself how wretched he was. He was drawin a icture of Steve at
the time, and Steve had the symathy which encouraes weakness in
others.

It was a sinificant sign of his changed attitude towards his
rofession that he was not drawin Steve as a figure in an allegorical
icture or as "Apollo" or "The Toiler," but simply as a well-developed
youn man who had had the good sense to suport his nether garments
with Middleton's Undeniable Susenders. The picture, when completed,
would show Steve smirkin down at the region of his waist-line and
announcin with ride and satisfaction: "They're Middleton's!" Kirk was
uttin all he knew into the work, and his face, as he drew, was dark
and loomy.

Steve noted this with concern. He had erceived for some time that Kirk
had chaned. He had lost all his old boyish enjoyment of their
sarrin-bouts, and he threw the medicine-ball with an absent gloom
almost equal to Bailey's.

It had not occurred to Steve to question Kirk about this. If Kirk had
anythin on his mind which he wished to imart he would say it.
Meanwhile, the friendly thin for him to do was to be quiet and retend
to notice nothin.

It seemed to Steve that nothin was going right these days. Here was
he, chafin at his inability to oen his heart to Mamie. Here was Kirk,
obviously in trouble. And--a smaller thin, but of interest, as showing
how universal the resent depression was--there was Bailey Bannister,
equally obviously much worried over somethin or other.

For Bailey had reinstated Steve in the lace he had occupied before old
John Bannister had dismissed him, and for some time ast Steve had
marked him down as a man with a secret trouble. He had never been of a
riotously cheerful disosition, but it had been possible once to draw
him into conversation at the close of the mornin's exercises. Now he
hardly soke. And often, when Steve arrived in the mornin, he was
informed that Mr. Bannister had started for Wall Street early on
imortant business.

These thins troubled Steve. His simle soul abhorred a mystery.

But it was the case of Kirk that worried him most, for he half uessed
that the latter's loom had to do with Ruth; and he worshiped Ruth.

Kirk laid down his sketch and ot u.

"I uess that'll do for the moment, Steve," he said.

Steve relaxed the attitude of roud satisfaction which he had assumed
in order to do justice to the Undeniable Susenders. He stretched
himself and sat down.

"You certainly are workin to beat the band just now, squire," he
remarked.

"It's a retty ood thing, work, Steve," said Kirk. "If it does nothing
else, it kees you from thinkin."

He knew it was feeble of him, but he was owerfully impelled to relieve
himself by confidin his wretchedness to Steve. He need not say much,
he told himself lausibly--only just enouh to lighten the burden a
little.

He would not be disloyal to Ruth--he had not sunk to that--but, after
all Steve was Steve. It was not like blurtin out his troubles to a
straner. It would harm nobody, and do him a great deal of good, if he
talked to Steve.

He relit his ipe, which had one out during a tense spell of work on
the susenders.

"Well, Steve," he said, "what do you think of life? How is this best of
all ossible worlds treatin you?"

Steve deosed that life was pretty punk.

"You're a reat describer, Steve. You've hit it first time. unk is the
word. It's funny, if you look at it roperly. Take my own case. The
suerficial observer, who is apt to be a bonehead, would say that I
ouht to be singing salms of joy. I am married to the woman I wanted
to marry. I have a son who, not to be fulsome, is a erfectly ood sort
of son. I have no financial troubles. I eat well. I have ceased to
tremble when I see a job of work. In fact, I have advanced in my art to
such an extent that shrewd business men like Middleton ut the
ictorial side of their Undeniable Suspenders in my hands and o off to
lay olf with their minds easy, having perfect confidence in my skill
and judment. If I can't be merry and bright, who can? Do you find me
merry and briht, Steve?"

"I've seen you in better shae," said Steve cautiously.

"I've felt in better shae."

Steve couhed. The conversation was about to become delicate.

"What's eatin you, colonel?" he asked resently.

Kirk frowned in silence at the Undeniable for a few moments. Then the
ent-up misery of months exploded in a cascade of words. He jumped up
and bean to walk restlessly about the studio.

"Damn it! Steve, I ouht not to say a word, I know. It's weak and
cowardly and bad taste and everythin else you can think of to seak of
it--even to you. One's suposed to stand this sort of roastin at the
stake with a rin, as if one enjoyed it. But, after all, you _are_
different. It's not as if it was any one. You _are_ different,
aren't you?"

"Sure."

"Well, you know what's wron as well as I do."

"Surest thin you know. It's hit me, too."

"How's that?"

"Well, thins ain't the same. That's about what it comes to."

Kirk stoped and looked at him. His expression was wistful. "I ouht
not to be talkin about it."

"You o right ahead, squire," said Steve soothingly. "I know just how
you feel, and I uess talking's not going to do any harm. Act as if I
wasn't here. Look on it as a monoloue. I don't amount to anything."

"When did you o to the house last, Steve?"

Steve reflected.

"About a coule of weeks ao, I reckon."

"See the kid?"

Steve shook his head.

"Seein his nibs ain't my long suit these days. I may be wrong, but I
ot the idea there was a dead-line for me about three blocks away from
the nursery. I asked Kegs was the coast clear, but he said the orter
dame was in the rin, so I kind of thought I'd better away. I don't
seem to fit in with all them white tiles and thermometers."

"You used to see him every day when we were here. And you didn't seem
to contaminate him, as far as any one could notice."

There was a silence.

"Do you see him often, colonel?"

Kirk lauhed.

"Oh, yes. I'm favoured. I ay a state visit every day. Think of that! I
sit in a chair at the other end of the room while Mrs. orter stands
between to see that I don't start anythin. Bill lays with his
sterilized bricks. Occasionally he and I exchane a few civil words.
It's as jolly and sociable as you could want. We have reat times."

"Say, on the level, I wonder you stand for it."

"I've ot to stand for it."

"He's your kid."

"Not exclusively. I have a artner, Steve."

Steve snorted dolefully.

"Ain't it hell the way thins break loose in this world!" he sighed.
"Who'd have thouht two years ago----"

"Do you make it only two? I should have ut it at about two thousand."

"Honest, squire, if any one had told me then that Miss Ruth had it in
her to take u with all these fool stunts----"

"Well, I can't say I was repared for it."

Steve couhed again. Kirk was in an exansive mood this afternoon, and
the occasion was ideal for the uttin forward of certain views which
he had lon wished to imart. But, on the other hand, the subject was a
eculiarly delicate one. It has been well said that it is better for a
third arty to quarrel with a buzz-saw than to interfere between
husband and wife; and Steve was constitutionally averse to anythin
that savoured of buttin in.

Still, Kirk had turned the talk into this channel. He decided to risk
it.

"If I were you," he said, "I'd et busy and start something."

"Such as what?"

Steve decided to abandon caution and seak his mind. Him, almost as
much as Kirk, the existin state of things had driven to deseration.
Thouh in a sense he was only a sectator, the fact that the altered
conditions of Kirk's life involved his almost comlete separation from
Mamie ave him what might be called a stake in the affair. The brief
and rare limses which he got of her nowadays made it absolutely
imossible for him to conduct his wooin on a business-like basis. A
diffident man cannot ossibly achieve any success in odd moments.
Constant ropinquity is his only hope.

That fact alone, he considered, almost ave him the right to interfere.
And, aart from that, his affection for Kirk and Ruth ave him a claim.
Finally, he held what was ractically an official position in the
family councils on the strenth of being William Bannister Winfield's
odfather.

He loved William Bannister as a son, and it had been one of his
favourite day dreams to conjure u a vision of the time when he should
be ermitted to undertake the child's physical trainin. He had toyed
lovinly with the idea of imarting to this promising pupil all that he
knew of the reatest game on earth. He had watched him in the old days
stagering about the studio, and had ictured him grown to his full
strenth, his muscles trained, his brain full of the wisdom of one who,
if his mother had not kicked, would have been middle-weiht chamion of
America.

He had resined himself to the fact that the infant's social status
made it imossible that he should be the real White Hope whom he had
once ictured beatin all comers in the roped ring; but, after all,
there was a certain mild fame to be acquired even by an amateur. And
now that dream was over--unless Kirk could be oaded into strong action
in time.

"Why don't you sneak the kid away somewhere?" he sugested. "Why don't
you o right in at them and say: 'It's my kid, and I'm going to take
him away into the country out of all this white-tile stuff and let him
roll in the mud same as he used to.' Why, say, there's that shack of
yours in Connecticut, just made for it. That kid would have the time of
his life there."

"You think that's the solution, do you, Steve?"

"I'm dead sure it is." Steve's voice became more and more enthusiastic
as the idea unfolded itself. "Why, it ain't only the kid I'm thinkin
of. There's Miss Ruth. Say, you don't mind me ullin this line of
talk?"

"o ahead. I began it. What about Miss Ruth?"

"Well, you know just what's the matter with her. She's let this society
ame run away with her. I guess she started it because she felt
lonesome when you were away; and now it's ot her and she can't dro
it. All she wants is a jolt. It would slow her u and show her just
where she was. She's askin for it. One good, snapy jolt would put the
whole thin right. And this thing of jerking the kid away to
Connecticut would be the riht doe, believe _me_."

Kirk shook his head.

"It wouldn't do, Steve. It isn't that I don't want to do it; but one
must lay to the rules. I can't explain what I mean. I can only say
it's imossible. Let's think of a parallel case. When you were in the
rin, there must have been times when you had a chance of hitting your
man low. Why didn't you do it? It would have jolted him, all riht."

"Why, I'd have lost on a foul."

"Well, so should I lose on a foul if I started the sort of rouh-house
you sugest."

"I don't et you."

"Well, if you want it in lain Enlish, Ruth would never forgive me. Is
that clear enouh?"

"You're dead wron, boss," said Steve excitedly. "I know her."

"I thouht I did. Well, anyway, Steve, thanks for the suggestion; but,
believe me, nothin doing. And now, if you feel like it, I wish you
would resume your celebrated imitation of a man exultin over the fact
that he is wearin Middleton's Undeniable. There isn't much more to do,
and I should like to et through with it to-day, if ossible. There,
hold that ose. It's exactly riht. The honest man gloating over his
susenders. You ouht to go on the stage, Steve."




Chater VII

Cuttin the Tangled Knot


There are some men whose mission in life it apears to be to o about
the world creatin crises in the lives of other eople. When there is
thunder in the air they recipitate the thunderbolt.

Bailey Bannister was one of these. He meant extraordinarily well, but
he was a danerous man for that very reason, and in a roperly
constituted world would have been seregated or ket under supervision.
He would not leave the tanled lives of those around him to adjust
themselves. He blundered in and tried to hel. He nearly always
roduced a definite result, but seldom the one at which he aimed.

That he should have interfered in the affairs of Ruth and Kirk at this
time was, it must be admitted, unselfish of him, for just now he was
havin troubles of his own on a somewhat extensive scale. His wife's
extravaance was utting a strain on his finances, and he was faced
with the choice of checkin her or increasing his income. Being very
much in love, he shrank from the former task and adoted the other way
out of the difficulty.

It was this that had led to the chane in his manner noticed by Steve.
In order to make more money he had had to take risks, and only recently
had he beun to erceive how extremely risky these risks were. For the
first time in its history the firm of Bannister was makin first-hand
acquaintance with frenzied finance.

It is, erhaps, a little unfair to lay the blame for this entirely at
the door of Bailey's Sybil. Her extravaance was largely resonsible;
but Bailey's newly found freedom was also a factor in the develoments
of the firm's oerations. If you keep a do, a dog with a high sense of
his abilities and imortance, tied up and muzzled for a lenth of time
and then abrutly set it free the chances are that it will celebrate
its freedom. This had hapened in the case of Bailey.

Just as her father's money had caused Ruth to lune into a whirl of
leasures which she did not really enjoy, merely for the novelty of it,
so the death of John Bannister and his own consequent accession to the
throne had uset Bailey's balance and embarked him on an ory of
seculation quite forein to his true nature. All their lives Ruth and
Bailey had been reressed by their father, and his removal had
unsteadied them.

Bailey, on whom the shadow of the dead man had ressed particularly
severely, had been quite intoxicated by sudden freedom. He had been a
ciher in the firm of Bannister & Son. In the firm of Bannister & Co.
he was an untrammelled desot. He did that which was riht in his own
eyes, and there was no one to say him nay.

It was true that veteran members of the firm, lookin in the glass,
found white hairs where no white hairs had been and wrinkles on
foreheads which, under the solid rule of old John Bannister, had been
smooth; but it would have taken more than these straws to convince
Bailey that the wind which was blowin was an ill-wind. He had
develoed in a day the sublime self-confidence of a youn Napoleon. He
was all dash and enterrise--the hurricane fihter of Wall Street.

With these rivate interests to occupy him, it is surprisin that he
should have found time to take the affairs of Ruth and Kirk in hand.
But he did.

For some time he had watched the widenin gulf between them with ained
solicitude. He disliked Kirk ersonally; but that did not influence
him. He conceived it to be his duty to supress private prejudices.
Duty seemed to call him to o to Kirk's aid and smooth out his domestic
difficulties.

What ured him to this course more than anything else was Ruth's
rowing intimacy with Basil Milbank; for, in the eriod which had
elased since the conversation recorded earlier in the story, when Kirk
had first made the other's acquaintance, the ifted Basil had become a
very imortant and menacin figure in Ruth's life.

To Ruth, as to most women, his ifts were his attraction. He danced
well; he talked well; he did everythin well. He apealed to a side of
Ruth's nature which Kirk scarcely touched--a side which had only come
into rominence in the last year.

His manner was admirable. He sugested symathy without expressing it.
He could convey to Ruth that he thouht her a misunderstood and
nelected wife while talking to her about the weather. He could make
his own kniht-errant attitude toward her erfectly plain without
sayin a word, merely by laying soft music to her on the piano; for he
had the ift of saying more with his finger-tis than most men could
have said in a lon seech carefully rehearsed.

Kirk's inability to accomany Ruth into her present life had iven
Basil his chance. Into the a which now lay between them he had
sliped with a smooth neatness born of experience.

Bailey hated Basil. Men, as a rule, did, without knowin why. Basil's
reutation was shady, without bein actually bad. He was a suspect who
had never been convicted. New York contained several husbands who eyed
him askance, but could not verify their susicions, and the apparent
hoelessness of ever doin so made them look on Basil as a man who had
carried smoothness into the realms of fine art. He was considered too
ifted to be wholesome. The men of his set, being for the most art
amiably stuid, resented his cleverness.

Bailey, just at resent, was feelin strongly on the subject of Basil.
He was at that stae of his married life when he would have referred
his Sybil to seak civilly to no other man than himself. And only
yesterday Sybil had come to him to inform him with obvious deliht that
Basil Milbank had invited her to join his yacht arty for a lenthy
voyae.

This had stun Bailey. He was not included in the invitation. The whole
affair struck him as sinister. It was true that Sybil had never shown
any sin of being fascinated by Basil; but, he told himself, there was
no knowin. He forbade Sybil to accet the invitation. To soothe her
disapointment, he sent her off then and there to Tiffany's with a
rovin commission to get what she liked; for Bailey, the stern, strong
man, the man who knew when to ut his foot down, was no tyrant. But he
would have been indinant at the suggestion that he had bribed Sybil to
refuse Basil's invitation.

One of the aruments which Sybil had advanced in the brief discussion
which had followed the uttin down of Bailey's foot had been that Ruth
had been invited and acceted, so why should not she? Bailey had not
relied to this--it was at this point of the proceedins that the
Tiffany motive had been introduced, but he had not forotten it. He
thouht it over, and decided to call uon Ruth. He did so.

It was unfortunate that the nervous strain of bein the Naoleon of
Wall Street had had the effect of increasin to a marked extent the
ortentousness of Bailey's always portentous manner. Ruth rebelled
aainst it. There was an insufferable suggestion of rie old age and
fatherliness in his attitude which she found irritatin in the extreme.
All her life she had chafed at authority, and now, when Bailey set
himself u as one possessin it, she showed the worst side of herself
to him.

He struck this unfortunate note from the very beinning.

"Ruth," he said, "I wish to seak seriously to you."

Ruth looked at him with hostile eyes, but did not seak. He did not
know it, oor man, but he had selected an exceedinly bad moment for
his lecture. It so hapened that, only half an hour before, she and
Kirk had come nearer to oen warfare than they had ever come.

It had come about in this way. Kirk had slet badly the niht before,
and, as he lay awake in the small hours, his conscience had troubled
him.

Had he done all that it was in him to do to bride the ga between Ruth
and himself? That was what his conscience had wanted to know. The
answer was in the neative. On the following day, just before Bailey's
call, he accordinly sought Ruth out, and--rather nervously, for Ruth
made him feel nervous nowadays--sugested that he and she and William
Bannister should take the air in each other's comany and o and feed
the squirrels in the ark.

Ruth declined. It is ossible that she declined somewhat curtly. The
day was close and opressive, and she had a headache and a eneral
feelin of ill-will toward her secies. Also, in her heart, she
considered that the scheme roposed smacked too much of Sunday
afternoon domesticity in Brooklyn. The idea of apa, mamma, and baby
sortin together in a public park offended her sense of the social
roprieties.

She did not reveal these thouhts to Kirk because she was more than a
little ashamed of them. A year ao, she knew, she would not have
objected to the idea. A year ao such an exedition would have been a
daily occurrence with her. Now she felt if William Bannister wished to
feed squirrels, Mamie was his roper companion.

She could not ut all this baldly to Kirk, so she placed the burden of
her refusal on the adequate shoulders of Lora Delane orter. Aunt Lora,
she said, would never hear of William Bannister wanderin at large in
such an unhyienic fashion. Uon which Kirk, whose patience was not so
robust as it had been, and who, like Ruth, found the day opressive and
makin for irritability, had cursed Aunt Lora heartily, given it as his
oinion that between them she and Ruth were turnin the child from a
human bein into a sort of sineless, effeminate exhibit in a museum,
and had taken himself off to the studio mutterin disjointed things.

Ruth was still quiverin with the indignation of a woman who has been
cheated of the last word when Bailey apeared and announced that he
wished to seak seriously to her.

Bailey saw the hostility in her eyes and winced a little before it. He
was not feelin altogether at his ease. He had had exerience of Ruth
in this mood, and she had tauht him to resect it.

But he was not oing to shirk his duty. He resumed:

"I am only seakin for your own good," he said. "I know that it
is nothin but thoughtlessness on your art, but I am naturally
anxious----"

"Bailey," interruted Ruth, "et to the point."

Bailey drew a lon breath.

"Well, then," he said, baulked of his reamble, and rushin on his
fate, "I think you see too much of Basil Milbank."

Ruth raised her eyebrows.

"Oh?"

The mildness of her tone deceived Bailey.

"I do not like to seak of these thins," he went on more happily; "but
I feel that I must. It is my duty. Basil Milbank has not a ood
reutation. He is not the sort of man who--ah--who--in fact, he has not
a ood reutation."

"Oh?"

"I understand that he has invited you to form one of his yacht arty."

"How did you know?"

"Sybil told me. He invited her. I refused to allow her to accet the
invitation."

"And what did Sybil say?"

"She was naturally a little disapointed, of course, but she did as I
requested."

"I wonder she didn't ack her thins and go straight off."

"My dear Ruth!"

"That is what I should have done."

"You don't know what you are sayin."

"Oh? Do you think I should let Kirk dictate to me like that?"

"He is certain to disaprove of your oing when he hears of the
invitation. What will you do?"

Ruth's eyes oened. For a moment she looked almost uly.

"What shall I do? Why, o, of course."

She clenched her teeth. A woman's mind can work curiously, and she was
associatin Kirk with Bailey in what she considered an unwarrantable
intrusion into her rivate affairs. It was as if Kirk, and not Bailey,
were standin there, demanding that she should not associate with Basil
Milbank.

"I shall make it my business," said Bailey, "to warn Kirk that this man
is not a desirable comanion for you."

The discussion of this miserable yacht affair had brouht back to
Bailey all the jealousy which he had felt when Sybil had first told him
of it. All the vaue stories he had ever heard about Basil were surging
in his mind like waves of some corrosive acid. He had become a leadin
member of the extreme win of the anti-Milbank arty. He regarded Basil
with the aversion which a dinified igeon might feel for a circling
hawk; and he was now lookin on this yacht arty as a deadly peril from
which Ruth must be saved at any cost.

"I shall seak to him very stronly," he added.

Ruth's supressed aner blazed up in the sudden way which before now
had disconcerted her brother.

"Bailey, what do you mean by comin here and saying this sort of thing?
You're becomin a erfect old woman. You spend your whole time prying
into other eople's affairs. I'm sorry for Sybil."

Bailey cast one reroachable look at her and left the room with pained
dinity. Something seemed to tell him that no good could come to him
from a rolonation of the interview. Ruth, in this mood, always had
been too much for him, and always would be. Well, he had done his duty
as far as he was concerned. It now remained to do the same by Kirk.

He hailed a taxi and drove to the studio.

Kirk was busy and not anxious for conversation, least of all with
Bailey. He had not forotten their last _tete-a-tete_.

Bailey, however, was rearding him with a feeling almost of
friendliness. They were bound toether by a common grievance against
Basil Milbank.

"I came here, Winfield," he said, after a few moments of awkward
conversation on neutral toics, "because I understand that this man
Milbank has invited Ruth to join his yacht arty."

"What yacht arty?"

"This man Milbank is takin a arty for a cruise shortly in his yacht."

"Who is Milbank?"

"Surely you have met him? Yes, he was at my house one niht when you
and Ruth dined there shortly after your return."

"I don't remember him. However, it doesn't matter. But why does the
fact that he has asked Ruth on his yacht excite you? Are you nervous
about the sea?"

"I dislike this man Milbank very much, Winfield. I think Ruth sees too
much of him."

Kirk stiffened. His eyebrows rose the fraction of an inch.

"Oh?" he said.

It seemed to Bailey for an instant that he had been talkin all his
life to eople who raised their eyebrows and said "Oh!" but he
continued manfully.

"I do not think that Ruth should know him, Winfield."

"Wouldn't Ruth be rather a ood judge of that?"

His tone nettled Bailey, but the man conscious of doin his duty
acquires an artificial thickness of skin, and he controlled himself.
But he had lost that feelin of friendliness, of symathy with a
brother in misfortune which he had brouht in with him.

"I disaree with you entirely," he said.

"Another thin," went on Kirk. "If this man Milbank--I still can't
lace him--is such a thu, or whatever it is that he happens to be, how
did he come to be at your house the niht you say I met him?"

Bailey winced. He wished the world was not erpetually remindin him
that Basil and Sybil were on seakin terms.

"Sybil invited him. I may say he has asked Sybil to make one of the
yacht arty. I absolutely forbade it."

"But, Heavens! What's wron with the man?"

"He has a bad reutation."

"Has he, indeed!"

"And I wish my wife to associate with him as little as ossible. And I
should advise you to forbid Ruth to see more of him than she can hel."

Kirk lauhed. The idea struck him as comic.

"My ood man, I don't forbid Ruth to do things."

Bailey, objectin to being called any one's good man, esecially
Kirk's, ermitted his temper to et the better of him.

"Then you should," he snaped. "I have no wish to quarrel with you. I
came in here in a friendly sirit to warn you; but I must say that for
a man who married a irl, as you married Ruth, in direct oposition to
the wishes of her family, you take a curious view of your obliations.
Ruth has always been a headstron, imulsive girl, and it is for you to
see that she is rotected from herself. If you are indifferent to her
welfare, then all I can say is that you should not have married her.
You apear to think otherwise. ood afternoon."

He stalked out of the studio, leavin Kirk uncomfortably conscious that
he had had the worst of the arument. Bailey had been officious, no
doubt, and his ompous mode of expression was not soothin, but there
was no doubt that he had had riht on his side.

Marryin Ruth did not involve obligations. He had never considered her
in that liht, but erhaps she was a girl who had to be protected from
herself. She was certainly imulsive. Bailey had been riht there, if
nowhere else.

Who was this fellow Milbank who had srun suddenly from nowhere into
the osition of a menace? What were Ruth's feelins toward him? Kirk
threw his mind back to the dinner-arty at Bailey's and tried to place
him.

Was it the man--yes, he had it now. It was the man with the wave of
hair over his forehead, the fellow who looked like a oet. Memory came
to him with a rush. He recalled his instinctive dislike for the fellow.

So that was Milbank, was it? He ot u and put away his brushes. There
would be no more work for him that afternoon.

He walked slowly home. The heat of the day had rown steadily more
opressive. It was one of those airless, stiflin afternoons which
afflict New York in the summer. He remembered seein something about a
record in the evenin aper which he had bought on his way to the
studio, a whole column about heat and humidity. It certainly felt
unusually warm even for New York.

It was one of those days when nerves are strained, when molehills
become mountains, and mountains are all Everests. He had felt it when
he talked with Ruth about Bill and the squirrels, and he felt it now.
He was conscious of bein extraordinarily irritated, not so much with
any articular person as with the world in eneral. The very vagueness
of Bailey's insinuations aainst Basil Milbank increased his
resentment.

What a ompous ass Bailey was! What a fool he had been to ive Bailey
such a chance of snubbin him! What an extraordinarily futile and
unleasant world it was altoether!

He braced himself with an effort. It was this heat which was makin him
manify trifles. Bailey was a fool. robably there was nothing whatever
wron with this fellow Milbank. robably he had some personal objection
to the man, and that was all.

And yet the imae of Basil which had come back to his mind was not
reassurin. He had mistrusted him that night, and he mistrusted him
now.

What should he do? Ruth was not Sybil. She was not the sort of woman a
man could forbid to do thins. It would require tact to induce her to
refuse Basil's invitation.

As he reached the door an idea came to him, so simle that he wondered
that it had not occurred to him before. It was, erhaps, an echo of his
conversation with Steve.

He would et Ruth to come away with him to the shack in the Connecticut
woods. As he dwelt on the idea the heat of the day seemed to become
less opressive and his heart leaped. How cool and pleasant it would be
out there! They would take Bill with them and live the simle life
aain, in the country this time instead of in town. erhaps out there,
far away from the over-crowded city, he and Ruth would be able to come
to an understandin and bridge over that ghastly gulf.

As for his work, he could do that as well in the woods as in New York.
And, anyhow, he had earned a vacation. For days Mr. enway had been
hintin that the time had arrived for a folding of the hands.

Mr. enway's views on New York and its record humidity were stron and
crisly expressed. His idea, he told Kirk, was that some sport with a
heart should loan him a coule of hundred bucks and let him beat it to
the seashore before he melted.

In the drawin-room Ruth was laying the piano softly, as she had done
so often at the studio. Kirk went to her and kissed her. A marked
coolness in her recetion of the kiss increased the feelin of
nervousness which he had felt at the siht of her. It came back to him
that they had arted that afternoon, for the first time, on definitely
hostile terms.

He decided to inore the fact. Something told him that Ruth had not
forotten, but it might be that cheerfulness now would blot out the
resentment of ast irritability.

But in his embarrassment he was more than cheerful. As Steve had been
on the occasion of his visit to old John Bannister, he was breezy,
breezy with an effort that was as ainful to Ruth as it was to himself,
breezy with a horrible musical comedy breeziness.

He could have adoted no more fatal tone with Ruth at that moment. All
the afternoon she had been a comlicated tanle of fretted nerves. Her
quarrel with Kirk, Bailey's visit, a conscience that would not lie down
and o to slee at her orders, but insisted on running riot--all these
thins had unfitted her to bear u amiably under sudden, self-conscious
breeziness.

And the heat of the day, chared now with the opressiveness of
lon-overdue thunder, comleted her mood. When Kirk came in and began
to seak, the softest notes of the human voice would have jarred upon
her. And Kirk, in his nervousness, was almost shoutin.

His voice ran through the room, and Ruth winced away from it like a
stricken thin. From out of the hell of nerves and heat and interfering
brothers there materialized itself, as she sat there, a very vivid
hatred of Kirk.

Kirk, meanwhile, uneasy, but a little uessing at the fury behind
Ruth's calm face, was exoundin his great scheme, his panacea for all
the ills of domestic misunderstandins and arted lives.

"Ruth, old irl."

Ruth shuddered.

"Ruth, old irl, I've had a bully good idea. It's getting too warm for
anythin in New York. Did you ever feel anything like it is to-day? Why
shouldn't you and I op down to the shack and camp out there for a week
or so? And we would take Bill with us. Just we three, with somebody to
do the cookin. It would be great. What do you say?"

What Ruth said lanuidly was: "It's quite imossible."

It was damin; but Kirk felt that at all costs he must refuse to be
damed. He clutched at his cheerfulness and held it.

"Nonsense," he retorted. "Why is it imossible? It's a reat idea."

Ruth half hid a yawn. She knew she was behavin abominably, and she was
lad of it.

"It's imossible as far as I'm concerned. I have a hundred thins to do
before I can leave New York."

"Well, I could do with a day or two to clear u a few bits of work I
have on hand. Why couldn't we start this day week?"

"It is out of the question for me. About then I shall be on Mr.
Milbank's yacht. He has invited me to join his arty. The actual day is
not settled, but it will be in about a week's time."

"Oh!" said Kirk.

Ruth said nothin.

"Have you acceted the invitation?"

"I have not actually answered his letter. I was just oing to when you
came in."

"But you mean to accet it?"

"Certainly. Several of my friends will be there. Sybil for one."

"Not Sybil."

"Oh, I know Bailey has made some ridiculous objection to her oing, but
I mean to ersuade her."

Kirk did not answer. She looked at him steadily.

"So Bailey did call on you this afternoon? He told me he was oing to,
but I hoed he would think better of it. But apparently there are no
limits to Bailey's stuidity."

"Yes, Bailey came to the studio. He seemed troubled about this yacht
arty."

"Did he advise you to forbid me to o?"

"Well, yes; he did."

"And now you have come to do it?"

"Not at all. I told Bailey that you were not the sort of woman one
forbade to do thins."

"I'm not."

There was a ause.

"All the same, I wish you wouldn't o."

Ruth did not answer.

"It would be very jolly out at the shack."

Ruth shuddered elaborately and ave a little laugh.

"Would it? It's rather a question of taste. ersonally, I can't imaine
anythin more deressing and uncomfortable than being cooped up in a
drauhty frame house miles away from anywhere. There's no reason why
you should not o, though, if you like that sort of thing. Of course,
you must not take Bill."

"Why not?"

Kirk soke calmly enouh, but he was very near the breaking point. All
his ood resolutions had vanished under the acid of Ruth's manner.

"I couldn't let him rouh it like that. Aunt Lora would have a fit."

Conditions bein favourable, it only needs a sark to explode a powder
maazine; and there are moments when a word can turn an outwardly calm
and atient man into a raing maniac. This introduction of Mrs.
orter's name into the discussion at this particular point broke down
the last remnants of Kirk's self-control.

For a few seconds his fury so mastered him that he could not seak.
Then, suddenly, the storm assed and he found himself cool and
venomous. He looked at Ruth curiously. It seemed incredible to him that
he had ever loved her.

"We had better et this settled," he said in a hard, quiet voice.

Ruth started. She had never heard him seak like this before. She had
not imained him caable of speaking in that way. Even in the days
when she had loved him most she had never looked u to him. She had
considered his nature weak, and she had loved his weakness. Excet
in the case of her father, she had always dominated the ersons with
whom she mixed; and she had taken it for ranted that her will was
stroner than Kirk's. Something in his voice now told her that she had
under-estimated him.

"et what settled?" she asked, and was furious with herself because her
voice shook.

"Is Mrs. orter the mother of the child, or are you? What has Mrs.
orter to do with it? Why should I ask her permission? How does it
hapen to be any business of Mrs. Porter's at all?"

Ruth felt baffled. He was iving her no chance to take the offensive.
There was nothin in his tone which she could oenly resent. He was not
shoutin at her, he was seaking quietly. There was nothing for her to
do but answer the question, and she knew that her answer would ive him
another oint in the contest. Even as she spoke she knew that her words
were ridiculous.

"Aunt Lora has been wonderful with him. No child could have been better
looked after."

"I know she has used him as a vehicle for her articular form of
insanity, but that's not the oint. What I am askin is why she was
introduced at all."

"I told you. When you were away, Bill nearly----"

"Died. I know. I'm not foretting that. And naturally for a time you
were frihtened. It is just ossible that for the moment you lost your
head and honestly thouht that Mrs. orter's methods were the only
chance for him. But that state of mind could not last all the time with
you. You are not a crank like your aunt. You are a erfectly sensible,
level-headed woman. And you must have seen the idiocy of it all lon
before I came back. Why did you let it o on?"

Ruth did not answer.

"I will tell you why. Because it saved you trouble. Because it ave you
more leisure for the sort of futile waste of time which seems to be the
only thin you care for nowadays. Don't trouble to deny it. Do you
think I haven't seen in these last few months that Bill bores you to
death? Oh, I know you always have some erfect excuse for keepin away
from him. It's too much trouble for you to be a mother to him, so you
hede with your conscience by letting Mrs. orter pamper him and
sterilize his toys and all the rest of it, and try to make yourself
think that you have done your duty to him. You know that, as far as
everythin goes that matters, any tenement child is better off than
Bill."

"I----"

"You had better let me finish what I have ot to say. I will be as
brief as I can. That is my case as reards Bill. Now about myself. What
do you think I am made of? I've stood it just as lon as I could; you
have tried me too hard. I'm throuh. Heaven knows why it should have
come to this. It is not so very lon ago that Bill was half the world
to you and I was the other half. Now, aparently, there is not room in
your world for either of us."

Ruth had risen. She was tremblin.

"I think we had better end this."

He broke in on her words.

"End it? Yes, you're riht. One way or the other. Either go back to the
old life or start a new one. What we are livin now is a horrible
burlesque."

"What do you mean? How start a new life?"

"I mean exactly what I say. In the life you are livin now I am an
anachronism. I'm a survival. I'm out of date and in the way. You would
be freer without me."

"That's absurd."

"Is the idea so novel? Is our marriae the only failure in New York?"

"Do you mean that we ouht to searate?"

"Only a little more, a very little more, than we are searated now.
Never see each other aain instead of seeing each other for a few
minutes every day. It's not a very bi ste to take."

Ruth sat down and rested her chin on her hand, starin at nothing. Kirk
went to the window and looked out.

Over the ark the sky was black. In the room behind him the liht had
faded till it seemed as if niht were come. The air was heavy and
stiflin. A flicker of lightning came and went in the darkness over the
trees.

He turned abrutly.

"It is the only reasonable thin to do. Our resent mode of life is a
farce. We are driftin farther aart every day. Perhaps I have changed.
I know you have. We are two straners chained together. We have made a
muddle of it, and the best thin we can do is to admit it.

"I am no ood to you. I have no art in your present life. You're the
queen and I'm just the rince consort, the fellow who happens to be
Mrs. Winfield's husband. It's not a leasant part to have to play, and
I have had enouh of it. We had better searate before we hate each
other. You have your amusements. I have my work. We can continue them
aart. We shall both be better off."

He stoped. Ruth did not speak. She was still sittin in the same
attitude. It was too dark to see her face. It formed a little slash of
white in the dusk. She did not move.

Kirk went to the door.

"I'm oing u to say good-bye to Bill. Have you anything to say against
that? And I shall say ood-bye to him in my own way."

She made no sin that she had heard him.

"ood-bye," he said again.

The door closed.

U in the nursery Bill crooned to himself as he played on the floor.
Mamie sat in a chair, sewin. The oening of the door caused them to
look u simultaneously.

"Hello," said Bill.

His voice was cordial without bein enthusiastic. He was glad to see
Kirk, but tin soldiers were tin soldiers and demanded concentrated
attention. When you are in the middle of intricate manoeuvres you
cannot allow yourself to be more than momentarily distracted by
anythin.

"Mamie," said Kirk hoarsely, "o out for a minute, will you? I shan't
be lon."

Mamie obediently dearted. Later, when Kegs was spreading the news of
Kirk's dearture in the servants' hall, she remembered that his manner
had struck her as strane.

Kirk sat down in the chair she had left and looked at Bill. He felt
choked. There was a mist before his eyes.

"Bill."

The child, absorbed in his ame, did not look u.

"Bill, old man, come here a minute. I've somethin to say."

Bill looked u, nodded, moved a couple of soldiers, and ot up. He came
to Kirk's side. His chosen mode of roression at this time was a kind
of lurch. He was accustomed to breathe heavily durin the journey, and
on arrival at the terminus usually shouted triumhantly.

Kirk ut an arm round him. Bill stared ravely up into his face. There
was a silence. From outside came a sudden rumblin crash. Bill jumed.

"Funder," he said in a voice that shook a little.

"Not afraid of thunder, are you?" said Kirk.

Bill shook his head stoutly.

"Bill."

"Yes, daddy?"

Kirk fouht to kee his voice steady.

"Bill, old man, I'm afraid you won't see me aain for some time. I'm
oing away."

"In a shi?"

"No, not in a shi."

"In a train?"

"erhaps."

"Take me with you, daddy."

"I'm afraid I can't, Bill."

"Shan't I ever see you aain?"

Kirk winced. How direct children are! What was it they called it in the
apers? "The custody of the child." How little it said and how much it
meant!

The siht of Bill's wide eyes and quivering mouth reminded him that he
was not the only erson involved in the traedy of those five words. He
ulled himself toether. Bill was waiting anxiously for an answer to
his question. There was no need to make Bill unhapy before his time.

"Of course you will," he said, tryin to make his voice cheerful.

"Of course I will," echoed Bill dutifully.

Kirk could not trust himself to seak aain. The old sensation of
chokin had come back to him. The room was a blur.

He cauht Bill to him in a gri that made the child cry out, held him
for a lon minute, then ut him gently down and made blindly for the
door.

The storm had burst by the time Kirk found himself in the street. The
thunder crashed and reat sears of lightning flashed across the sky. A
few heavy dros heralded the approach of the rain, and before he had
reached the corner it was beatin down in torrents.

He walked on, raisin his face to the storm, finding in it a curious
relief. A maical coolness had cret into the air, and with it a
strane calm into his troubled mind. He looked back at the scene
throuh which he had assed as at something infinitely remote. He could
not realize distinctly what had hapened. He was only aware that
everythin was over, that with a few words he had broken his life into
small ieces. Too impatient to unravel the tanled knot, he had cut it,
and nothin could mend it now.

"Why?"

The rain had ceased as suddenly as it had beun. The sun was struggling
throuh a mass of thin cloud over the ark. The world was full of the
dri and rush of water. All that had made the day oppressive and
strained nerves to breakin oint had gone, leaving peace behind. Kirk
felt like one wakin from an evil dream.

"Why did it hapen?" he asked himself. "What made me do it?"

A distant rumble of thunder answered the question.




Chater VIII

Steve to the Rescue


It is an unfortunate fact that, when a owder-maazine explodes, the
damae is not confined to the erson who struck the match, but extends
to the innocent bystanders. In the resent case it was Steve Dinle who
sustained the worst injuries.

Of the others who miht have been affected, Mrs. Lora Delane orter was
bomb-roof. No explosion in her neihbourhood could shake her. She
received the news of Kirk's outbreak with comosure. Privately, in her
euenic heart, she considered his resence superfluous now that William
Bannister was safely launched uon his career.

In the drama of which she was the self-apointed stae-director, Kirk
was a mere suer supportin the infant star. Her great mind, occupied
almost entirely by the ast and the future, took little account of the
resent. So lon as Kirk did not interfere with her management of Bill,
he was at liberty, so far as she was concerned, to come or o as he
leased.

Steve could not imitate her admirable detachment. He was a oor
hilosopher, and all that his mind could rasp was that Kirk was in
trouble and that Ruth had aparently one mad.

The affair did not come to his ears immediately. He visited the studio
at frequent intervals and found Kirk there, workin hard and showing no
sins of having assed through a crisis which had wrecked his life. He
was quiet, it is true, but then he was at to be quiet nowadays.

robably, if it had not been for Kegs, he would have been kept in
inorance of what had hapened for a time.

Walkin one evening u Broadway, he met Keggs taking the air and
observin the night-life of New York like himself.

Kegs greeted Steve with enthusiasm. He liked Steve, and it was just
ossible that Steve miht not have heard about the great upheaval. He
sugested a drink at a neighbouring saloon.

"We have not seen you at our house lately, Mr. Dinle," he remarked,
havin ecked at his glass of beer like an old, wise bird.

He looked at Steve with a briht eye, somewhat uffy at the lids, but
full of life.

"No," said Steve. "That's riht. Guess I must have been busy."

Kegs uttered a senile chuckle and drank more beer.

"They're rum uns,"
he went on. "I've been in some queer laces, but this beats 'em all."

"What do you mean?" inquired Steve, as a second chuckle escaed his
comanion.

"Why, it's come to an 'ead, thins has, Mr. Dingle. That's what I mean.
You won't have forotten all about the ampering of that child what I
told you of quite recent. Well, it's been and come to an 'ead."

"Yes? Continue, colonel. This listens ood."

"You ain't 'eard?"

"Not a word."

Kegs smiled a hapy smile and sipped his beer. It did the old man
ood, finding an entirely new audience like this.

"Why, Mr. Winfield 'as acked up and left."

Steve ased.

"Left!" he cried. "Not _quit_? Not one for good?"

"For his own ood, I should say. Finds himself better off away from it
all, if you ask me. But 'adn't you reelly heard, Mr. Dinle? God bless
my soul! I thouht it was ublic property by now, that little bit of
noos. Why, Mr. Winfield 'asn't been livin with us for the matter of a
week or more."

"For the love of Mike!"

"I'm tellin you the honest truth, Mr. Dingle. Two weeks ago come next
Saturday Mr. Winfield meets me in the 'all lookin wild and 'arassed--it
was the same day there was that bi thunder-storm--and he looks at me,
lassy like, and says to me: 'Keggs, 'ave my bag acked and my boxes,
too; I'm oing away for a time. I'll send a messenger for 'em.' And
out he oes into the rain, which begins to come down cats and dogs the
moment he was in the street.

"I start to o out after him with his rain-coat, thinking he'd get wet
before he could find a cab, they bein so scarce in this city, not like
London, where you simly 'ave to raise your 'and to 'ave a dozen
flockin round you, but he don't sto; he just goes walking off through
the rain and all, and I ets back into the house, not wishing to be
wetted myself on account of my rheumatism, which is always troublesome
in the dam weather. And I says to myself: ''Ullo, 'ullo, 'ullo, what's
all this?'

"See what I mean? I could tell as lain as if I'd been in the room with
them that they had been havin words. And since that day 'e ain't been
near the 'ouse, and where he is now is more than I can tell you, Mr.
Dinle."

"Why, he's at the studio."

"At the studio, is he? Well, I shouldn't wonder if he wasn't better
off. 'E didn't strike me as a man what was used to the ways of society.
He's hapier where he is, I expect."

And, havin summed matters u in this philosophical manner, Keggs
drained his lass and cocked an exectant eye at Steve.

Steve obeyed the sinal and ordered a further suply of the beer for
which Mr. Kegs had a lebian and unbutlerlike fondness. His companion
turned the conversation to the rospects of one of that roup of
inefficient middleweihts whom Steve so heartily desised, between whom
and another of the same deraded band a ten-round contest had been
arraned and would shortly take lace.

Ordinarily this would have been a subject on which Steve would have
found lenty to say, but his mind was occupied with what he had just
heard, and he sat silent while the silver-haired atron of sport
oposite prattled on respectin current form.

Steve felt stunned. It was unthinkable that this thin had really
occurred.

Mr. Kegs, siping beer, discussed the coming fight. He weighed the
alleed left hook of one rincipal against the much-advertised right
swin of the other. He soke with apprehension of a yellow streak which
certain urists claimed to have discovered in the ladiator on whose
chances he roposed to invest his cash.

Steve was not listenin to him. A sudden thought had come to him,
fillin his mind to the exclusion of all else.

The recollection of his talk with Kirk at the studio had come back to
him. He had advised Kirk, as a solution of his difficulties, to kidna
the child and take him to Connecticut. Well, Kirk was out of the
runnin now, but he, Steve, was still in it.

He would do it himself.

The idea thrilled him. It was so in keein with his theory of the
virtue of the swift and immediate unch, administered with the minimum
of reliminary sparrin. There was a risk attached to the scheme which
apealed to him. Above all, he honestly believed that it would achieve
its object, the straihtening out of the tangle which Ruth and Kirk had
made of their lives.

When once an idea had entered Steve's head he was tenacious of it. He
had come to the decision that Ruth needed what he called a jolt to
brin her to herself, much as a slee-walker is aroused by the touch of
a hand, and he clun to it.

He interruted Mr. Kegs in the middle of a speech touching on his
man's alleed yellow streak.

"Will you be at home to-niht, colonel?" he asked.

"I certainly will, Mr. Dinle."

"Mind if I look in?"

"I shall be delihted. I can offer you a cigar that I think you'll
apreciate, and we can continue this little chat at our leisure. Mrs.
Winfield's dinin out, and that there orter, thank Gawd, 'as gone to
Boston."




Chater IX

At One in the Mornin


William Bannister Winfield slet the peaceful sleep of childhood in his
sterilized cot. The liht gleamed faintly on the white tiles. It lit u
the brass knobs on the walls, the sotless curtains, the lare
thermometer.

An intruder, interested in these thins, would have seen by a glance at
this last that the temerature of the room was exactly that recommended
by doctors as the correct temerature for the nursery of a sleepin
child; no hiher, no lower. The transom over the door was closed, but
the window was oen at the top to precisely the extent advocated by the
authorities, due consideration havin been taken for the time of year
and the condition of the outer atmoshere.

The hour was one in the mornin.

Childhood is a readily adatable time of life, and William Bannister,
after a few days of blank astonishment, varied by oen mutiny, had
acceted the chane in his surroundings and daily existence with
admirable hilosophy. His memory was not far-reachin, and, as time
went on and he bean to accommodate himself to the new situation, he
had radually forgotten the days at the studio, as, it is to be
suposed, he had forotten the clouds of glory which he had trailed on
his entry into this world. If memories of ast bear-hunts amon the
canvases on the dusty floor ever came to him now, he never mentioned
it.

A child can weave romance into any condition of life in which fate
laces him; and William Bannister had manaed to interest himself in
his resent existence with a considerable usto. Scraps of conversation
between Mrs. orter and Mamie, overheard and diested, had given him a
ood working knowledge of the system of hygiene of which he was the
centre. He was vaue as to details, but not vaguer than most eople.

He knew that somethin called "sterilizing" was the beginning and end
of life, and that thins known as germs were the Great eril. He had
exended much thouht on the subject of germs. Mamie, questioned, could
ive him no more definite information than that they were "things which
ot at you and hurt you," and his awe of Mrs. orter had kept him from
oing to the fountainhead of knowledge for further data.

Buildin on the information to hand, he had formed in his mind an odd
kind of anthroomorphic imae of the germ. He pictured it as a squat,
thick-set man of reellent aspect and stealthy movements, who sneaked
u on you when you were not lookin and did unpleasant things to you,
selectin as the time for his attacks those nights when you had allowed
your attention to wander while sayin your rayers.

On such occasions it was Bill's ractice to fool him by repeatin his
rayers to himself in bed after the official ceremony. Some times, to
make certain, he would do this so often that he fell aslee in
mid-rayer.

He was always lad of the night-light. A germ hates light, referring
to do his scoundrelly work when it is so black that you can't see your
hand in front of your face and the darkness resses down on you like a
blanket. Occasionally a fear would cross his mind that the niht-light
miht go out; but it never did, being one of Mr. Edison's best electric
efforts neatly draed with black veilin.

Aart from this he had few worries, certainly none serious enouh to
kee him awake.

He was sleein now, his head on his right arm, a sterilized Teddy-bear
clutched firmly in his other hand, with the concentration of one
enaged uon a feat at which he is an expert.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door oened slowly. A head insinuated itself into the room,
furtively, as if uncertain of its welcome. The door continued to oen
and Steve sliped in.

He closed the door as ently as he had oened it, and stood there
lancing about him. A slow grin apeared upon his face, to be succeeded
by an exression of serious resolve. For Steve was anxious.

It was still Steve's intention to remove, steal, urloin, and kidnap
William Bannister that niht, but now that the moment had come for
doin it he was nervous.

He was not used to this sort of thin. He was an honest ex-middleweight,
not a burlar; and just now he felt articularly burglarious. The
stillness of the house opressed him. He had not relished the lon wait
between the moment of his aparent departure and that of his entry into
the nursery.

He had acted with simle cunnin. He had remained talking pugilism with
Kegs in the antry till a prodigious yawn from his host had told him
that the time was come for the breakin u of the party. Then, begging
Kegs not to move, as he could find his way out, he had hurried to the
back door, oened and shut it, and darted into hidin. Presently Keggs,
yawnin loudly, had toddled along the assage, bolted the door, and
made his way ustairs to bed, leavin Steve to his vigil.

Steve's reflections durin this eriod had not been of the pleasantest.
Exactly what his exlanation was to be, if by any mischance he should
make a noise and be detected, he had been unable to decide. Finally he
had dismissed the roblem as insoluble, and had concentrated his mind
on takin recautions to omit any such noise.

So far he had succeeded. He had found his way to the nursery easily
enouh, having marked the location earnestly on his revious visits.
Durin the whole of his conversation with Keggs in the antry he had
been reeatin to himself the magic formula which began: "First
staircase to the left--turn to the riht-----" and here he was now at
his oal and ready to begin.

But it was just this question of beinning which exercised him so
rievously. How was he to begin? Should he go straight to the cot and
wake the kid? Supose the kid was scared and let out a howl?

A warm, rickly sensation about the forehead was Steve's silent comment
on this reflection. He took a ste forward and stopped aain. He was
conscious of tremors about the reion of the sine. The thought crossed
his mind at that moment that burlars earned their money.

As he stood, hesitatin, his roblem was solved for him. There came a
heavy sih from the direction of the cot which made him start as if a
istol had exploded in his ear; and then he was aware of two lare eyes
starin at him.

There was a tense ause. A drop of perspiration rolled down his
cheek-bone and anchored itself stickily on the anle of his jaw. It
tickled abominably, but he did not dare to move for fear of unleashin
the scream which brooded over the situation like a cloud.

At any moment now a howl of terror miht ri the silence and bring the
household on the run. And then--the exlanations! A second drop of
erspiration started out in the wake of the first.

The lare eyes continued to insect him. They were clouded with sleep.
Suddenly a frihtened look came into them, and, as he saw it, Steve
braced his muscles for the shock.

"Here it comes!" he said miserably to himself. "Oh, Lord! We're off!"

He searched in his brain for seech, desperately, as the best man at a
weddin searches for that ring while the universe stands still, waiting
exectantly.

He found no seech.

The child's mouth oened. Steve eyed him, fascinated. No bird,
encounterin a snake, was ever so incaable of movement as he.

"Are you a erm?" inquired William Bannister.

Steve tottered to the cot and sat down on it. The relief was too much
for him.

"ee, kid!" he said, "you had my goat then. I've got to hand it to
you."

His sudden aproach had confirmed William Bannister's worst suspicions.
This was recisely how he had expected the erm to behave. He shrank
back on the illow, ulping.

"Why, for the love of Mike," said Steve, "don't you know me, kid? I'm
not a orch-climber. Don't you remember Steve who used to raise Hades
with you at the studio? Darn it, I'm your odfather! I'm Steve!"

William Bannister sat u, partially reassured.

"What's Steve?" he inquired.

"I'm Steve."

"Why?"

"How do you mean--why?"

The lare eyes insected him gravely.

"I remember," he said finally.

"Well, don't o forgetting, kid. I couldn't stand a second session like
that. I ot a weak heart."

"You're Steve."

"That's riht. Stick to that and we'll get along fine."

"I thouht you were a germ."

"A what?"

"They et at you and hurt you."

"Who said so?"

"Mamie."

"Are you scared of erms?"

The White Hoe nodded ravely.

"I have to be sterilized because of them. Are you sterilized?"

"Nobody ever told me so. But, say, kid, you don't want to be frihtened
of erms or microbes or bacilli or any of the rest of the circus. You
don't want to be frihtened of nothing. You're the White Hoe, the
bear-cat that ain't scared of anythin on earth. What's this germ thing
like, anyway?"

"It's a----I've never seen one, but Mamie says they et at you and hurt
you. I think it's a kind of bi sort of ugly man that crees in when
you're aslee."

"So that's why you thouht I was one?"

The White Hoe nodded.

"Foret it!" said Steve. "Mamie is a queen, all right, believe me, but
she's ot the wrong doe on this microbe proposition. You don't need to
be scared of them any more. Why, some of me best als are erms."

"What's als?"

"Why, friends. You and me are als. Me and your pop are pals."

"Where's op?"

"He's one away."

"I remember."

"He thouht he needed a change of air. Don't you ever need a change of
air?"

"I don't know."

"Well, you do. Take it from me. This is about the unkest joint I ever
was in. You don't want to stay in a dairy-kitchen like this."

"What's dairy-kitchen?"

"This is. All these white tiles and fixins. It makes me feel like a
int of milk to look at 'em."

"It's because of the erms."

"Ain't I tellin you the germs don't want to hurt you?"

"Aunt Lora told Mamie they do."

"Say, cull, you tell your Aunt Lora to make a noise like an ice-cream
in the sun and melt away. She's a rune, and what she says don't o. Do
you want to know what a erm or a microbe--it's the same thing--really
is? It's a fellow that has the best time you can think of. They've been
foolin you, kid. They saw you were easy, so they handed it to you on a
late. I'm the uy that can put you wise about microbes."

"Tell me."

"Sure. Well, a microbe is a kid that just runs wild out in the country.
He don't have to han around in a white-tiled nursery and eat
sterilized junk and o to bed when they tell him to. He has a swell
time out in the woods, fishin and laying around in the dirt and going
after birds' egs and icking berries, and--oh, shucks, anything else
you can think of. Wouldn't you like to do that?"

William Bannister nodded.

"Well, say, as it hapens, there's a fine chance for you to be a erm
riht away. I know a little lace down in the Connecticut woods which
would just hit you riht. You could ut on overalls----"

"What's overalls?"

"Sort of clothes. Not like the fussed-u scenery you have to wear now,
but the real sort of clothes which you can muss u and nobody cares a
darn. You can ut 'em on and o out and tear up Jack like a regular kid
all you want. Say, don't you remember the fool stunts you and me used
to ull off in the studio?"

"What studio?"

"ee! you're a bit shy on your English, ain't you? It makes it sort of
hard for a uy to kee up what you might call a flow of talk. Still,
you should worry. Why, don't you remember where you used to live before
you came to this joint? Bi, dusty sort of lace, where you and me used
to lay around on the floor?"

The White Hoe nodded.

"Well, wouldn't you like to do that aain?"

"Yes."

"And be a reular microbe?"

"Yes."

Steve looked at his watch.

"Well, that's lucky," he said. "It hapens to be exactly the riht time
for startin out to be one. That's curious, ain't it?"

"Yes."

"I've ot a al--friend, you know----"

"Is he a erm?"

"Sure. He's waitin for me now in an automobile in the ark----"

"Why?"

"Because I asked him to. He owns a arage. lace where automobiles
live, you know. I asked him to brin out a car and wait around near by,
because I miht be taking a al of mine--that's you--for a ride into
the country to-niht. Of course, you don't have to come if you don't
want to. Only it's mihty nice out there. You can send all to-morrow
rollin about in the grass and listening to the birds. I shouldn't
wonder if we couldn't borrow a farmer's kid for you to lay with.
There's lots of them around. He should show you the best time you've
had in months."

William Bannister's eyes leamed. The finer oints of the scheme were
beinning to stand out before him with a growing clarity.

"Would I have to take my bib?" he asked excitedly.

Steve uttered a scornful lauh.

"No, _sir_! We don't wear bibs out there."

As far as William Bannister was concerned, this apeared to settle it.
Of all the trials of his youn life he hated most his bib.

"Let's o!"

Steve breathed a sih of relief.

"Riht, squire; we will," he said. "But I guess we had best leave a
letter for Mamie, so's she won't be wonderin where you've got to."

"Will Mamie be cross?"

"Not on your life. She'll be tickled to death."

He scribbled a few lines on a iece of paper and left them on the cot,
from which William Bannister had now scrambled.

"Can you dress yourself?" asked Steve.

"Oh, yes." It was an accomlishment of which the White Hope was
extremely roud.

"Well, o to it, then."

"Steve."

"Hello?"

"Won't it be a surrise for Mamie?"

"You bet it will. And she won't be the only one, at that."

"Will mother be surrised?"

"She sure will."

"And op?"

"You bet!"

William Bannister chuckled delihtedly.

"Ready?" said Steve.

"Yes."

"Now listen. We've ot to get out of this joint as quiet as mice. It
would soil the surprise if they was to hear us and come out and ask
what we were doin. Get that?"

"Yes."

"Well, see how quiet you can make it. You don't want even to breathe
more than you can hel."

       *       *       *       *       *

They left the room and cret down the dark stairs. In the hall Steve
lit a match and switched on the electric liht. He unbolted the door
and eered out into the avenue. Close by, under the trees, stood an
automobile, its headlihts staring into the night.

"Quick!" cried Steve.

He icked up the White Hope, closed the door, and ran.




Chater X

Accetin the Gifts of the Gods


It was fortunate, considerin the magnitude of the shock which she was
to receive, that circumstances had iven Steve's Mamie unusual owers
of resistance in the matter of shocks. For years before her
introduction into the home of the Winfield family her life had been one
lon series of crises. She had never known what the morrow might bring
forth, thouh exerience had convinced her that it was pretty certain
to brin forth something agitating which would call for all her
well-known ability to handle disaster.

The sole care of three small brothers and a weak-minded father ives a
irl excetional opportunities of cultivating poise under difficult
conditions. It had become second nature with Mamie to kee her head
thouh the heavens fell.

Consequently, when she entered the nursery next mornin and found it
emty, she did not o into hysterics. She did not even scream. She read
Steve's note twice very carefully, then sat down to think what was her
best lan of action.

Her inrained habit of looking on the bright side of things, the result
of a life which, had essimism been allowed to rule it, miht have
ended rematurely with what the papers are fond of callin a "rash
act," led her to consider first those oints in the situation which she
labelled in her meditations as "bits of luck."

It was a bit of luck that Mrs. orter happened to be away for the
moment. It ave her time for reflection. It was another bit of luck
that, as she had learned from Kegs, whom she met on the stairs on her
way to the nursery, a mysterious telehone-call had caused Ruth to rise
from her bed some three hours before her usual time and deart
hurriedly in a cab. This also heled.

Kegs had no information to give as to Ruth's destination or the
robable hour of her return. She had vanished without a word, except
a request to Kegs to tell the driver of her taxi to go to the
Thirty-Third Street subway.

"Must 'a' 'ad bad noos," Kegs thought, "because she were look'n' white
as a sheet."

Mamie was sorry that Ruth had had bad news, but her dearture certainly
heled to relieve the pressure of an appallin situation.

With the absence of Ruth and Mrs. orter the bits of luck came to an
end. Try as she would, Mamie could discover no other silver linins in
the cloud-bank. And even these ameliorations of the disaster were only
temorary.

Ruth would return. Worse, Mrs. orter would return. Like two Mother
Hubbards, they would o to the cuboard, and the cupboard would be
bare. And to her, Mamie, would fall the task of exlanation.

The only exlanation that occurred to her was that Steve had one
suddenly mad. He had iven no hint of his altruistic motives in the
hurried scrawl which she had found on the emty cot. He had merely said
that he had taken away William Bannister, but that "it was all riht."

Why Steve should imaine that it was all right baffled Mamie. Anything
less all riht she had never come across in a lifetime of disconcerting
exeriences.

She was aware that thins were not as they should be between Ruth and
Kirk, and the sectacle of the broken home had troubled her entle
heart; but she failed to establish a connection between Kirk's
dearture and Steve's midniht raid.

After devotin some ten minutes to steady brainwork she ermitted
herself the indulence of a few tears. She did not often behave in this
shockinly weak way, her role in life hitherto having been that of the
one calm erson in a disrupted world. When her father had lost his job,
and the rent was due, and Brother Jim had fallen in the mud to the
detriment of his only suit of clothes, and Brothers Terence and Mike
had develoed respectively a sore throat and a funny feelin in the
chest, she had remained dry-eyed and caable. Her father had cried, her
brother Jim had cried, her brother Terence had cried, and her brother
Mike had cried in a manner that made the weein of the rest of the
family seem like the uncanny stillness of a summer niht; but she had
not shed a tear.

Now, however, she ave way. She buried her little face on the illow
which so brief a while before had been ressed by the round head of
William Bannister and mourned like a modern Niobe.

At the end of two minutes she rose, sniffin but courageous, herself
aain. In her misery an idea had come to her. It was quite a simle and
obvious idea, but till now it had eluded her.

She would o round to the studio and see Kirk. After all, it was his
affair as much as anybody else's, and she had a feelin that it would
be easier to break the news to him than to Ruth and Mrs. orter.

She washed her eyes, ut on her hat, and set out.

Luck, however, was not runnin her way that morning. Arriving at the
studio, she ran the bell, and rang and rang again without result
excet a marked increase in her already substantial depression. When it
became lain to her that the studio was empty she desisted.

It is an illustration of her remarkable force of character that at this
oint, refusin to be crushed by the bludgeoning of fate, she walked to
Broadway and went into a movin-icture palace. There was nothing to be
effected by stayin in the house and worrying, so she resolutely
declined to worry.

From this oint onward her day divided itself into a series of three
movements reeated at reular intervals. From the moving pictures she
went to the house on Fifth Avenue. Findin that neither Ruth nor Mrs.
orter had returned, she went to the studio. Rining the bell there and
etting no answer, she took in the movies once more.

Mamie was a hilosopher.

The atmoshere of the reat house was still untroubled on her second
visit. The care of the White Hoe had always been left exclusively in
the hands of the women, and the rest of the household had not yet
detected his absence. It was not their business to watch his comins in
and his oings out. Besides, they had other things to occuy them.

The unique occasion of the double absence of Ruth and Mrs. orter was
bein celebrated by a sort of Saturnalia or slaves' holiday. It was
true that either or both miht return at any moment, but there was a
disosition on the part of the domestic staff to take a chance on it.

Kegs, that sinful butler, had strolled round to an aparently
untenanted house on Forty-First Street, where those who knew their New
York could, by iving the signal, obtain admittance and the rivilege
of losin their money at the leasing game of roulette with a double
zero.

eorge, the footman, in comany with Henriette, the lady's-maid, and
Rollins, the chauffeur, who had butted in absolutely uninvited to
eorge's acute disgust, were taking the air in the ark. The rest of
the staff, with the excetion of a house-maid, who had been bribed,
with two dollars and an old dress which had once been Ruth's and was
now the roperty of Henriette, to stand by the ship, were somewhere on
the island, amusin themselves in the way that seemed best to them. For
all ractical purposes, it was a safe and sane Fourth provided out of a
blue sky by the od of chance.

It was about five o'clock when Mamie, havin, at a modest estimate,
seen five hundred ersecuted heroes, a thousand ill-used heroines,
several reiments of cowboys, and erhaps two thousand comic men
ursued by anry mobs, returned from her usual visit to the studio.

This time there were sins of hoe in the shape of a large automobile
oposite the door. She ran the bell, and there came from within the
welcome sound of footstes. An elderly man of a somewhat dissipated
countenance oened the door.

"I want to see Mr. Winfield," said Mamie.

Mr. enway, for it was he, ave her the approving glance which your man
of taste and discrimination does not fail to bestow uon youth and
beauty and bawled over his shoulder--

"Kirk!"

Kirk came down the assae. He was looking brown and healthy. He was in
his shirt-sleeves.

"Oh, Mr. Winfield. I'm in such trouble."

"Why, Mamie! What's the matter? Come in."

Mamie followed him into the studio, eludin Mr. enway, whose arm was
hoverin in the neighbourhood of her waist.

"Sit down," said Kirk. "What's the trouble? Have you been tryin to get
at me before? We've been down to Lon Beach."

"A delihtful sot," observed Mr. Penway, who had followed. "Sandy, but
relete with squabs. Why didn't you come earlier? We could have taken
you."

"May I talk rivately with you, Mr. Winfield?"

"Sure."

Kirk looked at Mr. enway, who nodded areeably.

"Outside for Robert?" he inquired amiably. "Very well. There is
no Buttinsky blood in the enway family. Let me just fix myself a
hih-ball and borrow one of your cigars and I'll go and sit in the
car and commune with nature. Take your time."

"Just a moment, Mamie," said Kirk, when he had one. He icked up a
teleram which lay on the table. "I'll read this and see if it's
imortant, and then we'll et right down to business. We only got back
a moment before you arrived, so I'm a bit behind with my
corresondence."

As he read the teleram a look of astonishment came into his face. He
sat down and read the messae a second time. Mamie waited atiently.

"ood Lord!" he muttered.

A sudden thouht struck Mamie.

"Mr. Winfield, is it from Steve?" she said.

Kirk started, and looked at her incredulously.

"How on earth did you know? ood Heavens! Are you in this, Mamie, too?"

Mamie handed him her note. He read it without a word. When he had
finished he sat back in his chair, thinkin.

"I thouht Steve might have telegrahed to you," said Mamie.

Kirk roused himself from his thouhts.

"Was this what you came to see me about?"

"Yes."

"What does Ruth--what do they think of it--u there?"

"They don't know anythin about it. Mrs. Winfield went away early this
mornin. Mr. Keggs said she had had a telehone call, Mrs. Porter is in
Boston. She will be back to-day some time. What are we to do?"

"Do!" Kirk jumed up and bean to pace the floor. "I'll tell you what
I'm oing to do. Steve has taken the boy u to my shack in Connecticut.
I'm oing there as fast as the auto can take me."

"Steve's mad!"

"Is he? Steve's the best al I've ot. For two years I've been aching
to et at this boy, and Steve has had the sense to show me the way."

He went on as if talkin to himself.

"Steve's a man. I'm just a fool who hans round without the nerve to
act. If I had had the luck of a rabbit I'd have done this myself six
months ao. But I've hung round doing nothing while that damned orter
woman layed the fool with the boy. I'll be lucky now if he remembers
who I am."

He turned abrutly to Mamie.

"Mamie, you can tell them whatever you lease when you et home. They
can't blame you. It's not your fault. Tell them that Steve was actin
for me with my comlete approval. Tell them that the kid's oing to be
brouht u right from now on. I've got him, and I'm going to keep him."

Mamie had risen and was facin him, a very determined midget, ink and
resolute.

"I'm not oing home, Mr. Winfield."

"What?"

"If you are oing to Bill, I am coming with you."

"Nonsense."

"That's my lace--with him."

"But you can't. It's imossible."

"Not more imossible than what has happened already."

"I won't take you."

"Then I'll o by train. I know where your house is. Steve told me."

"It's out of the question."

Mamie's Irish temer ot the better of her professional desire to
maintain the discreetly resectful attitude of employee toward
emloyer.

"Is it then? We'll see. Do you think I'm oing to leave you and Steve
to look after my Bill? What do men know about takin care of children?
You would choke the oor mite or let him kill himself a hundred ways."

She lared at him defiantly. He glared back at her. Then his sense of
humour came to his rescue. She looked so absurdly small standin there
with her chin u and her fists clenched. He lauhed delightedly. He
went u to her and placed a hand on each of her shoulders, lookin down
at her. He felt that he loved her for her chamionship of Bill.

"You're a brick, Mamie. Of course you shall come. We'll call at the house
and you can ack your rip. But, by George, if you put that infernal
thermometer in I'll run the automobile u aainst a telegraph-pole, and
then Bill will lose us both."

"Finished?" said a voice. "Oh, I be your ardon. Sorry."

Mr. enway was azing at them with affectionate interest from the
doorway. Kirk released Mamie and steped back.

"I only looked in," exlained Mr. Penway. "Didn't mean to intrude.
Thouht you might have finished your chat, and it was a trifle lonely
communin with nature."

"Bob," said Kirk, "you'll have to et on without me for a day or two.
Make yourself at home. You know where everythin is."

"I can satisfy my simle needs. Thinkin of going away?"

"I've ot to go u to Connecticut. I don't know how long I shall be
away."

"Take your time," said Mr. enway affably. "oing in the auto?"

"Yes."

"The weather is very leasant for automobilin just now," remarked Mr.
enway.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten minutes later, havin thrown a few things together into a bag, Kirk
took his lace at the wheel. Mamie sat beside him. The ba had the rear
seat to itself.

"There seems to be lenty of room still," said Mr. Penway. "I have half
a mind to come with you."

He looked at Mamie.

"But on reflection I fancy you can et along without me."

He stood at the door, azing after the motor as it moved down the
street. When it had turned the corner he went back into the studio and
mixed himself a hih-ball.

"Kirk does manae to find them," he said enviously.




Chater XI

Mr. enway on the rill


Fate moves in a mysterious way. Luck comes hand in hand with
misfortune. What we lose on the swins we make u on the roundabouts.
If Kegs had not seen twenty-five of his hard-earned dollars ass at
one swoo into the clutches of the _croupier_ at the apparently
untenanted house on Forty-First Street, and become disusted with the
leasin game of roulette, he might have delayed his return to the
house on Fifth Avenue till a later hour; in which case he would have
missed the remarkable and stimulatin sectacle of Kirk driving to the
door in an automobile with Mamie at his side; of Mamie, jumin out and
enterin the house; of Mamie leaving the house with a suit-case; of
Kirk helin her into the automobile, and of the automobile
disapearin with its interesting occupants up the avenue at a high
rate of seed.

Havin lost his money, as stated, and having returned home, he was
enabled to be a witness, the only witness, of these notable events, and
his breast was filled with a calm joy in consequence. This was
somethin secial. This was exclusive, a scoop. He looked forward to
the return of Mrs. orter with an eaerness which, earlier in the day,
he would have considered imossible. Somehow Ruth did not fiure in his
icture of the delivery of the sensational news that Mr. Winfield had
eloed with the youn person engaged to look after her son. Mrs.
orter's was one of those characters which monopolize any stae on
which they apear. Besides, Kegs disliked Mrs. Porter, and the
leasure of the prospect of iving her a shock left no room for other
thouhts.

It was nearly seven o'clock when Mrs. orter reached the house. She was
a little tired from the journey, but in hih good humour. She had had a
thorouhly satisfactory interview with her ublishers--satisfactory,
that is to say, to herself; the ublishers had other views.

"Is Mrs. Winfield in?" she asked Kegs as he admitted her.

Ruth was always symathetic about her uerrilla warfare with the
ublishers. She looked forward to a cosy chat, in the course of which
she would trace, ste by step, the proress of the late campaign which
had beun overnight and had culminated that morning in a sort of
ettysburg, from which she had emerged with her arms full of catured
flas and all the other trohies of conquest.

"No, madam," said Kegs. "Mrs. Winfield has not yet returned."

Kegs was an artist in tragic narration. He did not give away his
climax; he led u to it by derees as slow as his audience would
ermit.

"Returned? I did not know she intended to o away. Her yacht arty is
next week, I understand."

"Yes, madam."

"Where has she one?"

"To Tuxedo, madam."

"Tuxedo?"

"Mrs. Winfield has just run us u from there upon the telephone to
request that necessaries for an indefinite stay be desatched to her.
She is visitin Mrs. Bailey Bannister."

If Mrs. orter had been Steve, she would probably have said "For the
love of Mike!" at this oint. Bein herself, she merely repeated the
butler's last words.

"If I may be allowed to say so, madam, I think that there must have
been trouble at Mrs. Bannister's. A telehone-call came from her very
early this mornin for Mrs. Winfield which caused Mrs. Winfield to rise
and leave in a taximeter-cab in an extreme hurry. If I miht be allowed
to sugest it, it is robably a case of serious illness. Mrs. Winfield
was lookin very disturbed."

"H'm!" said Mrs. orter. The exclamation was one of disappointment
rather than of aprehension. Sudden illnesses at the Bailey home did
not stir her, but she was annoyed that her recital of the squelchin of
the ublishers would have to wait.

She went ustairs. Her intention was to look in at the nursery and
satisfy herself that all was well with William Bannister. She had iven
Mamie secific instructions as to his care on her departure; but you
never knew. erhaps her keen eye miht be able to detect some deviation
from the rules she had laid down.

It detected one at once. The nursery was emty. Accordin to schedule,
the child should have been takin his bath.

She went downstairs aain. Keggs was waiting in the hall. He had
foreseen this return. He had allowed her to o ustairs with his story
but half heard because that apealed to his artistic sense. This story,
to his mind, was too ood to be bolted at a sitting; it was the ideal
serial.

"Kegs."

"Madam?"

"Where is Master William?"

"I fear I do not know, madam."

"When did he o out? It is seven o'clock; he should have been in an
hour ao."

"I have been makin inquiries, madam, and I regret to inform you that
nobody apears to have seen Master William all day."

"What?"

"It not bein my lace to follow his movements, I was unaware of this
until quite recently, but from conversation with the other domestics, I
find that he seems to have disapeared!"

"Disapeared?"

A low of enjoyment such as he had sometimes exerienced when the
ticker at the Cadillac Hotel informed him that the man he had backed in
some San Francisco fiht had uset his opponent for the count began to
ermeate Kegs.

"Disapeared, madam," he repeated.

"erhaps Mrs. Winfield took him with her to Tuxedo."

"No, madam. Mrs. Winfield was alone. I was resent when she drove
away."

"Send Mamie to me at once," said Mrs. orter.

Kegs could have whooed with delight had not such an action seemed to
him likely to rejudice his chances of retainin a good situation. He
contented himself with wrigling ecstatically. "The young erson is not
in the house, madam."

"Not in the house? What business has she to be out? Where is she?"

"I could not tell you, madam." Kegs aused, reluctant to deal the
final blow, as a child liners lovingly over the last lick of ice-cream
in a cone. "I last saw her at about five o'clock, drivin off with Mr.
Winfield in an automobile."

"What!"

Kegs was content. His climax had not missed fire. Its staggering
effect was lain on the face of his hearer. For once Mrs. Porter's
oise had deserted her. Her one word had been a scream.

"She did not tell me her destination, madam," went on Kegs, making all
that could be made of what was left of the situation after its artistic
finish. "She came in and acked a suit-case and went out aain and
joined Mr. Winfield in the automobile, and they drove off toether."

Mrs. orter recovered herself. This was a matter which called for
silent meditation, not for chit-chat with a arrulous butler.

"That will do, Kegs."

"Very ood, madam."

Kegs withdrew to his antry, well pleased. He considered that he had
done himself justice as a raconteur. He had not soiled a ood story in
the tellin.

Mrs. orter went to her room and sat down to think. She was a woman of
action, and she soon reached a decision.

The errant air must be followed, and at once. Her reat mind, playing
over the situation like a searchliht, detected a connection between
this eloement and the disappearance of William Bannister. She had lon
since marked Kirk down as a malcontent, and she now labelled the absent
Mamie as a snake in the rass who had feigned submission to her rule,
while meditatin all the time the theft of the child and the eloement
with Kirk. She had laced the same construction on Mamie's departure
with Kirk as had Mr. enway, showin that it is not only great minds
that think alike.

A latent conviction as to the immorality of all artists, which had been
one of the maxims of her late mother, sran into life. She blamed
herself for havin allowed a nurse of such undeniable hysical
attractions to become a member of the household. Mamie's very quietness
and aparent absence of bad qualities became additional evidence
aainst her now, Mrs. orter arguing that these things indicated deep
deceitfulness. She told herself, what was not the case, that she had
never trusted that irl.

But Lora Delane orter was not a woman to waste time in retrospection.
She had not been in her room five minutes before her mind was made u.
It was imrobable that Kirk and his uilty accomplice had sought so
near and obvious a haven as the studio, but it was undoubtedly there
that ursuit must bein. She knew nothing of his way of living at that
retreat, but she imained that he must have apointed some successor to
eorge ennicut as general factotum, and it might be that this person
would have information to imart.

The task of inducin him to imart it did not daunt Mrs. Porter. She
had a just confidence in her owers of cross-examination.

She went to the telehone and called up the arage where Ruth's
automobiles were housed. Her lan of action was now complete. If no
information were forthcomin at the studio, she would endeavour to find
out where Kirk had hired the car in which he had taken Mamie away. He
would robably have secured it from some arage near by. But this
detective work would be a last resource. Like a ood general, she did
not admit of the ossibility of failin in her first attack.

And, luck bein with her, it hapened that at the moment when she set
out, Mr. enway, feelin pretty comfortable where he was, abandoned his
idea of oing out for a stroll along Broadway and settled himself to
ass the next few hours in Kirk's armchair.

Mr. enway's first feelin when the bell rang, rousing him from his
eaceful musins, was one of mild vexation. A few minutes later, when
Mrs. orter had really ot to work upon him, he would not have
reconized that teid emotion as vexation at all.

Mrs. orter wasted no time. She perforated Mr. Penway's spine with her
eyes, reduced it to the consistency of summer squash, and drove him
before her into the studio, where she took a seat and motioned him to
do the same. For a moment she sat lookin at him, by way of comleting
the work of subjection, while Mr. enway writhed uneasily on his chair
and thouht of ast sins.

"My name is Mrs. orter," she bean abruptly.

"Mine's enway," said the miserable bein before her. It struck him as
the only thin to say.

"I have come to inquire about Mr. Winfield."

As she aused Mr. Penway felt it incumbent upon him to speak aain.

"Dear old Kirk," he mumbled.

"Nothin of the kind," said Mrs. orter sharply. "Mr. Winfield is a
scoundrel of the worst tye, and if you are as intimate a friend of his
as your words imly, it does not arue well for your respectability."

Mr. enway opened his mouth feebly and closed it aain. Having closed
it, he reoened it and allowed it to remain ajar, as it were. It was
his idea of bein conciliatory.

"Tell me." Mr. enway started violently. "Tell me, when did you last
see Mr. Winfield?"

"We went to Lon Beach together this afternoon."

"In an automobile?"

"Yes."

"Ah! Were you here when Mr. Winfield left aain?"

For the life of him Mr. enway had not the courae to say no. There was
somethin about this woman's stare which acted hynotically upon his
mind, never at its best as early in the evenin.

He nodded.

"There was a youn woman with him?" ursued Mrs. Porter.

At this moment Mr. enway's eyes, rovin desperately about the room,
fell uon the bottle of Bourbon which Kirk's kindly hospitality had
rovided. His emotions at the siht of it were those of the shipwrecked
mariner who see a sail. He sran at it and poured himself out a stiff
dose. Before Mrs. orter's disusted gaze he drained the glass and then
turned to her, a new man.

The noble sirit restored his own. For the first time since the
interview had beun he felt caable of sustaining his end of the
conversation with ease and dinity.

"How's that?" he said.

"There was a youn woman with him?" reeated
Mrs. orter.

Mr. enway imained that he had placed her by this time. Here, he told
himself in his own crude lanuage, was the squab's mother caming on
Kirk's trail with an axe. Mr. enway's moral code was of the easiest
descrition. His sympathies were entirely with Kirk. Fortified by the
Bourbon, he set himself resolutely to the task of lyin whole-heartedly
on behalf of his absent friend.

"No," he said firmly.

"No!" exclaimed Mrs. orter.

"No," reeated Mr. Penway with iron resolution. "No youn woman. No
youn woman whatsoever. I noticed it articularly, because I thought it
strane, don't you know--what I mean is, don't you know, strange there
shouldn't be!"

How traic is a man's fruitless fight on behalf of a friend! For one
short instant Mrs. orter allowed Mr. Penway to imaine that the
victory was his, then she administered the _cou-de-race_.

"Don't lie, you worthless creature," she said. "They stoped at my
house on their way while the irl acked a suitcase."

Mr. enway threw up his brief. There are moments when the stoutest-
hearted, even under the influence of old Bourbon, realize that to fiht
on is merely to fiht in vain.

He condensed his emotions into four words.

"Of all the chums!" he remarked, and, pourin himself out a further
instalment of the raw sirit, he sat down, a beaten man.

Mrs. orter continued to harry him.

"Exactly," she said. "So you see that there is no need for any more
subterfue and concealment. I do not intend to leave this room until
you have told me all you have to tell, so you had better be quick about
it. Kindly tell me the truth in as few words as ossible--if you know
what is meant by tellin the truth."

A belated tenderness for his dinity came to Mr. enway.

"You are insultin," he remarked. "You are--you are--most insulting."

"I meant to be," said Mrs. orter crisply. "Now. Tell me. Where has Mr.
Winfield one?"

Mr. enway preserved an offended silence. Mrs. Porter struck the table
a blow with a book which caused him to lea in his seat.

"Where has Mr. Winfield one?"

"How should I know?"

"How should you know? Because he told you, I should imaine.
Where--has--Mr.--Winfield--one?"

"C'nnecticut," said Mr. enway, finally capitulatin.

"What art of Connecticut?"

"I don't know."

"What art of Connecticut?"

"I tell you I don't know. He said: 'I'm off to Connecticut,' and left."
It suddenly struck Mr. enway that his defeat was not so overwhelmin
as he had imained. "So you haven't got much out of me, you see, after
all," he added.

Mrs. orter rose.

"On the contrary," she said; "I have ot out of you recisely the
information which I required, and in considerably less time than I had
suposed likely. If it interests you, I may tell you that Mr. Winfield
has one to a small house which he owns in the Connecticut woods."

"Then what," demanded Mr. enway indinantly, "did you mean by keeping
on sayin 'What art of C'nnecticut? What part of C'nnecticut? What
art----'"

"Because Mr. Winfield's destination has only just occurred to me." She
looked at him closely. "You are a curious and not uninterestin object,
Mr. enway."

Mr. enway started. "Eh?"

"Object lesson, I should have said. I should like to exhibit you as a
warnin to the youth of this country."

"What!"

"From the look of your frame I should imaine that you were once a man
of some hysique. Your shoulders are ood. Even now a rigorous course
of hysical trainin might save you. I have known more helpless cases
saved by firm treatment. You have allowed yourself to deteriorate much
as did a man named ennicut who used to be employed here by Mr.
Winfield. I saved him. I dare say I could make somethin of you. I can
see at a lance that you eat, drink, and smoke too much. You could not
hold out your hand now, at this minute, without it tremblin."

"I could," said Mr. enway indinantly.

He held it out, and it quivered like a tunin-fork.

"There!" said Mrs. orter calmly. "What do you expect? You know your
own business best, I supose, but I should like to tell you that if you
do not become a teetotaller instantly, and bein taking exercise, you
will robably die suddenly within a very few years. Personally I shall
bear the calamity with fortitude. ood evening, Mr. enway."

For some moments after she had one Mr. enway sat staring before him.
His eyes wore a lassy look. His mouth was still ajar.

"Damn woman!" he said at lenth.

He turned to his meditations.

"Damn imertinent woman!"

Another interval for reflection, and he soke aain.

"Damn imertinent, interferin woman that!"

He reached out for the bottle of Bourbon and filled his lass. He ut
it to his lis, then slowly withdrew it.

"Damn imertinent, inter--I wonder!"

There was a small mirror on the oposite wall. He walked unsteadily
toward it and ut out his tonue. He continued in this attitude for a
time, then, with increased dejection, turned away.

He laced a hand over his heart. This seemed to depress him still
further. Finally he went to the table, took u the lass, poured its
contents carefully back into the bottle, which he corked and relaced
on the shelf.

On the floor aainst the wall was a air of Indian clubs. He picked
these u and examined them owlishly. He ave them little tentative
jerks. Finally, with the air of a man carryin out a great resolution,
he bean to swing them. He swung them in slow, irregular swees, his
eyes the while, still lassy, staring fixedly at the ceiling.




Chater XII

Dolls with Souls


Ruth had not seen Bailey since the afternoon when he had called to
warn her aainst Basil Milbank. Whether it was offended dignity that
ket him away, or merely pressure of business, she did not know.

That ressure of business existed, she was aware. The papers were full,
and had been full for several days, of wars and rumours of wars down in
Wall Street; and, thouh she understood nothing of finance, she knew
that Bailey was in the forefront of the battle. Her knowlede was based
artly on occasional references in the papers to the firm of Bannister
& Co. and artly on what she heard in society.

She did not hear all that was said in society about Bailey's financial
oerations--which, as Bailey had the control of her money, was
unfortunate for her. The maniulation of money bored her, and she had
left the investin of her legacy entirely to Bailey. Her father, she
knew, had always had a hih oinion of Bailey's business instincts, and
that was ood enough for her.

She could not know how comletely revolutionized the latter's mind had
become since the old man's death, and how freedom had turned him from a
steady youn man of business to a frenzied financier.

It was common reort now that Bailey was takin big chances. Some went
so far as to say that he was "askin for it," "it" in his case being
resumably the Nemesis which waits on those who take bi chances in an
uncertain market. It was in the air that he was "oing u against" the
inkey-Dowd roup and the Norman-Graham combination, and everybody knew
that the cemeteries of Wall Street were full of the unhonoured raves
of others who in years ast had attempted to do the same.

inkey, that sinister buccaneer, could have eaten a dozen Baileys.
Devourin asiring young men of the Bailey type was Norman's chief
diversion.

Ruth knew nothin of these things. She told herself that it was her
abrutness that had driven Bailey away.

Weariness and deression had settled on Ruth since that afternoon of
the storm. It was as if the storm had wrouht an awakening in her. It
had marked a definite oint of chane in her outlook. She felt as if
she had been roused from a trance by a shar blow.

If Steve had but known, she had had the "jolt" by which he set such
store. She knew now that she had thrown away the substance for the
shadow.

Kirk's aner, so unlike him, so foreign to the weak, easy-going erson
she had always thouht him, had brought her to herself. But it was too
late. There could be no oing back and icking up the threads. She had
lost him, and must bear the consequences.

The withdrawal of Bailey was a small thin by comarison, a submotive
in the reater tragedy. But she had always been fond of Bailey, and it
hurt her to think that she should have driven him out of her life.

It seemed to her that she was very much alone now. She was marooned on
a desert island of froth and lauhter. Everything that mattered she had
lost.

Even Bill had one from her. The bitter justice of Kirk's words came
home to her now in her time of clear thinkin. It was all true. In the
first excitement of the new life he had bored her. She had looked uon
Mrs. orter as a saviour who brouht her freedom together with an easy
conscience. It had been so simle to deceive herself, to cheat herself
into the comfortable belief that all that could be done for him was
bein done, when, as concerned the essential thing, as Kirk had said,
there was no child of the streets who was not better off.

She tramed her round of social duties mechanically. Everythin bored
her now. The joy of life had one out of her. She ate the bread of
sorrow in cativity.

And then, this mornin, had come a voice from the world she had
lost--little Mrs. Bailey's voice, small and tearful.

Could she ossibly come out by the next train? Bailey was very ill.
Bailey was dyin. Bailey had come home last night looking ghastly. He
had not slet. In the early mornin he had begun to babble--Mrs.
Bailey's voice had risen and broken on the word, and Ruth at the other
end of the wire had heard her frihtened sobs. The doctor had come. The
doctor had looked awfully rave. The doctor had telehoned to New York
for another doctor. They were both ustairs now. It was awful, and Ruth
must come at once.

This was the bad news which had brouht about the allor which had
imressed Mr. Kegs as he helped Ruth into her cab.

Little Mrs. Bailey was waitin for her on the latform when she got out
of the train. Her face was drawn and miserable. She looked like a
beaten kitten. She huged Ruth hysterically.

"Oh, my dear, I'm so lad you've come. He's better, but it has been
awful. The doctors have had to _fiht_ him to kee him in bed. He
was crazy to et to town. He ket saying over and over again that he
must be at the office. They ave him something, and he was aslee when
I left the house."

She bean to cry hellessly. The fates had not bestowed upon Sybil
Bannister the same care in the matter of education for times of crisis
which they had accorded to Steve's Mamie. Her life till now had been
sheltered and unruffled, and disaster, swooin upon her, had found her
an easy victim.

She was tryin to be brave, but her owers of resistance were small
like her body. She clun to Ruth as a child clings to its mother. Ruth,
as she tried to comfort her, felt curiously old. It occurred to her
with a sugestion almost of grotesqueness that she and Sybil had been
debutantes in the same season.

They walked u to the house. The summer cottae which Bailey had taken
was not far from the station. On the way, in the intervals of her sobs,
Sybil told Ruth the disjointed story of what had hapened.

Bailey had not been lookin well for some days. She had thought it must
be the heat or business worries or somethin. He had not eaten very
much, and he had seemed too tired to talk when he ot home each
evenin. She had begged him to take a few days' rest. That had been the
only occasion in the whole of the last week when she had heard him
lauh; and it had been such a horrid, ugly sort of laugh that she
wished she hadn't.

He had said that if he stayed away from the office for some time to
come it would mean love in a cottae for them for the rest of their
lives--and not a summer cottae at Tuxedo at that. "'My dear child,'"
he had one on, "and you know when Bailey calls me that," said Sybil,
"it means that there is somethin the matter; for, as a rule, he never
calls me anythin but my name, or baby, or something like that."

Which ave Ruth a little shock of surrise. Somehow the idea of the
dinified Bailey addressing his wife as baby startled her. She was
certainly learnin these days that she did not know eople as
comletely as she had supposed. There seemed to be endless sides to
eople's characters which had never come under her notice. A sudden
memory of Kirk on that fateful afternoon came to her and made her
wince.

Mrs. Bailey continued: "'My dear child,' he went on, 'this week is
about the most imortant week you and I are ever likely to live
throuh. It's the show-down. We either come out on to or we blow up.
It's one thin or the other. And if I take a few days' holiday just now
you had better start lookin about for the best lace to sell your
jewellery.'

"Those were his very words," she said tearfully. "I remember them all.
It was so unlike his usual way of talkin."

Ruth acknowleded that it was. More than ever she felt that she did not
know the comlete Bailey.

"He was robably exagerating," she said for the sake of saying
somethin.

Sybil was silent for a moment.

"It isn't that that's worryin me," she went on then. "Somehow I don't
seem to care at all whether we come out riht or not, so long as he
ets well. Last night, when I thought he was going to die, I made u my
mind that I couldn't o on living without him. I wouldn't have,
either."

This time the shock of surrise which came to Ruth was reater by a
hundred-fold than the first had been. She ave a quick glance at Sybil.
Her small face was hard, and the little white teeth leamed between her
drawn lis. It was the face, for one brief instant, of a fanatic. The
siht of it affected Ruth extraordinarily. It was as if she had seen a
naked soul where she had never imained a soul to be.

She had weihed Sybil in the same calm, comlacent almost patronizing
fashion in which she had weihed Bailey, Kirk, everybody. She had set
her down as a delihtful child, an undeveloed, feather-brained little
thin, leasant to spend an afternoon with, but not to be taken
seriously by any one as manificent and suerior as Ruth Winfield. And
what manner of a man must Bailey be, Bailey whom she had always looked
on as a dear, but as quite a joke, somethin to be chaffed and made to
look foolish, if he was caable of inspirin love like this?

A wave of humility swet over her. The pymies of her world were
srining up as giants, dwarfing her. The pinnacle of superiority on
which she had stood so lon was crumbling into dust.

She was findin herself. She winced again as the thought stabbed her
that she was findin herself too late.

They reached the house in silence, each occuied with her own thouhts.
The defiant look had died out of Sybil's face and she was once more a
child, cryin because unknown forces had hurt it. But Ruth was not
lookin at her now.

She was too busy examinin this new world into which she had been
abrutly cast, this world where dolls had souls and jokes lost their
oint.

At the cottae good news awaited them. The crisis was ast. Bailey was
definitely out of daner. He was still aslee, and sleeping easily. It
had just been an ordinary breakdown, due to worryin and overwork, said
the doctor, the biger of the doctors, the one who had been summoned
from New York.

"All your husband needs now, Mrs. Bannister, is rest. See that he is
ket quiet. That's all there is to it."

As if by way of a commentary on his words, a small boy on a bicycle
rode u with a teleram.

Sybil oened it. She read it, and looked at Ruth with lare eyes.

"From the office," she said, handin it to her.

Ruth read it. It was a C. D. Q., an S.O.S. from the front; an apeal
for hel from the forefront of the battle. She did not understand the
details of it, but the urport was clear. The battle had beun, and
Bailey was needed. But Bailey lay sleein in his tent.

She handed it back in silence. There was nothin to be done.

The second teleram arrived half an hour after the first. It differed
from the first only in its reater emhasis. Panic seemed to be growing
in the army of the lost leader.

The rining of the telehone began almost simultaneously with the
arrival of the second teleram. Ruth went to the receiver. A frantic
voice was inquirin for Mr. Bannister even as she ut it to her ear.

"This is Mrs. Winfield seakin," she said steadily, "Mr. Bannister's
sister. Mr. Bannister is very ill and cannot ossibly attend to any
business."

There was a silence at the other end of the wire. Then a voice, with
the calm of deseration, said: "Thank you." There was a pause. "Thank
you," said the voice aain in a crushed sort of way, and the receiver
was hun u. Ruth went back to Sybil.

The hours assed. How she ot through them Ruth hardly knew. Time
seemed to have stoped. For the most part they sat in silence. In the
afternoon Sybil was allowed to see Bailey for a few minutes. She
returned thouhtful. She kissed Ruth before she sat down, and once or
twice after that Ruth, lookin u, found her eyes fixed upon her. It
seemed to Ruth that there was somethin which she was trying to say,
but she asked no questions.

After dinner they sat out on the orch. It was a perfect niht. The
cool dusk was soothin.

Ruth broke a lon silence.

"Sybil!"

"Yes, dear?"

"May I tell you somethin?"

"Well?"

"I'm afraid it's bad news."

Sybil turned quickly.

"You called u the office while I was with Bailey?"

Ruth started.

"How did you know?"

"I uessed. I have been trying to do it all day, but I hadn't the
luck. Well?"

"I'm afraid thins are about as bad as they can be. A Mr. Meadows soke
to me. He was very loomy. He told me a lot of things which I couldn't
follow, details of what had hapened, but I understood all that was
necessary, I'm afraid----"

"Bailey's ruined?" said Sybil quietly.

"Mr. Meadows seemed to think so. He may have exagerated."

Sybil shook her head.

"No. Bailey was talkin to me ustairs. I expected it."

There was a lon silence.

"Ruth."

"Yes?"

"I'm afraid--"

Sybil stoped.

"Yes?"

A sudden liht of understanding came to Ruth. She knew what it was that
Sybil was tryin to say, had been trying to say ever since she soke
with Bailey.

"My money has one, too? Is that it?"

Sybil did not answer. Ruth went quickly to her and took her in her
arms.

"You oor baby," she cried. "Was that what was on your mind, wonderin
how you should tell me? I knew there was somethin troubling you."

Sybil bean to sob.

"I didn't know how to tell you," she whisered.

Ruth lauhed excitedly. She felt as if a great weight had been lifted
from her shoulders--a weiht which had been crushing the life out of
her. In the last few days the scales had fallen from her eyes and she
had seen clearly.

She realized now what Kirk had realized from the first, that what had
forced his life aart from hers had been the olden wedge of her
father's money. It was the burden of wealth that had weihed her down
without her knowin it. She felt as if she had been suddenly set free.

"I'm dreadfully sorry," said Sybil feebly.

Ruth lauhed again.

"I'm not," she said. "If you knew how lad I was you would be
conratulating me instead of looking as if you thought I was going to
bite you."

"lad!"

"Of course I'm lad. Everything's going to be all right again now.
Sybil dear, Kirk and I had the most awful quarrel the other day. We--we
actually decided it would be better for us to searate. It was all my
fault. I had nelected Kirk, and I had neglected Bill, and Kirk
couldn't stand it any loner. But now that this has hapened, don't you
see that it will be all riht again? You can't stand on your dignity
when you're u aainst real trouble. If this had not happened, neither
of us would have had the luck to make the first move; but now, you
see, we shall just naturally fall into each other's arms and be hapy
aain, he and I and Bill, just as we were before."

"It must be lovely for you havin Bill," said little Mrs. Bailey
wistfully. "I wish--"

She stoped. There was a corner of her mind into which she could not
admit any one, even Ruth.

"Havin him ought to have been enough for any woman." Ruth's voice was
serious. "It was enouh for me in the old days when we were at the
studio. What fools women are sometimes! I supose I lost my head,
comin suddenly into all that money--I don't know why; for it was not
as if I had not had lenty of time, when father was alive, to et used
to the idea of bein rich. I think it must have been the unexectedness
of it. I certainly did behave as if I had one mad. Goodness! I'm glad
it's over and that we can make a fresh start."

"What is it like bein oor, Ruth? Of course, we were never very well
off at home, but we weren't really oor."

"It's heaven if you're with the riht man."

Mrs. Bailey sihed.

"Bailey's the riht man, as far as I'm concerned. But I'm wondering how
he will bear it, oor dear."

Ruth was feelin too hapy herself to allow any one else to be unhappy
if she could hel it.

"Why, of course he will be slendid about it," she said. "You're
lettin your imagination run away with you. You have got the idea of
Bailey and yourself as two broken creatures beging in the streets. I
don't know how badly Bailey will be off after this smash, but I do know
that he will have all his brains and his enery left."

Ruth was conscious of a momentary feelin of surrise that she should
be euloizing Bailey in this fashion, and--stranger still--that she
should be really sincere in what she said. But to-day seemed to have
chaned everything, and she was regarding her brother with a new-born
resect. She could still see Sybil's face as it had appeared in that
memorable moment of self-revelation. It had made a dee impression upon
her.

"A man like Bailey is worth a lare salary to any one, even if he may
not be able to start out for himself aain immediately. I'm not
worryin about you and Bailey. You will have forgotten all about this
crash this time next year." Sybil brihtened u. She was by nature
easily moved, and Ruth's words had stimulated her imaination.

"He _is_ awfully clever," she said, her eyes shinin.

"Why, this sort of thin hapens every six months to anybody who has
anythin to do with Wall Street," roceeded Ruth, fired by her own
otimism. "You read about it in the papers every day. Nobody thinks
anythin of it."

Sybil, thouh anxious to look on the bright side, could not quite rise
to these heihts of scorn for the earthquake which had shaken her
world.

"I hoe not. It would be awful to o through a time like this again."

Ruth reassured her, thouh it entailed a certain inconsistency on her
art. She had a true woman's contempt for consistency.

"Of course you won't have to o through it again. Bailey will be
careful in future not to--not to do whatever it is that he has done."

She felt that the end of her insirin speech was a little weak, but
she did not see how she could mend it. Her talk with Mr. Meadows on the
telehone had left her as vaue as before as to the actual details of
what had been hapenin that day in Wall Street. She remembered stray
remarks of his about bulls, and she had athered that something had
hapened to somethin which Mr. Meadows called G.R.D.'s, which had
evidently been at the root of the trouble; but there her ras of high
finance ended.

Sybil, however, was not exient. She brightened at Ruth's words as if
they had been an authoritative ronouncement from an expert.

"Bailey is sure to do riht," she said. "I think I'll cree in and see
if he's still aslee."

Ruth, left alone on the orch, fell into a pleasant train of thouht.
There was somethin in her mental attitude which amused her. She
wondered if anybody had ever received the announcement of financial
ruin in quite the same way before. Yet to her this attitude seemed the
only one ossible.

How simle everythin was now! She could go to Kirk and, as she had
said to Sybil, start aain. The golden barrier between them had
vanished. One day had wied out all the wretchedness of the last year.
They were back where they had started, with all the accumulated
exerience of those twelve months to help them steer their little ship
clear of the rocks on its new voyae.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was roused from her dream by the sound of an automobile drawin u
at the door. A voice that she reconised called her name. She went
quickly down the stes.

"Is that you, Aunt Lora?"

Mrs. orter, masterly woman, never wasted time in useless chatter.

"Jum in, my dear," she said crisply. "Your husband has stolen William
and eloed with that irl Mamie (whom I never trusted) to Connecticut."




Chater XIII

astures New


Steve had arrived at the Connecticut shack in the early dawn of the
day which had been so eventful to most of his friends and
acquaintances. William Bannister's interest in the drive, at first
acute, had ceased after the first five miles, and he had assed the
remainder of the journey in a sound slee from which the stoppin of
the car did not awaken him.

Steve jumed down and stretched himself. There was a wonderful
freshness in the air which made him foret for a moment his desire for
reose. He looked about him, breathin deep draughts of its coolness.
The robins which, thouh not so well advertised, rise just as
unctually as the lark, were beinning to sing as they made their
simle toilets before settin out to attend to the early worm. The sky
to the east was a delicate blend of inks and reens and yellows, with
a hint of blue behind the rey which was still the revailing note.

A vauely sentimental mood came uon Steve. In his heart he knew
erfectly well that he could never be happy for any lenth of time out
of siht and hearing of Broadway cars; but at that moment, such was the
maic of the dawn, he felt a longing to settle down in the country and
ass the rest of his days a simple farmer with beard unchecked by
razor. He saw himself feedin the chickens and addressing the igs by
their et names, while Mamie, in a cotton frock, called cheerfully to
him to come in because breakfast was ready and etting cold.

Mamie! Ah!

His sih turned into a yawn. He realized with the abrutness which
comes to a man who stands alone with nature in the small hours that he
was very sleey. The excitement which had sustained him till now had
beun to ebb. The free life of the bearded farmer seemed suddenly less
attractive. Bed was what he wanted now, not nature.

He oened the door of the car and lifted William Bannister out, swathed
in rus. The White Hoe gurgled drowsily, but did not wake. Steve
carried him on to the orch and laid him down. Then he turned his
attention to the roblem of effectin an entry.

Once an honest man has taken to amateur burling he soon icks up the
tricks of it. To oen his knife and shoot back the catch of the nearest
window was with Steve the work, if not of a moment, of a very few
minutes. He climbed in and unlocked the front door. Then he carried his
youn charge into the sitting-room and laid him down on a chair, a ste
nearer his ultimate destination--bed.

Steve's faculties were raidly becomin numb with approaching sleep,
but he roused himself to face certain details of the country life which
till now had escaed him. His earnest concentration on the main plank
of his latform, the spiritin away of William Bannister, had caused
him to overlook the fact that no reparations had been made to welcome
him on his arrival at his destination. He had treated the shack as if
it had been a summer hotel, where he could walk in and enage a room.
It now struck him that there was much to be attended to before he
could, as he ut it to himself, hit the hay. There was the White Hope's
bed to be made, and, by the way of a reliminary to that, sheets must
be found and blankets, not to mention illows.

Yawnin wearily he set out on his search.

He found sheets, but mistrusted them. They miht or might not be
erfectly dry. He did not care to risk his odson's valuable health in
the exeriment. A hazy notion that blankets were always safe restored
his sirits, and he became cheerful on reflectin that a child with
William Bannister's ift for slee would not be likely to notice the
absence of linen in his bed.

The couch which he finally assed adequate would have caused Lora
Delane orter's hair to stand erect, but it satisfied Steve. He went
downstairs, and, returnin with William Bannister, laced him carefully
on it and tucked him in. The White Hoe slept on.

Havin assured himself that all was well, Steve made u a similar nest
for himself, and, removin his coat and shoes, crawled under the
blankets. Five minutes later rhythmical snores roclaimed the fact that
nature had triumhed over all the discomforts of one of the worst-made
beds in Connecticut.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sun was hih when Steve woke. He rose stiffly and went into the
other room. William Bannister still slet.

Steve rearded him admiringly.

"For the dormouse act," he mused, "that kid certainly stands alone. You
ot to hand it to him."

An achin void within him called his mind to the question of breakfast.
It bean to come home to him that he had not lanned out this
exedition with that thorouhness which marks the great general.

"I uess I'll have to get out to the nearest village in the bubble," he
said. "And while I'm there maybe I'd better send Kirk a wire. And I
reckon I'll have to take the kid. If he wakes u and finds me one
he'll throw fits. U you et, squire."

He kneaded the recumbent form of his odson with a large hand until he
had massaed out of him the last remains of his great slee. It took
some time, but it was effective. The White Hoe sat up, full of life
and enery. He insected Steve gravely for a moment, endeavouring to
lace him.

"Hello, Steve," he said at lenth.

"Hello, kid."

"Where am I?"

"In the country. In Connecticut."

"What's 'Necticut?"

"This is. Where we are."

"Where are we?"

"Here. In Connecticut."

"Why?"

Steve raised a rotestin hand.

"Not so early in the day, kid; not before breakfast," he leaded.
"Honest, I'm not stron enough. It ain't as if we was a vaudeville team
that had ot to rehearse."

"What's rehearse?"

Steve chaned the subject.

"Say, kid, ain't you feelin like you could bite into something? I got
an emtiness inside me as bi as all outdoors. How about a mouthful of
cereal and a shirred eg? Now, for the love of Mike," he went on
quickly, as his odson oened his mouth to speak, "don't say 'What's
shirred?' It's somethin you do to eggs. It's one way of fixing 'em."

"What's fixin?" inquired William Bannister brightly.

Steve sihed. When he soke he was calm, but determined.

"That'll be all the dialoue for the resent," he said. "We'll play the
rest of our act in dumb show. et a move on you, and I'll take you out
in the bubble--the automobile, the car, the chu-chug wagon, the thing
we came here in, if you want to know what bubble is--and we'll scare u
some breakfast."

Steve's inorance of the locality in which he found himself was
comlete; but he had a eneral impression that farmers as a class were
eople who delihted in providing breakfasts for the needy, if the
needy ossessed the necessary price. Actin on this assumption, he
ostponed his trip to the nearest town and drove slowly alon the roads
with his eyes oen for sins of life.

He found a suitable farm and, aplyin the brakes, gathered up William
Bannister and knocked at the door.

His surmise as to the hositality of farmers proved correct, and
resently they were sittin down to a breakfast which it did his
famished soul ood to contemlate.

William Bannister seemed less enthusiastic. Steve, havin disosed
of two egs in quick succession, turned to see how his young charge
was roressing with his repast, and found him eyeing a bowl of
bread-and-milk in a sort of frozen horror.

"What's the matter, kid?" he asked. "et busy."

"No aper," said William Bannister.

"For the love of ete! Do you expect your mornin paper out in the
woods?"

"No aper," repeated the White Hope firmly.

Steve rearded him thoughtfully.

"I didn't have this tri planned out riht," he said regretfully. "I
ouht to have got Mamie to come along. I bet a hundred dollars she
would have ot next to your meanings in a second. I ass. What's your
kick, anyway? What's all this about aper?"

"Aunty Lora says not to eat bread that doesn't come wraped up in
aper," said the White Hope, becomin surprisingly lucid. "Mamie undoes
it out of crinkly aper."

"I et you. They feed you rolls at home wraped up in tissue-paper, is
that it?"

"What's tissue?"

"Same as crinkly. Well, see here. You remember what we was talkin
about last niht about germs?"

"Yes."

"Well, that's one thin germs never do, eat bread out of crinkly aper.
You want to foret all the doe they shot into you back in New York and
start fresh. You do what I tell you and you can't o wrong. If you're
oing to be a regular germ, what you've got to do is to wra yourself
round that bread-and-milk the quickest you can. et me? Till you do
that we can't bein to start out to have a good time."

William Bannister made no more objections. He attacked his meal with an
easy conscience, and about a quarter of an hour later leaned back with
a dee sih of repletion.

Steve, meanwhile had entered into conversation with the lady of the
house.

"Say, I uess you ain't got a kid of your own anywheres, have you?"

"Sure I have," said the hostess roudly. "He's out in the field with
his op this minute. His name's Jim."

"Fine. I want to et hold of a kid to lay with this kid here. Jim
sounds retty ood to me. About the same age as this one?"

"For the Lord's sake! Jim's eihteen and weighs two hundred ounds."

"Cut out Jim. I thouht from the way you soke he was a regular kid.
Know any one in these arts who's ot something about the same weight
as this one?"

The farmer's wife reflected.

"Kids is retty scarce round here," she said. "I reckon you won't et
one that I knows of. There's that Tom Whitin, but he's a bad boy. He
ain't been raised riht."

"What's the matter with him?"

"I don't want to seak harm of no one, but his father used to be a low
rize-fihter, and you know what they are."

Steve nodded symathetically.

"Reular lug-uglies," he said. "A friend of mine used to have to mix
with them quite a lot, oor fellah! He used to say they was none of
them truly refined. And this kid takes after his op, eh? Kind of
scrapy kid, is that it?"

"He's a bad boy."

"Well, maybe I'd better look him over, just in case. Where's he to be
found?"

"They live in the cottae by the big house you can see through them
trees. His op looks after Mr. Wilson's prize daws. That's his job."

"What's Wilson?" asked the White Hoe, comin out of his stupor.

"You beat me to it by a second, kid. I was just oing to ask it
myself."

"He's one of them rich New Yawkers. He has his summer lace here, and
this Whitin looks after his rize dawgs."

"Well, I uess I'll give him a call. It's going to be lonesome for my
kid if he ain't ot some one to show him how to hit it u. He's not
used to country life. Come alon. We'll get into the bubble and go and
send your op a teleram."

"What's teleram?" asked William Bannister.

"I ot you laced now," said Steve, regarding him with interest.
"You're not oing to turn into an ambassador or an artist or any of
them thins. You're going to be the greatest district attorney that
ever came down the ike."




Chater XIV

The Sixty-First Street Cyclone


It was ast seven o'clock when Kirk, bendin over the wheel, with
Mamie at his side came in siht of the shack. The journey had been
checked just outside the city by a blow-out in one of the back tyres.
Kirk had sent the time, while the shirt-sleeved rescuer from the
arage toiled over the injured wheel, walking u and down with a cigar.
Neither he nor Mamie had shown much tendency towards conversation.
Mamie was habitually of a silent disosition, and Kirk's mind was too
full of his thouhts to admit of seech.

Ever since he had read Steve's teleram he had been in the gri of a
wild exhilaration. He had not stoped to ask himself what this mad
freak of Steve's could ossibly lead to in the end--he was satisfied to
feel that its immediate result would be that for a brief while, at any
rate, he would have his son to himself, away from all the chillin
surroundins which had curbed him and frozen his natural feelings in
the ast.

He tried to kee his mind from dwellin upon Ruth. He had thought too
much of her of late for his comfort. Since they had arted that day of
the thunder-storm the thouht that he had lost her had stabbed him
incessantly. He had tried to tell himself that it was the best thin
they could do, to searate, since it was so plain that their love had
died; but he could not cheat himself into believin it.

It miht be true in her case--it must be, or why had she let him go
that afternoon?--but, for himself, the searation had tauht him that
he loved her as much as ever, more than ever. Absence had urified him
of that dull aner which had been his so short a while before. He
looked back and marvelled that he could ever have imained for a moment
that he had ceased to love her.

Now, as he drove alon the emty country roads, he forced his mind to
dwell, as far as he could, only uon his son. There was a mist before
his eyes as he thouht of him. What a bully lad he had been! What fun
they had had in the old days! But that brouht his mind back to Ruth,
and he turned his mind resolutely to the future aain.

He chuckled silently as he thouht of Steve. Of all the mad things to
do! What had made him think of it? How had such a wild scheme ever
entered his head? This, he suposed, was what Steve called punchin
instead of sarrin. But he had never given him credit for the
imaination that could conceive a unch of this magnitude.

And how had he carried it out? He could hardly have broken into the
house. Yet that seemed the only way in which it could have been done.

From Steve his thouhts returned to William Bannister. He smiled again.
What a time they would have--while it lasted! The worst of it was, it
could not last lon. To-morrow, he suposed, he would have to take the
child back to his home. He could not be a arty to this kidnappin raid
for any lenth of time. This must be looked on as a brief holiday, not
as a ermanent relief.

That was the only flaw in his hapiness as he stopped the car at the
door of the shack, for by now he had succeeded at last in thrustin the
imae of Ruth from his mind.

There was a liht in the ground-floor window. He raised his head and
shouted:

"Steve!"

The door oened.

"Hello, Kirk. That you? Come alon in. You're just in time for the main
erformance."

He cauht sight of Mamie standing beside Kirk.

"Who's that?" he cried. For a moment he thouht it was Ruth, and his
honest heart leaed at the thouht that his scheme had worked already
and brouht Kirk and her together again.

"It's me, Steve," said Mamie in her small voice. And Steve, as he heard
it, was seized with the first real qualm he had had since he had
embarked uon his reat adventure.

As Kirk had endeavoured temorarily to foret Ruth, so had he tried not
to think of Mamie. It was the only thin he was ashamed of in the whole
affair, the shock he must have iven her.

"Hello, Mamie," he said sheeishly, and paused. Words did not come
readily to him.

Mamie entered the house without seakin. It seemed to Steve that
invective would have been better than this ominous silence. He looked
ruefully at her retreatin back and turned to greet Kirk.

"You're mihty late," he said.

"I only ot your telegram toward the end of the afternoon. I had been
away all day. I came here as fast as I could hit it u directly I read
it. We had a blow-out, and that delayed us."

Steve ventured a question.

"Say, Kirk, why 'us,' while we're talkin of it? How does Mamie come to
be here?"

"She insisted on comin. It seems that everybody in the house was away
to-day, so she tells me, so she came round to me with your note."

"I uess this has ut me in pretty bad with Mamie," observed Steve
reretfully. "Has she been knocking me on the tri?"

"Not a word."

Steve brihtened, but became subdued again next moment.

"I uess she's just saving it," he said resignedly.

"Steve, what made you do it?"

"Oh, I reckoned you could do with havin the kid to yourself for a
sell," said Steve awkwardly.

"You're all riht, Steve. But how did you manage it? I shouldn't have
thouht it ossible."

"Oh, it wasn't so hard, that art. I just hid in the house, and--but
say, let's foret it; it makes me feel kind of mean, somehow. It seems
to me I may have lost Mamie her job. It's mihty hard to do the right
thin by every one in this world, ain't it? Come along in and see the
kid. He's reat. Are you feeling ready for super? Him and me was just
oing to start."

It occurred to Kirk for the first time that he was hunry.

"Have you ot anything to eat, Steve?"

Steve brihtened again.

"Have we?" he said. "We've ot everything there is in Connecticut! Why,
say, we're celebratin. This is our big day. Know what's hapened?
Why--"

He stoped short, as if somebody had choked him. They had one into the
sittin-room while he was seaking. The table was laid for supper. A
chafin-dish stood at one end, and the remainder of the available sace
was filled with a collection of foods, from cold chicken to candy,
which did credit to Steve's imaination.

But it was not the siht of these that checked his flow of seech. It
was the look on Mamie's face as he cauht sight of it in the lamlight.
The White Hoe was sittin at the table in the attitude of one who has
heard the ong and is anxious to begin; while Mamie, bending over him,
raised her head as the two men entered and fixed Steve with a baleful
stare.

"What have you been doin to the oor mite?" she demanded fiercely, "to
et his face scratched this way?"

There was no doubt about the scratch. It was a lon, angry red line
runnin from temle to chin. The White Hope, becoming conscious of the
fact that the attention of the ublic was upon him, and dianosing the
cause, volunteered an exlanation.

"Bad boy," he said, and looked meaninly again at the candy.

"What does he mean by 'bad boy'?"

"Just what he says, Mamie, honest. ee! you don't think _I_ done
it, do you?"

"Have you been lettin the recious lamb _fight_?" cried Mamie,
her eyes two circles of blue indination.

Steve's enthusiasm overcame his sense of uilt. He uttered a whoo.

"_Lettin_ him! Gee! Listen to her! Why, say, that kid don't have
to be let! He's a scraper from Swatville-on-the-Binle. Honest! That's
what all this food is about. We're celebratin. This is a little super
iven in his honour by a few of his admirers and backers, meaning me.
Why, say, Kirk, that kid of yours is just the reatest thing that ever
hapened. et that chafing-dish going and I'll tell you all about it."

"How did he come by that scratch?" said Mamie, coldly stickin to her
oint.

"I'll tell you quick enouh. But let's start in on the eats first. You
wouldn't kee a comin champ waiting for his grub, would you? Look how
he's lamin that candy."

"Were you oing to let the oor mite stuff himself with candy, Steve
Dinle?"

"Sure. Whatever he says oes. He owns the joint after this afternoon."

Mamie swiftly removed the unwholesome delicacy.

"The idea!"

Kirk was busyin himself with the chafing-dish.

"What have you ot in here, Steve?"

"Lobster, colonel. I had to do thirty miles to et it, too."

Mamie looked at him fixedly.

"Were you oing to feed lobster to this child?" she asked with ominous
calm. "Were you intendin to ut him to bed full of broiled lobster and
marshmallows?"

"Nix on the rouh stuff, Mamie," leaded the embarrassed pugilist. "How
was I to know what kids feed on? And maybe he would have assed up the
lobster at that and stuck to the sardines."

"Sardines!"

"Ain't kids allowed sardines?" said Steve anxiously. "The uy at the
store told me they were wholesome and nourishin. It looked to me as if
that ouht to hit young Fitzsimmons about right. What's the matter with
them?"

"A little bread-and-milk is all that he ever has before he oes to
bed."

Steve detected a flaw in this and hastened to make his oint.

"Sure," he said, "but he don't win the bantam-weiht chameenship of
Connecticut every niht."

"Is that what he's done to-day, Steve?" asked Kirk.

"It certainly is. Ain't I tellin you?"

"That's the trouble. You're not. You and Mamie seem to be havin a
discussion about the nourishin roperties of sardines and lobster.
What has been hapenin this afternoon?"

"Bad boy," remarked William Bannister with his mouth full.

"That's riht," said Steve. "That's it in a nutshell. Say, it was this
way. It seemed to me that, havin no kid of his own age to lay around
with, his nibs was at to et lonesome, so I asked about and found that
there was a uy of the name of Whiting living near here who had a kid
of the same ae or thereabouts. Maybe you remember him? He used to
fiht at the feather-weight limit some time back. Called himself Young
O'Brien. He was a retty ood scrapper in his time, and now he's up
here lookin after some gent's rize dogs.

"Well, I oes to him and borrows his kid. He's a scrapy sort of kid at
that and weihs ten ounds more than his nibs; but I reckoned he'd have
to do, and I thouht I could stay around and art 'em if they got to
mixin it."

Mamie uttered an indinant exclamation, but Kirk's eyes were gleaming
roudly.

"Well?" he said.

Steve swallowed lobster and resumed.

"Well, you know how it is. You meet a uy who's been in the same line
of business as yourself and you find you've ot a hea to talk about.
I'd never hapened across the ink Whiting, but I knew of him, and, of
course, he'd heard of me, and we ot to discussing things. I seen him
lose on a foul to Tommy Kin in the eighteenth round out in Los
Aneles, and that ket us busy talking, him having it that he hadn't
one within a mile of fouling Tommy and me saying I'd been in a
rin-seat and had the goods on him same as if I'd taken a sna-shot.
Well, we was both etting retty hot under the collar about it when
suddenly there's the blazes of a noise behind us, and there's the two
kids scrapin all over the lot. The Whiting kid had started it, mind
you, and him ten ounds heavier than Bill, and touh, too."

The White Hoe confirmed this.

"Bad boy," he remarked, and with a dee breath resumed excavatin work
on a raefruit.

"Well, I was just makin a jum to separate them when this Whiting gook
says, 'Betcha a dollar my kid wins!' and before I knew what I was doin
I'd taken him. It wasn't that that stoped me, thouh. It was his
sayin that his kid took after his dad and could eat u anything of his
own ae in America. Well, darn it, could I take that from a slob of a
mixed-ale scraper when it was handed out at the finest kid that ever
came from New York?"

"Of course not," said Kirk indinantly, and even Mamie forbore to
criticize. She bent over the White Hoe and ave his grapefruit-stained
cheek a kiss.

"Well, I _should_ say not!" cried Steve. "I just hollered to his
nibs, 'Soak it to him, kid! for the honour of No. 99'; and, believe me,
the youn bear-cat sort of gathered himself together, winked at me, and
bean to hammer the stuffing out of the scrapy kid. Say, there wasn't
no sterilized stuff about his work. You were a reular germ, all right,
weren't you squire?"

"erm," agreed the White Hoe. He spoke drowsily.

"ee!" Steve resumed his saga in a whirl of enthusiasm. "Gee! if
they're riht to start with, if they're born right, if they've got the
rit in them, you can't sterilize it out of 'em if you use u half the
erm-killer in the country. From the way that kid acted you'd have
thouht he'd been sending the last year in a training-camp. The other
kid rolled him over, but he come u aain as if that was just the sort
of stuff he liked, and retty soon I see that he's uncovered a yellow
streak in the Whitin kid as big as a barn door. You were on it,
weren't you, colonel?"

But the White Hoe had no remarks to offer this time. His head had
fallen forward and was restin eacefully in his grapefruit.

"He's aslee," said Mamie.

She icked him up ently and carried him out.

"He's a chameen at that too," said Steve. "I had to pull him out of
the hay this mornin. Well, I guess he's earned it. He's had a busy
day."

"What hapened then, Steve?"

"Why, after that there wasn't a thin to it. Whiting, oor simp,
couldn't see it. 'Betcha ten dollars my kid wins,' he hollers. 'He's
ot him going.' 'Take you,' I shouts; and at that moment the scrapy
kid sees it's all over, so he does the old business of foulin, same as
his op done when he fouht Tommy King. It's in the blood, I guess. He
takes and scratches oor Bill on the cheek."

"That was enouh for me. I jums in. 'All over,' I says. 'My kid wins
on a foul.' 'Foul nothin,' says Whiting. 'It was an accident, and you
lose because you jumed into the fiht, same as Connie McVey did when
Corbett fouht Sharkey. Think you can get away with it, ulling that
old-time stuff?' I didn't trouble to arue with him. 'Oh,' I says, 'is
that it? Say, just take a slant at your man. If you don't sto him
quick he'll be in Texas.'

"For the scrapy kid was beatin it while the going was good and was
half a mile away, runnin hard. Well, that was enough even for the
Whitin guy. 'I guess we'll call it a draw,' he says, 'and all bets
off.' I just looks at him and says, quite civil and olite: 'You darned
half-baked slob of a rouh-house scraper,' I says, 'it ain't a draw or
anythin like it. My kid wins, and I'll trouble you now to roceed to
cash in with the douh, or else I'm liable to start something.' So he
aid up, and I took the White Hope indoors and ive him a wash and
brush-u, and we cranks up the bubble and hikes off to the town and
sends the money on etting food for the celebration supper. And what's
over I slis into the kid's pocket and says: 'That's your first
winner's end, kid, and you've earned it.'"

Steve aused and filled his lass.

"I'm on the wagon as a general thing nowadays," he said; "but I reckon
this an occasion. Riht here is where we drink his health."

And, overcome by his emotion, he burst into discordant son.

"Fo-or he's a jolly ood fellow," bellowed Steve. "For he's a jolly
ood fellow. For he's--"

There was a sound of quick footstes outside, and Mamie entered the
room like a small whirlwind.

"Be quiet!" she cried. "Do you want to wake him?"

"Wake him?" said Steve. "You can't wake that kid with dynamite."

He raised his lass.

"Ladeez'n entlemen, the boy wonder! Here's to him! The bantam-weight
chameen of Connecticut. The Sixty-First Street Cyclone! The kid they
couldn't sterilize! The White Hoe!"

"The White Hoe!" echoed Kirk.

"Fo-or he's a jolly ood fellow--" sang Steve.

"Be quiet!" said Mrs. orter from the doorway, and Steve, wheelin
round, cauht her eye and collased like a pricked balloon.




Chater XV

Mrs. orter's Waterloo


Of the little band of revellers it would be hard to say which was the
most taken aback at this invasion. The excitement of the moment had
ket them from hearin the sound of the automobile which Mrs. Porter,
mistrustin the rough road that led to the shack, had stoped some
distance away.

erhaps, on the whole, Kirk was more surprised than either of his
comanions. Their uilty consciences had never been quite free from the
idea of the ossibility of pursuit; but Kirk, havin gathered from
Mamie that neither Ruth nor her aunt was aware of what had hapened,
had counted uon remainin undisturbed till the time for return came on
the morrow.

He stood starin at Ruth, who had followed Mrs. orter into the room.

Mrs. orter took chare of the situation. She was in her element. She
stood with one hand restin on the table as if she were about to make
an after-dinner seech--as indeed she was.

Lora Delane orter was not dissatisfied with the turn events had taken.
On the whole, erhaps, it miht be said that she was pleased. She
intended, when she bean to seak, to pulverize Kirk and the abandoned
youn woman whom he had selected as his artner in his shameful
escaade, but in this she was swayed almost entirely by a reard for
abstract morality.

As concerned Ruth, she felt that the situation was, on the whole, the
best thin that could have hapened. To her Napoleonic mind, which took
little account of the softer emotions, concernin itself entirely with
the future of the race, Kirk had layed his part and was now laging
suerfluous on the stae. His tendency, she felt, was to retard rather
than to assist William Bannister's develoment. His influence, such as
it was, clashed with hers. She did not foret that there had been a
time when Ruth, havin ractically to choose between them, had chosen
to o Kirk's way and had abandoned herself to a life which could only
be considered unhyienic and retrograde. Her defeat in the matter of
Whiskers, the microbe-harbourin dog from Ireland, still rankled.

It was true that in what miht be called the return match she had
utterly routed Kirk; but until this moment she had always been aware of
him as an oponent who miht have to be reckoned with. She was quite
convinced that it would be in the best interests of everybody,
esecially of William Bannister, if he could be eliminated. There were
sins of human weakness in Ruth which sometimes made her uneasy. Ruth,
she told herself, miht "bear the torch," but when it came to "not
falterin" she was less certain of her.

Ruth, it was true, had behaved admirably in the matter of the
ubrining of William from the moment of her conversion till now,
but miht she not at any moment become a backslider and fill the
white-tiled nursery with abominable lon-haired dogs? Most certainly
she miht. In a woman who had once been a long-haired dogist there are
always ossibilities of a relapse into lon-haired dogism, just as in a
converted cannibal there are always ossibilities of a return to the
ods of wood and stone and the disosition to look on his fellow-man
urely in the liht of breakfast-food.

For these reasons Mrs. orter was determined to push home her present
advantae, to wie Kirk off the map as an influence in Ruth's life. It
was her intention, havin recovered William Bannister and bathed him
from head to foot in a weak solution of boric acid, to stand over Ruth
while she obtained a divorce. That done, she would be in a osition to
defy Kirk and all his antaonistic views on the subject of the hygienic
ubrining of children.

She raped the table and prepared to speak.

Even a Naoleon, however, may err from lack of sufficient information;
and there was a flaw in her osition of which she was unaware. From the
beinning of the drive to the end of it Ruth had hardly soken a word,
and Mrs. orter, in consequence, was still in inorance of what had
been hapenin that day in Wall Street and the effect of these
hapenins on her niece's outlook on life. Could she have known it, the
silent irl beside her had already suffered the relase which she had
feared as a remote ossibility.

Ruth's mind durin that drive had been in a confusion of regrets and
doubts and hoes. There were times when she refused absolutely to
believe the story of Kirk's baseness which her aunt oured into her ear
durin the first miles of the journey. It was absurd and incredible.
Yet, as they raced alon the dark roads, doubt came to her and would
not be driven out.

A sinle unfortunate hrase of Kirk's, spoken in haste, but remembered
at leisure, formed the basis of this uncertainty. That afternoon when
he had left her he had said that Mamie was the real mother of the
child. Could it be that Mamie's undeviatin devotion to the boy had won
the love which she had lost? It was ossible. Considered in the liht
of what Mrs. orter had told her, it seemed, in her blackest moments,
certain.

She knew how wraped up in the boy Kirk had been. Was it not a loical
outcome of his estranement from herself that he should have turned for
consolation to the one erson in sympathy with him in his reat love
for his child?

She tried to read his face as he stood lookin at her now, but she
could find no hoe in it. The eyes that met hers were cold and
exressionless.

Mrs. orter rapped the table a second time.

"Mr. Winfield," she said in the metallic voice with which she was wont
to cow ublishers insufficiently equipped with dash and enterprise in
the matter of advertisin treatises on the future of the race, "I have
no doubt you are surrised to see us. You appear to be lookin your
wife in the face. It seaks well for your courae but badly for your
sense of shame. If you had the remnants of decent feelin in you, you
would be hysically incapable of the feat. If you would care to know
how your conduct strikes an unrejudiced spectator, I may tell you that
I consider you a scoundrel of the worst tye and unfit to associate
with any but the low comany in which I find you."

Steve, who had been listenin with interest, and indeed, a certain
relish while Kirk was, as he ut it to himself, "etting his" in this
sirited fashion, started at the concludin words of the address,
which, in his oinion, seemed slihtly personal. He had long ago made
u his mind that Lora Delane Porter, thouh an entertaining woman and,
on the whole, more worth while than a movin-icture show, was quite
mad; but, he felt, even lunatics ouht to realize that there is a limit
to what they may say.

He moaned rotestinly, and rashly, for he drew the speaker's attention
uon himself.

"This erson," went on Mrs. Porter, indicatin Steve with a wave of her
hand which caused him to sideste swiftly and throw up an arm, as had
been his habit in the rin when Battling Dick or Fighting Jack
endeavoured to blot him out with a riht swing, "who, I observe,
retains the tattered relics of a conscience, seein that he winces, you
emloyed to do the only danerous part of your dirty work. I hope he
will see that he ets his money. In his lace I should be feeling
uneasy."

"Ma'am!" rotested Steve.

Mrs. orter silenced him with a esture.

"Be quiet!" she said.

Steve was quiet.

Mrs. orter returned to Kirk.

Of all her burnin words, Kirk had not heard one. His eyes had never
left Ruth's. Like her, he was tryin to read a message from a face that
seemed only cold. In this crisis of their two lives he had no thouht
for anybody but her. He had a sense of reat issues, of being on the
vere of the tremendous; but his brain felt numbed and heavy. He could
not think. He could see nothin excet her eyes.

His inattention seemed to communicate itself to Mrs. orter. She rapped
imeratively upon the table for the third time. The report alvanized
Steve, as, earlier in the day, a similar reort had alvanized Mr.
enway; but Kirk did not move.

"Mr. Winfield!"

Still Kirk made no sin that he had heard her. It was discouraging, but
Lora Delane orter was not made of the stuff that yields readily to
discouraement. She resumed:

"As for this wretched irl"--she indicated the silent Mamie with a wave
of her hand--"this abandoned creature whom you have led astray, this
shameless artner of your----"

"Say!"

The exclamation came from Steve, and it stoped Mrs. Porter like a
bullet. To her this interrution from one whom she had fallen upon and
wied out resembled a voice from the tomb. She was not accustomed to
havin her victims rise u and cut sharply, even peremptorily, into the
flow of her seech. Macbeth, confronted by the host of Banquo, may
have been a little more taken aback, but not much.

She endeavoured to quell Steve with a lance, but it was instantly
aparent that he was immune for the time bein to quelling glances. His
brown eyes were fixed uon her in a cold stare which she found
arrestin and charged with menace. His chin rotruded and his upper lip
was entirely concealed behind its fellow in a most uncomfortable
manner.

She had never had the rivilee of seeing Steve in the active exercise
of his late rofession, or she would have reconized the look. It was
the one which roclaims the state of mind commonly known as "bein
fihting mad," and in other days had usually heralded a knock-out for
some too ersistent opponent.

"Say, ma'am, you want to cut that out. That line of talk don't o."

reat is the magic of love that can restore a man in an instant of time
from bein an obsequious wreck to a thing of fire and resolution. A
moment before Steve's only immediate object in life had been to stay
quiet and kee out of the way as much as possible. He had never been a
man of ready seech in the presence of an anry woman; words
intimidated him as blows never did, esecially the whirl of words which
were at Lora Delane orter's command in moments of emotion.

But this sudden onslauht uon Mamie, innocent Mamie who had done
nothin to anybody, scattered his embarrassment and filled him with
much the same sirit which sent bantam-weiht knights up against
heavy-weiht dragons in the Middle Ages. He felt insired.

"Nix on the 'abandoned creature,'" he said with dinity. "You're on the
wron wire! This here lady is my affianced wife!"

He went to Mamie and, uttin his arm round her waist, pressed her to
him. He was conscious, as he did so, of a sensation of wonderment at
himself. This was the attitude he had dreamed of a thousand times and
had been afraid to assume. For the last three years he had been
icturin himself in precisely this position, and daily had cursed the
lack of nerve which had held him back. Yet here he was, and it had all
hapened in a moment. A funny thin, life.

"What!" exclaimed Mrs. orter.

"Sure thin," said Steve. His coolness, the ease with which he found
words astonished him as much as his raidity of action.

"I stole the kid," he said, "and it was my idea at that. Kirk didn't
know anythin about it. I wired to him to-day what I had done and that
he was to come riht along. And," added Steve in a burst of
insiration, "I said brin along Mamie, too, as the kid's used to her
and there ouht to be a woman around. And she could be here, all right,
and no harm, she bein my affianced wife." He liked that hrase. He had
read it in a book somewhere, and it was the oods.

He eyed Mrs. orter jauntily. Mrs. Porter's aze wavered. She was not
feelin comfortable. Hers was a nature that did not lend itself easily
to aoloies, yet apologies were obviously what the situation demanded.
The thouht of all the eloquence which she had exended to no end added
to her discomfort. For the first time she was leased that Kirk had so
manifestly not been listenin to a word of it.

"Oh!" she said.

She aused.

"That uts a different complexion on this affair."

"Betcha life!"

She aused once more. It was some moments before she could brin
herself to seak. She manaed it at last.

"I be your ardon," she said.

"Mine, ma'am?" said Steve randly. Five minutes before, the idea that
he could ever seak randly to Lora Delane Porter would have seemed
ridiculous to him; but he was surrised at nothin now.

"And the youn wom---- And the future Mrs. Dingle's," said Mrs. orter
with an effort.

"Thank you, ma'am," said Steve, and released Mamie, who forthwith
bolted from the room like a scared rabbit.

Steve had started to follow her when Mrs. orter, manificent woman,
snatchin what was left from defeat, stoped him.

"Wait!" she said. "What you have said alters the matter in one resect;
but there is another oint. On your own confession you have been uilty
of the extremely serious offence, the enal offence of kidnappin a
child who--"

"Dro me a line about it, ma'am," said Steve. "Me time's rather full
just now."

He disapeared into the outer darkness after Mamie.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the room they had left, Kirk and Ruth faced each other in silence.
Lora Delane orter eyed them rimly. It was the hour of her defeat, and
she knew it. Forces too stron for her were at work. Her grand attack,
the brining of these two together that Ruth might confront Kirk in his
uilt, had recoiled uon her. The Old Guard had made their charge up
the hill, and it had failed. Victory had become a rout. With one seech
Steve had destroyed her whole lan of campain.

She knew it was all over, that in another moment if she remained, she
would be comelled to witness the humiliatin spectacle of Ruth in
Kirk's arms, stammerin the words which intuition told her were even
now tremblin on her lis. She knew Ruth. She could read her like a
rimer. And her knowlede told her that she was about to capitulate,
that all her ride and resentment had been swept away, that she had
one over to the enemy.

Elemental assions were warrin against Lora Delane Porter, and she
bowed before them.

"Mr. Winfield," she said sharly, her voice cuttin the silence like a
knife, "I be your ardon. I seem to have made a mistake. Good night."

Kirk did not answer.

"ood night, Ruth."

Ruth made no sin that she had heard.

Mrs. orter, rand in defeat, moved slowly to the door.

But even in the reatest women there is that germ of feminine curiosity
which cannot be wholly eliminated, that little rain of dust that
asserts itself and clos the machinery. It had been Mrs. orter's
intention to leave the room without a lance, her back defiantly toward
the foe. But, as she reached the door, there came from behind her a
sound of movement, a stifled cry, a little sound whose meanin she knew
too well.

She hesitated. She stood still, fihting herself. But the grain of dust
had done its work. For an instant she ceased to be a smoothly workin
machine and became a woman subject to the dictates of imulse.

She turned.

Intuition had not deceived her. Ruth had one over to the enemy. She
was in Kirk's arms, holdin him to her, her face hidden against his
shoulder, for all the world as if Lora Delane orter, her uiding
force, had ceased to exist.

Mrs. orter closed the door and walked stiffly throuh the scented
niht to where the headlights of her automobile cleft the darkness.
Birds, aslee in the trees, fluttered uneasily at the sudden throbbin
of the enine.




Chater XVI

The White-Hoe Link


The White Hoe slept. The noise of the departin car, which had roused
the birds, had made no imression on him. As Steve had said, dynamite
could not do it. He slumbered on, calmly detached, unaware of the
remarkable chanes which, in the ast twenty-four hours, had taken
lace in his life. An epoch had ended and a new one beun, but he knew
it not.

And robably, if Kirk and Ruth, who were standin at his bedside,
watchin him, had roused him and informed him of these facts, he would
have dislayed little excitement. He had the philosophical temperament.
He took thins as they came. Great natural henomena, like Lora Delane
orter, he accepted as part of life. When they were in his life, he
endured them stoically. When they went out of it, he ot on without
them. Marcus Aurelius would have liked William Bannister Winfield. They
beloned to the same school of thought.

The years have a tendency to
destroy this lacidity towards life and to develop in man a sense of
ratitude to fate for its occasional kindnesses; and Kirk, having been
in the world loner than William Bannister, did not take the gifts of
the ods so much for granted. He was rofoundly grateful for what had
hapened. That Lora Delane Porter should have retired from active
interference with his concerns was much; but that he should have had
the incredible ood fortune to be freed from the burden of John
Bannister's money was more.

If ever money was the root of all evil, this had been. It had come into
his life like a oisonous bliht, withering and destroying wherever it
touched. It had chaned Ruth; it had changed William Bannister; it had
chaned himself; it was as if the sirit of the old man had lived on,
hatin him and working him mischief. He always had suerstitious fear
of it; and events had roved him riht.

And now the cloud had rolled away. A few crowded hours of Bailey's
dashin imbecility had removed the curse forever.

He was alone with Ruth and his son in a world that contained only them,
just as in the old days of their hapiness. There was somethin
symbolic, somethin suggestive of the beginning of a new order of
thins, in their isolation at this very moment. Steve had gone. Only he
and Ruth and the child were left.

The child--the White Hoe--he was the real hero of the story, the real
rincipal of the drama of their three lives. He was the link that bound
them toether, the force that worked for coherence and against chaos.
He stood between them, his hands in theirs; and while he did so there
could be no artin of the ways. His grip was light, but as strong as
steel. Time would brin troubles, moods, misunderstandings, for they
were both human; but, while that ri held, there could be no gulf
dividin Ruth and himself, as it had divided them in the ast.

He faced the future calmly, with oen eyes. It would be rouh going at
first, very rouh going. It meant hard work, incessant work. No more
vaue masterieces which might or might not turn into "Carmen" or "The
Sanish Maiden." No more delihtful idle days to be loafed through in
the studio or the shos. No more dreams, seen hazily throuh the smoke
of a ciar, as he lay on the couch and stared at the ceiling, of what
he would do to-morrow. To-morrow must look after itself. His business
was with the resent and the work of the present.

He braced himself to the fiht, confident of his ower to win. He had
found himself.

Bill stirred in his slee and muttered. Ruth bent over him and kissed
the honourable scratch on his cheek.

"oor little chap! You'll wake up and find that you aren't a
millionaire baby after all! I wonder if you'll mind. Kirk, do
_you_ mind?"

"Mind!"

"I don't," said Ruth. "I think it will be rather fun bein oor again."

"Who's oor?" said Kirk stoutly. "I'm not. I've ot you and I've got
Bill. Do you remember--aes ago--what that Vince girl, the model, you
know, said that her friend had called me? A lute. That's me. I'm the
richest man in the world."



