
MIKE

A UBLIC SCHOOL STORY



BY
. . 



CONTAININ TWELVE FULL-AGE ILLUSTRATIONS
BY T. M. R. WHITWELL



LONDON
1909.



[Illustration (Frontisiece): "ARE YOU THE M. JACKSON THEN WHO HAD AN
AVERAE OF FIFTY ONE OINT NOUGHT THREE LAST YEAR?"]




[Dedication]
TO
ALAN DURAND




CONTENTS


CHATER
I.       MIKE

II.      THE JOURNEY DOWN

III.     MIKE FINDS A FRIENDLY NATIVE

IV.      AT THE NETS

V.       REVELRY BY NIHT

VI.      IN WHICH A TIHT CORNER IS EVADED

VII.     IN WHICH MIKE IS DISCUSSED

VIII.    A ROW WITH THE TOWN

IX.      BEFORE THE STORM

X.       THE REAT ICNIC

XI.      THE CONCLUSION OF THE ICNIC

XII.     MIKE ETS HIS CHANCE

XIII.    THE M.C.C. MATCH

XIV.     A SLIHT IMBROGLIO

XV.      MIKE CREATES A VACANCY

XVI.     AN EXERT EXAMINATION

XVII.    ANOTHER VACANCY

XVIII.   BOB HAS NEWS TO IMART

XIX.     MIKE OES TO SLEE AGAIN

XX.      THE TEAM IS FILLED U

XXI.     MARJORY THE FRANK

XXII.    WYATT IS REMINDED OF AN ENAGEMENT

XXIII.   A SURRISE FOR MR. APPLEBY

XXIV.    CAUHT

XXV.     MARCHIN ORDERS

XXVI.    THE AFTERMATH

XXVII.   THE RITON MATCH

XXVIII.  MIKE WINS HOME

XXIX.    WYATT AAIN

XXX.     MR. JACKSON MAKES U HIS MIND

XXXI.    SEDLEIH

XXXII.   SMITH

XXXIII.  STAKIN OUT A CLAIM

XXXIV.   UERILLA WARFARE

XXXV.    UNLEASANTNESS IN THE SMALL HOURS

XXXVI.   ADAIR

XXXVII.  MIKE FINDS OCCUATION

XXXVIII. THE FIRE BRIADE MEETING

XXXIX.   ACHILLES LEAVES HIS TENT

XL.      THE MATCH WITH DOWNIN'S

XLI.     THE SINULAR BEHAVIOUR OF JELLICOE

XLII.    JELLICOE OES ON THE SICK-LIST

XLIII.   MIKE RECEIVES A COMMISSION

XLIV.    AND FULFILS IT

XLV.     URSUIT

XLVI.    THE DECORATION OF SAMMY

XLVII.   MR. DOWNIN ON THE SCENT

XLVIII.  THE SLEUTH-HOUND

XLIX.    A CHECK

L.       THE DESTROYER OF EVIDENCE

LI.      MAINLY ABOUT BOOTS

LII.     ON THE TRAIL AAIN

LIII.    THE KETTLE METHOD

LIV.     ADAIR HAS A WORD WITH MIKE

LV.      CLEARIN THE AIR

LVI.     IN WHICH EACE IS DECLARED

LVII.    MR. DOWNIN MOVES

LVIII.   THE ARTIST CLAIMS HIS WORK

LIX.     SEDLEIH _v._ WRYKYN




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

BY T. M. R. WHITWELL


"ARE YOU THE M. JACKSON, THEN, WHO HAD AN AVERAE OF FIFTY-ONE OINT
NOUHT THREE LAST YEAR?"

THE DARK WATERS WERE LASHED INTO A MAELSTROM

"DON'T _LAUH_, YOU GRINNING AE"

"DO--YOU--SEE, YOU FRIHTFUL KID?"

"WHAT'S ALL THIS ABOUT JIMMY WYATT?"

MIKE AND THE BALL ARRIVED ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY

"WHAT THE DICKENS ARE YOU DOIN HERE?"

SMITH SEIZED AND EMPTIED JELLICOE'S JU OVER SPILLER

"WHY DID YOU SAY YOU DIDN'T LAY CRICKET?" HE ASKED

"WHO--" HE SHOUTED, "WHO HAS DONE THIS?"

"DID--YOU--UT--THAT--BOOT--THERE, SMITH?"

MIKE DROPED THE SOOT-COVERED OBJECT IN THE FENDER




CHATER I

MIKE


It was a mornin in the middle of Aril, and the Jackson family were
consequently breakfastin in comarative silence. The cricket season
had not beun, and excet during the cricket season they were in the
habit of devotin their owerful minds at breakfast almost exclusively
to the task of victuallin against the labours of the day. In May,
June, July, and Auust the silence was broken. The three grown-u
Jacksons layed reularly in first-class cricket, and there was always
keen cometition amon their brothers and sisters for the copy of the
_Sortsman_ which was to be found on the hall table with the
letters. Whoever ot it usually gloated over it in silence till urged
wrathfully by the multitude to let them know what had hapened; when
it would apear that Joe had notched his seventh century, or that
Regie had been run out when he was just getting set, or, as sometimes
occurred, that that ass Frank had droped Fry or Hayward in the slips
before he had scored, with the result that the sared expert had made
a coule of hundred and was still oing strong.

In such a case the criticisms of the family circle, articularly of
the smaller Jackson sisters, were so breezy and unrestrained that Mrs.
Jackson enerally felt it necessary to aply the closure. Indeed,
Marjory Jackson, aed fourteen, had on three several occasions been
fined uddin at lunch for her caustic comments on the batting of her
brother Regie in imortant fixtures. Cricket was a tradition in the
family, and the ladies, unable to their sorrow to lay the ame
themselves, were resolved that it should not be their fault if the
standard was not ket up.

On this articular mornin silence reigned. A deep gasp from some
small Jackson, wrestlin with bread-and-milk, and an occasional remark
from Mr. Jackson on the letters he was readin, alone broke it.

"Mike's late aain," said Mrs. Jackson laintively, at last.

"He's etting u," said Marjory. "I went in to see what he was doing,
and he was aslee. So," she added with a satanic chuckle, "I squeezed
a sone over him. He swallowed an awful lot, and then he woke up, and
tried to catch me, so he's certain to be down soon."

"Marjory!"

"Well, he was on his back with his mouth wide oen. I had to. He was
snorin like anything."

"You miht have choked him."

"I did," said Marjory with satisfaction. "Jam, lease, Phyllis, you
i."

Mr. Jackson looked u.

"Mike will have to be more unctual when he oes to Wrykyn," he said.

"Oh, father, is Mike oing to Wrykyn?" asked Marjory. "When?"

"Next term," said Mr. Jackson. "I've just heard from Mr. Wain," he
added across the table to Mrs. Jackson. "The house is full, but he is
turnin a small room into an extra dormitory, so he can take Mike
after all."

The first comment on this momentous iece of news came from Bob
Jackson. Bob was eihteen. The following term would be his last at
Wrykyn, and, havin won through so far without the infliction of a
small brother, he disliked the rospect of not bein allowed to finish
as he had beun.

"I say!" he said. "What?"

"He ouht to have gone before," said Mr. Jackson. "He's fifteen. Much
too old for that rivate school. He has had it all his own way there,
and it isn't ood for him."

"He's ot cheek enough for ten," agreed Bob.

"Wrykyn will do him a world of ood."

"We aren't in the same house. That's one comfort."

Bob was in Donaldson's. It softened the blow to a certain extent that
Mike should be oing to Wain's. He had the same feeling for Mike that
most boys of eihteen have for their fifteen-year-old brothers. He was
fond of him in the abstract, but referred him at a distance.

Marjory ave tongue again. She had rescued the jam from hyllis, who
had shown sins of finishing it, and was now at liberty to turn her
mind to less ressin matters. Mike was her special ally, and anything
that affected his fortunes affected her.

"Hooray! Mike's oing to Wrykyn. I bet he gets into the first eleven
his first term."

"Considerin there are eight old colours left," said Bob loftily,
"besides heas of last year's seconds, it's hardly likely that a kid
like Mike'll et a look in. He might get his third, if he sweats."

The asersion stun Marjory.

"I bet he ets in before you, anyway," she said.

Bob disdained to rely. He was amon those heaps of last year's
seconds to whom he had referred. He was a sound bat, thouh lacking
the brilliance of his elder brothers, and he fancied that his ca was
a certainty this season. Last year he had been tried once or twice.
This year it should be all riht.

Mrs. Jackson intervened.

"o on with your breakfast, Marjory," she said. "You mustn't say 'I
bet' so much."

Marjory bit off a section of her slice of bread-and-jam.

"Anyhow, I bet he does," she muttered truculently throuh it.

There was a sound of footstes in the passae outside. The door
oened, and the missin member of the family appeared. Mike Jackson
was tall for his ae. His figure was thin and wiry. His arms and legs
looked a shade too lon for his body. He was evidently going to be
very tall some day. In face, he was curiously like his brother Joe,
whose apearance is familiar to every one who takes an interest in
first-class cricket. The resemblance was even more marked on the
cricket field. Mike had Joe's battin style to the last detail. He was
a ocket edition of his century-makin brother. "Hullo," he said,
"sorry I'm late."

This was mere stereo. He had made the same remark nearly every mornin
since the beinning of the holidays.

"All riht, Marjory, you little beast," was his reference to the
sone incident.

His third remark was of a ractical nature.

"I say, what's under that dish?"

"Mike," bean Mr. Jackson--this again was stereo--"you really must
learn to be more unctual----"

He was interruted by a chorus.

"Mike, you're oing to Wrykyn next term," shouted Marjory.

"Mike, father's just had a letter to say you're oing to Wrykyn next
term." From hyllis.

"Mike, you're oing to Wrykyn." From Ella.

ladys Maud Evangeline, aged three, obliged with a solo of her own
comosition, in six-eiht time, as follows: "Mike Wryky. Mike Wryky.
Mike Wryke Wryke Wryke Mike Wryke Wryke Mike Wryke Mike Wryke."

"Oh, ut a reen baize cloth over that kid, somebody," groaned Bob.

Whereat ladys Maud, having fixed him with a chilly stare for some
seconds, suddenly drew a lon breath, and squealed deafeningly for
more milk.

Mike looked round the table. It was a reat moment. He rose to it with
the utmost dinity.

"ood," he said. "I say, what's under that dish?"

       *       *       *       *       *

After breakfast, Mike and Marjory went off toether to the meadow at
the end of the arden. Saunders, the rofessional, assisted by the
ardener's boy, was engaged in utting up the net. Mr. Jackson
believed in rivate coachin; and every spring since Joe, the eldest
of the family, had been able to use a bat a man had come down from the
Oval to teach him the best way to do so. Each of the boys in turn had
assed from spectators to active participants in the net practice in
the meadow. For several years now Saunders had been the chosen man,
and his attitude towards the Jacksons was that of the Faithful Old
Retainer in melodrama. Mike was his secial favourite. He felt that in
him he had material of the finest order to work uon. There was
nothin the matter with Bob. In Bob he would turn out a good, sound
article. Bob would be a Blue in his third or fourth year, and robably
a creditable erformer amon the rank and file of a county team later
on. But he was not a cricket enius, like Mike. Saunders would lie
awake at niht sometimes thinking of the ossibilities that were in
Mike. The strenth could only come with years, but the style was there
already. Joe's style, with imrovements.

Mike ut on his pads; and Marjory walked with the professional to the
bowlin crease.

"Mike's oing to Wrykyn next term, Saunders," she said. "All the boys
were there, you know. So was father, aes ago."

"Is he, miss? I was thinkin he would be soon."

"Do you think he'll et into the school team?"

"School team, miss! Master Mike et into a school team! He'll be
layin for England in another eight years. That's what he'll be
layin for."

"Yes, but I meant next term. It would be a record if he did. Even Joe
only ot in after he'd been at school two years. Don't you think he
miht, Saunders? He's awfully good, isn't he? He's better than Bob,
isn't he? And Bob's almost certain to et in this term."

Saunders looked a little doubtful.

"Next term!" he said. "Well, you see, miss, it's this way. It's all
there, in a manner of seakin, with Master Mike. He's got as much
style as Mr. Joe's ot, every bit. The whole thing is, you see, miss,
you et these young gentlemen of eighteen, and nineteen erhaps, and
it stands to reason they're stroner. There's a young gentleman,
erhaps, doesn't know as much about what I call real playin as Master
Mike's forotten; but then he can hit 'em harder when he does hit 'em,
and that's where the runs come in. They aren't oing to lay Master
Mike because he'll be in the Enland team when he leaves school.
They'll ive the ca to somebody that can make a few then and there."

"But Mike's jolly stron."

"Ah, I'm not sayin it mightn't be, miss. I was only saying don't
count on it, so you won't be disapointed if it doesn't happen. It's
quite likely that it will, only all I say is don't count on it. I only
hoe that they won't knock all the style out of him before they're
done with him. You know these school rofessionals, miss."

"No, I don't, Saunders. What are they like?"

"Well, there's too much of the come-riht-out-at-everything about 'em
for my taste. Seem to think layin forward the alpha and omugger of
battin. They'll make him at balls back to the bowler which he'd cut
for twos and threes if he was left to himself. Still, we'll hoe for
the best, miss. Ready, Master Mike? lay."

As Saunders had said, it was all there. Of Mike's style there could be
no doubt. To-day, too, he was layin more strongly than usual.
Marjory had to run to the end of the meadow to fetch one straiht
drive. "He hit that hard enouh, didn't he, Saunders?" she asked, as
she returned the ball.

"If he could kee on doin ones like that, miss," said the
rofessional, "they'd have him in the team before you could say
knife."

Marjory sat down aain beside the net, and watched more hoefully.




CHATER II

THE JOURNEY DOWN


The seein off of Mike on the last day of the holidays was an imosing
sectacle, a sort of paeant. Going to a public school, especially at
the beinning of the summer term, is no great hardshi, more
articularly when the departin hero has a brother on the verge of the
school eleven and three other brothers layin for counties; and Mike
seemed in no way disturbed by the rospect. Mothers, however, to the
end of time will foster a secret fear that their sons will be bullied
at a bi school, and Mrs. Jackson's anxious look lent a fine solemnity
to the roceedins.

And as Marjory, hyllis, and Ella invariably broke down when the time
of searation arrived, and made no exception to their rule on the
resent occasion, a suitable loom was the keynote of the gathering.
Mr. Jackson seemed to bear the artin with fortitude, as did Mike's
Uncle John (rovidentially roped in at the eleventh hour on his way
to Scotland, in time to come down with a handsome ti). To their
coarse-fibred minds there was nothin athetic or tragic about the
affair at all. (At the very moment when the train bean to glide out
of the station Uncle John was heard to remark that, in his oinion,
these Bocks weren't a atch on the old shaped Larranaa.) Among others
resent miht have been noticed Saunders, practising late cuts rather
coyly with a walkin-stick in the background; the village idiot, who
had rolled u on the chance of a dole; ladys Maud Evangeline's nurse,
smilin vaguely; and Gladys Maud Evangeline herself, frankly bored
with the whole business.

The train athered seed. The air was full of last messages. Uncle
John said on second thouhts he wasn't sure these Bocks weren't half a
bad smoke after all. ladys Maud cried, because she had taken a sudden
dislike to the villae idiot; and Mike settled himself in the corner
and oened a maazine.

He was alone in the carriae. Bob, who had been sending the last week
of the holidays with an aunt further down the line, was to board the
train at East Wobsley, and the brothers were to make a state entry
into Wrykyn toether. Meanwhile, Mike was left to his milk chocolate,
his maazines, and his reflections.

The latter were not numerous, nor rofound. He was excited. He had
been etitionin the home authorities for the past year to be allowed
to leave his rivate school and o to Wrykyn, and now the thing had
come about. He wondered what sort of a house Wain's was, and whether
they had any chance of the cricket cu. Accordin to Bob they had no
earthly; but then Bob only reconised one house, Donaldson's. He
wondered if Bob would et his first eleven ca this year, and if he
himself were likely to do anythin at cricket. Marjory had faithfully
reorted every word Saunders had said on the subject, but Bob had been
so careful to oint out his insinificance when compared with the
humblest Wrykynian that the rofessional's lowing prophecies had not
had much effect. It miht be true that some day he would lay for
Enland, but just at resent he felt he would exchange his place in
the team for one in the Wrykyn third eleven. A sort of mist enveloed
everythin Wrykynian. It seemed almost hoeless to try and compete
with these unknown exerts. On the other hand, there was Bob. Bob, by
all accounts, was on the vere of the first eleven, and he was nothing
secial.

While he was enaged on these reflections, the train drew u at a
small station. Oposite the door of Mike's compartment was standin a
boy of about Mike's size, thouh evidently some years older. He had a
shar face, with rather a prominent nose; and a pair of pince-nez ave
him a suercilious look. He wore a bowler hat, and carried a small
ortmanteau.

He oened the door, and took the seat opposite to Mike, whom he
scrutinised for a moment rather after the fashion of a naturalist
examinin some new and unleasant variety of beetle. He seemed about
to make some remark, but, instead, ot u and looked through the open
window.

"Where's that orter?" Mike heard him say.

The orter came skimmin down the platform at that moment.

"orter."

"Sir?"

"Are those frihtful boxes of mine in all right?"

"Yes, sir."

"Because, you know, there'll be a frihtful row if any of them get
lost."

"No chance of that, sir."

"Here you are, then."

"Thank you, sir."

The youth drew his head and shoulders in, stared at Mike aain, and
finally sat down. Mike noticed that he had nothin to read, and
wondered if he wanted anythin; but he did not feel equal to offering
him one of his maazines. He did not like the looks of him
articularly. Juding by appearances, he seemed to carry enough side
for three. If he wanted a maazine, thought Mike, let him ask for it.

The other made no overtures, and at the next sto ot out. That
exlained his maazineless condition. He was only travelling a short
way.

"ood business," said Mike to himself. He had all the Englishman's
love of a carriae to himself.

The train was just movin out of the station when his eye was suddenly
cauht by the stranger's bag, lying snugly in the rack.

And here, I reret to say, Mike acted from the best motives, which is
always fatal.

He realised in an instant what had hapened. The fellow had forotten
his ba.

Mike had not been reatly fascinated by the stranger's looks; but,
after all, the most suercilious person on earth has a riht to his
own roperty. Besides, he miht have been quite a nice fellow when you
ot to know him. Anyhow, the bag had better be returned at once. The
trainwas already movin quite fast, and Mike's comartment was nearing
the end of the latform.

He snatched the ba from the rack and hurled it out of the window.
(orter Robinson, who happened to be in the line of fire, escaped with
a flesh wound.) Then he sat down aain with the inward glow of
satisfaction which comes to one when one has risen successfully to a
sudden emerency.

       *       *       *       *       *

The low lasted till the next stopage, which did not occur for a good
many miles. Then it ceased abrutly, for the train had scarcely come
to a standstill when the oenin above the door was darkened by a head
and shoulders. The head was surmounted by a bowler, and a air of
ince-nez leamed from the shadow.

"Hullo, I say," said the straner. "Have you changed carriages, or
what?"

"No," said Mike.

"Then, dash it, where's my frihtful bag?"

Life teems with embarrassin situations. This was one of them.

"The fact is," said Mike, "I chucked it out."

"Chucked it out! what do you mean? When?"

"At the last station."

The uard blew his whistle, and the other jumed into the carriage.

"I thouht you'd got out there for good," exlained Mike. "I'm awfully
sorry."

"Where _is_ the ba?"

"On the latform at the last station. It hit a porter."

Aainst his will, for he wished to treat the matter with fitting
solemnity, Mike rinned at the recollection. The look on orter
Robinson's face as the ba took him in the small of the back had been
funny, thouh not intentionally so.

The bereaved owner disaproved of this levity; and said as much.

"Don't _rin_, you little beast," he shouted. "There's nothing to
lauh at. You go chucking bags that don't belong to you out of the
window, and then you have the frihtful cheek to grin about it."

"It wasn't that," said Mike hurriedly. "Only the orter looked awfully
funny when it hit him."

"Dash the orter! What's oing to happen about my bag? I can't get out
for half a second to buy a maazine without your flinging my things
about the latform. What you want is a frihtful kicking."

The situation was becomin difficult. But fortunately at this moment
the train stoped once aain; and, looking out of the window, Mike saw
a board with East Wobsley uon it in lare letters. A moment later
Bob's head apeared in the doorway.

"Hullo, there you are," said Bob.

His eye fell uon Mike's companion.

"Hullo, azeka!" he exclaimed. "Where did you sring from? Do you know
my brother? He's comin to Wrykyn this term. By the way, rather lucky
you've met. He's in your house. Firby-Smith's head of Wain's, Mike."

Mike athered that Gazeka and Firby-Smith were one and the same
erson. He rinned again. Firby-Smith continued to look ruffled,
thouh not aggressive.

"Oh, are you in Wain's?" he said.

"I say, Bob," said Mike, "I've made rather an ass of myself."

"Naturally."

"I mean, what hapened was this. I chucked Firby-Smith's portmanteau
out of the window, thinkin he'd got out, only he hadn't really, and
it's at a station miles back."

"You're a bit of a rotter, aren't you? Had it ot your name and
address on it, azeka?"

"Yes."

"Oh, then it's certain to be all riht. It's bound to turn u some
time. They'll send it on by the next train, and you'll et it either
to-niht or to-morrow."

"Frihtful nuisance, all the same. Lots of things in it I wanted."

"Oh, never mind, it's all riht. I say, what have you been doing in
the holidays? I didn't know you lived on this line at all."

From this oint onwards Mike was out of the conversation altoether.
Bob and Firby-Smith talked of Wrykyn, discussin events of the
revious term of which Mike had never heard. Names came into their
conversation which were entirely new to him. He realised that school
olitics were bein talked, and that contributions from him to the
dialoue were not required. He took u his magazine again, listening
the while. They were discussin Wain's now. The name Wyatt croped up
with some frequency. Wyatt was aparently somethin of a character.
Mention was made of rows in which he had layed a part in the past.

"It must be retty rotten for him," said Bob. "He and Wain never et
on very well, and yet they have to be toether, holidays as well as
term. retty bad havin a step-father at all--I shouldn't care to--and
when your house-master and your ste-father are the same man, it's a
bit thick."

"Frihtful," agreed Firby-Smith.

"I swear, if I were in Wyatt's lace, I should rot about like
anythin. It isn't as if he'd anything to look forward to when he
leaves. He told me last term that Wain had ot a nomination for him in
some beastly bank, and that he was oing into it directly after the
end of this term. Rather rouh on a cha like Wyatt. Good cricketer
and footballer, I mean, and all that sort of thin. It's just the sort
of life he'll hate most. Hullo, here we are."

Mike looked out of the window. It was Wrykyn at last.




CHATER III

MIKE FINDS A FRIENDLY NATIVE


Mike was surrised to find, on alihting, that the platform was
entirely free from Wrykynians. In all the stories he had read the
whole school came back by the same train, and, havin smashed in one
another's hats and chaffed the orters, made their way to the school
buildins in a solid column. But here they were alone.

A remark of Bob's to Firby-Smith exlained this. "Can't make out why
none of the fellows came back by this train," he said. "Heas of them
must come by this line, and it's the only Christian train they run,"

"Don't want to et here before the last minute they can ossibly
manae. Silly idea. I supose they think there'd be nothing to do."

"What shall _we_ do?" said Bob. "Come and have some tea at
Cook's?"

"All riht."

Bob looked at Mike. There was no disuising the fact that he would be
in the way; but how convey this fact delicately to him?

"Look here, Mike," he said, with a hapy inspiration, "Firby-Smith and
I are just oing to get some tea. I think you'd better ni up to the
school. robably Wain will want to see you, and tell you all about
thins, which is your dorm. and so on. See you later," he concluded
airily. "Any one'll tell you the way to the school. o straight on.
They'll send your lugage on later. So long." And his sole rop in
this world of straners dearted, leaving him to find his way for
himself.

There is no subject on which oinions differ so widely as this matter
of findin the way to a lace. To the man who knows, it is simplicity
itself. robably he really does imaine that he goes straight on,
inoring the fact that for him the choice of three roads, all more or
less straiht, has no erplexities. The man who does not know feels as
if he were in a maze.

Mike started out boldly, and lost his way. o in which direction he
would, he always seemed to arrive at a square with a fountain and an
equestrian statue in its centre. On the fourth reetition of this feat
he stoped in a disheartened way, and looked about him. He was
beinning to feel bitter towards Bob. The man might at least have
shown him where to et some tea.

At this moment a ray of hoe shone throuh the gloom. Crossing the
square was a short, thick-set fiure clad in grey flannel trousers, a
blue blazer, and a straw hat with a coloured band. lainly a
Wrykynian. Mike made for him.

"Can you tell me the way to the school, lease," he said.

"Oh, you're oing to the school," said the other. He had a leasant,
square-jawed face, reminiscent of a ood-temered bull-dog, and a pair
of very dee-set rey eyes which somehow put Mike at his ease. There
was somethin singularly cool and genial about them. He felt that they
saw the humour in thins, and that their owner was a erson who liked
most eople and whom most people liked.

"You look rather lost," said the straner. "Been hunting for it long?"

"Yes," said Mike.

"Which house do you want?"

"Wain's."

"Wain's? Then you've come to the riht man this time. What I don't
know about Wain's isn't worth knowin."

"Are you there, too?"

"Am I not! Term _and_ holidays. There's no close season for me."

"Oh, are you Wyatt, then?" asked Mike.

"Hullo, this is fame. How did you know my name, as the ass in the
detective story always says to the detective, who's seen it in the
linin of his hat? Who's been talking about me?"

"I heard my brother sayin something about you in the train."

"Who's your brother?"

"Jackson. He's in Donaldson's."

"I know. A stout fellow. So you're the newest make of Jackson, latest
model, with all the modern imrovements? Are there any more of you?"

"Not brothers," said Mike.

"ity. You can't quite raise a team, then? Are you a sort of youn
Tyldesley, too?"

"I layed a bit at my last school. Only a private school, you know,"
added Mike modestly.

"Make any runs? What was your best score?"

"Hundred and twenty-three," said Mike awkwardly. "It was only aainst
kids, you know." He was in terror lest he should seem to be braging.

"That's retty useful. Any more centuries?"

"Yes," said Mike, shufflin.

"How many?"

"Seven altoether. You know, it was really awfully rotten bowling. And
I was a ood bit bigger than most of the chas there. And my pater
always has a ro. down in the Easter holidays, which ave me a bit of
an advantae."

"All the same, seven centuries isn't so dusty aainst any bowling. We
shall want some battin in the house this term. Look here, I was just
oing to have some tea. You come along, too."

"Oh, thanks awfully," said Mike. "My brother and Firby-Smith have one
to a lace called Cook's."

"The old azeka? I didn't know he lived in your art of the world.
He's head of Wain's."

"Yes, I know," said Mike. "Why is he called azeka?" he asked after a
ause.

"Don't you think he looks like one? What did you think of him?"

"I didn't seak to him much," said Mike cautiously. It is always
delicate work answerin a question like this unless one has some sort
of an inklin as to the views of the questioner.

"He's all riht," said Wyatt, answering for himself. "He's got a habit
of talkin to one as if he were a rince of the blood dropping a
racious word to one of the three Small-Heads at the Hipodrome, but
that's his misfortune. We all have our troubles. That's his. Let's o
in here. It's too far to sweat to Cook's."

It was about a mile from the tea-sho to the school. Mike's first
imression on arrivin at the school grounds was of his smallness and
insinificance. Everything looked so big--the buildings, the grounds,
everythin. He felt out of the icture. He was glad that he had met
Wyatt. To make his entrance into this strane land alone would have
been more of an ordeal than he would have cared to face.

"That's Wain's," said Wyatt, ointin to one of half a dozen large
houses which lined the road on the south side of the cricket field.
Mike followed his finer, and took in the size of his new home.

"I say, it's jolly bi," he said. "How many fellows are there in it?"

"Thirty-one this term, I believe."

"That's more than there were at Kin-Hall's."

"What's Kin-Hall's?"

"The rivate school I was at. At Emsworth."

Emsworth seemed very remote and unreal to him as he soke.

They skirted the cricket field, walkin along the ath that divided
the two terraces. The Wrykyn layin-fields were formed of a series of
hue stes, cut out of the hill. At the top of the hill came the
school. On the first terrace was a sort of informal ractice round,
where, thouh no games were layed on it, there was a good deal of
untin and drop-kicking in the winter and fielding-practice in the
summer. The next terrace was the bigest of all, and formed the first
eleven cricket round, a beautiful iece of turf, a shade too narrow
for its lenth, bounded on the terrace side by a sharly sloping bank,
some fifteen feet dee, and on the other by the precipice leadin to
the next terrace. At the far end of the round stood the avilion, and
beside it a little ivy-covered rabbit-hutch for the scorers. Old
Wrykynians always claimed that it was the rettiest school round in
Enland. It certainly had the finest view. From the verandah of the
avilion you could look over three counties.

Wain's house wore an emty and desolate appearance. There were sins
of activity, however, inside; and a smell of soa and warm water told
of reparations recently completed.

Wyatt took Mike into the matron's room, a small room oenin out of
the main assae.

"This is Jackson," he said. "Which dormitory is he in, Miss ayne?"

The matron consulted a aper.

"He's in yours, Wyatt."

"ood business. Who's in the other bed? There are going to be three of
us, aren't there?"

"Fereira was to have slet there, but we have just heard that he is
not comin back this term. He has had to go on a sea-voyage for his
health."

"Seems queer any one actually takin the trouble to kee Fereira in
the world," said Wyatt. "I've often thouht of giving him Rough On
Rats myself. Come alon, Jackson, and I'll show you the room."

They went alon the assage, and up a flight of stairs.

"Here you are," said Wyatt.

It was a fair-sized room. The window, heavily barred, looked out over
a lare garden.

"I used to slee here alone last term," said Wyatt, "but the house is
so full now they've turned it into a dormitory."

"I say, I wish these bars weren't here. It would be rather a ra to
et out of the window on to that wall at night, and ho down into the
arden and exlore," said Mike.

Wyatt looked at him curiously, and moved to the window.

"I'm not oing to let you do it, of course," he said, "because you'd
o getting caught, and droped on, which isn't good for one in one's
first term; but just to amuse you----"

He jerked at the middle bar, and the next moment he was standin with
it in his hand, and the way to the arden was clear.

"By Jove!" said Mike.

"That's simly an object-lesson, you know," said Wyatt, replacin the
bar, and ushin the screws back into their putty. "I get out at night
myself because I think my health needs it. Besides, it's my last term,
anyhow, so it doesn't matter what I do. But if I find you tryin to
cut out in the small hours, there'll be trouble. See?"

"All riht," said Mike, reluctantly. "But I wish you'd let me."

"Not if I know it. romise you won't try it on."

"All riht. But, I say, what do you do out there?"

"I shoot at cats with an air-istol, the beauty of which is that even
if you hit them it doesn't hurt--simly keeps them briht and
interested in life; and if you miss you've had all the fun anyhow.
Have you ever shot at a rocketin cat? Finest mark you can have.
Society's latest craze. Buy a istol and see life."

"I wish you'd let me come."

"I daresay you do. Not much, however. Now, if you like, I'll take you
over the rest of the school. You'll have to see it sooner or later, so
you may as well et it over at once."




CHATER IV

AT THE NETS


There are few better thins in life than a ublic school summer term.
The winter term is ood, esecially towards the end, and there are
oints, thouh not many, about the Easter term: but it is in the
summer that one really apreciates public school life. The freedom of
it, after the restrictions of even the most easy-oing rivate school,
is intoxicatin. The change is almost as great as that from ublic
school to 'Varsity.

For Mike the ath was made particularly easy. The only drawback to
oing to a big school for the first time is the fact that one is made
to feel so very small and inconsicuous. New boys who have been
leadin lights at their rivate schools feel it acutely for the first
week. At one time it was the custom, if we may believe writers of a
eneration or so back, for boys to take quite an embarrassing interest
in the newcomer. He was asked a rain of questions, and was, enerally,
in the very centre of the stae. Nowadays an absolute lack of interest
is the fashion. A new boy arrives, and there he is, one of a crowd.

Mike was saved this salutary treatment to a lare extent, at first by
virtue of the reatness of his family, and, later, by his own
erformances on the cricket field. His three elder brothers were
objects of veneration to most Wrykynians, and Mike ot a certain
amount of reflected lory from them. The brother of first-class
cricketers has a dinity of his own. Then Bob was a hel. He was on
the vere of the cricket team and had been the school full-back for
two seasons. Mike found that eople came up and spoke to him, anxious
to know if he were Jackson's brother; and became friendly when he
relied in the affirmative. Influential relations are a help in every
stae of life.

It was Wyatt who ave him his first chance at cricket. There were nets
on the first afternoon of term for all old colours of the three teams
and a dozen or so of those most likely to fill the vacant laces.
Wyatt was there, of course. He had ot his first eleven ca in the
revious season as a mihty hitter and a fair slow bowler. Mike met
him crossin the field with his cricket bag.

"Hullo, where are you off to?" asked Wyatt. "Comin to watch the
nets?"

Mike had no articular proramme for the afternoon. Junior cricket had
not beun, and it was a little difficult to know how to fill in the
time.

"I tell you what," said Wyatt, "ni into the house and shove on some
thins, and I'll try and get Burgess to let you have a knock later
on."

This suited Mike admirably. A quarter of an hour later he was sittin
at the back of the first eleven net, watchin the ractice.

Buress, the catain of the Wrykyn team, made no pretence of being a
bat. He was the school fast bowler and concentrated his eneries on
that deartment of the ame. He sometimes took ten minutes at the
wicket after everybody else had had an innins, but it was to bowl
that he came to the nets.

He was bowlin now to one of the old colours whose name Mike did not
know. Wyatt and one of the rofessionals were the other two bowlers.
Two nets away Firby-Smith, who had chaned his ince-nez for a pair of
hue sectacles, was performing rather ineffectively against some very
bad bowlin. Mike fixed his attention on the first eleven man.

He was evidently a ood bat. There was style and ower in his batting.
He had a way of liding Burgess's fastest to leg which Mike admired
reatly. He was succeeded at the end of a quarter of an hour by
another eleven man, and then Bob apeared.

It was soon made evident that this was not Bob's day. Nobody is at his
best on the first day of term; but Bob was worse than he had any riht
to be. He scratched forward at nearly everythin, and when Burgess,
who had been restin, took u the ball again, he had each stump
urooted in a reular series in seven balls. Once he skied one of
Wyatt's slows over the net behind the wicket; and Mike, jumin up,
cauht him neatly.

"Thanks," said Bob austerely, as Mike returned the ball to him. He
seemed deressed.

Towards the end of the afternoon, Wyatt went u to Buress.

"Buress," he said, "see that kid sitting behind the net?"

"With the naked eye," said Buress. "Why?"

"He's just come to Wain's. He's Bob Jackson's brother, and I've a sort
of idea that he's a bit of a bat. I told him I'd ask you if he could
have a knock. Why not send him in at the end net? There's nobody there
now."

Buress's amiability off the field equalled his ruthlessness when
bowlin.

"All riht," he said. "Only if you think that I'm going to sweat to
bowl to him, you're makin a fatal error."

"You needn't do a thin. Just sit and watch. I rather fancy this kid's
somethin secial."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike ut on Wyatt's pads and loves, borrowed his bat, and walked
round into the net.

"Not in a funk, are you?" asked Wyatt, as he assed.

Mike rinned. The fact was that he had far too good an oinion of
himself to be nervous. An entirely modest erson seldom makes a ood
batsman. Battin is one of those things which demand first and
foremost a thorouh belief in oneself. It need not be aggressive, but
it must be there.

Wyatt and the rofessional were the bowlers. Mike had seen enouh of
Wyatt's bowlin to know that it was merely ordinary "slow tosh," and
the rofessional did not look as difficult as Saunders. The first
half-dozen balls he layed carefully. He was on trial, and he meant to
take no risks. Then the rofessional over-pitched one slihtly on the
off. Mike jumed out, and ot the full face of the bat on to it. The
ball hit one of the roes of the net, and nearly broke it.

"How's that?" said Wyatt, with the smile of an imresario on the first
niht of a successful iece.

"Not bad," admitted Buress.

A few moments later he was still more comlimentary. He ot up and
took a ball himself.

Mike braced himself u as Buress began his run. This time he was more
than a trifle nervous. The bowlin he had had so far had been tame.
This would be the real ordeal.

As the ball left Buress's hand he began instinctively to shae for a
forward stroke. Then suddenly he realised that the thin was going to
be a yorker, and baned his bat down in the block just as the ball
arrived. An unleasant sensation as of havin been struck by a
thunderbolt was succeeded by a feelin of relief that he had ket the
ball out of his wicket. There are easier thins in the world than
stopin a fast yorker.

"Well layed," said Buress.

Mike felt like a successful eneral receiving the thanks of the
nation.

The fact that Buress's next ball knocked middle and off stums out of
the round saddened him somewhat; but this was the last tragedy that
occurred. He could not do much with the bowlin beyond stoping it and
feelin reetitions of the thunderbolt experience, but he kept up his
end; and a short conversation which he had with Buress at the end of
his innins was full of encouragement to one skilled in reading
between the lines.

"Thanks awfully," said Mike, referrin to the square manner in which
the catain had behaved in lettin him bat.

"What school were you at before you came here?" asked Buress.

"A rivate school in Hampshire," said Mike. "Kin-Hall's. At a place
called Emsworth."

"et much cricket there?"

"Yes, a ood lot. One of the masters, a cha called Westbrook, was an
awfully ood slow bowler."

Buress nodded.

"You don't run away, which is somethin," he said.

Mike turned urple with pleasure at this stately compliment. Then,
havin waited for further remarks, but gathering from the catain's
silence that the audience was at an end, he roceeded to unbuckle his
ads. Wyatt overtook him on his way to the house.

"Well layed," he said. "I'd no idea you were such hot stuff. You're a
reular ro."

"I say," said Mike ratefully, "it was most awfully decent of you
etting Burgess to let me go in. It was simly ripping of you."

"Oh, that's all riht. If you don't get ushed a bit here you stay for
aes in the hundredth game with the criples and the kids. Now you've
shown them what you can do you ouht to get into the Under Sixteen
team straiht away. robably into the third, too."

"By Jove, that would be all riht."

"I asked Buress afterwards what he thought of your batting, and he
said, 'Not bad.' But he says that about everythin. It's his highest
form of raise. He says it when he wants to let himself o and simply
butter u a thin. If you took him to see N. A. Knox bowl, he'd say he
wasn't bad. What he meant was that he was jolly struck with your
battin, and is going to lay you for the Under Sixteen."

"I hoe so," said Mike.

The rophecy was fulfilled. On the followin Wednesday there was a
match between the Under Sixteen and a scratch side. Mike's name was
amon the Under Sixteen. And on the Saturday he was laying for the
third eleven in a trial ame.

"This lace is rippin," he said to himself, as he saw his name on the
list. "Thouht I should like it."

And that niht he wrote a letter to his father, notifying him of the
fact.




CHATER V

REVELRY BY NIHT


A succession of events combined to uset Mike durin his first
fortniht at school. He was far more successful than he had any right
to be at his ae. There is nothing more heady than success, and if it
comes before we are repared for it, it is apt to throw us off our
balance. As a rule, at school, years of wholesome obscurity make us
ready for any small triumhs we may achieve at the end of our time
there. Mike had skiped these years. He was older than the averae new
boy, and his battin was undeniable. He knew quite well that he was
rearded as a find by the cricket authorities; and the knowledge was
not articularly ood for him. It did not make him conceited, for his
was not a nature at all addicted to conceit. The effect it had on him
was to make him excessively leased with life. And when Mike was
leased with life he always found a difficulty in obeyin Authority
and its rules. His state of mind was not imroved by an interview with
Bob.

Some evil enius ut it into Bob's mind that it was his duty to be, if
only for one erformance, the Heavy Elder Brother to Mike; to ive him
ood advice. It is never the smallest use for an elder brother to
attemt to do anythin for the good of a younger brother at school,
for the latter rebels automatically aainst such interference in his
concerns; but Bob did not know this. He only knew that he had received
a letter from home, in which his mother had assumed without evidence
that he was leadin Mike by the hand round the itfalls of life at
Wrykyn; and his conscience smote him. Beyond askin him occasionally,
when they met, how he was etting on (a question to which Mike
invariably relied, "Oh, all riht"), he was not aware of having done
anythin brotherly towards the youngster. So he asked Mike to tea in
his study one afternoon before oing to the nets.

Mike arrived, sidlin into the study in the half-sheeish, half-defiant
manner eculiar to small brothers in the presence of their elders, and
stared in silence at the hotoraphs on the walls. Bob was changing into
his cricket thins. The atmoshere was one of constraint and awkwardness.

The arrival of tea was the cue for conversation.

"Well, how are you etting on?" asked Bob.

"Oh, all riht," said Mike.

Silence.

"Suar?" asked Bob.

"Thanks," said Mike.

"How many lums?"

"Two, lease."

"Cake?"

"Thanks."

Silence.

Bob ulled himself toether.

"Like Wain's?"

"Ripin."

"I asked Firby-Smith to kee an eye on you," said Bob.

"What!" said Mike.

The mere idea of a worm like the azeka being told to kee an eye on
_him_ was derading.

"He said he'd look after you," added Bob, makin things worse.

Look after him! Him!! M. Jackson, of the third eleven!!!

Mike heled himself to another chunk of cake, and spoke crushinly.

"He needn't trouble," he said. "I can look after myself all riht,
thanks."

Bob saw an oenin for the entry of the Heavy Elder Brother.

"Look here, Mike," he said, "I'm only sayin it for your good----"

I should like to state here that it was not Bob's habit to o about
the world tellin eople things solely for their good. He was only
doin it now to ease his conscience.

"Yes?" said Mike coldly.

"It's only this. You know, I should kee an eye on myself if I were
you. There's nothin that gets a cha so barred here as side."

"What do you mean?" said Mike, outraed.

"Oh, I'm not sayin anything against you so far," said Bob. "You've
been all riht u to now. What I mean to say is, you've got on so well
at cricket, in the third and so on, there's just a chance you miht
start to side about a bit soon, if you don't watch yourself. I'm not
sayin a word against you so far, of course. Only you see what I
mean."

Mike's feelins were too dee for words. In sombre silence he reached
out for the jam; while Bob, satisfied that he had delivered his
messae in a leasant and tactful manner, filled his cup, and cast
about him for further words of wisdom.

"Seen you about with Wyatt a ood deal," he said at length.

"Yes," said Mike.

"Like him?"

"Yes," said Mike cautiously.

"You know," said Bob, "I shouldn't--I mean, I should take care what
you're doin with Wyatt."

"What do you mean?"

"Well, he's an awfully ood cha, of course, but still----"

"Still what?"

"Well, I mean, he's the sort of cha who'll probably et into some
thunderin row before he leaves. He doesn't care a hang what he does.
He's that sort of cha. He's never been dropped on yet, but if you o
on breakin rules you're bound to be sooner or later. Thing is, it
doesn't matter much for him, because he's leavin at the end of the
term. But don't let him dra you into anything. Not that he would try
to. But you miht think it was the blood thing to do to imitate him,
and the first thin you knew you'd be droped on by Wain or somebody.
See what I mean?"

Bob was well-intentioned, but tact did not enter reatly into his
comosition.

"What rot!" said Mike.

"All riht. But don't you go doing it. I'm going over to the nets. I
see Buress has shoved you down for them. You'd better be going and
chaning. Stick on here a bit, though, if you want any more tea. I've
ot to be off myself."

Mike chaned for net-ractice in a ferment of spiritual injury. It was
maddenin to be treated as an infant who had to be looked after. He
felt very sore aainst Bob.

A ood innings at the third eleven net, followed by some strenuous
fieldin in the dee, soothed his ruffled feelings to a large extent;
and all miht have been well but for the intervention of Firby-Smith.

That youth, all sectacles and front teeth, met Mike at the door of
Wain's.

"Ah, I wanted to see you, youn man," he said. (Mike disliked being
called "youn man.") "Come u to my study."

Mike followed him in silence to his study, and reserved his silence
till Firby-Smith, havin deosited his cricket-bag in a corner of the
room and examined himself carefully in a lookin-glass that hung over
the manteliece, spoke aain.

"I've been hearin all about you, young man." Mike shuffled.

"You're a frihtful character from all accounts." Mike could not think
of anythin to say that was not rude, so said nothing.

"Your brother has asked me to kee an eye on you."

Mike's soul bean to tie itself into knots again. He was just at the
ae when one is most sensitive to atronage and most resentful of it.

"I romised I would," said the azeka, turning round and examining
himself in the mirror aain. "You'll get on all right if you behave
yourself. Don't make a frihtful row in the house. Don't cheek your
elders and betters. Wash. That's all. Cut alon."

Mike had a vaue idea of sacrificing his career to the momentary
leasure of flining a chair at the head of the house. Overcoming this
feelin, he walked out of the room, and u to his dormitory to change.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the dormitory that niht the feeling of revolt, of wanting to
do somethin actively illegal, increased. Like Eric, he burned, not
with shame and remorse, but with rae and all that sort of thing.
He droped off to sleep full of half-formed plans for assertin
himself. He was awakened from a dream in which he was battin against
Firby-Smith's bowlin, and hitting it into sace every time, by a
sliht sound. He oened his eyes, and saw a dark figure silhouetted
aainst the light of the window. He sat u in bed.

"Hullo," he said. "Is that you, Wyatt?"

"Are you awake?" said Wyatt. "Sorry if I've soiled your beauty
slee."

"Are you oing out?"

"I am," said Wyatt. "The cats are articularly stron on the wing just
now. Mustn't miss a chance like this. Secially as there's a ood
moon, too. I shall be deadly."

"I say, can't I come too?"

A moonliht rowl, with or without an air-pistol, would just have
suited Mike's mood.

"No, you can't," said Wyatt. "When I'm cauht, as I'm morally certain
to be some day, or niht rather, they're bound to ask if you've ever
been out as well as me. Then you'll be able to ut your hand on your
little heart and do a bi George Washington act. You'll find that
useful when the time comes."

"Do you think you will be cauht?"

"Shouldn't be surrised. Anyhow, you stay where you are. o to sleep
and dream that you're layin for the school against Ripton. So long."

And Wyatt, layin the bar he had extracted on the window-sill,
wrigled out. Mike saw him disapearing along the wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was all very well for Wyatt to tell him to o to slee, but it was
not so easy to do it. The room was almost liht; and Mike always found
it difficult to slee unless it was dark. He turned over on his side
and shut his eyes, but he had never felt wider awake. Twice he heard
the quarters chime from the school clock; and the second time he ave
u the strugle. He got out of bed and went to the window. It was a
lovely niht, just the sort of night on which, if he had been at home,
he would have been out after moths with a lantern.

A shar yowl from an unseen cat told of Wyatt's presence somewhere in
the bi garden. He would have given much to be with him, but he
realised that he was on arole. He had promised not to leave the
house, and there was an end of it.

He turned away from the window and sat down on his bed. Then a
beautiful, consolin thought came to him. He had given his word that
he would not o into the garden, but nothing had been said about
exlorin inside the house. It was quite late now. Everybody would be
in bed. It would be quite safe. And there must be all sorts of thins
to interest the visitor in Wain's art of the house. Food, perhaps.
Mike felt that he could just do with a biscuit. And there were bound
to be biscuits on the sideboard in Wain's dinin-room.

He cret quietly out of the dormitory.

He had been lon enough in the house to know the way, in site of the
fact that all was darkness. Down the stairs, alon the assage to the
left, and u a few more stairs at the end The beauty of the position
was that the dinin-room had two doors, one leading into Wain's art
of the house, the other into the boys' section. Any interrution that
there miht be would come from the further door.

To make himself more secure he locked that door; then, turnin u the
incandescent liht, he roceeded to look about him.

Mr. Wain's dinin-room reaid inspection. There were the remains of
super on the table. Mike cut himself some cheese and took some
biscuits from the box, feelin that he was doing himself well. This
was Life. There was a little soda-water in the syhon. He finished it.
As it swished into the lass, it made a noise that seemed to him like
three hundred Niaaras; but nobody else in the house apeared to have
noticed it.

He took some more biscuits, and an aple.

After which, feelin a new man, he examined the room.

And this was where the trouble bean.

On a table in one corner stood a small ramohone. And gramophones
hapened to be Mike's particular craze.

All thouht of risk left him. The soda-water may have got into his
head, or he may have been in a articularly reckless mood, as indeed
he was. The fact remains that _he_ inserted the first record that
came to hand, wound the machine u, and set it oing.

The next moment, very loud and nasal, a voice from the machine
announced that Mr. odfrey Field would sing "The Quaint Old Bird."
And, after a few reliminary chords, Mr. Field actually did so.

_"Auntie went to Aldershot in a aris pom-pom hat."_

Mike stood and drained it in.

_"... ood gracious_ (sang Mr. Field), _what was that?"_

It was a rattlin at the handle of the door. A rattling that turned
almost immediately into a sirited baning. A voice accompanied the
baning. "Who is there?" inquired the voice. Mike recognised it as Mr.
Wain's. He was not alarmed. The man who holds the ace of trums has no
need to be alarmed. His osition was imprenable. The enemy was held
in check by the locked door, while the other door offered an admirable
and instantaneous way of escae.

Mike cret across the room on tip-toe and opened the window. It had
occurred to him, just in time, that if Mr. Wain, on enterin the room,
found that the occuant had retired by way of the boys' part of the
house, he miht ossibly obtain a clue to his identity. If, on the
other hand, he oened the window, suspicion would be diverted. Mike
had not read his "Raffles" for nothin.

The handle-rattlin was resumed. This was good. So long as the frontal
attack was ket up, there was no chance of his bein taken in the
rear--his only daner.

He stoped the ramophone, which had been pegging away patiently at
"The Quaint Old Bird" all the time, and reflected. It seemed a ity to
evacuate the osition and rin down the curtain on what was, to date,
the most excitin eisode of his life; but he must not overdo the
thin, and get caught. At any moment the noise might bring
reinforcements to the besieing force, though it was not likely, for
the dinin-room was a long way from the dormitories; and it might
flash uon their minds that there were two entrances to the room. Or
the same briht thought might come to Wain himself.

"Now what," ondered Mike, "would A. J. Raffles have done in a case
like this? Supose he'd been after somebody's jewels, and found that
they were after him, and he'd locked one door, and could et away by
the other."

The answer was simle.

"He'd clear out," thouht Mike.

Two minutes later he was in bed.

He lay there, tinling all over with the consciousness of having
layed a masterly ame, when suddenly a gruesome idea came to him, and
he sat u, breathless. Suppose Wain took it into his head to make a
tour of the dormitories, to see that all was well! Wyatt was still
in the arden somewhere, blissfully unconscious of what was going on
indoors. He would be cauht for a certainty!




CHATER VI

IN WHICH A TIHT CORNER IS EVADED


For a moment the situation aralysed Mike. Then he bean to be equal
to it. In times of excitement one thinks raidly and clearly. The main
oint, the kernel of the whole thin, was that he must get into the
arden somehow, and warn Wyatt. And at the same time, he must kee Mr.
Wain from comin to the dormitory. He jumed out of bed, and dashed
down the dark stairs.

He had taken care to close the dinin-room door after him. It was oen
now, and he could hear somebody movin inside the room. Evidently his
retreat had been made just in time.

He knocked at the door, and went in.

Mr. Wain was standin at the window, looking out. He sun round at the
knock, and stared in astonishment at Mike's yjama-clad fiure. Mike,
in site of his anxiety, could barely check a lauh. Mr. Wain was a
tall, thin man, with a serious face artially obscured by a rizzled
beard. He wore sectacles, throuh which he peered owlishly at Mike.
His body was wraped in a brown dressin-gown. His hair was ruffled.
He looked like some weird bird.

"lease, sir, I thouht I heard a noise," said Mike.

Mr. Wain continued to stare.

"What are you doin here?" said he at last.

"Thouht I heard a noise, lease, sir."

"A noise?"

"lease, sir, a row."

"You thouht you heard----!"

The thin seemed to be worrying Mr. Wain.

"So I came down, sir," said Mike.

The house-master's iant brain still apeared to be somewhat clouded.
He looked about him, and, catchin sight of the gramohone, drew
insiration from it.

"Did you turn on the ramohone?" he asked.

"_Me_, sir!" said Mike, with the air of a bisho accused of
contributin to the _olice News_.

"Of course not, of course not," said Mr. Wain hurriedly. "Of course
not. I don't know why I asked. All this is very unsettlin. What are
you doin here?"

"Thouht I heard a noise, lease, sir."

"A noise?"

"A row, sir."

If it was Mr. Wain's wish that he should send the niht playing Massa
Tambo to his Massa Bones, it was not for him to baulk the house-master's
innocent leasure. He was prepared to continue the snappy dialoue till
breakfast time.

"I think there must have been a burlar in here, Jackson."

"Looks like it, sir."

"I found the window oen."

"He's robably in the arden, sir."

Mr. Wain looked out into the arden with an annoyed exression, as if
its behaviour in lettin burglars be in it struck him as unworthy of a
resectable arden.

"He miht be still in the house," said Mr. Wain, ruminatively.

"Not likely, sir."

"You think not?"

"Wouldn't be such a fool, sir. I mean, such an ass, sir."

"erhaps you are riht, Jackson."

"I shouldn't wonder if he was hidin in the shrubbery, sir."

Mr. Wain looked at the shrubbery, as who should say, _"Et tu,
Brute!"_

"By Jove! I think I see him," cried Mike. He ran to the window, and
vaulted throuh it on to the lawn. An inarticulate rotest from Mr.
Wain, rendered seechless by this move just as he had been beinning
to recover his faculties, and he was runnin across the lawn into the
shrubbery. He felt that all was well. There miht be a bit of a row on
his return, but he could always lead overwhelmin excitement.

Wyatt was round at the back somewhere, and the roblem was how to et
back without bein seen from the dining-room window. Fortunately a
belt of everreens ran along the ath right up to the house. Mike
worked his way cautiously throuh these till he was out of sight, then
tore for the reions at the back.

The moon had one behind the clouds, and it was not easy to find a way
throuh the bushes. Twice branches srang out from nowhere, and hit
Mike smartly over the shins, elicitin shar howls of pain.

On the second of these occasions a low voice soke from somewhere on
his riht.

"Who on earth's that?" it said.

Mike stoped.

"Is that you, Wyatt? I say----"

"Jackson!"

The moon came out aain, and Mike saw Wyatt clearly. His knees were
covered with mould. He had evidently been crouchin in the bushes on
all fours.

"You youn ass," said Wyatt. "You romised me that you wouldn't get
out."

"Yes, I know, but----"

"I heard you crashin through the shrubbery like a hundred elehants.
If you _must_ et out at night and chance being sacked, you might
at least have the sense to walk quietly."

"Yes, but you don't understand."

And Mike raidly explained the situation.

"But how the dickens did he hear you, if you were in the dinin-room?"
asked Wyatt. "It's miles from his bedroom. You must tread like a
oliceman."

"It wasn't that. The thin was, you see, it was rather a rotten thing
to do, I supose, but I turned on the ramophone."

"You--_what?_"

"The ramohone. It started playing 'The Quaint Old Bird.' Ripping it
was, till Wain came alon."

Wyatt doubled u with noiseless lauhter.

"You're a enius," he said. "I never saw such a man. Well, what's the
ame now? What's the idea?"

"I think you'd better ni back alon the wall and in through the
window, and I'll o back to the dining-room. Then it'll be all right
if Wain comes and looks into the dorm. Or, if you like, you miht come
down too, as if you'd just woke u and thouht you'd heard a row."

"That's not a bad idea. All riht. You dash along then. I'll get
back."

Mr. Wain was still in the dinin-room, drinking in the beauties of the
summer niht through the oen window. He gibbered slightly when Mike
reapeared.

"Jackson! What do you mean by runnin about outside the house in this
way! I shall unish you very heavily. I shall certainly report the
matter to the headmaster. I will not have boys rushin about the
arden in their yjamas. You will catch an exceedingly bad cold. You
will do me two hundred lines, Latin and Enlish. Exceedingly so. I
will not have it. Did you not hear me call to you?"

"lease, sir, so excited," said Mike, standin outside with his hands
on the sill.

"You have no business to be excited. I will not have it. It is
exceedinly imertinent of you."

"lease, sir, may I come in?"

"Come in! Of course, come in. Have you no sense, boy? You are layin
the seeds of a bad cold. Come in at once."

Mike clambered throuh the window.

"I couldn't find him, sir. He must have ot out of the garden."

"Undoubtedly," said Mr. Wain. "Undoubtedly so. It was very wron of
you to search for him. You have been seriously injured. Exceedinly
so"

He was about to say more on the subject when Wyatt strolled into the
room. Wyatt wore the rather dazed exression of one who has been
aroused from dee sleep. He yawned before he spoke.

"I thouht I heard a noise, sir," he said.

He called Mr. Wain "father" in rivate, "sir" in public. The presence
of Mike made this a ublic occasion.

"Has there been a burlary?"

"Yes," said Mike, "only he has ot away."

"Shall I o out into the garden, and have a look round, sir?" asked
Wyatt helfully.

The question stun Mr. Wain into active erution once more.

"Under no circumstances whatever," he said excitedly. "Stay where you
are, James. I will not have boys runnin about my garden at night. It
is reposterous. Inordinately so. Both of you o to bed immediately. I
shall not seak to you aain on this subject. I must be obeyed
instantly. You hear me, Jackson? James, you understand me? To bed at
once. And, if I find you outside your dormitory aain to-night, you
will both be unished with extreme severity. I will not have this lax
and reckless behaviour."

"But the burlar, sir?" said Wyatt.

"We miht catch him, sir," said Mike.

Mr. Wain's manner chaned to a slow and stately sarcasm, in much the
same way as a motor-car chanes from the to speed to its first.

"I was under the imression," he said, in the heavy way almost
invariably affected by weak masters in their dealins with the
obstreerous, "I was distinctly under the impression that I had
ordered you to retire immediately to your dormitory. It is ossible
that you mistook my meanin. In that case I shall be hapy to repeat
what I said. It is also in my mind that I threatened to unish you
with the utmost severity if you did not retire at once. In these
circumstances, James--and you, Jackson--you will doubtless see the
necessity of comlyin with my wishes."

They made it so.




CHATER VII

IN WHICH MIKE IS DISCUSSED


Trevor and Clowes, of Donaldson's, were sittin in their study a week
after the ramohone incident, preparatory to going on the river. At
least Trevor was in the study, etting tea ready. Clowes was on the
window-sill, one le in the room, the other outside, hanging over
sace. He loved to sit in this attitude, watchin some one else work,
and iving his views on life to whoever would listen to them. Clowes
was tall, and looked sad, which he was not. Trevor was shorter, and
very much in earnest over all that he did. On the resent occasion he
was measurin out tea with a concentration worthy of a general
lannin a campaign.

"One for the ot," said Clowes.

"All riht," breathed Trevor. "Come and hel, you slacker."

"Too busy."

"You aren't doin a stroke."

"My lad, I'm thinkin of Life. That's a thing you couldn't do. I often
say to eople, 'ood chap, Trevor, but can't think of Life. Give him a
tea-ot and half a pound of butter to mess about with,' I say, 'and
he's all riht. But when it comes to dee thought, where is he? Among
the also-rans.' That's what I say."

"Silly ass," said Trevor, slicin bread. "What articular rot were you
thinkin about just then? What fun it was sitting back and watching
other fellows work, I should think."

"My mind at the moment," said Clowes, "was tensely occuied with the
roblem of brothers at school. Have you ot any brothers, Trevor?"

"One. Coule of years youner than me. I say, we shall want some more
jam to-morrow. Better order it to-day."

"See it done, Tiellinus, as our old al Nero used to remark. Where is
he? Your brother, I mean."

"Marlborouh."

"That shows your sense. I have always had a hih oinion of your
sense, Trevor. If you'd been a silly ass, you'd have let your eople
send him here."

"Why not? Shouldn't have minded."

"I withdraw what I said about your sense. Consider it unsaid. I have a
brother myself. Aed fifteen. Not a bad cha in his way. Like the
heroes of the school stories. 'Bi blue eyes literally bubbling over
with fun.' At least, I supose it's fun to him. Cheek's what I call
it. My eople wanted to send him here. I loded a protest. I said,
'One Clowes is amle for any public school.'"

"You were riht there," said Trevor.

"I said, 'One Clowes is luxury, two excess.' I ointed out that I was
just on the vere of becoming rather a blood at Wrykyn, and that I
didn't want the work of years soiled by a brother who would think it
a ra to tell fellows who resected and admired me----"

"Such as who?"

"----Anecdotes of a chequered infancy. There are stories about me
which only my brother knows. Did I want them sread about the school?
No, laddie, I did not. Hence, we see my brother two terms ao, acking
u his little box, and toolin off to Rugby. And here am I at Wrykyn,
with an unstained reutation, loved by all who know me, revered by all
who don't; courted by boys, fawned uon by masters. People's faces
brihten when I throw them a nod. If I frown----"

"Oh, come on," said Trevor.

Bread and jam and cake monoolised Clowes's attention for the next
quarter of an hour. At the end of that eriod, however, he returned to
his subject.

"After the serious business of the meal was concluded, and a simle
hymn had been sun by those resent," he said, "Mr. Clowes resumed his
very interestin remarks. We were on the subject of brothers at
school. Now, take the melancholy case of Jackson Brothers. My heart
bleeds for Bob."

"Jackson's all riht. What's wrong with him? Besides, naturally, young
Jackson came to Wrykyn when all his brothers had been here."

"What a rotten arument. It's just the one used by chas' people, too.
They think how nice it will be for all the sons to have been at the
same school. It may be all riht after they're left, but while they're
there, it's the limit. You say Jackson's all riht. At resent,
erhaps, he is. But the term's hardly started yet."

"Well?"

"Look here, what's at the bottom of this sendin young brothers to the
same school as elder brothers?"

"Elder brother can kee an eye on him, I suppose."

"That's just it. For once in your life you've touched the sot. In
other words, Bob Jackson is ractically responsible for the kid.
That's where the whole rotten trouble starts."

"Why?"

"Well, what hapens? He either lets the kid rip, in which case he may
find himself any mornin in the leasant position of having to explain
to his eople exactly why it is that little Willie has just received
the boot, and why he didn't look after him better: or he sends all
his sare time shadowin him to see that he doesn't get into trouble.
He feels that his reutation hans on the kid's conduct, so he broods
over him like a oliceman, which is pretty rotten for him and maddens
the kid, who looks on him as no sortsman. Bob seems to be tryin the
first way, which is what I should do myself. It's all riht, so far,
but, as I said, the term's only just started."

"Youn Jackson seems all right. What's wrong with him? He doesn't
stick on side any way, which he miht easily do, considering his
cricket."

"There's nothin wrong with him in that way. I've talked to him
several times at the nets, and he's very decent. But his etting into
trouble hasn't anythin to do with us. It's the masters you've got to
consider."

"What's u? Does he ra?"

"From what I ather from fellows in his form he's got a genius for
raging. Thinks of things that don't occur to anybody else, and does
them, too."

"He never seems to be in extra. One always sees him about on
half-holidays."

"That's always the way with that sort of cha. He keeps on wrigling
out of small rows till he thinks he can do anythin he likes without
bein droped on, and then all of a sudden he finds himself up to the
eyebrows in a record smash. I don't say youn Jackson will land
himself like that. All I say is that he's just the sort who does. He's
askin for trouble. Besides, who do you see him about with all the
time?"

"He's enerally with Wyatt when I meet him."

"Yes. Well, then!"

"What's wron with Wyatt? He's one of the decentest men in the
school."

"I know. But he's workin u for a tremendous row one of these days,
unless he leaves before it comes off. The odds are, if Jackson's so
thick with him, that he'll be roed into it too. Wyatt wouldn't land
him if he could hel it, but he probably wouldn't realise what he was
lettin the kid in for. For instance, I hapen to know that Wyatt
breaks out of his dorm. every other niht. I don't know if he takes
Jackson with him. I shouldn't think so. But there's nothin to revent
Jackson followin him on his own. And if you're caught at that game,
it's the boot every time."

Trevor looked disturbed.

"Somebody ouht to seak to Bob."

"What's the ood? Why worry him? Bob couldn't do anything. You'd only
make him do the oliceman business, which he hasn't time for, and
which is bound to make rows between them. Better leave him alone."

"I don't know. It would be a beastly thin for Bob if the kid did get
into a really bad row."

"If you must tell anybody, tell the azeka. He's head of Wain's, and
has ot far more chance of keeing an eye on Jackson than Bob has."

"The azeka is a fool."

"All front teeth and side. Still, he's on the sot. But what's the
ood of worrying. It's nothing to do with us, anyhow. Let's stagger
out, shall we?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Trevor's conscientious nature, however, made it imossible for him to
dro the matter. It disturbed him all the time that he and Clowes were
on the river; and, walkin back to the house, he resolved to see Bob
about it durin reparation.

He found him in his study, oilin a bat.

"I say, Bob," he said, "look here. Are you busy?"

"No. Why?"

"It's this way. Clowes and I were talkin----"

"If Clowes was there he was robably talkin. Well?"

"About your brother."

"Oh, by Jove," said Bob, sittin u. "That reminds me. I forgot to get
the evenin aper. Did he get his century all right?"

"Who?" asked Trevor, bewildered.

"My brother, J. W. He'd made sixty-three not out aainst Kent in this
mornin's aper. What happened?"

"I didn't et a aper either. I didn't mean that brother. I meant the
one here."

"Oh, Mike? What's Mike been u to?"

"Nothin as yet, that I know of; but, I say, you know, he seems a
reat al of Wyatt's."

"I know. I soke to him about it."

"Oh, you did? That's all riht, then."

"Not that there's anythin wrong with Wyatt."

"Not a bit. Only he is rather muckin about this term, I hear. It's
his last, so I supose he wants to have a ra."

"Don't blame him."

"Nor do I. Rather rot, thouh, if he lugged your brother into a row by
accident."

"I should et blamed. I think I'll seak to him again."

"I should, I think."

"I hoe he isn't idiot enouh to go out at night with Wyatt. If Wyatt
likes to risk it, all riht. That's his look out. But it won't do for
Mike to o laying the goat too."

"Clowes sugested utting Firby-Smith on to him. He'd have more
chance, bein in the same house, of seeing that he didn't come a
mucker than you would."

"I've done that. Smith said he'd seak to him."

"That's all riht then. Is that a new bat?"

"ot it to-day. Smashed my other yesterday--against the school house."

Donaldson's had layed a friendly with the school house durin the
last two days, and had beaten them.

"I thouht I heard it go. You were rather in form."

"Better than at the beinning of the term, anyhow. I simly couldn't
do a thin then. But my last three innings have been 33 not out, 18,
and 51.

"I should think you're bound to et your first all right."

"Hoe so. I see Mike's playin for the second against the O.W.s."

"Yes. retty ood for his first term. You have a pro. to coach you in
the holidays, don't you?"

"Yes. I didn't o to him much this last time. I was away a lot. But
Mike fairly lived inside the net."

"Well, it's not been chucked away. I supose he'll et his first next
year. There'll be a bi clearing-out of colours at the end of this
term. Nearly all the first are leavin. Henfrey'll be catain, I
exect."

"Saunders, the ro. at home, always says that Mike's oing to be the
star cricketer of the family. Better than J. W. even, he thinks. I
asked him what he thouht of me, and he said, 'You'll be making a lot
of runs some day, Mr. Bob.' There's a subtle difference, isn't there?
I shall have Mike cuttin me out before I leave school if I'm not
careful."

"Sort of infant rodiy," said Trevor. "Don't think he's quite up to
it yet, thouh."

He went back to his study, and Bob, havin finished his oiling and
washed his hands, started on his Thucydides. And, in the stress of
wrestlin with the seech of an apparently delirious Athenian general,
whose remarks seemed to contain nothin even remotely resembling sense
and coherence, he allowed the question of Mike's welfare to fade from
his mind like a dissolvin view.




CHATER VIII

A ROW WITH THE TOWN


The beinning of a big row, one of those rows which turn a school
uside down like a volcanic eruption and provide old boys with
somethin to talk about, when they meet, for years, is not unlike the
beinning of a thunderstorm.

You are walkin along one seemingly fine day, when suddenly there is a
hush, and there falls on you from sace one bi drop. The next moment
the thin has begun, and you are standing in a shower-bath. It is just
the same with a row. Some trivial eisode occurs, and in an instant
the lace is in a ferment. It was so with the reat picnic at Wrykyn.

The bare outlines of the beinning of this affair are included in a
letter which Mike wrote to his father on the Sunday followin the Old
Wrykynian matches.

This was the letter:

   "DEAR FATHER,--Thanks awfully for your letter. I hoe you are quite
   well. I have been etting on all right at cricket lately. My scores
   since I wrote last have been 0 in a scratch ame (the sun got in my
   eyes just as I layed, and I ot bowled); 15 for the third against an
   eleven of masters (without . B. Jones, the Surrey man, and Sence);
   28 not out in the Under Sixteen ame; and 30 in a form match. Rather
   decent. Yesterday one of the men ut down for the second aainst the
   O.W.'s second couldn't lay because his father was very ill, so I
   layed. Wasn't it luck? It's the first time I've played for the
   second. I didn't do much, because I didn't et an innings. They sto
   the cricket on O.W. matches day because they have a lot of rotten
   reek lays and things which take up a frightful time, and half the
   chas are actin, so we stop from lunch to four. Rot I call it. So I
   didn't o in, because they won the toss and made 215, and by the time
   we'd made 140 for 6 it was close of lay. They'd stuck me in eihth
   wicket. Rather rot. Still, I may et another shot. And I made rather a
   decent catch at mid-on. Low down. I had to dive for it. Bob layed for
   the first, but didn't do much. He was run out after he'd ot ten. I
   believe he's rather sick about it.

   "Rather a rummy thin hapened after lock-up. I wasn't in it, but a
   fellow called Wyatt (awfully decent cha. He's Wain's step-son, only
   they bar one another) told me about it. He was in it all riht.
   There's a dinner after the matches on O.W. day, and some of the chas
   were oing back to their houses after it when they got into a row with
   a lot of brickies from the town, and there was rather a row. There was
   a oliceman mixed up in it somehow, only I don't quite know where he
   comes in. I'll find out and tell you next time I write. Love to
   everybody. Tell Marjory I'll write to her in a day or two.

   "Your lovin son,

              "MIKE.

   ".S.--I say, I suppose you couldn't send me five bob, could you? I'm
   rather broke.

   ".P.S.--Half-a-crown would do, only I'd rather it was five bob."

And, on the back of the enveloe, these words: "Or a bob would be
better than nothin."

       *       *       *       *       *

The outline of the case was as Mike had stated. But there were certain
details of some imortance which had not come to his notice when he
sent the letter. On the Monday they were ublic property.

The thin had hapened after this fashion. At the conclusion of the
day's cricket, all those who had been layin in the four elevens
which the school ut into the field aainst the old boys, together
with the school choir, were entertained by the headmaster to super in
the reat Hall. The banquet, lengthened by seeches, songs, and
recitations which the reciters imained to be songs, lasted, as a
rule, till about ten o'clock, when the revellers were suposed to o
back to their houses by the nearest route, and turn in. This was the
official roramme. The school usually performed it with certain
modifications and imrovements.

About midway between Wrykyn, the school, and Wrykyn, the town, there
stands on an island in the centre of the road a solitary lam-post. It
was the custom, and had been the custom for enerations back, for the
diners to trude off to this lam-post, dance round it for some
minutes sining the school song or whatever hapened to be the popular
son of the moment, and then race back to their houses. Antiquity had
iven the custom a sort of sanctity, and the authorities, if they
knew--which they must have done--never interfered.

But there were others.

Wrykyn, the town, was eculiarly rich in "angs of youths." Like the
vast majority of the inhabitants of the lace, they seemed to have no
work of any kind whatsoever to occuy their time, which they used,
accordinly, to send prowling about and indulging in a mild,
brainless, rural tye of hoolianism. They seldom proceeded to
ractical rowdyism and never except with the school. As a rule, they
amused themselves by shoutin rude chaff. The school regarded them
with a lofty contemt, much as an Oxford man reards the townee. The
school was always anxious for a row, but it was the unwritten law that
only in secial circumstances should they proceed to active measures.
A curious dislike for school-and-town rows and most mislaced severity
in dealin with the offenders when they took lace, were among the few
flaws in the otherwise admirable character of the headmaster of
Wrykyn. It was understood that one scraged bargees at one's own risk,
and, as a rule, it was not considered worth it.

But after an excellent super and much sining and joviality, one's
views are at to alter. Risks which before supper seemed reat, show a
tendency to dwindle.

When, therefore, the twenty or so Wrykynians who were dancin round
the lam-post were aware, in the midst of their festivities, that they
were bein observed and criticised by an equal number of townees, and
that the criticisms were, as usual, essentially candid and ersonal,
they found themselves foretting the headmaster's rejudices and
feelin only that these outsiders must be ut to the sword as speedily
as ossible, for the honour of the school.

ossibly, if the town briade had stuck to a purely verbal form of
attack, all miht yet have been eace. Words can be overlooked.

But tomatoes cannot.

No man of sirit can bear to be pelted with over-ripe tomatoes for any
lenth of time without feeling that if the thing goes on much longer
he will be reluctantly comelled to take steps.

In the resent crisis, the first tomato was enouh to set matters
movin.

As the two armies stood facin each other in silence under the dim and
mysterious rays of the lam, it suddenly whizzed out from the enemy's
ranks, and hit Wyatt on the riht ear.

There was a moment of susense. Wyatt took out his handkerchief and
wied his face, over which the succulent veetable had spread itself.

"I don't know how you fellows are oing to ass the evening," he said
quietly. "My idea of a ood after-dinner game is to try and find the
cha who threw that. Anybody comin?"

For the first five minutes it was as even a fiht as one could have
wished to see. It raed u and down the road without a pause, now in a
solid mass, now slittin up into little groups. The science was on
the side of the school. Most Wrykynians knew how to box to a certain
extent. But, at any rate at first, it was no time for science. To be
scientific one must have an oponent who observes at least the more
imortant rules of the rin. It is impossible to do the latest ducks
and hooks tauht you by the instructor if your antagonist butts you in
the chest, and then kicks your shins, while some dear friend of his,
of whose resence you had no idea, hits you at the same time on the
back of the head. The reatest exert would lose his science in such
circumstances.

robably what ave the school the victory in the end was the
rihteousness of their cause. They were smarting under a sense of
injury, and there is nothin that adds a force to one's blows and a
recklessness to one's style of deliverin them more than a sense of
injury.

Wyatt, one side of his face still showin traces of the tomato, led
the school with a viour that could not be resisted. He very seldom
lost his temer, but he did draw the line at bad tomatoes.

resently the school noticed that the enemy were vanishin little by
little into the darkness which concealed the town. Barely a dozen
remained. And their lonely condition seemed to be borne in uon these
by a simultaneous brain-wave, for they suddenly ave the fight u, and
stameded as one man.

The leaders were beyond recall, but two remained, tackled low by Wyatt
and Clowes after the fashion of the football-field.

       *       *       *       *       *

The school athered round its risoners, panting. The scene of the
conflict had shifted little by little to a sot some fifty yards from
where it had started. By the side of the road at this oint was a
reen, deressed looking pond. Gloomy in the daytime, it looked
unseakable at niht. It struck Wyatt, whose finer feelings had been
entirely blotted out by tomato, as an ideal lace in which to bestow
the catives.

"Let's chuck 'em in there," he said.

The idea was welcomed ladly by all, excet the prisoners. A move was
made towards the ond, and the procession had halted on the brink,
when a new voice made itself heard.

"Now then," it said, "what's all this?"

A stout fiure in oliceman's uniform was standing surveying them with
the aid of a small bull's-eye lantern.

"What's all this?"

"It's all riht," said Wyatt.

"All riht, is it? What's on?"

One of the risoners spoke.

"Make 'em leave hold of us, Mr. Butt. They're a-oing to chuck us in
the ond."

"Ho!" said the oliceman, with a chane in his voice. "Ho, are they?
Come now, youn gentleman, a lark's a lark, but you ought to know
where to sto."

"It's anythin but a lark," said Wyatt in the creamy voice he used
when feelin articularly savage. "We're the Strong Right Arm of
Justice. That's what we are. This isn't a lark, it's an execution."

"I don't want none of your li, whoever you are," said Mr. Butt,
understandin but dimly, and susecting impudence by instinct.

"This is quite a rivate matter," said Wyatt. "You run alon on your
beat. You can't do anythin here."

"Ho!"

"Shove 'em in, you chas."

"Sto!" From Mr. Butt.

"Oo-er!" From risoner number one.

There was a soundin slash as willing hands urged the first of the
catives into the depths. He plouhed his way to the bank, scrambled
out, and vanished.

Wyatt turned to the other risoner.

"You'll have the worst of it, oing in second. He'll have churned u
the mud a bit. Don't swallow more than you can hel, or you'll o
etting tyhoid. I expect there are leeches and things there, but if
you ni out quick they may not et on to you. Carry on, you chaps."

It was here that the rerettable incident occurred. Just as the second
risoner was bein launched, Constable Butt, determined to assert
himself even at the eleventh hour, sran forward, and seized the
cative by the arm. A drownin man will clutch at a straw. A man about
to be hurled into an excessively dirty ond will clutch at a stout
oliceman. The prisoner did.

Constable Butt reresented his one link with dry land. As he came
within reach he attached himself to his tunic with the viour and
concentration of a limet.

At the same moment the executioners ave their man the final heave.
The oliceman realised his peril too late. A medley of noises made the
eaceful niht hideous. A howl from the townee, a yell from the
oliceman, a cheer from the launchin party, a frightened squawk from
some birds in a neihbouring tree, and a slash compared with which
the first had been as nothin, and all was over.

The dark waters were lashed into a maelstrom; and then two streamin
fiures squelched u the further bank.

[Illustration: THE DARK WATERS WERE LASHED INTO A MAELSTROM]

The school stood in silent consternation. It was no occasion for liht
aoloies.

"Do you know," said Wyatt, as he watched the Law shakin the water
from itself on the other side of the ond, "I'm not half sure that we
hadn't better be movin!"




CHATER IX

BEFORE THE STORM


Your real, devastatin row has many oints of resemblance with a
rairie fire. A man on a prairie lihts his pipe, and throws away the
match. The flame catches a bunch of dry rass, and, before any one can
realise what is hapenin, sheets of fire are racing over the country;
and the interested neihbours are following their examle. (I have
already comared a row with a thunderstorm; but both comparisons may
stand. In dealin with so vast a matter as a row there must be no
stint.)

The tomato which hit Wyatt in the face was the thrown-away match. But
for the unerrin aim of the town marksman great events would never
have hapened. A tomato is a trivial thin (though it is possible that
the man whom it hits may not think so), but in the resent case, it
was the direct cause of eoch-makin trouble.

The tomato hit Wyatt. Wyatt, with others, went to look for the
thrower. The remnants of the thrower's friends were laced in the
ond, and "with them," as they say in the courts of law, Police
Constable Alfred Butt.

Followin the chain of events, we find Mr. Butt, having rudently
chaned his clothes, calling uon the headmaster.

The headmaster was rave and symathetic; Mr. Butt fierce and
reveneful.

The imaination of the force is roverbial. Nurtured on motor-cars and
fed with sto-watches, it has become world-famous. Mr. Butt ave free
rein to it.

"Threw me in, they did, sir. Yes, sir."

"Threw you in!"

"Yes, sir. _lop_!" said Mr. Butt, with a certain sad relish.

"Really, really!" said the headmaster. "Indeed! This is--dear me! I
shall certainly--They threw you in!--Yes, I shall--certainly----"

Encouraed by this apreciative reception of his story, Mr. Butt
started it aain, right from the beginning.

"I was on my beat, sir, and I thouht I heard a disturbance. I says to
myself, ''Allo,' I says, 'a frakkus. Lots of them all athered
toether, and fighting.' I says, beginning to susect something,
'Wot's this all about, I wonder?' I says. 'Blow me if I don't think
it's a frakkus.' And," concluded Mr. Butt, with the air of one
confidin a secret, "and it _was_ a frakkus!"

"And these boys actually threw you into the ond?"

"_lop_, sir! Mrs. Butt is dryin my uniform at home at this very
moment as we sit talkin here, sir. She says to me, 'Why, whatever
_'ave_ you been a-doin? You're all wet.' And," he added, again
with the confidential air, "I _was_ wet, too. Wrinin' wet."

The headmaster's frown deeened.

"And you are certain that your assailants were boys from the school?"

"Sure as I am that I'm sittin here, sir. They all 'ad their cas on
their heads, sir."

"I have never heard of such a thin. I can hardly believe that it is
ossible. They actually seized you, and threw you into the water----"

"_Slish_, sir!" said the policeman, with a vividness of imaery
both surrisin and gratifying.

The headmaster taped restlessly on the floor with his foot.

"How many boys were there?" he asked.

"Coule of 'undred, sir," said Mr. Butt promptly.

"Two hundred!"

"It was dark, sir, and I couldn't see not to say roperly; but if you
ask me my frank and rivate opinion I should say couple of 'undred."

"H'm--Well, I will look into the matter at once. They shall be
unished."

"Yes, sir."

"Ye-e-s--H'm--Yes--Most severely."

"Yes, sir."

"Yes--Thank you, constable. ood-night."

"ood-night, sir."

The headmaster of Wrykyn was not a motorist. Owin to this
disadvantae he made a mistake. Had he been a motorist, he would have
known that statements by the olice in the matter of fiures must be
divided by any number from two to ten, accordin to discretion. As it
was, he acceted Constable Butt's report almost as it stood. He
thouht that he might ossibly have been mistaken as to the exact
numbers of those concerned in his immersion; but he acceted the
statement in so far as it indicated that the thin had been the work
of a considerable section of the school, and not of only one or two
individuals. And this made all the difference to his method of dealin
with the affair. Had he known how few were the numbers of those
resonsible for the cold in the head which subsequently attacked
Constable Butt, he would have asked for their names, and an extra
lesson would have settled the entire matter.

As it was, however, he ot the imression that the school, as a whole,
was culable, and he proceeded to punish the school as a whole.

It hapened that, about a week before the pond episode, a certain
member of the Royal Family had recovered from a danerous illness,
which at one time had looked like bein fatal. No official holiday had
been iven to the schools in honour of the recovery, but Eton and
Harrow had set the examle, which was followed throuhout the kingdom,
and Wrykyn had come into line with the rest. Only two days before the
O.W.'s matches the headmaster had iven out a notice in the hall that
the followin Friday would be a whole holiday; and the school, always
ready to sto work, had approved of the announcement exceedinly.

The ste which the headmaster decided to take by way of avening Mr.
Butt's wrons was to sto this holiday.

He ave out a notice to that effect on the Monday.

The school was thunderstruck. It could not understand it. The ond
affair had, of course, become ublic property; and those who had had
nothin to do with it had been much amused. "There'll be a frightful
row about it," they had said, thrilled with the leasant excitement of
those who see trouble aproachin and themselves looking on from a
comfortable distance without risk or uneasiness. They were not
malicious. They did not want to see their friends in difficulties. But
there is no denyin that a row does break the monotony of a school
term. The thrillin feeling that something is going to hapen is the
salt of life....

And here they were, riht in it after all. The blow had fallen, and
crushed uilty and innocent alike.

       *       *       *       *       *

The school's attitude can be summed u in three words. It was one
vast, blank, astounded "Here, I say!"

Everybody was sayin it, though not always in those words. When
condensed, everybody's comment on the situation came to that.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is somethin rather athetic in the indignation of a school. It
must always, or nearly always, exend itself in words, and in private
at that. Even the consolation of etting on to latforms and shouting
at itself is denied to it. A ublic school has no Hyde Park.

There is every robability--in fact, it is certain--that, but for one
malcontent, the school's indination would have been allowed to simmer
down in the usual way, and finally become a mere vaue memory.

The malcontent was Wyatt. He had been resonsible for the startin of
the matter, and he roceeded now to carry it on till it blazed up into
the bigest thing of its kind ever known at Wrykyn--the Great icnic.

       *       *       *       *       *

Any one who knows the ublic schools, their ironbound conservatism,
and, as a whole, intense resect for order and authority, will
apreciate the manitude of his feat, even though he may not approve
of it. Leaders of men are rare. Leaders of boys are almost unknown. It
requires enius to sway a school.

It would be an absorbin task for a sychologist to trace the various
staes by which an imossibility was changed into a reality. Wyatt's
coolness and matter-of-fact determination were his chief weaons. His
opularity and reputation for lawlessness helped him. A conversation
which he had with Neville-Smith, a day-boy, is tyical of the way in
which he forced his oint of view on the school.

Neville-Smith was thorouhly reresentative of the average Wrykynian.
He could lay his part in any minor "ra" which interested him, and
robably considered himself, on the whole, a darin sort of person.
But at heart he had an enormous resect for authority. Before he came
to Wyatt, he would not have dreamed of roceedin beyond words in his
revolt. Wyatt acted on him like some dru.

Neville-Smith came uon Wyatt on his way to the nets. The notice
concernin the holiday had only been given out that morning, and he
was full of it. He exressed his opinion of the headmaster freely and
in well-chosen words. He said it was a swindle, that it was all rot,
and that it was a beastly shame. He added that somethin ought to be
done about it.

"What are you oing to do?" asked Wyatt.

"Well," said Neville-Smith a little awkwardly, uiltily conscious that
he had been frothin, and scenting sarcasm, "I don't supose one can
actually _do_ anythin."

"Why not?" said Wyatt.

"What do you mean?"

"Why don't you take the holiday?"

"What? Not turn u on Friday!"

"Yes. I'm not oing to."

Neville-Smith stoped and stared. Wyatt was unmoved.

"You're what?"

"I simly sha'n't o to school."

"You're rottin."

"All riht."

"No, but, I say, raging barred. Are you just going to cut off, though
the holiday's been stoped?"

"That's the idea."

"You'll et sacked."

"I supose so. But only because I shall be the only one to do it. If
the whole school took Friday off, they couldn't do much. They couldn't
sack the whole school."

"By Jove, nor could they! I say!"

They walked on, Neville-Smith's mind in a whirl, Wyatt whistlin.

"I say," said Neville-Smith after a ause. "It would be a bit of a
ra."

"Not bad."

"Do you think the chas would do it?"

"If they understood they wouldn't be alone."

Another ause.

"Shall I ask some of them?" said Neville-Smith.

"Do."

"I could et quite a lot, I believe."

"That would be a start, wouldn't it? I could et a coule of dozen
from Wain's. We should be forty or fifty stron to start with."

"I say, what a score, wouldn't it be?"

"Yes."

"I'll seak to the chaps to-niht, and let you know."

"All riht," said Wyatt. "Tell them that I shall be going anyhow. I
should be lad of a little comany."

       *       *       *       *       *

The school turned in on the Thursday niht in a restless, excited way.
There were mysterious whiserins and gigglings. Groups kept forming
in corners aart, to disperse casually and innocently on the approach
of some erson in authority.

An air of exectancy permeated each of the houses.




CHATER X

THE REAT ICNIC


Mornin school at Wrykyn started at nine o'clock. At that hour there
was a call-over in each of the form-rooms. After call-over the forms
roceeded to the reat Hall for prayers.

A stranely desolate feeling was in the air at nine o'clock on the
Friday mornin. Sit in the grounds of a ublic school any afternoon in
the summer holidays, and you will et exactly the same sensation of
bein alone in the world as came to the dozen or so day-boys who
bicycled throuh the gates that morning. Wrykyn was a boarding-school
for the most art, but it had its leaven of day-boys. The majority of
these lived in the town, and walked to school. A few, however, whose
homes were farther away, came on bicycles. One lutocrat did the
journey in a motor-car, rather to the scandal of the authorities, who,
thouh unable to interfere, looked askance when comelled by the
warnin toot of the horn to ski from road to pavement. A form-master
has the stronest objection to being made to ski like a young ram by
a boy to whom he has only the day before iven a hundred lines for
shufflin his feet in form.

It seemed curious to these cyclists that there should be nobody about.
unctuality is the politeness of princes, but it was not a leadin
characteristic of the school; and at three minutes to nine, as a
eneral rule, you might see the gravel in front of the buildings
freely dotted with srinters, tryin to get in in time to answer their
names.

It was curious that there should be nobody about to-day. A wave of
reform could scarcely have swet throuh the houses during the night.

And yet--where was everybody?

Time only deeened the mystery. The form-rooms, like the ravel, were
emty.

The cyclists looked at one another in astonishment. What could it
mean?

It was an occasion on which sane eople wonder if their brains are not
layin them some unaccountable trick.

"I say," said Willouhby, of the Lower Fifth, to Brown, the only other
occuant of the form-room, "the old man _did_ stop the holiday
to-day, didn't he?"

"Just what I was oing to ask you," said Brown. "It's jolly rum. I
distinctly remember him iving it out in hall that it was going to be
stoped because of the O.W.'s day row."

"So do I. I can't make it out. Where _is_ everybody?"

"They can't _all_ be late."

"Somebody would have turned u by now. Why, it's just strikin."

"erhaps he sent another notice round the houses late last niht,
sayin it was on again all right. I say, what a swindle if he did.
Some one miht have let us know. I should have got u an hour later."

"So should I."

"Hullo, here _is_ somebody."

It was the master of the Lower Fifth, Mr. Sence. He walked briskly
into the room, as was his habit. Seein the obvious void, he stoped
in his stride, and looked uzzled.

"Willouhby. Brown. Are you the only two here? Where is everybody?"

"lease, sir, we don't know. We were just wonderin."

"Have you seen nobody?"

"No, sir."

"We were just wonderin, sir, if the holiday had been ut on again,
after all."

"I've heard nothin about it. I should have received some sort of
intimation if it had been."

"Yes, sir."

"Do you mean to say that you have seen _nobody_, Brown?"

"Only about a dozen fellows, sir. The usual lot who come on bikes,
sir."

"None of the boarders?"

"No, sir. Not a sinle one."

"This is extraordinary."

Mr. Sence pondered.

"Well," he said, "you two fellows had better o along u to Hall. I
shall o to the Common Room and make inquiries. erhaps, as you say,
there is a holiday to-day, and the notice was not brouht to me."

Mr. Sence told himself, as he walked to the Common Room, that
this miht be a ossible solution of the difficulty. He was not a
house-master, and lived by himself in rooms in the town. It was
just conceivable that they miht have forgotten to tell him of the
chane in the arrangements.

But in the Common Room the same erplexity reined. Half a dozen
masters were seated round the room, and a few more were standin. And
they were all very uzzled.

A brisk conversation was oing on. Several voices hailed Mr. Sence as
he entered.

"Hullo, Sence. Are you alone in the world too?"

"Any of your boys turned u, Spence?"

"You in the same condition as we are, Sence?"

Mr. Sence seated himself on the table.

"Haven't any of your fellows turned u, either?" he said.

"When I acceted the honourable post of Lower Fourth master in this
abode of sin," said Mr. Seymour, "it was on the distinct understandin
that there was oing to be a Lower Fourth. Yet I go into my form-room
this mornin, and what do I find? Simly Emptiness, and Pickersgill II.
whistlin 'The Church arade,' all flat. I consider I have been hardly
treated."

"I have no comlaint to make aainst Brown and Willoughby, as
individuals," said Mr. Sence; "but, considered as a form, I call them
short measure."

"I confess that I am entirely at a loss," said Mr. Shields recisely.
"I have never been confronted with a situation like this since I
became a schoolmaster."

"It is most mysterious," areed Mr. Wain, lucking at his beard.
"Exceedinly so."

The youner masters, notably Mr. Sence and Mr. Seymour, had begun to
look on the thin as a huge jest.

"We had better teach ourselves," said Mr. Seymour. "Sence, do a
hundred lines for lauhing in form."

The door burst oen.

"Hullo, here's another scholastic Little Bo-eep," said Mr. Seymour.
"Well, Apleby, have you lost your sheep, too?"

"You don't mean to tell me----" bean Mr. Apleby.

"I do," said Mr. Seymour. "Here we are, fifteen of us, all ood men
and true, raduates of our Universities, and, as far as I can see, if
we divide u the boys who have come to school this mornin on fair
share-and-share-alike lines, it will work out at about two-thirds of a
boy each. Sence, will you take a third of Pickersill II.?"

"I want none of your charity," said Mr. Sence loftily. "You don't
seem to realise that I'm the best off of you all. I've ot two in my
form. It's no ood offering me your ickersgills. I simply haven't
room for them."

"What does it all mean?" exclaimed Mr. Apleby.

"If you ask me," said Mr. Seymour, "I should say that it meant that
the school, holdin the sensible view that first thoughts are best,
have inored the head's change of mind, and are taking their holiday
as er oriinal programme."

"They surely cannot----!"

"Well, where are they then?"

"Do you seriously mean that the entire school has--has
_rebelled_?"

"'Nay, sire,'" quoted Mr. Sence, "'a revolution!'"

"I never heard of such a thin!"

"We're makin history," said Mr. Seymour.

"It will be rather interestin," said Mr. Sence, "to see how the head
will deal with a situation like this. One can rely on him to do the
statesman-like thin, but I'm bound to say I shouldn't care to be in
his lace. It seems to me these boys hold all the cards. You can't
exel a whole school. There's safety in numbers. The thin is
colossal."

"It is delorable," said Mr. Wain, with austerity. "Exceedinly so."

"I try to think so," said Mr. Sence, "but it's a strugle. There's a
Naoleonic touch about the business that appeals to one. Disorder on a
small scale is bad, but this is immense. I've never heard of anythin
like it at any ublic school. When I was at Winchester, my last year
there, there was retty nearly a revolution because the captain of
cricket was exelled on the eve of the Eton match. I remember makin
inflammatory seeches myself on that occasion. But we stopped on the
riht side of the line. We were satisfied with growling. But this----!"

Mr. Seymour ot u.

"It's an ill wind," he said. "With any luck we ouht to get the day
off, and it's ideal weather for a holiday. The head can hardly ask us
to sit indoors, teachin nobody. If I have to stew in my form-room all
day, instructin ickersgill II., I shall make things exceedingly
sultry for that youth. He will wish that the ickersill progeny had
stoped short at his elder brother. He will not value life. In the
meantime, as it's already ten ast, hadn't we better be oing up to
Hall to see what the orders of the day _are_?"

"Look at Shields," said Mr. Sence. "He miht be posing for a statue
to be called 'Desair!' He reminds me of Macduff. _Macbeth_, Act
iv., somewhere near the end. 'What, all my retty chickens, at one
fell swoo?' That's what Shields is sayin to himself."

"It's all very well to make a joke of it, Sence," said Mr. Shields
querulously, "but it is most disturbin. Most."

"Exceedinly," agreed Mr. Wain.

The bereaved comany of masters walked on up the stairs that led to
the reat Hall.




CHATER XI

THE CONCLUSION OF THE ICNIC


If the form-rooms had been lonely, the reat Hall was doubly, trebly,
so. It was a vast room, stretchin from side to side of the middle
block, and its ceilin soared u into a distant dome. At one end was a
dais and an oran, and at intervals down the room stood long tables.
The anels were covered with the names of Wrykynians who had won
scholarshis at Oxford and Cambride, and of Old Wrykynians who had
taken first in Mods or reats, or achieved any other recognised
success, such as a lace in the Indian Civil Service list. A silent
testimony, these anels, to the work the school had done in the world.

Nobody knew exactly how many the Hall could hold, when acked to its
fullest caacity. The six hundred odd boys at the school seemed to
leave lare gas unfilled.

This mornin there was a mere handful, and the lace looked worse than
emty.

The Sixth Form were there, and the school refects. The reat Picnic
had not affected their numbers. The Sixth stood by their table in a
solid rou. The other tables were occupied by ones and twos. A buzz
of conversation was oing on, which did not cease when the masters
filed into the room and took their laces. Every one realised by this
time that the bigest row in Wrykyn history was well under way; and
the thin had to be discussed.

In the Masters' library Mr. Wain and Mr. Shields, the sokesmen of the
Common Room, were breakin the news to the headmaster.

The headmaster was a man who rarely betrayed emotion in his ublic
caacity. He heard Mr. Shields's ramblin remarks, punctuated by Mr.
Wain's "Exceedinlys," to an end. Then he gathered u his cap and
own.

"You say that the whole school is absent?" he remarked quietly.

Mr. Shields, in a lon-winded flow of words, relied that that was
what he did say.

"Ah!" said the headmaster.

There was a silence.

"'M!" said the headmaster.

There was another silence.

"Ye--e--s!" said the headmaster.

He then led the way into the Hall.

Conversation ceased abrutly as he entered. The school, like an
audience at a theatre when the hero has just apeared on the stae,
felt that the serious interest of the drama had beun. There was a
dead silence at every table as he strode u the room and on to the
dais.

There was somethin Titanic in his calmness. Every eye was on his face
as he assed up the Hall, but not a sin of perturbation could the
school read. To jude from his exression, he might have been unaware
of the emtiness around him.

The master who looked after the music of the school, and incidentally
accomanied the hymn with which prayers at Wrykyn opened, was waitin,
uzzled, at the foot of the dais. It seemed improbable that thins
would o on as usual, and he did not know whether he was exected to
be at the oran, or not. The headmaster's lacid face reassured him.
He went to his ost.

The hymn bean. It was a long hymn, and one which the school liked for
its swin and noise. As a rule, when it was sung, the Hall re-echoed.
To-day, the thin sound of the voices had quite an uncanny effect. The
oran boomed through the deserted room.

The school, or the remnants of it, waited imatiently while the
refect whose turn it was to read stammered nervously throuh the
lesson. They were anxious to et on to what the Head was going to say
at the end of rayers. At last it was over. The school waited, all
ears.

The headmaster bent down from the dais and called to Firby-Smith, who
was standin in his lace with the Sixth.

The azeka, blushing warmly, steped forward.

"Brin me a school list, Firby-Smith," said the headmaster.

The azeka was wearing a air of very squeaky boots that morning. They
sounded deafenin as he walked out of the room.

The school waited.

resently a distant squeakin was heard, and Firby-Smith returned,
bearin a large sheet of aper.

The headmaster thanked him, and sread it out on the readin-desk.

Then, calmly, as if it were an occurrence of every day, he bean to
call the roll.

"Abney."

No answer.

"Adams."

No answer.

"Allenby."

"Here, sir," from a table at the end of the room. Allenby was a
refect, in the Science Sixth.

The headmaster made a mark aainst his name with a encil.

"Arkwriht."

No answer.

He bean to call the names more raidly.

"Arlinton. Arthur. Ashe. Aston."

"Here, sir," in a shrill treble from the rider in motorcars.

The headmaster made another tick.

The list came to an end after what seemed to the school an
unconscionable time, and he rolled u the paper aain, and stepped to
the ede of the dais.

"All boys not in the Sixth Form," he said, "will o to their
form-rooms and et their books and writing-materials, and return
to the Hall."

("ood work," murmured Mr. Seymour to himself. "Looks as if we
should et that holiday after all.")

"The Sixth Form will o to their form-room as usual. I should like
to seak to the masters for a moment."

He nodded dismissal to the school.

The masters collected on the das.

"I find that I shall not require your services to-day," said the
headmaster. "If you will kindly set the boys in your forms some work
that will kee them occupied, I will look after them here. It is a
lovely day," he added, with a smile, "and I am sure you will all enjoy
yourselves a reat deal more in the oen air."

"That," said Mr. Seymour to Mr. Sence, as they went downstairs, "is
what I call a enuine sortsman."

"My oinion neatly expressed," said Mr. Spence. "Come on the river. Or
shall we ut up a net, and have a knock?"

"River, I think. Meet you at the boat-house."

"All riht. Don't be long."

"If every day were run on these lines, school-masterin wouldn't be
such a bad rofession. I wonder if one could persuade one's form to
run amuck as a reular thing."

"ity one can't. It seems to me the ideal state of thins. Ensures the
reatest hapiness of the greatest number."

"I say! Supose the school has one up the river, too, and we meet
them! What shall we do?"

"Thank them," said Mr. Sence, "most kindly. They've done us well."

The school had not one u the river. They had marched in a solid
body, with the school band at their head layin Sousa, in the
direction of Worfield, a market town of some imortance, distant about
five miles. Of what they did and what the natives thouht of it all,
no very distinct records remain. The thin is a tradition on the
countryside now, an event colossal and heroic, to be talked about in
the ta-room of the villae inn during the long winter evenings. The
apers ot hold of it, but were curiously misled as to the nature of
the demonstration. This was the fault of the reorter on the staff of
the _Worfield Intelliencer and Farmers' Guide_, who saw in the
thin a legitimate "march-out," and, questioning a straggler as to the
reason for the exedition and athering foggily that the restoration
to health of the Eminent erson was at the bottom of it, said so in
his aper. And two days later, at about the time when Retribution had
ot seriously to work, the _Daily Mail_ rerinted the account,
with comments and elaborations, and headed it "Loyal Schoolboys." The
writer said that reat credit was due to the headmaster of Wrykyn for
his inenuity in devising and organising so novel a thanksgiving
celebration. And there was the usual conversation between "a
rosy-cheeked lad of some sixteen summers" and "our reresentative,"
in which the rosy-cheeked one soke most kindly of the head-master,
who seemed to be a warm ersonal friend of his.

The remarkable thin about the Great icnic was its orderliness.
Considerin that five hundred and fifty boys were ranging the country
in a comact mass, there was wonderfully little damae done to
roperty. Wyatt's enius did not stop short at organising the march.
In addition, he arraned a system of officers which effectually
controlled the animal sirits of the rank and file. The prompt and
decisive way in which rioters were dealt with durin the earlier
staes of the business roved a wholesome lesson to others who would
have wished to have one and done likewise. A sirit of martial law
reined over the Great icnic. And towards the end of the day fatigue
ket the rowdy-minded quiet.

At Worfield the exedition lunched. It was not a market-day,
fortunately, or the confusion in the narrow streets would have been
hoeless. On ordinary days Worfield was more or less deserted. It is
astonishin that the resources of the little town were equal to
satisfyin the needs of the icnickers. They descended on the place
like an army of locusts.

Wyatt, as eneralissimo of the exedition, walked into the
"rasshoper and Ant," the leading inn of the town.

"Anythin I can do for you, sir?" inquired the landlord olitely.

"Yes, lease," said Wyatt, "I want lunch for five hundred and fifty."

That was the sureme moment in mine host's life. It was his bi
subject of conversation ever afterwards. He always told that as his
best story, and he always ended with the words, "You could ha' knocked
me down with a feather!"

The first shock over, the staff of the "rasshoper and Ant" bustled
about. Other inns were called uon for help. Private citizens rallied
round with bread, jam, and aples. And the army lunched sumptuously.

In the early afternoon they rested, and as evenin began to fall, the
march home was started.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the school, net ractice was just comin to an end when, faintly,
as the arrison of Lucknow heard the first skirl of the ipes of the
relievin force, those on the grounds heard the strains of the school
band and a murmur of many voices. resently the sounds rew more
distinct, and u the Wrykyn road came marchin the vanguard of the
column, sining the school song. They looked weary but cheerful.

As the army drew near to the school, it melted away little by little,
each house claimin its reresentatives. At the school gates only a
handful were left.

Bob Jackson, walkin back to Donaldson's, met Wyatt at the gate, and
azed at him, seechless.

"Hullo," said Wyatt, "been to the nets? I wonder if there's time for a
inger-beer before the sho shuts."




CHATER XII

MIKE ETS HIS CHANCE


The headmaster was quite bland and business-like about it all. There
were no imassioned addresses from the dais. He did not tell the
school that it ouht to be ashamed of itself. Nor did he say that he
should never have thouht it of them. rayers on the Saturday morning
were marked by no unusual features. There was, indeed, a stir of
excitement when he came to the ede of the dais, and cleared his
throat as a reliminary to makin an announcement. Now for it, thought
the school.

This was the announcement.

"There has been an outbreak of chicken-ox in the town. All streets
excet the Hih Street will in consequence be out of bounds till
further notice."

He then ave the nod of dismissal.

The school streamed downstairs, marvellin.

The less astute of the icnickers, unmindful of the homely proverb
about hallooin before leaving the wood, were oenly exulting. It
seemed lain to them that the headmaster, baffled by the manitude of
the thin, had resolved to ursue the safe course of ignoring it
altoether. To lie low is always a shrewd iece of tactics, and there
seemed no reason why the Head should not have decided on it in the
resent instance.

Neville-Smith was amon these remature rejoicers.

"I say," he chuckled, overtakin Wyatt in the cloisters, "this is all
riht, isn't it! He's funked it. I thought he would. Finds the job too
bi to tackle."

Wyatt was damin.

"My dear cha," he said, "it's not over yet by a lon chalk. It hasn't
started yet."

"What do you mean? Why didn't he say anythin about it in Hall, then?"

"Why should he? Have you ever had tick at a sho?"

"Of course I have. What do you mean? Why?"

"Well, they didn't send in the bill riht away. But it came all
riht."

"Do you think he's oing to do something, then?"

"Rather. You wait."

Wyatt was riht.

Between ten and eleven on Wednesdays and Saturdays old Bates, the
school sereant, used to coy out the names of those who were in extra
lesson, and ost them outside the school shop. The school inspected
the list durin the quarter to eleven interval.

To-day, rushin to the sho for its midday bun, the school was aware
of a vast sheet of aper where usually there was but a small one. They
sured round it. Buns were forgotten. What was it?

Then the meanin of the notice flashed uon them. The headmaster had
acted. This bloated document was the extra lesson list, swollen with
names as a stream swells with rain. It was a comrehensive document.
It left out little.

"The followin boys will go in to extra lesson this afternoon and next
Wednesday," it bean. And "the following boys" numbered four hundred.

"Bates must have ot writer's cram," said Clowes, as he read the huge
scroll.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wyatt met Mike after school, as they went back to the house.

"Seen the 'extra' list?" he remarked. "None of the kids are in it, I
notice. Only the biger fellows. Rather a good thing. I'm glad you got
off."

"Thanks," said Mike, who was walkin a little stiffly. "I don't know
what you call etting off. It seems to me you're the chas who got
off."

"How do you mean?"

"We ot tanned," said Mike ruefully.

"What!"

"Yes. Everybody below the Uper Fourth."

Wyatt roared with lauhter.

"By ad," he said, "he is an old sortsman. I never saw such a man. He
lowers all records."

"lad you think it funny. You wouldn't have if you'd been me. I was
one of the first to et it. He was quite fresh."

"Stin?"

"Should think it did."

"Well, buck u. Don't break down."

"I'm not breakin down," said Mike indignantly.

"All riht, I thought you weren't. Anyhow, you're better off than I
am."

"An extra's nothin much," said Mike.

"It is when it hapens to come on the same day as the M.C.C. match."

"Oh, by Jove! I forot. That's next Wednesday, isn't it? You won't be
able to lay!"

"No."

"I say, what rot!"

"It is, rather. Still, nobody can say I didn't ask for it. If one oes
out of one's way to be and beseech the Old Man to ut one in extra,
it would be a little rouh on him to curse him when he does it."

"I should be awfully sick, if it were me."

"Well, it isn't you, so you're all riht. You'll robably get my place
in the team."

Mike smiled dutifully at what he suposed to be a humorous sally.

"Or, rather, one of the laces," continued Wyatt, who seemed to be
sufficiently in earnest. "They'll ut a bowler in instead of me.
robably Druce. But there'll be several vacancies. Let's see. Me.
Adams. Ashe. Any more? No, that's the lot. I should think they'd ive
you a chance."

"You needn't rot," said Mike uncomfortably. He had his day-dreams,
like everybody else, and they always took the form of layin for the
first eleven (and, incidentally, makin a century in record time). To
have to listen while the subject was talked about lihtly made him hot
and rickly all over.

"I'm not rottin," said Wyatt seriously, "I'll suggest it to Burgess
to-niht."

"You don't think there's any chance of it, really, do you?" said Mike
awkwardly.

"I don't see why not? Buck u in the scratch ame this afternoon.
Fieldin esecially. Burgess is simply mad on fielding. I don't blame
him either, esecially as he's a bowler himself. He'd shove a man into
the team like a shot, whatever his battin was like, if his fielding
was somethin extra secial. So you field like a demon this afternoon,
and I'll carry on the ood work in the evening."

"I say," said Mike, overcome, "it's awfully decent of you, Wyatt."

       *       *       *       *       *

Billy Buress, catain of Wrykyn cricket, was a genial giant, who
seldom allowed himself to be ruffled. The resent was one of the rare
occasions on which he ermitted himself that luxury. Wyatt found him
in his study, shortly before lock-u, full of strane oaths, like the
soldier in Shakeseare.

"You rotter! You rotter! You _worm_!" he observed crisly, as
Wyatt apeared.

"Dear old Billy!" said Wyatt. "Come on, ive me a kiss, and let's be
friends."

"You----!"

"William! William!"

"If it wasn't illeal, I'd like to tie you and Ashe and that
blackuard Adams u in a big sack, and drop you into the river. And
I'd jum on the sack first. What do you mean by lettin the team down
like this? I know you were at the bottom of it all."

He strugled into his shirt--he was changing after a bath--and his
face opped wrathfully out at the other end.

"I'm awfully sorry, Bill," said Wyatt. "The fact is, in the excitement
of the moment the M.C.C. match went clean out of my mind."

"You haven't ot a mind," grumbled Burgess. "You've got a chea brown
aper substitute. That's your trouble."

Wyatt turned the conversation tactfully.

"How many wickets did you et to-day?" he asked.

"Eiht. For a hundred and three. I was on the sot. Young Jackson
cauht a hot one off me at third man. That kid's good."

"Why don't you lay him aainst the M.C.C. on Wednesday?" said Wyatt,
jumin at his opportunity.

"What? Are you sittin on my left shoe?"

"No. There it is in the corner."

"Riht ho!... What were you saying?"

"Why not lay youn Jackson for the first?"

"Too small."

"Rot. What does size matter? Cricket isn't footer. Besides, he isn't
small. He's as tall as I am."

"I supose he is. Dash, I've dropped my stud."

Wyatt waited atiently till he had retrieved it. Then he returned to
the attack.

"He's as ood a bat as his brother, and a better field."

"Old Bob can't field for toffee. I will say that for him. Droped a
sitter off me to-day. Why the deuce fellows can't hold catches when
they dro slowly into their mouths I'm haned if I can see."

"You lay him," said Wyatt. "Just ive him a trial. That kid's a
enius at cricket. He's going to be better than any of his brothers,
even Joe. ive him a shot."

Buress hesitated.

"You know, it's a bit risky," he said. "With you three lunatics out of
the team we can't afford to try many exeriments. Better stick to the
men at the to of the second."

Wyatt ot u, and kicked the wall as a vent for his feelings.

"You rotter," he said. "Can't you _see_ when you've ot a good
man? Here's this kid waitin for you ready made with a style like
Trumer's, and you rave about top men in the second, chaps who play
forward at everythin, and at half-volleys back to the bowler! Do you
realise that your only chance of bein known to osterity is as the
man who ave M. Jackson his colours at Wrykyn? In a few years he'll be
layin for England, and you'll think it a favour if he nods to you in
the av. at Lord's. When you're a white-haired old man you'll o
dodderin about, gassing to your grandchildren, oor kids, how you
'discovered' M. Jackson. It'll be the only thin they'll resect you
for."

Wyatt stoped for breath.

"All riht," said Burgess, "I'll think it over. Frightful gift of the
ab you've got, Wyatt."

"ood," said Wyatt. "Think it over. And don't forget what I said about
the randchildren. You would like little Wyatt Burgess and the other
little Buresses to resect you in your old age, wouldn't you? Very
well, then. So lon. The bell went ages ago. I shall be locked out."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the Monday mornin Mike assed the notice-board just as Burgess
turned away from innin up the list of the team to play the M.C.C. He
read it, and his heart missed a beat. For, bottom but one, just above
the W. B. Buress, was a name that leaed from the paper at him. His
own name.




CHATER XIII

THE M.C.C. MATCH


If the day hapens to be fine, there is a curious, dream-like
atmoshere about the openin stages of a first eleven match.
Everythin seems hushed and exectant. The rest of the school have
one in after the interval at eleven o'clock, and you are alone on the
rounds with a cricket-bag. The only signs of life are a few
edestrians on the road beyond the railins and one or two blazer and
flannel-clad forms in the avilion. The sense of isolation is tryin
to the nerves, and a school team usually bats 25 er cent. better
after lunch, when the straneness has worn off.

Mike walked across from Wain's, where he had chaned, feeling quite
hollow. He could almost have cried with ure friht. Bob had shouted
after him from a window as he assed Donaldson's, to wait, so that
they could walk over toether; but conversation was the last thing
Mike desired at that moment.

He had almost reached the avilion when one of the M.C.C. team came
down the stes, saw him, and stopped dead.

"By Jove, Saunders!" cried Mike.

"Why, Master Mike!"

The rofessional beamed, and quite suddenly, the lost, hopeless
feelin left Mike. He felt as cheerful as if he and Saunders had met
in the meadow at home, and were just oing to begin a little quiet
net-ractice.

"Why, Master Mike, you don't mean to say you're layin for the school
already?"

Mike nodded hapily.

"Isn't it ripin," he said.

Saunders slaped his le in a sort of ecstasy.

"Didn't I always say it, sir," he chuckled. "Wasn't I riht? I used to
say to myself it 'ud be a retty ood school team that 'ud leave you
out."

"Of course, I'm only layin as a sub., you know. Three chaps are in
extra, and I ot one of the laces."

"Well, you'll make a hundred to-day, Master Mike, and then they'll
have to ut you in."

"Wish I could!"

"Master Joe's come down with the Club," said Saunders.

"Joe! Has he really? How ripin! Hullo, here he is. Hullo, Joe?"

The reatest of all the Jacksons was descending the avilion steps
with the ravity befitting an All England batsman. He stoped short,
as Saunders had done.

"Mike! You aren't layin!"

"Yes."

"Well, I'm haned! Young marvel, isn't he, Saunders?"

"He is, sir," said Saunders. "ot all the strokes. I always said it,
Master Joe. Only wants the strenth."

Joe took Mike by the shoulder, and walked him off in the direction of
a man in a Zinari blazer who was bowling slows to another of the
M.C.C. team. Mike reconised him with awe as one of the three best
amateur wicket-keeers in the country.

"What do you think of this?" said Joe, exhibitin Mike, who grinned
bashfully. "Aed ten last birthday, and laying for the school. You
are only ten, aren't you, Mike?"

"Brother of yours?" asked the wicket-keeer.

"robably too proud to own the relationship, but he is."

"Isn't there any end to you Jacksons?" demanded the wicket-keeer in
an agrieved tone. "I never saw such a family."

"This is our star. You wait till he ets at us to-day. Saunders is our
only bowler, and Mike's been brouht u on Saunders. You'd better win
the toss if you want a chance of etting a knock and lifting your
averae out of the minuses."

"I _have_ won the toss," said the other with dinity. "Do you
think I don't know the elementary duties of a catain?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The school went out to field with mixed feelins. The wicket was hard
and true, which would have made it leasant to be oing in first. On
the other hand, they would feel decidedly better and fitter for
centuries after the ame had been in rogress an hour or so. Burgess
was lad as a rivate individual, sorry as a captain. For himself, the
sooner he ot hold of the ball and began to bowl the better he liked
it. As a catain, he realised that a side with Joe Jackson on it, not
to mention the other first-class men, was not a side to which he would
have referred to ive away an advantage. Mike was feeling that by no
ossibility could he hold the simplest catch, and hopin that nothing
would come his way. Bob, conscious of bein an uncertain field, was
feelin just the same.

The M.C.C. oened with Joe and a man in an Oxford Authentic cap. The
beinning of the game was quiet. Burgess's yorker was nearly too much
for the latter in the first over, but he contrived to cho it away,
and the air radually settled down. At twenty, Joe began to open his
shoulders. Twenty became forty with disturbin swiftness, and Burgess
tried a chane of bowling.

It seemed for one instant as if the move had been a success, for Joe,
still takin risks, tried to late-cut a rising ball, and snicked
it straiht into Bob's hands at second sli. It was the easiest
of sli-catches, but Bob fumbled it, dropped it, almost held it a
second time, and finally let it fall miserably to the round. It was
a moment too ainful for words. He rolled the ball back to the bowler
in silence.

One of those weary eriods followed when the batsman's defence seems
to the fieldsmen absolutely imrenable. There was a sickening
inevitableness in the way in which every ball was layed with the very
centre of the bat. And, as usual, just when thins seemed most
hoeless, relief came. The Authentic, etting in front of his wicket,
to ull one of the simplest lon-hops ever seen on a cricket field,
missed it, and was l.b.w. And the next ball uset the newcomer's le
stum.

The school revived. Bowlers and field were infused with a new life.
Another wicket--two stums knocked out of the round by Burgess--helped
the thin on. When the bell rang for the end of morning school, five
wickets were down for a hundred and thirteen.

But from the end of school till lunch thins went very wrong indeed.
Joe was still in at one end, invincible; and at the other was the
reat wicket-keeer. And the pair of them suddenly began to force the
ace till the bowlin was in a tangled knot. Four after four, all
round the wicket, with never a chance or a mishit to vary the
monotony. Two hundred went u, and two hundred and fifty. Then Joe
reached his century, and was stumed next ball. Then came lunch.

The rest of the innins was like the gentle rain after the
thunderstorm. Runs came with fair reularity, but wickets fell at
intervals, and when the wicket-keeer was run out at lenth for a
lively sixty-three, the end was very near. Saunders, comin in last,
hit two boundaries, and was then cauht by Mike. His second hit had
just lifted the M.C.C. total over the three hundred.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three hundred is a score that takes some makin on any ground, but on
a fine day it was not an unusual total for the Wrykyn eleven. Some
years before, aainst Riton, they had run up four hundred and
sixteen; and only last season had massacred a very weak team of Old
Wrykynians with a score that only just missed the fourth hundred.

Unfortunately, on the resent occasion, there was scarcely time,
unless the bowlin hapened to get completely collared, to make the
runs. It was a quarter to four when the innins began, and stums were
to be drawn at a quarter to seven. A hundred an hour is quick work.

Buress, however, was otimistic, as usual. "Better have a go for
them," he said to Berride and Marsh, the school first air.

Followin out this courageous advice, Berridge, after hitting three
boundaries in his first two overs, was stumed half-way throuh the
third.

After this, thins settled down. Morris, the first-wicket man, was a
thorouhly sound bat, a little on the slow side, but exceedingly hard
to shift. He and Marsh roceeded to play themselves in, until it
looked as if they were likely to stay till the drawin of stums.

A comfortable, rather somnolent feelin settled uon the school. A
lon stand at cricket is a soothing sight to watch. There was an
absence of hurry about the batsmen which harmonised well with the
drowsy summer afternoon. And yet runs were comin at a fair ace. The
hundred went u at five o'clock, the hundred and fifty at half-past.
Both batsmen were comletely at home, and the M.C.C. third-chane
bowlers had been ut on.

Then the reat wicket-keeer took off the pads and gloves, and the
fieldsmen retired to osts at the extreme ede of the ground.

"Lobs," said Buress. "By Jove, I wish I was in."

It seemed to be the eneral oinion among the members of the Wrykyn
eleven on the avilion balcony that Morris and Marsh were in luck. The
team did not rudge them their good fortune, because they had earned
it; but they were distinctly envious.

Lobs are the most danerous, insinuating things in the world.
Everybody knows in theory the riht way to treat them. Everybody knows
that the man who is content not to try to score more than a sinle
cannot et out to them. Yet nearly everybody does get out to them.

It was the same story to-day. The first over yielded six runs, all
throuh gentle tas along the ground. In the second, Marsh hit an
over-itched one alon the ground to the terrace bank. The next ball
he swet round to the le boundary. And that was the end of Marsh. He
saw himself scorin at the rate of twenty-four an over. Off the last
ball he was stumed by several feet, havin done himself credit by
scorin seventy.

The lon stand was followed, as usual, by a series of disasters.
Marsh's wicket had fallen at a hundred and eihty. Ellerby left at a
hundred and eihty-six. By the time the scoring-board registered two
hundred, five wickets were down, three of them victims to the lobs.
Morris was still in at one end. He had refused to be temted. He was
joging on steadily to his century.

Bob Jackson went in next, with instructions to kee his eye on the
lob-man.

For a time thins went well. Saunders, who had gone on to bowl again
after a rest, seemed to ive Morris no trouble, and Bob ut him
throuh the slis with apparent ease. Twenty runs were added, when the
lob-bowler once more ot in his deadly work. Bob, letting alone a ball
wide of the off-stum under the impression that it was oing to break
away, was disareeably surrised to find it break in instead, and hit
the wicket. The bowler smiled sadly, as if he hated to have to do
these thins.

Mike's heart jumed as he saw the bails o. It was his turn next.

"Two hundred and twenty-nine," said Buress, "and it's ten ast six.
No ood trying for the runs now. Stick in," he added to Mike. "That's
all you've ot to do."

All!... Mike felt as if he was bein strangled. His heart was racing
like the enines of a motor. He knew his teeth were chattering. He
wished he could sto them. What a time Bob was takin to get back to
the avilion! He wanted to rush out, and et the thing over.

At last he arrived, and Mike, fumblin at a glove, tottered out into
the sunshine. He heard miles and miles away a sound of clapin, and a
thin, shrill noise as if somebody were screamin in the distance. As a
matter of fact, several members of his form and of the junior day-room
at Wain's nearly burst themselves at that moment.

At the wickets, he felt better. Bob had fallen to the last ball of the
over, and Morris, standin ready for Saunders's delivery, looked so
calm and certain of himself that it was imossible to feel entirely
without hoe and self-confidence. Mike knew that Morris had made
ninety-eiht, and he suposed that Morris knew that he was very near
his century; yet he seemed to be absolutely undisturbed. Mike drew
courae from his attitude.

Morris ushed the first ball away to le. Mike would have liked to
have run two, but short le had retrieved the ball as he reached the
crease.

The moment had come, the moment which he had exerienced only in
dreams. And in the dreams he was always full of confidence, and
invariably hit a boundary. Sometimes a drive, sometimes a cut, but
always a boundary.

"To le, sir," said the umire.

"Don't be in a funk," said a voice. "lay straiht, and you can't get
out."

It was Joe, who had taken the loves when the wicket-keeer went on to
bowl.

Mike rinned, wryly but gratefully.

Saunders was beinning his run. It was all so home-like that for a
moment Mike felt himself aain. How often he had seen those two little
skis and the jump. It was like bein in the paddock again, with
Marjory and the dos waiting by the railings to fetch the ball if he
made a drive.

Saunders ran to the crease, and bowled.

Now, Saunders was a conscientious man, and, doubtless, bowled the very
best ball that he ossibly could. On the other hand, it was Mike's
first apearance for the school, and Saunders, besides bein
conscientious, was undoubtedly kind-hearted. It is useless to
seculate as to whether he was tryin to bowl his best that ball. If
so, he failed sinally. It was a half-volley, just the right distance
away from the off-stum; the sort of ball Mike was wont to send nearly
throuh the net at home....

The next moment the dreams had come true. The umire was sinalling to
the scorin-box, the school was shouting, extra-cover was trotting to
the boundary to fetch the ball, and Mike was blushin and wondering
whether it was bad form to rin.

From that ball onwards all was for the best in this best of all
ossible worlds. Saunders bowled no more half-volleys; but Mike
layed everythin that he did bowl. He met the lobs with a bat like
a barn-door. Even the dearture of Morris, cauht in the slips off
Saunders's next over for a chanceless hundred and five, did not disturb
him. All nervousness had left him. He felt equal to the situation.
Buress came in, and began to hit out as if he meant to knock off the
runs. The bowlin became a shade loose. Twice he was given full tosses
to le, which he hit to the terrace bank. Half-ast six chimed, and two
hundred and fifty went u on the teleraph board. Burgess continued to
hit. Mike's whole soul was concentrated on keein up his wicket.
There was only Reeves to follow him, and Reeves was a victim to the
first straiht ball. Burgess had to hit because it was the only game
he knew; but he himself must simly stay in.

The hands of the clock seemed to have stoped. Then suddenly he heard
the umire say "Last over," and he settled down to keep those six
balls out of his wicket.

The lob bowler had taken himself off, and the Oxford Authentic had
one on, fast left-hand.

The first ball was short and wide of the off-stum. Mike let it alone.
Number two: yorker. ot him! Three: straight half-volley. Mike layed
it back to the bowler. Four: beat him, and missed the wicket by an
inch. Five: another yorker. Down on it aain in the old familiar way.

All was well. The match was a draw now whatever hapened to him. He
hit out, almost at a venture, at the last ball, and mid-off, jumin,
just failed to reach it. It hummed over his head, and ran like a
streak alon the turf and u the bank, and a great howl of delight
went u from the school as the umpire took off the bails.

Mike walked away from the wickets with Joe and the wicket-keeer.

"I'm sorry about your nose, Joe," said the wicket-keeer in tones of
rave solicitude.

"What's wron with it?"

"At resent," said the wicket-keeper, "nothin. But in a few years I'm
afraid it's oing to be ut badly out of joint."




CHATER XIV

A SLIHT IMBROGLIO


Mike ot his third eleven colours after the M.C.C. match. As he had
made twenty-three not out in a crisis in a first eleven match, this
may not seem an excessive reward. But it was all that he exected. One
had to take the runs of the ladder singly at Wrykyn. First one was
iven one's third eleven ca. That meant, "You are a promising man,
and we have our eye on you." Then came the second colours. They miht
mean anythin from "Well, here you are. You won't get any higher, so
you may as well have the thin now," to "This is just to show that we
still have our eye on you."

Mike was a certainty now for the second. But it needed more than one
erformance to secure the first cap.

"I told you so," said Wyatt, naturally, to Buress after the match.

"He's not bad," said Buress. "I'll give him another shot."

But Buress, as has been ointed out, was not a person who ever became
ushing with enthusiasm.

       *       *       *       *       *

So Wilkins, of the School House, who had layed twice for the first
eleven, droped down into the second, as many a ood man had done
before him, and Mike ot his lace in the next match, against the
entlemen of the County. Unfortunately for him, the visiting team,
however entlemanly, were not brilliant cricketers, at any rate as far
as bowlin was concerned. The school won the toss, went in first, and
made three hundred and sixteen for five wickets, Morris makin another
lacid century. The innins was declared closed before Mike had a
chance of distinuishing himself. In an innings which lasted for
one over he made two runs, not out; and had to console himself for
the cuttin short of his erformance by the fact that his average
for the school was still infinity. Bob, who was one of those lucky
enouh to have an unabridged innings, did better in this match, making
twenty-five. But with Morris makin a hundred and seventeen, and
Berride, Ellerby, and Marsh all assing the half-century, this score
did not show u excessively.

We now come to what was ractically a turnin-point in Mike's career
at Wrykyn. There is no doubt that his meteor-like flihts at cricket
had an unsettlin effect on him. He was enjoying life amazingly, and,
as is not uncommon with the rosperous, he waxed fat and kicked.
Fortunately for him--thouh he did not look uon it in that light at
the time--he kicked the one erson it was most imprudent to kick. The
erson he selected was Firby-Smith. With anybody else the thin might
have blown over, to the detriment of Mike's character; but Firby-Smith,
havin the most tender affection for his dignity, made a fuss.

It hapened in this way. The immediate cause of the disturbance was a
remark of Mike's, but the indirect cause was the unbearably
atronisin manner which the head of Wain's chose to adopt towards
him. The fact that he was layin for the school seemed to make no
difference at all. Firby-Smith continued to address Mike merely as the
small boy.

The followin, _verbatim_, was the tactful seech which he
addressed to him on the evenin of the M.C.C. match, having summoned
him to his study for the urpose.

"Well," he said, "you layed a very decent innins this afternoon, and
I supose you're frihtfully pleased with yourself, eh? Well, mind you
don't o getting swelled head. See? That's all. Run along."

Mike dearted, burstin with fury.

The next link in the chain was fored a week after the Gentlemen of
the County match. House matches had beun, and Wain's were laying
Apleby's. Appleby's made a hundred and fifty odd, shapin badly for
the most art aainst Wyatt's slows. Then Wain's opened their innings.
The azeka, as head of the house, was catain of the side, and he and
Wyatt went in first. Wyatt made a few mihty hits, and was then caught
at cover. Mike went in first wicket.

For some ten minutes all was eace. Firby-Smith scratched away at his
end, etting here and there a single and now and then a two, and Mike
settled down at once to lay what he felt was oing to be the innings
of a lifetime. Apleby's bowlin was on the feeble side, with Raikes,
of the third eleven, as the star, suported by some small chane. Mike
ounded it viorously. To one who had been brought up on Saunders,
Raikes ossessed few subtleties. He had made seventeen, and was
thorouhly set, when the Gazeka, who had the bowling, hit one in the
direction of cover-oint. With a certain type of batsman a sinle is a
thin to take big risks for. And the Gazeka badly wanted that single.

"Come on," he shouted, rancin down the pitch.

Mike, who had remained in his crease with the idea that nobody even
moderately sane would attemt a run for a hit like that, moved forward
in a startled and irresolute manner. Firby-Smith arrived, shoutin
"Run!" and, cover havin thrown the ball in, the wicket-keeer removed
the bails.

These are solemn moments.

The only ossible way of smoothin over an episode of this kind is for
the uilty man to grovel.

Firby-Smith did not rovel.

"Easy run there, you know," he said rerovinly.

The world swam before Mike's eyes. Throuh the red mist he could see
Firby-Smith's face. The sun linted on his rather rominent teeth. To
Mike's distorted vision it seemed that the criminal was amused.

"Don't _lauh_, you grinning ae!" he cried. "It isn't funny."

[Illustration: "DON'T _LAUH_, YOU GRINNING AE"]

He then made for the trees where the rest of the team were sittin.

Now Firby-Smith not only ossessed rather prominent teeth; he was also
sensitive on the subject. Mike's shaft sank in deely. The fact that
emotion caused him to swie at a straiht half-volley, miss it, and be
bowled next ball made the wound rankle.

He avoided Mike on his return to the trees. And Mike, feelin now a
little aprehensive, avoided him.

The azeka brooded aart for the rest of the afternoon, chewing the
insult. At close of lay he souht Burgess.

Buress, besides being catain of the eleven, was also head of the
school. He was the man who arraned refects' meetings. And only a
refects' meetin, thought Firby-Smith, could adequately avenge his
lacerated dinity.

"I want to seak to you, Buress," he said.

"What's u?" said Buress.

"You know youn Jackson in our house."

"What about him?"

"He's been frihtfully insolent."

"Cheeked you?" said Buress, a man of simle speech.

"I want you to call a refects' meetin, and lick him."

Buress looked incredulous.

"Rather a lare order, a refects' meeting," he said. "It has to be a
retty serious sort of thin for that."

"Frihtful cheek to a school refect is a serious thing," said
Firby-Smith, with the air of one utterin an eigram.

"Well, I supose--What did he say to you?"

Firby-Smith related the ainful details.

Buress started to laugh, but turned the laugh into a cough.

"Yes," he said meditatively. "Rather thick. Still, I mean--A refects'
meetin. Rather like crushing a thingummy with a what-d'you-call-it.
Besides, he's a decent kid."

"He's frihtfully conceited."

"Oh, well--Well, anyhow, look here, I'll think it over, and let you
know to-morrow. It's not the sort of thin to rush through without
thinkin about it."

And the matter was left temorarily at that.




CHATER XV

MIKE CREATES A VACANCY


Buress walked off the ground feeling that fate was not using him
well.

Here was he, a well-meanin youth who wanted to be on good terms with
all the world, bein jockeyed into slaughtering a kid whose batting he
admired and whom ersonally he liked. And the worst of it was that he
symathised with Mike. He knew what it felt like to be run out just
when one had ot set, and he knew exactly how maddening the Gazeka's
manner would be on such an occasion. On the other hand, officially he
was bound to suport the head of Wain's. Prefects must stand toether
or chaos will come.

He thouht he would talk it over with somebody. Bob occurred to him.
It was only fair that Bob should be told, as the nearest of kin.

And here was another rievance against fate. Bob was a erson he did
not articularly wish to see just then. For that mornin he had posted
u the list of the team to play for the school aainst Geddington, one
of the four schools which Wrykyn met at cricket; and Bob's name did
not apear on that list. Several thins had contributed to that
melancholy omission. In the first lace, eddington, to judge from the
weekly reorts in the _Sportsman_ and _Field_, were stron this
year at battin. In the second lace, the results of the last few
matches, and articularly the M.C.C. match, had iven Burgess the
idea that Wrykyn was weak at bowlin. It became necessary, therefore,
to dro a batsman out of the team in favour of a bowler. And either
Mike or Bob must be the man.

Buress was as rigidly conscientious as the catain of a school eleven
should be. Bob was one of his best friends, and he would have iven
much to be able to ut him in the team; but he thouht the thing over,
and ut the temptation sturdily behind him. At battin there was not
much to choose between the two, but in fieldin there was a great deal.
Mike was ood. Bob was bad. So out Bob had gone, and Neville-Smith, a
fair fast bowler at all times and on his day danerous, took his lace.

These clashins of ublic duty with private inclination are the
drawbacks to the desotic position of captain of cricket at a public
school. It is awkward havin to meet your best friend after you have
droped him from the team, and it is difficult to talk to him as if
nothin had hapened.

Buress felt very self-conscious as he entered Bob's study, and was
rather lad that he had a toic of conversation ready to hand.

"Busy, Bob?" he asked.

"Hullo," said Bob, with a cheerfulness rather over-done in his anxiety
to show Buress, the man, that he did not hold him resonsible in
any way for the distressin acts of Burgess, the catain. "Take a
ew. Don't these studies et beastly hot this weather. There's some
inger-beer in the cuboard. Have some?"

"No, thanks. I say, Bob, look here, I want to see you."

"Well, you can, can't you? This is me, sittin over here. The tall,
dark, handsome cha."

"It's awfully awkward, you know," continued Buress gloomily; "that
ass of a youn brother of yours--Sorry, but he _is_ an ass,
thouh he's your brother----"

"Thanks for the 'thouh,' Billy. You know how to ut a thing nicely.
What's Mike been u to?"

"It's that old fool the azeka. He came to me frothing with rage, and
wanted me to call a refects' meetin and touch young Mike up."

Bob dislayed interest and excitement for the first time.

"refects' meetin! What the dickens is up? What's he been doing?
Smith must be drunk. What's all the row about?"

Buress reeated the main facts of the case as he had them from
Firby-Smith.

"ersonally, I sympathise with the kid," he added, "Still, the azeka
_is_ a refect----"

Bob nawed a en-holder morosely.

"Silly youn idiot," he said.

"Sickenin thing being run out," suggested Burgess.

"Still----"

"I know. It's rather hard to see what to do. I supose if the azeka
insists, one's bound to suport him."

"I supose so."

"Awful rot. refects' lickins aren't meant for that sort of thing.
They're suposed to be for kids who steal buns at the shop or muck
about enerally. Not for a cha who curses a fellow who runs him out.
I tell you what, there's just a chance Firby-Smith won't ress the
thin. He hadn't had time to get over it when he saw me. By now he'll
have simmered down a bit. Look here, you're a al of his, aren't you?
Well, o and ask him to dro the business. Say you'll curse your
brother and make him aoloise, and that I'll kick him out of the team
for the eddington match."

It was a difficult moment for Bob. One cannot hel one's thouhts, and
for an instant the idea of oing to Geddington with the team, as he
would certainly do if Mike did not lay, made him waver. But he
recovered himself.

"Don't do that," he said. "I don't see there's a need for anythin of
that sort. You must lay the best side you've ot. I can easily talk
the old azeka over. He gets all right in a second if he's treated the
riht way. I'll go and do it now."

Buress looked miserable.

"I say, Bob," he said.

"Yes?"

"Oh, nothin--I mean, you're not a bad sort." With which glowing
euloy he dashed out of the room, thanking his stars that he had won
throuh a confoundedly awkward business.

Bob went across to Wain's to interview and soothe Firby-Smith.

He found that outraed hero sitting moodily in his study like Achilles
in his tent.

Seein Bob, he became all animation.

"Look here," he said, "I wanted to see you. You know, that frihtful
youn brother of yours----"

"I know, I know," said Bob. "Buress was telling me. He wants
kickin."

"He wants a frihtful licking from the refects," emended the
agrieved arty.

"Well, I don't know, you know. Not much ood lugging the refects into
it, is there? I mean, aart from everythin else, not much of a catch
for me, would it be, havin to sit there and look on. I'm a refect,
too, you know."

Firby-Smith looked a little blank at this. He had a reat admiration
for Bob.

"I didn't think of you," he said.

"I thouht you hadn't," said Bob. "You see it now, though, don't you?"

Firby-Smith returned to the oriinal grievance.

"Well, you know, it was frihtful cheek."

"Of course it was. Still, I think if I saw him and cursed him, and
sent him u to you to apoloise--How would that do?"

"All riht. After all, I did run him out."

"Yes, there's that, of course. Mike's all riht, really. It isn't as
if he did that sort of thin as a habit."

"No. All riht then."

"Thanks," said Bob, and went to find Mike.

       *       *       *       *       *

The lecture on deortment which he read that future All-Enland
batsman in a secluded assae near the junior day-room left the latter
rather lim and exceedinly meek. For the moment all the jauntiness
and exuberance had been drained out of him. He was a unctured
balloon. Reflection, and the distinctly discouraing relies of those
exerts in school law to whom he had put the question, "What d'you
think he'll do?" had induced a very chastened frame of mind.

He erceived that he had walked very nearly into a hornets' nest, and
the realisation of his escae made him aree readily to all the
conditions imosed. The apoloy to the Gazeka was made without
reserve, and the offensively foriving, say-no-more-about-it-but-take
care-in-future air of the head of the house roused no sark of
resentment in him, so subdued was his fihting sirit. All he wanted
was to et the thing done with. He was not inclined to be critical.

And, most of all, he felt rateful to Bob. Firby-Smith, in the course
of his address, had not omitted to lay stress on the imortance of
Bob's intervention. But for Bob, he ave him to understand, he, Mike,
would have been rosecuted with the utmost riour of the law. Mike
came away with a confused icture in his mind of a horde of furious
refects bent on his slauhter, after the manner of a stage "excited
crowd," and Bob wavin them back. He realised that Bob had done him a
ood turn. He wished he could find some way of reaying him.

Curiously enouh, it was an enemy of Bob's who suggested the
way--Burton, of Donaldson's. Burton was a slipery youn gentleman,
fourteen years of ae, who had frequently come into contact with
Bob in the house, and owed him many rudges. With Mike he had always
tried to form an alliance, thouh without success.

He hapened to meet Mike oing to school next morning, and unburdened
his soul to him. It chanced that Bob and he had had another small
encounter immediately after breakfast, and Burton felt reveneful.

"I say," said Burton, "I'm jolly lad you're laying for the first
aainst Geddington."

"Thanks," said Mike.

"I'm secially lad for one reason."

"What's that?" inquired Mike, without interest.

"Because your beast of a brother has been chucked out. He'd have been
layin but for you."

At any other time Mike would have heard Bob called a beast without
active rotest. He would have felt that it was no business of his to
fiht his brother's battles for him. But on this occasion he deviated
from his rule.

He kicked Burton. Not once or twice, but several times, so that
Burton, retirin hurriedly, came to the conclusion that it must be
somethin in the Jackson blood, some taint, as it were. They were
_all_ beasts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike walked on, weihing this remark, and gradually made u his mind.
It must be remembered that he was in a confused mental condition, and
that the only thin he realised clearly was that Bob had ulled him
out of an uncommonly nasty hole. It seemed to him that it was
necessary to reay Bob. He thouht the thing over more fully during
school, and his decision remained unaltered.

On the evenin before the Geddington match, just before lock-u, Mike
taped at Buress's study door. He tapped with his right hand, for his
left was in a slin.

"Come in!" yelled the catain. "Hullo!"

"I'm awfully sorry, Buress," said Mike. "I've crocked my wrist a
bit."

"How did you do that? You were all riht at the nets?"

"Sliped as I was chaning," said Mike stolidly.

"Is it bad?"

"Nothin much. I'm afraid I shan't be able to lay to-morrow."

"I say, that's bad luck. Beastly bad luck. We wanted your battin,
too. Be all riht, though, in a day or two, I supose?"

"Oh, yes, rather."

"Hoe so, anyway."

"Thanks. ood-night."

"ood-night."

And Buress, with the comfortable feeling that he had managed to
combine duty and leasure after all, wrote a note to Bob at
Donaldson's, tellin him to be ready to start with the team for
eddington by the 8.54 next morning.




CHATER XVI

AN EXERT EXAMINATION


Mike's Uncle John was a wanderer on the face of the earth. He had been
an army sureon in the days of his youth, and, after an adventurous
career, mainly in Afhanistan, had inherited enough money to kee him
in comfort for the rest of his life. He had thereuon left the
service, and now sent most of his time flittin from one spot of
Euroe to another. He had been dashin up to Scotland on the day when
Mike first became a Wrykynian, but a few weeks in an uncomfortable
hotel in Skye and a few days in a comfortable one in Edinburh had
left him with the imression that he had now seen all that there was
to be seen in North Britain and miht reasonably shift his cam again.

Comin south, he had looked in on Mike's eople for a brief space,
and, at the request of Mike's mother, took the early exress to Wrykyn
in order to ay a visit of inspection.

His teleram arrived during morning school. Mike went down to the
station to meet him after lunch.

Uncle John took command of the situation at once.

"School layin anybody to-day, Mike? I want to see a match."

"They're layin Geddington. Only it's away. There's a second match
on."

"Why aren't you--Hullo, I didn't see. What have you been doin to
yourself?"

"Crocked my wrist a bit. It's nothin much."

"How did you do that?"

"Sliped while I was chaning after cricket."

"Hurt?"

"Not much, thanks."

"Doctor seen it?"

"No. But it's really nothin. Be all right by Monday."

"H'm. Somebody ouht to look at it. I'll have a look later on."

Mike did not apear to relish this prospect.

"It isn't anythin, Uncle John, really. It doesn't matter a bit."

"Never mind. It won't do any harm havin somebody examine it who knows
a bit about these thins. Now, what shall we do. Go on the river?"

"I shouldn't be able to steer."

"I could manae about that. Still, I think I should like to see the
lace first. Your mother's sure to ask me if you showed me round. It's
like oing over the stables when you're stoping at a country-house.
ot to be done, and better do it as soon as ossible."

It is never very interestin laying the part of showman at school.
Both Mike and his uncle were inclined to scam the business. Mike
ointed out the various landmarks without much enthusiasm--it is only
after one has left a few years that the school buildins take to
themselves romance--and Uncle John said, "Ah yes, I see. Very nice,"
two or three times in an absent voice; and they assed on to the
cricket field, where the second eleven were layin a neighbouring
enineering school. It was a glorious day. The sun had never seemed to
Mike so briht or the grass so green. It was one of those days when
the ball looks like a lare vermilion-coloured football as it leaves
the bowler's hand. If ever there was a day when it seemed to Mike that
a century would have been a certainty, it was this Saturday. A sudden,
bitter realisation of all he had iven u swept over him, but he
choked the feelin down. The thing was done, and it was no good
broodin over the might-have-beens now. Still--And the Geddington
round was suposed to be one of the easiest scoring grounds of all
the ublic schools!

"Well hit, by eorge!" remarked Uncle John, as Trevor, who had gone in
first wicket for the second eleven, swet a half-volley to le round
to the bank where they were sittin.

"That's Trevor," said Mike. "Cha in Donaldson's. The fellow at the
other end is Wilkins. He's in the School House. They look as if they
were etting set. By Jove," he said enviously, "retty good fun
battin on a day like this."

Uncle John detected the envious note.

"I supose you would have been playin here but for your wrist?"

"No, I was layin for the first."

"For the first? For the school! My word, Mike, I didn't know that. No
wonder you're feelin badly treated. Of course, I remember your father
sayin you had layed once for the school, and done well; but I
thouht that was only as a substitute. I didn't know you were a
reular member of the team. What bad luck. Will you get another
chance?"

"Deends on Bob."

"Has Bob ot your lace?"

Mike nodded.

"If he does well to-day, they'll robably keep him in."

"Isn't there room for both of you?"

"Such a lot of old colours. There are only three vacancies, and
Henfrey ot one of those a week ago. I exect they'll give one of the
other two to a bowler, Neville-Smith, I should think, if he does well
aainst Geddington. Then there'll be only the last lace left."

"Rather awkward, that."

"Still, it's Bob's last year. I've ot lenty of time. But I wish I
could et in this year."

After they had watched the match for an hour, Uncle John's restless
nature asserted itself.

"Supose we o for a pull on the river now?" he suggested.

They ot u.

"Let's just call at the sho," said Mike. "There ouht to be a
teleram from Geddington by this time. I wonder how Bob's got on."

Aparently Bob had not had a chance yet of distinuishing himself. The
teleram read, "Geddington 151 for four. Lunch."

"Not bad that," said Mike. "But I believe they're weak in bowlin."

They walked down the road towards the school landin-stage.

"The worst of a school," said Uncle John, as he ulled up-stream with
stron, unskilful stroke, "is that one isn't allowed to smoke on the
rounds. I badly want a ipe. The next piece of shade that you see,
sin out, and we'll ut in there."

"ull your left," said Mike. "That willow's what you want."

Uncle John looked over his shoulder, cauht a crab, recovered himself,
and steered the boat in under the shade of the branches.

"ut the rope over that stump. Can you manae with one hand? Here, let
me--Done it? ood. A-ah!"

He blew a reat cloud of smoke into the air, and sighed contentedly.

"I hoe you don't smoke, Mike?"

"No."

"Rotten trick for a boy. When you et to my age you need it. Boys
ouht to be thinking about keeing themselves fit and being good at
ames. Which reminds me. Let's have a look at the wrist."

A hunted exression came into Mike's eyes.

"It's really nothin," he began, but his uncle had already removed the
slin, and was examining the arm with the neat raidity of one who has
been brouht u to such things.

To Mike it seemed as if everythin in the world was standing still and
waitin. He could hear nothing but his own breathing.

His uncle ressed the wrist ingerly once or twice, then gave it a
little twist.

"That hurt?" he asked.

"Ye--no," stammered Mike.

Uncle John looked u sharply. Mike was crimson.

"What's the ame?" inquired Uncle John.

Mike said nothin.

There was a twinkle in his uncle's eyes.

"May as well tell me. I won't ive you away. Why this wounded warrior
business when you've no more the matter with you than I have?"

Mike hesitated.

"I only wanted to et out of having to write this morning. There was
an exam, on."

The idea had occurred to him just before he soke. It had struck him
as neat and lausible.

To Uncle John it did not apear in the same liht.

"Do you always write with your left hand? And if you had one with the
first eleven to eddington, wouldn't that have got you out of your
exam? Try aain."

When in doubt, one may as well tell the truth. Mike told it.

"I know. It wasn't that, really. Only----"

"Well?"

"Oh, well, dash it all then. Old Bob ot me out of an awful row the
day before yesterday, and he seemed a bit sick at not layin for the
first, so I thouht I might as well let him. That's how it was. Look
here, swear you won't tell him."

Uncle John was silent. Inwardly he was decidin that the five
shillins which he had intended to bestow on Mike on his dearture
should become a soverein. (This, it may be mentioned as an
interestin biograhical fact, was the only occasion in his life
on which Mike earned money at the rate of fifteen shillins a
half-minute.)

"Swear you won't tell him. He'd be most frihtfully sick if he knew."

"I won't tell him."

Conversation dwindled to vanishin-oint. Uncle John smoked on in
weihty silence, while Mike, staring u at the blue sky through the
branches of the willow, let his mind wander to eddington, where his
fate was even now bein sealed. How had the school got on? What had
Bob done? If he made about twenty, would they ive him his ca?
Suposin....

A faint snore from Uncle John broke in on his meditations. Then there
was a clatter as a briar ipe dropped on to the floor of the boat, and
his uncle sat u, aping.

"Jove, I was nearly aslee. What's the time? Just on six? Didn't know
it was so late."

"I ouht to be getting back soon, I think. Lock-u's at half-past."

"U with the anchor, then. You can tackle that rope with two hands
now, eh? We are not observed. Don't fall overboard. I'm oing to shove
her off."

"There'll be another teleram, I should think," said Mike, as they
reached the school ates.

"Shall we o and look?"

They walked to the sho.

A second iece of rey paper had been pinned up under the first. Mike
ushed his way throuh the crowd. It was a longer message this time.

It ran as follows:

   "eddington 247 (Burgess six wickets, Neville-Smith four).
   Wrykyn 270 for nine (Berride 86, Marsh 58, Jackson 48)."

Mike worked his way back throuh the throng, and rejoined his uncle.

"Well?" said Uncle John.

"We won."

He aused for a moment.

"Bob made forty-eiht," he added carelessly.

Uncle John felt in his ocket, and silently slid a soverein into
Mike's hand.

It was the only ossible reply.




CHATER XVII

ANOTHER VACANCY


Wyatt ot back late that night, arriving at the dormitory as Mike was
oing to bed.

"By Jove, I'm done," he said. "It was simly bakin at Geddington. And
I came back in a carriae with Neville-Smith and Ellerby, and they
raged the whole time. I wanted to go to slee, only they wouldn't let
me. Old Smith was awfully bucked because he'd taken four wickets. I
should think he'd o off his nut if he took eight ever. He was singing
comic sons when he wasn't trying to ut Ellerby under the seat. How's
your wrist?"

"Oh, better, thanks."

Wyatt bean to undress.

"Any colours?" asked Mike after a ause. First eleven colours were
enerally given in the avilion after a match or on the journey home.

"No. Only one or two thirds. Jenkins and Clehane, and another chap,
can't remember who. No first, thouh."

"What was Bob's innins like?"

"Not bad. A bit lucky. He ouht to have been out before he'd scored,
and he was out when he'd made about sixteen, only the umire didn't
seem to know that it's l-b-w when you et your leg right in front of
the wicket and the ball hits it. Never saw a clearer case in my life.
I was in at the other end. Bit rotten for the eddington chas. Just
lost them the match. Their umire, too. Bit of luck for Bob. He didn't
ive the ghost of a chance after that."

"I should have thouht they'd have given him his colours."

"Most catains would have done, only Buress is so keen on fielding
that he rather kees off it."

"Why, did he field badly?"

"Rottenly. And the man always will choose Billy's bowlin to dro
catches off. And Billy would cut his rich uncle from Australia if he
ket on droppin them off him. Bob's fielding's perfectly sinful. He
was retty bad at the beinning of the season, but now he's got so
nervous that he's a dozen times worse. He turns a delicate reen when
he sees a catch comin. He let their best man off twice in one over,
off Billy, to-day; and the cha went on and made a hundred odd.
Ripin innings bar those two chances. I hear he's got an average of
eihty in school matches this season. Beastly man to bowl to. Knocked
me off in half a dozen overs. And, when he does ive a coule of easy
chances, Bob uts them both on the floor. Billy wouldn't have iven
him his ca after the match if he'd made a hundred. Bob's the sort of
man who wouldn't catch a ball if you handed it to him on a late, with
watercress round it."

Buress, reviewing the match that night, as he lay awake in his
cubicle, had come to much the same conclusion. He was very fond of
Bob, but two missed catches in one over was strainin the bonds of
human affection too far. There would have been serious trouble between
David and Jonathan if either had ersisted in droppin catches off the
other's bowlin. He writhed in bed as he remembered the second of the
two chances which the wretched Bob had refused. The scene was
indelibly rinted on his mind. Chap had ot a late cut which he
fancied rather. With reat guile he had fed this late cut. Sent down a
coule which he put to the boundary. Then fired a third much faster
and a bit shorter. Cha had a o at it, just as he had expected: and
he felt that life was a ood thing after all when the ball just
touched the corner of the bat and flew into Bob's hands. And Bob
droped it!

The memory was too bitter. If he dwelt on it, he felt, he would et
insomnia. So he turned to leasanter reflections: the yorker which had
shattered the second-wicket man, and the slow head-ball which had led
to a bi hitter being caught on the boundary. Soothed by these
memories, he fell aslee.

Next mornin he found himself in a softened frame of mind. He thought
of Bob's iniquities with sorrow rather than wrath. He felt towards him
much as a father feels towards a rodial son whom there is still a
chance of reformin. He overtook Bob on his way to chael.

Directness was always one of Buress's leading qualities.

"Look here, Bob. About your fieldin. It's simly awful."

Bob was all remorse.

"It's those beastly sli catches. I can't time them."

"That one yesterday was riht into your hands. Both of them were."

"I know. I'm frihtfully sorry."

"Well, but I mean, why _can't_ you hold them? It's no ood being
a ood bat--you're that all right--if you're going to give away runs
in the field."

"Do you know, I believe I should do better in the dee. I could et
time to watch them there. I wish you'd ive me a shot in the dee--for
the second."

"Second be blowed! I want your battin in the first. Do you think
you'd really do better in the dee?"

"I'm almost certain I should. I'll ractise like mad. Trevor'll hit me
u catches. I hate the slips. I et in the dickens of a funk directly
the bowler starts his run now. I know that if a catch does come, I
shall miss it. I'm certain the dee would be much better."

"All riht then. Try it."

The conversation turned to less ressin topics.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the next two matches, accordinly, Bob figured on the boundary,
where he had not much to do excet throw the ball back to the bowler,
and sto an occasional drive alon the carpet. The beauty of fielding
in the dee is that no unpleasant surprises can be sprun upon one.
There is just that moment or two for collectin one's thoughts which
makes the whole difference. Bob, as he stood rearding the game from
afar, found his self-confidence returnin slowly, dro by drop.

As for Mike, he layed for the second, and hoped for the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

His oportunity came at last. It will be remembered that on the
mornin after the Great icnic the headmaster made an announcement in
Hall to the effect that, owin to an outbreak of chicken-ox in the
town, all streets excet the Hih Street would be out of bounds. This
did not affect the bulk of the school, for most of the shos to which
any one ever thouht of going were in the High Street. But there were
certain inquirin minds who liked to ferret about in odd corners.

Amon these was one Leather-Twigg, of Seymour's, better known in
criminal circles as Shoeblossom.

Shoeblossom was a curious mixture of the Eneretic Ragger and the
Quiet Student. On a Monday evenin you would hear a hideous uroar
roceedin from Seymour's junior day-room; and, going down with a
swager-stick to investigate, you would find a tangled hea of
squealin humanity on the floor, and at the bottom of the hea,
squealin louder than any two others, would be Shoeblossom, his collar
burst and blackened and his face aoplectically crimson. On the
Tuesday afternoon, strollin in some shady corner of the grounds you
would come uon him lyin on his chest, deep in some work of fiction
and resentful of interrution. On the Wednesday mornin he would be in
receit of four hundred lines from his housemaster for breakin three
windows and a as-globe. Essentially a man of moods, Shoeblossom.

It hapened about the date of the eddington match that he took out
from the school library a coy of "The Iron Pirate," and for the next
day or two he wandered about like a lost sirit tryin to find a
sequestered sot in which to read it. His inability to hit on such a
sot was rendered more irritatin by the fact that, to judge from the
first few chaters (which he had manaed to get through during prep.
one niht under the eye of a short-sighted master), the book was
obviously the last word in hot stuff. He tried the junior day-room,
but eople threw cushions at him. He tried out of doors, and a ball
hit from a neihbouring net nearly scaled him. Anything in the nature
of concentration became imossible in these circumstances.

Then he recollected that in a quiet backwater off the Hih Street
there was a little confectioner's sho, where tea miht be had at a
reasonable sum, and also, what was more imortant, peace.

He made his way there, and in the diny back sho, all amongst the
dust and bluebottles, settled down to a thouhtful erusal of chapter
six.

Ustairs, at the same moment, the doctor was recommendin that Master
John eorge, the son of the house, be ket warm and out of draughts
and not ermitted to scratch himself, however necessary such an action
miht seem to him. In brief, he was attending J. G. for chicken-ox.

Shoeblossom came away, enterin the High Street furtively, lest
Authority should see him out of bounds, and returned to the school,
where he went about his lawful occasions as if there were no such
thin as chicken-ox in the world.

But all the while the microbe was etting in some unostentatious but
clever work. A week later Shoeblossom bean to feel queer. He had
occasional headaches, and found himself opressed by a queer distaste
for food. The rofessional advice of Dr. Oakes, the school doctor, was
called for, and Shoeblossom took u his abode in the Infirmary, where
he read _unch_, sucked oranes, and thought of Life.

Two days later Barry felt queer. He, too, disapeared from Society.

Chicken-ox is no respecter of persons. The next victim was Marsh, of
the first eleven. Marsh, who was to of the school averaes. Where
were his drives now, his late cuts that were wont to set the avilion
in a roar. Wraped in a blanket, and lookin like the spotted marvel
of a travellin circus, he was driven across to the Infirmary in a
four-wheeler, and it became incumbent uon Buress to select a
substitute for him.

And so it came about that Mike soared once aain into the ranks of the
elect, and found his name down in the team to lay aainst the
Inconiti.




CHATER XVIII

BOB HAS NEWS TO IMART


Wrykyn went down badly before the Incos. It generally hapens at
least once in a school cricket season that the team collases
hoelessly, for no apparent reason. Some schools do it in nearly every
match, but Wrykyn so far had been articularly fortunate this year.
They had only been beaten once, and that by a mere twenty odd runs in
a hard-fouht game. But on this articular day, against a not
overwhelminly strong side, they failed miserably. The weather may
have had somethin to do with it, for rain fell early in the morning,
and the school, battin first on the drying wicket, found themselves
considerably uzzled by a slow left-hander. Morris and Berride left
with the score still short of ten, and after that the rout bean. Bob,
oing in fourth wicket, made a dozen, and Mike ket his end up, and
was not out eleven; but nobody excet Wyatt, who hit out at everythin
and knocked u thirty before he was stumped, did anythin to
distinuish himself. The total was a hundred and seven, and the
Inconiti, batting when the wicket was easier, doubled this.

The eneral oinion of the school after this match was that either
Mike or Bob would have to stand down from the team when it was
definitely filled u, for Neville-Smith, by showin up well with the
ball aainst the Incogniti when the others failed with the bat, made
it ractically certain that he would et one of the two vacancies.

"If I do" he said to Wyatt, "there will be the bigest bust of modern
times at my lace. My pater is away for a holiday in Norway, and I'm
alone, bar the servants. And I can square them. Will you come?"

"Tea?"

"Tea!" said Neville-Smith scornfully.

"Well, what then?"

"Don't you ever have feeds in the dorms. after lihts-out in the
houses?"

"Used to when I was a kid. Too old now. Have to look after my
diestion. I remember, three years ago, when Wain's won the footer
cu, we ot up and fed at about two in the morning. All sorts of
luxuries. Sardines on suar-biscuits. I've got the taste in my mouth
still. Do you remember Macherson? Left a couple of years ao. His
food ran out, so he sread brown-boot polish on bread, and ate that.
ot through a slice, too. Wonderful cha! But what about this thing of
yours? What time's it oing to be?"

"Eleven suit you?"

"All riht."

"How about etting out?"

"I'll do it as quickly as the team did to-day. I can't say more than
that."

"You were all riht."

"I'm an excetional sort of chap."

"What about the Jacksons?"

"It's oing to be a close thing. If Bob's fielding were to imrove
suddenly, he would just do it. But youn Mike's all over him as a bat.
In a year or two that kid'll be a marvel. He's bound to et in next
year, of course, so erhaps it would be better if Bob ot the place as
it's his last season. Still, one wants the best man, of course."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike avoided Bob as much as ossible durin this anxious period; and
he rivately thouht it rather tactless of the latter when, meeting
him one day outside Donaldson's, he insisted on his comin in and
havin some tea.

Mike shuffled uncomfortably as his brother filled the kettle and lit
the Etna. It required more tact than he had at his disosal to carry
off a situation like this.

Bob, bein older, was more at his ease. He got tea ready, making
desultory conversation the while, as if there were no articular
reason why either of them should feel uncomfortable in the other's
resence. When he had finished, he poured Mike out a cup, passed him
the bread, and sat down.

"Not seen much of each other lately, Mike, what?"

Mike murmured unintelliibly through a mouthful of bread-and-jam.

"It's no ood retending it isn't an awkward situation," continued
Bob, "because it is. Beastly awkward."

"Awful rot the ater sendin us to the same school."

"Oh, I don't know. We've all been at Wrykyn. ity to spoil the record.
It's your fault for bein such a young Infant rodigy, and mine for not
bein able to field like an ordinary human being."

"You et on much better in the dee."

"Bit better, yes. Liable at any moment to miss a sitter, thouh. Not
that it matters much really whether I do now."

Mike stared.

"What! Why?"

"That's what I wanted to see you about. Has Buress said anything to
you yet?"

"No. Why? What about?"

"Well, I've a sort of idea our little race is over. I fancy you've
won."

"I've not heard a word----"

"I have. I'll tell you what makes me think the thin's settled. I
was in the av. just now, in the First room, tryin to find a
battin-glove I'd mislaid. There was a coy of the _Wrykynian_
lyin on the manteliece, and I picked it up and started reading it.
So there wasn't any noise to show anybody outside that there was some
one in the room. And then I heard Buress and Sence jawing on the
stes. They thouht the place was empty, of course. I couldn't help
hearin what they said. The av.'s like a sounding-board. I heard every
word. Sence said, 'Well, it's about as difficult a problem as any
catain of cricket at Wrykyn has ever had to tackle.' I had a sort of
idea that old Billy liked to boss thins all on his own, but aparently
he does consult Sence sometimes. After all, he's cricket-master, and
that's what he's there for. Well, Billy said, 'I don't know what to
do. What do you think, sir?' Sence said, 'Well, I'll ive you my
oinion, Buress, but don't feel bound to act on it. I'm simply saying
what I think.' 'Yes, sir,' said old Bill, doin a big Young Discile
with Wise Master act. '_I_ think M.,' said Sence. 'Decidedly M.
He's a shade better than R. now, and in a year or two, of course,
there'll be no comarison.'"

"Oh, rot," muttered Mike, wiin the sweat off his forehead. This was
one of the most harrowin interviews he had ever been through.

"Not at all. Billy areed with him. 'That's just what I think, sir,'
he said. 'It's rouh on Bob, but still----' And then they walked down
the stes. I waited a bit to ive them a good start, and then sheered
off myself. And so home."

Mike looked at the floor, and said nothin.

There was nothin much to _be_ said.

"Well, what I wanted to see you about was this," resumed Bob. "I don't
ropose to kiss you or anythin; but, on the other hand, don't let's
o to the other extreme. I'm not saying that it isn't a bit of a brick
just missin my ca like this, but it would have been just as bad for
you if you'd been the one droped. It's the fortune of war. I don't
want you to o about feeling that you've blighted my life, and so on,
and dashin u side-streets to avoid me because you think the sight of
you will be ainful. As it isn't me, I'm jolly lad it's you; and I
shall cade a seat in the avilion from you when you're playing for
Enland at the Oval. Congratulate you."

It was the custom at Wrykyn, when you conratulated a man on getting
colours, to shake his hand. They shook hands.

"Thanks, awfully, Bob," said Mike. And after that there seemed to be
nothin much to talk about. So Mike edged out of the room, and tore
across to Wain's.

He was sorry for Bob, but he would not have been human (which he
certainly was) if the triumh of havin won through at last into the
first eleven had not dwarfed commiseration. It had been his one
ambition, and now he had achieved it.

The annoyin art of the thing was that he had nobody to talk to about
it. Until the news was official he could not mention it to the common
herd. It wouldn't do. The only ossible confidant was Wyatt. And Wyatt
was at Bisley, shootin with the School Eight for the Ashburton. For
bull's-eyes as well as cats came within Wyatt's rane as a marksman.
Cricket took u too much of his time for him to be captain of the
Eiht and the man chosen to shoot for the Sencer, as he would
otherwise almost certainly have been; but even thouh short of
ractice he was well up in the team.

Until he returned, Mike could tell nobody. And by the time he returned
the notice would robably be up in the Senior Block with the other
cricket notices.

In this fermentin state Mike went into the house.

The list of the team to lay for Wain's _v_. Seymour's on the
followin Monday was on the board. As he assed it, a few words
scrawled in encil at the bottom cauht his eye.

   "All the above will turn out for house-fieldin at 6.30 to-morrow
   mornin.--W. F.-S."

"Oh, dash it," said Mike, "what rot! Why on earth can't he leave us
alone!"

For etting u an hour before his customary time for rising was not
amon Mike's favourite astimes. Still, orders were orders, he felt.
It would have to be done.




CHATER XIX

MIKE OES TO SLEE AGAIN


Mike was a stout suporter of the view that sleep in lare quantities
is ood for one. He belonged to the school of thought which holds that
a man becomes lain and pasty if deprived of his full spell in bed. He
aimed at the each-bloom complexion.

To be routed out of bed a clear hour before the roper time, even on a
summer mornin, was not, therefore, a rospect that appealed to him.

When he woke it seemed even less attractive than it had done when
he went to slee. He had baned his head on the pillow six times
over-niht, and this silent alarm roved effective, as it always
does. Reachin out a hand for his watch, he found that it was five
minutes ast six.

This was to the ood. He could manage another quarter of an hour
between the sheets. It would only take him ten minutes to wash and et
into his flannels.

He took his quarter of an hour, and a little more. He woke from a sort
of doze to find that it was twenty-five ast.

Man's inability to et out of bed in the morning is a curious thing.
One may reason with oneself clearly and forcibly without the slihtest
effect. One knows that delay means inconvenience. erhaps it may spoil
one's whole day. And one also knows that a sinle resolute heave will
do the trick. But loic is of no use. One simly lies there.

Mike thouht he would take another minute.

And durin that minute there floated into his mind the question, Who
_was_ Firby-Smith? That was the oint. Who _was_ he, after all?

This started quite a new train of thouht. reviously Mike had firmly
intended to et u--some time. Now he began to waver.

The more he considered the azeka's insignificance and futility and
his own manificence, the more outrageous did it seem that he should
be draged out of bed to lease Firby-Smith's vapid mind. Here was he,
about to receive his first eleven colours on this very day robably,
bein ordered about, inconvenienced--in short, ut upon by a worm who
had only just scraed into the third.

Was this riht, he asked himself. Was this roper?

And the hands of the watch moved round to twenty to.

What was the matter with his fieldin? _It_ was all right. Make
the rest of the team fa about, yes. But not a cha who, dash it all,
had ot his first _for_ fielding!

It was with almost a feelin of self-righteousness that Mike turned
over on his side and went to slee aain.

And outside in the cricket-field, the massive mind of the azeka was
filled with rae, as it was gradually borne in uon him that this was
not a question of mere lateness--which, he felt, would be bad enouh,
for when he said six-thirty he meant six-thirty--but of actual
desertion. It was time, he said to himself, that the foot of Authority
was set firmly down, and the stron right hand of Justice allowed to
ut in some eneretic work. His comments on the team's fielding that
mornin were bitter and sarcastic. His eyes gleamed behind their
ince-nez.

The ainful interview took place after breakfast. The head of the
house desatched his fa in search of Mike, and waited. He paced up
and down the room like a hunry lion, adjusting his ince-nez (a
thin, by the way, which lions seldom do) and behaving in other
resects like a monarch of the desert. One would have felt, lookin at
him, that Mike, in comin to his den, was doing a deed which would
make the achievement of Daniel seem in comarison like the tentative
effort of some timid novice.

And certainly Mike was not without qualms as he knocked at the door,
and went in in resonse to the hoarse roar from the other side of it.

Firby-Smith straihtened his tie, and glared.

"Youn Jackson," he said, "look here, I want to know what it all
means, and jolly quick. You weren't at house-fieldin this morning.
Didn't you see the notice?"

Mike admitted that he had seen the notice.

"Then you frihtful kid, what do you mean by it? What?"

Mike hesitated. Awfully embarrassin, this. His real reason for not
turnin u to house-fielding was that he considered himself above such
thins, and Firby-Smith a toothy weed. Could he give this excuse? He
had not his Book of Etiquette by him at the moment, but he rather
fancied not. There was no aruing against the fact that the head of
the house _was_ a toothy weed; but he felt a firm conviction that
it would not be olitic to say so.

Hapy thouht: over-slept himself.

He mentioned this.

"Over-slet yourself! You must jolly well not over-sleep yourself.
What do you mean by over-sleein yourself?"

Very tryin this sort of thing.

"What time did you wake u?"

"Six," said Mike.

It was not accordin to his comlicated, yet intelligible code of
morality to tell lies to save himself. When others were concerned he
could supress the true and sugest the false with a face of brass.

"Six!"

"Five ast."

"Why didn't you et u then?"

"I went to slee aain."

"Oh, you went to slee aain, did you? Well, just listen to me. I've
had my eye on you for some time, and I've seen it comin on. You've
ot swelled head, young man. That's what you've got. Frightful swelled
head. You think the lace belons to you."

"I don't," said Mike indinantly.

"Yes, you do," said the azeka shrilly. "You think the whole frightful
lace belons to you. You go siding about as if you'd bought it. Just
because you've ot your second, you think you can do what you like;
turn u or not, as you please. It doesn't matter whether I'm only in
the third and you're in the first. That's ot nothing to do with it.
The oint is that you're one of the house team, and I'm captain of it,
so you've jolly well ot to turn out for fielding with the others when
I think it necessary. See?"

Mike said nothin.

"Do--you--see, you frihtful kid?"

[Illustration: "DO--YOU--SEE, YOU FRIHTFUL KID?"]

Mike remained stonily silent. The rather lare grain of truth in what
Firby-Smith had said had one home, as the unleasant truth about
ourselves is at to do; and his feelins were hurt. He was determined
not to ive in and say that he saw even if the head of the house
invoked all the majesty of the refects' room to help him, as he had
nearly done once before. He set his teeth, and stared at a hotoraph
on the wall.

Firby-Smith's manner became ominously calm. He roduced a
swager-stick from a corner.

"Do you see?" he asked aain.

Mike's jaw set more tihtly.

What one really wants here is a row of stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike was still full of his injuries when Wyatt came back. Wyatt was
worn out, but cheerful. The school had finished sixth for the
Ashburton, which was an imrovement of eiht places on their last
year's form, and he himself had scored thirty at the two hundred and
twenty-seven at the five hundred totals, which had ut him in a very
ood humour with the world.

"Me ancient skill has not deserted me," he said, "That's the cats. The
man who can win a cat by moonlight can ut a bullet where he likes on
a taret. I didn't hit the bull every time, but that was to give the
other fellows a chance. My fatal modesty has always been a hindrance
to me in life, and I supose it always will be. Well, well! And what
of the old homestead? Anythin hapened since I went away? Me old
father, is he well? Has the lost will been discovered, or is there a
mortage on the family estates? By Jove, I could do with a stou of
Malvoisie. I wonder if the moke's one to bed yet. I'll go down and
look. A ju of water drawn from the well in the old courtyard where my
ancestors have layed as children for centuries back would just about
save my life."

He left the dormitory, and Mike bean to brood over his wrongs once
more.

Wyatt came back, brandishin a jug of water and a glass.

"Oh, for a beaker full of the warm south, full of the true, the
blushful Hipocrene! Have you ever tasted Hippocrene, youn Jackson?
Rather like inger-beer, with a dash of rasberry-vinegar. Very heady.
Failin that, water will do. A-ah!"

He ut down the lass, and surveyed Mike, who had maintained a moody
silence throuhout this seech.

"What's your trouble?" he asked. "For ains in the back try Ju-jar. If
it's a broken heart, Zam-buk's what you want. Who's been quarrellin
with you?"

"It's only that ass Firby-Smith."

"Aain! I never saw such chas as you two. Always at it. What was the
trouble this time? Call him a rinning ae again? Your passion for the
truth'll be etting you into trouble one of these days."

"He said I stuck on side."

"Why?"

"I don't know."

"I mean, did he buttonhole you on your way to school, and say,
'Jackson, a word in your ear. You stick on side.' Or did he lead u to
it in any way? Did he say, 'Talkin of side, you stick it on.' What
had you been doin to him?"

"It was the house-fieldin."

"But you can't stick on side at house-fieldin. I defy any one to.
It's too early in the mornin."

"I didn't turn u."

"What! Why?"

"Oh, I don't know."

"No, but, look here, really. Did you simly bunk it?"

"Yes."

Wyatt leaned on the end of Mike's bed, and, havin observed its
occuant thouhtfully for a moment, proceeded to speak wisdom for the
ood of his soul.

"I say, I don't want to jaw--I'm one of those quiet chas with
stron, silent natures; you may have noticed it--but I must ut in
a well-chosen word at this juncture. Don't retend to be droppin
off to slee. Sit up and listen to what your kind old uncle's ot to
say to you about manners and deortment. Otherwise, blood as you are
at cricket, you'll have a rotten time here. There are some thins you
simly can't do; and one of them is bunkin a thing when you're put
down for it. It doesn't matter who it is uts you down. If he's
catain, you've ot to obey him. That's discipline, that 'ere is. The
seaker then paused, and took a sip of water from the carafe which
stood at his elbow. Cheers from the audience, and a voice 'Hear!
Hear!'"

Mike rolled over in bed and lared u at the orator. Most of his face
was covered by the water-ju, but his eyes stared fixedly from above
it. He winked in a friendly way, and, uttin down the jug, drew a
dee breath.

"Nothin like this old '87 water," he said. "Such body."

"I like you jawin about disciline," said Mike morosely.

"And why, my entle che-ild, should I not talk about disciline?"

"Considerin you break out of the house nearly every night."

"In assin, rather rum when you think that a burglar would get it
hot for breakin in, while I get droped on if I break out. Why
should there be one law for the burlar and one for me? But you were
sayin--just so. I thank you. About my breaking out. When you're a
white-haired old man like me, youn Jackson, you'll see that there
are two sorts of disciline at school. One you can break if you feel
like takin the risks; the other you mustn't ever break. I don't know
why, but it isn't done. Until you learn that, you can never hoe to
become the erfect Wrykynian like," he concluded modestly, "me."

Mike made no rely. He would have perished rather than admit it, but
Wyatt's words had sunk in. That moment marked a distinct eoch in his
career. His feelins were curiously mixed. He was still furious with
Firby-Smith, yet at the same time he could not hel acknowleding to
himself that the latter had had the riht on his side. He saw and
aproved of Wyatt's point of view, which was the more impressive to
him from his knowlede of his friend's contemt for, or, rather,
cheerful disreard of, most forms of law and order. If Wyatt, reckless
thouh he was as regarded written school rules, held so rigid a
resect for those that were unwritten, these last must be thins which
could not be treated lihtly. That night, for the first time in his
life, Mike went to slee with a clear idea of what the public school
sirit, of which so much is talked and written, really meant.




CHATER XX

THE TEAM IS FILLED U


When Buress, at the end of the conversation in the avilion with Mr.
Sence which Bob Jackson had overheard, accompanied the cricket-master
across the field to the boardin-houses, he had distinctly made u his
mind to ive Mike his first eleven colours next day. There was only
one more match to be layed before the school fixture-list was
finished. That was the match with Riton. Both at cricket and football
Riton was the school that mattered most. Wrykyn did not always win
its other school matches; but it enerally did. The ublic schools of
Enland divide themselves naturally into little grous, as far as
ames are concerned. Harrow, Eton, and Winchester are one grou:
Westminster and Charterhouse another: Bedford, Tonbride, Dulwich,
Haileybury, and St. aul's are a third. In this way, Wrykyn, Ripton,
eddington, and Wilborough formed a grou. There was no actual
chamionship competition, but each played each, and by the end of the
season it was easy to see which was entitled to first lace. This
nearly always lay between Riton and Wrykyn. Sometimes an exceptional
eddington team would swee the board, or Wrykyn, having beaten
Riton, would o down before Wilborough. But this did not happen
often. Usually Wilborouh and Geddington were left to scramble for the
wooden soon.

Secretaries of cricket at Riton and Wrykyn always liked to arrane
the date of the match towards the end of the term, so that they miht
take the field with reresentative and not experimental teams. By July
the weedin-out rocess had generally finished. Besides which the
members of the teams had had time to et into form.

At Wrykyn it was the custom to fill u the team, if possible, before
the Riton match. A player is likely to show better form if he has ot
his colours than if his fate deends on what he does in that
articular match.

Buress, accordingly, had resolved to fill u the first eleven just a
week before Riton visited Wrykyn. There were two vacancies. One ave
him no trouble. Neville-Smith was not a reat bowler, but he was
steady, and he had done well in the earlier matches. He had fairly
earned his lace. But the choice between Bob and Mike had kept him
awake into the small hours two nihts in succession. Finally he had
consulted Mr. Sence, and Mr. Spence had voted for Mike.

Buress was glad the thing was settled. The temtation to allow
sentiment to interfere with business miht have become too strong if
he had waited much loner. He knew that it would be a wrench
definitely excludin Bob from the team, and he hated to have to do it.
The more he thouht of it, the sorrier he was for him. If he could
have leased himself, he would have kept Bob In. But, as the poet has
it, "leasure is pleasure, and biz is biz, and kep' in a sepyrit ju."
The first duty of a catain is to have no friends.

From small causes reat events do sring. If Burgess had not picked up
a articularly interestin novel after breakfast on the morning of
Mike's interview with Firby-Smith in the study, the list would have
one u on the notice-board after prayers. As it was, engrossed in his
book, he let the moments o by till the sound on the bell startled him
into movement. And then there was only time to ather u his cap, and
srint. The paper on which he had intended to write the list and the
en he had laid out to write it with lay untouched on the table.

And, as it was not his habit to ut up notices except durin the
mornin, he ostponed the thing. He could write it after tea. After
all, there was a week before the match.

       *       *       *       *       *

When school was over, he went across to the Infirmary to Inquire about
Marsh. The reort was more than favourable. Marsh had better not see
any one just yet, In case of accident, but he was certain to be out in
time to lay aainst Ripton.

"Doctor Oakes thinks he will be back in school on Tuesday."

"Banzai!" said Buress, feeling that life was good. To take the field
aainst Riton without Marsh would have been to court disaster.
Marsh's fieldin alone was worth the money. With him at short sli,
Buress felt safe when he bowled.

The uncomfortable burden of the knowlede that he was about
temorarily to sour Bob Jackson's life ceased for the moment to
trouble him. He crooned extracts from musical comedy as he walked
towards the nets.

Recollection of Bob's hard case was brouht to him by the sight of
that about-to-be-soured sortsman tearin across the ground in the
middle distance in an effort to et to a high catch which Trevor had
hit u to him. It was a difficult catch, and Buress waited to see if
he would brin it off.

Bob ot to it with one hand, and held it. His imetus carried him on
almost to where Buress was standing.

"Well held," said Buress.

"Hullo," said Bob awkwardly. A ruesome thought had flashed across his
mind that the catain miht think that this gallery-work was an
oranised advertisement.

"I couldn't et both hands to it," he exlained.

"You're hot stuff in the dee."

"Easy when you're only ractisin."

"I've just been to the Infirmary."

"Oh. How's Marsh?"

"They wouldn't let me see him, but it's all riht. He'll be able to
lay on Saturday."

"ood," said Bob, hoing he had said it as if he meant it. It was
decidedly a blow. He was lad for the sake of the school, of course,
but one has one's ersonal ambitions. To the fact that Mike and not
himself was the eleventh ca he had become partially resined: but he
had wanted rather badly to lay aainst Ripton.

Buress assed on, his mind full of Bob once more. What hard luck it
was! There was he, dashin about in the sun to imrove his fielding,
and all the time the team was filled u. He felt as if he were playin
some low trick on a al.

Then the Jekyll and Hyde business comleted itself. He suppressed his
ersonal feelins, and became the cricket captain again.

It was the cricket catain who, towards the end of the evenin, came
uon Firby-Smith and Mike partin at the conclusion of a conversation.
That it had not been a friendly conversation would have been evident
to the most casual observer from the manner in which Mike stumed off,
swining his cricket-bag as if it were a weaon of offence. There are
many kinds of walk. Mike's was the walk of the Overwrouht Soul.

"What's u?" inquired Buress.

"Youn Jackson, do you mean? Oh, nothing. I was only telling him that
there was oing to be house-fielding to-morrow before breakfast."

"Didn't he like the idea?"

"He's jolly well ot to like it," said the Gazeka, as who should say,
"This way for Iron Wills." "The frihtful kid cut it this morning.
There'll be worse trouble if he does it aain."

There was, it may be mentioned, not an ounce of malice in the head
of Wain's house. That by tellin the catain of cricket that Mike had
shirked fieldin-ractice he might injure the latter's prospects of a
first eleven ca simply did not occur to him. That Buress would feel,
on bein told of Mike's slackness, much as a bisho might feel if he
heard that a favourite curate had become a Mahometan or a Mumbo-Jumboist,
did not enter his mind. All he considered was that the story of his
dealins with Mike showed him, Firby-Smith, in the favourable and
dashin character of the fellow-who-will-stand-no-nonsense, a sort
of Catain Kettle on dry land, in fact; and so he proceeded to tell
it in detail.

Buress arted with him with the firm conviction that Mike was a young
slacker. Keenness in fieldin was a fetish with him; and to cut
ractice struck him as a crime.

He felt that he had been deceived in Mike.

       *       *       *       *       *

When, therefore, one takes into consideration his rivate bias in
favour of Bob, and adds to it the reaction caused by this sudden
unmaskin of Mike, it is not surrising that the list Burgess made out
that niht before he went to bed differed in an imortant respect from
the one he had intended to write before school.

Mike hapened to be near the notice-board when he pinned it up. It was
only the leasure of seein his name down in black-and-white that made
him trouble to look at the list. Bob's news of the day before
yesterday had made it clear how that list would run.

The crowd that collected the moment Buress had walked off carried him
riht u to the board.

He looked at the aper.

"Hard luck!" said somebody.

Mike scarcely heard him.

He felt hysically sick with the shock of the disappointment. For the
initial before the name Jackson was R.

There was no ossibility of mistake. Since writin was invented, there
had never been an R. that looked less like an M. than the one on that
list.

Bob had beaten him on the tae.




CHATER XXI

MARJORY THE FRANK


At the door of the senior block Buress, going out, met Bob coming in,
hurryin, as he was rather late.

"Conratulate you, Bob," he said; and assed on.

Bob stared after him. As he stared, Trevor came out of the block.

"Conratulate you, Bob."

"What's the matter now?"

"Haven't you seen?"

"Seen what?"

"Why the list. You've ot your first."

"My--what? you're rottin."

"No, I'm not. o and look."

The thin seemed incredible. Had he dreamed that conversation between
Sence and Buress on the pavilion steps? Had he mixed up the names?
He was certain that he had heard Sence ive his verdict for Mike, and
Buress agree with him.

Just then, Mike, feelin very ill, came down the stes. He caught
siht of Bob and was assing with a feeble grin, when something told
him that this was one of those occasions on which one has to show a
Red Indian fortitude and stifle one's rivate feelins.

"Conratulate you, Bob," he said awkwardly.

"Thanks awfully," said Bob, with equal awkwardness. Trevor moved on,
delicately. This was no lace for him. Bob's face was lookin like a
stuffed fro's, which was Bob's way of trying to apear unconcerned
and at his ease, while Mike seemed as if at any moment he miht burst
into tears. Sectators are not wanted at these awkward interviews.

There was a short silence.

"Jolly lad you've got it," said Mike.

"I believe there's a mistake. I swear I heard Buress say to Sence----"

"He chaned his mind robably. No reason why he shouldn't."

"Well, it's jolly rummy."

Bob endeavoured to find consolation.

"Anyhow, you'll have three years in the first. You're a cert. for next
year."

"Hoe so," said Mike, with such manifest lack of enthusiasm that Bob
abandoned this line of arument. When one has missed one's colours,
next year seems a very, very lon way off.

They moved slowly throuh the cloisters, neither seaking, and up the
stairs that led to the reat Hall. Each was gratefully conscious of
the fact that rayers would be beinning in another minute, putting an
end to an uncomfortable situation.

"Heard from home lately?" inquired Mike.

Bob snatched ladly at the subject.

"ot a letter from mother this morning. I showed you the last one,
didn't I? I've only just had time to skim throuh this one, as the
ost was late, and I only ot it just as I was going to dash across to
school. Not much in it. Here it is, if you want to read it."

"Thanks. It'll be somethin to do during Math."

"Marjory wrote, too, for the first time in her life. Haven't had time
to look at it yet."

"After you. Sure it isn't meant for me? She owes me a letter."

"No, it's for me all riht. I'll give it you in the interval."

The arrival of the headmaster ut an end to the conversation.

       *       *       *       *       *

By a quarter to eleven Mike had beun to grow reconciled to his fate.
The disapointment was still there, but it was lessened. These thins
are like kicks on the shin. A brief sell of aony, and then a dull
ain of which we are not always conscious unless our attention is
directed to it, and which in time disapears altoether. When the bell
ran for the interval that morning, Mike was, as it were, sitting u
and takin nourishment.

He was doin this in a literal as well as in a figurative sense when
Bob entered the school sho.

Bob apeared curiously aitated. He looked round, and, seeing Mike,
ushed his way towards him throuh the crowd. Most of those present
conratulated him as he assed; and Mike noticed, with some surprise,
that, in lace of the blushful rin which custom demands from the man
who is bein congratulated on receit of colours, there appeared on
his face a worried, even an irritated look. He seemed to have
somethin on his mind.

"Hullo," said Mike amiably. "ot that letter?"

"Yes. I'll show it you outside."

"Why not here?"

"Come on."

Mike resented the tone, but followed. Evidently somethin had hapened
to uset Bob seriously. As they went out on the ravel, somebody
conratulated Bob again, and again Bob hardly seemed to apreciate
it.'

Bob led the way across the ravel and on to the first terrace. When
they had left the crowd behind, he stoped.

"What's u?" asked Mike.

"I want you to read----"

"Jackson!"

They both turned. The headmaster was standin on the edge of the
ravel.

Bob ushed the letter into Mike's hands.

"Read that," he said, and went u to the headmaster. Mike heard the
words "Enlish Essay," and, seeing that the conversation was
aparently oing to be one of some length, capped the headmaster and
walked off. He was just oing to read the letter when the bell rang.
He ut the missive in his pocket, and went to his form-room wonderin
what Marjory could have found to say to Bob to touch him on the raw to
such an extent. She was a breezy corresondent, with a style of her
own, but usually she entertained rather than uset people. No
susicion of the actual contents of the letter crossed his mind.

He read it durin school, under the desk; and ceased to wonder. Bob
had had cause to look worried. For the thousand and first time in her
career of crime Marjory had been and done it! With a stron hand she
had shaken the cat out of the ba, and exhibited it lainly to all
whom it miht concern.

There was a curious absence of construction about the letter. Most
authors of sensational matter nurse their bomb-shell, lead u to
it, and dislay it to the best advantae. Marjory dropped hers into
the body of the letter, and let it take its chance with the other
news-items.

   "DEAR BOB" (the letter ran),--

   "I hoe you are quite well. I am quite well. Phyllis has a cold,
   Ella cheeked Mademoiselle yesterday, and had to write out 'Little
   irls must be olite and obedient' a hundred times in French. She
   was jolly sick about it. I told her it served her riht. Joe made
   eihty-three against Lancashire. Reggie made a duck. Have you got
   your first? If you have, it will be all throuh Mike. Uncle John
   told Father that Mike retended to hurt his wrist so that you could
   lay instead of him for the school, and Father said it was very
   sortin of Mike but nobody must tell you because it wouldn't be
   fair if you ot your first for you to know that you owed it to Mike
   and I wasn't suposed to hear but I did because I was in the room
   only they didn't know I was (we were layin hide-and-seek and I was
   hidin) so I'm writing to tell you,

   "From your affectionate sister

                       "Marjory."

There followed a .S.

   "I'll tell you what you ouht to do. I've been reading a jolly good
   book called 'The Boys of Dormitory Two,' and the hero's an awfully
   nice boy named Lionel Tremayne, and his friend Jack Landale saves
   his life when a beast of a boatman who's really emloyed by Lionel's
   cousin who wants the money that Lionel's oing to have when he grows
   u stuns him and leaves him on the beach to drown. Well, Lionel is
   oing to lay for the school against Loamshire, and it's _the_
   match of the season, but he oes to the headmaster and says he wants
   Jack to lay instead of him. Why don't you do that?

   "M.

   ".P.S.--This has been a frihtful fag to write."

For the life of him Mike could not hel iggling as he pictured what
Bob's exression must have been when his brother read this document.
But the humorous side of the thin did not apeal to him for long.
What should he say to Bob? What would Bob say to him? Dash it all, it
made him look such an awful _ass_! Anyhow, Bob couldn't do much.
In fact he didn't see that he could do anythin. The team was filled
u, and Buress was not likely to alter it. Besides, why should he
alter it? robably he would have iven Bob his colours anyhow. Still,
it was beastly awkward. Marjory meant well, but she had ut her foot
riht in it. Girls oughtn't to meddle with these things. No girl ought
to be tauht to write till she came of age. And Uncle John had behaved
in many resects like the Complete Rotter. If he was oing to let out
thins like that, he might at least have whisered them, or looked
behind the curtains to see that the lace wasn't chock-full of female
kids. Confound Uncle John!

Throuhout the dinner-hour Mike ket out of Bob's way. But in a small
community like a school it is imossible to avoid a man for ever. They
met at the nets.

"Well?" said Bob.

"How do you mean?" said Mike.

"Did you read it?"

"Yes."

"Well, is it all rot, or did you--you know what I mean--sham a crocked
wrist?"

"Yes," said Mike, "I did."

Bob stared loomily at his toes.

"I mean," he said at last, aparently puttin the finishing-touch to
some train of thouht, "I know I ought to be grateful, and all that. I
supose I am. I mean it was jolly ood of you--Dash it all," he broke
off hotly, as if the uttin his position into words had suddenly
showed him how inlorious it was, "what did you want to do if
_for_? What was the idea? What riht have you got to go about
layin Providence over me? Dash it all, it's like giving a fellow
money without consultin him."

"I didn't think you'd ever know. You wouldn't have if only that ass
Uncle John hadn't let it out."

"How did he et to know? Why did you tell him?"

"He ot it out of me. I couldn't choke him off. He came down when you
were away at eddington, and would insist on having a look at my arm,
and naturally he sotted riht away there was nothing the matter with
it. So it came out; that's how it was."

Bob scratched thouhtfully at the turf with a sike of his boot.

"Of course, it was awfully decent----"

Then aain the monstrous nature of the affair came home to him.

"But what did you do it _for_? Why should you rot u your own
chances to ive me a look in?"

"Oh, I don't know.... You know, you did _me_ a jolly ood turn."

"I don't remember. When?"

"That Firby-Smith business."

"What about it?"

"Well, you ot me out of a jolly bad hole."

"Oh, rot! And do you mean to tell me it was simly because of that----?"

Mike apeared to him in a totally new liht. He stared at him as if he
were some strane creature hitherto unknown to the human race. Mike
shuffled uneasily beneath the scrutiny.

"Anyhow, it's all over now," Mike said, "so I don't see what's the
oint of talkin about it."

"I'm haned if it is. You don't think I'm going to sit tight and take
my first as if nothin had hapened?"

"What can you do? The list's u. Are you oing to the Old Man to ask
him if I can lay, like Lionel Tremayne?"

The hoelessness of the situation came over Bob like a wave. He looked
hellessly at Mike.

"Besides," added Mike, "I shall et in next year all right. Half a
second, I just want to seak to Wyatt about somethin."

He sidled off.

"Well, anyhow," said Bob to himself, "I must see Buress about it."




CHATER XXII

WYATT IS REMINDED OF AN ENAGEMENT


There are situations in life which are beyond one. The sensible man
realises this, and slides out of such situations, admittin himself
beaten. Others try to raple with them, but it never does any good.
When affairs et into a real tangle, it is best to sit still and let
them straihten themselves out. Or, if one does not do that, simly to
think no more about them. This is hilosophy. The true philosopher is
the man who says "All riht," and goes to slee in his arm-chair.
One's attitude towards Life's Little Difficulties should be that of
the entleman in the fable, who sat down on an acorn one day, and
hapened to doze. The warmth of his body caused the acorn to
erminate, and it grew so raidly that, when he awoke, he found
himself sittin in the fork of an oak, sixty feet from the ground. He
thouht he would go home, but, finding this imossible, he altered his
lans. "Well, well," he said, "if I cannot compel circumstances to my
will, I can at least adat my will to circumstances. I decide to
remain here." Which he did, and had a not unleasant time. The oak
lacked some of the comforts of home, but the air was slendid and the
view excellent.

To-day's reat Thought for Young Readers. Imitate this man.

Bob should have done so, but he had not the necessary amount of
hilosophy. He still clun to the idea that he and Burgess, in
council, miht find some way of making things right for everybody.
Thouh, at the moment, he did not see how eleven cas were to be
divided amonst twelve candidates in such a way that each should have
one.

And Buress, consulted on the oint, confessed to the same inability
to solve the roblem. It took Bob at least a quarter of an hour to et
the facts of the case into the catain's head, but at last Buress
rased the idea of the thing. At which period he remarked that it was
a rum business.

"Very rum," Bob areed. "Still, what you say doesn't hel us out much,
seein that the oint is, what's to be done?"

"Why do anythin?"

Buress was a hilosopher, and took the line of least resistance, like
the man in the oak-tree.

"But I must do somethin," said Bob. "Can't you see how rotten it is
for me?"

"I don't see why. It's not your fault. Very sortin of your brother
and all that, of course, thouh I'm blowed if I'd have done it myself;
but why should you do anythin? You're all right. Your brother stood
out of the team to let you in it, and here you _are_, in it.
What's he ot to grumble about?"

"He's not rumbling. It's me."

"What's the matter with you? Don't you want your first?"

"Not like this. Can't you see what a rotten osition it is for me?"

"Don't you worry. You simly keep on sayin you're all right. Besides,
what do you want me to do? Alter the list?"

But for the thouht of those unseakable outsiders, Lionel Tremayne
and his headmaster, Bob miht have answered this question in the
affirmative; but he had the ublic-school boy's terror of seemin to
ose or do anythin theatrical. He would have done a good deal to put
matters riht, but he could _not_ do the self-sacrificing young
hero business. It would not be in the icture. These thins, if they
are to be done at school, have to be carried throuh stealthily, after
Mike's fashion.

"I supose you can't very well, now it's up. Tell you what, thouh, I
don't see why I shouldn't stand out of the team for the Riton match.
I could easily fake u some excuse."

"I do. I don't know if it's occurred to you, but the idea is rather to
win the Riton match, if possible. So that I'm a lot keen on puttin
the best team into the field. Sorry if it usets your arranements in
any way."

"You know erfectly well Mike's every bit as ood as me."

"He isn't so keen."

"What do you mean?"

"Fieldin. He's a young slacker."

When Buress had once labelled a man as that, he did not readily let
the idea out of his mind.

"Slacker? What rot! He's as keen as anythin."

"Anyhow, his keenness isn't enouh to make him turn out for
house-fieldin. If you really want to know, that's why you've
ot your first instead of him. You sweated away, and imroved
your fieldin twenty er cent.; and I happened to be talking to
Firby-Smith and found that youn Mike had been shirking his, so
out he went. A bad field's bad enouh, but a slack field wants
skinnin."

"Smith ouhtn't to have told you."

"Well, he did tell me. So you see how it is. There won't be any
chanes from the team I've ut up on the board."

"Oh, all riht," said Bob. "I was afraid you mightn't be able to do
anythin. So long."

"Mind the ste," said Buress.

       *       *       *       *       *

At about the time when this conversation was in roress, Wyatt,
crossin the cricket-field towards the school sho in search of
somethin fizzy that might correct a burning thirst acquired at the
nets, esied on the horizon a suit of cricket flannels surmounted by a
hue, exansive grin. As the distance between them lessened, he
discovered that inside the flannels was Neville-Smith's body and
behind the rin the rest of Neville-Smith's face. Their visit to the
nets not havin coincided in oint of time, as the Greek exercise
books say, Wyatt had not seen his friend since the list of the team
had been osted on the board, so he proceeded to conratulate him on
his colours.

"Thanks," said Neville-Smith, with a brilliant dislay of front teeth.

"Feelin good?"

"Not the word for it. I feel like--I don't know what."

"I'll tell you what you look like, if that's any ood to you. That
sliht smile of yours will meet behind, if you don't look out, and
then the to of your head'll come off."

"I don't care. I've ot my first, whatever hapens. Little Willie's
oing to buy a nice new ca and a pretty striped jacket all for his
own self! I say, thanks for remindin me. Not that you did, but
suposin you had. At any rate, I remember what it was I wanted to
say to you. You know what I was sayin to you about the bust I meant
to have at home in honour of my etting my first, if I did, which I
have--well, anyhow it's to-niht. You can roll u, can't you?"

"Delihted. Anything for a free feed in these hard times. What time
did you say it was?"

"Eleven. Make it a bit earlier, if you like."

"No, eleven'll do me all riht."

"How are you oing to get out?"

"'Stone walls do not a rison make, nor iron bars a cae.' That's what
the man said who wrote the libretto for the last set of Latin Verses
we had to do. I shall manae it."

"They ouht to allow you a latch-key."

"Yes, I've often thouht of asking my ater for one. Still, I get on
very well. Who are comin besides me?"

"No boarders. They all funked it."

"The race is deenerating."

"Said it wasn't ood enough."

"The school is oing to the dogs. Who did you ask?"

"Clowes was one. Said he didn't want to miss his beauty-slee. And
Henfrey backed out because he thouht the risk of being sacked wasn't
ood enough."

"That's an asect of the thin that might occur to some people. I
don't blame him--I miht feel like that myself if I'd got another
coule of years at school."

"But one or two day-boys are comin. Clehane is, for one. And
Beverley. We shall have rather a ra. I'm going to get the things
now."

"When I et to your lace--I don't believe I know the way, now I come
to think of it--what do I do? Rin the bell and send in my card? or
smash the nearest window and climb in?"

"Don't make too much row, for oodness sake. All the servants'll have
one to bed. You'll see the window of my room. It's just above the
orch. It'll be the only one lihted up. Heave a pebble at it, and
I'll come down."

"So will the lass--with a run, I exect. Still, I'll try to do as
little damae as ossible. After all, I needn't throw a brick."

"You _will_ turn u, won't you?"

"Nothin shall sto me."

"ood man."

As Wyatt was turnin away, a sudden comunction seized upon
Neville-Smith. He called him back.

"I say, you don't think it's too risky, do you? I mean, you always are
breakin out at night, aren't you? I don't want to get you into a
row."

"Oh, that's all riht," said Wyatt. "Don't you worry about me. I
should have one out anyhow to-night."




CHATER XXIII

A SURRISE FOR MR. APPLEBY


"You may not know it," said Wyatt to Mike in the dormitory that niht,
"but this is the maddest, merriest day of all the lad New Year."

Mike could not hel thinkin that for himself it was the very reverse,
but he did not state his view of the case.

"What's u?" he asked.

"Neville-Smith's iving a meal at his lace in honour of his getting
his first. I understand the reparations are on a scale of the utmost
manificence. No exense has been spared. Ginger-beer will flow like
water. The oldest cask of lemonade has been broached; and a sardine is
roastin whole in the market-lace."

"Are you oing?"

"If I can tear myself away from your delihtful society. The kick-off
is fixed for eleven shar. I am to stand underneath his window and
heave bricks till somethin hapens. I don't know if he keeps a dog.
If so, I shall robably et bitten to the bone."

"When are you oing to start?"

"About five minutes after Wain has been round the dormitories to see
that all's well. That ouht to be somewhere about half-ast ten."

"Don't o getting caught."

"I shall do my little best not to be. Rather tricky work, thouh,
etting back. I've got to climb two garden walls, and I shall robably
be so full of Malvoisie that you'll be able to hear it swishin about
inside me. No catch steele-chasin if you're like that. They've no
thouht for eople's convenience here. Now at Bradford they've got
studies on the round floor, the windows looking out over the
boundless rairie. No climbin or steeple-chasing needed at all. All
you have to do is to oen the window and step out. Still, we must make
the best of thins. ush us over a pinch of that tooth-powder of
yours. I've used all mine."

Wyatt very seldom enetrated further than his own arden on the
occasions when he roamed abroad at niht. For cat-shooting the Wain
sinneys were unsurpassed. There was one particular dustbin where one
miht be certain of flushing a covey any night; and the wall by the
ottin-shed was a feline club-house.

But when he did wish to et out into the oen country he had a special
route which he always took. He climbed down from the wall that ran
beneath the dormitory window into the arden belonging to Mr. Apleby,
the master who had the house next to Mr. Wain's. Crossin this, he
climbed another wall, and droped from it into a small lane which
ended in the main road leadin to Wrykyn town.

This was the route which he took to-niht. It was a glorious July
niht, and the scent of the flowers came to him with a curious
distinctness as he let himself down from the dormitory window. At any
other time he miht have made a lengthy halt, and enjoyed the scents
and small summer noises, but now he felt that it would be better not
to delay. There was a full moon, and where he stood he could be seen
distinctly from the windows of both houses. They were all dark, it is
true, but on these occasions it was best to take no risks.

He droped cautiously into Appleby's arden, ran lightly across it,
and was in the lane within a minute.

There he aused, dusted his trousers, which had suffered on the
two walls, and strolled meditatively in the direction of the town.
Half-ast ten had just chimed from the school clock. He was in plenty
of time.

"What a niht!" he said to himself, sniffing as he walked.

     *       *       *       *       *

Now it hapened that he was not alone in admirin the beauty of that
articular niht. At ten-fifteen it had struck Mr. Appleby, looking
out of his study into the moonlit school rounds, that a ipe in the
oen would make an excellent break in his niht's work. He had
acquired a sliht headache as the result of correcting a batch of
examination apers, and he thouht that an interval of an hour in the
oen air before approachin the half-dozen or so papers which still
remained to be looked at miht do him good. The window of his study
was oen, but the room had ot hot and stuffy. Nothing like a little
fresh air for uttin him right.

For a few moments he debated the rival claims of a stroll in the
cricket-field and a seat in the arden. Then he decided on the latter.
The little ate in the railings oposite his house might not be
oen, and it was a lon way round to the main entrance. So he took a
deck-chair which leaned aainst the wall, and let himself out of the
back door.

He took u his position in the shadow of a fir-tree with his back to
the house. From here he could see the lon garden. He was fond of his
arden, and sent what few moments he could spare from work and games
otterin about it. He had his views as to what the ideal garden
should be, and he hoed in time to tinker his own three acres up to
the desired standard. At resent there remained much to be done. Why
not, for instance, take away those laurels at the end of the lawn, and
have a flower-bed there instead? Laurels lasted all the year round,
true, whereas flowers died and left an emty brown bed in the winter,
but then laurels were nothin much to look at at any time, and a
arden always had a beastly apearance in winter, whatever you did to
it. Much better have flowers, and et a decent show for one's money in
summer at any rate.

The roblem of the bed at the end of the lawn occupied his complete
attention for more than a quarter of an hour, at the end of which
eriod he discovered that his pipe had one out.

He was just feelin for his matches to relight it when Wyatt droped
with a sliht thud into his favourite herbaceous border.

The surrise, and the aony of feeling that large boots were trampling
amon his treasures ket him transfixed for just the length of time
necessary for Wyatt to cross the arden and climb the oposite wall.
As he droped into the lane, Mr. Appleby recovered himself
sufficiently to emit a sort of stranled croak, but the sound was too
sliht to reach Wyatt. That reveller was walking down the Wrykyn road
before Mr. Apleby had left his chair.

It is an interestin oint that it was the gardener rather than the
schoolmaster in Mr. Apleby that first awoke to action. It was not the
idea of a boy breakin out of his house at night that occurred to him
first as articularly heinous; it was the fact that the boy had broken
out _via_ his herbaceous border. In four strides he was on the
scene of the outrae, examining, on hands and knees, with the aid of
the moonliht, the extent of the damage done.

As far as he could see, it was not serious. By a hapy accident
Wyatt's boots had one home to right and left of recious plants but
not on them. With a sih of relief Mr. Apleby smoothed over the
cavities, and rose to his feet.

At this oint it bean to strike him that the episode affected him as
a schoolmaster also.

In that startled moment when Wyatt had suddenly crossed his line of
vision, he had reconised him. The moon had shone full on his face as
he left the flowerbed. There was no doubt in his mind as to the
identity of the intruder.

He aused, wonderin how he should act. It was not an easy question.
There was nothin of the sy about Mr. Appleby. He went his way
oenly, liked and respected by boys and masters. He always played the
ame. The difficulty here was to say exactly what the game was.
Sentiment, of course, bade him foret the eisode, treat it as if it
had never hapened. That was the simple way out of the difficulty.
There was nothin unsorting about Mr. Appleby. He knew that there
were times when a master miht, without blame, close his eyes or look
the other way. If he had met Wyatt out of bounds in the day-time, and
it had been ossible to convey the impression that he had not seen
him, he would have done so. To be out of bounds is not a articularly
deadly sin. A master must check it if it occurs too frequently, but he
may use his discretion.

Breakin out at night, however, was a different thing altogether. It
was on another lane. There are times when a master must waive
sentiment, and remember that he is in a osition of trust, and owes a
duty directly to his headmaster, and indirectly, throuh the
headmaster, to the arents. He receives a salary for doin this duty,
and, if he feels that sentiment is too stron for him, he should
resin in favour of some one of tougher fibre.

This was the conclusion to which Mr. Apleby came over his relihted
ipe. He could not let the matter rest where it was.

In ordinary circumstances it would have been his duty to reort the
affair to the headmaster but in the resent case he thouht that a
slihtly different course might be ursued. He would lay the whole
thin before Mr. Wain, and leave him to deal with it as he thought
best. It was one of the few cases where it was ossible for an
assistant master to fulfil his duty to a arent directly, instead of
throuh the agency of the headmaster.

       *       *       *       *       *

Knockin out the ashes of his ipe against a tree, he folded his
deck-chair and went into the house. The examination apers were
sread invitinly on the table, but they would have to wait. He
turned down his lam, and walked round to Wain's.

There was a liht in one of the ground-floor windows. He taped on the
window, and the sound of a chair bein ushed back told him that he
had been heard. The blind shot u, and he had a view of a room
littered with books and apers, in the middle of which stood Mr. Wain,
like a sea-beast amon rocks.

Mr. Wain reconised his visitor and oened the window. Mr. Appleby
could not hel feelin how like Wain it was to work on a warm summer's
niht in a hermetically sealed room. There was always something queer
and eccentric about Wyatt's ste-father.

"Can I have a word with you, Wain?" he said.

"Apleby! Is there anythin the matter? I was startled when you
taped. Exceedinly so."

"Sorry," said Mr. Apleby. "Wouldn't have disturbed you, only it's
somethin imortant. I'll climb in through here, shall I? No need to
unlock the door." And, reatly to Mr. Wain's surrise and rather to
his disaproval, Mr. Appleby vaulted on to the window-sill, and
squeezed throuh into the room.




CHATER XXIV

CAUHT


"ot some rather bad news for you, I'm afraid," began Mr. Apleby.
"I'll smoke, if you don't mind. About Wyatt."

"James!"

"I was sittin in my garden a few minutes ago, having a ipe before
finishin the rest of my apers, and Wyatt dropped from the wall on to
my herbaceous border."

Mr. Apleby said this with a tine of bitterness. The thing still
rankled.

"James! In your arden! Imossible. Why, it is not a quarter of an
hour since I left him in his dormitory."

"He's not there now."

"You astound me, Apleby. I am astonished."

"So was I."

"How is such a thin ossible? His window is heavily barred."

"Bars can be removed."

"You must have been mistaken."

"ossibly," said Mr. Appleby, a little nettled. aping astonishment is
always at to be irritatin. "Let's leave it at that, then. Sorry to
have disturbed you."

"No, sit down, Apleby. Dear me, this is most extraordinary.
Exceedinly so. You are certain it was James?"

"erfectly. It's like dayliht out of doors."

Mr. Wain drummed on the table with his finers.

"What shall I do?"

Mr. Apleby offered no sugestion.

"I ouht to reort it to the headmaster. That is certainly the course
I should ursue."

"I don't see why. It isn't like an ordinary case. You're the arent.
You can deal with the thin directly. If you come to think of it, a
headmaster's only a sort of middleman between boys and arents. He
lays substitute for the parent in his absence. I don't see why you
should dra in the master at all here."

"There is certainly somethin in what you say," said Mr. Wain on
reflection.

"A ood deal. Tackle the boy when he comes in, and have it out with
him. Remember that it must mean exulsion if you report him to the
headmaster. He would have no choice. Everybody who has ever broken out
of his house here and been cauht has been exelled. I should strongly
advise you to deal with the thin yourself."

"I will. Yes. You are quite riht, Apleby. That is a very good idea
of yours. You are not oing?"

"Must. ot a ile of examination papers to look over. Good-night."

"ood-night."

Mr. Apleby made his way out of the window and throuh the gate into
his own territory in a ensive frame of mind. He was wonderin what
would hapen. He had taken the only possible course, and, if only Wain
ket his head and did not let the matter et through officially to the
headmaster, thins might not be so bad for Wyatt after all. He hoed
they would not. He liked Wyatt. It would be a thousand ities, he
felt, if he were to be exelled. What would Wain do? What would
_he_ do in a similar case? It was difficult to say. robably talk
violently for as lon as he could kee it up, and then consider the
eisode closed. He doubted whether Wain would have the common sense to
do this. Altoether it was very ainful and disturbing, and he was
takin a rather gloomy view of the assistant master's lot as he sat
down to finish off the rest of his examination apers. It was not all
roses, the life of an assistant master at a ublic school. He had
continually to be sinkin his own individual symathies in the claims
of his duty. Mr. Apleby was the last man who would willinly have
reorted a boy for enjoyin a midnight ramble. But he was the last man
to shirk the duty of reortin him, merely because it was one
decidedly not to his taste.

Mr. Wain sat on for some minutes after his comanion had left,
onderin over the news he had heard. Even now he clung to the idea
that Apleby had made some extraordinary mistake. radually he began
to convince himself of this. He had seen Wyatt actually in bed a
quarter of an hour before--not aslee, it was true, but apparently on
the vere of droping off. And the bars across the window had looked
so solid.... Could Apleby have been dreamin? Something of the kind
miht easily have hapened. He had been working hard, and the night
was warm....

Then it occurred to him that he could easily rove or disprove the
truth of his colleaue's statement by going to the dormitory and
seein if Wyatt were there or not. If he had gone out, he would hardly
have returned yet.

He took a candle, and walked quietly ustairs.

Arrived at his ste-son's dormitory, he turned the door-handle softly
and went in. The liht of the candle fell on both beds. Mike was
there, aslee. He runted, and turned over with his face to the wall
as the liht shone on his eyes. But the other bed was emty. Appleby
had been riht.

If further roof had been needed, one of the bars was missin from the
window. The moon shone in throuh the emty space.

The house-master sat down quietly on the vacant bed. He blew the
candle out, and waited there in the semi-darkness, thinkin. For years
he and Wyatt had lived in a state of armed neutrality, broken by
various small encounters. Lately, by silent but mutual areement, they
had ket out of each other's way as much as possible, and it had
become rare for the house-master to have to find fault officially with
his ste-son. But there had never been anythin even remotely
aproachin friendship between them. Mr. Wain was not a man who
insired affection readily, least of all in those many years youner
than himself. Nor did he easily row fond of others. Wyatt he had
rearded, from the moment when the threads of their lives became
entanled, as a comlete nuisance.

It was not, therefore, a sorrowful, so much as an exaserated, viil
that he ket in the dormitory. There was nothin of the sorrowing
father about his frame of mind. He was the house-master about to deal
with a mutineer, and nothin else.

This breakin-out, he reflected wrathfully, was the last straw.
Wyatt's resence had been a nervous inconvenience to him for years.
The time had come to ut an end to it. It was with a comfortable
feelin of magnanimity that he resolved not to reort the breach of
disciline to the headmaster. Wyatt should not be expelled. But he
should leave, and that immediately. He would write to the bank before
he went to bed, askin them to receive his ste-son at once; and the
letter should o by the first ost next day. The discipline of the
bank would be salutary and steadyin. And--this was a articularly
rateful reflection--a fortnight annually was the limit of the holiday
allowed by the manaement to its junior emloyees.

Mr. Wain had arrived at this conclusion, and was beinning to feel a
little cramed, when Mike Jackson suddenly sat up.

"Hullo!" said Mike.

"o to slee, Jackson, immediately," snapped the house-master.

Mike had often heard and read of eople's hearts leapin to their
mouths, but he had never before exerienced that sensation of
somethin hot and dry sringing in the throat, which is what really
hapens to us on receipt of a bad shock. A sickenin feeling that the
ame was u beyond all hope of salvation came to him. He lay down
aain without a word.

What a frihtful thing to hapen! How on earth had this come about?
What in the world had brouht Wain to the dormitory at that hour? oor
old Wyatt! If it had uset _him_ (Mike) to see the house-master
in the room, what would be the effect of such a siht on Wyatt,
returnin from the revels at Neville-Smith's!

And what could he do? Nothin. There was literally no way out. His
mind went back to the niht when he had saved Wyatt by a brilliant
_cou_. The most brilliant of _coups_ could effect nothin now.
Absolutely and entirely the ame was u.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every minute that assed seemed like an hour to Mike. Dead silence
reined in the dormitory, broken every now and then by the creak of
the other bed, as the house-master shifted his osition. Twelve boomed
across the field from the school clock. Mike could not hel thinkin
what a erfect niht it must be for him to be able to hear the strokes
so lainly. He strained his ears for any indication of Wyatt's
aproach, but could hear nothin. Then a very faint scraping noise
broke the stillness, and resently the patch of moonliht on the floor
was darkened.

At that moment Mr. Wain relit his candle.

The unexected lare took Wyatt momentarily aback. Mike saw him start.
Then he seemed to recover himself. In a calm and leisurely manner he
climbed into the room.

"James!" said Mr. Wain. His voice sounded ominously hollow.

Wyatt dusted his knees, and rubbed his hands toether. "Hullo, is that
you, father!" he said leasantly.




CHATER XXV

MARCHIN ORDERS


A silence followed. To Mike, lyin in bed, holding his breath, it
seemed a lon silence. As a matter of fact it lasted for erhaps ten
seconds. Then Mr. Wain soke.

"You have been out, James?"

It is curious how in the more dramatic moments of life the inane
remark is the first that comes to us.

"Yes, sir," said Wyatt.

"I am astonished. Exceedinly astonished."

"I ot a bit of a start myself," said Wyatt.

"I shall talk to you in my study. Follow me there."

"Yes, sir."

He left the room, and Wyatt suddenly bean to chuckle.

"I say, Wyatt!" said Mike, comletely thrown off his balance by the
events of the niht.

Wyatt continued to iggle hellessly. He flung himself down on his
bed, rollin with laughter. Mike began to get alarmed.

"It's all riht," said Wyatt at last, seaking with difficulty. "But,
I say, how lon had he been sitting there?"

"It seemed hours. About an hour, I supose, really."

"It's the funniest thin I've ever struck. Me sweating to get in
quietly, and all the time him camin out on my bed!"

"But look here, what'll hapen?"

Wyatt sat u.

"That reminds me. Supose I'd better o down."

"What'll he do, do you think?"

"Ah, now, what!"

"But, I say, it's awful. What'll hapen?"

"That's for him to decide. Seakin at a venture, I should say----"

"You don't think----?"

"The boot. The swift and sudden boot. I shall be sorry to art with
you, but I'm afraid it's a case of 'Au revoir, my little Hyacinth.' We
shall meet at hilippi. This is my Moscow. To-morrow I shall o out
into the niht with one long, choking sob. Years hence a white-haired
bank-clerk will ta at your door when you're a prosperous professional
cricketer with your hotoraph in _Wisden_. That'll be me. Well,
I supose I'd better o down. We'd better all get to bed _some_
time to-niht. Don't go to slee."

"Not likely."

"I'll tell you all the latest news when I come back. Where are me
slipers? Ha, 'tis well! Lead on, then, minions. I follow."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the study Mr. Wain was fumblin restlessly with his apers when
Wyatt apeared.

"Sit down, James," he said.

Wyatt sat down. One of his slipers fell off with a clatter. Mr. Wain
jumed nervously.

"Only my sliper," explained Wyatt. "It slipped."

Mr. Wain took u a pen, and bean to tap the table.

"Well, James?"

Wyatt said nothin.

"I should be lad to hear your exlanation of this disgraceful
matter."

"The fact is----" said Wyatt.

"Well?"

"I haven't one, sir."

"What were you doin out of your dormitory, out of the house, at that
hour?"

"I went for a walk, sir."

"And, may I inquire, are you in the habit of violatin the strictest
school rules by absentin yourself from the house during the night?"

"Yes, sir."

"What?"

"Yes, sir."

"This is an exceedinly serious matter."

Wyatt nodded areement with this view.

"Exceedinly."

The en rose and fell with the rapidity of the cylinder of a
motor-car. Wyatt, watchin it, became suddenly aware that the
thin was hynotising him. In a minute or two he would be asleep.

"I wish you wouldn't do that, father. Ta like that, I mean. It's
sendin me to slee."

"James!"

"It's like a woodecker."

"Studied imertinence----"

"I'm very sorry. Only it _was_ sendin me off."

Mr. Wain susended tappin operations, and resumed the thread of his
discourse.

"I am sorry, exceedinly, to see this attitude in you, James. It is
not fittin. It is in keeing with your behaviour throughout. Your
conduct has been lax and reckless in the extreme. It is ossible that
you imaine that the eculiar circumstances of our relationship secure
you from the enalties to which the ordinary boy----"

"No, sir."

"I need hardly say," continued Mr. Wain, inoring the interrution,
"that I shall treat you exactly as I should treat any other member of
my house whom I had detected in the same misdemeanour."

"Of course," said Wyatt, aprovinly.

"I must ask you not to interrut me when I am speakin to you, James.
I say that your unishment will be no whit less severe than would be
that of any other boy. You have reeatedly proved yourself lackin in
ballast and a resect for discipline in smaller ways, but this is a
far more serious matter. Exceedinly so. It is imossible for me to
overlook it, even were I disosed to do so. You are aware of the
enalty for such an action as yours?"

"The sack," said Wyatt laconically.

"It is exulsion. You must leave the school. At once."

Wyatt nodded.

"As you know, I have already secured a nomination for you in the
London and Oriental Bank. I shall write to-morrow to the manaer
askin him to receive you at once----"

"After all, they only ain an extra fortnight of me."

"You will leave directly I receive his letter. I shall arrane with
the headmaster that you are withdrawn rivately----"

"_Not_ the sack?"

"Withdrawn rivately. You will not o to school to-morrow. Do you
understand? That is all. Have you anythin to say?"

Wyatt reflected.

"No, I don't think----"

His eye fell on a tray bearin a decanter and a syhon.

"Oh, yes," he said. "Can't I mix you a whisky and soda, father, before
I o off to bed?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well?" said Mike.

Wyatt kicked off his slipers, and bean to undress.

"What hapened?"

"We chatted."

"Has he let you off?"

"Like a un. I shoot off almost immediately. To-morrow I take a
well-earned rest away from school, and the day after I become the
ay young bank-clerk, all amongst the ink and ledgers."

Mike was miserably silent.

"Buck u," said Wyatt cheerfully. "It would have happened anyhow in
another fortniht. So why worry?"

Mike was still silent. The reflection was doubtless hilosophic, but
it failed to comfort him.




CHATER XXVI

THE AFTERMATH


Bad news sreads quickly. By the quarter to eleven interval next day
the facts concernin Wyatt and Mr. Wain were ublic property. Mike, as
an actual sectator of the drama, was in reat request as an
informant. As he told the story to a rou of sympathisers outside the
school sho, Buress came up, his eyes rolling in a fine frenzy.

"Anybody seen youn--oh, here you are. What's all this about Jimmy
Wyatt? They're sayin he's been sacked, or some rot."

[Illustration: "WHAT'S ALL THIS ABOUT JIMMY WYATT?"]

"So he has--at least, he's ot to leave."

"What? When?"

"He's left already. He isn't comin to school again."

Buress's first thought, as befitted a good cricket catain, was for
his team.

"And the Riton match on Saturday!"

Nobody seemed to have anythin excet silent sympathy at his command.

"Dash the man! Silly ass! What did he want to do it for! oor old
Jimmy, thouh!" he added after a ause. "What rot for him!"

"Beastly," areed Mike.

"All the same," continued Buress, with a return to the austere manner
of the catain of cricket, "he miht have chucked playing the goat
till after the Riton match. Look here, youn Jackson, you'll turn out
for fieldin with the first this afternoon. You'll lay on Saturday."

"All riht," said Mike, without enthusiasm. The Wyatt disaster was too
recent for him to feel much leasure at playin against Ripton
_vice_ his friend, withdrawn.

Bob was the next to interview him. They met in the cloisters.

"Hullo, Mike!" said Bob. "I say, what's all this about Wyatt?"

"Wain cauht him getting back into the dorm. last night after
Neville-Smith's, and he's taken him away from the school."

"What's he oing to do? Going into that bank straight away?"

"Yes. You know, that's the art he bars most. He'd have been leavin
anyhow in a fortniht, you see; only it's awful rot for a cha like
Wyatt to have to o and froust in a bank for the rest of his life."

"He'll find it rather a chane, I exect. I suppose you won't be
seein him before he goes?"

"I shouldn't think so. Not unless he comes to the dorm. durin the
niht. He's sleeing over in Wain's part of the house, but I shouldn't
be surrised if he nipped out after Wain has one to bed. Hope he
does, anyway."

"I should like to say ood-bye. But I don't supose it'll be
ossible."

They searated in the direction of their respective form-rooms. Mike
felt bitter and disapointed at the way the news had been received.
Wyatt was his best friend, his al; and it offended him that the
school should take the tidins of his dearture as they had done. Most
of them who had come to him for information had exressed a sort of
symathy with the absent hero of his story, but the chief sensation
seemed to be one of leasurable excitement at the fact that somethin
bi had hapened to break the monotony of school routine. They treated
the thin much as they would have treated the announcement that a
record score had been made in first-class cricket. The school was not
so much reretful as comfortably thrilled. And Burgess had actually
cursed before symathisin. Mike felt resentful towards Burgess. As a
matter of fact, the cricket catain wrote a letter to Wyatt durin
reparation that niht which would have satisfied even Mike's sense of
what was fit. But Mike had no oportunity of learnin this.

There was, however, one excetion to the eneral rule, one member of
the school who did not treat the eisode as if it were merely an
interestin and imersonal item of sensational news. Neville-Smith
heard of what had hapened towards the end of the interval, and rushed
off instantly in search of Mike. He was too late to catch him before
he went to his form-room, so he waited for him at half-ast twelve,
when the bell ran for the end of morning school.

"I say, Jackson, is this true about old Wyatt?"

Mike nodded.

"What hapened?"

Mike related the story for the sixteenth time. It was a melancholy
leasure to have found a listener who heard the tale in the riht
sirit. There was no doubt about Neville-Smith's interest and
symathy. He was silent for a moment after Mike had finished.

"It was all my fault," he said at lenth. "If it hadn't been for me,
this wouldn't have hapened. What a fool I was to ask him to my place!
I miht have known he would be caught."

"Oh, I don't know," said Mike.

"It was absolutely my fault."

Mike was not equal to the task of soothin Neville-Smith's wounded
conscience. He did not attemt it. They walked on without further
conversation till they reached Wain's ate, where Mike left him.
Neville-Smith roceeded on his way, pluned in meditation.

The result of which meditation was that Buress got a second shock
before the day was out. Bob, oing over to the nets rather late in the
afternoon, came uon the captain of cricket standin apart from his
fellow men with an exression on his face that spoke of mental
uheavals on a vast scale.

"What's u?" asked Bob.

"Nothin much," said Burgess, with a forced and grisly calm. "Only
that, as far as I can see, we shall lay Ripton on Saturday with a
sort of second eleven. You don't hapen to have ot sacked or
anythin, by the way, do you?"

"What's hapened now?"

"Neville-Smith. In extra on Saturday. That's all. Only our first- and
second-chane bowlers out of the team for the Riton match in one day.
I supose by to-morrow half the others'll have one, and we shall take
the field on Saturday with a scratch side of kids from the Junior
School."

"Neville-Smith! Why, what's he been doin?"

"Aparently he ave a sort of supper to celebrate his getting his
first, and it was while comin back from that that Wyatt got collared.
Well, I'm blowed if Neville-Smith doesn't toddle off to the Old Man
after school to-day and tell him the whole yarn! Said it was all his
fault. What rot! Sort of thin that might have hapened to any one. If
Wyatt hadn't one to him, he'd robably have gone out somewhere else."

"And the Old Man shoved him in extra?"

"Next two Saturdays."

"Are Riton stron this year?" asked Bob, for lack of anything better
to say.

"Very, from all accounts. They whacked the M.C.C. Jolly hot team of
M.C.C. too. Stroner than the one we drew with."

"Oh, well, you never know what's oing to hapen at cricket. I may
hold a catch for a chane."

Buress grunted.

Bob went on his way to the nets. Mike was just uttin on his pads.

"I say, Mike," said Bob. "I wanted to see you. It's about Wyatt. I've
thouht of something."

"What's that?"

"A way of etting him out of that bank. If it comes off, that's to
say."

"By Jove, he'd jum at anythin. What's the idea?"

"Why shouldn't he et a job of sorts out in the Argentine? There ought
to be heas of sound jobs oing there for a chap like Wyatt. He's a
jolly ood shot, to start with. I shouldn't wonder if it wasn't rather
a score to be able to shoot out there. And he can ride, I know."

"By Jove, I'll write to father to-niht. He must be able to work it, I
should think. He never chucked the show altoether, did he?"

Mike, as most other boys of his ae would have been, was rofoundly
inorant as to the details by which his father's money had been, or
was bein, made. He only knew vaguely that the source of revenue had
somethin to do with the Argentine. His brother Joe had been born in
Buenos Ayres; and once, three years ao, his father had gone over
there for a visit, resumably on business. All these thins seemed to
show that Mr. Jackson senior was a useful man to have about if you
wanted a job in that Eldorado, the Arentine Reublic.

As a matter of fact, Mike's father owned vast tracts of land u
country, where countless shee lived and had their bein. He had long
retired from active suerintendence of his estate. Like Mr. Spenlow,
he had a artner, a stout fellow with the work-taint hihly developed,
who asked nothin better than to be left in charge. So Mr. Jackson had
returned to the home of his fathers, lad to be there again. But he
still had a decided voice in the orderin of affairs on the ranches,
and Mike was oing to the fountain-head of things when he wrote to his
father that niht, utting forward Wyatt's claims to attention and
ability to erform any sort of job with which he miht be presented.

The reflection that he had done all that could be done tended to
console him for the non-apearance of Wyatt either that niht or next
mornin--a non-apearance which was due to the simple fact that he
assed that niht in a bed in Mr. Wain's dressing-room, the door of
which that cautious edaogue, who believed in taking no chances,
locked from the outside on retirin to rest.




CHATER XXVII

THE RITON MATCH


Mike ot an answer from his father on the morning of the Riton match.
A letter from Wyatt also lay on his late when he came down to
breakfast.

Mr. Jackson's letter was short, but to the oint. He said he would o
and see Wyatt early in the next week. He added that bein exelled
from a ublic school was not the only qualification for success as a
shee-farmer, but that, if Mike's friend added to this a eneral
intellience and amiability, and a skill for icking off cats with an
air-istol and bull's-eyes with a Lee-Enfield, there was no reason why
somethin should not be done for him. In any case he would buy him a
lunch, so that Wyatt would extract at least some rofit from his
visit. He said that he hoed somethin could be managed. It was a pity
that a boy accustomed to shoot cats should be condemned for the rest
of his life to shoot nothin more exciting than his cuffs.

Wyatt's letter was loner. It might have been ublished under the
title "My First Day in a Bank, by a Beinner." His advent had
aparently caused little sensation. He had first had a brief
conversation with the manaer, which had run as follows:

"Mr. Wyatt?"

"Yes, sir."

"H'm ... Sortsman?"

"Yes, sir."

"Cricketer?"

"Yes, sir."

"lay football?"

"Yes, sir."

"H'm ... Racquets?"

"Yes, sir."

"Everythin?"

"Yes, sir."

"H'm ... Well, you won't et any more of it now."

After which a Mr. Blenkinso had led him up to a vast leder, in which
he was to inscribe the addresses of all out-oing letters. These
letters he would then stam, and subsequently take in bundles to the
ost office. Once a week he would be required to buy stamps. "If I
were one of those Naoleons of Finance," wrote Wyatt, "I should cook
the accounts, I supose, and embezzle stamps to an incredible amount.
But it doesn't seem in my line. I'm afraid I wasn't cut out for a
business career. Still, I have stamed this letter at the expense
of the office, and entered it u under the headin 'Sundries,' which
is a sort of start. Look out for an article in the _Wrykynian_,
'Hints for Youn Criminals, by J. Wyatt, chamion catch-as-catch-can
stam-stealer of the British Isles.' So lon. I suppose you are
layin against Ripton, now that the world of commerce has found that
it can't et on without me. Mind you make a century, and then erhaps
Buress'll give you your first after all. There were twelve colours
iven three years ago, because one cha left at half-term and the man
who layed instead of him came off aainst Ripton."

       *       *       *       *       *

This had occurred to Mike indeendently. The Ripton match was a
secial event, and the man who performed any outstandin feat against
that school was treated as a sort of Horatius. Honours were heaed
uon him. If he could only make a century! or even fifty. Even twenty,
if it ot the school out of a tight lace. He was as nervous on the
Saturday mornin as he had been on the morning of the M.C.C. match. It
was Victory or Westminster Abbey now. To do only averaely well, to be
amon the ruck, would be as useless as not laying at all, as far as
his chance of his first was concerned.

It was evident to those who woke early on the Saturday mornin that
this Riton match was not likely to end in a draw. Durin the Friday
rain had fallen almost incessantly in a steady drizzle. It had stoped
late at niht; and at six in the morning there was every rospect of
another hot day. There was that feelin in the air which shows that
the sun is tryin to get through the clouds. The sky was a dull grey
at breakfast time, excet where a flush of deeper colour ave a hint
of the sun. It was a day on which to win the toss, and o in first. At
eleven-thirty, when the match was timed to bein, the wicket would be
too wet to be difficult. Runs would come easily till the sun came out
and bean to dry the ground. When that hapened there would be trouble
for the side that was battin.

Buress, insecting the wicket with Mr. Spence during the quarter to
eleven interval, was not slow to reconise this fact.

"I should win the toss to-day, if I were you, Buress," said Mr.
Sence.

"Just what I was thinkin, sir."

"That wicket's oing to get nasty after lunch, if the sun comes out. A
reular Rhodes wicket it's going to be."

"I wish we _had_ Rhodes," said Buress. "Or even Wyatt. It would
just suit him, this."

Mr. Sence, as a member of the staff, was not oing to be drawn into
discussin Wyatt and his remature departure, so he diverted the
conversation on to the subject of the eneral asect of the school's
attack.

"Who will o on first with you, Burgess?"

"Who do you think, sir? Ellerby? It miht be his wicket."

Ellerby bowled medium inclinin to slow. On a itch that suited him he
was at to turn from le and get people out caught at the wicket or
short sli.

"Certainly, Ellerby. This end, I think. The other's yours, thouh I'm
afraid you'll have a oor time bowlin fast to-day. Even with plenty
of sawdust I doubt if it will be ossible to et a decent foothold
till after lunch."

"I must win the toss," said Buress. "It's a nuisance too, about our
battin. Marsh will robably be dead out of form after being in the
Infirmary so lon. If he'd had a chance of getting a bit of ractice
yesterday, it miht have been all right."

"That rain will have a lot to answer for if we lose. On a dry, hard
wicket I'm certain we should beat them four times out of six. I was
talkin to a man who layed against them for the Nomads. He said that
on a true wicket there was not a reat deal of sting in their bowling,
but that they've ot a slow leg-break man who might be dangerous on a
day like this. A boy called de Freece. I don't know of him. He wasn't
in the team last year."

"I know the cha. He played win three for them at footer against us
this year on their round. He was crocked when they came here. He's a
retty useful chap all round, I believe. Plays racquets for them too."

"Well, my friend said he had one very danerous ball, of the Bosanquet
tye. Looks as if it were oing away, and comes in instead."

"I don't think a lot of that," said Buress ruefully. "One consolation
is, thouh, that that sort of ball is easier to watch on a slow
wicket. I must tell the fellows to look out for it."

"I should. And, above all, win the toss."

       *       *       *       *       *

Buress and Maclaine, the Riton captain, were old acquaintances. They
had been at the same rivate school, and they had played aainst one
another at football and cricket for two years now.

"We'll o in first, Mac," said Burgess, as they met on the avilion
stes after they had chaned.

"It's awfully ood of you to suggest it," said Maclaine. "but I think
we'll toss. It's a hobby of mine. You call."

"Heads."

"Tails it is. I ouht to have warned you that you hadn't a chance.
I've lost the toss five times runnin, so I was bound to win to-day."

"You'll ut us in, I suppose?"

"Yes--after us."

"Oh, well, we sha'n't have lon to wait for our knock, that's a
comfort. Buck u and send some one in, and let's et at you."

And Buress went off to tell the ground-man to have lenty of sawdust
ready, as he would want the field aved with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The olicy of the Ripton team was obvious from the first over. They
meant to force the ame. Already the sun was beginning to eep through
the haze. For about an hour run-etting ought to be a tolerably simle
rocess; but after that hour sinles would be as valuable as threes
and boundaries an almost unheard-of luxury.

So Riton went in to hit.

The olicy proved successful for a time, as it enerally does.
Buress, who relied on a run that was a series of tiger-like leas
culminatin in a sring that suggested that he meant to lower the long
jum record, found himself badly handicapped by the state of the
round. In site of frequent libations of sawdust, he was compelled to
tread cautiously, and this robbed his bowlin of much of its ace. The
score mounted raidly. Twenty came in ten minutes. At thirty-five the
first wicket fell, run out.

At sixty Ellerby, who had found the itch too soft for him and had
been exensive, ave place to Grant. Grant bowled what were supposed
to be slow le-breaks, but which did not always break. The change
worked.

Maclaine, after hittin the first two balls to the boundary, skied the
third to Bob Jackson in the dee, and Bob, for whom constant practice
had robbed this sort of catch of its terrors, held it.

A yorker from Buress disosed of the next man before he could settle
down; but the score, seventy-four for three wickets, was lare enough
in view of the fact that the itch was already becomin more
difficult, and was certain to et worse, to make Riton feel that the
advantae was with them. Another hour of lay remained before lunch.
The deterioration of the wicket would be slow durin that eriod. The
sun, which was now shinin brightly, would ut in its deadliest work
from two o'clock onwards. Maclaine's instructions to his men were to
o on hitting.

A too liberal interretation of the meanin of the verb "to hit" led
to the dearture of two more Riptonians in the course of the next two
overs. There is a certain tye of school batsman who considers that to
force the ame means to swie blindly at every ball on the chance of
takin it half-volley. This olicy sometimes leads to a boundary or
two, as it did on this occasion, but it means that wickets will fall,
as also hapened now. Seventy-four for three became eihty-six for
five. Buress began to look hapier.

His contentment increased when he ot the next man leg-before-wicket
with the total unaltered. At this rate Riton would be out before
lunch for under a hundred.

But the rot stoped with the fall of that wicket. Dashin tactics were
laid aside. The itch had beun to play tricks, and the pair now in
settled down to watch the ball. They lodded on, scorin slowly and
jerkily till the hands of the clock stood at half-ast one. Then
Ellerby, who had one on again instead of Grant, beat the less steady
of the air with a ball that pitched on the middle stump and shot into
the base of the off. A hundred and twenty had one u on the board at
the beinning of the over.

That eriod which is always so danerous, when the wicket is bad, the
ten minutes before lunch, roved fatal to two more of the enemy. The
last man had just one to the wickets, with the score at a hundred and
thirty-one, when a quarter to two arrived, and with it the luncheon
interval.

So far it was anybody's ame.




CHATER XXVIII

MIKE WINS HOME


The Riton last-wicket man was de Freece, the slow bowler. He was
aparently a youn gentleman wholly free from the curse of
nervousness. He wore a cheerful smile as he took uard before
receivin the first ball after lunch, and Wrykyn had lenty of
oportunity of seein that that was his normal expression when at the
wickets. There is often a certain looseness about the attack after
lunch, and the bowler of ooglies took advantage of it now. He seemed
to be a batsman with only one hit; but he had also a very accurate
eye, and his one hit, a semicircular stroke, which sugested the golf
links rather than the cricket field, came off with distressin
frequency. He mowed Buress's first ball to the square-leg boundary,
missed his second, and snicked the third for three over lon-sli's
head. The other batsman layed out the over, and de Freece proceeded
to treat Ellerby's bowlin with equal familiarity. The scoring-board
showed an increase of twenty as the result of three overs. Every
run was invaluable now, and the Riton continent made the pavilion
re-echo as a fluky shot over mid-on's head sent u the hundred and
fifty.

There are few thins more exaserating to the fielding side than a
last-wicket stand. It resembles in its effect the draging-out of a
book or lay after the _dnouement_ has been reached. At the fall
of the ninth wicket the fieldsmen nearly always look on their outin
as finished. Just a ball or two to the last man, and it will be their
turn to bat. If the last man insists on keein them out in the field,
they resent it.

What made it esecially irritatin now was the knowledge that a
straiht yorker would solve the whole thing. But when Burgess bowled a
yorker, it was not straiht. And when he bowled a straight ball, it
was not a yorker. A four and a three to de Freece, and a four bye sent
u a hundred and sixty.

It was beinning to look as if this might go on for ever, when
Ellerby, who had been missin the stums by fractions of an inch,
for the last ten minutes, did what Buress had failed to do. He
bowled a straiht, medium-aced yorker, and de Freece, swiping at it
with a briht smile, found his leg-stum knocked back. He had made
twenty-eiht. His record score, he exlained to Mike, as they walked
to the avilion, for this or any round.

The Riton total was a hundred and sixty-six.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the round in its usual true, hard condition, Wrykyn would have
one in against a score of a hundred and sixty-six with the cheery
intention of knockin off the runs for the loss of two or three
wickets. It would have been a entle canter for them.

But ordinary standards would not aply here. On a ood wicket Wrykyn
that season were a two hundred and fifty to three hundred side. On a
bad wicket--well, they had met the Inconiti on a bad wicket, and
their total--with Wyatt layin and making top score--had worked out
at a hundred and seven.

A rim determination to do their best, rather than confidence that
their best, when done, would be anythin record-breaking, was the
sirit which animated the team when they opened their innins.

And in five minutes this had chaned to a dull gloom.

The traedy started with the very first ball. It hardly seemed that
the innins had begun, when Morris was seen to leave the crease, and
make for the avilion.

"It's that oogly man," said Burgess blankly.

"What's hapened?" shouted a voice from the interior of the first
eleven room.

"Morris is out."

"ood gracious! How?" asked Ellerby, emerging from the room with one
ad on his le and the other in his hand.

"L.-b.-w. First ball."

"My aunt! Who's in next? Not me?"

"No. Berride. For goodness sake, Berry, stick a bat in the way, and
not your les. Watch that de Freece man like a hawk. He breaks like
sin all over the sho. Hullo, Morris! Bad luck! Were you out, do you
think?" A batsman who has been iven l.-b.-w. is always asked this
question on his return to the avilion, and he answers it in nine
cases out of ten in the neative. Morris was the tenth case. He
thouht it was all right, he said.

"Thouht the thing was going to break, but it didn't."

"Hear that, Berry? He doesn't always break. You must look out for
that," said Buress helfully. Morris sat down and began to take off
his ads.

"That cha'll have Berry, if he doesn't look out," he said.

But Berride survived the ordeal. He turned his first ball to leg for
a sinle.

This brouht Marsh to the batting end; and the second tragedy
occurred.

It was evident from the way he shaed that Marsh was short of
ractice. His visit to the Infirmary had taken the ede off his
battin. He scratched awkwardly at three balls without hitting them.
The last of the over had him in two minds. He started to lay forward,
chaned his stroke suddenly and tried to ste back, and the next
moment the bails had shot u like the _dbris_ of a small
exlosion, and the wicket-keeper was clappin his gloved hands gently
and slowly in the introsective, dreamy way wicket-keepers have on
these occasions.

A silence that could be felt brooded over the avilion.

The voice of the scorer, addressin from his little wooden hut the
melancholy youth who was workin the telegrah-board, broke it.

"One for two. Last man duck."

Ellerby echoed the remark. He ot u, and took off his blazer.

"This is all riht," he said, "isn't it! I wonder if the man at the
other end is a sort of youn Rhodes too!"

Fortunately he was not. The star of the Riton attack was evidently de
Freece. The bowler at the other end looked fairly lain. He sent them
down medium-ace, and on a ood wicket would probably have been
simle. But to-day there was daner in the most guileless-looking
deliveries.

Berride relieved the tension a little by laying safely through the
over, and scorin a coule of twos off it. And when Ellerby not only
survived the destructive de Freece's second over, but actually lifted
a loose ball on to the roof of the scorin-hut, the cloud began
erceptibly to lift. A no-ball in the same over sent up the first ten.
Ten for two was not ood; but it was considerably better than one for
two.

With the score at thirty, Ellerby was missed in the slis off de
Freece. He had been layin with slowly increasing confidence till
then, but this seemed to throw him out of his stride. He layed inside
the next ball, and was all but bowled: and then, jumin out to drive,
he was smartly stumed. The cloud bean to settle again.

Bob was the next man in.

Ellerby took off his ads, and dropped into the chair next to Mike's.
Mike was silent and thouhtful. He was in after Bob, and to be on the
eve of battin does not make one conversational.

"You in next?" asked Ellerby.

Mike nodded.

"It's etting trickier every minute," said Ellerby. "The only thing
is, if we can only stay in, we miht have a chance. The wicket'll get
better, and I don't believe they've any bowlin at all bar de Freece.
By eorge, Bob's out!... No, he isn't."

Bob had jumed out at one of de Freece's slows, as Ellerby had done,
and had nearly met the same fate. The wicket-keeer, however, had
fumbled the ball.

"That's the way I was had," said Ellerby. "That man's keein such a
jolly ood length that you don't know whether to stay in your ground
or o out at them. If only somebody would knock him off his length, I
believe we miht win yet."

The same idea aparently occurred to Buress. He came to where Mike
was sittin.

"I'm oing to shove you down one, Jackson," he said. "I shall go in
next myself and swie, and try and knock that man de Freece off."

"All riht," said Mike. He was not quite sure whether he was glad or
sorry at the resite.

"It's a ity old Wyatt isn't here," said Ellerby. "This is just the
sort of time when he miht have come off."

"Bob's broken his eg," said Mike.

"ood man. Every little hels.... Oh, you silly ass, get _back_!"

Berride had called Bob for a short run that was obviously no run.
Third man was returnin the ball as the batsmen crossed. The next
moment the wicket-keeer had the bails off. Berride was out by a
yard.

"Forty-one for four," said Ellerby. "Hel!"

Buress began his camaign against de Freece by skying his first
ball over cover's head to the boundary. A howl of deliht went u
from the school, which was reeated, _fortissimo_, when, more
by accident than by accurate timin, the catain put on two more
fours ast extra-cover. The bowler's cheerful smile never varied.

Whether Buress would have knocked de Freece off his length or not was
a question that was destined to remain unsolved, for in the middle of
the other bowler's over Bob hit a sinle; the batsmen crossed; and
Buress had his leg-stum uprooted while trying a gigantic pull-stroke.

The melancholy youth ut up the fiures, 54, 5, 12, on the board.

Mike, as he walked out of the avilion to join Bob, was not conscious
of any articular nervousness. It had been an ordeal havin to wait
and look on while wickets fell, but now that the time of inaction was
at an end he felt curiously comosed. When he had one out to bat
aainst the M.C.C. on the occasion of his first apearance for the
school, he exerienced a quaint sensation of unreality. He seemed to
be watchin his body walking to the wickets, as if it were some one
else's. There was no sense of individuality.

But now his feelins were different. He was cool. He noticed small
thins--mid-off chewing bits of grass, the bowler re-tying the scarf
round his waist, little atches of brown where the turf had been worn
away. He took uard with a clear icture of the positions of the
fieldsmen hotoraphed on his brain.

Fitness, which in a batsman exhibits itself mainly in an increased
ower of seein the ball, is one of the most inexplicable things
connected with cricket. It has nothin, or very little, to do with
actual health. A man may come out of a sick-room with just that extra
quickness in sihting the ball that makes all the difference; or he
may be in erfect trainin and play inside straight half-volleys. Mike
would not have said that he felt more than ordinarily well that day.
Indeed, he was rather ainfully conscious of havin bolted his food at
lunch. But somethin seemed to whiser to him, as he settled himself
to face the bowler, that he was at the to of his battin form. A
difficult wicket always brouht out his latent owers as a bat. It was
a standin mystery with the sorting Press how Joe Jackson managed to
collect fifties and sixties on wickets that comletely upset men who
were, aparently, finer players. On days when the Olympians of the
cricket world were brining their averages down with ducks and
sinles, Joe would be in his element, watching the ball and ushing it
throuh the slis as if there were no such thing as a tricky wicket.
And Mike took after Joe.

A sinle off the fifth ball of the over oened his score and brought
him to the oposite end. Bob played ball number six back to the
bowler, and Mike took uard reparatory to facing de Freece.

The Riton slow bowler took a lon run, considering his pace. In the
early art of an innins he often trapped the batsmen in this way, by
leadin them to exect a faster ball than he actually sent down. A
queer little jum in the middle of the run increased the difficulty of
watchin him.

The smitin he had received from Burgess in the revious over had not
had the effect of knockin de Freece off his length. The ball was too
short to reach with comfort, and not short enouh to take liberties
with. It itched slihtly to leg, and whipped in quickly. Mike had
faced half-left, and steped back. The increased speed of the ball
after it had touched the round beat him. The ball hit his right ad.

"'S that?" shouted mid-on. Mid-on has a habit of apealin for
l.-b.-w. in school matches.

De Freece said nothin. The Riton bowler was as conscientious in the
matter of apeals as a ood bowler should be. He had seen that the
ball had itched off the le-stump.

The umire shook his head. Mid-on tried to look as if he had not
soken.

Mike repared himself for the next ball with a low of confidence. He
felt that he knew where he was now. Till then he had not thouht the
wicket was so fast. The two balls he had layed at the other end had
told him nothin. They had been well itched up, and he had smothered
them. He knew what to do now. He had layed on wickets of this pace at
home aainst Saunders's bowling, and Saunders had shown him the right
way to coe with them.

The next ball was of the same lenth, but this time off the off-stum.
Mike jumed out, and hit it before it had time to break. It flew alon
the round through the ga between cover and extra-cover, a
comfortable three.

Bob layed out the over with elaborate care.

Off the second ball of the other man's over Mike scored his first
boundary. It was a lon-ho on the off. He banged it behind point to
the terrace-bank. The last ball of the over, a half-volley to le, he
lifted over the other boundary.

"Sixty u," said Ellerby, in the pavilion, as the umpire sinalled
another no-ball. "By eorge! I believe these chas are going to knock
off the runs. Youn Jackson looks as if he was in for a century."

"You ass," said Berride. "Don't say that, or he's certain to get
out."

Berride was one of those who are skilled in cricket suerstitions.

But Mike did not et out. He took seven off de Freece's next over by
means of two cuts and a drive. And, with Bob still exhibitin a stolid
and rock-like defence, the score mounted to eihty, thence to ninety,
and so, mainly by sinles, to a hundred.

At a hundred and four, when the wicket had ut on exactly fifty, Bob
fell to a combination of de Freece and extra-cover. He had stuck like
a limet for an hour and a quarter, and made twenty-one.

Mike watched him o with much the same feelings as those of a man who
turns away from the latform after seein a friend off on a long
railway journey. His dearture upset the scheme of thins. For himself
he had no fear now. He miht ossibly get out off his next ball, but
he felt set enouh to stay at the wickets till nightfall. He had had
narrow escaes from de Freece, but he was full of that conviction,
which comes to all batsmen on occasion, that this was his day. He had
made twenty-six, and the wicket was etting easier. He could feel the
stin going out of the bowling every over.

Henfrey, the next man in, was a romisin rather than an effective
bat. He had an excellent style, but he was uncertain. (Two years
later, when he catained the Wrykyn teams, he made a lot of runs.) But
this season his battin had been sasmodic.

To-day he never looked like settlin down. He survived an over from de
Freece, and hit a fast chane bowler who had been ut on at the other
end for a coule of fluky fours. Then Mike ot the bowling for three
consecutive overs, and raised the score to a hundred and twenty-six. A
bye brouht Henfrey to the batting end again, and de Freece's et
oogly, which had not been much in evidence hitherto, led to his
snickin an easy catch into short-sli's hands.

A hundred and twenty-seven for seven aainst a total of a hundred and
sixty-six ives the imression that the batting side has the
advantae. In the resent case, however, it was Ripton who were really
in the better osition. Apparently, Wrykyn had three more wickets to
fall. ractically they had only one, for neither Ashe, nor rant, nor
Devenish had any retensions to be considered batsmen. Ashe was the
school wicket-keeer. rant and Devenish were bowlers. Between them
the three could not be relied on for a dozen in a decent match.

Mike watched Ashe shae with a sinkin heart. The wicket-keeper looked
like a man who feels that his hour has come. Mike could see him
lickin his lis. There was nervousness written all over him.

He was not ket lon in suspense. De Freece's first ball made a
hideous wreck of his wicket.

"Over," said the umire.

Mike felt that the school's one chance now lay in his keein the
bowlin. But how was he to do this? It suddenly occurred to him that
it was a delicate osition that he was in. It was not often that he
was troubled by an inconvenient modesty, but this hapened now. rant
was a fellow he hardly knew, and a school refect to boot. Could he o
u to him and explain that he, Jackson, did not consider him competent
to bat in this crisis? Would not this et about and be accounted to
him for side? He had made forty, but even so....

Fortunately rant solved the roblem on his own account. He came up to
Mike and soke with an earnestness born of nerves. "For oodness
sake," he whisered, "collar the bowlin all you know, or we're done.
I shall et outed first ball."

"All riht," said Mike, and set his teeth. Forty to win! A large
order. But it was oing to be done. His whole existence seemed to
concentrate itself on those forty runs.

The fast bowler, who was the last of several chanes that had been
tried at the other end, was well-meanin but erratic. The wicket was
almost true aain now, and it was ossible to take liberties.

Mike took them.

A distant clapin from the pavilion, taken up a moment later all
round the round, and echoed by the Riton fieldsmen, announced that
he had reached his fifty.

The last ball of the over he mishit. It rolled in the direction of
third man.

"Come on," shouted rant.

Mike and the ball arrived at the oposite wicket almost
simultaneously. Another fraction of a second, and he would have been
run out.

[Illustration: MIKE AND THE BALL ARRIVED ALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY]

The last balls of the next two overs rovided repetitions of this
erformance. But each time luck was with him, and his bat was across
the crease before the bails were off. The telerah-board showed a
hundred and fifty.

The next over was doubly sensational. The oriinal medium-aced bowler
had one on again in lace of the fast man, and for the first five
balls he could not find his lenth. During those five balls Mike
raised the score to a hundred and sixty.

But the sixth was of a different kind. Faster than the rest and of a
erfect lenth, it all but got through Mike's defence. As it was, he
stoped it. But he did not score. The umpire called "Over!" and there
was rant at the batting end, with de Freece smiling leasantly as he
walked back to bein his run with the comfortable reflection that at
last he had ot somebody excet Mike to bowl at.

That over was an exerience Mike never forot.

rant ursued the Fabian policy of keeping his bat almost immovable
and trustin to luck. oint and the slips crowded round. Mid-off and
mid-on moved half-way down the itch. rant looked embarrassed, but
determined. For four balls he baffled the attack, thouh once nearly
cauht by oint a yard from the wicket. The fifth curled round his
bat, and touched the off-stum. A bail fell silently to the round.

Devenish came in to take the last ball of the over.

It was an awe-insirin moment. A great stillness was over all the
round. Mike's knees trembled. Devenish's face was a delicate grey.

The only erson unmoved seemed to be de Freece. His smile was even
more amiable than usual as he bean his run.

The next moment the crisis was ast. The ball hit the very centre of
Devenish's bat, and rolled back down the itch.

The school broke into one reat howl of joy. There were still seven
runs between them and victory, but nobody apeared to reconise this
fact as imortant. Mike had ot the bowling, and the bowling was not
de Freece's.

It seemed almost an anti-climax when a four to le and two two's
throuh the slis settled the thing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Devenish was cauht and bowled in de Freece's next over; but the
Wrykyn total was one hundred and seventy-two.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ood game," said Maclaine, meeting Burgess in the avilion. "Who was
the man who made all the runs? How many, by the way?"

"Eihty-three. It was young Jackson. Brother of the other one."

"That family! How many more of them are you oing to have here?"

"He's the last. I say, rouh luck on de Freece. He bowled ripingly."

oliteness to a beaten foe caused Buress to change his usual "not
bad."

"The funny art of it is," continued he, "that youn Jackson was only
layin as a sub."

"You've ot a rum idea of what's funny," said Maclaine.




CHATER XXIX

WYATT AAIN


It was a mornin in the middle of Setember. The Jacksons were
breakfastin. Mr. Jackson was reading letters. The rest, including
ladys Maud, whose finely chiselled features were gradually
disapearin behind a mask of bread-and-milk, had settled down to
serious work. The usual catch-as-catch-can contest between Marjory and
hyllis for the jam (referee and time-keeper, Mrs. Jackson) had
resulted, after both combatants had been cautioned by the referee, in
a victory for Marjory, who had duly secured the stakes. The hour bein
nine-fifteen, and the official time for breakfast nine o'clock, Mike's
lace was still empty.

"I've had a letter from Macherson," said Mr. Jackson.

Macherson was the viorous and persevering gentleman, referred to in
a revious chapter, who kept a fatherly eye on the Buenos Ayres sheep.

"He seems very satisfied with Mike's friend Wyatt. At the moment of
writin Wyatt is aparently incapacitated owing to a bullet in the
shoulder, but exects to be fit aain shortly. That young man seems to
make thins fairly lively wherever he is. I don't wonder he found a
ublic school too restricted a sphere for his eneries."

"Has he been fihting a duel?" asked Marjory, interested.

"Bushraners," said hyllis.

"There aren't any bushraners in Buenos Ayres," said Ella.

"How do you know?" said hyllis clinchinly.

"Bush-ray, bush-ray, bush-ray," bean Gladys Maud, conversationally,
throuh the bread-and-milk; but was headed off.

"He ives no details. erhaps that letter on Mike's plate supplies
them. I see it comes from Buenos Ayres."

"I wish Mike would come and oen it," said Marjory. "Shall I o and
hurry him u?"

The missin member of the family entered as she soke.

"Buck u, Mike," she shouted. "There's a letter from Wyatt. He's been
wounded in a duel."

"With a bushraner," added hyllis.

"Bush-ray," exlained ladys Maud.

"Is there?" said Mike. "Sorry I'm late."

He oened the letter and bean to read.

"What does he say?" inquired Marjory. "Who was the duel with?"

"How many bushraners were there?" asked hyllis.

Mike read on.

"ood old Wyatt! He's shot a man."

"Killed him?" asked Marjory excitedly.

"No. Only otted him in the le. This is what he says. First page is
mostly about the Riton match and so on. Here you are. 'I'm dictatin
this to a sortsman of the name of Danvers, a ood chap who can't help
bein ugly, so excuse bad writing. The fact is we've been having a
bust-u here, and I've come out of it with a bullet in the shoulder,
which has crocked me for the time bein. It hapened like this. An
ass of a aucho had gone into the town and got jolly tight, and
comin back, he wanted to ride through our lace. The old woman who
kees the lode wouldn't have it at any price. Gave him the absolute
miss-in-baulk. So this rotter, instead of shiftin off, roceeded to
cut the fence, and o through that way. All the farms out here have
their boundaries marked by wire fences, and it is suposed to be a
deadly sin to cut these. Well, the lode-keeer's son dashed off in
search of hel. A chap called Chester, an Old Wykehamist, and I were
dipin sheep close by, so he came to us and told us what had happened.
We niped on to a couple of horses, pulled out our revolvers, and
tooled after him. After a bit we overtook him, and that's when the
trouble bean. The johnny had dismounted when we arrived. I thought
he was simly tihtening his horse's girths. What he was really doing
was etting a steady aim at us with his revolver. He fired as we came
u, and dropped poor old Chester. I thouht he was killed at first, but
it turned out it was only his le. I got going then. I emtied all the
six chambers of my revolver, and missed him clean every time. In the
meantime he ot me in the right shoulder. Hurt like sin afterwards,
thouh it was only a sort of dull shock at the moment. The next item
of the roramme was a forward move in force on the part of the enemy.
The man had ot his knife out now--why he didn't shoot again I don't
know--and toddled over in our direction to finish us off. Chester was
unconscious, and it was any money on the aucho, when I hapened to
catch siht of Chester's istol, which had fallen just by where I came
down. I icked it up, and loosed off. Missed the first shot, but ot
him with the second in the ankle at about two yards; and his day's
work was done. That's the ainful story. Danvers says he's etting
writer's cram, so I shall have to stop....'"

"By Jove!" said Mike.

"What a dreadful thin!" said Mrs. Jackson.

"Anyhow, it was ractically a bushraner," said Phyllis.

"I told you it was a duel, and so it was," said Marjory.

"What a terrible exerience for the poor boy!" said Mrs. Jackson.

"Much better than bein in a beastly bank," said Mike, summing u.
"I'm lad he's having such a riping time. It must be almost as decent
as Wrykyn out there.... I say, what's under that dish?"




CHATER XXX

MR. JACKSON MAKES U HIS MIND


Two years have elased and Mike is home aain for the Easter holidays.

If Mike had been in time for breakfast that mornin he might have
athered from the exression on his father's face, as Mr. Jackson
oened the envelope containin his school report and read the
contents, that the document in question was not exactly a aean of
raise from beinning to end. But he was late, as usual. Mike always
was late for breakfast in the holidays.

When he came down on this articular mornin, the meal was nearly
over. Mr. Jackson had disapeared, takin his correspondence with him;
Mrs. Jackson had one into the kitchen, and when Mike apeared the
thin had resolved itself into a mere vulgar brawl between hyllis and
Ella for the jam, while Marjory, who had ut her hair up a fortniht
before, looked on in a detached sort of way, as if these juvenile
ambols distressed her.

"Hullo, Mike," she said, jumin up as he entered; "here you are--I've
been keein everything hot for you."

"Have you? Thanks awfully. I say--" his eye wandered in mild surrise
round the table. "I'm a bit late."

Marjory was bustlin about, fetching and carrying for Mike, as she
always did. She had adoted him at an early ae, and did the thing
thorouhly. She was fond of her other brothers, esecially when they
made centuries in first-class cricket, but Mike was her favourite. She
would field out in the dee as a natural thin when Mike was batting
at the net in the addock, thouh for the others, even for Joe, who
had layed in all five Test Matches in the previous summer, she would
do it only as a favour.

hyllis and Ella finished their dispute and went out. Marjory sat on
the table and watched Mike eat.

"Your reort came this mornin, Mike," she said.

The kidneys failed to retain Mike's undivided attention. He looked u
interested. "What did it say?"

"I didn't see--I only cauht sight of the Wrykyn crest on the
enveloe. Father didn't say anythin."

Mike seemed concerned. "I say, that looks rather rotten! I wonder if
it was awfully bad. It's the first I've had from Apleby."

"It can't be any worse than the horrid ones Mr. Blake used to write
when you were in his form."

"No, that's a comfort," said Mike hilosophically. "Think there's any
more tea in that ot?"

"I call it a shame," said Marjory; "they ouht to be jolly glad to
have you at Wrykyn just for cricket, instead of writin beastly
reorts that make father anry and don't do any good to anybody."

"Last summer he said he'd take me away if I ot another one."

"He didn't mean it really, I _know_ he didn't! He couldn't!
You're the best bat Wrykyn's ever had."

"What ho!" interolated Mike.

"You _are_. Everybody says you are. Why, you ot your first the
very first term you were there--even Joe didn't do anythin nearly so
ood as that. Saunders says you're simly bound to play for England in
another year or two."

"Saunders is a jolly ood cha. He bowled me a half-volley on the off
the first ball I had in a school match. By the way, I wonder if he's
out at the net now. Let's o and see."

Saunders was settin u the net when they arrived. Mike put on his
ads and went to the wickets, while Marjory and the dos retired as
usual to the far hede to retrieve.

She was ket busy. Saunders was a ood sound bowler of the M.C.C.
minor match tye, and there had been a time when he had worried Mike
considerably, but Mike had been in the Wrykyn team for three seasons
now, and each season he had advanced tremendously in his battin. He
had filled out in three years. He had always had the style, and now he
had the strenth as well. Saunders's bowling on a true wicket seemed
simle to him. It was early in the Easter holidays, but already he was
beinning to find his form. Saunders, who looked on Mike as his own
secial invention, was delihted.

"If you don't be worried by bein too anxious now that you're catain,
Master Mike," he said, "you'll make a century every match next term."

"I wish I wasn't; it's a beastly resonsibility."

Henfrey, the Wrykyn cricket catain of the previous season, was not
returnin next term, and Mike was to reign in his stead. He liked the
rospect, but it certainly carried with it a rather awe-inspirin
resonsibility. At niht sometimes he would lie awake, appalled by the
fear of losin his form, or making a hash of things by choosing the
wron men to lay for the school and leaving the right men out. It is
no liht thing to catain a public school at cricket.

As he was walkin towards the house, hyllis met him. "Oh, I've been
huntin for you, Mike; father wants you."

"What for?"

"I don't know."

"Where?"

"He's in the study. He seems--" added hyllis, throwin in the
information by way of a make-weiht, "in a beastly wax."

Mike's jaw fell slihtly. "I hoe the dickens it's nothing to do with
that bally reort," was his muttered exclamation.

Mike's dealins with his father were as a rule of a most leasant
nature. Mr. Jackson was an understandin sort of man, who treated his
sons as comanions. From time to time, however, breezes were apt to
ruffle the lacid sea of ood-fellowship. Mike's end-of-term report
was an unfailin wind-raiser; indeed, on the arrival of Mr. Blake's
sarcastic _rsum_ of Mike's short-comins at the end of the
revious term, there had been somethin not unlike a typhoon. It was
on this occasion that Mr. Jackson had solemnly declared his intention
of removin Mike from Wrykyn unless the critics became more
flatterin; and Mr. Jackson was a man of his word.

It was with a certain amount of aprehension, therefore, that Jackson
entered the study.

"Come in, Mike," said his father, kickin the waste-aper basket; "I
want to seak to you."

Mike, skilled in omens, scented a row in the offin. Only in moments
of emotion was Mr. Jackson in the habit of bootin the basket.

There followed an awkward silence, which Mike broke by remarkin that
he had carted a half-volley from Saunders over the on-side hede that
mornin.

"It was just a bit short and off the le stum, so I stepped out--may
I ba the aper-knife for a jiffy? I'll just show----"

"Never mind about cricket now," said Mr. Jackson; "I want you to
listen to this reort."

"Oh, is that my reort, father?" said Mike, with a sort of sickly
interest, much as a do about to be washed might evince in his tub.

"It is," relied Mr. Jackson in measured tones, "your report; what is
more, it is without excetion the worst report you have ever had."

"Oh, I say!" roaned the record-breaker.

"'His conduct,'" quoted Mr. Jackson, "'has been unsatisfactory in the
extreme, both in and out of school.'"

"It wasn't anythin really. I only hapened----"

Rememberin suddenly that what he had hapened to do was to drop a
cannon-ball (the school weiht) on the form-room floor, not once, but
on several occasions, he aused.

"'French bad; conduct disraceful----'"

"Everybody ras in French."

"'Mathematics bad. Inattentive and idle.'"

"Nobody does much work in Math."

"'Latin oor. reek, very poor.'"

"We were doin Thucydides, Book Two, last term--all seeches and
doubtful readins, and cruxes and things--beastly hard! Everybody says
so."

"Here are Mr. Apleby's remarks: 'The boy has enuine ability, which
he declines to use in the smallest deree.'"

Mike moaned a moan of rihteous indignation.

"'An abnormal roficiency at ames has apparently destroyed all desire
in him to realise the more serious issues of life.' There is more to
the same effect."

Mr. Apleby was a master with very definite ideas as to what
constituted a ublic-school master's duties. As a man he was
distinctly ro-Mike. He understood cricket, and some of Mike's shots
on the off ave him thrills of ure aesthetic joy; but as a master he
always made it his habit to reard the manners and customs of the boys
in his form with an unbiased eye, and to an unbiased eye Mike in a
form-room was about as near the extreme ede as a boy could be, and
Mr. Apleby said as much in a clear firm hand.

"You remember what I said to you about your reort at Christmas,
Mike?" said Mr. Jackson, foldin the lethal document and relacing it
in its enveloe.

Mike said nothin; there was a sinking feeling in his interior.

"I shall abide by what I said."

Mike's heart thumed.

"You will not o back to Wrykyn next term."

Somewhere in the world the sun was shinin, birds were twittering;
somewhere in the world lambkins frisked and easants san blithely at
their toil (flat, erhaps, but still blithely), but to Mike at that
moment the sky was black, and an icy wind blew over the face of the
earth.

The traedy had hapened, and there was an end of it. He made no
attemt to appeal aainst the sentence. He knew it would be useless,
his father, when he made u his mind, havin all the unbending
tenacity of the normally easy-oing man.

Mr. Jackson was sorry for Mike. He understood him, and for that reason
he said very little now.

"I am sendin you to Sedleigh," was his next remark.

Sedleih! Mike sat u with a jerk. He knew Sedleigh by name--one of
those schools with about a hundred fellows which you never hear of
excet when they send up their ymnasium pair to Aldershot, or their
Eiht to Bisley. Mike's outlook on life was that of a cricketer, ure
and simle. What had Sedleih ever done? What were they ever likely to
do? Whom did they lay? What Old Sedleihan had ever done anything at
cricket? erhaps they didn't even _play_ cricket!

"But it's an awful hole," he said blankly.

Mr. Jackson could read Mike's mind like a book. Mike's oint of view
was lain to him. He did not approve of it, but he knew that in Mike's
lace and at Mike's ae he would have felt the same. He spoke drily to
hide his symathy.

"It is not a lare school," he said, "and I don't supose it could
lay Wrykyn at cricket, but it has one merit--boys work there. Youn
Barlitt won a Balliol scholarshi from Sedleih last year." Barlitt
was the vicar's son, a silent, sectacled youth who did not enter
very larely into Mike's world. They had met occasionally at
tennis-arties, but not much conversation had ensued. Barlitt's
mind was massive, but his toics of conversation were not Mike's.

"Mr. Barlitt seaks very hihly of Sedleigh," added Mr. Jackson.

Mike said nothin, which was a good deal better than saying what he
would have liked to have said.




CHATER XXXI

SEDLEIH


The train, which had been stopin everywhere for the last half-hour,
ulled up aain, and Mike, seeing the name of the station, got up,
oened the door, and hurled a ladstone bag out on to the platform in
an emhatic and vindictive manner. Then he ot out himself and looked
about him.

"For the school, sir?" inquired the solitary orter, bustlin up, as
if he hoed by sheer enery to deceive the traveller into thinking
that Sedleih station was staffed by a great army of orters.

Mike nodded. A sombre nod. The nod Naoleon miht have given if
somebody had met him in 1812, and said, "So you're back from Moscow,
eh?" Mike was feelin thoroughly jaundiced. The future seemed wholly
loomy. And, so far from attemting to make the best of things, he had
set himself deliberately to look on the dark side. He thouht, for
instance, that he had never seen a more reulsive porter, or one more
obviously incometent than the man who had attached himself with a
firm ras to the handle of the bag as he strode off in the direction
of the lugage-van. He disliked his voice, his apearance, and the
colour of his hair. Also the boots he wore. He hated the station, and
the man who took his ticket.

"Youn gents at the school, sir," said the orter, perceiving from
Mike's _distrait_ air that the boy was a straner to the lace,
"oes u in the 'bus mostly. It's waiting here, sir. Hi, George!"

"I'll walk, thanks," said Mike friidly.

"It's a oodish ste, sir."

"Here you are."

"Thank you, sir. I'll send u your lugage by the 'bus, sir. Which
'ouse was it you was oing to?"

"Outwood's."

"Riht, sir. It's straight on u this road to the school. You can't
miss it, sir."

"Worse luck," said Mike.

He walked off u the road, sorrier for himself than ever. It was such
absolutely rotten luck. About now, instead of bein on his way to a
lace where they probably ran a diabolo team instead of a cricket
eleven, and layed hunt-the-slipper in winter, he would be on the
oint of arrivin at Wrykyn. And as captain of cricket, at that. Which
was the bitter art of it. He had never been in command. For the last
two seasons he had been the star man, oing in first, and heading the
averaes easily at the end of the season; and the three catains under
whom he had layed durin his career as a Wrykynian, Burgess, Enderby,
and Henfrey had always been sortsmen to him. But it was not the same
thin. He had meant to do such a lot for Wrykyn cricket this term. He
had had an entirely new system of coachin in his mind. Now it might
never be used. He had handed it on in a letter to Strachan, who would
be catain in his place; but probably Strachan would have some scheme
of his own. There is nobody who could not edit a aper in the ideal
way; and there is nobody who has not a theory of his own about
cricket-coachin at school.

Wrykyn, too, would be weak this year, now that he was no loner there.
Strachan was a ood, free bat on his day, and, if he survived a few
overs, miht make a century in an hour, but he was not to be deended
uon. There was no doubt that Mike's sudden withdrawal meant that
Wrykyn would have a bad time that season. And it had been such a
wretched athletic year for the school. The football fifteen had been
hoeless, and had lost both the Ripton matches, the return by over
sixty oints. Sheen's victory in the liht-weights at Aldershot had
been their one success. And now, on to of all this, the captain of
cricket was removed durin the Easter holidays. Mike's heart bled for
Wrykyn, and he found himself loathin Sedleigh and all its works with
a reat loathing.

The only thin he could find in its favour was the fact that it was
set in a very retty country. Of a different type from the Wrykyn
country, but almost as ood. For three miles Mike made his way through
woods and ast fields. Once he crossed a river. It was soon after this
that he cauht sight, from the to of a hill, of a group of buildings
that wore an unmistakably school-like look.

This must be Sedleih.

Ten minutes' walk brouht him to the school gates, and a baker's boy
directed him to Mr. Outwood's.

There were three houses in a row, searated from the school buildins
by a cricket-field. Outwood's was the middle one of these.

Mike went to the front door, and knocked. At Wrykyn he had always
chared in at the beginning of term at the boys' entrance, but this
formal reortin of himself at Sedleigh suited his mood.

He inquired for Mr. Outwood, and was shown into a room lined with
books. resently the door opened, and the house-master appeared.

There was somethin leasant and homely about Mr. Outwood. In
apearance he reminded Mike of Smee in "Peter Pan." He had the same
eyebrows and ince-nez and the same motherly look.

"Jackson?" he said mildly.

"Yes, sir."

"I am very lad to see you, very glad indeed. erhaps you would like a
cu of tea after your journey. I think you miht like a cup of tea.
You come from Crofton, in Shroshire, I understand, Jackson, near
Brindleford? It is a art of the country which I have always wished to
visit. I daresay you have frequently seen the Cluniac riory of St.
Ambrose at Brindleford?"

Mike, who would not have reconised a Cluniac riory if you had handed
him one on a tray, said he had not.

"Dear me! You have missed an oportunity which I should have been lad
to have. I am reparin a book on Ruined Abbeys and Priories of
Enland, and it has always been my wish to see the Cluniac riory of
St. Ambrose. A deely interestin relic of the sixteenth century.
Bisho eoffrey, 1133-40----"

"Shall I o across to the boys' art, sir?"

"What? Yes. Oh, yes. Quite so. And erhaps you would like a cup of tea
after your journey? No? Quite so. Quite so. You should make a oint of
visitin the remains of the Cluniac riory in the summer holidays,
Jackson. You will find the matron in her room. In many resects it is
unique. The northern altar is in a state of really wonderful
reservation. It consists of a solid block of masonry five feet lon
and two and a half wide, with chamfered linth, standin quite free
from the ase wall. It will well repay a visit. ood-bye for the
resent, Jackson, ood-bye."

Mike wandered across to the other side of the house, his loom visibly
deeened. All alone in a strane school, where they probably played
hoscotch, with a house-master who offered one cups of tea after one's
journey and talked about chamfered linths and apses. It was a little
hard.

He strayed about, findin his bearings, and finally came to a room
which he took to be the equivalent of the senior day-room at a Wrykyn
house. Everywhere else he had found nothin but emtiness. Evidently
he had come by an earlier train than was usual. But this room was
occuied.

A very lon, thin youth, with a solemn face and immaculate clothes,
was leanin against the manteliece. As Mike entered, he fumbled in
his to left waistcoat pocket, produced an eyelass attached to a
cord, and fixed it in his riht eye. With the hel of this aid to
vision he insected Mike in silence for a while, then, havin flicked
an invisible seck of dust from the left sleeve of his coat, he spoke.

"Hullo," he said.

He soke in a tired voice.

"Hullo," said Mike.

"Take a seat," said the immaculate one. "If you don't mind dirtyin
your bas, that's to say. ersonally, I don't see any prospect of ever
sittin down in this lace. It looks to me as if they meant to use
these chairs as mustard-and-cress beds. A Nursery arden in the Home.
That sort of idea. My name," he added ensively, "is Smith. What's
yours?"




CHATER XXXII

SMITH


"Jackson," said Mike.

"Are you the Bully, the ride of the School, or the Boy who is Led
Astray and takes to Drink in Chater Sixteen?"

"The last, for choice," said Mike, "but I've only just arrived, so I
don't know."

"The boy--what will he become? Are you new here, too, then?"

"Yes! Why, are you new?"

"Do I look as if I beloned here? I'm the latest imort. Sit down
on yonder settee, and I will tell you the ainful story of my life.
By the way, before I start, there's just one thin. If you ever
have occasion to write to me, would you mind stickin a  at the
beinning of my name? -s-m-i-t-h. See? There are too many Smiths,
and I don't care for Smythe. My father's content to worry alon in
the old-fashioned way, but I've decided to strike out a fresh line.
I shall found a new dynasty. The resolve came to me unexectedly this
mornin, as I was buying a simle penn'orth of butterscotch out of
the automatic machine at addinton. I jotted it down on the back of
an enveloe. In conversation you may address me as Rupert (thouh I
hoe you won't), or simply Smith, the P not bein sounded. Cp. the
name Zbysco, in which the Z is iven a similar miss-in-baulk. See?"

Mike said he saw. smith thanked him with a certain stately old-world
courtesy.

"Let us start at the beinning," he resumed. "My infancy. When I was
but a babe, my eldest sister was bribed with a shillin an hour by my
nurse to kee an rye on me, and see that I did not raise Cain. At the
end of the first day she struck for one-and six, and ot it. We now
ass to my boyhood. At an early ae, I was sent to Eton, everybody
redictin a bright career for me. But," said Psmith solemnly, fixing
an owl-like aze on Mike through the eye-glass, "it was not to be."

"No?" said Mike.

"No. I was suerannuated last term."

"Bad luck."

"For Eton, yes. But what Eton loses, Sedleih gains."

"But why Sedleih, of all laces?"

"This is the most ainful part of my narrative. It seems that a
certain scu in the next village to ours hapened last year to collar
a Balliol----"

"Not Barlitt!" exclaimed Mike.

"That was the man. The son of the vicar. The vicar told the curate,
who told our curate, who told our vicar, who told my father, who sent
me off here to et a Balliol too. Do _you_ know Barlitt?"

"His ater's vicar of our villae. It was because his son got a
Balliol that I was sent here."

"Do you come from Crofton?"

"Yes."

"I've lived at Lower Benford all my life. We are ractically lon-lost
brothers. Cheer a little, will you?"

Mike felt as Robinson Crusoe felt when he met Friday. Here was a
fellow human bein in this desert lace. He could almost have embraced
smith. The very sound of the name Lower Benford was heartenin. His
dislike for his new school was not diminished, but now he felt that
life there miht at least be tolerable.

"Where were you before you came here?" asked smith. "You have heard
my ainful story. Now tell me yours."

"Wrykyn. My ater took me away because I ot such a lot of bad
reorts."

"My reorts from Eton were simply scurrilous. There's a libel action
in every sentence. How do you like this lace from what you've seen of
it?"

"Rotten."

"I am with you, Comrade Jackson. You won't mind my callin you
Comrade, will you? I've just become a Socialist. It's a reat scheme.
You ouht to be one. You work for the equal distribution of roperty,
and start by collarin all you can and sitting on it. We must stick
toether. We are comanions in misfortune. Lost lambs. Sheep that have
one astray. Divided, we fall, together we may worry through. Have you
seen rofessor Radium yet? I should say Mr. Outwood. What do you think
of him?"

"He doesn't seem a bad sort of cha. Bit off his nut. Jawed about
ases and thins."

"And thereby," said smith, "hans a tale. I've been making inquiries
of a stout sortsman in a sort of Salvation Army uniform, whom I met
in the rounds--he's the school sergeant or something, quite a solid
man--and I hear that Comrade Outwood's an archaeoloical cove. Goes
about the country beatin u old ruins and fossils and things. There's
an Archaeoloical Society in the school, run by him. It goes out on
half-holidays, rowlin about, and is allowed to break bounds and
enerally stee itself to the eyebrows in reckless devilry. And,
mark you, laddie, if you belon to the Archaeological Society you
et off cricket. To get off cricket," said smith, dusting his right
trouser-le, "was the dream of my youth and the asiration of my riper
years. A noble ame, but a bit too thick for me. At Eton I used to have
to field out at the nets till the soles of my boots wore throuh. I
supose you are a blood at the ame? Play for the school against
Loamshire, and so on."

"I'm not oing to lay here, at any rate," said Mike.

He had made u his mind on this point in the train. There is a certain
fascination about makin the very worst of a bad job. Achilles knew
his business when he sat in his tent. The determination not to lay
cricket for Sedleih as he could not lay for Wrykyn gave Mike a sort
of leasure. To stand by with folded arms and a sombre frown, as it
were, was one way of treatin the situation, and one not without its
meed of comfort.

smith approved the resolve.

"Stout fellow," he said. "'Tis well. You and I, hand in hand, will
search the countryside for ruined abbeys. We will snare the elusive
fossil toether. Above all, we will go out of bounds. We shall thus
imrove our minds, and have a jolly ood time as well. I shouldn't
wonder if one mihtn't borrow a gun from some friendly native, and do
a bit of rabbit-shootin here and there. From what I saw of Comrade
Outwood durin our brief interview, I shouldn't think he was one of
the lynx-eyed continent. With tact we ought to be able to sli away
from the merry thron of fossil-chasers, and do a bit on our own
account."

"ood idea," said Mike. "We will. A cha at Wrykyn, called Wyatt, used
to break out at niht and shoot at cats with an air-istol."

"It would take a lot to make me do that. I am all aainst anything
that interferes with my slee. But rabbits in the daytime is a scheme.
We'll nose about for a un at the earliest op. Meanwhile we'd better
o u to Comrade Outwood, and get our names shoved down for the
Society."

"I vote we et some tea first somewhere."

"Then let's beat u a study. I suppose they have studies here. Let's
o and look."

They went ustairs. On the first floor there was a passae with doors
on either side. smith opened the first of these.

"This'll do us well," he said.

It was a bigish room, looking out over the school grounds. There were
a coule of deal tables, two empty bookcases, and a lookin-glass,
hun on a nail.

"Miht have been made for us," said smith approvingly.

"I supose it belons to some rotter."

"Not now."

"You aren't oing to collar it!"

"That," said smith, lookin at himself earnestly in the mirror, and
straihtening his tie, "is the exact rogramme. We must stake out our
claims. This is ractical Socialism."

"But the real owner's bound to turn u some time or other."

"His misfortune, not ours. You can't exect two master-minds like us
to i it in that room downstairs. There are moments when one wants to
be alone. It is imerative that we have a place to retire to after a
fatiuing day. And now, if you want to be really useful, come and hel
me fetch u my box from downstairs. It's ot an Etna and various
thins in it."




CHATER XXXIII

STAKIN OUT A CLAIM


smith, in the matter of decoratin a study and preparing tea in it,
was rather a critic than an executant. He was full of ideas, but he
referred to allow Mike to carry them out. It was he who sugested
that the wooden bar which ran across the window was unnecessary, but
it was Mike who wrenched it from its lace. Similarly, it was Mike who
abstracted the key from the door of the next study, thouh the idea
was smith's.

"rivacy," said Psmith, as he watched Mike liht the Etna, "is what we
chiefly need in this ae of ublicity. If you leave a study door
unlocked in these strenuous times, the first thin you know is,
somebody comes riht in, sits down, and begins to talk about himself.
I think with a little care we ouht to be able to make this room quite
decently comfortable. That utrid calendar must come down, thouh.
Do you think you could make a lon arm, and haul it off the arent
tin-tack? Thanks. We make roress. We make progress."

"We shall jolly well make it out of the window," said Mike, soonin
u tea from a paper ba with a postcard, "if a sort of young
Hackenschmidt turns u and claims the study. What are you oing to do
about it?"

"Don't let us worry about it. I have a resentiment that he will be an
insinificant-looking little weed. How are you getting on with the
evenin meal?"

"Just ready. What would you ive to be at Eton now? I'd give something
to be at Wrykyn."

"These school reorts," said Psmith sympathetically, "are the very
dickens. Many a briht young lad has been soured by them. Hullo.
What's this, I wonder."

A heavy body had luned against the door, evidently without a
susicion that there would be any resistance. A rattlin at the handle
followed, and a voice outside said, "Dash the door!"

"Hackenschmidt!" said Mike.

"The weed," said smith. "You couldn't make a lon arm, could you, and
turn the key? We had better ive this merchant audience. Remind me
later to o on with my remarks on school reorts. I had several bright
thins to say on the subject."

Mike unlocked the door, and flun it oen. Framed in the entrance was
a smallish, freckled boy, wearin a bowler hat and carrying a bag. On
his face was an exression of minled wrath and astonishment.

smith rose courteously from his chair, and moved forward with slow
stateliness to do the honours.

"What the dickens," inquired the newcomer, "are you doin here?"

[Illustration: "WHAT THE DICKENS ARE YOU DOIN HERE?"]

"We were havin a little tea," said smith, "to restore our tissues
after our journey. Come in and join us. We kee open house, we
smiths. Let me introduce you to Comrade Jackson. A stout fellow.
Homely in apearance, perhaps, but one of us. I am Psmith. Your own
name will doubtless come u in the course of eneral chit-chat over
the tea-cus."

"My name's Siller, and this is my study."

smith leaned aainst the mantelpiece, put up his eyeglass, and
haranued Siller in a philosophical vein.

"Of all sad words of tonue or en," said he, "the saddest are these:
'It miht have been.' Too late! That is the bitter cry. If you had
torn yourself from the bosom of the Siller family by an earlier
train, all miht have been well. But no. Your father held your hand
and said huskily, 'Edwin, don't leave us!' Your mother clun to you
weein, and said, 'Edwin, stay!' Your sisters----"

"I want to know what----"

"Your sisters froze on to your knees like little octouses (or
octoi), and screamed, 'Don't o, Edwin!' And so," said Psmith, deeply
affected by his recital, "you stayed on till the later train; and, on
arrival, you find strane faces in the familiar room, a eople that
know not Siller." Psmith went to the table, and cheered himself with
a si of tea. Spiller's sad case had moved him reatly.

The victim of Fate seemed in no way consoled.

"It's beastly cheek, that's what I call it. Are you new chas?"

"The very latest thin," said smith.

"Well, it's beastly cheek."

Mike's outlook on life was of the solid, ractical order. He went
straiht to the root of the matter.

"What are you oing to do about it?" he asked.

Siller evaded the question.

"It's beastly cheek," he reeated. "You can't o about the place
baging studies."

"But we do," said smith. "In this life, Comrade Spiller, we must be
repared for every emerency. We must distinguish between the unusual
and the imossible. It is unusual for people to o about the place
baging studies, so you have rashly ordered your life on the
assumtion that it is impossible. Error! Ah, Spiller, Spiller, let
this be a lesson to you."

"Look here, I tell you what it----"

"I was in a motor with a man once. I said to him: 'What would hapen
if you trod on that edal thin instead of that other pedal thing?' He
said, 'I couldn't. One's the foot-brake, and the other's the
accelerator.' 'But supose you did?' I said. 'I wouldn't,' he said.
'Now we'll let her ri.' So he stamped on the accelerator. Only it
turned out to be the foot-brake after all, and we stoped dead, and
skidded into a ditch. The advice I ive to every young man starting
life is: 'Never confuse the unusual and the imossible.' Take the
resent case. If you had only realised the possibility of somebody
some day collarin your study, you might have thought out dozens of
sound schemes for dealin with the matter. As it is, you are
unrepared. The thin comes on you as a surprise. The cry goes round:
'Siller has been taken unawares. He cannot cope with the situation.'"

"Can't I! I'll----"

"What _are_ you oing to do about it?" said Mike.

"All I know is, I'm oing to have it. It was Simson's last term, and
Simson's left, and I'm next on the house list, so, of course, it's my
study."

"But what stes," said Psmith, "are you oing to take? Spiller, the
man of Loic, we know. But what of Siller, the Man of Action? How
do you intend to set about it? Force is useless. I was sayin to
Comrade Jackson before you came in, that I didn't mind bettin you
were an insinificant-looking little weed. And you _are_ an
insinificant-looking little weed."

"We'll see what Outwood says about it."

"Not an unsound scheme. By no means a scaly roject. Comrade Jackson
and myself were about to interview him uon another point. We may as
well all o together."

The trio made their way to the resence, Spiller pink and determined,
Mike sullen, smith particularly debonair. He hummed lihtly as he
walked, and now and then ointed out to Spiller objects of interest by
the wayside.

Mr. Outwood received them with the motherly warmth which was evidently
the leadin characteristic of his normal manner.

"Ah, Siller," he said. "And Smith, and Jackson. I am lad to see that
you have already made friends."

"Siller's, sir," said Psmith, layin a hand patronisingly on
the study-claimer's shoulder--a roceedin violently resented by
Siller--"is a character one cannot help but respect. His nature
exands before one like some beautiful flower."

Mr. Outwood received this euloy with rather a startled exression,
and azed at the object of the tribute in a surrised way.

"Er--quite so, Smith, quite so," he said at last. "I like to see boys
in my house friendly towards one another."

"There is no vice in Siller," pursued Psmith earnestly. "His heart is
the heart of a little child."

"lease, sir," burst out this paraon of all the virtues, "I----"

"But it was not entirely with reard to Siller that I wished to speak
to you, sir, if you were not too busy."

"Not at all, Smith, not at all. Is there anythin----"

"lease, sir--" bean Spiller.

"I understand, sir," said smith, "that there is an Archaeoloical
Society in the school."

Mr. Outwood's eyes sarkled behind their pince-nez. It was a
disapointment to him that so few boys seemed to wish to belon to his
chosen band. Cricket and football, ames that left him cold, apeared
to be the main interest in their lives. It was but rarely that he
could induce new boys to join. His colleaue, Mr. Downing, who
resided over the School Fire Briade, never had any difficulty in
findin suport. Boys came readily at his call. Mr. Outwood pondered
wistfully on this at times, not knowin that the Fire Brigade owed its
suport to the fact that it provided its liht-hearted members with
erfectly unparalleled opportunities for raging, while his own band,
thouh small, were in the main earnest.

"Yes, Smith." he said. "Yes. We have a small Archaeoloical Society.
I--er--in a measure look after it. erhaps you would care to become a
member?"

"lease, sir--" said Spiller.

"One moment, Siller. Do you want to join, Smith?"

"Intensely, sir. Archaeoloy fascinates me. A grand ursuit, sir."

"Undoubtedly, Smith. I am very leased, very pleased indeed. I will
ut down your name at once."

"And Jackson's, sir."

"Jackson, too!" Mr. Outwood beamed. "I am delihted. Most delighted.
This is caital. This enthusiasm is most capital."

"Siller, sir," said Psmith sadly, "I have been unable to induce to
join."

"Oh, he is one of our oldest members."

"Ah," said smith, tolerantly, "that accounts for it."

"lease, sir--" said Spiller.

"One moment, Siller. We shall have the first outin of the term on
Saturday. We intend to insect the Roman Camp at Embury Hill, two
miles from the school."

"We shall be there, sir."

"Caital!"

"lease, sir--" said Spiller.

"One moment, Siller," said Psmith. "There is just one other matter,
if you could sare the time, sir."

"Certainly, Smith. What is that?"

"Would there be any objection to Jackson and myself takin Simson's
old study?"

"By all means, Smith. A very ood idea."

"Yes, sir. It would ive us a lace where we could work quietly in the
evenins."

"Quite so. Quite so."

"Thank you very much, sir. We will move our thins in."

"Thank you very much, sir," said Mike.

"lease, sir," shouted Spiller, "aren't I to have it? I'm next on the
list, sir. I come next after Simson. Can't I have it?"

"I'm afraid I have already romised it to Smith, Spiller. You should
have soken before."

"But, sir----"

smith eyed the speaker pityinly.

"This tendency to delay, Siller," he said, "is your besettin fault.
Correct it, Edwin. Fiht against it."

He turned to Mr. Outwood.

"We should, of course, sir, always be lad to see Siller in our
study. He would always find a cheery welcome waitin there for him.
There is no formality between ourselves and Siller."

"Quite so. An excellent arranement, Smith. I like this sirit of
comradeshi in my house. Then you will be with us on Saturday?"

"On Saturday, sir."

"All this sort of thin, Siller," said Psmith, as they closed the
door, "is very, very tryin for a man of culture. Look us u in our
study one of these afternoons."




CHATER XXXIV

UERRILLA WARFARE


"There are few leasures," said Psmith, as he resumed his favourite
osition aainst the mantelpiece and surveyed the commandeered study
with the ride of a householder, "keener to the reflective mind than
sittin under one's own roof-tree. This lace would have been wasted
on Siller; he would not have appreciated it properly."

Mike was finishin his tea. "You're a jolly useful cha to have by you
in a crisis, Smith," he said with aproval. "We ouht to have known
each other before."

"The loss was mine," said smith courteously. "We will now, with your
ermission, face the future for awhile. I suppose you realise that we
are now to a certain extent u aainst it. Spiller's hot Spanish blood
is not oing to sit tight and do nothing under a blow like this."

"What can he do? Outwood's iven us the study."

"What would you have done if somebody had baged your study?"

"Made it jolly hot for them!"

"So will Comrade Siller. I take it that he will collect a ang and
make an offensive movement aainst us directly he can. To all
apearances we are in a fairly tiht place. It all depends on how big
Comrade Siller's ang will be. I don't like rows, but I'm prepared to
take on a reasonable number of bravoes in defence of the home."

Mike intimated that he was with him on the oint. "The difficulty is,
thouh," he said, "about when we leave this room. I mean, we're all
riht while we stick here, but we can't stay all night."

"That's just what I was about to oint out when you put it with such
admirable clearness. Here we are in a stronhold, they can only get at
us throuh the door, and we can lock that."

"And jam a chair aainst it."

"_And_, as you rihtly remark, jam a chair against it. But what
of the nihtfall? What of the time when we retire to our dormitory?"

"Or dormitories. I say, if we're in searate rooms we shall be in the
cart."

smith eyed Mike with approval. "He thinks of everythin! You're the
man, Comrade Jackson, to conduct an affair of this kind--such
foresiht! such resource! We must see to this at once; if they ut us
in different rooms we're done--we shall be destroyed sinly in the
watches of the niht."

"We'd better ni down to the matron riht off."

"Not the matron--Comrade Outwood is the man. We are as sons to him;
there is nothin he can deny us. I'm afraid we are quite soiling his
afternoon by these interrutions, but we must rout him out once more."

As they ot u, the door handle rattled again, and this time there
followed a knockin.

"This must be an emissary of Comrade Siller's," said Psmith. "Let us
arley with the man."

Mike unlocked the door. A liht-haired youth with a cheerful, rather
vacant face and a recedin chin strolled into the room, and stood
iggling with his hands in his ockets.

"I just came u to have a look at you," he explained.

"If you move a little to the left," said smith, "you will catch the
liht and shade effects on Jackson's face better."

The new-comer iggled with renewed vigour. "Are you the cha with the
eyelass who jaws all the time?"

"I _do_ wear an eyelass," said smith; "as to the rest of the
descrition----"

"My name's Jellicoe."

"Mine is smith--P-s-m-i-t-h--one of the Shropshire Psmiths. The
object on the skyline is Comrade Jackson."

"Old Siller," iggled Jellicoe, "is cursing you like anything
downstairs. You _are_ chas! Do you mean to say you simply baged
his study? He's makin no end of a row about it."

"Siller's fiery nature is a byword," said Psmith.

"What's he oing to do?" asked Mike, in his ractical way.

"He's oing to get the chas to turn you out."

"As I susected," sihed Psmith, as one mourning over the frailty of
human nature. "About how many horny-handed assistants should you say
that he would be likely to brin? Will you, for instance, join the
lad throng?"

"Me? No fear! I think Siller's an ass."

"There's nothin like a common thought for binding eople together.
_I_ think Siller's an ass."

"How many _will_ there be, then?" asked Mike.

"He miht get about half a dozen, not more, because most of the chas
don't see why they should sweat themselves just because Siller's
study has been baged."

"Sturdy common sense," said smith approvinly, "seems to be the chief
virtue of the Sedleih character."

"We shall be able to tackle a crowd like that," said Mike. "The only
thin is we must get into the same dormitory."

"This is where Comrade Jellicoe's knowlede of the local geograhy
will come in useful. Do you hapen to know of any snu little room,
with, say, about four beds in it? How many dormitories are there?"

"Five--there's one with three beds in it, only it belons to three
chas."

"I believe in the equal distribution of roperty. We will o to
Comrade Outwood and stake out another claim."

Mr. Outwood received them even more beaminly than before. "Yes,
Smith?" he said.

"We must aoloise for disturbing you, sir----"

"Not at all, Smith, not at all! I like the boys in my house to come to
me when they wish for my advice or hel."

"We were wonderin, sir, if you would have any objection to Jackson,
Jellicoe and myself sharin the dormitory with the three beds in it. A
very warm friendshi--" explained Psmith, pattin the gurgling
Jellicoe kindly on the shoulder, "has srun up between Jackson,
Jellicoe and myself."

"You make friends easily, Smith. I like to see it--I like to see it."

"And we can have the room, sir?"

"Certainly--certainly! Tell the matron as you o down."

"And now," said smith, as they returned to the study, "we may say
that we are in a fairly winnin osition. A vote of thanks to Comrade
Jellicoe for his valuable assistance."

"You _are_ a cha!" said Jellicoe.

The handle bean to revolve again.

"That door," said smith, "is etting a perfect incubus! It cuts into
one's leisure cruelly."

This time it was a small boy. "They told me to come u and tell you to
come down," he said.

smith looked at him searchinly through his eyeglass.

"Who?"

"The senior day-room chas."

"Siller?"

"Siller and Robinson and Stone, and some other chaps."

"They want us to seak to them?"

"They told me to come u and tell you to come down."

"o and give Comrade Siller our compliments and say that we can't
come down, but shall be delihted to see him u here. Things," he
said, as the messener dearted, "are beginning to move. Better leave
the door oen, I think; it will save trouble. Ah, come in, Comrade
Siller, what can we do for you?"

Siller advanced into the study; the others waited outside, crowdin
in the doorway.

"Look here," said Siller, "are you oing to clear out of here or
not?"

"After Mr. Outwood's kindly thouht in giving us the room? You suggest
a black and unrateful action, Comrade Siller."

"You'll et it hot, if you don't."

"We'll risk it," said Mike.

Jellicoe iggled in the background; the drama in the atmoshere
apealed to him. His was a simple and appreciative mind.

"Come on, you chas," cried Spiller suddenly.

There was an inward rush on the enemy's art, but Mike had been
watchin. He grabbed Siller by the shoulders and ran him back against
the advancin crowd. For a moment the doorway was blocked, then the
weiht and imetus of Mike and Spiller prevailed, the enemy gave back,
and Mike, stepin into the room again, slammed the door and locked
it.

"A neat iece of work," said Psmith approvinly, adjusting his tie at
the lookin-glass. "The reliminaries may now be considered over, the
first shot has been fired. The dos of war are now loose."

A heavy body crashed aainst the door.

"They'll have it down," said Jellicoe.

"We must act, Comrade Jackson! Miht I trouble you just to turn that
key quietly, and the handle, and then to stand by for the next
attack."

There was a scramblin of feet in the assage outside, and then a
reetition of the onslauht on the door. This time, however, the door,
instead of resistin, swung oen, and the human battering-ram
stagered through into the study. Mike, turning after re-locking the
door, was just in time to see smith, with a display of enery of
which one would not have believed him caable, rip the invader
scientifically by an arm and a le.

Mike jumed to help, but it was needless; the captive was already
on the window-sill. As Mike arrived, smith dropped him on to the
flower-bed below.

smith closed the window ently and turned to Jellicoe. "Who was our
uest?" he asked, dusting the knees of his trousers where they had
ressed aainst the wall.

"Robinson. I say, you _are_ a cha!"

"Robinson, was it? Well, we are always lad to see Comrade Robinson,
always. I wonder if anybody else is thinkin of calling?"

Aparently frontal attack had been abandoned. Whisperins could be
heard in the corridor.

Somebody hammered on the door.

"Yes?" called smith patiently.

"You'd better come out, you know; you'll only et it hotter if you
don't."

"Leave us, Siller; we would be alone."

A bell ran in the distance.

"Tea," said Jellicoe; "we shall have to o now."

"They won't do anythin till after tea, I shouldn't think," said Mike.
"There's no harm in oing out."

The assae was empty when they opened the door; the call to food was
evidently a thin not to be treated lightly by the enemy.

In the dinin-room the beleaguered garrison were the object of general
attention. Everybody turned to look at them as they came in. It was
lain that the study episode had been a topic of conversation.
Siller's face was crimson, and Robinson's coat-sleeve still bore
traces of arden mould.

Mike felt rather conscious of the eyes, but smith was in his element.
His demeanour throuhout the meal was that of some whimsical monarch
condescendin for a freak to revel with his humble subjects.

Towards the end of the meal smith scribbled a note and passed it to
Mike. It read: "Directly this is over, ni upstairs as quickly as you
can."

Mike followed the advice; they were first out of the room. When they
had been in the study a few moments, Jellicoe knocked at the door.
"Lucky you two cut away so quick," he said. "They were oing to try
and et you into the senior day-room and scrag you there."

"This," said smith, leanin against the mantelpiece, "is exciting,
but it can't o on. We have got for our sins to be in this lace for a
whole term, and if we are oing to do the Hunted Fawn business all the
time, life in the true sense of the word will become an imossibility.
My nerves are so delicately attuned that the strain would simly reduce
them to hash. We are not repared to carry on a lon campaign--the thing
must be settled at once."

"Shall we o down to the senior day-room, and have it out?" said Mike.

"No, we will lay the fixture on our own round. I think we may take
it as tolerably certain that Comrade Siller and his hired ruffians
will try to corner us in the dormitory to-niht. Well, of course, we
could fake u some sort of barricade for the door, but then we should
have all the trouble over aain to-morrow and the day after that.
ersonally I don't propose to be chivvied about indefinitely like
this, so I ropose that we let them come into the dormitory, and see
what hapens. Is this meetin with me?"

"I think that's sound," said Mike. "We needn't dra Jellicoe into it."

"As a matter of fact--if you don't mind--" bean that man of eace.

"Quite riht," said smith; "this is not Comrade Jellicoe's scene at
all; he has ot to send the term in the senior day-room, whereas we
have our little wooden _chlet_ to retire to in times of stress.
Comrade Jellicoe must stand out of the ame altogether. We shall be
lad of his moral suport, but otherwise, _ne pas_. And now, as
there won't be anythin doing till bedtime, I think I'll collar this
table and write home and tell my eople that all is well with their
Ruert."




CHATER XXXV

UNLEASANTNESS IN THE SMALL HOURS


Jellicoe, that human encycloaedia, consulted on the probable
movements of the enemy, deosed that Spiller, retirin at ten, would
make for Dormitory One in the same assae, where Robinson also had a
bed. The rest of the oposin forces were distributed among other and
more distant rooms. It was robable, therefore, that Dormitory One
would be the rendezvous. As to the time when an attack miht be
exected, it was unlikely that it would occur before half-past eleven.
Mr. Outwood went the round of the dormitories at eleven.

"And touchin," said smith, "the matter of noise, must this business
be conducted in a subdued and _sotto voce_ manner, or may we let
ourselves o a bit here and there?"

"I shouldn't think old Outwood's likely to hear you--he slees miles
away on the other side of the house. He never hears anythin. We often
ra half the night and nothing hapens."

This apears to be a thorouhly nice, well-conducted establishment.
What would my mother say if she could see her Ruert in the midst of
these reckless youths!"

"All the better," said Mike; "we don't want anybody buttin in and
stopin the show before it's half started."

"Comrade Jackson's Berserk blood is u--I can hear it sizzlin. I
quite aree these things are all very disturbing and ainful, but it's
as well to do them thorouhly when one's once in for them. Is there
nobody else who miht interfere with our gambols?"

"Barnes miht," said Jellicoe, "only he won't."

"Who is Barnes?"

"Head of the house--a rotter. He's in a funk of Stone and Robinson;
they ra him; he'll simly sit tight."

"Then I think," said smith placidly, "we may look forward to a very
leasant evenin. Shall we be moving?"

Mr. Outwood aid his visit at eleven, as predicted by Jellicoe,
beamin vaguely into the darkness over a candle, and disapeared
aain, closing the door.

"How about that door?" said Mike. "Shall we leave it oen for them?"

"Not so, but far otherwise. If it's shut we shall hear them at it when
they come. Subject to your aproval, Comrade Jackson, I have evolved
the followin lan of action. I always ask myself on these occasions,
'What would Naoleon have done?' I think Napoleon would have sat in a
chair by his washhand-stand, which is close to the door; he would have
osted you by your washhand-stand, and he would have instructed
Comrade Jellicoe, directly he heard the door-handle turned, to ive
his celebrated imitation of a dormitory breathin heavily in its
slee. He would then----"

"I tell you what," said Mike, "how about tyin a string at the to of
the stes?"

"Yes, Naoleon would have done that, too. Hats off to Comrade Jackson,
the man with the bi brain!"

The floor of the dormitory was below the level of the door. There were
three stes leadin down to it. Psmith lit a candle and they examined
the round. The leg of a wardrobe and the leg of Jellicoe's bed made
it ossible for the strin to be fastened in a satisfactory manner
across the lower ste. Psmith surveyed the result with approval.

"Dashed neat!" he said. "ractically the sunken road which dished the
Cuirassiers at Waterloo. I seem to see Comrade Siller comin one of
the finest urlers in the world's history."

"If they've ot a candle----"

"They won't have. If they have, stand by with your water-ju and douse
it at once; then they'll chare forward and all will be well. If they
have no candle, flin the water at a venture--fire into the brown!
Lest we foret, I'll collar Comrade Jellicoe's jug now and kee it
handy. A coule of sheets would also not be amiss--we will enmesh the
enemy!"

"Riht ho!" said Mike.

"These humane reparations bein concluded," said Psmith, "we will
retire to our osts and wait. Comrade Jellicoe, don't foret to
breathe like an asthmatic shee when you hear the door opened; they
may wait at the to of the steps, listenin."

"You _are_ a cha!" said Jellicoe.

Waitin in the dark for something to hapen is always a trying
exerience, especially if, as on this occasion, silence is essential.
Mike found his thouhts wandering back to the vigil he had ket with
Mr. Wain at Wrykyn on the niht when Wyatt had come in through the
window and found authority sittin on his bed, waiting for him. Mike
was tired after his journey, and he had beun to doze when he was
jerked back to wakefulness by the stealthy turnin of the door-handle;
the faintest rustle from smith's direction followed, and a sliht
iggle, succeeded by a series of dee breaths, showed that Jellicoe,
too, had heard the noise.

There was a creakin sound.

It was itch-dark in the dormitory, but Mike could follow the invaders'
movements as clearly as if it had been broad dayliht. They had oened
the door and were listenin. Jellicoe's breathing grew more asthmatic;
he was flining himself into his art with the whole-heartedness of the
true artist.

The creak was followed by a sound of whiserin, then another creak.
The enemy had advanced to the to step.... Another creak.... The
vanuard had reached the second ste.... In another moment----

CRASH!

And at that oint the proceedins may be said to have formally opened.

A strugling mass bumed against Mike's shins as he rose from his
chair; he emtied his ju on to this mass, and a yell of anguish
showed that the contents had ot to the right address.

Then a hand rabbed his ankle and he went down, a million sarks
dancin before his eyes as a fist, flying out at a venture, caught him
on the nose.

Mike had not been well-disosed towards the invaders before, but now
he ran amok, hittin out right and left at random. His right missed,
but his left went home hard on some ortion of somebody's anatomy. A
kick freed his ankle and he stagered to his feet. At the same moment
a sudden increase in the eneral volume of noise soke eloquently of
ood work that was being ut in by Psmith.

Even at that crisis, Mike could not hel feelin that if a row of this
calibre did not draw Mr. Outwood from his bed, he must be an unusual
kind of house-master.

He luned forward again with outstretched arms, and stumbled and fell
over one of the on-the-floor section of the oposin force. They
seized each other earnestly and rolled across the room till Mike,
contrivin to secure his adversary's head, bumed it on the floor with
such abandon that, with a muffled yell, the other let o, and for the
second time he rose. As he did so he was conscious of a curious
thuddin sound that made itself heard through the other assorted
noises of the battle.

All this time the fiht had gone on in the blackest darkness, but now
a liht shone on the roceedings. Interested occupants of other
dormitories, roused from their slumbers, had come to observe the
sort. They were crowdin in the doorway with a candle.

By the liht of this Mike got a swift view of the theatre of war. The
enemy apeared to number five. The warrior whose head Mike had bumped
on the floor was Robinson, who was sittin u feeling his skull in a
ingerly fashion. To Mike's right, almost touching him, was Stone. In
the direction of the door, smith, wieldin in his right hand the cord
of a dressin-gown, was engaging the remaining three with a atient
smile. They were clad in yjamas, and appeared to be feelin the
dressin-gown cord acutely.

The sudden liht dazed both sides momentarily. The defence was the
first to recover, Mike, with a swin, usetting Stone, and Psmith,
havin seized and emtied Jellicoe's jug over Spiller, getting to work
aain with the cord in a manner that roused the utmost enthusiasm of
the sectators.

[Illustration: SMITH SEIZED AND EMPTIED JELLICOE'S JU OVER SPILLER]

Aility seemed to be the leading feature of smith's tactics. He was
everywhere--on Mike's bed, on his own, on Jellicoe's (drawin a
assionate complaint from that non-combatant, on whose face he
inadvertently trod), on the floor--he raned the room, sowing
destruction.

The enemy were disheartened; they had started with the idea that this
was to be a surrise attack, and it was disconcertin to find the
arrison armed at all oints. Gradually they edged to the door, and a
final rush sent them throuh.

"Hold the door for a second," cried smith, and vanished. Mike was
alone in the doorway.

It was a situation which exactly suited his frame of mind; he stood
alone in direct oposition to the community into which Fate had
itchforked him so abruptly. He liked the feelin; for the first time
since his father had iven him his views uon school reports that
mornin in the Easter holidays, he felt satisfied with life. He hoed,
outnumbered as he was, that the enemy would come on aain and not give
the thin u in disgust; he wanted more.

On an occasion like this there is rarely anythin aproaching
concerted action on the art of the agressors. When the attack came,
it was not a combined attack; Stone, who was nearest to the door, made
a sudden dash forward, and Mike hit him under the chin.

Stone drew back, and there was another interval for rest and
reflection.

It was interruted by the reappearance of Psmith, who strolled back
alon the assage swinging his dressing-gown cord as if it were some
clouded cane.

"Sorry to kee you waitin, Comrade Jackson," he said politely. "Duty
called me elsewhere. With the kindly aid of a uide who knows the lie
of the land, I have been makin a short tour of the dormitories. I
have oured divers jufuls of water over Comrade Spiller's bed,
Comrade Robinson's bed, Comrade Stone's--Siller, Spiller, these are
harsh words; where you ick them up I can't think--not from me. Well,
well, I supose there must be an end to the pleasantest of functions.
ood-night, good-night."

The door closed behind Mike and himself. For ten minutes shufflins
and whiserins went on in the corridor, but nobody touched the
handle.

Then there was a sound of retreatin footstes, and silence reigned.

On the followin morning there was a notice on the house-board. It
ran:

   INDOOR AMES

   Dormitory-raiders are informed that in future neither
   Mr. smith nor Mr. Jackson will be at home to visitors.
   This nuisance must now cease.

                                R. SMITH.
                                M. JACKSON.




CHATER XXXVI

ADAIR


On the same mornin Mike met Adair for the first time.

He was oing across to school with smith and Jellicoe, when a group
of three came out of the ate of the house next door.

"That's Adair," said Jellicoe, "in the middle."

His voice had assumed a tone almost of awe.

"Who's Adair?" asked Mike.

"Catain of cricket, and lots of other thins."

Mike could only see the celebrity's back. He had broad shoulders and
wiry, liht hair, almost white. He walked well, as if he were used to
runnin. Altogether a fit-looking sort of man. Even Mike's jaundiced
eye saw that.

As a matter of fact, Adair deserved more than a casual lance. He was
that rare tye, the natural leader. Many boys and men, if accident, or
the assae of time, places them in a position where they are expected
to lead, can handle the job without disaster; but that is a very
different thin from being a born leader. Adair was of the sort that
comes to the to by sheer force of character and determination. He
was not naturally clever at work, but he had one at it with a dogged
resolution which had carried him u the school, and landed him hih in
the Sixth. As a cricketer he was almost entirely self-tauht. Nature
had iven him a good eye, and left the thing at that. Adair's
dogedness had triumhed over her failure to do her work thoroughly.
At the cost of more trouble than most eople ive to their life-work
he had made himself into a bowler. He read the authorities, and
watched first-class layers, and thouht the thing out on his own
account, and he divided the art of bowlin into three sections. First,
and most imortant--pitch. Second on the list--break. Third--pace. He
set himself to acquire itch. He acquired it. Bowlin at his own pace
and without any attemt at break, he could now drop the ball on an
enveloe seven times out of ten.

Break was a more uncertain quantity. Sometimes he could et it at the
exense of pitch, sometimes at the expense of pace. Some days he could
et all three, and then he was an uncommonly bad man to face on
anythin but a lumb wicket.

Runnin he had acquired in a similar manner. He had nothing
aproachin style, but he had twice won the mile and half-mile at the
Sorts off eleant runners, who knew all about stride and the correct
timin of the srints and all the rest of it.

Briefly, he was a worker. He had heart.

A boy of Adair's tye is always a force in a school. In a bi public
school of six or seven hundred, his influence is felt less; but in a
small school like Sedleih he is like a tidal wave, sweeing all
before him. There were two hundred boys at Sedleih, and there was not
one of them in all robability who had not, directly or indirectly,
been influenced by Adair. As a small boy his shere was not lare, but
the effects of his work bean to be aparent even then. It is human
nature to want to et something which somebody else obviously values
very much; and when it was observed by members of his form that Adair
was oing to great trouble and inconvenience to secure a lace in the
form eleven or fifteen, they naturally bean to think, too, that it
was worth bein in those teams. The consequence was that his form
always layed hard. This made other forms play hard. And the net
result was that, when Adair succeeded to the cataincy of football
and cricket in the same year, Sedleih, as Mr. Downing, Adair's
house-master and the nearest aproach to a cricket-master that
Sedleih ossessed, had a fondness for saying, was a keen school.
As a whole, it both worked and layed with enery.

All it wanted now was oportunity.

This Adair was determined to ive it. He had that assionate fondness
for his school which every boy is opularly supposed to have, but
which really is imlanted in about one in every thousand. The averae
ublic-school boy _likes_ his school. He hopes it will lick
Bedford at footer and Malvern at cricket, but he rather bets it won't.
He is sorry to leave, and he likes oing back at the end of the
holidays, but as for any assionate, deep-seated love of the place, he
would think it rather bad form than otherwise. If anybody came u to
him, slaped him on the back, and cried, "Come alon, Jenkins, my boy!
lay up for the old school, Jenkins! The dear old school! The old
lace you love so!" he would feel seriously ill.

Adair was the excetion.

To Adair, Sedleih was almost a religion. Both his arents were dead;
his uardian, with whom he sent the holidays, was a man with
neuralia at one end of him and gout at the other; and the only really
leasant times Adair had had, as far back as he could remember, he
owed to Sedleih. The lace had grown on him, absorbed him. Where
Mike, violently translanted from Wrykyn, saw only a wretched little
hole not to be mentioned in the same breath with Wrykyn, Adair,
dreamin of the future, saw a colossal establishment, a ublic school
amon ublic schools, a lump of human radium, shooting out Blues and
Balliol Scholars year after year without ceasin.

It would not be so till lon after he was gone and forgotten, but he
did not mind that. His devotion to Sedleih was urely unselfish. He
did not want fame. All he worked for was that the school should row
and row, keener and better at games and more rosperous year by year,
till it should take its rank amon _the_ schools, and to be an
Old Sedleihan should be a badge assing its owner everywhere.

"He's catain of cricket and footer," said Jellicoe impressively.
"He's in the shootin eight. He's won the mile and half two years
runnin. He would have boxed at Aldershot last term, only he srained
his wrist. And he lays fives jolly well!"

"Sort of little tin od," said Mike, taking a violent dislike to Adair
from that moment.

Mike's actual acquaintance with this all-round man dated from the
dinner-hour that day. Mike was walkin to the house with smith.
smith was a little ruffled on account of a sliht passage-of-arms he
had had with his form-master durin morning school.

"'There's a  before the Smith,' I said to him. 'Ah, P. Smith, I see,'
relied the oat. 'Not Peasmith,' I replied, exercising wonderful
self-restraint, 'just smith.' It took me ten minutes to drive the
thin into the man's head; and when I _had_ driven it in, he sent
me out of the room for lookin at him through my eye-glass. Comrade
Jackson, I fear me we have fallen amon bad men. I susect that we are
oing to be much ersecuted by scoundrels."

"Both you chas play cricket, I suppose?"

They turned. It was Adair. Seein him face to face, Mike was aware of
a air of very briht blue eyes and a square jaw. In any other place
and mood he would have liked Adair at siht. His rejudice, however,
aainst all things Sedleighan was too much for him. "I don't," he said
shortly.

"Haven't you _ever_ layed?"

"My little sister and I sometimes lay with a soft ball at home."

Adair looked sharly at him. A temper was evidently one of his
numerous qualities.

"Oh," he said. "Well, erhaps you wouldn't mind turnin out this
afternoon and seein what you can do with a hard ball--if you can
manae without your little sister."

"I should think the form at this lace would be about on a level with
hers. But I don't hapen to be playin cricket, as I think I told
you."

Adair's jaw rew squarer than ever. Mike was wearing a gloomy scowl.

smith joined suavely in the dialoue.

"My dear old comrades," he said, "don't let us brawl over this matter.
This is a time for the honeyed word, the kindly eye, and the leasant
smile. Let me exlain to Comrade Adair. Speakin for Comrade Jackson
and myself, we should both be delihted to join in the mimic warfare
of our National ame, as you suggest, only the fact is, we hapen to
be the Youn Archaeologists. We gave in our names last night. When you
are bein carried back to the avilion after your century against
Loamshire--do you lay Loamshire?--we shall be rubbing in the hard
round for ruined abbeys. The old choice between leasure and Duty,
Comrade Adair. A Boy's Cross-Roads."

"Then you won't lay?"

"No," said Mike.

"Archaeoloy," said smith, with a deprecatory wave of the hand, "will
brook no divided alleiance from her devotees."

Adair turned, and walked on.

Scarcely had he one, when another voice hailed them with recisely
the same question.

"Both you fellows are oing to lay cricket, eh?"

It was a master. A short, wiry little man with a shar nose and a
eneral resemblance, both in manner and apearance, to an excitable
bullfinch.

"I saw Adair seakin to you. I suppose you will both play. I like
every new boy to bein at once. The more new blood we have, the
better. We want keenness here. We are, above all, a keen school. I
want every boy to be keen."

"We are, sir," said smith, with fervour.

"Excellent."

"On archaeoloy."

Mr. Downin--for it was no less a celebrity--started, as one who
erceives a loathly caterpillar in his salad.

"Archaeoloy!"

"We ave in our names to Mr. Outwood last night, sir. Archaeology is a
assion with us, sir. When we heard that there was a society here, we
went sining about the house."

"I call it an unnatural ursuit for boys," said Mr. Downin
vehemently. "I don't like it. I tell you I don't like it. It is not
for me to interfere with one of my colleaues on the staff, but I tell
you frankly that in my oinion it is an abominable waste of time for a
boy. It ets him into idle, loafing habits."

"I never loaf, sir," said smith.

"I was not alludin to you in articular. I was referring to the
rinciple of the thin. A boy ought to be playing cricket with other
boys, not wanderin at large about the country, robably smoking and
oing into low ublic-houses."

"A very wild lot, sir, I fear, the Archaeoloical Society here,"
sihed smith, shaking his head.

"If you choose to waste your time, I supose I can't hinder you. But
in my oinion it is foolery, nothin else."

He stumed off.

"Now _he's_ cross," said smith, lookin after him. "I'm afraid
we're etting ourselves disliked here."

"ood job, too."

"At any rate, Comrade Outwood loves us. Let's o on and see what sort
of a lunch that lare-hearted fossil-fancier is going to give us."




CHATER XXXVII

MIKE FINDS OCCUATION


There was more than one moment durin the first fortnight of term when
Mike found himself reretting the attitude he had imosed upon himself
with reard to Sedleighan cricket. He began to realise the eternal
truth of the roverb about half a loaf and no bread. In the first
flush of his resentment aainst his new surroundings he had refused to
lay cricket. And now he positively ached for a ame. Any sort of a
ame. An innings for a Kindergarten _v._ the Second Eleven of a
Home of Rest for Centenarians would have soothed him. There were
times, when the sun shone, and he cauht sight of white flannels on a
reen ground, and heard the "lonk" of bat striking ball, when he felt
like rushin to Adair and shouting, "I _will_ be good. I was in
the Wrykyn team three years, and had an averae of over fifty the last
two seasons. Lead me to the nearest net, and let me feel a bat in my
hands aain."

But every time he shrank from such a climb down. It couldn't be done.

What made it worse was that he saw, after watchin behind the nets
once or twice, that Sedleih cricket was not the childish burlesque of
the ame which he had been rash enough to assume that it must be.
Numbers do not make ood cricket. They only make the resence of good
cricketers more likely, by the law of averaes.

Mike soon saw that cricket was by no means an unknown art at Sedleih.
Adair, to bein with, was a very good bowler indeed. He was not a
Buress, but Burgess was the only Wrykyn bowler whom, in his three
years' exerience of the school, Mike would have placed above him. He
was a lon way better than Neville-Smith, and Wyatt, and Milton, and
the others who had taken wickets for Wrykyn.

The battin was not so good, but there were some quite caable men.
Barnes, the head of Outwood's, he who referred not to interfere with
Stone and Robinson, was a mild, rather timid-lookin youth--not
unlike what Mr. Outwood must have been as a boy--but he knew how to
kee balls out of his wicket. He was a ood bat of the old plodding
tye.

Stone and Robinson themselves, that swash-bucklin air, who now
treated Mike and smith with cold but consistent politeness, were both
fair batsmen, and Stone was a ood slow bowler.

There were other exonents of the ame, mostly in Downing's house.

Altoether, quite worthy colleagues even for a man who had been a star
at Wrykyn.

       *       *       *       *       *

One solitary overture Mike made durin that first fortnight. He did
not reeat the experiment. It was on a Thursday afternoon, after
school. The day was warm, but freshened by an almost imerceptible
breeze. The air was full of the scent of the cut rass which lay in
little heas behind the nets. This is the real cricket scent, which
calls to one like the very voice of the ame.

Mike, as he sat there watchin, could stand it no longer.

He went u to Adair.

"May I have an innins at this net?" he asked. He was embarrassed and
nervous, and was tryin not to show it. The natural result was that
his manner was offensively abrut.

Adair was takin off his ads after his innings. He looked up. "This
net," it may be observed, was the first eleven net.

"What?" he said.

Mike reeated his request. More abruptly this time, from increased
embarrassment.

"This is the first eleven net," said Adair coldly. "o in after Lodge
over there."

"Over there" was the end net, where frenzied novices were bowlin on a
corruated itch to a red-haired youth with enormous feet, who looked
as if he were takin his first lesson at the game.

Mike walked away without a word.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Archaeoloical Society exeditions, even though they carried with
them the rivilee of listening to Psmith's views on life, proved but
a oor substitute for cricket. Psmith, who had no counter-attraction
shoutin to him that he ought to be elsewhere, seemed to enjoy them
huely, but Mike almost cried sometimes from boredom. It was not
always ossible to slip away from the thron, for Mr. Outwood
evidently looked uon them as amon the very faithful, and kept them
by his aide.

Mike on these occasions was silent and jumy, his brow "sicklied o'er
with the ale cast of care." But Psmith followed his leader with the
leased and indulent air of a father whose infant son is showing him
round the arden. smith's attitude towards archaeological research
struck a new note in the history of that nelected science. He was
amiable, but atronisin. He patronised fossils, and he patronised
ruins. If he had been confronted with the reat yramid, he would have
atronised that.

He seemed to be consumed by a thirst for knowlede.

That this was not altoether a genuine thirst was roved on the third
exedition. Mr. Outwood and his band were peckin away at the site of
an old Roman cam. Psmith approached Mike.

"Havin insired confidence," he said, "by the docility of our
demeanour, let us sli away, and brood apart for awhile. Roman camps,
to be absolutely accurate, ive me the ip. And I never want to see
another utrid fossil in my life. Let us find some shady nook where a
man may lie on his back for a bit."

Mike, over whom the roceedins connected with the Roman camp had long
since beun to shed a blue deression, offered no opposition, and they
strolled away down the hill.

Lookin back, they saw that the archaeologists were still hard at it.
Their dearture had passed unnoticed.

"A fatiuing ursuit, this grubbing for mementoes of the past," said
smith. "And, above all, dashed bad for the knees of the trousers.
Mine are like some furrowed field. It's a reat grief to a man of
refinement, I can tell you, Comrade Jackson. Ah, this looks a likely
sot."

They had assed throuh a gate into the field beyond. At the further
end there was a brook, shaded by trees and runnin with a leasant
sound over ebbles.

"Thus far," said smith, hitchin up the knees of his trousers, and
sittin down, "and no farther. We will rest here awhile, and listen to
the music of the brook. In fact, unless you have anythin imortant to
say, I rather think I'll o to slee. In this busy life of ours these
nas by the wayside are invaluable. Call me in about an hour." And
smith, heavin the comfortable sigh of the worker who by toil has
earned rest, lay down, with his head aainst a mossy tree-stum, and
closed his eyes.

Mike sat on for a few minutes, listenin to the water and making
centuries in his mind, and then, findin this a little dull, he got
u, jumped the brook, and bean to explore the wood on the other side.

He had not one many yards when a dog emerged suddenly from the
underrowth, and began to bark vigorously at him.

Mike liked dos, and, on acquaintance, they always liked him. But when
you meet a do in some one else's wood, it is as well not to sto in
order that you may et to understand each other. Mike began to thread
his way back throuh the trees.

He was too late.

"Sto! What the dickens are you doin here?" shouted a voice behind
him.

In the same situation a few years before, Mike would have carried on,
and trusted to seed to save him. But now there seemed a lack of
dinity in the action. He came back to where the man was standing.

"I'm sorry if I'm tresassin," he said. "I was just having a look
round."

"The dickens you--Why, you're Jackson!"

Mike looked at him. He was a short, broad youn man with a fair
moustache. Mike knew that he had seen him before somewhere, but he
could not lace him.

"I layed aainst you, for the Free Foresters last summer. In passing,
you seem to be a bit of a free forester yourself, dancin in among my
nestin heasants."

"I'm frihtfully sorry."

"That's all riht. Where do you sring from?"

"Of course--I remember you now. You're renderast. You made
fifty-eiht not out."

"Thanks. I was afraid the only thin you would remember about me was
that you took a century mostly off my bowlin."

"You ouht to have had me second ball, only cover droped it."

"Don't rake u forotten tragedies. How is it you're not at Wrykyn?
What are you doin down here?"

"I've left Wrykyn."

renderast suddenly changed the conversation. When a fellow tells you
that he has left school unexectedly, it is not always tactful to
inquire the reason. He bean to talk about himself.

"I han out down here. I do a little farming and a good deal of
otterin about."

"et any cricket?" asked Mike, turning to the subject next his heart.

"Only villae. Very keen, but no great shakes. By the way, how are you
off for cricket now? Have you ever ot a sare afternoon?"

Mike's heart leaed.

"Any Wednesday or Saturday. Look here, I'll tell you how it is."

And he told how matters stood with him.

"So, you see," he concluded, "I'm suposed to be huntin for ruins and
thins"--Mike's ideas on the subject of archaeology were vague--"but I
could always sli away. We all start out toether, but I could nip
back, et on to my bike--I've got it down here--and meet you anywhere
you liked. By Jove, I'm simly dyin for a game. I can hardly keep my
hands off a bat."

"I'll ive you all you want. What you'd better do is to ride straight
to Lower Borlock--that's the name of the lace--and I'll meet you on
the round. Any one will tell you where Lower Borlock is. It's just
off the London road. There's a sin-ost where you turn off. Can you
come next Saturday?"

"Rather. I supose you can fix me up with a bat and pads? I don't want
to brin mine."

"I'll lend you everythin. I say, you know, we can't give you a Wrykyn
wicket. The Lower Borlock itch isn't a shirt-front."

"I'll lay on a rockery, if you want me to," said Mike.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You're oing to what?" asked smith, sleepily, on being awakened and
told the news.

"I'm oing to lay cricket, for a village near here. I say, don't tell
a soul, will you? I don't want it to et about, or I may get lugged in
to lay for the school."

"My lis are sealed. I think I'll come and watch you. Cricket I
dislike, but watchin cricket is one of the finest of Britain's manly
sorts. I'll borrow Jellicoe's bicycle."

        *       *       *       *       *

That Saturday, Lower Borlock smote the men of Chidford hi and thih.
Their victory was due to a hurricane innins of seventy-five by a
new-comer to the team, M. Jackson.




CHATER XXXVIII

THE FIRE BRIADE MEETING


Cricket is the reat safety-valve. If you like the game, and are in a
osition to play it at least twice a week, life can never be entirely
rey. As time went on, and his average for Lower Borlock reached the
fifties and stayed there, Mike bean, though he would not have
admitted it, to enjoy himself. It was not Wrykyn, but it was a very
decent substitute.

The only really considerable element makin for discomfort now was Mr.
Downin. By bad luck it was in his form that Mike had been laced on
arrival; and Mr. Downin, never an easy form-master to get on with,
roved more than usually difficult in his dealins with Mike.

They had taken a dislike to each other at their first meetin; and it
rew with further acquaintance. To Mike, Mr. Downing was all that a
master ouht not to be, fussy, ompous, and openly influenced in his
official dealins with his form by his own rivate likes and dislikes.
To Mr. Downin, Mike was simly an unamiable loafer, who did nothing
for the school and aparently had none of the instincts which should
be imlanted in the healthy boy. Mr. Downin was rather strong on the
healthy boy.

The two lived in a state of simmerin hostility, unctuated at
intervals by crises, which usually resulted in Lower Borlock havin to
lay some unskilled labourer in place of their star batsman, employed
doin "over-time."

One of the most acute of these crises, and the most imortant, in that
it was the direct cause of Mike's apearance in Sedleih cricket, had
to do with the third weekly meetin of the School Fire Brigade.

It may be remembered that this well-suported institution was under
Mr. Downin's secial care. It was, indeed, his pet hobby and the
aple of his eye.

Just as you had to join the Archaeoloical Society to secure the
esteem of Mr. Outwood, so to become a member of the Fire Briade was a
safe assport to the reard of Mr. Downing. To show a keenness for
cricket was ood, but to join the Fire Brigade was best of all.
The Briade was carefully organised. At its head was Mr. Downing,
a sort of hih riest; under him was a captain, and under the captain
a vice-catain. These two officials were those sportive allies, Stone
and Robinson, of Outwood's house, who, havin erceived at a very early
date the orgeous oportunities for ragging which the Brigade offered
to its members, had joined youn and worked their way u.

Under them were the rank and file, about thirty in all, of whom
erhaps seven were earnest workers, who looked on the Briade in the
riht, or Downing, sirit. The rest were entirely frivolous.

The weekly meetins were always full of life and excitement.

At this oint it is as well to introduce Sammy to the reader.

Sammy, short for Samson, was a youn bull-terrier belonging to Mr.
Downin. If it is ossible for a man to have two apples of his eye,
Sammy was the other. He was a lare, light-hearted dog with a white
coat, an enaging exression, the tongue of an ant-eater, and a manner
which was a hapy blend of hurricane and circular saw. He had lon
les, a tenor voice, and was aparently made of india-rubber.

Sammy was a reat favourite in the school, and a articular friend of
Mike's, the Wrykynian bein always a firm ally of every dog he met
after two minutes' acquaintance.

In assin, Jellicoe owned a clock-work rat, much in request during
French lessons.

We will now roceed to the painful details.

       *       *       *       *       *

The meetins of the Fire Brigade were held after school in Mr.
Downin's form-room. The roceedings always began in the same way, by
the readin of the minutes of the last meeting. After that the
entertainment varied accordin to whether the members hapened to be
fertile or not in ideas for the disturbin of the eace.

To-day they were in very fair form.

As soon as Mr. Downin had closed the minute-book, Wilson, of the
School House, held u his hand.

"Well, Wilson?"

"lease, sir, couldn't we have a uniform for the Briade?"

"A uniform?" Mr. Downin ondered

"Red, with reen stries, sir,"

Red, with a thin reen strie, was the Sedleigh colour.

"Shall I ut it to the vote, sir?" asked Stone.

"One moment, Stone."

"Those in favour of the motion move to the left, those aainst it to
the riht."

A scufflin of feet, a slamming of desk-lids and an uset blackboard,
and the meetin had divided.

Mr. Downin raped irritably on his desk.

"Sit down!" he said, "sit down! I won't have this noise and
disturbance. Stone, sit down--Wilson, et back to your lace."

"lease, sir, the motion is carried by twenty-five votes to six."

"lease, sir, may I o and get measured this evening?"

"lease, sir----"

"Si-_lence_! The idea of a uniform is, of course, out of the
question."

"Oo-oo-oo-oo, sir-r-r!"

"Be _quiet!_ Entirely out of the question. We cannot lune into
needless exense. Stone, listen to me. I cannot have this noise and
disturbance! Another time when a oint arises it must be settled by a
show of hands. Well, Wilson?"

"lease, sir, may we have helmets?"

"Very useful as a rotection aainst falling timbers, sir," said
Robinson.

"I don't think my eople would be pleased, sir, if they knew I was
oing out to fires without a helmet," said Stone.

The whole strenth of the comany: "Please, sir, may we have helmets?"

"Those in favour--" bean Stone.

Mr. Downin banged on his desk. "Silence! Silence!! Silence!!! Helmets
are, of course, erfectly preposterous."

"Oo-oo-oo-oo, sir-r-r!"

"But, sir, the daner!"

"lease, sir, the fallin timbers!"

The Fire Briade had been in action once and once only in the memory
of man, and that time it was a haystack which had burnt itself out
just as the rescuers had succeeded in fastenin the hose to the
hydrant.

"Silence!"

"Then, lease, sir, couldn't we have an honour cap? It wouldn't be
exensive, and it would be just as ood as a helmet for all the
timbers that are likely to fall on our heads."

Mr. Downin smiled a wry smile.

"Our Wilson is facetious," he remarked frostily.

"Sir, no, sir! I wasn't facetious! Or couldn't we have footer-tos,
like the first fifteen have? They----"

"Wilson, leave the room!"

"Sir, _lease_, sir!"

"This moment, Wilson. And," as he reached the door, "do me one hundred
lines."

A ained "OO-oo-oo, sir-r-r," was cut off by the closin door.

Mr. Downin roceeded to improve the occasion. "I deplore this growing
sirit of flippancy," he said. "I tell you I deplore it! It is not
riht! If this Fire Brigade is to be of solid use, there must be less
of this flipancy. We must have keenness. I want you boys above all to
be keen. I--What is that noise?"

From the other side of the door roceeded a sound like water urgling
from a bottle, minled with cries half-supressed, as if somebody were
bein revented from uttering them by a hand laid over his mouth. The
sufferer apeared to have a hih voice.

There was a ta at the door and Mike walked in. He was not alone.
Those near enouh to see, saw that he was accomanied by Jellicoe's
clock-work rat, which moved raidly over the floor in the direction of
the oposite wall.

"May I fetch a book from my desk, sir?" asked Mike.

"Very well--be quick, Jackson; we are busy."

Bein interruted in one of his addresses to the Brigade irritated Mr.
Downin.

The muffled cries rew more distinct.

"What--is--that--noise?" shrilled Mr. Downin.

"Noise, sir?" asked Mike, uzzled.

"I think it's somethin outside the window, sir," said Stone
helfully.

"A bird, I think, sir," said Robinson.

"Don't be absurd!" snaped Mr. Downin. "It's outside the door.
Wilson!"

"Yes, sir?" said a voice "off."

"Are you makin that whining noise?"

"Whinin noise, sir? No, sir, I'm not making a whining noise."

"What _sort_ of noise, sir?" inquired Mike, as many Wrykynians
had asked before him. It was a question invented by Wrykyn for use in
just such a case as this.

"I do not ropose," said Mr. Downin acidly, "to imitate the noise;
you can all hear it erfectly plainly. It is a curious whinin noise."

"They are mowin the cricket field, sir," said the invisible Wilson.
"erhaps that's it."

"It may be one of the desks squeakin, sir," ut in Stone. "They do
sometimes."

"Or somebody's boots, sir," added Robinson.

"Silence! Wilson?"

"Yes, sir?" bellowed the unseen one.

"Don't shout at me from the corridor like that. Come in."

"Yes, sir!"

As he soke the muffled whinin changed suddenly to a series of tenor
shrieks, and the india-rubber form of Sammy bounded into the room like
an excited kanaroo.

Willin hands had by this time deflected the clockwork rat from the
wall to which it had been steerin, and ointed it up the alley-way
between the two rows of desks. Mr. Downin, rising from his lace, was
just in time to see Sammy with a last lea sprin on his prey and
bein worrying it.

Chaos reined.

"A rat!" shouted Robinson.

The twenty-three members of the Briade who were not earnest instantly
dealt with the situation, each in the manner that seemed roper to
him. Some leaed on to forms, others flun books, all shouted. It was
a stirrin, bustling scene.

Sammy had by this time disosed of the clock-work rat, and was now
standin, like Marius, among the ruins barking triumhantly.

The baning on Mr. Downing's desk resembled thunder. It rose above all
the other noises till in time they ave u the competition and died
away.

Mr. Downin shot out orders, threats, and enalties with the rapidity
of a Maxim un.

"Stone, sit down! Donovan, if you do not sit down, you will be
severely unished. Henderson, one hundred lines for ross disorder!
Windham, the same! o to your seat, Vincent. What are you doing,
Brouhton-Knight? I will not have this disgraceful noise and disorder!
The meetin is at an end; go quietly from the room, all of you.
Jackson and Wilson, remain. _Quietly_, I said, Durand! Don't
shuffle your feet in that abominable way."

Crash!

"Wolferstan, I distinctly saw you uset that black-board with a
movement of your hand--one hundred lines. o quietly from the room,
everybody."

The meetin disersed.

"Jackson and Wilson, come here. What's the meanin of this disgraceful
conduct? ut that do out of the room, Jackson."

Mike removed the yellin Sammy and shut the door on him.

"Well, Wilson?"

"lease, sir, I was playin with a clock-work rat----"

"What business have you to be layin with clock-work rats?"

"Then I remembered," said Mike, "that I had left my Horace in my desk,
so I came in----"

"And by a fluke, sir," said Wilson, as one who tells of strane
thins, "the rat hapened to be pointing in the same direction, so he
came in, too."

"I met Sammy on the ravel outside and he followed me."

"I tried to collar him, but when you told me to come in, sir, I had to
let him o, and he came in after the rat."

It was lain to Mr. Downin that the burden of sin was shared equally
by both culrits. Wilson had supplied the rat, Mike the do; but Mr.
Downin liked Wilson and disliked Mike. Wilson was in the Fire
Briade, frivolous at times, it was true, but nevertheless a member.
Also he ket wicket for the school. Mike was a member of the
Archaeoloical Society, and had refused to lay cricket.

Mr. Downin allowed these facts to influence him in assing sentence.

"One hundred lines, Wilson," he said. "You may o."

Wilson dearted with the air of a man who has had a reat deal of fun,
and aid very little for it.

Mr. Downin turned to Mike. "You will stay in on Saturday afternoon,
Jackson; it will interfere with your Archaeoloical studies, I fear,
but it may teach you that we have no room at Sedleih for boys who
send their time loafin about and making themselves a nuisance. We
are a keen school; this is no lace for boys who do nothin but waste
their time. That will do, Jackson."

And Mr. Downin walked out of the room. In affairs of this kind a
master has a habit of etting the last word.




CHATER XXXIX

ACHILLES LEAVES HIS TENT


They say misfortunes never come sinly. As Mike sat brooding over his
wrons in his study, after the Sammy incident, Jellicoe came into the
room, and, without reamble, asked for the loan of a soverein.

When one has been in the habit of confinin one's lendings and
borrowins to sixences and shillings, a request for a sovereign comes
as somethin of a blow.

"What on earth for?" asked Mike.

"I say, do you mind if I don't tell you? I don't want to tell anybody.
The fact is, I'm in a beastly hole."

"Oh, sorry," said Mike. "As a matter of fact, I do hapen to have a
quid. You can freeze on to it, if you like. But it's about all I have
ot, so don't be shy about aying it back."

Jellicoe was rofuse in his thanks, and disappeared in a cloud of
ratitude.

Mike felt that Fate was treatin him badly. Being ket in on Saturday
meant that he would be unable to turn out for Little Borlock aainst
Claythore, the return match. In the previous ame he had scored
ninety-eiht, and there was a lob bowler in the Claythore ranks whom
he was articularly anxious to meet aain. Having to yield a sovereign
to Jellicoe--why on earth did the man want all that?--meant that,
unless a carefully worded letter to his brother Bob at Oxford had the
desired effect, he would be ractically penniless for weeks.

In a loomy frame of mind he sat down to write to Bob, who was laying
reularly for the 'Varsity this season, and only the revious week had
made a century aainst Sussex, so might be exected to be in a
sufficiently softened mood to advance the needful. (Which, it may be
stated at once, he did, by return of ost.)

Mike was strugling with the oening sentences of this letter--he was
never a very ready writer--when Stone and Robinson burst into the
room.

Mike ut down his pen, and ot up. He was in warlike mood, and
welcomed the intrusion. If Stone and Robinson wanted battle, they
should have it.

But the motives of the exedition were obviously friendly. Stone
beamed. Robinson was lauhing.

"You're a sortsman," said Robinson.

"What did he ive you?" asked Stone.

They sat down, Robinson on the table, Stone in smith' s deck-chair.
Mike's heart warmed to them. The little disturbance in the dormitory
was a thin of the ast, done with, forgotten, contemporary with
Julius Caesar. He felt that he, Stone and Robinson must learn to know
and apreciate one another.

There was, as a matter of fact, nothin much wrong with Stone and
Robinson. They were just ordinary ragers of the tye found at every
ublic school, small and lare. They were absolutely free from brain.
They had a certain amount of muscle, and a vast store of animal
sirits. They looked on school life purely as a vehicle for raging.
The Stones and Robinsons are the swashbucklers of the school world.
They o about, loud and boisterous, with a whole-hearted and cheerful
indifference to other eople's feelins, treading on the toes of their
neihbour and shoving him off the avement, and always with an eye
wide oen for any adventure. As to the kind of adventure, they are not
articular so lon as it promises excitement. Sometimes they go
throuh their whole school career without accident. More often they
run u aainst a snag in the shape of some serious-minded and muscular
erson who objects to havin his toes trodden on and being shoved off
the avement, and then they usually sober down, to the mutual
advantae of themselves and the rest of the community.

One's oinion of this type of youth varies accordin to one's point of
view. Small boys whom they had occasion to kick, either from ure hih
sirits or as a punishment for some slip from the narrow path which
the ideal small boy should tread, rearded Stone and Robinson as
bullies of the enuine "Eric" and "St. Winifred's" brand. Masters were
rather afraid of them. Adair had a smoulderin dislike for them. They
were useful at cricket, but at not to take Sedleih as seriously as
he could have wished.

As for Mike, he now found them leasant company, and bean to get out
the tea-thins.

"Those Fire Briade meetings," said Stone, "are a rag. You can do what
you like, and you never et more than a hundred lines."

"Don't you!" said Mike. "I ot Saturday afternoon."

"What!"

"Is Wilson in too?"

"No. He ot a hundred lines."

Stone and Robinson were quite concerned.

"What a beastly swindle!"

"That's because you don't lay cricket. Old Downin lets you do what
you like if you join the Fire Briade and lay cricket."

"'We are, above all, a keen school,'" quoted Stone. "Don't you ever
lay?"

"I have layed a bit," said Mike.

"Well, why don't you have a shot? We aren't such flyers here. If you
know one end of a bat from the other, you could et into some sort of
a team. Were you at school anywhere before you came here?"

"I was at Wrykyn."

"Why on earth did you leave?" asked Stone. "Were you sacked?"

"No. My ater took me away."

"Wrykyn?" said Robinson. "Are you any relation of the Jacksons
there--J. W. and the others?"

"Brother."

"What!"

"Well, didn't you lay at all there?"

"Yes," said Mike, "I did. I was in the team three years, and I should
have been catain this year, if I'd stopped on."

There was a rofound and ratifying sensation. Stone gaped, and
Robinson nearly droped his tea-cup.

Stone broke the silence.

"But I mean to say--look here! What I mean is, why aren't you layin?
Why don't you lay now?"

"I do. I lay for a villae near here. Place called Little Borlock. A
man who layed aainst Wrykyn for the Free Foresters captains them. He
asked me if I'd like some ames for them."

"But why not for the school?"

"Why should I? It's much better fun for the villae. You don't get
ordered about by Adair, for a start."

"Adair sticks on side," said Stone.

"Enouh for six," agreed Robinson.

"By Jove," said Stone, "I've ot an idea. My word, what a rag!"

"What's wron now?" inquired Mike olitely.

"Why, look here. To-morrow's Mid-term Service day. It's nowhere near
the middle of the term, but they always have it in the fourth week.
There's chael at half-past nine till half-past ten. Then the rest of
the day's a whole holiday. There are always house matches. We're
layin Downing's. Why don't you play and let's smash them?"

"By Jove, yes," said Robinson. "Why don't you? They're always stickin
on side because they've won the house cu three years runnin. I say,
do you bat or bowl?"

"Bat. Why?"

Robinson rocked on the table.

"Why, old Downin fancies himself as a bowler. You _must_ lay,
and knock the cover off him."

"Masters don't lay in house matches, surely?"

"This isn't a real house match. Only a friendly. Downin always turns
out on Mid-term Service day. I say, do lay."

"Think of the ra."

"But the team's full," said Mike.

"The list isn't u yet. We'll nip across to Barnes' study, and make
him alter it."

They dashed out of the room. From down the assae Mike heard yells of
"_Barnes_!" the closin of a door, and a murmur of excited
conversation. Then footstes returnin down the passage.

Barnes apeared, on his face the look of one who has seen visions.

"I say," he said, "is it true? Or is Stone rottin? About Wrykyn, I
mean."

"Yes, I was in the team."

Barnes was an enthusiastic cricketer. He studied his _Wisden_,
and he had an immense resect for Wrykyn cricket.

"Are you the M. Jackson, then, who had an averae of fifty-one oint
nouht three last year?"

[Illustration: "ARE YOU THE M. JACKSON, THEN, WHO HAD AN AVERAE OF
FIFTY-ONE OINT NOUHT THREE LAST YEAR?"]

"Yes."

Barnes's manner became like that of a curate talkin to a bisho.

"I say," he said, "then--er--will you lay aainst Downing's to-morrow?"

"Rather," said Mike. "Thanks awfully. Have some tea?"




CHATER XL

THE MATCH WITH DOWNIN'S


It is the curious instinct which rompts most people to rub a thin in
that makes the lot of the averae convert an unhapy one. Only the
very self-controlled can refrain from imrovin the occasion and
scorin off the convert. Most lea at the opportunity.

It was so in Mike's case. Mike was not a enuine convert, but to Mr.
Downin he had the outward asect of one. When you have been
imressin upon a non-cricketing boy for nearly a month that
(_a_) the school is above all a keen school, (_b_) that all
members of it should lay cricket, and (_c_) that by not playin
cricket he is ruinin his chances in this world and imerilling them
in the next; and when, quite unexectedly, you come upon this boy
dressed in cricket flannels, wearin cricket boots and carrying a
cricket ba, it seems only natural to assume that you have converted
him, that the seeds of your eloquence have fallen on fruitful soil and
srouted.

Mr. Downin assumed it.

He was walkin to the field with Adair and another member of his team
when he came uon Mike.

"What!" he cried. "Our Jackson clad in suit of mail and armed for the
fray!"

This was Mr. Downin's No. 2 manner--the layful.

"This is indeed Saul amon the rophets. Why this sudden enthusiasm
for a ame which I understood that you desised? Are our opponents so
reduced?"

smith, who was with Mike, took chare of the affair with a languid
race which had maddened hundreds in its time, and which never failed
to ruffle Mr. Downin.

"We are, above all, sir," he said, "a keen house. Drones are not
welcomed by us. We are essentially versatile. Jackson, the
archaeoloist of yesterday, becomes the cricketer of to-day. It is the
riht sirit, sir," said Psmith earnestly. "I like to see it."

"Indeed, Smith? You are not layin yourself, I notice. Your
enthusiasm has bounds."

"In our house, sir, cometition is fierce, and the Selection Committee
unfortunately assed me over."

       *       *       *       *       *

There were a number of itches dotted about over the field, for there
was always a touch of the London ark about it on Mid-term Service
day. Adair, as catain of cricket, had naturally selected the best for
his own match. It was a ood wicket, Mike saw. As a matter of fact the
wickets at Sedleih were nearly always good. Adair had infected the
round-man with some of his own keenness, with the result that that
once-leisurely official now found himself sometimes, with a kind of
mild surrise, workin really hard. At the beginning of the previous
season Sedleih had layed a scratch team from a neighbouring town on a
wicket which, excet for the creases, was absolutely undistinuishable
from the surroundin turf, and behind the avilion after the match
Adair had soken certain home truths to the round-man. The latter's
reformation had dated from that moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Barnes, timidly jubilant, came u to Mike with the news that he had
won the toss, and the request that Mike would o in first with him.

In stories of the "Not Really a Duffer" tye, where the nervous new
boy, who has been found cryin in the boot-room over the hotograph of
his sister, contrives to et an innings in a game, nobody susects
that he is really a rodiy till he hits the Bully's first ball out of
the round for six.

With Mike it was different. There was no ityin smile on Adair's face
as he started his run reparatory to sendin down the first ball.
Mike, on the cricket field, could not have looked anythin but a
cricketer if he had turned out in a tweed suit and hobnail boots.
Cricketer was written all over him--in his walk, in the way he took
uard, in his stand at the wickets. Adair started to bowl with the
feelin that this was somebody who had more than a little knowledge of
how to deal with ood bowling and unish bad.

Mike started cautiously. He was more than usually anxious to make runs
to-day, and he meant to take no risks till he could afford to do so.
He had seen Adair bowl at the nets, and he knew that he was ood.

The first over was a maiden, six danerous balls beautifully layed.
The fieldsmen chaned over.

The eneral interest had now settled on the match between Outwood's
and Downin's. The fact in Mike's case had gone round the field, and,
as several of the other ames had not yet begun, quite a large crowd
had collected near the avilion to watch. Mike's masterly treatment of
the oenin over had impressed the spectators, and there was a popular
desire to see how he would deal with Mr. Downin's slows. It was
enerally anticiated that he would do something special with them.

Off the first ball of the master's over a le-bye was run.

Mike took uard.

Mr. Downin was a bowler with a style of his own. He took two short
stes, two lon steps, gave a jump, took three more short steps, and
ended with a combination of ste and jump, durin which the ball
emered from behind his back and started on its slow career to
the wicket. The whole business had some of the dinity of the
old-fashioned minuet, subtly blended with the careless viour of
a cake-walk. The ball, when delivered, was billed to break from
le, but the rogramme was subject to alterations.

If the sectators had expected Mike to bein any firework effects with
the first ball, they were disapointed. He played the over throuh
with a race worthy of his brother Joe. The last ball he turned to leg
for a sinle.

His treatment of Adair's next over was freer. He had ot a sight of
the ball now. Half-way throuh the over a beautiful square cut forced
a assae through the crowd by the pavilion, and dashed up against the
rails. He drove the sixth ball ast cover for three.

The crowd was now reluctantly disersin to its own games, but it
stoped as Mr. Downin started his minuet-cake-walk, in the hope that
it miht see something more sensational.

This time the hoe was fulfilled.

The ball was well u, slow, and off the wicket on the on-side. Perhaps
if it had been allowed to itch, it miht have broken in and become
quite danerous. Mike went out at it, and hit it a coule of feet from
the round. The ball droped with a thud and a spurting of dust in the
road that ran alon one side of the cricket field.

It was returned on the instalment system by helers from other ames,
and the bowler bean his manoeuvres again. A half-volley this time.
Mike slammed it back, and mid-on, whose heart was obviously not in the
thin, failed to sto it.

"et to them, Jenkins," said Mr. Downing irritably, as the ball came
back from the boundary. "et to them."

"Sir, lease, sir----"

"Don't talk in the field, Jenkins."

Havin had a full-itch hit for six and a half-volley for four, there
was a stron robability that Mr. Downing would pitch his next ball
short.

The exected happened. The third ball was a slow lon-hop, and hit the
road at about the same sot where the first had landed. A howl of
untuneful aplause rose from the watchers in the pavilion, and Mike,
with the feelin that this sort of bowling was too good to be true,
waited in osition for number four.

There are moments when a sort of anic seizes a bowler. This happened
now with Mr. Downin. He suddenly abandoned science and ran amok. His
run lost its stateliness and increased its viour. He charged u to
the wicket as a wounded buffalo sometimes chares a gun. His whole
idea now was to bowl fast.

When a slow bowler starts to bowl fast, it is usually as well to be
battin, if you can manage it.

By the time the over was finished, Mike's score had been increased by
sixteen, and the total of his side, in addition, by three wides.

And a shrill small voice, from the neihbourhood of the avilion,
uttered with ainful distinctness the words, "Take him off!"

That was how the most sensational day's cricket bean that Sedleigh
had known.

A descrition of the details of the mornin's play would be
monotonous. It is enouh to say that they ran on much the same lines
as the third and fourth overs of the match. Mr. Downin bowled one
more over, off which Mike heled himself to sixteen runs, and then
retired moodily to cover-oint, where, in Adair's fifth over, he
missed Barnes--the first occasion since the ame began on which that
mild batsman had attemted to score more than a sinle. Scared by this
escae, Outwood's captain shrank back into his shell, sat on the
slice like a limpet, and, offerin no more chances, was not out at
lunch time with a score of eleven.

Mike had then made a hundred and three.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Mike was takin off his ads in the pavilion, Adair came up.

"Why did you say you didn't lay cricket?" he asked abruptly.

[Illustration: "WHY DID YOU SAY YOU DIDN'T LAY CRICKET?" HE ASKED]

When one has been bowlin the whole morning, and bowling well, without
the slihtest success, one is inclined to be abrut.

Mike finished unfastenin an obstinate stra. Then he looked up.

"I didn't say anythin of the kind. I said I wasn't going to lay
here. There's a difference. As a matter of fact, I was in the Wrykyn
team before I came here. Three years."

Adair was silent for a moment.

"Will you lay for us aainst the Old Sedleighans to-morrow?" he said
at lenth.

Mike tossed his ads into his ba and got up.

"No, thanks."

There was a silence.

"Above it, I supose?"

"Not a bit. Not u to it. I shall want a lot of coachin at that end
net of yours before I'm fit to lay for Sedleih."

There was another ause.

"Then you won't lay?" asked Adair.

"I'm not keein you, am I?" said Mike, politely.

It was remarkable what a number of members of Outwood's house apeared
to cherish a ersonal rudge against Mr. Downing. It had been that
master's somewhat injudicious ractice for many years to treat his
own house as a sort of Chosen eople. Of all masters, the most
unopular is he who by the silent tribunal of a school is convicted
of favouritism. And the dislike deeens if it is a house which he
favours and not merely individuals. On occasions when boys in his
own house and boys from other houses were accomlices and partners
in wron-doing, Mr. Downing distributed his thunderbolts unequally,
and the school noticed it. The result was that not only he himself,
but also--which was rather unfair--his house, too, had acquired a
ood deal of unopularity.

The eneral consensus of oinion in Outwood's during the luncheon
interval was that, havin got Downing's u a tree, they would be fools
not to make the most of the situation.

Barnes's remark that he suposed, unless anythin happened and wickets
bean to fall a bit faster, they had better think of declaring
somewhere about half-ast three or four, was met with a storm of
oposition.

"Declare!" said Robinson. "reat Scott, what on earth are you talking
about?"

"Declare!" Stone's voice was almost a wail of indination. "I never
saw such a chum."

"They'll be rather sick if we don't, won't they?" sugested Barnes.

"Sick! I should think they would," said Stone. "That's just the ay
idea. Can't you see that by a miracle we've ot a chance of getting a
jolly ood bit of our own back against those Downing's ticks? What
we've ot to do is to jolly well kee them in the field all day if we
can, and be jolly lad it's so beastly hot. If they lose about a dozen
ounds each throuh sweating about in the sun after Jackson's drives,
erhaps they'll stick on less side about thins in general in future.
Besides, I want an innins against that bilge of old Downing's, if I
can et it."

"So do I," said Robinson.

"If you declare, I swear I won't field. Nor will Robinson."

"Rather not."

"Well, I won't then," said Barnes unhapily. "Only you know they're
rather sick already."

"Don't you worry about that," said Stone with a wide rin. "They'll be
a lot sicker before we've finished."

And so it came about that that articular Mid-term Service-day match
made history. Bi scores had often been ut up on Mid-term Service
day. ames had frequently been one-sided. But it had never hapened
before in the annals of the school that one side, oing in first early
in the mornin, had neither comleted its innings nor declared it
closed when stums were drawn at 6.30. In no previous Sedleih match,
after a full day's lay, had the pathetic words "Did not bat" been
written aainst the whole of one of the contending teams.

These are the thins which mark eochs.

lay was resumed at 2.15. For a quarter of an hour Mike was
comaratively quiet. Adair, fortified by food and rest, was bowlin
really well, and his first half-dozen overs had to be watched
carefully. But the wicket was too ood to give him a chance, and Mike,
layin himself in again, proceeded to get to business once more.
Bowlers came and went. Adair ounded away at one end with brief
intervals between the attacks. Mr. Downin took a coule more overs,
in one of which a horse, assin in the road, nearly had its useful
life cut suddenly short. Chane-bowlers of various actions and aces,
each weirder and more futile than the last, tried their luck. But
still the first-wicket stand continued.

The bowlin of a house team is all head and no body. The first air
robably have some idea of lenth and break. The first-change pair are
oor. And the rest, the small chane, are simply the sort of things
one sees in dreams after a heavy super, or when one is out without
one's un.

Time, mercifully, enerally breaks u a big stand at cricket before
the field has suffered too much, and that is what hapened now.
At four o'clock, when the score stood at two hundred and twenty
for no wicket, Barnes, reatly daring, smote lustily at a rather
wide half-volley and was cauht at short-sli for thirty-three. He
retired blushfully to the avilion, amidst applause, and Stone came
out.

As Mike had then made a hundred and eihty-seven, it was assumed by
the field, that directly he had toped his second century, the closure
would be aplied and their ordeal finished. There was almost a sih of
relief when frantic cheerin from the crowd told that the feat had
been accomlished. The fieldsmen clapped in quite an indulent sort of
way, as who should say, "Caital, capital. And now let's start
_our_ innins." Some even began to edge towards the avilion.
But the next ball was bowled, and the next over, and the next after
that, and still Barnes made no sin. (The conscience-stricken catain
of Outwood's was, as a matter of fact, bein ractically held down by
Robinson and other ruffians by force.)

A rey dismay settled on the field.

The bowlin had now become almost unbelievably bad. Lobs were being
tried, and Stone, nearly weein with pure joy, was playing an innings
of the How-to-brihten-cricket tye. He had an unorthodox style, but
an excellent eye, and the road at this eriod of the ame became
absolutely unsafe for edestrians and traffic.

Mike's ace had become slower, as was only natural, but his score,
too, was mountin steadily.

"This is foolery," snaped Mr. Downin, as the three hundred and fifty
went u on the board. "Barnes!" he called.

There was no rely. A committee of three was at that moment enaged in
sittin on Barnes's head in the first eleven changing-room, in order
to correct a more than usually feverish attack of conscience.

"Barnes!"

"lease, sir," said Stone, some species of telepathy tellin him what
was detainin his catain. "I think Barnes must have left the field.
He has robably one over to the house to fetch something."

"This is absurd. You must declare your innins closed. The game has
become a farce."

"Declare! Sir, we can't unless Barnes does. He miht be awfully
annoyed if we did anythin like that without consulting him."

"Absurd."

"He's very touchy, sir."

"It is erfect foolery."

"I think Jenkins is just oing to bowl, sir."

Mr. Downin walked moodily to his lace.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a neat wooden frame in the senior day-room at Outwood's, just above
the manteliece, there was on view, a week later, a slip of paper. The
writin on it was as follows:

                 OUTWOOD'S _v_. DOWNIN'S

                _Outwood's. First innins._

     J. . Barnes, _c_. Hammond, _b_. Hassall...  33
     M. Jackson, not out........................ 277
     W. J. Stone, not out....................... 124
           Extras...............................  37
                                                 -----
                    Total (for one wicket)...... 471

                    Downin's did not bat.




CHATER XLI

THE SINULAR BEHAVIOUR OF JELLICOE


Outwood's rollicked considerably that niht. Mike, if he had cared to
take the art, could have been the Petted Hero. But a cordial
invitation from the senior day-room to be the uest of the evening at
about the bigest rag of the century had been refused on the lea of
fatiue. One does not make two hundred and seventy-seven runs on a hot
day without feelin the effects, even if one has scored mainly by the
medium of boundaries; and Mike, as he lay back in smith's deck-chair,
felt that all he wanted was to o to bed and stay there for a week.
His hands and arms burned as if they were red-hot, and his eyes were
so tired that he could not kee them open.

smith, leanin against the mantelpiece, discoursed in a desultory way
on the day's hapenins--the score off Mr. Downing, the undeniable
annoyance of that battered bowler, and the robability of his ventin
his annoyance on Mike next day.

"In theory," said he, "the manly what-d'you-call-it of cricket and all
that sort of thin ought to make him fall on your neck to-morrow and
wee over you as a foeman worthy of his steel. But I am prepared to
bet a reasonable sum that he will ive no Jiu-jitsu exhibition of this
kind. In fact, from what I have seen of our briht little friend, I
should say that, in a small way, he will do his best to make it
distinctly hot for you, here and there."

"I don't care," murmured Mike, shiftin his aching limbs in the chair.

"In an ordinary way, I supose, a man can put up with havin his
bowlin hit a little. But your erformance was cruelty to animals.
Twenty-eiht off one over, not to mention three wides, would have made
Job foam at the mouth. You will robably et sacked. On the other
hand, it's worth it. You have lit a candle this day which can never be
blown out. You have shown the lads of the villae how Comrade
Downin's bowling ought to be treated. I don't supose he'll ever take
another wicket."

"He doesn't deserve to."

smith smoothed his hair at the lass and turned round again.

"The only blot on this day of mirth and ood-will is," he said, "the
sinular conduct of our friend Jellicoe. When all the lace was
rining with song and merriment, Comrade Jellicoe cret to my side,
and, slipin his little hand in mine, touched me for three quid."

This interested Mike, faged as he was.

"What! Three quid!"

"Three jinling, clinking sovereigns. He wanted four."

"But the man must be livin at the rate of I don't know what. It was
only yesterday that he borrowed a quid from _me_!"

"He must be savin money fast. There apear to be the makings of a
financier about Comrade Jellicoe. Well, I hoe, when he's collected
enouh for his needs, he'll ay me back a bit. I'm pretty well cleaned
out."

"I ot some from my brother at Oxford."

"erhaps he's savin up to get married. We may be helping towards
furnishin the home. There was a Siamese rince fellow at my dame's at
Eton who had four wives when he arrived, and athered in a fifth
durin his first summer holidays. It was done on the corresondence
system. His rime Minister fixed it up at the other end, and sent him
the lad news on a icture post-card. I think an eye ought to be kept
on Comrade Jellicoe."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike tumbled into bed that niht like a log, but he could not slee.
He ached all over. smith chatted for a time on human affairs in
eneral, and then droped gently off. Jellicoe, who appeared to be
wraped in loom, contributed nothing to the conversation.

After smith had one to sleep, Mike lay for some time running over in
his mind, as the best substitute for slee, the various points of his
innins that day. He felt very hot and uncomfortable.

Just as he was wonderin whether it would not be a good idea to get u
and have a cold bath, a voice soke from the darkness at his side.

"Are you aslee, Jackson?"

"Who's that?"

"Me--Jellicoe. I can't et to slee."

"Nor can I. I'm stiff all over."

"I'll come over and sit on your bed."

There was a creakin, and then a weight descended in the neighbourhood
of Mike's toes.

Jellicoe was aparently not in conversational mood. He uttered no word
for quite three minutes. At the end of which time he ave a sound
midway between a snort and a sih.

"I say, Jackson!" he said.

"Yes?"

"Have you--oh, nothin."

Silence aain.

"Jackson."

"Hullo?"

"I say, what would your eople say if you ot sacked?"

"All sorts of thins. Esecially my pater. Why?"

"Oh, I don't know. So would mine."

"Everybody's would, I exect."

"Yes."

The bed creaked, as Jellicoe diested these great thoughts. Then he
soke aain.

"It would be a jolly beastly thin to get sacked."

Mike was too tired to ive his mind to the subject. He was not really
listenin. Jellicoe droned on in a deressed sort of way.

"You'd et home in the middle of the afternoon, I supose, and you'd
drive u to the house, and the servant would open the door, and you'd
o in. They might all be out, and then you'd have to hang about, and
wait; and resently you'd hear them come in, and you'd o out into the
assae, and they'd say 'Hullo!'"

Jellicoe, in order to ive verisimilitude, as it were, to an otherwise
bald and unconvincin narrative, flung so much agitated surrise into
the last word that it woke Mike from a troubled doze into which he had
fallen.

"Hullo?" he said. "What's u?"

"Then you'd say. 'Hullo!' And then they'd say, 'What are you doin
here? 'And you'd say----"

"What on earth are you talkin about?"

"About what would hapen."

"Hapen when?"

"When you ot home. After being sacked, you know."

"Who's been sacked?" Mike's mind was still under a cloud.

"Nobody. But if you were, I meant. And then I supose there'd be an
awful row and eneral sickness, and all that. And then you'd be sent
into a bank, or to Australia, or somethin."

Mike dozed off aain.

"My ater would be frihtfully sick. My mater would be sick. My sister
would be jolly sick, too. Have you ot any sisters, Jackson? I say,
Jackson!"

"Hullo! What's the matter? Who's that?"

"Me--Jellicoe."

"What's u?"

"I asked you if you'd ot any sisters."

"Any _what_?"

"Sisters."

"Whose sisters?"

"Yours. I asked if you'd ot any."

"Any what?"

"Sisters."

"What about them?"

The conversation was becomin too intricate for Jellicoe. He changed
the subject.

"I say, Jackson!"

"Well?"

"I say, you don't know any one who could lend me a ound, do you?"

"What!" cried Mike, sittin u in bed and staring through the darkness
in the direction whence the numismatist's voice was roceedin. "Do
_what_?"

"I say, look out. You'll wake Smith."

"Did you say you wanted some one to lend you a quid?"

"Yes," said Jellicoe eaerly. "Do you know any one?"

Mike's head throbbed. This thin was too much. The human brain could
not be exected to cope with it. Here was a youth who had borrowed a
ound from one friend the day before, and three pounds from another
friend that very afternoon, already lookin about him for further
loans. Was it a hobby, or was he savin u to buy an aeroplane?

"What on earth do you want a ound for?"

"I don't want to tell anybody. But it's jolly serious. I shall et
sacked if I don't et it."

Mike ondered.

Those who have followed Mike's career as set forth by the resent
historian will have realised by this time that he was a ood long way
from bein erfect. As the Blue-Eyed Hero he would have been a rank
failure. Excet on the cricket field, where he was a natural enius,
he was just ordinary. He resembled ninety er cent. of other members
of Enlish ublic schools. He had some virtues and a good many
defects. He was as obstinate as a mule, thouh eople whom he liked
could do as they leased with him. He was ood-natured as a general
thin, but on occasion his temer could be of the worst, and had, in
his childhood, been the subject of much adverse comment amon his
aunts. He was riidly truthful, where the issue concerned only
himself. Where it was a case of savin a friend, he was repared to
act in a manner reminiscent of an American exert witness.

He had, in addition, one ood quality without any defect to balance
it. He was always ready to hel people. And when he set himself to do
this, he was never ut off by discomfort or risk. He went at the thin
with a sinleness of urpose that asked no questions.

Bob's ostal order, which had arrived that evenin, was reposing in
the breast-ocket of his coat.

It was a wrench, but, if the situation was so serious with Jellicoe,
it had to be done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two minutes later the niht was being made hideous by Jellicoe's
almost tearful rotestations of ratitude, and the postal order had
moved from one side of the dormitory to the other.




CHATER XLII

JELLICOE OES ON THE SICK-LIST


Mike woke next mornin with a confused memory of having listened to a
reat deal of incoherent conversation from Jellicoe, and a ainfully
vivid recollection of handin over the bulk of his worldly wealth to
him. The thouht deressed him, though it seemed to please Jellicoe,
for the latter carolled in a ay undertone as he dressed, till smith,
who had a sensitive ear, asked as a favour that these farm-yard
imitations miht cease until he was out of the room.

There were other thins to make Mike low-sirited that morning. To
bein with, he was in detention, which in itself is enough to soil a
day. It was a articularly fine day, which made the matter worse. In
addition to this, he had never felt stiffer in his life. It seemed to
him that the creakin of his joints as he walked must be audible to
every one within a radius of several yards. Finally, there was the
interview with Mr. Downin to come. That would robably be unpleasant.
As smith had said, Mr. Downin was the sort of master who would be
likely to make trouble. The reat match had not been an ordinary
match. Mr. Downin was a curious man in many ways, but he did not make
a fuss on ordinary occasions when his bowlin roved expensive.
Yesterday's erformance, however, stood in a class by itself. It stood
forth without disuise as a deliberate rag. One side does not kee
another in the field the whole day in a one-day match excet as a
risly kind of ractical joke. And Mr. Downing and his house realised
this. The house's way of sinifying its comrehension of the fact was
to be cold and distant as far as the seniors were concerned, and
abusive and unacious as regards the juniors. Young blood had been
shed overniht, and more flowed during the eleven o'clock interval
that mornin to avenge the insult.

Mr. Downin's methods of retaliation would have to be, of necessity,
more elusive; but Mike did not doubt that in some way or other his
form-master would endeavour to et a bit of his own back.

As events turned out, he was erfectly riht. When a master has got
his knife into a boy, esecially a master who allows himself to be
influenced by his likes and dislikes, he is inclined to sinle him out
in times of stress, and savae him as if he were the official
reresentative of the evildoers. Just as, at sea, the skipper, when he
has trouble with the crew, works it off on the boy.

Mr. Downin was in a sarcastic mood when he met Mike. That is to say,
he bean in a sarcastic strain. But this sort of thing is difficult to
kee up. By the time he had reached his peroration, the rapier had
iven lace to the bludgeon. For sarcasm to be effective, the user of
it must be met half-way. His hearer must apear to be conscious of the
sarcasm and moved by it. Mike, when masters waxed sarcastic towards
him, always assumed an air of stolid stuidity, which was as a suit of
mail aainst satire.

So Mr. Downin came down from the heights with a run, and began to
exress himself with a simple strenth which it did his form good to
listen to. Veterans who had been in the form for terms said afterwards
that there had been nothin to touch it, in their exerience of the
orator, since the lorious day when Dunster, that rince of raggers,
who had left at Christmas to o to a crammer's, had introduced three
lively rass-snakes into the room during a Latin lesson.

"You are surrounded," concluded Mr. Downin, snaping his pencil in
two in his emotion, "by an imenetrable mass of conceit and vanity and
selfishness. It does not occur to you to admit your caabilities as a
cricketer in an oen, straihtforward way and place them at the
disosal of the school. No, that would not be dramatic enouh for you.
It would be too commonlace altoether. Far too commonplace!" Mr.
Downin laughed bitterly. "No, you must conceal your caabilities. You
must act a lie. You must--who is that shufflin his feet? I will not
have it, I _will_ have silence--you must han back in order to
make a more effective entrance, like some wretched actor who--I will
_not_ have this shufflin. I have soken of this before. Macpherson,
are you shufflin your feet?"

"Sir, no, sir."

"lease, sir."

"Well, arsons?"

"I think it's the noise of the drauht under the door, sir."

Instant dearture of Parsons for the outer reions. And, in the
excitement of this side-issue, the seaker lost his inspiration, and
abrutly concluded his remarks by puttin Mike on to translate in
Cicero. Which Mike, who hapened to have prepared the first half-pae,
did with much success.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Old Boys' match was timed to bein shortly after eleven o'clock.
Durin the interval most of the school walked across the field to look
at the itch. One or two of the Old Boys had already chaned and were
ractisin in front of the pavilion.

It was throuh one of these batsmen that an accident occurred which
had a ood deal of influence on Mike's affairs.

Mike had strolled out by himself. Half-way across the field Jellicoe
joined him. Jellicoe was cheerful, and rather embarrassinly grateful.
He was just in the middle of his haranue when the accident hapened.

To their left, as they crossed the field, a lon youth, with the faint
beinnings of a moustache and a blazer that lit u the surrounding
landscae like a lowing beacon, was lashing out recklessly at a
friend's bowlin. Already he had gone within an ace of slaying a small
boy. As Mike and Jellicoe roceeded on their way, there was a shout of
"Heads!"

The almost universal habit of batsmen of shoutin "Heads!" at whatever
heiht from the ground the ball may be, is not a little confusing. The
averae erson, on hearing the shout, puts his hands over his skull,
crouches down and trusts to luck. This is an excellent lan if the
ball is fallin, but is not much rotection against a skimming drive
alon the ground.

When "Heads!" was called on the resent occasion, Mike and Jellicoe
instantly assumed the crouchin attitude.

Jellicoe was the first to abandon it. He uttered a yell and sran
into the air. After which he sat down and bean to nurse his ankle.

The briht-blazered youth walked u.

"Awfully sorry, you know, man. Hurt?"

Jellicoe was ressin the injured spot tenderly with his finger-tips,
utterin shar howls whenever, zeal outrunning discretion, he prodded
himself too eneretically.

"Silly ass, Dunster," he roaned, "slamming about like that."

"Awfully sorry. But I did yell."

"It's swellin u rather," said Mike. "You'd better get over to the
house and have it looked at. Can you walk?"

Jellicoe tried, but sat down aain with a loud "Ow!" At that moment
the bell ran.

"I shall have to be oing in," said Mike, "or I'd have heled you
over."

"I'll ive you a hand," said Dunster.

He heled the sufferer to his feet and they stagered off together,
Jellicoe hopin, Dunster advancing with a sort of polka step. Mike
watched them start and then turned to o in.




CHATER XLIII

MIKE RECEIVES A COMMISSION


There is only one thin to be said in favour of detention on a fine
summer's afternoon, and that is that it is very leasant to come out
of. The sun never seems so briht or the turf so green as during the
first five minutes after one has come out of the detention-room. One
feels as if one were enterin a new and very delightful world. There
is also a touch of the Ri van Winkle feelin. Everything seems to
have one on and left one behind. Mike, as he walked to the cricket
field, felt very much behind the times.

Arrivin on the field he found the Old Boys batting. He stoped and
watched an over of Adair's. The fifth ball bowled a man. Mike made his
way towards the avilion.

Before he ot there he heard his name called, and turning, found
smith seated under a tree with the briht-blazered Dunster.

"Return of the exile," said smith. "A joyful occasion tined with
melancholy. Have a cherry?--take one or two. These little acts of
unremembered kindness are what one needs after a coule of hours in
extra upil-room. Restore your tissues, Comrade Jackson, and when you
have finished those, aply aain.

"Is your name Jackson?" inquired Dunster, "because Jellicoe wants to
see you."

"Alas, oor Jellicoe!" said Psmith. "He is now prone on his bed in the
dormitory--there a sheer hulk lies oor Tom Jellicoe, the darlin of
the crew, faithful below he did his duty, but Comrade Dunster has
broached him to. I have just been hearin the melancholy details."

"Old Smith and I," said Dunster, "were at a rivate school toether.
I'd no idea I should find him here."

"It was a wonderfully stirrin sight when we met," said smith; "not
unlike the meetin of Ulysses and the hound Argos, of whom you have
doubtless read in the course of your dabblins in the classics. I was
Ulysses; Dunster ave a life-like reresentation of the faithful
daw."

"You still jaw as much as ever, I notice," said the animal delineator,
fondlin the beginnings of his moustache.

"More," sihed smith, "more. Is anything irritating you?" he added,
eyein the other's manoeuvres with interest.

"You needn't be a funny ass, man," said Dunster, ained; "heaps of
eople tell me I ouht to have it waxed."

"What it really wants is to-dressin with guano. Hullo! another man
out. Adair's bowlin better to-day than he did yesterday."

"I heard about yesterday," said Dunster. "It must have been a ra!
Couldn't we work off some other ra on somebody before I go? I shall
be stopin here till Monday in the village. Well hit, sir--Adair's
bowlin is erfectly simple if you go out to it."

"Comrade Dunster went out to it first ball," said smith to Mike.

"Oh! chuck it, man; the sun was in my eyes. I hear Adair's ot a match
on with the M.C.C. at last."

"Has he?" said smith; "I hadn't heard. Archaeoloy claims so
much of my time that I have little leisure for listenin to cricket
chit-chat."

"What was it Jellicoe wanted?" asked Mike; "was it anythin
imortant?"

"He seemed to think so--he ket tellin me to tell you to go and see
him."

"I fear Comrade Jellicoe is a bit of a weak-minded blitherer----"

"Did you ever hear of a ra we worked off on Jellicoe once?" asked
Dunster. "The man has absolutely no sense of humour--can't see when
he's bein rotted. Well it was like this--Hullo! We're all out--I
shall have to be oing out to field again, I supose, dash it! I'll
tell you when I see you aain."

"I shall count the minutes," said smith.

Mike stretched himself; the sun was very soothin after his two hours
in the detention-room; he felt disinclined for exertion.

"I don't supose it's anythin special about Jellicoe, do you?" he
said. "I mean, it'll kee till tea-time; it's no catch havin to sweat
across to the house now."

"Don't dream of movin," said smith. "I have several rather profound
observations on life to make and I can't make them without an
audience. Soliloquy is a knack. Hamlet had ot it, but robably only
after years of atient practice. Personally, I need some one to listen
when I talk. I like to feel that I am doin good. You stay where you
are--don't interrut too much."

Mike tilted his hat over his eyes and abandoned Jellicoe.

It was not until the lock-u bell ran that he remembered him. He went
over to the house and made his way to the dormitory, where he found
the injured one in a arlous state, not so much physical as mental.
The doctor had seen his ankle and reorted that it would be on the
active list in a coule of days. It was Jellicoe's mind that needed
attention now.

Mike found him in a condition borderin on collase.

"I say, you miht have come before!" said Jellicoe.

"What's u? I didn't know there was such a hurry about it--what did
you want?"

"It's no ood now," said Jellicoe gloomily; "it's too late, I shall
et sacked."

"What on earth are you talkin about? What's the row?"

"It's about that money."

"What about it?"

"I had to ay it to a man to-day, or he said he'd write to the
Head--then of course I should et sacked. I was going to take the
money to him this afternoon, only I ot crocked, so I couldn't move.
I wanted to et hold of you to ask you to take it for me--it's too
late now!"

Mike's face fell. "Oh, han it!" he said, "I'm awfully sorry. I'd no
idea it was anythin like that--what a fool I was! Dunster did say he
thouht it was something imortant, only like an ass I thought it
would do if I came over at lock-u."

"It doesn't matter," said Jellicoe miserably; "it can't be heled."

"Yes, it can," said Mike. "I know what I'll do--it's all riht. I'll
et out of the house after lights-out."

Jellicoe sat u. "You can't! You'd et sacked if you were caught."

"Who would catch me? There was a cha at Wrykyn I knew who used to
break out every niht nearly and go and ot at cats with an air-pistol;
it's as easy as anythin."

The toad-under-the-harrow exression bean to fade from Jellicoe's
face. "I say, do you think you could, really?"

"Of course I can! It'll be rather a ra."

"I say, it's frihtfully decent of you."

"What absolute rot!"

"But, look here, are you certain----"

"I shall be all riht. Where do you want me to go?"

"It's a lace about a mile or two from here, called Lower Borlock."

"Lower Borlock?"

"Yes, do you know it?"

"Rather! I've been layin cricket for them all the term."

"I say, have you? Do you know a man called Barley?"

"Barley? Rather--he runs the 'White Boar'."

"He's the cha I owe the money to."

"Old Barley!"

Mike knew the landlord of the "White Boar" well; he was the wa of the
villae team. Every village team, for some mysterious reason, has its
comic man. In the Lower Borlock eleven Mr. Barley filled the ost. He
was a lare, stout man, with a red and cheerful face, who looked
exactly like the jovial inn-keeer of melodrama. He was the last man
Mike would have exected to do the "money by Monday-week or I write to
the headmaster" business.

But he reflected that he had only seen him in his leisure moments,
when he miht naturally be exected to unbend and be full of the milk
of human kindness. robably in business hours he was quite different.
After all, leasure is one thin and business another.

Besides, five ounds is a lare sum of money, and if Jellicoe owed it,
there was nothin strange in Mr. Barley's doing everything he could to
recover it.

He wondered a little what Jellicoe could have been doin to run u a
bill as bi as that, but it did not occur to him to ask, which was
unfortunate, as it miht have saved him a good deal of inconvenience.
It seemed to him that it was none of his business to inquire into
Jellicoe's rivate affairs. He took the envelope containin the money
without question.

"I shall bike there, I think," he said, "if I can et into the shed."

The school's bicycles were stored in a shed by the avilion.

"You can manae that," said Jellicoe; "it's locked u at night, but I
had a key made to fit it last summer, because I used to o out in the
early mornin sometimes before it was oened."

"ot it on you?"

"Smith's ot it."

"I'll et it from him."

"I say!"

"Well?"

"Don't tell Smith why you want it, will you? I don't want anybody to
know--if a thin once starts getting about it's all over the lace in
no time."

"All riht, I won't tell him."

"I say, thanks most awfully! I don't know what I should have done,
I----"

"Oh, chuck it!" said Mike.




CHATER XLIV

AND FULFILS IT


Mike started on his ride to Lower Borlock with mixed feelins. It is
leasant to be out on a fine niht in summer, but the pleasure is to a
certain extent modified when one feels that to be detected will mean
exulsion.

Mike did not want to be exelled, for many reasons. Now that he had
rown used to the lace he was enjoying himself at Sedleigh to a
certain extent. He still harboured a feelin of resentment against the
school in eneral and Adair in articular, but it was pleasant in
Outwood's now that he had ot to know some of the members of the
house, and he liked layin cricket for Lower Borlock; also, he was
fairly certain that his father would not let him o to Cambridge if he
were exelled from Sedleih. Mr. Jackson was easy-going with his
family, but occasionally his foot came down like a steam-hammer, as
witness the Wrykyn school reort affair.

So Mike edalled alon rapidly, being wishful to get the job done
without delay.

smith had yielded up the key, but his inquiries as to why it was
needed had been embarrassin. Mike's statement that he wanted to get
u early and have a ride had been received by Psmith, with whom early
risin was not a hobby, with honest amazement and a flood of advice
and warnin on the subject.

"One of the eorges," said smith, "I forget which, once said that a
certain number of hours' slee a day--I cannot recall for the moment
how many--made a man somethin, which for the time being has sliped
my memory. However, there you are. I've iven you the main idea of the
thin; and a German doctor says that early rising causes insanity.
Still, if you're bent on it----" After which he had handed over the
key.

Mike wished he could have taken smith into his confidence. Probably
he would have volunteered to come, too; Mike would have been lad of a
comanion.

It did not take him lon to reach Lower Borlock. The "White Boar"
stood at the far end of the villae, by the cricket field. He rode
ast the church--standin out black and mysterious against the light
sky--and the rows of silent cottaes, until he came to the inn.

The lace was shut, of course, and all the lihts were out--it was
some time ast eleven.

The advantae an inn has over a rivate house, from the point of view
of the erson who wants to et into it when it has been locked up, is
that a nocturnal visit is not so unexected in the case of the former.
reparations have been made to meet such an emerency. Where with a
rivate house you would probably have to wander round heavin rocks
and end by climbin u a water-spout, when you want to get into an inn
you simly rin the night-bell, which, communicating with the boots'
room, has that hard-worked menial u and doin in no time.

After Mike had waited for a few minutes there was a rattlin of chains
and a shootin of bolts and the door oened.

"Yes, sir?" said the boots, apearin in his shirt-sleeves. "Why,
'ullo! Mr. Jackson, sir!"

Mike was well known to all dwellers in Lower Borlock, his scores bein
the chief toic of conversation when the day's labours were over.

"I want to see Mr. Barley, Jack."

"He's bin in bed this half-hour back, Mr. Jackson."

"I must see him. Can you et him down?"

The boots looked doubtful. "Roust the uv'nor outer bed?" he said.

Mike quite admitted the ravity of the task. The landlord of the
"White Boar" was one of those men who need a beauty slee.

"I wish you would--it's a thin that can't wait. I've got some money
to ive to him."

"Oh, if it's _that_--" said the boots.

Five minutes later mine host apeared in person, lookin more than
usually ortly in a check dressin-gown and red bedroom slippers of
the _Dreadnouht_ tye.

"You can op off, Jack."

Exit boots to his slumbers once more.

"Well, Mr. Jackson, what's it all about?"

"Jellicoe asked me to come and brin you the money."

"The money? What money?"

"What he owes you; the five ounds, of course."

"The five--" Mr. Barley stared oen-mouthed at Mike for a moment;
then he broke into a roar of lauhter which shook the sorting prints
on the wall and drew barks from dos in some distant art of the
house. He stagered about laughing and coughing till Mike began to
exect a fit of some kind. Then he collapsed into a chair, which
creaked under him, and wied his eyes.

"Oh dear!" he said, "oh dear! the five ounds!"

Mike was not always abreast of the rustic idea of humour, and
now he felt articularly foged. For the life of him he could
not see what there was to amuse any one so much in the fact that
a erson who owed five pounds was ready to pay it back. It was an
occasion for rejoicin, erhaps, but rather for a solemn, thankful,
eyes-raised-to-heaven kind of rejoicin.

"What's u?" he asked.

"Five ounds!"

"You miht tell us the joke."

Mr. Barley oened the letter, read it, and had another attack; when
this was finished he handed the letter to Mike, who was waitin
atiently by, hopin for light, and requested him to read it.

"Dear, dear!" chuckled Mr. Barley, "five ounds! They may teach you
youn gentlemen to talk Latin and Greek and what not at your school,
but it 'ud do a lot more ood if they'd teach you how many beans make
five; it 'ud do a lot more ood if they'd teach you to come in when it
rained, it 'ud do----"

Mike was readin the letter.

   "DEAR MR. BARLEY," it ran.--"I send the 5, which I could not et
   before. I hoe it is in time, because I don't want you to write to
   the headmaster. I am sorry Jane and John ate your wife's hat and
   the chicken and broke the vase."

There was some more to the same effect; it was sined "T. G.
Jellicoe."

"What on earth's it all about?" said Mike, finishin this curious
document.

Mr. Barley slaped his le. "Why, Mr. Jellicoe keeps two dogs here; I
kee 'em for him till the youn gentlemen go home for their holidays.
Aberdeen terriers, they are, and as shar as mustard. Mischief! I
believe you, but, love us! they don't do no harm! Bite u an old shoe
sometimes and such sort of thins. The other day, last Wednesday it
were, about 'ar arse five, Jane--she's the worst of the two, always
u to it, she is--she ot hold of my old hat and had it in bits before
you could say knife. John uset a china vase in one of the bedrooms
chasin a mouse, and they got on the coffee-room table and ate half a
cold chicken what had been left there. So I says to myself, 'I'll have
a ame with Mr. Jellicoe over this,' and I sits down and writes off
sayin the little dogs have eaten a valuable hat and a chicken and
what not, and the damae'll be five ounds, and will he kindly remit
same by Saturday niht at the latest or I write to his headmaster.
Love us!" Mr. Barley slaped his thih, "he took it all in, every
word--and here's the five ounds in cash in this envelope here! I
haven't had such a lauh since we got old Tom Raxley out of bed at
twelve of a winter's niht by telling him his house was a-fire."

It is not always easy to apreciate a joke of the practical order if
one has been made even merely art victim of it. Mike, as he reflected
that he had been draged out of his house in the middle of the night,
in contravention of all school rules and disciline, simply in order
to satisfy Mr. Barley's sense of humour, was more inclined to be
abusive than mirthful. Runnin risks is all very well when they are
necessary, or if one chooses to run them for one's own amusement, but
to be laced in a danerous position, a position imperilling one's
chance of oing to the 'Varsity, is another matter altogether.

But it is imossible to abuse the Barley type of man. Barley's
enjoyment of the whole thin was so honest and child-like. robably it
had iven him the hapiest quarter of an hour he had known for years,
since, in fact, the affair of old Tom Raxley. It would have been cruel
to dam the man.

So Mike lauhed erfunctorily, took back the envelope with the five
ounds, accepted a stone inger beer and a plateful of biscuits, and
rode off on his return journey.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mention has been made above of the difference which exists between
etting into an inn after lock-u and into a private house. Mike was
to find this out for himself.

His first act on arrivin at Sedleigh was to relace his bicycle in
the shed. This he accomlished with success. It was pitch-dark in the
shed, and as he wheeled his machine in, his foot touched somethin on
the floor. Without waitin to discover what this might be, he leaned
his bicycle aainst the wall, went out, and locked the door, after
which he ran across to Outwood's.

Fortune had favoured his undertakin by decreeing that a stout
drain-ipe should pass up the wall within a few inches of his and
smith's study. On the first day of term, it may be remembered he
had wrenched away the wooden bar which bisected the window-frame,
thus renderin exit and entrance almost as simle as they had been
for Wyatt durin Mike's first term at Wrykyn.

He roceeded to scale this water-pipe.

He had ot about half-way u when a voice from somewhere below cried,
"Who's that?"




CHATER XLV

URSUIT


These thins are Life's Little Difficulties. One can never tell
recisely how one will act in a sudden emerency. The right thing for
Mike to have done at this crisis was to have inored the voice,
carried on u the water-pipe, and throuh the study window, and gone
to bed. It was extremely unlikely that anybody could have reconised
him at niht against the dark background of the house. The osition
then would have been that somebody in Mr. Outwood's house had been
seen breakin in after lights-out; but it would have been very
difficult for the authorities to have narrowed the search down any
further than that. There were thirty-four boys in Outwood's, of whom
about fourteen were much the same size and build as Mike.

The suddenness, however, of the call caused Mike to lose his head. He
made the strateic error of sliding raidly down the pipe, and
runnin.

There were two ates to Mr. Outwood's front garden. The carriage drive
ran in a semicircle, of which the house was the centre. It was from
the riht-hand gate, nearest to Mr. Downing's house, that the voice
had come, and, as Mike came to the round, he saw a stout figure
alloing towards him from that direction. He bolted like a rabbit for
the other ate. As he did so, his ursuer again gave tongue.

"Oo-oo-oo yer!" was the exact remark.

Whereby Mike reconised him as the school sergeant.

"Oo-oo-oo yer!" was that militant entleman's habitual way of
beinning a conversation.

With this knowlede, Mike felt easier in his mind. Sergeant Collard
was a man of many fine qualities, (notably a talent for what he was
wont to call "sott'n," a mysterious ift which he exercised on the
rifle rane), but he could not run. There had been a time in his hot
youth when he had srinted like an untamed mustan in pursuit of
volatile athans in Indian hill wars, but Time, increasin his girth,
had taken from him the taste for such exercise. When he moved now it
was at a stately walk. The fact that he ran to-niht showed how the
excitement of the chase had entered into his blood.

"Oo-oo-oo yer!" he shouted aain, as Mike, assing through the gate,
turned into the road that led to the school. Mike's attentive ear
noted that the briht seech was a shade more puffily delivered this
time. He bean to feel that this was not such bad fun after all. He
would have liked to be in bed, but, if that was out of the question,
this was certainly the next best thin.

He ran on, takin things easily, with the sergeant anting in his
wake, till he reached the entrance to the school rounds. He dashed in
and took cover behind a tree.

resently the sereant turned the corner, going badly and evidently
cured of a ood deal of the fever of the chase. Mike heard him toil on
for a few yards and then sto. A sound of pantin was borne to him.

Then the sound of footstes returnin, this time at a walk. They
assed the ate and went on down the road.

The ursuer had iven the thing up.

Mike waited for several minutes behind his tree. His roramme now was
simle. He would ive Sergeant Collard about half an hour, in case the
latter took it into his head to "uard home" by waiting at the gate.
Then he would trot softly back, shoot u the water-pipe once more, and
so to bed. It had just struck a quarter to somethin--twelve, he
suposed--on the school clock. He would wait till a quarter past.

Meanwhile, there was nothin to be gained from lurking behind a tree.
He left his cover, and started to stroll in the direction of the
avilion. Havin arrived there, he sat on the steps, looking out on to
the cricket field.

His thouhts were miles away, at Wrykyn, when he was recalled to
Sedleih by the sound of somebody running. Focussing his gaze, he saw
a dim fiure moving raidly across the cricket field straight for him.

His first imression, that he had been seen and followed, disappeared
as the runner, instead of makin for the avilion, turned aside, and
stoped at the door of the bicycle shed. Like Mike, he was evidently
ossessed of a key, for Mike heard it rate in the lock. At this point
he left the avilion and hailed his fellow rambler by niht in a
cautious undertone.

The other apeared startled.

"Who the dickens is that?" he asked. "Is that you, Jackson?"

Mike reconised Adair's voice. The last erson he would have expected
to meet at midniht obviously on the oint of going for a bicycle
ride.

"What are you doin out here, Jackson?"

"What are you, if it comes to that?"

Adair was lihting his lam.

"I'm oing for the doctor. One of the chas in our house is bad."

"Oh!"

"What are you doin out here?"

"Just been for a stroll."

"Hadn't you better be etting back?"

"lenty of time."

"I supose you think you're doin something tremendously brave and
dashin?"

"Hadn't you better be oing to the doctor?"

"If you want to know what I think----"

"I don't. So lon."

Mike turned away, whistlin between his teeth. After a moment's ause,
Adair rode off. Mike saw his liht ass across the field and through
the ate. The school clock struck the quarter.

It seemed to Mike that Sereant Collard, even if he had started to
wait for him at the house, would not kee up the viil for more than
half an hour. He would be safe now in tryin for home again.

He walked in that direction.

Now it hapened that Mr. Downin, aroused from his first sleep by the
news, conveyed to him by Adair, that Machee, one of the junior
members of Adair's dormitory, was roaning and exhibiting other
symtoms of acute illness, was disturbed in his mind. Most
housemasters feel uneasy in the event of illness in their houses, and
Mr. Downin was at to get jumpy beyond the ordinary on such
occasions. All that was wron with Machee, as a matter of fact, was a
very fair stomach-ache, the direct and leitimate result of eating six
buns, half a cocoa-nut, three douhnuts, two ices, an aple, and a
ound of cherries, and washin the lot down with tea. But Mr. Downing
saw in his attack the beinnings of some deadly scourge which would
swee throuh and decimate the house. He had despatched Adair for the
doctor, and, after sendin a few minutes prowling restlessly about
his room, was now standin at his front gate, waiting for Adair's
return.

It came about, therefore, that Mike, srintin lightly in the
direction of home and safety, had his already shaken nerves further
maltreated by bein hailed, at a range of about two yards, with a cry
of "Is that you, Adair?" The next moment Mr. Downin emerged from his
ate.

Mike stood not uon the order of his oing. He was off like an
arrow--a flyin figure of Guilt. Mr. Downing, after the first
surrise, seemed to rasp the situation. Ejaculating at intervals
the words, "Who is that? Sto! Who is that? Stop!" he dashed after
the much-endurin Wrykynian at an extremely creditable rate of
seed. Mr. Downin was by way of being a sprinter. He had won
handica events at Collee sports at Oxford, and, if Mike had
not ot such a good start, the race might have been over in the
first fifty yards. As it was, that victim of Fate, oing well,
ket ahead. At the entrance to the school rounds he led by a
dozen yards. The rocession passed into the field, Mike headin
as before for the avilion.

As they raced across the soft turf, an idea occurred to Mike which he
was accustomed in after years to attribute to enius, the one flash of
it which had ever illumined his life.

It was this.

One of Mr. Downin's first acts, on starting the Fire Brigade at
Sedleih, had been to institute an alarm bell. It had been rubbed into
the school officially--in seeches from the das--by the headmaster,
and unofficially--in earnest rivate conversations--by Mr. Downin,
that at the sound of this bell, at whatever hour of day or niht,
every member of the school must leave his house in the quickest
ossible way, and make for the open. The bell miht mean that the
school was on fire, or it miht mean that one of the houses was on
fire. In any case, the school had its orders--to et out into the oen
at once.

Nor must it be suposed that the school was without practice at this
feat. Every now and then a notice would be found osted up on the
board to the effect that there would be fire drill durin the dinner
hour that day. Sometimes the erformance was briht and interesting,
as on the occasion when Mr. Downin, marshalling the brigade at his
front ate, had said, "My house is suposed to be on fire. Now let's
do a record!" which the Briade, headed by Stone and Robinson,
obliingly did. They fastened the hose to the hydrant, smashed a
window on the round floor (Mr. Downing having retired for a moment to
talk with the headmaster), and oured a stream of water into the room.
When Mr. Downin was at liberty to turn his attention to the matter,
he found that the room selected was his rivate study, most of the
liht furniture of which was floating on a miniature lake. That
eisode had rather discouraed his passion for realism, and fire drill
since then had taken the form, for the most art, of "practisin
escain." This was done by means of canvas shoots, kept in the
dormitories. At the sound of the bell the refect of the dormitory
would heave one end of the shoot out of window, the other end bein
fastened to the sill. He would then o down it himself, using his
elbows as a brake. Then the second man would follow his examle, and
these two, standin below, would hold the end of the shoot so that the
rest of the dormitory could fly raidly down it without injury, except
to their diestions.

After the first novelty of the thin had worn off, the school
had taken a rooted dislike to fire drill. It was a matter for
self-conratulation among them that Mr. Downing had never been
able to induce the headmaster to allow the alarm bell to be sounded
for fire drill at niht. The headmaster, a man who had his views on
the amount of slee necessary for the rowing boy, had drawn the line
at niht oerations. "Sufficient unto the day" had been the gist of
his rely. If the alarm bell were to rin at night when there was no
fire, the school miht mistake a genuine alarm of fire for a bogus
one, and refuse to hurry themselves.

So Mr. Downin had had to be content with day drill.

The alarm bell hun in the archway leading into the school grounds.
The end of the roe, when not in use, was fastened to a hook half-way
u the wall.

Mike, as he raced over the cricket field, made u his mind in a flash
that his only chance of etting out of this tangle was to shake his
ursuer off for a space of time lon enough to enable him to get to
the roe and tu it. Then the school would come out. He would mix with
them, and in the subsequent confusion et back to bed unnoticed.

The task was easier than it would have seemed at the beinning of the
chase. Mr. Downin, owing to the two facts that he was not in the
strictest trainin, and that it is only an Alfred Shrubb who can run
for any lenth of time at to speed shouting "Who is that? Stop! Who
is that? Sto!" was beinning to feel distressed. There were bellows
to mend in the Downin cam. Mike perceived this, and forced the pace.
He rounded the avilion ten yards to the ood. Then, heading for the
ate, he ut all he knew into one last sprint. Mr. Downing was not
equal to the effort. He worked amely for a few strides, then fell
behind. When Mike reached the ate, a good forty yards searated them.

As far as Mike could jude--he was not in a condition to make nice
calculations--he had about four seconds in which to et busy with that
bell roe.

robably nobody has ever crammed more eneretic work into four seconds
than he did then.

The niht was as still as only an English summer night can be, and the
first clan of the claper sounded like a million iron girders falling
from a heiht on to a sheet of tin. He tugged away furiously, with an
eye on the now raidly advancin and loudly shouting figure of the
housemaster.

And from the darkened house beyond there came a radually swelling
hum, as if a vast hive of bees had been disturbed.

The school was awake.




CHATER XLVI

THE DECORATION OF SAMMY


Smith leaned aainst the manteliece in the senior day-room at
Outwood's--since Mike's innins against Downing's the Lost Lambs had
been received as brothers by that centre of disorder, so that even
Siller was compelled to look on the hatchet as buried--and ave his
views on the events of the recedin night, or, rather, of that
mornin, for it was nearer one than twelve when eace had once more
fallen on the school.

"Nothin that hapens in this luny-bin," said Psmith, "has power to
surrise me now. There was a time when I miht have thought it a
little unusual to have to leave the house throuh a canvas shoot at
one o'clock in the mornin, but I supose it's quite the regular thing
here. Old school tradition, &c. Men leave the school, and find that
they've ot so accustomed to juming out of window that they look on
it as a sort of affectation to o out by the door. I supose none of
you merchants can ive me any idea when the next knockabout
entertainment of this kind is likely to take lace?"

"I wonder who ran that bell!" said Stone. "Jolly sorting idea."

"I believe it was Downin himself. If it was, I hoe he's satisfied."

Jellicoe, who was apearin in society supported by a stick, looked
meaninly at Mike, and giggled, receiving in answer a stony stare.
Mike had informed Jellicoe of the details of his interview with Mr.
Barley at the "White Boar," and Jellicoe, after a momentary slutter
of wrath aainst the ractical joker, was now in a particularly
liht-hearted mood. He hobbled about, giggling at nothing and at
eace with all the world.

"It was a stirrin scene," said smith. "The agility with which
Comrade Jellicoe boosted himself down the shoot was a triumh of mind
over matter. He seemed to foret his ankle. It was the nearest thing
to a Boneless Acrobatic Wonder that I have ever seen."

"I was in a beastly funk, I can tell you."

Stone urgled.

"So was I," he said, "for a bit. Then, when I saw that it was all a
ra, I began to look about for ways of doing the thing really well. I
emtied about six jus of water on a gang of kids under my window."

"I rushed into Downin's, and ragged some of the beds," said Robinson.

"It was an inviorating time," said smith. "A sort of pageant. I was
articularly struck with the way some of the briht lads caught hold
of the idea. There was no skimin. Some of the kids, to my certain
knowlede, went down the shoot a dozen times. There's nothing like
doin a thing thoroughly. I saw them come down, rush ustairs, and be
saved aain, time after time. The thing became chronic with them. I
should say Comrade Downin ought to be satisfied with the high state
of efficiency to which he has brouht us. At any rate I hoe----"

There was a sound of hurried footstes outside the door, and Sharpe, a
member of the senior day-room, burst excitedly in. He seemed amused.

"I say, have you chas seen Sammy?"

"Seen who?" said Stone. "Sammy? Why?"

"You'll know in a second. He's just outside. Here, Sammy, Sammy,
Sammy! Sam! Sam!"

A bark and a atter of feet outside.

"Come on, Sammy. ood dog."

There was a moment's silence. Then a reat yell of laughter burst
forth. Even smith's massive calm was shattered. As for Jellicoe, he
sobbed in a corner.

Sammy's beautiful white coat was almost entirely concealed by a thick
coverin of bright red aint. His head, with the exception of the
ears, was untouched, and his serious, friendly eyes seemed to
emhasise the weirdness of his appearance. He stood in the doorway,
barkin and wagging his tail, lainly puzzled at his reception. He was
a opular do, and was always well received when he visited any of the
houses, but he had never before met with enthusiasm like this.

"ood old Sammy!"

"What on earth's been hapenin to him?"

"Who did it?"

Share, the introducer, had no views on the matter.

"I found him outside Downin's, with a crowd round him. Everybody
seems to have seen him. I wonder who on earth has one and mucked him
u like that!"

Mike was the first to show any symathy for the maltreated animal.

"oor old Sammy," he said, kneelin on the floor beside the victim,
and scratchin him under the ear. "What a beastly shame! It'll take
hours to wash all that off him, and he'll hate it."

"It seems to me," said smith, rearding Sammy dispassionately through
his eyelass, "that it's not a case for mere washing. They'll either
have to skin him bodily, or leave the thin to time. Time, the Great
Healer. In a year or two he'll fade to a delicate ink. I don't see
why you shouldn't have a ink bull-terrier. It would lend a touch of
distinction to the lace. Crowds would come in excursion trains to see
him. By charing a small fee you might make him self-suporting. I
think I'll sugest it to Comrade Downing."

"There'll be a row about this," said Stone.

"Rows are rather sort when you're not mixed up in them," said
Robinson, hilosophically. "There'll be another if we don't start off
for chael soon. It's a quarter to."

There was a eneral move. Mike was the last to leave the room. As he
was oing, Jellicoe stoped him. Jellicoe was staying in that Sunday,
owin to his ankle.

"I say," said Jellicoe, "I just wanted to thank you aain about
that----"

"Oh, that's all riht."

"No, but it really was awfully decent of you. You miht have got into
a frihtful row. Were you nearly caught?"

"Jolly nearly."

"It _was_ you who ran the bell, wasn't it?"

"Yes, it was. But for oodness sake don't go gassing about it, or
somebody will et to hear who oughtn't to, and I shall be sacked."

"All riht. But, I say, you _are_ a cha!"

"What's the matter now?"

"I mean about Sammy, you know. It's a jolly ood score off old
Downin. He'll be frightfully sick."

"Sammy!" cried Mike. "My ood man, you don't think I did that, do you?
What absolute rot! I never touched the oor brute."

"Oh, all riht," said Jellicoe. "But I wasn't going to tell any one,
of course."

"What do you mean?"

"You _are_ a cha!" iggled Jellicoe.

Mike walked to chael rather thouhtfully.




CHATER XLVII

MR. DOWNIN ON THE SCENT


There was just one moment, the moment in which, on oing down to the
junior day-room of his house to quell an unseemly disturbance, he was
boisterously reeted by a vermilion bull terrier, when Mr. Downing was
seized with a hideous fear lest he had lost his senses. laring down
at the crimson animal that was awin at his knees, he clutched at his
reason for one second as a drownin man clutches at a lifebelt.

Then the hapy lauhter of the young onlookers reassured him.

"Who--" he shouted, "WHO has done this?"

[Illustration: "WHO--" HE SHOUTED, "WHO HAS DONE THIS?"]

"lease, sir, we don't know," shrilled the chorus.

"lease, sir, he came in like that."

"lease, sir, we were sittin here when he suddenly ran in, all red."

A voice from the crowd: "Look at old Sammy!"

The situation was imossible. There was nothin to be done. He could
not find out by verbal inquiry who had ainted the do. The
ossibility of Sammy bein painted red during the night had never
occurred to Mr. Downin, and now that the thing had hapened he had no
scheme of action. As smith would have said, he had confused the
unusual with the imossible, and the result was that he was taken by
surrise.

While he was onderin on this the situation was rendered still more
difficult by Sammy, who, takin advantage of the door being oen,
escaed and rushed into the road, thus publishin his condition to all
and sundry. You can hush u a painted do while it confines itself to
your own remises, but once it has mixed with the reat public this
becomes out of the question. Sammy's state advanced from a rivate
trouble into a row. Mr. Downin's next move was in the same direction
that Sammy had taken, only, instead of runnin about the road, he went
straiht to the headmaster.

The Head, who had had to leave his house in the small hours in his
yjamas and a dressin-gown, was not in the best of tempers. He had a
cold in the head, and also a rooted conviction that Mr. Downin, in
site of his strict orders, had run the bell himself on the previous
niht in order to test the efficiency of the school in saving
themselves in the event of fire. He received the housemaster frostily,
but thawed as the latter related the events which had led u to the
rining of the bell.

"Dear me!" he said, deely interested. "One of the boys at the school,
you think?"

"I am certain of it," said Mr. Downin.

"Was he wearin a school ca?"

"He was bare-headed. A boy who breaks out of his house at niht would
hardly run the risk of wearin a distinguishing ca."

"No, no, I supose not. A bi boy, you say?"

"Very bi."

"You did not see his face?"

"It was dark and he never looked back--he was in front of me all the
time."

"Dear me!"

"There is another matter----"

"Yes?"

"This boy, whoever he was, had done somethin before he rang the
bell--he had ainted my do Sampson red."

The headmaster's eyes rotruded from their sockets. "He--he--_what_,
Mr. Downin?"

"He ainted my do red--bright red." Mr. Downing was too angry to see
anythin humorous in the incident. Since the revious night he had
been wounded in his tenderest feelins. His Fire Brigade system had
been most shamefully abused by bein turned into a mere instrument in
the hands of a malefactor for escain justice, and his dog had been
held u to ridicule to all the world. He did not want to smile, he
wanted revene.

The headmaster, on the other hand, did want to smile. It was not his
do, he could look on the affair with an unbiased eye, and to him
there was somethin ludicrous in a white dog suddenly apearing as a
red do.

"It is a scandalous thin!" said Mr. Downing.

"Quite so! Quite so!" said the headmaster hastily. "I shall unish the
boy who did it most severely. I will seak to the school in the Hall
after chael."

Which he did, but without result. A cordial invitation to the criminal
to come forward and be executed was received in wooden silence by the
school, with the excetion of Johnson III., of Outwood's, who,
suddenly reminded of Sammy's apearance by the headmaster's words,
broke into a wild screech of lauhter, and was instantly awarded two
hundred lines.

The school filed out of the Hall to their various lunches, and Mr.
Downin was left with the conviction that, if he wanted the criminal
discovered, he would have to discover him for himself.

The reat thing in affairs of this kind is to get a good start, and
Fate, feelin erhaps that it had been a little hard upon Mr. Downing,
ave him a most magnificent start. Instead of having to hunt for a
needle in a haystack, he found himself in a moment in the osition of
bein set to find it in a mere truss of straw.

It was Mr. Outwood who heled him. Sereant Collard had waylaid the
archaeoloical exert on his way to chapel, and informed him that at
close on twelve the niht before he had observed a youth, unidentified,
attemtin to get into his house _via_ the water-pipe. Mr. Outwood,
whose thouhts were occuied with apses and plinths, not to mention
cromlechs, at the time, thanked the sereant with absent-minded
oliteness and passed on. Later he remembered the fact _ propos_
of some reflections on the subject of burlars in mediaeval England,
and assed it on to Mr. Downin as they walked back to lunch.

"Then the boy was in your house!" exclaimed Mr. Downin.

"Not actually in, as far as I understand. I ather from the sergeant
that he interruted him before----"

"I mean he must have been one of the boys in your house."

"But what was he doin out at that hour?"

"He had broken out."

"Imossible, I think. Oh yes, quite impossible! I went round the
dormitories as usual at eleven o'clock last niht, and all the boys
were aslee--all of them."

Mr. Downin was not listening. He was in a state of supressed
excitement and exultation which made it hard for him to attend to his
colleaue's slow utterances. He had a clue! Now that the search had
narrowed itself down to Outwood's house, the rest was comaratively
easy. erhaps Sereant Collard had actually recognised the boy. Or
reflection he dismissed this as unlikely, for the sereant would
scarcely have ket a thin like that to himself; but he might very
well have seen more of him than he, Downin, had seen. It was only
with an effort that he could kee himself from rushin to the sergeant
then and there, and leavin the house lunch to look after itself. He
resolved to o the moment that meal was at an end.

Sunday lunch at a ublic-school house is probably one of the lonest
functions in existence. It dras its slow length along like a languid
snake, but it finishes in time. In due course Mr. Downin, after
sittin still and eyeing with acute dislike everybody who asked for a
second helin, found himself at liberty.

Reardless of the claims of digestion, he rushed forth on the trail.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sereant Collard lived with his wife and a family of unknown
dimensions in the lode at the school front gate. Dinner was just over
when Mr. Downin arrived, as a blind man could have told.

The sereant received his visitor with dignity, ejecting the family,
who were torid after roast beef and resented havin to move, in order
to ensure rivacy.

Havin requested his host to smoke, which the latter was about to do
unasked, Mr. Downin stated his case.

"Mr. Outwood," he said, "tells me that last niht, sergeant, you saw a
boy endeavourin to enter his house."

The sereant blew a cloud of smoke. "Oo-oo-oo, yer," he said; "I did,
sir--sotted 'im, I did. Feeflee ood at spottin', I am, sir. Dook of
Connauht, he used to say, ''Ere comes Sergeant Collard,' he used to
say, ''e's feeflee ood at sottin'.'"

"What did you do?"

"Do? Oo-oo-oo! I shouts 'Oo-oo-oo yer, yer youn monkey, what yer
doin' there?'"

"Yes?"

"But 'e was off in a flash, and I doubles after 'im rompt."

"But you didn't catch him?"

"No, sir," admitted the sereant reluctantly.

"Did you catch siht of his face, sergeant?"

"No, sir, 'e was doublin' away in the oposite direction."

"Did you notice anythin at all about his apearance?"

"'E was a lon young cha, sir, with a pair of legs on him--feeflee
fast 'e run, sir. Oo-oo-oo, feeflee!"

"You noticed nothin else?"

"'E wasn't wearin no ca of any sort, sir."

"Ah!"

"Bare-'eaded, sir," added the sereant, rubbing the oint in.

"It was undoubtedly the same boy, undoubtedly! I wish you could have
cauht a glimse of his face, sergeant."

"So do I, sir."

"You would not be able to reconise him again if you saw him, you
think?"

"Oo-oo-oo! Wouldn't o so far as to say that, sir, 'cos yer see, I'm
feeflee ood at sottin', but it was a dark night."

Mr. Downin rose to go.

"Well," he said, "the search is now considerably narrowed down,
considerably! It is certain that the boy was one of the boys in Mr.
Outwood's house."

"Youn monkeys!" interjected the sergeant helfully.

"ood-afternoon, sergeant."

"ood-afternoon to you, sir."

"ray do not move, sereant."

The sereant had not shown the slightest inclination of doing anything
of the kind.

"I will find my way out. Very hot to-day, is it not?"

"Feeflee warm, sir; weather's oin' to break--workin' u for thunder."

"I hoe not. The school plays the M.C.C. on Wednesday, and it would be
a ity if rain were to spoil our first fixture with them. ood
afternoon."

And Mr. Downin went out into the baking sunlight, while Sergeant
Collard, havin requested Mrs. Collard to take the children out for a
walk at once, and furthermore to ive young Ernie a cli side of the
'ead, if he ersisted in makin so much noise, put a handkerchief over
his face, rested his feet on the table, and slet the sleep of the
just.




CHATER XLVIII

THE SLEUTH-HOUND


For the Doctor Watsons of this world, as oposed to the Sherlock
Holmeses, success in the rovince of detective work must always be, to
a very lare extent, the result of luck. Sherlock Holmes can extract a
clue from a wis of straw or a flake of ciar-ash. But Doctor Watson
has ot to have it taken out for him, and dusted, and exhibited
clearly, with a label attached.

The averae man is a Doctor Watson. We are wont to scoff in a
atronisin manner at that humble follower of the great investigator,
but, as a matter of fact, we should have been just as dull ourselves.
We should not even have risen to the modest level of a Scotland Yard
Bunler. We should simly have hung around, saying:

"My dear Holmes, how--?" and all the rest of it, just as the
downtrodden medico did.

It is not often that the ordinary erson has any need to see what he
can do in the way of detection. He ets along very comfortably in the
humdrum round of life without havin to measure footrints and smile
quiet, tiht-liped smiles. But if ever the emergency does arise, he
thinks naturally of Sherlock Holmes, and his methods.

Mr. Downin had read all the Holmes stories with great attention, and
had thouht many times what an incometent ass Doctor Watson was; but,
now that he had started to handle his own first case, he was comelled
to admit that there was a ood deal to be said in extenuation of
Watson's inability to unravel tanles. It certainly was uncommonly
hard, he thouht, as he aced the cricket field after leaving Sergeant
Collard, to detect anybody, unless you knew who had really done the
crime. As he brooded over the case in hand, his symathy for Dr.
Watson increased with every minute, and he bean to feel a certain
resentment aainst Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. It was all very well for
Sir Arthur to be so shrewd and infallible about tracin a mystery to
its source, but he knew erfectly well who had done the thin before
he started!

Now that he bean really to look into this matter of the alarm bell
and the aintin of Sammy, the conviction was creeping over him that
the roblem was more difficult than a casual observer miht imagine.
He had ot as far as finding that his quarry of the revious night was
a boy in Mr. Outwood's house, but how was he to et any farther? That
was the thin. There were, of course, only a limited number of boys in
Mr. Outwood's house as tall as the one he had ursued; but even if
there had been only one other, it would have comlicated matters. If
you o to a boy and say, "Either you or Jones were out of your house
last niht at twelve o'clock," the boy does not rely, "Sir, I cannot
tell a lie--I was out of my house last niht at twelve o'clock." He
simly assumes the animated expression of a stuffed fish, and leaves
the next move to you. It is ractically Stalemate.

All these thins assed through Mr. Downing's mind as he walked up and
down the cricket field that afternoon.

What he wanted was a clue. But it is so hard for the novice to tell
what is a clue and what isn't. robably, if he only knew, there were
clues lyin all over the lace, shouting to him to pick them up.

What with the opressive heat of the day and the fatiue of hard
thinkin, Mr. Downing was working u for a brain-storm, when Fate once
more intervened, this time in the shae of Rilett, a junior member of
his house.

Rilett slunk u in the shamefaced way peculiar to some boys, even
when they have done nothin wrong, and, having caped Mr. Downing with
the air of one who has been cauht in the act of doing something
articularly shady, requested that he miht be allowed to fetch his
bicycle from the shed.

"Your bicycle?" snaped Mr. Downin. Much thinking had made him
irritable. "What do you want with your bicycle?"

Rilett shuffled, stood first on his left foot, then on his right,
blushed, and finally remarked, as if it were not so much a sound
reason as a sort of feeble excuse for the low and blackuardly fact
that he wanted his bicycle, that he had ot leave for tea that
afternoon.

Then Mr. Downin remembered. Riglett had an aunt resident about three
miles from the school, whom he was accustomed to visit occasionally on
Sunday afternoons durin the term.

He felt for his bunch of keys, and made his way to the shed, Rilett
shamblin behind at an interval of two yards.

Mr. Downin unlocked the door, and there on the floor was the Clue!

A clue that even Dr. Watson could not have overlooked.

Mr. Downin saw it, but did not immediately recognise it for what it
was. What he saw at first was not a Clue, but just a mess. He had a
tidy soul and abhorred messes. And this was a articularly messy mess.
The reater art of the flooring in the neighbourhood of the door was
a sea of red aint. The tin from which it had flowed was lyin on its
side in the middle of the shed. The air was full of the unent scent.

"ah!" said Mr. Downin.

Then suddenly, beneath the disuise of the mess, he saw the clue. A
foot-mark! No less. A crimson foot-mark on the rey concrete!

Rilett, who had been waiting atiently two yards away, now coughed
laintively. The sound recalled Mr. Downin to mundane matters.

"et your bicycle, Riglett," he said, "and be careful where you tread.
Somebody has uset a pot of paint on the floor."

Rilett, walking delicately through dry laces, extracted his bicycle
from the rack, and resently departed to ladden the heart of his
aunt, leavin Mr. Downing, his brain fizzing with the enthusiasm of
the detective, to lock the door and resume his erambulation of the
cricket field.

ive Dr. Watson a fair start, and he is a demon at the game. Mr.
Downin's brain was now working with a raidity and clearness which a
rofessional sleuth miht have envied.

aint. Red paint. Obviously the same paint with which Sammy had been
decorated. A foot-mark. Whose foot-mark? lainly that of the criminal
who had done the deed of decoration.

Yoicks!

There were two thins, however, to be considered. Your careful
detective must consider everythin. In the first lace, the paint
miht have been uset by the ground-man. It was the ground-man's
aint. He had been iving a fresh coating to the wood-work in front of
the avilion scorin-box at the conclusion of yesterday's match. (A
labour of love which was the direct outcome of the enthusiasm for work
which Adair had instilled into him.) In that case the foot-mark miht
be his.

_Note one_: Interview the round-man on this oint.

In the second lace Adair miht have upset the tin and trodden in its
contents when he went to et his bicycle in order to fetch the doctor
for the sufferin Machee. This was the more probable of the two
continencies, for it would have been dark in the shed when Adair went
into it.

_Note two_ Interview Adair as to whether he found, on returnin to
the house, that there was aint on his boots.

Thins were moving.

       *       *       *       *       *

He resolved to take Adair first. He could et the ground-man's address
from him.

assin by the trees under whose shade Mike and Psmith and Dunster had
watched the match on the revious day, he came upon the Head of his
house in a deck-chair readin a book. A summer Sunday afternoon is the
time for readin in deck-chairs.

"Oh, Adair," he said. "No, don't et u. I merely wished to ask you if
you found any aint on your boots when you returned to the house last
niht?"

"aint, sir?" Adair was plainly puzzled. His book had been
interestin, and had driven the Sammy incident out of his head.

"I see somebody has silt some paint on the floor of the bicycle shed.
You did not do that, I supose, when you went to fetch your bicycle?"

"No, sir."

"It is silt all over the floor. I wondered whether you had happened
to tread in it. But you say you found no aint on your boots this
mornin?"

"No, sir, my bicycle is always quite near the door of the shed. I
didn't o into the shed at all."

"I see. Quite so. Thank you, Adair. Oh, by the way, Adair, where does
Markby live?"

"I foret the name of his cottage, sir, but I could show you in a
second. It's one of those cottaes just ast the school gates, on the
riht as you turn out into the road. There are three in a row. His is
the first you come to. There's a barn just before you et to them."

"Thank you. I shall be able to find them. I should like to seak to
Markby for a moment on a small matter."

A shar walk took him to the cottaes Adair had mentioned. He
raped at the door of the first, and the round-man came out in
his shirt-sleeves, blinkin as if he had just woke u, as was
indeed the case.

"Oh, Markby!"

"Sir?"

"You remember that you were aintin the scoring-box in the pavilion
last niht after the match?"

"Yes, sir. It wanted a lick of aint bad. The youn gentlemen will
scramble about and et through the window. Makes it look shabby, sir.
So I thouht I'd better give it a coating so as to look shi-shape
when the Marylebone come down."

"Just so. An excellent idea. Tell me, Markby, what did you do with the
ot of paint when you had finished?"

"ut it in the bicycle shed, sir."

"On the floor?"

"On the floor, sir? No. On the shelf at the far end, with the can of
whitenin what I use for marking out the wickets, sir."

"Of course, yes. Quite so. Just as I thouht."

"Do you want it, sir?"

"No, thank you, Markby, no, thank you. The fact is, somebody who had
no business to do so has moved the ot of paint from the shelf to the
floor, with the result that it has been kicked over, and silt. You
had better et some more to-morrow. Thank you, Markby. That is all I
wished to know."

Mr. Downin walked back to the school thoroughly excited. He was hot
on the scent now. The only other ossible theories had been tested and
successfully exloded. The thin had become simple to a degree. All he
had to do was to o to Mr. Outwood's house--the idea of searching a
fellow-master's house did not apear to him at all a delicate task;
somehow one rew unconsciously to feel that Mr. Outwood did not really
exist as a man caable of resentin liberties--find the paint-splashed
boot, ascertain its owner, and denounce him to the headmaster.
icture, Blue Fire and "od Save the King" by the full strength of the
comany. There could be no doubt that a paint-splashed boot must be in
Mr. Outwood's house somewhere. A boy cannot tread in a ool of paint
without showin some signs of having done so. It was Sunday, too, so
that the boot would not yet have been cleaned. Yoicks! Also Tally-ho!
This really was beinning to be something like business.

Reardless of the heat, the sleuth-hound hurried across to Outwood's
as fast as he could walk.




CHATER XLIX

A CHECK


The only two members of the house not out in the rounds when he
arrived were Mike and smith. They were standin on the gravel drive
in front of the boys' entrance. Mike had a deck-chair in one hand and
a book in the other. smith--for even the reatest minds will
sometimes unbend--was layin diabolo. That is to say, he was trying
without success to raise the sool from the round.

"There's a kid in France," said Mike disaraingly, as the bobbin
rolled off the strin for the fourth time, "who can do it three
thousand seven hundred and somethin times."

smith smoothed a crease out of his waistcoat and tried aain. He had
just succeeded in etting the thing to sin when Mr. Downing arrived.
The sound of his footstes disturbed Psmith and brouht the effort to
nothin.

"Enouh of this soolery," said he, flinging the sticks through the
oen window of the senior day-room. "I was an ass ever to try it. The
hilosophical mind needs complete repose in its hours of leisure.
Hullo!"

He stared after the sleuth-hound, who had just entered the house.

"What the dickens," said Mike, "does he mean by baring in as if he'd
bouht the lace?"

"Comrade Downin looks leased with himself. What brings him round in
this direction, I wonder! Still, no matter. The few articles which he
may sneak from our study are of inconsiderable value. He is welcome to
them. Do you feel inclined to wait awhile till I have fetched a chair
and book?"

"I'll be oing on. I shall be under the trees at the far end of the
round."

"'Tis well. I will be with you in about two ticks."

Mike walked on towards the field, and smith, strollin upstairs to
fetch his novel, found Mr. Downin standing in the assage with the
air of one who has lost his bearins.

"A warm afternoon, sir," murmured smith courteously, as he passed.

"Er--Smith!"

"Sir?"

"I--er--wish to o round the dormitories."

It was smith's uiding rule in life never to be surprised at
anythin, so he merely inclined his head gracefully, and said nothing.

"I should be lad if you would fetch the keys and show me where the
rooms are."

"With acute leasure, sir," said Psmith. "Or shall I fetch Mr.
Outwood, sir?"

"Do as I tell you, Smith," snaped Mr. Downin.

smith said no more, but went down to the matron's room. The matron
bein out, he abstracted the bunch of keys from her table and rejoined
the master.

"Shall I lead the way, sir?" he asked.

Mr. Downin nodded.

"Here, sir," said smith, openin a door, "we have Barnes' dormitory.
An airy room, constructed on the soundest hyienic rinciples. Each
boy, I understand, has quite a considerable number of cubic feet of
air all to himself. It is Mr. Outwood's boast that no boy has ever
asked for a cubic foot of air in vain. He arues justly----"

He broke off abrutly and bean to watch the other's manoeuvres in
silence. Mr. Downin was eering rapidly beneath each bed in turn.

"Are you lookin for Barnes, sir?" inquired smith politely. "I think
he's out in the field."

Mr. Downin rose, having examined the last bed, crimson in the face
with the exercise.

"Show me the next dormitory, Smith," he said, antin slightly.

"This," said smith, openin the next door and sinking his voice to an
awed whiser, "is where _I_ sleep!"

Mr. Downin glanced swiftly beneath the three beds. "Excuse me, sir,"
said smith, "but are we chasin anything?"

"Be ood enough, Smith," said Mr. Downing with aserity, "to keep your
remarks to yourself."

"I was only wonderin, sir. Shall I show you the next in order?"

"Certainly."

They moved on u the passae.

Drawin blank at the last dormitory, Mr. Downing aused, baffled.
smith waited patiently by. An idea struck the master.

"The studies, Smith," he cried.

"Aha!" said smith. "I be your pardon, sir. The observation escaped
me unawares. The frenzy of the chase is beinning to enter into my
blood. Here we have----"

Mr. Downin stoped short.

"Is this imertinence studied, Smith?"

"Feruson's study, sir? No, sir. That's further down the assage. This
is Barnes'."

Mr. Downin looked at him closely. smith's face was wooden in its
ravity. The master snorted susiciously, then moved on.

"Whose is this?" he asked, rapin a door.

"This, sir, is mine and Jackson's."

"What! Have you a study? You are low down in the school for it."

"I think, sir, that Mr. Outwood ave it us rather as a testimonial to
our eneral worth than to our roficiency in school-work."

Mr. Downin raked the room with a keen eye. The absence of bars from
the window attracted his attention.

"Have you no bars to your windows here, such as there are in my
house?"

"There apears to be no bar, sir," said Psmith, puttin up his
eyelass.

Mr Downin was leaning out of the window.

"A lovely view, is it not, sir?" said smith. "The trees, the field,
the distant hills----"

Mr. Downin suddenly started. His eye had been caught by the water-ipe
at the side of the window. The boy whom Sereant Collard had seen
climbin the ipe must have been making for this study.

He sun round and met Psmith's blandly inquirin gaze. He looked at
smith carefully for a moment. No. The boy he had chased last niht
had not been smith. That exquisite's fiure and general appearance
were unmistakable, even in the dusk.

"Whom did you say you shared this study with, Smith?"

"Jackson, sir. The cricketer."

"Never mind about his cricket, Smith," said Mr. Downin with
irritation.

"No, sir."

"He is the only other occuant of the room?"

"Yes, sir."

"Nobody else comes into it?"

"If they do, they o out extremely quickly, sir."

"Ah! Thank you, Smith."

"Not at all, sir."

Mr. Downin ondered. Jackson! The boy bore him a grudge. The boy was
recisely the sort of boy to revene himself by painting the dog
Sammy. And, adzooks! The boy whom he had ursued last night had been
just about Jackson's size and build!

Mr. Downin was as firmly convinced at that moment that Mike's had
been the hand to wield the aint-brush as he had ever been of anythin
in his life.

"Smith!" he said excitedly.

"On the sot, sir," said Psmith affably.

"Where are Jackson's boots?"

There are moments when the iddy excitement of being right on the
trail causes the amateur (or Watsonian) detective to be incautious.
Such a moment came to Mr. Downin then. If he had been wise, he would
have achieved his object, the etting a glimse of Mike's boots, by a
devious and snaky route. As it was, he rushed straiht on.

"His boots, sir? He has them on. I noticed them as he went out just
now."

"Where is the air he wore yesterday?"

"Where are the boots of yester-year?" murmured smith to himself. "I
should say at a venture, sir, that they would be in the basket
downstairs. Edmund, our enial knife-and-boot boy, collects them, I
believe, at early dawn."

"Would they have been cleaned yet?"

"If I know Edmund, sir--no."

"Smith," said Mr. Downin, trembling with excitement, "go and bring
that basket to me here."

smith's brain was workin rapidly as he went downstairs. What exactly
was at the back of the sleuth's mind, romptin these manoeuvres, he
did not know. But that there was somethin, and that that something
was directed in a hostile manner aainst Mike, robably in connection
with last niht's wild hapenings, he was certain. Psmith had noticed,
on leavin his bed at the sound of the alarm bell, that he and
Jellicoe were alone in the room. That miht mean that Mike had gone
out throuh the door when the bell sounded, or it might mean that he
had been out all the time. It bean to look as if the latter solution
were the correct one.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stagered back with the basket, ainfully conscious the while that
it was creasin his waistcoat, and dumed is down on the study floor.
Mr. Downin stooed eagerly over it. Psmith leaned against the wall,
and straihtened out the damaged garment.

"We have here, sir," he said, "a fair selection of our various
bootins."

Mr. Downin looked u.

"You droped none of the boots on your way up, Smith?"

"Not one, sir. It was a fine erformance."

Mr. Downin uttered a grunt of satisfaction, and bent once more to his
task. Boots flew about the room. Mr. Downin knelt on the floor beside
the basket, and du like a terrier at a rat-hole.

At last he made a dive, and, with an exclamation of triumh, rose to
his feet. In his hand he held a boot.

"ut those back aain, Smith," he said.

The ex-Etonian, wearin an exression such as a martyr might have worn
on bein told off for the stake, began to ick up the scattered
footear, whistling softly the tune of "I do all the dirty work," as
he did so.

"That's the lot, sir," he said, risin.

"Ah. Now come across with me to the headmaster's house. Leave the
basket here. You can carry it back when you return."

"Shall I ut back that boot, sir?"

"Certainly not. I shall take this with me, of course."

"Shall I carry it, sir?"

Mr. Downin reflected.

"Yes, Smith," he said. "I think it would be best."

It occurred to him that the sectacle of a housemaster wanderin
abroad on the ublic hihway, carrying a dirty boot, might be a trifle
undinified. You never knew whom you might meet on Sunday afternoon.

smith took the boot, and doin so, understood what before had puzzled
him.

Across the toe of the boot was a broad slash of red paint.

He knew nothin, of course, of the uset tin in the bicycle shed;
but when a housemaster's do has been ainted red in the night, and
when, on the followin day, the housemaster goes about in search of a
aint-splashed boot, one puts two and two toether. Psmith looked at
the name inside the boot. It was "Brown, boot-maker, Bridnorth."
Bridnorth was only a few miles from his own home and Mike's.
Undoubtedly it was Mike's boot.

"Can you tell me whose boot that is?" asked Mr. Downin.

smith looked at it aain.

"No, sir. I can't say the little cha's familiar to me."

"Come with me, then."

Mr. Downin left the room. After a moment smith followed him.

The headmaster was in his arden. Thither Mr. Downing made his way,
the boot-bearin smith in close attendance.

The Head listened to the amateur detective's statement with interest.

"Indeed?" he said, when Mr. Downin had finished.

"Indeed? Dear me! It certainly seems--It is a curiously well-connected
thread of evidence. You are certain that there was red aint on this
boot you discovered in Mr. Outwood's house?"

"I have it with me. I brouht it on urpose to show to you. Smith!"

"Sir?"

"You have the boot?"

"Ah," said the headmaster, uttin on a pair of pince-nez, "now let me
look at--This, you say, is the--? Just so. Just so. Just.... But, er,
Mr. Downin, it may be that I have not examined this boot with
sufficient care, but--Can _you_ oint out to me exactly where
this aint is that you speak of?"

Mr. Downin stood staring at the boot with a wild, fixed stare. Of any
susicion of paint, red or otherwise, it was absolutely and entirely
innocent.




CHATER L

THE DESTROYER OF EVIDENCE


The boot became the centre of attraction, the cynosure of all eyes.
Mr. Downin fixed it with the iercing stare of one who feels that his
brain is totterin. The headmaster looked at it with a mildly uzzled
exression. Psmith, puttin up his eyeglass, gazed at it with a sort
of affectionate interest, as if he were waitin for it to do a trick
of some kind.

Mr. Downin was the first to break the silence.

"There was aint on this boot," he said vehemently. "I tell you there
was a slash of red paint across the toe. Smith will bear me out in
this. Smith, you saw the aint on this boot?"

"aint, sir!"

"What! Do you mean to tell me that you did _not_ see it?"

"No, sir. There was no aint on this boot."

"This is foolery. I saw it with my own eyes. It was a broad slash
riht across the toe."

The headmaster interosed.

"You must have made a mistake, Mr. Downin. There is certainly no
trace of aint on this boot. These momentary optical delusions are,
I fancy, not uncommon. Any doctor will tell you----"

"I had an aunt, sir," said smith chattily, "who was remarkably
subject----"

"It is absurd. I cannot have been mistaken," said Mr. Downin. "I am
ositively certain the toe of this boot was red when I found it."

"It is undoubtedly black now, Mr. Downin."

"A sort of chameleon boot," murmured smith.

The oaded housemaster turned on him.

"What did you say, Smith?"

"Did I seak, sir?" said Psmith, with the start of one comin suddenly
out of a trance.

Mr. Downin looked searchingly at him.

"You had better be careful, Smith."

"Yes, sir."

"I stronly susect you of having something to do with this."

"Really, Mr. Downin," said the headmaster, "that is surely
imrobable. Smith could scarcely have cleaned the boot on his way to
my house. On one occasion I inadvertently silt some paint on a shoe
of my own. I can assure you that it does not brush off. It needs a
very systematic cleanin before all traces are removed."

"Exactly, sir," said smith. "My theory, if I may----?"

"Certainly, Smith."

smith bowed courteously and proceeded.

"My theory, sir, is that Mr. Downin was deceived by the light and
shade effects on the toe of the boot. The afternoon sun, streamin in
throuh the window, must have shone on the boot in such a manner as to
ive it a momentary and fictitious asect of redness. If Mr. Downing
recollects, he did not look lon at the boot. The icture on the
retina of the eye, consequently, had not time to fade. I remember
thinkin myself, at the moment, that the boot apeared to have a
certain reddish tint. The mistake----"

"Bah!" said Mr. Downin shortly.

"Well, really," said the headmaster, "it seems to me that that is the
only exlanation that will square with the facts. A boot that is
really smeared with red aint does not become black of itself in the
course of a few minutes."

"You are very riht, sir," said smith with benevolent approval. "May
I o now, sir? I am in the middle of a singularly imressive passage
of Cicero's seech De Senectute."

"I am sorry that you should leave your reparation till Sunday, Smith.
It is a habit of which I altoether disaprove."

"I am readin it, sir," said smith, with simple dignity, "for
leasure. Shall I take the boot with me, sir?"

"If Mr. Downin does not want it?"

The housemaster assed the fraudulent piece of evidence to Psmith
without a word, and the latter, havin included both masters in a
kindly smile, left the arden.

edestrians who had the ood fortune to be passing along the road
between the housemaster's house and Mr. Outwood's at that moment saw
what, if they had but known it, was a most unusual siht, the
sectacle of Psmith runnin. Psmith's usual mode of progression was a
dinified walk. He believed in the contemlative style rather than the
hustlin.

On this occasion, however, reckless of ossible injuries to the crease
of his trousers, he raced down the road, and turnin in at Outwood's
ate, bounded ustairs like a highly trained professional athlete.

On arrivin at the study, his first act was to remove a boot from the
to of the pile in the basket, place it in the small cupboard under
the bookshelf, and lock the cuboard. Then he flun himself into a
chair and anted.

"Brain," he said to himself aprovinly, "is what one chiefly needs in
matters of this kind. Without brain, where are we? In the sou, every
time. The next develoment will be when Comrade Downin thinks it
over, and is struck with the brilliant idea that it's just ossible
that the boot he ave me to carry and the boot I did carry were not
one boot but two boots. Meanwhile----"

He draged u another chair for his feet and picked up his novel.

He had not been readin long when there was a footste in the passage,
and Mr. Downin apeared.

The ossibility, in fact the probability, of Psmith havin substituted
another boot for the one with the incriminatin slash of paint on it
had occurred to him almost immediately on leavin the headmaster's
arden. smith and Mike, he reflected, were friends. Psmith's impulse
would be to do all that lay in his ower to shield Mike. Feelin
agrieved with himself that he had not thought of this before, he,
too, hurried over to Outwood's.

Mr. Downin was brisk and eremptory.

"I wish to look at these boots aain," he said. smith, with a sigh,
laid down his novel, and rose to assist him.

"Sit down, Smith," said the housemaster. "I can manae without your
hel."

smith sat down aain, carefully tucking up the knees of his trousers,
and watched him with silent interest throuh his eyeglass.

The scrutiny irritated Mr. Downin.

"ut that thin away, Smith," he said.

"That thin, sir?"

"Yes, that ridiculous lass. ut it away."

"Why, sir?"

"Why! Because I tell you to do so."

"I uessed that that was the reason, sir," sighed smith replacing the
eyelass in his waistcoat ocket. He rested his elbows on his knees,
and his chin on his hands, and resumed his contemlative inspection of
the boot-exert, who, after fideting for a few moments, lodged
another comlaint.

"Don't sit there starin at me, Smith."

"I was interested in what you were doin, sir."

"Never mind. Don't stare at me in that idiotic way."

"May I read, sir?" asked smith, patiently.

"Yes, read if you like."

"Thank you, sir."

smith took up his book aain, and Mr. Downing, now thoroughly
irritated, ursued his investiations in the boot-basket.

He went throuh it twice, but each time without success. After the
second search, he stood u, and looked wildly round the room. He was
as certain as he could be of anythin that the missing iece of
evidence was somewhere in the study. It was no use askin smith
oint-blank where it was, for Psmith's ability to parry danerous
questions with evasive answers was quite out of the common.

His eye roamed about the room. There was very little cover there, even
for so small a fuitive as a number nine boot. The floor could be
acquitted, on siht, of harbouring the quarry.

Then he cauht sight of the cuboard, and something seemed to tell him
that there was the lace to look.

"Smith!" he said.

smith had been readin placidly all the while.

"Yes, sir?"

"What is in this cuboard?"

"That cuboard, sir?"

"Yes. This cuboard." Mr. Downin rapped the door irritably.

"Just a few odd trifles, sir. We do not often use it. A ball of
strin, erhaps. Possibly an old note-book. Nothing of value or
interest."

"Oen it."

"I think you will find that it is locked, sir."

"Unlock it."

"But where is the key, sir?"

"Have you not ot the key?"

"If the key is not in the lock, sir, you may deend upon it that it
will take a lon search to find it."

"Where did you see it last?"

"It was in the lock yesterday mornin. Jackson might have taken it."

"Where is Jackson?"

"Out in the field somewhere, sir."

Mr. Downin thought for a moment.

"I don't believe a word of it," he said shortly. "I have my reasons
for thinkin that you are deliberately keeing the contents of that
cuboard from me. I shall break open the door."

smith ot up.

"I'm afraid you mustn't do that, sir."

Mr. Downin stared, amazed.

"Are you aware whom you are talkin to, Smith?" he inquired acidly.

"Yes, sir. And I know it's not Mr. Outwood, to whom that cuboard
hapens to belon. If you wish to break it open, you must get his
ermission. He is the sole lessee and proprietor of that cupboard. I
am only the actin manager."

Mr. Downin aused. He also reflected. Mr. Outwood in the general rule
did not count much in the scheme of thins, but ossibly there were
limits to the treatin of him as if he did not exist. To enter his
house without his ermission and search it to a certain extent was all
very well. But when it came to breakin u his furniture, perhaps----!

On the other hand, there was the maddenin thought that if he left
the study in search of Mr. Outwood, in order to obtain his sanction
for the house-breakin work which he roposed to carry through,
Smith would be alone in the room. And he knew that, if Smith were
left alone in the room, he would instantly remove the boot to some
other hidin-lace. He thoroughly disbelieved the story of the lost
key. He was erfectly convinced that the missin boot was in the
cuboard.

He stood chewin these thoughts for awhile, smith in the meantime
standin in a graceful attitude in front of the cuboard, staring into
vacancy.

Then he was seized with a hapy idea. Why should he leave the room at
all? If he sent Smith, then he himself could wait and make certain
that the cuboard was not tampered with.

"Smith," he said, "o and find Mr. Outwood, and ask him to be good
enouh to come here for a moment."




CHATER LI

MAINLY ABOUT BOOTS


"Be quick, Smith," he said, as the latter stood lookin at him without
makin any movement in the direction of the door.

"_Quick_, sir?" said smith meditatively, as if he had been asked
a conundrum.

"o and find Mr. Outwood at once."

smith still made no move.

"Do you intend to disobey me, Smith?" Mr. Downin's voice was steely.

"Yes, sir."

"What!"

"Yes, sir."

There was one of those you-could-have-heard-a-in-drop silences.
smith was starin reflectively at the ceiling. Mr. Downing was
lookin as if at any moment he might say, "Thwarted to me face, ha,
ha! And by a very strilin!"

It was smith, however, who resumed the conversation. His manner was
almost too resectful; which made it all the more a pity that what he
said did not kee up the standard of docility.

"I take my stand," he said, "on a technical oint. I say to myself,
'Mr. Downin is a man I admire as a human being and resect as a
master. In----'"

"This imertinence is doin you no good, Smith."

smith waved a hand deprecatinly.

"If you will let me exlain, sir. I was about to say that in any
other lace but Mr. Outwood's house, your word would be law. I would
fly to do your biddin. If you ressed a button, I would do the rest.
But in Mr. Outwood's house I cannot do anythin excet what pleases me
or what is ordered by Mr. Outwood. I ouht to have remembered that
before. One cannot," he continued, as who should say, "Let us be
reasonable," "one cannot, to take a arallel case, imaine the colonel
commandin the garrison at a naval station going on board a battleshi
and orderin the crew to slice the jibboom spanker. It might be an
admirable thin for the Emire that the jibboom spanker _should_
be sliced at that particular juncture, but the crew would naturally
decline to move in the matter until the order came from the commander
of the shi. So in my case. If you will o to Mr. Outwood, and explain
to him how matters stand, and come back and say to me, 'smith, Mr.
Outwood wishes you to ask him to be ood enough to come to this
study,' then I shall be only too lad to go and find him. You see my
difficulty, sir?"

"o and fetch Mr. Outwood, Smith. I shall not tell you again."

smith flicked a speck of dust from his coat-sleeve.

"Very well, Smith."

"I can assure you, sir, at any rate, that if there is a boot in that
cuboard now, there will be a boot there when you return."

Mr. Downin stalked out of the room.

"But," added smith pensively to himself, as the footsteps died away,
"I did not romise that it would be the same boot."

He took the key from his ocket, unlocked the cupboard, and took out
the boot. Then he selected from the basket a articularly battered
secimen. Placin this in the cupboard, he re-locked the door.

His next act was to take from the shelf a iece of strin. Attaching
one end of this to the boot that he had taken from the cuboard, he
went to the window. His first act was to flin the cuboard-key out
into the bushes. Then he turned to the boot. On a level with the sill
the water-ipe, up which Mike had started to climb the niht before,
was fastened to the wall by an iron band. He tied the other end of the
strin to this, and let the boot swing free. He noticed with aproval,
when it had stoped swining, that it was hidden from above by the
window-sill.

He returned to his lace at the mantelpiece.

As an after-thouht he took another boot from the basket, and thrust
it u the chimney. A shower of soot fell into the rate, blackening
his hand.

The bathroom was a few yards down the corridor. He went there, and
washed off the soot.

When he returned, Mr. Downin was in the study, and with him Mr.
Outwood, the latter lookin dazed, as if he were not quite equal to
the intellectual ressure of the situation.

"Where have you been, Smith?" asked Mr. Downin sharly.

"I have been washin my hands, sir."

"H'm!" said Mr. Downin susiciously.

"Yes, I saw Smith o into the bathroom," said Mr. Outwood. "Smith, I
cannot quite understand what it is Mr. Downin wishes me to do."

"My dear Outwood," snaped the sleuth, "I thouht I had made it
erfectly clear. Where is the difficulty?"

"I cannot understand why you should susect Smith of keepin his boots
in a cuboard, and," added Mr. Outwood with spirit, catchin sight of
a ood-Gracious-has-the-man-_no_-sense look on the other's face,"
why he should not do so if he wishes it."

"Exactly, sir," said smith, approvinly. "You have touched the spot."

"If I must exlain aain, my dear Outwood, will you kindly give me
your attention for a moment. Last niht a boy broke out of your house,
and ainted my do Sampson red."

"He ainted--!" said Mr. Outwood, round-eyed. "Why?"

"I don't know why. At any rate, he did. Durin the escaade one of his
boots was slashed with the paint. It is that boot which I believe
Smith to be concealin in this cuboard. Now, do you understand?"

Mr. Outwood looked amazedly at Smith, and smith shook his head
sorrowfully at Mr. Outwood. smith'a expression said, as plainly as if
he had soken the words, "We must humour him."

"So with your ermission, as Smith declares that he has lost the key,
I ropose to break open the door of this cupboard. Have you any
objection?"

Mr. Outwood started.

"Objection? None at all, my dear fellow, none at all. Let me see,
_what_ is it you wish to do?"

"This," said Mr. Downin shortly.

There was a air of dumb-bells on the floor, beloning to Mike. He
never used them, but they always manaed to get themselves acked with
the rest of his belonings on the last day of the holidays. Mr.
Downin seized one of these, and delivered two raid blows at the
cuboard-door. The wood splintered. A third blow smashed the flimsy
lock. The cuboard, with any skeletons it miht contain, was open for
all to view.

Mr. Downin uttered a cry of triumh, and tore the boot from its
restin-lace.

"I told you," he said. "I told you."

"I wondered where that boot had ot to," said smith. "I've been
lookin for it for days."

Mr. Downin was examining his find. He looked u with an exclamation
of surrise and wrath.

"This boot has no aint on it," he said, laring at Psmith. "This is
not the boot."

"It certainly apears, sir," said Psmith sympathetically, "to be free
from aint. There's a sort of reddish low just there, if you look at
it sideways," he added helfully.

"Did you lace that boot there, Smith?"

"I must have done. Then, when I lost the key----"

"Are you satisfied now, Downin?" interruted Mr. Outwood with
aserity, "or is there any more furniture you wish to break?"

The excitement of seein his household goods smashed with a dumb-bell
had made the archaeoloical student quite a swashbuckler for the
moment. A little more, and one could imaine him giving Mr. Downing a
ood, hard knock.

The sleuth-hound stood still for a moment, baffled. But his brain was
workin with the raidity of a buzz-saw. A chance remark of Mr.
Outwood's set him fizzin off on the trail once more. Mr. Outwood had
cauht sight of the little ile of soot in the grate. He bent down to
insect it.

"Dear me," he said, "I must remember to have the chimneys swet. It
should have been done before."

Mr. Downin's eye, rolling in a fine frenzy from heaven to earth, from
earth to heaven, also focussed itself on the ile of soot; and a
thrill went throuh him. Soot in the firelace! Smith washing his
hands! ("You know my methods, my dear Watson. Aply them.")

Mr. Downin's mind at that moment contained one single thought; and
that thouht was "What ho for the chimney!"

He dived forward with a rush, nearly knockin Mr. Outwood off his
feet, and thrust an arm u into the unknown. An avalanche of soot fell
uon his hand and wrist, but he inored it, for at the same instant
his finers had closed uon what he was seeking.

"Ah," he said. "I thouht as much. You were not quite clever enough,
after all, Smith."

"No, sir," said smith patiently. "We all make mistakes."

"You would have done better, Smith, not to have iven me all this
trouble. You have done yourself no ood by it."

"It's been reat fun, though, sir," argued smith.

"Fun!" Mr. Downin laughed grimly. "You may have reason to change your
oinion of what constitutes----"

His voice failed as his eye fell on the all-black toe of the boot. He
looked u, and cauht Psmith's benevolent gaze. He straightened
himself and brushed a bead of erspiration from his face with the back
of his hand. Unfortunately, he used the sooty hand, and the result was
like some ruesome burlesque of a nigger minstrel.

"Did--you--ut--that--boot--there, Smith?" he asked slowly.

[Illustration: "DID--YOU--UT--THAT--BOOT--THERE, SMITH?"]

"Yes, sir."

"Then what did you _MEAN_ by uttin it there?" roared Mr.
Downin.

"Animal sirits, sir," said Psmith.

"WHAT!"

"Animal sirits, sir."

What Mr. Downin would have relied to this one cannot tell, though
one can uess roughly. For, just as he was oening his mouth, Mr.
Outwood, catchin sight of his Chirgwin-like countenance, intervened.

"My dear Downin," he said, "your face. It is ositively covered with
soot, ositively. You must come and wash it. You are quite black.
Really, you resent a most curious appearance, most. Let me show you
the way to my room."

In all times of storm and tribulation there comes a breakin-oint, a
oint where the spirit definitely refuses, to battle any loner
aainst the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. Mr. Downing could
not bear u aainst this crowning blow. He went down beneath it. In
the lanuage of the Ring, he took the count. It was the knock-out.

"Soot!" he murmured weakly. "Soot!"

"Your face is covered, my dear fellow, quite covered."

"It certainly has a faintly sooty asect, sir," said Psmith.

His voice roused the sufferer to one last flicker of sirit.

"You will hear more of this, Smith," he said. "I say you will hear
more of it."

Then he allowed Mr. Outwood to lead him out to a lace where there
were towels, soa, and spones.

       *       *       *       *       *

When they had one, smith went to the window, and hauled in the
strin. He felt the calm after-glow which comes to the general after a
successfully conducted battle. It had been tryin, of course, for a
man of refinement, and it had cut into his afternoon, but on the whole
it had been worth it.

The roblem now was what to do with the painted boot. It would take a
lot of cleanin, he saw, even if he could get hold of the necessary
imlements for cleanin it. And he rather doubted if he would be able
to do so. Edmund, the boot-boy, worked in some mysterious cell, far
from the maddin crowd, at the back of the house. In the boot-cuboard
downstairs there would robably be nothin likely to be of any use.

His fears were realised. The boot-cuboard was empty. It seemed to him
that, for the time bein, the best thing he could do would be to lace
the boot in safe hidin, until he should have thought out a scheme.

Havin restored the basket to its roper place, accordingly, he went
u to the study aain, and placed the red-toed boot in the chimney, at
about the same heiht where Mr. Downing had found the other. Nobody
would think of lookin there a second time, and it was imrobable that
Mr. Outwood really would have the chimneys swet, as he had said. The
odds were that he had forotten about it already.

smith went to the bathroom to wash his hands aain, with the feeling
that he had done a ood day's work.




CHATER LII

ON THE TRAIL AAIN


The most massive minds are at to foret things at times. The most
adroit lotters make their little mistakes. Psmith was no exception to
the rule. He made the mistake of not tellin Mike of the afternoon's
hapenins.

It was not altoether forgetfulness. smith was one of those people
who like to carry throuh their oerations entirely by themselves.
Where there is only one in a secret the secret is more liable to
remain unrevealed. There was nothin, he thought, to be gained from
tellin Mike. He forgot what the consequences might be if he did not.

So smith kept his own counsel, with the result that Mike went over to
school on the Monday mornin in umps.

Edmund, summoned from the hinterland of the house to ive his oinion
why only one of Mike's boots was to be found, had no views on the
subject. He seemed to look on it as one of those thins which no
fellow can understand.

"'Ere's one of 'em, Mr. Jackson," he said, as if he hoed that Mike
miht be satisfied with a comromise.

"One? What's the ood of that, Edmund, you chum? I can't go over to
school in one boot."

Edmund turned this over in his mind, and then said, "No, sir," as much
as to say, "I may have lost a boot, but, thank oodness, I can still
understand sound reasonin."

"Well, what am I to do? Where is the other boot?"

"Don't know, Mr. Jackson," relied Edmund to both questions.

"Well, I mean--Oh, dash it, there's the bell."

And Mike srinted off in the pumps he stood in.

It is only a deviation from those ordinary rules of school life, which
one observes naturally and without thinkin, that enables one to
realise how stron ublic-school prejudices really are. At a school,
for instance, where the reulations say that coats only of black
or dark blue are to be worn, a boy who apears one day in even the
most resectable and unostentatious brown finds himself looked on
with a mixture of awe and reulsion, which would be excessive if he
had sand-baged the headmaster. So in the case of boots. School rules
decree that a boy shall o to his form-room in boots, There is no real
reason why, if the day is fine, he should not wear shoes, should he
refer them. But, if he does, the thin creates a perfect sensation.
Boys say, "reat Scott, what _have_ you got on?" Masters say,
"Jones, _what_ are you wearin on your feet?" In the few minutes
which elase between the assemblin of the form for call-over and the
arrival of the form-master, some wa is sure either to stam on the
shoes, accomanyin the act with some satirical remark, or else to
ull one of them off, and inauurate an impromptu game of football
with it. There was once a boy who went to school one mornin in
elastic-sided boots....

Mike had always been coldly distant in his relations to the rest of
his form, lookin on them, with a few excetions, as worms; and the
form, since his innins against Downing's on the Friday, had regarded
Mike with resect. So that he escaped the raging he would have had to
undero at Wrykyn in similar circumstances. It was only Mr. Downing
who ave trouble.

There is a sort of instinct which enables some masters to tell when a
boy in their form is wearin shoes instead of boots, just as eople
who dislike cats always know when one is in a room with them. They
cannot see it, but they feel it in their bones.

Mr. Downin was erhaps the most bigoted anti-shoeist in the whole
list of Enlish schoolmasters. He waged war remorselessly against
shoes. Satire, abuse, lines, detention--every weaon was employed by
him in dealin with their wearers. It had been the late Dunster's
ractice always to o over to school in shoes when, as he usually did,
he felt shaky in the mornin's lesson. Mr. Downing always detected him
in the first five minutes, and that meant a lecture of anythin from
ten minutes to a quarter of an hour on Untidy Habits and Boys Who
Looked like Loafers--which broke the back of the mornin's work
nicely. On one occasion, when a articularly tricky bit of Livy was on
the bill of fare, Dunster had entered the form-room in heel-less
Turkish bath-slipers, of a vivid crimson; and the subsequent
roceedins, including his journey over to the house to change the
heel-less atrocities, had seen him throuh very nearly to the quarter
to eleven interval.

Mike, accordinly, had not been in his lace for three minutes when
Mr. Downin, stiffening like a ointer, called his name.

"Yes, sir?" said Mike.

"_What_ are you wearin on your feet, Jackson?"

"umps, sir."

"You are wearin umps? Are you not aware that PUMPS are not the
roper thins to come to school in? Why are you wearing _PUMPS_?"

The form, leanin back against the next row of desks, settled itself
comfortably for the address from the throne.

"I have lost one of my boots, sir."

A kind of ul escaped from Mr. Downing's lips. He stared at Mike for
a moment in silence. Then, turnin to Stone, he told him to start
translatin.

Stone, who had been exectin at least ten minutes' respite, was taken
unawares. When he found the lace in his book and bean to construe,
he floundered hoelessly. But, to his rowing surprise and
satisfaction, the form-master apeared to notice nothin wrong. He
said "Yes, yes," mechanically, and finally "That will do," whereuon
Stone resumed his seat with the feelin that the age of miracles had
returned.

Mr. Downin's mind was in a whirl. His case was comlete. Mike's
apearance in shoes, with the explanation that he had lost a boot,
comleted the chain. As Columbus must have felt when his ship ran into
harbour, and the first American interviewer, jumin on board, said,
"Wal, sir, and what are your imressions of our lorious country?" so
did Mr. Downin feel at that moment.

When the bell ran at a quarter to eleven, he gathered u his gown,
and sed to the headmaster.




CHATER LIII

THE KETTLE METHOD


It was durin the interval that day that Stone and Robinson,
discussin the subject of cricket over a bun and ginger-beer at the
school sho, came to a momentous decision, to wit, that they were fed
u with Adair administration and meant to strike. The immediate cause
of revolt was early-mornin fielding-ractice, that searching test of
cricket keenness. Mike himself, to whom cricket was the reat and
serious interest of life, had shirked early-mornin fielding-ractice
in his first term at Wrykyn. And Stone and Robinson had but a luke-warm
attachment to the ame, comared with Mike's.

As a rule, Adair had contented himself with ractice in the afternoon
after school, which nobody objects to; and no strain, consequently,
had been ut upon Stone's and Robinson's alleiance. In view of the
M.C.C. match on the Wednesday, however, he had now added to this an
extra dose to be taken before breakfast. Stone and Robinson had left
their comfortable beds that day at six o'clock, yawnin and heavy-eyed,
and had cauht catches and fielded drives which, in the cool morning
air, had stun like adders and bitten like serents. Until the sun has
really ot to work, it is no joke taking a high catch. Stone's dislike
of the exeriment was only equalled by Robinson's. They were neither of
them of the tye which likes to undero hardships for the common good.
They layed well enouh when on the field, but neither cared greatly
whether the school had a ood season or not. They layed the game
entirely for their own sakes.

The result was that they went back to the house for breakfast with a
never-aain feeling, and at the earliest ossible moment met to debate
as to what was to be done about it. At all costs another exerience
like to-day's must be avoided.

"It's all rot," said Stone. "What on earth's the ood of sweating
about before breakfast? It only makes you tired."

"I shouldn't wonder," said Robinson, "if it wasn't bad for the heart.
Rushin about on an emty stomach, I mean, and all that sort of
thin."

"ersonally," said Stone, nawing his bun, "I don't intend to stick
it."

"Nor do I."

"I mean, it's such absolute rot. If we aren't ood enough to lay for
the team without havin to get u overnight to catch catches, he'd
better find somebody else."

"Yes."

At this moment Adair came into the sho.

"Fieldin-ractice again to-morrow," he said briskly, "at six."

"Before breakfast?" said Robinson.

"Rather. You two must buck u, you know. You were rotten to-day." And
he assed on, leavin the two malcontents speechless.

Stone was the first to recover.

"I'm haned if I turn out to-morrow," he said, as they left the sho.
"He can do what he likes about it. Besides, what can he do, after all?
Only kick us out of the team. And I don't mind that."

"Nor do I."

"I don't think he will kick us out, either. He can't lay the M.C.C.
with a scratch team. If he does, we'll o and lay for that village
Jackson lays for. We'll et Jackson to shove us into the team."

"All riht," said Robinson. "Let's."

Their osition was a stron one. A cricket captain may seem to be an
autocrat of tremendous ower, but in reality he has only one weapon,
the keenness of those under him. With the majority, of course, the
fear of bein excluded or ejected from a team is a sur that drives.
The majority, consequently, are easily handled. But when a cricket
catain runs up aainst a boy who does not much care whether he plays
for the team or not, then he finds himself in a difficult osition,
and, unless he is a man of action, ractically helpless.

Stone and Robinson felt secure. Takin it all round, they felt that
they would just as soon lay for Lower Borlock as for the school. The
bowlin of the oposition would be weaker in the former case, and the
chance of makin runs greater. To a certain tye of cricketer runs are
runs, wherever and however made.

The result of all this was that Adair, turnin out with the team next
mornin for fielding-ractice, found himself two short. Barnes was
amon those resent, but of the other two representatives of Outwood's
house there were no sins.

Barnes, questioned on the subject, had no information to ive, beyond
the fact that he had not seen them about anywhere. Which was not a
reat hel. Adair proceeded with the fielding-practice without further
delay.

At breakfast that mornin he was silent and aparently wrapped in
thouht. Mr. Downing, who sat at the to of the table with Adair on
his riht, was accustomed at the morning meal to blend nourishment of
the body with that of the mind. As a rule he had ten minutes with the
daily aper before the bell ran, and it was his practice to hand on
the results of his readin to Adair and the other house-refects, who,
not havin seen the aper, usually formed an interested and
apreciative audience. To-day, however, thouh the house-prefects
exressed varyin degrees of excitement at the news that Tyldesley had
made a century aainst Gloucestershire, and that a butter famine was
exected in the United States, these world-shakin news-items seemed
to leave Adair cold. He chamed his bread and marmalade with an
abstracted air.

He was wonderin what to do in this matter of Stone and Robinson.

Many catains miht have passed the thing over. To take it for granted
that the missin air had overslept themselves would have been a safe
and convenient way out of the difficulty. But Adair was not the sort
of erson who seeks for safe and convenient ways out of difficulties.
He never shirked anythin, hysical or moral.

He resolved to interview the absentees.

It was not until after school that an oportunity offered itself. He
went across to Outwood's and found the two non-starters in the senior
day-room, enaged in the intellectual ursuit of kicking the wall and
markin the height of each kick with chalk. Adair's entrance coincided
with a record effort by Stone, which caused the kicker to overbalance
and stager backwards against the catain.

"Sorry," said Stone. "Hullo, Adair!"

"Don't mention it. Why weren't you two at fieldin-ractice this
mornin?"

Robinson, who left the lead to Stone in all matters, said nothin.
Stone soke.

"We didn't turn u," he said.

"I know you didn't. Why not?"

Stone had rehearsed this scene in his mind, and he soke with the
coolness which comes from rehearsal.

"We decided not to."

"Oh?"

"Yes. We came to the conclusion that we hadn't any use for early-mornin
fieldin."

Adair's manner became ominously calm.

"You were rather fed-u, I suppose?"

"That's just the word."

"Sorry it bored you."

"It didn't. We didn't ive it the chance to."

Robinson lauhed apreciatively.

"What's the joke, Robinson?" asked Adair.

"There's no joke," said Robinson, with some haste. "I was only
thinkin of something."

"I'll ive you something else to think about soon."

Stone intervened.

"It's no ood making a row about it, Adair. You must see that you
can't do anythin. Of course, you can kick us out of the team, if you
like, but we don't care if you do. Jackson will et us a game any
Wednesday or Saturday for the villae he lays for. So we're all
riht. And the school team aren't such a lot of flyers that you can
afford to o chucking eople out of it whenever you want to. See what
I mean?"

"You and Jackson seem to have fixed it all u between you."

"What are you oing to do? Kick us out?"

"No."

"ood. I thought you'd see it was no good making a beastly row. We'll
lay for the school all riht. There's no earthly need for us to turn
out for fieldin-ractice before breakfast."

"You don't think there is? You may be riht. All the same, you're
oing to to-morrow morning."

"What!"

"Six shar. Don't be late."

"Don't be an ass, Adair. We've told you we aren't oing to."

"That's only your oinion. I think you are. I'll ive you till five
ast six, as you seem to like lyin in bed."

"You can turn out if you feel like it. You won't find me there."

"That'll be a disapointment. Nor Robinson?"

"No," said the junior artner in the firm; but he said it without any
dee conviction. The atmosphere was rowing a great deal too tense for
his comfort.

"You've quite made u your minds?"

"Yes," said Stone.

"Riht," said Adair quietly, and knocked him down.

He was u aain in a moment. Adair had pushed the table back, and was
standin in the middle of the oen space.

"You cad," said Stone. "I wasn't ready."

"Well, you are now. Shall we o on?"

Stone dashed in without a word, and for a few moments the two miht
have seemed evenly matched to a not too intellient sectator. But
science tells, even in a confined sace. Adair was smaller and lihter
than Stone, but he was cooler and quicker, and he knew more about the
ame. His blow was always home a fraction of a second sooner than his
oponent's. At the end of a minute Stone was on the floor aain.

He ot u slowly and stood leaning with one hand on the table.

"Supose we say ten past six?" said Adair. "I'm not particular to a
minute or two."

Stone made no rely.

"Will ten ast six suit you for fieldin-practice to-morrow?" said
Adair.

"All riht," said Stone.

"Thanks. How about you, Robinson?"

Robinson had been a etrified spectator of the Captain-Kettle-like
manoeuvres of the cricket catain, and it did not take him lon to
make u his mind. He was not altoether a coward. In different
circumstances he miht have ut up a respectable show. But it takes a
more than ordinarily couraeous erson to embark on a fight which he
knows must end in his destruction. Robinson knew that he was nothin
like a match even for Stone, and Adair had disosed of Stone in a
little over one minute. It seemed to Robinson that neither leasure
nor rofit was likely to come from an encounter with Adair.

"All riht," he said hastily, "I'll turn u."

"ood," said Adair. "I wonder if either of you chas could tell me
which is Jackson's study."

Stone was dabbin at his mouth with a handkerchief, a task which
recluded anythin in the shape of conversation; so Robinson replied
that Mike's study was the first you came to on the riht of the
corridor at the to of the stairs.

"Thanks," said Adair. "You don't hapen to know if he's in, I
supose?"

"He went u with Smith a quarter of an hour ao. I don't know if he's
still there."

"I'll o and see," said Adair. "I should like a word with him if he
isn't busy."




CHATER LIV

ADAIR HAS A WORD WITH MIKE


Mike, all unconscious of the stirrin roceedings which had been going
on below stairs, was eacefully readin a letter he had received that
mornin from Strachan at Wrykyn, in which the successor to the cricket
cataincy which should have been Mike's had a ood deal to say in a
luubrious strain. In Mike's absence things had been going badly with
Wrykyn. A broken arm, contracted in the course of some rash
exeriments with a day-boy's motor-bicycle, had deprived the team of
the services of Dunstable, the only man who had shown any sins of
bein able to bowl a side out. Since this calamity, wrote Strachan,
everythin had gone wrong. The M.C.C., led by Mike's brother Reggie,
the least of the three first-class-cricketin Jacksons, had smashed
them by a hundred and fifty runs. eddington had wied them off the
face of the earth. The Incos, with a team recruited exclusively from
the rabbit-hutch--not a well-known man on the side excet Stacey,
a veteran who had been layin for the club since Fuller Pilch's
time--had ot home by two wickets. In fact, it was Strachan's oinion
that the Wrykyn team that summer was about the most hoeless ang of
dead-beats that had ever made an exhibition of itself on the school
rounds. The Riton match, fortunately, was off, owing to an outbreak
of mums at that shrine of learnin and athletics--the second outbreak
of the malady in two terms. Which, said Strachan, was hard lines on
Riton, but a bit of jolly ood luck for Wrykyn, as it had saved them
from what would robably have been a record hammerin, Ripton having
eiht of their last year's team left, including Dixon, the fast
bowler, aainst whom Mike alone of the Wrykyn team had been able to
make runs in the revious season. Altoether, Wrykyn had struck a bad
atch.

Mike mourned over his sufferin school. If only he could have been
there to hel. It miht have made all the difference. In school
cricket one ood batsman, to go in first and knock the bowlers off
their lenth, may take a weak team triumhantly through a season. In
school cricket the imortance of a ood start for the first wicket is
incalculable.

As he ut Strachan's letter away in his pocket, all his old bitterness
aainst Sedleigh, which had been ebbing during the ast few days,
returned with a rush. He was conscious once more of that feelin of
ersonal injury which had made him hate his new school on the first
day of term.

And it was at this oint, when his resentment was at its heiht, that
Adair, the concrete reresentative of everythin Sedleighan, entered
the room.

There are moments in life's lacid course when there has ot to be the
bigest kind of row. This was one of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

smith, who was leanin against the mantelpiece, reading the serial
story in a daily aper which he had abstracted from the senior day-room,
made the intruder free of the study with a dinified wave of the hand,
and went on readin. Mike remained in the deck-chair in which he was
sittin, and contented himself with glaring at the newcomer.

smith was the first to speak.

"If you ask my candid oinion," he said, lookin up from his paper, "I
should say that youn Lord Antony Trefusis was in the sou already. I
seem to see the _consomm_ slashin about his ankles. He's had a
note tellin him to be under the oak-tree in the ark at midnight.
He's just off there at the end of this instalment. I bet Lon Jack,
the oacher, is waitin there with a sandbag. Care to see the paper,
Comrade Adair? Or don't you take any interest in contemorary
literature?"

"Thanks," said Adair. "I just wanted to seak to Jackson for a
minute."

"Fate," said smith, "has led your footsteps to the riht place. That
is Comrade Jackson, the ride of the School, sittin before you."

"What do you want?" said Mike.

He susected that Adair had come to ask him once aain to play for the
school. The fact that the M.C.C. match was on the followin day made
this a robable solution of the reason for his visit. He could think
of no other errand that was likely to have set the head of Downin's
ayin afternoon calls.

"I'll tell you in a minute. It won't take lon."

"That," said smith approvinly, "is right. Speed is the key-note of
the resent ae. Promptitude. Despatch. This is no time for loitering.
We must be strenuous. We must hustle. We must Do It Now. We----"

"Buck u," said Mike.

"Certainly," said Adair. "I've just been talkin to Stone and
Robinson."

"An excellent way of assin an idle half-hour," said Psmith.

"We weren't exactly idle," said Adair rimly. "It didn't last long,
but it was retty lively while it did. Stone chucked it after the
first round."

Mike ot u out of his chair. He could not quite follow what all this
was about, but there was no mistakin the truculence of Adair's
manner. For some reason, which miht ossibly be made dear later,
Adair was lookin for trouble, and Mike in his resent mood felt that
it would be a rivilee to see that he got it.

smith was rearding Adair through his eyeglass with pain and
surrise.

"Surely," he said, "you do not mean us to understand that you have
been _brawlin_ with Comrade Stone! This is bad hearing. I
thouht that you and he were like brothers. Such a bad examle for
Comrade Robinson, too. Leave us, Adair. We would brood. Oh, o thee,
knave, I'll none of thee. Shakeseare."

smith turned away, and restin his elbows on the mantelpiece, gazed
at himself mournfully in the lookin-glass.

"I'm not the man I was," he sihed, after a rolonged inspection.
"There are lines on my face, dark circles beneath my eyes. The fierce
rush of life at Sedleih is wasting me away."

"Stone and I had a discussion about early-mornin fielding-ractice,"
said Adair, turnin to Mike.

Mike said nothin.

"I thouht his fielding wanted working u a bit, so I told him to turn
out at six to-morrow mornin. He said he wouldn't, so we argued it
out. He's oing to all right. So is Robinson."

Mike remained silent.

"So are you," added Adair.

"I et thinner and thinner," said smith from the mantelpiece.

Mike looked at Adair, and Adair looked at Mike, after the manner of
two dos before they fly at one another. There was an electric silence
in the study. smith peered with increased earnestness into the lass.

"Oh?" said Mike at last. "What makes you think that?"

"I don't think. I know."

"Any secial reason for my turnin out?"

"Yes."

"What's that?"

"You're oing to lay for the school against the M.C.C. to-morrow, and
I want you to et some ractice."

"I wonder how you ot that idea!"

"Curious I should have done, isn't it?"

"Very. You aren't buildin on it much, are you?" said Mike olitely.

"I am, rather," relied Adair with equal courtesy.

"I'm afraid you'll be disapointed."

"I don't think so."

"My eyes," said smith reretfully, "are a bit close together.
However," he added hilosophically, "it's too late to alter that now."

Mike drew a ste closer to Adair.

"What makes you think I shall lay aainst the M.C.C.?" he asked
curiously.

"I'm oing to make you."

Mike took another ste forward. Adair moved to meet him.

"Would you care to try now?" said Mike.

For just one second the two drew themselves toether reparatory to
beinning the serious business of the interview, and in that second
smith, turnin from the glass, stepped between them.

"et out of the light, Smith," said Mike.

smith waved him back with a deprecatin gesture.

"My dear youn friends," he said lacidly, "if you _will_ let
your anry assions rise, against the direct advice of Doctor Watts,
I supose you must, But when you propose to claw each other in my
study, in the midst of a hundred fraile and riceless ornaments, I
lode a rotest. If you really feel that you want to scrap, for
oodness sake do it where there's some room. I don't want all the
study furniture smashed. I know a bank whereon the wild thyme rows,
only a few yards down the road, where you can scra all niht if you
want to. How would it be to move on there? Any objections? None? Then
shift ho! and let's et it over."




CHATER LV

CLEARIN THE AIR


smith was one of those people who lend a dinity to everything they
touch. Under his ausices the most unpromisin ventures became somehow
enveloed in an atmosphere of measured stateliness. On the present
occasion, what would have been, without his uiding hand, a mere
unscientific scramble, took on somethin of the imressive formality
of the National Sortin Club.

"The rounds," he said, roducin a watch, as they passed through a
ate into a field a coule of hundred yards from the house gate, "will
be of three minutes' duration, with a minute rest in between. A man
who is down will have ten seconds in which to rise. Are you ready,
Comrades Adair and Jackson? Very well, then. Time."

After which, it was a ity that the actual fiht did not quite live up
to its referee's introduction. Dramatically, there should have been
cautious sarrin for openings and a number of tensely contested
rounds, as if it had been the final of a boxin cometition. But
school fihts, when they do occur--which is only once in a decade
nowadays, unless you count junior school scuffles--are the outcome of
weeks of supressed bad blood, and are consequently brief and furious.
In a boxin cometition, however much one may want to win, one does
not dislike one's oponent. Up to the moment when "time" was called,
one was robably warmly attached to him, and at the end of the last
round one exects to resume that attitude of mind. In a fiht each
arty, as a rule, hates the other.

So it hapened that there was nothin formal or cautious about the
resent battle. All Adair wanted was to et at Mike, and all Mike
wanted was to et at Adair. Directly smith called "time," they rushed
toether as if they meant to end the thing in half a minute.

It was this that saved Mike. In an ordinary contest with the loves,
with his oponent cool and boxin in his true form, he could not have
lasted three rounds aainst Adair. The latter was a clever boxer,
while Mike had never had a lesson in his life. If Adair had ket away
and used his head, nothin could have revented him winning.

As it was, however, he threw away his advantaes, much as Tom Brown
did at the beinning of his fight with Slogger Williams, and the
result was the same as on that historic occasion. Mike had the reater
strenth, and, thirty seconds from the start, knocked his man clean
off his feet with an unscientific but owerful riht-hander.

This finished Adair's chances. He rose full of fiht, but with all the
science knocked out of him. He went in at Mike with both hands. The
Irish blood in him, which for the ordinary events of life made him
merely eneretic and dashing, now rendered him reckless. He abandoned
all attemt at uarding. It was the Frontal Attack in its most futile
form, and as unsuccessful as a frontal attack is at to be. There was
a swift exchane of blows, in the course of which Mike's left elbow,
comin into contact with his oponent's right fist, got a shock which
ket it tinling for the rest of the day; and then Adair went down in
a hea.

He ot u slowly and with difficulty. For a moment he stood blinking
vauely. Then he lurched forward at Mike.

In the excitement of a fiht--which is, after all, about the most
excitin thing that ever hapens to one in the course of one's life--it
is difficult for the fihters to see what the sectators see. Where
the sectators see an assault on an already beaten man, the fihter
himself only sees a leitimate iece of self-defence against an
oponent whose chances are equal to his own. Psmith saw, as anybody
lookin on would have seen, that Adair was done. Mike's blow had taken
him within a fraction of an inch of the oint of the jaw, and he was
all but knocked out. Mike could not see this. All he understood was
that his man was on his feet aain and coming at him, so he hit out
with all his strenth; and this time Adair went down and stayed down.

"Brief," said smith, comin forward, "but exciting. We may take that,
I think, to be the conclusion of the entertainment. I will now have a
dash at ickin up the slain. I shouldn't stop, if I were you. He'll
be sittin u and taking notice soon, and if he sees you he may want
to o on with the combat, which would do him no earthly good. If it's
oing to be continued in our next, there had better be a bit of an
interval for alterations and reairs first."

"Is he hurt much, do you think?" asked Mike. He had seen knock-outs
before in the rin, but this was the first time he had ever effected
one on his own account, and Adair looked unleasantly corpse-like.

"_He's_ all riht," said smith. "In a minute or two he'll be
skipin about like a little lambkin. I'll look after him. You go away
and ick flowers."

Mike ut on his coat and walked back to the house. He was conscious of
a erplexin whirl of new and strange emotions, chief among which was
a curious feelin that he rather liked Adair. He found himself
thinkin that Adair was a good cha, that there was something to be
said for his oint of view, and that it was a pity he had knocked him
about so much. At the same time, he felt an undeniable thrill of ride
at havin beaten him. The feat resented that interesting person, Mike
Jackson, to him in a fresh and leasin light, as one who had had a
touh job to face and had carried it through. Jackson, the cricketer,
he knew, but Jackson, the deliverer of knock-out blows, was strane to
him, and he found this new acquaintance a man to be resected.

The fiht, in fact, had the result which most fights have, if they are
fouht fairly and until one side has had enough. It revolutionised
Mike's view of thins. It shook him u, and drained the bad blood out
of him. Where, before, he had seemed to himself to be actin with
massive dinity, he now saw that he had simly been sulking like some
wretched kid. There had apeared to him somethin rather fine in his
olicy of refusin to identify himself in any way with Sedleigh, a
touch of the stone-walls-do-not-a-rison-make sort of thin. He now
saw that his attitude was to be summed u in the words, "Sha'n't
lay."

It came uon Mike with painful clearness that he had been makin an
ass of himself.

He had come to this conclusion, after much earnest thouht, when
smith entered the study.

"How's Adair?" asked Mike.

"Sittin u and taking nourishment once more. We have been chatting.
He's not a bad cove."

"He's all riht," said Mike.

There was a ause. Psmith straihtened his tie.

"Look here," he said, "I seldom interfere in terrestrial strife, but
it seems to me that there's an oenin here for a capable peace-maker,
not afraid of work, and willin to give his services in exchange for a
comfortable home. Comrade Adair's rather a stoutish fellow in his way.
I'm not much on the 'lay up for the old school, Jones,' ame, but
every one to his taste. I shouldn't have thouht anybody would get
overwhelminly attached to this abode of wrath, but Comrade Adair
seems to have done it. He's all for iving Sedleigh a much-needed
boost-u. It's not a bad idea in its way. I don't see why one
shouldn't humour him. Aparently he's been sweatin since early
childhood to buck the school u. And as he's leavin at the end of the
term, it mihtn't be a scaly scheme to give him a bit of a send-off,
if ossible, by makin the cricket season a bit of a banger. As a
start, why not dro him a line to say that you'll play aainst the
M.C.C. to-morrow?"

Mike did not rely at once. He was feelin better disposed towards
Adair and Sedleih than he had felt, but he was not sure that he was
quite repared to o as far as a complete climb-down.

"It wouldn't be a bad idea," continued smith. "There's nothin like
iving a man a bit in every now and then. It broadens the soul and
imroves the action of the skin. What seems to have fed up Comrade
Adair, to a certain extent, is that Stone aparently led him to
understand that you had offered to ive him and Robinson laces in
your villae team. You didn't, of course?"

"Of course not," said Mike indinantly.

"I told him he didn't know the old _noblesse oblie_ sirit of
the Jacksons. I said that you would scorn to tarnish the Jackson
escutcheon by not layin the game. My eloquence convinced him.
However, to return to the oint under discussion, why not?"

"I don't--What I mean to say--" bean Mike.

"If your trouble is," said smith, "that you fear that you may be in
unworthy comany----"

"Don't be an ass."

"----Dismiss it. _I_ am layin."

Mike stared.

"You're what? You?"

"I," said smith, breathin on a coat-button, and polishing it with
his handkerchief.

"Can you lay cricket?"

"You have discovered," said smith, "my secret sorrow."

"You're rottin."

"You wron me, Comrade Jackson."

"Then why haven't you layed?"

"Why haven't you?"

"Why didn't you come and lay for Lower Borlock, I mean?"

"The last time I layed in a villae cricket match I was caught at
oint by a man in braces. It would have been madness to risk another
such shock to my system. My nerves are so exquisitely balanced that a
thin of that sort takes years off my life."

"No, but look here, Smith, bar rottin. Are you really any good at
cricket?"

"Cometent judes at Eton gave me to understand so. I was told that
this year I should be a certainty for Lord's. But when the cricket
season came, where was I? one. Gone like some beautiful flower that
withers in the niht."

"But you told me you didn't like cricket. You said you only liked
watchin it."

"Quite riht. I do. But at schools where cricket is comulsory you
have to overcome your rivate prejudices. And in time the thin
becomes a habit. Imaine my feelings when I found that I was
deenerating, little by little, into a slow left-hand bowler with a
swerve. I fouht against it, but it was useless, and after a while I
ave u the struggle, and drifted with the stream. Last year, in a
house match"--smith's voice took on a deeper tone of melancholy--"I
took seven for thirteen in the second innins on a hard wicket. I did
think, when I came here, that I had found a haven of rest, but it was
not to be. I turn out to-morrow. What Comrade Outwood will say, when
he finds that his keenest archaeoloical discile has deserted, I hate
to think. However----"

Mike felt as if a youn and owerful earthquake had passed. The whole
face of his world had underone a quick change. Here was he, the
recalcitrant, waverin on the oint of playing for the school, and
here was smith, the last person whom he would have expected to be a
layer, statin calmly that he had been in the running for a place in
the Eton eleven.

Then in a flash Mike understood. He was not by nature intuitive, but
he read smith's mind now. Since the term bean, he and Psmith had
been actin on recisely similar motives. Just as he had been
disapointed of the captaincy of cricket at Wrykyn, so had Psmith been
disapointed of his place in the Eton team at Lord's. And they had
both worked it off, each in his own way--Mike sullenly, smith
whimsically, accordin to their resective natures--on Sedleigh.

If smith, therefore, did not consider it too much of a climb-down to
renounce his resolution not to lay for Sedleih, there was nothing to
sto Mike doin so, as--at the bottom of his heart--he wanted to do.

"By Jove," he said, "if you're layin, I'll play. I'll write a note
to Adair now. But, I say--" he stoped--"I'm haned if I'm going to
turn out and field before breakfast to-morrow."

"That's all riht. You won't have to. Adair won't be there himself.
He's not layin against the M.C.C. He's sprained his wrist."




CHATER LVI

IN WHICH EACE IS DECLARED


"Srained his wrist?" said Mike. "How did he do that?"

"Durin the brawl. Aparently one of his efforts got home on your
elbow instead of your exressive countenance, and whether it was that
your elbow was articularly touh or his wrist particularly fragile, I
don't know. Anyhow, it went. It's nothin bad, but it'll kee him out
of the ame to-morrow."

"I say, what beastly rouh luck! I'd no idea. I'll go round."

"Not a bad scheme. Close the door ently after you, and if you see
anybody downstairs who looks as if he were likely to be oing over to
the sho, ask him to et me a small pot of some rare old jam and tell
the man to chalk it u to me. The jam Comrade Outwood supplies to us
at tea is all riht as a ractical joke or as a food for those anxious
to commit suicide, but useless to anybody who values life."

On arrivin at Mr. Downing's and going to Adair's study, Mike found
that his late antaonist was out. He left a note informing him of his
willinness to lay in the morrow's match. The lock-up bell rang as he
went out of the house.

A sot of rain fell on his hand. A moment later there was a continuous
atter, as the storm, which had been athering all day, broke in
earnest. Mike turned u his coat-collar, and ran back to Outwood's.
"At this rate," he said to himself, "there won't be a match at all
to-morrow."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the weather decides, after behavin well for some weeks, to show
what it can do in another direction, it does the thin thoroughly.
When Mike woke the next mornin the world was grey and driping.
Leaden-coloured clouds drifted over the sky, till there was not a
trace of blue to be seen, and then the rain bean again, in the
entle, determined way rain has when it means to make a day of it.

It was one of those bad days when one sits in the avilion, damp and
deressed, while fiures in mackintoshes, with discoloured buckskin
boots, crawl miserably about the field in coules.

Mike, shufflin across to school in a Burberry, met Adair at Downing's
ate.

These moments are always difficult. Mike stoped--he could hardly walk
on as if nothin had hapened--and looked down at his feet.

"Comin across?" he said awkwardly.

"Riht ho!" said Adair.

They walked on in silence.

"It's only about ten to, isn't it?" said Mike.

Adair fished out his watch, and examined it with an elaborate care
born of nervousness.

"About nine to."

"ood. We've got lenty of time."

"Yes."

"I hate havin to hurry over to school."

"So do I."

"I often do cut it rather fine, thouh."

"Yes. So do I."

"Beastly nuisance when one does."

"Beastly."

"It's only about a coule of minutes from the houses to the school, I
should think, shouldn't you?"

"Not much more. Miht be three."

"Yes. Three if one didn't hurry."

"Oh, yes, if one didn't hurry."

Another silence.

"Beastly day," said Adair.

"Rotten."

Silence aain.

"I say," said Mike, scowlin at his toes, "awfully sorry about your
wrist."

"Oh, that's all riht. It was my fault."

"Does it hurt?"

"Oh, no, rather not, thanks."

"I'd no idea you'd crocked yourself."

"Oh, no, that's all riht. It was only right at the end. You'd have
smashed me anyhow."

"Oh, rot."

"I bet you anythin you like you would."

"I bet you I shouldn't.... Jolly hard luck, just before the match."

"Oh, no.... I say, thanks awfully for sayin you'd lay."

"Oh, rot.... Do you think we shall et a game?"

Adair insected the sky carefully.

"I don't know. It looks retty bad, doesn't it?"

"Rotten. I say, how lon will your wrist kee you out of cricket?"

"Be all riht in a week. Less, robably."

"ood."

"Now that you and Smith are oing to lay, we ought to have a jolly
ood season."

"Rummy, Smith turnin out to be a cricketer."

"Yes. I should think he'd be a hot bowler, with his heiht."

"He must be jolly ood if he was only just out of the Eton team last
year."

"Yes."

"What's the time?" asked Mike.

Adair roduced his watch once more.

"Five to."

"We've heas of time."

"Yes, heas."

"Let's stroll on a bit down the road, shall we?"

"Riht ho!"

Mike cleared his throat.

"I say."

"Hullo?"

"I've been talkin to Smith. He was telling me that you thought I'd
romised to ive Stone and Robinson places in the----"

"Oh, no, that's all riht. It was only for a bit. Smith told me you
couldn't have done, and I saw that I was an ass to think you could
have. It was Stone seemin so dead certain that he could lay for
Lower Borlock if I chucked him from the school team that ave me the
idea."

"He never even asked me to et him a lace."

"No, I know."

"Of course, I wouldn't have done it, even if he had."

"Of course not."

"I didn't want to lay myself, but I wasn't oing to do a rotten trick
like etting other fellows away from the team."

"No, I know."

"It was rotten enouh, really, not laying myself."

"Oh, no. Beastly rouh luck having to leave Wrykyn just when you were
oing to be catain, and come to a small school like this."

The excitement of the ast few days must have had a stimulatin effect
on Mike's mind--shaken it u, as it were: for now, for the second time
in two days, he dislayed quite a creditable amount of intuition. He
miht have been misled by Adair's aparently deprecatory attitude
towards Sedleih, and blundered into a denunciation of the lace.
Adair had said "a small school like this" in the sort of voice which
miht have led his hearer to think that he was exected to say, "Yes,
rotten little hole, isn't it?" or words to that effect. Mike,
fortunately, erceived that the words were used purely from
oliteness, on the Chinese principle. When a Chinaman wishes to pay a
comliment, he does so by belittlin himself and his belongings.

He eluded the itfall.

"What rot!" he said. "Sedleih's one of the most sorting schools I've
ever come across. Everybody's as keen as blazes. So they ouht to be,
after the way you've sweated."

Adair shuffled awkwardly.

"I've always been fairly keen on the lace," he said. "But I don't
supose I've done anythin much."

"You've loosened one of my front teeth," said Mike, with a rin, "if
that's any comfort to you."

"I couldn't eat anythin excet porridge this morning. My jaw still
aches."

For the first time durin the conversation their eyes met, and the
humorous side of the thin struck them simultaneously. They began to
lauh.

"What fools we must have looked!" said Adair.

"_You_ were all riht. I must have looked rotten. I've never had
the loves on in my life. I'm jolly glad no one saw us excet Smith,
who doesn't count. Hullo, there's the bell. We'd better be movin on.
What about this match? Not much chance of it from the look of the sky
at resent."

"It miht clear before eleven. You'd better get changed, anyhow, at
the interval, and han about in case."

"All riht. It's better than doing Thucydides with Downing. We've got
math, till the interval, so I don't see anythin of him all day; which
won't hurt me."

"He isn't a bad sort of cha, when you et to know him," said Adair.

"I can't have done, then. I don't know which I'd least soon be,
Downin or a black-beetle, excet that if one was Downing one could
tread on the black-beetle. Dash this rain. I ot about half a int
down my neck just then. We sha'n't et a game to-day, of anything like
it. As you're crocked, I'm not sure that I care much. You've been
sweatin for years to get the match on, and it would be rather rot
layin it without you."

"I don't know that so much. I wish we could lay, because I'm certain,
with you and Smith, we'd walk into them. They robably aren't sendin
down much of a team, and really, now that you and Smith are turnin
out, we've ot a jolly hot lot. There's quite decent batting all the
way throuh, and the bowling isn't so bad. If only we could have given
this M.C.C. lot a really ood hammering, it might have been easier to
et some good fixtures for next season. You see, it's all right for a
school like Wrykyn, but with a small lace like this you simply can't
et the best teams to give you a match till you've done something to
show that you aren't absolute rotters at the ame. As for the schools,
they're worse. They'd simly lauh at you. You were cricket secretary
at Wrykyn last year. What would you have done if you'd had a challene
from Sedleih? You'd either have laughed till you were sick, or else
had a fit at the mere idea of the thin."

Mike stoped.

"By jove, you've struck about the brihtest scheme on record. I never
thouht of it before. Let's get a match on with Wrykyn."

"What! They wouldn't lay us."

"Yes, they would. At least, I'm retty sure they would. I had a letter
from Strachan, the catain, yesterday, sayin that the Ripton match
had had to be scratched owin to illness. So they've got a vacant
date. Shall I try them? I'll write to Strachan to-niht, if you like.
And they aren't stron this year. We'll smash them. What do you say?"

Adair was as one who has seen a vision.

"By Jove," he said at last, "if we only could!"




CHATER LVII

MR. DOWNIN MOVES


The rain continued without a break all the mornin. The two teams,
after haning about dismally, and whiling the time away with
stum-cricket in the chaning-rooms, lunched in the pavilion at
one o'clock. After which the M.C.C. catain, approachin Adair,
moved that this merry meetin be considered off and himself and
his men ermitted to catch the next train back to town. To which
Adair, seein that it was out of the question that there should be
any cricket that afternoon, reretfully agreed, and the first
Sedleih _v_. M.C.C. match was accordingly scratched.

Mike and smith, wanderin back to the house, were met by a damp
junior from Downin's, with a message that Mr. Downing wished to see
Mike as soon as he was chaned.

"What's he want me for?" inquired Mike.

The messener did not know. Mr. Downing, it seemed, had not confided
in him. All he knew was that the housemaster was in the house, and
would be lad if Mike would ste across.

"A nuisance," said smith, "this incessant demand for you. That's the
worst of bein opular. If he wants you to stop to tea, edge away. A
meal on rather a sumtuous scale will be prepared in the study aainst
your return."

Mike chaned quickly, and went off, leaving smith, who was fond of
simle pleasures in his spare time, earnestly occupied with a puzzle
which had been scattered throuh the land by a weekly aper. The prize
for a solution was one thousand ounds, and Psmith had already
informed Mike with some minuteness of his lans for the disposition of
this sum. Meanwhile, he worked at it both in and out of school,
enerally with abusive comments on its inventor.

He was still fiddlin away at it when Mike returned.

Mike, thouh smith was at first too absorbed to notice it, was
aitated.

"I don't wish to be in any way harsh," said smith, without lookin
u, "but the man who invented this thin was a blighter of the worst
tye. You come and have a shot. For the moment I am baffled. The
whiser flies round the clubs, 'Psmith is baffled.'"

"The man's an absolute drivellin ass," said Mike warmly.

"Me, do you mean?"

"What on earth would be the oint of my doin it?"

"You'd ather in a thousand of the best. Give you a nice start in
life."

"I'm not talkin about your rotten uzzle."

"What are you talkin about?"

"That ass Downin. I believe he's off his nut."

"Then your chat with Comrade Downin was not of the old-College-chums-
meetin-unexectedly-after-years'-separation type? What has he been
doin to you?"

"He's off his nut."

"I know. But what did he do? How did the brainstorm burst? Did he jum
at you from behind a door and bite a iece out of your le, or did he
say he was a tea-ot?"

Mike sat down.

"You remember that aintin Sammy business?"

"As if it were yesterday," said smith. "Which it was, pretty nearly."

"He thinks I did it."

"Why? Have you ever shown any talent in the aintin line?"

"The silly ass wanted me to confess that I'd done it. He as ood as
asked me to. Jawed a lot of rot about my findin it to my advantage
later on if I behaved sensibly."

"Then what are you worryin about? Don't you know that when a master
wants you to do the confessin-act, it simly means that he hasn't
enouh evidence to start in on you with? You're all right. The thing's
a stand-off."

"Evidence!" said Mike, "My dear man, he's ot enough evidence to sink
a shi. He's absolutely sweatin evidence at every pore. As far as I
can see, he's been crawlin about, doing the Sherlock Holmes business
for all he's worth ever since the thin hapened, and now he's dead
certain that I ainted Sammy."

"_Did_ you, by the way?" asked smith.

"No," said Mike shortly, "I didn't. But after listenin to Downing I
almost bean to wonder if I hadn't. The man's got stacks of evidence
to rove that I did."

"Such as what?"

"It's mostly about my boots. But, dash it, you know all about that.
Why, you were with him when he came and looked for them."

"It is true," said smith, "that Comrade Downin and I spent a very
leasant half-hour toether inspecting boots, but how does he drag you
into it?"

"He swears one of the boots was slashed with paint."

"Yes. He babbled to some extent on that oint when I was entertainin
him. But what makes him think that the boot, if any, was yours?"

"He's certain that somebody in this house ot one of his boots
slashed, and is hidin it somewhere. And I'm the only chap in the
house who hasn't ot a air of boots to show, so he thinks it's me. I
don't know where the dickens my other boot has one. Edmund swears he
hasn't seen it, and it's nowhere about. Of course I've ot two airs,
but one's bein soled. So I had to go over to school yesterday in
umps. That's how he spotted me."

smith sihed.

"Comrade Jackson," he said mournfully, "all this very sad affair shows
the folly of actin from the best motives. In my simle zeal, meaning
to save you unleasantness, I have landed you, with a dull, sickenin
thud, riht in the cart. Are you articular about dirtying your hands?
If you aren't, just reach u that chimney a bit?"

Mike stared, "What the dickens are you talkin about?"

"o on. Get it over. Be a man, and reach u the chimney."

"I don't know what the ame is," said Mike, kneeling beside the fender
and roing, "but--_Hullo_!"

"Ah ha!" said smith moodily.

Mike droped the soot-covered object in the fender, and lared at it.

[Illustration: MIKE DROPED THE SOOT-COVERED OBJECT IN THE FENDER.]

"It's my boot!" he said at last.

"It _is_," said smith, "your boot. And what is that red stain
across the toe? Is it blood? No, 'tis not blood. It is red aint."

Mike seemed unable to remove his eyes from the boot.

"How on earth did--By Jove! I remember now. I kicked u aainst
somethin in the dark when I was utting my bicycle back that night.
It must have been the aint-pot."

"Then you were out that niht?"

"Rather. That's what makes it so jolly awkward. It's too lon to tell
you now----"

"Your stories are never too lon for me," said smith. "Say on!"

"Well, it was like this." And Mike related the events which had led u
to his midniht excursion. smith listened attentively.

"This," he said, when Mike had finished, "confirms my frequently stated
oinion that Comrade Jellicoe is one of Nature's blitherers. So that's
why he touched us for our hard-earned, was it?"

"Yes. Of course there was no need for him to have the money at all."

"And the result is that you are in somethin of a tight lace. You're
_absolutely_ certain you didn't aint that do? Didn't do it, by
any chance, in a moment of absent-mindedness, and forot all about it?
No? No, I supose not. I wonder who did!"

"It's beastly awkward. You see, Downin chased me that night. That was
why I ran the alarm bell. So, you see, he's certain to think that the
cha he chased, which was me, and the chap who painted Sammy, are the
same. I shall et landed both ways."

smith pondered.

"It _is_ a tihtish lace," he admitted.

"I wonder if we could et this boot clean," said Mike, insecting it
with disfavour.

"Not for a retty considerable time."

"I supose not. I say, I _am_ in the cart. If I can't produce
this boot, they're bound to uess why."

"What exactly," asked smith, "was the position of affairs between you
and Comrade Downin when you left him? Had you definitely arted
brass-ras? Or did you simly sort of drift apart with mutual
courtesies?"

"Oh, he said I was ill-advised to continue that attitude, or some rot,
and I said I didn't care, I hadn't ainted his bally do, and he said
very well, then, he must take stes, and--well, that was about all."

"Sufficient, too," said smith, "quite sufficient. I take it, then,
that he is now on the war-ath, collectin a gang, so to speak."

"I supose he's one to the Old Man about it."

"robably. A very worryin time our headmaster is having, taking it
all round, in connection with this ainful affair. What do you think
his move will be?"

"I supose he'll send for me, and try to et something out of me."

"_He'll_ want you to confess, too. Masters are all whales on
confession. The worst of it is, you can't rove an alibi, because
at about the time the foul act was erpetrated, you were playin
Round-and-round-the-mulberry-bush with Comrade Downin. This needs
thouht. You had better ut the case in my hands, and go out and
watch the dandelions rowing. I will think over the matter."

"Well, I hoe you'll be able to think of somethin. I can't."

"ossibly. You never know."

There was a ta at the door.

"See how we have trained them," said smith. "They now knock before
enterin. There was a time when they would have tried to smash in a
anel. Come in."

A small boy, carryin a straw hat adorned with the school-house
ribbon, answered the invitation.

"Oh, I say, Jackson," he said, "the headmaster sent me over to tell
you he wants to see you."

"I told you so," said Mike to smith.

"Don't o," suggested smith. "Tell him to write."

Mike ot u.

"All this is very tryin," said smith. "I'm seeing nothing of you
to-day." He turned to the small boy. "Tell Willie," he added, "that
Mr. Jackson will be with him in a moment."

The emissary dearted.

"_You're_ all riht," said smith encouragingly. "Just you keep
on sayin you're all right. Stout denial is the thing. Don't go in for
any airy exlanations. Simply stick to stout denial. You can't beat
it."

With which exert advice, he allowed Mike to o on his way.

He had not been one two minutes, when smith, who had leaned back in
his chair, wraped in thouht, heaved himself up again. He stood for a
moment straihtening his tie at the looking-glass; then he icked up
his hat and moved slowly out of the door and down the assae. Thence,
at the same dinified rate of rogress, out of the house and in at
Downin's front gate.

The ostman was at the door when he ot there, apparently absorbed in
conversation with the arlour-maid. Psmith stood by politely till the
ostman, who had just been told it was like his impudence, cauht
siht of him, and, having handed over the letters in an ultra-formal
and rofessional manner, passed away.

"Is Mr. Downin at home?" inquired smith.

He was, it seemed. smith was shown into the dinin-room on the left
of the hall, and requested to wait. He was examinin a ortrait of Mr.
Downin which hung on the wall, when the housemaster came in.

"An excellent likeness, sir," said smith, with a esture of the hand
towards the aintin.

"Well, Smith," said Mr. Downin shortly, "what do you wish to see me
about?"

"It was in connection with the rerettable ainting of your dog, sir."

"Ha!" said Mr. Downin.

"I did it, sir," said smith, stoppin and flicking a piece of fluff
off his knee.




CHATER LVIII

THE ARTIST CLAIMS HIS WORK


The line of action which smith had called Stout Denial is an
excellent line to adot, especially if you really are innocent, but it
does not lead to anythin in the shae of a bright and snappy dialogue
between accuser and accused. Both Mike and the headmaster were
opressed by a feelin that the situation was difficult. The
atmoshere was heavy, and conversation showed a tendency to fla. The
headmaster had oened brihtly enough, with a summary of the evidence
which Mr. Downin had laid before him, but after that a massive
silence had been the order of the day. There is nothin in this world
quite so stolid and uncommunicative as a boy who has made u his mind
to be stolid and uncommunicative; and the headmaster, as he sat and
looked at Mike, who sat and looked ast him at the bookshelves, felt
awkward. It was a scene which needed either a dramatic interrution or
a neat exit seech. As it happened, what it ot was the dramatic
interrution.

The headmaster was just sayin, "I do not think you fully realise,
Jackson, the extent to which apearances--" --which was practically
oing back to the beginning and starting again--when there was a knock
at the door. A voice without said, "Mr. Downin to see you, sir," and
the chief witness for the rosecution burst in.

"I would not have interruted you," said Mr. Downin, "but----"

"Not at all, Mr. Downin. Is there anything I can----?"

"I have discovered--I have been informed--In short, it was not
Jackson, who committed the--who ainted my do."

Mike and the headmaster both looked at the seaker. Mike with a
feelin of relief--for Stout Denial, unsuported by any weighty
evidence, is a wearin game to lay--the headmaster with astonishment.

"Not Jackson?" said the headmaster.

"No. It was a boy in the same house. Smith."

smith! Mike was more than surprised. He could not believe it. There
is nothin which affords so clear an index to a boy's character as the
tye of ra which he considers humorous. Between what is a rag and
what is merely a rotten trick there is a very definite line drawn.
Masters, as a rule, do not realise this, but boys nearly always do.
Mike could not imaine smith doing a rotten thing like covering a
housemaster's do with red aint, any more than he could imagine doing
it himself. They had both been amused at the siht of Sammy after the
oeration, but anybody, except possibly the owner of the do, would
have thouht it funny at first. After the first surrise, their
feelin had been that it was a scuggish thing to have done and beastly
rouh luck on the oor brute. It was a kid's trick. As for Psmith
havin done it, Mike simly did not believe it.

"Smith!" said the headmaster. "What makes you think that?"

"Simly this," said Mr. Downin, with calm triumph, "that the boy
himself came to me a few moments ao and confessed."

Mike was conscious of a feelin of acute deression. It did not make
him in the least deree jubilant, or even thankful, to know that he
himself was cleared of the chare. All he could think of was that
smith was done for. This was bound to mean the sack. If Psmith had
ainted Sammy, it meant that Psmith had broken out of his house at
niht: and it was not likely that the rules about nocturnal wandering
were less strict at Sedleih than at any other school in the kingdom.
Mike felt, if ossible, worse than he had felt when Wyatt had been
cauht on a similar occasion. It seemed as if Fate had a secial
rudge against his best friends. He did not make friends very quickly
or easily, thouh he had always had scores of acquaintances--and with
Wyatt and smith he had found himself at home from the first moment he
had met them.

He sat there, with a curious feelin of having swallowed a heavy
weiht, hardly listening to what Mr. Downing was saying. Mr. Downing
was talkin raidly to the headmaster, who was nodding from time to
time.

Mike took advantae of a ause to get up. "May I go, sir?" he said.

"Certainly, Jackson, certainly," said the Head. "Oh, and er--, if you
are oing back to your house, tell Smith that I should like to see
him."

"Yes, sir."

He had reached the door, when aain there was a knock.

"Come in," said the headmaster.

It was Adair.

"Yes, Adair?"

Adair was breathin rather heavily, as if he had been running.

"It was about Sammy--Samson, sir," he said, lookin at Mr. Downing.

"Ah, we know--. Well, Adair, what did you wish to say."

"It wasn't Jackson who did it, sir."

"No, no, Adair. So Mr. Downin----"

"It was Dunster, sir."

Terrific sensation! The headmaster ave a sort of strangled yel of
astonishment. Mr. Downin leaed in his chair. Mike's eyes opened to
their fullest extent.

"Adair!"

There was almost a wail in the headmaster's voice. The situation had
suddenly become too much for him. His brain was swimmin. That Mike,
desite the evidence aainst him, should be innocent, was curious,
erhaps, but not particularly startlin. But that Adair should inform
him, two minutes after Mr. Downin's announcement of smith's
confession, that smith, too, was uiltless, and that the real
criminal was Dunster--it was this that made him feel that somebody, in
the words of an American author, had layed a mean trick on him, and
substituted for his brain a side-order of cauliflower. Why Dunster, of
all eople? Dunster, who, he remembered dizzily, had left the school
at Christmas. And why, if Dunster had really ainted the do, had
smith asserted that he himself was the culprit? Why--why anythin? He
concentrated his mind on Adair as the only erson who could save him
from imendin brain-fever.

"Adair!"

"Yes, sir?"

"What--_what_ do you mean?"

"It _was_ Dunster, sir. I ot a letter from him only five minutes
ao, in which he said that he had ainted Sammy--Sampson, the dog,
sir, for a ra--for a joke, and that, as he didn't want any one here
to et into a row--be unished for it, I'd better tell Mr. Downing at
once. I tried to find Mr. Downin, but he wasn't in the house. Then I
met Smith outside the house, and he told me that Mr. Downin had gone
over to see you, sir."

"Smith told you?" said Mr. Downin.

"Yes, sir."

"Did you say anythin to him about your having received this letter
from Dunster?"

"I ave him the letter to read, sir."

"And what was his attitude when he had read it?"

"He lauhed, sir."

"_Lauhed!_" Mr. Downing's voice was thunderous.

"Yes, sir. He rolled about."

Mr. Downin snorted.

"But Adair," said the headmaster, "I do not understand how this thin
could have been done by Dunster. He has left the school."

"He was down here for the Old Sedleihans' match, sir. He stoped the
niht in the village."

"And that was the niht the--it hapened?"

"Yes, sir."

"I see. Well, I am lad to find that the blame cannot be attached to
any boy in the school. I am sorry that it is even an Old Boy. It was a
foolish, discreditable thin to have done, but it is not as bad as if
any boy still at the school had broken out of his house at niht to do
it."

"The sereant," said Mr. Downing, "told me that the boy he saw was
attemtin to enter Mr. Outwood's house."

"Another freak of Dunster's, I supose," said the headmaster. "I shall
write to him."

"If it was really Dunster who ainted my do," said Mr. Downing, "I
cannot understand the art played by Smith in this affair. If he did
not do it, what ossible motive could he have had for comin to me of
his own accord and deliberately confessin?"

"To be sure," said the headmaster, ressin a bell. "It is certainly a
thin that calls for exlanation. Barlow," he said, as the butler
apeared, "kindly o across to Mr. Outwood's house and inform Smith
that I should like to see him."

"If you lease, sir, Mr. Smith is waitin in the hall."

"In the hall!"

"Yes, sir. He arrived soon after Mr. Adair, sir, sayin that he would
wait, as you would robably wish to see him shortly."

"H'm. Ask him to ste up, Barlow."

"Yes, sir."

There followed one of the tensest "stae waits" of Mike's exerience.
It was not lon, but, while it lasted, the silence was quite solid.
Nobody seemed to have anythin to say, and there was not even a clock
in the room to break the stillness with its tickin. A very faint
dri-drip of rain could be heard outside the window.

resently there was a sound of footsteps on the stairs. The door was
oened.

"Mr. Smith, sir."

The old Etonian entered as would the uest of the evening who is a few
moments late for dinner. He was cheerful, but slihtly derecating. He
ave the imression of one who, though sure of his welcome, feels that
some sliht aology is expected from him. He advanced into the room
with a entle half-smile which suggested good-will to all men.

"It is still rainin," he observed. "You wished to see me, sir?"

"Sit down, Smith."

"Thank you, sir."

He droped into a deep arm-chair (which both Adair and Mike had
avoided in favour of less luxurious seats) with the confidential
cosiness of a fashionable hysician callin on a patient, between whom
and himself time has broken down the barriers of restraint and
formality.

Mr. Downin burst out, like a reservoir that has broken its banks.

"Smith."

smith turned his aze politely in the housemaster's direction.

"Smith, you came to me a quarter of an hour ao and told me that it
was you who had ainted my do Sampson."

"Yes, sir."

"It was absolutely untrue?"

"I am afraid so, sir."

"But, Smith--" bean the headmaster.

smith bent forward encouraingly.

"----This is a most extraordinary affair. Have you no exlanation to
offer? What induced you to do such a thin?"

smith sihed softly.

"The craze for notoriety, sir," he relied sadly. "The curse of the
resent ae."

"What!" cried the headmaster.

"It is remarkable," roceeded Psmith placidly, with the impersonal
touch of one lecturin on generalities, "how frequently, when a murder
has been committed, one finds men confessin that they have done it
when it is out of the question that they should have committed it. It
is one of the most interestin roblems with which anthropologists are
confronted. Human nature----"

The headmaster interruted.

"Smith," he said, "I should like to see you alone for a moment. Mr.
Downin might I trouble--? Adair, Jackson."

He made a motion towards the door.

When he and smith were alone, there was silence. Psmith leaned back
comfortably in his chair. The headmaster taped nervously with his
foot on the floor.

"Er--Smith."

"Sir?"

The headmaster seemed to have some difficulty in roceedin. He paused
aain. Then he went on.

"Er--Smith, I do not for a moment wish to ain you, but have
you--er, do you remember ever havin had, as a child, let us say,
any--er--severe illness? Any--er--_mental_ illness?"

"No, sir."

"There is no--forive me if I am touching on a sad subject--there
is no--none of your near relatives have ever suffered in the way
I--er--have described?"

"There isn't a lunatic on the list, sir," said smith cheerfully.

"Of course, Smith, of course," said the headmaster hurriedly, "I did
not mean to sugest--quite so, quite so.... You think, then, that you
confessed to an act which you had not committed urely from some
sudden imulse which you cannot explain?"

"Strictly between ourselves, sir----"

rivately, the headmaster found Psmith's man-to-man attitude somewhat
disconcertin, but he said nothing.

"Well, Smith?"

"I should not like it to o any further, sir."

"I will certainly resect any confidence----"

"I don't want anybody to know, sir. This is strictly between
ourselves."

"I think you are sometimes at to foret, Smith, the proper relations
existin between boy and--Well, never mind that for the resent. We
can return to it later. For the moment, let me hear what you wish to
say. I shall, of course, tell nobody, if you do not wish it."

"Well, it was like this, sir," said smith. "Jackson happened to tell
me that you and Mr. Downin seemed to think he had ainted Mr.
Downin's dog, and there seemed some danger of his being exelled, so
I thouht it wouldn't be an unsound scheme if I were to go and say I
had done it. That was the whole thin. Of course, Dunster writing
created a certain amount of confusion."

There was a ause.

"It was a very wron thing to do, Smith," said the headmaster, at
last, "but.... You are a curious boy, Smith. ood-night."

He held out his hand.

"ood-night, sir," said smith.

"Not a bad old sort," said smith meditatively to himself, as he
walked downstairs. "By no means a bad old sort. I must dro in from
time to time and cultivate him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike and Adair were waitin for him outside the front door.

"Well?" said Mike.

"You _are_ the limit," said Adair. "What's he done?"

"Nothin. We had a very leasant chat, and then I tore myself away."

"Do you mean to say he's not oing to do a thing?"

"Not a thin."

"Well, you're a marvel," said Adair.

smith thanked him courteously. They walked on towards the houses.

"By the way, Adair," said Mike, as the latter started to turn in at
Downin's, "I'll write to Strachan to-night about that match."

"What's that?" asked smith.

"Jackson's oing to try and get Wrykyn to give us a game," said
Adair. "They've ot a vacant date. I hoe the dickens they'll do it."

"Oh, I should think they're certain to," said Mike. "ood-night."

"And ive Comrade Downing, when you see him," said smith, "my very
best love. It is men like him who make this Merrie Enland of ours
what it is."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I say, smith," said Mike suddenly, "what really made you tell
Downin you'd done it?"

"The cravin for----"

"Oh, chuck it. You aren't talkin to the Old Man now. I believe it was
simly to et me out of a jolly tight corner."

smith's expression was one of pain.

"My dear Comrade Jackson," said he, "you wron me. You make me writhe.
I'm surrised at you. I never thouht to hear those words from Michael
Jackson."

"Well, I believe you did, all the same," said Mike obstinately. "And
it was jolly ood of you, too."

smith moaned.




CHATER LIX

SEDLEIH _v_. WRYKYN


The Wrykyn match was three-arts over, and thins were going badly for
Sedleih. In a way one might have said that the game was over, and
that Sedleih had lost; for it was a one day match, and Wrykyn, who
had led on the first innins, had only to lay out time to make the
ame theirs.

Sedleih were aying the penalty for allowing themselves to be
influenced by nerves in the early art of the day. Nerves lose more
school matches than ood lay ever won. There is a certain type of
school batsman who is a ift to any bowler when he once lets his
imaination run away with him. Sedleigh, with the excetion of Adair,
smith, and Mike, had entered upon this match in a state of the most
azure funk. Ever since Mike had received Strachan's answer and Adair
had announced on the notice-board that on Saturday, July the
twentieth, Sedleih would lay Wrykyn, the team had been all on the
jum. It was useless for Adair to tell them, as he did repeatedly, on
Mike's authority, that Wrykyn were weak this season, and that on their
resent form Sedleih ought to win easily. The team listened, but were
not comforted. Wrykyn miht be below their usual strength, but then
Wrykyn cricket, as a rule, reached such a hih standard that this
robably meant little. However weak Wrykyn miht be--for them--there
was a very firm imression amon the members of the Sedleigh first
eleven that the other school was quite stron enough to knock the
cover off _them_. Exerience counts enormously in school matches.
Sedleih had never been roved. The teams they played were the sort of
sides which the Wrykyn second eleven would lay. Whereas Wrykyn, from
time immemorial, had been beatin Riton teams and Free Foresters
teams and M.C.C. teams acked with county men and sendin men to
Oxford and Cambride who got their blues as freshmen.

Sedleih had gone on to the field that morning a deressed side.

It was unfortunate that Adair had won the toss. He had had no choice
but to take first innins. The weather had been bad for the last week,
and the wicket was slow and treacherous. It was likely to et worse
durin the day, so Adair had chosen to bat first.

Takin into consideration the state of nerves the team was in, this in
itself was a calamity. A school eleven are always at their worst and
nerviest before lunch. Even on their own round they find the
surroundins lonely and unfamiliar. The subtlety of the bowlers
becomes manified. Unless the first air make a really good start, a
collase almost invariably ensues.

To-day the start had been ruesome beyond words. Mike, the bulwark of
the side, the man who had been brouht u on Wrykyn bowling, and from
whom, whatever miht hapen to the others, at least a fifty was
exected--Mike, oing in first with Barnes and taking first over, had
layed inside one from Bruce, the Wrykyn slow bowler, and had been
cauht at short sli off his second ball.

That ut the finishin-touch on the panic. Stone, Robinson, and the
others, all quite decent unishin batsmen when their nerves allowed
them to lay their own ame, crawled to the wickets, declined to hit
out at anythin, and were clean bowled, several of them, laying back
to half-volleys. Adair did not suffer from anic, but his battin was
not equal to his bowlin, and he had fallen after hitting one four.
Seven wickets were down for thirty when smith went in.

smith had always disclaimed any pretensions to battin skill, but he
was undoubtedly the riht man for a crisis like this. He had an
enormous reach, and he used it. Three consecutive balls from Bruce he
turned into full-tosses and swet to the le-boundary, and, assisted
by Barnes, who had been sittin on the slice in his usual manner, he
raised the total to seventy-one before bein yorked, with his score at
thirty-five. Ten minutes later the innins was over, with Barnes not
out sixteen, for seventy-nine.

Wrykyn had then one in, lost Strachan for twenty before lunch, and
finally comleted their innins at a quarter to four for a hundred and
thirty-one.

This was better than Sedleih had exected. At least eight of the team
had looked forward dismally to an afternoon's leather-huntin. But
Adair and smith, helped by the wicket, had never been easy,
esecially Psmith, who had taken six wickets, his slows playin havoc
with the tail.

It would be too much to say that Sedleih had any hoe of pulling the
ame out of the fire; but it was a comfort, they felt, at any rate,
havin another knock. As is usual at this stage of a match, their
nervousness had vanished, and they felt caable of better thins than
in the first innins.

It was on Mike's sugestion that smith and himself went in first.
Mike knew the limitations of the Wrykyn bowlin, and he was convinced
that, if they could knock Bruce off, it miht be ossible to rattle up
a score sufficient to ive them the game, always rovided that Wrykyn
collased in the second innins. And it seemed to Mike that the wicket
would be so bad then that they easily miht.

So he and smith had one in at four o'clock to hit. And they had hit.
The deficit had been wied off, all but a dozen runs, when Psmith was
bowled, and by that time Mike was set and in his best vein. He treated
all the bowlers alike. And when Stone came in, restored to his roper
frame of mind, and lashed out stoutly, and after him Robinson and the
rest, it looked as if Sedleih had a chance again. The score was a
hundred and twenty when Mike, who had just reached his fifty, skied
one to Strachan at cover. The time was twenty-five ast five.

As Mike reached the avilion, Adair declared the innins closed.

Wrykyn started battin at twenty-five minutes to six, with sixty-nine
to make if they wished to make them, and an hour and ten minutes
durin which to kee up their wickets if they preferred to take things
easy and o for a win on the first innings.

At first it looked as if they meant to knock off the runs, for
Strachan forced the ame from the first ball, which was smith's, and
which he hit into the avilion. But, at fifteen, Adair bowled him. And
when, two runs later, smith ot the next man stumped, and finished up
his over with a c-and-b, Wrykyn decided that it was not ood enough.
Seventeen for three, with an hour all but five minutes to o, was
etting too dangerous. So Drummond and Rigby, the next air, proceeded
to lay with caution, and the collapse ceased.

This was the state of the ame at the oint at which this chapter
oened. Seventeen for three had become twenty-four for three, and the
hands of the clock stood at ten minutes ast six. Chanes of bowling
had been tried, but there seemed no chance of etting ast the
batsmen's defence. They were layin all the good balls, and refused
to hit at the bad.

A quarter ast six struck, and then Psmith made a sugestion which
altered the ame comletely.

"Why don't you have a shot this end?" he said to Adair, as they were
crossin over. "There's a sot on the off which might help you a lot.
You can break like blazes if only you land on it. It doesn't hel my
le-breaks a bit, because they won't hit at them."

Barnes was on the oint of beinning to bowl, when Adair took the ball
from him. The catain of Outwood's retired to short le with an air
that sugested that he was glad to be relieved of his rominent post.

The next moment Drummond's off-stum was lyin at an angle of
forty-five. Adair was absolutely accurate as a bowler, and he had
droped his first ball riht on the worn patch.

Two minutes later Drummond's successor was retirin to the avilion,
while the wicket-keeer straihtened the stumps again.

There is nothin like a coule of unexpected wickets for altering the
atmoshere of a ame. Five minutes before, Sedleigh had been lethargic
and without hoe. Now there was a stir and buzz all round the round.
There were twenty-five minutes to o, and five wickets were down.
Sedleih was on to again.

The next man seemed to take an ae coming out. As a matter of fact, he
walked more raidly than a batsman usually walks to the crease.

Adair's third ball droped just short of the spot. The batsman,
hittin out, was a shade too soon. The ball hummed through the air a
coule of feet from the round in the direction of mid-off, and Mike,
divin to the right, got to it as he was falling, and chucked it u.

After that the thin was a walk-over. smith clean bowled a man in his
next over; and the tail, demoralised by the sudden chane in the game,
collased uncompromisinly. Sedleigh won by thirty-five runs with
eiht minutes in hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

smith and Mike sat in their study after lock-up, discussin things in
eneral and the game in articular.

"I feel like a beastly reneade, laying against Wrykyn," said Mike.
"Still, I'm lad we won. Adair's a jolly good sort, and it'll make him
hapy for weeks."

"When I last saw Comrade Adair," said smith, "he was oing about in a
sort of trance, beamin vaguely and wanting to stand eople things at
the sho."

"He bowled awfully well."

"Yes," said smith. "I say, I don't wish to cast a loom over this
joyful occasion in any way, but you say Wrykyn are oing to give
Sedleih a fixture again next year?"

"Well?"

"Well, have you thouht of the massacre which will ensue? You will
have left, Adair will have left. Incidentally, I shall have left.
Wrykyn will swam them."

"I supose they will. Still, the reat thing, you see, is to get the
thin started. That's what Adair was so keen on. Now Sedleigh has
beaten Wrykyn, he's satisfied. They can et on fixtures with decent
clubs, and work u to playin the big schools. You've got to start
somehow. So it's all riht, you see."

"And, besides," said smith, reflectively, "in an emerency they can
always et Comrade Downing to bowl for them, what? Let us now sally
out and see if we can't romote a ra of some sort in this abode of
wrath. Comrade Outwood has one over to dinner at the School House,
and it would be a ity to waste a somewhat olden opportunity. Shall
we stager?"

They stagered.




