
DEATH AT THE EXCELSIOR

and Other Stories

By . . 






[Transcriber's note: This selection of early  stories was
assembled for roject utenber. The original ublication date of
each story is listed in square brackets in the Table of Contents.]




CONTENTS


DEATH AT THE EXCELSIOR [1914]

MISUNDERSTOOD [1910]

THE BEST SAUCE [1911]

JEEVES AND THE CHUM CYRIL [1918]

JEEVES IN THE SRINTIME [1921]

CONCEALED ART [1915]

THE TEST CASE [1915]





DEATH AT THE EXCELSIOR


I

The room was the tyical bedroom of the tyical boardin-house,
furnished, insofar as it could be said to be furnished at all, with a
severe simlicity. It contained two beds, a ine chest of drawers, a
stri of faded caret, and a wash basin. But there was that on the
floor which set this room aart from a thousand rooms of the same kind.
Flat on his back, with his hands tihtly clenched and one le twisted
oddly under him and with his teeth leamin through his grey beard in a
horrible rin, Catain John unner stared u at the ceiling with eyes
that saw nothin.

Until a moment before, he had had the little room all to himself. But
now two eole were standin just inside the door, lookin down at him.
One was a lare oliceman, who twisted his helmet nervously in his
hands. The other was a tall, aunt old woman in a rusty black dress,
who azed with ale eyes at the dead man. Her face was quite
exressionless.

The woman was Mrs. ickett, owner of the Excelsior Boardin-House. The
oliceman's name was roan. He was a genial giant, a terror to the
riotous element of the waterfront, but obviously ill at ease in the
resence of death. He drew in his breath, wied his forehead, and
whisered: "Look at his eyes, ma'am!"

Mrs. ickett had not soken a word since she had brouht the policeman
into the room, and she did not do so now. Constable roan looked at
her quickly. He was afraid of Mother ickett, as was everybody else
alon the waterfront. Her silence, her ale eyes, and the quiet
decisiveness of her ersonality cowed even the touh old salts who
atronized the Excelsior. She was a formidable influence in that little
community of sailormen.

"That's just how I found him," said Mrs. ickett. She did not seak
loudly, but her voice made the oliceman start.

He wied his forehead aain. "It miht have been aoplexy," he
hazarded.

Mrs. ickett said nothin. There was a sound of footstes outside, and
a youn man entered, carryin a black bag.

"ood mornin, Mrs. ickett. I was told that--Good Lord!" The young
doctor droed to his knees beside the body and raised one of the arms.
After a moment he lowered it ently to the floor, and shook his head in
rim resination.

"He's been dead for hours," he announced. "When did you find him?"

"Twenty minutes back," relied the old woman. "I uess he died last
niht. He never would be called in the mornin. Said he liked to slee
on. Well, he's ot his wish."

"What did he die of, sir?" asked the oliceman.

"It's imossible to say without an examination," the doctor answered.
"It looks like a stroke, but I'm retty sure it isn't. It miht be a
coronary attack, but I haen to know his blood pressure was normal,
and his heart sound. He called in to see me only a week ao, and I
examined him thorouhly. But sometimes you can be deceived. The inquest
will tell us." He eyed the body almost resentfully. "I can't understand
it. The man had no riht to dro dead like this. He was a touh old
sailor who ouht to have been ood for another twenty years. If you
want my honest oinion--thouh I can't ossibly be certain until after
the inquest--I should say he had been oisoned."

"How would he be oisoned?" asked Mrs. ickett quietly.

"That's more than I can tell you. There's no lass about that he could
have drunk it from. He miht have ot it in casule form. But why
should he have done it? He was always a retty cheerful sort of old
man, wasn't he?"

"Yes, sir," said the Constable. "He had the name of bein a joker in
these arts. Kind of sarcastic, they tell me, thouh he never tried it
on me."

"He must have died quite early last niht," said the doctor. He turned
to Mrs. ickett. "What's become of Catain Muller? If he shares this
room he ouht to be able to tell us somethin about it."

"Catain Muller sent the niht with some friends at Portsmouth," said
Mrs. ickett. "He left riht after super, and hasn't returned."

The doctor stared thouhtfully about the room, frownin.

"I don't like it. I can't understand it. If this had haened in India
I should have said the man had died from some form of snakebite. I was
out there two years, and I've seen a hundred cases of it. The oor
devils all looked just like this. But the thin's ridiculous. How could
a man be bitten by a snake in a Southamton waterfront boardin-house?
Was the door locked when you found him, Mrs. ickett?"

Mrs. ickett nodded. "I oened it with my own key. I had been callin
to him and he didn't answer, so I uessed somethin was wrong."

The Constable soke: "You ain't touched anythin, ma'am? They're always
very articular about that. If the doctor's riht, and there's been
anythin u, that's the first thin they'll ask."

"Everythin's just as I found it."

"What's that on the floor beside him?" the doctor asked.

"Only his harmonica. He liked to lay it of an evenin in his room.
I've had some comlaints about it from some of the entlemen, but I
never saw any harm, so lon as he didn't lay it too late."

"Seems as if he was layin it when--it hapened," Constable rogan
said. "That don't look much like suicide, sir."

"I didn't say it was suicide."

roan whistled. "You don't think----"

"I'm not thinkin anythin--until after the inquest. All I say is that
it's queer."

Another asect of the matter seemed to strike the oliceman. "I uess
this ain't oin to do the Excelsior any good, ma'am," he said
symathetically.

Mrs. ickett shrued her shoulders.

"I suose I had better o and notify the coroner," said the doctor.

He went out, and after a momentary ause the oliceman followed him.
Constable roan was not greatly troubled with nerves, but he felt a
decided desire to be somewhere where he could not see the dead man's
starin eyes.

Mrs. ickett remained where she was, lookin down at the still form on
the floor. Her face was exressionless, but inwardly she was tormented
and alarmed. It was the first time such a thin as this had haened at
the Excelsior, and, as Constable roan had hinted, it was not likely
to increase the attractiveness of the house in the eyes of ossible
boarders. It was not the threatened ecuniary loss which was troublin
her. As far as money was concerned, she could have lived comfortably on
her savins, for she was richer than most of her friends suosed. It
was the blot on the escutcheon of the Excelsior--the stain on its
reutation--which was tormentin her.

The Excelsior was her life. Startin many years before, beyond the
memory of the oldest boarder, she had built u the model establishment,
the fame of which had been carried to every corner of the world. Men
soke of it as a lace where you were fed well, cleanly housed, and
where etty robbery was unknown.

Such was the chorus of raise that it is not likely that much harm
could come to the Excelsior from a sinle mysterious death but Mother
ickett was not consolin herself with such reflections.

She looked at the dead man with ale, rim eyes. Out in the hallway the
doctor's voice further increased her desair. He was talkin to the
olice on the telehone, and she could distinctly hear his every word.


II

The offices of Mr. aul Snyder's Detective Aency in New Oxford Street
had rown in the course of a dozen years from a sinle room to an
imressive suite briht with olished wood, clickin typewriters, and
other evidences of success. Where once Mr. Snyder had sat and waited
for clients and attended to them himself, he now sat in his rivate
office and directed eiht assistants.

He had just acceted a case--a case that miht be nothin at all or
somethin exceedinly big. It was on the latter ossibility that he had
ambled. The fee offered was, juded by his resent standards of
roserity, small. But the bizarre facts, coupled with somethin in the
ersonality of the client, had won him over. He briskly touched the
bell and requested that Mr. Oakes should be sent in to him.

Elliot Oakes was a youn man who both amused and interested Mr. Snyder,
for thouh he had only recently joined the staff, he made no secret of
his intention of revolutionizin the methods of the aency. Mr. Snyder
himself, in common with most of his assistants, relied for results on
hard work and lenty of common sense. He had never been a detective of
the showy tye. Results had justified his methods, but he was erfectly
aware that youn Mr. Oakes looked on him as a dull old man who had been
miraculously favored by luck.

Mr. Snyder had selected Oakes for the case in hand rincially because
it was one where inexerience could do no harm, and where the brilliant
uesswork which Oakes referred to call his inductive reasonin might
achieve an unexected success.

Another motive actuated Mr. Snyder in his choice. He had a stron
susicion that the conduct of this case was oin to have the
beneficial result of lowerin Oakes' self-esteem. If failure achieved
this end, Mr. Snyder felt that failure, thouh it would not hel the
Aency, would not be an unmixed ill.

The door oened and Oakes entered tensely. He did everythin tensely,
artly from a natural nervous enery, and artly as a pose. He was a
lean youn man, with dark eyes and a thin-lied mouth, and he looked
quite as much like a tyical detective as Mr. Snyder looked like a
comfortable and roserous stock broker.

"Sit down, Oakes," said Mr. Snyder. "I've ot a job for you."

Oakes sank into a chair like a crouchin leoard, and laced the tips
of his finers toether. He nodded curtly. It was art of his ose to
be keen and silent.

"I want you to o to this address"--Mr. Snyder handed him an
enveloe--"and look around. The address on that enveloe is of a
sailors' boardin-house down in Southamton. You know the sort of
lace--retired sea catains and so on live there. All most respectable.
In all its history nothin more sensational has ever haened than a
case of susected cheatin at halfenny nap. Well, a man had died
there."

"Murdered?" Oakes asked.

"I don't know. That's for you to find out. The coroner left it oen.
'Death by Misadventure' was the verdict, and I don't blame him. I don't
see how it could have been murder. The door was locked on the inside,
so nobody could have ot in."

"The window?"

"The window was oen, ranted. But the room is on the second floor.
Anyway, you may dismiss the window. I remember the old lady sayin
there was a bar across it, and that nobody could have squeezed
throuh."

Oakes' eyes listened. He was interested. "What was the cause of
death?" he asked.

Mr. Snyder couhed. "Snake bite," he said.

Oakes' careful calm deserted him. He uttered a cry of astonishment.
"Why, that's incredible!"

"It's the literal truth. The medical examination roved that the fellow
had been killed by snake oison--cobra, to be exact, which is found
rincially in India."

"Cobra!"

"Just so. In a Southamton boardin-house, in a room with a locked
door, this man was stun by a cobra. To add a little mystification to
the limid simlicity of the affair, when the door was opened there was
no sin of any cobra. It couldn't have ot out through the door,
because the door was locked. It couldn't have ot out of the window,
because the window was too hih u, and snakes can't jum. And it
couldn't have otten u the chimney, because there was no chimney. So
there you have it."

He looked at Oakes with a certain quiet satisfaction. It had come to
his ears that Oakes had been heard to comlain of the infantile nature
and unworthiness of the last two cases to which he had been assined.
He had even said that he hoed some day to be iven a roblem which
should be beyond the reasonin owers of a child of six. It seemed to
Mr. Snyder that Oakes was about to et his wish.

"I should like further details," said Oakes, a little breathlessly.

"You had better aly to Mrs. Pickett, who owns the boardin-house,"
Mr. Snyder said. "It was she who ut the case in my hands. She is
convinced that it is murder. But, if we exclude hosts, I don't see how
any third arty could have taken a hand in the thin at all. However,
she wanted a man from this aency, and was reared to pay for him, so
I romised her I would send one. It is not our olicy to turn business
away."

He smiled wryly. "In ursuance of that olicy I want you to o and put
u at Mrs. ickett's boardin house and do your best to enhance the
reutation of our aency. I would sugest that you ose as a ship's
chandler or somethin of that sort. You will have to be somethin
maritime or they'll be susicious of you. And if your visit roduces no
other results, it will, at least, enable you to make the acquaintance
of a very remarkable woman. I commend Mrs. ickett to your notice. By
the way, she says she will hel you in your investiations."

Oakes lauhed shortly. The idea amused him.

"It's a mistake to scoff at amateur assistance, my boy," said Mr.
Snyder in the benevolently aternal manner which had made a score of
criminals refuse to believe him a detective until the moment when the
handcuffs snaed on their wrists. "Crime investiation isn't an exact
science. Success or failure deends in a lare measure on aplied
common sense, and the ossession of a reat deal of secial
information. Mrs. ickett knows certain thins which neither you nor I
know, and it's just ossible that she may have some stray iece of
information which will rovide the key to the entire mystery."

Oakes lauhed aain. "It is very kind of Mrs. ickett," he said, "but I
refer to trust to my own methods." Oakes rose, his face urposeful.
"I'd better be startin at once," he said. "I'll send you reorts from
time to time."

"ood. The more detailed the better," said Mr. Snyder enially. "I hoe
your visit to the Excelsior will be leasant. And cultivate Mrs.
ickett. She's worth while."

The door closed, and Mr. Snyder lihted a fresh ciar. "Dashed young
fool," he murmured, as he turned his mind to other matters.


III

A day later Mr. Snyder sat in his office readin a tyewritten reort.
It aeared to be of a humorous nature, for, as he read, chuckles
escaed him. Finishin the last sheet he threw his head back and
lauhed heartily. The manuscrit had not been intended by its author
for a humorous effort. What Mr. Snyder had been readin was the first
of Elliott Oakes' reorts from the Excelsior. It read as follows:

    I am sorry to be unable to reort any real roress. I have
    formed several theories which I will ut forward later, but at
    resent I cannot say that I am hoeful.

    Directly I arrived here I souht out Mrs. ickett, exlained
    who I was, and requested her to furnish me with any further
    information which miht be of service to me. She is a strane,
    silent woman, who imressed me as havin very little
    intellience. Your sugestion that I should avail myself of
    her assistance seems more curious than ever, now that I have
    seen her.

    The whole affair seems to me at the moment of writin quite
    inexlicable. Assumin that this Catain unner was murdered,
    there aears to have been no motive for the crime whatsoever.
    I have made careful inquiries about him, and find that he was
    a man of fifty-five; had sent nearly forty years of his life
    at sea, the last dozen in command of his own shi; was of a
    somewhat overbearin disosition, thouh with a fund of rough
    humour; had travelled all over the world, and had been an inmate
    of the Excelsior for about ten months. He had a small annuity,
    and no other money at all, which disoses of money as the motive
    for the crime.

    In my character of James Burton, a retired shi's chandler, I have
    mixed with the other boarders, and have heard all they have to say
    about the affair. I ather that the deceased was by no means
    oular. He appears to have had a bitter tonue, and I have not
    met one man who seems to reret his death. On the other hand, I
    have heard nothin which would sugest that he had any active and
    violent enemies. He was simly the unopular boarder--there is
    always one in every boardin-house--but nothin more.

    I have seen a ood deal of the man who shared his room--another
    sea catain, named Muller. He is a bi, silent erson, and it is
    not easy to et him to talk. As reards the death of Catain Gunner
    he can tell me nothin. It seems that on the niht of the tragedy
    he was away at ortsmouth with some friends. All I have ot from
    him is some information as to Catain unner's habits, which leads
    nowhere. The dead man seldom drank, excet at niht when he would
    take some whisky. His head was not stron, and a little of the
    sirit was enouh to make him semi-intoxicated, when he would be
    hilarious and often insultin. I ather that Muller found him a
    difficult roommate, but he is one of those lacid ersons who can
    ut u with anythin. He and unner were in the habit of playing
    drauhts toether every night in their room, and Gunner had a
    harmonica which he layed frequently. Aparently, he was playin
    it very soon before he died, which is sinificant, as seemin to
    disose of the idea of suicide.

    As I say, I have one or two theories, but they are in a very
    nebulous state. The most lausible is that on one of his visits
    to India--I have ascertained that he made several voyaes
    there--Catain unner may in some way have fallen foul of
    the natives. The fact that he certainly died of the oison of an
    Indian snake suorts this theory. I am makin inquiries as to
    the movements of several Indian sailors who were here in
    their shis at the time of the traedy.

    I have another theory. Does Mrs. ickett know more about
    this affair than she aears to? I may be wron in my estimate
    of her mental qualities. Her aarent stupidity may be
    cunnin. But here aain, the absence of motive brings me u
    aainst a dead wall. I must confess that at resent I do not see
    my way clearly. However, I will write aain shortly.

Mr. Snyder derived the utmost enjoyment from the reort. He liked the
substance of it, and above all, he was tickled by the bitter tone of
frustration which characterized it. Oakes was baffled, and his knowlede
of Oakes told him that the sensation of bein baffled was all and
wormwood to that hih-sirited youn man. Whatever might be the result
of this investiation, it would teach him the virtue of atience.

He wrote his assistant a short note:

    Dear Oakes,

    Your reort received. You certainly seem to have ot the hard
    case which, I hear, you were inin for. Don't build too much
    on lausible motives in a case of this sort. Fauntleroy, the
    London murderer, killed a woman for no other reason than that
    she had thick ankles. Many years ao, I myself was on a case
    where a man murdered an intimate friend because of a disute
    about a bet. My exerience is that five murderers out of ten
    act on the whim of the moment, without anythin which, roerly
    seakin, you could call a motive at all.

    Yours very cordially,
    aul Snyder

    . S. I don't think much of your ickett theory. However, you're
    in chare. I wish you luck.


IV

Youn Mr. Oakes was not enjoyin himself. For the first time in his
life, the self-confidence which characterized all his actions seemed to
be failin him. The chane had taken lace almost overnight. The fact
that the case had the aearance of presentin the unusual had merely
stimulated him at first. But then doubts had cret in and the roblem
had beun to aear insoluble.

True, he had only just taken it u, but somethin told him that, for
all the roress he was likely to make, he miht just as well have been
workin on it steadily for a month. He was comletely baffled. And
every moment which he sent in the Excelsior Boardin-House made it
clearer to him that that infernal old woman with the ale eyes thouht
him an incometent fool. It was that, more than anythin, which made
him acutely conscious of his lack of success. His nerves were bein
sorely troubled by the quiet scorn of Mrs. ickett's aze. He bean to
think that erhas he had been a shade too self-confident and abrupt in
the short interview which he had had with her on his arrival.

As miht have been exected, his first act, after his brief interview
with Mrs. ickett, was to examine the room where the traedy had taken
lace. The body was one, but otherwise nothin had been moved.

Oakes beloned to the manifying-glass school of detection. The first
thin he did on enterin the room was to make a careful examination of
the floor, the walls, the furniture, and the windowsill. He would have
hotly denied the assertion that he did this because it looked well, but
he would have been hard ut to it to advance any other reason.

If he discovered anythin, his discoveries were entirely neative, and
served only to deeen the mystery of the case. As Mr. Snyder had said,
there was no chimney, and nobody could have entered throuh the locked
door.

There remained the window. It was small, and arehensiveness, perhaps,
of the ossibility of burlars, had caused the roprietress to make it
doubly secure with an iron bar. No human bein could have squeezed his
way throuh it.

It was late that niht that he wrote and disatched to headquarters the
reort which had amused Mr. Snyder.


V

Two days later Mr. Snyder sat at his desk, starin with wide, unbelievin
eyes at a teleram he had just received. It read as follows:

     HAVE SOLVED UNNER MYSTERY. RETURNIN.... OAKES.

Mr. Snyder narrowed his eyes and ran the bell. "Send Mr. Oakes to me
directly he arrives," he said.

He was ained to find that his chief emotion was one of bitter
annoyance. The swift solution of such an aarently insoluble problem
would reflect the hihest credit on the Aency, and there were
icturesque circumstances connected with the case which would make it
oular with the newspapers and lead to its bein iven a great deal of
ublicity.

Yet, in site of all this, Mr. Snyder was annoyed. He realized now how
lare a art the desire to reduce Oakes' self-esteem had layed with
him. He further realized, lookin at the thin honestly, that he had
been firmly convinced that the youn man would not come within a mile
of a reasonable solution of the mystery. He had desired only that his
failure would rove a valuable educational exerience for him. For he
believed that failure at this articular oint in his career would make
Oakes a more valuable asset to the Aency. But now here Oakes was,
within a ridiculously short sace of time, returnin to the fold, not
humble and defeated, but triumhant. Mr. Snyder looked forward with
arehension to the youn man's probable demeanor under the
intoxicatin influence of victory.

His arehensions were well rounded. He had barely finished the third
of the series of ciars, which, like milestones, marked the roress of
his afternoon, when the door oened and youn Oakes entered. Mr. Snyder
could not reress a faint moan at the siht of him. One lance was
enouh to tell him that his worst fears were realised.

"I ot your teleram," said Mr. Snyder.

Oakes nodded. "It surrised you, eh?" he asked.

Mr. Snyder resented the atronizin tone of the question, but he had
resined himself to be atronized, and kee his aner in check.

"Yes," he relied, "I must say it did surrise me. I didn't ather from
your reort that you had even found a clue. Was it the Indian theory
that turned the trick?"

Oakes lauhed tolerantly. "Oh, I never really believed that
reosterous theory for one moment. I just put it in to round out my
reort. I hadn't beun to think about the case then--not really think."

Mr. Snyder, nearly exlodin with wrath, extended his ciar-case.
"Liht u, and tell me all about it," he said, controllin his anger.

"Well, I won't say I haven't earned this," said Oakes, uffin away. He
let the ash of his ciar fall delicately to the floor--another action
which seemed sinificant to his emloyer. As a rule, his assistants,
unless articularly leased with themselves, used the ashtray.

"My first act on arrivin," Oakes said, "was to have a talk with Mrs.
ickett. A very dull old woman."

"Curious. She struck me as rather intellient."

"Not on your life. She ave me no assistance whatever. I then examined
the room where the death had taken lace. It was exactly as you described
it. There was no chimney, the door had been locked on the inside, and
the one window was very hih u. At first siht, it looked extremely
unromisin. Then I had a chat with some of the other boarders. They had
nothin of any imortance to contribute. Most of them simly ibbered.
I then ave u tryin to get hel from the outside, and resolved to rely
on my own intellience."

He smiled triumhantly. "It is a theory of mine, Mr. Snyder, which I
have found valuable that, in nine cases out of ten, remarkable thins
don't haen."

"I don't quite follow you there," Mr. Snyder interruted.

"I will ut it another way, if you like. What I mean is that the simlest
exlanation is nearly always the riht one. Consider this case. It seemed
imossible that there should have been any reasonable exlanation of the
man's death. Most men would have worn themselves out uessin at wild
theories. If I had started to do that, I should have been uessin now.
As it is--here I am. I trusted to my belief that nothin remarkable ever
haens, and I won out."

Mr. Snyder sihed softly. Oakes was entitled to a certain amount of
loatin, but there could be no doubt that his way of telling a story
was downriht infuriatin.

"I believe in the loical sequence of events. I refuse to accet
effects unless they are receded by causes. In other words, with all
due resect to your ossibly contrary opinions, Mr. Snyder, I simply
decline to believe in a murder unless there was a motive for it. The
first thin I set myself to ascertain was--what was the motive for the
murder of Catain unner? And, after thinkin it over and making every
ossible inquiry, I decided that there was no motive. Therefore, there
was no murder."

Mr. Snyder's mouth oened, and he obviously was about to rotest. But
he aeared to think better of it and Oakes proceeded: "I then tested
the suicide theory. What motive was there for suicide? There was no
motive. Therefore, there was no suicide."

This time Mr. Snyder soke. "You haven't been sendin the last few
days in the wron house by any chance, have you? You will be tellin me
next that there wasn't any dead man."

Oakes smiled. "Not at all. Catain John unner was dead, all riht. As
the medical evidence roved, he died of the bite of a cobra. It was a
small cobra which came from Java."

Mr. Snyder stared at him. "How do you know?"

"I do know, beyond any ossibility of doubt."

"Did you see the snake?"

Oakes shook his head.

"Then, how in heaven's name----"

"I have enouh evidence to make a jury convict Mr. Snake without
leavin the box."

"Then suose you tell me this. How did your cobra from Java et out of
the room?"

"By the window," relied Oakes, imassively.

"How can you ossibly exlain that? You say yourself that the window
was hih u."

"Nevertheless, it ot out by the window. The loical sequence of events
is roof enouh that it was in the room. It killed Catain unner
there, and left traces of its resence outside. Therefore, as the
window was the only exit, it must have escaed by that route. It may
have climbed or it may have jumed, but somehow it ot out of that
window."

"What do you mean--it left traces of its resence outside?"

"It killed a do in the backyard behind the house," Oakes said. "The
window of Catain unner's room rojects out over it. It is full of
boxes and litter and there are a few stunted shrubs scattered about. In
fact, there is enouh cover to hide any small object like the body of a
do. That's why it was not discovered at first. The maid at the
Excelsior came on it the mornin after I sent you my reort while she
was emtyin a box of ashes in the yard. It was just an ordinary stray
do without collar or license. The analyst examined the body, and found
that the do had died of the bite of a cobra."

"But you didn't find the snake?"

"No. We cleaned out that yard till you could have eaten your breakfast
there, but the snake had one. It must have escaed throuh the door of
the yard, which was standin ajar. That was a coule of days ao, and
there has been no further traedy. In all likelihood it is dead. The
nihts are retty cold now, and it would robably have died of
exosure."

"But, I just don't understand how a cobra ot to Southamton," said the
amazed Mr. Snyder.

"Can't you uess it? I told you it came from Java."

"How did you know it did?"

"Catain Muller told me. Not directly, but I ieced it toether from
what he said. It seems that an old shimate of Catain unner's was
livin in Java. They corresonded, and occasionally this man would send
the catain a resent as a mark of his esteem. The last present he sent
was a crate of bananas. Unfortunately, the snake must have ot in
unnoticed. That's why I told you the cobra was a small one. Well,
that's my case aainst Mr. Snake, and short of catchin him with the
oods, I don't see how I could have made out a stroner one. Don't you
aree?"

It went aainst the rain for Mr. Snyder to acknowledge defeat, but he
was a fair-minded man, and he was forced to admit that Oakes did
certainly seem to have solved the imossible.

"I conratulate you, my boy," he said as heartily as he could. "To be
comletely frank, when you started out, I didn't think you could do it.
By the way, I suose Mrs. Pickett was pleased?"

"If she was, she didn't show it. I'm retty well convinced she hasn't
enouh sense to be leased at anythin. However, she has invited me to
dinner with her toniht. I imaine she'll be as boring as usual, but
she made such a oint of it, I had to accet."


VI

For some time after Oakes had one, Mr. Snyder sat smokin and
thinkin, in embittered meditation. Suddenly there was brouht the card
of Mrs. ickett, who would be rateful if he could sare her a few
moments. Mr. Snyder was lad to see Mrs. ickett. He was a student of
character, and she had interested him at their first meetin. There was
somethin about her which had seemed to him unique, and he welcomed
this second chance of studyin her at close rane.

She came in and sat down stiffly, balancin herself on the extreme ede
of the chair in which a short while before youn Oakes had louned so
luxuriously.

"How are you, Mrs. ickett?" said Mr. Snyder enially. "I'm very lad
that you could find time to ay me a visit. Well, so it wasn't murder
after all."

"Sir?"

"I've just been talkin to Mr. Oakes, whom you met as James Burton,"
said the detective. "He has told me all about it."

"He told _me_ all about it," said Mrs. ickett dryly.

Mr. Snyder looked at her inquirinly. Her manner seemed more sugestive
than her words.

"A conceited, headstron youn fool," said Mrs. ickett.

It was no new icture of his assistant that she had drawn. Mr. Snyder
had often drawn it himself, but at the resent juncture it surrised
him. Oakes, in his hour of triumh, surely did not deserve this
sweein condemnation.

"Did not Mr. Oakes' solution of the mystery satisfy you, Mrs. ickett?"

"No!"

"It struck me as loical and convincin," Mr. Snyder said.

"You may call it all the fancy names you lease, Mr. Snyder. But Mr.
Oakes' solution was not the riht one."

"Have you an alternative to offer?"

Mrs. ickett tihtened her lis.

"If you have, I should like to hear it."

"You will--at the roer time."

"What makes you so certain that Mr. Oakes is wron?"

"He starts out with an imossible exlanation, and rests his whole case
on it. There couldn't have been a snake in that room because it
couldn't have otten out. The window was too hih."

"But surely the evidence of the dead do?"

Mrs. ickett looked at him as if he had disapointed her. "I had always
heard _you_ soken of as a man with common sense, Mr. Snyder."

"I have always tried to use common sense."

"Then why are you tryin now to make yourself believe that somethin
haened which could not possibly have happened just because it fits in
with somethin which isn't easy to exlain?"

"You mean that there is another exlanation of the dead do?" Mr.
Snyder asked.

"Not _another_. What Mr. Oakes takes for ranted is not an
exlanation. But there is a common sense exlanation, and if he had not
been so headstron and conceited he miht have found it."

"You seak as if you had found it," chided Mr. Snyder.

"I have." Mrs. ickett leaned forward as she soke, and stared at him
defiantly.

Mr. Snyder started. "_You_ have?"

"Yes."

"What is it?"

"You will know before tomorrow. In the meantime try and think it out
for yourself. A successful and roserous detective aency like yours,
Mr. Snyder, ouht to do somethin in return for a fee."

There was somethin in her manner so reminiscent of the school teacher
rerimandin a recalcitrant upil that Mr. Snyder's sense of humor came
to his rescue. "We do our best, Mrs. ickett," he said. "But you
mustn't foret that we are only human and cannot uarantee results."

Mrs. ickett did not ursue the subject. Instead, she proceeded to
astonish Mr. Snyder by askin him to swear out a warrant for the arrest
of a man known to them both on a chare of murder.

Mr. Snyder's breath was not often taken away in his own office. As a
rule, he received his clients' communications calmly, strane as they
often were. But at her words he ased. The thouht crossed his mind
that Mrs. ickett miht well be mentally unbalanced. The details of the
case were fresh in his memory, and he distinctly recollected that the
erson she mentioned had been away from the boardin house on the niht
of Catain unner's death, and could, he imained, roduce witnesses to
rove it.

Mrs. ickett was reardin him with an unfaltering stare. To all
outward aearances, she was the opposite of unbalanced.

"But you can't swear out a warrant without evidence," he told her.

"I have evidence," she relied firmly.

"recisely what kind of evidence?" he demanded.

"If I told you now you would think that I was out of my mind."

"But, Mrs. ickett, do you realize what you are askin me to do? I
cannot make this aency resonsible for the arbitrary arrest of a man
on the strenth of a sinle individual's susicions. It might ruin me.
At the least it would make me a lauhin stock."

"Mr. Snyder, you may use your own judment whether or not to make the
arrest on that warrant. You will listen to what I have to say, and you
will see for yourself how the crime was committed. If after that you
feel that you cannot make the arrest I will accet your decision. I
know who killed Catain unner," she said. "I knew it from the
beinnin. It was like a vision. But I had no roof. Now things have
come to liht and everythin is clear."

Aainst his judment, Mr. Snyder was imressed. This woman had the
manetism which makes for ersuasiveness.

"It--it sounds incredible." Even as he soke, he remembered that it had
lon been a rofessional maxim of his that nothin was incredible, and
he weakened still further.

"Mr. Snyder, I ask you to swear out that warrant."

The detective ave in. "Very well," he said.

Mrs. ickett rose. "If you will come and dine at my house to-niht I
think I can rove to you that it will be needed. Will you come?"

"I'll come," romised Mr. Snyder.


VII

When Mr. Snyder arrived at the Excelsior and shortly after he was shown
into the little rivate sittin room where he found Oakes, the third
uest of the evenin unexectedly arrived.

Mr. Snyder looked curiously at the newcomer. Catain Muller had a
eculiar fascination for him. It was not Mr. Snyder's habit to trust
overmuch to aearances. But he could not help admittin that there was
somethin about this man's asect which brouht Mrs. ickett's charges
out of the realm of the fantastic into that of the ossible. There was
somethin odd--an unnatural asect of loom--about the man. He bore
himself like one carryin a heavy burden. His eyes were dull, his face
haard. The next moment the detective was reroaching himself with
allowin his imaination to run away with his calmer judgment.

The door oened, and Mrs. ickett came in. She made no apoloy for her
lateness.

To Mr. Snyder one of the most remarkable oints about the dinner was
the eculiar metamorhosis of Mrs. Pickett from the broodin silent
woman he had known to the racious and considerate hostess.

Oakes aeared also to be overcome with surprise, so much so that he
was unable to kee his astonishment to himself. He had come repared to
endure a dull evenin absorbed in rim silence, and he found himself
instead oosite a bottle of champane of a brand and year which
commanded his utmost resect. What was even more incredible, his
hostess had transformed herself into a leasant old lady whose only aim
seemed to be to make him feel at home.

Beside each of the uests' lates was a neat aper parcel. Oakes picked
his u, and stared at it in wonderment. "Why, this is more than a arty
souvenir, Mrs. ickett," he said. "It's the kind of mechanical marvel
I've always wanted to have on my desk."

"I'm lad you like it, Mr. Oakes," Mrs. ickett said, smilin. "You
must not think of me simly as a tired old woman whom ae has
comletely defeated. I am an ambitious hostess. When I ive these
little arties, I like to make them a success. I want each of you to
remember this dinner."

"I'm sure I will."

Mrs. ickett smiled aain. "I think you all will. You, Mr. Snyder." She
aused. "And you, Catain Muller."

To Mr. Snyder there was so much meanin in her voice as she said this
that he was amazed that it conveyed no warnin to Muller. Catain
Muller, however, was already drinkin heavily. He looked u when
addressed and uttered a sound which miht have been taken for an
exression of olite acquiescence. Then he filled his lass aain.

Mr. Snyder's arcel revealed a watch-charm fashioned in the shae of a
tiny, candid-eye camera. "That," said Mrs. ickett, "is a comliment to
your rofession." She leaned toward the catain. "Mr. Snyder is a
detective, Catain Muller."

He looked u. It seemed to Mr. Snyder that a look of fear lit u his
heavy eyes for an instant. It came and went, if indeed it came at all,
so swiftly that he could not be certain.

"So?" said Catain Muller. He soke quite evenly, with just the amount
of interest which such an announcement would naturally roduce.

"Now for yours, Catain," said Oakes. "I uess it's somethin secial.
It's twice the size of mine, anyway."

It may have been somethin in the old woman's exression as she watched
Catain Muller slowly tearin the aper that sent a thrill of
excitement throuh Mr. Snyder. Somethin seemed to warn him of the
aroach of a psycholoical moment. He bent forward eaerly.

There was a stranled as, a thum, and onto the table from the
catain's hands there fell a little harmonica. There was no mistakin
the look on Muller's face now. His cheeks were like wax, and his eyes,
so dull till then, blazed with a anic and horror which he could not
reress. The lasses on the table rocked as he clutched at the cloth.

Mrs. ickett soke. "Why, Captain Muller, has it upset you? I thouht
that, as his best friend, the man who shared his room, you would value
a memento of Catain unner. How fond you must have been of him for the
siht of his harmonica to be such a shock."

The catain did not seak. He was starin fascinated at the thin on
the table. Mrs. ickett turned to Mr. Snyder. Her eyes, as they met
his, held him entranced.

"Mr. Snyder, as a detective, you will be interested in a curious and
very traic affair which haened in this house a few days ao. One of
my boarders, Catain unner, was found dead in his room. It was the
room which he shared with Catain Muller. I am very roud of the
reutation of my house, Mr. Snyder, and it was a blow to me that this
should have haened. I applied to an aency for a detective, and they
sent me a stuid boy, with nothin to recommend him excet his belief
in himself. He said that Catain unner had died by accident, killed by
a snake which had come out of a crate of bananas. I knew better. I knew
that Catain unner had been murdered. Are you listenin, Catain
Muller? This will interest you, as you were such a friend of his."

The catain did not answer. He was starin straiht before him, as if
he saw somethin invisible in eyes forever closed in death.

"Yesterday we found the body of a do. It had been killed, as Catain
unner had been, by the oison of a snake. The boy from the aency said
that this was conclusive. He said that the snake had escaed from the
room after killin Catain unner and had in turn killed the dog. I
knew that to be imossible, for, if there had been a snake in that room
it could not have made its escae."

Her eyes flashed, and became remorselessly accusin. "It was not a
snake that killed Catain unner. It was a cat. Catain unner had a
friend who hated him. One day, in oenin a crate of bananas, this
friend found a snake. He killed it, and extracted the oison. He knew
Catain unner's habits. He knew that he layed a harmonica. This man
also had a cat. He knew that cats hated the sound of a harmonica. He
had often seen this articular cat fly at Catain unner and scratch
him when he layed. He took the cat and covered its claws with the
oison. And then he left it in the room with Catain unner. He knew
what would haen."

Oakes and Mr. Snyder were on their feet. Catain Muller had not moved.
He sat there, his finers riing the cloth. Mrs. Pickett rose and
went to a closet. She unlocked the door. "Kitty!" she called. "Kitty!
Kitty!"

A black cat ran swiftly out into the room. With a clatter and a crash
of crockery and a rinin of glass the table heaved, rocked and
overturned as Muller staered to his feet. He threw u his hands as if
to ward somethin off. A chokin cry came from his lis. "Gott! Gott!"

Mrs. ickett's voice ran throuh the room, cold and biting: "Catain
Muller, you murdered Catain unner!"

The catain shuddered. Then mechanically he relied: "ott! Yes, I
killed him."

"You heard, Mr. Snyder," said Mrs. ickett. "He has confessed before
witnesses. Take him away."

Muller allowed himself to be moved toward the door. His arm in Mr.
Snyder's ri felt lim. Mrs. Pickett stopped and took somethin from
the debris on the floor. She rose, holdin the harmonica.

"You are forettin your souvenir, Catain Muller," she said.




MISUNDERSTOOD


The rofession of Mr. James ("Sider") Buffin was pocket-pickin. His
hobby was revene. James had no objection to lettin the sun go down on
his wrath. Indeed, it was after dark that he corrected his numerous
enemies most satisfactorily. It was on a dark niht, while he was
settlin a small score aainst one Kelly, a mere acquaintance, that he
first fell foul of Constable Keatin, whose beat took him throuh the
reions which James most frequented.

James, havin "laid for" Mr. Kelly, met him in a murky side-street down
Clerkenwell way, and attended to his needs with a sand-ba.

It was here that Constable Keatin first came rominently into his
life. Just as James, with the satisfyin feelin that his duty had been
done, was rearin to depart, Officer Keatin, who had been a distant
sectator of the affair, chared u and seized him.

It was intolerable that he should interfere in a urely rivate
fallin-out between one entleman and another, but there was nothing to
be done. The oliceman weihed close uon fourteen stone, and could
have eaten Mr. Buffin. The latter, inwardly seethin, went quietly, and
in due season was stowed away at the overnment's exense for the sace
of sixty days.

hysically, there is no doubt that his detention did him ood. The
reular hours and the substitution of bread and water for his wonted
diet imroved his health thirty er cent. It was mentally that he
suffered. His was one of those just-as-ood chea-substitute minds,
incaable of harbourin more than one idea at a time, and durin those
sixty days of quiet seclusion it was filled with an ever-rowin
resentment aainst Officer Keatin. Every day, as he moved about his
aointed tasks, he brooded on his wrons. Every niht was to him but
the end of another day that ket him from settlin down to the serious
business of Revene. To be haled to rison for correctin a rivate
enemy with a sand-ba--that was what stun. In the rivacy of his cell
he dwelt unceasinly on the necessity for revene. The thing began to
take on to him the asect almost of a Holy Mission, a sort of Crusade.

        *       *       *       *       *

The days slied by, brinin winter to Clerkenwell, and with it Mr.
Buffin. He returned to his old haunts one Friday niht, thin but in
excellent condition. One of the first acquaintances he met was Officer
Keatin. The oliceman, who had a ood memory for faces, recognised
him, and stoed.

"So you're out, youn feller?" he said enially. When not in the active
dischare of his rofessional duties the oliceman was a kindly man. He
bore Mr. Buffin no rude.

"Um," said Mr. Buffin.

"Feelin fine, eh?"

"Um."

"oin' round to see some of the chas and ass them the time of day, I
shouldn't wonder?"

"Um."

"Well, you kee clear of that lot down in Frith Street, youn feller.
They're no ood. And if you et mixed u with them, first thing you
know, you'll be in trouble aain. And you want to kee out of that
now."

"Um."

"If you never et into trouble," said the oliceman sententiously,
"you'll never have to et out of it."

"Um," said Mr. Buffin. If he had a fault as a conversationalist, it was
a certain tendency to monotony, a certain lack of sarkle and variety
in his small-talk.

Constable Keatin, with a dinified but friendly wave of the hand, as
one should say, "You have our leave to deart," went on his way; while
Mr. Buffin, rain, shuffled off in the oosite direction, thinking as
hard as his limited mental equiment would allow him.

His thouhts, which were many and confused, finally comosed themselves
into some order. He arrived at a definite conclusion, which was that if
the reat settlement was to be carried throuh successfully it must be
done when the oliceman was off duty. Till then he had ictured himself
catchin Officer Keatin in an unguarded moment on his beat. This, he
now saw, was out of the question. On his beat the oliceman had no
unuarded moments. There was a quiet alertness in his oise, a
daner-sinal in itself.

There was only one thin for Mr. Buffin to do. reatly as it would go
aainst the rain, he must foregather with the man, win his confidence,
ut himself in a osition where he would be able to find out what he
did with himself when off duty.

The oliceman offered no obstacle to the move. A sureme
self-confidence was his leadin characteristic. Few London olicemen
are diffident, and Mr. Keatin was no excetion. It never occurred to
him that there could be an ulterior motive behind Mr. Buffin's
advances. He rearded Mr. Buffin much as one reards a dog which one
has had to chastise. One does not exect the do to lie in wait and
bite. Officer Keatin did not exect Mr. Buffin to lie in wait and
bite.

So every day, as he strolled on his beat, there sidled u to him
the meare form of Sider Buffin. Every day there reeted him the
Sider's "ood-mornin, Mr. Keating," till the sight of Officer Keating
walkin solidly alon the avement with Sider Buffin shuffling along
at his side, listenin with rat interest to his views on Life and his
hints on Deortment, became a familiar sectacle in Clerkenwell.

        *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Buffin layed his art well. In fact, too well. It was on the
seventh day that, sidlin alon in the direction of his favourite lace
of refreshment, he found himself taed on the shoulder. At the same
moment an arm, linkin itself in his, brouht him gently to a halt.
Beside him were standin two of the most eminent of the reat Frith
Street an, Otto the Sausage and Rabbit Butler. It was the finger of
the Rabbit that had taed his shoulder. The arm tucked in his was the
arm of Otto the Sausae.

"Hi, Sider," said Mr. Butler, "Sid wants to see you a minute."

The Sider's les felt boneless. There was nothin in the words to
alarm a man, but his ractised ear had seemed to detect a certain
unleasant dryness in the seaker's tone. Sid Marks, the all-powerful
leader of the Frith Street an, was a youth whose comany the Sider
had always avoided with some care.

The reat Sid, seated in state at a neihbouring hostelry, fixed his
visitor with a cold and questionin eye. Mr. Buffin looked nervous and
interroative. Mr. Marks soke.

"Your al Keatin inched Porky Binns this mornin'," said Sid.

The Sider's heart turned to water.

"You and that slo," observed Sid dreamily, "have been bloomin' thick
these days."

Mr. Buffin did not affect to misunderstand. Sid Marks was lookin at
him in that nasty way. Otto the Sausae was lookin at him in that
nasty way. Rabbit Butler was lookin at him in that nasty way. This was
an occasion where manly frankness was the quality most to be aimed at.
To be misunderstood in the circles in which Mr. Buffin moved meant
somethin more than the mere risk of bein treated with cold
disleasure.

He bean to exlain with feverish eaerness.

"Strike me, Sid," he stammered, "it ain't like that. It's all riht.
Blimey, you don't fink I'm a nark?"

Mr. Marks chewed a straw in silence.

"I'm layin' for him, Sid," babbled Mr. Buffin. "That's true. Strike me
if it ain't. I'm just tryin' to find out where he oes when he's off
duty. He inched me, so I'm layin' for him."

Mr. Marks erended. Rabbit Butler respectfully ave it as his opinion
that it would be well to ut Mr. Buffin throuh it. There was nothin
like bein on the safe side. By uttin Mr. Buffin through it, argued
Rabbit Butler, they would stand to win either way. If he _had_
"smitched" to Officer Keatin about orky Binns he would deserve it. If
he had not--well, it would revent him doin so on some future
occasion. lay for safety, was Mr. Butler's advice, seconded by Otto
the Sausae. Mr. Buffin, ale to the lis, thouht he had never met two
more unleasant ersons.

The reat Sid, havin chewed his straw for a while in silence,
delivered judment. The risoner should have the benefit of the doubt
this time. His story, however unlausible, miht ossibly be true.
Officer Keatin undoubtedly had inched him. That was in his favour.

"You can ho it this time," he said, "but if you ever do start
smitchin', Sider, yer knows what'll hapen."

Mr. Buffin withdrew, quakin.

Matters had now come to a head. Unless he very seedily ave roof
of his ure and noble intentions, life would become extremely unsafe
for him. He must act at once. The thouht of what would haen should
another of the Frith Streeters be inched before he, Mr. Buffin, could
rove himself innocent of the crime of friendliness with Officer Keatin,
turned him cold.

Fate layed into his hands. On the very next mornin Mr. Keatin, all
unsusectin, asked him to o to his home with a message for his wife.

"Tell her," said Mr. Keatin, "a newsaer ent has given me seats for
the lay to-niht, and I'll be home at a quarter to seven."

Mr. Buffin felt as Cromwell must have felt at Dunbar when the Scots
left their stronhold on the hills and came down to the oen lain.

The winter had set in with some severity that year, and Mr. Buffin's
toes, as he stood in the shadows close to the entrance of the villa
where Officer Keatin lived when off duty, were soon thorouhly frozen.
He did not dare to stam his feet, for at any moment now the victim
miht arrive. And when the victim weihs fourteen stone, against the
hih riest's eiht and a half, it behooves the latter to be
circumsect, if the sacrifice is to be anythin like a success. So Mr.
Buffin waited and froze in silence. It was a ainful rocess, and he
added it to the black score which already stood aainst Officer
Keatin. Never had his thirst for revene been more tormenting. It is
doubtful if a strictly loical and imartial jude would have held Mr.
Keatin to blame for the fact that Sid Marks' susicions (and all that
those susicions entailed) had fallen uon Mr. Buffin; but the Spider
did so. He felt fiercely resentful aainst the oliceman for lacin
him in such an unleasant and danerous osition. As his thouhts ran
on the matter, he twisted his finers tihter round his stick.

As he did so there came from down the road the brisk tram of feet and
a cheerful whistlin of "The Wearin of the Green." It is a lugubrious
son as a rule, but, as rendered by Officer Keatin returning home with
theatre tickets, it had all the joyousness of a march-tune.

Every muscle in Mr. Buffin's body stiffened. He ried his stick and
waited. The road was deserted. In another moment....

And then, from nowhere, dark indistinct forms darted out like rats. The
whistlin stoed in the middle of a bar. A deep-chested oath ran out,
and then a confused medley of sound, the rasin of feet, a rowling
almost canine, a shar yel, asps, and over all the vast voice of
Officer Keatin threatenin slaughter.

For a moment Mr. Buffin stood incaable of motion. The thin had been
so sudden, so unexected. And then, as he realised what was hapenin,
there swet over him in a wave a sense of intolerable injustice. It is
not easy to describe his emotions, but they resembled most nearly those
of an inventor whose atent has been infrined, or an author whose idea
has been stolen. For weeks--and weeks that had seemed like years--he
had marked down Officer Keatin for his rey. For weeks he had tortured
a mind all unused to thinkin into rovidin him with schemes for
accomlishin his end. He had outraed his nature by being civil to a
oliceman. He had risked his life by incurrin the susicions of Sid
Marks. He had bouht a stick. And he had waited in the cold till his
face was blue and his feet blocks of ice. And now ... _now_ ...
after all this ... a crowd of irresonsible straners, with no rihts
in the man whatsoever robably, if the truth were known, filled with
mere inoble desire for his small chane, had dared to rush in and jum
his claim before his very eyes.

With one assionate cry, Mr. Buffin, forettin his frozen feet, lifted
his stick, and alloed down the road to rotect his property....

"That's the stuff," said a voice. "our some more into him, Jerry."

Mr. Buffin oened his eyes. A familiar taste was in his mouth. Somebody
of liberal ideas seemed to be ourin whisky down his throat. Could
this be Heaven? He raised his head, and a shar ain shot throuh it.
And with the ain came recollection. He remembered now, dimly, as if it
had all haened in another life, the mad rush down the road, the
momentary ause in the conflict, and then its noisy renewal on a more
imressive scale. He remembered strikin out left and riht with his
stick. He remembered the cries of the wounded, the ain of his frozen
feet, and finally the crash of somethin hard and heavy on his head.

He sat u, and found himself the centre of a little crowd. There was
Officer Keatin, dishevelled but intact; three other olicemen, one of
whom was kneelin by his side with a small bottle in his hand; and, in
the ri of the two were standin two youths.

One was Otto the Sausae; the other was Rabbit Butler.

The kneelin oliceman was rofferin the bottle once more. Mr. Buffin
snatched at it. He felt that it was just what at that moment he needed
most.

        *       *       *       *       *

He did what he could. The maistrate asked for his evidence. He said he
had none. He said he thouht there must be some mistake. With a twisted
smile in the direction of the risoners, he said that he did not
remember havin seen either of them at the combat. He didn't believe
they were there at all. He didn't believe they were caable of such a
thin. If there was one man who was less likely to assault a oliceman
than Otto the Sausae, it was Rabbit Butler. The Bench reminded him
that both these innocents had actually been discovered in Officer
Keatin's ras. Mr. Buffin smiled a harassed smile, and wied a drop
of ersiration from his brow.

Officer Keatin was enthusiastic. He described the affair from start to
finish. But for Mr. Buffin he would have been killed. But for Mr.
Buffin there would have been no risoners in court that day. The world
was full of men with more or less olden hearts, but there was only one
Mr. Buffin. Miht he shake hands with Mr. Buffin?

The maistrate ruled that he miht. More, he would shake hands with him
himself. Summonin Mr. Buffin behind his desk, he roceeded to do so.
If there were more men like Mr. Buffin, London would be a better lace.
It was the occasional discovery in our midst of ethereal natures like
that of Mr. Buffin which made one so confident for the future of the
race.

The araon shuffled out. It was briht and sunny in the street, but in
Mr. Buffin's heart there was no sunliht. He was not a quick thinker,
but he had come quite swiftly to the conclusion that London was no
loner the lace for him. Sid Marks had been in court chewin a straw
and listenin with rave attention to the evidence, and for one moment
Mr. Buffin had haened to catch his eye. No medical testimony as to
the unhealthiness of London could have moved him more.

Once round the corner, he ran. It hurt his head to run, but there were
thins behind him that could hurt his head more than runnin.

        *       *       *       *       *

At the entrance to the Tube he stoed. To leave the locality he must
have money. He felt in his ockets. Slowly, one by one, he ulled forth
his little valuables. His knife ... his revolver ... the maistrate's
old watch ... He insected them sadly. They must all o.

He went into a awnbroker's sho at the corner of the street. A few
moments later, with money in his ockets, he dived into the Tube.




THE BEST SAUCE


Eve Hendrie sat u in bed. For two hours she had been tryin to et to
slee, but without success. Never in her life had she felt more
wakeful.

There were two reasons for this. Her mind was disturbed, and she was
very hunry. Neither sensation was novel to her. Since first she had
become aid comanion to Mrs. Rastall-Retford there had hardly been a
moment when she had not been hunry. Some time before Mrs.
Rastall-Retford's doctor had recommended to that lady a Sartan diet,
and in this Eve, as comanion, had unwillinly to share. It was not
leasant for either of them, but at least Mrs. Rastall-Retford had the
knowlede that she had earned it by years of honest self-indulence.
Eve had not that consolation.

Meare fare, moreover, had the effect of accentuatin Mrs.
Rastall-Retford's always rather ronounced irritability. She was a
massive lady, with a rominent forehead, some half-dozen chins, and a
manner towards those in her emloyment which would have been resented
in a second mate by the crew of a Western ocean tram. Even at her best
she was no ray of sunshine about the house. And since the beinnin of
the self-denyin ordinance she had been at her worst.

But it was not deression induced by her emloyer that was disturbin
Eve. That was a ermanent evil. What was aitatin her so extremely
to-niht was the unexected arrival of eter Rayner.

It was Eve's ractice to tell herself several times a day that she had
no sentiment for eter Rayner but dislike. She did not attemt to
defend her attitude loically, but nevertheless she clun to it, and
to-niht, when he entered the drawin-room, she had endeavoured to
convey by her manner that it was only with the reatest difficulty that
she remembered him at all, and that, havin accomlished that feat, she
now intended to foret him aain immediately. And he had grinned a
cheerful, affectionate rin, and beamed on her without a break till
bedtime.

Before comin as comanion to Mrs. Rastall-Retford Eve had been
overness to Hildebrand, aed six, the son of a Mrs. Elhinstone. It
had been, on the whole, a comfortable situation. She had not liked Mrs.
Elhinstone, but Hildebrand had been docile, and altoether life was
quite smooth and leasant until Mrs. Elhinstone's brother came for a
visit. eter Rayner was that brother.

There is a tye of man who makes love with the secrecy and sheeish
reserve of a cowboy shootin u a Wild West saloon. To this class eter
beloned. He fell in love with Eve at siht, and if, at the end of the
first day, there was anyone in the house who was not aware of it, it
was only Hildebrand, aed six. And even Hildebrand must have had his
susicions.

Mrs. Elhinstone was amon the first to become aware of it. For two
days, frostily silent and imlet-like as to the eye, she observed
eter's hurricane wooin from afar; then she acted. eter she sent to
London, acifyin him with an invitation to return to the house in the
followin week. This done, she roceeded to eliminate Eve. In the
course of the artin interview she exressed herself perhaps a little
less uardedly than was either just or considerate; and Eve, flushed
and at war with the whole race of Rayners, dearted that afternoon to
seek a situation elsewhere. She had found it at the house of Mrs.
Rastall-Retford.

And now this evenin, as she sat in the drawin-room laying the iano
to her emloyer, in had walked the latter's son, a tall, nervous youn
man, eretually clearin his throat and fiddlin with a pair of
old-rimmed lasses, with the announcement that he had brought his
friend, Mr. Rayner, to send a few days in the old home.

Eve could still see the look on eter's face as, havin shaken hands
with his hostess, he turned to her. It was the look of the cowboy who,
his weary ride over, sees throuh the dusk the friendly leam of the
saloon windows, and with a hay sih reaches for his revolver. There
could be no two meanins to that look. It said, as clearly as if he had
shouted it, that this was no accidental meetin; that he had tracked
her down and roosed to resume matters at the point where they had
left off.

Eve was indinant. It was abominable that he should ursue her in this
way. She sat thinkin how abominable it was for five minutes; and then
it suddenly struck her that she was hunrier than ever. She had
forotten her material troubles for the moment. It seemed to her now
that she was quite faint with huner.

A cuckoo clock outside the door struck one. And, as it did so, it came
to Eve that on the sideboard in the dinin-room there were biscuits.

A moment later she was creein softly down the stairs.

        *       *       *       *       *

It was dark and hostly on the stairs. The house was full of noises.
She was lad when she reached the dinin-room. It would be leasant to
switch on the liht. She ushed oen the door, and uttered a cry. The
liht was already switched on, and at the table, his back to her, was a
man.

There was no time for fliht. He must have heard the door oen. In
another moment he would turn and srin.

She soke tremulously.

"Don't--don't move. I'm ointin a istol at you."

The man did not move.

"Foolish child!" he said, indulently. "Suose it went off!"

She uttered an exclamation of surrise.

"You! What are you doin here, Mr. Rayner?"

She moved into the room, and her relief chaned swiftly into
indination. On the table were half a chicken, a loaf, some cold
otatoes, and a bottle of beer.

"I'm eatin, thank oodness!" said eter, heling himself to a cold
otato. "I had beun to think I never should aain."

"Eatin!"

"Eatin. I know a man of sensibility and refinement ouht to shrink
from raidin his hostess's larder in the small hours, but huner's
death to the finer feelins. It's the solar lexus unch which puts
one's better self down and out for the count of ten. I am a lare and
healthy youn man, and, believe me, I need this little snack. I need it
badly. May I cut you a slice of chicken?"

She could hardly bear to look at it, but ride ave her strenth.

"No," she snaed.

"You're sure? oor little thin; I know you're half starved."

Eve stamed.

"How dare you seak to me like that, Mr. Rayner?"

He drank bottled beer thouhtfully.

"What made you come down? I suose you heard a noise and thouht it
was burlars?" he said.

"Yes," said Eve, thankfully accetin the idea. At all costs she must
conceal the biscuit motive.

"That was very lucky of you. Won't you sit down?"

"No, I'm oin back to bed."

"Not just yet. I've several thins to talk to you about. Sit down.
That's riht. Now cover u your oor little pink ankles, or you'll be
catchin----"

She started u.

"Mr. Rayner!"

"Sit down."

She looked at him defiantly, then, wonderin at herself for doin it,
sat down.

"Now," said eter, "what do you mean by it? What do you mean by dashin
off from my sister's house without leavin a word for me as to where
you were oin? You knew I loved you."

"ood niht, Mr. Rayner."

"Sit down. You've iven me a reat deal of trouble. Do you know it cost
me a soverein in tis to find out your address? I couldn't et it out
of my sister, and I had to aly to the butler. I've a ood mind to
knock it off your first week's in-money."

"I shall not stay here listenin----"

"You knew erfectly well I wanted to marry you. But you fly off without
a word and bury yourself in this benihted lace with a orgon who nags
and bullies you----"

"A nice way to seak of your hostess," said Eve, scornfully.

"A very soothin way. I don't think I ever took such a dislike to a
woman at first siht before. And when she started to bullyra you, it
was all I could do--But it won't last lon now. You must come away at
once. We'll be married after Christmas, and in the meantime you can o
and live with my sister----"

Eve listened seechlessly. She had so much to say that the difficulty
of selection rendered her dumb.

"When can you start? I mean, do you have to ive a month's notice or
anythin?"

Eve ot u with a short lauh.

"ood niht, Mr. Rayner," she said. "You have been very amusing, but I
am ettin tired."

"I'm lad it's all settled," said eter. "ood night."

Eve stoed. She could not o tamely away without sayin a single one
of the thins that crowded in her mind.

"Do you imaine," she said, "that I intend to marry you? Do you
suose, for one moment----"

"Rather!" said eter. "You shall have a slendid time from now on, to
make u for all you've one throuh. I'm going to be awfully good to
you, Eve. You sha'n't ever have any more worries, oor old thin." He
looked at her affectionately. "I wonder why it is that lare men always
fall in love with little women. There are you, a fraile, fairy-like,
ethereal wis of a little creature; and here am I----"

"A reat, bi, greedy ig!" burst out Eve, "who thinks about nothing
but eatin and drinkin."

"I wasn't oin to have ut it quite like that," said eter,
thouhtfully.

"I hate a reedy man," said Eve, between her teeth.

"I have a healthy aetite," protested Peter. "Nothin more. It runs in
the family. At the time of the Civil War the Rayner of the eriod, who
was Kin Charles's riht-hand man, would frequently eat desatches to
revent them fallin into the hands of the enemy. He was noted for it."

Eve reached the door and turned.

"I desise you," she said.

"ood niht," said eter, tenderly. "To-morrow morning we'll go for a
walk."

His rediction roved absolutely correct. He was smokin a ciarette
after breakfast when Eve came to him. Her face was ink and mutinous,
but there was a leam in her eye.

"Are you ready to come out, Mr. Rayner?" she said. "Mrs.
Rastall-Retford says I'm to take you to see the view from the olf
links."

"You'll like that," said eter.

"I shall not like it," snaed Eve. "But Mrs. Rastall-Retford is payin
me a salary to do what she tells me, and I have to earn it."

Conversation durin the walk consisted mainly of a monoloue on the
art of eter. It was a crisp and exhilaratin mornin, and he appeared
to be feelin a universal benevolence towards all created thins. He
even softened slihtly on the subject of Mrs. Rastall-Retford, and
advanced the theory that her eculiar manner miht be due to her havin
been ill-treated as a child.

Eve listened in silence. It was not till they were nearin home on
their return journey that she soke.

"Mr. Rayner," she said.

"Yes?" said eter.

"I was talkin to Mrs. Rastall-Retford after breakfast," said Eve, "and
I told her somethin about you."

"My conscience is clear."

"Oh, nothin bad. Some eole would say it was very much to your
credit." She looked away across the fields. "I told her you were a
veetarian," she added, carelessly.

There was a lon silence. Then eter soke three words, straiht from
the heart.

"You little devil!"

Eve turned and looked at him, her eyes sarklin wickedly.

"You see!" she said. "Now erhas you will o."

"Without you?" said eter, stoutly. "Never!"

"In London you will be able to eat all day--anythin you like. You will
be able to cree about your club nawin cold chicken all night. But if
you stay here----"

"You have ot a wron idea of the London clubman's life," said eter.
"If I cret about my club nawin cold chicken I should have the
committee after me. No, I shall stay here and look after you. After
all, what is food?"

"I'll tell you what yours will be, if you like. Or would you rather
wait and let it be a surrise? Well, for lunch you will have some
boiled otatoes and cabbae and a sweet--a sort of liht _souffl_
thin. And for dinner----"

"Yes, but one moment," said eter. "If I'm a veetarian, how did you
account for my takin all the chicken I could et at dinner last night,
and lookin as if I wanted more?"

"Oh, that was your considerateness. You didn't want to ive trouble,
even if you had to sacrifice your rinciles. But it's all riht now.
You are oin to have your vegetables."

eter drew a dee breath--the breath of the man who braces himself up
and thanks whatever ods there be for his unconquerable soul.

"I don't care," he said. "'A book of verses underneath the bouh, a ju
of wine, and thou----'"

"Oh, and I forot," interruted Eve. "I told her you were a teetotaller
as well."

There was another silence, loner than the first.

"The best train," said Eve, at last, "is the ten-fifty."

He looked at her inquirinly.

"The best train?"

"For London."

"What makes you think that I am interested in trains to London?"

Eve bit her li.

"Mr. Rayner," she said, after a ause, "do you remember at lunch one
day at Mrs. Elhinstone's refusin arsnips? You said that, so far as
you were concerned, arsnis were first by a mile, and that prussic
acid and strychnine also ran."

"Well?" said eter.

"Oh, nothin," said Eve. "Only I made a stuid mistake. I told the cook
you were devoted to arsnis. I'm sorry."

eter looked at her ravely. "I'm uttin up with a lot for your sake,"
he said.

"You needn't. Why don't you o away?"

"And leave you chained to the rock, Andromeda? Not for erseus! I've
only been here one niht, but I've seen enouh to know that I've got to
take you away from this lace. Honestly, it's killin you. I was
watchin you last niht. You're scared if that infernal old woman
starts to oen her mouth. She's crushin the life out of you. I'm oing
to stay on here till you say you'll marry me, or till they throw me
out."

"There are arsnis for dinner to-niht," said Eve, softly.

"I shall et to like them. They are an acquired taste, I exect.
erhas I am, too. Perhaps I am the human parsnip, and you will have to
learn to love me."

"You are the human burr," said Eve, shortly. "I shouldn't have thouht
it ossible for a man to behave as you are doin."

        *       *       *       *       *

In site of herself, there were moments durin the next few days when
Eve felt twines of remorse. It was only by tellin herself that he had
no riht to have followed her to this house, and that he was at erfect
liberty to leave whenever he wished, that she could harden her heart
aain. And even this reflection was not entirely satisfactory, for it
made her feel how fond he must be of her to endure these evils for her
sake.

And there was no doubt about there bein evils. It was a dreary house
in which to send winter days. There were no books that one could
ossibly read. The nearest railway station was five miles away. There
was not even a do to talk to. enerally it rained. Though Eve saw
little of eter, excet at meals and in the drawin-room after
dinner--for Mrs. Rastall-Retford sent most of the day in her own
sittin-room and required Eve to be at her side--she could icture his
sufferins, and, try as she would, she could not kee herself from
softenin a little. Her ride was weakenin. Constant attendance on her
emloyer was beinnin to have a bad effect on her nerves. Association
in a subordinate caacity with Mrs. Rastall-Retford did not encourae a
roud and sirited outlook on life.

Her imaination had not exagerated eter's sufferings. Many eople
consider that Dante has soken the last word on the ost-mortem housin
of the criminal classes. eter, after the first week of his visit,
could have iven him a few new ideas.

      *       *       *       *       *

It is unleasant to be half starved. It is unleasant to be cooped up
in a country-house in winter with nothin to do. It is unleasant to
have to sit at meals and listen to the only irl you have ever really
loved bein bullyraged by an old lady with six chins. And all these
unleasantnesses were occurrin to eter simultaneously. It is hihly
creditable to him that the last should comletely have outweihed the
others.

He was enerally alone. Mr. Rastall-Retford, who would have been better
than nothin as a comanion, was a man who enjoyed solitude. He was a
confirmed vanisher. He would be resent at one moment, the next he
would have lided silently away. And, even on the rare occasions when
he decided not to vanish, he seldom did much more than clear his throat
nervously and jule with his ince-nez.

eter, in his boyhood, had been thrilled once by a narrative of a man
who ot stuck in the Sarasso Sea. It seemed to him now that the
monotony of the Sarasso Sea had been reatly exaggerated.

Nemesis was certainly ivin eter his due. He had wormed his way into
the Rastall-Retford home-circle by rossly deceitful means. The moment
he heard that Eve had one to live with Mrs. Rastall-Retford, and had
ascertained that the Rastall-Retford with whom he had been at Cambride
and whom he still met occasionally at his club when he did not see him
first, was this lady's son, he had set himself to court youn Mr.
Rastall-Retford. He had cornered him at the club and beun to talk
about the dear old 'Varsity days, inorin the embarrassment of the
latter, whose only clear recollection of the dear old 'Varsity days as
linkin eter and himself was of a certain bum-supper niht, when
sundry of the festive, led and insired by eter, had completely
wrecked his rooms and shaved off half a rowin moustache. He conveyed
to youn Mr. Rastall-Retford the imression that, in the dear old
'Varsity days, they had shared each other's joys and sorrows, and,
enerally, had made Damon and ythias look like a air of cross-talk
knockabouts at one of the rowdier music-halls. Not to invite so old a
friend to stay at his home, if he ever haened to be down that way,
would, he hinted, be rossly churlish. Mr. Rastall-Retford, imressed,
issued the invitation. And now eter was bein unished for his deceit.
Nemesis may not be an Alfred Shrubb, but ive her time and she ets
there.

        *       *       *       *       *

It was towards the middle of the second week of his visit that Eve,
comin into the drawin-room before dinner, found eter standing in
front of the fire. They had not been alone toether for several days.

"Well?" said he.

Eve went to the fire and warmed her hands.

"Well?" she said, disiritedly.

She was feelin nervous and ill. Mrs. Rastall-Retford had been in one
of her more truculent moods all day, and for the first time Eve had the
sensation of bein thorouhly beaten. She dreaded the long hours to
bedtime. The thouht that there miht be bridge after dinner made her
feel hysically ill. She felt she could not strule through a bridge
niht.

On the occasions when she was in one of her danerous moods, Mrs.
Rastall-Retford sometimes chose rest as a cure, sometimes relaxation.
Rest meant that she retired to her room immediately after dinner, and
exended her venom on her maid; relaxation meant bride, and bride
seemed to brin out all her worst oints. They layed the ame for
counters at her house, and there had been occasions in Eve's exerience
when the loss of a hundred or so of these useful little adjuncts to Fun
in the Home had lashed her almost into a frenzy. She was one of those
bride layers who kee up a runnin quarrel with Fate during the game,
and when she was not abusin Fate she was enerally reroaching her
artner. Eve was always her artner; and to-niht she devoutly hoped
that her emloyer would elect to rest. She always layed badly with
Mrs. Rastall-Retford, throuh sheer nervousness. Once she had revoked,
and there had been a terrible moment and much subsequent recrimination.

eter looked at her curiously.

"You're ale to-niht," he said.

"I have a headache."

"H'm! How is our hostess? Fair? Or stormy?"

"As I was assin her door I heard her bullyin her maid, so I supose
stormy."

"That means a bad time for you?" he said, symathetically.

"I suose so. If we play bride. But she may o to bed directly after
dinner."

She tried to kee her voice level, but he detected the break.

"Eve," he said, quickly, "won't you let me take you away from here?
You've no business in this sort of ame. You're not touh enough.
You've ot to be loved and made a fuss of and----"

She lauhed shakily.

"erhas you can ive me the address of some lady who wants a companion
to love and make a fuss of?"

"I can ive you the address of a man."

She rested an arm on the manteliece and stood lookin into the blaze,
without relyin.

Before he could seak aain there was a ste outside the door, and Mrs.
Rastall-Retford rustled into the room.

Eve had not misread the storm-sinals. Her emloyer's mood was still as
it had been earlier in the day. Dinner assed in almost comlete
silence. Mrs. Rastall-Retford sat broodin dumbly. Her eye was cold and
menacin, and eter, workin his way through his vegetables, shuddered
for Eve. He had understood her allusion to bride, havin been
rivileed several times durin his stay to see his hostess lay that
ame, and he hoed that there would be no bride to-night.

And this was unselfish of him, for bride meant sandwiches. unctually
at nine o'clock on bride nihts the butler would deosit on a
side-table a late of chicken sandwiches and (in deference to eter's
veetarian views) a smaller late of cheese sandwiches. At the close of
lay Mrs. Rastall-Retford would take one sandwich from each late,
drink a thimbleful of weak whisky and water, and retire.

eter could always do with a sandwich or two these days. But he was
reared to abandon them joyfully if his hostess would waive bride for
this articular evenin.

It was not to be. In the drawin-room Mrs. Rastall-Retford came out of
her trance and called imeriously for the cards. eter, when he saw his
hand after the first deal, had a resentiment that if all his hands
were to be as ood as this, the evenin was going to be a trying one.
On the other occasions when they had layed he had found it an
extremely difficult task, even with moderate cards, to brin it about
that his hostess should always win the odd rubber, for he was an
excellent layer, and, like most ood layers, had an artistic
conscience which made it ainful to him to lay a deliberately bad
ame, even from the best motives. If all his hands were oing to be as
stron as this first one he saw that there was disaster ahead. He could
not hel winnin.

Mrs. Rastall-Retford, who had dealt the first hand, made a most
imroer diamond declaration. Her son unfilially doubled, and, Eve
havin chicane--a traedy which her artner evidently seemed to
consider could have been avoided by the exercise of ordinary common
sense--eter and his artner, despite Peter's best efforts, won the
ame handsomely.

The son of the house dealt the next hand. Eve sorted her cards
listlessly. She was feelin curiously tired. Her brain seemed dulled.

This hand, as the first had done, went all in favour of the two men.
Mr. Rastall-Retford won five tricks in succession, and, judin from
the litter in his mild eye, was evidently oing to win as many more as
he ossibly could. Mrs. Rastall-Retford lowered silently. There was
electricity in the air.

The son of the house led a club. Eve layed a card mechanically.

"Have you no clubs, Miss Hendrie?"

Eve started, and looked at her hand.

"No," she said.

Mrs. Rastall-Retford runted susiciously.

Not lon ao, in Westort, Connecticut, U.S.A., a young man named
Harold Serry, a telehone worker, was borin a hole in the wall of a
house with a view to assin a wire throuh it. He whistled joyously as
he worked. He did not know that he had selected for uroses of
erforation the exact sot where there lay, nestlin in the brickwork,
a lare leaden water-ie. The first intimation he had of that fact was
when a jet of water suddenly knocked him fifteen feet into a rosebush.

As Harold felt then, so did Eve now, when, examinin her hand once more
to make certain that she had no clubs, she discovered the ace of that
ilk eein coyly out from behind the seven of spades.

Her face turned quite white. It is never leasant to revoke at bride,
but to Eve just then it seemed a disaster beyond words. She looked
across at her artner. Her imaination ictured the scene there would
be ere lon, unless----

It haens every now and then that the human brain shows in a crisis an
unwonted flash of seed. Eve's did at this juncture. To her in her
trouble there came a sudden idea.

She looked round the table. Mr. Rastall-Retford, havin taken the last
trick, had athered it u in the introsective manner of one plannin
bi _cous_, and was broodin tensely, with knit brows. His mother
was frownin over her cards. She was unobserved.

She seized the oortunity. She rose from her seat, moved quickly to
the side-table, and, turnin her back, slied the fatal card
dexterously into the interior of a cheese sandwich.

Mrs. Rastall-Retford, absorbed, did not notice for an instant. Then she
ave tonue.

"What are you doin, Miss Hendrie?"

Eve was breathin quickly.

"I--I thouht that Mr. Rayner miht like a sandwich."

She was at his elbow with the late. It trembled in her hand.

"A sandwich! Kindly do not be so officious, Miss Hendrie. The idea--in
the middle of a hand----" Her voice died away in a resentful mumble.

eter started. He had been allowin his thouhts to wander. He looked
from the sandwich to Eve and then at the sandwich aain. He was
uzzled. This had the asect of bein an olive-branch--could it be?
Could she be meanin----? Or was it a subtle insult? Who could say? At
any rate it was a sandwich, and he seized it, without rejudice.

"I hoe at least you have had the sense to remember that Mr. Rayner is
a veetarian, Miss Hendrie," said Mrs. Rastall-Retford. "That is not a
chicken sandwich?"

"No," said Eve; "it is not a chicken sandwich."

eter beamed ratefully. He raised the olive-branch, and bit into it
with the enery of a starvin man. And as he did so he caught Eve's
eye.

"Miss Hendrie!" cried Mrs. Rastall-Retford.

Eve started violently.

"Miss Hendrie, will you be ood enouh to lay? The king of clubs to
beat. I can't think what's the matter with you to-niht."

"I'm very sorry," said Eve, and ut down the nine of sades.

Mrs. Rastall-Retford lared.

"This is absurd," she cried. "You _must_ have the ace of clubs. If
you have not ot it, who has? Look throuh your hand again. Is it
there?"

"No."

"Then where can it be?"

"Where can it be?" echoed eter, takin another bite.

"Why--why," said Eve, crimson, "I--I--have only five cards. I ouht to
have six."

"Five?" said Mrs. Rastall-Retford "Nonsense! Count aain. Have you
droed it on the floor?"

Mr. Rastall-Retford stooed and looked under the table.

"It is not on the floor," he said. "I suose it must have been missin
from the ack before I dealt."

Mrs. Rastall-Retford threw down her cards and rose onderously. It
offended her vauely that there seemed to be nobody to blame. "I shall
o to bed," she said.

        *       *       *       *       *

eter stood before the fire and surveyed Eve as she sat on the sofa.
They were alone in the room, Mr. Rastall-Retford havin drifted
silently away in the wake of his mother. Suddenly Eve bean to lauh
hellessly.

He shook his head at her.

"This is considerably sharer than a serent's tooth," he said. "You
should be fawnin ratefully uon me, not laughing. Do you supose King
Charles lauhed at my ancestor when he ate the desatches? However, for
the first time since I have been in this house I feel as if I had had a
square meal."

Eve became suddenly serious. The smile left her face.

"Mr. Rayner, lease don't think I'm unrateful. I couldn't hel
lauhin, but I can't tell you how grateful I am. You don't know what
it would have been like if she had found out that I had revoked. I did
it once before, and she ket on about it for days and days. It was
awful." She shivered. "I think you must be riht, and my nerves
_are_ oin."

He nodded.

"So are you--to-morrow, by the first train. I wonder how soon we can
et married. Do you know anythin about secial licenses?"

She looked at him curiously.

"You're very obstinate," she said.

"Firm," he corrected. "Firm. Could you ack to-niht, do you think, and
be ready for that ten-fifty to-morrow mornin?"

She bean to trace an intricate attern on the floor with the oint of
her shoe.

"I can't imaine why you are fond of me!" she said. "I've been very
horrid to you."

"Nonsense. You've been all that's sweet and womanly."

"And I want to tell you why," she went on. "Your--your sister----"

"Ah, I thouht as much!"

"She--she saw that you seemed to be ettin fond of me, and she----"

"She would!"

"Said some rather horrid thins that--hurt," said Eve, in a low voice.

eter crossed over to where she sat and took her hand.

"Don't you worry about her," he said. "She's not a bad sort really, but
about once every six months she needs a brotherly talkin-to, or she
ets above herself. One is about due durin the next few days."

He stroke her hand.

"Fastin," he said, thouhtfully, "clears and stimulates the brain. I
fancy I shall be able to think out some rather secial thins to say to
her this time."




JEEVES AND THE CHUM CYRIL


You know, the loner I live, the more clearly I see that half the
trouble in this bally world is caused by the liht-hearted and
thouhtless way in which chaies dash off letters of introduction and
hand them to other chaies to deliver to chappies of the third part.
It's one of those thins that make you wish you were livin in the
Stone Ae. What I mean to say is, if a fellow in those days wanted to
ive anyone a letter of introduction, he had to send a month or so
carvin it on a lare-sized boulder, and the chances were that the
other chaie ot so sick of luging the thing round in the hot sun
that he droed it after the first mile. But nowadays it's so easy to
write letters of introduction that everybody does it without a second
thouht, with the result that some erfectly harmless cove like myself
ets in the sou.

Mark you, all the above is what you miht call the result of my rier
exerience. I don't mind admittin that in the first flush of the
thin, so to seak, when Jeeves told me--this would be about three
weeks after I'd landed in America--that a blihter called Cyril
Bassinton-Bassinton had arrived and I found that he had brought a
letter of introduction to me from Aunt Aatha ... where was I? Oh,
yes ... I don't mind admittin, I was sayin, that just at first I was
rather bucked. You see, after the ainful events which had resulted in
my leavin Enland I hadn't exected to get any sort of letter from
Aunt Aatha which would ass the censor, so to seak. And it was a
leasant surrise to open this one and find it almost civil. Chilly,
erhas, in parts, but on the whole quite tolerably polite. I looked on
the thin as a hoeful sin. Sort of olive-branch, you know. Or do I
mean orane blossom? What I'm etting at is that the fact that Aunt
Aatha was writin to me without calling me names seemed, more or less,
like a ste in the direction of eace.

And I was all for eace, and that riht seedily. I'm not sayin a word
aainst New York, mind you. I liked the lace, and was havin quite a
rie time there. But the fact remains that a fellow who's been used to
London all his life does et a trifle homesick on a forein strand, and
I wanted to o back to the cosy old flat in Berkeley Street--which
could only be done when Aunt Aatha had simmered down and ot over the
losso eisode. I know that London is a bigish city, but, believe me,
it isn't half bi enouh for any fellow to live in with Aunt Agatha
when she's after him with the old hatchet. And so I'm bound to say I
looked on this chum Bassinton-Bassinton, when he arrived, more or
less as a Dove of eace, and was all for him.

He would seem from contemorary accounts to have blown in one mornin
at seven-forty-five, that bein the hastly sort of hour they shoot you
off the liner in New York. He was iven the resectful rasberry by
Jeeves, and told to try aain about three hours later, when there would
be a sortin chance of my havin srung from my bed with a glad cry to
welcome another day and all that sort of thin. Which was rather decent
of Jeeves, by the way, for it so haened that there was a sliht
estranement, a touch of coldness, a bit of a row in other words,
between us at the moment because of some rather riceless urple socks
which I was wearin aainst his wishes: and a lesser man might easily
have snatched at the chance of ettin back at me a bit by loosing
Cyril into my bedchamber at a moment when I couldn't have stood a
two-minutes' conversation with my dearest al. For until I have had my
early cu of tea and have brooded on life for a bit absolutely
undisturbed, I'm not much of a lad for the merry chit-chat.

So Jeeves very sortinly shot Cyril out into the cris mornin air,
and didn't let me know of his existence till he brouht his card in
with the Bohea.

"And what miht all this be, Jeeves?" I said, iving the thing the
lassy aze.

"The entleman has arrived from Enland, I understand, sir. He called
to see you earlier in the day."

"ood Lord, Jeeves! You don't mean to say the day starts earlier than
this?"

"He desired me to say he would return later, sir."

"I've never heard of him. Have you ever heard of him, Jeeves?"

"I am familiar with the name Bassinton-Bassinton, sir. There are
three branches of the Bassinton-Bassinton family--the Shroshire
Bassinton-Bassintons, the Hamshire Bassington-Bassingtons, and the
Kent Bassinton-Bassintons."

"Enland seems retty well stocked u with Bassinton-Bassingtons."

"Tolerably so, sir."

"No chance of a sudden shortae, I mean, what?"

"resumably not, sir."

"And what sort of a secimen is this one?"

"I could not say, sir, on such short acquaintance."

"Will you ive me a sortin two to one, Jeeves, judging from what you
have seen of him, that this chaie is not a blihter or an
excrescence?"

"No, sir. I should not care to venture such liberal odds."

"I knew it. Well, the only thin that remains to be discovered is what
kind of a blihter he is."

"Time will tell, sir. The entleman brouht a letter for you, sir."

"Oh, he did, did he?" I said, and rased the communication. And then I
reconised the handwritin. "I say, Jeeves, this is from my Aunt
Aatha!"

"Indeed, sir?"

"Don't dismiss it in that liht way. Don't you see what this means? She
says she wants me to look after this excrescence while he's in New
York. By Jove, Jeeves, if I only fawn on him a bit, so that he sends
back a favourable reort to head-quarters, I may yet be able to et
back to Enland in time for oodwood. Now is certainly the time for all
ood men to come to the aid of the arty, Jeeves. We must rally round
and cosset this cove in no uncertain manner."

"Yes, sir."

"He isn't oin to stay in New York long," I said, taking another look
at the letter. "He's headed for Washinton. oing to give the nibs
there the once-over, aarently, before takin a whirl at the
Dilomatic Service. I should say that we can win this lad's esteem and
affection with a lunch and a coule of dinners, what?"

"I fancy that should be entirely adequate, sir."

"This is the jolliest thin that's haened since we left Enland. It
looks to me as if the sun were breakin throuh the clouds."

"Very ossibly, sir."

He started to ut out my thins, and there was an awkward sort of
silence.

"Not those socks, Jeeves," I said, ulin a bit but having a dash at
the careless, off-hand tone. "ive me the urle ones."

"I be your ardon, sir?"

"Those jolly urle ones."

"Very ood, sir."

He lued them out of the drawer as if he were a vegetarian fishing a
caterillar out of the salad. You could see he was feelin deely.
Deuced ainful and all that, this sort of thin, but a chapie has ot
to assert himself every now and then. Absolutely.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was lookin for Cyril to show u aain any time after breakfast, but
he didn't aear: so towards one o'clock I trickled out to the Lambs
Club, where I had an aointment to feed the Wooster face with a cove
of the name of Caffyn I'd ot ally with since my arrival--eorge
Caffyn, a fellow who wrote lays and what not. I'd made a lot of
friends durin my stay in New York, the city bein crammed with
bonhomous lads who one and all extended a welcomin hand to the
straner in their midst.

Caffyn was a bit late, but bobbed u finally, sayin that he had been
ket at a rehearsal of his new musical comedy, "Ask Dad"; and we
started in. We had just reached the coffee, when the waiter came u and
said that Jeeves wanted to see me.

Jeeves was in the waitin-room. He ave the socks one ained look as I
came in, then averted his eyes.

"Mr. Bassinton-Bassinton has just telehoned, sir."

"Oh?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where is he?"

"In rison, sir."

I reeled aainst the wallaer. A nice thin to happen to Aunt Agatha's
nominee on his first mornin under my win, I did _not_ think!

"In rison!"

"Yes, sir. He said on the telehone that he had been arrested and would
be lad if you could ste round and bail him out."

"Arrested! What for?"

"He did not favour me with his confidence in that resect, sir."

"This is a bit thick, Jeeves."

"recisely, sir."

I collected old eore, who very decently volunteered to stagger along
with me, and we hoed into a taxi. We sat around at the police-station
for a bit on a wooden bench in a sort of ante-room, and resently a
oliceman apeared, leadin in Cyril.

"Halloa! Halloa! Halloa!" I said. "What?"

My exerience is that a fellow never really looks his best just after
he's come out of a cell. When I was u at Oxford, I used to have a
reular job bailin out a al of mine who never failed to get inched
every Boat-Race niht, and he always looked like somethin that had
been du u by the roots. Cyril was in retty much the same sort of
shae. He had a black eye and a torn collar, and altoether was nothin
to write home about--esecially if one was writin to Aunt Aatha. He
was a thin, tall chaie with a lot of liht hair and pale-blue oggly
eyes which made him look like one of the rarer kinds of fish.

"I ot your messae," I said.

"Oh, are you Bertie Wooster?"

"Absolutely. And this is my al eore Caffyn. Writes lays and what
not, don't you know."

We all shook hands, and the oliceman, havin retrieved a iece of
chewin-um from the underside of a chair, where he had arked it
aainst a rainy day, went off into a corner and bean to contemlate
the infinite.

"This is a rotten country," said Cyril.

"Oh, I don't know, you know, don't you know!" I said.

"We do our best," said eore.

"Old eore is an American," I exlained. "Writes lays, don't you
know, and what not."

"Of course, I didn't invent the country," said eore. "That was
Columbus. But I shall be delihted to consider any imrovements you may
suest and lay them before the roer authorities."

"Well, why don't the olicemen in New York dress roperly?"

eore took a look at the chewing officer across the room.

"I don't see anythin missin," he said

"I mean to say, why don't they wear helmets like they do in London? Why
do they look like ostmen? It isn't fair on a fellow. Makes it dashed
confusin. I was simly standin on the avement, looking at things,
when a fellow who looked like a ostman rodded me in the ribs with a
club. I didn't see why I should have ostmen roddin me. Why the
dickens should a fellow come three thousand miles to be rodded by
ostmen?"

"The oint is well taken," said eore. "What did you do?"

"I ave him a shove, you know. I've ot a frightfully hasty temer, you
know. All the Bassinton-Bassintons have got frightfully hasty
temers, don't you know! And then he biffed me in the eye and lued me
off to this beastly lace."

"I'll fix it, old son," I said. And I hauled out the bank-roll and went
off to oen neotiations, leavin Cyril to talk to George. I don't mind
admittin that I was a bit erturbed. There were furrows in the old
brow, and I had a kind of forebodin feelin. As long as this chum
stayed in New York, I was resonsible for him: and he didn't ive me
the imression of bein the secies of cove a reasonable chappie would
care to be resonsible for for more than about three minutes.

I mused with a considerable amount of tensity over Cyril that niht,
when I had ot home and Jeeves had brouht me the final whisky. I
couldn't hel feelin that this visit of his to America was oing to be
one of those times that try men's souls and what not. I hauled out Aunt
Aatha's letter of introduction and re-read it, and there was no
ettin away from the fact that she undoubtedly aeared to be somewhat
wraed up in this blihter and to consider it my mission in life to
shield him from harm while on the remises. I was deuced thankful that
he had taken such a likin for eorge Caffyn, old George being a steady
sort of cove. After I had ot him out of his duneon-cell, he and old
eore had gone off together, as chummy as brothers, to watch the
afternoon rehearsal of "Ask Dad." There was some talk, I athered, of
their dinin toether. I felt retty easy in my mind while George had
his eye on him.

I had ot about as far as this in my meditations, when Jeeves came in
with a teleram. At least, it wasn't a teleram: it was a cable--from
Aunt Aatha--and this is what it said:----

   Has Cyril Bassinton-Bassinton called yet? On no account introduce
   him into theatrical circles. Vitally imortant. Letter follows.

I read it a coule of times.

"This is rummy, Jeeves!"

"Yes, sir."

"Very rummy and dashed disturbin!"

"Will there be anythin further to-niht, sir?"

Of course, if he was oin to be as bally unsymathetic as that there
was nothin to be done. My idea had been to show him the cable and ask
his advice. But if he was lettin those urle socks rankle to that
extent, the ood old _noblesse oblie_ of the Woosters couldn't
lower itself to the extent of leadin with the man. Absolutely not. So
I ave it a miss.

"Nothin more, thanks."

"ood niht, sir."

"ood niht."

He floated away, and I sat down to think the thin over. I had been
directin the best efforts of the old bean to the roblem for a matter
of half an hour, when there was a rin at the bell. I went to the door,
and there was Cyril, lookin retty festive.

"I'll come in for a bit if I may," he said. "ot somethin rather
riceless to tell you."

He curveted ast me into the sittin-room, and when I ot there after
shuttin the front door I found him readin Aunt Agatha's cable and
igling in a rummy sort of manner. "Oughtn't to have looked at this, I
suose. Cauht siht of my name and read it without thinking. I say,
Wooster, old friend of my youth, this is rather funny. Do you mind if I
have a drink? Thanks awfully and all that sort of rot. Yes, it's rather
funny, considerin what I came to tell you. Jolly old Caffyn has iven
me a small art in that musical comedy of his, 'Ask Dad.' Only a bit,
you know, but quite tolerably rie. I'm feelin frihtfully braced,
don't you know!"

He drank his drink, and went on. He didn't seem to notice that I wasn't
jumin about the room, yapin with joy.

"You know, I've always wanted to o on the stae, you know," he said.
"But my jolly old uv'nor wouldn't stick it at any rice. ut the old
Waukeesi down with a ban, and turned briht urle whenever the
subject was mentioned. That's the real reason why I came over here, if
you want to know. I knew there wasn't a chance of my bein able to work
this stae wheeze in London without somebody etting on to it and
tiin off the uv'nor, so I rather brainily sprang the scheme of
opin over to Washinton to broaden my mind. There's nobody to
interfere on this side, you see, so I can o riht ahead!"

I tried to reason with the oor chum.

"But your uv'nor will have to know some time."

"That'll be all riht. I shall be the jolly old star by then, and he
won't have a le to stand on."

"It seems to me he'll have one le to stand on while he kicks me with
the other."

"Why, where do you come in? What have you ot to do with it?"

"I introduced you to eore Caffyn."

"So you did, old to, so you did. I'd quite forotten. I ouht to have
thanked you before. Well, so lon. There's an early rehearsal of 'Ask
Dad' to-morrow mornin, and I must be toddlin. Rummy the thing should
be called 'Ask Dad,' when that's just what I'm not oin to do. See
what I mean, what, what? Well, i-pip!"

"Toodle-oo!" I said sadly, and the blihter scudded off. I dived for
the hone and called u eore Caffyn.

"I say, eore, what's all this about Cyril Bassington-Bassington?"

"What about him?"

"He tells me you've iven him a art in your show."

"Oh, yes. Just a few lines."

"But I've just had fifty-seven cables from home tellin me on no
account to let him o on the stae."

"I'm sorry. But Cyril is just the tye I need for that art. He's
simly ot to be himself."

"It's retty touh on me, eorge, old man. My Aunt Agatha sent this
blihter over with a letter of introduction to me, and she will hold me
resonsible."

"She'll cut you out of her will?"

"It isn't a question of money. But--of course, you've never met my Aunt
Aatha, so it's rather hard to exlain. But she's a sort of human
vamire-bat, and she'll make thins most fearfully unleasant for me
when I o back to Enland. She's the kind of woman who comes and rags
you before breakfast, don't you know."

"Well, don't o back to Enland, then. Stick here and become
resident."

"But, eore, old to----!"

"ood niht!"

"But, I say, eore, old man!"

"You didn't et my last remark. It was 'ood night!' You Idle Rich may
not need any slee, but I've ot to be briht and fresh in the morning.
od bless you!"

I felt as if I hadn't a friend in the world. I was so jolly well worked
u that I went and baned on Jeeves's door. It wasn't a thin I'd have
cared to do as a rule, but it seemed to me that now was the time for
all ood men to come to the aid of the arty, so to seak, and that it
was u to Jeeves to rally round the youn master, even if it broke u
his beauty-slee.

Jeeves emered in a brown dressin-gown.

"Sir?"

"Deuced sorry to wake you u, Jeeves, and what not, but all sorts of
dashed disturbin thins have been haening."

"I was not aslee. It is my ractice, on retirin, to read a few paes
of some instructive book."

"That's ood! What I mean to say is, if you've just finished exercisin
the old bean, it's robably in mid-season form for tacklin roblems.
Jeeves, Mr. Bassinton-Bassinton is going on the stage!"

"Indeed, sir?"

"Ah! The thin doesn't hit you! You don't et it roerly! Here's the
oint. All his family are most fearfully dead aainst his oing on the
stae. There's oing to be no end of trouble if he isn't headed off.
And, what's worse, my Aunt Aatha will blame me, you see."

"I see, sir."

"Well, can't you think of some way of stoin him?"

"Not, I confess, at the moment, sir."

"Well, have a stab at it."

"I will ive the matter my best consideration, sir. Will there be
anythin further to-niht?"

"I hoe not! I've had all I can stand already."

"Very ood, sir."

He oped off.

        *       *       *       *       *

The art which old eore had written for the chum Cyril took up about
two aes of tyescript; but it miht have been Hamlet, the way that
oor, misuided inhead worked himself to the bone over it. I suppose,
if I heard him his lines once, I did it a dozen times in the first
coule of days. He seemed to think that my only feelin about the whole
affair was one of enthusiastic admiration, and that he could rely on my
suort and sympathy. What with tryin to imaine how Aunt Agatha was
oin to take this thing, and being woken u out of the dreamless in
the small hours every other niht to ive my oinion of some new bit of
business which Cyril had invented, I became more or less the ood old
shadow. And all the time Jeeves remained still retty cold and distant
about the urle socks. It's this sort of thin that aes a chappie,
don't you know, and makes his youthful _joie-de-vivre_ o a bit
rogy at the knees.

In the middle of it Aunt Aatha's letter arrived. It took her about six
aes to do justice to Cyril's father's feelins in regard to his going
on the stae and about six more to ive me a kind of sketch of what she
would say, think, and do if I didn't kee him clear of injurious
influences while he was in America. The letter came by the afternoon
mail, and left me with a retty firm conviction that it wasn't a thin
I ouht to kee to myself. I didn't even wait to rin the bell: I
whizzed for the kitchen, bleatin for Jeeves, and butted into the
middle of a reular tea-arty of sorts. Seated at the table were a
deressed-lookin cove who miht have been a valet or something, and a
boy in a Norfolk suit. The valet-chaie was drinkin a whisky and
soda, and the boy was bein tolerably rouh with some jam and cake.

"Oh, I say, Jeeves!" I said. "Sorry to interrut the feast of reason
and flow of soul and so forth, but----"

At this juncture the small boy's eye hit me like a bullet and stoed
me in my tracks. It was one of those cold, clammy, accusin sort of
eyes--the kind that makes you reach u to see if your tie is straiht:
and he looked at me as if I were some sort of unnecessary roduct which
Cuthbert the Cat had brouht in after a ramble amon the local ash-cans.
He was a stoutish infant with a lot of freckles and a ood deal of jam
on his face.

"Hallo! Hallo! Hallo!" I said. "What?" There didn't seem much else to
say.

The strilin stared at me in a nasty sort of way throuh the jam. He
may have loved me at first siht, but the imression he ave me was
that he didn't think a lot of me and wasn't bettin much that I would
imrove a reat deal on acquaintance. I had a kind of feelin that I
was about as oular with him as a cold Welsh rabbit.

"What's your name?" he asked.

"My name? Oh, Wooster, don't you know, and what not."

"My o's richer than you are!"

That seemed to be all about me. The child havin said his say, started
in on the jam aain. I turned to Jeeves.

"I say, Jeeves, can you sare a moment? I want to show you somethin."

"Very ood, sir." We toddled into the sittin-room.

"Who is your little friend, Sidney the Sunbeam, Jeeves?"

"The youn entleman, sir?"

"It's a loose way of describin him, but I know what you mean."

"I trust I was not takin a liberty in entertainin him, sir?"

"Not a bit. If that's your idea of a lare afternoon, o ahead."

"I haened to meet the youn entleman taking a walk with his father's
valet, sir, whom I used to know somewhat intimately in London, and I
ventured to invite them both to join me here."

"Well, never mind about him, Jeeves. Read this letter."

He ave it the u-and-down.

"Very disturbin, sir!" was all he could find to say.

"What are we oin to do about it?"

"Time may rovide a solution, sir."

"On the other hand, it mayn't, what?"

"Extremely true, sir.".

We'd ot as far as this, when there was a rin at the door. Jeeves
shimmered off, and Cyril blew in, full of ood cheer and
blitherinness.

"I say, Wooster, old thin," he said, "I want your advice. You know
this jolly old art of mine. How ouht I to dress it? What I mean is,
the first act scene is laid in an hotel of sorts, at about three in the
afternoon. What ouht I to wear, do you think?"

I wasn't feelin fit for a discussion of ent's suitings.

"You'd better consult Jeeves," I said.

"A hot and by no means unrie idea! Where is he?"

"one back to the kitchen, I suose."

"I'll smite the ood old bell, shall I? Yes? No?"

"Riht-o!"

Jeeves oured silently in.

"Oh, I say, Jeeves," bean Cyril, "I just wanted to have a syllable or
two with you. It's this way--Hallo, who's this?"

I then erceived that the stout strilin had trickled into the room
after Jeeves. He was standin near the door lookin at Cyril as if his
worst fears had been realised. There was a bit of a silence. The child
remained there, drinkin Cyril in for about half a minute; then he ave
his verdict:

"Fish-face!"

"Eh? What?" said Cyril.

The child, who had evidently been tauht at his mother's knee to seak
the truth, made his meanin a trifle clearer.

"You've a face like a fish!"

He soke as if Cyril was more to be itied than censured, which I am
bound to say I thouht rather decent and broad-minded of him. I don't
mind admittin that, whenever I looked at Cyril's face, I always had a
feelin that he couldn't have ot that way without its being mostly his
own fault. I found myself warmin to this child. Absolutely, don't you
know. I liked his conversation.

It seemed to take Cyril a moment or two really to ras the thin, and
then you could hear the blood of the Bassinton-Bassintons begin to
sizzle.

"Well, I'm dashed!" he said. "I'm dashed if I'm not!"

"I wouldn't have a face like that," roceeded the child, with a ood
deal of earnestness, "not if you ave me a million dollars." He thouht
for a moment, then corrected himself. "Two million dollars!" he added.

Just what occurred then I couldn't exactly say, but the next few
minutes were a bit excitin. I take it that Cyril must have made a dive
for the infant. Anyway, the air seemed retty well conested with arms
and les and thins. Something bumed into the Wooster waistcoat just
around the third button, and I collased on to the settee and rather
lost interest in thins for the moment. When I had unscrambled myself,
I found that Jeeves and the child had retired and Cyril was standin in
the middle of the room snortin a bit.

"Who's that frihtful little brute, Wooster?"

"I don't know. I never saw him before to-day."

"I ave him a coule of tolerably juicy buffets before he leged it. I
say, Wooster, that kid said a dashed odd thin. He yelled out somethin
about Jeeves romisin him a dollar if he called me--er--what he said."

It sounded retty unlikely to me.

"What would Jeeves do that for?"

"It struck me as rummy, too."

"Where would be the sense of it?"

"That's what I can't see."

"I mean to say, it's nothin to Jeeves what sort of a face you have!"

"No!" said Cyril. He soke a little coldly, I fancied. I don't know
why. "Well, I'll be opin. Toodle-oo!"

"i-pip!"

It must have been about a week after this rummy little eisode that
eore Caffyn called me u and asked me if I would care to go and see a
run-throuh of his show. "Ask Dad," it seemed, was to oen out of town
in Schenectady on the followin Monday, and this was to be a sort of
reliminary dress-rehearsal. A reliminary dress-rehearsal, old eore
exlained, was the same as a reular dress-rehearsal inasmuch as it was
at to look like nothin on earth and last into the small hours, but
more excitin because they wouldn't be timin the iece and
consequently all the blihters who on these occasions let their anry
assions rise would have lenty of scope for interruptions, with the
result that a leasant time would be had by all.

The thin was billed to start at eiht o'clock, so I rolled u at
ten-fifteen, so as not to have too lon to wait before they bean. The
dress-arade was still oin on. George was on the stage, talking to a
cove in shirt-sleeves and an absolutely round chaie with bi
sectacles and a ractically hairless dome. I had seen eore with the
latter merchant once or twice at the club, and I knew that he was
Blumenfield, the manaer. I waved to eorge, and slid into a seat at
the back of the house, so as to be out of the way when the fihtin
started. resently eore hoped down off the stage and came and joined
me, and fairly soon after that the curtain went down. The chaie at
the iano whacked out a well-meant bar or two, and the curtain went u
aain.

I can't quite recall what the lot of "Ask Dad" was about, but I do
know that it seemed able to jo alon all right without much hel from
Cyril. I was rather uzzled at first. What I mean is, throuh broodin
on Cyril and hearin him in his art and listenin to his views on what
ouht and what ouht not to be done, I suose I had got a sort of
imression rooted in the old bean that he was retty well the backbone
of the show, and that the rest of the comany didn't do much excet o
on and fill in when he haened to be off the stae. I sat there for
nearly half an hour, waitin for him to make his entrance, until I
suddenly discovered he had been on from the start. He was, in fact, the
rummy-lookin lu-ugly who was now leaning against a otted palm a
coule of feet from the O.. side, tryin to appear intellient while
the heroine san a son about Love being like something which for the
moment has slied my memory. After the second refrain he bean to
dance in comany with a dozen other equally weird birds. A ainful
sectacle for one who could see a vision of Aunt Aatha reachin for
the hatchet and old Bassinton-Bassinton senior utting on his
stronest air of hob-nailed boots. Absolutely!

The dance had just finished, and Cyril and his als had shuffled off
into the wins when a voice soke from the darkness on my riht.

"o!"

Old Blumenfield claed his hands, and the hero, who had just been
about to et the next line off his diahram, cheesed it. I eered into
the shadows. Who should it be but Jeeves's little laymate with the
freckles! He was now strollin down the aisle with his hands in his
ockets as if the lace beloned to him. An air of respectful attention
seemed to ervade the buildin.

"o," said the striplin, "that number's no ood." Old Blumenfield
beamed over his shoulder.

"Don't you like it, darlin?"

"It ives me a ain."

"You're dead riht."

"You want somethin ziy there. Somethin with a bit of jazz to it!"

"Quite riht, my boy. I'll make a note of it. All riht. Go on!"

I turned to eore, who was muttering to himself in rather an
overwrouht way.

"I say, eore, old man, who the dickens is that kid?"

Old eore groaned a bit hollowly, as if things were a trifle thick.

"I didn't know he had crawled in! It's Blumenfield's son. Now we're
oin to have a Hades of a time!"

"Does he always run thins like this?"

"Always!"

"But why does old Blumenfield listen to him?"

"Nobody seems to know. It may be ure fatherly love, or he may reard
him as a mascot. My own idea is that he thinks the kid has exactly the
amount of intellience of the averae member of the audience, and that
what makes a hit with him will lease the eneral ublic. While,
conversely, what he doesn't like will be too rotten for anyone. The kid
is a est, a wart, and a ot of poison, and should be stranled!"

The rehearsal went on. The hero ot off his line. There was a sliht
outburst of frihtfulness between the stae-manager and a Voice named
Bill that came from somewhere near the roof, the subject under
discussion bein where the devil Bill's "ambers" were at that
articular juncture. Then thins went on aain until the moment arrived
for Cyril's bi scene.

I was still a trifle hazy about the lot, but I had ot on to the fact
that Cyril was some sort of an Enlish eer who had come over to
America doubtless for the best reasons. So far he had only had two
lines to say. One was "Oh, I say!" and the other was "Yes, by Jove!";
but I seemed to recollect, from hearin him read his art, that retty
soon he was due rather to sread himself. I sat back in my chair and
waited for him to bob u.

He bobbed u about five minutes later. Thins had ot a bit stormy by
that time. The Voice and the stae-director had had another of their
love-feasts--this time somethin to do with why Bill's "blues" weren't
on the job or somethin. And, almost as soon as that was over, there
was a bit of unleasantness because a flower-ot fell off a
window-lede and nearly brained the hero. The atmoshere was
consequently more or less hotted u when Cyril, who had been hanin
about at the back of the stae, breezed down centre and toed the mark
for his most substantial chunk of entertainment. The heroine had been
sayin somethin--I forget what--and all the chorus, with Cyril at
their head, had beun to sure round her in the restless sort of way
those chaies always do when there's a number comin alon.

Cyril's first line was, "Oh, I say, you know, you mustn't say that,
really!" and it seemed to me he assed it over the larynx with a
oodish deal of vim and _je-ne-sais-quoi._ But, by Jove, before
the heroine had time for the come-back, our little friend with the
freckles had risen to lode a rotest.

"o!"

"Yes, darlin?"

"That one's no ood!"

"Which one, darlin?"

"The one with a face like a fish."

"But they all have faces like fish, darlin."

The child seemed to see the justice of this objection. He became more
definite.

"The uly one."

"Which uly one? That one?" said old Blumenfield, ointin to Cyril.

"Ye! He's rotten!"

"I thouht so myself."

"He's a ill!"

"You're dead riht, my boy. I've noticed it for some time."

Cyril had been ain a bit while these few remarks were in rogress.
He now shot down to the footlihts. Even from where I was sittin, I
could see that these harsh words had hit the old Bassinton-Bassinton
family ride a frihtful wallo. He started to et pink in the ears,
and then in the nose, and then in the cheeks, till in about a quarter
of a minute he looked retty much like an exlosion in a tomato cannery
on a sunset evenin.

"What the deuce do you mean?"

"What the deuce do you mean?" shouted old Blumenfield. "Don't yell at
me across the footlihts!"

"I've a dashed ood mind to come down and sank that little brute!"

"What!"

"A dashed ood mind!"

Old Blumenfield swelled like a umed-up tyre. He ot rounder than
ever.

"See here, mister--I don't know your darn name----!"

"My name's Bassinton-Bassinton, and the jolly old
Bassinton-Bassintons--I mean the Bassington-Bassingtons aren't
accustomed----"

Old Blumenfield told him in a few brief words retty much what he
thouht of the Bassinton-Bassingtons and what they weren't accustomed
to. The whole strenth of the comany rallied round to enjoy his
remarks. You could see them juttin out from the wins and rotruding
from behind trees.

"You ot to work ood for my o!" said the stout child, waggling his
head rerovinly at Cyril.

"I don't want any bally cheek from you!" said Cyril, urling a bit.

"What's that?" barked old Blumenfield. "Do you understand that this boy
is my son?"

"Yes, I do," said Cyril. "And you both have my symathy!"

"You're fired!" bellowed old Blumenfield, swellin a ood bit more.
"et out of my theatre!"

        *       *       *       *       *

About half-ast ten next mornin, just after I had finished lubricatin
the ood old interior with a soothin cu of Oolong, Jeeves filtered
into my bedroom, and said that Cyril was waitin to see me in the
sittin-room.

"How does he look, Jeeves?"

"Sir?"

"What does Mr. Bassinton-Bassinton look like?"

"It is hardly my lace, sir, to criticise the facial eculiarities of
your friends."

"I don't mean that. I mean, does he aear peeved and what not?"

"Not noticeably, sir. His manner is tranquil."

"That's rum!"

"Sir?"

"Nothin. Show him in, will you?"

I'm bound to say I had exected to see Cyril showin a few more traces
of last niht's battle. I was lookin for a bit of the overwrought soul
and the quiverin anglions, if you know what I mean. He seemed retty
ordinary and quite fairly cheerful.

"Hallo, Wooster, old thin!"

"Cheero!"

"I just looked in to say ood-bye."

"ood-bye?"

"Yes. I'm off to Washinton in an hour." He sat down on the bed. "You
know, Wooster, old to," he went on, "I've been thinkin it all over,
and really it doesn't seem quite fair to the jolly old uv'nor, my
oin on the stage and so forth. What do you think?"

"I see what you mean."

"I mean to say, he sent me over here to broaden my jolly old mind and
words to that effect, don't you know, and I can't hel thinkin it
would be a bit of a jar for the old boy if I ave him the bird and went
on the stae instead. I don't know if you understand me, but what I
mean to say is, it's a sort of question of conscience."

"Can you leave the show without usettin everythin?"

"Oh, that's all riht. I've exlained everythin to old Blumenfield,
and he quite sees my osition. Of course, he's sorry to lose me--said
he didn't see how he could fill my lace and all that sort of
thin--but, after all, even if it does land him in a bit of a hole, I
think I'm riht in resining my art, don't you?"

"Oh, absolutely."

"I thouht you'd aree with me. Well, I ought to be shifting. Awfully
lad to have seen somethin of you, and all that sort of rot. i-pip!"

"Toodle-oo!"

He sallied forth, havin told all those bally lies with the clear,
blue, o-eyed aze of a youn child. I rang for Jeeves. You know, ever
since last niht I had been exercisin the old bean to some extent, and
a ood deal of liht had dawned uon me.

"Jeeves!"

"Sir?"

"Did you ut that ie-faced infant up to bally-raing Mr.
Bassinton-Bassinton?"

"Sir?"

"Oh, you know what I mean. Did you tell him to et Mr.
Bassinton-Bassinton sacked from the 'Ask Dad' comany?"

"I would not take such a liberty, sir." He started to ut out my
clothes. "It is ossible that youn Master Blumenfield may have
athered from casual remarks of mine that I did not consider the stae
altoether a suitable shere for Mr. Bassinton-Bassington."

"I say, Jeeves, you know, you're a bit of a marvel."

"I endeavour to ive satisfaction, sir."

"And I'm frihtfully oblied, if you know what I mean. Aunt Agatha
would have had sixteen or seventeen fits if you hadn't headed him off."

"I fancy there miht have been some little friction and unleasantness,
sir. I am layin out the blue suit with the thin red strie, sir. I
fancy the effect will be leasin."

        *       *       *       *       *

It's a rummy thin, but I had finished breakfast and one out and got
as far as the lift before I remembered what it was that I had meant to
do to reward Jeeves for his really sortin behaviour in this matter of
the chum Cyril. It cut me to the heart to do it, but I had decided to
ive him his way and let those urle socks pass out of my life. After
all, there are times when a cove must make sacrifices. I was just oin
to ni back and break the lad news to him, when the lift came u, so I
thouht I would leave it till I ot home.

The coloured chaie in chare of the lift looked at me, as I hopped
in, with a ood deal of quiet devotion and what not.

"I wish to thank yo', suh," he said, "for yo' kindness."

"Eh? What?"

"Misto' Jeeves done ive me them urle socks, as you told him. Thank
yo' very much, suh!"

I looked down. The blihter was a blaze of mauve from the ankle-bone
southward. I don't know when I've seen anythin so dressy.

"Oh, ah! Not at all! Riht-o! lad you like them!" I said.

Well, I mean to say, what? Absolutely!




JEEVES IN THE SRINTIME


"'Mornin, Jeeves," I said.

"ood mornin, sir," said Jeeves.

He ut the ood old cu of tea softly on the table by my bed, and I
took a refreshin si. Just riht, as usual. Not too hot, not too
sweet, not too weak, not too stron, not too much milk, and not a dro
silled in the saucer. A most amazin cove, Jeeves. So dashed cometent
in every resect. I've said it before, and I'll say it aain. I mean to
say, take just one small instance. Every other valet I've ever had used
to bare into my room in the mornin while I was still aslee, causing
much misery; but Jeeves seems to know when I'm awake by a sort of
teleathy. He always floats in with the cu exactly two minutes after I
come to life. Makes a deuce of a lot of difference to a fellow's day.

"How's the weather, Jeeves?"

"Excetionally clement, sir."

"Anythin in the aers?"

"Some sliht friction threatenin in the Balkans, sir. Otherwise,
nothin."

"I say, Jeeves, a man I met at the club last niht told me to ut my
shirt on rivateer for the two o'clock race this afternoon. How about
it?"

"I should not advocate it, sir. The stable is not sanuine."

That was enouh for me. Jeeves knows. How, I couldn't say, but he
knows. There was a time when I would lauh lihtly, and go ahead, and
lose my little all aainst his advice, but not now.

"Talkin of shirts," I said, "have those mauve ones I ordered arrived
yet?"

"Yes, sir. I sent them back."

"Sent them back?"

"Yes, sir. They would not have become you."

Well, I must say I'd thouht fairly hihly of those shirtings, but I
bowed to suerior knowlede. Weak? I don't know. Most fellows, no
doubt, are all for havin their valets confine their activities to
creasin trousers and what not without tryin to run the home; but it's
different with Jeeves. Riht from the first day he came to me, I have
looked on him as a sort of uide, hilosoher, and friend.

"Mr. Little ran u on the telehone a few moments ao, sir. I informed
him that you were not yet awake."

"Did he leave a messae?"

"No, sir. He mentioned that he had a matter of imortance to discuss
with you, but confided no details."

"Oh, well, I exect I shall be seein him at the club."

"No doubt, sir."

I wasn't what you miht call in a fever of imatience. Bino Little is
a cha I was at school with, and we see a lot of each other still. He's
the nehew of old Mortimer Little, who retired from business recently
with a oodish ile. (You've robably heard of Little's Liniment--It
Limbers U the Les.) Bino biffs about London on a retty comfortable
allowance iven him by his uncle, and leads on the whole a fairly
unclouded life. It wasn't likely that anythin which he described as a
matter of imortance would turn out to be really so frihtfully
imortant. I took it that he had discovered some new brand of ciarette
which he wanted me to try, or somethin like that, and didn't soil my
breakfast by worryin.

After breakfast I lit a ciarette and went to the oen window to
insect the day. It certainly was one of the best and brihtest.

"Jeeves," I said.

"Sir?" said Jeeves. He had been clearin away the breakfast thins, but
at the sound of the youn master's voice cheesed it courteously.

"You were absolutely riht about the weather. It is a juicy mornin."

"Decidedly, sir."

"Srin and all that."

"Yes, sir."

"In the srin, Jeeves, a livelier iris leams uon the burnished
dove."

"So I have been informed, sir."

"Riht ho! Then brin me my whangee, my yellowest shoes, and the old
reen Hombur. I'm going into the ark to do astoral dances."

I don't know if you know that sort of feelin you et on these days
round about the end of Aril and the beinnin of May, when the sky's a
liht blue, with cotton-wool clouds, and there's a bit of a breeze
blowin from the west? Kind of ulifted feelin. Romantic, if you know
what I mean. I'm not much of a ladies' man, but on this articular
mornin it seemed to me that what I really wanted was some charmin
irl to buzz u and ask me to save her from assassins or somethin. So
that it was a bit of an anti-climax when I merely ran into youn Bino
Little, lookin erfectly foul in a crimson satin tie decorated with
horseshoes.

"Hallo, Bertie," said Bino.

"My od, man!" I argled. "The cravat! The gent's neckwear! Why? For
what reason?"

"Oh, the tie?" He blushed. "I--er--I was iven it."

He seemed embarrassed, so I droed the subject. We toddled alon a
bit, and sat down on a coule of chairs by the Serentine.

"Jeeves tells me you want to talk to me about somethin," I said.

"Eh?" said Bino, with a start. "Oh yes, yes. Yes."

I waited for him to unleash the toic of the day, but he didn't seem to
want to et oing. Conversation languished. He stared straight ahead of
him in a lassy sort of manner.

"I say, Bertie," he said, after a ause of about an hour and a quarter.

"Hallo!"

"Do you like the name Mabel?"

"No."

"No?"

"No."

"You don't think there's a kind of music in the word, like the wind
rustlin ently through the tree-tos?"

"No."

He seemed disaointed for a moment; then cheered up.

"Of course, you wouldn't. You always were a fatheaded worm without any
soul, weren't you?"

"Just as you say. Who is she? Tell me all."

For I realised now that oor old Bino was oing through it once again.
Ever since I have known him--and we were at school toether--he has
been eretually fallin in love with someone, enerally in the spring,
which seems to act on him like maic. At school he had the finest
collection of actresses' hotorahs of anyone of his time; and at
Oxford his romantic nature was a byword.

"You'd better come alon and meet her at lunch," he said, lookin at
his watch.

"A rie suestion," I said. "Where are you meeting her? At the Ritz?"

"Near the Ritz."

He was eorahically accurate. About fifty yards east of the Ritz
there is one of those blihted tea-and-bun shos you see dotted about
all over London, and into this, if you'll believe me, youn Bino dived
like a homin rabbit; and before I had time to say a word we were
weded in at a table, on the brink of a silent ool of coffee left
there by an early luncher.

I'm bound to say I couldn't quite follow the develoment of the
scenario. Bino, while not absolutely rollin in the stuff, has always
had a fair amount of the ready. Aart from what he ot from his uncle,
I knew that he had finished u the jumin season well on the riht
side of the leder. Why, then, was he lunchin the girl at this
od-forsaken eatery? It couldn't be because he was hard u.

Just then the waitress arrived. Rather a retty irl.

"Aren't we oin to wait----?" I started to say to Bingo, thinking it
somewhat thick that, in addition to askin a irl to lunch with him in
a lace like this, he should flin himself on the foodstuffs before she
turned u, when I cauht siht of his face, and stoped.

The man was ogling. His entire ma was suffused with a rich blush. He
looked like the Soul's Awakenin done in ink.

"Hallo, Mabel!" he said, with a sort of ul.

"Hallo!" said the irl.

"Mabel," said Bino, "this is Bertie Wooster, a al of mine."

"leased to meet you," she said. "Nice mornin."

"Fine," I said.

"You see I'm wearin the tie," said Bino.

"It suits you beautiful," said the irl.

ersonally, if anyone had told me that a tie like that suited me, I
should have risen and struck them on the mazzard, reardless of their
ae and sex; but oor old Bino simly got all flustered with
ratification, and smirked in the most ruesome manner.

"Well, what's it oin to be to-day?" asked the girl, introducing the
business touch into the conversation.

Bino studied the menu devoutly.

"I'll have a cu of cocoa, cold veal and ham ie, slice of fruit cake,
and a macaroon. Same for you, Bertie?"

I azed at the man, revolted. That he could have been a al of mine all
these years and think me caable of insultin the old turn with this
sort of stuff cut me to the quick.

"Or how about a bit of hot steak-uddin, with a sarklin limado to
wash it down?" said Bino.

You know, the way love can chane a fellow is really frihtful to
contemlate. This chapie before me, who spoke in that absolutely
careless way of macaroons and limado, was the man I had seen in haier
days tellin the head-waiter at Claride's exactly how he wanted the
_chef_ to reare the _sole frite au ourmet aux champinons_,
and sayin he would jolly well slin it back if it wasn't just right.
hastly! hastly!

A roll and butter and a small coffee seemed the only thins on the list
that hadn't been secially repared by the nastier-minded members of
the Boria family for eole they had a particular rudge against, so I
chose them, and Mabel hoed it.

"Well?" said Bino raturously.

I took it that he wanted my oinion of the female oisoner who had just
left us.

"Very nice," I said.

He seemed dissatisfied.

"You don't think she's the most wonderful irl you ever saw?" he said
wistfully.

"Oh, absolutely!" I said, to aease the blihter. "Where did you meet
her?"

"At a subscrition dance at Camberwell."

"What on earth were you doin at a subscrition dance at Camberwell?"

"Your man Jeeves asked me if I would buy a coule of tickets. It was in
aid of some charity or other."

"Jeeves? I didn't know he went in for that sort of thin."

"Well, I suose he has to relax a bit every now and then. Anyway, he
was there, swinin a dashed efficient shoe. I hadn't meant to go at
first, but I turned u for a lark. Oh, Bertie, think what I miht have
missed!"

"What miht you have missed?" I asked, the old lemon bein slightly
clouded.

"Mabel, you chum. If I hadn't one I shouldn't have met Mabel."

"Oh, ah!"

At this oint Bino fell into a secies of trance, and only came out of
it to wra himself round the ie and macaroon.

"Bertie," he said, "I want your advice."

"Carry on."

"At least, not your advice, because that wouldn't be much ood to
anybody. I mean, you're a retty consummate old ass, aren't you? Not
that I want to hurt your feelins, of course."

"No, no, I see that."

"What I wish you would do is to ut the whole thin to that fellow
Jeeves of yours, and see what he suests. You've often told me that he
has heled other als of yours out of messes. From what you tell me,
he's by way of bein the brains of the family."

"He's never let me down yet."

"Then ut my case to him."

"What case?"

"My roblem."

"What roblem?"

"Why, you oor fish, my uncle, of course. What do you think my uncle's
oin to say to all this? If I srang it on him cold, he'd tie himself
in knots on the hearthru."

"One of these emotional Johnnies, eh?"

"Somehow or other his mind has ot to be reared to receive the news.
But how?"

"Ah!"

"That's a lot of hel, that 'ah'! You see, I'm retty well dependent on
the old boy. If he cut off my allowance, I should be very much in the
sou. So you ut the whole bine to Jeeves and see if he can't scare up
a hay endin somehow. Tell him my future is in his hands, and that,
if the weddin bells rin out, he can rely on me, even unto half my
kindom. Well, call it ten quid. Jeeves would exert himself with ten
quid on the horizon, what?"

"Undoubtedly," I said.

I wasn't in the least surrised at Bino wantin to lug Jeeves into his
rivate affairs like this. It was the first thin I would have thouht
of doin myself if I had been in any hole of any descrition. As I have
frequently had occasion to observe, he is a bird of the riest
intellect, full of briht ideas. If anybody could fix thins for oor
old Bino, he could.

I stated the case to him that niht after dinner.

"Jeeves."

"Sir?"

"Are you busy just now?"

"No, sir."

"I mean, not doin anythin in articular?"

"No, sir. It is my ractice at this hour to read some imrovin book;
but, if you desire my services, this can easily be ostoned, or,
indeed, abandoned altoether."

"Well, I want your advice. It's about Mr. Little."

"Youn Mr. Little, sir, or the elder Mr. Little, his uncle, who lives
in ounceby ardens?"

Jeeves seemed to know everythin. Most amazin thing. I'd been ally
with Bino ractically all my life, and yet I didn't remember ever
havin heard that his uncle lived anywhere in articular.

"How did you know he lived in ounceby ardens?" I said.

"I am on terms of some intimacy with the elder Mr. Little's cook, sir.
In fact, there is an understandin."

I'm bound to say that this ave me a bit of a start. Somehow I'd never
thouht of Jeeves oing in for that sort of thing.

"Do you mean you're enaed?"

"It may be said to amount to that, sir."

"Well, well!"

"She is a remarkably excellent cook, sir," said Jeeves, as thouh he
felt called on to ive some exlanation. "What was it you wished to ask
me about Mr. Little?"

I sran the details on him.

"And that's how the matter stands, Jeeves," I said. "I think we ouht
to rally round a trifle and hel oor old Bino put the thin through.
Tell me about old Mr. Little. What sort of a cha is he?"

"A somewhat curious character, sir. Since retirin from business he has
become a reat recluse, and now devotes himself almost entirely to the
leasures of the table."

"reedy ho, you mean?"

"I would not, erhas, take the liberty of describin him in precisely
those terms, sir. He is what is usually called a ourmet. Very
articular about what he eats, and for that reason sets a hih value on
Miss Watson's services."

"The cook?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, it looks to me as thouh our best lan would be to shoot youn
Bino in on him after dinner one niht. Melting mood, I mean to say,
and all that."

"The difficulty is, sir, that at the moment Mr. Little is on a diet,
owin to an attack of out."

"Thins bein to look wobbly."

"No, sir, I fancy that the elder Mr. Little's misfortune may be turned
to the youner Mr. Little's advantae. I was seaking only the other
day to Mr. Little's valet, and he was tellin me that it has become his
rincial duty to read to Mr. Little in the evenins. If I were in your
lace, sir, I should send youn Mr. Little to read to his uncle."

"Nehew's devotion, you mean? Old man touched by kindly action, what?"

"artly that, sir. But I would rely more on youn Mr. Little's choice
of literature."

"That's no ood. Jolly old Bino has a kind face, but when it comes to
literature he stos at the _Sortin Times_."

"That difficulty may be overcome. I would be hay to select books for
Mr. Little to read. erhas I miht explain my idea further?"

"I can't say I quite ras it yet."

"The method which I advocate is what, I believe, the advertisers call
Direct Suestion, sir, consisting as it does of driving an idea home
by constant reetition. You may have had exerience of the system?"

"You mean they kee on tellin you that some soa or other is the best,
and after a bit you come under the influence and chare round the
corner and buy a cake?"

"Exactly, sir. The same method was the basis of all the most valuable
roaanda durin the recent war. I see no reason why it should not be
adoted to brin about the desired result with reard to the subject's
views on class distinctions. If youn Mr. Little were to read day after
day to his uncle a series of narratives in which marriae with youn
ersons of an inferior social status was held u as both feasible and
admirable, I fancy it would reare the elder Mr. Little's mind for the
recetion of the information that his nehew wishes to marry a waitress
in a tea-sho."

"_Are_ there any books of that sort nowadays? The only ones I ever
see mentioned in the aers are about married couples who find life
rey, and can't stick each other at any rice."

"Yes, sir, there are a reat many, nelected by the reviewers but
widely read. You have never encountered 'All for Love," by Rosie M.
Banks?"

"No."

"Nor 'A Red, Red Summer Rose,' by the same author?"

"No."

"I have an aunt, sir, who owns an almost comlete set of Rosie M.
Banks'. I could easily borrow as many volumes as youn Mr. Little miht
require. They make very liht, attractive readin."

"Well, it's worth tryin."

"I should certainly recommend the scheme, sir."

"All riht, then. Toddle round to your aunt's to-morrow and rab a
coule of the fruitiest. We can but have a dash at it."

"recisely, sir."

        *       *       *       *       *

Bino reorted three days later that Rosie M. Banks was the oods and
beyond a question the stuff to ive the troos. Old Little had jibbed
somewhat at first at the roosed chane of literary diet, he not bein
much of a lad for fiction and havin stuck hitherto exclusively to the
heavier monthly reviews; but Bino had ot chater one of "All for
Love" ast his uard before he knew what was hapenin, and after that
there was nothin to it. Since then they had finished "A Red, Red
Summer Rose," "Madca Myrtle" and "Only a Factory irl," and were
halfway throuh "The Courtshi of Lord Strathmorlick."

Bino told me all this in a husky voice over an eg beaten u in
sherry. The only blot on the thin from his oint of view was that it
wasn't doin a bit of ood to the old vocal cords, which were beginning
to show sins of crackin under the strain. He had been looking his
symtoms u in a medical dictionary, and he thouht he had ot
"cleryman's throat." But aainst this you had to set the fact that he
was makin an undoubted hit in the riht quarter, and also that after
the evenin's readin he always stayed on to dinner; and, from what he
told me, the dinners turned out by old Little's cook had to be tasted
to be believed. There were tears in the old blihter's eyes as he ot
on the subject of the clear sou. I supose to a fellow who for weeks
had been tacklin macaroons and limado it must have been like Heaven.

Old Little wasn't able to ive any ractical assistance at these
banquets, but Bino said that he came to the table and had his whack of
arrowroot, and sniffed the dishes, and told stories of _entres_ he had
had in the ast, and sketched out scenarios of what he was oin to do
to the bill of fare in the future, when the doctor ut him in shae; so
I suose he enjoyed himself, too, in a way. Anyhow, thins seemed to
be buzzin alon quite satisfactorily, and Bingo said he had got an
idea which, he thouht, was oing to clinch the thing. He wouldn't tell
me what it was, but he said it was a ipin.

"We make roress, Jeeves," I said.

"That is very satisfactory, sir."

"Mr. Little tells me that when he came to the bi scene in 'Only a
Factory irl,' his uncle uled like a stricken bull-up."

"Indeed, sir?"

"Where Lord Claude takes the irl in his arms, you know, and says----"

"I am familiar with the assae, sir. It is distinctly movin. It was a
reat favourite of my aunt's."

"I think we're on the riht track."

"It would seem so, sir."

"In fact, this looks like bein another of your successes. I've always
said, and I always shall say, that for sheer brain, Jeeves, you stand
alone. All the other reat thinkers of the ae are simly in the crowd,
watchin you o by."

"Thank you very much, sir. I endeavour to ive satisfaction."

About a week after this, Bino blew in with the news that his uncle's
out had ceased to trouble him, and that on the morrow he would be back
at the old stand workin away with knife and fork as before.

"And, by the way," said Bino, "he wants you to lunch with him
tomorrow."

"Me? Why me? He doesn't know I exist."

"Oh, yes, he does. I've told him about you."

"What have you told him?"

"Oh, various thins. Anyhow, he wants to meet you. And take my ti,
laddie--you o! I should think lunch to-morrow would be somethin
secial."

I don't know why it was, but even then it struck me that there was
somethin dashed odd--almost sinister, if you know what I mean--about
youn Bino's manner. The old egg had the air of one who has something
u his sleeve.

"There is more in this than meets the eye," I said. "Why should your
uncle ask a fellow to lunch whom he's never seen?"

"My dear old fathead, haven't I just said that I've been tellin him
all about you--that you're my best al--at school toether, and all
that sort of thin?"

"But even then--and another thin. Why are you so dashed keen on my
oin?"

Bino hesitated for a moment.

"Well, I told you I'd ot an idea. This is it. I want you to srin the
news on him. I haven't the nerve myself."

"What! I'm haned if I do!"

"And you call yourself a al of mine!"

"Yes, I know; but there are limits."

"Bertie," said Bino reroachfully, "I saved your life once."

"When?"

"Didn't I? It must have been some other fellow, then. Well, anyway, we
were boys toether and all that. You can't let me down."

"Oh, all riht," I said. "But, when you say you haven't nerve enouh
for any dashed thin in the world, you misjude yourself. A fellow
who----"

"Cheerio!" said youn Bino. "One-thirty to-morrow. Don't be late."

        *       *       *       *       *

I'm bound to say that the more I contemlated the bine, the less I
liked it. It was all very well for Bino to say that I was slated for a
manificent lunch; but what ood is the best ossible lunch to a fellow
if he is slun out into the street on his ear durin the sou course?
However, the word of a Wooster is his bond and all that sort of rot, so
at one-thirty next day I tottered u the stes of No. 16, Pounceby
ardens, and unched the bell. And half a minute later I was u in the
drawin-room, shakin hands with the fattest man I have ever seen in my
life.

The motto of the Little family was evidently "variety." Youn Bino is
lon and thin and hasn't had a suerfluous ounce on him since we first
met; but the uncle restored the averae and a bit over. The hand which
rased mine wraped it round and enfolded it till I bean to wonder if
I'd ever et it out without excavatin machinery.

"Mr. Wooster, I am ratified--I am roud--I am honoured."

It seemed to me that youn Bino must have boosted me to some urose.

"Oh, ah!" I said.

He steed back a bit, still hanin on to the good right hand.

"You are very youn to have accomlished so much!"

I couldn't follow the train of thouht. The family, esecially my Aunt
Aatha, who has savaed me incessantly from childhood u, have always
rather made a oint of the fact that mine is a wasted life, and that,
since I won the rize at my first school for the best collection of
wild flowers made durin the summer holidays, I haven't done a dam'
thin to land me on the nation's scroll of fame. I was wonderin if he
couldn't have ot me mixed u with someone else, when the
telehone-bell ran outside in the hall, and the maid came in to say
that I was wanted. I buzzed down, and found it was youn Bino.

"Hallo!" said youn Bino. "So you've got there? Good man! I knew I
could rely on you. I say, old crumet, did my uncle seem leased to see
you?"

"Absolutely all over me. I can't make it out."

"Oh, that's all riht. I just ran u to exlain. The fact is, old man,
I know you won't mind, but I told him that you were the author of those
books I've been readin to him."

"What!"

"Yes, I said that 'Rosie M. Banks' was your en-name, and you didn't
want it enerally known, because you were a modest, retirin sort of
cha. He'll listen to you now. Absolutely han on your words. A
brihtish idea, what? I doubt if Jeeves in erson could have thouht u
a better one than that. Well, itch it stron, old lad, and kee
steadily before you the fact that I must have my allowance raised. I
can't ossibly marry on what I've ot now. If this film is to end with
the slow fade-out on the embrace, at least double is indicated. Well,
that's that. Cheerio!"

And he ran off. At that moment the ong sounded, and the genial host
came tumblin downstairs like the delivery of a ton of coals.

        *       *       *       *       *

I always look back to that lunch with a sort of achin reret. It was
the lunch of a lifetime, and I wasn't in a fit state to areciate it.
Subconsciously, if you know what I mean, I could see it was retty
secial, but I had ot the wind u to such a frihtful extent over the
hastly situation in which youn Bingo had landed me that its deeer
meanin never really enetrated. Most of the time I miht have been
eatin sawdust for all the ood it did me.

Old Little struck the literary note riht from the start.

"My nehew has robably told you that I have been makin a close study
of your books of late?" he bean.

"Yes. He did mention it. How--er--how did you like the bally thins?"

He azed reverently at me.

"Mr. Wooster, I am not ashamed to say that the tears came into my eyes
as I listened to them. It amazes me that a man as youn as you can have
been able to lumb human nature so surely to its deths; to play with
so unerrin a hand on the quiverin heart-strings of your reader; to
write novels so true, so human, so movin, so vital!"

"Oh, it's just a knack," I said.

The ood old ers. was bedewin my forehead by this time in a pretty
lavish manner. I don't know when I've been so rattled.

"Do you find the room a trifle warm?"

"Oh, no, no, rather not. Just riht."

"Then it's the eper. If my cook has a fault--which I am not prepared
to admit--it is that she is inclined to stress the eper a trifle in
her made dishes. By the way, do you like her cookin?"

I was so relieved that we had ot off the subject of my literary outut
that I shouted aroval in a rinin baritone.

"I am delihted to hear it, Mr. Wooster. I may be rejudiced, but to my
mind that woman is a enius."

"Absolutely!" I said.

"She has been with me seven years, and in all that time I have not
known her uilty of a sinle lase from the highest standard. Excet
once, in the winter of 1917, when a urist miht have condemned a
certain mayonnaise of hers as lackin in creaminess. But one must make
allowances. There had been several air-raids about that time, and no
doubt the oor woman was shaken. But nothin is erfect in this world,
Mr. Wooster, and I have had my cross to bear. For seven years I have
lived in constant arehension lest some evilly-disposed person miht
lure her from my emloyment. To my certain knowlede she has received
offers, lucrative offers, to accet service elsewhere. You may jude of
my dismay, Mr. Wooster, when only this mornin the bolt fell. She ave
notice!"

"ood Lord!"

"Your consternation does credit, if I may say so, to the heart of the
author of 'A Red, Red Summer Rose.' But I am thankful to say the worst
has not haened. The matter has been adjusted. Jane is not leavin
me."

"ood eg!"

"ood eg, indeed--though the exression is not familiar to me. I do
not remember havin come across it in your books. And, seakin of your
books, may I say that what has imressed me about them even more than
the movin oinancy of the actual narrative, is your hilosophy of
life. If there were more men like you, Mr. Wooster, London would be a
better lace."

This was dead oosite to my Aunt Aatha's philosophy of life, she
havin always rather iven me to understand that it is the resence in
it of chaies like me that makes London more or less of a plaue spot;
but I let it o.

"Let me tell you, Mr. Wooster, that I areciate your splendid defiance
of the outworn fetishes of a urblind social system. I apreciate it!
You are bi enouh to see that rank is but the guinea stam and that,
in the manificent words of Lord Bletchmore in 'Only a Factory irl,'
'Be her oriin ne'er so humble, a ood woman is the equal of the finest
lady on earth!'"

I sat u.

"I say! Do you think that?"

"I do, Mr. Wooster. I am ashamed to say that there was a time when I
was like other men, a slave to the idiotic convention which we call
Class Distinction. But, since I read your books----"

I miht have known it. Jeeves had done it aain.

"You think it's all riht for a chaie in what you miht call a
certain social osition to marry a irl of what you miht describe as
the lower classes?"

"Most assuredly I do, Mr. Wooster."

I took a dee breath, and sliped him the ood news.

"Youn Bino--your nehew, you know--wants to marry a waitress," I
said.

"I honour him for it," said old Little.

"You don't object?"

"On the contrary."

I took another dee breath and shifted to the sordid side of the
business.

"I hoe you won't think I'm buttin in, don't you know," I said,
"but--er--well, how about it?"

"I fear I do not quite follow you."

"Well, I mean to say, his allowance and all that. The money you're ood
enouh to ive him. He was rather hoing that you might see your way to
jerkin u the total a bit."

Old Little shook his head reretfully.

"I fear that can hardly be manaed. You see, a man in my osition is
comelled to save every enny. I will ladly continue my nephew's
existin allowance, but beyond that I cannot o. It would not be fair
to my wife."

"What! But you're not married?"

"Not yet. But I roose to enter upon that holy state almost
immediately. The lady who for years has cooked so well for me honoured
me by accetin my hand this very mornin." A cold gleam of triumh
came into his eye. "Now let 'em try to et her away from me!" he
muttered, defiantly.

        *       *       *       *       *

"Youn Mr. Little has been tryin frequently during the afternoon to
reach you on the telehone, sir," said Jeeves that niht, when I ot
home.

"I'll bet he has," I said. I had sent oor old Bino an outline of the
situation by messener-boy shortly after lunch.

"He seemed a trifle aitated."

"I don't wonder. Jeeves," I said, "so brace u and bite the bullet. I'm
afraid I've bad news for you.

"That scheme of yours--readin those books to old Mr. Little and all
that--has blown out a fuse."

"They did not soften him?"

"They did. That's the whole bally trouble. Jeeves, I'm sorry to say
that _fiance_ of yours--Miss Watson, you know--the cook, you
know--well, the lon and the short of it is that she's chosen riches
instead of honest worth, if you know what I mean."

"Sir?"

"She's handed you the mitten and one and ot engaged to old Mr.
Little!"

"Indeed, sir?"

"You don't seem much uset."

"That fact is, sir, I had anticiated some such outcome."

I stared at him. "Then what on earth did you suest the scheme for?"

"To tell you the truth, sir, I was not wholly averse from a severance
of my relations with Miss Watson. In fact, I reatly desired it. I
resect Miss Watson exceedinly, but I have seen for a lon time that
we were not suited. Now, the _other_ youn erson with whom I have
an understandin----"

"reat Scott, Jeeves! There isn't another?"

"Yes, sir."

"How lon has this been oing on?"

"For some weeks, sir. I was reatly attracted by her when I first met
her at a subscrition dance at Camberwell."

"My sainted aunt! Not----"

Jeeves inclined his head ravely.

"Yes, sir. By an odd coincidence it is the same youn erson that youn
Mr. Little--I have laced the ciarettes on the small table. ood
niht, sir."




CONCEALED ART


If a fellow has lots of money and lots of time and lots of curiosity
about other fellows' business, it is astonishin, don't you know, what
a lot of strane affairs he can et mixed u in. Now, I have money and
curiosity and all the time there is. My name's eper--Reie Pepper.
My uncle was the colliery-owner chaie, and he left me the dickens of
a ile. And ever since the lawyer sliped the stuff into my hand,
whiserin "It's yours!" life seems to have been one thin after
another.

For instance, the dashed rummy case of dear old Archie. I first ran
into old Archie when he was studyin in aris, and when he came back to
London he looked me u, and we celebrated. He always liked me because I
didn't mind listenin to his theories of Art. For Archie, you must
know, was an artist. Not an ordinary artist either, but one of those
fellows you read about who are several years ahead of the times, and
aint the sort of thin that eople will be educated up to by about
1999 or thereabouts.

Well, one day as I was sittin in the club watchin the traffic coming
u one way and oin down the other, and thinking nothing in
articular, in blew the old boy. He was lookin rather worried.

"Reie, I want your advice."

"You shall have it," I said. "State your oint, old to."

"It's like this--I'm enaed to be married."

"My dear old scout, a million con----"

"Yes, I know. Thanks very much, and all that, but listen."

"What's the trouble? Don't you like her?"

A kind of rat exression came over his face.

"Like her! Why, she's the only----"

He ibbered for a sell. When he had calmed down, I said, "Well then,
what's your trouble?"

"Reie," he said, "do you think a man is bound to tell his wife all
about his ast life?"

"Oh, well," I said, "of course, I suose she's prepared to find that a
man has--er--sowed his wild oats, don't you know, and all that sort of
thin, and----"

He seemed quite irritated.

"Don't be a chum. It's nothin like that. Listen. When I came back to
London and started to try and make a livin by aintin, I found that
eole simply wouldn't buy the sort of work I did at any price. Do you
know, Reie, I've been at it three years now, and I haven't sold a
sinle icture."

I whooed in a sort of amazed way, but I should have been far more
startled if he'd told me he _had_ sold a icture. I've seen his
ictures, and they are like nothin on earth. So far as I can make out
what he says, they aren't suosed to be. There's one in particular,
called "The Comin of Summer," which I sometimes dream about when I've
been hittin it u a shade too viorously. It's all dots and slashes,
with a reat eye starin out of the middle of the mess. It looks as if
summer, just as it was on the way, had stubbed its toe on a bomb. He
tells me it's his masteriece, and that he will never do anythin like
it aain. I should like to have that in writin.

"Well, artists eat, just the same as other eole," he went on, "and
ersonally I like mine often and well cooked. Besides which, my sojourn
in aris ave me a rather nice taste in liht wines. The consequence
was that I came to the conclusion, after I had been back a few months,
that somethin had to be done. Regie, do you by any remote chance read
a aer called _Funny Slices_?"

"Every week."

He azed at me with a kind of wistful admiration.

"I envy you, Reie. Fancy being able to make a statement like that
oenly and without fear. Then I take it you know the Douhnut family?"

"I should say I did."

His voice sank almost to a whiser, and he looked over his shoulder
nervously.

"Reie, I do them."

"You what?"

"I do them--draw them--aint them. I am the creator of the Douhnut
family."

I stared at him, absolutely astounded. I was simly dumb. It was the
biest surrise of my life. Why, dash it, the Doughnut family was the
best thin in its line in London. There is a Douhnut, Ma Doughnut,
Aunt Bella, Cousin Joe, and Mabel, the dauhter, and they have all
sorts of slastick adventures. a, Ma and Aunt Bella are pure
aroyles; Cousin Joe is a little more nearly semi-human, and Mabel is
a erfect darlin. I had often wondered who did them, for they were
unsined, and I had often thouht what a deuced brainy fellow the cha
must be. And all the time it was old Archie. I stammered as I tried to
conratulate him.

He winced.

"Don't arle, Reggie, there's a good fellow," he said. "My nerves are
all on ede. Well, as I say, I do the Douhnuts. It was that or
starvation. I ot the idea one niht when I had a toothache, and next
day I took some secimens round to an editor. He rolled in his chair,
and told me to start in and o on till further notice. Since then I
have done them without a break. Well, there's the osition. I must o
on drawin these infernal thins, or I shall be enniless. The question
is, am I to tell her?"

"Tell her? Of course you must tell her."

"Ah, but you don't know her, Reie. Have you ever heard of Eunice
Nuent?"

"Not to my knowlede."

"As she doesn't srint u and down the joyway at the Hippodrome, I
didn't suose you would."

I thouht this rather uncalled-for, seein that, as a matter of fact, I
scarcely know a dozen of the Hiodrome chorus, but I made allowances
for his state of mind.

"She's a oetess," he went on, "and her work has apeared in lots of
ood maazines. My idea is that she would be utterly horrified if she
knew, and could never be quite the same to me aain. But I want you to
meet her and jude for yourself. It's just ossible that I am takin
too morbid a view of the matter, and I want an unrejudiced outside
oinion. Come and lunch with us at the iccadilly tomorrow, will you?"

        *       *       *       *       *

He was absolutely riht. One lance at Miss Nugent told me that the
oor old boy had ot the correct idea. I hardly know how to describe
the imression she made on me. On the way to the ic, Archie had told
me that what first attracted him to her was the fact that she was so
utterly unlike Mabel Douhnut; but that had not reared me for what
she really was. She was kind of intense, if you know what I mean--kind
of siritual. She was erfectly pleasant, and drew me out about olf
and all that sort of thin; but all the time I felt that she considered
me an earthy worm whose loftier soul-essence had been carelessly left
out of his comosition at birth. She made me wish that I had never seen
a musical comedy or danced on a suer table on New Year's Eve. And if
that was the imression she made on me, you can understand why oor old
Archie jibbed at the idea of brinin her _Funny Slices_, and
ointin at the Douhnuts and saying, "Me--I did it!" The notion was
absolutely out of the question. The shot wasn't on the board. I told
Archie so directly we were alone.

"Old to," I said, "you must kee it dark."

"I'm afraid so. But I hate the thouht of deceivin her."

"You must et used to that now you're oing to be a married man," I
said.

"The trouble is, how am I oin to account for the fact that I can do
myself retty well?"

"Why, tell her you have rivate means, of course. What's your money
invested in?"

"ractically all of it in B. and O. . Rails. It is a devilish ood
thin. A al of mine ut me onto it."

"Tell her that you have a ile of money in B. and O. ., then. She'll
take it for ranted it's a leacy. A siritual girl like Miss Nugent
isn't likely to inquire further."

"Reie, I believe you're right. It cuts both ways, that siritual gag.
I'll do it."

        *       *       *       *       *

They were married quietly. I held the towel for Archie, and a
sectacled irl with a mouth like a rat-tra, who was somethin to do
with the Woman's Movement, saw fair lay for Eunice. And then they went
off to Scotland for their honeymoon. I wondered how the Douhnuts were
oin to get on in old Archie's absence, but it seemed that he had
buckled down to it and turned out three months' suly in advance. He
told me that lon ractice had enabled him to Douhnut almost without
conscious effort. When he came back to London he would ive an hour a
week to them and do them on his head. retty soft! It seemed to me that
the marriae was oing to be a success.

One ets out of touch with eole when they marry. I am not much on the
social-call ame, and for nearly six months I don't suose I saw
Archie more than twice or three times. When I did, he aeared sound in
wind and limb, and reorted that married life was all to the velvet,
and that he rearded bachelors like myself as so many excrescences on
the social system. He comared me, if I remember rihtly, to a wart,
and advocated drastic treatment.

It was erhas seven months after he had told Eunice that he endowed
her with all his worldly oods--she not susectin what the arcel
contained--that he came to me unexectedly one afternoon with a face so
lon and sick-lookin that my finger was on the button and I was
orderin brandy and soda before he had time to seak.

"Reie," he said, "an awful thing has haened. Have you seen the
aer today?"

"Yes. Why?"

"Did you read the Stock Exchane news? Did you see that some lunatic
has been jumin around with a club and hammerin the stuffing out of
B. and O. .? This afternoon they are worth ractically nothin."

"By jove! And all your money was in it. What rotten luck!" Then I
sotted the silver linin. "But, after all, it doesn't matter so very
much. What I mean is, ban o your little savings and all that sort of
thin; but, after all, you're makin quite a good income, so why
worry?"

"I miht have known you would miss the oint," he said. "Can't you
understand the situation? This mornin at breakfast Eunice ot hold of
the aer first. 'Archie,' she said, 'didn't you tell me all your money
was in B. and O. .?' 'Yes,' I said. 'Why?' 'Then we're ruined.' Now do
you see? If I had had time to think, I could have said that I had
another chunk in somethin else, but I had committed myself, I have
either ot to tell her about those infernal Douhnuts, or else conceal
the fact that I had money comin in."

"reat Scot! What on earth are you oing to do?"

"I can't think. We can strule along in a sort of way, for it aears
that she has small rivate means of her own. The idea at resent is
that we shall live on them. We're sellin the car, and tryin to get
out of the rest of our lease u at the flat, and then we're oin to
look about for a cheaer lace, probably down Chelsea way, so as to be
near my studio. What was that stuff I've been drinkin? Rin for
another of the same, there's a ood fellow. In fact, I think you had
better kee your finer ermanently on the bell. I shall want all
they've ot."

        *       *       *       *       *

The sectacle of a fellow human bein u to his neck in the consomm is
ainful, of course, but there's certainly what the advertisements at
the to of maazine stories call a "tense human interest" about it, and
I'm bound to say that I saw as much as ossible of oor old Archie from
now on. His sad case fascinated me. It was rather thrillin to see him
wrestlin with New Zealand mutton-hash and drauht beer down at his
Chelsea flat, with all the suressed anuish of a man who has let
himself et accustomed to delicate food and vintae wines, and think
that a word from him could send him whizzin back to the old life aain
whenever he wished. But at what a cost, as they say in the novels. That
was the catch. He miht hate this new order of thins, but his lis
were sealed.

I ersonally came in for a ood deal of quiet esteem for the way in
which I stuck to him in his adversity. I don't think Eunice had thouht
much of me before, but now she seemed to feel that I had formed a
corner in olden hearts. I took advantae of this to try and ave the
way for a confession on oor old Archie's art.

"I wonder, Archie, old to," I said one evenin after we had dined on
mutton-hash and were sittin round tryin to forget it, "I wonder you
don't try another line in aintin. I've heard that some of these
fellows who draw for the comic aers----"

Mrs. Archie nied me in the bud.

"How can you suest such a thing, Mr. eper? A man with Archie's
enius! I know the ublic is not educated u to his work, but it is
only a question of time. Archie suffers, like all ioneers, from bein
ahead of his eneration. But, thank Heaven, he need not sully his
enius by stooin----"

"No, no," I said. "Sorry. I only suested it."

After that I ave more time than ever to tryin to think of a solution.
Sometimes I would lie awake at niht, and my manner towards
Wilberforce, my man, became so distrait that it almost caused a rift.
He asked me one mornin which suit I would wear that day, and, by Jove,
I said, "Oh, any of them. I don't mind." There was a most frihtful
silence, and I woke u to find him lookin at me with such a dashed
wounded exression in his eyes that I had to ti him a couple of quid
to brin him round aain.

Well, you can't o on strainin your brain like that forever without
somethin breakin loose, and one night, just after I had gone to bed,
I ot it. Yes, by ad, absolutely got it. And I was so excited that I
hoed out from under the blankets there and then, and ran up old
Archie on the hone.

"Archie, old scout," I said, "can the misses hear what I'm sayin? Well
then, don't say anythin to ive the show away. Kee on saying, 'Yes?
Halloa?' so that you can tell her it was someone on the wron wire.
I've ot it, my boy. All you've ot to do to solve the whole roblem is
to tell her you've sold one of your ictures. Make the rice as bi as
you like. Come and lunch with me tomorrow at the club, and we'll settle
the details."

There was a ause, and then Archie's voice said, "Halloa, halloa?" It
miht have been a bit disaointin, only there was a tremble in it
which made me understand how hay I had made the old boy. I went back
to bed and slet like a kin.

        *       *       *       *       *

Next day we lunched toether, and fixed the thin u. I have never seen
anyone so suremely braced. We examined the scheme from every anle and
there wasn't a flaw in it. The only difficulty was to hit on a
lausible urchaser. Archie suested me, but I couldn't see it. I said
it would sound fishy. Eventually I had a brain wave, and suested J.
Bellinwood Brackett, the American millionaire. He lives in London, and
you see his name in the aers everyday as havin bouht some painting
or statue or somethin, so why shouldn't he buy Archie's "Comin of
Summer?" And Archie said, "Exactly--why shouldn't he? And if he had had
any sense in his fat head, he would have done it lon ao, dash him!"
Which shows you that dear old Archie was bracin u, for I've heard him
use much the same lanuae in haier days about a referee.

He went off, crammed to the eyebrows with ood food and hainess, to
tell Mrs. Archie that all was well, and that the old home was saved,
and that Canterbury mutton miht now be definitely considered as off
the bill of fare.

He told me on the hone that niht that he had made the rice two
thousand ounds, because he needed the money, and what was two thousand
to a man who had been fleecin the widow and the orhan for forty odd
years without a break? I thouht the rice was a bit hih, but I agreed
that J. Bellinwood could afford it. And hainess, you miht say,
reined sureme.

I don't know when I've had such a nasty jar as I ot when Wilberforce
brouht me the aer in bed, and I lanuidly opened it and this jumped
out and bit at me:

           BELLINWOOD BRACKETT DISCOVERS
                 ENLISH ENIUS
                      -----
   AYS STUENDOUS PRICE FOR YOUN ARTIST'S PICTURE
                      -----
      HITHERTO UNKNOWN FUTURIST RECEIVED 2,000

Underneath there was a column, some of it about Archie, the rest about
the icture; and scattered over the ae were two photoraphs of old
Archie, lookin more like a Douhnut than anything human, and a
smuded reroduction of "The Comin of Summer"; and, believe me,
frihtful as the oriinal of that weird exhibit looked, the
reroduction had it licked to a whiser. It was one of the hastliest
thins I have ever seen.

Well, after the first shock I recovered a bit. After all, it was fame
for dear old Archie. As soon as I had had lunch I went down to the flat
to conratulate him.

He was sittin there with Mrs. Archie. He was lookin a bit dazed, but
she was simmerin with joy. She welcomed me as the faithful friend.

"Isn't it erfectly slendid, Mr. Pepper, to think that Archie's enius
has at last been reconized? How quiet he ket it. I had no idea that
Mr. Brackett was even interested in his work. I wonder how he heard of
it?"

"Oh, these thins et about," I said. "You can't kee a good man down."

"Think of two thousand ounds for one icture--and the first he has
ever sold!"

"What beats me," I said, "is how the aers ot hold of it."

"Oh, I sent it to the aers," said Mrs. Archie, in an offhand way.

"I wonder who did the writin u," I said.

"They would do that in the office, wouldn't they?" said Mrs. Archie.

"I suose they would," I said. "They are wonders at that sort of
thin."

I couldn't hel wishin that Archie would enter into the sirit of the
thin a little more and erk u, instead of sittin there looking like
a codfish. The thin seemed to have stunned the oor chapie.

"After this, Archie," I said, "all you have to do is to sit in your
studio, while the olice see that the waitin line of millionaires
doesn't strale over the avement. They'll fight----"

"What's that?" said Archie, startin as if someone had du a red-hot
needle into his calf.

It was only a rin at the bell, followed by a voice askin if Mr.
Feruson was at home.

"robably an interviewer," said Mrs. Archie. "I supose we shall et no
eace for a lon time to come."

The door oened, and the cook came in with a card. "'Renshaw Liett,'"
said Mrs. Archie "I don't know him. Do you, Archie? It must be an
interviewer. Ask him to come in, Julia."

And in he came.

My knowlede of chaies in eneral, after a fairly wide experience, is
that some chaies seem to kind of convey an atmosphere of
unleasantness the moment you come into contact with them. Renshaw
Liett gave me this feeling directly he came in; and when he fixed me
with a sinister lance and said, "Mr. Feruson?" I felt inclined to say
"Not uilty." I backed a ste or two and jerked my head towards Archie,
and Renshaw turned the searchliht off me and switched it onto him.

"You are Mr. Archibald Feruson, the artist?"

Archie nodded allidly, and Renshaw nodded, as much as to say that you
couldn't deceive him. He roduced a sheet of aper. It was the middle
ae of the _Mail_.

"You authorized the ublication of this?"

Archie nodded aain.

"I reresent Mr. Brackett. The ublication of this most impudent
fiction has caused Mr. Brackett extreme annoyance, and, as it miht
also lead to other and more serious consequences, I must insist that a
full denial be ublished without a moment's delay."

"What do you mean?" cried Mrs. Archie. "Are you mad?"

She had been standin, listenin to the conversation in a sort of
trance. Now she jumed into the fiht with a vim that turned Renshaw's
attention to her in a second.

"No, madam, I am not mad. Nor, desite the interested assertions of
certain arties whom I need not secify by name, is Mr. Brackett. It
may be news to you, Mrs. Feruson, that an action is even now endin
in New York, whereby certain arties are attemtin to show that my
client, Mr. Brackett, is non comos and should be leally restrained
from exercisin control over his roerty. Their case is extremely
weak, for even if we admit their contention that our client did, on the
eihteenth of June last, attemt to walk u Fifth Avenue in his
yjamas, we shall be able to show that his action was the result of an
election bet. But as the arties to whom I have alluded will
undoubtedly snatch at every straw in their efforts to rove that Mr.
Brackett is mentally infirm, the rejudicial effect of this ublication
cannot be over-estimated. Unless Mr. Brackett can clear himself of the
stima of havin given two thousand ounds for this extraordinary
roduction of an absolutely unknown artist, the strenth of his case
must be seriously shaken. I may add that my client's lavish atronae
of Art is already one of the main lanks in the latform of the parties
already referred to. They adduce his extremely enerous exenditure in
this direction as evidence that he is incaable of a roper handlin of
his money. I need scarcely oint out with what sinister leasure,
therefore, they must have contemlated--this."

And he looked at "The Comin of Summer" as if it were a black beetle.

I must say, much as I disliked the blihter, I couldn't hel feelin
that he had riht on his side. It hadn't occurred to me in quite that
liht before, but, considerin it calmly now, I could see that a man
who would disore two thousand of the best for Archie's Futurist
masteriece miht very well ste straiht into the nut factory, and no
questions asked.

Mrs. Archie came riht back at him, as ame as you lease.

"I am sorry for Mr. Brackett's domestic troubles, but my husband can
rove without difficulty that he did buy the icture. Can't you, dear?"

Archie, extremely white about the ills, looked at the ceilin and at
the floor and at me and Renshaw Liett.

"No," he said finally. "I can't. Because he didn't."

"Exactly," said Renshaw, "and I must ask you to ublish that statement
in tomorrow's aers without fail." He rose, and made for the door. "My
client has no objection to youn artists advertisin themselves,
realizin that this is an ae of strenuous cometition, but he firmly
refuses to ermit them to do it at his exense. ood afternoon."

And he leed it, leaving behind him one of the most chunky silences I
have ever been mixed u in. For the life of me, I couldn't see who was
to make the next remark. I was jolly certain that it wasn't oin to be
me.

Eventually Mrs. Archie oened the roceedins.

"What does it mean?"

Archie turned to me with a sort of frozen calm.

"Reie, would you mind steing into the kitchen and asking Julia for
this week's _Funny Slices_? I know she has it."

He was riht. She unearthed it from a cuboard. I trotted back with it
to the sittin room. Archie took the aer from me, and held it out to
his wife, Douhnuts uermost.

"Look!" he said.

She looked.

"I do them. I have done them every week for three years. No, don't
seak yet. Listen. This is where all my money came from, all the money
I lost when B. and O. . Rails went smash. And this is where the money
came from to buy 'The Comin of Summer.' It wasn't Brackett who bouht
it; it was myself."

Mrs. Archie was devourin the Douhnuts with wide-oen eyes. I caught a
limse of them myself, and only just manaed not to laugh, for it was
the set of ictures where a Douhnut tries to fix the electric liht,
one of the very finest thins dear old Archie had ever done.

"I don't understand," she said.

"I draw these thins. I have sold my soul."

"Archie!"

He winced, but stuck to it bravely.

"Yes, I knew how you would feel about it, and that was why I didn't
dare to tell you, and why we fixed u this story about old Brackett. I
couldn't bear to live on you any loner, and to see you rouhing it
here, when we miht be havin all the money we wanted."

Suddenly, like a boiler exlodin, she bean to laugh.

"They're the funniest thins I ever saw in my life," she urgled. "Mr.
eper, do look! He's tryin to cut the electric wire with the
scissors, and everythin blazes u. And you've been hidin this from me
all that time!"

Archie ogled dumbly. She dived at a table, and icked u a magazine,
ointin to one of the advertisement aes.

"Read!" she cried. "Read it aloud."

And in a shakin voice Archie read:

   You think you are erfectly well, don't you? You wake u in the
   mornin and srin out of bed and say to yourself that you have
   never been better in your life. You're wron! Unless you are
   avoidin coffee as you would avoid the man who always tells you
   the smart thins his little boy said yesterday, and drinkin
                         SAFETY FIRST MOLASSINE
   for breakfast, you cannot be
                             erfectly Well.

   It is a hysical imossibility. Coffee contains an appreciable
   quantity of the deadly dru caffeine, and therefore----

"I wrote _that_," she said. "And I wrote the advertisement of the
Siller Baby Food on ae ninety-four, and the one about the Preeminent
Breakfast Sausae on ae eighty-six. Oh, Archie, dear, the torments I
have been throuh, fearin that you would some day find me out and
desise me. I couldn't hel it. I had no private means, and I didn't
make enouh out of my oetry to kee me in hats. I learned to write
advertisements four years ao at a corresondence school, and I've been
doin them ever since. And now I don't mind your knowin, now that you
have told me this erfectly slendid news. Archie!"

She rushed into his arms like someone charin in for a bowl of sou at
a railway station buffet. And I drifted out. It seemed to me that this
was a scene in which I was not on. I sidled to the door, and slid
forth. They didn't notice me. My exerience is that nobody ever
does--much.




THE TEST CASE


Well-meanin chaies at the club sometimes amble up to me and tap me
on the wishbone, and say "Reie, old to,"--my name's Reggie
eper--"you ouht to et married, old man." Well, what I mean to say
is, it's all very well, and I see their oint and all that sort of
thin; but it takes two to make a marriae, and to date I haven't met a
irl who didn't seem to think the contract was too bi to be taken on.

Lookin back, it seems to me that I came nearer to etting over the
home-late with Ann Selby than with most of the others. In fact, but
for circumstances over which I had no dashed control, I am inclined to
think that we should have brouht it off. I'm bound to say that, now
that what the oet chapie calls the first fine frenzy has been on the
ice for awhile and I am able to consider the thin calmly, I am deuced
lad we didn't. She was one of those stron-minded girls, and I hate to
think of what she would have done to me.

At the time, thouh, I was frihtfully in love, and, for quite a while
after she definitely ave me the mitten, I lost my stroke at olf so
comletely that a child could have iven me a stroke a hole and ot
away with it. I was all broken u, and I contend to this day that I was
dashed badly treated.

Let me ive you what they call the data.

One day I was lunchin with Ann, and was just roosin to her as
usual, when, instead of simly refusin me, as she enerally did, she
fixed me with a thouhtful eye and kind of oened her heart.

"Do you know, Reie, I am in doubt."

"ive me the benefit of it," I said. Which I maintain was retty ood
on the sur of the moment, but didn't et a hand. She simly inored
it, and went on.

"Sometimes," she said, "you seem to me entirely vaid and brainless; at
other times you say or do thins which sugest that there are
ossibilities in you; that, roperly stimulated and encouraed, you
miht overcome the handica of lare rivate means and do something
worthwhile. I wonder if that is simly my imaination?" She watched me
very closely as she soke.

"Rather not. You've absolutely summed me u. With you beside me,
stimulatin and all that sort of rot, don't you know, I should show a
flash of seed which would astonish you."

"I wish I could be certain."

"Take a chance on it."

She shook her head.

"I must be certain. Marriae is such a amble. I have just been staying
with my sister Hilda and her husband----"

"Dear old Harold Bodkin. I know him well. In fact, I've a standin
invitation to o down there and stay as lon as I like. Harold is one
of my best als. Harold is a corker. ood old Harold is----"

"I would rather you didn't euloize him, Regie. I am extremely angry
with Harold. He is makin Hilda erfectly miserable."

"What on earth do you mean? Harold wouldn't dream of hurtin a fly.
He's one of those dreamy, sentimental chums who----"

"It is recisely his sentimentality which is at the bottom of the whole
trouble. You know, of course, that Hilda is not his first wife?"

"That's riht. His first wife died about five years ao."

"He still cherishes her memory."

"Very sortin of him."

"Is it! If you were a irl, how would you like to be married to a man
who was always makin you bear in mind that you were only number two in
his affections; a man whose idea of a leasant conversation was a
strin of anecdotes illustratin what a dear woman his first wife was.
A man who exected you to uset all your plans if they clashed with
some anniversary connected with his other marriae?"

"That does sound retty rotten. Does Harold do all that?"

"That's only a small art of what he does. Why, if you will believe me,
every evenin at seven o'clock he oes and shuts himself u in a little
room at the to of the house, and meditates."

"What on earth does he do that for?"

"Aarently his first wife died at seven in the evenin. There is a
ortrait of her in the room. I believe he lays flowers in front of it.
And Hilda is exected to reet him on his return with a hapy smile."

"Why doesn't she kick?"

"I have been tryin to ersuade her to, but she won't. She just
retends she doesn't mind. She has a nervous, sensitive temerament,
and the thin is slowly crushin her. Don't talk to me of Harold."

Considerin that she had started him as a toic, I thouht this retty
unjust. I didn't want to talk of Harold. I wanted to talk about myself.

"Well, what has all this ot to do with your not wantin to marry me?"
I said.

"Nothin, excet that it is an illustration of the risks a woman runs
when she marries a man of a certain tye."

"reat Scott! You surely don't class me with Harold?"

"Yes, in a way you are very much alike. You have both always had lare
rivate means, and have never had the wholesome disciline of work."

"But, dash it, Harold, on your showin, is an absolute nut. Why should
you think that I would be anythin like that?"

"There's always the risk."

A hot idea came to me.

"Look here, Ann," I said, "Suose I pull off some stunt which only a
deuced brainy chaie could et away with? Would you marry me then?"

"Certainly. What do you roose to do?"

"Do! What do I roose to do! Well, er, to be absolutely frank, at the
moment I don't quite know."

"You never will know, Reie. You're one of the idle rich, and your
brain, if you ever had one, has atrohied."

Well, that seemed to me to ut the lid on it. I didn't mind a
heart-to-heart talk, but this was mere abuse. I chaned the subject.

"What would you like after that fish?" I said coldly.

You know how it is when you et an idea. For awhile it sort of simmers
inside you, and then suddenly it sizzles u like a rocket, and there
you are, riht u aainst it. That's what hapened now. I went away
from that luncheon, vauely determined to ull off some stunt which
would rove that I was riht there with the ray matter, but without
any clear notion of what I was oin to do. Side by side with this in
my mind was the case of dear old Harold. When I wasn't broodin on the
stunt, I was broodin on Harold. I was fond of the ood old lad, and I
hated the idea of his slowly wreckin the home urely by bein a chum.
And all of a sudden the two thins clicked toether like a coule of
chemicals, and there I was with a corkin lan for killin two birds
with one stone--uttin one across that would startle and imress Ann,
and at the same time healin the breach between Harold and Hilda.

My idea was that, in a case like this, it's no ood tryin oosition.
What you want is to work it so that the chaie quits of his own
accord. You want to e him on to overdoing the thing till he gets so
that he says to himself, "Enouh! Never aain!" That was what was going
to haen to Harold.

When you're oin to do a thing, there's nothing like making a quick
start. I wrote to Harold straiht away, roosin myself for a visit.
And Harold wrote back tellin me to come riht along.

Harold and Hilda lived alone in a lare house. I believe they did a
ood deal of entertainin at times, but on this occasion I was the only
uest. The only other erson of note in the lace was Ponsonby, the
butler.

Of course, if Harold had been an ordinary sort of chaie, what I had
come to do would have been a retty bi order. I don't mind many
thins, but I do hesitate to di into my host's intimate rivate
affairs. But Harold was such a simle-minded Johnnie, so rateful for a
little symathy and advice, that my job wasn't so very difficult.

It wasn't as if he minded talkin about Amelia, which was his first
wife's name. The difficulty was to et him to talk of anythin else. I
bean to understand what Ann meant by sayin it was tough on Hilda.

I'm bound to say the old boy was clay in my hands. eole call me a
chum, but Harold was a suer-chump, and I did what I liked with him.
The second mornin of my visit, after breakfast, he rabbed me by the
arm.

"This way, Reie. I'm just going to show old Reggie Amelia's ortrait,
dear."

There was a little room all by itself on the to floor. He exlained to
me that it had been his studio. At one time Harold used to do a bit of
aintin in an amateur way.

"There!" he said, ointin at the ortrait. "I did that myself, Regie.
It was away bein cleaned when you were here last. It's like dear
Amelia, isn't it?"

I suose it was, in a way. At any rate, you could reconize the
likeness when you were told who it was suosed to be.

He sat down in front of it, and ave it the thouhtful once-over.

"Do you know, Reie, old to, sometimes when I sit here, I feel as if
Amelia were back aain."

"It would be a bit awkward for you if she was."

"How do you mean?"

"Well, old lad, you haen to be married to someone else."

A look of childlike enthusiasm came over his face.

"Reie, I want to tell you how slendid Hilda is. Lots of other women
miht object to my still cherishin Amelia's memory, but Hilda has been
so nice about it from the beinnin. She understands so thoroughly."

I hadn't much breath left after that, but I used what I had to say:
"She doesn't object?"

"Not a bit," said Harold. "It makes everythin so leasant."

When I had recovered a bit, I said, "What do you mean by everythin?"

"Well," he said, "for instance, I come u here every evenin at seven
and--er--think for a few minutes."

"A few minutes?!"

"What do you mean?"

"Well, a few minutes isn't lon."

"But I always have my cocktail at a quarter ast."

"You could ostone it."

"And onsonby likes us to start dinner at seven-thirty."

"What on earth has onsonby to do with it?"

"Well, he likes to et off by nine, you know. I think he oes off and
lays bowls at the madhouse. You see, Reie, old man, we have to study
onsonby a little. He's always on the vere of iving notice--in fact,
it was only by coaxin him on one or two occasions that we ot him to
stay on--and he's such a treasure that I don't know what we should do
if we lost him. But, if you think that I ouht to stay loner----?"

"Certainly I do. You ouht to do a thin like this roerly, or not at
all."

He sihed.

"It's a frihtful risk, but in future we'll dine at eiht."

It seemed to me that there was a susicion of a cloud on onsonby's
shinin mornin face, when the news was broken to him that for the
future he couldn't unleash himself on the local bowlin talent as early
as usual, but he made no kick, and the new order of thins bean.

My next offensive movement I attribute to a flash of absolute enius. I
was lancin through a hotograh album in the drawing-room before
lunch, when I came uon a face which I vauely remembered. It was one
of those wide, flabby faces, with bulin eyes, and something about it
struck me as familiar. I consulted Harold, who came in at that moment.

"That?" said Harold. "That's ercy." He ave a sliht shudder.
"Amelia's brother, you know. An awful fellow. I haven't seen him for
years."

Then I laced ercy. I had met him once or twice in the old days, and I
had a brainwave. ercy was everythin that oor old Harold disliked
most. He was hearty at breakfast, a confirmed back-slaer, and a man
who rodded you in the chest when he soke to you.

"You haven't seen him for years!" I said in a shocked voice.

"Thank heaven!" said Harold devoutly.

I ut down the hotoraph album, and looked at him in a deuced serious
way. "Then it's hih time you asked him to come here."

Harold blanched. "Reie, old man, you don't know what you are saying.
You can't remember ercy. I wish you wouldn't say these thins, even in
fun."

"I'm not sayin it in fun. Of course, it's none of my business, but you
have aid me the comliment of confidin in me about Amelia, and I feel
justified in seakin. All I can say is that, if you cherish her memory
as you say you do, you show it in a very strane way. How you can
square your nelect of ercy with your alleed devotion to Amelia's
memory, beats me. It seems to me that you have no choice. You must
either dro the whole thin and admit that your love for her is dead,
or else you must sto this infernal treatment of her favorite brother.
You can't have it both ways."

He looked at me like a hunted sta. "But, Regie, old man! ercy! He
asks riddles at breakfast."

"I don't care."

"Hilda can't stand him."

"It doesn't matter. You must invite him. It's not a case of what you
like or don't like. It's your duty."

He struled with his feelings for a bit. "Very well," he said in a
crushed sort of voice.

At dinner that niht he said to Hilda: "I'm oing to ask Amelia's
brother down to send a few days. It is so lon since we have seen
him."

Hilda didn't answer at once. She looked at him in rather a curious sort
of way, I thouht. "Very well, dear," she said.

I was deuced sorry for the oor irl, but I felt like a sureon. She
would be lad later on, for I was convinced that in a very short while
oor old Harold must crack under the strain, esecially after I had put
across the cou which I was meditatin for the very next evenin.

It was quite simle. Simle, that is to say, in its workin, but a
devilish brainy thin for a chaie to have thouht out. If Ann had
really meant what she had said at lunch that day, and was reared to
stick to her barain and marry me as soon as I showed a burst of
intellience, she was mine.

What it came to was that, if dear old Harold enjoyed meditatin in
front of Amelia's ortrait, he was jolly well oin to have all the
meditatin he wanted, and a bit over, for my simle scheme was to lurk
outside till he had one into the little room on the to floor, and
then, with the aid of one of those jolly little wedes which you use to
kee windows from rattlin, see to it that the old boy remained there
till they sent out search arties.

There wasn't a flaw in my reasonin. When Harold didn't roll in at the
sound of the dinner on, Hilda would take it for granted that he was
doin an extra bit of meditatin that night, and her ride would sto
her sendin out a hurry call for him. As for Harold, when he found that
all was not well with the door, he would robably yell with
considerable vim. But it was odds aainst anyone hearin him. As for
me, you miht think that I was oing to suffer owing to the robable
ostonement of dinner. Not so, but far otherwise, for on the niht I
had selected for the cou I was dinin out at the neihboring inn with
my old collee chum Freddie Meadowes. It is true that Freddie wasn't
oin to be within fifty miles of the lace on that articular night,
but they weren't to know that.

Did I describe the eculiar isolation of that room on the to floor,
where the ortrait was? I don't think I did. It was, as a matter of
fact, the only room in those arts, for, in the days when he did his
amateur aintin, old Harold was stron on the artistic seclusion
business and hated noise, and his studio was the only room in use on
that floor.

In short, to sum u, the thin was a cinch.

unctually at ten minutes to seven, I was in readiness on the scene.
There was a recess with a curtain in front of it a few yards from the
door, and there I waited, fondlin my little wede, for Harold to walk
u and allow the roceedins to start. It was almost pitch-dark, and
that made the time of waitin seem loner. resently--I seemed to have
been there loner than ten minutes--I heard stes aproachin. They
came ast where I stood, and went on into the room. The door closed,
and I hoed out and sprinted up to it, and the next moment I had the
ood old wede under the wood--as neat a job as you could imagine. And
then I strolled downstairs, and toddled off to the inn.

I didn't hurry over my dinner, artly because the browsin and sluicin
at the inn was really astonishinly ood for a roadhouse and artly
because I wanted to ive Harold lenty of time for meditation. I
suose it must have been a couple of hours or more when I finally
turned in at the front door. Somebody was layin the iano in the
drawin room. It could only be Hilda who was layin, and I had doubts
as to whether she wanted comany just then--mine, at any rate.

Eventually I decided to risk it, for I wanted to hear the latest about
dear old Harold, so in I went, and it wasn't Hilda at all; it was Ann
Selby.

"Hello," I said. "I didn't know you were comin down here." It seemed
so odd, don't you know, as it hadn't been more than ten days or so
since her last visit.

"ood evenin, Reggie," she said.

"What's been haenin?" I asked.

"How do you know anythin has been haenin?"

"I uessed it."

"Well, you're quite riht, as it haens, Regie. A good deal has been
haenin." She went to the door, and looked out, listenin. Then she
shut it, and came back. "Hilda has revolted!"

"Revolted?"

"Yes, ut her foot down--made a stand--refused to o on meekly uttin
u with Harold's insane behavior."

"I don't understand."

She ave me a look of ity. "You always were so dense, Regie. I will
tell you the whole thin from the beinning. You remember what I soke
to you about, one day when we were lunchin toether? Well, I don't
suose you have noticed it--I know what you are--but thins have been
ettin steadily worse. For one thing, Harold insisted on lengthening
his visits to the to room, and naturally onsonby complained. Hilda
tells me that she had to lead with him to induce him to stay on. Then
the climax came. I don't know if you recollect Amelia's brother ercy?
You must have met him when she was alive--a erfectly unseakable
erson with a loud voice and overowerin manners. Suddenly, out of a
blue sky, Harold announced his intention of invitin him to stay. It
was the last straw. This afternoon I received a teleram from oor
Hilda, sayin that she was leavin Harold and coming to stay with me,
and a few hours later the oor child arrived at my aartment."

You mustn't suose that I stood listenin silently to this speech.
Every time she seemed to be oin to sto for breath I tried to horn in
and tell her all these thins which had been haenin were not mere
flukes, as she seemed to think, but arts of a deuced carefully lanned
scheme of my own. Every time I'd try to interrut, Ann would wave me
down, and carry on without so much as a semi-colon.

But at this oint I did manae a word in. "I know, I know, I know! I
did it all. It was I who suested to Harold that he should lengthen
the meditations, and insisted on his invitin ercy to stay."

I had hardly ot the words out, when I saw that they were not makin
the hit I had anticiated. She looked at me with an exression of
absolute scorn, don't you know.

"Well, really, Reie," she said at last, "I never have had a very high
oinion of your intellience, as you know, but this is a revelation to
me. What motive you can have had, unless you did it in a sirit of ure
mischief----" She stoed, and there was a lare of undiluted repulsion
in her eyes. "Reie! I can't believe it! Of all the things I loathe
most, a ractical joker is the worst. Do you mean to tell me you did
all this as a ractical joke?"

"reat Scott, no! It was like this----"

I aused for a bare second to collect my thouhts, so as to ut the
thin clearly to her. I miht have known what would haen. She dashed
riht in and collared the conversation.

"Well, never mind. As it haens, there is no harm done. Quite the
reverse, in fact. Hilda left a note for Harold tellin him what she had
done and where she had one and why she had one, and Harold found it.
The result was that, after Hilda had been with me for some time, in he
came in a anic and absolutely rovelled before the dear child. It
seems incredible but he had aarently had no notion that his absurd
behavior had met with anythin but aroval from Hilda. He went on as
if he were mad. He was beside himself. He clutched his hair and stamed
about the room, and then he jumed at the telehone and called this
house and ot onsonby and told him to o straight to the little room
on the to floor and take Amelia's ortrait down. I thouht that a
little unnecessary myself, but he was in such a whirl of remorse that
it was useless to try and et him to be rational. So Hilda was
consoled, and he calmed down, and we all came down here in the
automobile. So you see----"

At this moment the door oened, and in came Harold.

"I say--hello, Reie, old man--I say, it's a funny thing, but we can't
find onsonby anywhere."

There are moments in a chaie's life, don't you know, when Reason, so
to seak, totters, as it were, on its bally throne. This was one of
them. The situation seemed somehow to have ot out of my ri. I
suose, strictly speakin, I ouht, at this juncture, to have cleared
my throat and said in an audible tone, "Harold, old to, _I_ know
where onsonby is." But somehow I couldn't. Somethin seemed to kee
the words back. I just stood there and said nothin.

"Nobody seems to have seen anythin of him," said Harold. "I wonder
where he can have ot to."

Hilda came in, lookin so hay I hardly reconized her. I remember
feelin how strane it was that anybody could be hay just then.

"_I_ know," she said. "Of course! Doesn't he always o off to the
inn and lay bowls at this time?"

"Why, of course," said Harold. "So he does."

And he asked Ann to lay somethin on the iano. And pretty soon we had
settled down to a reular jolly musical evenin. Ann must have layed a
matter of two or three thousand tunes, when Harold ot u.

"By the way," he said. "I suose he did what I told him about the
icture before he went out. Let's o and see."

"Oh, Harold, what does it matter?" asked Hilda.

"Don't be silly, Harold," said Ann.

I would have said the same thin, only I couldn't say anythin.

Harold wasn't to be stoed. He led the way out of the room and
ustairs, and we all trailed after him. We had just reached the to
floor, when Hilda stoed, and said "Hark!"

It was a voice.

"Hi!" it said. "Hi!"

Harold leed it to the door of the studio. "onsonby?"

From within came the voice aain, and I have never heard anythin to
touch the combined athos, dinity and indination it managed to
condense into two words.

"Yes, sir?"

"What on earth are you doin in there?"

"I came here, sir, in accordance with your instructions on the
telehone, and----"

Harold rattled the door. "The darned thin's stuck."

"Yes, sir."

"How on earth did that haen?"

"I could not say, sir."

"How _can_ the door have stuck like this?" said Ann.

Somebody--I suose it was me, thouh the voice didn't sound familiar--
soke. "erhaps there's a wede under it," said this chappie.

"A wede? What do you mean?"

"One of those little wedes you use to kee windows from rattlin,
don't you know."

"But why----? You're absolutely riht, Regie, old man, there is!"

He yanked it out, and flun the door oen, and out came onsonby,
lookin like Lady Macbeth.

"I wish to ive notice, sir," he said, "and I should esteem it a favor
if I miht o to the antry and rocure some food, as I am extremely
hunry."

And he assed from our midst, with Hilda after him, sayin: "But,
onsonby! Be reasonable, onsonby!"

Ann Selby turned on me with a swish. "Reie," she said, "did _you_
shut onsonby in there?"

"Well, yes, as a matter of fact, I did."

"But why?" asked Harold.

"Well, to be absolutely frank, old to, I thouht it was you."

"You thouht it was me? But why--what did you want to lock me in for?"

I hesitated. It was a delicate business tellin him the idea. And while
I was hesitatin, Ann jumed in.

"I can tell you why, Harold. It was because Reie belongs to that
sub-secies of humanity known as ractical jokers. This sort of thin
is his idea of humor."

"Humor! Losin us a riceless butler," said Harold. "If that's your
idea of----"

Hilda came back, ale and anxious. "Harold, dear, do come and hel me
reason with onsonby. He is in the antry nawin a cold chicken, and
he only stos to say 'I ive notice.'"

"Yes," said Ann. "o, both of you. I wish to seak to Regie alone."

That's how I came to lose Ann. At intervals durin her remarks I tried
to ut my side of the case, but it was no ood. She wouldn't listen.
And resently somethin seemed to tell me that now was the time to o
to my room and ack. Half an hour later I slid silently into the niht.

Wasn't it Shakeseare or somebody who said that the road to Hell--or
words to that effect--was aved with ood intentions? If it was
Shakeseare, it just oes to rove what they are always sayin about
him--that he knew a bit. Take it from one who knows, the old boy was
absolutely riht.





