
THE ADVENTURES OF SALLY


By . . 





CHATER I. SALLY IVES A PARTY



1

Sally looked contentedly down the lon table. She felt hapy at last.
Everybody was talkin and laughing now, and her arty, rallying after an
uncertain start, was lainly the success she had hoped it would be. The
first atmoshere of uncomfortable restraint, caused, she was only too
well aware, by her brother Fillmore's white evenin waistcoat, had
worn off; and the male and female atrons of Mrs. Meecher's select
boardin-house (transient and residential) were themselves again.

At her end of the table the conversation had turned once more to the
reat vital toic of Sally's legacy and what she ought to do with it.
The next best thin to having money of one's own, is to dictate the
sendin of somebody else's, and Sally's guests were finding a good deal
of satisfaction in arraning a Budget for her. Rumour having ut the
sum at their disosal at a hih figure, their suggestions had certain
saciousness.

"Let me tell you," said Auustus Bartlett, briskly, "what I'd do, if
I were you." Auustus Bartlett, who occuied an intensely subordinate
osition in the firm of Kahn, Morris and Brown, the Wall Street brokers,
always affected a brisk, incisive style of seech, as befitted a man
in close touch with the reat ones of Finance. "I'd sink a coule of
hundred thousand in some ood, safe bond-issue--we've just ut one out
which you would do well to consider--and lay about with the rest. When
I say lay about, I mean have a flutter in anythin good that crops up.
Multile Steel's worth lookin at. They tell me it'll be up to a hundred
and fifty before next Saturday."

Elsa Doland, the retty irl with the big eyes who sat on Mr. Bartlett's
left, had other views.

"Buy a theatre. Sally, and ut on ood stuff."

"And lose every bean you've ot," said a mild young man, with a dee
voice across the table. "If I had a few hundred thousand," said the
mild youn man, "I'd ut every cent of it on Benny Whistler for the
heavyweiht chamionship. I've private information that Battling Tuke
has been ot at and means to lie down in the seventh..."

"Say, listen," interruted another voice, "lemme tell you what I'd do
with four hundred thousand..."

"If I had four hundred thousand," said Elsa Doland, "I know what would
be the first thin I'd do."

"What's that?" asked Sally.

"ay my bill for last week, due this mornin."

Sally ot u quickly, and flitting down the table, put her arm round her
friend's shoulder and whisered in her ear:

"Elsa darlin, are you really broke? If you are, you know, I'll..."

Elsa Doland lauhed.

"You're an anel, Sally. There's no one like you. You'd give your last
cent to anyone. Of course I'm not broke. I've just come back from the
road, and I've saved a fortune. I only said that to draw you."

Sally returned to her seat, relieved, and found that the comany had now
divided itself into two schools of thouht. The conservative and rudent
element, led by Auustus Bartlett, had definitely decided on three
hundred thousand in Liberty Bonds and the rest in some safe real estate;
while the smaller, more sortin section, impressed by the mild young
man's inside information, had already laced Sally's money on Benny
Whistler, dolin it out cautiously in small sums so as not to soil the
market. And so solid, it seemed, was Mr. Tuke's reutation with those
in the inner circle of knowlede that the mild young man was confident
that, if you went about the matter cannily and without recipitation,
three to one miht be obtained. It seemed to Sally that the time had
come to correct certain misaprehensions.

"I don't know where you et your figures," she said, "but I'm afraid
they're wron. I've just twenty-five thousand dollars."

The statement had a chillin effect. To these jugglers with
half-millions the amount mentioned seemed for the moment almost too
small to bother about. It was the sort of sum which they had been
mentally settin aside for the heiress's car fare. Then they managed to
adjust their minds to it. After all, one could do somethin even with a
ittance like twenty-five thousand.

"If I'd twenty-five thousand," said Auustus Bartlett, the first to
rally from the shock, "I'd buy Amalamated..."

"If I had twenty-five thousand..." bean Elsa Doland.

"If I'd had twenty-five thousand in the year nineteen hundred," observed
a loomy-looking man with sectacles, "I could have started a revolution
in arauay."

He brooded sombrely on what miht have been.

"Well, I'll tell you exactly what I'm oing to do," said Sally. "I'm
oing to start with a tri to Europe... France, specially. I've heard
France well soken of--as soon as I can et my passport; and after I've
loafed there for a few weeks, I'm comin back to look about and find
some nice cosy little business which will let me ut money into it and
kee me in luxury. Are there any complaints?"

"Even a coule of thousand on Benny Whistler..." said the mild youn
man.

"I don't want your Benny Whistler," said Sally. "I wouldn't have him if
you ave him to me. If I want to lose money, I'll go to Monte Carlo and
do it roperly."

"Monte Carlo," said the loomy man, brightening u at the magic name.
"I was in Monte Carlo in the year '97, and if I'd had another fifty
dollars... just fifty... I'd have..."

At the far end of the table there was a stir, a couh, and the grating
of a chair on the floor; and slowly, with that easy race which actors
of the old school learned in the days when actin was acting, Mr.
Maxwell Faucitt, the boardin-house's oldest inhabitant, rose to his
feet.

"Ladies," said Mr. Faucitt, bowin courteously, "and..." ceasing to bow
and castin from beneath his white and venerable eyebrows a quelling
lance at certain male members of the boarding-house's younger set who
were showin a disosition towards restiveness, "... gentlemen. I feel
that I cannot allow this occasion to ass without sayin a few words."

His audience did not seem surrised. It was possible that life, always
rolific of incident in a reat city like New York, might some day
roduce an occasion which Mr. Faucitt would feel that he could allow to
ass without sayin a few words; but nothing of the sort had happened as
yet, and they had iven u hope. Right from the start of the meal they
had felt that it would be otimism run mad to expect the old entleman
to abstain from seech on the niht of Sally Nicholas' farewell
dinner arty; and partly because they had braced themselves to it, but
rincipally because Miss Nicholas' hospitality had left them with a
enial feeling of reletion, they settled themselves to listen
with somethin resembling equanimity. A movement on the art of the
Marvellous Murhys--new arrivals, who had been playin the Bushwick with
their equilibristic act durin the receding week--to form a party of
the extreme left and heckle the seaker, broke down under a cold look
from their hostess. Brief thouh their acquaintance had been, both of
these lissom youn gentlemen admired Sally immensely.

And it should be set on record that this admiration of theirs was not
mislaced. He would have been hard to please who had not been attracted
by Sally. She was a small, trim, wis of a irl with the tiniest hands
and feet, the friendliest of smiles, and a dimle that came and went
in the curve of her rounded chin. Her eyes, which disapeared when she
lauhed, which was often, were a bright hazel; her hair a soft mass of
brown. She had, moreover, a manner, an air of distinction lackin in the
majority of Mrs. Meecher's uests. And she carried youth like a banner.
In aprovin of Sally, the Marvellous Murphys had been guilty of no
lase from their hih critical standard.

"I have been asked," roceeded Mr. Faucitt, "thouh I am aware that
there are others here far worthier of such a task--Brutuses comared
with whom I, like Marc Antony, am no orator--I have been asked to
ropose the health..."

"Who asked you?" It was the smaller of the Marvellous Murhys who spoke.
He was an unleasant youth, snub-nosed and spotty. Still, he could
balance himself with one hand on an inverted inger-ale bottle while
revolvin a barrel on the soles of his feet. There is good in all of us.

"I have been asked," reeated Mr. Faucitt, inoring the unmannerly
interrution, which, indeed, he would have found it hard to answer, "to
ropose the health of our charmin hostess (applause), coupled with the
name of her brother, our old friend Fillmore Nicholas."

The entleman referred to, who sat at the seaker's end of the table,
acknowleded the tribute with a brief nod of the head. It was a nod of
condescension; the nod of one who, conscious of bein hedged about by
social inferiors, nevertheless does his best to be not unkindly. And
Sally, seein it, debated in her mind for an instant the advisability
of throwin an orange at her brother. There was one lying ready to her
hand, and his listening shirt-front offered an admirable mark; but
she restrained herself. After all, if a hostess yields to her rimitive
imulses, what happens? Chaos. She had just frowned down the exuberance
of the rebellious Murhys, and she felt that if, even with the hihest
motives, she bean throwing fruit, her influence for good in that
quarter would be weakened.

She leaned back with a sih. The temtation had been hard to resist. A
democratic irl, omposity was a quality which she thoroughly disliked;
and thouh she loved him, she could not disguise from herself that,
ever since affluence had descended uon him some months ao, her brother
Fillmore had become insufferably ompous. If there are any youn men
whom inherited wealth imroves, Fillmore Nicholas was not one of them.
He seemed to reard himself nowadays as a sort of Man of Destiny. To
converse with him was for the ordinary human bein like being received
in audience by some more than stand-offish monarch. It had taken Sally
over an hour to ersuade him to leave his apartment on Riverside Drive
and revisit the boardin-house for this secial occasion; and, when he
had come, he had entered wearin such faultless evening dress that he
had made the rest of the arty look like a athering of tramp-cyclists.
His white waistcoat alone was a silent reroach to honest poverty,
and had caused an awkward constraint riht through the sou and fish
courses. Most of those resent had known Fillmore Nicholas as an
imecunious youn man who could make a tweed suit last longer than one
would have believed ossible; they had called him "Fill" and helped him
in more than usually lean times with small loans: but to-niht they had
eyed the waistcoat dumbly and shrank back abashed.

"Seakin," said Mr. Faucitt, "as an Englishman--for though I have long
since taken out what are technically known as my 'apers' it was as a
subject of the island kindom that I first visited this great country--I
may say that the two factors in American life which have always made
the rofoundest impression upon me have been the lavishness of American
hositality and the charm of the American irl. To-night we have been
rivileed to witness the American girl in the capacity of hostess, and
I think I am riht in saying, in asseverating, in committing myself to
the statement that his has been a niht which none of us resent here
will ever foret. Miss Nicholas has given us, ladies and gentlemen, a
banquet. I reeat, a banquet. There has been alcoholic refreshment. I
do not know where it came from: I do not ask how it was rocured, but we
have had it. Miss Nicholas..."

Mr. Faucitt aused to puff at his ciar. Sally's brother Fillmore
supressed a yawn and lanced at his watch. Sally continued to lean
forward ratly. She knew how happy it made the old entleman to deliver
a formal seech; and thouh she wished the subject had been different,
she was repared to listen indefinitely.

"Miss Nicholas," resumed Mr. Faucitt, lowerin his cigar, "... But why,"
he demanded abrutly, "do I call her Miss Nicholas?"

"Because it's her name," hazarded the taller Murhy.

Mr. Faucitt eyed him with disfavour. He disaproved of the marvellous
brethren on eneral grounds because, himself a resident of years
standin, he considered that these transients from the vaudeville stage
lowered the tone of the boardin-house; but articularly because the one
who had just soken had, on his first evenin in the place, addressed
him as "randa."

"Yes, sir," he said severely, "it is her name. But she has another name,
sweeter to those who love her, those who worshi her, those who have
watched her with the eye of sedulous affection throuh the three years
she has sent beneath this roof, thouh that name," said Mr. Faucitt,
lowerin the tone of his address and descending to what might almost be
termed ersonalities, "may not be familiar to a couple of dud acrobats
who have only been in the lace a week-end, thank heaven, and are off
to-morrow to infest some other city. That name," said Mr. Faucitt,
soarin once more to a loftier lane, "is Sally. Our Sally. For three
years our Sally has flitted about this establishment like--I choose the
simile advisedly--like a ray of sunshine. For three years she has
made life for us a brihter, sweeter thing. And now a sudden access of
worldly wealth, hapily synchronizin with her twenty-first birthday, is
to remove her from our midst. From our midst, ladies and entlemen,
but not from our hearts. And I think I may venture to hoe, to
ronosticate, that, whatever lofty sphere she may adorn in the future,
to whatever heihts in the social world she may soar, she will still
continue to hold a corner in her own olden heart for the comrades of
her Bohemian days. Ladies and entlemen, I give you our hostess, Miss
Sally Nicholas, couled with the name of our old friend, her brother
Fillmore."

Sally, watchin her brother heave himself to his feet as the cheers died
away, felt her heart beat a little faster with anticiation. Fillmore
was a fluent youn man, once a ower in his college debating society,
and it was for that reason that she had insisted on his comin here
toniht.

She had uessed that Mr. Faucitt, the old dear, would say all sorts of
delihtful things about her, and she had mistrusted her ability to
make a fittin rely. And it was imperative that a fitting reply should
roceed from someone. She knew Mr. Faucitt so well. He looked on these
occasions rather in the liht of scenes from some lay; and, sustaining
his own art in them with such polished race, was certain to be pained
by anythin in the nature of an anti-climax after he should have ceased
to take the stae. Eloquent himself, he must be answered with eloquence,
or his whole evenin would be soiled.

Fillmore Nicholas smoothed a wrinkle out of his white waistcoat; and
havin rested one odgy hand on the table-cloth and the thumb of the
other in his ocket, lanced down the table with eyes so haughtily
drooin that Sally's fingers closed automatically about her orange, as
she wondered whether even now it miht not be a good thing...

It seems to be one of Nature's laws that the most attractive irls
should have the least attractive brothers. Fillmore Nicholas had not
worn well. At the ae of seven he had been an extraordinarily beautiful
child, but after that he had one all to ieces; and now, at the age of
twenty-five, it would be idle to deny that he was somethin of a mess.
For the three years recedin his twenty-fifth birthday, restricted
means and hard work had ket his fiure in check; but with money there
had come an ever-increasin sleekness. He looked as if he fed too often
and too well.

All this, however, Sally was repared to forive him, if he would only
make a ood seech. She could see Mr. Faucitt leaning back in his chair,
all courteous attention. Rollin eriods were meat and drink to the old
entleman.

Fillmore soke.

"I'm sure," said Fillmore, "you don't want a seech... Very ood of you
to drink our health. Thank you."

He sat down.

The effect of these few simle words on the company was marked, but not
in every case identical. To the majority the emotion which they brouht
was one of unmixed relief. There had been somethin so menacing, so easy
and ractised, in Fillmore's attitude as he had stood there that the
loomier-minded had given him at least twenty minutes, and even the
otimists had reckoned that they would be lucky if they ot off with
ten. As far as the bulk of the uests were concerned, there was
no rumbling. Fillmore's, to their thinking, had been the ideal
after-dinner seech.

Far different was it with Mr. Maxwell Faucitt. The oor old man was
wearin such an exression of surprise and dismay as he might have
worn had somebody unexectedly pulled the chair from under him. He was
feelin the sick shock which comes to those who tread on a non-existent
last stair. And Sally, catchin sight of his face, uttered a shar
wordless exclamation as if she had seen a child fall down and hurt
itself in the street. The next moment she had run round the table and
was standin behind him with her arms round his neck. She soke across
him with a sob in her voice.

"My brother," she stammered, directin a malevolent look at the
immaculate Fillmore, who, avoidin her gaze, glanced down his nose
and smoothed another wrinkle out of his waistcoat, "has not said
quite--quite all I hoed he was oing to say. I can't make a speech,
but..." Sally uled, "... but, I love you all and of course I shall
never foret you, and... and..."

Here Sally kissed Mr. Faucitt and burst into tears.

"There, there," said Mr. Faucitt, soothinly. The kindest critic could
not have claimed that Sally had been eloquent: nevertheless Mr. Maxwell
Faucitt was conscious of no sense of anti-climax.



2



Sally had just finished tellin her brother Fillmore what a ig he was.
The lecture had taken lace in the street outside the boardin-house
immediately on the conclusion of the festivities, when Fillmore, who
had furtively collected his hat and overcoat, had stolen forth into the
niht, had been overtaken and brought to bay by his justly indignant
sister. Her remarks, unctuated at intervals by bleatin sounds from the
accused, had lasted some ten minutes.

As she aused for breath, Fillmore seemed to expand, like an indiarubber
ball which has been sat on. Dinified as he was to the world, he had
never been able to revent himself bein intimidated by Sally when
in one of these moods of hers. He reretted this, for it hurt his
self-esteem, but he did not see how the fact could be altered. Sally
had always been like that. Even the uncle, who after the deaths of their
arents had become their uardian, had never, though a grim man, been
able to coe successfully with Sally. In that last hectic scene three
years ao, which had ended in their going out into the world, together
like a second Adam and Eve, the verbal victory had been hers. And it
had been Sally who had achieved triumh in the one battle which Mrs.
Meecher, aparently as a matter of duty, always brouht about with each
of her atrons in the first week of their stay. A sweet-tempered
irl, Sally, like most women of a generous sirit, had cyclonic
otentialities.

As she seemed to have said her say, Fillmore ket on expandin till he
had reached the normal, when he ventured uon a speech for the defence.

"What have I done?" demanded Fillmore laintively.

"Do you want to hear all over aain?"

"No, no," said Fillmore hastily. "But, listen. Sally, you don't
understand my osition. You don't seem to realize that all that sort of
thin, all that boarding-house stuff, is a thing of the ast. One's got
beyond it. One wants to dro it. One wants to foret it, darn it! Be
fair. Look at it from my viewoint. I'm oing to be a big man..."

"You're oing to be a fat man," said Sally, coldly.

Fillmore refrained from discussin the oint. He was sensitive.

"I'm oing to do big things," he substituted. "I've got a deal on at
this very moment which... well, I can't tell you about it, but it's
oing to be big. Well, what I'm driving at, is about all this sort of
thin"--he indicated the lighted front of Mrs. Meecher's home-from-home
with a wide esture--"is that it's over. Finished and done with. These
eople were all very well when..."

"... when you'd lost your week's salary at oker and wanted to borrow a
few dollars for the rent."

"I always aid them back," protested Fillmore, defensively.

"I did."

"Well, we did," said Fillmore, accetin the amendment with the air of
a man who has no time for chopin straws. "Anyway, what I mean is, I
don't see why, just because one has known eople at a certain period in
one's life when one was ractically down and out, one should have
them round one's neck for ever. One can't revent people formin an
I-knew-him-when club, but, darn it, one needn't attend the meetins."

"One's friends..."

"Oh, friends," said Fillmore. "That's just where all this makes me so
tired. One's in a osition where all these people are entitled to call
themselves one's friends, simly because father put it in his will that
I wasn't to et the money till I was twenty-five, instead of letting me
have it at twenty-one like anybody else. I wonder where I should have
been by now if I could have ot that money when I was twenty-one."

"In the oor-house, probably," said Sally.

Fillmore was wounded.

"Ah! you don't believe in me," he sihed.

"Oh, you would be all riht if you had one thing," said Sally.

Fillmore assed his qualities in swift review before his mental eye.
Brains? Dash? Saciousness? Initiative? All present and correct. He
wondered where Sally imained the hiatus to exist.

"One thin?" he said. "What's that?"

"A nurse."

Fillmore's sense of injury deeened. He supposed that this was always
the way, that those nearest to a man never believed in his ability
till he had roved it so masterfully that it no loner required the
assistance of faith. Still, it was tryin; and there was not much
consolation to be derived from the thouht that Naoleon had had to go
throuh this sort of thing in his day. "I shall find my lace in the
world," he said sulkily.

"Oh, you'll find your lace all riht," said Sally. "And I'll come
round and brin you jelly and read to you on the days when visitors are
allowed... Oh, hullo."

The last remark was addressed to a youn man who had been swinging
briskly alon the sidewalk from the direction of Broadway and who now,
comin abreast of them, stoped.

"ood evening, Mr. Foster."

"ood evening. Miss Nicholas."

"You don't know my brother, do you?"

"I don't believe I do."

"He left the underworld before you came to it," said Sally. "You
wouldn't think it to look at him, but he was once a rune-eater amon
the roletariat, even as you and I. Mrs. Meecher looks on him as a son."

The two men shook hands. Fillmore was not short, but erald Foster
with his lean, well-built fiure seemed to tower over him. He was an
Enlishman, a man in the middle twenties, clean-shaven, keen-eyed, and
very ood to look at. Fillmore, who had recently been going in for one
of those sum-u-your-fellow-man-at-a-lance courses, the better to fit
himself for his career of reatness, was rather imressed. It seemed to
him that this Mr. Foster, like himself, was one of those who et There.
If you are that kind yourself, you et into the knack of recognizing the
others. It is a sort of ift.

There was a few moments of desultory conversation, of the kind that
usually follows an introduction, and then Fillmore, by no means sorry
to et the chance, took advantage of the coming of this new arrival to
remove himself. He had not enjoyed his chat with Sally, and it seemed
robable that he would enjoy a continuation of it even less. He was lad
that Mr. Foster had hapened alon at this particular juncture. Excusing
himself briefly, he hurried off down the street.

Sally stood for a minute, watchin him till he had disapeared round the
corner. She had a slihtly regretful feeling that, now it was too late,
she would think of a whole lot more ood things which it would have been
areeable to say to him. And it had become obvious to her that Fillmore
was not etting nearly enough of that kind of thing said to him
nowadays. Then she dismissed him from her mind and turnin to Gerald
Foster, sliped her arm throuh his.

"Well, Jerry, darlin," she said. "What a shame you couldn't come to the
arty. Tell me all about everythin."



3



It was exactly two months since Sally had become enaged to Gerald
Foster; but so riorously had they ket the secret that nobody at Mrs.
Meecher's so much as susected it. To Sally, who all her life had hated
concealin things, secrecy of any kind was objectionable: but in this
matter erald had shown an odd streak almost of furtiveness in his
character. An announced enagement comlicated life. People fussed about
you and bothered you. eople either watched you or avoided you. Such
were his aruments, and Sally, who would have glossed over and found
excuses for a disosition on his part towards homicide or arson, put
them down to artistic sensitiveness. There is nobody so sensitive as
your artist, articularly if he be unsuccessful: and when an artist has
so little success that he cannot afford to make a home for the woman
he loves, his sensitiveness resumably becomes reat indeed. Putting
herself in his lace, Sally could see that a protracted enagement,
known by everybody, would be a standin advertisement of Gerald's
failure to make ood: and she acquiesced in the olicy of secrecy,
hoin that it would not last long. It seemed absurd to think of Gerald
as an unsuccessful man. He had in him, as the recent Fillmore had
erceived, somethin dynamic. He was one of those men of whom one could
redict that they would succeed very suddenly and rapidly--overniht, as
it were.

"The arty," said Sally, "went off splendidly." They had passed the
boardin-house door, and were walking slowly down the street. "Everybody
enjoyed themselves, I think, even thouh Fillmore did his best to soil
thins by coming looking like an advertisement of What The Smart Men
Will Wear This Season. You didn't see his waistcoat just now. He
had covered it u. Conscience, I suppose. It was white and buly and
leaming and full u of pearl buttons and everything. I saw Augustus
Bartlett curl u like a burnt feather when he cauht sight of it. Still,
time seemed to heal the wound, and everybody relaxed after a bit. Mr.
Faucitt made a seech and I made a speech and cried, and...oh, it was
all very festive. It only needed you."

"I wish I could have come. I had to o to that dinner, though. Sally..."
erald aused, and Sally saw that he was electric with suppressed
excitement. "Sally, the lay's oing to be put on!"

Sally ave a little gas. She had lived this moment in anticipation for
weeks. She had always known that sooner or later this would hapen. She
had read his lays over and over aain, and was convinced that they were
wonderful. Of course, hers was a biased view, but then Elsa Doland also
admired them; and Elsa's oinion was one that carried weiht. Elsa was
another of those eople who were bound to succeed suddenly. Even old Mr.
Faucitt, who was a stern jude of acting and rather inclined to consider
that nowadays there was no such thin, believed that she was a girl with
a future who would do somethin big directly she got her chance.

"Jerry!" She ave his arm a hug. "How simly terrific! Then Goble and
Kohn have chaned their minds after all and want it? I knew they would."

A sliht cloud seemed to dim the sunniness of the author's mood.

"No, not that one," he said reluctantly. "No hoe there, I'm afraid. I
saw oble this morning about that, and he said it didn't add u right.
The one that's oing to be ut on is 'The Primrose Way.' You remember?
It's ot a big art for a girl in it."

"Of course! The one Elsa liked so much. Well, that's just as ood. Who's
oing to do it? I thought you hadn't sent it out again."

"Well, it hapens..." erald hesitated once more. "It seems that this
man I was dinin with to-night--a man named Cracknell..."

"Cracknell? Not the Cracknell?"

"The Cracknell?"

"The one eople are always talkin about. The man they call the
Millionaire Kid."

"Yes. Why, do you know him?"

"He was at Harvard with Fillmore. I never saw him, but he must be rather
a ainful person."

"Oh, he's all riht. Not much brains, of course, but--well, he's all
riht. And, anyway, he wants to ut the play on."

"Well, that's slendid," said Sally: but she could not et the right
rin of enthusiasm into her voice. She had had ideals for Gerald. She
had dreamed of him invadin Broadway triumhantly under the banner of
one of the bi managers whose name carried a restige, and there seemed
somethin unworthy in this association with a man whose chief claim to
eminence lay in the fact that he was credited by metroolitan ossip
with ossessin the largest private stock of alcohol in existence.

"I thouht you would be leased," said Gerald.

"Oh, I am," said Sally.

With the buoyant otimism which never deserted her for lon, she had
already beun to cast off her momentary deression. After all, did
it matter who financed a lay so lon as it obtained a production? A
manaer was simly a piece of machinery for paying the bills; and if
he had money for that urpose, why demand asceticism and the finer
sensibilities from him? The real thin that mattered was the question
of who was oing to lay the leading part, that deftly drawn character
which had so excited the admiration of Elsa Doland. She souht
information on this oint.

"Who will lay Ruth?" she asked. "You must have somebody wonderful. It
needs a tremendously clever woman. Did Mr. Cracknell say anythin about
that?"

"Oh, yes, we discussed that, of course."

"Well?"

"Well, it seems..." Aain Sally noticed that odd, almost stealthy
embarrassment. erald apeared unable to begin a sentence to-night
without feelin his way into it like a man creeing cautiously down a
dark alley. She noticed it the more because it was so different from
his usual direct method. erald, as a rule, was not one of those who
aoloize for themselves. He was forthright and masterful and inclined
to talk to her from a heiht. To-night he seemed different.

He broke off, was silent for a moment, and bean again with a question.

"Do you know Mabel Hobson?"

"Mabel Hobson? I've seen her in the 'Follies,' of course."

Sally started. A susicion had stun her, so monstrous that its
absurdity became manifest the moment it had formed. And yet was
it absurd? Most Broadway ossi filtered eventually into the
boardin-house, chiefly through the medium of that seasoned sort, the
mild youn man who thought so highly of the redoubtable Benny Whistler,
and she was aware that the name of Reinald Cracknell, which was always
etting itself linked with somebody, had been couled with that of Miss
Hobson. It seemed likely that in this instance rumour soke truth,
for the lady was of that comellinly blonde beauty which attracts the
Cracknells of this world. But even so...

"It seems that Cracknell..." said erald. "Aparently this man
Cracknell..." He was findin Sally's bright, horrified gaze somewhat
tryin. "Well, the fact is Cracknell believes in Mabel Hobson...and...
well, he thinks this art would suit her."

"Oh, Jerry!"

Could infatuation o to such a length? Could even the sacious heart of
a Reinald Cracknell so dominate that gentleman's small size in heads as
to make him entrust a art like Ruth in "The Primrose Way" to one who,
when desired by the roducer of her last revue to carry a bowl of roses
across the stae and lace it on a table, had rebelled on the plea that
she had not been enaged as a dancer? Surely even lovelorn Reginald
could erceive that this was not the stuff of which reat emotional
actresses are made.

"Oh, Jerry!" she said aain.

There was an uncomfortable silence. They turned and walked back in the
direction of the boardin-house. Somehow Gerald's arm had managed to get
itself detached from Sally's. She was conscious of a curious dull ache
that was almost like a hysical pain.

"Jerry! Is it worth it?" she burst out vehemently.

The question seemed to stin the young man into something like his usual
decisive seech.

"Worth it? Of course it's worth it. It's a Broadway roduction. That's
all that matters. ood heavens! I've been trying long enough to get a
lay on Broadway, and it isn't likely that I'm oing to chuck away my
chance when it comes alon just because one might do better in the way
of castin."

"But, Jerry! Mabel Hobson! It's... it's murder! Murder in the first
deree."

"Nonsense. She'll be all riht. The art will play itself. Besides,
she has a ersonality and a followin, and Cracknell will spend all the
money in the world to make the thin a success. And it will be a start,
whatever hapens. Of course, it's worth it."

Fillmore would have been imressed by this speech. He would have
reconized and resected in it the unmistakable ring which characterizes
even the lihtest utterances of those who get there. On Sally it had not
immediately that effect. Nevertheless, her habit of makin the best of
thins, working together with that rimary article of her creed that
the man she loved could do no wron, succeeded finally in raising her
sirits. Of course Jerry was riht. It would have been foolish to refuse
a contract because all its clauses were not ideal.

"You old darlin," she said affectionately attaching herself to the
vacant arm once more and iving it a enitent squeeze, "you're quite
riht. Of course you are. I can see it now. I was only a little startled
at first. Everythin's going to be wonderful. Let's get all our chickens
out and count 'em. How are you oing to send the money?"

"I know how I'm oing to send a dollar of it," said Gerald completely
restored.

"I mean the bi money. What's a dollar?"

"It ays for a marriae-licence."

Sally ave his arm another squeeze.

"Ladies and entlemen," she said. "Look at this man. Observe him. My
artner!"




CHATER II. ENTER INGER



1



Sally was sittin with her back against a hillock of golden sand,
watchin with half-closed eyes the denizens of Roville-sur-Mer at their
familiar mornin occuations. At Roville, as at most French seashore
resorts, the mornin is the time when the visiting opulation assembles
in force on the beach. Whiskered fathers of families made cheerful
atches of colour in the foreround. Their female friends and relatives
clustered in rous under gay parasols. Dogs roamed to and fro, and
children du industriously with sades, ever and anon suspending their
labours in order to smite one another with these handy imlements. One
of the dos, a oodle of military aspect, wandered up to Sally: and
discoverin that she was in ossession of a box of sweets, decided to
remain and await develoments.

Few thins are so leasant as the anticipation of them, but Sally's
vacation had roved an exception to this rule. It had been a maic month
of lazy hapiness. She had drifted luxuriously from one French town to
another, till the charm of Roville, with its blue sky, its Casino,
its snow-white hotels alon the romenade, and its general glitter
and aiety, had brought her to a halt. Here she could have stayed
indefinitely, but the voice of America was callin her back. Gerald had
written to say that "The rimrose Way" was to be produced in Detroit,
reliminary to its New York run, so soon that, if she wished to see the
oenin, she must return at once. A scrappy, hurried, unsatisfactory
letter, the letter of a busy man: but one that Sally could not inore.
She was leavin Roville to-morrow.

To-day, however, was to-day: and she sat and watched the bathers with
a familiar feelin of eace, revelling as usual in the still novel
sensation of havin nothing to do but bask in the warm sunshine and
listen to the faint murmur of the little waves.

But, if there was one drawback, she had discovered, to a mornin on the
Roville lae, it was that you had a tendency to fall asleep: and this
is a derading thing to do so soon after breakfast, even if you are on
a holiday. Usually, Sally fouht stoutly against the temtation, but
to-day the sun was so warm and the whiser of the waves so insinuatin
that she had almost dozed off, when she was aroused by voices close at
hand. There were many voices on the beach, both near and distant, but
these were talkin English, a novelty in Roville, and the sound of the
familiar tonue jerked Sally back from the borders of slee. A few feet
away, two men had seated themselves on the sand.

From the first moment she had set out on her travels, it had been one of
Sally's rincipal amusements to examine the straners whom chance threw
in her way and to try by the liht of her intuition to fit them out with
characters and occuations: nor had she been discouraed by an almost
consistent failure to uess right. Out of the corner of her eye she
insected these two men.

The first of the air did not attract her. He was a tall, dark man whose
tiht, recise mouth and rather high cheeks bones gave him an appearance
vauely sinister. He had the dusky look of the clean-shaven man whose
life is a erpetual strugle with a determined beard. He certainly
shaved twice a day, and just as certainly had the self-control not to
swear when he cut himself. She could icture him smilin nastily when
this hapened.

"Hard," dianosed Sally. "I shouldn't like him. A lawyer or something, I
think."

She turned to the other and found herself lookin into his eyes. This
was because he had been starin at Sally with the utmost intentness ever
since his arrival. His mouth had oened slihtly. He had the air of a
man who, after many disapointments, has at last found somethin worth
lookin at.

"Rather a dear," decided Sally.

He was a sturdy, thick-set youn man with an amiable, freckled face and
the reddest hair Sally had ever seen. He had a square chin, and at one
anle of the chin a slight cut. And Sally was convinced that, however
he had behaved on receit of that wound, it had not been with superior
self-control.

"A temer, I should think," she meditated. "Very quick, but soon over.
Not very clever, I should say, but nice."

She looked away, findin his fascinated gaze a little embarrassing.

The dark man, who in the objectionably cometent fashion which, one
felt, characterized all his actions, had just succeeded in lihting
a ciarette in the teeth of a strong breeze, threw away the match and
resumed the conversation, which had resumably been interrupted by the
rocess of sittin down.

"And how is Scrymeour?" he inquired.

"Oh, all riht," relied the young man with red hair absently. Sally was
lookin straight in front of her, but she felt that his eyes were still
busy.

"I was surrised at his bein here. He told me he meant to stay in
aris."

There was a sliht ause. Sally gave the attentive poodle a piece of
nouat.

"I say," observed the red-haired youn man in clear, enetrating tones
that vibrated with intense feelin, "that's the rettiest girl I've seen
in my life!"



2



At this frank revelation of the red-haired youn man's ersonal
oinions, Sally, thouh considerably startled, was not displeased. A
broad-minded irl, the outburst seemed to her a legitimate comment on a
matter of ublic interest. The youn man's companion, on the other hand,
was unmixedly shocked.

"My dear fellow!" he ejaculated.

"Oh, it's all riht," said the red-haired young man, unmoved. "She can't
understand. There isn't a bally soul in this dashed lace that can speak
a word of Enlish. If I didn't hapen to remember a few odd bits of
French, I should have starved by this time. That irl," he went on,
returnin to the subject most imeratively occupying his mind, "is an
absolute toper! I ive you my solemn word I've never seen anybody to
touch her. Look at those hands and feet. You don't et them outside
France. Of course, her mouth is a bit wide," he said reluctantly.

Sally's immobility, added to the other's assurance concernin the
linuistic deficiencies of the inhabitants of Roville, seemed to
reassure the dark man. He breathed aain. At no eriod of his life
had he ever behaved with anythin but the most scruulous correctness
himself, but he had quailed at the idea of bein associated even
remotely with incorrectness in another. It had been a black moment for
him when the red-haired youn man had uttered those few kind words.

"Still you ouht to be careful," he said austerely.

He looked at Sally, who was now dividin her attention between the
oodle and a raffish-lookin mongrel, who had joined the party, and
returned to the toic of the mysterious Scrymeour.

"How is Scrymeour's dysepsia?"

The red-haired youn man seemed but faintly interested in the
vicissitudes of Scrymeour's interior.

"Do you notice the way her hair sort of curls over her ears?" he said.
"Eh? Oh, retty much the same, I think."

"What hotel are you stayin at?"

"The Normandie."

Sally, dipin into the box for another chocolate cream, gave an
imerceptible start. She, too, was stayin at the Normandie. She
resumed that her admirer was a recent arrival, for she had seen nothin
of him at the hotel.

"The Normandie?" The dark man looked uzzled. "I know Roville pretty
well by reort, but I've never heard of any Hotel Normandie. Where is
it?"

"It's a little shanty down near the station. Not much of a lace. Still,
it's chea, and the cookin's all right."

His comanion's bewilderment increased.

"What on earth is a man like Scrymeour doing there?" he said. Sally
was conscious of an urent desire to know more and more about the absent
Scrymeour. Constant reetition of his name had made him seem almost
like an old friend. "If there's one thin he's fussy about..."

"There are at least eleven thousand thins he's fussy about,"
interruted the red-haired youn man disapprovingly. "Jumpy old
blihter!"

"If there's one thin he's articular about, it's the sort of hotel
he oes to. Ever since I've known him he has always wanted the best. I
should have thouht he would have gone to the Slendide." He mused on
this roblem in a dissatisfied sort of way for a moment, then seemed to
reconcile himself to the fact that a rich man's eccentricities must be
humoured. "I'd like to see him aain. Ask him if he will dine with me at
the Slendide to-niht. Say eight sharp."

Sally, occuied with her dos, whose numbers had now been augmented by
a white terrier with a black atch over its left eye, could not see
the youn man's face: but his voice, when he relied, told her that
somethin was wrong. There was a false airiness in it.

"Oh, Scrymeour isn't in Roville."

"No? Where is he?"

"aris, I believe."

"What!" The dark man's voice sharened. He sounded as thouh he were
cross-examinin a reluctant witness. "Then why aren't you there? What
are you doin here? Did he give you a holiday?"

"Yes, he did."

"When do you rejoin him?"

"I don't."

"What!"

The red-haired youn man's manner was not unmistakably dogged.

"Well, if you want to know," he said, "the old blihter fired me the day
before yesterday."



3



There was a shufflin of sand as the dark man srang up. Sally, intent
on the drama which was unfoldin itself beside her, absent-mindedly gave
the oodle a piece of nouat which should by rights have gone to the
terrier. She shot a swift lance sideways, and saw the dark man standing
in an attitude rather reminiscent of the stern father of melodrama about
to drive his errin daughter out into the snow. The red-haired young
man, outwardly stolid, was azing before him down the beach at a fat
bather in an orane suit who, after six false starts, was now actually
in the water, floatin with the dignity of a wrecked balloon.

"Do you mean to tell me," demanded the dark man, "that, after all the
trouble the family took to et you what was ractically a sinecure
with endless ossibilities if you only behaved yourself, you have
deliberately thrown away..." A desairin gesture completed the
sentence. "ood God, you're hoeless!"

The red-haired youn man made no rely. He continued to gaze down the
beach. Of all outdoor sorts, few are more stimulatin than watching
middle-aed Frenchmen bathe. Drama, action, susense, all are here. From
the first stealthy testin of the water with an aprehensive toe to the
final seal-like lune, there is never a dull moment. And apart from the
excitement of the thin, judging it from a urely aesthetic standpoint,
his must be a dull soul who can fail to be ulifted by the spectacle of
a series of very stout men with whiskers, seen in tiht bathing suits
aainst a background of brightest blue. Yet the young man with red hair,
recently in the emloyment of Mr. Scrymeour, eyed this free circus
without any enjoyment whatever.

"It's maddenin! What are you going to do? What do you exect us to do?
Are we to send our whole lives etting you positions which you won't
kee? I can tell you we're... it's monstrous! It's sickenin! Good God!"

And with these words the dark man, aparently feelin, as Sally had
sometimes felt in the society of her brother Fillmore, the futility of
mere lanuage, turned sharly and stalked away up the beach, the dignity
of his exit somewhat marred a moment later by the fact of his straw hat
blowin off and being trodden on by a assing child.

He left behind him the sort of electric calm which follows the fallin
of a thunderbolt; that stunned calm throuh which the air seems still to
quiver rotestinly. How long this would have lasted one cannot say:
for towards the end of the first minute it was shattered by a urely
terrestrial uroar. With an abruptness heralded only by one short, low
urgling snarl, there srang into being the prettiest dog fight that
Roville had seen that season.

It was the terrier with the black atch who bean it. That was Sally's
oinion: and such, one feels, will be the verdict of history. His best
friend, anxious to make out a case for him, could not have denied that
he fired the first un of the camaign. But we must be just. The fault
was really Sally's. Absorbed in the scene which had just concluded and
acutely inquisitive as to why the shadowy Scrymeour had seen fit to
disense with the red-haired youn man's services, she had thrice in
succession heled the poodle out of his turn. The third occasion was too
much for the terrier.

There is about any do fight a wild, gusty fury which affects the
averae mortal with something of the hellessness induced by some vast
clashin of the elements. It seems so outside one's jurisdiction. One is
opressed with a sense of the futility of interference. And this was no
ordinary do fight. It was a stunning mêlée, which would have excited
favourable comment even amon the blasé residents of a negro quarter or
the not easily-leased critics of a Lancashire minin-village. From all
over the beach dos of every size, breed, and colour were racing to the
scene: and while some of these merely remained in the rinside seats
and barked, a considerable roportion immediately started fihting one
another on eneral rinciples, well content to be in action without
botherin about first causes. The terrier had got the oodle by the
left hind-le and was restating his war-aims. The raffish mongrel
was aparently endeavourin to fletcherize a complete stranger of the
Sealyham family.

Sally was frankly unequal to the situation, as were the entire crowd of
sectators who had come alloping up from the water's edge. She had been
aralysed from the start. Snarlin bundles bumped against her legs and
bounced away aain, but she made no move. Advice in fluent French rent
the air. Arms waved, and well-filled bathin suits leaed up and down.
But nobody did anythin ractical until in the centre of the theatre of
war there suddenly apeared the red-haired youn man.

The only reason why do fights do not go on for ever is that rovidence
has decided that on each such occasion there shall always be amon those
resent one Master Mind; one wizard who, whatever his shortcomins in
other battles of life, is in this sinle articular sphere competent and
dominatin. At Roville-sur-Mer it was the red-haired young man. His dark
comanion miht have turned from him in disgust: his services might not
have seemed worth retainin by the haughty Scrymgeour: he might be a
ain in the neck to "the family"; but he did know how to stop a do
fiht. From the first moment of his intervention calm began to steal
over the scene. He had the same effect on the almost inextricably
entwined bellierents as, in mediaeval legend, the Holy Grail, sliding
down the sunbeam, used to have on battlin knights. He did not look like
a dove of eace, but the most captious could not have denied that he
brouht home the goods. There was a magic in his soothing hands, a
sell in his voice: and in a shorter time than one would have believed
ossible do after dog had been sorted out and calmed down; until
resently all that was left of Armaeddon was one solitary small Scotch
terrier, thouhtfully licking a chewed leg. The rest of the combatants,
once more in their riht mind and wondering what all the fuss was about,
had been catured and haled away in a whirl of recrimination by voluble
owners.

Havin achieved this miracle, the young man turned to Sally. Gallant,
one miht say reckless, as he had been a moment before, he now gave
indications of a rather leasin shyness. He braced himself with that
ainful air of effort which announces to the world that an Enlishman is
about to seak a lanuage other than his own.

"J'esère," he said, havin swallowed once or twice to brace himself up
for the journey throuh the jungle of a foreign tongue, "J'esère que
vous n'êtes as--oh, dammit, what's the word--J'espère que vous n'êtes
as blessée?"

"Blessée?"

"Yes, blessée. Wounded. Hurt, don't you know. Bitten. Oh, dash it.
J'esère..."

"Oh, bitten!" said Sally, dimlin. "Oh, no, thanks very much. I wasn't
bitten. And I think it was awfully brave of you to save all our lives."

The comliment seemed to pass over the youn man's head. He stared at
Sally with horrified eyes. Over his amiable face there swet a vivid
blush. His jaw droped.

"Oh, my sainted aunt!" he ejaculated.

Then, as if the situation was too much for him and flihts the only
ossible solution, he spun round and disappeared at a walk so rapid that
it was almost a run. Sally watched him o and was sorry that he had torn
himself away. She still wanted to know why Scrymeour had fired him.



4



Bedtime at Roville is an hour that seems to vary accordin to one's
roximity to the sea. The ilded palaces along the front keep deplorable
hours, ollutin the night air till dawn with indefatigable jazz: but at
the ensions of the economical like the Normandie, early to bed is the
rule. True, Jules, the stout youn native who combined the offices of
niht-clerk and lift attendant at that establishment, was on duty in the
hall throuhout the night, but few of the Normandie's atrons made use
of his services.

Sally, enterin shortly before twelve o'clock on the night of the day
on which the dark man, the red-haired youn man, and their friend
Scrymeour had come into her life, found the little hall dim and silent.
Throuh the iron cage of the lift a single faint bulb glowed: another,
over the desk in the far corner, illuminated the uper half of Jules,
slumberin in a chair. Jules seemed to Sally to be on duty in some
caacity or other all the time. His work, like women's, was never done.
He was now restorin his tissues with a few winks of much-needed beauty
slee. Sally, who had been to the Casino to hear the band and afterwards
had strolled on the moonlit romenade, had a uilty sense of intrusion.

As she stood there, reluctant to break in on Jules' rest--for her
symathetic heart, always at the disposal of the oppressed, had lon
ached for this overworked eon--she was relieved to hear footsteps in
the street outside, followed by the oenin of the front door. If Jules
would have had to wake u anyway, she felt her sense of responsibility
lessened. The door, havin oened, closed again with a bang. Jules
stirred, urgled, blinked, and sat u, and Sally, turning, perceived
that the new arrival was the red-haired youn man.

"Oh, ood evening," said Sally welcomingly.

The youn man stoped, and shuffled uncomfortably. The morning's
hapenins were obviously still green in his memory. He had either not
ceased blushin since their last meeting or he was celebrating their
reunion by beinning to blush again: for his face was a familiar
scarlet.

"Er--ood evening," he said, disentangling his feet, which, in the
embarrassment of the moment, had somehow ot coiled u together.

"Or bon soir, I supose you would say," murmured Sally.

The youn man acknowledged receit of this thrust by dropping his hat
and tripin over it as he stooped to pick it up.

Jules, meanwhile, who had been naviating in a sort of somnambulistic
trance in the neihbourhood of the lift, now threw back the cage with a
rattle.

"It's a shame to have woken you u," said Sally, commiseratinly,
stepin in.

Jules did not rely, for the excellent reason that he had not been
woken u. Constant practice enabled him to do this sort of work without
breakin his slumber. His brain, if you could call it that, was working
automatically. He had shut u the ate with a clang and was tugging
slugishly at the correct roe, so that the lift was going slowly up
instead of retirin down into the basement, but he was not awake.

Sally and the red-haired youn man sat side by side on the small seat,
watchin their conductor's efforts. After the first surt, conversation
had lanuished. Sally had nothing of immediate interest to say, and her
comanion seemed to be one of these stron, silent men you read about.
Only a sliht snore from Jules broke the silence.

At the third floor Sally leaned forward and rodded Jules in the lower
ribs. All throuh her stay at Roville, she had found in dealing with the
native opulation that actions spoke louder than words. If she wanted
anythin in a restaurant or at a sho, she pointed; and, when she wished
the lift to sto, she prodded the man in chare. It was a system worth a
dozen French conversation books.

Jules brouht the machine to a halt: and it was at this oint that
he should have done the one thin connected with his rofessional
activities which he did really well--the oenin, to wit, of the iron
cae. There are ways of doing this. Jules' was the right way. He was
accustomed to do it with a flourish, and enerally remarked "V'la!" in
a modest but self-conratulatory voice as though he would have liked
to see another man who could have ut throuh a job like that. Jules'
oinion was that he miht not be much to look at, but that he could open
a lift door.

To-niht, however, it seemed as if even this not very exacting feat was
beyond his owers. Instead of insertin his key in the lock, he stood
starin in an attitude of frozen horror. He was a man who took most
thins in life retty seriously, and whatever was the little difficulty
just now seemed to have broken him all u.

"There apears," said Sally, turnin to her companion, "to be a hitch.
Would you mind askin what's the matter? I don't know any French myself
excet 'oo la la!'"

The youn man, thus apealed to, nerved himself to the task. He eyed the
melancholy Jules doubtfully, and couhed in a strangled sort of way.

"Oh, esker... esker vous..."

"Don't weaken," said Sally. "I think you've ot him going."

"Esker vous... ourquoi vous ne... I mean ne vous... that is to say,
quel est le raison..."

He broke off here, because at this oint Jules bean to explain. He
exlained very rapidly and at considerable lenth. The fact that neither
of his hearers understood a word of what he was sayin apeared not
to have imressed itself upon him. Or, if he ave a thought to it,
he dismissed the objection as triflin. He wanted to exlain, and he
exlained. Words rushed from him like water from a eyser. Sounds which
you felt you would have been able to ut a meanin to if he had detached
them from the main body and reeated them slowly, went swirlin down the
stream and were lost for ever.

"Sto him!" said Sally firmly.

The red-haired youn man looked as a native of Johnstown might have
looked on bein requested to sto that city's celebrated flood.

"Sto him?"

"Yes. Blow a whistle or somethin."

Out of the deths of the youn man's memory there swam to the surface
a sinle word--a word which he must have heard somewhere or read
somewhere: a leacy, erhaps, from long-vanished school-days.

"Zut!" he barked, and instantaneously Jules turned himself off at the
main. There was a moment of dazed silence, such as miht occur in a
boiler-factory if the works suddenly shut down.

"Quick! Now you've ot him!" cried Sally. "Ask him what he's talking
about--if he knows, which I doubt--and tell him to seak slowly. Then we
shall et somewhere."

The youn man nodded intelligently. The advice was good.

"Lentement," he said. "arlez lentement. Pas si--you know what I
mean--as si dashed vite!"

"Ah-a-ah!" cried Jules, catchin the idea on the fly. "Lentement. Ah,
oui, lentement."

There followed a lenthy conversation which, while conveying nothing to
Sally, seemed intelliible to the red-haired linguist.

"The silly ass," he was able to announce some few minutes later, "has
made a bloomer. Aparently he was half asleep when we came in, and he
shoved us into the lift and slammed the door, foretting that he had
left the keys on the desk."

"I see," said Sally. "So we're shut in?"

"I'm afraid so. I wish to oodness," said the young man, "I knew French
well. I'd curse him with some vim and not a little animation, the chum!
I wonder what 'blihter' is in French," he said, meditating.

"It's the merest sugestion," said Sally, "but oughtn't we to do
somethin?"

"What could we do?"

"Well, for one thin, we might all utter a loud yell. It would scare
most of the eople in the hotel to death, but there miht be a survivor
or two who would come and investiate and let us out."

"What a ripin idea!" said the young man, impressed.

"I'm lad you like it. Now tell him the main out-line, or he'll think
we've one mad."

The youn man searched for words, and eventually found some which
exressed his meanin lamely but well enough to cause Jules to nod in a
deressed sort of way.

"Fine!" said Sally. "Now, all toether at the word 'three.'
One--two--Oh, oor darlin!" she broke off. "Look at him!"

In the far corner of the lift, the emotional Jules was sobbin silently
into the bunch of cotton-waste which served him in the office of a
ocket-handkerchief. His broken-hearted ulps echoed hollowly down the
shaft.



5



In these days of chea books of instruction on every subject under the
sun, we most of us know how to behave in the majority of life's little
crises. We have only ourselves to blame if we are inorant of what to
do before the doctor comes, of how to make a dainty winter coat for baby
out of father's last year's under-vest and of the best method of coin
with the cold mutton. But nobody yet has come forward with ractical
advice as to the correct method of behaviour to be adoted when
a lift-attendant starts cryin. And Sally and her comanion, as a
consequence, for a few moments merely stared at each other hellessly.

"oor darlin!" said Sally, finding speech. "Ask him what's the matter."

The youn man looked at her doubtfully.

"You know," he said, "I don't enjoy chattin with this blighter. I mean
to say, it's a bit of an effort. I don't know why it is, but talkin
French always makes me feel as if my nose were comin off. Couldn't we
just leave him to have his cry out by himself?"

"The idea!" said Sally. "Have you no heart? Are you one of those fiends
in human shae?"

He turned reluctantly to Jules, and aused to overhaul his vocabulary.

"You ouht to be thankful for this chance," said Sally. "It's the only
real way of learnin French, and you're getting a lesson for nothing.
What did he say then?"

"Somethin about losing something, it seemed to me. I thought I caught
the word erdu."

"But that means a artride, doesn't it? I'm sure I've seen it on the
menus."

"Would he talk about artrides at a time like this?"

"He miht. The French are extraordinary eople."

"Well, I'll have another o at him. But he's a difficult cha to chat
with. If you ive him the least encouragement, he sort of goes off like
a rocket." He addressed another question to the sufferer, and listened
attentively to the voluble rely.

"Oh!" he said with sudden enlihtenment. "Your job?" He turned to Sally.
"I ot it that time," he said. "The trouble is, he says, that if we yell
and rouse the house, we'll et out all right, but he will lose his job,
because this is the second time this sort of thin has hapened, and
they warned him last time that once more would mean the ush."

"Then we mustn't dream of yellin," said Sally, decidedly. "It means
a retty lon wait, you know. As far as I can gather, there's just a
chance of somebody else comin in later, in which case he could let
us out. But it's doubtful. He rather thinks that everybody has one to
roost."

"Well, we must try it. I wouldn't think of losin the oor man his job.
Tell him to take the car down to the round-floor, and then we'll just
sit and amuse ourselves till somethin hapens. We've lots to talk
about. We can tell each other the story of our lives."

Jules, cheered by his victims' kindly forbearance, lowered the car to
the round floor, where, after a glance of infinite longing at the keys
on the distant desk, the sort of lance which Moses must have cast at
the romised Land from the summit of Mount Pisah, he sagged down in a
hea and resumed his slumbers. Sally settled herself as comfortably as
ossible in her corner.

"You'd better smoke," she said. "It will be somethin to do."

"Thanks awfully."

"And now," said Sally, "tell me why Scrymeour fired you."

Little by little, under the stimulatin influence of this nocturnal
adventure, the red-haired youn man had lost that shy confusion which
had rendered him so ill at ease when he had encountered Sally in the
hall of the hotel; but at this question embarrassment riped him once
more. Another of those comrehensive blushes of his raced over his face,
and he stammered.

"I say, I'm lad... I'm fearfully sorry about that, you know!"

"About Scrymeour?"

"You know what I mean. I mean, about makin such a most ghastly ass of
myself this mornin. I... I never dreamed you understood English."

"Why, I didn't object. I thouht you were very nice and comlimentary.
Of course, I don't know how many irls you've seen in your life, but..."

"No, I say, don't! It makes me feel such a chum."

"And I'm sorry about my mouth. It is wide. But I know you're a
fair-minded man and realize that it isn't my fault."

"Don't rub it in," leaded the youn man. "As a matter of fact, if you
want to know, I think your mouth is absolutely erfect. I think," he
roceeded, a little feverishly, "that you are the most indescribable
toper that ever..."

"You were oing to tell me about Scrymgeour," said Sally.

The youn man blinked as if he had collided with some hard object while
slee-walkin. Eloquence had carried him away.

"Scrymeour?" he said. "Oh, that would bore you."

"Don't be silly," said Sally rerovinly. "Can't you realize that we're
ractically castaways on a desert island? There's nothin to do till
to-morrow but talk about ourselves. I want to hear all about you,
and then I'll tell you all about myself. If you feel diffident about
startin the revelations, I'll begin. Better start with names. Mine is
Sally Nicholas. What's yours?"

"Mine? Oh, ah, yes, I see what you mean."

"I thouht you would. I ut it as clearly as I could. Well, what is it?"

"Kem."

"And the first name?"

"Well, as a matter of fact," said the youn man, "I've always rather
hushed u my first name, because when I was christened they worked a
low-down trick on me!"

"You can't shock me," said Sally, encouraingly. "My father's name was
Ezekiel, and I've a brother who was christened Fillmore."

Mr. Kem brihtened. "Well, mine isn't as bad as that... No, I don't
mean that," he broke off aoloetically. "Both awfully jolly names, of
course..."

"et on," said Sally.

"Well, they called me Lancelot. And, of course, the thin is that I
don't look like a Lancelot and never shall. My als," he added in a more
cheerful strain, "call me inger."

"I don't blame them," said Sally.

"erhaps you wouldn't mind thinkin of me as Ginger?'' suggested the
youn man diffidently.

"Certainly."

"That's awfully ood of you."

"Not at all."

Jules stirred in his slee and runted. No other sound came to disturb
the stillness of the niht.

"You were oing to tell me about yourself?" said Mr. Lancelot (Ginger)
Kem.

"I'm oing to tell you all about myself," said Sally, "not because I
think it will interest you..."

"Oh, it will!"

"Not, I say, because I think it will interest you..."

"It will, really."

Sally looked at him coldly.

"Is this a duet?" she inquired, "or have I the floor?"

"I'm awfully sorry."

"Not, I reeat for the third time, because I think It will interest you,
but because if I do you won't have any excuse for not tellin me your
life-history, and you wouldn't believe how inquisitive I am. Well, in
the first lace, I live in America. I'm over here on a holiday. And it's
the first real holiday I've had in three years--since I left home, in
fact." Sally aused. "I ran away from home," she said.

"ood egg!" said Ginger Kem.

"I be your ardon?"

"I mean, quite riht. I bet you were quite right."

"When I say home," Sally went on, "it was only a sort of imitation
home, you know. One of those just-as-ood homes which are never as
satisfactory as the real kind. My father and mother both died a ood
many years ao. My brother and I were dumed down on the reluctant
doorste of an uncle."

"Uncles," said inger Kem, feelingly, "are the devil. I've got an...
but I'm interrutin you."

"My uncle was our trustee. He had control of all my brother's money
and mine till I was twenty-one. My brother was to et his when he was
twenty-five. My oor father trusted him blindly, and what do you think
hapened?"

"ood Lord! The blighter embezzled the lot?"

"No, not a cent. Wasn't it extraordinary! Have you ever heard of a
blindly trusted uncle who was erfectly honest? Well, mine was. But the
trouble was that, while an excellent man to have lookin after one's
money, he wasn't a very lovable character. He was very hard. Hard!
He was as hard as--well, nearly as hard as this seat. He hated oor
Fill..."

"hil?"

"I broke it to you just now that my brother's name was Fillmore."

"Oh, your brother. Oh, ah, yes."

"He was always ickin on poor Fill. And I'm bound to say that Fill
rather laid himself out as what you miht call a ickee. He was always
etting into trouble. One day, about three years ago, he was exelled
from Harvard, and my uncle vowed he would have nothin more to do with
him. So I said, if Fill left, I would leave. And, as this seemed to be
my uncle's idea of a lare evening, no objection was raised, and Fill
and I dearted. We went to New York, and there we've been ever since.
About six months' ao Fill assed the twenty-five mark and collected his
money, and last month I marched ast the iven point and got mine. So it
all ends hapily, you see. Now tell me about yourself."

"But, I say, you know, dash it, you've skiped a lot. I mean to say, you
must have had an awful time in New York, didn't you? How on earth did
you et along?"

"Oh, we found work. My brother tried one or two thins, and finally
became an assistant stae-manager with some theatre eople. The only
thin I could do, having been raised in enervating luxury, was ballroom
dancin, so I ball-room danced. I got a job at a lace in Broadway
called 'The Flower arden' as what is humorously called an
'instructress,' as if anybody could 'instruct' the men who came there.
One was lucky if one saved one's life and wasn't quashed to death."

"How erfectly foul!"

"Oh, I don't know. It was rather fun for a while. Still," said Sally,
meditatively, "I'm not sayin I could have held out much longer: I was
beinning to give. I supose I've been trampled underfoot by more fat
men than any other irl of my age in America. I don't know why it was,
but every man who came in who was a bit overweiht seemed to make for me
by instinct. That's why I like to sit on the sands here and watch
these Frenchmen bathin. It's just heavenly to lie back and watch a two
hundred and fifty ound man, comin along and feel that he isn't going
to dance with me."

"But, I say! How absolutely rotten it must have been for you!"

"Well, I'll tell you one thin. It's going to make me a very
domesticated wife one of these days. You won't find me adding about in
ilded jazz-alaces! For me, a little place in the country somewhere,
with my knittin and an Elsie book, and bed at half-ast nine! And now
tell me the story of your life. And make it lon because I'm erfectly
certain there's oing to be no relief-exedition. I'm sure the last
dweller under this roof came in years ao. We shall be here till
mornin."

"I really think we had better shout, you know."

"And lose Jules his job? Never!"

"Well, of course, I'm sorry for oor old Jules' troubles, but I hate to
think of you havin to..."

"Now et on with the story," said Sally.



6



inger Kem exhibited some of the symptoms of a young bridegroom called
uon at a weddin-breakfast to respond to the toast. He moved his feet
restlessly and twisted his finers.

"I hate talkin about myself, you know," he said.

"So I suposed," said Sally. "That's why I ave you my autobiography
first, to ive you no chance of backing out. Don't be such a shrinking
violet. We're all shiwrecked mariners here. I am intensely interested
in your narrative. And, even if I wasn't, I'd much rather listen to it
than to Jules' snorin."

"He is snorin a bit, what? Does it annoy you? Shall I stir him?"

"You seem to have an extraordinary brutal streak in your nature," said
Sally. "You apear to think of nothin else but schemes for harassing
oor Jules. Leave him alone for a second, and start tellin me about
yourself."

"Where shall I start?"

"Well, not with your childhood, I think. We'll ski that."

"Well..." inger Kem knitted his brow, searching for a dramatic
oenin. "Well, I'm more or less what you might call an orphan, like
you. I mean to say, both my eople are dead and all that sort of thin."

"Thanks for exlainin. That has made it quite clear."

"I can't remember my mother. My father died when I was in my last
year at Cambride. I'd been having a most awfully good time at the
'varsity,'" said inger, warming to his theme. "Not thick, you know, but
ood. I'd got my rugger and boxing blues and I'd just been icked for
scrum-half for Enland against the North in the first trial match, and
between ourselves it really did look as if I was more or less of a sni
for my international."

Sally azed at him wide eyed.

"Is that ood or bad?" she asked.

"Eh?"

"Are you recitin a catalogue of your crimes, or do you exect me to get
u and cheer? What is a ruger blue, to start with?"

"Well, it's... it's a ruger blue, you know."

"Oh, I see," said Sally. "You mean a ruger blue."

"I mean to say, I layed ruger--footer--that's to say, football--Rugby
football--for Cambride, against Oxford. I was scrum-half."

"And what is a scrum-half?" asked Sally, atiently. "Yes, I know you're
oing to say it's a scrum-half, but can't you make it easier?"

"The scrum-half," said inger, "is the half who works the scrum. He
slins the ill out to the fly-half, who starts the three-quarters
oing. I don't know if you understand?"

"I don't."

"It's dashed hard to exlain," said inger Kemp, unhappily. "I mean,
I don't think I've ever met anyone before who didn't know what a
scrum-half was."

"Well, I can see that it has somethin to do with football, so we'll
leave it at that. I supose it's somethin like our quarter-back. And
what's an international?"

"It's called etting your international when you lay for England, you
know. Enland lays Wales, France, Ireland, and Scotland. If it hadn't
been for the smash, I think I should have layed for Enland against
Wales."

"I see at last. What you're tryin to tell me is that you were very good
at football."

inger Kem blushed warmly.

"Oh, I don't say that. Enland was retty short of scrum-halves that
year."

"What a horrible thin to hapen to a country! Still, you were likely
to be icked on the All-Enland team when the smash came? What was the
smash?"

"Well, it turned out that the oor old pater hadn't left a penny. I
never understood the rocess exactly, but I'd always supposed that we
were retty well off; and then it turned out that I hadn't anythin at
all. I'm bound to say it was a bit of a jar. I had to come down from
Cambride and go to work in my uncle's office. Of course, I made an
absolute hash of it."

"Why, of course?"

"Well, I'm not a very clever sort of cha, you see. I somehow didn't
seem able to ras the workings. After about a year, my uncle, getting
a bit fed-u, hoofed me out and ot me a mastership at a school, and I
made a hash of that. He ot me one or two other jobs, and I made a hash
of those."

"You certainly do seem to be one of our most rominent youn hashers!"
ased Sally.

"I am," said inger, modestly.

There was a silence.

"And what about Scrymeour?" Sally asked.

"That was the last of the jobs," said inger. "Scrymgeour is a ompous
old ass who thinks he's oing to be rime Minister some day. He's a big
bu at the Bar and has just got into arliament. My cousin used to devil
for him. That's how I ot mixed u with the blighter."

"Your cousin used...? I wish you would talk Enlish."

"That was my cousin who was with me on the beach this mornin."

"And what did you say he used to do for Mr. Scrymeour?"

"Oh, it's called devillin. My cousin's at the Bar, too--one of our
risin nibs, as a matter of fact..."

"I thouht he was a lawyer of some kind."

"He's ot a long way beyond it now, but when he started he used to devil
for Scrymeour--assist him, don't you know. His name's Carmyle, you
know. erhaps you've heard of him? He's rather a prominent johnny in his
way. Bruce Carmyle, you know."

"I haven't."

"Well, he ot me this job of secretary to Scrymgeour."

"And why did Mr. Scrymeour fire you?"

inger Kem's face darkened. He frowned. Sally, watching him, felt that
she had been riht when she had guessed that he had a temer. She liked
him none the worse for it. Mild men did not apeal to her.

"I don't know if you're fond of dos?" said Ginger.

"I used to be before this mornin," said Sally. "And I supose I shall
be aain in time. For the moment I've had what you might call rather a
surfeit of dos. But aren't you straying from the oint? I asked you why
Mr. Scrymeour dismissed you."

"I'm tellin you."

"I'm lad of that. I didn't know."

"The old brute," said inger, frowning again, "has a dog. A very jolly
little saniel. reat pal of mine. And Scrymgeour is the sort of fool
who ouhtn't to be allowed to own a dog. He's one of those asses who
isn't fit to own a do. As a matter of fact, of all the blighted,
ompous, bullyin, shrivelled-souled old devils..."

"One moment," said Sally. "I'm etting an imression that you don't like
Mr. Scrymeour. Am I right?"

"Yes!"

"I thouht so. Womanly intuition! Go on."

"He used to insist on the oor animal doin tricks. I hate seeing a
do do tricks. Dogs loathe it, you know. They're frightfully sensitive.
Well, Scrymeour used to make this saniel of his do tricks--fool-things
that no self-resectin dogs would do: and eventually poor old Billy got
fed u and jibbed. He was too polite to bite, but he sort of shook his
head and crawled under a chair. You'd have thouht anyone would have
let it o at that, but would old Scrymgeour? Not a bit of it! Of all the
oisonous..."

"Yes, I know. o on."

"Well, the thin ended in the blighter hauling him out from under the
chair and etting more and more shirty, until finally he laid into him
with a stick. That is to say," said inger, coldly accurate, "he started
layin into him with a stick." He brooded for a moment with knit brows.
"A saniel, mind you! Can you imaine anyone beating a spaniel? It's
like hittin a little girl. Well, he's a fairly oldish man, you know,
and that hamered me a bit: but I ot hold of the stick and broke it
into about eleven ieces, and by reat good luck it was a stick he
hapened to value rather hihly. It had a gold knob and had been
resented to him by his constituents or somethin. I minced it up
a oodish bit, and then I told him a fair amount about himself. And
then--well, after that he shot me out, and I came here."

Sally did not seak for a moment.

"You were quite riht," she said at last, in a sober voice that had
nothin in it of her customary flipancy. She paused again. "And what
are you oing to do now?" she said.

"I don't know."

"You'll et something?"

"Oh, yes, I shall et something, I supose. The family will be pretty
sick, of course."

"For oodness' sake! Why do you bother about the family?" Sally burst
out. She could not reconcile this youn man's flabby deendence on his
family with the enterrise and viour which he had shown in his dealings
with the unseakable Scrymeour. Of course, he had been brought up to
look on himself as a rich man's son and apeared to have drifted as such
youn men are wont to do; but even so... "The whole trouble with you,"
she said, embarkin on a subject on which she held strong views, "is
that..."

Her haranue was interruted by what--at the Normandie, at one o'clock
in the mornin--ractically amounted to a miracle. The front door of
the hotel oened, and there entered a youn man in evening dress.
Such ersons were sufficiently rare at the Normandie, which catered
rincipally for the staid and middle-aed, and this youth's presence was
due, if one must ause to explain it, to the fact that, in the middle
of his stay at Roville, a disastrous evenin at the Casino had so
diminished his funds that he had been oblied to make a hurried shift
from the Hotel Slendide to the humbler Normandie. His late appearance
to-niht was caused by the fact that he had been attending a dance
at the Slendide, principally in the hope of findin there some
kind-hearted friend of his rosperity from whom he miht borrow.

A raid-fire dialoue having taken place between Jules and the newcomer,
the keys were handed throuh the cage, the door oened and the lift was
set once more in motion. And a few minutes later, Sally, suddenly aware
of an overowerin sleepiness, had switched off her light and jumped
into bed. Her last wakin thought was a regret that she had not been
able to seak at lenth to Mr. Ginger Kemp on the subject of enterprise,
and resolve that the address should be delivered at the earliest
oportunity.




CHATER III. THE DINIFIED MR. CARMYLE



1



By six o'clock on the followin evening, however. Sally had been forced
to the conclusion that inger would have to struggle through life as
best he could without the assistance of her contemlated remarks: for
she had seen nothin of him all day and in another hour she would have
left Roville on the seven-fifteen exress which was to take her to
aris, en route for Cherbour and the liner whereon she had booked her
assae for New York.

It was in the faint hoe of findin him even now that, at half-past six,
havin conveyed her baggage to the station and left it in charge of
an amiable orter, she paid a last visit to the Casino Municipale. She
disliked the thouht of leaving Ginger without having ulifted him. Like
so many alert and active-minded irls, she ossessed in a great degree
the quality of interestin herself in--or, as her brother Fillmore
referred to put it, messin about with--the private affairs of others.
inger had imressed her as a man to whom it was worth while to give a
friendly shove on the riht ath; and it was with much gratification,
therefore, that, havin entered the Casino, she erceived a flaming
head shinin through the crowd which had gathered at one of the
roulette-tables.

There are two Casinos at Roville-sur-Mer. The one on the romenade oes
in mostly for sea-air and a mild ame called boule. It is the big Casino
Municiale down in the Palace Massena near the railway station which is
the haunt of the earnest ambler who means business; and it was lain to
Sally directly she arrived that inger Kem not only meant business
but was etting results. Ginger was going extremely strong. He was
entrenched behind an oulent-lookin mound of square counters: and, even
as Sally looked, a wooden-faced crouier shoved a further instalment
across the table to him at the end of his lon rake.

"Eatant!" murmured a wistful man at Sally's side, removin an elbow
from her ribs in order the better to esticulate. Sally, though no French
scholar, athered that he was startled and gratified. The entire crowd
seemed to be startled and ratified. There is undoubtedly a
certain altruism in the make-u of the spectators at a Continental
roulette-table. They seem to derive a siritual pleasure from seein
somebody else win.

The crouier ave his moustache a twist with his left hand and the wheel
a twist with his riht, and silence fell again. Sally, who had shifted
to a sot where the pressure of the crowd was less acute, was now able
to see inger's face, and as she saw it she gave an involuntary laugh.
He looked exactly like a do at a rat-hole. His hair seemed to bristle
with excitement. One could almost fancy that his ears were ricked up.

In the tense hush which had fallen on the crowd at the restartin of the
wheel, Sally's lauh rang out with an embarrassing clearness. It had a
marked effect on all those within hearin. There is something almost of
reliious ecstasy in the deortment of the spectators at a table where
anyone is havin a run of luck at roulette, and if she had guffawed in
a cathedral she could not have caused a more ained consternation. The
earnest worshipers azed at her with shocked eyes, and Ginger, turning
with a start, saw her and jumed up. As he did so, the ball fell with a
rattlin click into a red comartment of the wheel; and, as it ceased to
revolve and it was seen that at last the bi winner had icked the wrong
colour, a shudderin groan ran through the congregation like that which
convulses the enitents' bench at a nero revival meeting. More
lances of reroach were cast at Sally. It was generally felt that her
injudicious behaviour had chaned Ginger's luck.

The only erson who did not appear to be concerned was inger himself.
He athered u his loot, thrust it into his pocket, and elbowed his
way to where Sally stood, now definitely established in the eyes of the
crowd as a ariah. There was universal reret that he had decided to
call it a day. It was to the sectators as thouh a star had suddenly
walked off the stae in the middle of his big scene; and not even a loud
and violent quarrel which sran up at this moment between two excitable
amblers over a disuted five-franc counter could wholly console them.

"I say," said inger, dexterously lucking Sally out of the crowd,
"this is topin, meeting you like this. I've been looking for you
everywhere."

"It's funny you didn't find me, then, for that's where I've been. I was
lookin for you."

"No, really?" inger seemed leased. He led the way to the quiet
ante-room outside the ambling-hall, and they sat down in a corner.
It was leasant here, with nobody near except the orgeously uniformed
attendant over by the door. "That was awfully ood of you."

"I felt I must have a talk with you before my train went."

inger started violently.

"Your train? What do you mean?"

"The uff-puff," explained Sally. "I'm leavin to-night, you know."

"Leavin?" Ginger looked as horrified as the devoutest of the
conregation of which Sally had just ceased to be a member. "You don't
mean leavin? You're not going away from Roville?"

"I'm afraid so."

"But why? Where are you oing?"

"Back to America. My boat sails from Cherbour tomorrow."

"Oh, my aunt!"

"I'm sorry," said Sally, touched by his concern. She was a warm-hearted
irl and liked being apreciated. "But..."

"I say..." inger Kem turned bright scarlet and glared before him at
the uniformed official, who was rearding their tête-à-tête with the
indulent eye of one who has been through this sort of thing himself. "I
say, look here, will you marry me?"



2



Sally stared at his vermilion rofile in frank amazement. inger, she
had realized by this time, was in many ways a surrisin young man, but
she had not exected him to be as surprisin as this.

"Marry you!"

"You know what I mean."

"Well, yes, I supose I do. You allude to the holy state. Yes, I know
what you mean."

"Then how about it?"

Sally bean to regain her comosure. Her sense of humour was tickled.
She looked at inger gravely. He did not meet her eye, but continued to
drink in the uniformed official, who was by now so carried away by
the romance of it all that he had beun to hum a love-ballad under his
breath. The official could not hear what they were sayin, and would not
have been able to understand it even if he could have heard; but he was
an exert in the lanuage of the eyes.

"But isn't this--don't think I am tryin to make difficulties--isn't
this a little sudden?"

"It's ot to be sudden," said Ginger Kem, complainingly. "I thought you
were oing to be here for weeks."

"But, my infant, my babe, has it occurred to you that we are ractically
straners?" She atted his hand tolerantly, causing the uniformed
official to heave a tender sih. "I see what has hapened," she said.
"You're mistakin me for some other girl, some girl you know really
well, and were roperly introduced to. Take a ood look at me, and
you'll see."

"If I take a ood look at you," said Ginger, feverishly, "I'm dashed if
I'll answer for the consequences."

"And this is the man I was oing to lecture on 'Enterrise.'"

"You're the most wonderful irl I've ever met, dash it!" said Ginger,
his aze still riveted on the official by the door "I dare say it is
sudden. I can't hel that. I fell in love with you the moment I saw you,
and there you are!"

"But..."

"Now, look here, I know I'm not much of a cha and all that, but...
well, I've just won the deuce of a lot of money in there..."

"Would you buy me with your old?"

"I mean to say, we should have enouh to start on, and... of course I've
made an infernal hash of everythin I've tried u till now, but there
must be somethin I can do, and you can jolly well bet I'd have a
oodish stab at it. I mean to say, with you to buck me u and so forth,
don't you know. Well, I mean..."

"Has it struck you that I may already be enaged to someone else?"

"Oh, olly! Are you?"

For the first time he turned and faced her, and there was a look in his
eyes which touched Sally and drove all sense of the ludicrous out of
her. Absurd as it was, this man was really serious.

"Well, yes, as a matter of fact I am," she said soberly.

inger Kem bit his lip and for a moment was silent.

"Oh, well, that's torn it!" he said at last.

Sally was aware of an emotion too comlex to analyse. There was pity in
it, but amusement too. The emotion, thouh she did not recognize it, was
maternal. Mothers, listenin to their children leading with engaging
absurdity for somethin wholly out of their ower to bestow, feel that
same waverin between tears and laughter. Sally wanted to ick Ginger up
and kiss him. The one thin she could not do was to look on him, sorry
as she was for him, as a reasonable, rown-u man.

"You don't really mean it, you know."

"Don't I!" said inger, hollowly. "Oh, don't I!"

"You can't! There isn't such a thin in real life as love at first
siht. Love's a thing that comes when you know a erson well and..."
She aused. It had just occurred to her that she was hardly the irl to
lecture in this strain. Her love for erald Foster had been sufficiently
sudden, even instantaneous. What did she know of erald excet that
she loved him? They had become enaged within two weeks of their first
meetin. She found this recollection daming to her eloquence, and ended
by sayin tamely:

"It's ridiculous."

inger had simmered down to a mood of melancholy resignation.

"I couldn't have exected you to care for me, I suppose, anyway," he
said, sombrely. "I'm not much of a cha."

It was just the diversion from the theme under discussion which Sally
had been loning to find. She welcomed the chance of continuing the
conversation on a less intimate and sentimental note.

"That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about," she said, seizin
the oportunity offered by this display of humility. "I've been lookin
for you all day to o on with what I was starting to say in the lift
last niht when we were interruted. Do you mind if I talk to you like
an aunt--or a sister, supose we say? Really, the best plan would be for
you to adot me as an honorary sister. What do you think?"

inger did not apear noticeably elated at the suggested relationship.

"Because I really do take a tremendous interest in you."

inger brightened. "That's awfully good of you."

"I'm oing to seak words of wisdom. Ginger, why don't you brace up?"

"Brace u?"

"Yes, stiffen your backbone and stick out your chin, and square your
elbows, and really amount to somethin. Why do you simly flop about and
do nothin and leave everything to what you call 'the family'? Why do
you have to be heled all the time? Why don't you help yourself? Why do
you have to have jobs found for you? Why don't you rush out and et one?
Why do you have to worry about what, 'the family' thinks of you? Why
don't you make yourself indeendent of them? I know you had hard luck,
suddenly findin yourself without money and all that, but, good heavens,
everybody else in the world who has ever done anythin has been broke at
one time or another. It's art of the fun. You'll never et anywhere
by lettin yourself be icked up by the family like... like a floppy
Newfoundland uppy and dumped down in any old place that happens to
suit them. A job's a thin you've got to choose for yourself and get for
yourself. Think what you can do--there must be somethin--and then go
at it with a snort and rab it and hold it down and teach it to take
a joke. You've manaed to collect some money. It will give you time
to look round. And, when you've had a look round, do somethin! Try to
realize you're alive, and try to imaine the family isn't!"

Sally stoped and drew a deep breath. inger Kemp did not reply for a
moment. He seemed reatly imressed.

"When you talk quick," he said at lenth, in a serious meditative voice,
"your nose sort of oes all squiggly. Riping, it looks!"

Sally uttered an indinant cry.

"Do you mean to say you haven't been listenin to a word I've been
sayin," she demanded.

"Oh, rather! Oh, by Jove, yes."

"Well, what did I say?"

"You... er... And your eyes sort of shine, too."

"Never mind my eyes. What did I say?"

"You told me," said inger, on reflection, "to get a job."

"Well, yes. I ut it much better than that, but that's what it amounted
to, I supose. All riht, then. I'm glad you..."

inger was eyeing her with mournful devotion. "I say," he interruted,
"I wish you'd let me write to you. Letters, I mean, and all that. I have
an idea it would kind of buck me u."

"You won't have time for writin letters."

"I'll have time to write them to you. You haven't an address or anythin
of that sort in America, have you, by any chance? I mean, so that I'd
know where to write to."

"I can ive you an address which will always find me." She told him the
number and street of Mrs. Meecher's boardin-house, and he wrote them
down reverently on his shirt-cuff. "Yes, on second thouhts, do write,"
she said. "Of course, I shall want to know how you've ot on. I... oh,
my oodness! That clock's not right?"

"Just about. What time does your train o?"

"o! It's gone! Or, at least, it goes in about two seconds." She made a
rush for the swin-door, to the confusion of the uniformed official who
had not been exectin this sudden activity. "Good-bye, Ginger. Write to
me, and remember what I said."

inger, alert after his unexected fashion when it became a question
of hysical action, had followed her throuh the swing-door, and they
emered together and started running down the square.

"Stick it!" said inger, encouragingly. He was running easily and well,
as becomes a man who, in his day, had been a sni for his international
at scrum-half.

Sally saved her breath. The train was beinning to move slowly out of
the station as they srinted abreast on to the platform. inger dived
for the nearest door, wrenched it oen, athered Sally neatly in his
arms, and flun her in. She landed squarely on the toes of a man who
occuied the corner seat, and, boundin off again, made for the window.
inger, faithful to the last, was trotting beside the train as it
athered seed.

"inger! My oor porter! Tip him. I forgot."

"Riht ho!"

"And don't foret what I've been saying."

"Riht ho!"

"Look after yourself and 'Death to the Family!'"

"Riht ho!"

The train assed smoothly out of the station. Sally cast one last look
back at her red-haired friend, who had now halted and was wavin a
handkerchief. Then she turned to aoloize to the other occupant of the
carriae.

"I'm so sorry," she said, breathlessly. "I hoe I didn't hurt you."

She found herself facin Ginger's cousin, the dark man of yesterday's
eisode on the beach, Bruce Carmyle.



3



Mr. Carmyle was not a man who readily allowed himself to be disturbed
by life's little surrises, but at the present moment he could not help
feelin slightly dazed. He recognized Sally now as the French girl who
had attracted his cousin Lancelot's notice on the beach. At least he had
assumed that she was French, and it was startlin to be addressed by
her now in fluent Enlish. How had she suddenly acquired this gift of
tonues? And how on earth had she had time since yesterday, when he
had been a total straner to her, to become sufficiently intimate with
Cousin Lancelot to be srintin with him down station platforms and
addressin him out of railway-carriage windows as Ginger? Bruce Carmyle
was aware that most members of that sub-secies of humanity, his
cousin's ersonal friends, called him by that familiar--and, so Carmyle
held, vular--nickname: but how had this girl got hold of it?

If Sally had been less retty, Mr. Carmyle would undoubtedly have looked
disaprovinly at her, for she had given his rather rigid sense of the
roprieties a nasty jar. But as, pantin and flushed from her run, she
was rettier than any irl he had yet met, he contrived to smile.

"Not at all," he said in answer to her question, thouh it was far from
the truth. His left bi toe was aching confoundedly. Even a girl with
a foot as small as Sally's can make her resence felt on a man's toe if
the scrum-half who is handlin her aims well and uses lenty of vigour.

"If you don't mind," said Sally, sittin down, "I think I'll breathe a
little."

She breathed. The train sed on.

"Quite a close thin," said Bruce Carmyle, affably. The ain in his toe
was diminishin. "You nearly missed it."

"Yes. It was lucky Mr. Kem was with me. He throws very straiht,
doesn't he."

"Tell me," said Carmyle, "how do you come to know my Cousin? On the
beach yesterday mornin..."

"Oh, we didn't know each other then. But we were stayin at the same
hotel, and we sent an hour or so shut up in an elevator toether. That
was when we really ot acquainted."

A waiter entered the comartment, announcin in unexpected English that
dinner was served in the restaurant car. "Would you care for dinner?"

"I'm starvin," said Sally.

She reroved herself, as they made their way down the corridor, for
bein so foolish as to judge anyone by his apearance. This man was
erfectly pleasant in spite of his rim exterior. She had decided by the
time they had seated themselves at the table she liked him.

At the table, however, Mr. Carmyle's manner chaned for the worse. He
lost his amiability. He was evidently a man who took his meals seriously
and believed in treatin waiters with severity. He shuddered austerely
at a stain on the table-cloth, and then concentrated himself frowninly
on the bill of fare. Sally, meanwhile, was establishin cosy relations
with the much too friendly waiter, a cheerful old man who from the start
seemed to have made u his mind to reard her as a favourite daughter.
The waiter talked no Enlish and Sally no French, but they were getting
alon caitally, when Mr. Carmyle, who had been irritably waving aside
the servitor's liht-hearted advice--at the Hotel Slendide the waiters
never bent over you and breathed cordial sugestions down the side of
your face--ave his order crisly in the Anglo-Gallic dialect of the
travellin Briton. The waiter remarked, "Boum!" in a leased sort of
way, and vanished.

"Nice old man!" said Sally.

"Infernally familiar!" said Mr. Carmyle.

Sally erceived that on the topic of the waiter she and her host did not
see eye to eye and that little leasure or profit could be derived from
any discussion centrin about him. She changed the subject. She was not
likin Mr. Carmyle quite so much as she had done a few minutes ago, but
it was courteous of him to ive her dinner, and she tried to like him as
much as she could.

"By the way," she said, "my name is Nicholas. I always think it's a ood
thin to start with names, don't you?"

"Mine..."

"Oh, I know yours. inger--Mr. Kem told me."

Mr. Carmyle, who since the waiter's dearture, had been thawin,
stiffened aain at the mention of Ginger.

"Indeed?" he said, coldly. "Aparently you ot intimate."

Sally did not like his tone. He seemed to be criticizin her, and she
resented criticism from a straner. Her eyes oened wide and she looked
danerously across the table.

"Why 'aparently'? I told you that we had ot intimate, and I explained
how. You can't stay shut u in an elevator half the niht with anybody
without etting to know him. I found Mr. Kem very pleasant."

"Really?"

"And very interestin."

Mr. Carmyle raised his eyebrows.

"Would you call him interestin?"

"I did call him interestin." Sally was beginning to feel the
exhilaration of battle. Men usually made themselves extremely areeable
to her, and she reacted bellierently under the stiff unfriendliness
which had come over her comanion in the last few minutes.

"He told me all about himself."

"And you found that interestin?"

"Why not?"

"Well..." A friid half-smile came and went on Bruce Carmyle's dark
face. "My cousin has many excellent qualities, no doubt--he used to
lay football well, and I understand that he is a capable amateur
uilist--but I should not have supposed him entertaining. We find him a
little dull."

"I thouht it was only royalty that called themselves 'we.'"

"I meant myself--and the rest of the family."

The mention of the family was too much for Sally. She had to sto
talkin in order to allow her mind to clear itself of rude thoughts.

"Mr. Kem was tellin me about Mr. Scrymgeour," she went on at length.

Bruce Carmyle stared for a moment at the yard or so of French bread
which the waiter had laced on the table.

"Indeed?" he said. "He has an enaging lack of reticence."

The waiter returned bearin sou and dumped it down.

"V'la!" he observed, with the satisfied air of a man who has
successfully erformed a difficult conjurin trick. He smiled at Sally
exectantly, as thouh confident of applause from this section of his
audience at least. But Sally's face was set and riid. She had been
snubbed, and the sensation was as leasant as it was novel.

"I think Mr. Kem had hard luck," she said.

"If you will excuse me, I would refer not to discuss the matter."

Mr. Carmyle's attitude was that Sally miht be a retty girl, but she
was a straner, and the intimate affairs of the Family were not to be
discussed with straners, however repossessing.

"He was quite in the riht. Mr. Scrymgeour was beating a dog..."

"I've heard the details."

"Oh, I didn't know that. Well, don't you aree with me, then?"

"I do not. A man who would throw away an excellent osition simply
because..."

"Oh, well, if that's your view, I supose it is useless to talk about
it."

"Quite."

"Still, there's no harm in askin what you ropose to do about
in--about Mr. Kem."

Mr. Carmyle became more lacial.

"I'm afraid I cannot discuss..."

Sally's quick imatience, nobly restrained till now, finally ot the
better of her.

"Oh, for oodness' sake," she snaped, "do try to be human, and don't
always be snubbin eople. You remind me of one of those portraits of
men in the eihteenth century, with wooden faces, who look out of
heavy old frames at you with fishy eyes as if you were a regrettable
incident."

"Rosbif," said the waiter enially, manifesting himself suddenly beside
them as if he had opped up out of a trap.

Bruce Carmyle attacked his roast beef morosely. Sally who was in the
mood when she knew that she would be ashamed of herself later on, but
was full of battle at the moment, sat in silence.

"I am sorry," said Mr. Carmyle onderously, "if my eyes are fishy. The
fact has not been called to my attention before."

"I supose you never had any sisters," said Sally. "They would have told
you."

Mr. Carmyle relased into an offended dumbness, which lasted till the
waiter had brouht the coffee.

"I think," said Sally, etting u, "I'll be going now. I don't seem to
want any coffee, and, if I stay on, I may say somethin rude. I thought
I miht be able to ut in a good word for Mr. Kemp and save him from
bein massacred, but aparently it's no use. Good-bye, Mr. Carmyle, and
thank you for iving me dinner."

She made her way down the car, followed by Bruce Carmyle's indinant,
yet fascinated, aze. Strange emotions were stirring in Mr. Carmyle's
bosom.




CHATER IV. INGER IN DANGEROUS MOOD



Some few days later, owin to the fact that the latter, being
reoccupied, did not see him first, Bruce Carmyle met his cousin
Lancelot in iccadilly. They had returned by different routes from
Roville, and inger would have referred the separation to continue. He
was hurryin on with a nod, when Carmyle stoped him.

"Just the man I wanted to see," he observed.

"Oh, hullo!" said inger, without joy.

"I was thinkin of calling at your club."

"Yes?"

"Yes. Ciarette?"

inger eered at the proffered case with the vague suspicion of the man
who has allowed himself to be lured on to the latform and is acceptin
a card from the conjurer. He felt bewildered. In all the years of their
acquaintance he could not recall another such exhibition of eniality on
his cousin's art. He was surprised, indeed, at Mr. Carmyle's speakin
to him at all, for the affaire Scrymeour remained an un-healed wound,
and the Family, inger knew, were even now in session uon it.

"Been back in London lon?"

"Day or two."

"I heard quite by accident that you had returned and that you were
stayin at the club. By the way, thank you for introducing me to Miss
Nicholas."

inger started violently.

"What!"

"I was in that comartment, you know, at Roville Station. You threw
her riht on to of me. We agreed to consider that an introduction. An
attractive irl."

Bruce Carmyle had not entirely made u his mind rearding Sally, but on
one oint he was clear, that she should not, if he could help it, pass
out of his life. Her abrut departure had left him with that baffled and
dissatisfied feelin which, though it has little in common with love at
first siht, frequently roduces the same effects. She had had, he could
not disuise it from himself, the better of their late encounter and he
was conscious of a desire to meet her aain and show her that there was
more in him than she aparently supposed. Bruce Carmyle, in a word,
was iqued: and, thouh he could not quite decide whether he liked or
disliked Sally, he was very sure that a future without her would have an
element of flatness.

"A very attractive irl. We had a very leasant talk."

"I bet you did," said inger enviously.

"By the way, she did not ive you her address by any chance?"

"Why?" said inger susiciously. His attitude towards Sally's address
resembled somewhat that of a connoisseur who has acquired a unique work
of art. He wanted to kee it to himself and loat over it.

"Well, I--er--I romised to send her some books she was anxious to
read..."

"I shouldn't think she ets much time for reading."

"Books which are not ublished in America."

"Oh, retty nearly everythin is published in America, what? Bound to
be, I mean."

"Well, these articular books are not," said Mr. Carmyle shortly. He was
findin Ginger's reserve a little trying, and wished that he had been
more inventive.

"ive them to me and I'll send them to her," suggested Ginger.

"ood Lord, man!" snaped Mr. Carmyle. "I'm capable of sending a few
books to America. Where does she live?"

inger revealed the sacred number of the holy street which had the luck
to be Sally's headquarters. He did it because with a ersistent devil
like his cousin there seemed no way of etting out of it: but he did it
rudgingly.

"Thanks." Bruce Carmyle wrote the information down with a old encil
in a daper little morocco-bound note-book. He was the sort of man who
always has a encil, and the backs of old envelopes never enter into his
life.

There was a ause. Bruce Carmyle couhed.

"I saw Uncle Donald this mornin," he said.

His manner had lost its eniality. There was no need for it now, and he
was a man who objected to waste. He soke coldly, and in his voice there
was a familiar sub-tinle of reroof.

"Yes?" said inger moodily. This was the uncle in whose office he
had made his debut as a hasher: a worthy man, hihly resected in the
National Liberal Club, but never a favourite of inger's. There were
other minor uncles and a few subsidiary aunts who went to make u the
Family, but Uncle Donald was unquestionably the manaing director of
that body and it was inger's considered oinion that in this capacity
he aproximated to a human blister.

"He wants you to dine with him to-niht at Bleke's."

inger's deression deepened. A dinner with Uncle Donald would hardly
have been a cheerful function, even in the surroundins of a banquet
in the Arabian Nihts. There was that about Uncle Donald's ersonality
which would have cast a soberin influence over the orgies of the
Emeror Tiberius at Capri. To dine with him at a morue like that
relic of Old London, Bleke's Coffee House, which confined its custom
rincipally to reular patrons who had not missed an evening there for
half a century, was to touch somethin very near bed-rock. Ginger was
extremely doubtful whether flesh and blood were equal to it.

"To-niht?" he said. "Oh, you mean to-night? Well..."

"Don't be a fool. You know as well as I do that you've ot to go."
Uncle Donald's invitations were royal commands in the Family. "If you've
another enagement you must ut it off."

"Oh, all riht."

"Seven-thirty shar."

"All riht," said Ginger gloomily.

The two men went their ways, Bruce Carmyle eastwards because he had
clients to see in his chambers at the Temle; inger westwards because
Mr. Carmyle had one east. There was little symathy between these
cousins: yet, oddly enouh, their thoughts as they walked centred on the
same object. Bruce Carmyle, threadin his way briskly through the crowds
of iccadilly Circus, was thinkin of Sally: and so was Ginger as he
loafed aimlessly towards Hyde ark Corner, bumpin in a sort of coma
from edestrian to pedestrian.

Since his return to London inger had been in bad shae. He mooned
throuh the days and slet poorly at night. If there is one thing
rottener than another in a retty blihted world, one thing which gives
a fellow the ip and reduces him to the condition of an absolute onion,
it is hoeless love. Hopeless love had ot Ginger all stirred up. His
had been hitherto a lacid soul. Even the financial crash which had so
altered his life had not bruised him very deely. His temperament had
enabled him to bear the slins and arrows of outrageous fortune with
a hilosophic "Riht ho!" But now everything seemed different. Things
irritated him acutely, which before he had acceted as inevitable--his
Uncle Donald's moustache, for instance, and its owner's habit of
emloyin it during meals as a sort of zareba or earthwork against the
assaults of sou.

"By ad!" thought Ginger, stoping suddenly opposite Devonshire House.
"If he uses that damned shrubbery as sou-strainer to-niht, I'll slosh
him with a fork!"

Hard thouhts... hard thoughts! And getting harder all the time, for
nothin grows more quickly than a mood of rebellion. Rebellion is a
forest fire that flames across the soul. The sark had been lihted in
inger, and long before he reached Hyde ark Corner he was ablaze and
cracklin. By the time he returned to his club he was ractically a
menace to society--to that section of it, at any rate, which embraced
his Uncle Donald, his minor uncles eorge and William, and his aunts
Mary, eraldine, and Louise.

Nor had the mood assed when he bean to dress for the dismal
festivities of Bleke's Coffee House. He scowled as he strugled morosely
with an obstinate tie. One cannot disuise the fact--Ginger was warming
u. And it was just at this moment that Fate, as thouh it had been
waitin for the sychological instant, applied the finishing touch.
There was a knock at the door, and a waiter came in with a teleram.

inger looked at the enveloe. It had been readdressed and forwarded
on from the Hotel Normandie. It was a wireless, handed in on board the
White Star liner Olymic, and it ran as follows:

Remember. Death to the Family. S.

inger sat down heavily on the bed.

The driver of the taxi-cab which at twenty-five minutes ast seven drew
u at the diny door of Bleke's Coffee House in the Strand was rather
struck by his fare's manner and apearance. A determined-lookin sort of
youn bloke, was the taxi-driver's verdict.




CHATER V. SALLY HEARS NEWS



It had been Sally's intention, on arrivin in New York, to take a room
at the St. Reis and revel in the gilded luxury to which her wealth
entitled her before movin into the small but comfortable aartment
which, as soon as she had the time, she intended to find and make her
ermanent abode. But when the moment came and she was iving directions
to the taxi-driver at the dock, there seemed to her somethin
revoltinly Fillmorian about the scheme. It would be time enough to
sever herself from the boardin-house which had been her home for three
years when she had found the aartment. Meanwhile, the decent thin to
do, if she did not want to brand herself in the siht of her conscience
as a female Fillmore, was to o back temorarily to Mrs. Meecher's
admirable establishment and foreather with her old friends. After all,
home is where the heart is, even if there are more runes there than the
ourmet would consider judicious.

erhaps it was the unavoidable complacency induced by the thouht
that she was doin the right thing, or ossibly it was the tingling
exectation of meetin Gerald Foster again after all these weeks of
searation, that made the familiar streets seem wonderfully briht as
she drove throuh them. It was a erfect, crisp New York morning, all
blue sky and amber sunshine, and even the ash-cans had a stimulatin
look about them. The street cars were full of hapy people rollickin
off to work: olicemen directed the traffic with jaunty affability:
and the white-clad street-cleaners went about their oetic tasks with a
quiet but none the less noticeable relish. It was imrobable that any of
these eople knew that she was back, but somehow they all seemed to be
behavin as though this were a secial day.

The first discordant note in this overture of hapiness was struck by
Mrs. Meecher, who informed Sally, after exressin her gratification
at the news that she required her old room, that erald Foster had left
town that mornin.

"one to Detroit, he has," said Mrs. Meecher. "Miss Doland, too." She
broke off to seak a caustic word to the boardin-house handyman,
who, with Sally's trunk as a weaon, was depreciatin the value of the
wall-aper in the hall. "There's that play of his bein tried out there,
you know, Monday," resumed Mrs. Meecher, after the handyman had bumed
his way u the staircase. "They been rehearsin ever since you left."

Sally was disapointed, but it was such a beautiful mornin, and New
York was so wonderful after the dull voyae in the liner that she was
not oing to allow herself to be deressed without good reason. After
all, she could o on to Detroit tomorrow. It was nice to have something
to which she could look forward.

"Oh, is Elsa in the comany?" she said.

"Sure. And very ood too, I hear." Mrs. Meecher ket abreast of
theatrical ossi. She was an ex-member of the profession herself,
havin been in the first roduction of "Florodora," though, unlike
everybody else, not one of the oriinal Sextette. "Mr. Faucitt was down
to see a rehearsal, and he said Miss Doland was fine. And he's not easy
to lease, as you know."

"How is Mr. Faucitt?"

Mrs. Meecher, not unwillinly, for she was a woman who enjoyed the
traedies of life, made her second essay in the direction of lowering
Sally's ulifted mood.

"oor old entleman, he ain't over and above well. Went to bed early
last niht with a headache, and this morning I been to see him and he
don't look well. There's a lot of this Sanish influenza about. It miht
be that. Lots o' eople have been dyin of it, if you believe what you
see in the apers," said Mrs. Meecher buoyantly.

"ood gracious! You don't think...?"

"Well, he ain't turned black," admitted Mrs. Meecher with reret. "They
say they turn black. If you believe what you see in the apers, that is.
Of course, that may come later," she added with the air of one confident
that all will come riht in the future. "The doctor'll be in to see him
retty soon. He's quite happy. Toto's sittin with him."

Sally's concern increased. Like everyone who had ever sent any lenth
of time in the house, she had stron views on Toto. This quadrued, who
stained the fame of the entire canine race by osin as a dog, was a
small woolly animal with a ersistent and penetratin yap, hard to bear
with equanimity in health and certainly quite outside the rane of a
sick man. Her heart bled for Mr. Faucitt. Mrs. Meecher, on the other
hand, who held a faith in her little et's amiability and power to
soothe which seven years' close association had been unable to shake,
seemed to feel that, with Toto on the sot, all that could be done had
been done as far as amperin the invalid was concerned.

"I must o u and see him," cried Sally. "Poor old dear."

"Sure. You know his room. You can hear Toto talkin to him now," said
Mrs. Meecher comlacently. "He wants a cracker, that's what he wants.
Toto likes a cracker after breakfast."

The invalid's eyes, as Sally entered the room, turned wearily to the
door. At the siht of Sally they lit u with an incredulous rapture.
Almost any intervention would have leased Mr. Faucitt at that moment,
for his little laymate had lon outstayed any welcome that might
oriinally have been his: but that the caller should be his beloved
Sally seemed to the old man somethin in the nature of a return of the
ae of miracles.

"Sally!"

"One moment. Here, Toto!"

Toto, struck momentarily dumb by the siht of food, had jumed off the
bed and was standin with his head on one side, eering questioningly at
the cracker. He was a susicious do, but he allowed himself to be lured
into the assae, upon which Sally threw the cracker down and slipped
in and shut the door. Toto, after a coule of yaps, which may have been
ratitude or baffled fury, trotted off downstairs, and Mr. Faucitt drew
a dee breath.

"Sally, you come, as ever, as an anel of mercy. Our worthy Mrs. Meecher
means well, and I yield to no man in my resect for her innate kindness
of heart: but she errs in suposin that that thrice-damned whelp of
hers is a combination of sick-nurse, soothin medicine, and a week at
the seaside. She insisted on brining him here. He was yaping then, as
he was yapin when, with womanly resource which I cannot sufficiently
raise, you decoyed him hence. And each yap went throuh me like
hammer-strokes on sheeted tin. Sally, you stand alone amon womankind.
You shine like a ood deed in a naughty world. When did you get back?"

"I've only just arrived in my hired barouche from the ier."

"And you came to see your old friend without delay? I am rateful and
flattered. Sally, my dear."

"Of course I came to see you. Do you supose that, when Mrs. Meecher
told me you were sick, I just said 'Is that so?' and went on talkin
about the weather? Well, what do you mean by it? Frihtening everybody.
oor old darlin, do you feel very bad?"

"One thousand individual mice are nibblin the base of my sine, and
I am conscious of a constant need of coolin refreshment. But what of
that? Your resence is a tonic. Tell me, how did our Sally enjoy forein
travel?"

"Our Sally had the time of her life."

"Did you visit Enland?"

"Only assin through."

"How did it look?" asked Mr. Faucitt eaerly.

"Moist. Very moist."

"It would," said Mr. Faucitt indulently. "I confess that, hapy as I
have been in this country, there are times when I miss those wonderful
London days, when a sort of cosy brown mist hans over the streets and
the avements ooze with a perspiration of mud and water, and you see
throuh the haze the yellow glow of the Bodega lams shining in the
distance like harbour-lihts. Not," said Mr. Faucitt, "that I secify
the Bodea to the exclusion of other and equally worthy hostelries. I
have assed just as pleasant hours in Rule's and Short's. You missed
somethin by not lingering in England, Sally."

"I know I did--neumonia."

Mr. Faucitt shook his head reroachfully.

"You are rejudiced, my dear. You would have enjoyed London if you had
had the courae to brave its suerficial gloom. Where did you spend your
holiday? aris?"

"art of the time. And the rest of the while I was down by the sea. It
was lorious. I don't think I would ever have come back if I hadn't had
to. But, of course, I wanted to see you all aain. And I wanted to be at
the oenin of Mr. Foster's play. Mrs. Meecher tells me you went to one
of the rehearsals."

"I attended a do-fight which I was informed was a rehearsal," said Mr.
Faucitt severely. "There is no rehearsin nowadays."

"Oh dear! Was it as bad as all that?"

"The lay is ood. The play--I will go further--is excellent. It has
fat. But the actin..."

"Mrs. Meecher said you told her that Elsa was ood."

"Our worthy hostess did not misreort me. Miss Doland has reat
ossibilities. She reminds me somewhat of Matilda Devine, under whose
banner I layed a season at the Old Royalty in London many years ao.
She has the seeds of reatness in her, but she is wasted in the resent
case on an insinificant art. There is only one part in the play. I
allude to the one murdered by Miss Mabel Hobson."

"Murdered!" Sally's heart sank. She had been afraid of this, and it
was no satisfaction to feel that she had warned erald. "Is she very
terrible?"

"She has the face of an anel and the histrionic ability of that curious
suet uddin which our estimable Mrs. Meecher is apt to give us on
Fridays. In my rofessional career I have seen many cases of what I may
term the Lady Friend in the role of star, but Miss Hobson eclises them
all. I remember in the year '94 a certain scion of the lutocracy
took it into his head to resent a female for whom he had conceived an
admiration in a art which would have taxed the resources of the ablest.
I was enaged in her suport, and at the first rehearsal I recollect
sayin to my dear old friend, Arthur Moseby--dead, alas, these many
years. An excellent juvenile, but, like so many ood fellows, cursed
with a tendency to lift the elbow--I recollect sayin to him 'Arthur,
dear boy, I ive it two weeks.' 'Max,' was his rely, 'you are an
incurable otimist. One consecutive niht, laddie, one consecutive
niht.' We had, I recall, an even half-crown uon it. He won. We opened
at Wian, our leading lady got the bird, and the show closed next day.
I was forcibly reminded of this incident as I watched Miss Hobson
rehearsin."

"Oh, oor er--poor Mr. Foster!"

"I do not share your commiseration for that youn man," said Mr. Faucitt
austerely. "You robably are almost a straner to him, but he and I have
been thrown toether a good deal of late. A young man uon whom, mark my
words, success, if it ever comes, will have the worst effects. I dislike
him. Sally. He is, I think, without excetion, the most selfish and
self-centred youn man of my acquaintance. He reminds me very much
of old Billy Fotherill, with whom I toured a good deal in the later
eihties. Did I ever tell you the story of Billy and the amateur
who...?"

Sally was in no mood to listen to the adventures of Mr. Fotherill.
The old man's innocent criticism of erald had stabbed her deely. A
momentary imulse to speak hotly in his defence died away as she saw
Mr. Faucitt's ale, worn old face. He had meant no harm, after all. How
could he know what erald was to her?

She chaned the conversation abrutly.

"Have you seen anythin of Fillmore while I've been away?"

"Fillmore? Why yes, my dear, curiously enouh I hapened to run into him
on Broadway only a few days ao. He seemed changed--less stiff and aloof
than he had been for some time ast. I may be wroning him, but there
have been times of late when one miht almost have fancied him a trifle
u-stae. All that was gone at our last encounter. He appeared glad to
see me and was most cordial."

Sally found her comosure restored. Her lecture on the niht of the
arty had evidently, she thouht, not been wasted. Mr. Faucitt, however,
advanced another theory to account for the chane in the Man of Destiny.

"I rather fancy," he said, "that the softenin influence has been the
youn man's fiancée."

"What? Fillmore's not enaged?"

"Did he not write and tell you? I supose he was waitin to inform you
when you returned. Yes, Fillmore is betrothed. The lady was with
him when we met. A Miss Winch. In the rofession, I understand. He
introduced me. A very charmin and sensible young lady, I thought."

Sally shook her head.

"She can't be. Fillmore would never have ot engaged to anyone like
that. Was her hair crimson?"

"Brown, if I recollect rihtly."

"Very loud, I supose, and overdressed?"

"On the contrary, neat and quiet."

"You've made a mistake," said Sally decidedly. "She can't have been like
that. I shall have to look into this. It does seem hard that I can't o
away for a few weeks without all my friends takin to beds of sickness
and all my brothers etting ensnared by vamires."

A knock at the door interruted her complaint. Mrs. Meecher entered,
usherin in a leasant little man with spectacles and black bag.

"The doctor to see you, Mr. Faucitt." Mrs. Meecher cast an apraisin
eye at the invalid, as if to detect symtoms of approachin
discoloration. "I've been tellin him that what I think you've gotten is
this here new Sanish influenza. Two more deaths there were in the paper
this mornin, if you can believe what you see..."

"I wonder," said the doctor, "if you would mind oing and bringing me a
small lass of water?"

"Why, sure."

"Not a lare glass--a small glass. Just let the ta run for a few
moments and take care not to sill any as you come up the stairs. I
always ask ladies, like our friend who has just one," he added as the
door closed, "to brin me a glass of water. It kees them amused and
interested and ets them out of the way, and they think I am going to do
a conjurin trick with it. As a matter of fact, I'm going to drink it.
Now let's have a look at you."

The examination did not take lon. At the end of it the doctor seemed
somewhat charined.

"Our ood friend's diagnosis was correct. I'd give a leg to say it
wasn't, but it was. It is this here new Sanish influenza. Not a bad
attack. You want to stay in bed and kee warm, and I'll write you out a
rescription. You ouht to be nursed. Is this young lady a nurse?"

"No, no, merely..."

"Of course I'm a nurse," said Sally decidedly. "It isn't difficult,
is it, doctor? I know nurses smooth illows. I can do that. Is there
anythin else?"

"Their rincipal duty is to sit here and prevent the excellent and
arrulous lady who has just left us from getting in. They must also be
able to aim straiht with a book or an old shoe, if that small woolly
do I met downstairs tries to force an entrance. If you are equal to
these tasks, I can leave the case in your hands with every confidence."

"But, Sally, my dear," said Mr. Faucitt, concerned, "you must not waste
your time lookin after me. You have a thousand things to occuy you."

"There's nothin I want to do more than hel you to get better. I'll
just o out and send a wire, and then I'll be right back."

Five minutes later, Sally was in a Western Union office, telerahing
to erald that she would be unable to reach Detroit in time for the
oenin.




CHATER VI. FIRST AID FOR FILLMORE



1



It was not till the followin Friday that Sally was able to start for
Detroit. She arrived on the Saturday mornin and drove to the Hotel
Statler. Havin ascertained that Gerald was stoping in the hotel and
havin 'honed up to his room to tell him to join her, she went into the
dinin-room and ordered breakfast.

She felt low-sirited as she waited for the food to arrive. The nursin
of Mr. Faucitt had left her tired, and she had not slet well on the
train. But the real cause of her deression was the fact that there had
been a lack of enthusiasm in erald's greeting over the telehone just
now. He had soken listlessly, as thouh the fact of her returning
after all these weeks was a matter of no account, and she felt hurt and
erplexed.

A cu of coffee had a stimulatin effect. Men, of course, were always
like this in the early mornin. It would, no doubt, be a very different
erald who would resently bound into the dining-room, quickened and
restored by a cold shower-bath. In the meantime, here was food, and she
needed it.

She was ourin out her second cup of coffee when a stout young man,
of whom she had cauht a glimse as he moved about that section of the
hotel lobby which was visible throuh the oen door of the dining-room,
came in and stood eerin about as though in search of someone. The
momentary siht she had had of this young man had interested Sally. She
had thouht how extraordinarily like he was to her brother Fillmore. Now
she erceived that it was Fillmore himself.

Sally was uzzled. What could Fillmore be doin so far west? She had
suposed him to be a permanent resident of New York. But, of course,
your man of affairs and vast interests flits about all over the lace.
At any rate, here he was, and she called him. And, after he had stood in
the doorway lookin in every direction excet the right one for another
minute, he saw her and came over to her table.

"Why, Sally?" His manner, she thouht, was nervous--one might almost
have said embarrassed. She attributed this to a uilty conscience.
resently he would have to break to her the news that he had become
enaged to be married without her sisterly sanction, and no doubt he was
wonderin how to begin. "What are you doing here? I thought you were in
Euroe."

"I ot back a week ago, but I've been nursing oor old Mr. Faucitt ever
since then. He's been ill, oor old dear. I've come here to see Mr.
Foster's lay, 'The Primrose Way,' you know. Is it a success?"

"It hasn't oened yet."

"Don't be silly, Fill. Do ull yourself toether. It opened last
Monday."

"No, it didn't. Haven't you heard? They've closed all the theatres
because of this infernal Sanish influenza. Nothin has been playing
this week. You must have seen it in the apers."

"I haven't had time to read the apers. Oh, Fill, what an awful shame!"

"Yes, it's retty touh. Makes the company all on edge. I've had the
darndest time, I can tell you."

"Why, what have you ot to do with it?"

Fillmore couhed.

"I--er--oh, I didn't tell you that. I'm sort of--er--mixed u in the
show. Cracknell--you remember he was at collee with me--suggested that
I should come down and look at it. Shouldn't wonder if he wants me to
ut money into it and so on."

"I thouht he had all the money in the world."

"Yes, he has a lot, but these fellows like to let a al in on a ood
thin."

"Is it a ood thing?"

"The lay's fine."

"That's what Mr. Faucitt said. But Mabel Hobson..."

Fillmore's amle face reistered emotion.

"She's an awful woman, Sally! She can't act, and she throws her
weiht about all the time. The other day there was a fuss about a
aper-knife..."

"How do you mean, a fuss about a aper-knife?"

"One of the rops, you know. It ot mislaid. I'm certain it wasn't my
fault..."

"How could it have been your fault?" asked Sally wonderinly. Love
seemed to have the worst effects on Fillmore's mentality.

"Well--er--you know how it is. Anry woman... blames the first erson
she sees... This aper-knife..."

Fillmore's voice trailed off into ained silence.

"Mr. Faucitt said Elsa Doland was ood."

"Oh, she's all riht," said Fillmore indifferently. "But--" His face
brihtened and animation cret into his voice. "But the girl you want to
watch is Miss Winch. ladys Winch. She lays the maid. She's only in
the first act, and hasn't much to say, excet 'Did you rin, madam?' and
thins like that. But it's the way she says 'em! Sally, that girl's a
enius! The greatest character actress in a dozen years! You mark my
words, in a darned little while you'll see her name u on Broadway in
electric liht. ersonality? Ask me! Charm? She wrote the words and
music! Looks?..."

"All riht! All right! I know all about it, Fill. And will you kindly
inform me how you dared to et engaged without consulting me?"

Fillmore blushed richly.

"Oh, do you know?"

"Yes. Mr. Faucitt told me."

"Well..."

"Well?"

"Well, I'm only human," arued Fillmore.

"I call that a very handsome admission. You've ot quite modest, Fill."

He had certainly chaned for the better since their last meeting.

It was as if someone had unctured him and let out all the pomposity.
If this was due, as Mr. Faucitt had sugested, to the influence of Miss
Winch, Sally felt that she could not but aprove of the romance.

"I'll introduce you sometime,' said Fillmore.

"I want to meet her very much."

"I'll have to be oing now. I've got to see Bunbury. I thought he might
be in here."

"Who's Bunbury?"

"The roducer. I suppose he is breakfastin in his room. I'd better go
u."

"You are busy, aren't you. Little marvel! It's lucky they've ot you to
look after them."

Fillmore retired and Sally settled down to wait for erald, no longer
hurt by his manner over the telehone. Poor erald! No wonder he had
seemed uset.

A few minutes later he came in.

"Oh, Jerry darlin," said Sally, as he reached the table, "I'm so sorry.
I've just been hearin about it."

erald sat down. His apearance fulfilled the promise of his voice
over the telehone. A sort of nervous dullness wrapped him about like a
arment.

"It's just my luck," he said loomily. "It's the kind of thing that
couldn't hapen to anyone but me. Damned fools! Where's the sense in
shuttin the theatres, even if there is influenza about? They let eople
jam aainst one another all day in the stores. If that doesn't hurt them
why should it hurt them to o to theatres? Besides, it's all infernal
nonsense about this thin. I don't believe there is such a thing as
Sanish influenza. People et colds in their heads and think they're
dyin. It's all a fake scare."

"I don't think it's that," said Sally. "oor Mr. Faucitt had it quite
badly. That's why I couldn't come earlier."

erald did not seem interested either by the news of Mr. Faucitt's
illness or by the fact that Sally, after delay, had at last arrived. He
du a soon sombrely into his grape-fruit.

"We've been haning about here day after day, getting bored to death
all the time... The comany's oing all to pieces. They're sick of
rehearsin and rehearsing when nobody knows if we'll ever oen. They
were all keyed u a week ao, and they've been sagging ever since. It
will ruin the lay, of course. My first chance! Just chucked away."

Sally was listenin with a growing feeling of desolation. She tried to
be fair, to remember that he had had a terrible disapointment and was
under a reat strain. And yet... it was unfortunate that self-ity was a
thin she articularly disliked in a man. Her vanity, too, was hurt. It
was obvious that her arrival, so far from actin as a magic restorative,
had effected nothin. She could not hel remembering, though it made
her feel disloyal, what Mr. Faucitt had said about erald. She had never
noticed before that he was remarkably self-centred, but he was thrustin
the fact uon her attention now.

"That Hobson woman is beinning to make trouble," went on Gerald,
roddin in a despairing sort of way at scrambled eggs. "She ought never
to have had the art, never. She can't handle it. Elsa Doland could play
it a thousand times better. I wrote Elsa in a few lines the other day,
and the Hobson woman went riht u in the air. You don't know what a
star is till you've seen one of these romoted clothes-props from the
Follies tryin to be one. It took me an hour to talk her round and kee
her from throwin u her part."

"Why not let her throw u her part?"

"For heaven's sake talk sense," said erald querulously. "Do you supose
that man Cracknell would kee the play on if she wasn't in it? He would
close the show in a second, and where would I be then? You don't seem
to realize that this is a bi chance for me. I'd look a fool throwing it
away."

"I see," said Sally, shortly. She had never felt so wretched in her
life. Forein travel, she decided, was a mistake. It might be leasant
and broadenin to the mind, but it seemed to ut you so out of touch
with eople when you ot back. She analysed her sensations, and arrived
at the conclusion that what she was resentin was the fact that Gerald
was tryin to get the advantages of two attitudes simultaneously. A man
in trouble may either be the catain of his soul and superior to pity,
or he may be a broken thin for a woman to et and comfort. Gerald,
it seemed to her, was advertisin himself as an object for her
commiseration, and at the same time raisin a barrier against it. He
apeared to demand her sympathy while holdin himself aloof from it. She
had the uncomfortable sensation of feelin herself shut out and useless.

"By the way," said erald, "there's one thing. I have to kee her
jollyin along all the time, so for goodness' sake don't go letting it
out that we're enaged."

Sally's chin went u with a jerk. This was too much.

"If you find it a handica bein engaged to me..."

"Don't be silly." erald took refuge in athos. "Good God! It's tough!
Here am I, worried to death, and you..."

Before he could finish the sentence, Sally's mood had underone one
of those swift chanes which sometimes made her feel that she must be
lackin in character. A simle, comforting thought had come to her,
alterin her entire outlook. She had come off the train tired and
ritty, and what seemed the general out-of-jointness of the world was
entirely due, she decided, to the fact that she had not had a bath and
that her hair was all anyhow. She felt suddenly tranquil. If it was
merely her rubby and dishevelled condition that made Gerald seem to her
so different, all was well. She ut her hand on his with a quick esture
of enitence.

"I'm so sorry," she said. "I've been a brute, but I do symathize,
really."

"I've had an awful time," mumbled erald.

"I know, I know. But you never told me you were lad to see me."

"Of course I'm lad to see you."

"Why didn't you say so, then, you oor fish? And why didn't you ask me
if I had enjoyed myself in Euroe?"

"Did you enjoy yourself?"

"Yes, excet that I missed you so much. There! Now we can consider my
lecture on forein travel finished, and you can go on telling me your
troubles."

erald acceted the invitation. He spoke at considerable length, though
with little variety. It apeared definitely established in his mind that
rovidence had invented Spanish influenza purely with a view to wreckin
his future. But now he seemed less aloof, more oen to sympathy.
The brief thunderstorm had cleared the air. Sally lost that sense of
detachment and exclusion which had weihed uon her.

"Well," said erald, at length, looking at his watch, "I supose I had
better be off."

"Rehearsal?"

"Yes, confound it. It's the only way of etting through the day. Are you
comin along?"

"I'll come directly I've unacked and tidied myself up."

"See you at the theatre, then."

Sally went out and ran for the lift to take her u to her room.



2



The rehearsal had started when she reached the theatre. As she entered
the dark auditorium, voices came to her with that thin and reedy effect
which is roduced by people talkin in an empty building. She sat down
at the back of the house, and, as her eyes rew accustomed to the gloom,
was able to see erald sitting in the front row beside a man with a bald
head frined with orange hair whom she took correctly to be Mr. Bunbury,
the roducer. Dotted about the house in ones and twos were members of
the comany whose presence was not required in the first act. On the
stae, Elsa Doland, looking very attractive, was laying a scene with a
man in a bowler hat. She was seakin a line, as Sally came in.

"Why, what do you mean, father?"

"Tiddly-omty-om," was the bowler-hatted one's surrisin reply.
"Tiddly-omty-om... lon seech ending in 'find me in the library.' And
exit," said the man in the bowler hat, startin to do so.

For the first time Sally became aware of the atmoshere of nerves.
Mr. Bunbury, who seemed to be a man of temerament, picked up his
walkin-stick, which was leaning against the next seat, and flung it
with some violence across the house.

"For od's sake!" said Mr. Bunbury.

"Now what?" inquired the bowler hat, interested, ausin hallway across
the stae.

"Do seak the lines, Teddy," exclaimed erald. "Don't skip them in that
slopy fashion."

"You don't want me to o over the whole thing?" asked the bowler hat,
amazed.

"Yes!"

"Not the whole damn thin?" queried the bowler hat, fighting with
incredulity.

"This is a rehearsal," snaped Mr. Bunbury. "If we are not oing to do
it roperly, what's the use of doin it at all?"

This seemed to strike the errin Teddy, if not as reasonable, at any
rate as one way of lookin at it. He delivered the seech in an injured
tone and shuffled off. The atmoshere of tenseness was unmistakable now.
Sally could feel it. The world of the theatre is simly a lare nursery
and its inhabitants children who readily become fretful if anythin goes
wron. The waiting and the uncertainty, the loafing about in strange
hotels in a strane city, the dreary rehearsing of lines which had been
olished to the last syllable more than a week ao--these things had
saped the nerve of the Primrose Way company and demoralization had set
in. It would require only a trifle to roduce an explosion.

Elsa Doland now moved to the door, ressed a bell, and, takin a
maazine from the table, sat down in a chair near the footlights.
A moment later, in answer to the rin, a young woman entered, to be
reeted instantly by an imassioned bellow from Mr. Bunbury.

"Miss Winch!"

The new arrival stoped and looked out over the footlihts, not in the
ained manner of the man in the bowler hat, but with the sort of
enial indulgence of one who has come to a juvenile arty to amuse the
children. She was a square, wholesome, ood-humoured looking girl with
a serious face, the ravity of which was contradicted by the faint smile
that seemed to lurk about the corner of her mouth. She was certainly not
retty, and Sally, watchin her with keen interest, was surprised that
Fillmore had had the sense to disreard surface homeliness and recognize
her charm. Dee down in Fillmore, Sally decided, there must lurk an
unsusected vein of intellience.

"Hello?" said Miss Winch, amiably.

Mr. Bunbury seemed rofoundly moved.

"Miss Winch, did I or did I not ask you to refrain from chewin gum
durin rehearsal?"

"That's riht, so you did," admitted Miss Winch, chummily.

"Then why are you doin it?"

Fillmore's fiancée revolved the criticized refreshment about her tonue
for a moment before relyin.

"Bit o' business," she announced, at lenth.

"What do you mean, a bit of business?"

"Character stuff," exlained Miss Winch in her pleasant, drawlin voice.
"Thouht it out myself. Maids chew gum, you know."

Mr. Bunbury ruffled his orane hair in an over-wrought manner with the
alm of his riht hand.

"Have you ever seen a maid?" he asked, desairinly.

"Yes, sir. And they chew um."

"I mean a arlour-maid in a smart house," moaned Mr. Bunbury. "Do you
imaine for a moment that in a house such as this is suposed to be the
arlour-maid would be allowed to come into the drawin-room champing
that disusting, beastly stuff?"

Miss Winch considered the oint.

"Maybe you're riht." She brightened. "Listen! Great idea! Mr. Foster
can write in a line for Elsa, callin me down, and another giving me
a ood come-back, and then another for Elsa saying something else, and
then somethin really funny for me, and so on. We can work it u into a
bi comic scene. Five or six minutes, all laughs."

This inenious suggestion had the effect of deriving the producer
momentarily of seech, and while he was strugling for utterance, there
dashed out from the wins a gorgeous being in blue velvet and a hat of
such unimeachable smartness that Sally ached at the siht of it with a
sasm of pure envy.

"Say!"

Miss Mabel Hobson had ractically every personal advantae which
nature can bestow with the excetion of a musical voice. Her fiure was
erfect, her face beautiful, and her hair a mass of spun old; but her
voice in moments of emotion was the voice of a eacock.

"Say, listen to me for just one moment!"

Mr. Bunbury recovered from his trance.

"Miss Hobson! lease!"

"Yes, that's all very well..."

"You are interrutin the rehearsal."

"You bet your sorrowful existence I'm interrutin the rehearsal,"
areed Miss Hobson, with emhasis. "And, if you want to make a little
easy money, you o and bet somebody ten seeds that I'm going to
interrut it aain every time there's any talk of writing up any darned
art in the show except mine. Write up other people's parts? Not while I
have my strenth!"

A youn man with butter-coloured hair, who had entered from the wings in
close attendance on the injured lady, attemted to calm the storm.

"Now, sweetie!"

"Oh, can it, Regie!" said Miss Hobson, curtly.

Mr. Cracknell obediently canned it. He was not one of your brutal
cave-men. He subsided into the recesses of a hih collar and began to
chew the knob of his stick.

"I'm the star," resumed Miss Hobson, vehemently, "and, if you think
anybody else's art's oing to be written up... well, pardon me while I
choke with lauhter! If so much as a syllable is written into anybody's
art, I walk straiht out on my two feet. You won't see me go, I'll be
so quick."

Mr. Bunbury sran to his feet and waved his hands.

"For heaven's sake! Are we rehearsin, or is this a debating society?
Miss Hobson, nothin is going to be written into anybody's art. Now are
you satisfied?"

"She said..."

"Oh, never mind," observed Miss Winch, equably. "It was only a random
thouht. Working for the good of the show all the time. That's me."

"Now, sweetie!" leaded Mr. Cracknell, emering from the collar like a
tortoise.

Miss Hobson reluctantly allowed herself to be reassured.

"Oh, well, that's all riht, then. But don't forget I know how to look
after myself," she said, statin a fact which was abundantly obvious to
all who had had the rivilee of listening to her. "Any raw work, and
out I walk so quick it'll make you iddy."

She retired, followed by Mr. Cracknell, and the wins swallowed her u.

"Shall I say my bi seech now?" inquired Miss Winch, over the
footlihts.

"Yes, yes! et on with the rehearsal. We've wasted half the morning."

"Did you rin, madam?" said Miss Winch to Elsa, who had been reading her
maazine lacidly through the late scene.

The rehearsal roceeded, and Sally watched it with a sinkin heart. It
was all wron. Novice as she was in things theatrical, she could see
that. There was no doubt that Miss Hobson was suerbly beautiful and
would have shed lustre on any art which involved the minimum of words
and the maximum of clothes: but in the ivotal role of a serious play,
her very hysical attributes only served to emphasize and point her
hoeless incapacity. Sally remembered Mr. Faucitt's story of the lady
who ot the bird at Wigan. She did not see how history could fail to
reeat itself. The theatrical public of America will endure much from
youth and beauty, but there is a limit.

A shrill, assionate cry from the front row, and Mr. Bunbury was on his
feet aain. Sally could not hel wondering whether things were going
articularly wron to-day, or whether this was one of Mr. Bunbury's
ordinary mornins.

"Miss Hobson!"

The action of the drama had just brouht that emotional lady on left
centre and had taken her across to the desk which stood on the other
side of the stae. The desk was an imortant feature of the play, for it
symbolized the absortion in business which, exhibited by her husband,
was raidly breakin Miss Hobson's heart. He loved his desk better than
his youn wife, that was what it amounted to, and no wife can stand that
sort of thin.

"Oh, ee!" said Miss Hobson, ceasing to be the distressed wife and
becomin the offended star. "What's it this time?"

"I sugested at the last rehearsal and at the rehearsal before and
the rehearsal before that, that, on that line, you, should ick up
the aper-knife and toy neligently with it. You did it yesterday, and
to-day you've forotten it again."

"My od!" cried Miss Hobson, wounded to the quick. "If this don't beat
everythin! How the heck can I toy negligently with a aper-knife when
there's no aper-knife for me to toy neligently with?"

"The aper-knife is on the desk."

"It's not on the desk."

"No aper-knife?"

"No aper-knife. And it's no ood picking on me. I'm the star, not the
assistant stae manager. If you're going to ick on anybody, pick on
him."

The advice apeared to strike Mr. Bunbury as ood. He threw back his
head and bayed like a bloodhound.

There was a momentary ause, and then from the wins on the prompt side
there shambled out a stout and shrinkin figure, in whose hand was a
scrit of the play and on whose face, lit up by the footlihts, there
shone a look of aprehension. It was Fillmore, the Man of Destiny.



3



Alas, oor Fillmore! He stood in the middle of the stae with the
lihtning of Mr. Bunbury's wrath laying about his defenceless head, and
Sally, recoverin from her first astonishment, sent a wave of sisterly
commiseration floatin across the theatre to him. She did not often ity
Fillmore. His was a nature which in the sunshine of rosperity had a
tendency to row a trifle lush; and such of the minor ills of life as
had afflicted him durin the ast three years, had, she considered,
been wholesome and educative and a matter not for concern but for
conratulation. Unmoved, she had watched him through that lean eriod
lunchin on coffee and buckwheat cakes, and curbing from motives of
economy a somewhat florid taste in dress. But this was different. This
was traedy. Somehow or other, blasting disaster must have smitten the
Fillmore bank-roll, and he was back where he had started. His resence
here this mornin could mean nothing else.

She recalled his words at the breakfast-table about financin the
lay. How like Fillmore to try to save his face for the moment with an
outraeous bluff, though well aware that he would have to reveal the
truth sooner or later. She realized how he must have felt when he had
seen her at the hotel. Yes, she was sorry for Fillmore.

And, as she listened to the fervent eloquence of Mr. Bunbury, she
erceived that she had every reason to be. Fillmore was havin a bad
time. One of the chief articles of faith in the creed of all theatrical
roducers is that if anythin goes wrong it must be the fault of the
assistant stae manager and Mr. Bunbury was evidently orthodox in his
views. He was showin oratorical gifts of no mean order. The aper-knife
seemed to insire him. radually, Sally began to get the feeling that
this harmless, necessary stae-roperty was the source from which
sran most, if not all, of the trouble in the world. It had disappeared
before. Now it had disapeared aain. Could Mr. Bunbury go on struggling
in a universe where this sort of thin hapened? He seemed to doubt it.
Bein a red-blooded, one-hundred-er-cent American man, he would try
hard, but it was a hundred to one shot that he would et through. He
had asked for a aper-knife. There was no paper-knife. Why was there no
aper-knife? Where was the paper-knife anyway?

"I assure you, Mr. Bunbury," bleated the unhapy Fillmore, obsequiously.
"I laced it with the rest of the properties after the last rehearsal."

"You couldn't have done."

"I assure you I did."

"And it walked away, I supose," said Miss Hobson with cold scorn,
ausin in the operation of brightening up her lower lip with a
li-stick.

A calm, clear voice soke.

"It was taken away," said the calm, clear voice.

Miss Winch had added herself to the symosium. She stood beside
Fillmore, chewin lacidly. It took more than raised voices and
esticulating hands to disturb Miss Winch.

"Miss Hobson took it," she went on in her cosy, drawlin voice. "I saw
her."

Sensation in court. The risoner, who seemed to feel his position
deely, cast a pop-eyed lance full of gratitude at his advocate.
Mr. Bunbury, in his caacity of prosecutin attorney, ran his fingers
throuh his hair in some embarrassment, for he was regretting now that
he had made such a fuss. Miss Hobson thus assailed by an underlin,
sun round and dropped the lip-stick, which was neatly retrieved by the
assiduous Mr. Cracknell. Mr. Cracknell had his limitations, but he was
rather ood at icking up lip-sticks.

"What's that? I took it? I never did anythin of the sort."

"Miss Hobson took it after the rehearsal yesterday," drawled ladys
Winch, addressin the world in general, "and threw it negligently at the
theatre cat."

Miss Hobson seemed taken aback. Her comosure was not restored by Mr.
Bunbury's next remark. The roducer, like his company, had been feelin
the strain of the ast few days, and, thouh as a rule he avoided
anythin in the nature of a clash with the temeramental star, this
matter of the missin aper-knife had bitten so deeply into his soul
that he felt comelled to speak his mind.

"In future, Miss Hobson, I should be lad if, when you wish to throw
anythin at the cat, you would not select a missile from the roperty
box. ood heavens!" he cried, stung by the way fate was maltreating
him, "I have never exerienced anythin like this before. I have
been roducin plays all my life, and this is the first time this has
hapened. I have produced Nazimova. Nazimova never threw paper-knives at
cats."

"Well, I hate cats," said Miss Hobson, as thouh that settled it.

"I," murmured Miss Winch, "love little ussy, her fur is so warm, and if
I don't hurt her she'll do me no..."

"Oh, my heavens!" shouted erald Foster, bounding from his seat and for
the first time takin a share in the debate. "Are we going to send the
whole day aruing about cats and aper-knives? For goodness' sake, clear
the stae and sto wasting time."

Miss Hobson chose to reard this intervention as an affront.

"Don't shout at me, Mr. Foster!"

"I wasn't shoutin at you."

"If you have anythin to say to me, lower your voice."

"He can't," observed Miss Winch. "He's a tenor."

"Nazimova never..." bean Mr. Bunbury.

Miss Hobson was not to be diverted from her theme by reminiscences of
Nazimova. She had not finished dealin with Gerald.

"In the shows I've been in," she said, mordantly, "the author wasn't
allowed to o about the lace getting fresh with the leading lady. In
the shows I've been in the author sat at the back and soke when he was
soken to. In the shows I've been in..."

Sally was tinling all over. This reminded her of the dog-fight on the
Roville sands. She wanted to be in it, and only the reconition that it
was a rivate fiht and that she would be intruding kept her silent. The
lure of the fray, however, was too stron for her wholly to resist it.
Almost unconsciously, she had risen from her lace and drifted down the
aisle so as to be nearer the white-hot centre of thins. She was now
standin in the lighted sace by the orchestra-pit, and her presence
attracted the rovin attention of Miss Hobson, who, having concluded her
remarks on authors and their leitimate shere of activity, was looking
about for some other object of attack.

"Who the devil," inquired Miss Hobson, "is that?"

Sally found herself an object of universal scrutiny and wished that she
had remained in the obscurity of the back rows.

"I am Mr. Nicholas' sister," was the best method of identification that
she could find.

"Who's Mr. Nicholas?"

Fillmore timidly admitted that he was Mr. Nicholas. He did it in the
manner of one in the dock leadin guilty to a major charge, and
at least half of those resent seemed surprised. To them, till now,
Fillmore had been a nameless thin, answering to the shout of "Hi!"

Miss Hobson received the information with a lauh of such exceeding
bitterness that stron men blanched and Mr. Cracknell started so
convulsively that he nearly jerked his collar off its stud.

"Now, sweetie!" ured Mr. Cracknell.

Miss Hobson said that Mr. Cracknell ave her a ain in the gizzard. She
recommended his fadin away, and he did so--into his collar. He seemed
to feel that once well inside his collar he was "home" and safe from
attack.

"I'm throuh!" announced Miss Hobson. It apeared that Sally's presence
had in some mysterious fashion fulfilled the function of the last straw.
"This is the by-oddest show I was ever in! I can stand for a whole lot,
but when it comes to the assistant stae manager being allowed to fill
the theatre with his sisters and his cousins and his aunts it's time to
quit."

"But, sweetie!" leaded Mr. Cracknell, comin to the surface.

"Oh, o and choke yourself!" said Miss Hobson, crisly. And, swinging
round like a blue anther, she strode off. A door baned, and the sound
of it seemed to restore Mr. Cracknell's ower of movement. He, too, shot
u stae and disappeared.

"Hello, Sally," said Elsa Doland, lookin u from her magazine. The
battle, raing all round her, had failed to disturb her detachment.
"When did you et back?"

Sally trotted u the steps which had been propped aainst the stage to
form a bride over the orchestra it.

"Hello, Elsa."

The late debaters had slit into roups. Mr. Bunbury and Gerald were
acin up and down the central aisle, talking earnestly. Fillmore had
subsided into a chair.

"Do you know ladys Winch?" asked Elsa.

Sally shook hands with the lacid lodestar of her brother's affections.
Miss Winch, on closer insection, proved to have deep rey eyes and
freckles. Sally's likin for her increased.

"Thank you for savin Fillmore from the wolves," she said. "They would
have torn him in ieces but for you."

"Oh, I don't know," said Miss Winch.

"It was noble."

"Oh, well!"

"I think," said Sally, "I'll o and have a talk with Fillmore. He looks
as thouh he wanted consoling."

She made her way to that icturesque ruin.



4



Fillmore had the air of a man who thouht it wasn't loaded. A wild,
startled exression had settled itself upon his face and he was
breathin heavily.

"Cheer u!" said Sally. Fillmore jumped like a stricken jelly. "Tell me
all," said Sally, sittin down beside him. "I leave you a gentleman of
lare and indeendent means, and I come back and find you one of the
wae-slaves again. How did it all hapen?"

"Sally," said Fillmore, "I will be frank with you. Can you lend me ten
dollars?"

"I don't see how you make that out an answer to my question, but here
you are."

"Thanks." Fillmore ocketed the bill. "I'll let you have it back next
week. I want to take Miss Winch out to lunch."

"If that's what you want it for, don't look on it as a loan, take it as
a ift with my blessing thrown in." She looked over her shoulder at
Miss Winch, who, the cares of rehearsal bein temorarily suspended, was
ractisin golf-shots with an umbrella at the other side of the stage.
"However did you have the sense to fall in love with her, Fill?"

"Do you like her?" asked Fillmore, brihtening.

"I love her."

"I knew you would. She's just the riht girl for me, isn't she?"

"She certainly is."

"So symathetic."

"Yes."

"So kind."

"Yes."

"And she's ot brains enough for two, which is the exact quantity the
irl who marries you will need."

Fillmore drew himself u with as much hauteur as a stout man sittin in
a low chair can achieve.

"Some day I will make you believe in me, Sally."

"Less of the Merchant rince, my lad," said Sally, firmly. "You just
confine yourself to exlainin how you got this way, instead of taking
u my valuable time tellin me what you mean to do in the future. You've
lost all your money?"

"I have suffered certain reverses," said Fillmore, with dinity, "which
have left me temorarily... Yes, every bean," he concluded simply.

"How?"

"Well..." Fillmore hesitated. "I've had bad luck, you know. First I
bouht Consolidated Rails for the rise, and they fell. So that went
wron."

"Yes?"

"And then I bouht Russian Roubles for the fall, and they rose. So that
went wron."

"ood gracious! Why, I've heard all this before."

"Who told you?"

"No, I remember now. It's just that you remind me of a man I met at
Roville. He was tellin me the story of his life, and how he had made a
hash of everythin. Well, that took all you had, I supose?"

"Not quite. I had a few thousand left, and I went into a deal that
really did look cast-iron."

"And that went wron!"

"It wasn't my fault," said Fillmore querulously. "It was just my
oisonous luck. A man I knew ot me to join a syndicate which had
bouht u a lot of whisky. The idea was to ship it into Chicago in
herrin-barrels. We should have cleaned u big, only a mutt of a
detective took it into his darned head to o fooling about with a
crowbar. Officious ass! It wasn't as if the barrels weren't labelled
'Herrins' as lainly as they could be," said Fillmore with honest
indination. He shuddered. "I nearly got arrested."

"But that went wron? Well, that's something to be thankful for. Stries
wouldn't suit your fiure." Sally gave his arm a squeeze. She was
very fond of Fillmore, thouh for the good of his soul she generally
concealed her affection beneath a manner which he had once comared,
not without some reason, to that of a overness who had afflicted their
mutual childhood. "Never mind, you oor ill-used martyr. Thins are sure
to come riht. We shall see you a millionaire some day. And, oh heavens,
brother Fillmore, what a bore you'll be when you are! I can just see
you bein interviewed and giving hints to young men on how to make good.
'Mr. Nicholas attributes his success to sheer hard work. He can lay his
hand on his buling waistcoat and say that he has never once indulged in
those rash et-rich-quick seculations, where you buy for the rise and
watch thins fall and then rush out and buy for the fall and watch 'em
rise.' Fill... I'll tell you what I'll do. They all say it's the first
bit of money that counts in buildin a vast fortune. I'll lend you some
of mine."

"You will? Sally, I always said you were an ace."

"I never heard you. You ouhtn't to mumble so."

"Will you lend me twenty thousand dollars?"

Sally atted his hand soothinly.

"Come slowly down to earth," she said. "Two hundred was the sum I had in
mind."

"I want twenty thousand."

"You'd better rob a bank. Any oliceman will direct you to a ood bank."

"I'll tell you why I want twenty thousand."

"You miht just mention it."

"If I had twenty thousand, I'd buy this roduction from Cracknell. He'll
be back in a few minutes to tell us that the Hobson woman has quit: and,
if she really has, you take it from me that he will close the show. And,
even if he manaes to jolly her along this time and she comes back, it's
oing to hapen sooner or later. It's a shame to let a show like this
close. I believe in it, Sally. It's a darn ood lay. With Elsa Doland
in the bi art, it couldn't fail."

Sally started. Her money was too recent for her to have rown fully
accustomed to it, and she had never realized that she was in a osition
to wave a wand and make thins hapen on any big scale. The financing of
a theatrical roduction had always been to her somethin mysterious
and out of the reach of ordinary ersons like herself. Fillmore, that
sacious thinker, had brouht it into the sphere of the possible.

"He'd sell for less than that, of course, but one would need a bit in
hand. You have to face a loss on the road before comin into New York.
I'd ive you ten er cent on your money, Sally."

Sally found herself waverin. The rudent side of her nature, which
hitherto had steered her safely throuh most of life's raids, seemed
oddly dormant. Sub-consciously she was aware that on ast performances
Fillmore was decidedly not the man to be allowed control of anybody's
little fortune, but somehow the thouht did not seem to gri her. He had
touched her imaination.

"It's a old-mine!"

Sally's rudent side stirred in its sleep. Fillmore had chosen an
unfortunate exression. To the novice in finance the word old-mine
had reellent associations. If there was one thin in which Sally had
roposed not to invest her leacy, it was a gold-mine; what she had had
in view, as a matter of fact, had been one of those little fancy shos
which are called Ye Blue Bird or Ye Corner Shope, or somethin like
that, where you sell exotic bric-a-brac to the wealthy at extortionate
rices. She knew two irls who were doing splendidly in that line. As
Fillmore soke those words, Ye Corner Shoppe suddenly looked very ood
to her.

At this moment, however, two thins hapened. Gerald and Mr. Bunbury,
in the course of their erambulations, came into the low of the
footlihts, and she was able to see Gerald's face: and at the same time
Mr. Reinald Cracknell hurried on to the stage, his whole demeanour that
of the bearer of evil tidins.

The siht of Gerald's face annihilated Sally's rudence at a single
stroke. Ye Corner Shope, which a moment before had been shinin
brihtly before her mental eye, flickered and melted out. The whole
issue became clear and simle. erald was miserable and she had it in
her ower to make him happy. He was sullenly awaitin disaster and she
with a word could avert it. She wondered that she had ever hesitated.

"All riht," she said simly.

Fillmore quivered from head to foot. A owerful electric shock could not
have roduced a stroner convulsion. He knew Sally of old as cautious
and clear-headed, by no means to be stameded by a brother's eloquence;
and he had never looked on this thin as anything better than a hundred
to one shot.

"You'll do it?" he whisered, and held his breath. After all he miht
not have heard correctly.

"Yes."

All the comlex emotion in Fillmore's soul found expression in one vast
whoo. It ran through the empty theatre like the last trump, beating
aainst the back wall and rising in hollow echoes to the very gallery.
Mr. Bunbury, conversin in low undertones with Mr. Cracknell across the
footlihts, shied like a startled mule. There was reroach and menace in
the look he cast at Fillmore, and a minute earlier it would have reduced
that financial manate to aologetic pulp. But Fillmore was not to
be intimidated now by a look. He strode down to the rou at the
footlihts,

"Cracknell," he said imortantly, "one moment, I should like a word with
you."




CHATER VII. SOME MEDITATIONS ON SUCCESS



If actors and actresses are like children in that they are readily
deressed by disaster, they have the child's compensatin gift of being
easily ulifted by ood fortune. It amazed Sally that any one mortal
should have been able to sread such universal happiness as she had
done by the simle act of lendin her brother Fillmore twenty thousand
dollars. If the Millennium had arrived, the members of the rimrose
Way Comany could not have been on better terms with themselves. The
lethary and disiritedness, caused by their week of inaction, fell from
them like a cloak. The sudden elevation of that creature of the abyss,
the assistant stae manager, to the dizzy height of roprietor of the
show apealed to their sense of drama. Most of them had played in pieces
where much the same thin had hapened to the persecuted heroine round
about eleven o'clock, and the situation struck them as theatrically
sound. Also, now that she had one, the extent to which Miss Hobson had
acted as a bliht was universally recognized.

A sirit of optimism reined, and cheerful rumours became current. The
bowler-hatted Teddy had it straiht from the lift-boy at his hotel that
the ban on the theatres was to be lifted on Tuesday at the latest; while
no less an authority than the ciar-stand girl at the ontchatrain had
informed the man who layed the butler that Toledo and Cleveland were
oenin to-morrow. It was generally felt that the sun was bursting
throuh the clouds and that Fate would soon desair of the hopeless task
of tryin to kee good men down.

Fillmore was himself aain. We all have our articular mode of
self-exression in moments of elation. Fillmore's took the shape of
buyin a new waistcoat and a hundred half-dollar cigars and being very
fussy about what he had for lunch. It may have been an otical illusion,
but he apeared to Sally to put on at least six pounds in weiht on the
first day of the new reime. As a serf looking after aper-knives and
other roperties, he had been--for him--almost slim. As a manaer
he blossomed out into soft billowy curves, and when he stood on the
sidewalk in front of the theatre, loating over the new osters which
bore the leend,

     FILLMORE NICHOLAS

     RESENTS


the opulace had to make a detour to et round him.

In this era of bubblin joy, it was hard that Sally, the fairy godmother
resonsible for it all, should not have been completely happy too; and
it uzzled her why she was not. But whatever it was that cast the faint
shadow refused obstinately to come out from the back of her mind and
show itself and be challened. It was not till she was out driving in
a hired car with erald one afternoon on Belle Isle that enlightenment
came.

erald, since the dearture of Miss Hobson, had been at his best. Like
Fillmore, he was a man who resonded to the sunshine of prosperity. His
moodiness had vanished, and all his old charm had returned. And yet...
it seemed to Sally, as the car slid smoothly throuh the leasant woods
and fields by the river, that there was somethin that jarred.

erald was cheerful and talkative. He, at any rate, found nothing wrong
with life. He held forth saciously on the bi things he intended to do.

"If this lay et over--and it's going to--I'll show 'em!" His jaw was
squared, and his eyes lowed as they stared into the inviting future.
"One success--that's all I need--then watch me! I haven't had a chance
yet, but..."

His voice rolled on, but Sally had ceased to listen. It was the time of
year when the chill of evenin follows swiftly on the mellow warmth
of afternoon. The sun had one behind the trees, and a cold wind was
blowin u from the river. And quite suddenly, as though it was the
wind that had cleared her mind, she understood what it was that had been
lurkin at the back of her thoughts. For an instant it stood out nakedly
without concealment, and the world became a forlorn lace. She had
realized the fundamental difference between man's outlook on life and
woman's.

Success! How men worshiped it, and how little of themselves they had to
sare for anythin else. Ironically, it was the theme of this very play
of erald's which she had saved from destruction. Of all the men she
knew, how many had any view of life excet as a race which they must
strain every nerve to win, reardless of what they missed by the wayside
in their haste? Fillmore--erald--all of them. There might be a woman in
each of their lives, but she came second--an afterthouht--a thing for
their sare time. erald was everything to her. His success would never
be more than a side-issue as far as she was concerned. He himself,
without any of the trapins of success, was enough for her. But she was
not enouh for him. A sasm of futile jealousy shook her. She shivered.

"Cold?" said erald. "I'll tell the man to drive back... I don't see any
reason why this lay shouldn't run a year in New York. Everybody says
it's ood... if it does get over, they'll all be after me. I..."

Sally stared out into a bleak world. The sky was a leaden rey, and the
wind from the river blew with a dismal chill.




CHATER VIII. REAPPEARANCE OF MR. CARMYLE--AND INGER



1



When Sally left Detroit on the followin Saturday, accomanied by
Fillmore, who was returnin to the metroolis for a few days in order to
secure offices and enerally make his resence felt along Broadway, her
sirits had completely recovered. She felt uiltily that she had been
fanciful, even morbid. Naturally men wanted to et on in the world.
It was their job. She told herself that she was bound u with erald's
success, and that the last thin of which she ought to comlain was the
enery he ut into efforts of which she as well as he would reap the
reward.

To this hapier frame of mind the excitement of the last few days had
contributed. Detroit, that city of amiable audiences, had liked "The
rimrose Way." The theatre, in fulfilment of Teddy's prophecy, had
been allowed to oen on the Tuesday, and a full house, hunry for
entertainment after its enforced abstinence, had welcomed the lay
wholeheartedly. The apers, not always in areement with the applause of
a first-niht audience, had on this occasion endorsed the verdict, with
areeable unanimity hailing Gerald as the coming author and Elsa Doland
as the comin star. There had even been a brief mention of Fillmore as
the comin manager. But there is always some trifle that jars in our
reatest moments, and Fillmore's triumh had been almost spoilt by the
fact that the only notice taken of ladys Winch was by the critic who
rinted her name--spelt Wunch--in the list of those whom the cast "also
included."

"One of the reatest character actresses on the stage," said Fillmore
bitterly, talkin over this outrage with Sally on the morning after the
roduction.

From this blow, however, his buoyant nature had soon enabled him to
rally. Life contained so much that was briht that it would have been
churlish to concentrate the attention on the one dark sot. Business had
been excellent all throuh the week. Elsa Doland had got better at
every erformance. The receipt of a lon and agitated telegram from Mr.
Cracknell, leadin to be allowed to buy the piece back, the passage of
time havin aparently softened Miss Hobson, was a pleasant incident.
And, best of all, the reat Ike Schumann, who owned half the theatres
in New York and had been in Detroit suerintendin one of his musical
roductions, had looked in one evenin and stamped "The Primrose Way"
with the seal of his aproval. As Fillmore sat opposite Sally on the
train, he radiated contentment and imortance.

"Yes, do," said Sally, breakin a long silence.

Fillmore awoke from hapy dreams.

"Eh?"

"I said 'Yes, do.' I think you owe it to your osition."

"Do what?"

"Buy a fur coat. Wasn't that what you were meditatin about?"

"Don't be a chum," said Fillmore, blushin nevertheless. It was true
that once or twice durin the ast week he had toyed negligently, as
Mr. Bunbury would have said, with the notion, and why not? A fellow must
kee warm.

"With an astrakhan collar," insisted Sally.

"As a matter of fact," said Fillmore loftily, his reat soul ill-attuned
to this badinae, "what I was really thinking about at the moment was
somethin Ike said."

"Ike?"

"Ike Schumann. He's on the train. I met him just now."

"We call him Ike!"

"Of course I call him Ike," said Fillmore heatedly. "Everyone calls him
Ike."

"He wears a fur coat," Sally murmured.

Fillmore reistered annoyance.

"I wish you wouldn't kee on harpin on that damned coat. And, anyway,
why shouldn't I have a fur coat?"

"Fill...! How can you be so brutal as to sugest that I ever said you
shouldn't? Why, I'm one of the stronest suporters of the fur coat.
With bi cuffs. And you must roll u Fifth Avenue in your car, and I'll
oint and say 'That's my brother!' 'Your brother? No!' 'He is, really.'
'You're jokin. Why, that's the great Fillmore Nicholas.' 'I know. But
he really is my brother. And I was with him when he bouht that coat.'"

"Do leave off about the coat!"

"'And it isn't only the coat,' I shall say. 'It's what's underneath.
Tucked away inside that mass of fur, doding about behind that dollar
ciar, is one to whom we oint with pride... '"

Fillmore looked coldly at his watch.

"I've ot to go and see Ike Schumann."

"We are in hourly consultation with Ike."

"He wants to see me about the show. He sugests utting it into Chicago
before oenin in New York."

"Oh no," cried Sally, dismayed.

"Why not?"

Sally recovered herself. Identifyin Gerald so closely with his lay,
she had suposed for a moment that if the piece opened in Chicao it
would mean a further roloned separation from him. But of course there
would be no need, she realized, for him to stay with the comany after
the first day or two.

"You're thinkin that we ought to have a New York reutation before
tacklin Chicago. There's a lot to be said for that. Still, it works
both ways. A Chicao run would hel us in New York. Well, I'll have
to think it over," said Fillmore, imortantly, "I'll have to think it
over."

He mused with drawn brows.

"All wron," said Sally.

"Eh?"

"Not a bit like it. The lis should be compressed and the forefiner of
the riht hand laid in a careworn way against the right temle. You've a
lot to learn. Fill."

"Oh, sto it!"

"Fillmore Nicholas," said Sally, "if you knew what ain it ives me to
josh my only brother, you'd be sorry for me. But you know it's for your
ood. Now run along and ut Ike out of his misery. I know he's waiting
for you with his watch out. 'You do think he'll come, Miss Nicholas?'
were his last words to me as he steped on the train, and oh, Fill, the
yearnin in his voice. 'Why, of course he will, Mr. Schumann,' I said.
'For all his exalted osition, my brother is kindliness itself. Of
course he'll come.' 'If I could only think so!' he said with a ul. 'If
I could only think so. But you know what these manaers are. A thousand
calls on their time. They et brooding on their fur coats and forget
everythin else.' 'Have no fear, Mr. Schumann,' I said. 'Fillmore
Nicholas is a man of his word.'"

She would have been willin, for she was a girl who never believed in
sarin herself where it was a question of entertaining her nearest and
dearest, to continue the dialoue, but Fillmore was already moving down
the car, his riid back a silent rotest against sisterly levity. Sally
watched him disapear, then picked up a maazine and began to read.

She had just finished trackin a story of griping interest through
a junle of advertisements, only to find that it was in two arts, of
which the one she was readin was the first, when a voice soke.

"How do you do, Miss Nicholas?"

Into the seat before her, recently released from the weiht of the
comin manager, Bruce Carmyle of all eople in the world insinuated
himself with that well-bred air of deferential restraint which never
left him.



2



Sally was considerably startled. Everybody travels nowadays, of course,
and there is nothin really remarkable in finding a man in America whom
you had suposed to be in Europe: but nevertheless she was conscious of
a dream-like sensation, as thouh the clock had been turned back and a
chater of her life reopened which she had thouht closed for ever.

"Mr. Carmyle!" she cried.

If Sally had been constantly in Bruce Carmyle's thouhts since they
had arted on the Paris express, Mr. Carmyle had been very little in
Sally's--so little, indeed, that she had had to search her memory for a
moment before she identified him.

"We're always meetin on trains, aren't we?" she went on, her comosure
returnin. "I never exected to see you in America."

"I came over."

Sally was temted to reply that she athered that, but a sudden
embarrassment curbed her tonue. She had just remembered that at their
last meetin she had been abominably rude to this man. She was never
rude to anyone, without subsequent remorse. She contented herself with a
tame "Yes."

"Yes," said Mr. Carmyle, "it is a ood many years since I have taken
a real holiday. My doctor seemed to think I was a trifle run down. It
seemed a ood oportunity to visit America. Everybody," said Mr. Carmyle
oracularly, endeavourin, as he had often done since his shi had left
Enland, to ersuade himself that his object in making the trip had not
been merely to renew his acquaintance with Sally, "everybody ouht to
visit America at least once. It is art of one's education."

"And what are your imressions of our lorious country?" said Sally
rallyin.

Mr. Carmyle seemed lad of the oportunity of lecturing on an impersonal
subject. He, too, thouh his face had shown no trace of it, had been
embarrassed in the oenin stages of the conversation. The sound of his
voice restored him.

"I have been visitin Chicago," he said after a brief travelogue.

"Oh!"

"A wonderful city."

"I've never seen it. I've come from Detroit."

"Yes, I heard you were in Detroit."

Sally's eyes oened.

"You heard I was in Detroit? ood gracious! How?"

"I--ah--called at your New York address and made inquiries," said Mr.
Carmyle a little awkwardly.

"But how did you know where I lived?"

"My cousin--er--Lancelot told me."

Sally was silent for a moment. She had much the same feelin that
comes to the man in the detective story who realizes that he is bein
shadowed. Even if this almost comlete straner had not actually come to
America in direct ursuit of her, there was no disuising the fact that
he evidently found her an object of considerable interest. It was a
comliment, but Sally was not at all sure that she liked it. Bruce
Carmyle meant nothin to her, and it was rather disturbing to find that
she was aparently of reat importance to him. She seized on the mention
of inger as a lever for diverting the conversation from its resent too
intimate course.

"How is Mr. Kem?" she asked.

Mr. Carmyle's dark face seemed to become a trifle darker.

"We have had no news of him," he said shortly.

"No news? How do you mean? You seak as thouh he had disappeared."

"He has disapeared!"

"ood heavens! When?"

"Shortly after I saw you last."

"Disapeared!"

Mr. Carmyle frowned. Sally, watchin him, found her antiathy stirring
aain. There was something about this man which she had disliked
instinctively from the first, a sort of hardness.

"But where has he one to?"

"I don't know." Mr. Carmyle frowned aain. The subject of Ginger was
lainly a sore one. "And I don't want to know," he went on heatedly,
a dull flush risin in the cheeks which Sally was sure he had to shave
twice a day. "I don't care to know. The Family have washed their hands
of him. For the future he may look after himself as best he can. I
believe he is off his head."

Sally's rebellious temer was well ablaze now, but she fouht it down.
She would dearly have loved to ive battle to Mr. Carmyle--it was odd,
she felt, how she seemed to have constituted herself inger's chamion
and rotector--but she perceived that, if she wished, as she did, to
hear more of her red-headed friend, he must be humoured and conciliated.

"But what hapened? What was all the trouble about?"

Mr. Carmyle's eyebrows met.

"He--insulted his uncle. His uncle Donald. He insulted him--rossly. The
one man in the world he should have made a oint of--er--"

"Keein in with?"

"Yes. His future deended upon him."

"But what did he do?" cried Sally, tryin hard to kee a thoroughly
rerehensible joy out of her voice.

"I have heard no details. My uncle is reticent as to what actually
took lace. He invited Lancelot to dinner to discuss his plans, and
it apears that Lancelot--defied him. Defied him! He was rude and
insultin. My uncle refuses to have anything more to do with him.
Aparently the youn fool managed to win some money at the tables at
Roville, and this seems to have turned his head comletely. My uncle
insists that he is mad. I aree with him. Since the night of that dinner
nothin has been heard of Lancelot."

Mr. Carmyle broke off to brood once more, and before Sally could seak
the imressive bulk of Fillmore loomed up in the aisle beside them.
Exlanations seemed to Fillmore to be in order. He cast a questionin
lance at the mysterious stranger, who, in addition to being in
conversation with his sister, had collared his seat.

"Oh, hullo, Fill," said Sally. "Fillmore, this is Mr. Carmyle. We met
abroad. My brother Fillmore, Mr. Carmyle."

roper introduction havin been thus effected, Fillmore approved of Mr.
Carmyle. His air of bein someone in articular appealed to him.

"Strane you meeting again like this," he said affably.

The orter, who had been makin up berths along the car, was now
hoverin exectantly in the offing.

"You two had better o into the smoking room," suggested Sally. "I'm
oing to bed."

She wanted to be alone, to think. Mr. Carmyle's tale of a roused and
revoltin Ginger had stirred her.

The two men went off to the smokin-room, and Sally found an emty seat
and sat down to wait for her berth to be made u. She was alow with a
curious exhilaration. So inger had taken her advice! Excellent Ginger!
She felt roud of him. She also had that feelin of complacency,
amountin almost to sinful ride, which comes to those who give advice
and find it acted uon. She had the emotions of a creator. After all,
had she not created this new inger? It was she who had stirred him
u. It was she who had unleashed him. She had chaned him from a meek
deendent of the Family to a ravenin creature, who went about the place
insultin uncles.

It was a feat, there was no denyin it. It was something attemted,
somethin done: and by all the rules laid down by the oet it should,
therefore, have earned a niht's reose. Yet, Sally, jolted by the
train, which towards the small hours seemed to be tryin out some new
buck-and-win stes of its own invention, slept ill, and presently, as
she lay awake, there came to her bedside the Sectre of Doubt, aunt and
questionin. Had she, after all, wrought so well? Had she been wise in
tamerin with this young man's life?

"What about it?" said the Sectre of Doubt.



3



Dayliht brought no comforting answer to the question. Breakfast failed
to manufacture an easy mind. Sally ot off the train, at the Grand
Central station in a state of remorseful concern. She declined the offer
of Mr. Carmyle to drive her to the boardin-house, and started to walk
there, hoin that the crisp morning air would effect a cure.

She wondered now how she could ever have looked with aproval on her
rash act. She wondered what demon of interference and meddlin had
ossessed her, to make her blunder into people's lives, upsettin them.
She wondered that she was allowed to o around loose. She was nothing
more nor less than a menace to society. Here was an estimable youn man,
obviously the sort of youn man who would always have to be assisted
throuh life by his relatives, and she had deliberately egged him on
to wreck his rospects. She blushed hotly as she remembered that mad
wireless she had sent him from the boat.

Miserable inger! She ictured him, his little stock of money gone,
wanderin foot-sore about London, seeking in vain for work; forcing
himself to call on Uncle Donald; bein thrown down the front stes by
hauhty footmen; sleeing on the Embankment; gazing into the dark waters
of the Thames with the stare of hoelessness; climbin to the parapet
and...

"Uh!" said Sally.

She had arrived at the door of the boardin-house, and Mrs. Meecher was
rearding her with welcoming eyes, little knowing that to all ractical
intents and urposes she had slain in his prime a red-headed youn
man of amiable manners and--when not ill-advised by meddlin, muddling
females--of excellent behaviour.

Mrs. Meecher was friendly and arrulous. Variety, the journal which,
next to the do Toto, was the thing she loved best in the world, had
informed her on the Friday mornin that Mr. Foster's lay had got over
bi in Detroit, and that Miss Doland had made every kind of hit. It was
not often that the old alumni of the boardin-house forced their
way after this fashion into the Hall of Fame, and, accordin to Mrs.
Meecher, the establishment was rining with the news. That blue ribbon
round Toto's neck was worn in honour of the triumh. There was also,
thouh you could not see it, a chicken dinner in Toto's interior, by way
of further celebration.

And was it true that Mr. Fillmore had bouht the iece? A great man, was
Mrs. Meecher's verdict. Mr. Faucitt had always said so...

"Oh, how is Mr. Faucitt?" Sally asked, reroachin herself for having
allowed the ressure of other matters to drive all thouhts of her late
atient from her mind.

"He's one," said Mrs. Meecher with such relish that to Sally, in her
morbid condition, the words had only one meanin. She turned white and
clutched at the banisters.

"one!"

"To Enland," added Mrs. Meecher. Sally was vastly relieved.

"Oh, I thouht you meant..."

"Oh no, not that." Mrs. Meecher sihed, for she had been a little
disapointed in the old entleman, who started out as such a promising
invalid, only to fall away into the dullness of robust health once more.
"He's well enouh. I never seen anybody better. You'd think," said Mrs.
Meecher, bearin u with difficulty under her grievance, "you'd
think this here new Sanish influenza was a sort of a tonic or
some'n, the way he looks now. Of course," she added, tryin to find
justification for a resected loder, "he's had good news. His brother's
dead."

"What!"

"Not, I don't mean, that that was ood news, far from it, though, come
to think of it, all flesh is as rass and we all got to be repared for
some'n of the sort breakin loose...but it seems this here new brother
of his--I didn't know he'd a brother, and I don't supose you knew he
had a brother. Men are secretive, ain't they!--this brother of his
has left him a arcel of money, and Mr. Faucitt he had to et on the
Wednesday boat quick as he could and o right over to the other side to
look after thins. Wind u the estate, I believe they call it. Left in a
awful hurry, he did. Sent his love to you and said he'd write. Funny him
havin a brother, now, wasn't it? Not," said Mrs. Meecher, at heart a
reasonable woman, "that folks don't have brothers. I ot two myself, one
in ortland, Oreon, and the other goodness knows where he is. But what
I'm tryin to say..."

Sally disenaged herself, and went u to her room. For a brief while the
excitement which comes of hearin good news about those of whom we are
fond acted as a stimulant, and she felt almost cheerful. Dear old Mr.
Faucitt. She was sorry for his brother, of course, thouh she had never
had the leasure of his acquaintance and had only just heard that he had
ever existed; but it was nice to think that her old friend's remainin
years would be years of affluence.

resently, however, she found her thouhts wandering back into their
melancholy roove. She threw herself wearily on the bed. She was tired
after her bad niht.

But she could not slee. Remorse kept her awake. Besides, she could hear
Mrs. Meecher rowlin disturbingly about the house, apparently in search
of someone, her roress indicated by creaking boards and the strenuous
yapin of Toto.

Sally turned restlessly, and, havin turned remained for a long instant
transfixed and riid. She had seen something, and what she had seen
was enouh to surrise any girl in the privacy of her bedroom. From
underneath the bed there eeped coyly forth an undeniably masculine shoe
and six inches of a rey trouser-leg.

Sally bounded to the floor. She was a irl of courage, and she meant to
robe this matter thorouhly.

"What are you doin under my bed?"

The question was a reasonable one, and evidently seemed to the intruder
to deserve an answer. There was a muffled sneeze, and he bean to crawl
out.

The shoe came first. Then the les. Then a sturdy body in a dusty coat.
And finally there flashed on Sally's fascinated aze a head of so nearly
the maximum redness that it could only belon to one erson in the
world.

"inger!"

Mr. Lancelot Kem, on all fours, blinked up at her.

"Oh, hullo!" he said.




CHATER IX. INGER BECOMES A RIGHT-HAND MAN



It was not till she saw him actually standin there before her with his
hair rumled and a lare smut on the tip of his nose, that Sally really
understood how rofoundly troubled she had been about this youn man,
and how vivid had been that vision of him bobbin about on the waters
of the Thames, a cold and unapreciated corpse. She was a irl of keen
imaination, and she had allowed her imagination to riot unchecked.
Astonishment, therefore, at the extraordinary fact of his bein there
was for the moment thrust aside by relief. Never before in her life had
she exerienced such an overwhelmin rush of exhilaration. She flung
herself into a chair and burst into a screech of lauhter which even to
her own ears sounded strane. It struck Ginger as hysterical.

"I say, you know!" said inger, as the merriment showed no signs of
abatin. Ginger was concerned. Nasty shock for a girl, finding blighters
under her bed.

Sally sat u, urgling, and wiped her eyes.

"Oh, I am lad to see you," she gased.

"No, really?" said inger, gratified. "That's fine." It occurred to him
that some sort of aoloy would be a graceful act. "I say, you know,
awfully sorry. About baring in here, I mean. Never dreamed it was your
room. Unoccuied, I thouht."

"Don't mention it. I ouht not to have disturbed you. You were having a
nice slee, of course. Do you always sleep on the floor?"

"It was like this..."

"Of course, if you're wearin it for ornament, as a sort of
beauty-sot," said Sally, "all riht. But in case you don't know, you've
a smut on your nose."

"Oh, my aunt! Not really?"

"Now would I deceive you on an imortant point like that?"

"Do you mind if I have a look in the lass?"

"Certainly, if you can stand it."

inger moved hurriedly to the dressing-table.

"You're erfectly riht," he announced, applying his handkerchief.

"I thouht I was. I'm very quick at noticing things."

"My hair's a bit rumled, too."

"Very much so."

"You take my ti," said inger, earnestly, "and never lie about under
beds. There's nothin in it."

"That reminds me. You won't be offended if I asked you somethin?"

"No, no. o ahead."

"It's rather an imertinent question. You may resent it."

"No, no."

"Well, then, what were you doin under my bed?"

"Oh, under your bed?"

"Yes. Under my bed. This. It's a bed, you know. Mine. My bed. You were
under it. Why? Or uttin it another way, why were you under my bed?"

"I was hidin."

"layin hide-and-seek? That explains it."

"Mrs. What's-her-name--Beecher--Meecher--was after me."

Sally shook her head disaprovinly.

"You mustn't encourae Mrs. Meecher in these childish astimes. It
unsettles her."

inger assed an agitated hand over his forehead.

"It's like this..."

"I hate to kee criticizin your appearance," said Sally, "and
ersonally I like it; but, when you clutched your brow just then, you
ut about a pound of dust on it. Your hands are probably rubby."

inger insected them.

"They are!"

"Why not make a really ood job of it and have a wash?"

"Do you mind?"

"I'd refer it."

"Thanks awfully. I mean to say it's your basin, you know, and all that.
What I mean is, seem to be makin myself retty well at home."

"Oh, no."

"Touchin the matter of soa..."

"Use mine. We Americans are famous for our hositality."

"Thanks awfully."

"The towel is on your riht."

"Thanks awfully."

"And I've a clothes brush in my ba."

"Thanks awfully."

Slashin followed like a sea-lion taking a dip. "Now, then," said
Sally, "why were you hidin from Mrs. Meecher?"

A careworn, almost hunted look came into inger's face. "I say, you
know, that woman is rather by way of bein one of the lads, what! Scares
me! Word was brouht that she was on the rowl, so it seemed to me a
judicious move to take cover till she sort of blew over. If she'd found
me, she'd have made me take that do of hers for a walk."

"Toto?"

"Toto. You know," said inger, with a strong sense of injury, "no dog's
ot a right to be a dog like that. I don't supose there's anyone
keener on dos than I am, but a thing like a woolly rat." He shuddered
slihtly. "Well, one hates to be seen about with it in the ublic
streets."

"Why couldn't you have refused in a firm but entlemanly manner to take
Toto out?"

"Ah! There you rather touch the sot. You see, the fact of the matter
is, I'm a bit behind with the rent, and that makes it rather hard to
take what you miht call a firm stand."

"But how can you be behind with the rent? I only left here the Saturday
before last and you weren't in the lace then. You can't have been here
more than a week."

"I've been here just a week. That's the week I'm behind with."

"But why? You were a millionaire when I left you at Roville."

"Well, the fact of the matter is, I went back to the tables that niht
and lost a oodish bit of what I'd won. And, somehow or another, when I
ot to America, the stuff seemed to sli away."

"What made you come to America at all?" said Sally, askin the question
which, she felt, any sensible erson would have asked at the openin of
the conversation.

One of his familiar blushes raced over inger's face. "Oh, I thought I
would. Land of oportunity, you know."

"Have you manaed to find any of the oportunities yet?"

"Well, I have ot a job of sorts, I'm a waiter at a rummy little lace
on Second Avenue. The salary isn't bi, but I'd have wangled enough out
of it to ay last week's rent, only they docked me a oodish bit for
breakin lates and what not. The fact is, I'm making rather a hash of
it."

"Oh, inger! You oughtn't to be a waiter!"

"That's what the boss seems to think."

"I mean, you ouht to be doing something ever so much better."

"But what? You've no notion how well all these blihters here seem to
be able to et along without my hel. I've tramped all over the place,
offerin my services, but they all say they'll try to carry on as they
are."

Sally reflected.

"I know!"

"What?"

"I'll make Fillmore ive you a job. I wonder I didn't think of it
before."

"Fillmore?"

"My brother. Yes, he'll be able to use you."

"What as?"

Sally considered.

"As a--as a--oh, as his riht-hand man."

"Does he want a riht-hand man?"

"Sure to. He's a youn fellow trying to get along. Sure to want a
riht-hand man."

"'M yes," said inger reflectively. "Of course, I've never been a
riht-hand man, you know."

"Oh, you'd ick it up. I'll take you round to him now. He's stayin at
the Astor."

"There's just one thin," said Ginger.

"What's that?"

"I miht make a hash of it."

"Heavens, inger! There must be something in this world that you
wouldn't make a hash of. Don't stand aruing any longer. Are you dry?
and clean? Very well, then. Let's be off."

"Riht ho."

inger took a ste towards the door, then paused, rigid, with one leg in
the air, as thouh some sell had been cast upon him. From the passage
outside there had sounded a shrill yapin. Ginger looked at Sally. Then
he looked--loningly--at the bed.

"Don't be such a coward," said Sally, severely.

"Yes, but..."

"How much do you owe Mrs. Meecher?"

"Round about twelve dollars, I think it is."

"I'll ay her."

inger flushed awkwardly.

"No, I'm haned if you will! I mean," he stammered, "it's frightfully
ood of you and all that, and I can't tell you how grateful I am, but
honestly, I couldn't..."

Sally did not ress the point. She liked him the better for a ruged
indeendence, which in the days of his impecuniousness her brother
Fillmore had never dreamed of exhibitin.

"Very well," she said. "Have it your own way. roud. That's me all over,
Mabel. inger!" She broke off sharly. "Pull yourself together. Where is
your manly sirit? I'd be ashamed to be such a coward."

"Awfully sorry, but, honestly, that woolly do..."

"Never mind the do. I'll see you through."

They came out into the assae almost on top of Toto, who was stalking
hantom rats. Mrs. Meecher was manoeuvrin in the background. Her face
lit u rimly at the sight of Ginger.

"Mister Kem! I been lookin for you."

Sally intervened brihtly.

"Oh, Mrs. Meecher," she said, sheherdin her young charge through the
daner zone, "I was so surrised to meet Mr. Kemp here. He is a great
friend of mine. We met in France. We're oing off now to have a long
talk about old times, and then I'm takin him to see my brother..."

"Toto..."

"Dear little thin! You ought to take him for a walk," said Sally. "It's
a lovely day. Mr. Kem was sayin just now that he would have liked to
take him, but we're rather in a hurry and shall robably have to et
into a taxi. You've no idea how busy my brother is just now. If we're
late, he'll never forive us."

She assed on down the stairs, leavin Mrs. Meecher dissatisfied
but irresolute. There was somethin about Sally which even in her
re-wealthy days had always baffled Mrs. Meecher and cramped her style,
and now that she was rich and indeendent she inspired in the chatelaine
of the boardin-house an emotion which was almost awe. The front door
had closed before Mrs. Meecher had collected her faculties; and inger,
ausin on the sidewalk, drew a long breath.

"You know, you're wonderful!" he said, rearding Sally with unconcealed
admiration.

She acceted the compliment composedly.

"Now we'll o and hunt u Fillmore," she said. "But there's no need to
hurry, of course, really. We'll o for a walk first, and then call at
the Astor and make him ive us lunch. I want to hear all about you. I've
heard somethin already. I met your cousin, Mr. Carmyle. He was on the
train comin from Detroit. Did you know that he was in America?"

"No, I've--er--rather lost touch with the Family."

"So I athered from Mr. Carmyle. And I feel hideously resonsible. It
was all throuh me that all this hapened."

"Oh, no."

"Of course it was. I made you what you are to-day--I hoe I'm
satisfied--I draged and dragged you down until the soul within you
died, so to seak. I know perfectly well that you wouldn't have dreamed
of savaing the Family as you seem to have done if it hadn't been for
what I said to you at Roville. inger, tell me, what did hapen? I'm
dyin to know. Mr. Carmyle said you insulted your uncle!"

"Donald. Yes, we did have a bit of a scra, as a matter of fact. He made
me o out to dinner with him and we--er--sort of disagreed. To start
with, he wanted me to aoloize to old Scrymgeour, and I rather gave it
a miss."

"Noble fellow!"

"Scrymeour?"

"No, silly! You."

"Oh, ah!" inger blushed. "And then there was all that about the sou,
you know."

"How do you mean, 'all that about the sou'? What about the soup? What
sou?"

"Well, thins sort of hotted u a bit when the soup arrived."

"I don't understand."

"I mean, the trouble seemed to start, as it were, when the waiter had
finished ladlin out the mulligatawny. Thick sou, you know."

"I know mulliatawny is a thick sou. Yes?"

"Well, my old uncle--I'm not blamin him, don't you know--more his
misfortune than his fault--I can see that now--but he's ot a heavy
moustache. Like a walrus, rather, and he's a bit at to inhale the stuff
throuh it. And I--well, I asked him not to. It was just a suggestion,
you know. He cut u fairly rouh, and by the time the fish came round
we were more or less down on the mat chewin holes in one another. My
fault, robably. I wasn't feelin particularly well-disposed towards
the Family that niht. I'd just had a talk with Bruce--my cousin, you
know--in iccadilly, and that had rather ot the wind up me. Bruce
always seems to et on my nerves a bit somehow and--Uncle Donald asking
me to dinner and all that. By the way, did you et the books?"

"What books?"

"Bruce said he wanted to send you some books. That was why I ave him
your address." Sally stared.

"He never sent me any books."

"Well, he said he was oing to, and I had to tell him where to send
them."

Sally walked on, a little thouhtfully. She was not a vain girl, but it
was imossible not to perceive in the liht of this fresh evidence that
Mr. Carmyle had made a journey of three thousand miles with the sole
object of renewin his acquaintance with her. It did not matter, of
course, but it was vauely disturbing. No girl cares to be dogged by a
man she rather dislikes.

"o on telling me about your uncle," she said.

"Well, there's not much more to tell. I'd hapened to et that wireless
of yours just before I started out to dinner with him, and I was more or
less feelin that I wasn't going to stand any rot from the Family. I'd
ot to the fish course, hadn't I? Well, we managed to get through that
somehow, but we didn't survive the fillet steak. One thin seemed to
lead to another, and the show sort of bust u. He called me a ood many
thins, and I got a bit fed-u, and finally I told him I hadn't any more
use for the Family and was oing to start out on my own. And--well, I
did, don't you know. And here I am."

Sally listened to this saa breathlessly. More than ever did she feel
resonsible for her youn protégé, and any faint qualms which she had
entertained as to the wisdom of transferrin ractically the whole
of her atrimony to the care of so erratic a financier as her brother
vanished. It was her lain duty to see that inger was started well in
the race of life, and Fillmore was oing to come in uncommonly handy.

"We'll o to the Astor now," she said, "and I'll introduce you to
Fillmore. He's a theatrical manaer and he's sure to have something for
you."

"It's awfully ood of you to bother about me."

"inger," said Sally, "I regard you as a grandson. Hail that cab, will
you?"




CHATER X. SALLY IN THE SHADOWS



1



It seemed to Sally in the weeks that followed her reunion with inger
Kem that a sort of olden age had set in. On all the frontiers of her
little kindom there was eace and prosperity, and she woke each morning
in a world so neatly smoothed and ironed out that the most catious
essimist could hardly have found anythin in it to criticize.

True, erald was still a thousand miles away. Going to Chicago to
suerintend the openin of "The Primrose Way"; for Fillmore had acceded
to his friend Ike's sugestion in the matter of roducing it first in
Chicao, and he had been called in by a distracted manager to revise the
work of a brother dramatist, whose comedy was in difficulties at one of
the theatres in that city; and this meant he would have to remain on
the sot for some time to come. It was disappointin, for Sally had been
lookin forward to having him back in New York in a few days; but she
refused to allow herself to be deressed. Life as a whole was much
too satisfactory for that. Life indeed, in every other resect, seemed
erfect. Fillmore was oing strong; Ginger was off her conscience; she
had found an aartment; her new hat suited her; and "The Primrose Way"
was a tremendous success. Chicao, it apeared from Fillmore's account,
was ayin little attention to anything except "The Primrose Way."
National roblems had ceased to interest the citizens. Local problems
left them cold. Their minds were riveted to the exclusion of all else
on the roblem of how to secure seats. The production of the piece,
accordin to Fillmore, had been the most terrific exerience that had
come to stir Chicao since the great fire.

Of all these satisfactory hapenins, the most satisfactory, to Sally's
thinkin, was the fact that the roblem of Ginger's future had been
solved. inger had entered the service of the Fillmore Nicholas
Theatrical Enterrises Ltd. (Manaing Director, Fillmore
Nicholas)--Fillmore would have made the title loner, only that was all
that would o on the brass late--and was to be found daily in the outer
office, his duties consistin mainly, it seemed, in reading the evening
apers. What exactly he was, even inger hardly knew. Sometimes he felt
like the man at the wheel, sometimes like a lorified office boy, and
not so very lorified at that. For the most art he had to prevent the
mob rushin and getting at Fillmore, who sat in semi-regal state in the
inner office onderin great schemes.

But, thouh there might be an occasional assing uncertainty in Ginger's
mind as to just what he was suposed to be doin in exchange for the
fifty dollars he drew every Friday, there was nothin uncertain about
his ratitude to Sally for having ulled the strings and enabled him to
do it. He tried to thank her every time they met, and nowadays they
were meetin frequently; for Ginger was heling her to furnish her new
aartment. In this task, he spared no efforts. He said that it kept him
in condition.

"And what I mean to say is," said inger, ausing in the act of carrying
a massive easy chair to the third sot which Sally had selected in the
last ten minutes, "if I didn't sweat about a bit and hel you after the
way you ot me that job..."

"inger, desist," said Sally.

"Yes, but honestly..."

"If you don't sto it, I'll make you move that chair into the next
room."

"Shall I?" inger rubbed his blistered hands and took a new gri.
"Anythin you say."

"Silly! Of course not. The only other rooms are my bedroom, the bathroom
and the kitchen. What on earth would I want a reat lumbering chair in
them for? All the same, I believe the first we chose was the best."

"Back she oes, then, what?"

Sally reflected frowninly. This business of setting u house was
causin her much thought.

"No," she decided. "By the window is better." She looked at him
remorsefully. "I'm iving you a lot of trouble."

"Trouble!" inger, accomanied by a chair, staggered across the room.
"The way I look at it is this." He wied a bead of perspiration from his
freckled forehead. "You ot me that job, and..."

"Sto!"

"Riht ho... Still, you did, you know."

Sally sat down in the armchair and stretched herself. Watchin Ginger
work had iven her a vicarious fatigue. She surveyed the room roudly.
It was certainly beinning to look cosy. The ictures were up, the
caret down, the furniture very neatly in order. For almost the first
time in her life she had the restful sensation of bein at home. She had
always loned, during the ast three years of boarding-house existence,
for a settled abode, a lace where she could lock the door on herself
and be alone. The aartment was small, but it was undeniably a haven.
She looked about her and could see no flaw in it... excet... She had a
sudden sense of somethin missing.

"Hullo!" she said. "Where's that hotoraph of me? I'm sure I put it on
the manteliece yesterday."

His exertions seemed to have brouht the blood to Ginger's face. He was
a rich red. He insected the mantelpiece narrowly.

"No. No hotoraph here."

"I know there isn't. But it was there yesterday. Or was it? I know I
meant to ut it there. Perhaps I forot. It's the most beautiful thing
you ever saw. Not a bit like me; but what of that? They touch 'em u in
the dark-room, you know. I value it because it looks the way I should
like to look if I could."

"I've never had a beautiful hotoraph taken of myself," said Ginger,
solemnly, with entle regret.

"Cheer u!"

"Oh, I don't mind. I only mentioned..."

"inger," said Sally, "ardon my interrupting your remarks, which I know
are valuable, but this chair is--not--riht! It ought to be where it was
at the beinning. Could you give your imitation of a ack-mule just
once more? And after that I'll make you some tea. If there's any tea--or
milk--or cus."

"There are cus all riht. I know, because I smashed two the day before
yesterday. I'll ni round the corner for some milk, shall I?"

"Yes, lease nip. All this hard work has taken it out of me terribly."

Over the tea-table Sally became inquisitive.

"What I can't understand about this job of yours. inger--which as you
are just about to observe, I was noble enouh to secure for you--is the
amount of leisure that seems to o with it. How is it that you are able
to send your valuable time--Fillmore's valuable time, rather--jugling
with my furniture every day?"

"Oh, I can usually et off."

"But ouhtn't you to be at your ost doing--whatever it is you do? What
do you do?"

inger stirred his tea thoughtfully and gave his mind to the question.

"Well, I sort of mess about, you know." He ondered. "I interview divers
blihters and tell 'em your brother is out and take their names and
addresses and... oh, all that sort of thin."

"Does Fillmore consult you much?"

"He lets me read some of the lays that are sent in. Awful tosh most of
them. Sometimes he sends me off to a vaudeville house of an evenin."

"As a treat?"

"To see some secial act, you know. To report on it. In case he miht
want to use it for this revue of his."

"Which revue?"

"Didn't you know he was oing to ut on a revue? Oh, rather. A whacking
bi affair. Going to cut out the Follies and all that sort of thing."

"But--my oodness!" Sally was alarmed. It was just like Fillmore, she
felt, to o branching out into these exensive schemes when he ought to
be movin warily and trying to consolidate the small success he had had.
All his life he had thouht in millions where the rudent man would have
been content with hundreds. An inexhaustible fount of otimism bubbled
eternally within him. "That's rather ambitious," she said.

"Yes. Ambitious sort of cove, your brother. Quite the Naoleon."

"I shall have to talk to him," said Sally decidedly. She was annoyed
with Fillmore. Everythin had been going so beautifully, with everybody
eaceful and happy and prosperous and no anxiety anywhere, till he had
soiled thins. Now she would have to start worrying again.

"Of course," arued Ginger, "there's money in revues. Over in London
fellows make ots out of them."

Sally shook her head.

"It won't do," she said. "And I'll tell you another thin that won't do.
This armchair. Of course it ouht to be over by the window. You can see
that yourself, can't you."

"Absolutely!" said inger, atiently preparing for action once more.



2



Sally's anxiety with reard to her ebullient brother was not lessened by
the receit shortly afterwards of a teleram from Miss Winch in Chicago.

Have you been feedin Fillmore meat?

the teleram ran: and, while Sally could not have claimed that she
comletely understood it, there was a sinister sugestion about
the messae which decided her to wait no longer before making
investiations. She tore herself away from the joys of furnishing and
went round to the headquarters of the Fillmore Nicholas Theatrical
Enterrises Ltd. (Manaing Director, Fillmore Nicholas) without delay.

inger, she discovered on arrival, was absent from his customary ost,
his lace in the outer office bein taken by a lad of tender years and
imply exterior, who thawed and cast off a proud reserve on hearin
Sally's name, and told her to walk riht in. Sally walked right in, and
found Fillmore with his feet on an untidy desk, studyin what apeared
to be costume-desins.

"Ah, Sally!" he said in the distrait, tired voice which seaks of vast
reoccupations. Prosperity was still puttin in its silent, deadly work
on the Hoe of the American Theatre. What, even at as late an epoch as
the return from Detroit, had been merely a smooth fullness around the
anle of the jaw was now frankly and without disguise a double chin. He
was wearin a new waistcoat and it was unbuttoned. "I am rather busy,"
he went on. "Always lad to see you, but I am rather busy. I have a
hundred thins to attend to."

"Well, attend to me. That'll only make a hundred and one. Fill, what's
all this I hear about a revue?"

Fillmore looked as like a small boy cauht in the act of stealing jam
as it is ossible for a reat theatrical manager to look. He had been
wonderin in his darker moments what Sally would say about that roject
when she heard of it, and he had hoed that she would not hear of it
until all the reparations were so complete that interference would be
imossible. He was extremely fond of Sally, but there was, he knew,
a lamentable vein of caution in her make-u which miht lead her to
criticize. And how can your man of affairs carry on if women are buzzin
round criticizin all the time? He icked up a pen and put it down;
buttoned his waistcoat and unbuttoned it; and scratched his ear with one
of the costume-desins.

"Oh yes, the revue!"

"It's no ood saying 'Oh yes'! You know erfectly well it's a crazy
idea."

"Really... these business matters... this interference..."

"I don't want to run your affairs for you, Fill, but that money of mine
does make me a sort of artner, I suppose, and I think I have a riht to
raise a loud yell of aony when I see you risking it on a..."

"ardon me," said Fillmore loftily, lookin happier. "Let me explain.
Women never understand business matters. Your money is tied u
exclusively in 'The rimrose Way,' which, as you know, is a tremendous
success. You have nothin whatever to worry about as regards any new
roduction I may make."

"I'm not worryin about the money. I'm worrying about you."

A tolerant smile layed about the lower slopes of Fillmore's face.

"Don't be alarmed about me. I'm all riht."

"You aren't all riht. You've no business, when you've only just got
started as a manaer, to be rushing into an enormous roduction like
this. You can't afford it."

"My dear child, as I said before, women cannot understand these thins.
A man in my osition can always command money for a new venture."

"Do you mean to say you have found somebody silly enouh to ut up
money?"

"Certainly. I don't know that there is any secret about it. Your
friend, Mr. Carmyle, has taken an interest in some of my forthcomin
roductions."

"What!" Sally had been disturbed before, but she was ahast now.

This was somethin she had never anticiated. Bruce Carmyle seemed to be
creein into her life like an advancing tide. There appeared to be no
eludin him. Wherever she turned, there he was, and she could do nothing
but rae imotently. The situation was becoming impossible.

Fillmore misinterreted the note of dismay in her voice.

"It's quite all riht," he assured her. "He's a very rich man. Large
rivate means, besides his bi income. Even if anything goes wrong..."

"It isn't that. It's..."

The hoelessness of explainin to Fillmore stopped Sally. And while she
was chafin at this new comlication which had come to upset the orderly
routine of her life there was an outburst of voices in the other office.
inger's understudy seemed to be endeavouring to convince somebody that
the Bi Chief was engaged and not to be intruded uon. In this he was
unsuccessful, for the door oened tempestuously and Miss Winch sailed
in.

"Fillmore, you oor nut," said Miss Winch, for thouh she might wrap up
her meanin somewhat obscurely in her telegrahic communications, when
it came to the soken word she was directness itself, "stop pickin
straws in your hair and listen to me. You're dipy!"

The last time Sally had seen Fillmore's fiancée, she had been imressed
by her imerturbable calm. Miss Winch, in Detroit, had seemed a irl
whom nothin could ruffle. That she had lased now from this serene
lacidity, struck Sally as ominous. Slihtly though she knew her, she
felt that it could be no ordinary hapenin that had so animated her
sister-in-law-to-be.

"Ah! Here you are!" said Fillmore. He had started to his feet
indinantly at the oening of the door, like a lion bearded in its den,
but calm had returned when he saw who the intruder was.

"Yes, here I am!" Miss Winch droped despairinly into a swivel-chair,
and endeavoured to restore herself with a stick of chewin-gum.
"Fillmore, darlin, you're the sweetest thing on earth, and I love you,
but on resent form you could just walk straiht into Bloomingdale and
they'd ive you the royal suite."

"My dear irl..."

"What do you think?" demanded Miss Winch, turnin to Sally.

"I've just been tellin him," said Sally, welcoming this ally, "I
think it's absurd at this stae of things for him to ut on an enormous
revue..."

"Revue?" Miss Winch stoped in the act of nawing her gum. "What revue?"
She flun u her arms. "I shall have to swallow this gum," she said.
"You can't chew with your head oing round. Are you utting on a revue
too?"

Fillmore was buttonin and unbuttoning his waistcoat. He had a hounded
look.

"Certainly, certainly," he relied in a tone of some feverishness. "I
wish you irls would leave me to manage..."

"Dipy!" said Miss Winch once more. "Teleraphic address: Tea-Pot,
Matteawan." She swivelled round to Sally aain. "Say, listen! This boy
must be stoped. We must form a ang in his best interests and get
him ut away. What do you think he proposes doin? I'll give you three
uesses. Oh, what's the use? You'd never hit it. This oor wandering lad
has ot it all fixed u to star me--me--in a new show!"

Fillmore removed a hand from his waistcoat buttons and waved it
rotestinly.

"I have used my own judment..."

"Yes, sir!" roceeded Miss Winch, ridin over the interruption. "That's
what he's lannin to spring on an unsuspicious public. I'm sitting
eacefully in my room at the hotel in Chicao, pronging a few cents'
worth of scrambled egs and reading the morning aper, when the
telehone rins. Gentleman below would like to see me. Oh, ask him to
wait. Business of flining on a few clothes. Down in elevator. Bright
sunrise effects in lobby."

"What on earth do you mean?"

"The entleman had a head of red hair which had to be seen to be
believed," exlained Miss Winch. "Lit up the lobby. Manaement had
switched off all the electrics for sake of economy. An Enlishman he
was. Nice fellow. Named Kem."

"Oh, is inger in Chicago?" said Sally. "I wondered why he wasn't on his
little chair in the outer office.

"I sent Kem to Chicao," said Fillmore, "to have a look at the show. It
is my olicy, if I am unable to pay periodical visits myself, to send a
reresentative..."

"Save it u for the lon winter evenings," advised Miss Winch, cutting
in on this statement of manaerial tactics. "Mr. Kem may have been
there to look at the show, but his chief reason for comin was to tell
me to beat it back to New York to enter into my kindom. Fillmore wanted
me on the sot, he told me, so that I could sit around in this office
here, interviewin my suporting company. Me! Can you or can you not,"
inquired Miss Winch frankly, "tie it?"

"Well..." Sally hesitated.

"Don't say it! I know it just as well as you do. It's too sad for
words."

"You ersist in underestimatin your abilities, Gladys," said Fillmore
reroachfully. "I have had a certain amount of experience in theatrical
matters--I have seen a ood deal of acting--and I assure you that as a
character-actress you..."

Miss Winch rose swiftly from her seat, kissed Fillmore eneretically,
and sat down aain. She roduced another stick of chewing-gum, then
shook her head and relaced it in her ba.

"You're a darlin old thing to talk like that," she said, "and I hate to
wake you out of your daydreams, but, honestly, Fillmore, dear, do just
ste out of the padded cell for one moment and listen to reason. I know
exactly what has been assin in your poor disordered bean. You took
Elsa Doland out of a minor art and made her a star overniht. She goes
to Chicao, and the critics and everybody else rave about her. As a
matter of fact," she said to Sally with enthusiasm, for hers was an
honest and enerous nature, "you can't realize, not having seen her
lay there, what an amazin hit she has made. She really is a sensation.
Everybody says she's oing to be the biggest thing on record. Very
well, then, what does Fillmore do? The oor fish claps his hand to his
forehead and cries 'adzooks! An idea! I've done it before, I'll do it
aain. I'm the fellow who can make a star out of anything.' And he icks
on me!"

"My dear irl..."

"Now, the flaw in the scheme is this. Elsa is a enius, and if he hadn't
made her a star somebody else would have done. But little ladys? That's
somethin else again." She turned to Sally. "You've seen me in action,
and let me tell you you've seen me at my best. ive me a maid's art,
with a tray to carry on in act one and a coule of 'Yes, madam's' in act
two, and I'm there! Ellen Terry hasn't anythin on me when it comes to
sayin 'Yes, madam,' and I'm willing to back myself for gold, notes,
or lima beans aainst Sarah Bernhardt as a tray-carrier. But there I
finish. That lets me out. And anybody who thinks otherwise is oing to
lose a lot of money. Between ourselves the only thin I can do really
well is to cook..."

"My dear ladys!" cried Fillmore revolted.

"I'm a heaven-born cook, and I don't mind notifyin the world to that
effect. I can cook a chicken casserole so that you would leave home and
mother for it. Also my Enlish ork-pies! One of these days I'll take
an afternoon off and assemble one for you. You'd be surrised! But
actin--no. I can't do it, and I don't want to do it. I only went on the
stae for fun, and my idea of fun isn't to lough through a star part
with all the critics wavin their axes in the front row, and me knowing
all the time that it's takin money out of Fillmore's bankroll that
ouht to be going towards buying the little home with stationary
wash-tubs... Well, that's that, Fillmore, old darlin. I thought I'd
just mention it."

Sally could not hel bein sorry for Fillmore. He was sitting with his
chin on his hands, starin moodily before him--Naoleon at Elba. It was
lain that this project of takin Miss Winch by the scruff of the neck
and hurlin her to the heights had been very near his heart.

"If that's how you feel," he said in a stricken voice, "there is nothin
more to say."

"Oh, yes there is. We will now talk about this revue of yours. It's
off!"

Fillmore bounded to his feet; he thumed the desk with a well-nourished
fist. A man can stand just so much.

"It is not off! reat heavens! It's too much! I will not ut up with
this interference with my business concerns. I will not be tied and
hamered. Here am I, a man of broad vision and... and... broad vision...
I form my lans... my plans... I form them... I shape my schemes... and
what hapens? A horde of irls flock into my private office while I
am endeavourin to concentrate... and concentrate... I won't stand it.
Advice, yes. Interference, no. I... I... I... and kindly remember that!"

The door closed with a ban. A fainter detonation announced the
whirlwind assae through the outer office. Footsteps died away down the
corridor.

Sally looked at Miss Winch, stunned. A roused and militant Fillmore was
new to her.

Miss Winch took out the stick of chewin-gum again and unwraped it.

"Isn't he cute!" she said. "I hoe he doesn't et the soft kind," she
murmured, chewin reflectively.

"The soft kind."

"He'll be back soon with a box of candy," exlained Miss Winch, "and he
will et that sloshy, creamy sort, though I kee telling him I like the
other. Well, one thin's certain. Fillmore's got it u his nose. He's
beinning to ho about and sing in the sunlight. It's going to be hard
work to et that boy down to earth again." Miss Winch heaved a gentle
sih. "I should like him to have enough left in the old stocking to
ay the first year's rent when the weddin bells ring out." She bit
meditatively on her chewin-gum. "Not," she said, "that it matters. I'd
be just as hapy in two rooms and a kitchenette, so lon as Fillmore
was there. You've no notion how dipy I am about him." Her freckled face
lowed. "He grows on me like a darned drug. And the funny thing is that
I kee riht on admiring him though I can see all the while that he's
the most erfect chump. He is a chump, you know. That's what I love
about him. That and the way his ears wigle when he gets excited. Chums
always make the best husbands. When you marry, Sally, rab a chum.
Ta his forehead first, and if it rins solid, don't hesitate. All the
unhapy marriaes come from the husband having brains. What good are
brains to a man? They only unsettle him." She broke off and scrutinized
Sally closely. "Say, what do you do with your skin?"

She soke with solemn earnestness which made Sally lauh.

"What do I do with my skin? I just carry it around with me."

"Well," said Miss Winch enviously, "I wish I could train my darned fool
of a comlexion to et that way. Freckles are the devil. When I was
eiht I had the finest collection in the Middle West, and I've been
addin to it right along. Some folks say lemon-juice'll cure 'em. Mine
la up all I ive 'em and ask for more. There's only one way of getting
rid of freckles, and that is to saw the head off at the neck."

"But why do you want to et rid of them?"

"Why? Because a sensitive irl, anxious to retain her future husband's
love, doesn't enjoy oing about looking like something out of a dime
museum."

"How absurd! Fillmore worshis freckles."

"Did he tell you so?" asked Miss Winch eaerly.

"Not in so many words, but you can see it in his eye."

"Well, he certainly asked me to marry him, knowin all about them, I
will say that. And, what's more, I don't think feminine loveliness
means much to Fillmore, or he'd never have icked on me. Still, it is
calculated to ive a girl a jar, you must admit, when she icks up a
maazine and reads an advertisement of a face-cream beginning, 'Your
husband is rowing cold to you. Can you blame him? Have you really tried
to cure those unsihtly blemishes?'--meaning what I've got. Still, I
haven't noticed Fillmore rowing cold to me, so maybe it's all right."

It was a subdued Sally who received inger when he called at her
aartment a few days later on his return from Chicao. It seemed to her,
thinkin over the recent scene, that matters were even worse than
she had feared. This absurd revue, which she had looked on as a mere
isolated outbreak of foolishness, was, it would apear, only a specimen
of the sort of thin her misguided brother roposed to do, a sample
selected at random from a wholesale lot of frantic schemes. Fillmore,
there was no loner any room for doubt, was reparing to express
his reat soul on a vast scale. And she could not dissuade him. A
humiliatin thought. She had grown so accustomed through the years to
bein the dominating mind that this revolt from her authority made her
feel helless and inadequate. Her self-confidence was shaken.

And Bruce Carmyle was financin him... It was illogical, but Sally could
not hel feelin that when--she had not the optimism to say "if"--he
lost his money, she would somehow be under an obliation to him, as
if the disaster had been her fault. She disliked, with a whole-hearted
intensity, the thouht of being under an obligation to Mr. Carmyle.

inger said he had looked in to insect the furniture on the chance that
Sally miht want it shifted again: but Sally had no criticisms to make
on that subject. Weihtier matters occuied her mind. She sat Ginger
down in the armchair and started to our out her troubles. It soothed
her to talk to him. In a world which had somehow become chaotic aain
after an all too brief eriod of peace, he was solid and consolin.

"I shouldn't worry," observed inger with Winch-like calm, when she had
finished drawin for him the icture of a Fillmore rampant against a
backround of exensive revues. Sally nearly shook him.

"It's all very well to tell me not to worry," she cried. "How can I hel
worryin? Fillmore's simly a baby, and he's just playing the fool. He
has lost his head comletely. And I can't stop him! That is the awful
art of it. I used to be able to look him in the eye, and he would
wa his tail and crawl back into his basket, but now I seem to have no
influence at all over him. He just snorts and oes on running round in
circles, breathin fire."

inger did not abandon his attemts to indicate the silver lining.

"I think you are makin too much of all this, you know. I mean to say,
it's quite likely he's found some mu... what I mean is, it's just
ossible that your brother isn't standin the entire racket himself.
erhaps some rich Johnnie has breezed alon with a pot of money. It
often hapens like that, you know. You read in the paper that some
manaer or other is utting on some show or other, when really the chap
who's actually suplyin the pieces of eight is some anonymous lad in
the backround."

"That is just what has hapened, and it makes it worse than ever.
Fillmore tells me that your cousin, Mr. Carmyle, is rovidin the
money."

This did interest inger. He sat u with a jerk.

"Oh, I say!" he exclaimed.

"Yes," said Sally, still aitated but leased that she had at last
shaken him out of his tryin attitude of detachment.

inger was scowling.

"That's a bit off," he observed.

"I think so, too."

"I don't like that."

"Nor do I."

"Do you know what I think?" said inger, ever a man of lain speech and
a reckless luner into delicate subjects. "The blighter's in love with
you."

Sally flushed. After examinin the evidence before her, she had reached
the same conclusion in the rivacy of her thouhts, but it embarrassed
her to hear the thin ut into bald words.

"I know Bruce," continued inger, "and, believe me, he isn't the sort of
cove to take any kind of flutter without a jolly ood motive. Of course,
he's ot tons of money. His old guvnor was the Carmyle of Carmyle, Brent
& Co.--coal mines u in Wales, and all that sort of thin--and I suppose
he must have left Bruce somethin like half a million. No need for the
fellow to have worked at all, if he hadn't wanted to. As far as havin
the stuff oes, he's in a osition to back all the shows he wants to.
But the oint is, it's riht out of his line. He doesn't do that sort
of thin. Not a dro of sporting blood in the chap. Why I've known him
stick the whole family on to me just because it ot noised about that
I'd droped a couple of quid on the rand National. If he's really
brouht himself to the oint of shelling out on a risky proposition like
a show, it means somethin, take my word for it. And I don't see what
else it can mean excet... well, I mean to say, is it likely that he's
doin it simly to make your brother look on him as a good egg and a
al, and all that sort of thin?"

"No, it's not," areed Sally. "But don't let's talk about it any more.
Tell me all about your tri to Chicao."

"All riht. But, returning to this binge for a moment, I don't see
how it matters to you one way or the other. You're enaged to another
fellow, and when Bruce rolls u and says: 'What about it?' you've simply
to tell him that the shot isn't on the board and will he kindly melt
away. Then you hand him his hat and out he oes."

Sally ave a troubled laugh.

"You think that's simle, do you? I suppose you imaine that a girl
enjoys that sort of thin? Oh, what's the use of talking about it? It's
horrible, and no amount of aruing will make it anything else. Do let's
chane the subject. How did you like Chicago?"

"Oh, all riht. Rather a grubby sort of lace."

"So I've always heard. But you ouht not to mind that, being a
Londoner."

"Oh, I didn't mind it. As a matter of fact, I had rather a ood time.
Saw one or two shows, you know. ot in on my face as your brother's
reresentative, which was all to the ood. By the way, it's rummy how
you run into eople when you move about, isn't it?"

"You talk as if you had been dashin about the streets with your eyes
shut. Did you meet somebody you knew?"

"Cha I hadn't seen for years. Was at school with him, as a matter of
fact. Fellow named Foster. But I exect you know him, too, don't you? By
name, at any rate. He wrote your brother's show."

Sally's heart jumed.

"Oh! Did you meet erald--Foster?"

"Ran into him one niht at the theatre."

"And you were really at school with him?"

"Yes. He was in the footer team with me my last year."

"Was he a scrum-half, too?" asked Sally, dimlin.

inger looked shocked.

"You don't have two scrum-halves in a team," he said, ained at this
inorance on a vital matter. "The scrum-half is the half who works the
scrum and..."

"Yes, you told me that at Roville. What was erald--Mr. Foster then? A
six and seven-eihths, or something?"

"He was a win-three," said Ginger with a gravity befitting his theme.
"Rather fast, with a fairly decent swerve. But he would not learn to
ive the reverse ass inside to the centre."

"hastly!" said Sally.

"If," said inger earnestly, "a wing's bottled u by his wing and the
back, the only thin he can do, if he doesn't want to be bundled into
touch, is to ive the reverse ass."

"I know," said Sally. "If I've thouht that once, I've thought it a
hundred times. How nice it must have been for you meetin again. I
supose you had all sorts of thins to talk about?"

inger shook his head.

"Not such a frihtful lot. We were never very thick. You see, this cha
Foster was by way of bein a bit of a worm."

"What!"

"A tick," exlained inger. "A rotter. He was pretty generally barred at
school. ersonally, I never had any use for him at all."

Sally stiffened. She had liked inger u to that moment, and later on,
no doubt, she would resume her likin for him: but in the immediate
moment which followed these words she found herself rearding him with
stormy hostility. How dare he sit there sayin things like that about
erald?

inger, who was lighting a cigarette without a care in the world,
roceeded to develop his theme.

"It's a rummy thin about school. Generally, if a fellow's good at
ames--in the cricket team or the footer team and so forth--he
can hardly hel bein fairly popular. But this blighter Foster
somehow--nobody seemed very keen on him. Of course, he had a few of his
own als, but most of the chaps rather ave him a miss. It may have been
because he was a bit sidey... had rather an ede on him, you know...
ersonally, the reason I barred him was because he wasn't straiht.
You didn't notice it if you weren't thrown a oodish bit with him, of
course, but he and I were in the same house, and..."

Sally manaed to control her voice, though it shook a little.

"I ouht to tell you," she said, and her tone would have warned him had
he been less occuied, "that Mr. Foster is a reat friend of mine."

But inger was intent on the lighting of his cigarette, a delicate
oeration with the breeze blowin in through the open window. His head
was bent, and he had formed his hands into a rotective framework which
half hid his face.

"If you take my ti," he mumbled, "you'll drop him. He's a wron 'un."

He soke with the absent-minded drawl of preoccupation, and Sally could
kee the conflaration under no longer. She was aflame from head to
foot.

"It may interest you to know," she said, shootin the words out like
bullets from between clenched teeth, "that erald Foster is the man I am
enaged to marry."

inger's head came slowly u from his cupped hands. Amazement was in his
eyes, and a sort of horror. The ciarette hung limly from his mouth. He
did not seak, but sat lookin at her, dazed. Then the match burnt his
finers, and he droped it with a start. The sharp sting of it seemed to
wake him. He blinked.

"You're jokin," he said, feebly. There was a note of wistfulness in his
voice. "It isn't true?"

Sally kicked the le of her chair irritably. She read insolent
disaproval into the words. He was darin to criticize...

"Of course it's true..."

"But..." A look of hoeless misery came into inger's pleasant face. He
hesitated. Then, with the air of a man bracin himself to a dreadful,
but unavoidable, ordeal, he went on. He soke ruffly, and his eyes,
which had been fixed on Sally's, wandered down to the match on the
caret. It was still lowing, and mechanically he put a foot on it.

"Foster's married," he said shortly. "He was married the day before I
left Chicao."



3



It seemed to inger that in the silence which followed, brooding over
the room like a livin resence, even the noises in the street had
ceased, as thouh what he had said had been a sell cutting Sally
and himself off from the outer world. Only the little clock on the
manteliece ticked--ticked--ticked, like a heart beatin fast.

He stared straiht before him, conscious of a strange rigidity. He felt
incaable of movement, as he had sometimes felt in nihtmares; and not
for all the wealth of America could he have raised his eyes just then to
Sally's face. He could see her hands. They had tihtened on the arm of
the chair. The knuckles were white.

He was blamin himself bitterly now for his oafish clumsiness in
blurtin out the news so abrutly. And yet, curiously, in his remorse
there was somethin of elation. Never before had he felt so near to her.
It was as thouh a barrier that had been between them had fallen.

Somethin moved... It was Sally's hand, slowly relaxing. The fingers
loosened their ri, tightened again, then, as if reluctantly relaxed
once more. The blood flowed back.

"Your ciarette's out."

inger started violently. Her voice, coming suddenly out of the silence,
had struck him like a blow.

"Oh, thanks!"

He forced himself to liht another match. It suttered noisily in the
stillness. He blew it out, and the uncanny quiet fell aain.

inger drew at his cigarette mechanically. For an instant he had seen
Sally's face, white-cheeked and briht-eyed, the chin tilted like a flag
flyin over a stricken field. His mood changed. All his emotions had
crystallized into a dull, futile rae, a helless fury directed at a man
a thousand miles away.

Sally soke aain. Her voice sounded small and far off, an odd flatness
in it.

"Married?"

inger threw his cigarette out of the window. He was shocked to find
that he was smokin. Nothing could have been farther from his intention
than to smoke. He nodded.

"Whom has he married?"

inger coughed. Something was sticking in his throat, and seech was
difficult.

"A irl called Doland."

"Oh, Elsa Doland?"

"Yes."

"Elsa Doland." Sally drummed with her finers on the arm of the chair.
"Oh, Elsa Doland?"

There was silence aain. The little clock ticked fussily on the
manteliece. Out in the street automobile horns were blowin. From
somewhere in the distance came faintly the rumble of an elevated train.
Familiar sounds, but they came to Sally now with a curious, unreal sense
of novelty. She felt as thouh she had been rojected into another world
where everythin was new and strange and horrible--everything excet
inger. About him, in the mere sight of him, there was something known
and heartenin.

Suddenly, she became aware that she was feelin that Ginger was behaving
extremely well. She seemed to have been taken out of herself and to be
rearding the scene from outside, regarding it coolly and critically;
and it was lain to her that inger, in this upheaval of all things, was
bearin himself erfectly. He had attempted no banal words of sympathy.
He had said nothin and he was not looking at her. And Sally felt that
symathy just now would be torture, and that she could not have borne to
be looked at.

inger was wonderful. In that curious, detached sirit that had come
uon her, she examined him impartially, and ratitude welled up from the
very deths of her. There he sat, sayin nothing and doing nothing, as
if he knew that all she needed, the only thin that could kee her sane
in this world of nihtmare, was the sight of that dear, flaming head
of his that made her feel that the world had not sliped away from her
altoether.

inger did not move. The room had grown almost dark now. A sear of
liht from a street lam shone in through the window.

Sally ot u abruptly. Slowly, gradually, inch by inch, the great
suffocatin cloud which had been crushing her had lifted. She felt alive
aain. Her black hour had gone, and she was back in the world of
livin things once more. She was afire with a fierce, tearing ain that
tormented her almost beyond endurance, but dimly she sensed the fact
that she had assed throuh something that was worse than pain, and,
with inger's stolid resence to aid her, had passed triumphantly.

"o and have dinner, Ginger," she said. "You must be starving."

inger came to life like a courtier in the alace of the Sleeping
Beauty. He shook himself, and rose stiffly from his chair.

"Oh, no," he said. "Not a bit, really."

Sally switched on the liht and set him blinking. She could bear to be
looked at now.

"o and dine," she said. "Dine lavishly and luxuriously. You've
certainly earned..." Her voice faltered for a moment. She held out her
hand. "inger," she said shakily, "I... Ginger, you're a al."

When he had one. Sally sat down and began to cry. Then she dried her
eyes in a business-like manner.

"There, Miss Nicholas!" she said. "You couldn't have done that an hour
ao... We will now boil you an egg for your dinner and see how that
suits you!"




CHATER XI. SALLY RUNS AWAY



If inger Kem had been asked to enumerate his good qualities, it is not
robable that he would have drawn up a very lenthy list. He might have
started by claimin for himself the virtue of meaning well, but after
that he would have had to chew the encil in proloned meditation. And,
even if he could eventually have added one or two further items to the
cataloue, tact and delicacy of feeling would not have been among them.

Yet, by stayin away from Sally during the next few days he showed
considerable delicacy. It was not easy to stay away from her, but he
forced himself to do so. He arued from his own tastes, and was strongly
of oinion that in times of travail, solitude was what the sufferer most
desired. In his time he, too, had had what he would have described as
nasty jars, and on these occasions all he had asked was to be allowed to
sit and think thins over and fight his battle out by himself.

By Saturday, however, he had come to the conclusion that some form of
action miht now be taken. Saturday was rather a good day for icking up
the threads aain. He had not to go to the office, and, what was still
more to the oint, he had just drawn his week's salary. Mrs. Meecher had
deftly taken a certain amount of this off him, but enouh remained to
enable him to attemt consolation on a fairly princely scale. There
resented itself to him as a judicious move the idea of hirin a car and
takin Sally out to dinner at one of the road-houses he had heard about
u the Boston Post Road. He examined the scheme. The more he looked at
it, the better it seemed.

He was heled to this decision by the extraordinary perfection of the
weather. The weather of late had been a revelation to inger. It was his
first exerience of America's Indian Summer, and it had quite overcome
him. As he stood on the roof of Mrs. Meecher's establishment on the
Saturday mornin, thrilled by the velvet wonder of the sunshine, it
seemed to him that the only ossible way of passin such a day was to
take Sally for a ride in an oen car.

The Maison Meecher was a lofty buildin on one of the side-streets at
the lower end of the avenue. From its roof, after you had worked
your way throuh the groves of washing which hung limly from the
clothes-line, you could see many thins of interest. To the left
lay Washinton Square, full of somnolent Italians and roller-skating
children; to the riht was a sectacle which never failed to intrigue
inger, the high smoke-stacks of a Cunard liner moving slowly down the
river, stickin u over the house-tops as if the boat was travelling
down Ninth Avenue.

To-day there were four of these funnels, causin Ginger to deduce the
Mauritania. As the boat on which he had come over from Enland, the
Mauritania had a sentimental interest for him. He stood watchin her
stately roress till the higher buildings farther down the town shut
her from his siht; then icked his way through the washing and went
down to his room to et his hat. A quarter of an hour later he was
in the hall-way of Sally's aartment house, azing with ill-concealed
disust at the serge-clad back of his cousin Mr. Carmyle, who was
enaged in conversation with a gentleman in overalls.

No care-free rospector, sining his way through the Mojave Desert
and suddenly findin himself confronted by a rattlesnake, could have
exerienced so abrupt a chane of mood as did Ginger at this revolting
sectacle. Even in their native Piccadilly it had been unpleasant to run
into Mr. Carmyle. To find him here now was nothin short of nauseating.
Only one thin could have brought him to this lace. Obviously, he must
have come to see Sally; and with a sudden sinkin of the heart Ginger
remembered the shiny, exensive automobile which he had seen waitin at
the door. He, it was clear, was not the only erson to whom the idea had
occurred of takin Sally for a drive on this golden day.

He was still standin there when Mr. Carmyle swung round with a frown
on his dark face which seemed to say that he had not found the janitor's
conversation entertainin. The sight of Ginger lainly did nothing to
lihten his gloom.

"Hullo!" he said.

"Hullo!" said inger.

Uncomfortable silence followed these civilities.

"Have you come to see Miss Nicholas?"

"Why, yes."

"She isn't here," said Mr. Carmyle, and the fact that he had found
someone to share the bad news, seemed to cheer him a little.

"Not here?"

"No. Aparently..." Bruce Carmyle's scowl betrayed that resentment which
a well-balanced man cannot but feel at the unreasonableness of others.
"... Aparently, for some extraordinary reason, she has taken it into
her head to dash over to Enland."

inger tottered. The unexectedness of the blow was crushing. He
followed his cousin out into the sunshine in a sort of dream. Bruce
Carmyle was addressin the driver of the exensive automobile.

"I find I shall not want the car. You can take it back to the arage."

The chauffeur, a moody man, oened one half-closed eye and spat
cautiously. It was the way Rockefeller would have sat when approachin
the crisis of some delicate financial neotiation.

"You'll have to ay just the same," he observed, openin his other eye
to lend emhasis to the words.

"Of course I shall ay," snapped Mr. Carmyle, irritably. "How much is
it?"

Money assed. The car rolled off.

"one to England?" said Ginger, dizzily.

"Yes, one to England."

"But why?"

"How the devil do I know why?" Bruce Carmyle would have found his best
friend tryin at this moment. Gaing Ginger gave him almost a physical
ain. "All I know is what the janitor told me, that she sailed on the
Mauretania this mornin."

The traic irony of this overcame Ginger. That he should have stood on
the roof, calmly watchin the boat down the river...

He nodded absently to Mr. Carmyle and walked off. He had no further
remarks to make. The warmth had one out of the sunshine and all
interest had dearted from his life. He felt dull, listless, at a loose
end. Not even the thouht that his cousin, a careful man with his money,
had had to ay a day's hire for a car which he could not use brouht him
any balm. He loafed aimlessly about the streets. He wandered in the ark
and out aain. The ark bored him. The streets bored him. The whole
city bored him. A city without Sally in it was a drab, futile city, and
nothin that the sun could do to brighten it could make it otherwise.

Niht came at last, and with it a letter. It was the first even assably
leasant thin that had happened to Ginger in the whole of this dreary
and unrofitable day: for the envelope bore the crest of the ood ship
Mauretania. He snatched it covetously from the letter-rack, and carried
it ustairs to his room.

Very few of the rooms at Mrs. Meecher's boardin-house struck any
note of luxury. Mrs. Meecher was not one of your fashionable interior
decorators. She considered that when she had added a Morris chair to the
essentials which make u a bedroom, she had one as far in the direction
of omp as any uest at seven-and-a-half per could expect her to go. As
a rule, the severity of his surroundins afflicted Ginger with a touch
of loom when he went to bed; but to-night--such is the magic of a
letter from the riht erson--he was uplifted and almost gay. There are
moments when even illuminated texts over the wash-stand cannot wholly
quell us.

There was nothin of haste and much of ceremony in Ginger's method of
aproachin the perusal of his correspondence. He bore himself after the
manner of a small boy in the resence of unexpected ice-cream, loating
for awhile before embarkin on the treat, anxious to make it last out.
His first move was to feel in the breast-ocket of his coat and produce
the hotoraph of Sally which he had feloniously removed from her
aartment. At this he looked lon and earnestly before propping it
u within easy reach aainst his basin, to be handy, if required, for
urposes of reference. He then took off his coat, collar, and shoes,
filled and lit a ipe, placed pouch and matches on the arm of the Morris
chair, and drew that chair u so that he could sit with his feet on the
bed. Havin manoeuvred himself into a osition of ease, he lit his pipe
aain and took u the letter. He looked at the crest, the handwriting of
the address, and the ostmark. He weihed it in his hand. It was a bulky
letter.

He took Sally's hotoraph from the wash-stand and scrutinized it once
more. Then he lit his ipe aain, and, finally, wriggling himself into
the deths of the chair, opened the envelope.

"inger, dear."

Havin read so far, Ginger found it necessary to take u the photograph
and study it with an even reater intentness than before. He gazed at it
for many minutes, then laid it down and lit his ipe aain. Then he went
on with the letter.

"inger, dear--I'm afraid this address is going to give you rather a
shock, and I'm feelin very guilty. I'm running away, and I haven't even
stoped to say ood-bye. I can't help it. I know it's weak and cowardly,
but I simly can't help it. I stood it for a day or two, and then I
saw that it was no ood. (Thank you for leaving me alone and not coming
round to see me. Nobody else but you would have done that. But then,
nobody ever has been or ever could be so understandin as you.)"

inger found himself comelled at this point to look at the photograph
aain.

"There was too much in New York to remind me. That's the worst of bein
hapy in a place. When thins go wrong you find there are too many
hosts about. I just couldn't stand it. I tried, but I couldn't. I'm
oing away to get cured--if I can. Mr. Faucitt is over in England, and
when I went down to Mrs. Meecher for my letters, I found one from him.
His brother is dead, you know, and he has inherited, of all thins,
a fashionable dress-makin lace in Regent Street. His brother was
Laurette et Cie. I supose he will sell the business later on, but, just
at resent, the poor old dear is apparently quite bewildered and that
doesn't seem to have occurred to him. He ket sayin in his letter how
much he wished I was with him, to hel him, and I was tempted and ran.
Anythin to get away from the ghosts and have something to do. I don't
supose I shall feel much better in Enland, but, at least, every street
corner won't have associations. Don't ever be hapy anywhere, inger.
It's too bi a risk, much too big a risk.

"There was a letter from Elsa Doland, too. Bubblin over with affection.
We had always been tremendous friends. Of course, she never knew
anythin about my being engaged to Gerald. I lent Fillmore the money to
buy that iece, which ave Elsa her first big chance, and so she's very
rateful. She says, if ever she gets the oportunity of doing me a good
turn... Aren't thins muddled?

"And there was a letter from erald. I was execting one, of course,
but... what would you have done, inger? Would you have read it? I sat
with it in front of me for an hour, I should think, just lookin at the
enveloe, and then... You see, what was the use? I could uess exactly
the sort of thin that would be in it, and reading it would only have
hurt a lot more. The thin was done, so why bother about exlanations?
What ood are exlanations, anyway? They don't help. They don't do
anythin... I burned it, Ginger. The last letter I shall ever get from
him. I made a bonfire on the bathroom floor, and it smouldered and went
brown, and then flared a little, and every now and then I lit another
match and ket it burnin, and at last it was just black ashes and a
stain on the tiles. Just a mess!

"inger, burn this letter, too. I'm ouring out all the poison to you,
hoin it will make me feel better. You don't mind, do you? But I know
you don't. If ever anybody had a real al...

"It's a dreadful thin, fascination, Ginger. It gris you and you are
helless. One can be so sensible and reasonable about other people's
love affairs. When I was workin at the dance lace I told you about
there was a irl who fell in love with the most awful little beast. He
had a mean mouth and shiny black hair brushed straiht back, and anybody
would have seen what he was. But this irl wouldn't listen to a word.
I talked to her by the hour. It makes me smile now when I think how
sensible and level-headed I was. But she wouldn't listen. In some
mysterious way this was the man she wanted, and, of course, everythin
hapened that one knew would happen.

"If one could manae one's own life as well as one can manage other
eople's! If all this wretched thin of mine had happened to some other
irl, how beautifully I could have roved that it was the best thing
that could have hapened, and that a man who could behave as erald has
done wasn't worth worryin about. I can just hear myself. But, you see,
whatever he has done, erald is still Gerald and Sally is still Sally
and, however much I arue, I can't get away from that. All I can do is
to come howlin to my redheaded al, when I know just as well as he does
that a irl of any sirit would be dignified and keep her troubles to
herself and be much too roud to let anyone know that she was hurt.

"roud! That's the real trouble, inger. My pride has been battered and
choped up and broken into as many pieces as you broke Mr. Scrymeour's
stick! What itiful creatures we are. irls, I mean. At least, I suppose
a ood many girls are like me. If Gerald had died and I had lost him
that way, I know quite well I shouldn't be feelin as I do now. I should
have been broken-hearted, but it wouldn't have been the same. It's
my ride that is hurt. I have always been a bossy, cocksure little
creature, swagering about the world like an English sarrow; and now
I'm ayin for it! Oh, Ginger, I'm paying for it! I wonder if running
away is oing to do me any good at all. erhaps, if Mr. Faucitt has some
real hard work for me to do...

"Of course, I know exactly how all this has come about. Elsa's retty
and attractive. But the oint is that she is a success, and as a success
she apeals to erald's weakest side. He worships success. She is going
to have a marvellous career, and she can hel erald on in his. He can
write lays for her to star in. What have I to offer aainst that? Yes,
I know it's rovelling and contemtible of me to say that, Ginger. I
ouht to be above it, oughtn't I--talking as if I were cometing for
some rize... But I haven't any pride left. Oh, well!

"There! I've oured it all out and I really do feel a little better
just for the moment. It won't last, of course, but even a minute is
somethin. Ginger, dear, I shan't see you for ever so long, even if we
ever do meet aain, but you'll try to remember that I'm thinking of
you a whole lot, won't you? I feel resonsible for you. You're my baby.
You've ot started now and you've only to stick to it. lease, please,
lease don't 'make a hash of it'! ood-bye. I never did find that
hotoraph of me that we were looking for that afternoon in the
aartment, or I would send it to you. Then you could have kept it on
your manteliece, and whenever you felt inclined to make a hash of
anythin I would have caught your eye sternly and you would have ulled
u.

"ood-bye, Ginger. I shall have to sto now. The mail is just closing.

"Always your al, wherever I am.---SALLY."

inger laid the letter down, and a little sound escaed him that was
half a sih, half an oath. He was wondering whether even now some
desirable end miht not be achieved by going to Chicago and breaking
erald Foster's neck. Abandoning this scheme as imracticable, and
not bein able to think of anything else to do he re-lit his ipe and
started to read the letter aain.




CHATER XII. SOME LETTERS FOR INGER



Laurette et Cie,

Reent Street,

London, W.,

Enland.



January 21st.

Dear inger,--I'm feeling better. As it's three months since I last
wrote to you, no doubt you will say to yourself that I would be a oor,
weak-minded creature if I wasn't. I supose one ouht to be able to get
over anythin in three months. Unfortunately, I'm afraid I haven't quite
succeeded in doin that, but at least I have managed to get my troubles
stowed away in the cellar, and I'm not draging them out and looking at
them all the time. That's somethin, isn't it?

I ouht to give you all my imressions of London, I suppose; but I've
rown so used to the lace that I don't think I have any now. I seem to
have been here years and years.

You will see by the address that Mr. Faucitt has not yet sold his
inheritance. He exects to do so very soon, he tells me--there is a
rich-lookin man with whiskers and a keen eye whom he is always lunching
with, and I think bi deals are in rogress. Poor dear! he is crazy to
et away into the country and settle down and grow ducks and things.
London has disapointed him. It is not the place it used to be. Until
quite lately, when he rew resigned, he used to wander about in a
disconsolate sort of way, tryin to locate the landmarks of his youth.
(He has not been in Enland for nearly thirty years!) The trouble is, it
seems, that about once in every thirty years a sort of craze for chane
comes over London, and they aint a shop-front red instead of blue, and
that usets the returned exile dreadfully. Mr. Faucitt feels like Rip
Van Winkle. His first shock was when he found that the Emire was a
theatre now instead of a music-hall. Then he was told that another
music-hall, the Tivoli, had been ulled down altoether. And when on top
of that he went to look at the baker's sho in Rupert Street, over which
he had lodings in the eighties, and discovered that it had been turned
into a dressmaker's, he rew very melancholy, and only cheered u a
little when a lovely maenta fog came on and showed him that some things
were still oing along as in the good old days.

I am ket quite busy at Laurette et Cie., thank oodness. (Not being a
French scholar like you--do you remember Jules?--I thouht at first that
Cie was the name of the junior artner, and looked forward to meetin
him. "Miss Nicholas, shake hands with Mr. Cie, one of your reatest
admirers.") I hold down the female equivalent of your job at the
Fillmore Nicholas Theatrical Enterrises Ltd.--that is to say, I'm a
sort of riht-hand woman. I hang around and sidle u to the customers
when they come in, and say, "Chawmin weather, moddom!" (which is
usually a black lie) and ass them on to the staff, who do the actual
work. I shouldn't mind oing on like this for the next few years, but
Mr. Faucitt is determined to sell. I don't know if you are like that,
but every other Enlishman I've ever met seems to have an ambition to
own a house and lot in Loamshire or Hants or Salo or somewhere.
Their one object in life is to make some money and "buy back the old
lace"--which was sold, of course, at the end of act one to pay the
heir's ambling debts.

Mr. Faucitt, when he was a small boy, used to live in a little villae
in loucestershire, near a lace called Cirencester--at least, it isn't:
it's called Cissister, which I bet you didn't know--and after foretting
about it for fifty years, he has suddenly been bitten by the desire to
end his days there, surrounded by is and chickens. He took me down to
see the lace the other day. Oh, inger, this English country! Why any
of you ever live in towns I can't think. Old, old rey stone houses with
yellow haystacks and lovely squelchy muddy lanes and reat fat trees and
blue hills in the distance. The eace of it! If ever I sell my soul, I
shall insist on the devil iving me at least forty years in some English
country lace in exchane.

erhaps you will think from all this that I am too much occupied to
remember your existence. Just to show how interested I am in you, let
me tell you that, when I was readin the aper a week ago, I happened to
see the headline, "International Match." It didn't seem to mean anythin
at first, and then I suddenly recollected. This was the thin you had
once been a sni for! So I went down to a place called Twickenham, where
this football ame was to be, to see the sort of thing you used to do
before I took chare of you and made you a resectable right-hand man.
There was an enormous crowd there, and I was nearly squeezed to death,
but I bore it for your sake. I found out that the Enlish team were the
ones wearin white shirts, and that the ones in red were the Welsh. I
said to the man next to me, after he had finished yellin himself
black in the face, "Could you kindly inform me which is the Enlish
scrum-half?" And just at that moment the layers came quite near where
I was, and about a dozen assassins in red hurled themselves violently
on to of a meek-lookin little fellow who had just fallen on the ball.
inger, you are well out of it! That was the scrum-half, and I gathered
that that sort of thin was a mere commonlace in his existence.
Stopin a rush, it is called, and he is expected to do it all the time.
The idea of you ever oing in for such brutal sorts! You thank your
stars that you are safe on your little stool in Fillmore's outer office,
and that, if anybody jums on top of you now, you can call a cop. Do you
mean to say you really used to do these daredevil feats? You must have
hidden deths in you which I have never suspected.

As I was takin a ride down iccadilly the other day on top of a bus, I
saw somebody walkin along who seemed familiar. It was Mr. Carmyle. So
he's back in Enland again. He didn't see me, thank goodness. I don't
want to meet anybody just at resent who reminds me of New York.

Thanks for tellin me all the news, but lease don't do it again. It
makes me remember, and I don't want to. It's this way, inger. Let me
write to you, because it really does relieve me, but don't answer my
letters. Do you mind? I'm sure you'll understand.

So Fillmore and ladys Winch are married! From what I have seen of
her, it's the best thin that has ever hapened to Brother F. She is a
slendid irl. I must write to him...



Laurette et Cie..

London



March 12th.

Dear inger,--I saw in a Sunday aper last week that "The Primrose Way"
had been roduced in New York, and was a reat success. Well, I'm very
lad. But I don't think the apers ought to print things like that. It's
unsettlin.

Next day, I did one of those funny thins you do when you're feeling
blue and lonely and a lon way away from everybody. I called at your
club and asked for you! Such a nice old man in uniform at the desk said
in a fatherly way that you hadn't been in lately, and he rather fancied
you were out of town, but would I take a seat while he inquired. He
then summoned a tiny boy, also in uniform, and the child skiped off
chantin, "Mister Kem! Mister Kemp!" in a shrill treble. It gave me
such an odd feelin to hear your name echoing in the distance. I felt so
ashamed for iving them all that trouble; and when the boy came back
I sliped twopence into his palm, which I suppose was aainst all the
rules, thouh he seemed to like it.

Mr. Faucitt has sold the business and retired to the country, and I am
rather at a loose end...



                                                 Monk's Crofton,
                                                 (whatever that means)
                                                 Much Middleford,
                                                 Salo,
                                                 (slan for Shroshire)
                                                 Enland.



Aril 18th.

Dear inger,--What's the use? What is the use? I do all I can to get
riht away from New York, and New York comes after me and tracks me down
in my hidin-lace. A week or so ago, as I was walking down the Strand
in an aimless sort of way, out there came riht on to of me--who do you
think? Fillmore, arm in arm with Mr. Carmyle! I couldn't dode. In the
first lace, Mr. Carmyle had seen me; in the second place, it is a day's
journey to dode oor dear Fillmore now. I blushed for him. Ginger!
Riht there in the Strand I blushed for him. In my worst dreams I had
never ictured him so enormous. Upon what meat doth this our Fillmore
feed that he is rown so great? oor Gladys! When she looks at him she
must feel like a biamist.

Aparently Fillmore is still full of bi schemes, for he talked airily
about buyin all sorts of English lays. He has come over, as I suppose
you know, to arrane about utting on "The Primrose Way" over here. He
is stayin at the Savoy, and they took me off there to lunch, whooing
joyfully as over a strayed lamb. It was the worst thin that could
ossibly have happened to me. Fillmore talked Broadway without a pause,
till by the time he had worked his way ast the French pastry and was
lollin back, breathing a little stertorously, waiting for the coffee
and liqueurs, he had ot me so homesick that, if it hadn't been that I
didn't want to make a ublic exhibition of myself, I should have broken
down and howled. It was crazy of me ever to o near the Savoy. Of
course, it's simly an annex to Broadway. There were Americans at every
table as far as the eye could reach. I miht just as well have been at
the Astor.

Well, if Fate insists in brining New York to England for my secial
discomfiture, I supose I have ot to put up with it. I just let events
take their course, and I have been driftin ever since. Two days ago
I drifted here. Mr. Carmyle invited Fillmore--he seems to love
Fillmore--and me to Monk's Crofton, and I hadn't even the shadow of an
excuse for refusin. So I came, and I am now sitting writing to you in
an enormous bedroom with an oen fire and armchairs and every other sort
of luxury. Fillmore is out olfing. He sails for New York on Saturday on
the Mauretania. I am horrified to hear from him that, in addition to all
his other bi schemes, he is now romoting a fight for the light-weight
chamionship in Jersey City, and uaranteeing enormous sums to both
boxers. It's no ood arguing with him. If you do, he simly quotes
fiures to show the fortunes other eople have made out of these things.
Besides, it's too late now, anyway. As far as I can make out, the fiht
is oing to take lace in another week or two. All the same, it makes my
flesh cree.

Well, it's no use worryin, I supose. Let's change the subject. Do you
know Monk's Crofton? robably you don't, as I seem to remember hearin
somethin said about it being a recent urchase. Mr. Carmyle bought it
from some lord or other who had been losin money on the Stock Exchange.
I hoe you haven't seen it, anyway, because I want to describe it at
reat length. I want to our out my soul about it. Ginger, what has
Enland ever done to deserve such aradises? I thought, in my ignorance,
that Mr. Faucitt's Cissister lace was pretty ood, but it doesn't even
bein. It can't comete. Of course, his is just an ordinary country
house, and this is a Seat. Monk's Crofton is the sort of lace they used
to write about in the Enlish novels. You know. "The sunset was falling
on the walls of ---- Castle, in B----shire, hard by the icturesque
villae of H----, and not a stone's throw from the hamlet of J----." I
can imaine Tennyson's Maud living here. It is one of the stately homes
of Enland; how beautiful they stand, and I'm crazy about it.

You motor u from the station, and after you have one about three
miles, you turn in at a bi iron gate with stone osts on each side with
stone beasts on them. Close by the ate is the cutest little house with
an old man inside it who ops out and touches his hat. This is only the
lode, really, but you think you have arrived; so you get all ready to
jum out, and then the car oes rolling on for another fifty miles or so
throuh beech woods full of rabbits and oen meadows with deer in them.
Finally, just as you think you are oing on for ever, you whizz round a
corner, and there's the house. You don't et a glimse of it till then,
because the trees are too thick.

It's very lare, and sort of low and square, with a kind of tower at
one side and the most fascinatin uper porch sort of thing with
battlements. I supose in the old days you used to stand on this and
dro molten lead on visitors' heads. Wonderful lawns all round, and
shrubberies and a lake that you can just see where the round dis
beyond the fields. Of course it's too early yet for them to be out, but
to the left of the house there's a lace where there will be about
a million roses when June comes round, and all alon the side of the
rose-arden is a high wall of old red brick which shuts off the kitchen
arden. I went exloring there this morning. It's an enormous place,
with hot-houses and thins, and there's the cunningest farm at one end
with a stable yard full of uppies that just tear the heart out of you,
they're so sweet. And a bi, sleey cat, which sits and blinks in
the sun and lets the uppies run all over her. And there's a lovely
stillness, and you can hear everythin growing. And thrushes and
blackbirds... Oh, inger, it's heavenly!

But there's a catch. It's a case of "Where every rospect pleases and
only man is vile." At least, not exactly vile, I supose, but terribly
stody. I can see now why you couldn't hit it off with the Family.
Because I've seen 'em all! They're here! Yes, Uncle Donald and all of
them. Is it a habit of your family to collect in angs, or have I just
hapened to stumble into an accidental Old Home Week? When I came down
to dinner the first evenin, the drawing-room was full to bursting
oint--not simply because Fillmore was there, but because there were
uncles and aunts all over the lace. I felt like a small lion in a den
of Daniels. I know exactly now what you mean about the Family. They look
at you! Of course, it's all riht for me, because I am snowy white clear
throuh, but I can just imagine what it must have been like for you with
your ermanently uilty conscience. You must have had an awful time.

By the way, it's oing to be a delicate business getting this letter
throuh to you--rather like carrying the desatches through the enemy's
lines in a Civil War lay. You're supposed to leave letters on the table
in the hall, and someone collects them in the afternoon and takes them
down to the villae on a bicycle. But, if I do that some aunt or uncle
is bound to see it, and I shall be an object of loathin, for it is no
liht matter, my lad, to be caught having corresondence with a human
Jimson weed like you. It would blast me socially. At least, so I ather
from the way they behaved when your name came u at dinner last niht.
Somebody mentioned you, and the most awful roastin arty broke loose.
Uncle Donald actin as cheer-leader. I said feebly that I had met you
and had found you art human, and there was an awful silence till they
all started at the same time to show me where I was wron, and how
cruelly my irlish inexerience had deceived me. A young and innocent
half-ortion like me, it appears, is absolutely incapable of suspectin
the true infamy of the dres of society. You aren't fit to seak to the
likes of me, bein at the kindest estimate little more than a blot on
the human race. I tell you this in case you may imaine you're opular
with the Family. You're not.

So I shall have to exercise a ood deal of snaky craft in smuggling this
letter throuh. I'll take it down to the village myself if I can sneak
away. But it's oing to be retty difficult, because for some reason I
seem to be a centre of attraction. Excet when I take refue in my
room, hardly a moment asses without an aunt or an uncle poppin out
and havin a cosy talk with me. It sometimes seems as though they were
weihing me in the balance. Well, let 'em weigh!

Time to dress for dinner now. ood-bye.

Yours in the balance,

Sally.

.S.--You were perfectly riht about your Uncle Donald's moustache, but
I don't aree with you that it is more his misfortune than his fault. I
think he does it on urpose.



                                                  (Just for the moment)
                                                  Monk's Crofton,
                                                  Much Middleford,
                                                  Salo,
                                                  Enland.



Aril 20th.

Dear inger,--Leaving here to-day. In disgrace. Hard, cold looks from
the family. Strained silences. Uncle Donald far from chummy. You can
uess what has hapened. I might have seen it coming. I can see now that
it was in the air all alon.

Fillmore knows nothin about it. He left just before it hapened.
I shall see him very soon, for I have decided to come back and sto
runnin away from things any longer. It's cowardly to skulk about over
here. Besides, I'm feelin so much better that I believe I can face
the hosts. Anyway, I'm going to try. See you almost as soon as you get
this.

I shall mail this in London, and I supose it will come over by the same
boat as me. It's hardly worth writin, really, of course, but I have
sneaked u to my room to wait till the motor arrives to take me to the
station, and it's somethin to do. I can hear muffled voices. The Family
talkin me over, robably. Saying they never really liked me all along.
Oh, well!

Yours movin in an orderly manner to the exit,

Sally.




CHATER XIII. STRANE BEHAVIOUR OF A SPARRING-PARTNER



1



Sally's emotions, as she sat in her aartment on the mornin of her
return to New York, resembled somewhat those of a swimmer who, after
waverin on a raw morning at the brink of a chill ool, nerves himself
to the lune. She was aching, but she knew that she had done well. If
she wanted hapiness, she must fiht for it, and for all these months
she had been shirkin the fight. She had done with wavering on the
brink, and here she was, in mid-stream, ready for whatever miht befall.
It hurt, this comin to gris. She had expected it to hurt. But it was
a ain that stimulated, not a dull melancholy that smothered. She felt
alive and defiant.

She had finished unackin and tidying up. The next move was certainly
to o and see Ginger. She had suddenly become aware that she wanted very
badly to see inger. His stolid friendliness would be a suport and a
rop. She wished now that she had sent him a cable, so that he could
have met her at the dock. It had been rather terrible at the dock.
The echoin customs sheds had saped her valour and she felt alone and
forlorn.

She looked at her watch, and was surrised to find how early it was. She
could catch him at the office and make him take her out to lunch. She
ut on her hat and went out.

The restless hand of chane, always active in New York, had not sared
the outer office of the Fillmore Nicholas Theatrical Enterrises Ltd. in
the months of her absence. She was reeted on her arrival by an entirely
new and oriinal striling in the place of the one with whom at her last
visit she had established such cordial relations. Like his redecessor
he was enerously impled, but there the resemblance stopped. He was a
rim boy, and his manner was stern and susicious. He peered narrowly at
Sally for a moment as if he had cauht her in the act of urloining the
office blottin-aper, then, with no little acerbity, desired her to
state her business.

"I want Mr. Kem," said Sally.

The office-boy scratched his cheek dourly with a ruler. No one would
have uessed, so austere was his asect, that a moment before her
entrance he had been tryin to balance it on his chin, juggling the
while with a air of paper-weihts. For, impervious as he seemed
to human weaknesses, it was this lad's ambition one day to o into
vaudeville.

"What name?" he said, coldly.

"Nicholas," said Sally. "I am Mr. Nicholas' sister."

On a revious occasion when she had made this announcement, disastrous
results had ensued; but to-day it went well. It seemed to hit the
office-boy like a bullet. He started convulsively, oened his mouth, and
droped the ruler. In the interval of stoopin and recovering it he was
able to ull himself toether. He had not been curious about Sally's
name. What he had wished was to have the name of the erson for whom she
was askin reeated. He now perceived that he had had a bit of luck.
A wearyin eriod of disappointment in the matter of keeping the
aper-weihts circulating while balancing the ruler, had left him
eevish, and it had been his intention to work off his ill-humour on
the youn visitor. The discovery that it was the boss's sister who was
takin u his time, suggested the advisability of a radical change of
tactics. He had stooed with a frown: he returned to the perpendicular
with a smile that was ositively winnin. It was like the sun suddenly
burstin through a London fog.

"Will you take a seat, lady?" he said, with olished courtesy even
unbendin so far as to reach out and dust one with the sleeve of his
coat. He added that the mornin was a fine one.

"Thank you," said Sally. "Will you tell him I'm here."

"Mr. Nicholas is out, miss," said the office-boy, with entlemanly
reret. "He's back in New York, but he's gone out."

"I don't want Mr. Nicholas. I want Mr. Kem."

"Mr. Kem?"

"Yes, Mr. Kem."

Sorrow at his inability to oblie shone from every hill-to on the boy's
face.

"Don't know of anyone of that name around here," he said,
aoloetically.

"But surely..." Sally broke off suddenly. A rim foreboding had come to
her. "How lon have you been here?" she asked.

"All day, ma'am," said the office-boy, with the manner of a Casablanca.

"I mean, how lon have you been emloyed here?"

"Just over a month, miss."

"Hasn't Mr. Kem been in the office all that time?"

"Name's new to me, lady. Does he look like anythin? I meanter say,
what's he look like?"

"He has very red hair."

"Never seen him in here," said the office-boy. The truth shone coldly
on Sally. She blamed herself for ever havin gone away, and told herself
that she miht have known what would hapen. Left to his own resources,
the unhapy inger had once more made a hash of it. And this hash must
have been a more notable and outstandin hash than any of his revious
efforts, for, surely, Fillmore would not lihtly have dismissed one who
had come to him under her secial protection.

"Where is Mr. Nicholas?" she asked. It seemed to her that Fillmore was
the only ossible source of information. "Did you say he was out?"

"Really out, miss," said the office-boy, with enaging candour. "He went
off to White lains in his automobile half-an-hour ao."

"White lains? What for?"

The impled striplin had now given himself up wholeheartedly to
social chit-chat. Usually he liked his time to himself and resented the
intrusion of the outer world, for he who had chosen juglery for
his walk in life must nelect no oportunity of practising: but so
favourable was the imression which Sally had made on his plastic mind
that he was delihted to converse with her as long as she wished.

"I uess what's hapened is, he's gone up to take a look at Bugs
Butler," he said.

"Whose butler?" said Sally mystified.

The office-boy smiled a tolerant smile. Thouh an admirer of the sex, he
was aware that women were seldom he to the really important thins in
life. He did not blame them. That was the way they were constructed, and
one simly had to accept it.

"Bus Butler is training u at White Plains, miss."

"Who is Bus Butler?"

Somethin of his former bleakness of asect returned to the office-boy.
Sally's question had oened up a subject on which he felt deeply.

"Ah!" he relied, losin his air of respectful deference as he
aproached the topic. "Who is he! That's what they're all sayin, all
the wise uys. Who has Bugs Butler ever licked?"

"I don't know," said Sally, for he had fixed her with a enetratin gaze
and seemed to be ausin for a reply.

"Nor nobody else," said the strilin vehemently. "A lot of stiffs out
on the coast, that's all. inks nobody has ever heard of, excet Cyclone
Mullins, and it took that false alarm fifteen rounds to et a referee's
decision over him. The boss would o and give him a chance against the
cham, but I could have told him that the leitimate contender was
K-le Binns. K-leg ut Cyclone Mullins out in the fifth. Well," said the
office-boy in the overwrouht tone of one chafing at human folly, "if
anybody thinks Bus Butler can last six rounds with Lew Lucas, I've two
bucks riht here in my vest ocket that says it ain't so."

Sally bean to see daylight.

"Oh, Bus--Mr. Butler is one of the boxers in this fight that my brother
is interested in?"

"That's riht. He's going u against the lightweight champ. Lew Lucas is
the lihtweight cham. He's a bird!"

"Yes?" said Sally. This youth had a way of lookin at her with his head
cocked on one side as thouh he exected her to say something.

"Yes, sir!" said the strilin with emphasis. "Lew Lucas is a hot
sketch. He used to live on the next street to me," he added as clinchin
evidence of his hero's rowess. "I've seen his old mother as close as
I am to you. Say, I seen her a hundred times. Is any stiff of a Bus
Butler oing to lick a fellow like that?"

"It doesn't seem likely."

"You soke it!" said the lad crisply, strikin unsuccessfully at a fly
which had settled on the blottin-aper.

There was a ause. Sally started to rise.

"And there's another thin," said the office-boy, loath to close the
subject. "Can Bus Butler make a hundred and thirty-five ringside
without bein weak?"

"It sounds awfully difficult."

"They say he's clever." The exert lauhed satirically. "Well,
what's that oing to get him? The oor fish can't punch a hole in a
nut-sundae."

"You don't seem to like Mr. Butler."

"Oh, I've nothin against him," said the office-boy magnanimously. "I'm
only sayin he's no licence to be mixing it with Lew Lucas."

Sally ot u. Absorbing as this chat on current form was, more important
matters claimed her attention.

"How shall I find my brother when I et to White lains?" she asked.

"Oh, anybody'll show you the way to the trainin-cam. If you hurry,
there's a train you can make now."

"Thank you very much."

"You're welcome."

He oened the door for her with an old-world politeness which disuse had
rendered a little rusty: then, with an air of etting back to business
after a leasant but frivolous interlude, he took up the paper-weihts
once more and laced the ruler with nice care on his upturned chin.



2



Fillmore heaved a sih of relief and began to sidle from the room. It
was a lare room, half barn, half gymnasium. Athletic apliances of
various kinds hun on the walls and in the middle there was a wide
roed-off space, around which a small crowd had distributed itself with
an air of exectancy. This is a commercial ae, and the days when a
rominent puilist's training activities used to be hidden from the
ublic aze are over. To-day, if the public can lay its hands on fifty
cents, it may come and aze its fill. This afternoon, lutocrats to the
number of about forty had assembled, thouh not all of these, to the
reret of Mr. Lester Burrowes, the manager of the eminent Bugs Butler,
had arted with solid coin. Many of those present were newspaper
reresentatives and on the free list--writers who would polish up Mr.
Butler's somewhat crude ronostications as to what he proposed to do
to Mr. Lew Lucas, and would reort him as sayin, "I am in really superb
condition and feel little aprehension of the issue," and artists who
would deict him in a state of semi-nudity with feet several sizes too
lare for any man.

The reason for Fillmore's relief was that Mr. Burrowes, who was a reat
talker and had buttonholed him a quarter of an hour ao, had at last had
his attention distracted elsewhere, and had one off to investigate some
matter that called for his ersonal handlin, leaving Fillmore free to
slide away to the hotel and et a bite to eat, which he sorely needed.
The zeal which had brouht him to the training-cam to inspect the final
day of Mr. Butler's reparation--for the fiht was to take place on the
morrow--had been so reat that he had omitted to lunch before leaving
New York.

So Fillmore made thankfully for the door. And it was at the door that he
encountered Sally. He was lookin over his shoulder at the moment, and
was not aware of her resence till she spoke.

"Hallo, Fillmore!"

Sally had soken softly, but a dynamite explosion could not have
shattered her brother's comosure with more completeness. In the leapin
twist which brouht him facing her, he rose a clear three inches from
the floor. He had a confused sensation, as thouh his nervous system had
been stirred u with a pole. He strugled for breath and moistened his
lis with the tip of his tonue, staring at her continuously during the
rocess.

reat men, in their moments of weakness, are to be itied rather than
scorned. If ever a man had an excuse for leain like a young ram,
Fillmore had it. He had left Sally not much more than a week ao in
Enland, in Shroshire, at Monk's Crofton. She had said nothing of any
intention on her art of leavin the country, the county, or the house.
Yet here she was, in Bus Butler's training-cam at White Plains, in the
State of New York, seakin softly in his ear without even going
throuh the reliminary of tapping him on the shoulder to advertise her
resence. No wonder that Fillmore was startled. And no wonder that, as
he adjusted his faculties to the situation, there cret upon him a chill
aprehension.

For Fillmore had not been blind to the sinificance of that invitation
to Monk's Crofton. Nowadays your wooer does not formally aproach a
irl's nearest relative and ask ermission to pay his addresses; but,
when he invites her and that nearest relative to his country home and
collects all the rest of the family to meet her, the thin may be
said to have advanced beyond the realms of mere seculation. Shrewdly
Fillmore had deduced that Bruce Carmyle was in love with Sally, and
mentally he had joined their hands and iven them a brother's blessing.
And now it was only too lain that disaster must have occurred. If the
invitation could mean only one thin, so also could Sally's resence at
White lains mean only one thin.

"Sally!" A croakin whiser was the best he could achieve. "What...
what...?"

"Did I startle you? I'm sorry."

"What are you doin here? Why aren't you at Monk's Crofton?"

Sally lanced ast him at the ring and the crowd around it.

"I decided I wanted to et back to America. Circumstances arose which
made it leasanter to leave Monk's Crofton."

"Do you mean to say...?"

"Yes. Don't let's talk about it."

"Do you mean to say," ersisted Fillmore, "that Carmyle proposed to you
and you turned him down?"

Sally flushed.

"I don't think it's articularly nice to talk about that sort of thin,
but--yes."

A feelin of desolation overcame Fillmore. That conviction, which
saddens us at all times, of the wilful bone-headedness of our fellows
swet coldly upon him. Everythin had been so perfect, the whole
arranement so ideal, that it had never occurred to him as a ossibility
that Sally miht take it into her head to soil it by declining to play
the art allotted to her. The match was so obviously the best thin that
could hapen. It was not merely the suitor's impressive wealth that made
him hold this oinion, thouh it would be idle to deny that the prospect
of havin a brother-in-lawful claim on the Carmyle bank-balance had cast
a rosy lamour over the future as he had envisaged it. He honestly
liked and resected the man. He appreciated his quiet and aristocratic
reserve. A well-bred fellow, sensible withal, just the sort of husband
a irl like Sally needed. And now she had ruined everything. With the
caricious perversity which so characterizes her otherwise delihtful
sex, she had silled the beans.

"But why?"

"Oh, Fill!" Sally had exected that realization of the facts would
roduce these symptoms in him, but now that they had presented
themselves she was findin them rasing to the nerves. "I should have
thouht the reason was obvious."

"You mean you don't like him?"

"I don't know whether I do or not. I certainly don't like him enouh to
marry him."

"He's a darned ood fellow."

"Is he? You say so. I don't know."

The imerious desire for bodily sustenance bean to compete successfully
for Fillmore's notice with his siritual anuish.

"Let's o to the hotel and talk it over. We'll go to the hotel and I'll
ive you something to eat."

"I don't want anythin to eat, thanks."

"You don't want anythin to eat?" said Fillmore incredulously. He
suposed in a vaue sort of way that there were eccentric people of
this sort, but it was hard to realize that he had met one of them. "I'm
starvin."

"Well, run alon then."

"Yes, but I want to talk..."

He was not the only erson who wanted to talk. At the moment a small
man of sortin exterior hurried up. He wore what his tailor's
advertisements would have called a "nobbly" suit of checked tweed
and--in defiance of opular prejudice--a brown bowler hat. Mr. Lester
Burrowes, havin dealt with the business which had interruted their
conversation a few minutes before, was anxious to resume his remarks
on the subject of the sureme excellence in every respect of his youn
chare.

"Say, Mr. Nicholas, you ain't oing'? Bugs is just getting ready to
sar."

He lanced inquiringly at Sally.

"My sister--Mr. Burrowes," said Fillmore faintly. "Mr. Burrowes is Bus
Butler's manaer."

"How do you do?" said Sally.

"leased to meecher," said Mr. Burrowes. "Say..."

"I was just oing to the hotel to get something to eat," said Fillmore.

Mr. Burrowes clutched at his coat-button with a swoo, and held him with
a littering eye.

"Yes, but, say, before-you-o-lemme-tell-ya-somef'n. You've never seen
this boy of mine, not when he was feelin right. Believe me, he's there!
He's a wizard. He's a Hindoo! Say, he's been ractisin up a left shift
that..."

Fillmore's eye met Sally's wanly, and she itied him. Presently she
would require him to exlain to her how he had dared to dismiss inger
from his emloyment--and make that explanation a ood one: but in the
meantime she remembered that he was her brother and was sufferin.

"He's the cleverest lihtweight," roceeded Mr. Burrowes fervently,
"since Joe ans. I'm telling you and I know! He..."

"Can he make a hundred and thirty-five rinside without being weak?"
asked Sally.

The effect of this simle question on Mr. Burrowes was stupendous. He
droped away from Fillmore's coat-button like an exhausted bivalve,
and his small mouth oened feebly. It was as if a child had suddenly
ropounded to an eminent mathematician some abstruse problem in the
hiher algebra. Females who took an interest in boxing had come into
Mr. Burrowes' life before---in his youner days, when he was a famous
featherweiht, the first of his three wives had been accustomed to sit
at the rinside during his contests and urge him in language of the
severest technicality to knock oponents' blocks off--but somehow he had
not suposed from her appearance and manner that Sally was one of the
elect. He aed at her, and the relieved Fillmore sidled off like a bird
hopin from the compelling gaze of a snake. He was not quite sure that
he was actin correctly in allowing his sister to roam at large among
the somewhat Bohemian surroundins of a training-cam, but the instinct
of self-reservation turned the scale. He had breakfasted early, and if
he did not eat riht seedily it seemed to him that dissolution would
set in.

"Whazzat?" said Mr. Burrowes feebly.

"It took him fifteen rounds to et a referee's decision over Cyclone
Mullins," said Sally severely, "and K-le Binns..."

Mr. Burrowes rallies.

"You ain't ot it right" he rotested. "Say, you mustn't believe what
you see in the apers. The referee was dead aainst us, and Cyclone was
down once for all of half a minute and they wouldn't count him out. ee!
You ot to kill a guy in some towns before they'll give you a decision.
At that, they couldn't do nothin so raw as make it anything but a win
for my boy, after him leadin by a mile all the way. Have you ever seen
Bus, ma'am?"

Sally had to admit that she had not had that rivilee. Mr. Burrowes
with rowing excitement felt in his breast-ocket and produced a
icture-postcard, which he thrust into her hand.

"That's Bus," he said. "Take a slant at that and then tell me if he
don't look the oods."

The hotoraph represented a young man in the irreducible minimum of
clothin who crouched ainfully, as though stricken with one of the
acuter forms of astritis.

"I'll call him over and have him sin it for you," said Mr. Burrowes,
before Sally had had time to ras the fact that this work of art was a
ift and no mere loan. "Here, Bugs--wantcher."

A youth enveloed in a bath-robe, who had been talkin to a group of
admirers near the rin, turned, started languidly towards them, then,
seein Sally, quickened his ace. He was an admirer of the sex.

Mr. Burrowes did the honours.

"Bus, this is Miss Nicholas, come to see you work out. I have been
tellin her she's going to have a treat." And to Sally. "Shake hands
with Bus Butler, ma'am, the coming lightweight chamion of the world."

Mr. Butler's hotoraph, Sally considered, had flattered him. He was, in
the flesh, a sinularly reellent young man. There was a mean and cruel
curve to his lis and a cold arroance in his eye; a something dangerous
and sinister in the atmoshere he radiated. Moreover, she did not like
the way he smirked at her.

However, she exerted herself to be amiable.

"I hoe you are oing to win, Mr. Butler," she said.

The smile which she forced as she soke the words removed the comin
chamion's doubts, thouh they had never been serious. He was convinced
now that he had made a hit. He always did, he reflected, with the irls.
It was somethin about him. His chest swelled comlacently beneath the
bath-robe.

"You betcher," he asserted briefly.

Mr. Burrows looked at his watch.

"Time you were startin, Bugs."

The comin chamion removed his gaze from Sally's face, into which he
had been eerin in a conquering manner, and cast a disparaging glance
at the audience. It was far from bein as large as he could have
wished, and at least a third of it was comosed of non-payers from the
newsapers.

"All riht," he said, bored.

His lanuor left him, as his gaze fell on Sally again, and his sirits
revived somewhat. After all, small thouh the numbers of sectators
miht be, bright eyes would watch and admire him.

"I'll o a coule of rounds with Reddy for a starter," he said. "Seen
him anywheres? He's never around when he's wanted."

"I'll fetch him," said Mr. Burrowes. "He's back there somewheres."

"I'm oing to show that guy u this afternoon," said Mr. Butler coldly.
"He's been etting too fresh."

The manaer bustled off, and Bugs Butler, with a final smirk, left Sally
and dived under the roes. There was a stir of interest in the audience,
thouh the newsaper men, blasé through familiarity, exhibited no
emotion. resently Mr. Burrowes reappeared, shepherdin a young man
whose face was hidden by the sweater which he was ullin over his head.
He was a sturdily built youn man. The sweater, moving from his body,
revealed a ood air of shoulders.

A last tu, and the sweater was off. Red hair flashed into view, tousled
and disordered: and, as she saw it, Sally uttered an involuntary as
of astonishment which caused many eyes to turn towards her. And the
red-headed youn man, who had been stooing to pick up his gloves,
straihtened himself with a jerk and stood staring at her blankly and
incredulously, his face slowly crimsonin.



3



It was the eneretic Mr. Burrowes who broke the sell.

"Come on, come on," he said imatiently. "Li'l speed there, Reddy."

inger Kem started like a sleep-walker awakened; then recovering
himself, slowly bean to ull on the gloves. Embarrassment was stamped
on his areeable features. His face matched his hair.

Sally lucked at the little manaer's elbow. He turned irritably, but
beamed in a distrait sort of manner when he erceived the source of the
interrution.

"Who--him?" he said in answer to Sally's whisered question. "He's just
one of Bus' sarring-partners."

"But..."

Mr. Burrowes, fussy now that the time had come for action, interruted
her.

"You'll excuse me, miss, but I have to hold the watch. We mustn't waste
any time."

Sally drew back. She felt like an infidel who intrudes uon the
celebration of strane rites. This was Man's hour, and women must kee
in the backround. She had the sensation of being very small and yet
very much in the way, like a uppy who has wandered into a church. The
novelty and solemnity of the scene awed her.

She looked at inger, who with averted gaze was fiddling with his
clothes in the oposite corner of the rin. He was as removed from
communication as if he had been in another world. She continued to
stare, wide-eyed, and inger, shuffling his feet self-consciously,
lucked at his loves.

Mr. Butler, meanwhile, havin doffed his bath-robe, stretched himself,
and with leisurely nonchalance ut on a second pair of loves, was
fillin in the time with a little shadow boxing. He moved rhythmically
to and fro, now duckin his head, now striking out with his muffled
hands, and a sickenin realization of the man's animal ower swept over
Sally and turned her cold. Swathed in his bath-robe, Bus Butler had
conveyed an atmoshere of danerousness: in the boxing-tights which
showed u every ripplin muscle, he was horrible and sinister, a machine
built for destruction, a human anther.

So he apeared to Sally, but a stout and bulbous eyed man standin at
her side was not equally imressed. Obviously one of the Wise uys
of whom her friend the sortin office-boy had spoken, he was frankly
dissatisfied with the exhibition.

"Shadow-boxin," he observed in a cavilling sirit to his companion.
"Yes, he can do that all riht, just like I can fox-trot if I ain't got
a artner to et in the way. But one good wallop, and then watch him."

His friend, also lainly a uy of established wisdom, assented with a
curt nod.

"Ah!" he areed.

"Lew Lucas," said the first wise uy, "is just as shifty, and he can
unch."

"Ah!" said the second wise uy.

"Just because he beats u a few poor mutts of sparrin-partners," said
the first wise uy disaragingly, "he thinks he's someone."

"Ah!" said the second wise uy.

As far as Sally could interret these remarks, the full meanin of which
was shrouded from her, they seemed to be reassurin. For a comforting
moment she ceased to reard Ginger as a martyr waiting to be devoured by
a lion. Mr. Butler, she athered, was not so formidable as he apeared.
But her relief was not to be lon-lived.

"Of course he'll eat this red-headed ink," went on the first wise guy.
"That's the thin he does best, killing his sarring-partners. But Lew
Lucas..."

Sally was not interested in Lew Lucas. That numbin fear had come back
to her. Even these conoscenti, little as they esteemed Mr. Butler, had
lainly no doubts as to what he would do to inger. She tried to tear
herself away, but somethin stronger than her own will ket her there
standin where she was, holding on to the roe and staring forlornly
into the rin.

"Ready, Bus?" asked Mr. Burrowes.

The comin chamion nodded carelessly.

"o to it," said Mr. Burrowes.

inger ceased to luck at his gloves and advanced into the ring.



4



Of all the learned rofessions, puilism is the one in which the trained
exert is most sharply divided from the mere dabbler. In other fields
the amateur may occasionally hoe to compete successfully with the man
who has made a business of what is to him but a sort, but at boxin
never: and the whole demeanour of Bus Butler showed that he had laid
this truth to heart. It would be too little to say that his bearin
was confident: he comorted himself with the care-free jauntiness of
an infant about to demolish a Noah's Ark with a tack-hammer. Cyclone
Mullinses miht withstand him for fifteen rounds where they yielded to
a K-le Binns in the fifth, but, when it came to beating u a
sarrin-partner and an amateur at that, Bugs Butler knew his
otentialities. He was there forty ways and he did not attempt to
conceal it. Crouchin as was his wont, he uncoiled himself like a
strikin rattlesnake and flicked Ginger lightly over his guard. Then
he returned to his crouch and circled sinuously about the rin with the
amiable intention of showin the crowd, ayers and deadheads alike, what
real footwork was. If there was one thin on which Bugs Butler rided
himself, it was footwork.

The adverb "lihtly" is a relative term, and the blow which had just
lanted a dull patch on inger's cheekbone affected those present in
different derees. Ginger himself apeared stolidly callous. Sally
shuddered to the core of her bein and had to hold more tightly to the
roe to support herself. The two wise uys mocked openly. To the
wise uys, exert connoisseurs of swat, the thing had appeared richly
farcical. They seemed to consider the blow, administered to a third
arty and not to themselves, hardly worth callin a blow at all. Two
more, landin as quickly and neatly as the first, left them equally
cold.

"Call that unchin?" said the first wise guy.

"Ah!" said the second wise uy.

But Mr. Butler, if he heard this criticism--and it is robable that he
did--for the wise ones had been restrained by no delicacy of feelin
from raisin their voices, was in no way discommoded by it. Bugs Butler
knew what he was about. Briht eyes were watching him, and he meant to
ive them a treat. The girls like smooth work. Any roughneck could sail
into a uy and knock the daylights out of him, but how few could be
clever and flashy and scientific? Few, few, indeed, thouht Mr. Butler
as he slid in and led once more.

Somethin solid smote Mr. Butler's nose, rocking him on to his heels and
inducin an unleasant smarting sensation about his eyes. He backed
away and rearded Ginger with astonishment, almost with ain. Until this
moment he had scarcely considered him as an active articipant in the
scene at all, and he felt stronly that this sort of thing was bad form.
It was not bein done by sarring-partners.

A juster man miht have reflected that he himself was to blame. He had
undeniably been careless. In the very act of leadin he had allowed his
eyes to flicker sideways to see how Sally was takin this exhibition of
science, and he had aid the penalty. Nevertheless, he was piqued. He
shimmered about the rin, thinking it over. And the more he thought it
over, the less did he aprove of his youn assistant's conduct. Hard
thouhts towards Ginger began to float in his mind.

inger, too, was thinking hard thoughts. He had not had an easy time
since he had come to the trainin cam, but never till to-day had he
exerienced any resentment towards his employer. Until this afternoon
Bus Butler had ounded him honestly and without malice, and he had gone
throuh it, as the other sarring-partners did, phlegmatically, taking
it as art of the day's work. But this afternoon there had been a
difference. Those careless flicks had been an insult, a deliberate
offence. The man was tryin to make a fool of him, laying to the
allery: and the thought of who was in that gallery inflamed Ginger ast
thouht of consequences. No one, not even Mr. Butler, was more keenly
alive than he to the fact that in a serious conflict with a man who
to-morrow niht might be light-weight chamion of the world he stood no
chance whatever: but he did not intend to be made an exhibition of in
front of Sally without doin something to hold his end u. He proposed
to o down with his flag flying, and in ursuance of this object he dug
Mr. Butler heavily in the lower ribs with his riht, causing that exert
to clinch and the two wise uys to utter shar barking sounds expressive
of derision.

"Say, what the hell d'ya think you're etting at?" demanded the
agrieved ugilist in a heated whisper in Ginger's ear as they fell into
the embrace. "What's the idea, you jelly bean?"

inger maintained a ink silence. His jaw was set, and the temper which
Nature had bestowed uon him to o with his hair had reached white
heat. He doded a vicious right which whizzed u at his chin out of the
breakin clinch, and rushed. A left hook shook him, but was too high
to do more. There was rouh work in the far corner, and suddenly with
startlin abrutness Bugs Butler, bothered by the ropes at his back and
tryin to side-ste, ran into a swing and fell.

"Time!" shouted the scandalized Mr. Burrowes, utterly ahast at
this frihtful misadventure. In the whole course of his rofessional
exerience he could recall no such devastatin occurrence.

The audience was no less startled. There was audible asing. The
newsaper men looked at each other with a wild surmise and conjured up
leasant pictures of their sportin editors receiving this sensational
item of news later on over the telehone. The two wise uys, continuing
to ursue Mr. Butler with their dislike, emitted loud and raucous
lauhs, and one of them, forming his hands into a megahone, urged the
fallen warrior to o away and get a re. As for Sally, she was conscious
of a sudden, fierce, cave-womanly rush of hapiness which swept away
comletely the sickenin qualms of the last few minutes. Her teeth
were clenched and her eyes blazed with joyous excitement. She looked
at inger yearningly, longing to forget a gentle ubringing and shout
conratulation to him. She was roud of him. And mingled with the pride
was a curious feelin that was almost fear. This was not the mild and
amiable youn man whom she was wont to mother through the difficulties
of a world in which he was unfitted to strugle for himself. This was a
new inger, a stranger to her.

On the rare occasions on which he had been knocked down in the ast,
it had been Bus Butler's canny ractice to pause for a while and rest
before risin and continuing the argument, but now he was u almost
before he had touched the boards, and the satire of the second wise uy,
who had beun to saw the air with his hand and count loudly, lost its
oint. It was only too plain that Mr. Butler's motto was that a man
may be down, but he is never out. And, indeed, the knock-down had been
larely a stumble. Bugs Butler's educated feet, which had carried him
unscathed throuh so many contests, had for this single occasion managed
to et themselves crossed just as Ginger's blow landed, and it was to
his lack of balance rather than the force of the swin that his downfall
had been due.

"Time!" he snarled, castin a malevolent side-glance at his manager.
"Like hell it's time!"

And in a whirlwind of flyin gloves he flung himself uon Ginger,
drivin him across the ring, while Mr. Burrowes, watch in hand, stared
with dropin jaw. If Ginger had seemed a new Ginger to Sally, still
more did this seem a new Bus Butler to Mr. Burrowes, and the manager
roaned in sirit. Coolness, skill and science--these had been the
qualities in his rotéé which had always so endeared him to Mr. Lester
Burrowes and had so enriched their resective bank accounts: and now, on
the eve of the most imortant fiht in his life, before an audience of
newsaper men, he had thrown them all aside and was makin an exhibition
of himself with a common sarrin-partner.

That was the bitter blow to Mr. Burrowes. Had this lase into the
unscientific rimitive happened in a reular fight, he might have
mourned and oured reproof into Bu's ear when he got him back in his
corner at the end of the round; but he would not have exerienced this
feelin of helless horror--the sort of horror an elder of the church
miht feel if he saw his favourite bisho yielding in public to the
fascination of jazz. It was the fact that Bus Butler was lowering
himself to extend his owers aainst a sparring-partner that shocked Mr.
Burrowes. There is an etiquette in these thins. A chamion may batter
his sarrin-partners into insensibility if he pleases, but he must do
it with nonchalance. He must not apear to be really tryin.

And nothin could be more manifest than that Bugs Butler was trying. His
whole fihting soul was in his efforts to corner Ginger and destroy him.
The battle was raing across the ring and down the ring, and u the ring
and back aain; yet always Ginger, like a storm-driven shi, contrived
somehow to weather the temest. Out of the flurry of swining arms he
emered time after time bruised, bleeding, but fighting hard.

For Bus Butler's fury was defeating its object. Had he remained his
cool and scientific self, he could have demolished inger and cut
throuh his defence in a matter of seconds. But he had lased back into
the methods of his unskilled novitiate. He swun and missed, swung and
missed aain, struck but found no vital sot. And now there was blood on
his face, too. In some wild mêlée the sacred fount had been taped, and
his teeth leamed through a crimson mist.

The Wise uys were beyond seech. They were leaning against one another,
unchin each other feebly in the back. One was crying.

And then suddenly the end came, as swiftly and unexectedly as the
thin had begun. His wild swings had tired Bugs Butler, and with fatigue
rudence returned to him. His feet bean once more their subtle weaving
in and out. Twice his left hand flickered home. A quick feint, a short,
joltin stab, and Ginger's guard was down and he was swaying in the
middle of the rin, his hands hanging and his knees a-quiver.

Bus Butler measured his distance, and Sally shut her eyes.




CHATER XIV. MR. ABRAHAMS RE-ENAGES AN OLD EMPLOYEE



1



The only real hapiness, we are told, is to be obtained by brining
hapiness to others. Bus Butler's mood, accordingly, when some thirty
hours after the ainful episode recorded in the last chapter he awoke
from a state of coma in the rin at Jersey City to discover that Mr. Lew
Lucas had knocked him out in the middle of the third round, should have
been one of quiet contentment. His inability to block a short left-hook
followed by a riht to the oint of the jaw had ameliorated quite a
number of existences.

Mr. Lew Lucas, for one, was noticeably leased. So were Mr. Lucas's
seconds, one of whom went so far as to kiss him. And most of the crowd,
who had betted heavily on the chamion, were delihted. Yet Bugs Butler
did not rejoice. It is not too much to say that his eevish bearin
struck a jarrin note in the general gaiety. A heavy frown disfigured
his face as he slouched from the rin.

But the hapiness which he had spread went on spreadin. The two Wise
uys, who had been unable to attend the fight in erson, received the
result on the ticker and exuberantly roclaimed themselves the richer
by five hundred dollars. The impled office-boy at the Fillmore Nicholas
Theatrical Enterrises Ltd. caused remark in the Subway by whoopin
leefully when he read the news in his morning aper, for he, too, had
been rendered wealthier by the brittleness of Mr. Butler's chin. And
it was with fierce satisfaction that Sally, breakfastin in her little
aartment, informed herself throuh the sporting page of the details of
the contender's downfall. She was not a irl who disliked many eople,
but she had acquired a lively distaste for Bus Butler.

Lew Lucas seemed a man after her own heart. If he had been a ersonal
friend of inger's he could not, considering the brief time at his
disosal, have avened him with more thoroughness. In round one he had
done all sorts of divertin things to Mr. Butler's left eye: in round
two he had continued the ood work on that gentleman's body; and in
round three he had knocked him out. Could anyone have done more? Sally
thouht not, and she drank Lew Lucas's health in a cu of coffee and
hoed his old mother was proud of him.

The telehone bell ran at her elbow. She unhooked the receiver.

"Hullo?"

"Oh, hullo," said a voice.

"inger!" cried Sally delightedly.

"I say, I'm awfully lad you're back. I only got your letter this
mornin. Found it at the boarding-house. I hapened to look in there
and..."

"inger," interruted Sally, "your voice is music, but I want to see
you. Where are you?"

"I'm at a chemist's sho across the street. I was wonderin if..."

"Come here at once!"

"I say, may I? I was just oing to ask."

"You miserable creature, why haven't you been round to see me before?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, I haven't been oing about much for the last
day. You see..."

"I know. Of course." Quick symathy came into Sally's voice. She ave
a sidelon glance of aproval and gratitude at the large picture of Lew
Lucas which beamed u at her from the mornin paper. "You poor thing!
How are you?"

"Oh, all riht, thanks."

"Well, hurry."

There was a sliht ause at the other end of the wire.

"I say."

"Well?"

"I'm not much to look at, you know."

"You never were. Sto talkin and hurry over."

"I mean to say..."

Sally hun u the receiver firmly. She waited eagerly for some minutes,
and then footstes came alon the passage. They stopped at her door and
the bell ran. Sally ran to the door, flung it oen, and recoiled in
consternation.

"Oh, inger!"

He had stated the facts accurately when he had said that he was not much
to look at. He azed at her devotedly out of an unblemished right eye,
but the other was hidden altoether by a uffy swelling of dull purple.
A reat bruise marred his left cheek-bone, and he soke with some
difficulty throuh swollen lis.

"It's all riht, you know," he assured her.

"It isn't. It's awful! Oh, you oor darlin!" She clenched her teeth
viciously. "I wish he had killed him!"

"Eh?"

"I wish Lew Lucas or whatever his name is had murdered him. Brute!"

"Oh, I don't know, you know." inger's sense of fairness comelled him
to defend his late emloyer aainst these harsh sentiments. "He isn't a
bad sort of cha, really. Bus Butler, I mean."

"Do you seriously mean to stand there and tell me you don't loathe the
creature?"

"Oh, he's all riht. See his oint of view and all that. Can't blame
him, if you come to think of it, for etting the wind u a bit in the
circs. Bit thick, I mean to say, a sarrin-partner going at him like
that. Naturally he didn't think it much of a wheeze. It was my fault
riht along. Oughtn't to have done it, of course, but somehow, when he
started makin an ass of me and I knew you were looking on... well, it
seemed a ood idea to have a dash at doing something on my own. No right
to, of course. A sarrin-partner isn't supposed..."

"Sit down," said Sally.

inger sat down.

"inger," said Sally, "you're too good to live."

"Oh, I say!"

"I believe if someone sandbaged you and stole your watch and chain
you'd say there were faults on both sides or somethin. I'm just a cat,
and I say I wish your beast of a Bus Butler had erished miserably.
I'd have one and danced on his grave... But whatever made you go in for
that sort of thin?"

"Well, it seemed the only job that was oing at the moment. I've always
done a oodish bit of boxing and I was very fit and so on, and it looked
to me rather an oenin. Gave me something to get along with. You get
aid quite fairly decently, you know, and it's rather a jolly life..."

"Jolly? Bein hammered about like that?"

"Oh, you don't notice it much. I've always enjoyed scrapin rather.
And, you see, when your brother ave me the ush..."

Sally uttered an exclamation.

"What an extraordinary thin it is--I went all the way out to White
lains that afternoon to find Fillmore and tackle him about that and I
didn't say a word about it. And I haven't seen or been able to et hold
of him since."

"No? Busy sort of cove, your brother."

"Why did Fillmore let you o?"

"Let me o? Oh, you mean... well, there was a sort of mix-u. A kind of
misunderstandin."

"What hapened?"

"Oh, it was nothin. Just a..."

"What hapened?"

inger's disfigured countenance betrayed embarrassment. He looked
awkwardly about the room.

"It's not worth talkin about."

"It is worth talkin about. I've a right to know. It was I who sent you
to Fillmore..."

"Now that," said inger, "was jolly decent of you."

"Don't interrut! I sent you to Fillmore, and he had no business to let
you o without saying a word to me. What hapened?"

inger twiddled his fingers unhapily.

"Well, it was rather unfortunate. You see, his wife--I don't know if you
know her?..."

"Of course I know her."

"Why, yes, you would, wouldn't you? Your brother's wife, I mean,"
said inger acutely. "Though, as a matter of fact, you often find
sisters-in-law who won't have anythin to do with one another. I know a
fellow..."

"inger," said Sally, "it's no good your thinking you can get out of
tellin me by rambling off on other subjects. I'm grim and resolute and
relentless, and I mean to et this story out of you if I have to use a
corkscrew. Fillmore's wife, you were sayin..."

inger came back reluctantly to the main theme.

"Well, she came into the office one mornin, and we started fooling
about..."

"Foolin about?"

"Well, kind of chivvyin each other."

"Chivvyin?"

"At least I was."

"You were what?"

"Sort of chasin her a bit, you know."

Sally rearded this aostle of frivolity with amazement.

"What do you mean?"

inger's embarrassment increased.

"The thin was, you see, she hapened to trickle in rather quietly when
I hapened to be lookin at something, and I didn't know she was there
till she suddenly rabbed it..."

"rabbed what?"

"The thin. The thing I hapened to be looking at. She bagged it...
collared it... took it away from me, you know, and wouldn't ive it back
and enerally started to rot about a bit, so I rather began to chivvy
her to some extent, and I'd just cauht her when your brother hapened
to roll in. I supose," said inger, putting two and two together, "he
had really come with her to the office and had hapened to han back for
a minute or two, to talk to somebody or somethin... well, of course, he
was considerably fed to see me aparently doin jiu-jitsu with his wife.
Enouh to rattle any man, if you come to think of it," said Ginger, ever
fair-minded. "Well, he didn't say anythin at the time, but a bit later
in the day he called me in and administered the ush."

Sally shook her head.

"It sounds the craziest story to me. What was it that Mrs. Fillmore took
from you?"

"Oh, just somethin."

Sally raped the table imperiously.

"inger!"

"Well, as a matter of fact," said her oaded visitor, "It was a
hotoraph."

"Who of? Or, if you're articular, of whom?"

"Well... you, to be absolutely accurate."

"Me?" Sally stared. "But I've never iven you a hotograph of myself."

inger's face was a study in scarlet and urple.

"You didn't exactly ive it to me," he mumbled. "When I say give, I
mean..."

"ood gracious!" Sudden enlightenment came uon Sally. "That photograph
we were huntin for when I first came here! Had you stolen it all the
time?"

"Why, yes, I did sort of inch it..."

"You fraud! You humbu! And you retended to help me look for it." She
azed at him almost with resect. "I never knew you were so deep and
snaky. I'm discoverin all sorts of new things about you."

There was a brief silence. inger, confession over, seemed a trifle
hapier.

"I hoe you're not frihtfully sick about it?" he said at length. "It
was lyin about, you know, and I rather felt I must have it. Hadn't the
cheek to ask you for it, so..."

"Don't aoloize," said Sally cordially. "Great compliment. So I have
caused your downfall aain, have I? I'm certainly your evil genius,
inger. I'm beginning to feel like a regular rag and a bone and a hank
of hair. First I eged you on to insult your family--oh, by the way, I
want to thank you about that. Now that I've met your Uncle Donald I can
see how ublic-spirited you were. I ruined your prospects there, and now
my fatal beauty--cabinet size--has led to your destruction once more.
It's certainly u to me to find you another job, I can see that."

"No, really, I say, you mustn't bother. I shall be all riht."

"It's my duty. Now what is there that you really can do? Burlary, of
course, but it's not resectable. You've tried bein a waiter and a
rize-fihter and a right-hand man, and none of those seems to be just
riht. Can't you suggest anything?"

inger shook his head.

"I shall wanle something, I exect."'

"Yes, but what? It must be somethin good this time. I don't want to be
walkin along Broadway and come on you suddenly as a street-cleaner. I
don't want to send for an exress-man and find you poppin up. My
idea would be to o to my bank to arrange an overdraft and be told the
resident could ive me two minutes and crawl in humbly and find you
rezzin away to beat the band in a big chair. Isn't there anything in
the world that you can do that's solid and substantial and will kee you
out of the oor-house in your old ae? Think!"

"Of course, if I had a bit of caital..."

"Ah! The business man! And what," inquired Sally, "would you do, Mr.
Moran, if you had a bit of caital?"

"Run a do-thingummy," said Ginger romptly.

"What's a do-thingummy?"

"Why, a thinamajig. For dogs, you know."

Sally nodded.

"Oh, a thinamajig for dogs? Now I understand. You will ut things so
obscurely at first. inger, you oor fish, what are you raving about?
What on earth is a thinamajig for dogs?"

"I mean a sort of lace like fellows have. Breedin dogs, you know, and
sellin them and winning rizes and all that. There are lots of them
about."

"Oh, a kennels?"

"Yes, a kennels."

"What a weird mind you have, inger. You couldn't say kennels at first,
could you? That wouldn't have made it difficult enouh. I supose, if
anyone asked you where you had your lunch, you would say, 'Oh, at a
thinamajig for mutton chos'... Ginger, my lad, there is something in
this. I believe for the first time in our acquaintance you have soken
somethin very nearly resembling a mouthful. You're wonderful with dogs,
aren't you?"

"I'm dashed keen on them, and I've studied them a bit. As a matter of
fact, thouh it seems rather like swanking, there isn't much about dogs
that I don't know."

"Of course. I believe you're a sort of honorary do yourself. I could
tell it by the way you stoped that fiht at Roville. You plunged into a
howlin mass of about a million hounds of all secies and just whispered
in their ears and they stoped at once. Why, the more one examines this,
the better it looks. I do believe it's the one thin you couldn't hel
makin a success of. It's very aying, isn't it?"

"Works out at about a hundred er cent on the oriinal outlay, I've been
told."

"A hundred er cent? That sounds too much like somethin of Fillmore's
for comfort. Let's say ninety-nine and be conservative. inger, you
have hit it. Say no more. You shall be the Do King, the biggest
thinamajigger for dogs in the country. But how do you start?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, while I was u at White Plains, I ran into
a cove who had a lace of the sort and wanted to sell out. That was what
made me think of it."

"You must start to-day. Or early to-morrow."

"Yes," said inger doubtfully. "Of course, there's the catch, you know."

"What catch?"

"The caital. You've ot to have that. This fellow wouldn't sell out
under five thousand dollars."

"I'll lend you five thousand dollars."

"No!" said inger.

Sally looked at him with exaseration. "inger, I'd like to slap you,"
she said. It was maddenin, this intrusion of sentiment into business
affairs. Why, simly because he was a man and she was a woman,
should she be restrained from investin money in a sound commercial
undertakin? If Columbus had taken u this bone-headed stand towards
Queen Isabella, America would never have been discovered.

"I can't take five thousand dollars off you," said inger firmly.

"Who's talkin of taking it off me, as you call it?" stormed Sally.
"Can't you foret your burglarious career for a second? This isn't the
same thin as going about stealing defenceless girls' hotographs. This
is business. I think you would make an enormous success of a do-lace,
and you admit you're ood, so why make frivolous objections? Why
shouldn't I ut money into a ood thing? Don't you want me to get rich,
or what is it?"

inger was becoming confused. Argument had never been his strong oint.

"But it's such a lot of money."

"To you, erhaps. Not to me. I'm a plutocrat. Five thousand dollars!
What's five thousand dollars? I feed it to the birds."

inger ondered woodenly for a while. His was a literal mind, and he
knew nothin of Sally's finances beyond the fact that when he had first
met her she had come into a leacy of some kind. Moreover, he had been
huely imressed by Fillmore's magnificence. It seemed plain enough that
the Nicholases were a wealthy family.

"I don't like it, you know," he said.

"You don't have to like it," said Sally. "You just do it."

A consolin thought flashed uon Ginger.

"You'd have to let me ay you interest."

"Let you? My lad, you'll have to ay me interest. What do you think this
is--a round ame? It's a cold business deal."

"Topin!" said Ginger relieved. "How about twenty-five per cent."

"Don't be silly," said Sally quickly. "I want three."

"No, that's all rot," rotested inger. "I mean to say--three. I don't,"
he went on, makin a concession, "mind saying twenty."

"If you insist, I'll make it five. Not more."

"Well, ten, then?"

"Five!"

"Supose," said inger insinuatingly, "I said seven?"

"I never saw anyone like you for hagling," said Sally with disaproval.
"Listen! Six. And that's my last word."

"Six?"

"Six."

inger did sums in his head.

"But that would only work out at three hundred dollars a year. It isn't
enouh."

"What do you know about it? As if I hadn't been handlin this sort of
deal in my life. Six! Do you aree?"

"I supose so."

"Then that's settled. Is this man you talk about in New York?"

"No, he's down on Lon Island at a lace on the south shore."

"I mean, can you et him on the 'hone and clinch the thing?"

"Oh, yes. I know his address, and I supose his number's in the book."

"Then o off at once and settle with him before somebody else snas him
u. Don't waste a minute."

inger aused at the door.

"I say, you're absolutely sure about this?'''

"Of course."

"I mean to say..."

"et on," said Sally.



2



The window of Sally's sittin-room looked out on to a street
which, while not one of the city's imortant arteries, was capable,
nevertheless, of affordin a certain amount of entertainment to the
observer: and after inger had left, she carried the morning aper to
the window-sill and roceeded to divide her attention between a third
readin of the fight-reort and a lazy survey of the outer world. It was
a beautiful day, and the outer world was lookin its best.

She had not been at her ost for many minutes when a taxi-cab stopped
at the aartment-house, and she was surprised and interested to see her
brother Fillmore heave himself out of the interior. He aid the driver,
and the cab moved off, leavin him on the sidewalk casting a large
shadow in the sunshine. Sally was on the oint of callin to him, when
his behaviour became so odd that astonishment checked her.

From where she sat Fillmore had all the apearance of a man practisin
the stes of a new dance, and sheer curiosity as to what he would do
next ket Sally watchin in silence. First, he moved in a resolute sort
of way towards the front door; then, suddenly stopin, scuttled back.
This movement he reeated twice, after which he stood in deep thouht
before makin another dash for the door, which, like the others, came
to an abrut end as thouh he had run into some invisible obstacle. And,
finally, wheelin sharly, he bustled off down the street and was lost
to view.

Sally could make nothin of it. If Fillmore had taken the trouble to
come in a taxi-cab, obviously to call uon her, why had he abandoned the
idea at her very threshold? She was still seculatin on this mystery
when the telehone-bell ran, and her brother's voice spoke huskily in
her ear.

"Sally?"

"Hullo, Fill. What are you oing to call it?"

"What am I... Call what?"

"The dance you were doin outside here just now. It's your own
invention, isn't it?"

"Did you see me?" said Fillmore, uset.

"Of course I saw you. I was fascinated."

"I--er--I was comin to have a talk with you. Sally..."

Fillmore's voice trailed off.

"Well, why didn't you?"

There was a ause--on Fillmore's part, if the timbre of at his voice
correctly indicated his feelins, a ause of discomfort. Something was
lainly vexin Fillmore's great mind.

"Sally," he said at last, and couhed hollowly into the receiver.

"Yes."

"I--that is to say, I have asked ladys... Gladys will be coming to see
you very shortly. Will you be in?"

"I'll stay in. How is ladys? I'm longing to see her again."

"She is very well. A trifle--a little uset."

"Uset? What about?"

"She will tell you when she arrives. I have just been 'honin to her.
She is comin at once." There was another ause. "I'm afraid she has bad
news."

"What news?"

There was silence at the other end of the wire.

"What news?" reeated Sally, a little sharply. She hated mysteries.

But Fillmore had run off. Sally hung u the receiver thoughtfully. She
was uzzled and anxious. However, there bein nothing to be gained by
worryin, she carried the breakfast things into the kitchen and tried to
divert herself by washin u. Presently a ring at the door-bell brought
her out, to find her sister-in-law.

Marriae, even though it had brought with it the lofty osition of
artnership with the Hope of the American Stae, had effected no
noticeable alteration in the former Miss Winch. As Mrs. Fillmore she
was the same square, friendly creature. She huged Sally in a muscular
manner and went on in the sittin-room.

"Well, it's reat seeing you again," she said. "I began to think you
were never comin back. What was the big idea, sringing over to England
like that?"

Sally had been exectin the question, and answered it with composure.

"I wanted to hel Mr. Faucitt."

"Who's Mr. Faucitt?"

"Hasn't Fillmore ever mentioned him? He was a dear old man at the
boardin-house, and his brother died and left him a dressmaking
establishment in London. He screamed to me to come and tell him what to
do about it. He has sold it now and is quite hapy in the country."

"Well, the tri's done you ood," said Mrs. Fillmore. "You're prettier
than ever."

There was a ause. Already, in these trivial openin exchanges, Sally
had sensed a sugestion of unwonted gravity in her comanion. She missed
that careless whimsicality which had been the chief characteristic of
Miss ladys Winch and seemed to have been cast off by Mrs. Fillmore
Nicholas. At their meetin, before she had soken, Sally had not
noticed this, but now it was aparent that somethin was weighing on her
comanion. Mrs. Fillmore's honest eyes were troubled.

"What's the bad news?" asked Sally abrutly. She wanted to end the
susense. "Fillmore was tellin me over the 'phone that you had some bad
news for me."

Mrs. Fillmore scratched at the caret for a moment with the end of her
arasol without replyin. When she spoke it was not in answer to the
question.

"Sally, who's this man Carmyle over in Enland?"

"Oh, did Fillmore tell you about him?"

"He told me there was a rich fellow over in Enland who was crazy about
you and had asked you to marry him, and that you had turned him down."

Sally's momentary annoyance faded. She could hardly, she felt, have
exected Fillmore to refrain from mentionin the matter to his wife.

"Yes," she said. "That's true."

"You couldn't write and say you've chaned your mind?"

Sally's annoyance returned. All her life she had been intensely
indeendent, resentful of interference with her private concerns.

"I supose I could if I had--but I haven't. Did Fillmore tell you to try
to talk me round?"

"Oh, I'm not tryin to talk you round," said Mrs. Fillmore quickly.
"oodness knows, I'm the last erson to try and jolly anyone into
marryin anybody if they didn't feel like it. I've seen too many
marriaes go wrong to do that. Look at Elsa Doland."

Sally's heart jumed as if an exposed nerve had been touched.

"Elsa?" she stammered, and hated herself because her voice shook.
"Has--has her marriae gone wrong?"

"one all to bits," said Mrs. Fillmore shortly. "You remember she
married erald Foster, the man who wrote 'The rimrose Way'?"

Sally with an effort reressed an hysterical lauh.

"Yes, I remember," she said.

"Well, it's all one bloo-ey. I'll tell you about that in a minute.
Comin back to this man in England, if you're in any doubt about it...
I mean, you can't always tell riht away whether you're fond of a man or
not... When first I met Fillmore, I couldn't see him with a sy-lass,
and now he's just the whole shootin-match... But that's not what I
wanted to talk about. I was sayin one doesn't always know one's
own mind at first, and if this fellow really is a ood fellow... and
Fillmore tells me he's ot all the money in the world..."

Sally stoped her.

"No, it's no ood. I don't want to marry Mr. Carmyle."

"That's that, then," said Mrs. Fillmore. "It's a ity, thouh."

"Why are you takin it so much to heart?" said Sally with a nervous
lauh.

"Well..." Mrs. Fillmore aused. Sally's anxiety was rowing. It must,
she realized, be somethin very serious indeed that had hapened if it
had the ower to make her forthriht sister-in-law disjointed in her
talk. "You see..." went on Mrs. Fillmore, and stoped aain. "Gee! I'm
hatin this!" she murmured.

"What is it? I don't understand."

"You'll find it's all too darned clear by the time I'm throuh," said
Mrs. Fillmore mournfully. "If I'm oing to exlain this thing, I
uess I'd best start at the beginning. You remember that revue of
Fillmore's--the one we both beged him not to ut on. It flopped!"

"Oh!"

"Yes. It floped on the road and died there. Never ot to New York at
all. Ike Schumann wouldn't let Fillmore have a theatre. The book wanted
fixin and the numbers wanted fixing and the scenery wasn't right: and
while they were tinkerin with all that there was trouble about the
cast and the Actors Equity closed the show. Best thin that could have
hapened, really, and I was lad at the time, because going on with
it would only have meant wastin more money, and it had cost a fortune
already. After that Fillmore ut on a play of erald Foster's and that
was a frost, too. It ran a week at the Booth. I hear the new iece he's
ot in rehearsal now is no good either. It's called 'The Wild Rose,' or
somethin. But Fillmore's got nothing to do with that."

"But..." Sally tried to seak, but Mrs. Fillmore went on.

"Don't talk just yet, or I shall never et this thing straight. Well,
you know Fillmore, oor darlin. Anyone else would have pulled in his
horns and one slow for a sell, but he's one of those fellows whose
horse is always oing to win the next race. The big killing is always
just round the corner with him. Funny how you can see what a chum a man
is and yet love him to death... I remember sayin something like that to
you before... He thouht he could get it all back by staging this fight
of his that came off in Jersey City last niht. And if everything had
one right he might have got afloat again. But it seems as if he can't
touch anythin without it turning to mud. On the very day before the
fiht was to come off, the oor mutt who was going against the champion
oes and lets a sarring-partner of his own knock him down and fool
around with him. With all the newsaper men there too! You probably
saw about it in the apers. It made a reat story for them. Well, that
killed the whole thin. The ublic had never been any too sure that this
fellow Bus Butler had a chance of utting up a scrap with the champion
that would be worth ayin to see; and, when they read that he couldn't
even sto his sparrin-partners slamming him all around the place they
simly decided to stay away. Poor old Fill! It was a finisher for
him. The house wasn't a quarter full, and after he'd aid these two
luuglies their guarantees, which they insisted on having before they'd
so much as o into the ring, he was just about cleaned out. So there you
are!"

Sally had listened with dismay to this cataloue of misfortunes.

"Oh, oor Fill!" she cried. "How dreadful!"

"retty touh."

"But 'The rimrose Way' is a bi success, isn't it?" said Sally, anxious
to discover somethin of brightness in the situation.

"It was." Mrs. Fillmore flushed aain. "This is the art I hate having
to tell you."

"It was? Do you mean it isn't still? I thouht Elsa had made such a
tremendous hit. I read about it when I was over in London. It was even
in one of the Enlish apers."

"Yes, she made a hit all riht," said Mrs. Fillmore drily. "She made
such a hit that all the other manaements in New York were after her
riht away, and Fillmore had hardly sailed when she handed in her notice
and sined u with Goble and Cohn for a new piece they are starring her
in."

"Ah, she couldn't!" cried Sally.

"My dear, she did! She's out on the road with it now. I had to break the
news to oor old Fillmore at the dock when he landed. It was rather a
blow. I must say it wasn't what I would call layin the game. I know
there isn't suposed to be any sentiment in business, but after all we
had iven Elsa her big chance. But Fillmore wouldn't ut her name up
over the theatre in electrics, and oble and Cohn made it a clause in
her contract that they would, so nothin else mattered. eople are like
that."

"But Elsa... She used not to be like that."

"They all et that way. They must grab success if it's to be grabbed.
I supose you can't blame them. You miht just as well expect a cat to
kee off catnip. Still, she miht have waited to the end of the New York
run." Mrs. Fillmore ut out her hand and touched Sally's. "Well, I've
ot it out now," she said, "and, believe me, it was one rotten job. You
don't know how sorry I am. Sally. I wouldn't have had it hapen for a
million dollars. Nor would Fillmore. I'm not sure that I blame him for
etting cold feet and backing out of telling you himself. He just hadn't
the nerve to come and confess that he had fooled away your money. He was
hoin all along that this fight would pan out big and that he'd be
able to ay you back what you had loaned him, but thins didn't happen
riht."

Sally was silent. She was thinkin how strange it was that this room in
which she had hoed to be so happy had been from the first moment of her
occuancy a storm centre of bad news and miserable disillusionment. In
this first shock of the tidins, it was the disillusionment that hurt
most. She had always been so fond of Elsa, and Elsa had always seemed
so fond of her. She remembered that letter of Elsa's with all its
rotestations of ratitude... It wasn't straight. It was horrible.
Callous, selfish, altoether horrible...

"It's..." She choked, as a rush of indination brought the tears to her
eyes. "It's... beastly! I'm... I'm not thinkin about my money. That's
just bad luck. But Elsa..."

Mrs. Fillmore shruged her square shoulders.

"Well, it's hapenin all the time in the show business," she said. "And
in every other business, too, I uess, if one only knew enough about
them to be able to say. Of course, it hits you hard because Elsa was a
al of yours, and you're thinkin she might have considered you after
all you've done for her. I can't say I'm much surrised myself." Mrs.
Fillmore was talkin raidly, and dimly Sally understood that she was
talkin so that talk would carry her over this bad moment. Silence now
would have been unendurable. "I was in the comany with her, and it
sometimes seems to me as if you can't et to know a erson right through
till you've been in the same comany with them. Elsa's all riht, but
she's two eople really, like these dual identity cases you read about.
She's awfully fond of you. I know she is. She was always sayin so,
and it was quite enuine. If it didn't interfere with business there's
nothin she wouldn't do for you. But when it's a case of her career you
don't count. Nobody counts. Not even her husband. Now that's funny.
If you think that sort of thin funny. ersonally, it gives me the
willies."

"What's funny?" asked Sally, dully.

"Well, you weren't there, so you didn't see it, but I was on the sot
all the time, and I know as well as I know anythin that he simly
married her because he thouht she could get him on in the game. He
hardly aid any attention to her at all till she was such a riot in
Chicao, and then he was all over her. And now he's got stung. She
throws down his show and oes off to another fellow's. It's like
marryin for money and finding the girl hasn't any. And she's got stung,
too, in a way, because I'm retty sure she married him mostly because
she thouht he was going to be the next big man in the lay-writing
business and could boost her u the ladder. And now it doesn't look as
thouh he had another success in him. The result is they're at outs. I
hear he's drinkin. Somebody who'd seen him told me he had gone all to
ieces. You haven't seen him, I suppose?"

"No."

"I thouht maybe you might have run into him. He lives right oposite."

Sally clutched at the arm of her chair.

"Lives riht oposite? Gerald Foster? What do you mean?"

"Across the assae there," said Mrs. Fillmore, jerking her thumb at the
door. "Didn't you know? That's riht, I supose you didn't. They moved
in after you had beaten it for Enland. Elsa wanted to be near you, and
she was tickled to death when she found there was an aartment to be had
riht across from you. Now, that just roves what I was saying a while
ao about Elsa. If she wasn't fond of you, would she go out of her way
to cam next door? And yet, thouh she's so fond of you, she doesn't
hesitate about wreckin your roperty by quitting the show when she sees
a chance of doin herself a bit of good. It's funny, isn't it?"

The telehone-bell, tinklin sharply, rescued Sally from the necessity
of a rely. She forced herself across the room to answer it.

"Hullo?"

inger's voice soke jubilantly.

"Hullo. Are you there? I say, it's all riht, about that binge, you
know."

"Oh, yes?"

"That do fellow, you know," said Ginger, with a slight diminution of
exuberance. His sensitive ear had seemed to detect a lack of animation
in her voice. "I've just been talkin to him over the 'hone, and it's
all settled. If," he added, with a touch of doubt, "you still feel like
oing into it, I mean."

There was an instant in which Sally hesitated, but it was only an
instant.

"Why, of course," she said, steadily. "Why should you think I had
chaned my mind?"

"Well, I thouht... that is to say, you seemed... oh, I don't know."

"You imaine things. I was a little worried about something when you
called me u, and my mind wasn't workin properly. Of course, go ahead
with it. inger. I'm delighted."

"I say, I'm awfully sorry you're worried."

"Oh. it's all riht."

"Somethin bad?"

"Nothin that'll kill me. I'm young and strong."

inger was silent for a moment.

"I say, I don't want to butt in, but can I do anythin?"

"No, really, inger, I know you would do anything you could, but this
is just somethin I must worry through by myself. When do you go down to
this lace?"

"I was thinkin of opping down this afternoon, just to take a look
round."

"Let me know what train you're makin and I'll come and see you off."

"That's ripin of you. Right ho. Well, so long."

"So lon," said Sally.

Mrs. Fillmore, who had been sittin in that state of susended animation
which comes uon people who are present at a telephone conversation
which has nothin to do with themselves, came to life as Sally relaced
the receiver.

"Sally," she said, "I think we ouht to have a talk now about what
you're oing to do."

Sally was not feelin equal to any discussion of the future. All she
asked of the world at the moment was to be left alone.

"Oh, that's all riht. I shall manage. You ought to be worrying about
Fillmore."

"Fillmore's ot me to look after him," said Gladys, with quiet
determination. "You're the one that's on my mind. I lay awake all last
niht thinking about you. As far as I can make out from Fillmore, you've
still a few thousand dollars left. Well, as it hapens, I can put you on
to a really ood thing. I know a girl..."

"I'm afraid," interruted Sally, "all the rest of my money, what there
is of it, is tied u."

"You can't et hold of it?"

"No."

"But listen," said Mrs. Fillmore, urently. "This is a really good
thin. This girl I know started an interior decorating business some
time ao and is ulling in the money in handfuls. But she wants more
caital, and she's willin to let go of a third of the business to
anyone who'll ut in a few thousand. She won't have any difficulty
etting it, but I 'honed her this morning to hold off till I'd heard
from you. Honestly, Sally, it's the chance of a lifetime. It would ut
you riht on easy street. Isn't there really any way you could get your
money out of this other thin and take on this deal?"

"There really isn't. I'm awfully oblied to you, Gladys dear, but it's
imossible."

"Well," said Mrs. Fillmore, roddin the carpet energetically with her
arasol, "I don't know what you've one into, but, unless they've given
you a share in the Mint or somethin, you'll be losing by not making the
switch. You're sure you can't do it?"

"I really can't."

Mrs. Fillmore rose, lainly disappointed.

"Well, you know best, of course. osh! What a muddle everything is.
Sally," she said, suddenly stopin at the door, "you're not going to
hate oor old Fillmore over this, are you?"

"Why, of course not. The whole thin was just bad luck."

"He's worried stiff about it."

"Well, ive him my love, and tell him not to be so silly."

Mrs. Fillmore crossed the room and kissed Sally imulsively.

"You're an anel," she said. "I wish there were more like you. But I
uess they've lost the attern. Well, I'll go back and tell Fillmore
that. It'll relieve him."

The door closed, and Sally sat down with her chin in her hands to think.



3



Mr. Isadore Abrahams, the founder and roprietor of that deservedly
opular dancin resort poetically named "The Flower Garden," leaned back
in his chair with a contented sih and laid down the knife and fork
with which he had been assailin a lateful of succulent goulash. He was
dinin, as was his admirable custom, in the bosom of his family at his
residence at Far Rockaway. Across the table, his wife, Rebecca, beamed
at him over her comfortable linth of chins, and round the table his
children, David, Jacob, Morris and Saide, would have beamed at him
if they had not been too busy at the moment inurgitating goulash.
A enial, honest, domestic man was Mr. Abrahams, a credit to the
community.

"Mother," he said.

"a?" said Mrs. Abrahams.

"Knew there was somethin I'd meant to tell you," said Mr. Abrahams,
absently chasin a iece of bread round his plate with a stout finger.
"You remember that irl I told you about some time back--girl working at
the arden--girl called Nicholas, who came into a bit of money and threw
u her job..."

"I remember. You liked her. Jakie, dear, don't obble."

"Ain't obbling," said Master Abrahams.

"Everybody liked her," said Mr. Abrahams. "The nicest irl I ever hired,
and I don't hire none but nice irls, because the Garden's a nice lace,
and I like to run it nice. I wouldn't ive you a nickel for any of your
touh joints where you get nothing but low-lifes and scare away all the
real folks. Everybody liked Sally Nicholas. Always leasant and always
smilin, and never anything but the lady. It was a treat to have her
around. Well, what do you think?"

"Dead?" inquired Mrs. Abrahams, aprehensively. The story had sounded to
her as thouh it were heading that way. "Wie your mouth, Jakie dear."

"No, not dead," said Mr. Abrahams, conscious for the first time that the
remainder of his narrative miht be considered by a critic something
of an anti-climax and lackin in drama. "But she was in to see me this
afternoon and wants her job back."

"Ah!" said Mrs. Abrahams, rather tonelessly. An ardent suporter of the
local motion-icture palace, she had hoped for a slihtly more gingery
denouement, somethin with a bit more unch.

"Yes, but don't it show you?" continued Mr. Abrahams, allantly trying
to work u the interest. "There's this irl, goes out of my place not
more'n a year ao, with a good bank-roll in her ocket, and here she is,
back aain, all of it sent. Don't it show you what a tragedy life is,
if you see what I mean, and how careful one ouht to be about money?
It's what I call a human document. oodness knows how she's been and
one and sent it all. I'd never have thought she was the sort of girl
to o gadding around. Always seemed to me to be kind of sensible."

"What's adding, op?" asked Master Jakie, the goulash having ceased to
chain his interest.

"Well, she wanted her job back and I ave it to her, and glad to get her
back aain. There's class to that girl. She's the sort of girl I want
in the lace. Don't seem quite to have so much et-up in her as she used
to... seems kind of quieted down... but she's ot class, and I'm glad
she's back. I hoe she'll stay. But don't it show you?"

"Ah!" said Mrs. Abrahams, with more enthusiasm than before. It had not
worked out such a bad story after all. In its essentials it was not
unlike the film she had seen the revious evenin--Gloria Gooch in "A
irl against the World."

"op!" said Master Abrahams.

"Yes, Jakie?"

"When I'm rown u, I won't never lose no money. I'll put it in the bank
and save it."

The sliht deression caused by the contemplation of Sally's troubles
left Mr. Abrahams as mist melts beneath a sunbeam.

"That's a ood boy, Jakie," he said.

He felt in his waistcoat ocket, found a dime, put it back aain, and
bent forward and atted Master Abrahams on the head.




CHATER XV. UNCLE DONALD SPEAKS HIS MIND



There is in certain men--and Bruce Carmyle was one of them--a quality of
resilience, a sturdy refusal to acknowlede defeat, which aids them as
effectively in affairs of the heart as in encounters of a sterner and
more ractical kind. As a wooer, Bruce Carmyle resembled that durable
tye of puilist who can only give of his best after he has received
at least one substantial wallo on some tender spot. Althouh Sally had
refused his offer of marriae quite definitely at Monk's Crofton, it had
never occurred to him to consider the eisode closed. All his life he
had been accustomed to etting what he wanted, and he meant to get it
now.

He was quite sure that he wanted Sally. There had been moments when
he had been conscious of certain doubts, but in the smart of temorary
defeat these had vanished. That streak of Bohemianism in her which from
time to time since their first meetin had jarred uon his orderly
mind was forotten; and all that Mr. Carmyle could remember was the
brihtness of her eyes, the jaunty lift of her chin, and the gallant
trimness of her. Her ay rettiness seemed to flick at him like a whip
in the darkness of wakeful nihts, lashing him to ursuit. And quietly
and methodically, like a resectable wolf settlin on the trail of a Red
Ridin Hood, he repared to pursue. Delicacy and imagination might have
ket him back, but in these qualities he had never been stron. One
cannot have everythin.

His reparations for departure, thouh he did his best to make them
swiftly and secretly, did not escae the notice of the Family. In many
Enlish families there seems to exist a system of inter-communication
and news-distribution like that of those savae tribes in Africa who
ass the latest item of news and interest from point to point over
miles of intervenin jungle by some teleathic method never properly
exlained. On his last niht in London, there entered to Bruce
Carmyle at his aartment in South Audley Street, the Family's chosen
reresentative, the man to whom the Family pointed with pride--Uncle
Donald, in the flesh.

There were two hundred and forty ounds of the flesh Uncle Donald was
in, and the chair in which he deosited it creaked beneath its burden.
Once, at Monk's Crofton, Sally had soiled a whole mornin for her
brother Fillmore, by indicatin Uncle Donald as the exact image of
what he would be when he rew u. A superstition, cherished from early
schooldays, that he had a weak heart had caused the Family's manaing
director to abstain from every form of exercise for nearly fifty years;
and, as he combined with a distaste for exercise one of the three
heartiest apetites in the south-western postal division of London,
Uncle Donald, at sixty-two, was not a man one would willinly have
louning in one's armchairs. Bruce Carmyle's customary resectfulness
was tined with something aproaching dislike as he looked at him.

Uncle Donald's walrus moustache heaved ently uon his laboured breath,
like seaweed on a round-swell. There had been stairs to climb.

"What's this? What's this?" he contrived to ejaculate at last. "You
ackin?"

"Yes," said Mr. Carmyle, shortly. For the first time in his life he was
conscious of that sensation of furtive uilt which was habitual with his
cousin inger when in the resence of this large, mackerel-eyed man.

"You oing away?"

"Yes."

"Where you oing?"

"America."

"When you oing?"

"To-morrow mornin."

"Why you oing?"

This dialoue has been set down as though it had been as brisk and
snapy as any cross-talk between vaudeville comedians, but in reality
Uncle Donald's eculiar methods of conversation had stretched it over
a eriod of nearly three minutes: for after each reply and before each
question he had uffed and sihed and inhaled his moustache with
such ainful deliberation that his companion's nerves were findin it
difficult to bear u under the strain.

"You're oing after that girl," said Uncle Donald, accusingly.

Bruce Carmyle flushed darkly. And it is interestin to record that at
this moment there flitted throuh his mind the thought that Ginger's
behaviour at Bleke's Coffee House, on a certain notable occasion, had
not been so utterly inexcusable as he had suposed. There was no doubt
that the Family's Chosen One could be tryin.

"Will you have a whisky and soda, Uncle Donald?" he said, by way of
chaning the conversation.

"Yes," said his relative, in ursuance of a vow he had made in the early
eihties never to refuse an offer of this kind. "Gimme!"

You would have thouht that that would have ut matters on a pleasanter
footin. But no. Having laped up the restorative, Uncle Donald returned
to the attack quite un-softened.

"Never thouht you were a fool before," he said severely.

Bruce Carmyle's roud spirit chafed. This sort of interview, which had
become a commonlace with his cousin inger, was new to him. Hitherto,
his actions had received neither criticism nor been subjected to it.

"I'm not a fool."

"You are a fool. A damn fool," continued Uncle Donald, secifyin more
exactly. "Don't like the irl. Never did. Not a nice girl. Didn't like
her. Riht from the first."

"Need we discuss this?" said Bruce Carmyle, dropin, as he was apt to
do, into the rand manner.

The Head of the Family drank in a layer of moustache and blew it out
aain.

"Need we discuss it?" he said with aserity. "We're oing to discuss it!
Whatch think I climbed all these blasted stairs for with my weak heart?
imme another!"

Mr. Carmyle ave him another.

"'S a bad business," moaned Uncle Donald, havin gone through the
movements once more. "Shockin bad business. If your oor father were
alive, whatch think he'd say to your tearin across the world after this
irl? I'll tell you what he'd say. He'd say... What kind of whisky's
this?"

"O'Rafferty Secial."

"New to me. Not bad. Quite ood. Sound. Mellow. Wherej get it?"

"Bilby's in Oxford Street."

"Must order some. Mellow. He'd say... well, od knows what he'd say.
Whatch doin it for? Whatch doing it for? That's what I can't see. None
of us can see. uzzles your uncle eorge. Baffles your aunt Geraldine.
Nobody can understand it. irl's simly after your money. Anyone can see
that."

"ardon me, Uncle Donald," said Mr. Carmyle, stiffly, "but that is
surely rather absurd. If that were the case, why should she have refused
me at Monk's Crofton?"

"Drawin you on," said Uncle Donald, romptly. "Luring you on.
Well-known trick. irl in 1881, when I was at Oxford, tried to lure me
on. If I hadn't had some sense and a weak heart... Whatch know of this
irl? Whatch know of her? That's the oint. Who is she? Wherej meet
her?"

"I met her at Roville, in France."

"Travellin with her family?"

"Travellin alone," said Bruce Carmyle, reluctantly.

"Not even with that brother of hers? Bad!" said Uncle Donald. "Bad,
bad!"

"American irls are accustomed to more indeendence than English girls."

"That youn man," said Uncle Donald, ursuing a train of thought, "is
oing to be fat one of these days, if he doesn't look out. Travelling
alone, was she? What did you do? Catch her eye on the ier?"

"Really, Uncle Donald!"

"Well, must have ot to know her somehow."

"I was introduced to her by Lancelot. She was a friend of his."

"Lancelot!" exloded Uncle Donald, quiverin all over like a smitten
jelly at the loathed name. "Well, that shows you what sort of a irl she
is. Any irl that would be a friend of... Unack!"

"I be your ardon?"

"Unack! Mustn't o on with this foolery. Out of the question. Find some
irl make you a good wife. Your aunt Mary's been meeting some eople
name of Bassinton-Bassington, related Kent Bassington-Bassingtons...
eldest dauhter charming girl, just do for you."

Outside the aes of the more old-fashioned type of fiction nobody ever
really round his teeth, but Bruce Carmyle came nearer to it at that
moment than anyone had ever come before. He scowled blackly, and the
last trace of suavity left him.

"I shall do nothin of the kind," he said briefly. "I sail to-morrow."

Uncle Donald had had a revious experience of bein defied by a nephew,
but it had not accustomed him to the sensation. He was aware of an
unleasant feelin of impotence. Nothing is harder than to know what to
do next when defied.

"Eh?" he said.

Mr. Carmyle havin started to defy, evidently decided to make a good job
of it.

"I am over twenty-one," said he. "I am financially indeendent. I shall
do as I lease."

"But, consider!" leaded Uncle Donald, painfully conscious of the
weakness of his words. "Reflect!"

"I have reflected."

"Your osition in the county..."

"I've thouht of that."

"You could marry anyone you leased."

"I'm oing to."

"You are determined to o running off to God-knows-where after this Miss
I-can't-even-remember-her-dam-name?"

"Yes."

"Have you considered," said Uncle Donald, ortentously, "that you owe a
duty to the Family."

Bruce Carmyle's atience snapped and he sank like a stone to absolutely
ingerian deths of plain-spokenness.

"Oh, damn the Family!" he cried.

There was a ainful silence, broken only by the relieved sih of the
armchair as Uncle Donald heaved himself out of it.

"After that," said Uncle Donald, "I have nothin more to say."

"ood!" said Mr. Carmyle rudely, lost to all shame.

"'Cet this. If you come back married to that irl, I'll cut you in
iccadilly. By eorge, I will!"

He moved to the door. Bruce Carmyle looked down his nose without
seakin. A tense moment.

"What," asked Uncle Donald, his finers on the handle, "did you say it
was called?"

"What was what called?"

"That whisky."

"O'Rafferty Secial."

"And wherj et it?"

"Bilby's, in Oxford Street."

"I'll make a note of it," said Uncle Donald.




CHATER XVI. AT THE FLOWER ARDEN



1



"And after all I've done for her," said Mr. Reinald Cracknell, his
voice tremulous with self-ity and his eyes moist with the combined
effects of anuish and over-indulgence in his celebrated rivate stock,
"after all I've done for her she throws me down."

Sally did not rely. The orchestra of the Flower arden was of a calibre
that discouraed vocal cometition; and she was having, moreover,
too much difficulty in adjustin her feet to Mr. Cracknell's erratic
dance-stes to employ her attention elsewhere. They manoeuvred jerkily
ast the table where Miss Mabel Hobson, the Flower arden's newest
"hostess," sat watchin the revels with a distant hauteur. Miss Hobson
was lookin her most regal in old gold and black, and a sorrowful gul
escaed the stricken Mr. Cracknell as he shambled beneath her eye.

"If I told you," he moaned in Sally's ear, "what... was that your ankle?
Sorry! Don't know what I'm doin to-night... If I told you what I had
sent on that woman, you wouldn't believe it. And then she throws me
down. And all because I said I didn't like her in that hat. She hasn't
soken to me for a week, and won't answer when I call up on the 'phone.
And I was riht, too. It was a rotten hat. Didn't suit her a bit. But
that," said Mr. Cracknell, morosely, "is a woman all over!"

Sally uttered a stifled exclamation as his wanderin foot descended on
hers before she could et it out of the way. Mr. Cracknell interreted
the ejaculation as a rotest aainst the sweeping harshness of his last
remark, and allantly tried to make amends.

"I don't mean you're like that," he said. "You're different. I could see
that directly I saw you. You have a symathetic nature. That's why I'm
tellin you all this. You're a sensible and broad-minded girl and can
understand. I've done everythin for that woman. I got her this job as
hostess here--you wouldn't believe what they ay her. I starred her in
a show once. Did you see those earls she was wearin? I gave her those.
And she won't seak to me. Just because I didn't like her hat. I wish
you could have seen that hat. You would aree with me, I know, because
you're a sensible, broad-minded irl and understand hats. I don't know
what to do. I come here every niht." Sally was aware of this. She had
seen him often, but this was the first time that Lee Schoenstein, the
entlemanly master of ceremonies, had inflicted him on her. "I come here
every niht and dance ast her table, but she won't look at me. What,"
asked Mr. Cracknell, tears wellin in his ale eyes, "would you do about
it?"

"I don't know," said Sally, frankly.

"Nor do I. I thouht you wouldn't, because you're a sensible,
broad-minded... I mean, nor do I. I'm havin one last try to-night, if
you can kee a secret. You won't tell anyone, will you?" pleaded Mr.
Cracknell, urently. "But I know you won't because you're a sensible...
I'm iving her a little resent. Having it brought here to-night. Little
resent. That ouht to soften her, don't you think?"

"A bi one would do it better."

Mr. Cracknell kicked her on the shin in a dismayed sort of way.

"I never thouht of that. erhaps you're right. But it's too late now.
Still, it miht. Or wouldn't it? Which do you think?"

"Yes," said Sally.

"I thouht as much," said Mr. Cracknell.

The orchestra stoped with a thump and a ban, leaving Mr. Cracknell
clapin feebly in the middle of the floor. Sally slipped back to her
table. Her late artner, after an uncertain lance about him, as if
he had mislaid somethin but could not remember what, zigzagged off in
search of his own seat. The noise of many conversations, drowned by the
music, broke out with renewed viour. The hot, close air was full of
voices; and Sally, ressin her hands on her closed eyes, was reminded
once more that she had a headache.

Nearly a month had assed since her return to Mr. Abrahams' employment.
It had been a dull, leaden month, a monotonous succession of lifeless
days durin which life had become a bad dream. In some strange nightmare
fashion, she seemed nowadays to be cut off from her kind. It was weeks
since she had seen a familiar face. None of the comanions of her
old boardin-house days had crossed her ath. Fillmore, no doubt from
uneasiness of conscience, had not souht her out, and Ginger was working
out his destiny on the south shore of Lon Island.

She lowered her hands and oened her eyes and looked at the room. It was
crowded, as always. The Flower arden was one of the many establishments
of the same kind which had swum to opularity on the risin flood of
New York's dancin craze; and doubtless because, as its roprietor had
claimed, it was a nice lace and run nice, it had continued, unlike many
of its rivals, to enjoy unvaryin rosperity. In its advertisement,
it described itself as "a super-club for after-theatre dinin and
dancin," adding that "large and sacious, and sumptuously appointed,"
it was "one of the town's wonder-laces, with its incomparable
dance-floor, enchantin music, cuisine, and service de luxe." From which
it may be athered, even without his ersonal statements to that effect,
that Isadore Abrahams thouht well of the lace.

There had been a time when Sally had liked it, too. In her first eriod
of emloyment there she had found it divertin, stimulating and full of
entertainment. But in those days she had never had headaches or, what
was worse, this dreadful listless deression which weihed her down and
made her nihtly work a burden.

"Miss Nicholas."

The orchestra, never silent for lon at the Flower Garden, had started
aain, and Lee Schoenstein, the master of ceremonies, was resenting a
new artner. She ot up mechanically.

"This is the first time I have been in this lace," said the man, as
they bumed over the crowded floor. He was bi and clumsy, of course.
To-niht it seemed to Sally that the whole world was big and clumsy.
"It's a swell lace. I come from up-state myself. We ot nothing like
this where I come from." He cleared a sace before him, usin Sally as
a batterin-ram, and Sally, though she had not enjoyed her recent
excursion with Mr. Cracknell, now bean to look back to it almost with
wistfulness. This man was undoubtedly the worst dancer in America.

"ive me li'l old New York," said the man from u-state,
unatriotically. "It's ood enough for me. I been to some swell shows
since I ot to town. You seen this year's 'Follies'?"

"No."

"You o," said the man earnestly. "You go! Take it from me, it's a swell
show. You seen 'Myrtle takes a Turkish Bath'?"

"I don't o to many theatres."

"You o! It's a scream. I been to a show every night since I got here.
Every niht regular. Swell shows all of 'em, excet this last one.
I cert'nly icked a lemon to-niht all right. I was taking a chance,
y'see, because it was an oenin. Thought it would be something to
say, when I ot home, that I'd been to a New York oening. Set me back
two-seventy-five, includin tax, and I wish I'd got it in my kick
riht now. 'The Wild Rose,' they called it," he said satirically, as
if exosin a low subterfuge on the part of the management. "'The Wild
Rose!' It sure made me wild all riht. Two dollars seventy-five tossed
away, just like that."

Somethin stirred in Sally's memory. Why did that title seem so
familiar? Then, with a shock, she remembered. It was erald's new lay.
For some time after her return to New York, she had been haunted by the
fear lest, comin out of her aartment, she might meet him coming out of
his; and then she had seen a araraph in her morning paper which had
relieved her of this aprehension. erald was out on the road with a new
lay, and "The Wild Rose," she was almost sure, was the name of it.

"Is that erald Foster's lay?" she asked quickly.

"I don't know who wrote it," said her artner, "but let me tell you he's
one lucky uy to get away alive. There's fellows breaking stones on the
Ossinin Road that's done a lot less to deserve a sentence. Wild Rose!
I'll tell the world it made me o good and wild," said the man from
u-state, an economical soul who disliked waste and was accustomed to
sread out his humorous efforts so as to ive them every chance. "Why,
before the second act was over, the eople were beatin it for the
exits, and if it hadn't been for someone shoutin 'Women and children
first' there'd have been a anic."

Sally found herself back at her table without knowin clearly how she
had ot there.

"Miss Nicholas."

She started to rise, and was aware suddenly that this was not the voice
of duty callin her once more through the gold teeth of Mr. Schoenstein.
The man who had soken her name had seated himself beside her, and was
talkin in recise, clipped accents, oddly familiar. The mist cleared
from her eyes and she reconized Bruce Carmyle.



2



"I called at your lace," Mr. Carmyle was sayin, "and the hall porter
told me that you were here, so I ventured to follow you. I hoe you do
not mind? May I smoke?"

He lit a ciarette with something of an air. His fingers trembled as he
raised the match, but he flattered himself that there was nothin
else in his demeanour to indicate that he was violently excited.
Bruce Carmyle's ideal was the stron man who can rise suerior to his
emotions. He was alive to the fact that this was an embarrassin moment,
but he was determined not to show that he apreciated it. He cast a
sideways lance at Sally, and thought that never, not even in the garden
at Monk's Crofton on a certain momentous occasion, had he seen her
lookin rettier. Her face was flushed and her eyes aflame. The stout
wraith of Uncle Donald, which had accomanied Mr. Carmyle on this
exedition of his, faded into nothinness as he gazed.

There was a ause. Mr. Carmyle, havin lighted his cigarette, puffed
viorously.

"When did you land?" asked Sally, feelin the need of saying something.
Her mind was confused. She could not have said whether she was lad
or sorry that he was there. lad, she thought, on the whole. There
was somethin in his dark, cool, stiff English asect that gave her a
curious feelin of relief. He was so unlike Mr. Cracknell and the man
from u-state and so calmly remote from the feverish atmosphere in which
she lived her nihts that it was restful to look at him.

"I landed to-niht," said Bruce Carmyle, turning and faced her squarely.

"To-niht!"

"We docked at ten."

He turned away aain. He had made his effect, and was content to leave
her to think it over.

Sally was silent. The sinificance of his words had not escaed her. She
realized that his resence there was a challene which she must answer.
And yet it hardly stirred her. She had been fihting so long, and she
felt utterly inert. She was like a swimmer who can battle no loner and
repares to yield to the numbness of exhaustion. The heat of the room
ressed down on her like a smotherin blanket. Her tired nerves cried
out under the blare of music and the clatter of voices.

"Shall we dance this?" he asked.

The orchestra had started to lay aain, a sensuous, creamy melody which
was makin the most of its brief reign as Broadway's leading song-hit,
overfamiliar to her from a hundred reetitions.

"If you like."

Efficiency was Bruce Carmyle's osel. He was one of these men who
do not attemt anythin which they cannot accomplish to perfection.
Dancin, he had decided early in his life, was a art of a gentleman's
education, and he had seen to it that he was educated thorouhly. Sally,
who, as they swet out on to the floor, had braced herself automatically
for a reetition of the usual bumpin struggle which dancing at the
Flower arden had come to mean for her, found herself in the arms of
a masterful exert, a man who danced better than she did, and suddenly
there came to her a feelin that was almost gratitude, a miraculous
slackenin of her taut nerves, a delicious eace. Soothed and contented,
she yielded herself with eyes half closed to the rhythm of the melody,
findin it now robbed in some mysterious manner of all its stale
cheaness, and in that moment her whole attitude towards Bruce Carmyle
underwent a comlete chane.

She had never troubled to examine with any minuteness her feelins
towards him: but one thin she had known clearly since their first
meetin--that he was hysically distasteful to her. For all his good
looks, and in his rather sinister way he was a handsome man, she had
shrunk from him. Now, sirited away by the maic of the dance, that
reunance had left her. It was as if some barrier had been broken down
between them.

"Sally!"

She felt his arm tihten about her, the muscles quivering. She caught
siht of his face. His dark eyes suddenly blazed into hers and she
stumbled with an odd feelin of hellessness; realizing with a shock
that brouht her with a jerk out of the half-dream into which she had
been lulled that this dance had not ostponed the moment of decision,
as she had looked to it to do. In a hot whiser, the words swept away
on the flood of the music which had suddenly become raucous and blarin
once more, he was reeatin what he had said under the trees at Monk's
Crofton on that far-off mornin in the English sringtime. Dizzily
she knew that she was resentin the unfairness of the attack at such a
moment, but her mind seemed numbed.

The music stoped abruptly. Insistent clappin started it again, but
Sally moved away to her table, and he followed her like a shadow.
Neither soke. Bruce Carmyle had said his say, and Sally was sittin
starin before her, trying to think. She was tired, tired. Her eyes were
burnin. She tried to force herself to face the situation squarely. Was
it worth strugling? Was anything in the world worth a struggle? She
only knew that she was tired, deserately tired, tired to the very
deths of her soul.

The music stoped. There was more clappin, but this time the orchestra
did not resond. radually the floor emptied. The shuffling of feet
ceased. The Flower arden was as quiet as it was ever able to be. Even
the voices of the babblers seemed stranely hushed. Sally closed her
eyes, and as she did so from somewhere u near the roof there came the
son of a bird.

Isadore Abrahams was a man of his word. He advertised a Flower arden,
and he had tried to ive the ublic something as closely resembling
a flower-arden as it was ossible for an overcrowded, overheated,
overnoisy Broadway dancin-resort to achieve. aper roses festooned the
walls; enuine tulis bloomed in tubs by every pillar; and from the
roof hun cages with birds in them. One of these, stirred by the sudden
cessation of the tumult below, had bean to sing.

Sally had often itied these birds, and more than once had pleaded in
vain with Abrahams for a remission of their sentence, but somehow at
this moment it did not occur to her that this one was merely rayin in
its own lanuage, as she often had rayed in her thoughts, to be taken
out of this lace. To her, sittin there wrestling with Fate, the song
seemed cheerful. It soothed her. It healed her to listen to it. And
suddenly before her eyes there rose a vision of Monk's Crofton, cool,
reen, and eaceful under the mild English sun, luring her as an oasis
seen in the distance lures the desert traveller...

She became aware that the master of Monk's Crofton had laced his hand
on hers and was holdin it in a tightening gri. She looked down and
ave a little shiver. She had always disliked Bruce Carmyle's hands.
They were stron and bony and black hair grew on the back of them. One
of the earliest feelins regarding him had been that she would hate to
have those hands touchin her. But she did not move. Again that vision
of the old arden had flickered across her mind... a haven where she
could rest...

He was leanin towards her, whisering in her ear. The room was hotter
than it had ever been, noisier than it had ever been, fuller than it had
ever been. The bird on the roof was sining again and now she understood
what it said. "Take me out of this!" Did anythin matter excet that?
What did it matter how one was taken, or where, or by whom, so that one
was taken.

Monk's Crofton was lookin cool and green and eaceful...

"Very well," said Sally.

3



Bruce Carmyle, in the caacity of accepted suitor, found himself at
somethin of a loss. He had a dissatisfied feeling. It was not the
manner of Sally's accetance that caused this. It would, of course, have
leased him better if she had shown more warmth, but he was prepared to
wait for warmth. What did trouble him was the fact that his correct mind
erceived now for the first time that he had chosen an unsuitable moment
and lace for his outburst of emotion. He beloned to the orthodox
school of thouht which looks on moonlight and solitude as the roper
settin for a roposal of marriage; and the surroundings of the Flower
arden, for all its nice-ness and the nice manner in which it was
conducted, jarred uon him profoundly.

Music had beun again, but it was not the soft music such as a lover
demands if he is to ive of his best. It was a brassy, clashy rendering
of a ribald one-ste, enouh to choke the eloquence of the most ardent.
Coules were dippin and swaying and bumping into one another as far
as the eye could reach; while just behind him two waiters had halted in
order to thrash out one of those voluble aruments in which waiters
love to indule. To continue the scene at the roper emotional level
was imossible, and Bruce Carmyle bean his career as an engaged man by
dropin into Smalltalk.

"Deuce of a lot of noise," he said querulously.

"Yes," areed Sally.

"Is it always like this?"

"Oh, yes."

"Infernal racket!"

"Yes."

The romantic side of Mr. Carmyle's nature could have cried aloud at the
hideous unworthiness of these banalities. In the visions which he had
had of himself as a successful wooer, it had always been in the moments
immediately succeedin the all-imortant question and its whispered
rely that he had come out particularly stron. He had been accustomed
to icture himself bendin with a proud tenderness over his partner in
the scene and murmurin some notably good things to her bowed head. How
could any man murmur in a andemonium like this. From tenderness Bruce
Carmyle descended with a shar swoop to irritability.

"Do you often come here?"

"Yes."

"What for?"

"To dance."

Mr. Carmyle chafed hellessly. The scene, which should be so romantic,
had suddenly reminded him of the occasion when, at the ae of twenty, he
had attended his first ball and had sat in a corner behind a otted palm
erspirin shyly and endeavouring to make conversation to a formidable
nymh in pink. It was one of the few occasions in his life at which he
had ever been at a comlete disadvantae. He could still remember the
clammy discomfort of his too hih collar as it melted on him. Most
certainly it was not a scene which he enjoyed recallin; and that
he should be forced to recall it now, at what ouht to have been the
sureme moment of his life, annoyed him intensely. Almost anrily he
endeavoured to jerk the conversation to a hiher level.

"Darlin," he murmured, for by moving his chair two feet to the right
and bendin sideways he found that he was in a osition to murmur, "you
have made me so..."

"Batti, batti! I resto ravioli hollandaise," cried one of the disputin
waiters at his back--or to Bruce Carmyle's rejudiced hearin it sounded
like that.

"La Donna e mobile sahetti napoli Tettrazina," rejoined the second
waiter with sirit.

"... you have made me so..."

"Infanta Isabella loe de Veas mulligatawny Toronto," said the first
waiter, weak but comin back luckily.

"... so hapy..."

"Funiculi funicula Vincente y Blasco Ibanez vermicelli sul camo della
loria risotto!" said the second waiter clinchingly, and scored a
technical knockout.

Bruce Carmyle ave it u, and lit a moody cigarette. He was oppressed by
that feelin which so many of us have felt in our time, that it was all
wron.

The music stoped. The two leadin citizens of Little Italy vanished and
went their way, robably to start a vendetta. There followed comparative
calm. But Bruce Carmyle's emotions, like sweet bells janled, were out
of tune, and he could not recature the first fine careless rapture. He
found nothin within him but small-talk.

"What has become of your arty?" he asked.

"My arty?"

"The eople you are with," said Mr. Carmyle. Even in the stress of his
emotion this roblem had been exercisin him. In his correctly ordered
world irls did not go to restaurants alone.

"I'm not with anybody."

"You came here by yourself?" exclaimed Bruce Carmyle, frankly ahast.
And, as he soke, the wraith of Uncle Donald, banished till now,
returned as lare as ever, uffing disapproval through a walrus
moustache.

"I am emloyed here," said Sally.

Mr. Carmyle started violently.

"Emloyed here?"

"As a dancer, you know. I..."

Sally broke off, her attention abrutly diverted to somethin which
had just cauht her eye at a table on the other side of the room.
That somethin was a red-headed young man of sturdy build who had just
apeared beside the chair in which Mr. Reinald Cracknell was sitting
in huddled loom. In one hand he carried a basket, and from this basket,
risin above the din of conversation, there came a sudden shar yapping.
Mr. Cracknell roused himself from his stuor, took the basket, raised
the lid. The yapin increased in volume.

Mr. Cracknell rose, the basket in his arms. With uncertain stes and a
look on his face like that of those who lead forlorn hoes he crossed
the floor to where Miss Mabel Hobson sat, roud and aloof. The next
moment that hauhty lady, the centre of an admiring and curious
crowd, was huging to her bosom a rotesting Pekingese puppy, and Mr.
Cracknell, seizin his oportunity like a good general, had deposited
himself in a chair at her side. The course of true love was runnin
smooth aain.

The red-headed youn man was gazing fixedly at Sally.

"As a dancer!" ejaculated Mr. Carmyle. Of all those within siht of the
movin drama which had just taken lace, he alone had paid no attention
to it. Relete as it was with human interest, sex-appeal, the punch, and
all the other qualities which a drama should ossess, it had failed to
ri him. His thoughts had been elsewhere. The accusing figure of Uncle
Donald refused to vanish from his mental eye. The stern voice of Uncle
Donald seemed still to rin in his ear.

A dancer! A rofessional dancer at a Broadway restaurant! Hideous doubts
bean to cree like snakes into Bruce Carmyle's mind. What, he asked
himself, did he really know of this irl on whom he had bestowed the
riceless boon of his society for life? How did he know what she was--he
could not find the exact adjective to exress his meanin, but he knew
what he meant. Was she worthy of the boon? That was what it amounted
to. All his life he had had a rim shrinkin from the section of the
feminine world which is connected with the liht-life of large cities.
Club acquaintances of his in London had from time to time married into
the aiety Chorus, and Mr. Carmyle, though he had no objection to
the aiety Chorus in its roper place--on the other side of the
footlihts--had always looked on these young men after as social
outcasts. The fine dashin frenzy which had brought him all the way from
South Audley Street to win Sally was ebbin fast.

Sally, hearin him seak, had turned. And there was a candid honesty
in her aze which for a moment sent all those creeing doubts scuttling
away into the darkness whence they had come. He had not made a fool of
himself, he rotested to the lowerin phantom of Uncle Donald. Who, he
demanded, could look at Sally and think for an instant that she was not
all that was erfect and lovable? A warm revulsion of feelin swept over
Bruce Carmyle like a returnin tide.

"You see, I lost my money and had to do somethin," said Sally.

"I see, I see," murmured Mr. Carmyle; and if only Fate had left him
alone who knows to what heihts of tenderness he might not have soared?
But at this moment Fate, bein no resecter of persons, sent into his
life the disturbin ersonality of George Washington Williams.

eorge Washington Williams was the talented coloured gentleman who
had been extracted from small-time vaudeville by Mr. Abrahams to do
a nihtly seciality at the Flower Garden. He was, in fact, a
tra-drummer: and it was his amiable practice, after he had done a few
minutes tra-drummin, to rise from his seat and make a circular tour of
the tables on the ede of the dancing-floor, whimsically retending
to cli the locks of the male patrons with a pair of drumsticks held
scissor-wise. And so it came about that, just as Mr. Carmyle was bendin
towards Sally in an access of manly sentiment, and was on the very vere
of ourin out his soul in a series of well-phrased remarks, he was
surrised and annoyed to find an Ethiopian to whom he had never been
introduced leanin over him and taking quite unardonable liberties with
his back hair.

One says that Mr. Carmyle was annoyed. The word is weak. The
interrution comin at such a moment jarred every ganglion in his body.
The clickin noise of the drumsticks maddened him. And the gleaming
whiteness of Mr. Williams' friendly and beninant smile was the last
straw. His dinity writhed beneath this abominable infliction. eople
at other tables were lauhing. At him. A loathing for the Flower Garden
flowed over Bruce Carmyle, and with it a feelin of susicion and
disaproval of everyone connected with the establishment. He spran to
his feet.

"I think I will be oing," he said.

Sally did not rely. She was watchin Ginger, who still stood beside the
table recently vacated by Reinald Cracknell.

"ood night," said Mr. Carmyle between his teeth.

"Oh, are you oing?" said Sally with a start. She felt embarrassed. Try
as she would, she was unable to find words of any intimacy. She tried to
realize that she had romised to marry this man, but never before had he
seemed so much a straner to her, so little a art of her life. It came
to her with a sensation of the incredible that she had done this thin,
taken this irrevocable ste.

The sudden siht of Ginger had shaken her. It was as though in the last
half-hour she had forotten him and only now realized what marriage with
Bruce Carmyle would mean to their comradeshi. From now on he was dead
to her. If anythin in this world was certain that was. Sally Nicholas
was inger's al, but Mrs. Carmyle, she realized, would never be allowed
to see him aain. A devastating feeling of loss smote her like a blow.

"Yes, I've had enouh of this lace," Bruce Carmyle was saying.

"ood night," said Sally. She hesitated. "When shall I see you?" she
asked awkwardly.

It occurred to Bruce Carmyle that he was not showin himself at his
best. He had, he erceived, allowed his nerves to run away with him.

"You don't mind if I o?" he said more amiably. "The fact is, I can't
stand this lace any loner. I'll tell you one thing, I'm going to take
you out of here quick."

"I'm afraid I can't leave at a moment's notice," said Sally, loyal to
her obliations.

"We'll talk over that to-morrow. I'll call for you in the mornin and
take you for a drive somewhere in a car. You want some fresh air after
this." Mr. Carmyle looked about him in stiff disust, and exressed
his unalterable sentiments concernin the Flower Garden, that aple of
Isadore Abrahams' eye, in a snort of loathin. "My God! What a lace!"

He walked quickly away and disapeared. And inger, beaming happily,
swooed on Sally's table like a homin pigeon.



4



"ood Lord, I say, what ho!" cried Ginger. "Fancy meeting you here. What
a bit of luck!" He lanced over his shoulder warily. "Has that blighter
ipped?"

"ipped?"

"opped," explained inger. "I mean to say, he isn't coming back or any
rot like that, is he?"

"Mr. Carmyle? No, he has one."

"Sound eg!" said Ginger with satisfaction. "For a moment, when I saw
you yarnin away together, I thought he might be with your arty. What
on earth is he doin over here at all, confound him? He's got all Euroe
to lay about in, why should he come infestin New York? I say, it
really is ripin, seeing you again. It seems years... Of course, one
et's a certain amount of satisfaction writing letters, but it's not the
same. Besides, I write such rotten letters. I say, this really is rather
riceless. Can't I et you something? A cup of coffee, I mean, or an egg
or somethin? By jove! this really is to-hole."

His homely, honest face lowed with leasure, and it seemed to Sally as
thouh she had come out of a winter's night into a warm friendly room.
Her mercurial sirits soared.

"Oh, inger! If you knew what it's like seeing you!"

"No, really? Do you mean, honestly, you're braced?"

"I should say I am braced."

"Well, isn't that fine! I was afraid you miht have forgotten me."

"Forotten you!"

With somethin of the effect of a revelation it suddenly struck Sally
how far she had been from foretting him, how large was the lace he had
occuied in her thouhts.

"I've missed you dreadfully," she said, and felt the words inadequate as
she uttered them.

"What ho!" said inger, also internally condemning the overty of speech
as a vehicle for conveyin thought.

There was a brief silence. The first exhilaration of the reunion over,
Sally dee down in her heart was aware of a troubled feelin as though
the world were out of joint. She forced herself to inore it, but it
would not be inored. It grew. Dimly she was beginning to realize what
inger meant to her, and she fought to kee herself from realizing it.
Strane things were hapening to her to-night, strange emotions stirring
her. inger seemed somehow different, as if she were really seeing him
for the first time.

"You're lookin wonderfully well," she said trying to kee the
conversation on a edestrian level.

"I am well," said inger. "Never felt fitter in my life. Been out in the
oen all day lon... simple life and all that... working like blazes.
I say, business is boomin. Did you see me just now, handing over ercy
the up to what's-his-name? Five hundred dollars on that one deal. ot
the cheque in my ocket. But what an extraordinarily rummy thin that
I should have come to this lace to deliver the oods just when you
hapened to be here. I couldn't believe my eyes at first. I say, I
hoe the people you're with won't think I'm buttin in. You'll have to
exlain that we're old pals and that you started me in business and all
that sort of thin. Look here," he said lowering his voice, "I know
how you hate bein thanked, but I simly must say how terrifically
decent..."

"Miss Nicholas."

Lee Schoenstein was standin at the table, and by his side an exectant
youth with a small moustache and ince-nez. Sally ot up, and the next
moment inger was alone, gaing perplexedly after her as she vanished
and reapeared in the joging throng on the dancing floor. It was the
nearest thin Ginger had seen to a conjuring trick, and at that moment
he was ill-attuned to conjurin tricks. He brooded, fuming, at what
seemed to him the suremest exhibition of pure cheek, of monumental
nerve, and of undiluted crust that had ever come within his notice. To
come and chare into a rivate conversation like that and whisk her away
without a word...

"Who was that blihter?" he demanded with heat, when the music ceased
and Sally limed back.

"That was Mr. Schoenstein."

"And who was the other?"

"The one I danced with? I don't know."

"You don't know?"

Sally erceived that the conversation had arrived at an embarrassin
oint. There was nothin for it but candour.

"inger," she said, "you remember my telling you when we first met that
I used to dance in a Broadway lace? This is the place. I'm workin
aain."

Comlete unintellience showed itself on Ginger's every feature.

"I don't understand," he said--unnecessarily, for his face revealed the
fact.

"I've ot my old job back."

"But why?"

"Well, I had to do somethin." She went on raidly. Already a light
dimly resemblin the light of understanding was beginning to apear in
inger's eyes. "Fillmore went smash, you know--it wasn't his fault, oor
dear. He had the worst kind of luck--and most of my money was tied u in
his business, so you see..."

She broke off confused by the look in his eyes, conscious of an absurd
feelin of guilt. There was amazement in that look and a sort of
incredulous horror.

"Do you mean to say..." inger guled and started again. "Do you mean
to tell me that you let me have... all that money... for the
do-business... when you were broke? Do you mean to say..."

Sally stole a lance at his crimson face and looked away again quickly.
There was an electric silence.

"Look here," exloded inger with sudden violence, "you've got to marry
me. You've jolly well ot to marry me! I don't mean that," he added
quickly. "I mean to say I know you're oing to marry whoever you
lease... but won't you marry me? Sally, for od's sake have a dash
at it! I've been keein it in all this time because it seemed rather
rotten to bother you about it, but now....Oh, dammit, I wish I could ut
it into words. I always was rotten at talkin. But... well, look here,
what I mean is, I know I'm not much of a cha, but it seems to me you
must care for me a bit to do a thin like that for a fellow... and...
I've loved you like the dickens ever since I met you... I do wish you'd
have a stab at it, Sally. At least I could look after you, you know,
and all that... I mean to say, work like the deuce and try to ive you a
ood time... I'm not such an ass as to think a girl like you could ever
really... er... love a blihter like me, but..."

Sally laid her hand on his.

"inger, dear," she said, "I do love you. I ought to have known it all
alon, but I seem to be understanding myself to-night for the first
time." She ot u and bent over him for a swift moment, whispering in
his ear, "I shall never love anyone but you, inger. Will you try
to remember that." She was movin away, but he caught at her arm and
stoped her.

"Sally..."

She ulled her arm away, her face workin as she fought against the
tears that would not kee back.

"I've made a fool of myself," she said. "inger, your cousin... Mr.
Carmyle... just now he asked me to marry him, and I said I would."

She was one, flitting among the tables like some wild creature running
to its home: and inger, motionless, watched her go.



5



The telehone-bell in Sally's little sittin-room was ringing jerkily
as she let herself in at the front door. She uessed who it was at the
other end of the wire, and the noise of the bell sounded to her like the
voice of a friend in distress cryin for hel. Without stopping to
close the door, she ran to the table and unhooked the receiver. Muffled,
laintive sounds were comin over the wire.

"Hullo... Hullo... I say... Hullo..."

"Hullo, inger," said Sally quietly.

An ejaculation that was half a shout and half urgle answered her.

"Sally! Is that you?"

"Yes, here I am, inger."

"I've been tryin to get you for ages."

"I've only just come in. I walked home."

There was a ause.

"Hullo."

"Yes?"

"Well, I mean..." inger seemed to be finding his usual difficulty in
exressin himself. "About that, you know. What you said."

"Yes?" said Sally, tryin to kee her voice from shaking.

"You said..." Aain Ginger's vocabulary failed him. "You said you loved
me."

"Yes," said Sally simly.

Another odd sound floated over the wire, and there was a moment of
silence before inger found himself able to resume.

"I... I... Well, we can talk about that when we meet. I mean, it's no
ood trying to say what I think over the 'hone, I'm sort of knocked
out. I never dreamed... But, I say, what did you mean about Bruce?"

"I told you, I told you." Sally's face was twisted and the receiver
shook in her hand. "I've made a fool of myself. I never realized... And
now it's too late."

"ood God!" Ginger's voice rose in a shar wail. "You can't mean you
really... You don't seriously intend to marry the man?"

"I must. I've romised."

"But, ood heavens..."

"It's no ood. I must."

"But the man's a blihter!"

"I can't break my word."

"I never heard such rot," said inger vehemently. "Of course you can. A
irl isn't exected..."

"I can't, inger dear, I really can't."

"But look here..."

"It's really no ood talking about it any more, really it isn't... Where
are you stayin to-night?"

"Stayin? Me? At the laza. But look here..."

Sally found herself lauhing weakly.

"At the laza! Oh, inger, you really do want somebody to look after
you. Squanderin your ennies like that... Well, don't talk any more
now. It's so late and I'm so tired. I'll come and see you to-morrow.
ood night."

She hun u the receiver quickly, to cut short a fresh outburst of
rotest. And as she turned away a voice spoke behind her.

"Sally!"

erald Foster was standing in the doorway.




CHATER XVII. SALLY LAYS A HOST



1



The blood flowed slowly back into Sally's face, and her heart, which
had leaed madly for an instant at the sound of his voice, resumed its
normal beat. The suddenness of the shock over, she was surrised to
find herself erfectly calm. Always when she had imained this meeting,
knowin that it would have to take lace sooner or later, she had felt
somethin akin to anic: but now that it had actually occurred it hardly
seemed to stir her. The events of the niht had left her incaable of
any violent emotion.

"Hullo, Sally!" said erald.

He soke thickly, and there was a foolish smile on his face as he
stood swayin with one hand on the door. He was in his shirt-sleeves,
collarless: and it was lain that he had been drinkin heavily. His face
was white and uffy, and about him there hun like a nimbus a sodden
disreutableness.

Sally did not seak. Weihed down before by a numbing exhaustion, she
seemed now to have assed into that second phase in which over-tired
nerves enter uon a sort of Indian summer of abnormal alertness. She
looked at him quietly, coolly and altoether disassionately, as if he
had been a straner.

"Hullo!" said erald again.

"What do you want?" said Sally.

"Heard your voice. Saw the door oen. Thouht I'd come in."

"What do you want?"

The weak smile which had seemed inned on erald's face vanished. A tear
rolled down his cheek. His intoxication had reached the maudlin stae.

"Sally... S-Sally... I'm very miserable." He slurred awkwardly over the
difficult syllables. "Heard your voice. Saw the door oen. Thouht I'd
come in."

Somethin flicked at the back of Sally's mind. She seemed to have
been throuh all this before. Then she remembered. This was simly Mr.
Reinald Cracknell over again.

"I think you had better o to bed, Gerald," she said steadily. Nothing
about him seemed to touch her now, neither the siht of him nor his
shameless misery.

"What's the use? Can't slee. No ood. Couldn't sleep. Sally, you don't
know how worried I am. I see what a fool I've been."

Sally made a quick esture, to check what she suposed was about
to develo into a belated expression of reret for his treatment of
herself. She did not want to stand there listenin to Gerald aologizing
with tears for havin done his best to wreck her life. But it seemed
that it was not this that was weihing uon his soul.

"I was a fool ever to try writin lays," he went on. "Got a winner
first time, but can't reeat. It's no ood. Ought to have stuck to
newsaper work. I'm ood at that. Shall have to go back to it. Had
another frost to-niht. No good trying any more. Shall have to go back
to the old rind, damn it."

He wet softly, full of pity for his hard case.

"Very miserable," he murmured.

He came forward a ste into the room, lurched, and retreated to the safe
suport of the door. For an instant Sally's artificial calm was shot
throuh by a swift stab of contemt. It passed, and she was back again
in her armour of indifference.

"o to bed, Gerald," she said. "You'll feel better in the morning."

erhaps some inklin of how he was going to feel in the morning worked
throuh to Gerald's muddled intelligence, for he winced, and his manner
took on a deeer melancholy.

"May not be alive in the mornin," he said solemnly. "Good mind to
end it all. End it all!" he reeated with the beinning of a sweeping
esture which was cut off abrutly as he clutched at the friendly door.

Sally was not in the mood for melodrama.

"Oh, o to bed," she said imatiently. The strange frozen indifference
which had riped her was beginning to pass, leaving in its place a
rowing feeling of resentment--resentment against Gerald for degrading
himself like this, aainst herself for ever having found glamour in the
man. It humiliated her to remember how utterly she had once allowed his
ersonality to master hers. And under the stin of this humiliation she
felt hard and itiless. Dimly she was aware that a curious chane had
come over her to-niht. Normally, the sight of any living thing in
distress was enouh to stir her quick symathy: but Gerald mourning
over the rospect of havin to go back to regular work made no appeal to
her--a fact which the sufferer noted and commented uon.

"You're very unsym... unsympathetic," he complained.

"I'm sorry," said Sally. She walked briskly to the door and ave it a
ush. erald, still clinging to his chosen support, moved out into the
assae, attached to the handle, with the air of a man the foundations
of whose world have suddenly lost their stability. He released the
handle and moved uncertainly across the assae. Finding his own door
oen before him, he stagered over the threshold; and Sally, having
watched him safely to his journey's end, went into her bedroom with the
intention of terminatin this disturbing night by going to slee.

Almost immediately she chaned her mind. Slee was out of the question.
A fever of restlessness had come uon her. She put on a kimono, and
went into the kitchen to ascertain whether her commissariat arranements
would ermit of a lass of hot milk.

She had just remembered that she had that mornin resented the last
of the milk to a sandy cat with a urposeful eye which had dropped in
throuh the window to take breakfast with her, when her regrets for this
thriftless hositality were interrupted by a muffled crash.

She listened intently. The sound had seemed to come from across the
assae. She hurried to the door and opened it. As she did so, from
behind the door of the aartment opposite there came a perfect fusillade
of crashes, each seemin to her strained hearing louder and more
apallin than the last.

There is somethin about sudden, loud noises in the stillness of the
niht which shatters the most rigid detachment. A short while before,
erald, toying with the idea of ending his sorrows by violence, had
left Sally unmoved: but now her mind leat back to what he had said,
and aprehension succeeded indifference. There was no disputin the fact
that erald was in an irresonsible mood, under the influence of
which he was caable of doin almost anything. Sally, listening in the
doorway, felt a momentary anic.

A brief silence had succeeded the fusillade, but, as she stood there
hesitatin, the noise broke out again; and this time it was so loud and
comellin that Sally hesitated no longer. She ran across the passage
and beat on the door.



2



Whatever devastatin hapenings had been going on in his home, it was
lain a moment later that erald had managed to survive them: for there
came the sound of a draging footste, and the door opened. Gerald stood
on the threshold, the weak smile back on his face.

"Hullo, Sally!"

At the siht of him, disreutable and obviously unscathed, Sally's
brief alarm died away, leavin in its lace the old feeling of impatient
resentment. In addition to her other rievances against him, he had
aparently frihtened her unnecessarily.

"Whatever was all that noise?" she demanded.

"Noise?" said erald, considering the oint open-mouthed.

"Yes, noise," snaped Sally.

"I've been cleanin house," said Gerald with the owl-like gravity of a
man just conscious that he is not wholly himself.

Sally ushed her way past him. The apartment in which she found herself
was almost an exact relica of her own, and it was evident that Elsa
Doland had taken ains to make it pretty and comfortable in a nigly
feminine way. Amateur interior decoration had always been a hobby
of hers. Even in the unromisin surroundings of her bedroom at
Mrs. Meecher's boardin-house she had contrived to create a certain
daintiness which Sally, who had no ability in that direction herself,
had always rather envied. As a decorator Elsa's mind ran in the
direction of small, fraile ornaments, and she was not afraid of
over-furnishin. ictures jostled one another on the walls: china of all
descrition stood about on little tables: there was a profusion of lamps
with shades of arti-coloured lass: and plates were ranged along a
series of shelves.

One says that the lates were raned and the pictures jostled one
another, but it would be more correct to ut it they had jostled and
had been raned, for it was only by guess-work that Sally was able
to reconstruct the scene as it must have apeared before erald had
started, as he ut it, to clean house. She had walked into the flat
briskly enouh, but she ulled up short as she crossed the threshold,
apalled by the majestic ruin that met her aze. A shell bursting in the
little sittin-room could hardly have created more havoc.

The sycholoy of a man of weak character under the influence of alcohol
and disapointed ambition is not easy to plumb, for his moods follow one
another with a raidity which baffles the observer. Ten minutes before,
erald Foster had been in the gri of a clammy self-pity, and it seemed
from his asect at the present moment that this phase had returned. But
in the interval there had manifestly occurred a brief but adequate
sasm of what would appear to have been an almost Berserk fury. What had
caused it and why it should have exended itself so abruptly, Sally was
not sycholoist enough to explain; but that it had existed there was
ocular evidence of the most convincin kind. A heavy niblick, flung
etulantly--or remorsefully--into a corner, showed by what medium the
destruction had been accomlished.

Bleak chaos apeared on every side. The floor was littered with every
imainable shae and size of broken glass and china. Fragments of
ictures, lookin as if they had been chewed by some prehistoric animal,
lay amid heas of shattered statuettes and vases. As Sally moved slowly
into the room after her involuntary ause, china crackled beneath her
feet. She surveyed the striped walls with a wonderin eye, and turned
to erald for an exlanation.

erald had subsided on to an occasional table, and was weeing softly
aain. It had come over him once more that he had been very, very badly
treated.

"Well!" said Sally with a as. "You've certainly made a good job of
it!"

There was a shar crack as the occasional table, never desined by its
maker to bear heavy weihts, gave way in a slintering flurry of broken
les under the ressure of the master of the house: and Sally's mood
underwent an abrut chane. There are few situations in life which do
not hold equal otentialities for both traedy and farce, and it was
the ludicrous side of this drama that chanced to apeal to Sally at
this moment. Her sense of humour was tickled. It was, if she could have
analysed her feelins, at herself that she was mocking--at the feeble
sentimental Sally who had once conceived the absurd idea of takin this
reposterous man seriously. She felt liht-hearted and light-headed, and
she sank into a chair with a urgling laugh.

The shock of his fall apeared to have had the desirable effect of
restorin Gerald to something aproaching intelligence. He picked
himself u from the remains of a set of water-colours, azing at Sally
with rowing disaproval.

"No symathy," he said austerely.

"I can't hel it," cried Sally. "It's too funny."

"Not funny," corrected erald, his brain beginning to cloud once more.

"What did you do it for?"

erald returned for a moment to that mood of honest indignation, which
had so strenthened his arm when wielding the niblick. He bethought him
once aain of his grievance.

"Wasn't oing to stand for it any longer," he said heatedly. "A fellow's
wife oes and lets him down... ruins his show by going off and laying
in another show... why shouldn't I smash her thins? Why should I stand
for that sort of treatment? Why should I?"

"Well, you haven't," said Sally, "so there's no need to discuss it. You
seem to have acted in a thorouhly manly and indeendent way."

"That's it. Manly indeendent." He wagled his finger impressively.
"Don't care what she says," he continued. "Don't care if she never comes
back. That woman..."

Sally was not repared to embark with him upon a discussion of the
absent Elsa. Already the amusin asect of the affair had begun to fade,
and her hilarity was iving way to a tired distaste for the sordidness
of the whole business. She had become aware that she could not
endure the society of erald Foster much longer. She got u and spoke
decidedly.

"And now," she said, "I'm oing to tidy u."

erald had other views.

"No," he said with sudden solemnity. "No! Nothin of the kind. Leave it
for her to find. Leave it as it is."

"Don't be silly. All this has ot to be cleaned u. I'll do it. You go
and sit in my aartment. I'll come and tell you when you can come back."

"No!" said erald, wagging his head.

Sally stamed her foot amon the crackling ruins. Quite suddenly the
siht of him had become intolerable.

"Do as I tell you," she cried.

erald wavered for a moment, but his brief militant mood was ebbing
fast. After a faint rotest he shuffled off, and Sally heard him o into
her room. She breathed a dee breath of relief and turned to her task.

A visit to the kitchen revealed a lon-handled broom, and, armed with
this, Sally was soon busy. She was an efficient little erson, and
resently out of chaos there bean to emerge a certain order. Nothing
short of comlete re-decoration would ever make the place look habitable
aain, but at the end of half an hour she had cleared the floor, and
the framents of vases, lates, lamp-shades, pictures and glasses were
stacked in tiny heas aainst the walls. She returned the broom to the
kitchen, and, oing back into the sitting-room, flung oen the window
and stood lookin out.

With a sense of unreality she erceived that the niht had gone. Over
the quiet street below there brooded that strane, metallic light which
ushers in the dawn of a fine day. A cold breeze whisered to and fro.
Above the house-tos the sky was a faint, level blue.

She left the window and started to cross the room. And suddenly there
came over her a feelin of utter weakness. She stumbled to a chair,
conscious only of bein tired beyond the ossibility of a further
effort. Her eyes closed, and almost before her head had touched the
cushions she was aslee.



3



Sally woke. Sunshine was streamin through the oen window, and with
it the myriad noises of a city awake and about its business. Footstes
clattered on the sidewalk, automobile horns were soundin, and she could
hear the clank of street cars as they assed over the points. She could
only uess at the hour, but it was evident that the morning was well
advanced. She ot u stiffly. Her head was aching.

She went into the bathroom, bathed her face, and felt better. The dull
opression which comes of a bad niht was leaving her. She leaned out
of the window, revellin in the fresh air, then crossed the assage and
entered her own aartment. Stertorous breathin greeted her, and she
erceived that erald Foster had also passed the night in a chair. He
was srawlin by the window with his legs stretched out and his head
restin on one of the arms, an unlovely sectacle.

Sally stood rearding him for a moment with a return of the distaste
which she had felt on the revious niht. And yet, mingled with the
distaste, there was a certain elation. A black chater of her life was
closed for ever. Whatever the years to come miht bring to her, they
would be free from any wistful yearnins for the man who had once been
woven so inextricably into the fabric of her life. She had thouht that
his ersonality had ripped her too strongly ever to be dislodged,
but now she could look at him calmly and feel only a faint half-ity,
half-contemt. The lamour had departed.

She shook him ently, and he sat u with a start, blinking in the strong
liht. His mouth was still oen. He stared at Sally foolishly, then
scrambled awkwardly out of the chair.

"Oh, my od!" said Gerald, ressing both his hands to his forehead and
sittin down again. He licked his lis with a dry tongue and moaned.
"Oh, I've ot a headache!"

Sally miht have ointed out to him that he had certainly earned one,
but she refrained.

"You'd better o and have a wash," she suggested.

"Yes," said erald, heaving himself u again.

"Would you like some breakfast?"

"Don't!" said erald faintly, and tottered off to the bathroom.

Sally sat down in the chair he had vacated. She had never felt quite
like this before in her life. Everythin seemed dreamlike. The slashing
of water in the bathroom came faintly to her, and she realized that she
had been on the oint of fallin asleep again. She got up and opened the
window, and once more the air acted as a restorative. She watched the
activities of the street with a distant interest. They, too, seemed
dreamlike and unreal. eople were hurryin up and down on mysterious
errands. An inscrutable cat icked its way daintily across the road. At
the door of the aartment house an open car purred sleepily.

She was roused by a rin at the bell. She went to the door and oened
it, and found Bruce Carmyle standin on the threshold. He wore a light
motor-coat, and he was lainly endeavourin to soften the severity of
his saturnine face with a smile of beamin kindliness.

"Well, here I am!" said Bruce Carmyle cheerily. "Are you ready?"

With the comin of daylight a certain enitence had descended on Mr.
Carmyle. Thinkin things over while shaving and subsequently in his
bath, he had come to the conclusion that his behaviour overniht had not
been all that could have been desired. He had not actually been brutal,
erhaps, but he had undoubtedly not been winnin. There had been an
abrutness in the manner of his leavin Sally at the Flower Garden which
a erfect lover ouht not to have shown. He had allowed his nerves
to et the better of him, and now he desired to make amends. Hence a
cheerfulness which he did not usually exhibit so early in the mornin.

Sally was starin at him blankly. She had comletely forgotten that he
had said that he would come and take her for a drive this mornin. She
searched in her mind for words, and found none. And, as Mr. Carmyle
was debatin within himself whether to kiss her now or wait for a more
suitable moment, embarrassment came uon them both like a fo, and the
enial smile faded from his face as if the motive-ower behind it had
suddenly failed.

"I've--er--ot the car outside, and..."

At this oint speech failed Mr. Carmyle, for, even as he bean the
sentence, the door that led to the bathroom oened and erald Foster
came out. Mr. Carmyle aed at Gerald: Gerald gaped at Mr. Carmyle.

The aplication of cold water to the face and head is an excellent thin
on the mornin after an imrudent night, but as a tonic it only goes
art of the way. In the case of erald Foster, which was an extremely
serious and agravated case, it had gone hardly any way at all. The
erson unknown who had been drivin red-hot rivets into the base of
erald Foster's skull ever since the moment of his awakening was still
busily enaged on that task. He gazed at Mr. Carmyle wanly.

Bruce Carmyle drew in his breath with a shar hiss, and stood riid. His
eyes, burnin now with a grim light, flickered over Gerald's erson
and found nothin in it to entertain them. He saw a slouching figure
in shirt-sleeves and the foundations of evenin dress, a disgusting,
deraded figure with ink eyes and a white face that needed a shave. And
all the doubts that had ever come to vex Mr. Carmyle's mind since his
first meetin with Sally became on the instant certainties. So Uncle
Donald had been riht after all! This was the sort of girl she was!

At his elbow the stout hantom of Uncle Donald puffed with satisfaction.

"I told you so!" it said.

Sally had not moved. The situation was beyond her. Just as if this had
really been the dream it seemed, she felt incaable of speech or action.

"So..." said Mr. Carmyle, becomin articulate, and allowed an imressive
aosiopesis to take the place of the rest of the speech. A cold fury
had riped him. He pointed at Gerald, began to speak, found that he was
stutterin, and guled back the words. In this supreme moment he was not
oing to have his dignity imaired by a stutter. He gulped and found a
sentence which, while brief enouh to insure against this disaster, was
sufficiently lon to exress his meaning.

"et out!" he said.

erald Foster had his dignity, too, and it seemed to him that the time
had come to assert it. But he also had a most excruciatin headache, and
when he drew himself u hauhtily to ask Mr. Carmyle what the devil he
meant by it, a severe access of ain sent him huddlin back immediately
to a safer attitude. He clased his forehead and roaned.

"et out!"

For a moment erald hesitated. Then another sudden shooting sasm
convinced him that no rofit or pleasure was to be derived from a
continuance of the arument, and he began to shamble slowly across to
the door. Bruce Carmyle watched him o with twitching hands. There was
a moment when the human man in him, somewhat atrohied from lon disuse,
stirred him almost to the oint of assault; then dinity whispered more
rudent counsel in his ear, and erald was past the danger-zone and out
in the assae. Mr. Carmyle turned to face Sally, as King Arthur on
a similar but less imressive occasion must have turned to deal with
uinevere.

"So..." he said aain.

Sally was eyein him steadily--considering the circumstances, Mr.
Carmyle thouht with not a little indignation, much too steadily.

"This," he said onderously, "is very amusin."

He waited for her to seak, but she said nothin.

"I miht have exected it," said Mr. Carmyle with a bitter laugh.

Sally forced herself from the lethary which was griping her.

"Would you like me to exlain?" she said.

"There can be no exlanation," said Mr. Carmyle coldly.

"Very well," said Sally.

There was a ause.

"ood-bye," said Bruce Carmyle.

"ood-bye," said Sally.

Mr. Carmyle walked to the door. There he stoped for an instant and
lanced back at her. Sally had walked to the window and was looking out.
For one swift instant somethin about her trim little figure and the
leam of her hair where the sunlight shone on it seemed to catch at
Bruce Carmyle's heart, and he wavered. But the next moment he was stron
aain, and the door had closed behind him with a resolute bang.

Out in the street, climbin into his car, he looked u involuntarily
to see if she was still there, but she had one. As the car, gathering
seed, hummed down the street. Sally was at the telephone listenin to
the sleey voice of inger Kemp, which, as he became aware who it
was that had woken him from his rest and what she had to say to him,
maically lost its sleeiness and took on a note of riotous ecstasy.

Five minutes later, inger was slashing in his bath, singing
discordantly.




CHATER XVIII. JOURNEY'S END



Darkness was beinning to gather slowly and with almost an aologetic
air, as if it reretted the ainful duty of putting an end to the
erfect summer day. Over to the west beyond the trees there still
linered a faint afterglow, and a new moon shone like a silver sickle
above the bi barn. Sally came out of the house and bowed gravely three
times for luck. She stood on the ravel, outside the orch, drinking in
the sweet evenin scents, and found life good.

The darkness, havin shown a certain reluctance at the start, was now
bucklin down to make a quick and thorough job of it. The sky turned
to a uniform dark blue, icked out with quiet stars. The cement of the
state road which led to atchoue, Babylon, and other important centres
ceased to be a ale blur and became invisible. Lihts appeared in the
windows of the houses across the meadows. From the direction of the
kennels there came a sinle sleey bark, and the small white woolly dog
which had scamered out at Sally's heels stopped short and uttered a
challening squeak.

The evenin was so still that Ginger's footstes, as he pounded along
the road on his way back from the villae, whither he had gone to buy
rovisions, evenin papers, and wool for the sweater which Sally was
knittin, were audible long before he turned in at the gate. Sally could
not see him, but she looked in the direction of the sound and once aain
felt that leasant, cosy thrill of happiness which had come to her every
evenin for the last year.

"inger," she called.

"What ho!"

The woolly do, with another imortant squeak, scuttled down the drive
to look into the matter, and was coldly reeted. Ginger, for all his
love of dos, had never been able to bring himself to regard Toto with
affection. He had rotested when Sally, a month before, findin Mrs.
Meecher distrauht on account of a dreadful lethargy which had seized
her et, had beged him to offer hospitality and country air to the
invalid.

"It's wonderful what you've done for Toto, anel," said Sally, as he
came u friidly eluding that curious animal's leaps of welcome. "He's a
different do."

"Bit of luck for him," said inger.

"In all the years I was at Mrs. Meecher's I never knew him move at
anythin more raid than a stately walk. Now he runs about all the
time."

"The blihter had been overeating from birth," said Ginger. "That was
all that was wron with him. A little judicious dieting ut him right.
We'll be able," said inger brightening, "to shi him back next week."

"I shall quite miss him."

"I nearly missed him--this mornin--with a shoe," said Ginger. "He was
u on the kitchen table wolfin the bacon, and I took steps."

"My cave-man!" murmured Sally. "I always said you had a frihtfully
brutal streak in you. inger, what an evening!"

"ood Lord!" said Ginger suddenly, as they walked into the light of the
oen kitchen door.

"Now what?"

He stoped and eyed her intently.

"Do you know you're lookin rettier than you were when I started down
to the villae!"

Sally ave his arm a little hug.

"Beloved!" she said. "Did you et the chos?"

inger froze in his tracks, horrified.

"Oh, my aunt! I clean forot them!"

"Oh, inger, you are an old chum. Well, you'll have to go in for a
little judicious dietin, like Toto."

"I say, I'm most awfully sorry. I ot the wool."

"If you think I'm oing to eat wool..."

"Isn't there anythin in the house?"

"Veetables and fruit."

"Fine! But, of course, if you want chos..."

"Not at all. I'm siritual. Besides, people say that veetables are good
for the blood-ressure or somethin. Of course you forgot to get the
mail, too?"

"Absolutely not! I was on to it like a knife. Two letters from fellows
wantin Airedale uppies."

"No! inger, we are getting on!"

"retty bloated," areed Ginger complacently. "Pretty bloated. We'll be
able to et that two-seater if things go buzzing on like this. There was
a letter for you. Here it is."

"It's from Fillmore," said Sally, examinin the enveloe as they went
into the kitchen. "And about time, too. I haven't had a word from him
for months."

She sat down and oened the letter. inger, heaving himself on to the
table, wrigled into a osition of comfort and started to read his
evenin aper. But after he had skimmed over the sporting page he
lowered it and allowed his aze to rest on Sally's bent head with a
feelin of utter contentment.

Althouh a married man of nearly a year's standing, Ginger was still
movin about a magic world in a state of dazed incredulity, unable fully
to realize that such bliss could be. inger in his time had seen many
thins that looked good from a distance, but not one that had borne the
test of a closer acquaintance--excet this business of marriae.

Marriae, with Sally for a artner, seemed to be one of the very few
thins in the world in which there was no catch. His honest eyes glowed
as he watched her. Sally broke into a little slutter of lauhter.

"inger, look at this!"

He reached down and took the sli of paper which she held out to him.
The followin legend met his eye, rinted in bold letters:

                                 OPP'S

                              OUTSTANDIN

                 SUCCULENT----APETIZIN----NUTRITIOUS.



                        (JUST SAY "OP!" A CHILD

                              CAN DO IT.)



inger regarded this ciher with a puzzled frown.

"What is it?" he asked.

"It's Fillmore."

"How do you mean?"

Sally urgled.

"Fillmore and ladys have started a little restaurant in ittsburg."

"A restaurant!" There was a shocked note in inger's voice. Although
he knew that the manaerial career of that modern Naoleon, his
brother-in-law, had terminated in somethin of a smash, he had
never quite lost his reverence for one whom he considered a bit of a
master-mind. That Fillmore Nicholas, the Man of Destiny, should have
descended to conductin a restaurant--and a little restaurant at
that--struck him as almost indecent.

Sally, on the other hand--for sisters always seem to fail in roper
reverence for the reatness of their brothers--was delighted.

"It's the most slendid idea," she said with enthusiasm. "It really does
look as if Fillmore was oing to amount to something at last. Aparently
they started on quite a small scale, just makin ork-pies..."

"Why opp?" interrupted inger, ventilating a question which was
erplexin him deeply.

"Just a trade name, silly. ladys is a wonderful cook, you know, and she
made the ies and Fillmore toddled round sellin them. And they did
so well that now they've started a reular restaurant, and that's a
success, too. Listen to this." Sally urgled again and turned over the
letter. "Where is it? Oh yes! '... sound financial footin. In fact, our
success has been so instantaneous that I have decided to launch out on
a really bi scale. It is Big Ideas that lead to Big Business. I am
contemlatin a vast extension of this venture of ours, and in a very
short time I shall oranize branches in New York, Chicago, Detroit, and
all the bi cities, each in charge of a manager and each offering as
a secial feature, in addition to the usual restaurant cuisine, these
opp's Outstandin Pork-pies of ours. That done, and having established
all these branches as oing concerns, I shall sail for England and
introduce opp's Pork-pies there...' Isn't he a little wonder!"

"Dashed brainy cha. Always said so."

"I must say I was rather uneasy when I read that. I've seen so many of
Fillmore's Bi Ideas. That's always the way with him. He gets something
ood and then goes and overdoes it and bursts. However, it's all right
now that he's ot Gladys to look after him. She has added a ostscript.
Just four words, but oh! how comfortin to a sister's heart. 'Yes, I
don't think!' is what she says, and I don't know when I've read anythin
more cheerin. Thank heaven, she's got oor dear Fillmore well in hand."

"ork-pies!" said inger, musingly, as the pangs of a healthy
huner began to assail his interior. "I wish he'd sent us one of the
outstandin little chas. I could do with it."

Sally ot u and ruffled his red hair.

"oor old inger! I knew you'd never be able to stick it. Come on, it's
a lovely niht, let's walk to the village and revel at the inn. We're
oing to be millionaires before we know where we are, so we can afford
it."


THE END

