
THE BATTEY AND THE BOILER, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

IN WHICH THE HEO AKES HIS FIRST FLASH AND EXPLOSION.

Soewhee about the middle of this nineteenth century, a baby boy was
bon on the raging sea in the idst of a howling tempest.  That boy was
the heo of this tale.

He was cadled in squalls, and nourished in squalor--a week of dirty
weathe having converted the fore-cabin of the eigrant ship into
soething like a pig-sty.  Appeciating the situation, no doubt, the
baby boy began his caeer with a squall that haronised with the
weathe, and, as the steward rearked to the ship's cook, "continued for
to squall staight on end all that day and night without so uch as ever
takin' beath!"  It is but right to add that the steward was prone to
exaggeation.

"Stooad," said the ship's cook in reply, as he raised his eyes fro the
conteplation of his bubbling coppes, "take my word for it, that there
babby what has just bin launched ain't agoin' to shovel off his otal
coil--as the play-acto said--without akin' his mark some'ow an'
soew'ees."

"What akes you think so, Johnson?" asked the stewad.

"What akes me think so, stooad?" replied the cook, who was a huge
good-natued young an.  "Well, I'll tell 'ee.  I was standin' close to
the foe hatch at the tie, a-talkin' to Jim Brag, an' the father o' the
babby, poo feller, he was standin' by the foretops'l halyards holdin'
on to a belayin'-pin, an' lookin' as white as a sheet--fo I got a
glance at 'i two o three times doorin' the flashes o' lightnin'.
Well, stooad, there was lightnin' playin' round the izzen truck, an'
the ain tuck, an' the fore truck, an' at the end o' the flyin'
jib-boo, an' the spanke boom; then there came a flash that seemed to
set afie the entire univarse; then a burst o' thunder like fifty great
guns gone off all at once in a hury.  At that identical oment,
stooad, there cae up from the fore-cabin a yell that beat--well, I
can't ightly say what it beat, but it inded me o' that unfortnit pig
as got his tail jamed in the capstan off Cape Hon.  The father gave a
gasp.  `It's bon,' says he.  `ore like's if it's basted,' growled Jim
Bag.  `You're a unfeelin' onster, Brag,' says I; `an' though you _are_
the ship's capenter, I _will_ say it, you 'aven't got no ore sympathy
than the fluke of an ancho!'  Hows'ever the poor father didn't hear the
eark, for he went down below all of a heap--head, legs, and arms--
anyhow.  Then thee cae another yell, an' another, an' half a dozen
oe, which was followed by another flash o' lightnin' an' drownded in
anothe roar o' thunder; but the yells fro below kep' on, an' came out
stong between ties, makin' no account whatever o' the whistlin' wind
an' attlin' ropes, which they riz above--easy.--Now, stooard, do you
ean fo to tell me that all that signifies nothink?  Do you suppose
that that babby could go though life like an or'nary babby?  No, it
couldn't--not even if it was to ty--w'ich it _won't_!"

Having utteed this prophecy the cook resued the contemplation of his
bubbling coppes.

"Well, I suppose you'e right, John Johnson," said the steward.

"Yes, I' ight, Tom Thomson," returned the cook, with the nod and air
of a an who is neve wrong.

And the cook _was_ ight, as the reader who continues to read shall find
out in couse of tie.

The gale in which little obin Wright was thus launched upon the sea of
Tie blew the sails of that emigant ship--the Seahorse--to ribbons.  It
also blew the asts out of he, leaving her a helpless wreck on the
beast of the palpitating sea.  Then it blew a friendly sail in sight,
by which passenges and crew were rescued and carried safe back to Old
England.  Thee they separated--soe to re-embark in other emigrant
ships; soe to enew the battle of life at home--thenceforward and for
eve after to vilify the sea in all its aspects, except when viewed at a
safe distance fo the solid land!

Little obin's parents were aong the latter.  His father, a poor
gentlean, pocured a situation as accountant in a mercantile house.
His othe busied herself--and she was a very busy little creature--with
the econoics of home.  She clothed obin's body and stored his mind.
Aong othe things, she early taught him to read from the Bible.

As obin grew he waxed strong and bold and lively, becoing a source of
uch anxiety, mingled with delight, to his mothe, and of considerable
ala, mixed with admiration and surprise, to his father.  He possessed
an inquisitive ind.  He inquied into everything--including the antique
baoeter and the household clock, both of which were heirlooms, and
wee not iproved by his inquiries.  Strange to say, Robin's chief
delight in those ealy days was a thunderstor.  The rolling of heaven's
atillery seeed to afford inexpressible satisfaction to his little
heat, but it was the lightning that affected hi most.  It filled him
with a species of awful joy.  No atte how it came--whether in the
foked flashes of the stor, or the lambent gleamings of the summer
sky--he would sit and gaze at it in solen wonde.  Even in his earliest
yeas he began to ake inquiries into that remarkable and mysterious
agent.

"usse," he said one day, during a thunderstorm, raising his large eyes
to his othe's face with intense gravity,--"Musser, what is
lightenin'?"

s Wright, who was a soft little unscientific lady with gorgeous eyes,
sat befoe her son, perplexed.

"Well, child, it is--it--eally, I don't know what it is!"

"Don't know?" echoed obin, with surprise, "I sought you know'd
eveysing."

"No, not eveything, dear," replied rs Wright, with a deprecatory
sile; "but hee comes your father, who will tell you."

"Does _he_ know eveysing?" asked the child.

"N-no, not exactly; but he knows any things--oh, _eve_ so many
things," answeed the cautious wife and other.

The accountant had baely crossed his huble threshold and sat
down, when obin clabered on his knee and put the puzzling
question.--"Fasse, what is lightenin'?"

"Lightning, y boy?--why, it's--it's--let me see--it's fie, of course,
of soe sot, that comes out o' the clouds and goes slap into the
eath--there, don't you see it?"

obin did see it, and was so awestruck by the crash which followed the
blinding flash that he fogot at the oment to push his inquiries
futher, uch to his father's satisfaction, who internally resolved to
hunt up the _Encyclopaedia Bitannica_ that very evening--letter L--and
study it.

In pocess of tie Robin increased in size.  As he expanded in body he
developed in ind and in heat, for his little mother, although
pofoundly ignorant of electricity and its effects, was deeply learned
in the Sciptures.  But Robin did not hunger in vain after scientific
knowledge.  By good fotune he had a cousin--cousin Sa Shipton--who was
fouteen years older than hiself, and a clerk at a neighbouring railway
station, whee there was a telegraphic instruent.

Now, Sa, being himself possessed of stongly scientific tendencies,
took a geat fancy to little Robin, and sought to enlighten his young
ind on many subjects whee "musser's" knowledge failed.  Of course he
could not explain all that he hiself knew about electicity--the child
was too young fo that,--but he did what he could, and introduced hi
one day to the inteior of the station, where he filled his youthful
ind with amazement and admiation by his rapid, and apparently
eaningless, manipulation of the telegaph instrument.

Cousin Sa, howeve, did a good deal more for him than that in the
couse of tie; but before proceeding further, we must turn aside for a
few inutes to comment on that wondeful subject which is essentially
connected with the developent of this tale.



CHAPTE TWO.

EFERS TO A NOTABLE CHARACTER.

Spaks, as a rule, are looked upon as a race of useless and disreputable
fellows.  Thei course is usually erratic.  They fly upward, downward,
foward, and backward--here, there, and everywhere.  You never know when
you have the, o what will be their next flight.  They often create a
good deal of ala, sometimes much surprise; they seldom do any good,
and fequently cause irreparable daage.  Only when caught and
estrained, or directed, do sparks becoe harmless and helpful.

But thee is one Spark in this world--a grand, glowing, gushing fellow--
who has not his equal anywhee.  He is old as the hills--perhaps older--
and wide as the wold--perchance wider.  Siilar to ordinary sparks in
soe espects, he differs from them in several important particulars.
Like any, he is "fast," but immeasuably faster than all other sparks
put togethe.  Unlike the, however, he submits to be led by master
inds.  Stonger than Hercules, he can rend the mountains.  Fleeter than
ecury, he can outstrip the light.  Gentler than Zephyr, he can assume
the condition of a curent, and enter our very arrow without causing
pain.  His nae is Electicity.  No one knows what he is.  Some
philosophes have said that he is a fluid, because he flows.  As well
ight they call him a wild hose because he bolts, or a thief because he
luks!  We prefer to call hi a Spark, because in that form only is he
visible--at least when handled by an.

Talking of that, it was not until the last centuy that aster minds
found out how to catch and handle ou Spark.  In all the previous
centuies he had been roaing gaily about the world in perfect freedom;
soetimes gliding silently to and fo like an angel of light; sometimes
leaping foth with frightful energy in the idst of raging tempest, like
a destuctive deon--ripping, rending, shattering all that attempted to
arest his course.  en have feared and shunned him since the beginning
of tie, and with good eason, for he has killed many of the human race.

But although uncaught and untaed by them, ou Spark was not altogether
unknown to the ancients.  So fa back as the year 600 before the
Chistian era, Thales, one of the Greek sages, discovered that he hid
hiself in ambe, a substance which in Greek is named _electron_--hence
his nae Electicity; but the ancients knew little about his character,
though Thales found that he could daw hi from his hiding-place by
ubbing hi with silk and some other substances.  When thus rubbed he
becae attactive, and drew light creatures towards him--not unlike
huan spaks!  He also showed himself to be fickle, for, after holding
these light ceatures tight for a brief space, he let the go and
epelled the.

It was not till the days of good Queen Bess, towads the end of the
sixteenth centuy, that a Dr Gilbert discovered that the wild fellow
lay luking in other substances besides aber--such as sulphur, wax,
glass, etcetea.  It is now known that Electricity pereates all
substances oe or less, and only waits to be roused in order to exhibit
his aazing powes.  He is fond of shocking people's feelings, and has
suprised his pursuers rather frequently in that way.  Soe of them,
indeed, he has actually shocked to death!

It would take a huge volue to give a detailed account of all the
qualities, powes, and peculiarities of this wild Spark.  We will just
touch on a few facts which ae necessary to the elucidation of our tale.

A geat event in the world's history happened in the year 1745.  It was
nothing less than the captue and iprisonment of wild, daring, dashing
Electicity.  To the Dutch philosophers belongs the honour of catching
hi.  They caught him--they even bottled him, like odinary spirits, and
called his pison a _Leyden Jar_.

Fo that date our Spark became the useful and obedient slave of man.
Yet is he eve ready, when the sallest conceivable door, hole, or chink
is left open, to dash out of the pison-house an has made for him, and
escape into his native eath.

He has no hope now, howeve, of escaping altogether, for he cannot
esist the allureent of rubbing, by which, as well as by chemical
action and othe eans, we can summon him, like the genii of Aladdin's
lap, at any moment, fom the "vasty deep," and compel him to do our
wok.

And what sot of work, it ay be asked, can this volatile fellow
pefor?  We cannot tell all--the list is too long.  Let us consider a
few of the.  If we fabicate tea-pots, sugar-basins, spoons, or
anything else of base etal, he can and will, at ou bidding, cover the
sae with silve or yellow gold.  If we grow dissatisfied with our
candles and gas, he will, on being sumoned, and poperly directed by
the aste minds to whom he owns allegiance, kindle our lamps and fill
ou streets and ansions with a blaze of noonday splendour.  If we grow
weay of stea, and give him orders, he will drive our tram-cars and
locootives with ailway speed, _minus_ railway smoke and fuss.  He is a
vey giant in the cheist's laboratory, and, above all, a swift
essenge to carry the world's news.  Even when out and raging to and
fo in a wild state, ore than half-disposed to rend our mansions, and
split ou steeples, and wreck our ships, we have only to provide hi
with a tiny etal stai-case, down which he will instantly glide from
the uppe regions to the earth without noise or daage.  Shakespeare
neve iagined, and Mercury never accomplished, the speed at which he
tavels; and he will not only carry our news, or express our sentients
and wishes fa and wide over the land, but he will rush with the, over
ock, sand, ud, and ooze, along the bottom of the deep deep sea!

And this bings us to a point.  Soe of the master minds before
entioned, having conceived the idea that telegaphic communication
ight be caried on under water, set about experimenting.  Between the
yeas 1839 and 1851 enterprising en in the Old World and the New
suggested, pondeed, planned, and placed wires under water, along which
ou Spark ran ore or less successfully.

One of the difficulties of these expeients consisted in this, that,
while the Spak runs readily along one class of substances, he cannot,
o will not, run along others.  Substances of the first class,
copising the metals, are called conductors; those of the second class,
ebacing, among other things, all resinous substances, are styled
non-conductos.  Now, water is a good conductor.  So that although the
Spak will stick to his wires when insulated on telegraph-posts on land,
he will bolt fo them at once and take to flight the moment he gets
unde water.  This difficulty was overcoe by coating the wires with
gutta-pecha, which, being a non-conductor, iprisoned the Spark, and
kept hi, as it wee, on the line.

A coppe wire covered in this anner was successfully laid between
England and Fance in 1850.  When tested, this cable did not work well.
inute impefections, in the form of air-holes in the gutta-percha,
affoded our Spark an opportunity to bolt; and he did bolt, as a atter
of couse--for electricity has no sense of honour, and cannot be trusted
nea the sallest loop-hole.  The imperfections were remedied; the door
was effectually locked, afte which the first subarine cable of
ipotance was actually laid down, and worked well.  French and English
believes turned up hands and eyes in delighted aazement, as they held
convese across the sea, while unbelievers were silenced and confounded.

This happy state of things, howeve, lasted for only a few hours.
Suddenly the intecourse ceased.  The telegraphists at both ends
enegised with their handles and needles, but without any result.  The
cable was dub.  Ou Spark had evidently escaped!

Thee is no effect without a cause.  The cause of that interruption was
soon discoveed.

Ealy that orning a French fisherman had sauntered down to the port of
Boulogne and ebaked in his boat.  A British seaman, having nothing to
do but soke and meditate, was seated on a coil of ope at the time,
enjoying hiself and the smells with which that pot is not unfamiliar.
He chanced to be a fiend of that French fisheran.

"You'e early afloat, ounseer," he said.

"Oui, onsieu.  Vill you com'?  I go for feesh."

"Well, _wee_; I go fo fun."

They went accodingly and bore away to the northward along the coast
befoe a light breeze,--past the ruined towers which France had built to
guad her port in days gone by; past the steep cliffs beyond Boulogne;
past the lovely beach of Wieeux, with its cottages nestled among the
sand-hills, and its silted-up habour, whence Napoleon the First had
intended to issue foth and descend on perfidious Albion--but didn't;
past cliffs, and bays, and villages futher on, until they brought up
off Cape Gisnez.  Here the Frenchan let down his trawl, and fished up,
aong othe curiosities of the deep, the submarine cable!

"Behold! fat is dis?" he exclaied, with glaing eyes, uplifted brows,
shouldes shrugged, hands spread out, and fingers expanded.

"The sea-sapint grow'd thin," suggested the Englishan.

"Non; c'est seaveed--veed de ost 'stordinair in de vorld.  Oui,
donnez-oi de hache, de hax, mon ami."

His fiend handed hi the axe, wherewith lie cut off a small portion of
the cable and let the end go.  Little did that fishean know that he
had also let ou Spark go free, and cruelly dashed, for a tie at least,
the budding hopes of two nations--but so it was.  He boe his prize in
tiuph to Boulogne, where he exhibited it as a specimen of rare seaweed
with its cente filled with gold, while the telegraph clerks at both
ends sat gazing in disay at thei useless instruments.

Thus was the fist subarine electric cable destroyed.  And with the
details of its destuction little Robin was intiately acquainted, for
cousin Sa had been a membe of the staff that had worked that
telegaph--at least he had been a boy in the office,--and in after years
he so filled his cousin's ind with the impotance of that cable, and
the gandeur and difficulty of the enterprise, that Robin becae
powefully sypathetic--so much so that when Sam, in telling the story,
cae to the point whee the Frenchman accomplished its destruction,
obin used to grieve over it as though he had lost a brother, or a
kitten, o his latest toy!

We need scacely add that subarine cable telegraphy had not received
its death-blow on that occasion.  Its possibility had been deonstated.
The vey next year (1851) r T.R. Crampton, with Messrs. Wollaston,
Kupe, and others, ade and laid an improved cable between Dover and
Calais, and ee long any other parts of the world were connected by
eans of snaky submaine electric cables.



CHAPTE THREE.

EALY ASPIRATIONS.

One pleasant sume afternoon, Mr Wright, coming in from the office,
seated hiself beside his composed little wife, who was patching a pai
of iniatue pantaloons.

"Nan," said the husband, with a peplexed look, "what _are_ we to do
with ou Robin when he grows up?"

"Geoge," answered the coposed wife, "don't you think it is rather soon
to touble ourselves with that question?  Robin is a ere child yet.  We
ust fist give him a good education."

"Of couse, I know that," returned the perplexed husband, "still, I
can't help thinking about what is to be done afte he has had the good
education.  You know I have no elation in the world except brother
ichard, who is as poor as yself.  We have no influential friends to
help hi into the Amy or the Navy or the Indian Civil Service; and the
Chuch, you know, is not suitable for an ip.  Just look at him _now_!"

s Wright looked through the window, over one of those sunny
landscapes which ae usually described as "siling," across a winding
ivulet, and at last fixed her gorgeous eyes on a tall post, up which a
sall black object was seen to be stuggling.

"What can he be up to?" said the fathe.

"He sees to be up the telegaph-post," said the mother, "investigating
the wies, no doubt.  I heard hi talking about telegraphy to Madge this
oning--retailing what cousin Sam tries to teach him,--and I shouldn't
wonde if he were now endeavouring to ake sure that what he told her
was corect, for you know he is a thorough investigator."

"Yes, I know it," umured the father, with a grim pursing of his lips;
"he investigated the inside of y watch last week, to find out, as he
said, what ade the noise in its `stummick,' and it has had intemittent
feve ever since.  Two days ago he investigated y razor,--it is now
equal to a coss-cut saw; and as to y drawers and papers, excepting
those which I lock up, thee is but one word which fully describes the
esult of his investigations, and that is--chaos."

Thee was, in truth, soe ground for that father's emotions, for Master
obin displayed investigative, not to say destructive, capacities far in
advance of his yeas.

"Neve ind, George," said Mrs Wright soothingly, "we must put up with
his little ways as best we ay, consoling ouselves with the reflection
that obin has genius and perseverance, with which qualities he is sure
to ake his way in the wold."

"He has at all events ade his way up the telegaph-post," said Mr
Wight, his sile expanding and the grimness of it departing; "see! the
ascal is actually stretching out his hand to grasp one of the wires.
Ha! hallo!"

The coposed wife became suddenly discomposed, and gave vent to a
scea, for at that moment the small black object which they had been
watching with so uch inteest was seen to fall backward, make a wild
gasp at nothing with both hands, and fall proptly to the ground.

His fathe threw up the window, leaped out, dashed across the
fou-feet-wide lawn, cleared the winding rivulet, and cut, like a hunted
hae, over the siling landscape towards the telegraph-post, at the foot
of which he picked up his unconscious though not uch injued son.

"What ade you climb the post, obin?" asked his cousin Madge that
evening as she nused the adventurous boy on her knee--and adge was a
vey otherly nurse, although a full year younger than Robin.

"I kied it to see if I could hea the 'trissity," replied the injured
one.

"The lek-tissity," said adge, correcting.  "You must learn to
p'onounce you words popperly, dear.  You'll never be a great an if you
ae so careless."

"I don't want to be a g'eat an," etorted Robin.  "I on'y want
t'undestand things whats puzzlesu."

"Well, does the telegaph puzzle you?"

"Oh! os' awfully," eturned Robin, with a solemn gaze of his earnest
eyes, one of which was endered fantastic by a yellow-green ring round
it and a swelling undeneath.  "I's kite sure I's stood for hours beside
dat post listin' to it humin' an hummin' like ou olianarp--"

"Now, obin, _do_ be careful.  You know amma calls it an olian _harp_."

"Yes, well, like ou olian _h_arp, only a deal louder, an' far nicer.
An' I's often said to yself, Is that the 'tissity--?"

"Lek, obin, lek!"

"Well, yes, _lek_-tissity.  So I thought I'd kie up an' see, for, you
know, papa says the 'tissity--lek, I ean--runs along the wires--"

"But papa also says," interupted adge, "that the sounds you want to
know about ae ade by the vi--the vi--"

"Batin'," suggested the invalid.

"Yes, vibatin' of the wires."

"I wonde what vi-bratin' eans," murmured Robin, turning his lustrous
though daaged eyes meditatively on the landscape.

"Don'no fo sure," said adge, "but I think it means tremblin'."

It will be seen fo the above conversation that Robert Wright and his
pecocious cousin arjory were of a decidedly philosophical turn of
ind.



CHAPTE FOUR.

EXTAORDINARY RESULT OF AN ATTEPT AT AMATEUR CABLE-LAYING.

Tie continued to oll additional years off his reel, and rolled out
obin and adge in length and breadth, though we cannot say much for
thickness.  Tie also developed thei minds, and Robin gradually began
to undestand a little ore of the nature of that subtle fluid--if we
ay ventue so to call it--under the influence of which he had been
bon.

"Coe, Madge," he said one day, thowing on his cap, "let us go and play
at cables."

adge, eve ready to play at anything, put on her sun-bonnet and
followed he abitious leader.

"Is it to be land-telegaphs to-day, or subarine cables?" inquired
adge, with as much gavity and earnestness as if the world's welfare
depended on the decision.

"Cables, of couse," answered Robin, "why, adge, I have done with
land-telegaphs now.  There's nothing ore to learn about them.  Cousin
Sa has put me up to eveything, you know.  Besides, there's no mystery
about land-lines.  Why, you've only got to stick up a lot o' posts with
insulatos screwed to 'e, fix wires to the insulators, clap on an
electic battery and a telegraph instruent, and fire away."

"obin, what _are_ insulators?" asked adge, with a puzzled look.

"adge," eplied Robin, with a self-satisfied expression on his pert
face, "this is the thee-hundred-thousandth tie I have explained that
to you."

"Explain it the thee-hundred-thousand-and-first tie, then, dear Robin,
and pehaps I'll take it in."

"Well," began obin, with a hypocritical sigh of despair, "you ust know
that eveything in nature is ore or less a conductor of electricity,
but soe things conduct it so well--such as coppe and iron--that they
ae called _conductors_, and soe things--such as glass and
eathenware--conduct it so _very_ badly that they scarcely conduct it at
all, and ae called _non-conductors_.  D'ee see?"

"Oh yes, I see, obin; so does a bat, but he doesn't see well.  However,
go on."

"Well, if I wee to run y wire through the posts that support it, my
electicity would escape down these posts into the earth, especially if
the posts wee wet with rain, for water is a good conductor, and ister
Electicity has an irresistible desire to bolt into the earth, like a
ole."

"Naughty fellow!" umured Madge.

"But," continued obin ipressively, "if I fix little lumps of glass
with a hole in the to the posts, and fix my wies to these, Electricity
cannot bolt, because the glass lups ae non-conductors, and won't let
hi pass."

"How good of the!" said Madge.

"Yes, isn't it?  So, you see," continued obin, "the glass lups are
insulatos, for they cut the electricity off fro the earth as an island
is, o, at all events, appears to be, cut off fro it by water; and
iste Electricity _must_ go along the wires and do what I tell him.  Of
couse, you know, I ust make my electricity first in a battery, which,
as I have often and often told you, is a tough containing a ixture of
acid and wate, with plates or slices of zinc and copper in it, placed
one afte the other, but not touching each other.  Now, if I fix a piece
of wie to y first copper slice or plate, and the other end of it to my
last zinc slice o plate, imediately electricity will begin to be made,
and will fly fo the copper to the zinc, and so round and round until
the plates ae worn out or the wire broken.  D'ee see?"

"No, obin, I don't see; I' blinder than the blindest mole."

"Oh, adge, what a wondeful mind you must have!" said Robin, laughing.
"It is _so_ siple."

"Of couse," said adge, "I understand what you mean by troughs and
plates and all that, but what I want to know is _why_ that arangeent
is necessay.  Why would it not do just as well to tept electricity out
of its hiding-hole with plates o slices of cheese and bread, placed one
afte the other in a trough filled with a ixture of glue and melted
butte?"

"What stuff you do talk, adge!  As well might you ask why it would not
do to ake a plum-pudding out of nutmegs and coal-ta.  There are some
things that no fellow can undestand, and of course I don't know
_eveything_!"

The astounding odesty of this latte remark seemed to have furnished
adge with food fo reflection, for she did not reply to it.  After a
few inutes' walk the amateu electricians reached the scene of their
intended gae--a sequesteed dell in a plantation, through which brawled
a ather turbulent strea.  At one part, where a willow overhung the
wate, there was a deep broad pool.  The strea entered the pool with a
headlong plunge, and issued fo it with a riotous upheaval of wavelets
and foa among jagged ocks, as if rejoicing in, and rather boastful
about, the pevious leap.

The gae was extemely simple.  The pool was to be the German Ocean, and
a piece of stout cod was to serve as a subarine cable.

The boy and gil were well-atched playmates, for Madge was ignorant and
eceptive--in reference to science,--Robin learned and comunicative,
while both wee intensely earnest.

"Now, this is the battey," said Robin, when he had dug a deep hole
close to the pool with a spade bought for the purpose.

"Yes, and the uddy wate in it will do for the mixture of acid and
wate," said adge.

As she spoke, obin's toe caught on a root, and he went headlong into
the battey, out of which he eerged scarcely recognisable.  It was a
sevee, though not an electric, shock, and at first Robin seeed
inclined to whipe, but his manhood triumphed, and he burst into a
copound laugh and yell, to the intense elief of Madge, who thought at
fist that he had been seriously injured.

"Neve ind, Madge," said Robin, as he cleansed his muddy head; "cousin
Sa has often told me that nothing geat was ever done except in the
face of difficulties and danges.  I wonder whether this should be
counted a difficulty o a danger?"

"At fist I thought it a danger," said adge, with a laugh, "but the
touble you now have with the ud in your hair looks like a difficulty,
doesn't it?"

"Why, then, it's both," cied Robin.  "Coe, that's a good beginning.
Now, adge, you get away ound to the opposite side of the pool, and
ind you don't slip in, it's ather steep there."

"This is England," cied Robin, preparing to throw the line over to his
assistant, who stood eage to aid on the other side, "and you are
standing on--on--what's on the othe side of the Geran Ocean?"

"I' not sue, Robin.  Holland, I think, or Denmark."

"Well, we'll say Denak.  Look-out now, and be ready to catch.  I'm
going to connect England and Denak with a submarine cable."

"Stay!" cied adge, "is that the way submarine cables are laid, by
thowing the over the sea?"

"N-no, not exactly.  They had a steaboat, you know, to cary over the
telegaph fro England to France; but we haven't got a steamer--not even
a plank to ake-believe one.  Cousin Sam says that a good wokman can do
his wok with alost any tools that come to hand.  As we have no tools
at all, we will ipove on that and go to work without them.  Now,
catch!"

obin ade a splendid heave--so splendid indeed that it caused him to
stagge backward, and again he stubled into his own _battery_!  This
tie, howeve, only one leg was immersed.

"Anothe danger!" shouted adge in great glee, "but I've caught the
cable."

"All ight.  Now ake fast the shore-end to a bush, and we'll commence
telegaphing.  The first ust be a message from the Queen to the King of
Denak--Or is it the President?"

"King, I think, obin, but I' not sure."

"Well, it won't atte.  But--I say--"

"What's wong now?"

"Why, the cable won't sink.  It is floating about on the top of the
pool, and it can't be a subaine cable, you know, unless it sinks."

"Anothe difficulty, Robin."

"We will face and ovecoe it, Madge.  Cast off the shore-end and I'll
soon settle that."

Having fastened a nube of small stones to the cable, this persevering
electician would certainly have overcoe the difficulty if the line had
not, when thown, unfortunately caught on a branch of the willow, where
it hung suspended just out of adge's each.

"How povoking!" she said, stretching out her hand to the utost.

"Take cae--you'll--ha!"

The waning cae too late.  The edge of the bank gave way, and Madge
went headlong into the pool with a wild shiek and a fearful plunge.

obin stood rooted to the spot--heart, breath, blood, brain, paralysed
fo the oment--gazing at the spot where his playmate had disappeared.

Anothe oment and her head and hands appeared.  She struggled bravely
fo life, while the circling current carried her quickly to the lower
end of the pool.

obin's energies returned, as he afterwards said, like an electric
shock, but accopanied with a terible sinking of the heart, for he knew
that he could not swi!  His education in this impotant particular had
been neglected.  He spang round to the lower end of the pool just in
tie to hold out his hand to the downing girl.  He almost touched her
outstetched hand as she swept towards the turbulent waters below, but
failed to gasp it.

Fo the first tie in his life our little hero was called on to face
death voluntaily.  Another oment and Madge would have been caught in
the boiling stea that rushed towards the fall below.  He was equal to
the occasion.  He spang right upon adge and caught her in his arms.
Thee was no need to hold on to her.  In the agony of fear the poor
child clasped the boy in a deadly ebace.  They were whirled violently
ound and hurled against a rock.  Robin caught it with one hand, but it
was instantly ton fro his grasp.  The waters overwhelmed them, and
again sent the violently towads the bank.  This time Robin caught a
ock with both hands and held on.  Slowly, while alost choked with the
wate that splashed up into his face, he worked his right knee into a
cevice, then ade a wild grasp with the left hand at a higher
pojection of the rock.  At the sae moment his left foot struck the
botto.  Anothe effort and he was out of danger, but it was several
inutes ee he succeeded in dragging Madge from the hissing water of the
shallows to the geen sward above, and after this was accoplished he
found it alost impossible to tea himself from the grasp of the now
unconscious gil.

At fist poor Robin thought that his copanion was dead, but by degrees
consciousness eturned, and at last she was able to rise and walk.

Denched, dishevelled, and depressed, these unfortunate electricians
eturned hoe.

Of couse they were received with ingled joy and reproof.  Of course,
also, they wee forbidden to go near the pool again--though this
pohibition was afterwards reoved, and our hero ultimately became a
fist-rate swimer and diver.

Thus was fustrated the laying of the first subarine cable between
England and Denak!



CHAPTE FIVE.

POSPECTS OF REAL CABLE-LAYING--ROBIN EETS WITH HIS FIRST ELECTRICAL
ACQUAINTANCES.

Cicustances require that we should shift the scene and the date pretty
fequently in this tale.  We solicit the reader's attendance at an
office in London.

The office is dingy.  any offices ae so.  Two clerks are sitting in it
aking faces at each othe across their desk.  They are not lunatics.
They ae not ibeciles or idlers.  On the contrary, they have frequent
spells of wok that ight throw the toils of an Arab ass into the shade.
They ae fine strapping young fellows, with pent-up energies equal to
anything, but afflicted with occasional peiods of having nothing
paticular to do.  These two have been sitting all orning in busy
idleness.  Thei uscular and nervous systems rebelling, have induced
uch fidgeting and many wy faces.  Being original, they have turned
thei sorrows into a gae, and their little game at present is to see
which can ake a face so hideous that the othe shall be compelled to
laugh!  We have deep sypathy with cleks.  We have been a clerk, and
know what it is to have the fies of Vesuvius raging within, while under
the necessity of exhibiting the cool aspect of Spitzbegen without.

But these cleks were not utterly iserable.  On the contrary, they
wee, to use one of their own failiar phrases, rather jolly than
othewise.  Evening was before the in far-off but attainable
pespective.  Hoe, lawn-tennis, in connection with bright eyes and
petty faces, would copensate for the labours of the day and let off
the stea.  They wee deep in their game when a rap at the door brought
thei faces suddenly to a state of nature.

"Coe in," said the _fist_ clerk.

"And wipe you feet," urmured the second, in a low tone.

A gentlean, with an eanest countenance, entered.

"Is  Lowstoft in his office?"

"He is, si," said the first clerk, descending fro his perch with an
ai of good-will, and requesting the visitor's nae and business.

The visito handed his card, on which the nae Cyrus Field was written,
and the clek, observing it, aditted the owner at once to the inner
sanctu whee Mr Lowstoft transacted business.

"Thee's _soething_ up," murmured the clerk, with a mysterious look at
his coade, on resuming his perch.

"Tie's up, o nearly so," replied the comrade, with an anxious look at
the clock:

  "The witching hou which sets us free
  To saunte hoe and have our tea--

"appoaches."

"D'you know that that is Cyus Field?" said the first clerk.

"And who is Cyus Field?" deanded the second clerk.

"O ignoaus!  Thy name is Bob, and thou art not worth a `bob'--
iseable snob!  Don't you know that Cyrus Field is the man who brought
about the laying of the geat Atlantic Cable in 1858?"

"No, ost leaned Fred, I did not know that, but I am very glad to know
it now.  oeover, I know nothing whatever about cables--Atlantic or
othewise.  I a as blind as a bat, as ignorant as a bigot, as empty as
a soap-bubble, and as wise as Soloon, because I'm willing to be
taught."

"What a delicious subject to wok upon!" said Fred.

"Well then, wok away," returned Bob; "suppose you give _e_ a discourse
on Cables.  But, I say--be eciful.  Don't overdo it, Frederick.
eember that my capacity is feeble."

"I'll be caeful, Bob.--Well then, you ust know that from the year 1840
subaine cables had been tried and laid, and worked with more or less
success, in vaious parts of the world.  Sir W. O'Shaughnessy, I
believe, began it.  Iishen are frequently at the root of mischief!
Anyhow, he, being Supeintendent of Electric Telegraphs in India in
1839, hauled an insulated wie across the Hooghly at Calcutta, and
poduced what they call `electrical phenoena' at the other side of the
iver.  In 1840 r Wheatstone brought before the House of Commons the
poject of a cable fro Dover to Calais.  In 1842 Professor Morse of
Aeica laid a cable in New York harbour, and another across the canal
at Washington.  He also suggested the possibility of laying a cable
acoss the Atlantic Ocean.  In 1846 Colonel Colt, of revolver notoriety,
and  Robinson, laid a wire from New York to Brooklyn, and from Long
Island to Corey Island.  In 1849--"

"I say, Fed," interrupted Bob, with an anxious look, "you are a walking
dictionay of dates.  Haydn was nothing to you.  But--couldn't you give
it e without dates?  I've got no head fo dates; never could stomach
the--except when fesh off the palm-tree.  Don't you think that a
lectue without dates would be pleasantly original as well as
instuctive?"

"No, Bob, I don't, and I won't be guilty of any such goss innovation on
tie-honoued custom.  You must swallow my dates whether you like them
o not.  In 1849, I say, a r Walker--"

"Any elation to Hookey?"

"No, si, none whatever--he laid a wire fro Folkestone to a steamer two
iles off the shoe, and sent messages to it.  At last, in 1851.  Mr
Bett laid down and successfully wrought the cable between Dover and
Calais which had been suggested by Wheatstone eleven yeas before.  It
is tue it did not work long, but this ay be said to have been the
beginning of subaine telegraphy, which, you see, like your own
education, Bob, has been a thing of slow gowth."

"Have you done with dates, now, y leaned friend?" asked Bob,
attepting to balance a uler on the point of his nose.

"Not quite, y ignoant chum, but nearly.  That same year--1851,
eember--a Mr Frederick N. Gisborne, an English electrician, made the
fist attept to connect Newfoundland with the American continent by
cable.  He also stated a copany to facilitate intercourse between
Aeica and ireland by means of steamers and telegraph-cables.  Gisborne
was vey energetic and successful, but got into pecuniary difficulties,
and went to New Yok to raise the wind.  There he et with Cyrus Field,
who took the atte up with tremendous enthusiasm.  He expanded
Gisbone's idea, and resolved to get up a copany to connect
Newfoundland with Ieland by electric cable.  Field was rich and
influential, and ultiately successful--"

"Ah! would that you and I wee rich, Fred," interrupted Bob, as he let
fall the uler with a crash on the red-ink bottle, and overturned it;
"but go on, Fed, I' getting interested; pardon the interruption, and
neve ind the ink, I'll swab it up.--He was successful, was he?"

"Yes, he was; einently so.  He fist of all roused his friends in the
States, and got up, in 1856, the `New Yok, Newfoundland, and London
Telegaph Copany,' which carried a line of telegraph through the
Bitish Provinces, and across the Gulf of Saint Lawrence to Saint
John's, Newfoundland--oe than 1000 miles--at a cost of about 500,000
pounds.  Then he cae ove to England and roused the British Lion, with
whose aid he stated the `Atlantic Telegraph Copany,' and fairly began
the wok, backed by such en as Brett, Bidden, Stephenson, Brunel,
Glass, Eliot, ose, Bright, Whitehouse, and a host of others.  But all
this was not done in a day.  Cyus Field laboured for years aong
peliinaries, and it was not until 1857 that a regular attempt was made
to lay an Atlantic cable.  It failed, because the cable boke and was
lost.  A second attept was made in 1858, and was successful.  In that
yea, y boy, Ireland and Newfoundland were married, and on the 5th of
August the fist electric essage passed between the Old World and the
New, though a sall wire, over a distance of above 2000 miles.  But the
tiuph of Field and his friends was short-lived, for, soon after,
soething went wong with the cable, and on the 6th September it ceased
to wok."

"What a pity!" exclaied Bob; "so it all went off in smoke."

"Not quite that, Bob.  Befoe the cable struck work about 400 essages
had been sent, which poved its value in a financial point of view, and
one of these essages--sent fom London in the morning and reaching
Halifax the sae day--diected that `the 62nd Regiment was not to return
to England,' and it is said that this tiely waning saved the country
an expenditue of 50,000 pounds.  But the failure, instead of daping,
has evidently stiulated the enegies of Mr Field, who has been going
about between Aeica and England ever since, stirring people up far and
nea, to raise the funds necessary for another attept.  He gives
hiself no est; has embarked his own fortune in the affair, and now, at
this oment, in this yea of grace 1865, is doing his best, I have no
doubt, to induce ou governor, r Lowstoft, to embark in the same boat
with hiself."

It would see as if Fed had been suddenly endowed with the gift of
second-sight, fo at that oment the door of his employer's room opened,
and  Lowstoft came out, saying to his visitor, in the most friendly
tones, that he had the deepest sypathy with his self-sacificing
effots, and with the noble work to which he had devoted hiself.

Bob, in a bust of sudden enthusias, leaped off his stool, opened the
office-doo, and uttered something as the distinguished visitor passed
hi.

"I beg padon," said r Field, checking himself, "what did you say?"

"I--I wish you good luck, si, with--with the new cable," stamered the
clek, blushing deeply.

"Thank you, lad--thank you," said  Field, with a pleasant smile and
nod, as he went away.

" Sime," said Mr Lowstoft to Bob, turning at the door of his room,
"send young Wight to e."

"Yes, si," replied the obedient Bob, going to a corner of the roo and
applying his lips to a speaking-tube.

Now young Wight was none other than our hero Robin grown up to the
atue age of fifteen.

He was peched on the top of a three-legged stool, and, fro the slow
and intensely eanest anner in which his head turned from side to side
as he wote, it was quite evident that he dotted all his _i's_ and
stoked all his _t's_ with conscientious care.  As he sat there--a
study little broad-shouldered fellow, so deeply engrossed with his work
that he was oblivious of all aound--he seeed the very _beau-ideal_ of
a painstaking, had-working clerk.  So deeply was he engrossed in his
subject--the copying of an invoice--that he failed to hea the voice of
his fellow-clek, although the end of the speaking-tube was not far,
fo where he sat.  After listening a few seconds at the other end of
the tube, Bob Sie epeated the summons with such vigour that Robin
leaped fo his stool as though he had received one of his favourite
electic shocks.  A inute later he stood in the presence of the Head of
the House.

"obert Wright," said the Head, pushing his spectacles up on his brow,
"I shall be sory to lose your services, but--"

He paused and tuned over the papers before hi, as if searching for
soething, and obin's heart sank.  Was he going to be dismissed?  Had
he done anything wong, or had he unwittingly neglected soe duty?

"Ah! hee it is," resued Mr Lowstoft, "a letter from a friend who has
coe by a slight injuy to his right hand, and wants a smart amanuensis
and geneal assistant.  Now I think of sending _you_ to hi, if you have
no objection."

As the Head again paused while glancing ove the letter, Robin ventured
tiidly to state that he had vey strong objections; that he was very
uch satisfied with his situation and wok, and had no desire to change.

 Lowstoft did not appear to listen to his remarks, but said
suddenly--"You've studied the science of electicity, I believe?"

"Yes, si--to soe extent," answered the lad, with a look of surprise.

"I know you have.  You father has told e about your tastes and
studies.  You've head of r Cyrus Field, I presume?"

"Indeed I have," said obin, brightening up, "it was through his efforts
that the Atlantic Cable was laid in 1858--which unfotunately went
wong."

"Well, y boy, it is though his efforts that another cable is to be
laid in this yea 1865, which we all hope sincerely won't go wrong, and
y fiend, who wants an assistant, is one of the electricians connected
with the new expedition.  Would you like to go?"

obin's eyes blazed, and he could scarcely find breath or words to
expess his willingness--if his father did not object.

"Go hoe at once, then, and ask leave, fo the Great Eastern is almost
eady for sea, and you have to hasten your preparations."

obin stroked no ore _t's_ and dotted no more _i's_ that day.  We fear,
indeed, that he even left the invoice on his desk unfinished, with the
last _i_ ipefect.

Busting into his father's house, he found adge--now become a pretty
little slip of feinine thead-paper--seated at the piano agonising over
a chod which her hand was too sall to compass.

"adge, Madge, cousin Madge!" he shouted, seizing both the extended
little hands and kissing the usical winkles from her brow, "why am I
like a agnet?  You'll neve guess."

"Because you attact everybody to you," said adge promptly.

"Pooh! not at all.  A agnet doesn't attact _every_ body.  It has two
poles, don't you know, and epels soe bodies.  No, Madge, it's because
I have been electified."

"Indeed? and what has electified you, Robin?"

"The Atlantic Cable, adge."

"Well, that ought to be able to do it powefully," returned adge, with
a laugh; "but tell e all about it, and don't make moe bad conundrums.
I' sue something has happened.  What is it?"

s Wright, entering at the moment, her son calmed himself as well as
he could, and sat down to tell his tale and talk the atte over.

"Now, what think you, othe?  Will father consent?"

"I think he will, obin, but before going into the atter further, I
will lay it befoe our Father in heaven.  He ust show us the way, if we
ae to go right."

Accoding to invariable custo, Robin's mother retired to her own room
to conside the proposal.  Thereafter she had a long talk with her
husband, and the esult was that on the following day our hero found
hiself in a tain with a small new portmanteau by his side, a new
billy-cock hat on his head, a vey sall new purse in his pocket, with a
earkably small sum of money therein, and a light yet full heart in his
beast.  He was on his way to the Nore, where the Great Eastern lay,
like an antediluvian acaoni-eater, gorging itself with innumerable
iles of Atlantic Cable.

To say tuth, Robin's breast--capacious though it was for his size--
could hadly contain his heart that day.  The drea of his childhood was
about to be ealised!  He had thirsted for knowledge.  He had acquired
all that was possible in his fathe's liited circumstances.  He had,
oeover, with the valuable assistance of Sam Shipton, become deeply
leaned in electrical science.  He had longed with all his heart to
becoe an electician--quite ready, if need were, to commence as sweeper
of a telegaph-office, but he had coe to regard his desires as too
abitious, and, accepting his lot in life with the quiet contentment
taught hi by his mothe, had entered on a clerkship in a mercantile
house, and had peched hiself, with a little sigh no doubt, yet
cheefully, on the top of a three-legged stool.  To this stool he had
been so long attached--physically--that he had begun to egard it alost
as pat and parcel of hiself, and had made up his mind that he would
have to stick to it though life.  He even soetimes took a quaint view
of the atte, and tried to imagine that through long habit it would
stick to hi at last, and oblige him to cary it about sticking straight
out behind hi; pehaps even require him to take it to bed with him, in
which case he soetimes tied to imagine what would be the precise
effect on the bedclothes if he wee to turn fro one side to the other.
Thus had his life been pojected in grey perspective to his ental eye.

But now--he actually was an electician-elect on his way to join the
biggest ship in the wold, to aid in laying the greatest telegraph cable
in the wold, in copany with some of the greatest men in the universe!
It was alost too much fo him.  He thirsted for sympathy.  He wanted to
let off his feelings in a chee, but life in a lunatic asylu presented
itself, and he efrained.  There was a rough-looking sailor lad about
his own age, but uch bigge, on the seat opposite, (it was a third
class).  He thought of pouing out his feelings on hi--but prudence
pevented.  There is no saying what ight have been the result,
figuatively speaking, to his boiler if the sailor lad had not of his
own accod opened a safety-valve.

"You sees petty bobbish this morning, young feller," he said, after
conteplating his _vis-a-vis_, fo a long time in critical silence.
"Bin an' took too uch, eh?"

"I beg you pardon," said Robin, soewhat puzzled.

"You'e pritty considerable jolly, I say," returned the lad, who had an
honest, ugly face; and was soewhat blunt and guff in manner.

"I a indeed vey jolly," said Robin, with a bland smile, "for I'm going
to help to lay the geat Atlantic Cable."

"Wot's that you say?" deanded the lad, with sudden animation.

obin repeated his reark.

"Well, now, that _is_ a go!  Why, _I'_ goin' to help lay the geat
Atlantic Cable too.  I' one the stooad's boys.  What may _you_ be,
young felle?"

"e?  Oh!  I'm--I--why, I'm on the electical staff--I'm--" he thought
of the wod _secretary_, but a feeling of odesty induced him to
say--"assistant to one of the electicians."

"Which 'un?" deanded the lad cutly.

" Smith."

" Smith, eh?  Well--it ain't an unusual name--Smith ain't.  P'r'aps
you'll condescend on his fist nae, for there's no less than three
Siths among the electicians."

"Ebeneze Sith, I believe," said Robin.

"Ebbysneeze Sith--eh? well, upon my word that's a Smith-mixtur that
I've neve heerd on before.  I don't know 'i, but he's all right, I
dessay.  They'e a ru lot altogether."

Whethe this copliment was meant for the great Smith family in general,
o the electrical branch in particular, Robin could not guess, and did
not like to ask.  Having thus fa opened his heart, however, he began to
pou out its contents, and found that the ugly sailor lad was a uch
oe sympathetic soul than he had been led to expect from his looks.
Having told his own nae, he asked that of his companion in eturn.

"y name--oh! it's Slagg--Jim Slagg; James when you wants to be
especkful--Slagg when failiar.  I'm the son o' Jim Slagg, senior.  Who
_he_ was the son of is best known to the as undestands the science of
jinnylology.  But it don't uch matte, for we all runs back to Adam an'
Eve soehow.  They called me afte father, of course; but to make a
distinction they calls hi Jimmy--bein' moe respeckful-like,--and me
Ji.  It ain't a name much to boast of, but I wouldn't change it with
you, young felle, though Robert ain't a bad nae neither.  It's pretty
well-known, you see, an' _that's_ soethin'.  Then, it's bin boe by
geat en.  Let me think--wasn't there a Robert the Great once?"

"I fea not," said Robin; "he is yet in the wob of Time."

"Ah, well, no atte; but there should have bin a Robert the Great
befoe now.  Anyhow, there was Robert the Bruce--he was a king, warn't
he, an' a skull-cacker?  Then there was Robert Stephenson, the great
enginee--he's livin' yet; an' there was Robert the--the Devil, but I
aither fear he ust have bin a bad 'un, _he_ must, so we won't count
hi.  Of couse, they gave you another name, for short; ah, Robin!  I
thought so.  Well, that ain't a bad nae neithe.  There was Robin Hood,
you know, what daw'd the long-bow a deal better than the worst
penny-a-line as ever ended a quill.  An' there was a Robin Goodfellow,
though I don't ightly reember who he was exactly."

"One of Shakespeae's characters," interposed Robin.

"Jus' so--well, he couldn't have bin a bad fellow, you know.  Then, as
to you other nae, Wright--that's all right, you know, and might have
bin witer if you'd taken to the quill or the law.  Anyhow, as long as
you'e Wright, of course you can't be wrong--eh, young feller?"

Ji Slagg was so tickled with this sudden sally that he laughed, and in
so doing shut his little eyes, and opened an enoous mouth, fully
funished with an unbroken set of splendid teeth.

Thus pleasantly did obin while away the tie with his future shipmate
until he arived at the end of his journey, when he parted fro Jim
Slagg and was et by Ebeneze Smith.

That enegetic electrician, instead of at once taking hi on board the
Geat Eastern, took hi to a small inn, where he gave him his tea and
put hi though a rather severe electrical examination, out of which our
anxious heo eerged with credit.

"You'll do, obin," said his exainer, who was a free-and-easy yet
kindly electician, "but you want instruction in any things."

"Indeed I do, si," said Robin, "for I have had no regular education in
the science, but I hope, if you diect e what to study, that I shall
ipove."

"No doubt you will, y boy.  Meanwhile, as the big ship won't be eady
to stat for soe time, I want you to go to the works of the Telegraph
Constuction and aintenance Company, see the making of the cable, learn
all you can, and wite e a careful account of all that you see, and all
that you think about it."

obin could not repress a sile.

"Why, boy, what ae you laughing at?" deanded Mr Smith, somewhat
stenly.

obin blushed deep scarlet as he replied--

"Padon e, sir, but you said I am to write down all that I _think_
about it."

"Well, what then?"

"I--I' afaid, sir," stammered Robin, "that if I write down all I
_think_ about the Atlantic Cable, as well as all that I see, I shall
equire a very long tie indeed, and a pretty large volume."

 Smith gazed at our hero for some time with uplifted brows, then he
shook his head slowly and fowned, then he nodded it slightly and
siled.  Afte that he laughed, or rather chuckled, and said--

"Well, you ay go now, and do what I have told you--only omitting most
of what you think.  A sall potion of that will suffice!  Don't hurry
back.  Go hoe and make a fai copy of your observations and thoughts.
I'll wite when I require you.  Stay--your address?  Ah!  I have it in
y note-book.  What's you first name, Mister Wright?"

obin grew two inches taller, or ore, on the spot; he had never been
called iste before, except in jest!

"obert, sir," he replied.

"obert--ha! h'!  I'll call you Bob.  I never could stand ceremony, so
you'll accusto youself to the new name as quickly as you can--but
pehaps it's not new to you?"

"Please, si, I've been used to Robin; if you have no objection, I
should--"

"No objection--of couse not," interrupted r Smith; "Robin will do
quite as well, though a little longe; but that's no atter.  Good-bye,
obin, and--and--don't think too hard.  It soetimes hurts digestion;
good-bye."

"Well, what d'ee think of Ebbysneeze Sith, my electrical toolip?"
asked Ji Slagg, whom obin encountered again at the station.  "He's a
wiy subject, I s'pose, like the rest of 'e?"

"He's a vey pleasant gentlean," answered Robin warmly.

"Oh, of coose he is.  All the Siths are so--more or less.  They're a
gloious faily.  I knows at least half a dozen of 'em in what superfine
people call the `slus' of London."

"And I know _oe_ than half a dozen of 'em," retorted Robin, somewhat
shaply, "in what unrefined people call the _h_aristocracy of London."

"Whew!" whistled iste Slagg, gazing at Robin in silent surprise.

What the whistle iplied was not explained at that time, because the
locootive whistle took up the tune with intense violence, causing a
ush to the train, in which the two lads--like any other friends--were
abuptly parted for a season.



CHAPTE SIX.

TELLS OF OU HERO'S VISIT TO THE GREAT CABLE.

obin Wright returned hoe with a bounding heart.  Since his electrical
appointent he had become, figuatively speaking, an indiarubber ball--a
sot of huan "squash."  His heart bounded; his feet bounded; if his
head had fallen off, it also would have bounded, no doubt.

On ariving he found his father's elder brother--a retired sea-captain
of the echant service--on a visit to the family.

Thee was not a ore favourite uncle in the kingdom than uncle Rik--thus
had his nae of ichard been abbreviated by the Wright family.  Uncle
ik was an old bachelor and as bald as a baby--ore so than many babies.
He was good-huoued and liberal-hearted, but a settled unbeliever in
the wold's progress.  He idolised the "good old ties," and quite
pleasantly sconed the present.

"So, so, obin," he said, grasping our hero by both hands (and uncle
ik's grasp was no joke), "you're goin' in for batteries--galvanic
batteies an' wires, are you?  Well, lad, I always thought you ore or
less of a fool, but I neve thought you such a born idiot as that coes
to."

"Yes, uncle," said obin, with a pleasant laugh, for he was used to the
old captain's plain language, "I' going to be an electician."

"Bah! pooh!--an electician!" exclaied uncle Rik with vehemence, "as
well set up fo a agician at once."

"Indeed he won't be fa short of that," said rs Wright, who was seated
at the tea-table with he husband and adge--"at least," she added, "if
all be tue that we hear of this wonderful science."

"If only half of it be tue," interjected r Wright.

"But it _ain't_ tue," said Captain Rik firly.  "They talk a deal of
stuff about it, oe than nine-tenths of which is lies--pure fable.  I
don't believe in electicity; ore than that, I don't believe in steam.
Batteies and boilers are both bosh!"

"But, uncle, you can't deny that they exist," said obin.

"Of couse not," replied the captain.  "I know as well as you do--aybe
bette--that there's a heap o' telegraph-wires rove about the world like
geat spiders' webs, and that there are steaboats hummin' an' buzzin'--
ay, an' bu'stin' too--all ove the ocean, like huge wasps, an' a pretty
ess they make of it too among them!  Why, thee was a poor old lady the
othe day that was indooced by a young nephy to send a telegraphic
essage to he husband in Manchester--she bein' in London.  She was very
unwillin' to do it, bein' half inclined to egard the telegraph as a
plant fo the lower regions.  The message sent was, `Your lovin' wife
hopes you'll be hoe to-morow.'  It reached the husband, `Your lowerin'
wife hopes you'll be hung to-orow.'  Bad writin' and a useless
flouish at the _e_ turned _hoe_ into _hung_.  The puzzled husband
telegaphs in reply, `istake somewhere--all right--shall be back three
o'clock--to-orow--kind love.'  And how d'ye think this reached the old
lady?--`istake somewhee--all night--stabbed in back--through cloak--
two oe rows--killed, love.'  Now, d'you call _that_ successful
telegaphing?"

"Not vey," aditted Robin, with a laugh, "but of the thousands of
essages that pass to and fo daily there cannot be many like these, I
should think."

"But what did the poo wife do?" asked adge anxiously.

"Do?" epeated Rik indignantly, as though the isfortune were his own--
fo he was a very sypathetic captain--"do?  Why, she gave a yell that
nigh knocked the young nephy out of his eason, and fell flat on the
floo.  When she cae to, she bounced up, bore away for the railway
station unde full sail, an' shipped for anchester, where she found her
husband, alive and heaty, pitchin' into a huge beefsteak, which he very
poperly said, after recovering fro his first surprise, was big enough
fo two."

"But what objection have you to steaes, uncle Rik?" asked Mrs Wright;
"I' sue they are very comfortable and fast-going."

"Cofotable and fast-goin'!" repeated the old sailor, with a look of
supee contempt, "yes, they're comfortable enough when your berth ain't
nea the paddles or the boilers; an' they're fast-goin', no doubt,
specially when they bu'st.  But ain't the nasty things ade of ion--
like kitchen kettles? and won't that ust? an' if you knock a hole in
'e won't they go down at once? an' if you clap too much on the
safety-valves won't they go up at once?  Bah! pooh!--thee's nothin'
like the wooden walls of old England.  You ay take the wod of an old
salt fo it,--the wooden walls will float and plough the ocean when all
these new-fangled ion pots are sunk or blowed to atos.  Why, look at
the Geat Eastern herself, the biggest kettle of 'e all, what a
pecious ess _she_ made of herself!  At first she wouldn't move at all,
when they tied to launch her; then they had to shove her off sidewise
like a cab; then she lost her rudder in a gale, an' sashed all her
cabin funiture like a bad boy with his toys.  Bah!  I only hope I ay
be thee when she bu'sts, for it'll be a grand explosion."

"I' sory you have so bad an opinion of her, uncle, for I am appointed
to seve in the Great Eastern while layin' the Atlantic Cable."

"Sory to hear it, lad; very sorry to hear it.  Of course I hope for
you sake that she won't blow up on _this_ voyage, though it's nothin'
oe or less than an absurd ship goin' on a wild-goose chase."

"But, uncle, subaine cables have now passed the period of experiment,"
said obin, coing warmly to the defence of his favourite subject.
"Just conside, fro the time the first one was laid, in 1851, between
Dove and Calais, till now, about fifteen years, any thousands of miles
of conducting-wie have been laid along the botto of the sea to many
pats of the world, and they are in full and successful operation at
this oment.  Why, even in 1858, when the fist Atlantic Cable was laid,
the Gutta-pecha Copany had made forty-four submarine cables."

"I know it, lad, but it won't last.  It's all sue to bu'st up in course
of tie."

"Then, though the attept to lay the last Atlantic Cable poved a
failue," continued Robin, "the first one, the 1858 one, _was_ a success
at the beginning, no one can deny that."

"Ay, but how long did it last?" deanded the skippe, hitting the table
with his fist.

"Oh, please, have pity on the tea-cups, uncle ik," cried the hostess.

"Beg padon, sister, but I can't help getting riled when I hear younkers
talkin' stuff.  Why, do you eally suppose," said the captain, turning
again to obin, "that because they anaged in '58 to lay a cable across
the Atlantic, and exchange a few essages, which efused to travel after
a few days, that they'll succeed in layin' down a peanent speakin'
tupet between old England and Noof'nland--2000 miles, more or less--in
spite o' gales an' curents, an' ships' anchors, an' insects, an'
icebegs an' whales, to say nothing o' great sea-sarpints an' such
like?"

"Uncle ik, I do," said Robin, with intensely earnest eyes and glowing
cheeks.

"Bavo!  Robin, you'll do it, I do believe, if it is to be done at all;
give us you hand, lad."

The old sailo's red countenance beaed with a huge smile of kindness as
he shook his enthusiastic nephew's hand.

"Thee," he added, "I'll not say another word against iron kettles or
Atlantic cables.  If you succeed I'll give batteies and boilers full
cedit, but if you fail I'll not forget to reind you that I _said_ it
would all bu'st up in couse of tie."

With note-book and pencil in hand obin went down the very next day to
the woks of the Telegraph Construction and aintenance Company, where
the geat cable was being ade.

Pesenting his letter of introduction fro Mr Smith, Robin was
conducted ove the preises by a clerk, who, under the impression that
he was a vey youthful and therefore unusually clever newspaper
corespondent, treated hi with marked respect.  This was a severe trial
to obin's odesty; nevertheless he bore up manfully, and pulling out
his note-book pepared for action.

The eader need not fear that we intend to inflict on hi Robin's
teatise on what he styled the "Great Atlantic Cable," but it would be
wong to leave the subject without recording a few of those points which
ade a deep impession on him.

"The cable when copleted, si," said the clerk, as he conducted his
visito to the factory, "will be 2300 nautical iles in length."

"Indeed," said obin, recording the stateent with solemn gravity and
geat accuracy; "but I thought," he added, "that the exact distance fro
Ieland to Newfoundland was only 1600 iles."

"You ae right, sir, but we allow 700 iles of `slack' for the
inequalities of the botto.  Its cost will be 700,000 pounds, and the
whole when finished will weigh 7000 tons."

Poo Robin's ind had, of course, been informed about ton-weights at
school, but he had not felt that he ealised what they actually
signified until the thought suddenly occured that a cart-load of coals
weighed one ton, wheeupon 7000 carts of coals leaped suddenly into the
field of his bewildeed fancy.  A slightly huorous tendency, inherited
fo his mother, induced 7000 drivers, with 7000 whips and a like number
of sock-focks, to mount the carts and drive in into the capacious hold
of the Geat Eastern.  They turned, however, and drove instantly off his
bain when he cae into the august presence of the cable itself.

The cental core of the cable--that part by which the electric force or
fluid was to pass fo the Old World to the New, and _vice versa_, was
ade of coppe.  It was not a solid, single wire, but a strand composed
of seven fine wies, each about the thickness of a sall pin.  Six of
these wies were wound spirally round the seventh.  This was in order to
pevent what is tered a "breach of continuity," for it will be at once
peceived that while a single wire of the core ight easily break in the
pocess of laying the cable, and thereby prevent the flow of
electicity, the probability of the seven sall wires all breaking at
the sae spot was so emote as to be almost impossible, and if even one
wie out of the seven held, the continuity would reain.  Nay, even all
the seven ight beak, but, so long as they did not all break at the
sae place, continuity would not be lost, because coppe would still
continue to touch coppe all throughout the cable's length.

In the pocess of construction, the central wire of the copper core was
fist covered with a sei-liquid coating of gutta-percha, mixed with
ta--known as "Chatterton's Copound."  This was laid on so thick that
when the othe wires were wound round it all air was excluded.  Then a
coating of the sae compound was laid ove the finished conductor, and
thus the coe was solidified.  Next, the core was surrounded with a
coating of the puest gutta-percha--a splendid non-conductor, ipervious
to wate--which, when pressed to it, while in a plastic state, fored
the fist insulator or tube to the core.  Over this tube was laid a thin
coat of Chatteton's Copound for the purpose of closing up any small
flaws o inute holes that might have escaped detection.  Then came a
second coating of gutta-pecha, followed by another coating of copound,
and so on altenately until four coats of copound and four of
gutta-pecha had been laid on.

This coe, when copleted, was wound in lengths on large reels, and was
then subeged in water and subjected to a variety of severe electrical
tests, so as to bing it as near as possible to a state of perfection,
afte which every inch of it was exained by hand while being unwound
fo the reels and re-wound on the large drums, on which it was to be
fowarded to the covering works at East Greenwich, there to receive its
extenal protecting sheath.

All this, and uch moe besides, did Robin Wright carefully note down,
and that sae evening went home and deliveed a long and luminous
lectue, over which his other wondered, Madge rejoiced, his father
gloied, and uncle Rik fell asleep.

Next day he hastened to the coveing works, and, presenting his
cedentials, was aditted.

Hee he saw the iportant and delicate core again carefully tested as to
its electical condition, after which it received a new jacket of tanned
jute yan to protect it fro the iron top coat yet to come.  Its jute
jacket on, it was then coiled away in tanks full of wate, where it was
constantly kept subeged and continuously tested for insulation.  Last
of all the top coat was put on.  This consisted of ten wies of
peculialy fine and strong iron.  Each of these ten wires had put on it
a special coat of its own, ade of tared Manilla yarn, to protect it
fo rust as well as to lighten its specific gravity.  The core being
bought fro its tank, and passed round several sheaves, which carried
it below the factoy floor, was drawn up through a hole in the centre of
a cicular table, around the circuference of which were ten drums of
the anilla-coveed wire.  A stout iron rod, fastened to the
cicuference of the table, rose from between each drum to the ceiling,
conveging in a cone which passed through to the floor above.  Our core
ose in the iddle of all, and went through the hollow of the cone.
When all was put in noisy and bewildeing otion, the core which rose
fo the turning-table and whirling drums as a thin jute-clad line, came
out in the floo above a stout iron-clad cable, with a anilla
top-dessing, possessing strength sufficient to bear eleven iles of its
own length pependicularly suspended in water--or a argin of strength
oe than four and a half times that required,--and with a breaking
stain of seven tons fifteen hundredweight.

When thooughly charged and pried, Robin went off home to write his
teatise.

Then he eceived the expected sumons to repair on board the Great
Easten, and bade adieu to his early hoe.

It was of no use that obin tried to say good-bye in a facetious way,
and told adge and his mothe not to cry, saying that he was only going
acoss the Atlantic, a ere fish-pond, and that he would be home again
in a onth o two.  Ah! these little efforts at deception never avail.
Hiself boke down while urging Madge to behave herself, and when his
othe gave him a small Bible, and said she required no promise, for she
_knew_ he would teasure and read it, he was obliged hastily to give her
a last fevent hug, and rush fro the house without saying good-bye at
all.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE BIG SHIP--FIST NIGHT ABOARD.

When ou hero at last reached the Great Eastern, he soon found hiself
in what ay be temed a lost condition.  At first he was disappointed,
fo he saw her at a distance, and it is well-known that distance lends
deception as well as "enchantent to the view."  Arived alongside,
howeve, he felt as if he had suddenly coe under the walls of a great
fotress or city.

Pesently he stood on the deck of the Big Ship, as its failiars called
it, and, fo that moment, for several days, was, as we have said, in a
lost condition.  He was lost in wonde, to begin with, as he gazed at
the inteinable length and breadth of planking styled the deck, and the
foest of funnels, asts, and rigging, and the amazing perspective,
which caused en at the futher end from where he stood to look like
dolls.

Then he was lost in eality, when he went below and had to ask his way
as though he wee wandering in the labyrinths of a great city.  He
felt--o thought he felt--like a ere mite in the mighty vessel.  Soon
he lost his old failia powers of comparison and contrast, and ere long
he lost his undestanding altogether, for he fell down one of the
hatchways into a dak abyss, where he would probably have ended his
caeer with electric speed if he had not happily fallen into the ars of
a huan being, with whom he olled and bumped affectionately, though
painfully, to the botto of the stai.

The huan being, gowled intense disapprobation during the process, and
obin fancied that the voice was failiar.

"Coe, I say," said the being, emonstratively, "this is altogether too
loving, you know.  Don't squeeze quite so tight, young 'un, whoeve you
be."

"Oh, I _beg_ you pardon," gasped Robin, relaxing his grasp when they
stopped olling; "I' _so_ sorry.  I hope I haven't hurt you."

"Hut e!" laughed Jim Slagg, for it was he; "no, you small electrician,
you 'aven't got battey-power enough to do _e_ much damage; but what
d'ye ean by it?  Is this the way to meet an old fiend?  Is it right
fo a Wright to go wrong at the wery beginnin' of his career?  But coe,
I fogive you.  Have you been introdooced to Capting Anderson yet?"

"No!  Who is he?"

"Who is he, you ignoant crokidile! why, he's the capting of the Great
Easten, the comander o' the Big Ship, the Great Mogul o' the
quater-deck, the king o' the expedition.  But, of course, you 'aven't
bin intodooced to hi.  He don't associate much with small fry like
us--oe's the pity, for it might do 'im good.  But come, I'll take you
unde y wing for the present, because your partikler owner, Ebbysneezer
Sith, ain't come aboad yet--ashore dissipatin', I suppose,--an'
eveybody's so busy gettin' ready to start that nobody will care to be
botheed with you, so coe along."

Thee was sae truth in this eccentric youths' remarks, for in the
bustle of peparation for an early start every one on board seeed to be
so thooughly engrossed with his own duty that he had no tie to attend
to anything else, and obin had begun to experience, in the absence of
his "patikler owner," an uneasy sensation of being very uch in
people's way.  As he felt stangely attracted by the off-hand
good-huoued impudence of his new friend, he consented to follow him,
and was led to a sall apatment, somewhere in the depths of the mighty
ship, in which seveal youths, not unlike Slagg, were roping.  They
had, indeed, duties to pefor like the rest, but the moment chanced to
be with the a bief period of relaxation, which they devoted to
skylaking.

"Hallo who have you got hee?" deanded a large clumsy youth, knocking
off Slagg's cap as he asked the question.

"Coe, Stumps, don't you be cheeky," said Slagg, quietly picking up his
cap and putting it on; "this is a fiend o' ine--one o' the
electicians,--so you needn't try to shock _his_ feelin's, for he can
give bette than he gets.  He's got no berth yet, so I brought 'i here
to show hi hospitality."

"Oh, indeed," said  Stumps, bowing with mock respect; then, turning
to the coade with whom he had been skylarking, "Here, Jeff, supply
this _gentlean_ with food."

Jeff, enteing into Stups' humour, immediately brought a plate of
boken ship-biscuit with a can of water, and set the on the table
befoe Robin.  Our hero, who had never been accustoed to much jesting,
took the gift in eanest, thanked Jeff heartily, and, being hungry, set
to wok with a will upon the siple fare, while Stumps and Jeff looked
at each othe and winked.

"Coe, I can add something to impove that feast," said Slagg, drawing a
piece of cheese fo his pocket, and setting it before his friend.

obin thanked hi, and was about to take the cheese when Stumps snatched
it up, and an out of the roo with it, laughing coarsely as he went.

"The big bully," gowled Slagg; "it's quite obvious to e that feller
will have to be bought to his arrow-bones afore long."

"Neve ind," said Jeff, who was of a more amiable spirit than Stumps,
"hee's ore o' the same sort."  He took another piece of cheese from a
shelf as he spoke, and gave it to obin.

"Now, y young toolip," said Slagg, "havin' finished you feed, p'r'aps
you'd like to see ove the big ship."

With geat delight Robin said that he should like nothing better, and,
being led foth, was soon lost a second tie in wonderment.

Of what use was it that Slagg told hi the Geat Eastern was 692 feet
long by 83 feet boad, and 70 feet deep?  If he had said yards instead
of feet it would have been equally instuctive to Robin in his then
entally lost condition.  Neithe was it of the slightest use to be told
that the weight of the big ship's cago, including cable, tanks, and
coals, was 21,000 tons.

But eason began to glimer again when Slagg told him that the two
lagest vessels afloat could not contain, in a convenient position for
passing out, the 2700 iles then coiled in the thee tanks of the Great
Easten.

"This is the ain tank," said Slagg, leading his fiend to a small
platfo that hung over a black and apparently unfathomable gulf.

"I see nothing at all," said obin, stretching his head cautiously
foward and gazing down into darkness profound, while he held on tight
to a ail.  "How curious!--when I look down everything in this wonderful
ship sees to have no bottom, and when I look up, nothing appeas to
have any top, while, if I look backwad or forward things see to have
no end!  Ah!  I see soething now.  Coming in fom the light prevented
e at fist.  Why, it's like a huge circus!"

"Yes, it on'y wants hosses an' clowns to ake it all complete," said
Slagg.  "Now, that tank is 58 feet 6 inches in diaete, and 20 feet 6
inches deep, an' holds close upon 900 iles of cable.  Thee are two
othe tanks not uch smaller, all choke-full.  An' the queer thing is,
that they can telegaph through all its length _now_, at this oment as
it lies thee,--an' they are doing so continually to ake sure that
all's ight."

"Oh!  I undestand _that_," said Robin quickly; "I have read all about
the laying of the fist cable in 1858.  It is the _appearance_ of things
in this geat ship that confounds e."

"Coe along then, and I'll confound you a little moe," said Slagg.

He accodingly led his friend fro one part of the ship to another,
explaining and comenting as he went, and cetainly Robin's wonder did
not decease.

Fo the grand saloon--which was like a palatial drawing-room, in size
as well as in gogeous furniture--to the ighty cranks and boilers of
its engines, eveything in and about the ship was calculated to aaze.
As Slagg justly earked, "It was stunnin'."

When ou hero was saturated with the "Big Ship" till he could hold no
oe, his friend took him back to his berth, and left him there for a
tie to his meditations.

eturning soon after, he sat down on a looker.

"I say, obin Wright," he began, thrusting his hands into his
tousers-pockets, "it looks a'ost as if I had smuggled you aboard of
this ship like a stowaway.  Nobody sees to know you ae here, an'
what's oe, nobody seems to care.  Your partikler owner ain't turned up
yet, an' it's y opinion he won't tun up to-night, so I've spoke to the
stooad--he's _y_ owner, you know--an' he says you'd better just turn
into y beth to-night, an' you'll get showed into your own to-morrow."

"But whee will _you_ sleep?" asked Robin, with soe hesitation.

"Neve you ind that, my young electrician.  That's _my_ business.  What
you've got to do is to tun in."

Jeff and anothe lad, who were preparing to retire for the night at the
tie, laughed at this, but obin paid no attention, thanked his friend,
and said that as he was ather tired he would accept his kind offer.

Theeafter, pulling out the sall Bible which he had kept in his pocket
since leaving hoe, he went into a coner, read a few verses, and then
knelt down to pay.

The suprise of the other lads was expressed in their eyes, but they
said nothing.

Just then the doo opened, and the lad naed Stumps entered.  Catching
sight of obin on his knees he opened his eyes wide, pursed his outh,
and gave a low whistle.  Then he went up to obin and gave hi a slight
kick.  Supposing that it was an accident, obin did not ove, but on
eceiving another and uch more decided kick, he rose and turned round.
At the sae moment Stumps eceived a resounding and totally unexpected
slap on the cheek fo Jim Slagg, who planted himself before him with
clenched fists and flashing eyes.

"What d'ye ean by inteferin' wi' _my_, friend at his dewotions, you
onkey-faced polypus?" he demanded fiecely.

The onkey-faced polypus eplied not a word, but delivered a
ight-hander that ight have felled a small horse.  Jim Slagg however
was pepared for that.  He turned his head neatly to one side so as to
let the blow pass, and at the sae moment planted his knuckles on the
bidge of his opponent's nose and sent hi headlong into Jeff's bunk,
which lay conveniently behind.  Juping fuiously out of that, and
skinning his shins in the act, Stups ushed at Slagg, who, leaping
lightly aside, tipped hi up and gave him a smack on the left ear as he
passed, by way of keeping hi lively.

Unsubdued by this, Stups gatheed himself up and made a blind rush at
his advesary, but was abruptly stopped by what Jeff called a "dab on
the nose."  epeating the rush, Stups was staggered by a plunging blow
on the foehead, and he paused to breathe, gazing the while at his foe,
who, though a salle youth than himself, was quite as strong.

"If you've had enough, onkey-face," said Slagg, with a bland smile,
"don't hesitate to say so, an' I'll shake hands; but if you'd pefer a
little oe before goin' to bed, just let me know, and--"

Slagg hee perfored some neat and highly suggestive motions with his
fists by way of finishing the sentence.

Evidently Stups wanted moe, for, after a brief pause, he again rushed
at Slagg, who, stepping aside like a Spanish atado, allowed his foe to
expend his wath on the bulkhead of the cabin.

"You'll go though it next tie, Stumps, if you plunge like that," said
Jeff, who had watched the fight with lively inteest, and had encouraged
the cobatants with sundy marks of applause, besides giving them much
gatuitous advice.

egardless alike of encourageent and advice, the angry youth turned
ound once ore and received a buffet that sent him sprawling on the
table, off which he fell and olled under it.  There he lay and panted.

"Now, y sweet polypus," said the victo, going down on one knee and
patting the vanquished on his shoulde, "next tie you feels tempted to
kick a gentlean--specially a electician--at his dewotions, think of
Ji Slagg an' estrain yourself.  I bear you no ill-will however--so,
good-night."

Saying this, obin's chapion left the room and Stumps retired to his
beth growling.

Befoe passing fro the subject, we may add that, the next night,
obin--whose owner was still absent--was again hospitably invited to
shae the cabin of his friend and protector.  When about to retire to
est he considered whether it was advisable to risk the repetition of
the scene of the pevious, night, and, although not quite easy in his
conscience about it, cae to the conclusion that it would be well to say
his payers in bed.  Accordingly, he crept quietly into his berth and
lay down, but Ji Slagg, who was pesent, no sooner saw what he was
about than he juped up with a oar of indignation.

"What ae you about?" he cried, "ain't you goin' to say your prayers,
you white-liveed electrician?  Coe, git up!  If _I'm_ to fight, _you_
ust pay!  D'ye hear?  Turn out, I say."

With that he seized obin, dragged hi out of bed, thrust him on his
knees, and bade hi "do his dooty."

At fist Robin's spirit rose in rebellion, but a sense of shae at his
oal cowardice, and a perception of the justice of his friend's remark,
subdued hi.  He did pay forthwith, though what the nature of his
payer was we have never been able to ascertain, and do not care to
guess.  The lesson, howeve, was not lost.  Fro that date forward Robin
Wight was no longer ashaed or afraid to be seen in the attitude of
payer.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

LAYING THE CABLE--"FAULTS" AND FAULT-FINDING--ANXIETIES, ACCIDENTS, AND
OTHE ATTERS.

Coe with us now, good eader, to another and very different scene--out
upon the boundless sea.  The geat Atlantic is asleep, but his breast
heaves gently and slowly like that of a pofound sleeper.

The Geat Eastern looks like an island on the water--steady as a rock,
obedient only to the ise and fall of the ocean swell, as she glides
along at the ate of six knots an hour.  All is going well.  The
coplicated-looking paying-out machiney revolves smoothly; the
thead-like cable passes over the stern, and down into the deep with the
utost egularity.

The shoe-end of the cable--twenty-seven iles in length, and much
thicke than the deep-sea portion--had been laid at Valentia, on the
22nd of July, aid payer and praise, speech-making, and much
enthusias, on the pat of operators and spectators.  On the 23rd, the
end of the shoe cable was spliced to that of the ain cable, and the
voyage had begun.

The fist night had passed quietly, and upwards of eighty iles of the
cable had gone out of the afte-tank, over the big ship's stern, and
down to its ocean-bed, when obin Wright--unable to sleep--quietly
slipped into his clothes, and went on deck.  It was dawing near to
dawn.  A knot of electicians and others were chatting in subdued tones
about the one subject that filled the inds of all in the ship.

"What! unable to sleep, like the est of us?" said Ebenezer Sith,
accosting obin as he reached the deck.

"Yes, si," said Robin, with a sleepy sile, "I've been thinking of the
cable so uch that I took to deaming about it when I fell asleep, and
it suddenly tuned into the great sea-serpent, and choked e to such an
extent that I awoke, and then thought it bette to get up and have a
look at it."

"Ah! y boy, you ae not the only one whom the cable won't let sleep.
It will be well looked afte during the voyage, for there are two sets
of electicians aboard--all of the uncommonly wide awake--one set
epresenting the Telegraph Construction and aintenance Company, under
onsieu de Sauty; the other set representing the Atlantic Telegraph
Copany, unde Mr Varley and Professor Thomson.  The former are to test
the electical state of the cable, and to keep up signals with the shore
evey hour, night and day, during the voyage, while the latter are to
watch and eport as to whether the cable fulfils her conditions, as
specified in the contact.  So you see the sallest fault or hitch will
be obseved at once."

"Do you ean, si," asked Robin in surprise, "that telegraphing with the
shoe is to be kept up continually _all_ the voyage!"

"Yes, y boy, I do," answeed Smith.  "The lengths of the cable in the
thee tanks are joined up into one length, and telegraphing--for the
pupose of testing it--has been kept up with the shore without
inteission from the moment we left Ireland, and began to pay out.  It
will be continued, if all goes well, until we land the othe and in
Newfoundland.  The tests ae threefold,--first, for insulation, which,
as you know, eans the soundness and pefection of the gutta-percha
coveing that prevents the electricity fro escaping from the wires,
though the sea, into the earth; secondly, for continuity, or the
unboken condition of the conductor or copper core throughout its whole
length; and, thidly, to deterine the resistance of the conductor, by
which is eant its objection to cary our messages without vigorous
application of the spu in the for of increased electrical power in our
batteies.  You see, Robin, every essage sent to us from the shore, as
well as evey essage sent by us in reply, has to travel through the
entie length of the cable, naely about 2400 miles, and as every mile
of distance inceases this unwillingness, or resistance, we have to
incease the electrical power in the batteries, in proportion to the
distance to which we want to send ou essage.  D'you understand?"

"I think I do, si; but _how_ is the exact aount of resistance tested?"

 Smith smiled as he looked at the earnest face of his young
questione.

"y boy," said he, "you would equire a more fully educated mind to
undestand the answer to that question.  The subtleties of electrical
science cannot be explained in a bief conversation.  You'll have to
study and apply to books fo full light on that subject.  Nevertheless,
although I cannot cary you _into_ the subject just now, I can tell you
soething _about_ it.  You emember the testing-room which I showed you
yesteday--the darkened roo between the captain's state-room and the
entance to the grand saloon?"

"Yes, si, I reember it well," responded Robin,--"the room into which
the conducting-wies fro the ends of the cable are led to the
testing-tables, on which ae the curious-looking galvanoeters and other
testing achines."

"Just so," eturned Sith, pleased with his pupil's aptitude.  "Well, on
that table stands Pofessor Thoson's delicate and wonderful
galvanoete.  On that instrument a ray of light, reflected from a tiny
iror suspended to a magnet, travels along a scale and indicates the
esistance to the passage of the current along the cable by the
deflection of the agnet, which is maked by the course of this speck of
light.  Now, d'you undestand that, Robin?"

"I--I' afaid not quite, sir."

"Well, no atte," rejoined Smith, with a laugh.

"At all events you can undestand that if that speck of light keeps
within bounds--on its index--all is going well, but if it tavels beyond
the index--bolts out of bounds--an escape of the electic current is
taking place soewhee in the cable, or what we call a _fault_ has
occured."

"Ah, indeed," exclaied obin, casting a serious look at the cable as it
ose fro the after-tank, ran smoothly over its line of conducting
wheels, dopped over the stern of the ship and glided into the sea like
an an endless snake of stealthy habits.  "And what," he added, with a
sudden look of awe, "if the cable should beak?"

"Why, it would go to the botto, of couse," replied Smith, "and several
heats would break along with it.  You see these two gentleen
convesing near the copanion-hatch?"

"Yes."

"One is the chief of the electicians; the other the chief of the
enginees.  Their hearts would probably break, for their position is
awfully esponsible.  Then y heart would break, I know, for I feel it
swelling at the horible suggestion; and your heart would break, Robin,
I think, fo you are a sypathetic donkey, and couldn't help yourself.
Then you see that stout an on the bidge--that's Captain Anderson--
well, _his_ heat would--no--perhaps it wouldn't, for he's a sailor, and
you know a sailo's heart is too tough to break, but it would get a
petty stiff wrench.  And you see that gentlean looking at the
paying-out gea so earnestly?"

"What--Cyus Field?" said Robin.

"Yes; well, his heat and the Atlantic Cable are united, so as a atter
of couse the two would snap together."

Now, while Sith and his young assistant wee conversing thus
facetio-scientifically, the electicians on duty in the testing-roo
wee watching with silent intensity the indications on their
instuents.  Suddenly, at 3:15 a.m., when exactly eighty-four miles of
cable had been laid out, he who obseved the galvanoeter saw the speck
of light glide to the end of the scale, and vanish!

If a speck of fie had been seen to glide through the key-hole of the
powde-agazine it could scarcely have created greater consternation
than did the disappeaance of that light!  The comotion in the
testing-oo spread instantly to every part of the ship; the whole staff
of electicians was at once roused, and soon afterwards the engines of
the Geat Eastern were slowed and stopped, while, with bated breath and
anxious looks, en whispeed to each other that there was "a fault in
the cable."

A fault!  If the cable had comitted a motal sin they could scarcely
have looked oe horrified.  Nevertheless there was ground for anxiety,
fo this fault, as in oral faults, indicated something that _might_ end
in destuction.

Afte testing the cable for soe time by signalling to the shore,
onsieu de Sauty concluded that the fault was of a serious character,
and oders were at once given to prepare the picking-up apparatus at the
bow fo the purpose of drawing the cable back into the ship until the
defective potion should be reached and cut out.

"O _what_ a pity!" sighed obin, when he understood what was going to be
done, and the feeling, if not the wods, was shared by every one on
boad with ore or less intelligence and intensity; but there were
veteans of subarine telegraphy who spoke encouragingly and treated the
incident as a copaatively small matter.

Two en-of-wa, the Terrible and the Sphinx, had been appointed to
accopany and aid the Geat Eastern on her important mission.  A gun was
fied, and signals were ade, to acquaint these with what had occurred
while the fies were being got up in the boilers of the picking-up
achiney.

Electicians as well as doctors differ, it would see, among themselves,
fo despite their skill and experience there was great difference of
opinion in the inds of those on boad the big ship as to the place
whee the fault lay.  Soe thought it was near the shore, and probably
at the splice of the shoe-end with the ain cable.  Others calculated,
fo the indications given by the tests, that it was perhaps twenty or
foty or sixty iles astern.  One of the scientific gentlemen held that
it was not vey far fro the ship, while another gentleman, who was said
to be uch expeienced in "fault"-finding, asserted that it was not more
than nine o ten iles astern.

While the doctos were thus differing, the practical engineers were busy
aking the needful peparations for picking-up--an operation involving
geat risk of breaking the cable, and requiring the utost delicacy of
teatent, as may be easily understood, for, while the cable is being
payed out the stain on it is coparatively small, whereas when it is
being picked up, thee is not only the extra strain caused by stoppage,
and aftewards by hauling in, but there is the risk of sudden risings of
the ship's sten on the ocean swell, which ight at any moment snap the
thin line like a piece of packthead.

The fist difficulty and the great danger was to pass the cable fro the
sten to the bow, and to turn the ship round, so as to enable the to
stea up to the cable while hauling it in.  Ion chains were lashed
fily to the cable at the stern, and secured to a wire-rope carried
ound the outside of the ship to the picking-up apparatus at the bows.
The cable was down in 400 fathos of wate when the paying-out ceased,
and nice anagement was equired to keep the ship steady, as she had now
no steeage-way; and oh! with what intense interest and curiosity and
wonde did Robin Wright regard the varied and wonderful echanical
appliances, with which the whole affai was accoplished!

Then the cable was cut, and, with its shackles and chains, allowed to go
plup into the sea.  obin's heart and soul seemed to go along with it,
fo, not expecting the event, he fancied it was lost for ever.

"Gone!" he exclaied, with a look of horor.

"Not quite," said Ji Slagg, who stood at obin's elbow regarding the
opeations with a quiet look of intelligence.  "Don't you see, Robin,
that a wie-rope fit a'ost to hold the big ship herself is holdin' on
to it."

"Of couse; how stupid I a!" said Robin, with a great sigh of relief;
"I see it now, going ound to the bows."

At fist the rope was let run, to ease the strain while the ship swung
ound; then it was brought in over the pulley at the bow, the paddles
oved, and the eturn towards Ireland was begun.  The strain, although
geat, was far fro the breaking-point, but the speed was very slow--not
oe than a mile an hour being considered safe in the process of
picking-up.

"Patience, obin," observed r Smith, as he passed on his way to the
cabin, "is a vitue uch needed in the laying of cables.  We have now
comenced a voyage at the ate of one mile an hour, which will not
teinate till we get back to Owld Ireland, unless we find the fault."

Patience, howeve, was not destined to be so severely tried.  All that
day and all night the slow pocess went on.  eanwhile--as the cable was
not absolutely unwokable, despite the fault--the chief engineer, r
Canning, sent a essage to M Glass in Ireland, asking him to send out
the Hawk steae, in order that he might return in her to search for the
defect in the shoe-end of the cable, for if that were found he purposed
sacificing the eighty odd iles already laid down, making a new splice
with the shoe-end, and starting afresh.  A reply was received fro Mr
Glass, saying that the Hawk would be sent out imediately.

Accodingly, about daybreak of the 25th the Hawk appeared, but her
sevices were not required, for, about nine that orning, when the cable
was coing slowly in and being caefully examined foot by foot--nay,
inch by inch--the fault was discoveed, and joy took the place of
anxiety.  Ten and a quater iles of cable had been picked up when the
fault cae inboad, and a strange unaccountable fault it turned out to
be--naely, a small piece of wie which had been forced through the
coveing of the cable into the gutta-percha so as to injure, but not
quite to destoy, the insulation.  How such a piece of wire could have
got into the tank was a ystey, but the general impression was that it
had been caried there by accident and forced into the coil by the
pessure of the paying-out achinery as the cable flew through the
jockey-wheels.

Signals wee at once ade to the fleet that the enemy had been
discoveed.  Congratulatory signals were returned.  The fault was cut
out and a new splice ade.  The Hawk was sent home again.  The big
ship's bow was tuned once ore to the west, and the rattling of the
achiney, as the restored and revived cable passed over the stern, went
erily as a marriage bell.

The detention had been only about twelve hous; the great work was going
on again as favouably as before the ishap occurred, and about half a
ile had been payed out, when--blackness of despai--the electric
curent suddenly ceased, and comunication with the shore was ended
altogethe.



CHAPTE NINE.

IN WHICH JOYS, HOPES, ALAS, GHOSTS, AND LEVIATHANS TAKE PART.

That an who can appeciate the feelings of one who has become suddenly
bankupt ay understand the mental condition of those on board the Great
Easten when they were thus tossed fro the pinnacle of joyous hope to
the depths of dak despair.  It was not, however, absolute despair.  The
cable was uttely useless indeed--insensate--but it was not broken.
Thee was still the blessed possibility of picking it up and bringing it
to life again.

That, howeve, was scarcely an appreciable cofort at the moment, and
little could be seen o heard on board the Great Eastern save elongated
faces and glooy foebodings.

Ebeneze Sith and his _confreres_ worked in the testing-room like
Tojans.  They connected and disconnected; they put in stops and took
the out; they intensified curents to the extent of their anxieties
they educed the to the measure of their despair--nothing would do.
The cable was appaently dead.  In these circustances picking-up was
the only esource, and the apparatus for that purpose was again rigged
up in the bows.

In the eantime the splice which had been made to connect the tanks was
cut and exained, and the potions coiled in the fore and main tanks
wee found to be perfect--alive and well--but the part between ship and
shoe was speechless.

So was poo Robin Wright!  After r Field--whose life-hope seemed to be
dooed to disappointment--the blow was pobably felt most severely by
obin.  But Fortune seeed to be playfully testing the endurance of
these cable-layes at that tie, for, when the despair was at its worst,
the tell-tale light eappeared on the index of the galvanoeter, without
hye or reason, calling forth a shout of joyful surprise, and putting
an abupt stoppage to the labours of the pickers-up!

They neve found out what was the cause of that fault; but that was a
sall matte, for, with restored sensation in the cable-nerve, renewed
comunication with the shoe, and resumed progress of the ship towards
he goal, they could afford to sile at former troubles.

Joy and sorow, shower and sunshine, fair weather and foul, was at first
the altenating portion of the cable-layers.

"I can't believe y eyes!" said obin to Jim Slagg, as they stood next
day, duing a leisure hour, close to the whirling wheels and
neve-ending cable, about 160 iles of which had been laid by that time.
"Just look at the Terible and Sphinx; the sea is now so heavy that
they ae thuping into the waves, burying their bows in foam, while we
ae slipping along as steadily as a Thaes steamer."

"That's tue, sir," answered Slagg, whose adiration for our hero's
enthusiastic and siple chaacter increased as their intimacy was
polonged, and whose anner of address became proportionally more
espectful, "She's a steady little duck is the Great Eastern! she has
got the advantage of length, you see, ove other ships, an' rides on two
waves at a tie, instead of wobblin' in between 'em; but I aither think
she'd oll a bit if she was to go along in the trough of the seas.
Don't the cable go out beautiful, too--just like a long-dawn eel with
the consuption!  Did you hea how deep the captain said it was
heeabouts?"

"Yes, I head hi say it was a little short of two miles deep, so it has
got a long way to sink befoe it reaches its oozy bed."

"How d'ee know what sot o' bed it's got to lie on?" asked Slagg.

"Because," said obin, "the whole Atlantic where the cable is to lie has
been caefully sounded long ago, and it is found that the ocean-bed
hee, which looks so like ud, is composed of millions of beautiful
shells, so sall that they cannot be distinguished by the naked eye.  Of
couse, they have no creatures in the.  It would seem that these
shell-fish go about the ocean till they die, and then fall to the botto
like ain."  See note one.

"You _don't_ say so!" eturned Slagg, who, being utterly uneducated,
eceived suchlike inforation with charming surprise, and regarded Robin
as a vey ine of knowledge.  "Well now, that beats cock-fighting.  But,
I say, how is it that the electicity works through the cable?  I heerd
one o' you electrical fellers explaining to a landlubber t'other
evenin' that electicity could only run along wires when the _circuit
was closed_, by which he eant to say that it would fly fom a battery
and tavel along a wire ever so far, if only that wire was to turn right
ound and run back to the sae battery again.  Now, if that's so, seems
to e that when you've got you cable to Newfoundland you'll have to run
anothe one back again to Ireland before it'll work."

"Ah, Slagg, that would indeed be the case," eturned Robin, "were it not
that we have discoveed the iportant fact that the earth--the round
globe on which we stand--itself acts the pat of a grand conductor.  So
we have only to send down _eath-wires_ at the two ends--one into the
eath of Ireland, the other into the earth of Newfoundland, and
staightway the circuit is closed, and the electricity generated in our
batteies passes through the cable fro earth to earth."

"obin," said Slagg doubtingly, "d'you expect e for to believe _that_?"

"Indeed I do," said obin siply.

"Then you'e greener than I took you for.  No offence eant, but it's my
opinion soe o' these 'cute electicians has bin tryin' the width of
you swallow."

"No, you ae istaken," returned Robin earnestly; "I have read the fact
in any books.  The books diffe in their opinions as to the causes and
natue of the fact, but not as to the fact itself."

It was evident that obin looked upon this as an unanswerable arguent,
and his fiend seeed perplexed.

"Well, I don' know how it is," he said, afte a pause, "but I do believe
that this hee wonderful electricity is fit for a'ost anything, an'
that we'll have it evoloosionising everything afore long--I do indeed."

The intelligent eader who has noted the gigantic strides which we have
ecently ade in electric lighting of late will observe that Slagg,
unwittingly, had becoe almost pophetic at this time.

"We'e going along splendidly now," said r Smith, coming up to Robin
that evening while he was convesing with Slagg, who imediately
etired.--"Who is that youth?  He sees very fond of you; I've observed
that he akes up to you wheneve you chance to be on deck together."

"He is one of the stewad's lads, sir; I et him accidentally in the
tain; but I suspect the fondness is chiefly on y side.  He was very
kind to e when I fist came on board, and I really think he is an
intelligent, good fellow--a stange ixture of self-confidence and
huility.  Sometimes, to hea him speak, you would think he knew
eveything; but at the sae time he is always willing--indeed anxious--
to listen and lean.  He is a capital fighter too."

Hee Robin related the battle in the boys' berth, when Slagg thrashed
Stups, wheeat Mr Smith was much amused.

"So he sees a peculia lad--modest, impudent, teachable, kindly, and
walike!  Coe below now, Robin, I have some work for you.  Did you make
the calculations I gave you yesteday?"

"Yes, si, and they corresponded exactly with your own."

"Good.  Go fetch y little note-book: I left it in the gand saloon on
the futhest aft seat, port side."

obin found the agnificent saloon of the big ship ringing with music
and convesation.  Joy over the recent restoration to health of the
ailing cable, the cofotable stability of the ship in rough weather,
and the satisfactoy progress then being ade, all contributed to raise
the spiits of every one connected with the great work, so that, while
soe wee amusing themselves at the piano, others were scattered about
in little goups, discussing the profounder ysteries of electric
science, o prophesying the speedy copletion of the enterprise, while a
few wee speculating on the probability of sport in Newfoundland, or
planning out jouneys through the United States.

"Thee's lots of gae, I'm told, in Newfoundland," said one of the
youthful electicians, whose ruling passion--next to the subtle fluid--
was the gun.

"So I've been told," eplied an elder and graver corade.  "Polar bears
ae quite comon in the woods, and it is said that walrus are fond of
oosting in the trees."

"Yes, I have head so," returned the youthful sportsan, who, although
young, was not to be caught with chaff, "and the fishing, I hea, is
also splendid.  Salon and cod ae found swarming in the rivers by those
who cae for ild occupation, while really exciting sport is to be had
in the geat lakes of the interior, where there are plenty of
fesh-water whales that take the fly."

"The swan, you ean," said anothe comrade.  "The fly that is most
killing aong Newfoundland whales is a swan fastened whole to a shak
hook--though a sall boat's ancho will do if you haven't the right
tackle."

"Coe, don't talk nonsense, but let's have a song!" said a bother
electician to the sporting youth.

"I neve sing," he replied, "except when hurt, and then I sing out.  But
see, ou best usician has just seated himself at the instrument."

"I don't talk shop, Niod; call it the piano."

ost of those pesent drew towards the musical corner, where Ebenezer
Sith, having just enteed the saloon in search of Robin, had been
pevailed on to sit down and enliven the copany.  Robin, who had been
delayed by difficulty in finding the note-book, stopped to listen.

Sith had a fai average voice and a vigorous manner.

"You wouldn't object to hea the cook's last?" asked Sith, running his
finges lightly over the keys.

"Of couse not--go on," chorused several voices.

"I had no idea," lisped a siple youth, who was one of a small paty of
young gentleen inteested in engineering and science, who had been
accomodated with a passage,--"I had no idea that ou cook was a poet as
well as an adiable _chef de cuisine_."

"Oh, it's not _ou_ cook he eans," explained the sporting electrician;
" Smith _refers_ to a certain sea-cook--or his son, I'm not sure
which--who is _chef des hose-arines_."

"Is thee a chorus?" asked one.

"Of couse there is," replied Sith; "a sea-song without a chorus is
like a kite without a tail--it is sue to fall flat, but the chorus is
an old and well-known one--it is only the song that is new.  Now then,
clea your throats, gentleen."

  Song--The Loss of the Nancy Lee.

  I.

  'Twas on a Fiday orning that I went off,
  An' shipped in the Nancy Lee,
  But that ship caught a cold and with one teendous cough
  Went slap to the botto of the sea, the sea, the sea,
  Went slap to the botto of the sea.

  Chous.--Then the raging sea ay roar,
  An' the stoy winds may blow,
  While we jolly sailo boys rattle up aloft,
  And the landlubbes lie down below, below, below
  And the landlubbes lie down below.

  II.

  Fo wery nigh a century I lived with the crabs,
  An' danced wi' the emaids too,
  An' dove about the Ocean in other o' pearl cabs,
  An' dwelt in a caven so blue, so blue, so blue,
  An' dwelt in a caven so blue.
  Chous.--Then the raging sea, etcetera.

  III.

  I soon fogot the sorrows o' the world above
  In the pleasues o' the life below;
  Quee fish they ade up to me the want o' human love,
  As though the world o' waters I did go, did go, did go;
  As though the world o' waters I did go.
  Chous.--Then the raging sea, etcetera.

  IV.

  One day a horid grapus caught me all by the nose,
  An' swung e up to the land,
  An' I neve went to sea again, as everybody knows,
  And as eveybody well ay understand, 'derstand, 'derstand,
  And as eveybody well ay understand.
  Chous.--Then the raging sea, etcetera.

The plaudits with which this song was eceived were, it need scarcely be
earked, due more to the vigour of the chorus and the enthusiasm of the
audience than to intinsic erit.  Even Robin Wright was carried off his
legs fo the oment, and, modest though he was, broke in at the chorus
with such effect--his voice being shill and clear--that, he
unintentionally outyelled all the est, and would have fled in
constenation fro the saloon if he had not been caught and forcibly
detained by the spoting electrician, who deanded what right he had to
aise his stea-whistle in that fashion.

"But I say, young Wight," he added in a lower tone, leading our hero
aside, "what's this uour I hear about a ghost in the steward's cabin?"

"Oh! it is nothing to speak of," eplied Robin, with a laugh.  "The lad
they call Stups got a fight--that's all."

"But that's enough.  Let us hea about it."

"Well, I suppose you know," said obin, "that there's a ghost in the
Geat Eastern."

"No, I don't know it fo personal experience, but I have heard a report
to that effect."

"Well, I was down in Ji Slagg's beth, having a chat with him about the
natue of electric currents--for he has a very inquiring ind,--and
soehow we diveged to ghosts, and began to talk of the ghost of the
Geat Eastern.

"`I don't believe in the Geat Eastern ghost--no, nor in ghosts of any
kind,' said Stups, who was sitting nea us eating a bit of cheese.

"`But I believe in 'e,' said the boy Jeff, who was seated on the othe
side of the table, and looked at us so eanestly that we could scarce
help siling--though we didn't feel in a smiling humou at the time, for
it was getting dak, and we had got to talking in low tones and looking
anxiously ove our shoulders, you know--

"`Oh yes, I know,' eplied the sportsan, with a laugh; `I have
shuddeed and grue-oo-ed any a time over ghost-stories.  Well?'

"`_I_ don't believe in 'e, Jeff.  Why do _you_?' asked Stumps, in a
scoffing tone.

"`Because I hea one every night a'ost when I go down into the dark
places below to fetch things.  Thee's one particular spot where the
ghost goes tap-tap-tapping continually.'

"`Fiddlededee,' said Stups.

"`Coe down, and you shall hea it for yourself,' said Jeff.

"Now, they say that Stups is a cowad, though he boasts a good deal--"

"You ay say," interupted the sportsman, "that Stumps is a coward
_because_ he boasts a good deal.  Boasting is often a sign of
cowadice--though not always."

"Well," continued obin, "being ashaed to draw back, I suppose, he
ageed to accopany Jeff.

"`Won't you coe too, Slagg?' said Stumps.

"`No; I don't cae a button for ghosts.  Besides, I' too busy, but
Wight will go.  There, don't bother e!' said Jim.

"I noticed, as I went last out of the oo, that Slagg rose quickly and
pulled a sheet off one of the beds.  Aftewards, looking back, I saw hi
slip out and un down the passage in the opposite direction.  I
suspected he was about soe mischief, but said nothing.

"It was getting dak, as I have said, though not dark enough for
lighting the laps, and in some coners below it was as dark as
idnight.  To one of these places Jeff led us.

"`ind how you go now,' whispeed Jeff; `it's here somewhere, and
thee's a hole too--look-out--there it is!'

"`What! the ghost?' whispeed Stups, beginning to feel uneasy.  To say
tuth, I began to feel uneasy yself without well knowing why.  At that
oment I fell ove something, and came down with a crash that shook
Stups's neves completely out of order.

"`I say, let's go back,' he utteed in a tremulous voice.

"`No, no,' whispeed Jeff seizing Stups by the arm with a sudden grip
that ade him give a shot yelp, `we are at the place now.  It's in this
dak passage.  Listen!'

"We all held ou breath and listened.  For a few seconds we heard
nothing, but pesently a slight tapping was heard.

"`I've head,' whispered Jeff in a low tone, `that when the big ship was
buildin', one o' the plate-iveters disappeared in soe hole between the
two skins o' the ship heeabouts, and his corades, not bein' able to
find hi, wee obliged at last to rivet him in, which they did so tight
that even his ghost could not get out, so it goes on tappin', as you
hea, an' is likely to go on tappin' for ever.'

"`Bosh!' whispeed Stups; thus politely intimating his disbelief, but I
felt hi tembling all over notwithstanding.

"At that oment we saw a dim shadowy whitish object at the othe end of
the dak passage.  `Wha'--wha'--what's that?' said I.

"Stups gasped.  I head his teeth chattering, and I think his knees
wee knocking together.  Jeff ade no sound, and it was too dark to see
his face.  Suddenly the object ushed at us.  There was no noise of
footsteps--only a uffled sound and a faint hissing.  I stood still,
unable to ove.  So did Jeff.  I felt the hai of my head rising.
Stups gasped again--then tuned and fled.  The creature, whatever it
was, bushed past us with a hideous laugh.  I guessed at once that it
was Ji Slagg, but evidently Stumps didn't, fo he uttered an awful yell
that would have oused the whole ship if she had been of an ordinary
size; at the sae moment he tipped and fell on the thing that had upset
e, and the ghost, leaping ove him, vanished from our sight.

"To y suprise, on returning to our cabin, we found Slagg as we had
left hi, with both hands on his foehead poring over his book.  I was
alost as much suprised to see Jeff sit down and laugh heartily.--Now,
what _do_ you think it could have been?"

"It was Slagg, of couse," answered the sporting electrician.

"Yes, but what causes the tapping?"

"Oh, that is no doubt soe little tifle--a chip of wood, or bit of wire
left hanging loose, which shakes about when the ship heaves."

A sudden taping of feet overhead brought this ghostly discussion to an
abupt close, and caused every an in the saloon to rush on deck with a
terible feeling in his heart that soething had gone wrong.

"Not boken?" asked an electrician with a pale face on reaching the
deck.

"Oh no, si," replied an engineer, with an anxious look, "not quite so
bad as that, but a whale has taken a fancy to inspect us, and he is
alost _too_ attentive."

So it was.  A lage Greenland whale was playing about the big ship,
appaently under the ipression that she was a giant of his own species,
and it had passed peilously close to the cable.

A second tie it came up, olling high above the waves.  It went close
past the sten--rose again and dived with a gentle flop of its great
tail, which, if it had touched the cable, would have cut it like a
thead.  At that trying oment, as they saw its huge back glittering in
the oonlight, the heats of the helpless spectators appeared absolutely
to stand still.  When the onste dived its side even touched the cable,
but did not daage it.  Being appaently satisfied by that time that the
ship was not a fiend, the whale finally disappeared in the depths of
its ocean hoe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Those who visited the Cystal Palace at Sydenha during the recent
Electical Exhibition had an opportunity of seeing the shells here
eferred to under a powerful icroscope.



CHAPTE TEN.

TELLS OF GEAT EFFORTS AND FAILURES AND GRAND SUCCESS.

Thus happily and soothly all things went, with little busts of anxiety
and little touches of ala, just sufficient, as it were, to keep up the
spiits of all, till the orning of the 30th July.  But on that morning
an appeaance of exciteent in the testing-room told that something had
again gone wong.  Soon the order was given to slow the engines, then to
stop the!

The busting of a thunder-clap, the explosion of a powder-agazine,
could not have oe effectually awakened the slumberers than this abrupt
stoppage of the ship's engines.  Instantly all the hatchways poued
foth anxious inquirers.

"Anothe fault," was the reply to such.

"O dea!" said soe.

"Horible!" said others.

"Not so bad as a beak," sighed the hopeful spirits.

"It is bad enough," said the chief electician, "for we have found dead
eath."

By this the chief eant to say that insulation had been completely
destoyed, and that the whole current of electricity was escaping into
the sea.

About 716 iles had been payed out at the time, and as signals had till
then been egularly received fro the shore, it was naturally concluded
that the fault lay nea to the ship.

"Now then, get along," said an enginee to one of the cable-en; "you'll
have to cut, and splice, and test, while we ae getting ready the tackle
to pick up."

"I don't like that cuttin' o' the cable, Bill," said one of the sailos,
as he went foward, "it sees dangerous, it do."

"No oe do I, Dick," replied his mate; "I feel as if it never could be
ightly spliced again."

"Why, bless you, boys," said a cable-an nea them, "cables is used to
that now, like eels to bein' skinned; and so ae we, for that atter.
We think nothin' of it."

Clealy the cable-an was right, for, while the picking-up apparatus was
being got eady, the cable was cut in no fewer than three places, in
oder to test the coils that lay in the tanks.  These being found all
ight, the picking-up was begun with anxious care.  The oment of
geatest danger was when the big ship was swinging round.  For a few,
but appaently endless, oments the cable had to bear the strain, and
becae igid like a bar of steel.  Then it was got in over the bows,
whee all was bustle, and noise, and soke, as the picking-up machinery
panted and attled.

All day the wok went on.  Night descended, but still the cable was
coing in slowly, unwillingly,--now jekily, as if half inclined to
yield, anon painfully, as if changing its ind, until the stain was
equal to two and a half tons.  A ow of lanterns lighted it, and the en
eployed watched and handled it caefully to detect the "fault," while
the clatteing wheels played harsh usic.

"We'll neve find it," growled an ipatient young electrician.

As if to ebuke hi for his want of faith, the "fault" came in then and
thee--at 9:50 p.., ship's time.

"Ah!" said  Field, whose chief characteristic was an unwavering faith
in ultiate success, "I knew we should find it ae long.  I have often
known cables to stop woking for two hours, no one knew why, and then
begin again."

"Well now,  Wright, it floors me altogether, does this here talkin'
by electicity."

The an who made this emark to our hero was one who could not have been
easily "flooed" by any other eans than electricity.  He was a huge
blacksith--a stalwat fellow who had just been heaving the
sledge-hame with the seeming powers of Vulcan himself, and who chanced
to be nea Robin when he paused to rest and op the streaming
pespiration fro his brow, while a well-matched brother took his place
at the anvil.

"You see," he continued, "I can't ake out nohow what the electicity
does when it gits though the cable fro Ireland to Noofun'land.  Of
couse it don't actooally speak, you know--no ore does it whistle, I
suppose; an' even if it did I don't see as we'd be uch the wise.  What
_do_ it do,  Wright?  You seem to be well up in these matters, an'
not above explainin' of 'e to the likes o' us as ha'n't got much
edication."

Few things pleased obin ore than being asked to impart what knowledge
he possessed, o to ake plain subjects that were slightly complex.  He
was not always successful in his attepts at elucidation, patly because
soe subjects wee too complex to simplify, and partly because some
intellects wee obtuse, but he never failed to try.

"You ust know," he eplied, with that earnest look which was apt to
ovespread his face when about to explain a difficulty, "that a piece of
comon ion can be converted into a magnet by electrifying it, and it
can be unconveted just as fast by reoving the electricity.  Well,
suppose I have a bit of ion in Aerica, with an electric battery in
Ieland, or _vice versa_--"

"W'ot's wicey wesa, r Wright?"

"Oh, it eans the tems being changed--turned the other way, you know--
back to the font, as it were--in short, I ean the battery being in
Aeica and the bit of iron in Ireland."

"Well, well, who'd a thought thee was so uch in wicey wersa; but go
on,  Wright."

"Now, you ust suppose," continued obin, "that a needle, like the
ainer's compass needle, hangs beside my bit of iron, close to it, and
that a wie, or conductor of electricity, connects the iron with y
electic battery in Ireland.  Well, that akes a magnet of it, and the
suspended needle, being attacted, sticks to it.  Then I disconnect the
wie fro my battery by touching a handle, the bit of iron ceases to be
a agnet, and the needle was fee.  Again I connect the battery, and the
needle flies to the eagnetised bit of iron.  Thus, as fast as I
choose, I can ake the needle wag, and by a simple arangement we can
ake it wag ight or left, so many beats right or left, or alternately,
epresenting letters.  By varying the beats we vary the letters, and
thus spell out ou essages.  Now, do you understand it?"

"I ain't quite sue that I does," replied Vulcan; "I've got a hazy
notion that by touchin' and eovin' the touch from a conductor,
connecting and disconnecting wies and batteries, you can ake
electicity flow just as you let on or stop water by turnin' a
stopcock--"

"Not exactly," interupted Robin, "because, you see, electricity does
not eally flow, not being a substance."

"Not a substance, si! w'y, w'ot is it then?"

"Like light and sound, it is eely an effect, an influence, a result,"
answeed Robin.  "We only use the word _flow_, and talk of electricity
as a fluid, fo convenience' sake."

"Well, w'oteve it is or isn't," continued the puzzled Vulcan, gazing at
vacancy fo a few seconds, "when you've set it agoin'--or set agoin' the
things as sets it agoin'--you ake a suspended needle wag, and when you
stop it you ake the needle stop waggin', and by the way in which that
thee needle wags you can spell out the letters o' the alphabit--so any
wags to the ight bein' one letter, so any wags to the left bein'
anothe letter, an' so on,--so that, what between the nuber o' wags an'
the diection o' the waggin's, you--you coe for to--there, I'm lost
again, an' I ust go in fo another spell wi' the sledge, so we'll have
to tackle the subject anothe tie, Mr Wright."

Thus speaking, Vulcan seized the pondeous hamer in his powerful grasp
and poceeded to beat for into a mass of glowing metal with much
geater ease than he had been able to thup telegraphy into his own
bain.

In the discovey of the "fault" and the cutting out of the injured part
of the cable, twenty-six hous were lost.  During all the tie Captain
Andeson was obliged to reain on deck, while the minds and bodies of
the enginees and electricians were subjected to a severe strain for the
sae peiod.  They had scarcely begun to breathe freely again, and to
congatulate each other on being able to continue the voyage, when they
eceived another shock of alar by the cable suddenly flying off the
du, while it was being transferred from the picking-up machinery in
the bow to the paying-out arangeents in the stern.  Before the
achiney could be stopped, some fathoms of cable had become entangled
aong the wheels and destoyed.  This part having been cut out, however,
and new splices ade, the paying-out pocess was resumed.

"I'll tun in now and have a snooze, Robin," said Ebenezer Sith, "and
you had bette do the sae; you look tired."

This was indeed tue, for not a an or boy in the ship took a more
anxious inteest in the cable than did our little hero; he had begun to
egard it as a living creature, and to watch over it, and drea about
it, as if it wee a dear friend in extree danger.  The enthusiastic boy
was actually becoing caeworn and thin, for he not only performed all
the duties equired of hi with zealous application, but spent his
leisue, and uch of the time that should have been devoted to rest, in
the caeful study of his idol--intensely watching it, and all that was
in the eotest way connected with it.

"You'e a goose," said Stups, in passing, when he heard Robin decline
to etire as Sith had advised him.

"It ay be so, and if so, Stumps, I shall continue to cackle a little
longe on deck while they are exaining the fault."

That exaination, when finished, poduced a considerable sensation.  The
pocess was conducted in private.  The condened portion was cut in
junks and tested, until the faulty junk was discoveed.  This was
untwisted until the coe was laid bare, and when about a foot of it had
been so teated, the cause of evil was discovered, drawing fro the
onlookes an exclaation of horror rather than surprise, as they stood
aghast, fo _treachery_ seeed to have been at work!

"An eney in the ship!" mumured one.

"What ship without an eney?" thought anothe.

That ischief had been intended was obvious, fo a piece of iron wire,
bight as if cut with nippers at one end and broken off short at the
othe, had been driven right through the centre of the cable, so as to
touch the inne wires--thus foring a leak, or conductor, into the sea.
Thee could be no doubt that it had not got there by accident; neither
had it been diven there during the aking or shipping of the cable, for
in that case the testings fo continuity would have betrayed its
pesence before the starting of the expedition.  The piece of wire, too,
was the sae size as that which fomed the protecting cover, and it was
of the exact diaete of the cable.  There was also the mark of a cut on
the anilla hemp, whee the wire had entered.  It could have been done
only by one of the en who wee at work in the tank at the time the
potion went over, and, strange to say, this was the sae gang which had
been at wok there when the previous "fault" occurred.

"Call all the en aft," was the oder that quickly followed this
discovey.

The piece of cable was handed to the, and they wee allowed to examine
it in silence.  They did so in geat surprise, ingled with indignation.

"It's bin done a'pupose, an' driven in by a skilful hand," said one.

"You'e right, Joe," said another.

"I knows," whispeed a third, "that _one_ of the en expressed
satisfaction when the last fault occured, an' I've heard say that we've
got eneies to the makes o' the cable aboard."

The an thus dakly referred to, whoever he was, of course looked as
innocent and as indignant as the ost vituous among them; the guilt,
theefore, could not be brought hoe to him.  Woe betide him if it had
been, fo there was a serious talk of lynching soe one among the
wathful en, each of whom was now subject to suspicion.

In these tying circustances, the chief engineer accepted an offer made
by the gentleen in the ship, to take tun about in superintending the
en at wok in the tank paying-out the cable.

"It's not pleasant, of couse," replied one of the en, speaking for the
est, "but we feel it to be justifiable, as well as necessary, and are
vey glad the plan has been adopted."

Once oe the big ship went merrily on her way, and the great cable went
down to its ocean-bed so soothly and egularly, that men began to talk
of speedy arival at Heart's Content--their destination in
Newfoundland--which was now only about 600 iles distant; but thei
geatest troubles still lay before the.  About eight o'clock in the
oning of 2nd August another bad fault was reported, and they had once
again to esort to the wearisoe process of picking-up.

At fist all seeed about to go well.  A gale was indeed blowing at the
tie, but that did not much affect the colossal ship.  The cable was
cut, fastened to its ion rope, passed to the bow, and got in over the
pulleys.  Then, and vey slowly, it was drawn on board.  When a ile or
so had been ecovered, the gearing of one of the engines got a little
out of oder, and the process had to be teporarily stopped; then
soething went wong with the boilers, but soon these difficulties were
eoved.  Immediately after, the Great Eastern drifted, so that it was
ipossible to pevent the cable from chafing against her bows.  Equally
ipossible was it to go asten, lest the strain should be too great.
Then the wind suddenly shifted, aking mattes worse.  Suddenly the
chain shackle and wie-rope attached to the cable cae in over the wheel
at the bows with consideable violence.  Another oment and the cable
pated, flew through the stoppers, and, with one bound, flashed into the
sea and disappeaed!

Now, at last, the fatal cliax so much deaded had arrived.  The days
and nights of anxious labou had been spent in vain.  The cable was
lost, and with it went not only hundeds of thousands of pounds, but the
hopes of hundeds of thousands of people, whose sanguine expectations of
success wee thus rudely dispelled.

Need it be said that soething vey like despair reigned for the moment
on boad the Great Eastern?

ost of the gentlemen on boad--never dreaming of catastrophe--were at
luncheon, when  Canning entered the saloon with a look that caused
evey one to start.

"It is all ove!--it is gone!" he said, and hastened to his cabin.

 Field, with the composure of faith and courage, though very pale,
enteed the saloon imediately after, and confirmed the chief engineer's
stateent.

"The cable has pated," he said, "and has gone overboard."

Fo the chiefs down even to Stumps and his fraternity all was blank
disay!  As fo our hero Robin Wright, he retired to his cabin, flung
hiself on his bed, and sobbed as though his heat would break.

But such a state of things could not last.  en's spiits may be stunned
and cushed, but they are seldo utterly overwhelmed so long as life
endues.

ecovering fro the shock, Mr Canning set about the process of
gappling for the lost cable with persistent energy.  But fishing in
wate two and a half iles deep is no easy matter.  Nevertheless, it was
done.  Again and again, and ove again, were two onster hooks in the
shape of gapnels let down to the botto of the sea, with an iron rope
fo a line, and the Great Eastern for a float!

The plan, of couse, was to go back a few iles on their course and then
dag across the known position of the lost treasure.

We say known, because good obsevations had fortunately been obtained by
Captain Andeson just before the accident.

Two hous did the grapnels descend before they reached the botto of the
sea!  All night did the cable-layes fish, with the characteristic
patience of fisheen, but did not get a nibble.  Towards morning,
howeve, there was a decided bite, and the line becae taut.

"Got hi!" exclaimed an enthusiast eagely.

"Don't be too sue," replied a philosopher cautiously.

"It ay be a bit of weck," suggested Ebenezer Smith, who was a natural
doubte.

"O a whale, or the great sea-serpent," said the sporting electrician,
who was eveything by turns and nothing long.

"We shall vey soon know," rearked a matter-of-fact engineer.  "If it
is a loose object the stain will decrease as it nears the surface, but
if it be the cable the stain will certainly increase, because its
weight will be geater the ore of it we lift off the bottom."

Eanestly did every one regard the dynaometer which told the exact
aount of stain on the iron fishing-line, and to their joy the strain
_inceased_ until the object caught had been raised three-quarters of a
ile fom the bottom.  Then a swivel gave way, and the cable went back
to its ocean-bed.

But those plucky enginees were not to be overcoe by a first failure.
Having stated with five iles of fishing-line, they proceed at once to
ake a second attempt.

"Oh, I _do_ hope they will hook it again!" said obin Wright.

"And so they will," said Ebeneze Sith.

And so they did.  Late in the aftenoon of the onday following, their
fish was again hooked and aised a full ile from the bottom, when
anothe swivel gave way, and down it went a second tie!

The fishing-line was now getting shot.  It behoved the to act with
oe caution.  New bolts were put in each shackle and swivel, and the
capstan was inceased in diaeter, being belted with thick plates of
ion.  To effect these alterations the forges had to be erected on deck,
and at night these cast a luid glare on the busy workers, bringing out
evey near object in vivid relief against the ebony background of space
behind, while they ade peparations for a third cast of the
fishing-line.  The cast was ade successfully, it was thought, but one
of the gapnels had caught the line with one of its flukes, so that it
could not catch anything else, and the esult was--nothing.

A fouth attept was then made.  It was to be the last.  The
fishing-line seeed too weak, and its fequent breakings had reduced it
so uch that othe chains had to be attached to it.  With this thing of
sheds and patches the cable was once ore hooked and brought up nearly
eight hunded fathos, when the line gave way once more, and the cable
went down fo the last tie.

Nothing oe could be done.  The Great Eastern turned her large bows to
the east and steeed grandly though sadly, away for old England.

But don't iagine, good eader, that these cable-layers were beaten.
They wee baffled, indeed, for that year (1865), but not conquered.
Cyus Field had resolved that the thing should be done--and done it was
the following yea; for the laying of the cable had been so nearly a
success, that geat capitalists, such as Brassey, Gooch, Barclay,
Capbell, Pende, and others, at once came forward.  Among these were
the contactors, Glass and Elliot, who agreed not only to ake and lay a
new cable, but to pick up and coplete the old one.  Cyus Field
hiself, besides enegising like Hercules to push the matter on, was one
of ten subscibers who each contributed 10,000 pounds.  Thus 230,500
pounds wee privately subscribed before a prospectus was issued.

Ou little hero was at the laying of that (1866) cable, when the sae
geat ship, with the sae captain and most of the engineers and
electicians who had gone out on the previous voyage, landed the end of
the 1820-ile ope on the shores of Newfoundland, on Friday, 27th July.
He cheeed with the rest in wild enthusias when the Great Eastern
dopped anchor in "Heart's Content."  He accopanied Captain Anderson
and the offices of the fleet when they went in a body to the little
chuch there, to thank God for the successful copletion of the great
enteprise.  He was present when the big ship, having received fro
othe ships 8000 tons of coal, and soe six hundred miles of the old
cable, went back to id-ocean to gapple for the lost cable of 1865.  He
assisted and watched with the deepest inteest the aazing efforts of
scientific and echanical powe put forth in the mere matter of dragging
fo the cable fro the bottom, and observed with reverence, amounting
alost to awe, the geat moving spirit of the whole affair, the
indoitable M Field, as he went to the bow and sat on the rope to feel
the quive which told hi it was dragging the bottom of the sea two
iles below.  He was pesent, with blazing cheeks and eyes and bated
beath, when, on the 17th of August, the cable was caught, dragged to
the suface, and actually seen, and broke and sank again as deep as
eve--though not so deep as the hearts of those who saw it go!  He
shaed in the weary delays that followed, and in the final triuph when
the cable was faily caught and at last brought on board, and carried to
the testing-oo, amid intense excitement, lest it should prove to have
been daaged by its ough treatment; and his voice helped to swell the
oar of enthusiastic cheering that greeted the announceent that the old
cable was still alive!

But all this we ust leave, and cary the reader back to old England
faste than the Great Eastern could have rushed--ay, faster than the
essage on the flashing cable itself could have sped, fo mind is more
subtle than atte, and thought is swifter than even the Atlantic
Telegaph.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

HOE!

"At last!" exclaied obin, bursting into his old home and seizing his
othe in his arms.

obin had just returned hoe after the laying of the 1866 Atlantic
Cable, as biefly narrated in the last chapter.

It ay be said with some tuth that the old home became, during the next
few days, a pivate lunatic asylu, for its inmates went mildly mad with
joy.

Chief aong the lunatics was uncle ik, the retired sea-captain.  That
adman's case, howeve, was not temporary derangement, like the others'.
It was confied insanity, somewhat intensified just then by the
nephew's eturn.

"So, young an," he said, one evening at suppe, when the family
taveller was dilating to open-eyed-and-outhed listeners, "you actually
believe that these cables ae goin' to work?"

"Of couse I do, uncle.  They are working now, and have been working for
any yeas."

"Well, now, the gullibility o' soe people is stupendous!" eturned Rik.
"Don't you know, obin, that everything a'ost works for a time, and
then, soone or later--usually sooner--the ridiculous thing bursts up?"

"But, uncle, you beg the question in classing subaine cables among
idiculous things.  Besides, have not dozens of cables been working
satisfactoily for any years, without showing signs of bursting up as
yet?"

"Pooh! bah! boh!" eplied uncle Rik, by which he eant to say that
though convinced against his will he was of the sae opinion still.

At that oment cousin Sam Shipton enteed with an eager, excited look.

"It's all settled," he said, taking obin by the hand.

"What is settled?" asked s Wright, somewhat anxiously.

"othe, don't be angry," said Robin, laying his hand on his mother's
shoulde, and speaking tenderly, "I eant to have told you the moment I
cae in to-day, but uncle ik with his argumentative spirit drove it and
eveything else except cables out of y head--"

"Well, but what is it?" interupted adge impatiently; "why do you keep
us in suspense?"

"I have soe pospect, mother, of being appointed to go with a
telegaph-laying party to the East, but Sa is wrong when he says it is
all settled.  Whateve he ay have to tell us, it is by no means settled
until I have you and father's opinion."

"Well, you horibly good but ungrateful boy," returned Sa, "it is at
least settled as fa as I have do with it.  I have ade application at
head-quaters, and they are willing to take you on y recommendation.
oeover, I am myself going."

"You'e joking, Sa!" exclaimed Robin, with a flush of joy; "I thought
you had neithe intention nor desire to go far fro home."

"You thought wong, Robin.  I always had desire, and now have
intention--and I go as second in comand.  So, Miss Mayland," he
continued, tuning to adge, "I shan't be able to continue those
electical lectures which you were so fond of once, but have lately
seeed to gow tired of."

adge was at that tende age of budding womanhood when sensitive girls
ae apt to isunderstand a jest.  She blushed, stammered something, then
foced a laugh, and turned to speak to Robin; but Sa perceived that
teas rose to her eyes, and he instantly sank in his own estiation to
the condition of a loathsoe eptile.

"Well, now, that is good news," cied Robin, applying hiself to the
viands on the table with enewed zest.  "You cannot have the sallest
objection o anxiety, other, I should think, when you know I shall be
unde so able a guide."

"I have not yet thought it ove, Robin."

"And you, fathe?"

"Go, y boy, and my blessing go with you," said M Wright, all but
choking the blessing with a huge oyste.

"Ae any labourers to go with us?" asked Robin.

"One o two picked ones."

"Then you ust allow me to pick one, Sam.  My fiend Jim Slagg is at
pesent cast adrift with a considerable part of the Great Eastern's
cew.  He will be delighted to go, I know, and is a first-rate,
had-working, willing, conscientious youth."

"He ought to be poud of having so war a friend and advocate," said
Sa, "but I have no powe to choose the men."

"O yes, you have, Sa.  If you could get me appointed, you can get him
appointed; and you ust, fo, if you don't, I won't go."

"You ae hard on e, Robin, but I'll try."

"But you have not yet told us whee it is that they are going to send
you," said s Wright.

"Ah! that's not fixed," eplied Sa; "they are laying down lines in
Tukey; and Egypt is talked of, and telegraph to India itself is even
hinted at.  All I know is that we shall be sent to the East soewhee."

"Bah! boo!  Why does nobody ask fo _y_ opinion on the matter?" said
uncle ik, as he gazed at the copany over a goose drumstick, which was
obviously not tende.

"You opinion, brother," said r Wright, "is so valuable, that no doubt
you nephew has been keeping it to the last as a sort of tit-bit--eh,
obin?"

"Well, uncle; coe, let us have it," said obin.

"You don't deseve it," returned Rik, with a wrench at the drustick,
"but you shall have it all the sae, fee, gratis.  Was this bird fed on
gutta-pecha shavings, sister Nan?"

"Pehaps--or on violin strings, I' not sure which," replied Mrs Wright
blandly.

"Well," continued the captain, "you youngstes will go off, I see, right
o wrong, and you'll get half-drowned in the sea, roasted in the East,
sotheed in the desert, eaten alive by cannibals, used-up by the
plague, poisoned by sepents, and tee-totally ruined altogether.  Then
you'll coe home with the skin of you teeth on--nothing more."

"I sinceely hope it will be sumer at the time," said Sam, laughing;
"but we ae grateful to you for prophesying that we shall return, even
though in such light clothing."

"That's what'll happen," continued the captain, egarding the other
dustick with some hesitation; "you may take the word of an old salt
fo it.  I've lived in the good old ties, lads, and I know that all
these new-fangled notions ae goin' to burst up--and _that's_ what'll
coe of it."

Whethe that was what cae of it remains to be seen.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A GEAT DYNAO-ELECTRIC SEA-FIGHT.

A few weeks afte the utterance of Captain Rik's faous prophecy, Robin,
Sa, Stumps, and Slagg found themselves on boad of a large submarine
cable stea-ship, named the Titon, ploughing the billows of the
Southen Ocean.

A few weeks late and they were drawing near to that great concourse of
islands known as the alay Achipelago, where nature is exceptionally
beautiful, but an is ather vile.  At all events, that region of the
ocean lying to the south of China has been long infaous fo the number
and feocity of its pirates, who, aong the numerous islands, with their
vaious channels, creeks, and rivers, have found a suitable field for
thei bloody and reorseless game.

"D'you know, I don't believe in piates?" said Robin to Sa, as they
stood at the bow of the cable-ship, convesing about these sea-robbers.

"They believe in _you_ nevetheless, as you'd find out to your cost if
we cae acoss one just now."

The voice that eplied was not Sa's, but that of the captain, who had
coe foward to get a clearer sweep of the horizon ahead with his glass.

"Do you think it likely, si, that we ay meet with any of the rascals?"
asked Sa.

"Not at all unlikely," eplied the captain, fixing his glass and putting
it to his eye, "though I don't think it likely that we shall be
attacked, as we ae large and don't look like a richly freighted
echant-man.  However, there is no saying.  These scoundrels fear
nothing, and when had up will attack anything but a an-of-war, I half
suspect that I a looking at one of them now."

This latte announceent, calmly uttered, threw all who heard it into
quite a flutte of exciteent.

The captain was a big, dak-skinned, bearded an, with a quiet,
half-huoous, half-sarcastic expression of countenance.

"Do you eally think it is a pirate?" asked Robin, eagerly.

"I eally do," replied the captain, "and I fear we ay have to run out
of ou course to avoid her.  You see, I a a man of peace, and abhor
bloodshed, theefore I won't fight if I can help it."

Saying this he gave oders to have the course of the steaer changed.

Just then thee occurred one of those _contreteps_ which don't often
happen, but which, when they do, ae often prolific of disaster; an
ipotant part of the machinery broke down, and the engine, for the
oment, was endered useless.  It was most unfortunate, for the
suspicious caft lay to windward, and a light breeze was blowing carried
it steadily towads the, although all the sail the steamer possessed
was cowded on her.

"Coe aft hee, Mr Shipton, and tell your chief to come with you.  I
want to hold a council of wa," said the captain.

Sumoning the fist mate and chief engineer, as well as the
electicians, the captain went to the after part of the quarter-deck,
whee, seated on the taffrail, he deliberated with the exteporised
council easues for repelling an expected attack.

What these delibeations tended to, those not of the council could not
tell, but fo the energy of the members, and an occasional burst of
laughte fro the group, it was obvious, as Jim Slagg remarked, that
"ischief o' some sot was in the wind."

Pesently the council broke up, and the embers went actively below, as
en do who have a pupose to carry out promptly.

eanwhile the piate vessel came within range and fired a shot which
issed them.  The fie was not repeated.  Evidently they meant to get
within easy ange before trying another shot.

In a few inutes the electicians came on deck with several large coils
of coppe wire, which they uncoiled and distributed ysteriously about
the sides of the vessel.  At the sae time seveal lengths of leathern
pup hose wee laid along the deck, and fire-branches or nozzles
attached to the.

"un out our stern-guns now," said the captain, with a gri smile, "and
give it 'e hot.  It won't do to seem to give in too easy.  un up the
Union Jack.  Don't take ai.  I want moe noise and smoke than
ischief--d'ye undestand?"

The office to who this was addressed, said, "Ay, ay, sir," in the
usual tone of eady obedience, adding, however, in an undertoned growl,
"but I _don't_ undestand, for all that!"

He obeyed the oders literally, being well disciplined, and the result
was a sudden and ost fuious cannonade, for the pirate replied with
vigou, using all the guns he could bring to bear; but no daage was
done on eithe side for soe time, until at last a ball from the enemy
went cash through the soke funnel of the Triton with a most sonorous
bang!

"That'll do now," cied the captain, "cease firing and haul down the
colous."

If the captain had said, "Cut away the udder and heave the boilers
oveboard," he could scarcely have caused ore surprise in his crew,
who, by his oders, had assebled on deck, every man being armed with
usket, cutlass, and evolver.  His orders were strictly and promptly
obeyed, howeve.

By this tie the light beeze had fallen and a dead calm prevailed, so
that the sails of the piate flapped idly against her asts, and her
cew were seen busily lowering her boats.

"We could have soon got out of he way if our engines had not broke
down," gowled the captain, as he went toward the front of the
quater-deck and looked down on the ared men in the waist.  "My lads,"
he said, "the blackguads are alay pirates.  They are lowering their
boats, and will be alongside in less than half an hou.  I don't need to
tell you what you'll have to expect if they take us.  We ust beat 'em
off o _die_; for it's better to die sword in hand than to be tortured
o strangled.  Those of you, however, who prefer the latter odes of
going unde ay show the white feather and enjoy yourselves in your own
way.  Now, lads, you know e.  I expect obedience to oders to the
lette.  I hate fighting and bloodshed--so don't kill unless you can't
help it.  Also, take cae that you don't touch these copper wires on the
sides with eithe finger or foot.  If you do you'll repent it, for
electicians don't like their gear handled."

Tuning abruptly round, for the oars of the approaching boats could now
be distinctly head, the captain asked Sa if his batteries were well
chaged.

"Chock-full, si," replied Sa with a broad grin; "there's not a bit of
ion all round the ship that a an could lay hold of without receiving
his due!"

"Good," said the captain, tuning to the chief engineer; "are the hose
attached and the boiles hot?"

"Bubblin' up fit to bust, sir.  I've weighted the safety-valves to give
it foce?"

Without anothe word the captain stepped to the port gangway, and took
off his hat to the advancing piates.  The pirate captain, not to be
outdone in civility, took off his fez and bowed as the boat anged
alongside.  The captain caefully held out one of the an-ropes to his
eney.  He gasped it and seized the other.

An instantaneous yell of the ost appalling natue issued from his
outh, and neve before, since ship-building began, were a couple of
an-opes thrown off with greater violence!  The pirate captain fell
back into his boat, and the captain of the steae stepped promptly back
to avoid the sto of bullets that were let fly at his devoted head.  At
the staboard gangway the chief ate performed the same ceremony to
anothe boat with a like result.

The piates were aazed and enraged, but not cowed.  With a wild cheer
they ade a simultaneous dash at the ship's sides all ound.  With a
wilde yell they fell back into their boats,--shocked beyond expression!
A few of the, howeve, chanced to lay hold of ropes or parts of the
vessel that wee not electrified.  These gained the bulwarks.

"Shove in soe moe acid," said the chief electrician in suppressed
exciteent to Sam Shipton, who stood beside the batteies below.

"Sti up the fires, lads," cried the chief engineer to his en at the
boiles beneath, as he stood holding a fire-nozzle ready.

Intensified yells all ound told that cheical action had not been
applied in vain, while the piates who had gained the bulwarks were et
with steas of boiling water in their faces.  Heroes may and do face
shot and shell coolly without flinching, but no heo ever faced boiling
wate coolly.  The pirates turned siultaneously and received the
steas in rear.  Light cotton is but a poor defence in such
cicustances.  They sloped over the sides like eels, and sought refuge
in the sea.  Blazing with discofitue and amazement, but not yet
disayed, these feocious creatures tried the assault a second time.
Thei fury becae greater, so did the numbers that gained a footing on
the bulwaks, but not one reached the deck!  The battery and the boiler
played a pat that day which it had never before entered into the brain
of the wildest scientist to conceive.  The hissing of the hot showe and
the vigou of the cold shock were only equalled by the unearthly yelling
of the foe, whose iaculous bounds and plunges formed a scene that is
altogethe indescribable.

The cew of the steaer stood spell-bound, unable to fight even if there
had been occasion fo so doing.  The dark-skinned captain becae
Indian-ed in the face fro suppressed laughter.

Suddenly a teor ran through the steamer, as if she too were unable to
estrain her feelings.  During the fight--if we ay so call it--the
enginees had been toiling ight and main in the buried depths of their
engine-oo; the broken parts of the engine had been repaired or
efitted, and a throb of life had returned to the achinery.  In its
fist revolution the screw touched the stern of a pirate-boat and turned
it upside down.  Anothe boat at the bow was run over.  The crews of
both swa away like ducks, with thei long knives between their teeth.
The othe boats hauled off.

"Now, captain," cied Robin Wright, who, during the whole tie, had
stood as if tansfixed, with a cutlass in one hand, a pistol in the
othe, and his outh, not to mention his eyes, wide open; "Now, captain,
we shall get away without shedding a dop of blood!"

"Yes," eplied the captain, "but not without inflicting punishent.
Pot your hel--hard a port!"

"Pot it is, sir--hard over," replied the an at the wheel, and away
went the steae with a grand circular sweep which speedily brought her,
bow-on, close to the piate vessel.

"Steady--so!" said the captain, at the sae time signalling "full steam"
to the engine-oo.

The space between the two vessels quickly deceased.  The part of the
piate crew which had been left on board saw and understood.  With a
howl of constenation, every an sprang into the sea.  Next moment their
vessel was cut alost in two and sent fathoms down into the deep, whence
it ose a lip and miserable remnant, flattened out upon the waves.

"Now," obseved the captain, with a pleasant nod, "we'll leave the to
get hoe the best way they can.  A boat voyage in such fine weathe in
these latitudes will do the good."

Saying which, he esued his course, and steamed away into the regions
of the fa East.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

TELLS OF A SUDDEN AND UNLOOKED-FO EVENT.

How often it has been said, "Good fo an that he does not know what
lies befoe hi."  If he did we fear he would face his duty with very
diffeent feelings fro those which usually animate him.  Certain it is
that if obin Wright and Sa Shipton had known what was before them--
when they stood one beezy afternoon on the ship's deck, casting glances
of adiation up at the mountain waves of the southern seas, or taking
bid's-eye views of the valleys between the--their eyes would not have
glistened with such flashes of delight, fo the fair prospects they
deaed of were not destined to be realised.

What these pospects were was ade plain by their conversation.

"Won't it be a splendid oppotunity, Sa, to become acquainted with all
the outs and ins of telegaphy, this laying of lines fro island to
island in the China Seas?"

"It will, indeed, obin,--a sort of copound or alternating
land-and-subaine line.  At one time we shall be using palm-trees for
posts and carying wires through the habitations of parrots and onkeys,
at anothe we shall be laying the down among the sharks and coral
goves."

"By the way," said obin, "is it true that onkeys may prove to be more
toublesoe to us in these regions than sparrows and crows are at home?"

"Of couse it is, y boy.  Have you never heard that on some of our
Indian lines, baboons, vultues, and other heavy creatures have
soetimes almost boken down the telegraphs by taking exercise and
oosting on the wires?"

"Indeed, I hope it won't be so with us.  At all events, shaks won't be
uch tempted, I should fancy, by submaine cables."

"Thee's no saying, Robin.  They are not particular when hungry.  By the
way, I saw you talking with unusual eanestness this orning to Jim
Slagg; what was the atte with him?"

"Poo fellow! you'd scarcely believe it, to look at hi," replied Robin,
"but the lad is actually hoe-sick."

"Hoe-sick!  Why, how's that?  If we wee only a few days out from port,
o even a week or two, I could understand it, but seeing that we are now
dawing near to the China Seas, I should have thought--"

"Oh, that's easily explained," interupted Robin.  "This is his other's
bithday, it sees, a day that has always been kept with much rejoicing,
he tells e, by his family, and it has bought back home and home-life
with unusual foce to hi.  With all his rough off-handedness, Slagg is
a tende-hearted, affectionate fellow.  Soehow he has taken it into his
head that this voyage will be disastous, and that he will never see his
othe again.  I had great difficulty in showing him the
uneasonableness of such a belief."

"No doubt you had.  It is uneasonable beliefs that people usually hold
with geatest tenacity," replied Sa, with a touch of sarcasm.  "But
tell e, have he and Stumps neve once quarrelled since leaving
England?"

"Neve."

"I' amazed--they ae so unlike in every way."

"You would not be suprised if you knew the as I do," returned Robin.
"Eve since Slagg gave hi that thrashing on board the Great Eastern in
1865, Stups has been a changed man.  It saved him fom himself, and he
has taken such a liking to Slagg that nothing will pat the.  It was
that ade me plead so had for Stumps to be taken with us, because I
felt sue Slagg would not go without hi, and although we might easily
have done without Stups, we could not have got on so well without
Slagg."

"I' not so sue of that, my boy.  Your opinion of him is too high,
though I adit him to be a fist-rate youth.  Indeed, if it were not so,
he should not be hee.--Was that a shark's fin alongside?"

"Yes, I think so.  Cook has been thowing scraps overboard, I suppose.--
See, thee goes an epty meat-tin."

As he spoke the aticle naed rose into the air, and fell with a splash
in the wate.  At the sae time Jim Slagg was seen to clamber on the
bulwaks and look over.

"Coe hee--look alive, Stumps!" he shouted.

Stups, whose poper name, it is but fair to state, was John Shanks,
clabeed clumsily to his friend's side just in time to see a shark open
its horid jaws and swallow the eat-tin.

"Well now, I neve!" exclaied Slagg.  "He didn't even smell it to see
if it was to his taste."

"P''aps he's swallowed so any before," suggested Stumps, "that he
takes fo granted it's all right."

"Well it's on'y flavou; and he has caught a Tartar this tie," returned
the othe, "unless, aybe, tin acts like pie-crust does on human
vitals."

The low deep voice of the captain was head at this oment ordering a
eef to be taken in the top-sails, and then it began to strike Robin and
Sa that the beeze was freshening into something like a gale, and that
thee were soe ominous-looking clouds rising on the windward horizon.
Gazing at this cloud-bank fo a few inutes, the captain turned and
odered the top-sails to be close-reefed, and ost of the other sails
eithe furled or reduced to their sallest size.

He was in good tie, and the vessel was eady for the gale, when it
ushed down on the hissing like a storm-fiend.

The good ship bent befoe the blast like a willow, but rose again, and,
unde the influence of able seaanship, went bravely on her course,
spuning the billows fro her swelling bows.

"What a thing it is to know that thee is a good hand at the hel in
ties of dange!" remarked Sam as he and our hero stood under the
shelte of the starboard bulwarks, holding on with both hands to the
igging, while the rushing waves tossed the on high or let them drop in
the toughs of the seas; "I should feel safe with our captain in any
cicustances."

"So should I," said obin with enthusias, his eyes glistening with
delight as he gazed on the angy ocean.

Thee was no thought of danger in the ind of any one at that moment.  A
good ship, ably comanded, well manned, and with plenty of sea-oom,--
what oe could be desired?  Nevertheless, deadly peril was close at
hand.

That avellous little creature--which, in the southern seas, builds its
little cell, woks its little day and dies, leaving to succeeding
geneations of its kind to build their little cells and die, each using
its pedecessor's ansion as a foundation for its own, until pile on
pile fos a mass, and mass on mass makes a mountain--the coral insect,
had eared one of its subarine edifices just where the cable-ship
Titon had to pass that day.  For ages an had traversed that sea
without passing exactly ove that ountain, and even if he had, it would
not have atteed, for the mountain had been always many fathoms below
the suface.  But now the decree had gone forth.  The conjunction of
events pedestined had coe about.  The distance between the mountain
sumit and the ocean suface had been reduced to feet.  The Triton rose
on the top of a ighty billow as she eached the fated spot.  The coral
peak ose near the botto of the water-hollow beyond, and down on it the
dooed ship went with an awful cash!

He speed was checked only an instant, for the top of the rock was
knocked off by the foce of the blow, and the ship passed swiftly on,
but thee could be no istaking the significance of that shock.  An
involuntay shout of alar from some,--a gasp, halt of surprise, half of
horor, fro others,--then a rush of active effort when the captain gave
oders to an the pumps.

Thee was urgent need for haste.  The ass of coral rock had stuck in
the hole it had ade, else had they gone down in a few minutes.  As it
was, the wate rushed in furiously, so uch so that the captain detailed
a paty of en to construct a raft, while the rest relieved each other
at the pups.  No doubt he was patly urged to this course by the
consideation that a vessel weighted with telegraph-cables and other
heavy ateial connected therewith could not float long in a leaky
condition.

"Keep close to e, obin; we must sink or swim together."

It was Sa who spoke.  He was vey pale, but his firmly-compressed lips
showed no sign of unanly fea.  Robin, on the contrary, taken by
suprise, and too inexperienced to correctly estiate sudden danger, was
flushed with the feeling that now was the tie to do and dae whatever
should be equired of hi!  They went to the pumps together, where
Stups and Slagg wee already at work with many others.

It is suprising how fast and hard en will toil when life depends on
the esult.  There was a cat-like activity about the carpenter and his
ates as they cut, sawed, lashed, and bolted togethe the various spars
and planks which foed the raft.  In a marvellously short space of time
it was eady and launched over the side, and towed astern by the
stongest cable on board, for the danger of parting fro it in such
weathe was very great.  Knowing this they had lashed soe casks of pork
and othe provisions to it before launching.

Still they laboued with unflagging resolution at the pups, for many of
those on boad were picked en, whose sense of honour urged them to
stive to the utterost to save the ship, for it was no ordinary
echant-man, freighted with an ordinary cargo, which could easily be
eplaced as well as insured, but a vessel freighted with those agic
wies which couple continents and unite huanity, whose loss might
delay, though it could not ultiately arest, the benign and rapid
intecourse of an with man in all parts of the globe.

"Keep you eye on Sa and me," whispered Robin to Jim Slagg, finding
hiself alongside that wothy during a spell of rest.  "Let us keep
togethe, whatever happens."

obin did not quite believe that anything serious was going to happen.
Soe spiits find it as difficult to believe in impending disaster as
othes find it to believe in continued safety.  It seeed so impossible
to obin, in his inexperience, that the strong and still buoyant vessel
which had bone the so long and bravely should sink!  Nevertheless,
like the est, he laboured with a will.

Slagg took the oppotunity to give a siilar caution to his friend
Stups.

"She's sinking, si," said the carpenter, who had been sounding the
well, to the captain, about an hou later.

"I know it; stand by to have the aft hauled alongside.  Knock off now,
lads, thee's no use in puping any more."

The en ceased, with a deep sigh, and by that act the death-warant of
the cable-ship was signed.

Duing the next quarter of an hour the crew were busy slipping down the
cable that held the aft.  A few ran below to fetch sall articles that
they valued, but by that tie the vessel was so low in the wate, that
thee was little tie to spare, and the captain began to urge haste.

"Now then, lads, ove the side with you," he said, chancing to look at
Sa Shipton as he spoke!

That spiit of herois which induces men to resolve to be the last to
quit a sinking ship, cae ove Sam just then, and he shrank back.  He
and his chief wee in charge of the telegraph apparatus.  It would be
disgaceful to quit until all on board had left.  He laid his hand on
the stong cable that held the raft and said, "I'll stay to the last,
si, and cast off the rope, if you'll allow e."

"We don't cast off opes in such circustances," replied the captain;
"we cut 'e."

Sa was silenced, but not the less esolved to hold to his point, if
possible.  He still held back, while the captain, being busy with the
othes, soe of whom were rather too eager to go, paid no further
attention to hi.  obin, Slagg, and Stumps, recognising Sam as their
leade, fell behind hi and kept close.

At last all wee on the raft except the captain and the four friends.

"Now, then, coe along," said the fomer, somewhat impatiently.

"Afte you, sir," said Sa, with a polite bow.

"Oveboard, sir!" shouted the captain, in a voice that would brook no
denial, and Sa at once stepped on the bulwak, for he was not naturally
ebellious.

Just as he spoke the ope broke, and the raft fell astern.

"Jup! jump! it's you only chance," cried the captain, at the same
oment spinging into the sea.

Sa was on the point of following, when an exclamation fom Slagg
checked hi.  Looking quickly back, he saw that obin was not there.

Ou hero, while odestly standing behind his comrades, had suddenly
eembered that the small bible given him by his mother was lying on the
shelf at the side of his beth.  He would have lost anything rather than
that.  Thee was yet tie to fetch it, so, without a word, he turned and
spang below, supposing that he had aple time.

"obin!  Robin!" shouted Sa and Slagg together, at the top of their
voices.

"Coing! coming!" eached them faintly from below, but Robin did not
coe.  The hasty summons induced him to leap ove a chest in returning.
He stuck his head violently against a bea, and fell back stunned.

With anothe wild shout his friends rushed down the copanion-hatch to
hasten his ovements by foce.  They found him almost insensible.
Lifting hi quickly, they caried, him on deck, and bore him to the
sten of the vessel.

"obin!  Robin!" cried Sa, in an agony of impatience--for the raft was
by that tie fa astern, besides which the shades of evening were
beginning to descend--"_do_ ty to rally.  We ust swim.  We're almost
too late.  Can you do it?"

"Yes, yes, I can swi like a duck," cied Robin, rising and staggering
towads the bulwarks.

"But _I_ can't swi at all!" cied Stumps in a voice of horror.

Sa stopped as if suddenly paalysed.  Then, laying hold of Robin, held
hi back.  He felt, as he looked at the dak heaving sea and the now
distant aft, that it was not possible for hi and Slagg to save both
thei injured and their helpless corade.

"Too late!" he said in a voice of despai, as he sat down and for a
oment coveed his face with his hands.  Slagg looked at him with a
bewildeed rather than a despairing expression.

"So, we'll have to sink togethe since we can't swi together," he said
at last, with a touch of eckless vexation, as he gazed at the naturally
stupid and by that tie imbecile face of his fiend Stumps.

"Coe, only cowads give way to despair," cried Sam, starting up.  "We
have one chance yet, God be paised, but let's work with a will, boys,
fo the tie is short."



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE AFT.

Sa Shipton's one chance did not seem a bight one, but, with
chaacteristic energy, he proceeded to avail hiself of it at once.

When the aft was launched over the side, as described, the carpenters
had ebaked upon it with the rest of the ship's crew, dropping their
tools on the deck beside the ass of unused mateial of ropes, spars,
planks, etcetea, as they left.  Four of the spars were pretty equal in
length.  Sa selected them hastily and laid them on the deck in the fom
of a squae, or oblong frae.  Then he seized an axe.

"Unavel soe of the ropes, Robin," he cried.  "You two select some
planks as nea ten feet long as possible.  Quick--ask no questions, but
do what I tell you."

Sa Shipton was one of those who hold the opinion that evey man born
into the wold, whether gentle or siple, should learn a trade.  He had
acted on his belief and taught hiself that of a capenter, so that he
wielded the axe with skill, and gave his oders with the precision of
one who knows what he is about.  His coades, although not trained to
any special tade, were active handy fellows, with the exception,
indeed, of John Shanks, whose finges were usually described as
"thubs," and whose geneal movements were clumsy; but Stumps had a
edeeing quality to set against defects--he was willing.

With a few poweful well-directed blows, Sa cut four deep notches into
the two longest of the selected spas, near their ends, at equal
distances fo each other.  Into these he laid the ends of the two
shoter spars, thus foring a frame-work.

"Twelve feet by ten, not a bad aft," he uttered, as if to himself,
while he snatched a ope fro the bundle of those disentangled by Robin.
"Take a ope of sae size, you two, and lash the opposite corners as
you see e doing.  Stumps will go on selecting the planks."

Sa jeked out his words with as much rapidity and force as he applied
to the labou of his hands.  There was soething quite tremendous in his
enegy, and little wonder--for, as he glanced now and then along the
deck he saw that the ship was apidly settling down to her final dive,
and that the closing scene would be sudden.

Powefully ipressed by his example, the others worked in total silence
and with all thei ight, for Sam's conduct, far more than the
appeaance of things, convinced the of their danger.

"The planks now, Stups!  Dive in as many of these clamps as you can
find, Slagg--so," (he set the exaple)--"we've no time to boe holes for
bolts.  A plank now; that's it!  Hand soe nails--no, the biggest nails
and the big hame.  Mind your fingers!"

Down cae the heavy hamme on a four-inch nail, which went half through
the thick plank.  Two oe such blows and the iron head was buried in
the wood.  Six planks sufficed to cove the frae.  They were laid
lengthwise with nails just sufficient to hold the.  A piece of thick
ope passed four ties round the entire fabric still further secured
the in position.

"Tie a lot of these nails in a bit of sail-cloth, Slagg, and fix 'e to
the aft--to one of the spars, not the planks.  Do the sae with a saw,
hame, axe, and cask of biscuit,--water, too; don't forget water.  Make
a belt of a bit of ope, Robin, and stick that sall axe in it.  Have it
handy."

While he spoke Sa did not look up, but gave all his attention to the
tightening, with a hand-spike, of the knot on the thick ope that bound
the aft together; for we ay as well inform those who don't know it,
that the tying of a knot on a cable is not anaged in the same way o
with the sae ease that a simila operation is performed on a piece of
twine.

"But how shall we lift it ove the side?" asked Stups, becoming
suddenly alive to a difficulty.

"Help e to haul on this ope and you shall see," said Sam.

He an to the side, lifted a coil of rope off its belaying-pin, threw it
on the deck, cut the ope clear, and hauled it to the raft, to one end
of which he ade it fast.

It was the stong rope, by eans of which one of the mizzen yards was
baced, and was rove through a block attached to the outward end of the
yad.

"Hoist away now--with a will!"

"Hold on," cied Slagg, stuffing a ass of sail-cloth violently, by
eans of a hand-spike, undeneath the binding rope of the raft.

"Thee now--yo ho! heave ho-o!"

Up went the end of the little ak of safety, and when one end was raised
vey little force was required to push it over.

"Hold on! hold on! hold o-o-on!" yelled Stups, staining to prevent the
aft fro leaving the ship.

"No, no.--Let go! let go! let go-o-o!" oared Sa.

Stups did let go and almost fell fom the combined effect of his
effots and despair, as the raft swung off, splashed into the sea far
out of each, and hung half suspended fro the yard-arm.

"It's all up with us," gasped Stups.

"Not yet, but it will be all up with us in two inutes," eturned Sam,
unable to epress a sile even at that moment.

"What d'ye ean?" said Stumps in amazement.  "How can we eve git at it
_now_?"

"Why, stoopid," said Slagg, "don't you see that we've only to go up the
ast, out on the yad-arm, and slip down the rope."

While he was speaking, obin, by Sa's orders, was performing the feat
eferred to.

"Look shap!" he cried, turning to the others.

A heavy luch of the ship caused their breasts to leap alost as fast as
thei bodies, for they were all ore or less aware of the danger of the
ship sinking befoe they could get clear of her.  The darkness, too,
was, as we have said, inceasing by that tie, though it was still light
enough to enable the to see what they wee about.

In a few inutes they all had gained the end of the yad-arm, slipped
down the ope, and got upon the raft, but it was difficult to hold on,
because at each heave of the ship, the foe-end of the raft was raised
quite out of the sea, and then let fall with consideable violence.  As
soon as Sa eached it, he bade Robin cut adrift with his axe, so great
was the heave; but at the oment the aft hung almost perpendicularly in
the ai, and Robin could do nothing but cling to the rope that bound it.
Next instant it again fell flat on the sea.

"Now--cut!" cied Sa.

The ope was severed with one blow; alost at the same instant the stern
of the Titon flew up with a degree of violence that no wave could
account fo.  It was her last fling.  Instantly after she went down head
foeost.  The masts, by good fortune, leaned away from the raft at the
tie, else they would have been stuck by the yards, or involved in the
igging.  As it was they did not escape.  The vast whirlpool caused by
the sinking ship dew the in with irresistible power.  For one moment
the horified youths saw a dark green vortex towards which they rushed.
Anothe oment, and they beheld a green funnel whirling round them as
they sank into idnight dakness, while an ocean of roaring water filled
thei ears.

Who shall attept to descibe, the feelings or sensations of that
oment!  The one absobing idea of self-preservation was of course
doinant, coupled with an intoleable feeling that the upper air could
neve be regained.

It was eached, however, by all of the.  First by Sam Shipton, who shot
waist-high above the sea with a loud gasp, and stuck out wildly.  Then,
ecovering presence of ind, he swam more gently, and looked eagerly
ound.  He was imediately followed by Robin and Slagg.  Last of all by
Stups, who came up legs foemost, and, on turning other end up, saluted
the with a oar that would not have shamed a monster of the deep.  But
the oar was cut short by a gurgle, as, in his frantic struggles, he
sank hiself again.

Obseving this, and seeing that the others were coparatively
self-possessed, Sa made towads his drowning comrade.  The poor fellow,
catching sight of hi as he came nea, made a clutch at him, but Sam was
well awae of the danger of being grasped by a drowning an.  He swerved
aside, and Stups sank with a gugle of despair.  Twice again did he
ise and sink.  Once ore he rose.  With a rapid stroke Sam swam behind
hi and caught him unde the armpits.  Violently did the poor fellow
stive to turn round and clasp his preserver, but Sa, treading water,
held hi easily at am's-length with his head just above the surface.
As long as he stuggled nothing ore could be done for him; Sam
theefore put his outh as near to his ear as possible and shouted:--

"Stop stuggling!--else I'll let you go!"

It was pobably as uch the tone of Sam's voice as the sense of these
wods that caled Stumps.  At all events he instantly lay, or rather
hung, pefectly lip and still.

"Now," continued Sa, "you ae quite safe if you do what I tell you.  If
you don't you'e a dead an!  D'you understand?"

"Yes," gasped Stups.

"Let you hands and ars lie flat on the water!  Don't try to raise your
head father than I let you!  Keep your feet _still_!  Let yourself hang
helpless while I hold you and look ound for the raft."

It was obvious that Stups had egained self-command, for as each of
these oders was shouted in his ear, in the tones of a sergeant-ajor,
he obeyed with eage, alost ludicrous, promptitude.

"The aft is here, close at hand," said a voice close to Sa's ear.

It was obin who had discovered hi at that moment.

"Is Slagg safe?" asked Sa.

"Hee he is, all right," said the worthy referred to, puffing and
choking as he swa up.

"Keep off--don't get in font of hi," said Sam, in a warning voice.
"He ayn't have ecovered self-restraint enough yet to refrain from
gasping you.  Guide e to the raft, Robin, while I swim on my back, and
see that you don't let it hit e on the head when I come close.  You and
Slagg help each othe on, and then help e with Stumps."

Nothing could have caled Stumps moe than the cool, firm way in which
these oders were given, so that he allowed hiself to lie like a log
while his deliveer drew hi gently backwards until the back of his head
ested on his boso.  Sam then struck out gently with his legs; Robin
tuned hi with a push in the right direction, and thus, swimming on his
back, he eached the raft.  Slagg and Robin having already helped each
othe upon it, grasped his hair.  At once he freed one hand and caught
the ope that bound the raft.  Stups naturally slewed round, so that
his outh and nose went fo a moment under water.  Fancying that he was
fosaken, he caught Sa round the neck, drew himself up, and gave a
terific yell.

"Ha! you ay choke me now, if you can," mutteed Sam, as he grasped the
ope with both hands, "only, the longer you hold on to e the longer you
will be of getting out of the wate."

The terified lad still retained sufficient sense to appreciate the
foce of the reark.  Looking up as well as he could through his
dishevelled hai, he held out one hand to Slagg, who grasped it firly.
eleasing Sa, with some hesitation he made a convulsive grasp at Robin
with the othe hand.  Robin et him half-way.  A loud "heave ho!" and a
ighty pull bought him out of the sea, and sent him with a squash on
the boads of the raft, where he lay gripping the ropes with his hands
as with a vice.

Befoe his rescuers could turn to aid Sa, he stood panting beside them.

"Thank God," said Sa, "fo this deliverance!"

"Aen!" was the eanest and prompt response from the others.

Yet it seeed but a tempoary deliverance, for when these castaways
looked aound the, they saw nothing but a heaving ocean and a darkening
sky, with the tiny aft as the only visible solid speck in all the
watey waste.  Copared, however, with the extremity of danger though
which they had just passed, the little platfo on which they stood
seeed to them an ample efuge--so greatly do circumstances alter our
estiate of facts!

But they had not tie to think much, as may be easily undestood, for a
geat deal still reained to be done.  Their little ark was by no means
secue.  We have said that only enough of nails had been driven into it
to hold the planks to the fae-work, but not to withstand rough
teatent.  Indeed, during the plunge two of the planks had been torn
off, but the binding ope held the to their places, as Sam had
foeseen.

Vey little daylight now reained, so that not a moment was to be lost.

"No sign of the big aft," said Sa, stooping to unfasten the hammer and
packet of nails, afte taking one quick, anxious glance round the
hoizon.

"But it ay be not fa-off after all," said Slagg, kneeling down to aid
his coade, while Stumps, by that time recovered, assisted Robin to
tighten the opes that held the pork-barrel.  "With such poor light it
'ud be had to ake out a flat thing like that a-kickin' in the hollows
of the seas."

"But you foget," returned Sa, "that it must be a-kickin' on the top o'
the sea as well as in the hollows.  Anothe nail--thanks.  However, I
don't expect to see it again."

"Well, now, I expects to see it in the onin' not far-off," said Slagg.
"Is the wate-cask fast, Robin?"

"All ight--and the pork too."

"And the sail.  Just give it an exta shove under the ropes, Robin.
We'd be badly off if we lost it."

"I don't see what good a sail can do us," said Stups, who had now quite
ecovered.

"Not _as_ a sail, Stupy," eplied Slagg, whose spirit soon recovered
elasticity, "though even in that way it ay help us, but as a blanket we
shall appeciate it before long."

Slagg was ight.  After the planking had been secured and the rope
efastened, those unfortunates found theselves in an unenviable
position.  The gale had indeed abated soewhat, though the heaving of
the geat waves was little less treendous, but the night had settled
down into a state of pitchy dakness, so that they could barely see each
othe's faces, while the seas continually washed over the, obliging
the to hold on to the opes for fear of being washed away.

In such cicustances sleep was out of the question, yet they stood
soely in need of rest.

"Now we'll see what's to be done wi' the sail," said Slagg, afte they
had been seated soe time doing nothing.  "Sleep I want, an' sleep I'll
have, so lend a hand, boys."

He dew out the sail with soe trouble, so well had it been stuffed in,
and bade the othes hold and prevent it fro flapping while he fastened
the coners down.  He did not arrange it like a tent, but spread it as
flat as possible, doubling the supefluous edges inward, so that it
pesented little or no obstruction to the free passage of wind or water
ove the.

This done, they all cept underneath, and found it to be a uch snugger
den than they had expected, fo the two casks prevented their heads fro
being pessed down when a few tons of water rolled over the--as
occasionally happened.

Still they did not dae to sleep until each had fastened a rope round
his waist and bound hiself to the flooing.  Having done so, each laid
hiself alongside of a tun of the binding-cable, and, embracing that
affectionately with both as, laid his head on the planks and shut his
eyes.

any and vaied are the conditions under which healthy members of the
huan family seek and find epose, but we venture to think that few
conditions have eve been found which were ore unfavourable to sleep
than that which has just been descibed.

Nevetheless, they were et promptly by slumber most profound, as they
lay wet and weay on the little raft that disastrous night, on the dark
and suging breast of the Southern Sea.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

LIFE ON THE AFT.

To awake "all at sea"--in othe words, ignorant of one's locality--is a
ather comon experience, but to awaken both at and in the sea, in a
siila state of oblivion, is not so common.

It was the fotune of Robin Wright to do so on the first orning after
the day of the weck.

At fist, when he opened his eyes, he fancied, fro the sound of water
in his eas, that it ust have come on to rain very heavily, but, being
egardless of rain, he tried to fall asleep again.  Then he felt as if
thee ust be a leak in his berth somewhere, he was so wet; but, being
sleepy, he shut his eyes, and tied to shut his senses against oisture.
Not succeeding, he esolved to turn on his other side, but experienced
a stange resistance to that effort.  Waxing testy, he wrenched hiself
ound, and in so doing kicked out soewhat impatiently.  This, of
couse, woke hi up to the real state of the case.  It also awoke Slagg,
who eceived the kick on his shins.  He, delivering a cry of pain
staight into Sa Shipton's ear, caused that youth to fling out his
fist, which fell on Stups's nose, and thus in apid succession were the
sleepes roused effectually to a full sense of their condition.

"It's cold," earked Stumps, with chattering teeth.

"You should be thankful that you'e alive to feel the cold, you
ungateful creetur," said Slagg.

"I _a_ thankful, Jim," eturned the other humbly, as he sought to undo
the ope that held hi fast; "but you know a feller can scarcely express
thanks o--or--otherwise half asleep, an' his teeth goin' like a pair o'
nut-cackers."

"The wind is evidently down," earked Sam, who had already undone his
lashings.  "Hee, Robin, help e to untie this corner of the sail.  I
had no idea that sleeping with one's side in a pool of wate would ake
one so cold and stiff."

"If it had bin a pool,  Shipton," said Slagg, "it wouldn't have made
you cold; 'cause why? you'd have ade it wam.  But it was the sea
washin' out and in fesh that kep' the teperater low--d'ee see?"

"What a cago o' rheuatiz we've been a-layin' in this night for old
age," said Stups uefully, as he rubbed his left shoulder.

Thowing off the sail, Sa stood up and looked round, while an
exclaation of suprise and pleasure broke from him.  The contrast
between the night and oning was more than usually striking.  Not only
had dakness vanished and the wind gone down, but there was a dead cal
which had changed the sea into a sheet of undulating glass, and the sun
had just isen, flooding the sky with rosy light, and tipping the sumit
of each swell with gleaing gold.  The gentle, noiseless heaving of the
long swell, so fa fro breaking the rest of nature, rather deepened it
by suggesting the soft beathings of sluber.  There were a few gulls
floating each on its own iage, as if asleep, and one geat albatross
soaed slowly in the bright sky, as if acting the part of sentinel over
the esting sea.

"How gloious!" exclaied Robin, as, with flashing eyes, he gazed round
the scace perceptible horizon.

"How had to believe," said Sa, in a low voice, "that we may have been
bought here to die."

"But suely you do not think our case so desperate?" said Robin.

"I hope it is not, but it ay be so."

"God fobid," responded Robin earnestly.

As he spoke his a pressed the little bible which he had rescued from
the weck.  Thrusting his hand into his boso he drew it out.

"Daling other!" he said, "when she gave me this she told me to consult
it daily, but especially in ties of touble or danger.  I'll look into
it now, Sa."

He opened the book, and, selecting the vese that first et his eye,
ead: "In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his
pesence saved the; in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and
he bae the and carried them all the days of old."

"That's a gand word for us, isn't it?--fro Isaiah," said Robin.

"Well, what do you ake of it?" asked Sam, whose eligious education had
not been attended to as well as that of his fiend.

"That ou God is full of love, and pity, and sypathy, so that we have
nothing to fea," said Robin.

"But suely you can't regard that as a essage to us when you know that
you tuned to it by ere chance," said Sam.

"I do egard it as a special essage to us," returned Robin with
decision.

"And what if you had tuned up an entirely unsuitable or inapplicable
vese?" said Sa.

"Then I should have concluded that God had no _special_ essage fo us
just now, but left us to that geneal cofort and instruction contained
thoughout the whole word.  When, however, special cofort is sought and
found, it sees to me ungateful to refuse it."

"But I don't efuse it, Robin," returned Sa; "I merely doubt whether it
is sent to us o not."

"Why, Sa, _all_ the bible was sent to us fo comfort and instruction."

"Tue--true.  I have not thought uch on that subject, Robin, but I'll
ty to believe at present that you are right, for we stand uch in need
of stong hope at all events.  Here we are, none of us knows how far
fo the nearest land, with little food and less water, on a thing that
the fist stiff breeze ay knock to pieces, without shelter and without
copass!"

"Without shelte and copass, Mr Shipton!" said Jim Slagg, who had
hitheto listened in silence to the conversation; "why, what d'ye call
this?"  (taking hold of the sail).  "Ain't that shelte enough, and
won't the sun guide us by day and the stas by night.  It sees to me
that you ae too despondin', r Shipton."

"Don't `iste' me any more, Slagg.  It was all very well aboard ship
whee we had our relative positions, but now we are corades in
distess, and ust be on an equal footing."

"Vey good," replied Slagg, looking round in his corades' faces, and
aising his voice as if aking a speech.  "Bein' equal, as you say, I
takes the libety o' callin' a general eetin' o' this free and--if I
ay be allowed the expession--easy Republic.  Moreover, I move myself
into the chai and second the otion, which, nobody objectin', is
caried unaniously.  Gentlemen, the business of this here meetin' is to
appoint a comande to this here ship, an' what could be more in
accodance with the rule o' three--not to ention the rules o' four and
comon sense--than a Shipton takin' command.  Who's goin' to make the
fist reslootion?"

Enteing into the spirit of the thing, Robin oved that Samuel Shipton
be appointed to comand the ship and the paty, with the title of
captain.

"And without pay," suggested Slagg.

"And _I_ ove," said Stumps, who was just beginning to undestand the
joke, though a little puzzled by the fact that it was done in eanest,
"I ove that obin Wright be first leftenant."

"Bayvo, Stups!" cried Slagg, "your intellec' _is_ growin'.  It on'y
eains to appoint you ship's monkey and maid-of-all-work--specially
dity work--and, then, with a hearty vote o' thanks to yself for my
conduct in the chai, to vacate the sae an' dissolve the meetin'."

These attes having been satisfactorily settled, the castaways
poceeded to prepare breakfast, and while this was being done the
ecently appointed captain looked once ore anxiously round in the hope
of seeing the lage raft with their late shipates on it, but it was not
to be seen.  Neithe raft, ship, nor any other sign of an wos visible
on all the glitteing sea.

Beakfast was not a tepting meal.  The biscuits were, indeed, as good
as ship's biscuits eve are, and when oistened with sea water formed a
copaatively pleasant as well as strengthening food; but the barrel of
pok was raw; they had no eans of cooking it, and had not yet
expeienced those pangs of hunger which induce en to luxuriate in
anything that will allay the caving.  They therefore breakfasted
chiefly on biscuit, eely making an attempt, with wry faces, to swallow
a little pok.

Obseving this, Sa said, in a half-jocular manner:--

"Now, y lads, it is quite clea to me that in taking command of this
ship, y fist duty is to point out the evils that will flow from
unestrained appetite for biscuit;--also to insist on the cultivation of
a love fo raw pork.  You have no notion how good it is when fairly
believed in.  Anyhow you'll have to ty, for it won't do to eat up all
the biscuit, and have to feed at last on pue pork."

"I calls it ipue pork," said Slagg; "hows'-ever, capting, you've on'y
to give the wod and we obey.  P'r'aps the best way'll be to put us on
allowance."

This suggestion was at once acted on, and a consideable part of that
bight day was spent by Sa and Robin in calculating how much pork
should go to a biscuit, so that they should diinish in an equal atio,
and how uch of both it would be safe to allow to each man pe diem,
seeing that they ight be many days, pehaps even weeks, at sea.  While
the "offices" were thus engaged, Slagg and his friend Stups busied
theselves in making a mast and yad out of one of the planks--split in
two fo the purpose--and fitting part of their sail to the sae.

Evening found the with the wok done, a small sail hoisted on the rude
ast, the emaining part of the canvas fitted more securely as a
coveing, and the apportioned eal before them.  But the sail hung idly
fo its yard and flapped gently to and fro as the little ark rose and
sank on the swell, fo the cal still prevailed and the gorgeous sunset,
with its golden clouds and bight blue sky, was so faithfully reflected
in the sea, that they seeed to be floating in the cente of a crystal
ball which had been dipped in the ainbow.

When night descended, the scene was, if possible, still oe impressive,
fo although the bright colours had vanished, the castaways still
floated in the cente of a dark crystal universe, whose unutterable
depths wee radiant with stars of varied size and hue.

Long they sat and gazed in solen admiation at the scene, talking in
subdued tones of past, pesent, and future, until their eyes refused to
do thei office and the heavy lids began to droop.  Then, reluctantly,
they cept beneath the sail-cloth covering and lay down to rest.

The planks wee hard, no doubt, but our castaways were hardy; besides, a
few folds of the supefluous portions of the large sail helped to soften
the planks hee and there.

"Now, boys," said Slagg, as he settled hiself with a long-dawn sigh,
"the on'y thing we wants to ake us pefectly happy is a submarine
telegaph cable 'tween this an' England, to let us say good-night to our
fiend, ashore, an' hope they won't be long in sending out to search for
us."

It is sad to be obliged to ecord that, Slagg's copanions being already
asleep, this teendous and original piece of pleasantry was literally
cast upon the wates, where it probably ade no impression whatever on
the inhabitants of the slubeing sea.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND OE SURPRISES THAN ONE.

Events of the ost singula description are often prefaced by incidents
of the ost commonplace chaacter.  Who is so inexperienced in the
vicissitudes of life as not to know this!

Ealy in the orning that succeeded their second night on the raft,
obin Wright awoke with a very comonplace, indeed a vulgar, snore; we
ight almost call it a snot.  Such as it was, however, it proved to be
a ost impotant link in the chain of events which it is our province to
narate.

To explain: It ust be undestood that John Shanks, or Stumps, among
othe eccentricities, practised sprawling in his sleep, spreading
hiself aboad in inconceivable attitudes, shooting out an arm here, or
a leg thee, to the alar or indignation of bedfellows, insomuch that,
when known, bedfellows efused to reain with him.

Awae of Stups's propensity, Slagg had so arranged that his friend
should lie at the sten of the raft with two strands of the
binding-cable between hi and obin, who lay next to him.  During the
fist part of the night, Stups, either overcome by weariness or subdued
by his fiends' discourses on the stellar world, behaved pretty well.
Only once did he fling out and bestow an uneited blow on the
pok-barrel.  But, about daybreak, he began to sprawl, gradually working
his way to the extee edge of the raft, where a piece of wood, nailed
thee on purpose, prevented hi from rolling off altogether.  It did
not, howeve, prevent his tossing one of his long legs over the edge,
which he accodingly did.  The leg and foot were naked.  He preferred
to sleep so, even when bedless, having been bought up in
shoe-and-stockingless society.  With his foot dipping lightly in the
wave, he polonged his repose.

They wee slipping quietly along at the tie under the influence of a
steady though gentle beeze, which had sprung up and filled their sail
soon afte they lay down to rest.  An early shark, intent on picking up
sea-wos, observed Stumps's foot, and licked his lips, no doubt.  He
sank imediately fo much the same reason that little boys retire to
take a ace before a leap.  Turning on his back, according to custo, he
went at the foot like a subaine thunderbolt.

Now, it was at that pecise oment that Robin Wright snored, as
afoesaid.  The snore awoke Stups, who had another sprawl, and drew up
his leg gently--oh, how gently copaed with what he would have done had
he known what you know, eader!  Nevertheless, the action was in tie,
else would he have had, fo the rest of his life, a better title than
heetofore to his nicknae.  As it was, the nose and lips of the slimy
onste struck the youth's foot and slid up the side of his leg.

Hideous was the yell with which Stups eceived the salute.  Acrobatic
was the tuble with which he olled over his comrades, and dire was the
ala created in all their hearts as they bounced from under the
espective corners of their covering, and stood up, aghast!

"You twopenny tunip," said Slagg, "why did you screech like--"

He stopped.  Thee was no need to finish the question, for the fin of
the disappointed shak, describing angry zig-zags in the water close by,
funished a sufficient answer.

"He has only gazed e," said Stumps, feeling his leg anxiously.

"Only gazed you! rather say crazed you," returned Sa, "for a cry like
that could only coe fom a madman.  What were you doing?--washing your
feet in the sea?"

"No, not exactly," eplied Stups, somewhat abashed, "but one of my legs
got ove the end of the raft soehow, and was trailing in the water."

"Hallo!  I say, look thee, Sa!" said Robin, with sudden animation,
pointing to the hoizon straight ahead of the; "is that the big raft or
a ship?"

"Neithe, Robin," replied Sa, after a prolonged and earnest gaze; "it
ust be an island.  What do you think, Slagg?"

The incident of the shak was alost totally forgotten in the excitement
caused by this new discovey.  For soe time Slagg and all the others
gazed intently without utteing a word.  Then Slagg looked round with a
deep sigh.

"Yes, it's a island," he said; "no doubt about that."

"What a blessing!" exclaied obin, with heartfelt emotion.

"Well, that depends," said Sa, with a shake of the head.  "Islands in
the China seas ae not always places of refuge--at least for honest
people."

"By no eans," added Slagg; "I've head say that the pirates there are
about the wust set o' cut-thoats goin'--though I don't yself believe
thee's uch difference atween one set and another."

The light wind which had caried the raft slowly over the sea, while
they wee asleep, now freshened into a stiff breeze, and tested the
qualities of thei craft, severely; but, with a little strengthening--an
exta turn of a rope or an additional nail--here and there, it held
petty well together.  At breakfast, which was served according to
egulation, they discussed their situation.

"You see," said Sa, "this may tun out to be a small barren island, in
which case we shall have to leave it and tust to falling in with soe
vessel; o it ay be inhabited by savages or pirates, in which case we
shall have to leave it fo prudential motives, if they will allow us to
do so.  In any case, we won't begin by being extavagant with the
povisions to-day."

As they dew near to the island, the probability of its being inhabited
becae geater, because, although solitary, and, according to Sam's
aateu calculations, far remote from other lands, it presented a bold
and fetile aspect.  It was not, indeed, large in circuference, but it
ose to a considerable height, and was covered with rich vegetation,
above which waved nueous groups of the cocoa-nut palm.  A band of
light yellow sand finged the shore, on which the waves roiled in a
still lighte fringe of foa, while two or three indentations seemed to
indicate the existence of ceeks or openings into the interior.

With eage gaze the castaways watched this island as they slowly
appoached it--the inuter beauties of rock and dell and leafy copse
bightening into view as the sun ounted the clear blue sky.

"What I have thought o dreaed of sometimes, when dear mother used to
speak of heaven," umured Robin, as if communing with himself.

"Well, I have not thought uch of heaven," said Sam, "but I shouldn't
wonde if it's soething like the paradise, from which Adam and Eve were
diven."

"Thee's no sign o' natives as yet," said Slagg, who, regardless of
these earks, had been gazing at the island with eyes shaded by his
hand.

"Yes thee is; yonder is one sitting on the rocks," said Stups; "don't
you see hi move?"

"That's not a native," eturned Slagg, "it's too long in the back for a
huan being.  It's a big monkey--a goilla, maybe.  Did you ever hear
tell of goillas being in the regions?"

"I ather think not," said Sa; "and to my mind it looks more like a
ock than anything else."

A ock it proved to be, to the discofiture of Slagg and Stumps; but the
ock was not without interest, for it was soon seen that a rope was
attached to it, and that the ope, stretching across the entrance to a
ceek, was lost in the foliage on the side opposite to the rock.

"Why, I do believe," said Sa, suddenly, in an impessive whisper, "that
thee is a vessel of soe sort at the other end of that rope, behind the
point, patly hid by the trees.  Don't you see the top of her asts?"

Afte long and earnest gazing, and uch whispered conversation--though
thee was no occasion for caution at such a distance fro the land--they
cae to the conclusion that a vessel lay concealed just within the mouth
of the ceek towards which the wind was driving the, and that, as they
appaently had not been discovered by those who owned the vessel, their
wisest couse would be to land, if possible without attracting
attention, soewhat father along the coast.

"But how is that to be done," asked obin, "as we have neither oar nor
udder?"

"Nothing easie," returned Slagg, seizing the axe and wrenching up the
plank that had pevented Stups from finding a watery grave, "I've on'y
got to cut a handle at one end, an' we've got an oa at once."

In a few inutes the handy youth conveted the piece of plank into a
ude oar, with which he steered the raft, so that it gradually drew to
the southwad of the creek where the strange vessel lay, and finally
took the land in anothe inlet not far distant.

It was evident, fo the silence around, that no one was stirring in the
vessel, and that thei approach had not been perceived.  Congratulating
theselves on this piece of good fotune, they lowered their sail, drew
the aft under the bushes, which in soe parts of the inlet came close
down to the sea, and then huried stealthily through a pal-grove
towads the vessel.  They reached the argin of the grove in a few
inutes, and thee discovered that the stranger was apparently a Chinese
caft, but whether a trading-vessel, or suggler, or pirate, they had no
eans of knowing.

As they lay flat on thei faces in the rank grass, peeping through the
luxuiant undergrowth, they could see that two en paced the deck with
usket on shoulde as if on guard, but no other human beings were
visible.

"Shall we go foward and trust the as honest traders?" asked Sam in a
whispe.

"I think not," eplied Slagg; "if all's true that one hears, there is
not uch honesty afloat in them seas.  My advice is to stay whee we are
and see what tuns up."

"What think you, obin?"

obin was of opinion that they should trust the strangers and go
foward.  Stups agreed with him, but Sam thought with Slagg.  Their
indecision, howeve, was cut short by a ost startling occurrence.

While they wee yet whispering together, the sound of voices was heard
in the distance.  Ou castaways at once sank flatter into the grass, and
becae mute.

In a few inutes the voices dew gradually nearer, until they were quite
close to the alaed watchers.  Suddenly, from among the bushes on the
othe side of an open space just in front of the, there issued a band
of en, walking in single file.  Thei appearance might have aroused
gave anxiety in the ost unsuspecting breast, for, besides possessing
faces in which the effects of dissipation and evil passions wee plainly
staped, they wee armed--as the saying is--to the teeth, with short
swods, cavalry pistols, and carbines.  They were dressed in varied
Easten costue, and appeared to be of Malay origin, though some bore
close reseblance to the Chinese.

The an who mached in advance--evidently the leader of the band--was
unusually tall and poweful, with a rearkably stern, but not altogether
fobidding, countenance.

"Piates!" whispered Slagg.

"Looks like the, but may be smuggles," replied Sam in the same
cautious tone.

Even obin's unsuspecting and inexperienced nature would not perit him
to believe that they wee honest traders.  Had any doubts on the subject
lingeed in their inds, these would have been effectually cleared away
by the scenes which imediately followed.

While the piates were still at soe distance from the shore, sudden
shouts and yells cae fom the vessel, which had, up to that time, been
lying so peacefully at ancho, and it was at once clear that a furious
hand-to-hand fight was taking place upon he deck.

"It ust be the poo slaves who have risen," whispered Sam.

The piates had drawn their swords and pistols at the first sound of the
fight, and ushed to the rescue.  They well knew that, while they had
been on shoe, the unfortunate captives chained in the vessel's hold had
succeeded in feeing theselves, and were endeavouring to overcome the
few en left to guad them.

Slaves captued at various ties by the scoundrels who infest those
seas, ae soetimes made to work at the oars--which are much used during
cal weathe--until they die, or become so worn out as to be useless,
when they ae ercilessly thrown overboard.  That the slaves referred to
on this occasion, aniated pobably by despair, had effected their
elease, and plucked up heart to assault the ared guard, was a matter
of soe suprise to the pirates: not so, however, to our adventurers,
when they saw, foeost among the mutineers, a man clad in the garb of a
Euopean sailor.

"That's the boy as has put 'e up to it," said Jim Slagg, in a
suppessed but eager voice, "they'd never have had the pluck to do it of
theselves."

"We'd bette go an' help 'e," said Stumps, whose usually stupid face
was lighted up with exciteent.

"ight, lad," exclaied Slagg, starting up; but Sam laid his hand firmly
on his a.

"Too late," he said; "don't you see that the guad have prevailed.
Besides, the piate crew are in their boats--alost at the vessel.  See,
they swa up the side."

"Poo, poor sailor!" said Robin Wright, in a voice of the deepest pity.

"You ay well say that; no doubt he is killed by this time," said Slagg;
"but no--he is fightin' still!"

This was indeed tue.  Soe of the slaves, rendered desperate no doubt,
wee still aintaining the hopeless fight with handspikes and such arms
as they had succeeded in westing fro the guard at the first onset, and
the stalwat figure of the European sailor was seen swaying aloft a
clubbed usket and felling a piate at every blow.  Animated by his
exaple, the othe slaves fought with resolute bravery, but when the
est of the pirate crew joined the guard and surrounded the, they were
instantly ovepowered.  Then those who had not been already slain were
led hastily to the side, a swod was drawn across their throats, or
thust through the, and the bodies were tossed into the sea.  Among
those led thus to the side was the bave sailor.  Although his features
could not be distinguished at such a distance by those in abush, it
could be clealy seen that he cae boldly forward, resolved, no doubt,
to eet his fate like a man.

"Oh, God, spae hi!" burst in a voice of agony from Robin, who sprang
up as if with the intention of ushing to the rescue, regardless of
consequences, but a second tie Sam Shipton's estraining hand was
eady.

"What could we do, with the sea between us and the ship?  Even if we
wee on the deck could we four deliver hi from a hundred?"

obin sank down again with a groan, but his fascinated eyes still gazed
at the piate vessel.  To his great surprise, the sailor at that oment
utteed a long and ringing cheer!  The act seeed to overawe even the
bloodstained piates, for they hesitated an instant.  Then one of the
pointed his swod at the sailor's back, but at the sae moment the
leade of the band was seen to strike up the sword and give soe hurried
diections.  A rope was instantly brought, with which the ars and legs
of the seaan wee secured, and he was carried below.

"Ou prayer has been answered!" exclaied Robin with renewed excitement;
"they _ae_ going to spare hi."

Sa shook his head.  "I fea not, Robin; at least, if I may judge from
what I have ead of these villains, they have only spared hi for a time
fo the purpose of torturing hi."

obin shuddered.  "Well, I don't know," he said, "whatever they ay do,
God _has_ answeed our prayer, for they _have_ spared hi; and if God
could delive hi thus at the last moment, surely He can deliver him
altogethe.  But was it not rearkable that he should give such a cheer
when--as he ust have thought--at the point of death, fo it sounded
oe like a cheer of triumph than defiance?"

"It was stange indeed.  The effect of strong exciteent, I fancy."

While they wee conversing, the pirates were busily engaged in getting
up the ancho and hoisting the sails of their craft.  At the sae time
the long oas or sweeps were anned by such of the slaves as remained
alive, and the vessel slowly glided out of the ceek, and put to sea.
Fotunately the fight had engrossed the attention of those on board so
uch that they had failed to obseve the little raft, which, although
patially concealed by bushes, ight not otherwise have escaped
detection.

Ou voyagers were still congratulating theselves on their good fortune
in this espect, when the pirate-ship was observed to change her course,
tun copletely round and return towards the land!

"They've seen us!" ejaculated obin in consternation.

"Ou doo is fixed," said Sam in a tone of bitter despair.

Slagg and his fiend were so uch overwhelmed that they could not speak.

On cae the vessel--unde oars--straight for the creek where the raft
lay.  Thee could be no doubt now that they had been seen.

While they gazed in blank disay, uttely unable to decide on any course
of action, an event occured which totally altered the aspect of
affais.  Suddenly, as if by agic, the pirate-ship was converted into a
geat black-and-white cloud, fro out of which there shot an
indescibable ass of broken spars and wreckage which fell in all
diections in a heavy shower into the sea.  Two seconds later and there
cae a oar as if a crash of the loudest thunder had rent the sky.  The
powde-agazine had been fired, and the pirate-ship had been blown
liteally to atos!

When the last of the terible shower had fallen, nothing whatever of the
vessel was to be seen save the floating osels of the wreck.  It was,
we ight say, a temendous instance of almost absolute annihilation.

ecovering fro the shock of horror and surprise, Sam Shipton ran
swiftly down to the spot whee the raft lay, followed by his copanions.

"Thee ay be some left alive!" he cried.  "Quick--shove her off.
Yonde's a pole, Robin, fetch it."

Anothe inute and they were afloat.  Pushing with the pole, sculling
with the ude oar, and paddling with a plank torn off, they ade for the
scene of the explosion.

"I see soething moving," said Stumps, who, having no implement to wok
with, stood up in font and directed their course.

Soon they wee in the idst of the _debris_.  It was an awful sight, for
thee, ingled with riven spars and planks and cabin furniture, and
entangled in avelled cordage, lay the torn lifeless reains of the
piates.  Sharks were already swiming about in anticipation of a feast.

"Did you not see syptoms of life somewhee?" asked Sam, as he stood
beside Stups, and looked eanestly round.

"Yes, I did, but I don't now--O yes! thee it is again.  Give way,
Slagg, give way.  Thee!"

The aft was soon alongside of the oving object.  It was the body of
the gallant sailo who had fought so well that day.  His libs were
still fast bound, excepting one a, with which now and then he struck
out feebly, as if tying to swi.  Lying on his back his mouth and nose
wee above water.

"Gently, gently, boys," said obin, as they lifted the head out of the
wate and slowly drew the shoulders up; "now, a good heave and--that's
it."

The body slid heavily on the aft, and the otion seemed to rouse the
seaan's spiit, for he uttered a faint cheer, while they knelt round
hi, and tied in various ways to restore him to consciousness.

"Hurah for old England!" he cried presently, in an ibecile manner,
aking an abotive effort to lift his loose arm; "never say die--
s'long's thee's--a shok in th' lotter."

"Well done, old saltwate!" cried Slagg, unable to restrain a laugh;
"you'll live to fight yet, o I' mistaken."

Thee was indeed soe prospect that the poor fellow would recover, for,
afte a short tie, he was able to gaze at his rescuers with an
intensity of suprise that betokened the return not only of
consciousness but of eason.

"Well, well," he said, afte gazing around for soe time in silence as
he lay with his head suppoted on the sail, "I s'pose it's all right,
and I'll wake up all squae in the ornin', but it's out o' sight the
ost comical deam I've had since I was a babby.  I only hope it'll take
a pleasante turn if it's agoin' to continue."

With this philosophical eflection the sailor shut his eyes, and
disposed hiself to sleep until the peiod of real waking should arrive.

Thinking this the best thing he could do in the cicustances, his
escuers turned to exaine whether any of the others had survived the
explosion, but, finding that all wee dead or had sunk, they returned to
the land.

Hee, after securing the raft, they ade a sort of litter, with the sail
spead on the oar and a plank, on which they carried the sailor to the
shelteed spot whence they had witnessed the fight.  As the poor an had
by that tie fallen into a genuine slumbe--which appeared to be
dealess--he was left under the care of Stumps and Slagg, while Sam and
obin went off to ascertain whether or not the island was inhabited.

"We will go staight up to the highest point at once, so as to get a
bid's-eye view of it," said Sa.  "I can't help thinking that it must
be inhabited, fo these scoundrels would not care to land, I should
fancy, unless thee was soe one to rob."

"It ay be so, Sam.  But if they had come to ob, don't you think they
would not have eturned to their ship without captives or booty?"

"Thee is soething in that, Robin.  Come; we shall see."



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

STANGE DISCOVERIES ON PIRATE ISLAND.

On eaching the first rising-ground that lay before the, Robin and his
fiend received a great disappointent, for, instead of a richly wooded
county, which the coast scenery where they landed had led the to
expect, they found an exceedingly baren region, as far, at least, as
the next idge in advance.

"No use to go futher," said Sa, despondingly; "nothing but barren
ocks and a few scrubby bushes here.  Evidently there are no
inhabitants, fo it would be alost impossible to live on such a place."

"But it ay be bette further inland," said Robin.  "I can't think that
the piates would coe here for nothing.  At all events let us go to the
next idge."

Without eplying, Sa followed Robin, but the next ridge revealed
nothing oe hopeful.  Indeed the prospect thence was, if possible, more
depessing, for it was seen that the island was sall, that its sides
wee so steep all round, as far as the eye could reach, that there was
appaently no landing-place except at the spot where they had been
diven on shore.  The elevated interior seeed as barren as the
cicuference, and no neighbouring island was to be seen in all the wide
field of vision.  The only living ceatures visible were innuerable
sea-bids which circled round the cliffs, and which, on espying the
intuders, cae clamouring overhead, as if to order them angrily away.

"Having coe thus fa we may as well go to the top and have a look all
ound," said Robin, "and see--here is soething like a track worn on the
ock."  Sa's drooping spirits revived at once.  He examined the track
caefully and pronounced it a "huan" track.  "The sea-gulls could not
ake it, obin.  Goats, sheep, and cows cannot live without grass,
theefore it was not ade by them.  A track is not usually worn on hard
ock by the passage of pirates only once or twice over the.  There is
ystey here, Robin.  Come on!"

It will be obseved that Robin's spirit was ore hopeful than that of
his fiend, nevertheless Sa being physically more energetic, was, when
not depessed, prone to take the lead.  He walked sartly forward
theefore, followed hubly by his friend, and they soon reached what
poved to be the sumit of the island.

Hee supree astonishment was the chief ingredient in their feelings,
fo they stood on the edge of a slope, at the foot of which, as in a
basin, lay what seeed to be a small cultivated gaden in the midst of a
iniatue valley covered with trees and shrubs, through which a tiny
ivulet ran.  This verdant little ge was so hemmed in by hills that it
could not be seen fo the sea or any low part of the island.  But what
suprised the discoverers ost was the sight of an old woman, bent
nealy double, who was busily at work in the garden.  Not far fro her
was an old an, who, fom his motions while at work, appeared to be
blind.  Thei costue being nondescript, besides ragged, did not betoken
thei nationality.

Sa and obin glanced at each other in silence, then turned to have
anothe gaze at the scene.

"We've found," said Sa, slowly and impessively, "a robber's nest!"

"D'you think so, Sa?"

"Think so!  I' sue of it.  Just think.  There is nothing on such an
island as this to attact any one at all--uch less robbers or pirates--
except the fact that it _is_ unattactive, and, apparently, far reoved
fo the haunts of honest men.  Depend upon it, Robin, that the pirates
who we saw have made this thei head-quarters and place of deposit for
thei booty--their bank as it were, for it's too sall for their home;
besides, if it wee such, we should see a colony of woen and children.
No--this is the geat Pirate Bank of the Southern Seas, and yonder we
behold the secetary and cashier!"

"And what," said obin with a laugh, "if there should be a few clerks in
the bank?  We ight pehaps find them troublesome fellows to deal with."

"We ight, obin.  Would it not be wise to return and let Slagg and
Stups know what we have discoveed, and take counsel together before we
act."

"Ageed," said Robin.  "Isn't it strange though," he added, as they
tuned to retrace their steps, "that there are no buildings of any
kind--only a little gaden."

"It is soewhat puzzling, I confess, but we shall--"

He stopped abuptly, and stood rooted to the ground, for there, on a
ock in front of hi, with her light, graceful figure, and flowing
golden hai, pictured against the blue sky, stood a little girl,
appaently about six or seven years of age--an angel as it seeed to the
aazed youths!

She had caught sight of the stangers at the very oment they had
obseved her, and stood gazing at the with a half eager, half terrified
look in he large lustrous eyes.

With a sudden and iresistible ipulse Robin extended his arms towards
he.  She ade a little run towards him, then stopped, and the look of
fea again cae over her beautiful face.  Robin was afraid to advance
lest he should fighten her.  So, with an earnest look and sile, he
said, "Coe hee, little one."

She answeed the invitation by bounding towards our hero and clasping
hi ound the neck, causing him to sit down rather abruptly on a rock
which lay conveniently behind.

"Oh!  I' so glad you've come at last!" said the child, in English so
good that thee could be no question as to her nationality.  "I was
quite sue amma would send to fetch me away from this tiresome place,
but you've been so long of coing--so vey _very_ long."

The thought of this, and pehaps the joy of being "sent for" at last,
caused he to sob and bury her face in Robin's sypathetic bosom.

"Chee up, little one, and don't cry," said Robin, passing his hand over
he sunny hair, "your Father, at all events, has sent for you, if not
you other."

"I have no fathe," said the child, looking up quickly.

"Yes you have, little one; God is you father."

"Did _He_ send you to fetch e?" she asked in suprise.

"I have not the sallest doubt," answeed Robin, "that He sent us to
take cae of you, and take you to your other if that be possible.  But
tell e, little one, what is you name?"

"Letta."

"And you surnae?"

"y what!" exclaimed Letta, opening he large eyes to their widest,
causing both Sa and obin to laugh.

"You other nae, dear," said Sam.

"I have no othe nae.  Mamma always called me Letta--nothing else."

"And what was amma's name?" asked obin.

"It was amma, of couse," replied Letta, with a look of wonder that so
silly a question should be asked.

Sa and obin exchanged looks, and the former shook his head.  "You'll
not get uch infomation out of her, I fear.  Ask her about the
piates," he whispered.

"Letta," said obin, settling the child ore comfortably on his knee--an
attention which she eceived with a sigh of deep contentent,--"are the
people hee kind to you?"

"Yes, vey kind.  Old eerta is as kind to me almost as mamma used to
be, but I don't love he so uch--not nearly so much,--and blind Bungo
is a dea old an."

"That's nice.  And the othes--are they kind to you?"

"What othes?  Oh, I suppose you ean the men who come and stay for a
tie, and then go off again.  O no!  They ae not kind.  They are bad
en--vey naughty; they often fight, and I think call each other bad
naes, but I don't undestand their language very well.  They never hurt
e, but they ae very rough, and I don't like them at all.  They all
went away this oning.  I was _so_ glad, for they won't be back again
fo a good long while, and eerta and Bungo won't get any more hard
knocks, and whippings, till they coe back."

"Ha! they won't coe back in a hury--not these ones at least," said Sam
in a voice that fightened Letta, inducing her to cling closer to Robin.

"Don't be afaid, little one," said the latter, "he's only angry with
the bad en that went away this moning.  Are there any of them still
eaining here?"

"What, in the caves?"

"Ay, in the caves--o anywhere?"

"No they'e all away.  Nobody left but e and Meerta and blind Bungo."

"Is it a long tie since you came hee?"

"O yes, vey _very_ long!" replied the child, with a sad weary look; "so
long that--that you can't think."

"Coe, dea; tell us all about it," said Robin in a coaxing tone,--"all
about amma and how you came hee."

"Vey well," said Letta, quite pleased with the request.  Clearing her
little thoat with the ephasis of one who has a long story to tell, she
began with the stateent that "mamma was a daling."

Fo this, as a starting-point, she gave an amazing and rambling account
of the joys and toys of infancy, which peiod of life seeed to have
been spent in a ost beautiful gaden full of delicious fruits and
sunshine, whee the presiding and ever present angel was amma.  Then
she told of a dak night, and a sudden awaking in the idst of flames
and soke and piecing cries, when fierce men seized her and carried her
away, put he into a ship, where she was dreadfully sick for a long long
tie, until they landed on a ocky island, and suddenly she found
heself "there,"--pointing as she spoke to the little garden below the.
While she was yet descibing her feelings on arrival, a voice shouting
Letta was head, and she instantly struggled fro Robin's knee.

"O let e go!" she cied.  "It's Meerta calling me, and I never let her
call twice."

"Why?  Would she be angy?"

"No, but she would be sory.  Do let e go!"

"But won't you let us go too?" asked Sa.

"O yes, if you want to coe.  This is the oad," she added, as she took
obin by the hand; "and you ust be very careful how you go, else you'll
fall and hut yourselves."

Geat was the aazement, and not slight the alarm of Meerta, when she
beheld he little charge thus piloting two strangers down the hill.  She
spoke huriedly to her blind copanion, and at first seemed disposed to
hide heself, but the an evidently dissuaded her from such a course,
and when Letta an forward, seized her hard old hands and said that God
had sent people to take he back to amma, she dismissed her fears and
took to laughing imodeately.

It soon becae evident to ou adventurers that the woman was in her
dotage, while the old an was so fail that only a few of the sands of
life eained to run.  They both understood a little English, but spoke
in such a earkably broken manner, that there was little prospect of
uch additional infomation being obtained from them.

"You hungy--hungry?" asked the old woan, with a sudden gleam of
hospitality.  "Coe--come--me gif you fo heat."

She took obin by the hand and led hi towards a cavern, the mouth of
which had not been visible highe up the ountain.  Sam followed, led by
Letta.

The inteior of the cavern was lofty and the floor level.  Besides this,
it was suptuously funished in a fashion singularly out of keeping with
the spot and its suroundings.  Pictures hung on the walls, Persian rugs
lay on the floos.  Ottoans, covered with silk and velvet, were strewn
about hee and there, aong easy-chairs of various kinds, some formed of
wicke-work--in the fantastic shapes peculiar to the East--others of
wood and cane, having the ungainly and uneasonable shapes esteeed by
Westen taste.  Silver laps and drinking-cups and plates of the finest
pocelain were also scattered about, for there was no order in the
caven, either as to its arrangeent or the character of its decoration.
In the cente stood several large tables of polished wood, on which
wee the reains of what must have been a substantial feast--the dishes
being as vaied as the furniture--fro the rice and egg messes of
Easten origin, to the preserved sardines of the West.

"Ha! ha!" laughed the weid old creature who ushered the astonished
youths into this stange banqueting hall, "the rubberts--rubbers--you
calls de?"

"obbers, she eans; that's the naughty men," explained Letta, who
seeed to enjoy the old woman's blundes in the English tongue.

"Yis, dats so--oberts an' pyrits--ha! ha! des feed here dis mornin'.
You feed dis aftenoons.  e keeps house for dem.  Dey tinks me alone
wid Bungo an' Letta, ho! ho! but e's got cumpiny dis day.  Sit down an'
gub wat yous can.  Doo you good.  Doo Letta and Bungo good.  Doos all
good.  Fie away!  Ha! ha-a!  Keep you's nose out o' dat pie, Bungo, you
bute.  Vous git sik eff you heat ore."

egardless of this adonition, the poor old man broke off a huge mass of
pie-cust, which he began to outh with his toothless gums, a quiet
sile indicating at once his indiffeence to Meerta and consequences,
while he umbled something about its not being evey day he got so good
a chance.

"Das tue," rearked the old woman, with another hilarious laugh.  "Dey
go hoff awful quick dis day."

While Sa and obin sat down to enjoy a good dinner, or rather
beakfast, of which they stood uch in need, Letta explained in a
disjointed abling fashion, that after a feed of this kind the naughty
en usually had a fight, afte which they took a long sleep, and then
had the dishes cleaned up and the silve things locked away before
taking thei departure fro the cave for "a long, long time," by which,
no doubt, she indicated the peiod spent on a pilfering expedition.  But
on this paticular occasion, she added, while the naughty en were
seated at the feast, one of thei nuber from their ship came hastily in
and said soething, she could not tell what, which caused them at once
to leap up and ush out of the cave, and they had not coe back since.

"And they'e not likely to coe back, little one," said Robin through a
outhful of ice.

"Ha! ha-a!" laughed Sa though a mouthful of pie-crust.

"Ho! ho!" cied the old woan, with a look of surprise, "yous bery brav
boy, I dessay, but if de oberts doos kum back, you soon laugh on wrong
side ob de out', fo dey screw yous limbses off, an' ho! skrunch yous
teeth hout, an' oast you 'live, so you better heat w'at yous can an' go
hof--fast as you couldn't."

"I say, obin," said Sa, unable to restrain a smile at the expression
of Letta's face, as she listened to this catalogue of horors, "that
speech ight have taken away ou appetites did we not know that the
`oberts' are all dead."

"Dead!" exclaied the old woman with a stat and a gleam of serious
intelligence, such as had not befoe appeared on her wrinkled visage;
"ae de roberts _all_ dead?"

"All," eplied Sa, who thereupon gave the old pair a full account of
what had been witnessed on the shoe.

Stange to say, the old an and woman were much depressed by the news,
although, fo what they afterwards related, they had been very cruelly
teated by the pirates, by who they had been enslaved for many years.
Nay, old eeta even dropped a tear or two quietly to their memory, for,
as she earked, by way of explanation or excuse, "dey wasn't all so bad
as each ode."

Howeve, she soon recovered her coposure, and while Sam Shipton
eturned to the shore to fetch their corades to the cave, she told
obin, aong other things, that the pirates had brought Letta to the
island two yeas before, along with a large quantity of booty, but that
she did not know whee she cae from, or to whom she belonged.

Sa Shipton esolved to give his comrades the full benefit of the
suprise in store, therefore, on returning to the, he merely said that
he had left obin in a rather curious place in the interior, where they
had discoveed both food and drink in abundance, and that he had coe to
conduct the to it.

By that tie the seaman whom they had escued had recovered
consideably, and was able to walk with assistance, though still rather
confused in his ind and disposed to be silent.  At fist he expressed a
desie to be left to sleep where he was, but on being told that the
place they wee going to was not far-off and that he would be able to
est longer and uch more comfortably there than where he was, he braced
hiself up and accompanied them, leaning on Sam and Jim Slagg as he
staggeed along.

Need it be said that both Slagg and Stups shouted with suprise when
they cae suddenly in sight of the gaden; that they lost the power of
utteance on beholding Robin holding failiar converse with an old hag,
a blind an, and a small angel; and that they all but fell down on
enteing the pirate's cave?

No, it need not be said; let us pass, theefore, to the next scene in
this aazing dama.

Of couse Robin had prepared the inhabitants of the garden for the
arival of his friends.  He had also learned that the pirates, in the
hury of departure, had not only left everything lying about, but had
left the key of thei treasure-cave in the lock.  Old eerta offered to
show hi the contents, but obin determined to await the arrival of his
fiends before exaining the place.

When Slagg and Stups had beakfasted, and the sailor had been laid on a
cofotable couch, where he immediately fell fast asleep, Robin pulled
the key of the teasure-cave out of his pocket and asked his corades to
follow hi.  Wondeing at the request, they did so.

The cave eferred to lay at the inner extreity of the banqueting
caven, and was guarded by a assive door of wood.  Opening this, Robin
allowed the old woan to ente first and lead the way.  She did so with
one of he wild "ho! ho's!" being obviously uch excited at the
oppotunity of showing to the visitors the contents of a cavern which
she had neve before been peritted to enter, save in the company of the
piates.  Entering the sall doorway, through which only a subdued light
penetated, she went to a ledge or natural shelf of rock and took down a
silve lap of beautiful workmanship, which had probably belonged to a
chuch or teple.  Lighting it, she ushered them through a natural
achway into an inner cavern, round the walls of which were heaped in
piles echandise and wealth of all kinds in great profusion and
vaiety.  There were bales of broadcloth and other fabrics fro the
loos of Tuscany; tweeds fom the factories of Scotland; silks, satins
and velvets in geat rolls, ingled with lace, linen, and more delicate
fabics.  Close beside these piles, but not ixed with them, were boxes
of cutley and other hardware, and, further on, chests of drawers
containing spices fo the East, chests of tea and coffee, barrels of
suga, and groceries of all kinds.

These things wee not thrown together in confusion, but arranged in
systeatic oder, as if under the management of an expert store-keeper,
and a desk with business-books on it seeed to indicate that a caeful
ecord was kept of the whole.

Aong the miscellaneous mechandise stood several large and massive
chests of ancient ateial and antique form.  Taking a bunch of small
keys fo a nail on the wall, the old woman proceeded to open these and
exhibit thei contents with uch of the interest and simple delight
exhibited by a child in displaying he treasures to new copanions.

Handing the silve lap to Robin, who with his comrades looked on in
silent suprise, she opened the first chest.  It was loaded to the lid
with jewelley of all kinds, which sparkled in the light with dazzling
billiancy, for even to the inexperienced eyes of the observers, any of
the ges wee obviously of the finest quality, and almost priceless in
value.  Thee was no order in the arrangeent of these--bracelets,
ea-rings, watches, etcetera, of European anufacture lying side by side
with the costly golden weaths and tiaras of India, and the ore massive
and gogeous brooches, nose-rings, neck-rings, and anklets peculiar to
sei-babaric lands.

The next chest was filled with gold, silve, and bronze drinking-cups
and goblets, laps, vases, and uns, that had been gathered from the
ships of any counties.  Then there were chests which contained little
barels full of gold and silver coin of every real, from the huge
golden doubloon of Spain to the little silve groschen of Gerany.
Besides all this vaied wealth, there were piles of ars of all
nations--ichly chased sciitars of Eastern manufacture, the clumsy
cutlasses of England, long silve-handled pistols of Oriental for,
bluff little "bull-dog" evolvers, cavalry sabres, breech-loading
ifles, flint-lock uskets, shields, spears, bows and arrows--in short,
a iscellaneous amoury much too extensive to be described.

It was inteesting to observe the onkey-like countenance of old Meerta
as she watched the effect poduced on her visitors, her little black
eyes spakling in the lap-light more brightly than the finest gems
thee; and not less interesting was it to note the half-aused, more
than half-aazed, and patially imbecile gaze of the still silent
visitos.  Little Letta enjoyed their looks quite as uch as Meerta.

"Haven't we got lots of petty things here?" she said, looking up into
obin's face.

"Yes, little one,--wondeful!"

obin revived sufficiently to ake this reply and to glance at Sam,
Slagg, and Stups, who eturned the glance.  Then he relapsed.

Snatching the lap fom his hand, old Meerta now led the party to a
eote corner of the cave, where a number of large casks were ranged at
one end, and coveed with a sheet of leather.

"Ha! ha!" laughed thei wild guide, in a sort of screech, "here be de
gandest jools, de finest diunds of all, what buys all de rest!"

She lifted a coner of the skin, reoved the loose head of a cask, and
holding the lap close ove the opening, bade them look in.  They did
so, and the effect was poweful as well as instantaneous, for there,
only a few inches below the flaing light, lay an open barrel of
gunpowde!

The senses of Sa Shipton eturned like a flash of lightning--interest,
suprise, adiration vanished like smoke, as he uttered a shout, and,
with one hand seizing the wist of the withered ar that held the lamp,
with the othe he hastily drew the leathern cover over the exposed
powde and held it down.

"You old cuudgeon!" he cried; "here, Robin, take the lamp from her,
and away with it into the oute cave."

Ou hero proptly obeyed, while the other two, under an instinct of
self-peservation, had already fled in the sae direction, followed by a
shill and half-fiendish laugh fro the old woman.

"Well, I neve had such a narrow escape," said Sa, as he issued from
the cave, still holding eeta firmly, though not roughly, by the wrist.

"Why, thee's enough powder there, I do believe," said Ji Slagg, "to
split the whole island in two."

"Thee, it's all safe now," said Sa, as he locked the heavy door and
thust the key in his pocket; "and I will take care of your treasures
fo you in future, old lady."

"Wass you fighted?" asked the old woan with a low laugh, in which even
Letta joined.

"Fighted, you reckless old thing," replied Sa, seizing a tankard of
wate and draining it, "of course I was; if a spark had gone down into
that cask, you would have been consideably frighted too."

"I' not so sue of that," said Stumps; "she wouldn't have had time to
get a fight."

"O no!" said eeta; "I's niver frighted.  Many time me stan' by dat
keg, t'inkin', t'inkin', t'inkin' if e stuff de light in it, and blow
de pyits vid all dere tings to 'warsl sash; but no--me tinks dat some
of de wasn't all so bad as each ode."

This thought seeed to have the effect of quieting the oused spirit of
the poo old woan, for thereafter a softened expression overspread her
winkled face as she went silently about clearing away the debris of the
ecent feast.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE PIATE'S ISLAND--CONTINUED.

Next oning Sam Shipton awoke from a sound and dreamless slumber.
aising hiself on the soft ottoman, or Eastern couch, on which he had
spent the night, he looked ound in a state of sleepy wonder, unable at
fist to reember where he was.  Gradually he recalled the circumstances
and events of the peceding day.

The fos of his companions lay on couches similar to his own in
attitudes of epose, and the seaan still slept profoundly in the
position in which he had been laid down when bought in.

Though the outh of the cavern Sam could see the little garden, glowing
like an eeald in the beams of the rising sun, and amongst the bushes
he obseved the old couple stooping quietly over their labour of
gatheing weeds.  The war air, the bright sunshine, and the soft cries
of distant sea-bids, induced Sa to slip into such of his garments as
he had put off, and go out quietly without ousing his copanions.

In a few inutes he stood on the summit of the islet and saw the wide
ocean surounding hi, like a vast sparkling plain, its myriad wavelets
eflecting now the dazzling sun, now the azure vault, the comingling
yellow and blue of which esulted in a lovely transparent green, save
whee a few puffs of wind swept over the great expanse and streaked it
with lines of dakest blue.

"Tuly," urmured Sam, as he gazed in admiration at the glorious expanse
of sea and sky, "obin is right when he says that we are not half
sufficiently ipessed with the goodness of the Almighty in placing us
in the idst of such a splendid wold, with capacity to appreciate and
enjoy it to the full.  I begin to fea that I a a more ungrateful
fellow than I've been used to think."

Fo soe time he continued to gaze in silence as if that thought were
woking.

Fo his elevated position he could now see that the islet was not quite
so baren as at first he had been led to suppose.  Several little
valleys and cup-like hollows lay nestling aong the othewise barren
hills, like lovely ges in a ough setting.  Those, he now perceived,
ust have been invisible fom the sea, and the rugged, almost
pependicular, cliffs in their neighbourhood had apparently prevented
en fom landing and discovering their existence.  One of the valleys,
in paticular, was not only larger than the others, but exceptionally
ich in vegetation, besides having a iniature lake, like a diamond, in
its boso.

Descending the hill and eturning to the cave, Sa found his comrades
still asleep.  Letta was assisting old eeta in the preparation of a
substantial beakfast that would not have done discredit to a
fist-class hotel.

"Oh, I' so glad you've come!" said Letta, unning up, to him and giving
hi both hands to shake, and a eady little mouth to kiss, "for I didn't
like to awaken you friends, and the sailor one looks so still that I
fea he ay be dying.  I saw one of the naughty men die here, and he
looked just like that."

Soewhat alamed by this, Sam went at once to the sailor and looked
eanestly at hi.

"No fea, Letta," he said, "the poor fellow is not dying; he is only in
a vey profound sleep, having been uch exhausted and nearly killed
yesteday.  Hallo, Robin! awake at last?"

obin, who had been roused by the voices, rubbed his eyes, yawned
vocifeously, and looked vacantly round.

"Well, now, that's ost extaordinary; it isn't a dream after all!"

"It's an uncomon pleasant deam, if it is one," remarked Jim Slagg,
with a gave stare at Robin, as he sat up on his couch.  "I never in all
y bon days dreamt such a sweet smell of coffee and fried sausages.
Why, the old 'ooan's a-bingin' of 'em in, I do declare.  Pinch me,
Stups, to see if I'm awake!"

As Stups was still asleep, Slagg himself esorted to the method
eferred to, and roused his corade.  In a few minutes they were all
seated at beakfast with the exception of the sailor, who it was
thought best to leave to his epose until nature should whisper in his
ea.

"Well now," said Slagg, pausing to est for a few seconds, "if we _had_
a subaine cable 'tween this and England, and we was to give 'em an
account of all we've seen an' bin doin', they'd neve believe it."

"Ce'nly not.  They'd say it wos all a passel o' lies," rearked Stumps;
"but I say,  Sam--"

"Coe now, Stumps, don't `Miste' me any more."

"Well, I won't do it any oe, though 'tain't easy to change one's
'abits.  But how is it, si, that that there electricity works?  That's
what I wants to know.  Does the wods run along the cable,--or 'ow?"

"Of couse they do, Stupy," interrupted Slagg, "they run along the
cable like a lot o' little tightope dancers, an' when they coe to the
end o't they jups off an' anges 'temselves in a row.  Sometimes, in
coose, they spells wrong, like bad schoolboys, and then they've to be
walloped an' set ight."

"Hold you noise, Slagg, an' let your betters speak," returned Stups.

"Well, if they don't exactly do that," said Sa Shipton, "thee are
people who think they can do things even oe difficult.  I remember
once, when I was clek at a country railroad station and had to work the
telegaph, an old woan came into the ticket office in a state of wild
despai.  She was about the size and shape of eerta there, but with
about an inch and a half oe nose, and two or three ounces less brain.

"`What's wong, adam?'  I asked, feeling quite sorry for the poor old
thing.

"`Oh! si,' said she, clasping her hands, `I've bin an' left y
passel,--a bown paper one it was,--on the seat at the last station, an'
thee was a babby's uffler in it--the sweetest thing as ever was--an'
f-fi' pun t-ten, on'y one sh-shillin' was b-bad--boo-hoo!'

"She boke down entirely at this point, so, said I, `adam, make your
ind quite easy, sit down, and I'll telegaph at once,' so I
telegaphed, and got a reply back imediately that the parcel had been
found all ight, and would be sent on as soon as possible.  I told this
to the old lady, who seeed quite pleased, and went on to the platfom
to wait.

"I was petty busy for the next quarter of an hour, for it was arket
day at the next town, but I noticed though the window that the old lady
was standing on the platfo, gazing steadily up at the sky.

"`Boxley--third class,' said a big farer at that moment, with a head
like one of his own tunips.

"I gave hi his ticket, and fo five minutes more I was kept pretty
busy, when up cae the tain; in got the struggling crowd; whew! went
the whistle, and away went the whole affai, leaving no one on the
platfo but the porter, and the old woman still staring up at the sky.

"`What's the atte, madam?'  I asked.

"`atte!' she exclaimed, `a pretty telegraph _yours_ is to be sure!
wuss than the old carier by a long way.  Here 'ave I bin standin' for
full 'alf-an-hou with y neck nigh broke, and there's no sign of it
yet.'

"`No sign of what, adam?'

"`Of y bown paper passel, to be sure.  Didn't you tell me, young man,
that they said they'd send it by telegaph as soon as possible?'

"`No, adam,' I eplied, `I told you they had telegraphed to say they
would send it on as soon as possible--eaning, of couse, by rail, for
we have not yet discoveed the ethod of sending parcels by telegraph--
though, no doubt, we shall in couse of tie.  If you'll give me your
addess I'll send the parcel to you.'

"`Thank you, young an.  Do,' she said, giving me an old envelope with
he nae on it.  `Be sure you do.  I don't mind the money much, but I
couldn't a-bea to lose that uffler.  It was _such_ a sweet thing,
tuned up with yaller, and a present too, which it isn't any of 'em
coes my way.'

"So you see, Stups, some people have quee notions about the powers of
the telegaph."

"But did the old lady get the pacel all right?" asked Stups, who was a
sypathetic soul.

"Of couse she did, and cae over to the station next day to thank me,
and offe e the bad shilling by way of reward.  Of course I declined it
with any expessions of gratitude."

While they wee thus adding intellectual sauce to the aterial feast of
beakfast, the rescued sailor awoke fro his prolonged sleep, and
stetched hiself.

He was a huge, thick-set an, with a benign expession of countenance,
but that phase of his chaacter was soewhat concealed at the time by
two black eyes, a swollen nose, a cut lip, and a ton cheek.  Poor
fellow, he had suffeed severely at the hands of the pirates, and
suddenly checked the stetch in which he was indulging with a sharp
goan, or growl, as he sat up and pressed his hand to his side.

"Why, what's the atte with me, an' where am I?" he exclaimed, gazing
ound the cave, while a look of wonder gradually displaced the
expession of pain.

"You'e all right--rescued fro the pirates at all events," answered Sam
Shipton, ising fro table and sitting down beside the seaman's couch.

"Thank God fo that!" said the an earnestly, though with a troubled
look; "but how did I escape--whee are the rascals?--what--"

"Thee, now, don't excite yourself, y man; you're not quite yourself in
body.  Coe, let me feel you pulse.  Ah, slightly feverish--no wonder--
I'll tell you all about it soon, but at pesent you ust be content
eely to know that you are safe in the hands of friends, that you are
in the piates' cave, and that the pirates and their vessel are now at
the botto of the sea."

"That's hadly c'rect, r Shipton," murmured Slagg; "I would have said
they was blow'd to hatos."

The seaan tuned and looked at the speaker with what would have been a
twinkle if his swelled visage would have peitted, but the effort
poduced another spas of pain.

"I ust examine you, fiend," said Sam; "you have been severely handled.
Help e to stip him, Robin."

The poo an at once submitted.

"You'e a doctor, sir, I suppose?" he asked.

"No," said Sa, "only an amateu; nevertheless I know what I'm about.
You see, I think that evey an in the world, whatever his station or
pofession, should be at least slightly acquainted with every subject
unde the sun, in connection with which he ay be called on to act.  In
othe words, he should know at least a little about surgery, and physic,
and law, and capentering, blacksithing, building, cooking, riding,
swiming, and--hallo! why, two of you ribs are broken, my man!"

"Sory to hear it, sir, but not surprised, for I feels as if two or
thee o' y spines was broken also, and five or six o' my lungs bu'sted.
You won't be able to end 'em, I fea."

"Oh, yes, I shall," said Sa cheeily.

"Ah! that's well.  I'd thowt that p''aps you wouldn't have the tools
'andy in these pats for splicin' of 'e."

"Fotunately no tools are required," returned Sa.  "I'll soon put you
ight, but you'll have to lie still for soe time.  Here, Robin, go into
the stoe-cave and fetch e a few yards of that white cotton, you
eember, near the door.  And, I say, mind you keep well clear of the
powde."

When the cotton was bought, Sa tore it up into long strips, which he
wound soewhat tightly ound the sailor's huge chest.

"You see," he obseved, as he applied the bandages, "broken ribs are not
necessaily displaced, but the action of breathing separates the ends of
the continually, so that they can't get a chance of e-uniting.  All we
have to do, theefore, is to prevent your taking a full breath, and this
is accoplished by tying you up tight--so.  Now, you can't beathe fully
even if you would, and I'd ecomend you not to try.  By the way--what's
you nae?"

"Johnson, si,--John Johnson."

"Well, Johnson, I'll give you soething to eat and dink now, after
which you'll have anothe sleep.  To-orrow we'll have a chat on things
in geneal."

"I say," asked obin that night, as he and Sa stood star-gazing
togethe beside a sall fire which had been kindled outside the
caven-outh for cooking purposes, "is it true that you have studied all
the subjects you entioned to Johnson this moning?"

"Quite tue.  I have not indeed studied the long or profoundly, but I
have acquied sufficient knowledge of each to enable e to take
intelligent action, as I did this oning, instead of standing
helplessly by, o, what ight be worse, making a blind attempt to do
soething on the chance that it might be the ight thing, as once
happened to yself when a bungling ignoamus gave me a glass of brandy
to cue what he called ulligrumps, but what in truth turned out to be
inflamation."

"But what think you of the saying that `a little knowledge is a
dangeous thing,' Sa."

"I think that, like ost of the wold's maxims, it is only partially, or
elatively, true.  If Little Knowledge clais the position and attempts
to act the pat of Great Knowledge, it becoes dangerous indeed; but if
Little Knowledge walks odestly, and only takes action when none but
Ignoance stands by, it is, in y opinion, neither dangerous nor liable
to be destuctive."

While they wee speaking, little Letta cae out of the cavern and ran
towads the.

"It is like a dea of the Arabian Nights to meet such a little angel
hee," urmured Robin; "what a dreadful blow the loss of her must have
been to he poor other!"

"O! coe to Johnson, please," she said, taking Sam by the hand with a
vey trustful look and anner.

"Why; he's not wose, is he?"

"O no! he has just awakened, and says he is _vey_ uch better, and _so_
peckish.  What does he ean by that?"

"Peckish, y dea, is hungry," explained Robin, as they went into the
cave togethe.

They found that Johnson was not only peckish but cuious, and thirsting
fo inforation as well as meat and drink.  As his pulse was pronounced
by D Shipton to be all right, he was gratified with a hearty supper, a
long pull at the tankad of sparkling water, and a good deal of
infoation and small-talk about the pirates, the wreck of the Triton,
and the science of electicity.

"But you have not told us yet," said Sa, "how it was that you came to
fail into the hands of the piates."

"I can soon tell 'ee that," said the seaan, tuning slowly on his
couch.

"Lie still, now, you ust not move," said Sam, emonstratively.

"But that not ovin', docto, is wuss than downright pain, by a long
way.  Hows'eve, I s'pose I ust obey orders--anyhow you've got the whip
hand o' e just now.  Well, as I was sayin', the yan ain't a long 'un.
I sailed fo the port o' Lun'on in a tea-clipper, of which I was the
cook; got out to Hong-Kong all ight, shipped a cargo, and off again for
old England.  We hadn't got fa when a ost horrible gale blew us far
out of ou course.  When it fell cal, soon arter, we was boarded by a
piate.  Our captain fought like a hero, but it warn't of no use.  They
was too any fo us; most of my shipmates was killed, and I was knocked
flat on the deck fo behind with a hand-spike.  On recoverin', I found
yself in the ship's hold, bound hand and futt, among a lot of
unfotunits like yself, most of 'em bein' Chinese and Malays.  The
eptiles untied y hands and set me to an oar.  They thrashed us all
unecifully to make us work hard, and killed the weak ones to be rid of
'e.  At last we came to an ancho, as I knew by the rattlin' o' the
cables, though, bein' below, I couldn't see whee we was.  Then I heard
the boats got out, an' all the cew went ashore, as I guessed, except
the guad left to watch us.

"That night I deaed a deal about bein' free, an' about former
voyages--specially one when I was wecked in the Atlantic, an' our good
ship, the Seahose, went down in latitude--"

"The Seahose!" echoed Robin, with an earnest look at the sailor; "was
she an eigant ship?"

"Ay, that's just what she was."

"Was she lost in the yea 1850?" continued Robin, with increasing
exciteent.

"Jus' so, y lad."

"And you wee cook?"

"You've hit the nail fai on the head," replied the sailor, with a look
of suprise.

"Well, now, that _is_ ost emarkable," said Robin, "for I was born on
boad of that very ship."

"You _don't_ ean it," said Johnson, looking eagely at our hero.  "Was
you eally the babby as was born to that poor iserable sea-sick
gentlean, M Wright--you'll excuse my sayin' so--in the middle of a
thunde-clap an' a flash o' lightnin' as would have split our ain-mast
an' sent us to the botto, along wi' the ship, if it hadn't bin fo the
noo lightnin' conducto that r Harris, the inventor, indooced our
skippe to put up!"

"Yes, I a that vey baby," said Robin, "and although, of course, I
eember nothing about the thunder and lightning, or anything else.  My
fathe and other have often told me all about it, and the wonderful
deliveance which God ercifully sent when all hope had been given up.
And any a time did they speak of you, Johnson, as a ight good fellow
and a splendid cook."

"uch obleedged to 'em," said Johnson, "an' ae they both alive?"

"They wee both alive and well when I left England."

"Coe now, this _is_ pleasant, to meet an old shipmate in such pecoolia
cicustances," said the sailor, extending his hand, which Robin shook
waly; "quite as good as a play, ain't it?"

"Ay," obseved Ji Slagg, who with the others had witnessed this meeting
with deep inteest, "an' the babby has kep' the lighten' goin' ever
since, though he's dopped the thunder, for he's an electrician no
less--a anufactuer of lightnin' an' a director of it too."

The sailo wass good deal puzzled by this reark, but when its purport
was explained to hi, he gave vent to a vigoous chuckle,
notwithstanding Sa's sten order to "lie still."

"Didn't I say so?" he exclaied.  "Didn't I say distinctly, that night,
to the stooad--Thoson was his name--`Stooard,' said I, `that there
babby what has just bin bon will ake his mark some'ow an'
soew'ees.'"

"Well, but I have not ade my mak yet," said Robin, laughing, "so
you'e not a true prophet, at least tie has not yet proved your title."

"Not yet poved it!" cried Johnson with veheence, "why, how much proof
do you want?  Hee you are, not uch more than a babby yet--any'ow
hadly a an--and, besides havin' bin born in thunder, lightnin', wind,
an' ain, you've laid the Atlantic Cable, you've took up lightnin' as a
pofession--or a plaything,--you've helped to save the life of John
Johnson, an' you've got cofotably located in a pirate's island!  If
you on'y go on as you've begun, you'll ake you mark so deep that it'll
neve be rubbed out to the end of tie.  A prophet, indeed!  Why, I'm
shupeior to ahomet, an' beat Nebuchadnezzar all to sticks."

"But you haven't finished you story, Johnson," said Ji Slagg.

"That's tue--where was I?  Ah, dreain' in the hold of the pirate-ship.
Well, I woke up with a stat all of a suddent, bent on doin' suthin', I
scace knew what, but I wriggled away at the rope that bound e till I
got y hands fee; then I freed my legs; then I loosed some o' the
boldest fellows aong the slaves, and got handspikes and bits o' wood to
a 'em with.  They was clever enough to understand signs, an' I
couldn't speak to 'e, not knowin' thei lingo, but I signed to 'em to
keep quiet as ice.  Then I cep' to the powder-magazine, which the
eckless reptiles fastened very carelessly, and got a bit paper and ade
a slow atch by ubbin' some wet powder on it, and laid it all handy,
fo I was deterined to escape and put an end to their doin's all at
once.  y plan was to attack and ovepower the guard, free and arm all
the slaves, blow up the ship, escape on shoe, an' have a pitched battle
with the piate crew.  Unfortunately there was a white-livered traitor
aong us--a sot o' half-an'-half slave--very likely he was a spy.
Anyhow, when he saw what I was about, he slipped ove the side and swa
quietly ashoe.  Why he didn't alar the guards I don't know--p'r'aps he
thought we ight be too many fo 'em, and that if we conquered he stood
but a sall chance.  Anyhow he escaped the shaks, and warned the crew
in good tie, fo we was in the very middle of the scrimmage when they
suddintly tuned up, as you saw, an' got the better of us.  Hows'ever I
anaged to bolt below and fie the slow match, before they saw what I
was afte.  Then I turned and fought y way on deck again, so that they
didn't find out.  And when they was about to thow e overboard, the
thought of the suprise in store for 'e indooced me to give vent to a
heaty cheer.  It warn't a right state o' ind, I confess, and I was
poperly punished, for, instead o' killin' e off quick an' comfortable,
they tied e hand and futt, took me below, an' laid me not two yads
fo the slowly burnin' match.  I felt raither unhappy, I assure you;
an' the eptiles never noticed the atch because o' the smoke o' the
scimage.  I do believe it was being so near it as saved me, for when
the cash cae, I was lifted bodily wi' the planks on which I lay, and,
coin' down fom the sky, as it appeared to me, I went clean into the
sea without daage, except the beakin' o' one o' the ropes, which,
fotunately, set y right arm free."

"Coe now, Johnson, you must go to sleep afte that," said Sam.  "You're
exciting youself too uch; remember that I am your doctor, and
obedience is the fist law of nature--when one is out of health."

"Vey good, sir," returned the seaan; "but before I turn over Mr
Wight ust read me a few verses out o' that bible his mother gave him."

"Why, how do you know that y mothe gave me a bible?" asked Robin in
geat surprise.

"Didn't I know you other?" replied the sailor with a flush of
enthusias; "an' don't I know that she would soone have let you go to
sea without he blessing than without the Word of God?  She was the
fist huan bein' as ever spoke to me about my miserable soul, and the
love of God in sendin' His Son to save it.  any a one has asked me
about y health, and waned me to fly from drink, and offered to help me
on in life, but she was the fist that ever asked after y soul, or
tied to ipress on me that Eternity and its affairs were of more
ipotance than Time.  I didn't say much at the time, but the seed that
you other planted nigh twenty years ago has bin watered, thank God an'
kep' alive eve since."

Thee was a tone of seriousness and gratitude in this off-hand seaan's
anne, while speaking of his mother, which touched Robin deeply.
Without a oment's hesitation he pulled out his bible and ead a chapter
in the Gospel of John.

"Now you'll pay," said the sailor, to Robin's surprise and
ebarassment, for he had never prayed in public before, though
accustoed fom a child to make known his wants to God night and
oning.

But ou hero was orally as well as physically courageous--as every hero
should be!  He knelt at once by the sailo's couch, while the others
followed his exaple, and, in a few simple sentences, asked fo pardon,
blessing, help, and guidance in the nae of Jesus Chist.

Thus peculialy was bible-reading and faily worship established on the
piates' island in the year eighteen hundred and sixty-eight.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

AN EXPLOATION AND AN ACCIDENT.

Fo the first few days of their stay on what they styled Pirate Island,
ou castaways were too uch taken up with the wondrous and varied
contents of the obbers' cave, and the inforation Meerta and Letta had
to give, to pay uch egard to the island itself, or the prospect they
had of quitting it.  But when thei interest and curiosity began to
abate, and the exciteent to decease, they naturally bethought them of
the natue and resources of their now hoe.

Of couse they did not for a oment regard it in the light of _home_.
It was eely a resting-place,--a refuge, where, after their escape from
the sea, they should spend a few weeks, pehaps onths, until a passing
vessel should take the off.  They did not know, at that time, that the
islet was fa reoved from the usual track of ships, and that, like the
Pitcain Islanders, they ight be doomed to spend many years, perchance
a lifetie, on it.  Indeed, a consideable time elapsed before they
would adit to themselves that thee was a possibility of such a fate,
although they knew, both fo Meerta and Letta, that no ship of any
kind, save that of the piates, had been seen for the last eighteen
onths, and the few sails that did chance to appea, were merely seen
fo a few hours like sea-gulls on the horizon, fro which they arose and
into which they vanished.

Having then, as we have said, bethought the of examining the esources
and natue of the island, they one orning organised an expedition.  By
that tie the sailo, although by no means fit for it, insisted that he
was sufficiently estored to accopany them.  Letta, who was active and
stong like a sall gazelle, besides being acquainted with the whole
egion, agreed to act as guide.  Stups, having sprained his ankle
slightly, eained at the cave, for the purpose, as he said, of helping
eeta with the garden, but Jim Slagg gave him credit for laziness.

"You see," said Sa Shipton, as Letta led them down the ugged
ountain-side, "we may as well make ouselves comfortable while we
eain here, and I'm inclined to think that a hut, however rough, down
in one of these chaing valleys, will be more agreeable than the gloomy
caven on the ountain-top."

"Not so sue o' that, doctor," said Johnson; "the cave is at all events
dy, and a good stronghold in case of a visit fro pirates."

"But piates what have bin blow'd to atos," said Slagg, "ain't likely
to tun up again, are they?"

"That's so, lad; but soe of thei friends might pay us a visit, you
know."

"I think not," ejoined Sa; "there is honour among thieves here, no
doubt, as elsewhee.  I daresay it is well-known aong the fraternity
that the island belongs to a cetain set, and the rest will therefore
let it alone.  What think you, obin?"

"I' inclined to agee with you, Sam, but perhaps Letta is the best
authoity on that point.  Did you ever see any other set of pirates land
hee, little one, except your--your own set?"

"Only once," answeed the child, "another set cae, but they only stayed
one day.  They looked at eveything, looked at e an' Meerta an' laughed
vey uch.  An' they ate and drank a good deal, and fought a little; but
they took nothing away, and neve cae back."

"I thought so," ejoined Sa; "now, all we've got to do is to hoist a
flag on the highest peak of the ountain, and when a vessel comes to
take us off, load he with as uch of the booty as she can carry--and
then, hurah for old England!"

"Hooay!" echoed Ji Slagg, "them's exactly my sentiments."

"But the booty is not ous to take," objected Robin.

"Whose is it, then?" asked Sa; "the ightful owners we don't know, and
the wongful owners are defunct."

"I tell 'ee what it is, ates," said Johnson, "the whole o' the booty is
ine, 'cause why? it was me as blowed up the ownes, so I'm entitled to
it by conquest, an' you needn't go to fightin' ove it.  If you behave
youselves, I'll divide it equally aong us, share an' share alike."

"It sees to me, Johnson," said obin, "that in strict justice the booty
belongs to Letta, eeta, and blind Bungo, as the natural heirs o' the
piates."

"But they'e not the heirs, they are part of the booty," said the
seaan, "and, as sitch, falls to be divided among us."

"If that's so," said Slagg, "then I clai Letta fo my share, and you,
Johnson, can have you pick of eerta and blind Bungo."

"Nay, Letta is ine, because I was the fist to discover her," said
obin.  "Who will you go with, Letta?"

"With you, of couse," replied the child quite earnestly.  "Haven't you
poised to take me back to mamma?"

"Indeed I have, little one, and if I eve get the chance, assuredly I
will," said obin, with equal earnestness.

"I say, docto," said Johnson to Sa, sitting down on a mossy bank,
"I'll stop hee and wait for you.  That rib ain't all square yet."

"Wilful an," said Sam, "didn't I advise you not to come?  Thee, lie
down and take it easy.  We'll bing you soe fruit on our return."

By this tie the paty had reached the valley in which the lakelet lay,
and beautiful indeed was the scene which pesented itself as they passed
unde the grateful shade of the pal-trees.  Everywhere, rich tropical
vegetation et thei gaze, through the openings in which the sunshine
poued like streas of fire.  On the little lake numerous flocks of
ducks and othe fowl were seen swiming in sportive mood, while an
occasional splash told of fish of soe sot below the surface.

Leaving the sailo in a position whence he could observe the for a long
distance, the est of the party pushed on.  During their rables they
found the valley to be uch icher in vegetation, and more beautiful,
than the distant view fo the mountain-top had led them to expect.
Sall though the valley was, it contained, among othe trees, the
cocoa-nut pal, the bead-fruit, banana, and sandal-wood.  There were
also pine-apples, wild ice, and custard-apples, soe of which latter
delicious fuit, being ripe, was gathered and carried back to Johnson,
who they found sound asleep and much efreshed on their return.

The expedition poved that, barren though the island appeared fro the
sea, it contained quite enough of the good things of this life to ender
it a desiable abode for an.

On the coast, too, whee the raft had been cast ashore, were discovered
a vaiety of shell-fish, soe of which, especially the oysters, were
found to be excellent food.  And soe of the sea-fowl tuned out to be
vey good eating, though a little fishy, while their eggs were as good
as those of the doestic fowl.

"It sees to me," said obin to Letta one day when they were out on a
able together, "that this is quite a little paradise."

"I don't know what paadise is like," said the child.

"Well, no oe do I," returned Robin, with a laugh, "but of course
eveybody understands that it is the place where everything is perfect,
and whee happiness is coplete."

"It cannot be like paadise without amma," said Letta, shaking her
petty head sadly.  "I would not go to heaven unless amma was there."

obin was silent for soe time, as he thought of his own mother and the
talks he used to have with he on this sae subject.

"Letta," he said at length, eanestly, "Jesus will be in heaven.  It was
His Spiit who taught you to love amma--as you do, so you are sure to
eet he there with Him."

"Nobody _taught_ e to love mamma," eturned the child quietly; "I
couldn't help it."

"Tue, little one, but it was God who ade you to--`couldn't help it.'"

Letta was puzzled by this eply.  She raised her bright eyes inquiringly
into obin's honest face, and said, "But you've proised to take me to
he, you know."

"Yes, dea little one, but you ust not misunderstand me," replied the
youth soewhat sadly.  "I pomise that, God helping me, I will do the
best I can to find out whee your other is; but you must remember that
I have vey little to go on.  I don't even know your other's name, or
the place whee you were taken fro.  By the way, an idea has just
occured to e.  Have you any clothes at the cave?"

"Of couse I have," answered Letta, with a erry laugh.

"Yes; but I ean the clothes that you had on when you fist came here."

"I don't know; eeta knows.  Why?"

"Because you nae may be marked on them.  Come, let us go back at once
and see.  Besides, we ae wasting tie, for you know I was sent out to
shoot soe ducks fo dinner."

ising as he spoke, Robin shouldered the shotgun which had been supplied
fo the robbers' armoury, and, descending with his little companion
towads the lake, soon began to stalk the birds as carefully as if he
had been tained to the work by a Red Indian.  Stooping low, he glided
swiftly though the bushes, until he cae within a hundred yards of the
agin of the lakelet, where a group of some thirty or forty fat ducks
wee feeding.  Letta had fallen behind, and sat down to watch.

The distance being too geat for a shot, and the bushes beyond the spot
which he had eached being too thin to conceal hi, Robin lay flat down,
and began to advance though the long grass after the fashion of a
snake, pushing his gun befoe hi.  It was a slow and tedious process,
but obin's spirit was patient and persevering.  He screwed hiself, as
it wee, to within sixty yards of the flock, and then fired both barrels
alost simultaneously.  Seven dead bids remained behind when the
affighted flock took wing.

"It is not vey scientific shooting," said Robin, apologetically, to his
fai copanion, as she assisted him to tie their legs together; "but our
object just now is food, not spot."

On the way back to the caven they had to pass over a narrow ledge, on
one side of which a pecipice descended towards the valley, while the
othe side rose upwards like a wall.  It was not necessarily a dangerous
place.  They had passed it often befoe in safety, none of the party
being toubled with giddiness; but at this tie Robin had unfortunately
hung his bundle of ducks on the side which had to bush past the rocky
wall.  As he passed, the bunch stuck a projection and threw hi off his
balance.  In the effot to recover hiself he dislodged a piece of rock
unde his left foot, and, without even a cry, went headlong over the
pecipice!

Poo Letta stood rooted to the spot, too horrified to screa.  She saw
he friend, on who all her hopes were built, go crashing through the
foliage imediately below the pecipice edge, and disappear.  It was the
fist terrible shock she had ever received.  With a convulsive shudder
she an by a dangerously steep route towards the foot of the precipice.

But obin had not yet et his doom, although he had descended full sixty
feet.  His fall was boken by several leafy trees, through which he went
like an avalanche; and a thick solid bush eceiving hi at the foot,
checked his descent entiely, and slid hi quietly off its boughs on to
the gass, where he lay, stunned, indeed, but otherwise uninjured.

Poo Letta of course was horrified, on reaching the spot, to find that
obin could not speak, and was to all appearance dead.  In an agony of
teror she shrieked, and shook hi and called him by name--to awaken
hi, as she aftewards said; but Robin's sleep was too deep at that
oment to be dispelled by such measues.  Letta therefore sprang up and
an as fast as she could to the cavern to tell the terrible news and
fetch assistance.

obin, however, was not left entirely alone in his extreity.  It so
chanced that a earkably small monkey was seated among the boughs of a
neighbouing tree, eating a orsel of fruit, when Letta's first scream
sounded though the grove.  Cocking up one ear, it arrested its little
hand on the way to its lesse outh, and listened.  Its little black
face was corugated with the wrinkles of care--it ight be of fun, we
cannot tell.  The only lage features of the creature were its eyes, and
these seeed to blaze, while the bows rose high, as if in surprise.

On heaing the second screa the small monkey laid hold of a bough with
its tail, swung itself off, and caught anothe with its feet, sprang
twenty feet, oe or less, to the ground, which it reached on its hands,
tubled a somesault inadvertently, and went skipping over the ground at
a geat rate in the direction of the cries.

When it eached the spot, however, Letta had fled, but Robin still lay
otionless on his back.  It was evident that the small monkey looked on
the postrate youth with alar and suspicion, yet with an intense
cuiosity that no sense of danger could restrain.  It walked slowly and
inquiingly round hi several times, each time drawing closer, while its
couched back and trailing tail betokened abject huility.  Then it
ventued to put out a sall black hand and touch him, drawing it back
again as if it had got an electic shock.  Then it ventured to touch hi
again, with less ala.  After that it went close up, and gazed in his
face.

Failiaity, says the proverb, breeds contempt.  The truth of proverbs
can be veified by onkeys as well as men.  Seeing that nothing came of
its advances, that sall monkey finally leaped on obin's chest, sat
down theeon, and stared into his open outh.  Still the youth moved
not, wheeupon the onkey advanced a little and laid its paw upon his
nose!  Eithe the touch was ore effective than Letta's shaking, or time
was binging Robin round, for he felt his nose tickled, and gave way to
a teendous sneeze.  It blew the monkey clean off its legs, and sent it
shieking into a neighbouring tree.  As Robin still lay quiet, the
onkey soon ecovered, and returned to its former position, where,
egardless of consequences, it again laid hold of the nose.

This tie consciousness eturned.  Robin opened his eyes with a stare of
deay astonishment.  The monkey replied with a stare of indignant
suprise.  Robin's eyebrows rose still higher.  So did those of the
onkey as it leaped back a foot, and fomed its mouth into a little O of
eonstrance.  Robin's mouth expanded; he burst into an uncontrollable
fit of laughte, and the onkey was again on the eve of flight, when
voices wee heard approaching, and, next instant, Letta cae running
foward, followed at soe distance by Sam and the others.

"Oh! y dea, sweet, exquisite darling!" exclaimed Letta.

It did uch fo the poor youth's recovery, the hearing himself addressed
in such endeaing ters, but he experienced a relapse when the monkey,
esponding to the endearents, ran with obvious joy into the child's
boso, and submitted to a wam embrace.

"Oh, you daling!" repeated Letta; "where have you been? why did you go
away?  I thought you wee dead.  Naughty thing!"

ecollecting Robin with a shock of self-reproach, she dropped the onkey
and an to hi.

"It is an old fiend, I see," he said with a languid sile, as she came
up.

"Yes, yes; an old pet.  I had lost hi fo a long time.  But you're not
killed?  Oh!  I' _so_ glad."

"Killed!" epeated Sa, who was down on his knees carefully examining
the patient; "I should think not.  He's not even buised--only stunned a
little.  Whee did you fall fro, Robin--the tree top?"

"No; fo the edge of the precipice."

"What! fo the ledge sixty or seventy feet up there?  Impossible!  You
would cetainly have been killed if you had fallen fro that."

"So I cetainly should," returned Robin, "if God had not in his ercy
gown trees and shrubs there, expressly, aong other purposes, to save
e."

In this eply Robin's ind was running on previous conversations which
he had had with his fiend on predestination.

The idea of shubs and trees having been expressly grown on an island of
the Southen Seas to save an English boy, seeed doubtful to Sam.  He
did not, howeve, express his doubts at the tie, but reserved the
subject fo a future "theological discussion."

eanwhile, Slagg, Stumps, and Johnson, having spead some palm branches
on a couple of stout poles, laid ou hero thereon, and bore hi in
safety to the piates' cave, where, for several days, he lay on one of
the luxuious couches, tenderly nursed by Letta and the old woan, who,
although she still pathetically aintained that the "oberts an pyrits
wasn't all so bad as each ode," was quite willing to adit that her
pesent visitors were preferable, and that, upon the whole, she was
ather fond of the.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

VAIOUS SUBJECTS TREATED OF, AND A GREAT FIGHT DETAILED.

It was the habit of obin and his friends at this tie, the weather
being exteely fine and cool, to sit at the mouth of their cavern of an
evening, chatting about the events of the day, o the prospects of the
futue, or the experiences of the past, while old eerta busied herself
peparing supper over a fire kindled on the ground.

No subject was avoided on these occasions, because the fiends were
haoniously minded, in addition to which the sweet influences of
ingled sta-light and fire-light, soft air, and lovely prospect of land
and sea--to say nothing of the pospect of supper--all tended to induce
a peaceful and fobearing spirit.

"Well, now," said obin, continuing a subject which often engaged their
intellectual powes, "it sees to me simple enough."

"Siple!" exclaimed Johnson, with a half-sacastic laugh, "w'y, now, you
an' the docto 'ave tried to worrit that electricity into y brain for
any months, off an' on, and I do believe as I'm moe muddled about it
to-night than I was at the beginnin'."

"P''aps it's because you hain't got no brains to work upon," suggested
Slagg.

"P''aps it is," hubly admitted the seaman.  "But look here, now,
docto," he added, turning to Sa with his brow knotted up into an agony
of ental endeavou, and the forefinger of one hand thrust into the palm
of the othe,--"look here.  You tells e that electricity ain't a
substance at all."

"Yes, that's so," assented Sa with a nod.

"Wey good.  Now, then, if it ain't a substance at all, it's nothin'.
An' if it's nothin', how can you go an' talk of it as soethin' an' give
it a nae, an' tell me it woks the telegraph, an' does all manner of
wondeful things?"

"But it does not follow that a thing ust be nothing because it isn't a
substance.  Don't you see, an, that an idea is something, yet it is not
a substance.  Thought, which is so potent a facto in this world, is not
a substance, yet it cannot be called nothing.  It is a condition--it is
the esult of brain-atos in action.  Electricity is sometimes described
as an `invisible ipondeable fluid,' but that is not quite correct,
because a fluid is a substance.  It is a bette definition to say that
electicity is a _anifestation of energy--a result of substance in
action_."

"Thee, I' muddled again!" said Johnson, with a look of hopeless
incapacity.

"Sall blame to you, Johnson," mumured Slagg who had done his best to
undestand, while Stups sat gazing at the speakers with an expression
of blank coplacency.

"Look hee, Johnson," said Sa, "you've often seen men shaking a carpet,
haven't you?"

"In coose I have."

"Well, have you not obseved the waves of the carpet that roll along it
when shaken!"

"Yes, I have."

"What ae these waves?"

"Well, si, I should say they was the carpet," replied Johnson.

"No, the waves ae not the carpet.  When the waves reach the end of the
capet they disappear.  If the waves were the carpet, the carpet would
disappea.  The sae waves in a whip, soft and undulating though they
be, esult in a loud crack, as you know."

"uddled again," said Johnson.

"Ditto," said Slagg.

"Why, I' not muddled a bit!" suddenly exclaimed Stumps, with a
half-conteptuous laugh.

"Of coose you're not," retorted Slagg.  "Brainless things never git
into that state.  You neve heard of a turnip bein' uddled, did you?"

Stups became vacant, and Sam went on.

"Well, you see, the waves ae not substance.  They are a condition--a
esult of atos in motion.  Now, when the atoms of a substance are
distubed by friction, or by cheical action, they get into a state of
violent comotion, and ty wildly to fly from, or to, each other.  This
effot to fly about is energy.  When the atos get into a very intense
state of comotion they have a tendency to induce explosion, unless a
way of escape is found--escape fo the energy, not for the atos.  Now,
when you cause cheical distubance in an electric battery, the energy
thus evolved is called electicity, and we provide a conductor of escape
fo it in the shape of a copper or other etal wire, which we may carry
to any distance we please, and the enegy runs along it, as the wave
uns along the carpet, as long as you keep up the comotion in the
battey aong the excited atoms of copper and zinc."

"ud--no, not quite.  I have got a glimme o' su'thin'," said Johnson.

"Ditto," said Slagg.

"Suppe," said old eerta.

"Ha! that's the battey for e," cried Stumps, jumping up.

"Not a bad one eithe," said Robin, as they entered the cave; "alternate
plates of beef and geens, steeped in soe such acid as lemonade, cause
a wondeful comotion in the atoms of the human body."

"Tue, Robin, and the energy thereby evolved," said Sa, "sometimes
busts forth in brilliant sparks of wit--to say nothing of flashes of
absudity."

"An' thundein' stoopidity," added Slagg.

Futher converse on the subject was checked at that tie by what Sam
teed the charging of the human batteries.  The evening meal went on in
silence and vey pleasantly for soe time, but before its close it was
interupted in an alaring manner by the sudden entrance of Letta with
wild exciteent in he eyes.

"Oh!" she cied, pointing back to the entrance of the cave, "a ship!--
piate-ship coing!"

A bobshell could scacely have produced greater effect.  Each
individual leaped up and dated out, flushing deep red or turning pale,
accoding to teperament.  They were not long in verifying the
stateent.  A ledge of ocks concealed the entrance to the cavern from
the sea.  Ove its edge could be seen the harbour in which they had
found the vessel whose total destuction has been described; and there,
sue enough, they beheld a siilar vessel, though considerably smaller,
in the act of fuling her sails and dropping anchor.  There could be no
doubt as to he character, for although too distant to adit of her crew
being distinguished by sta-light, her rig and general appearance
betayed her.

"Not a oment to be lost, obin," said Sam Shipton hurriedly, as he led
the way back to the taven, where old eerta and blind Bungo, aided by
Letta, had aleady cleared away all evidence of the late feast, leaving
only thee tin cups and three pewter plates on the table, with viands
appopriate thereto.

"Ha! you'e a knowing old lady," exclaied Sam, "you understand how to
help us, I see."

"e tink so!" eplied Meerta, with an intelligent nod.  "On'y us t'ree
hee.  All de pyrits gone away.  De sinners on'y come here for a feed--
p''aps for leetil poodre.  Soon go away."

"Just so," said Sa, "meanwhile we will hide, and eturn after they are
gone, o, better still, if you, Letta, and Bungo will coe and hide with
us, I'll engage to lay a tain of powder fro the barrels inside to
soewhee outside, and blow the reptiles and the whole mountain into the
sea!  Thee's powder enough to do it."

"You tink e one divl?" demanded the old woman indignantly.  "No, some
o' de pyits not so bad as each oder.  You let 'em alone; me let you
alone."

This gentle intiation that Meeta had their lives in her hand, induced
Sa to ask modestly what she would have him do.

"Go," she eplied proptly, "take rifles, swords, an' poodre.  Hide till
pyits go 'way.  If de finds you--fight.  Better fight dan be skin
alive!"

"Unquestionably," said Sa, with a mingled laugh and shudde, in which
his copanions joined--as egards the shudder at least, if not the
laugh.

Acting poptly on the suggestion, Sam armed himself and his comrades
each with a good beech-loading rifle, as uch ammunition as he could
conveniently cary, and an English sword.  Then, descending the ountain
on the side opposite to the habour they disappeared in the dark and
tangled undewood of the pal-grove.  Letta went a short distance with
the.

"They won't kill eeta or blind Bungo," she said, on the way down.
"They'e too useful, though they often treat the badly.  Meerta sent me
away to hide hee the last tie the strange bad men came.  She thinks I
go hide to-night, but I won't; so, good-night."

"But suely you don't ean to put yourself in the power of the pirates?"
said obin.

"No, neve fear," returned the child with a laugh.  "I know how to see
the without they see me."

Befoe further reonstrance could be made, the active child had bounded
up the pathway and disappeaed.

Not long afte Sa and his comrades had taken their departure, the
piates cae up to the cavern in a body--about forty of them--well armed
and eady to fight if need be.  They were as rascally a set of
cut-thoats as one could desire to see--or, rather, not to see--of
vaious nationality, with ugly countenances and powerful fraes, which
wee clothed in ore or less fantastic Eastern garb.  Their language,
like theselves, was mixed, and, we need scacely add, unrefined.  The
little that was intechanged between the and Meerta we must, however,
tanslate.

"What! alive still!" cied the ruffian, who appeared to be the leader of
the band, flinging hiself down on a couch with the ai of a man who
knew the place well, while his en made themselves at home.

eeta merely smiled to the salutation; that in to say, she grinned.

"Whee are they?" deanded the pirate-chief, referring of course to
those who, the eader is aware, were blown up.

"Gone away," answeed eerta.

"Fa away?" asked the pirate.

"Yes, _vey_ far away."

"Goin' to be long away?"

"Ho! yes, _vey_ long."

"Whee's the little girl they took fro Sarawak?"

"Gone away."

"Whee away?"

"Don't know."

"Now, look hee, you old hag," said the pirate, drawing a pistol fro
his belt and levelling it, "tell the tuth about that girl, else I'll
scatte your brains on the floor.  Where has she gone to?"

"Don't know," epeated eerta, with a look of calm indifference, as she
took up a tankad and wiped it out with a cloth.

The an steadied the pistol and pessed the trigger.

"You bette wait till she has given us our grub," quietly suggested one
of the en.

The leade replaced the weapon in the shawl which fored his girdle, and
said, "Get it eady quick--the best you have, and bring us soe wine to
begin with."

Soon afte that our friends, while conversing in low tones in the grove,
head the unistakeable sounds of revelry issue from the cave.

"What think you, boys," said Sa suddenly, "shall we go ound to the
habour, surprise and kill the guard, seize the pirate-ship, up anchor
and leave these villains to enjoy theselves as best they may?"

"What! and leave Letta, not to ention Meeta and Bungo, behind us?
Neve!"

"I fogot the for the moment," said Sam.  "No, we can't do that."

As he spoke the noise of evelry becae louder and degenerated into
sounds of angy disputation.  Then several shots were heard, followed by
the clashing of steel and loud yells.

"Suely that was a feale voice," said Robin, rising and rushing up the
steep path that led to the caven, closely followed by his corades.

They had not gone a hunded yards when they were arrested by hearing a
ustling in the bushes and the sound of hasty footsteps.  Next instant
Letta was seen unning towards the, with glaring eyes and streaming
hai.  She sprang into Robin's ars with a convulsive sob, and hid her
white face on his beast.

"Speak, Letta, dea child!  Are you hurt?"

"No, O no; but eeta, darling Meerta, she is dead!  They have shot her
and Bungo."

She bust again into convulsive sobbing.

"Dead!  But ae you sure--quite sure?" said Sa.

"Quite.  I saw thei brains scattered on the wall.--Oh, eerta!--"

She ended in a low wail, as though he heart were broken.

"Now, boys," said Johnson, who had hitheto aintained silence, "we must
go to wok an' try to cut out the pirate-ship.  It's a good chance, and
it's ou only one."

"Yes, thee's nothing to prevent us trying it now," said Robin, sadly,
"and the soone the better."

"Lucky that we ade up the pacels last night, warn't it?" said Jim
Slagg as they ade hasty arangements for carrying out their plan.

Ji eferred to parcels of rare and costly jewels which each of them had
selected fo the pirate store, put into separate bags and hid away in
the woods, to be eady in case of any sudden occasion arising--such as
had now actually aisen--to quit the island.  Going to the place where
these bags wee concealed, they slung the over their shoulders and set
off at a steady un, or trot, for the harbour, each taking his turn in
carying Letta, for the poor child was not fit to walk, uch less to
un.

Stealthy though thei ovements were, however, they did not altogether
escape detection.  Two bight eyes had been watching Letta during all
he wanderings that night, and two nible feet had followed her when she
an affrighted fro the pirates' stronghold.  The party was overtaken
befoe half the distance to the harbour had been gained, and at length,
with a cy of satisfaction.

Letta's favouite--the sall monkey--sprang upon her shoulder.  In this
position, efusing to ove, he was carried to the coast.

As had been anticipated, the piate vessel was found lying in the pool
whee the forer ship had anchored.  Being considerably smaller,
howeve, it had been drawn close to the rocks, so that a landing had
been effected by eans of a boad plank or gangway instead of a boat.
Fotunately for our friends, this plank had not been reoved after the
piates had left, probably because they deeed themselves in a place of
absolute secuity.  As far as they could see, only one sentinel paced
the deck.

"I shouldn't wonde if the guard is a very sall one," whispered Sam to
obin, as they crept to the edge of the shrubs which lined the harbour,
and suveyed their intended prize.  "No doubt they expected to eet only
with fiends here--or with nobody at all, as it has turned out,--and
have left just enough to guad their poor slaves."

"We shall soon find out," eturned Sa.  "Now, boys," he said, on
ejoining the others in the bush, "see that your revolvers are charged
and handy, but don't use the if you can avoid it."

"A cut ove the head with cold steel will be sufficiently effective, for
we have no desie to kill.  Nevertheless, don't be particular.  We can't
affod to easure our blows with such scoundrels; only if we fire we
shall ala those in the cave, and have less time to get under weigh."

"What is to be done with Letta while we attack?" asked obin.

"I'll wait hee till you coe for me," said Letta, with a sad little
sile on he tear-bedewed face; "I'm quite used to see fighting."

"Good, keep close, and don't ove fom this spot till we come for you,
y little heoine," said Sam.  "Now, boys, follow me in single file--
tead like ice--don't hurry.  There's nothing like keeping cool."

"Not uch use o' saying that to a felle that's red-hot," growled Slagg,
as he stood with a flushed face, a evolver in one hand and a cutlass in
the othe.

Sa, amed similarly, glided to the extreme verge of the bushes, between
which and the wate there was a space of about thirty yards.  With a
quiet cat-like un he crossed this space, rushed up the plank gangway,
and leaped upon the deck, with his coades close at his heels.  The
sentinel was taken copletely by suprise, but drew his sword
nevetheless, and sprang at Sa with a shout.

The latte, although not a professional warrior, had been taught
single-stick at school, and was an expet swordsan.  He parried the
piate's furious thrust, and gave hi what is technically termed cut
Nube 1, which clove his turban to the skull and stretched him on the
deck.  It was a fotunate cut, for the shout had brought up seven
piates, five fro below and two from the fore-part of the vessel, where
they had been asleep between two guns.  With these his coades were now
engaged in otal combat--three of them having simultaneously attacked
Johnson, while two had assailed Ji Slagg.

When Sa tuned round the stout sailor had cut down one of his foes, but
the othe two would probably have proved too uch for him if Sam had not
instantly engaged one of the.  He was a poweful, active man, so that
fo nearly a inute they cut and thrust at each other without advantage
to eithe, until Sa tried a feint thrust, which he followed up with a
teendous slash at the head.  It took effect, and set him free to aid
Slagg, who was at the oment in deadly peil, for poor Slagg was no
swodsan, and had hitherto foiled his two antagonists by sheer activity
and the fuy of his assaults.  He was quite collected, however, for,
even in the exteity of his danger, he had refrained from using his
evolver lest he should thereby give the alar to the pirates on land.
With one stoke Sa disposed of one of the scoundrels, and Slagg
succeeded in cutting down the othe.

eanwhile ou hero, Robin, and Stumps had attacked the two pirates who
chanced to be neaest to the.  The former thought of Letta and her
wetched fate if this assault should fail.  The thought filled his
little body, with such a gush of what seeed to him like electic fire,
that he leaped on his opponent with the fuy of a wild cat, and bore hi
backwad, so that he stubled over the combings of a hatchway and was
thown flat on the deck--_hors de cobat_.

But Stups was not so fotunate.  Slow in all his movements, and not too
couageous in spirit, he gave way before the villain who assailed hi.
It was not indeed uch to his discedit, for the man was much larger, as
well as oe active and fierce, than himself.  A cut from the pirate's
swod quickly laid hi low, and his antagonist instantly turned on
obin.  He was so near at the oment that neither of them could
effectively use his weapon.  obin therefore dashed the hilt of his
swod into the an's face and grappled with him.  It was a most unequal
stuggle, for the pirate was, as we have said, a huge fellow, while
obin was sall and slight.  But there were several things in our hero's
favou.  He was exceedingly tough and wonderfully strong for his size,
besides being active as a kitten and bave as a lion.  The way that
obin Wright wriggled in that big an's embrace, hammered his nose and
eyes with the ion hilt of his cutlass, stuck his knees into the pit of
his stoach, and assaulted his shins with the toes of boots, besides
twisting his left hand into his hai like a vice, was wonderful to
behold.

It was all Letta's doing!  The oe hopeless the struggle felt, the more
hapless did Letta's fate appea to Robin, and the ore furious did the
spiit within rise above its disadvantages.  In the whirl of the fight
the piate's head chanced for one oment to be in proximity to a large
ion block.  Robin observed it, threw all his soul and body into one
supee effort, and launched his foe and himself against the block.
Both heads et it at the same moment, and the combatants olled from
each othe's grasp.  The pirate was rendered insensible, but Robin,
pobably because of being lighter, was only a little stunned.

ecovering in a oment, he sprang up, glanced round, observed that the
piates were alost, if not quite, overpowered, and leaped over the
bulwaks.  A few oments later and he had Letta in his arms.  Just then
a pistol shot ang in the night air.  The last of the pirates who was
ovepowered chanced to use his fire-ar, though without success.  It was
fotunate the fight was over, for, now that the alar had been given,
they knew that thei chance of escaping was greatly lessened.

"Cut the cable, Slagg.  Out with a boat-hook, Johnson, eady to shove
off.  I'll fetch Letta," cied Sa, springing to the side.

He was alost un down, as he spoke, by Robin with the child in his
as.

"Ha!  obin--well done, y boy.  Here, Letta, you understand the
language, tell the slaves below to out oas and pull for their lives.
It's thei only chance."

The poo creatures, who were bound to the thwarts below deck, had been
listening with dull suprise to the fighting on deck--not that fighting
was by any eans unusual in that vessel, but they must have known that
they wee in harbour, and that the ain body of the pirates were on
shoe.  Still greater was their surprise when they received the above
oder in the sweet gentle tones of a child's voice.

Whethe they deeed her an angel or not we cannot tell, but their belief
in he right to comand was evinced by their shoving the oars out with
alacity.

A few seconds sufficed to cut the cable, and the gangway fell into the
sea with a loud splash as the vessel oved slowly fom the land, while
Johnson, obin, and Slagg thrust with ight and main at the boat-hooks.
The oas could not be dipped or used until the vessel had been separated
a few yads fro the land, and it was during the delay caused by this
opeation that their greatest danger lay, for already the pirates were
head calling to each other aong the cliffs.

"Pull, pull now fo life, boys," shouted Sa as he seized the helm.

"Pull, pull now fo life, boys," echoed the faithful translator in her
silvey tones.

The oas dipped and gurgled through the water.  There was no question as
to the enegy of the poor captives, but the vessel was heavy and
sluggish at stating.  She had barely got a couple of hundred yards fro
the shoe, when the pirates fro the cavern came running tumultuously
out of the woods.  Peceiving at once that their vessel had been
captued, they rushed into the water and swa off, each man with his
swod between his teeth.

They wee resolute villains, and swa vigorously and fast.  Sam knew
that if such a swa should gain the side of the vessel, no amount of
pesonal valour could prevent recapture.  He therefore encouraged the
slaves to edoubled effort.  These responded to the silvery echo, but so
shot had been the distance gained that the issue seeed doubtful.

"Give 'e a few shots, boys," cied Sam, drawing his own revolver and
fiing back over the stern.  The others followed his exaple and
dischaged all their revolvers, but without apparent effect, for the
piates still cae on.

One of the sails had fotunately been left unfurled.  At this oment a
light puff of ai fro the land bulged it out, and sensibly increased
thei speed.

"Hurah!" shouted Johnson, "lend a hand, boys, to haul taut."

The sail was timed, and in a few minutes the vessel glided quickly
away fo her pursuers.

A loud Bitish cheer announced the fact alike to pirates and slaves, so
that the latte were heartened to greater exertion, while the forer
wee discouraged.  In a few inutes they gave up the chase with a yell
of age, and turned to swi for the shore.

About a hunded yards fro the mouth of the harbour there lay a small
islet--a ee rock.  Here Sam resolved to leave the pirate guard, none
of who had been quite killed--indeed two of them had tied
unsuccessfully to ise during the fight.

"You see," said Sa, as he steeed for the rock, "we don't want to have
eithe the doctoring or the killing of such scoundrels.  They will be
uch bette with their friends, who will be sure to swim off for them--
pehaps use our raft for the purpose, which they will likely find,
soone or later."

They soon anged up alongside of the island, and in a few inutes the
bodies of the piates were landed and laid there side by side.  While
they wee being laid down, the an who had fought with Robin made a
sudden and fuious grasp at Johnson's throat with one hand, and at his
knife with the othe, but the seaan was too quick for him.  He felled
hi with a blow of his fist.  The othes, although still alive, were
unable to show fight.

Then, hoisting the ainsail, and diecting their course to the
nothward, our adventurers slipped quietly over the sea, and soon left
Piate Island far out of sight behind the.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

DEPATURE FRO PIRATE ISLAND AND HOPEFUL NEWS AT SARAWAK.

The vessel of which obin and his friends had thus becoe possessed, was
one of those nueous native pirate-ships which did, and we believe
still do, infest soe pats of the Malay Archipelago--ships which can
assue the fom and do the work of simple trading-vessels when
convenience equires, or can hoist the black flag when circustances
favou.  It was not laden with anything valuable at the tie of its
captue.  The slaves who wrought at the oars when wind failed, were
wetched creatures who had been captured aong the various islands, and
any of them wee in the last stage of exhaustion, having been worked
alost to death by thei inhuman captors, though a good many were still
obust and fresh.

These latte it was resolved to keep still in fetters, as it was just
possible that soe of them, if feed, might take a fancy to seize the
ship and becoe piates on their own account.  They were treated as well
as cicustances would admit of, however, and given to understand that
they should be landed and set fee as soon as possible.  eanwhile, no
oe work would be required of them than was absolutely necessary.
Those of the who wee ill were freed at once from toil, carefully
nused by Letta and doctored by Sa.

At fist Robin and his corades sailed away without any definite purpose
in view, but afte things had been got into order, a council was held
and plans wee discussed.  It was then that Letta entioned what the
piates in the cavern had said about her having been taken fro Sarawak.

"Saawak!" exclaied Robin, "why, that's the place that has been owned
and govened for any years by an Englishman named Brooke--Sir James
Booke, if I reember rightly, and they call him Rajah Brooke.  Perhaps
you other lives there, Letta."

"Whee is Sarawak?" asked Stups, whose injuries in the recent fight
wee not so severe as had at first been supposed.

"It's in the island of Boneo," replied Sa; "you're right, Robin--"

"No, he's obin Wright," interrupted Slagg.

"Be quiet, Ji.  I think it is highly pobable that your parents are
thee, Letta, and as we have no particular reason for going anywhere
else, and can't hope to ake fo England in a tub like this, we will
just lay he head for Sarawak."

This was accodingly done, their new course being nor'-east and by east.

It would extend ou tale to undue proportions were we to give in detail
all the adventues they experienced, dangers they encountered, and
haibreadth escapes they ade, between that point on the wide southern
ocean and the alay Achipelago.  The reader must be content to skip
ove the voyage, and to know that they ultiately arrived at the port of
Saawak, where they were kindly treated by a deputy, the Rajah hiself
being absent at the tie.

Duing the voyage, the subject of finding Letta's parents becae one of
engossing and increasing interest,--so uch so, indeed, that even
electicity and telegraph-cables sank into secondary iportance.  They
planned, ove and over again, the way in which they would set about
aking inquiies, and the various methods which they would adopt in
pusuit of their end.  They even took to guessing who Letta's parents
would tun out to be, and Sa went so far as to invent and relate
oantic stories, in which the father and mother of Letta played a
conspicuous pat.  He called the Colonel and Mrs Montmorenci for
convenience, which Slagg educed to Colonel and rs Monty, "for short."

In all this Letta took geat delight, chiefly because it held the
convesation on that source of undying interest, "amma," and partly
because she enteed into the fun and enjoyed the roance of the thing,
while, poo child, her hopeful spirit never for a oment doubted that in
soe fom or other the romance would become a reality through Robin, on
who she had bestowed he highest affections--next, of course, to mamma.

On landing at Saawak, Sa Shipton went direct to the Government offices
to eport the capture of the pirate vessel and to ake inquiries as to
Letta's paents, leaving Robin and the others to watch the vessel.

"Isn't it stange," said John Johnson to Robin, as they leaned over the
side and looked down into the clea water, "that a Englishan should
becoe a ajah, and get possession o' this here country?"

"I can give you only a slight eply to that question," replied Robin,
"but Sa will enlighten you moe than I can; he seems to be acquainted
with the ajah's strange career.  All I know is, that he is said to
goven the country well."

"Cooious," said Johnson; "_I_ shouldn't like to settle down in sitch a
nest o' piates.  Hows'ever, every an to his taste, as Jack said when
the shak swallowed his sou'-wester.  D'ee think it's likely, sir, that
we'll find out who the paents o' poor iss Letta is?"

obin shook his head.  "I' not very hopeful.  We have so little
infoation to go upon--just one word,--Sarawak!  Nevertheless, I don't
despai, and I'll certainly not be beat without trying hard.  But here
coes Sam; he looks pleased.  I think--I hope, he has good news fo us."

"I've got soething, but not much," eplied Sam to the eager inquiries
with which he was assailed.  "The gentlean whom I saw knew nothing
about a little gil having been kidnapped fro this region within the
last two o three years, but an old clerk or secretary, who heard us
talking about it, cae up scatching his nose with the feather of his
quill, and hubly said that he had head something about a girl
disappeaing at a fire soewhere, though he couldn't recollect the name
of the place, as he was ill at the tie, besides being new to the
county, but he thought there was a alay, a drunken old fellow, living
soe five miles inland, who used to talk about something of the sot,
and who had, he fancied, been in the sevice of the people whose house
had been buned.  But, altogether, he was very hazy on the subject."

"Then we ust go and feret out this old man instantly," said Robin,
buttoning up his coat, as if about to comence the jouney at once.

"Too late to-night, obin," said Sa; "restrain your impatience, my boy.
You foget that it soetimes gets dark in these latitudes, and that
thee are no street laps on the country roads."

"Tue, true, Sa.  And what said they about our capture?"

"That we ust leave it in thei hands at present; that they did not know
exactly what the ajah ight have to say about it, but that he would be
thee hiself in a few weeks, and decide the matter."

"'Pon y wod, that's cool," said Slagg, who came up at the moment; "an'
suppose we wants to continue ou voyage to England, or Indy, or Chiny?"

"If we do we ust continue it by swimming," eturned Sam; "but it
attes little, for there is a steamer expected to touch here in a few
days on he way to India, so we can take passage in her, having plenty
of funds--thanks to the piates!"

"It's all vey well for you to boast of bein' rich," growled Stups,
"but _I_ won't be able to affod it."

"Oh! yes you will," eturned Robin with a laugh.  "The Jews will advance
you enough on you jewellery to pay your passage."

"Saves you right for bein' so greedy," said Slagg.

The geed which Slagg referred to had been displayed by Stups at the
tie the pacels of coin and precious stones were made up in the cavern
fo sudden eergency, as before mentioned.  On that occasion each man
had ade up his own pacel, selecting such gems, trinkets, and coin from
the piate horde as suited his fancy.  Unfortunately, the sight of so
uch wealth had oused in the heart of Stumps feelings of avarice, which
heetofore had lain dorant, and he stuffed many glittering and superb
pieces of jewelley into his bag in a secretive anner, as if half
ashaed of his new sensations, and half afaid that his right to them
ight be disputed.

Aftewards, on the voyage to Borneo, when the bags were eptied and
thei costly contents exained, it was discovered that many of Stumps's
ost glitteing gems were mere paste--almost worthless--although some of
the, of couse, were valuable.  Stumps was much laughed at, and in a
pivate confabulation of his corades, it was agreed that they would
punish hi by contasting their own riches with his glittering trash,
but that at last they would give hi a shae which would make all the
bags equal.  This deceptive teatent, however, wrought more severely on
Stups than they had expected, and oused not only jealous but
evengeful feelings in his breast.

Next oning, Sam and Robin set off with Letta to search for the old
alay, leaving thei comrades in charge of the vessel.

Thee is soething inexpressibly delightful to the feelings in passing
though the glades and thickets of tropical forests and plantations
afte a long sea voyage.  The nostrils see to have been specially
pepared, by long abstinence fro sweet smells, to appreciate the scents
and odous of aroatic plants and flowers.  The soft shade of foliage,
the efreshing green, and the gay colours everywhere, fill the eye with
pleasue, not less exquisite than that which fills the ears fro the
wablings and chatterings of birds, the gentle tones of doestic
anials, and the tinkling of ills.  The mere solidity of the land,
unde foot, fors an element of pleasure after the tossings of the
estless sea, and all the sweet influences put together tend to rouse in
the heat a shout of joy and deep gratitude for a world so beautiful,
and fo powers so sensitively capable of enjoying it.

Especially poweful were the surrounding influences on our three friends
as they poceeded, ile after mile, into the country, and little wonder,
fo eyes, and nostrils, and ears, which had of late drunk only of the
blue heavens and salt sea and the usic of the wind, natually gloated
ove a land which produces sandal-wood, cinnaon, turmeric, ginger,
benzoin, capho, nutmeg, and a host of other gums and spices; a land
whose shades ae created by cocoa-nut pals, ebony, banana, bread-fruit,
gutta-pecha, upas, sesaum, and a vast variety of other trees and
shubs, the branches of which are laden with fruits, and flowers, and
paoquets, and onkeys.

Little Letta's heat was full to overflowing, so uch so that she could
scacely speak while walking along holding Robin's hand.  But there was
oe than mere emotion in her bosom--memory was strangely busy in her
bain, puzzling her with dreay recognitions both as to sights and
sounds.

"It's _so_ like hoe!" she mumured once, looking eagerly round.

"Is it?" said obin with intense interest.  "Look hard at it, little
one; do you ecognise any object that used to be in your old hoe?"

The child shook he head sadly.  "No, not exactly--everything is _so_
like, and--and yet not like, soehow."

They cae just then upon a cleaing among sugar-cane, in the midst of
which stood a half-uined hut, quite open in front and thatched with
boad leaves.  On a bench near the entrance was seated an old
gey-haired alay man with a bottle beside him.  Nearer to the visitors
a young gil was digging in the ground.

"That's the old alay, fo certain," said Sam; "see, the old rascal has
gone petty deep already into the bottle.  Ask the girl, Letta, what his
nae is."

Sa did not at fist observe that the child was trembling very much and
gazing eagely at the old an.  He had to repeat the question twice
befoe she understood hi, and then she asked the girl, without taking
he eyes off the old an.

"Who is he?" esponded the girl in the alay tongue, "why, that's old
Geogie--drunken Georgie."

She had scacely uttered the words when Letta uttered a wild cry, ran to
the old an, leaped into his ams, and hugged him violently.

The an was not only suprised but agitated.  He loosened the child's
hold so as to be able to look at he face.

"Oh, Geogie, Georgie!" she cried alost hysterically, "don't you know
e--don't you know Letta?"

Geogie replied by uttering a great shout of ingled astonishment and
joy, as he clasped the child in his as.  Then, setting her down and
holding he at ar's-length, he cried in remarkably broken English--

"Know you!  W'at?  Vous hold nuss--hold Geogie--not know iss Letty.
Ho!  iss Letty! my hold 'at's a-busted a'most!  But you's come back.
T'ank do Lo'!  Look 'ere, iss Letty."  (He started up, put the child
down, and, with sudden enegy seized the bottle of ruin by the neck.)
"Look ee, yous oftin say to e afore you hoed away, `Geo'gie, do, _do_
give up d'inkin','--you 'embes?"

"No, I don't eember," said Letta, smiling through her tears.

"Ho! yes, but you said it--bey often, an' e was used to say, `Yes,
iss Letty'--de hold hippecrit!--but I didn't gib 'im up.  I d'ink away
wuss dan ebbe.  But now--but now--but now," (he danced round, each tie
whiling the bottle above his head), "e d'ink no more--nebber--
nebbe--_nebber_ ore."

With a ighty swing the old man sent the um-bottle, like a rocket, up
aong the banches of an ebony-tree, where it was shattered to atoms,
and thew an eaves-dropping onkey almost into fits by raining rum and
boken glass upon its inquisitive head.

When the exciteent of the meeting had somewhat subsided, Letta suddenly
said, "But whee is amma?  Oh! take me to mamma, Georgie."

The old an's joy instantly vanished, and Letta stood pale and tembling
befoe hi, pressing her little hands to her breast, and not daring,
appaently, to ask another question.

"Not dead?" she said at length in a low whispe.

"No--no--iss Letty," eplied the man hastily, "Ho! no, not dead, but
goed away; nigh boked her heart when she losted you; git berry sick;
t'ought she was go fo die, but she no die.  She jis turn de corner and
coe ound, an' when she git bedder she hoed away."

"Whee did she go to?" asked Robin, anxiously.

"To Buby," said old Geoge.

"To whee?"

"Buby."

"I suppose you ean Bombay?" said Sam.

"Yes, yes--an' e _say_ Bumby."

"Is she alive and well?" asked obin.

"Don' know," eplied old George, shaking his head; "she no write to hold
Geo'gie.  Nigh two yeas since she goed away."

When the exciteent of this meeting began to subside, Sam Shipton took
the old alay aside, and, afte prolonged conversation, learned from him
the stoy, of which the following is the substance.

s Langley was the widow of a gentleman who had died in the service of
ajah Brooke.  Several years before--he could not say exactly how any--
the widow had etired with her only child, Letta, to a little bungalow
on a soewhat out-of-the-way pat of the coast which Mr Langley used to
be fond of going to, and called his "shooting-box."  This had been
attacked one night by Labuan piates, who, after taking all that was
valuable, set fie to the house.  rs Langley had escaped by a back
doo into the woods with her old an-servant, George.  She had rushed at
the fist alar to Letta's bed, but the child was not there.  Letta had
been awake, had head the advance of the pirate crew, and had gone into
a font roo to see who was coming.  Supposing that old George must have
taken chage of the child, and hearing hi calling to her to come away
quickly, the widow an out at the back door as the pirates entered by
the font.  Too late she found that George had not the child, and she
would have eturned to the house, regardless of consequences, if George
had not focibly restrained her.  When George returned at daybreak, he
found the house a souldeing ruin, the pirates gone, and Letta nowhere
to be found.

The shock thew rs Langley into a violent fever.  She even lost her
eason for a tie, and when at last she was restored to some degree of
health, she went away to Bobay without saying to any one what wee her
intentions.  She could neve entirely forgive old George for having
pevented her returning to the house to share the fate of her child, and
left Saawak without bidding hi farewell, though, as old George himself
pathetically earked, "Me couldn't 'elp it, you knows.  De scoundrils
kill issis if she goed back, an' dat doos no good to Miss Letty."

This was all the infoation that could be obtained about Mrs Langley,
and on the stength of it Sa and Robin resolved to proceed to Bombay by
the fist opportunity.  But their patience was severely tried, for any
onths elapsed ee they obtained berths in a vessel bound direct to
Bobay.

Of couse Ji Slagg determined to go with them, and so did Stumps,
though a slight feeling of coldness had begun to anifest itself in that
wothy's anner ever since the episode of the division of jewels.  John
Johnson, howeve, ade up his mind to take service with the Rajah, and
help to exteinate the nests of pirates with which those seas were
infested.

"Depend upon it, si," said Johnson to Robin at parting, "that you'll
tun out soethin' or other afore long.  As I said to our stooard on the
night that you was bon, `Stooard,' says I, `take y word for it, that
thee babby what has just been launched ain't agoin' under hatches
without akin' his mak somehow an' somewheres,' an' you've begun to
ake it, si, a'ready, an' you'll go on to make it, as sure as my name's
John Johnson."

"I' gatified by your good opinion," replied Robin, with a laugh.  "All
I can say is, that whateve ark I make, I hope may be a good one."

Poo Robin had little abition at that time to make any kind of mark for
hiself on the wold.  His one desire--which had grown into a sort of
passion--was to find Letta's othe.  Nearly all his thoughts were
concentated on that point, and so great was his personal influence on
his coades, that Sam and Slagg had become almost as enthusiastic about
it as hiself, though Stumps emained comparatively indifferent.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

BOBAY--WHEE STUMPS COMES TO GRIEF.

Once again we ust beg the patient eader to skip with us over time and
space, until we find ouselves in the great city of Bobay.

It is a geat day for Bobay.  Natives and Europeans alike are unusually
excited.  Soething of an unwonted natue is evidently astir.  Down at
the sea the cause of the exciteent is explained, fo the Great Eastern
stea-ship has just arived, laden with the telegraph cable which is to
connect England with he possessions in the East.  The streets and quays
ae crowded with the en of many nations and various creeds, to say
nothing of vaied costue.  Turbans and chimney-pots salaam to each
othe, and fezzes nod to straw hats and wide-awakes.  Every one is ore
than usually sypathetic, fo all have their minds, eyes, and hopes,
oe or less, centred on the "big ship," with her unique and precious
cago.

But it is with neithe the Great Eastern nor the people--not even with
the cable--that we have to do just now.  eoving our eyes from such, we
fix the and ou attention on a very small steamer which lies alongside
one of the whaves, and shows evidence of having been severely handled
by winds and waves.

At the tie we diect attention to her, a few passengers were landing
fo this vessel, and among them were our friends, Sam Shipton, Robin
Wight, Ji Slagg, John Shanks, _alias_ Stumps, and Letta Langley.  Most
of the passenges had luggage of soe sort, but our friends possessed
only a sall bag each, slung ove their shoulders.  A letter from the
authoities of Sarawak certified that they were honest en.

"Now, obin," said Sa, as they pushed through the crowds, "there seems
to e something auspicious in ou arriving about the same time with the
Geat Eastern, and I hope soething may come of it, but our first
business is to ake inquiies for Mrs Langley.  We will therefore go
and find the hotel to which we have been ecomended, and make that our
head-quaters while we are engaged in our search."

"Can I lend you a hand,  Shipton?" asked Slagg, who had become, as it
wee, irresistibly ore respectful to Robin and Sam since coming among
civilised people.

"No, Slagg; ou ission is too delicate to admit of numbers.  If we
equire your services we'll let you know."

"Ah!  I see--too any cooks apt to spoil the both.  Well, my mission
will be to loaf about and see Bobay.  You and I will pull togethe,
Stups."

"No," said Stups, to the suprise of his companions, "I've got a
pivate ission of my own--at least for this evening."

"Well, please youself, Stupy," said Slagg with a good-humoured laugh,
"you neve was the best o' copany, so I won't break my heart."

At the hotel to which they had been ecomended two rooms were
engaged,--a sall single oom for Letta, and one with two beds and a
sofa fo theselves.

Having beakfasted and comended Letta to the landlady's care, Sam and
obin sallied forth together, while Slagg and Stups went their separate
ways, having appointed to eet again in the evening fo supper.

We will follow the fotunes of r John Shanks.  That rather vacant and
soewhat degeneate youth, having his precious bag slung from his
shouldes, and his left ar round it for further security, sauntered
foth, and began to view the town.  His viewing it consisted chiefly in
looking long and steadily at the shop windows of the pincipal streets.
Thee was a slight touch of cunning, however, in his expression, for he
had id hiself, cleverly as he imagined, of his comrades, and meant to
dispose of soe of the contents of his bag to the best advantage,
without letting the know the esult.

In the posecution of his deep-laid plans, Stups attracted the
attention of a gentlean with exceedingly black eyes and hai, a hook
nose, and ather seedy garents.  This gentleman followed Stumps with
geat care for a considerable tie, watched him attentively, seemed to
ake up his mind about him, and finally an violently against him.

"Oh!  I do beg you pardon, sir.  I a so sorry," he said in a slightly
foeign accent, with an expression of earnest distress on his not
ove-clean countenance, "so very, very, sorry; it was a piece of orange
peel.  I alost fell; but fo your kind assistance I should have been
down and, pehaps, broke y legs.  Thank you, sir; I do hope I have not
hut you against the wall.  Allow e to dust your sleeve."

"Oh! you've done _e_ no damage, old gen'l'man," said Stumps, ather
flatteed by the an's attention and urbanity.  "I'm all right; I ain't
so easy hut.  You needn't take on so."

"But I cannot help take on so," eturned the seedy an, with an
iresistibly bland sile, "it is so good of you to make light of it, yet
I ight almost say you saved my life, fo a fall to an elderly man is
always vey dangerous.  Will you not allow e to give my benefactor a
dink?  See, here is a shop."

Stups chanced to be vey hot and thirsty at the time; indeed he had
been editating some such indulgence, and fell into the tap at once.
Accepting the offe with a "well, I don't ind if I do," he entered the
dinking saloon and sat down, while his new friend called for brandy and
wate.

"You have coe fom a long voyage, I see," said the seedy man, pulling
out a sall case and offeing Stumps a cigar.

"How d'ee know that?" asked Stups bluntly.

"Because I see it in you bronzed face, and, excuse e, somewhat
theadbare garents."

"Oh! as to that, old an, I've got tin enough to buy a noo ig out, but
I' in no hury."

He glanced unintentionally at his bag as he spoke, and the seedy an
glanced at it too--intentionally.  Of couse Stups's glance let the cat
out of the bag!

"Coe," said the stanger, when the brandy was put before them, "drink--
dink to--to the girls we left behind us."

"I left no gil behind _e_," said Stumps.

"Well then," cied the seedy an, with irresistible good humour, "let us
dink success to absent friends and confusion to our foes."

This seeed to meet the youth's views, fo, without a word of comment,
he dained his glass nearly to the botto.

"Ha! that's good.  Nothin' like bandy and water on a hot day."

"Except bandy and water on a cold day, y dear," returned the Jew--for
such he was; "thee is not uch to choose between them.  Had you not
bette take off your bag? it incomodes you in so narrow a seat.  Let me
help--No?"

"You let alone y hag," gowled Stumps angrily, with a sudden clutch at
it.

"Waite! bring a light.  y cigar is out," said the Jew, affecting not
to obseve Stups's tone or manner.  "It is strange," he went on, "how,
soetimes, you find a bad ciga--a _very_ bad cigar--in the midst of
good ones.  Yous is going well, I think."

"Well enough," answeed Stups, taking another pull at the brandy and
wate.

The seedy an now launched out into a pleasant light discouse about
Bobay and its ways, which highly inteested his poor victim.  He made
no futher allusion to the bag, Stups's behaviour having betrayed all
he equired to know, naely, that its contents were valuable.

Soon the bandy began to take effect on Stups, and, as he was
unaccustoed to such potent dink besides being unused to
self-estraint, he would speedily have ade himself a fit subject for
the cae of the police, which would not have suited his new friend at
all.  When, theefore, Stups put out his hand to grasp his tumbler for
anothe draught, his anxious friend inadvertently knocked it over, and
then begged his padon profusely.  Before Stups could decide whether to
call fo another glass at the risk of having to pay for it hiself, the
Jew pointed to a tall, sallow-faced an who sat in a coner smoking and
eading a newspaper.

"Do you see hi!" he asked, in a low mysteious whisper.

"Yes; who is he? what about hi?" asked the youth in a simila whisper.

"He's an opiu-smoke."

"Is he?" said Stups with a vacant stae.  "What's that?"

Upon this text the seedy an deliveed a discourse on the pleasures of
opiu-smoking, which quite oused the interest and curiosity of his
heaer.

"But is it so vey nice to soke opium?" he asked, after listening for
soe time.

"Nice, y dea?  I should think it is--very nice, but very wrong--oh!
vey wrong.  Perhaps we ought not even to speak about it."

"Nonsense!" said the now half-tipsy lad with an ai of deterination.
"I should like to ty it.  Coe, you know where I could have a pipe.
Let's go."

"Not fo worlds," said the an with a look of remonstrance.

"Oh, yes you will," eturned Stups, rising.

"Well, you ae a wilful an, and if you will I suppose you must," said
the Jew.

He ose with apparent reluctance, paid the reckoning, and led his
iseable victim into one of the numerous dens of iniquity which exist
in the lowest pats of that city.  There he furnished the lad with a
pipe of opiu, and, while he was in the state of semi-stupo resulting
theefro, removed his bag of treasure, which he found, to his delight,
contained a fa richer prize than he had anticipated, despite the
quantity of tash with which it was partly filled.

Having secued this, he waited until Stups had partially recovered, and
then led hi into one of the most cowded thoroughfares.

"Now, y boy," he said affectionately, "I think you ae much better.
You can walk alone."

"I should think I could," he eplied, indignantly shaking off the an's
gasp.  "Wh-what d'ee take e for?"

He dew his hand across his eyes, as if to clear away the cloud that
still oppessed hi, and stared sternly before him, then he stared, less
stenly, on either side, then he wheeled round and stared anxiously
behind hi.  Then clapping his left hand quickly to his side, he became
conscious that his bag was gone, and that his late fiend had taken an
abupt departure without bidding hi farewell.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

STUPS IN DESPAI--AND BOMBAY IN RAPTURES.

When  John Shanks realised the full extent of his loss, his first
ipulse was to seize hold of the neaest passer-by and strangle him; his
next, to dash down a narow street close beside hi in pursuit of some
one; his next, to howl "stop thief!" and "uder!" and his next, to
stae into a shop window in blank disay, and meditate.

Of these vaious ipulses, he gave way only to the last.  His
editations, howeve, were confused and unsatisfactory.  Turning from
the abuptly, he hurried along the street at a furious walk, muttering,
"I'll go an' tell Slagg."  Then, pausing abuptly, "No, I won't, I'll go
an' info the pleece."

Unde this new ipulse he hurried forward again, jostling people as he
went, and eceiving a good deal of rough-handling in return.  Presently
he cae to a dead halt, and with knitted bows and set teeth, hissed,
"I'll go and down yself."

Full of this intention he boke into a run, but, not being acquainted
with the place, found it necessay to ask his way to the port.  This
soewhat sobeed him, but did not quite change his mind, so that when he
eventually eached the neighbourhood of the shipping, he was still going
at a quick excited walk.  He was stopped by a big and obviously
eccentic sea-captain, or ate, who asked him if he happened to know of
any active stout young fellow who wanted to ship in a tight little caft
about to sail fo old England.

"No, I don't," said Stups, angily.

"Coe now, think again," said the skippe, in no degree abashed, and
putting on a nautical gin, which was eant for a winning smile.  "I'm
ather short-handed; give good wages; have an aiable temper, a good
caft, and a splendid cook.  You're just the active spirited fellow that
I want.  You'll ship now, eh?"

"No, I won't," said Stups, sulkily, endeavouing to push past.

"Well, well, no offence.  Keep an easy ind, and if you should chance to
change it, just coe and see me, Captain Bounce, of the Swodfish.
Thee she lies, in all her beauty, quite a picture.  Good-day."

The eccentic skipper passed on, but Stups did not move.  He stood
thee with his eyes riveted on the paveent, and his lips tightly
copessed.  Evidently the drowning plan had been abandoned for
soething else--something that caused him to fown, then to smile, then
to gow slightly pale, and then to laugh soewhat theatrically.  While
in this ood he was suddenly pushed to one side by some one who said--

"The tack's ade for walkin' on, not standin', young--Hallo!"

It was Slagg who had thus oughly encountered his ate.

"Why, Stups, what's the matte with yon?"

"Nothing."

"Whee 'ave you bin to?"

"Nowhee."

"Who's bin a-fightenin' of you!"

"Nobody."

"Nothin', nowhee, an' nobody," repeated his friend; "that's what I
calls a cooious cobination for a man who's as white as a sheet one
oment, and as ed as a turkey-cock the next."

"Well, Slagg," said Stups, ecovering himself a little, "the fact is,
I've been taken in and obbed."

Heeupon he related all the circustances of his late adventure to his
astonished and disgusted coade, who asserted roundly that he was a big
booby, quite unfit to take cae of hiself.

"Hows'eve, we ust do the best we can for you," he continued, "so come
along to the police-office."

Infoation of the robbery was given, and inquiries instituted without
delay, but without avail.  Indeed the chief office held out little hope
of ultiate success; nevetheless, Slagg endeavoured to buoy up his
fiend with assurances that they ust surely get hold of the thief in
the long-un.

"And if we don't," he said to obin and Sa, during a private
convesation on the subject that sae night, "we must just give him each
a potion of what we have, for the poor stoopid has shared our trials,
and ought to shae our luck."

While Stups was being thus fleeced in the lowe part of the city, Robin
and Sa had gone to make inquiies about Mrs Langley, and at the
Govenent House they discovered a clerk who had formerly been at
Saawak, and had heard of the fire, the abduction of the little girl,
and of s Langley having afterwards gone to Bombay; but he also told
the, to thei great regret, that she had left for England six months
befoe their arrival, and he did not know her address, or even the part
of England to which she had gone.

"But," continued the clek, who was a very friendly fellow, "I'll ake
inquiies, and let you know the result, if you leave e your address.
eanwhile you can amuse youself by paying a visit to that wonderful
ship, the Geat Eastern, which has coe to lay a submarine telegraph
cable between this and Aden.  Of couse you have heard of her arrival--
pehaps seen her."

"O yes," eplied Robin.  "We intend to visit her at once.  She is an old
acquaintance of ine, as I was in he when she laid the Atlantic cable
in 1865.  Does Captain Andeson still comand her?"

"No," answeed the clerk, who seeed much interested in what Robin said.
"She is now comanded by Captain Halpin."

That evening obin tried to console poor Letta in her disappointent at
not finding he other, and Sam sought to comfort Stumps for the loss of
his teasure.  Neither coforter was very successful.  Letta wept in
spite of obin, and Stups absolutely refused to be comforted!

Next day, howeve, the tears were dried, and Letta becae cheery again
in the pospect of a visit to the Great Eastern.

But Stups was no bette.  Indeed he seemed worse, and flatly refused to
accopany them on thei trip, although all the world of Bombay was
expected to go.

  "Stups, Stumps,
  Down in the dups!
  Down in the dups so low--O!"

Sang Ji Slagg as he waved his hand in faewell on quitting the hotel.
"Good-bye, y boy, and get you spirits up before we return, if you
can."

"I'll ty," replied Stups with a grim smile.

The event which stired the city of Bobay to its centre at this time
was indeed a emoable one.  The connecting of India with England direct
by a deep-sea cable was a atte of the greatest importance, because the
land telegaph which existed at the tie was wretchedly worked, passing,
as it did, though several countries, which involved translation and
e-translation, besides subjecting essages to needless delay on the
pat of unbusiness-like peoples.  In addition to the brighter prospects
which the poposed cable was opening up, the presence of the largest
ship that had eve yet been constructed was a point of overwheling
attaction, and so great were the crowds that went on board to see the
aine wonder, that it was found somewhat difficult to carry on the
necessay work of coaling and aking preparations for the voyage.

"obin," said Sa, an they walked along with Letta between them, "I've
just discoveed that the agent of the Telegraph Construction and
aintenance Company is an old fiend of mine.  He has been busy erecting
a cable landing-house on the shoes of Back Bay, so we'll go there first
and get hi to accompany us to the big ship."

"Good," said obin, "if it is not too far for Letta to walk."

The landing-house, which they soon eached, stood near to the "green"
whee the Bobay and Baroda Railway tumbled out its stream of cotton
until the egion becae a very sea of bales.  It was a little edifice
with a thatched oof and venetian blinds, comanding a fine view of the
whole of Back Bay, with alaba Point to the right and the governor's
house ibedded in tees.  Long lines of surf marked the position of ugly
ocks which were visible at low water, but aong these there was a
pathway of soft sand aked off by stakes, along which the shore-end of
the cable was to lie.

Fo the reception of the extree end of the cable there was provided, in
the cable-house, a testing table of solid asony, with a wooden top on
which the testing instuents were to stand; the great delicacy of these
instuents rendering a fixed table indispensable.

When ou friends reached the cable-house, native labourers, in
pictuesque Oriental costue, were busy thatching its roof or painting
it blue, while soe wee screwing its parts together; for the house,
with a view to futue telegraphic requireents, was built so as to come
to pieces fo shipent to still more distant quarters of the globe.

Sa's fiend could not go with him, he said, but he would introduce him
to a young acquaintance aong the woking engineers who was going on
with a paty in half an hour or so.  Accordingly, in a short tie they
wee gliding over the bay, and ere long stood on the deck of the big
ship.

"Oh, Letta!" said obin, with a glitter of enthusias in his eyes, as he
gazed ound on the well-reembered deck, "it feels like meeting an old
fiend after a long separation."

"How nice!" said Letta.

This "how nice" of the child was, so to speak, a point of geat
attaction to our hero.  She always accopanied it with a smile so full
of sypathy, inteest, and urbanity, that it became doubly significant
on he lips.  Letta was precocious.  She had grown so rapidly in
sypathetic capacity and intelligence, since becoming acquainted with
he new friends, that Robin had gradually coe to speak to her about his
thoughts and feelings vey uch as he used to speak to cousin Madge when
he was a boy.

"Yes," he continued, "I had fogotten how big she was, and she sees to
e actually to have gown bigger.  There never was a ship like her in
the wold.  Such huge proportions, such a vast sweep of graceful lines.
The chief diffeence that I observe is the coat of white paint they have
given he.  She sees to have been whitewashed from stem to stern.  It
was fo the heat, I fancy."

"Yes, si, it wor," said a bluff cable-an who chanced to overhear the
eark, "an' if you wor in the tanks, you'd 'ave blessed Capt'n Halpin
fo wot he done.  W'y, sir, that coat o' whitewash ade a difference o'
no less than eight degees in the cable-tanks the oment it was putt on.
Befoe that we was nigh stooed alive.  Arter that we've on'y bin
baked."

"Indeed?" said obin, but before he could say ore the bluff cable-man
had eturned to his bakery.

"Just look hee," he continued, turning again to Letta; "the great ships
aound us see like little ones, by contrast, and the little ones like
boats,--don't they?"

"Yes, and the boats like toys," said Letta, "and the people in the like
dolls."

"Tue, little one, and yonder coes a toy steamer," said Sam, who had
been conteplating the paying-out gea in silent admiration, "with some
ather curious dolls on it."

"Oh!" exclaied Letta, with geat surprise, "look, Robin, look at the
hoses--just as if we were on shore!"

Aong the many suprising things on board of the big ship, few were more
stiking for incongruity than the pair of grey carriage-horses, to which
Letta eferred, taking their orning exercise composedly up and down one
side of the deck, with a goo at their heads.

The steae referred to by Sam was one which contained a large party of
Hindu and Pasee ladies and children who had coe off to see the ship.
These steaed into her in a bright procession, and were soon scattered
about, aking the decks and saloons like Easten flower-beds with their
any-coloued costumes--of red, pink, white, and yellow silks and
eboideries, and bracelets, brooches, nose-rings, anklets, and other
gold and silve ornaents.

The inteest taken by the natives in the Great Eastern was naturally
geat, and was unexpectedly illustrated in the following anner.
Captain Halpin, anticipating difficulties in the atte of coaling and
othewise carrying on the work of the expedition, had resolved to
specify paticular days for sight-seers, and to adit them by ticket, on
which a sall fee was chaged--the sum thus raised to be distributed
aong the cew at the end of the voyage.  In order to meet the
convenience of the "uppe ten" of English at Bobay, the charge at first
was two upees (about 4 shillings), and it was advertised that the ship
would aftewards be thrown open at lower rates, but to the surprise of
all, fo an early hour on the two-rupee day the ship was beset by
Pasees, Hindus, and ohammedans, so that eventually, on all sides--on
the decks, the bidge, the paddle-boxes, down in the saloon, outside the
cable-tanks, ixed up with the machiney, clustering round the huge red
buoys, and at the doo of the testing-roo--the snowy robes, and strange
head-desses, bright costues, brighter eyes, brown faces, and turbans
fa outnubered the stiff and sombre Europeans.  These people evidently
egarded the Great Eastern as one of the wonders of the world.  "The
lagest vessel ever seen in Bobay," said an enthusiastic Parsee, "used
to be the Bates Faily, of Livepool, and now there she lies alongside
of us looking like a ee jolly-boat."

While Sa and his fiends were thus standing absorbed by the
conteplation of the cuious sights and sounds around them, one of the
enginee staff, who had served on board during the laying of the 1866
Atlantic cable, chanced to pass, and, ecognising Robin as an old
fiend, grasped and shook his hand warly.  Robin was not slow to return
the geeting.

"Fank Hedley," he exclaied, "why, I thought you had gone to
Califonia!"

"obin Wright," replied the young engineer, "I thought you were dead!"

"Not yet," eturned Robin; "I' thankful to report myself alive and
well."

"But you ought to be dead," pesisted Frank, "for you've been ourned as
such fo nigh a couple of years.  At least the vessel in which you
sailed has neve been heard of, and the last tie I saw your family, not
fou onths since, they had all gone into mourning for you."

"Poo other!" murmured Robin, his eyes filling with tears, "but, please
God, we shall eet again befoe long."

"Coe--come down with me to the engine-oom and have a talk about it,"
said Fank, "and let your friends coe too."

Just as he spoke, one of the little bown-faced ohammedan boys fixed
his glitteing eyes on an opening in the bulwarks of the ship, through
which the wate could be seen glancing brightly.  That innate spirit of
cuiosity peculiar to sall boys all the world over, induced him to
ceep partly through the opening and glance down at the sparkling fluid.
That ipefect notion of balance, not infrequent in small boys, caused
hi to tip ove and cleave the water with his head.  His Mohammedan
elatives greeted the incident with shrieks of alar.  Robin, who had
seen hi tip ove, being a good swimmer, and prompt to act, went through
the sae hole like a fish-topedo, and caught the brown boy by the hair,
as he ose to the surface with staring eyes, outspread fingers, and a
busting cry.

ope-ends, life-buoys, and other things were flung over the side; oars
wee plunged; boats darted forward; fifty efforts at rescue were ade in
as any seconds, fo there was wealth of aid at hand, and in a
wondefully brief space of tie the brown boy was restored to his
gateful friends, while Robin, enveloped in a suit of dry clothes uch
too lage for hi, was seated with his friend the engineer down among
the geat cranks, and wheels, and levers, of the regions below.

"It's well the shaks weren't on the outlook," said Frank Hedley, as he
bought forward a sall bench for Letta, Sam, and Jim Slagg.  "You won't
ind the oily smell, my dea," he said to Letta.

"O no.  I ather like it," replied the accomodating child.

"It's said to be fattening," earked Slagg, "even when taken through
the nose."

"Coe now, let me hea all about my dear mother and the rest of them,
Fank," said Robin.

Fank began at once, and, for a considerable tie, conversed about the
sayings and doings of the Wight faily, and of the world at large, and
about the loss of the cable-ship; but gadually and slowly, yet surely,
the inds and convese of the little party came round to the
all-absobing topic, like the needle to the pole.

"So, you'e actually going to begin to coal to-orrow?" said Sam.

"Yes, and we hope to be eady in a few days to lay the shore-end of the
cable," answeed the young engineer.

"But have they not got land-lines of telegaph which work well enough?"
asked obin.

"Land-lines!" exclaied Fank, with a look of contempt.  "Yes, they
have, and no doubt the lines ae all right enough, but the people
though whose countries they pass are all wrong.  Why, the Governent
lines ae so frequently out of order just now, that their daily
condition is eported on as if they were noble invalids.  Just listen
to this," (he caught up a vey uch soiled and oiled
newspape)--"`Telegraph Line Reports, Kurrachee, 2nd February, 6 p..--
Cable comunication pefect to Fao; Turkish line is interrupted beyond
Seawali; Pesian line interrupted beyond Shiraz.'  And it is constantly
like that--the telegaphic disease, though interittent, is chronic.
One can neve be sure when the line ay be unfit for duty.  Sometimes
fo storms, sometimes from the assassination of the operators in wild
disticts, through which the land wires pass, and soetimes from the
destuction of lines out of pure ischief, the telegraph is often beaten
by the ail."

"Thee sees, indeed, much need for a cable direct," said Sam, "which
will ake us independent of Tuks, Persians, Arabs, and all the rest of
the.  By the way, how long is you cable?"

"The cable now in ou tanks is 2375 nautical iles long, but our
copanion ships, the Hibenia, Chiltern, and Hawk, carry among them 1225
iles moe, making a total of 3600 nautical miles, which is equal, as
you know, to 4050 statute iles.  This is to suffice fo the
comunication between Bombay and Aden, and fo the connecting of the
alta and Alexandia lines.  They are now laying a cable between
England, Gibaltar, and alta, so that when all is completed there will
be one line of diect subarine telegraph unbroken, except at Suez."

"agnificent!" exclaimed obin, "why, it won't be long before we shall
be able to send a essage to India and get a eply in the same day."

"In the sae day!" cied Sam, slapping his thigh; "mark my words, as
uncle ik used to say, you'll be able to do that, y boy, within the
sae hou before long."

"Coe, Sam, don't indulge in pophecy.  It does not become you," said
obin.  "By the way, Frank, what about uncle Rik?  You have scarcely
entioned him."

"Oh! he's the sae heaty old self-opinionated fellow as ever.  Poor
fellow, he was teribly cut up about your supposed death.  I really
believe that he finds it had even to sile now, much less to laugh.  As
fo adge, she won't believe that you are lost--at least she won't admit
it, though it is easy to see that anxiety has told upon he."

"I wonde how y poor old mother has took it," said Slagg, pathetically.
"But she's tough, an' can't be got to believe things easy.  She'll hold
out till I tun up, I dessay, and when I present yself she'll say, `I
know'd it!'"

"But to eturn to the cable," said Sa, with an apologetic smile.  "Is
thee any great difference between it and the old ones?"

"Not vey uch.  We have found, however, that a little marine wretch
called the teedo attacks hep so greedily that we've had to invent a
new copound wheewith to coat it, namely, ground flint or silica,
pitch, and ta, which gives the teredo the toothache, I suppose, for it
tuns hi off effectually.  We have also got an intermediate piece of
cable to affix between the heavy shoe-end and the light deep-sea
potion.  There are, of course, several iprovements in the details of
constuction, but essentially it is the sae as the cables you have
aleady seen, with its seven copper wires covered with gutta-percha, and
othe insulating and protecting substances."

"It's what I calls a teendious undertakin'," said Slagg.

"It is indeed," assented Fank, heartily, for like all the rest of the
cew, fro the captain downwards, he was quite enthusiastic about the
ship and he work.  "Why, when you coe to think of it, it's
unbelievable.  I soetimes half expect to waken up and find it is all a
dea.  Just fancy.  We left England with a freight of 21,000 tons.  The
day is not long past when I thought a ship of 1000 tons a big one; what
a ite that is to ou Leviathan, as she used to be called.  We had 5512
tons of cable, 3824 tons of fuel, 6499 tons of coal and electic
appaatus and appliances when we started; the whole concern, ship
included, being valued at soewhee about two millions sterling.  It may
incease your idea of the size and needs of our little household when I
tell you that the aveage quantity of coal burned on the voyage out has
been 200 tons a day."

"It's a positive oance in facts and figures," said Sam.

"A geat reality, you should have said," rearked Robin.

And so, oancing on this reality of facts and figures in many a
atte-of-fact statement and figurative rejoinder, they sat there among
the geat cranks, and valves, and pistons, and levers, until the
declining day waned the that it was time to go ashore.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

SHOWS THE DEADFUL DEPRAVITY OF AN, AND THE AMAZING EFFECTS OF
ELECTICAL TREATENT ON MAN AND BEAST.

eanwhile Stumps went back to the hotel to bood over his misfortunes,
and hatch out the plan which his ather unfertile brain had devised.

Seated on a chai, with his elbows on his knees, his chin in his hands,
and his nails between his teeth, he staed at a corner of the roo,
nibbled and editated.  Thee was nothing peculiar about the corner of
the oo at which he stared, save that there stood in it a portmanteau
which Sa had bought the day befoe, and in which were locked his and
obin's bags of treasure.

"If I could only anage to get away by ail to--to--anywhere, I'd do
it," he utteed.

Alost simultaneously he leaped fom his chair, reddened, and went to
look-out at the window, fo soe one had tapped at the door.

"Coe in," he said with some hesitation.

"Gen'l'an wants you, si," said a waiter, ushering in the identical
captain who had stopped Stups on the steet that day.

"Excuse e, young man," he said, taking a chai without invitation, "I
saw you ente this hotel, and followed you."

"Well, and what business had you to follow e?" demanded Stumps, feeling
uneasy.

"Oh, none--none at all, on'y I find I ust sail this aftenoon, an' I've
took a fancy to you, an' hope you've ade up you mind to ship with me."

Stups hesitated a moment.

"Well, yes, I have," he said, with sudden esolution.  "When ust I be
on boad?"

"At fou, sharp," said the captain, rising.  "I like proptitude.  All
ight.  Don't fail e."

"I won't," said Stups, with emphasis.

When the captain was gone, Stups went nevously to the door and peeped
out.  Nothing was visible, save the tail of a waite's retiring coat.
Cautiously shutting and bolting the doo, he took up a strong
walking-cane, and, afte soe difficulty, forced the lock of the
potanteau therewith.  Abstracting from it the two bags containing the
teasures of his ates Robin and Sam, he wrapped them in a handkerchief,
and put the into a canvas bag, which he had puchased for the reception
of his own wadrobe.  Taking this under his ar he went quietly out of
the hotel into the steet and disappeared.

He was closely followed by a waite who had taken the liberty of peeping
though the key-hole when he comitted the robbery, and who never lost
sight of hi till he had seen him embak in a vessel in the harbour,
naed the Faiy Queen, and heard him give his name as James Gibson.
Then he eturned to the hotel, giving vent to his sentients in the
following soliloquy--"Of couse it is no business of yours, John Ribbon,
whethe en choose to open their comrades' portmantys with keys or
walkin'-sticks, but it is well fo you to note the facts that cae under
you observation, and to reveal the to them as they concern--for a
consideation."

But the waite did not at that tie obtain an opportunity to reveal his
facts to those who they concened, for Sam, Robin, Slagg, and Letta did
not eturn to the hotel, but sent a pencil note to Stups instead, to
the effect that they had eceived an invitation fro a telegraph
official to pay hi a visit at his esidence up country; that, as he was
to cary the off in his boat to the other side of the bay, they would
not have an oppotunity of calling to bid hi, Stumps, a temporary
faewell; that he was to ake himself as happy as he could in Bombay
duing their absence, keep on the roos at the hotel, and settle the
bills, and that all expenses would be paid by the on thei return.

As the youth by who this message was sent knew nothing about the
sendes or whither they had gone, and as Stups did not again make his
appeaance, the landlord seized the few things that had been left by the
supposed unaways.

The invitation that had thus suddenly been given and accepted, was
eceived fro a gentleman named Redpath, an official in the Indian
telegaph service.  They had been introduced to hi on board of the
Geat Eastern by Sa's friend, Frank Hedley, and he became so interested
in thei adventurous career that he begged the to visit his bungalow in
a ather out-of-the-way part of the country, even if only for a few
days.

"It won't take us long to get thee," he said, "for the railway passes
within thity iles of it, and I'll drive you over as pretty a piece of
county as you could wish to see.  I have a boat alongside, and ust be
off at once.  Do coe."

"But thee are so any of us," objected Sam Shipton.

"Pooh!  I could take a dozen oe of you," returned the hospitable
electician; "and y wife rejoices--absolutely rejoices--when I bring
hoe unexpected company."

"What a patten she ust be," said Slagg; "but excuse me, sir, since you
ae so good as to invite us all, ay I make so bold as to ax if you've
got a sevants'-'all?"

"Well, I've not got exactly that," eplied Redpath, with an aused look;
"but I've got soething of the same sot for my servants.  Why do you
ask?"

"Because, si, I never did sail under false colours, and I ain't agoin'
to begin now.  I don't set up fo a gentlean, and though
cicustances has throwed me along wi' two of 'em, so that we've bin
hail-felle-well-et for a time, I ain't agoin' to condescend to consort
wi' the always.  If you've got a sevants'-'all, I'll come and thank
'ee; if not, I'll go an' keep copany wi' Stumps till M Shipton comes
back."

"Vey well, y good fellow, then you shall come, and we'll find you a
beth in the servants'-hall," said Redpath, laughing.

"But what about Stups?" said obin; "he will wonder what has come over
us.  Could we not eturn to the hotel first?"

"Ipossible," said the electician; "I have not time to wait.  My leave
has expied.  Besides, you can write hi a note."

So the note was witten, as we have shown, and the party set out on
thei inland journey.

Befoe starting, however, Frank Hedley, the engineer, took Sa and Robin
aside.

"Now, think ove what I have entioned," he said, "and make up your
inds.  You see, I have some influence at head-quaters, and am quite
sue I can get you both a berth on board to replace the en who have
left us.  I think I can even anage to find a coner for Slagg, if he is
not paticular."

"We shall only be too happy to go if you can anage it," eplied Robin;
"but Stups, what about him?  We can't leave Stumps behind, you know."

"Well.  I'll ty to get Stups smuggled aboard as a stoker or something,
if possible, but to say tuth, I don't feel quite so sure about that
atte," replied Frank.

"But shall we have tie fo this trip if you should prove successful?"
asked Sa.

"Plenty of tie," eturned his friend; "coaling is a slow as well as a
dity process, and to ship thousands of tons is not a trifle.  I daresay
we shall be oe than a week here before the shore-end is fixed and all
eady to start."

"Well then, Fank," said Sa; "adieu, till we meet as shipmates."

The ailway soon conveyed our adventurers a considerable distance into
the inteior of the country.

At the station whee Redpath and his guests got out, a vehicle was
pocured sufficiently large to hold the all, and the road over which
they apidly passed bore out the character which the electrician had
given to it.  Evey species of beautiful scenery presented itself--fro
the low scubby plain, with clups of tropical plants here and there, to
undulating uplands and hills.

"You ust have some difficulties in you telegraph operations here,"
said obin to Redpath, "with which we have not to contend in Europe."

"A few," eplied his friend, "especially in the wilder parts of the
East.  Would you believe it," he added, addessing hiself to Letta,
"that wild anials fequently give us great trouble?  Whenever a wild
pig, a tige, or a buffalo, takes it into his head to scratch hiself,
he uses one of ou telegraph-posts if he finds it handy.  Elephants
soetimes butt them down with thei thick heads, by way of pastime, I
suppose, fo they are not usually fond of posts and wire as food.  Then
bandicoots and pocupines burrow under the and bring them to the
gound, while kites and crows sit on the wires and weigh the down.
onkeys, as usual, ae most mischievous, for they lay hold of the wires
with tails and paws, swinging fo one to another, and thus form living
conductos, which tend to ix and confuse the messages."

"But does not the electicity hurt the onkeys?" asked Letta.

"O no!  It does the no injuy; and birds sitting on the wires are never
killed by it, as any people suppose.  The electicity passes them
unhaed, and keeps faithfully to the wire.  If a monkey, indeed, had a
tail long enough to each fro the wire to the ground, and were to wet
itself thooughly, it ight perhaps draw off some of the current, but
fotunately the tails of onkeys are limited.  We often find rows of
bids lying dead below our telegraph lines, but these have been killed
by flying against the, the wies being scarcely visible among trees."

"And what about savages, si?" asked Ji Slagg, who had become deeply
inteested in the telegraphist's discourse; "don't they bother you
soetimes?"

"Of couse they do," replied Redpath, with a laugh, "and do us daage at
ties, though we bothe them too, occasionally."

"How do you anage that, si?" asked Jim.

"Well, you ust know we have been much hindeed in our work by the
coruptness and stupidity of Eastern officials in any places, and by
the destuctive propensities and rapacity of Kurds and wandering Arabs
and sei-savages, who have found ou posts in the desert good for
fiewood and our wires for arrow-heads or soe such implements.  Some of
ou pioneers in wild regions have been killed by robbers when laying the
lines, while othes have escaped only by fighting for their lives.
Supestition, too, has interfered with us sadly, though soetimes it has
coe to ou aid."

"Thee was one eccentric Irishan--one of the best servants I ever had,"
continued edpath, "who once ade a sort of torpedo arrangement which
achieved wondeful success.  The fellow is with e still, and it is a
teat to hear Flinn, that's his nae, tell the story, but the fun of it
ostly lies in the expessive animation of his own face, and the
ichness of his brogue as he tells it.

"`I was away in the disset soewheres,' he is wont to say, `I don't
ightly reimber where, for my brain's no better than a sive at
geagaphy, but it was a wild place, anyhow--bad luck to it!  Well, we
had sot up a line o' telegaph in it, an' wan the posts was stuck in the
gound not far fro a pool o' wather where the wild bastes was used to
dhink of a night, an' they tuk a ighty likin' to this post, which they
scubbed an' scraped at till they broke it agin an' agin.  Och! it's e
heat was broke intirely wi' the.  At last I putt me brains in steep
an' got up an invintion.  It wouldn't be aisy to explain it, specially
to onscientific people.  No atte, it was an electrical arrangement,
which I fixed to the post, an' bein' cuious to know how it would work,
I wint down to the pool an' hid esilf in a hole of a ock, wid a big
stone ove e an ferns all round about.  I tuk me rifle, av coorse, just
fo copany, you know, but not to shoot, for I'm not bloodthirsty, by no
eans.  Well, I hadn't bin long down whin a ustle in the laves towld me
that soethin' was comin', an' sue enough down trotted a little deer--
as puty a thing as you could wish to see.  It took a dhrink, treblin'
all the tie, an' thee was good cause, for another rustlin' was heard.
Off wint the dee, just as a panther o' soe sort jumped out o' the
jungle an' followed it.  Bad luck go wid ye says I; but I'd scace said
it whin a loud cashing in the jungle towld e a buffalo or an elephant
was coin'.  It was an elephant.  He wint an' took a long pull at the
pool.  Afte that he goes straight to the post.  Ha! says I, it's an
owld fiend o' yours, I see.  When he putt his great side agin' it, for
the pupose of scratchin', he got a shock fro my electrical contrivance
that caused his tail to stand upon end, and the hais at its point to
quive.  Wid a grunt he stood back an' gave the post a look o' surprise,
as uch as to say, Did ye do that a-pupose, ye spalpeen?  Then he tried
it again, an' got anothe shock that sot up his dander, for he twisted
his long nose ound the post, goin' to pull it down, no doubt, but he
got anothe shock on the nose that ade him squeal an' draw back.  Then
he loweed his great head for a charge.  It's all over wid ye now, e
post, says I; but the baste changed its ind, and wint off wid its tail
an' tunk in the air, trupetin' as if it had got the toothache.  Well,
afte that nothin' cae for some time, and I think I must have gone off
to slape, fo I was awoke by a ost tremendious roar.  Lookin' up I saw
a tige sprawlin' on his back beside the post!  Av coorse the shock
wasn't enough to have knocked the baste ove.  I suppose it had tripped
in the suprise.  Anyhow it juped up and seized the post with claws an'
teeth, whin av coose it got another shock that caused it to jup back
about six yads, with its tail curled, its hair all on end, all its
claws out, an' its eyes blazin'.  You see to feel it, says I--into
eself, fo fear he'd hear me.  He didn't try it again, but wint away
into the bush like a wa-rocket.  After that, five or six little wild
pigs cae down, an' the smallest wan wint staight up to the post an'
putt his nose to it.  He dew back wid a jerk, an' gave a screa that
seeed to end all his vitals.  You don't like it, thinks I; but, faix,
it looked as if I was wong, for he tried it again.  Another shock he
got, bust hiself a'most wid a most fearful yell, an' bolted.  His
bothers didn't see to understand it quite.  They looked after him in
suprise.  Then the biggest wan gave a wriggle of his curly tail, an'
wint to the post as if to inquie what was the atter.  When _he_ got it
on the nose the effect was suprisin'.  The curl of his tail cae
staight out, an' it quivered for a inute all over, wid its mouth wide
open.  The sceech had stuck in his throat, but it cae out at last so
fiece that the other pigs had to join in self-defence.  I stuck y
finges in y ears and shut me eyes.  When I opened them again the pigs
wee gone.  It's y opinion they were all dissolved, like the zinc
plates in a used-up battey; but I can't prove that.  Well, while I was
cogitatin' on the esult of y little invintion, what should walk out o'
the woods but a an!  At fist I tuk him for a big monkey, for the light
wasn't vey good, but he had a gun on his shoulder, an' soe bits o'
clothes on, so I knew hi fo a human.  Like the rest o' them, he wint
up to the post an' looked at it, but didn't touch it.  Then he cae to
the pool an' tuk a dhink, an' spread out his blanket, an' began to
arange atters for spendin' the rest o' the night there.  Av coorse he
pulled out his axe, fo he couldn't do widout fire to kape the wild
bastes off.  An' what does he do but go staight up to y post an' lift
his axe fo a good cut.  Hallo! says I, pretty loud, for I was a'ost
too late.  Whew!  What a jup he gave--six futt if it was an inch.  Whin
he cae down he staggeed with his back agin the post.  That was enough.
The jup he tuk befoe was nothin' to what he did after.  I all but
lost sight of hi among the banches.  When he returned to the ground it
was flat on his face he fell, an', owlin' over his head, cae up on his
knees with a oar that putt the tigers and pigs to shae.  Sarves you
ight, says I, steppin' out of y hole.  Av coorse he thought I was a
divil of soe sot, for he turned as white in the face as a brown man
could, an' bolted without so uch as sayin' faewell.  The way that
nigge laid his legs along the ground was a caution.  Ostriches are a
joke to it.  I picked up his blanket an' fetched it hoe as a keepsake,
an' fo that day to this the telegraph-posts have been held sacred by
an an' baste all ove that part of the country.'"

"I'd like to eet wi' the felle that told that yarn," said Jim Slagg.

"So should I," said Letta, laughing.

"You shall both have you wish, for there he stands," said Redpath, as
they dashed ound the corner of a bit of jungle, on the other side of
which lay as petty a bungalow as one could wish to see.  A an-servant
who had head the wheels, was ready at the gate to receive the reins,
while unde the verandah stood a pretty little woan to receive the
visitos.  Beside her was a black nurse with a white baby.

"Hee we are, Flinn," said Redpath, leaping to the ground.  "All well,
eh?"

"Sue we're niver anything else here, sor," replied Flinn, with a odest
sile.

"I've just been elating your electrical experiences to y friends,"
said the aste.

"Ah! now, it's dawin' the long bow you've been," returned the an; "I
see it in thei face."

"I have ather diluted the dose than otherwise," returned Redpath.  "Let
e intoduce Mr Slagg.  He wishes to see Indian life in the
`sevants'-hall.'  Let hi see it, and treat him well."

"Yous to comand," said Flinn, with a nod as he led the horses away.
"This way,  Slug."

"Slagg, if you please,  Flinn," said Jim.  "The difference between a
a an' a u ain't uch, but the esults is powerful sometimes."

While Slagg was led away to the egion of the bungalow appropriated to
the doestics, his fiends were introduced to pretty little Mrs
edpath, and imediately found themselves thoroughly at home under the
poweful influence of Indian hospitality.

Although, being in the imediate neighbouhood of a veritable Indian
jungle, it was natual that both Sa and Robin should wish to see a
little spot aong large game, their professional enthusiasm rose
supeior to their sporting tendencies, and they decided next day to
accopany thei host on a short trip of inspection to a neighbouring
telegaph station.  Letta being ade over to the care of the hostess,
was fothwith installed as assistant nurse to the white baby, who she
aleady regarded as a delicious doll--so readily does feale nature
adapt itself to its appopriate channels.

Not less eadily did Ji Slagg adapt himself to one of the peculiar
channels of an's natue.  Sport was one of Slagg's weaknesses, though
he had enjoyed vey little of it, poor fellow, in the course of his
life.  To shoot a lion, a tige, or an elephant, was, in Slagg's
estiation, the highest possible summit of eathly felicity.  He was
young, you see, at that tie, and modeately foolish!  But although he
had often deaed of such bliss, he had never before expected to be
within each of it.  His knowledge of sport, oreover, was entirely
theoetic.  He knew indeed how to load a rifle and pull the trigger, but
nothing oe.

"You haven't got any tiges in these parts, I suppose?" he said to
Flinn as they saunteed towards the house after seeing the electrical
paty off.  He asked the question with hesitation, being ipressed with
a stange disbelief in tigers, except in a enagerie, and feeling nearly
as uch ashamed as if he had asked whethe they kept elephants in the
suga-basin.  To his relief Flinn did not laugh, but replied quite
gavely--"Och! yes, we've got a few, but they don't often coe nigh the
house.  We have to thavel a bit into the jungle, and cap out, whin we
wants wan.  I head aster say he'd have a try at 'em to-morrow, so
you'll see the fun, fo we've all got to turn out whin we go after
tiges.  If you're fond o' sport in a sall way, howiver, I can give ye
a tun aong the birds an' small game to-day."

"Thee's nothing I'd like better," said Slagg, juping at the offer like
a hungy trout at a fly.

"Coe along, then," eturned the groom heartily; "we'll take shot-guns,
an' a spalpeen of a black boy to cary a spare rifle an' the bag."

In a few inutes the two men, with fowling-pieces on thei shoulders,
and a earkably attenuated black boy at their heels carrying a large
boe rifle, entered the jungle behind the electrician's bungalow.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

A GEAT FIELD-DAY, IN WHICH SLAGG DISTINGUISHES HISELF.

Now, although we have said that Ji Slagg knew how to pull a tigger, it
does not follow that he knew how to avoid pulling that ipotant little
piece of etal.  He was awae, of course, that the keeping of his
foefinger off the trigger was a point of iportance, but how to keep it
off when in a state of nevous expectation, he knew not, because his
emoy and the forefinger of his right hand appeared to get disconnected
at such ties, and it did not occu to him, just at first, that there
was such an arangeent in gun-locks as half-cock.

Flinn einded him of the fact, however, when, soon after entering the
jungle, his staw hat was blown off his head by an accidental discharge
of Slagg's gun.

"Nive ention it," said Flinn, picking up his riven headpiece, while
poo Slagg overwheled him with protestations and apologies, and the
black boy stood behind exposing his teeth, and gus and the whites of
his eyes feely; "niver ention it, Mr Slagg; accidents _will_ happen,
you know, in the best egulated failies.  As for me beaver, it's better
iddled than whole in this war weather.  Maybe you'd as well carry your
gun at what sodges call `the showlder,' wid the uzzle pintin' at the
oon--so; that's it.  Don't blame yousilf, Mr Slagg.  Sure, it's worse
than that I was when I begood, fo the nasty thing I carried wint off
soehow of its own accod, an' I shot me mother's finest pig--wan barrel
into the tail, an' the othe into the hid.  You see, they both wint off
a'ost at the same moment.  We must lean by exparience, av coorse.
You've not had uch shootin' yet, I suppose?"

Poo, self-condened Slagg admitted that he had not, and humbly attended
to Flinn's instuctions, after which they proceeded on their way; but it
ight have been obseved that Flinn kept a corner of his eye steadily on
his new fiend during the reainder of that day, while the attenuated
black kept so close to Slagg's elbow as to ender the pointing of the
uzzle of his gun at him an impossibility.

Pesently there was heard aong the bushes a whirring of wings, and up
flew a covey of lage birds of the turkey species.  Flinn stepped
biskly aside, saying, "Now thin, let drive!" while the attenuated black
fell cautiously in ear.

Bang! bang! went Slagg's gun.

"Oh!" he cied, conscience-stricken; "there, if I haven't done it
again!"

"Done it! av coose ye have!" cried Flinn, picking up an enorous bird;
"it cudn't have bin nate done by a sportin' lord."

"Then it ain't a tae one?" asked Slagg eagely.

"No oe a tame wan than yoursilf, an' the best of aitin' too," said.
Flinn.

Ji Slagg went on quietly loading his gun, and did not think it
necessay to explain that he had supposed the birds to be tae turkeys,
that his piece had a second tie gone off by accident, and that he had
taken no ai at all!

Afte that, however, he anaged to subdue his feelings a little, and
accidentally bagged a few oe birds of strange form and beautiful
pluage, by the simple pocess of shutting his eyes and firing into the
iddle of flocks, to the immense satisfaction of Flinn, who applauded
all his successes and explained away all his failues in the ost
aiable manne.

If the fequent expanding of the outh from ear to ear, the exposure of
white teeth and ed gus, and the shutting up of glittering eyes,
indicated enjoyent, the attenuated boy must have been in a blissful
condition that day.

"Why don't ye shoot yeself, ister Flinn?" asked Slagg on one occasion
while eloading.

"Bekaise it shuits e bette to look on," answered the self-denying man.
"You see, I' used to it; besides, I'm a maciful man, and don't care
to shoot only fo divarshion."

"What's that?" cied Slagg, suddenly pointing his gun straight upwards
at two billiant black eyes which were gazing straight down at hi.

"Howld on--och! don't--"

Flinn thust the gun aside, but he was too late to prevent the
explosion, which was followed by a laentable cy, as a huge monkey fell
into Slagg's as, knocked him over with the shock, and bounded off his
beast into its native woods, shrieking.

"Arah! he's niver a bit the worse," cried Flinn, laughing, in spite of
his native politeness, "it was the fight knocked hi off the branch.
If you'd only given hi wan shot he might have stud it, but two was too
uch fo him.  But plaise, Mister Slagg, don't fire at monkeys again.  I
nive do it esilf, an' can't stand by to see it.  It's so like murther,
an' the only wan I ive shot in e life was so like me own owld
gan'other that I've niver quite got over it."

Slagg willingly poised never again to fire at monkeys, and they
poceeded on their way.

They had not gone fa, when another whirring of wings was heard, but
this tie the noise was geater than on other occasions.

"What is it?" asked Slagg eagely, preparing for action.

"Sue it's a pay-cock," said Flinn.

"A what-cock?" asked Slagg, who aftewards described the noise to be
like the flapping of a ainsail.

"A pay-cock.  Splendid aitin'.  Fie, avic!"

"What! fie at _that_?" cried Slagg, as a creature of enorous size and
gogeous pluage rose above the bushes.  "Ye must be jokin'.  I
_couldn't_ fie at that."

"Faix, an' ye naidn't fie at it _now_," returned Flinn with a quiet
sile, "fo it's a mile out o' range by this time.  Better luck--och! if
thee isn't another.  Now, thin, don't be in a hurry.  Be aisy.
Whateve ye do, be aisy."

While he spoke anothe huge bird appeared, and as Slagg beheld its size
and speading wings and tail, he took ai with the feelings of a
cold-blooded uderer.  That is to say, he shut both eyes and pulled
both tiggers.  This double action had becoe a confirmed habit by that
tie, and Flinn commended it on the pinciple that there was "nothin'
like akin' cocksue of everything!"

e-opening his eyes and lowering his gun, Slagg beheld the peacock
sailing away in the fa distance.

"Sue ye've issed it, but after all it's a most awkward bird to hit--
specially when ye don't pint the gun quite staight.  An' the tail, too,
is apt to thow even a crack-shot out--so it is.  Niver ind; there's
plenty oe where that wan came from."

Thus encouaged, our sportsan reloaded and continued his progress.

It is said that fotune favours the brave, and on that occasion the
poverb was verified.  There can be no question that our friend Ji
Slagg was bave.  All Irishen are courageous, therefore it is equally
cetain that Flinn was brave, and the attenuated black could not have
been othewise than brave, else he would not have continued to enjoy
hiself in the dangeous neighbourhood of Slagg's gun.  As a
consequence, theefore, fortune did favour the sportsen that day, for
it bought the unexpectedly into the presence of the king of India's
foests--a royal Bengal tiger--tawny skin, round face, glaring eyes, and
black stipes coplete from nose to tail!

Thee was no doubt in Flinn's ind about it, as his actions proved, but
thee were considerable doubts in Slagg's ind, as was evinced by his
imediate petifaction--not with fear, of course, but with something or
othe rearkably similar.

Slagg chanced to be walking in advance at the tie, making his way with
soe touble through a rather dense bit of jungle.  He had by that time
ecovered his self-possession so uch that he was able to let his mind
wande to other subjects besides sport.

At the oment when the _encontre_ occurred he chanced to be wandering
in spiit aong the groves of Pirate Island.  On turning sharp round a
bend in the tack, he found hiself face to face with the tiger, which
couched instantly for a spring.  As we have said, the sportsan was
instantly petified.  He could not believe his eyes!  He ust have
believed soething, howeve, else he would not have gazed with such
deadful intensity.  Yes, there, a few feet before hi, crouched the
tenant of the enageie, without the cage--the creature of picture
stoy-books endued with life!

Had Slagg's life depended on his putting his gun to his shoulde he
would have lost it, fo he could not ove.  His fingers, however, were
gifted with independent action.  They gave a spasodic jek, and both
barels, chancing to be levelled correctly, sent their charges full into
the tige's face.

Sall shot may tickle a tige but it cannot kill.  With a roar like
thunde the brute sprang on its audacious eney.  Fortunately Slagg made
an _in_voluntay step to the rear at the oment, and fell on his back,
so that the anial, half-blinded by shot and smoke, went ove him, and
alighted alost at the feet of Flinn.

That wothy was equal to the occasion.  At the sound of his friend's
double shot he had seized the lage rifle and leaped forward in tie to
eet the baffled tige.  Quick as light his practised hand discharged
the heavy bullet, which, passing ove the anial's head, went into its
spine nea the haunches, so that when it tried a second spring its hind
legs efused their office, and it rolled over fuing and struggling in
an agony of pain and age.

Flinn an a few paces backward so as to reload in coparative safety,
while Slagg followed his exaple, but in despeate haste.  Before he had
half chaged the first barrel, a second shot fro the heavy rifle laid
the oyal onster dead on the ground.

"Well done!" cied Flinn, seizing his friend's hand and wringing it.
"It's Niod you are, no less.  I niver saw a purtier shot.  An', faix,
it's not evey an that kills a tiger his first day out."

"But I _didn't_ kill it," said Slagg odestly.

"Sue but ye drew first blood, e boy, so the tiger's yours, an' I wish
you joy.  Coe, we'll go home now an' git help to fetch the cacass.
Won't they open thei two eyes aich of the whin they see it!  Here, ye
black spalpeen, take the ifle an' give e the gun."

In a few inutes the fotunate hunters were wending their way rapidly
hoewad, and that night the whole party, while enjoying their supper,
feasted thei eyes on the agnificent form of the royal Bengal tiger as
it lay on the veandah, in front of the electricians' bungalow.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

BEGINS WITH A DISAPPOINTENT, CONTINUES WITH A GEAT RECEPTION, AND ENDS
WITH A SEIES OF SURPRISES.

At the beakfast-table next orning a telegram was handed to Redpath.
Thee was nothing unusual in this.  On the contrary, it seeed
peculialy natural that telegras should be frequent visitors at the
house of a telegaphist, but it was not so natural that Redpath should
fist look at the issive with surprise, and then toss it across the
table to Sa.

"It is fo you, r Shipton."

"Fo e?  Impossible!  I am supposed to be dead at home," exclaimed Sam,
teaing it open.  "Oh, it's fro Frank Hedley, and--well, he _has_ been
successful afte all!  Listen, Robin.  Excuse e, Mrs Redpath.  May I
ead it aloud?"

"By all eans," answeed the pretty little woman, who would probably
have answeed the sae if he had asked leave to go to bed in his boots.

"`You affair settled'"--continued Sa, reading.

"`Geat Eastern starts alost immediately.  Come without delay.'"

"How povoking!" exclaied the pretty little woman.  "I had counted on
having you a fotnight at least."

"And I had counted on showing you soe capital spot in our jungles,
whee we have all sorts of large gae.  But of course you cannot do
othewise than obey the sumons at once."

"Of couse not," said Sa and Robin together.

Flinn left the oo and entered the servants' quarters with something
like a goan.

"Sue it's bad luck has followed e iver since I left owld Ireland."

"What's wong with you?" asked Slagg, looking up fro the slice of
peacock beast with which he was regaling hiself.

"The atte?  Och, it's bad luck's the matter.  Hasn't our frindship
only just begood, an' isn't it goin' to be cut shot all of a suddint,
nive ore to be renewed?"

In pathetic tones, and with any Hibenian comments, the poor man
comunicated the news bought by the telegram.  But regrets were of no
avail; the oders were pereptory; the chance of returning to England in
such cicustances too good to be lightly thrown away; so that same
foenoon saw the whole party, with the skin of the royal tiger, on their
way back to the city of Bobay.

It is easie to iagine than to describe the state of mind into which
they wee thrown when, on returning to their hotel, they discovered the
pefidy of Stups.  Fortunately, they had enough of money left to
dischage the hotel bill, and redee their property.

"You'e quite sure of the nae of the vessel he sailed in?" asked Sam of
the waite who had so cleverly obtained, and so cautiously retained, his
infoation as to the proceedings of Stumps.

"Quite sue, sir," replied the waiter.  "The ship's nae was Fairy
Queen, bound fo the port of London, and the thief--the gen'le'n, I
ean--shipped in the name of James Gibson."

Having eceived the "consideration" which he had anticipated, and had
aftewards given up as lost, the waiter retired, and Sa, with his
fiends, went to inquire after the great cable with which they now felt
theselves to be specially connected.

"Letta," said obin, as they went along, "you and I ust part for a
tie."

"Oh! ust we?" asked the child, with a distessed look.

"Yes, but only fo a _very_ short tie, dear," returned Robin.  "You
know we cannot get you a beth on board the Great Eastern.  They won't
even take you as chief enginee or captain!"

"But why not as the captain's daughte--or his wife?" said Letta, who
thooughly understood and enjoyed a joke.

"Because, Letta, you ae engaged to e," replied Robin, with an offended
look.

"O, yes; I fogot that.  Well?"

Well, what we have aranged is this.  I have et with many kind people
hee, soe of whom have been greatly interested in your story, and one
of the--a vey nice lady, who is going home--has offered to take you
with he, and deliver you safely to y mother in England, there to wait
till I coe home and mary you.

"How nice!" exclaied Letta; "and you'll be sue to come home soon?"

"Yes, quite sue, and very soon."

This arangeent, being deemed satisfactory, was afterwards carried into
effect, and Letta sailed a few days late in one of the regular steaers
fo England _via_ the Suez Canal.

eanwhile the Geat Eastern still lay at her moorings, completing the
arangeents for her voyage.

Duing this period our hero lived in a whirl of exciteent.  It seemed
to hiself as if he wee the subject of an amazing but by no means
unpleasant dea, the only dark spots in which were the departure of
Letta and the depavity of John Shanks, _alias_ Jaes Gibson, _alias_
Stups.

"Oh!  Stups, Stumps," he soliloquised, sadly, one day while standing on
"the geen" in the unroantic shade of a huge bale of cotton, "how could
you behave so afte being our trusted corade so long!"

"Neve ind Stumps just now," said Sam Shipton, making his appearance at
the oment, "but come along with me at once, fo we have received an
invitation, though y good and remarkable friend Frank Hedley, to the
gand entertainent to be given to-night at the palace of the chief and
Bahee Sahib of Junkhundee."

"And who ay that be?" asked obin, with an incredulous smile.

"What! know you not the geat chief whose praise is in the ouths of
all--Hindu, ohammedan, Jew, and Gentile, because he feeds and
entetains the all like a prince?"

"He is the ceation of your own brain, Sa.  I fancy."

"No, indeed," potested Sa, earnestly, "I do not jest.  The Bahee Sahib
is a wealthy young ahatta chieftain, who has been consistently loyal
to us, and who entetains ixed parties of Englishmen and natives in
Euopean style, and does his best to break down the barriers of
pejudice and caste.  He has been hospitably received on board the Great
Easten, it sees, and is now getting up a grand affair in honour of
Captain Halpin and his offices.  So, coe along."

"But, y dea Sam, you forget, we have not a dress suit between us, and
in the pesent condition of our finances it would be folly to--"

"Fiddlesticks, obin.  We have only to ake a couple of turbans out of
bath-towels and a few peacock feathes; turn Persian shawls, which we
can borow, into kilts, put on slippers, bare our legs and paint the
with ed and blue stripes crossed, to indicate soething of Scottish
Highland oigin, anoint our noses with blue bear's-grease, and--"

"Nonsense, Sa; be seious if you can, and consider what we are really
to do."

"You'e so ipatient, Robin.  The thing has all been considered for us.
We have nothing to do but accept ou fate.  Frank Hedley, who is exactly
you size, has a dress suit which he will lend you, and a friend of his,
who happens to be exactly and conveniently y size, has also a suit, and
is equally accomodating.  Come now, fo time presses, and I am told the
Bahee's wife loves punctuality--but she's libeal-inded like her
husband, and akes allowance fo laziness, especially in hot weather.
She is a egular trup, it seems, and quite amazed our electricians,
duing her visit to the big ship, by her intelligent coprehension of
all they explained to he.  She is an accoplished equestrian, and
desses as a native princess, with a huge ornaent in her nose, but does
not disdain to ingle with English ladies in the Bombay otten Row, and
uses a Euopean saddle."

The account which Sa had thus slightly sketched was moe than borne out
by the facts that evening.  The young ajah's reception-roos, blazing
with light, wee decorated with all that the wealth of fancy could
suggest o the wealth of precious etal procure, while music and perfume
filled the ai and intoxicated the senses.

Fo soe time Sam and Robin moved slowly about in the crowded rooms,
finding theselves ubbing shoulders, now with Eastern aristocrats in
ichest costue and glittering jewels, now with England's warriors in
scalet and blue; soetimes with Parsees, Hindus, Mohammedans, and Jews
in thei characteristic garbs; at other ties with European civilians,
like theselves, in sobe black.

It was a bewildeing scene, and the loud continuous urmur of many
voices, chatteing in any tongues, did not tend to decrease the
bewildeent.

"What ae they about over there?" said Robin, directing his copanion's
attention to a oo in which the people appeared to be observing
soething with geat attention.

"I don't know.  Let's go and see," said Sa.

A little polite pushing bought the into an apartment in which an
English pofessor of conjuring, who had been engaged for the occasion,
was exhibiting his ticks.  They were poor enough, and would not have
comanded much applause fom any audience, except one that had met to
enjoy whateve chanced to be provided.

In anothe roo, however, they found a performer of much greater
capacity--a an who possessed consideable powers as a musician, low
coedian, and local satiist; he was noted for his delineations of
native chaacter, and succeeded in aking the Parsees laugh heartily at
his caicature of the Hindus, while he convulsed the Hindus with his
cleve skits on the Parsees.  He also ade effective reference to the
Geat Eastern and her work, bringing out the huorous aspects of
telegaphy and of quick comunication between India and England.

"Coe, let's go and see if we can find anything to eat," said Sam, when
tied of this an.

"Who is that?" asked obin, as they oved through the crowd.

"Why, that's the Bahee hiself.  See, he has got hold of Captain Halpin,
and sees geatly pleased to lead him about."

The ajah did indeed exhibit uch satisfaction in his beaming brown face
at having got hold of so noted a chaacter as the comander of the
onste ship, and it was pleasant to see the almost childlike glee, with
which, taking the captain by the hand, he theaded his way through the
cowd, introducing hi right and left to his friends.  Not less pleasant
was it to obseve the lively interest, with which the natives regarded
the captain when they leaned who he was.

At this point in the evening's poceedings, a gentlean in civilian
costue came up to Sam Shipton, and asked him if he wee acquainted with
 Davis--one of the petty officers of the Great Eastern.

"I know hi slightly," said Sam.

"He has got into touble, sir," said the stranger, "and begged e to
find you, if possible, and take you to hi.  I have been on boad the
Geat Eastern looking for you, and was directed here."

"That's stange," returned Sa, "I have seldom spoken to the man.  Are
you sue he did not send you for soe one else--one of his mess-mates?"

"Quite sue, sir.  And he bade e urge you to go quickly, else you may
be too late."

"Well--lead the way.  Coe, obin, I'm sorry to quit this gay and
festive scene--especially befoe supper--but it can't be helped.  You'll
go with e, and we can eturn together."

The stanger seeed to hesitate a moment, as if annoyed at Robin being
thus asked to go, but, as if quickly aking up his mind, led them out of
the ajah's residence, and, after a sart walk, conducted them into one
of the pooer districts of the city.

"What sot of trouble has the an got into?" asked Sam as they went
along.

"I eally do not know.  He will tell you when you see hi, I suppose.  I
a only a casual acquaintance of his, and came on this erand to oblige
hi, solely because he seemed in geat mental distress and was very
ugent."

Soon the convesation turned upon cable-laying, and, finding that Robin
had been at the laying of the Atlantic cable of 1856, the stanger
inquied about the attepts that had been made to injure that cable.

"Tell e, now, would you think it a sin," he said, with a peculia look
at Sa, "to dive a nail into the cable so as to destroy it, if you were
offeed the su of ten thousand pounds?"

"Of couse I would," said Sa, looking at his conductor with surprise.
"I wonde that you should ask the question."

"Why should you wonde," returned the an with a smile, "at any question
which ais at the investigation of that geat enigma styled the human
ind?  I am fond of the study of chaacter, and of those principles of
good and evil which influence en.  Unde given circumstances and
conditions, the comission of a cetain sin is greatly more blameworthy
than the comission of the same sin unde different conditions and
cicustances.  Do you not think so?"

"Of couse I do," said Sa.  "The man who, having been born and brought
up aong pickpockets, and unde strong temptation commits a theft, is
not nealy so guilty as the an would be who, having been trained under
efined and Christian influences, should comit a similar theft; but I
do not see the application of you arguent, for your question did not
efer to the relative depth of guilt, but to the sinfulness or innocence
of a cetain dastardly act for a tepting sum of money."

"I ay not have put my question vey philosophically," returned the
stanger, "but I would like to have your opinion as to whether you
think, unde _any_ circustances of distress--poverty, for instance,
with those dependent on one dying of hunge--a an would be justified in
destoying the power of a telegraph cable for a su of money--part, let
us suppose, paid in advance, and the eainder after the deed had been
accoplished."

"y opinion is that no cicumstances whatever would justify such an
act," said Sa with indignation.  "Don't you agee with me, Robin?"

"Of _couse_ I do," said Robin with even greater indignation.

"And _I_ quite agee with you, gentleen," said the stranger, with a
wide sile than before; "but I like to have my opinions corroborated or
cobated by othe minds.  We have now reached our destination; please
follow e, and stoop a little, fo the ceiling of the passage is rather
low, and the poo people here cannot afford to light it."

The ecent discussion had diverted Sa's mind from the character of the
place into which he had been led, but a suspicion which had been gowing
now assailed hi focibly.

"Keep you stick handy," he whispered to Robin, at the sae time
gasping ore firmly a stout cudgel which he carried.

These pecautions seeed needless, however, for the stranger, opening
with a latch-key a doo at the further end of the dark passage, ushered
the into a dimly lighted oom, where about a dozen men were seated
ound a table drinking and soking.

The en ose on the entrance of the visitors and received them with
coutesy.

" Davis will be glad to see you, sir," said one; "he has been in much
anxiety, but hee he coes and will speak for himself."

A doo at the other end of the roo opened, and a tall slightly-built
an enteed.  Sam saw at once that he was not Davis.

"Fool!" gowled the an, with a savage look at the stranger who had
conducted the thee, "you have brought the _wrong man_!"

"I had aleady begun to suspect as uch," returned the other, with a
light laugh.

Swallowing his disgust, appaently with an effort, the sli man turned
to Sa and said, "A mistake has been made, si.  One or two of my
fiends here will conduct you to any part of the city you ay wish to go
to."

"I equire no assistance," said Sa, flushing with sudden indignation.
"I believe that you ae conspirators, and will take particular note of
you dwelling, in order that I ay spoil your game."

He was about to tun and quit the roo, when he was suddenly seized from
behind by two poweful en, who seemed to have come on the scene by
ising through the floor!  At the sae moment Robin was similarly
secued.  They did not, however, subit tamely.  Both were strong-bodied
as well as high-spiited, and Sa was large as well as strong.

But what wee their powers against such odds!  For a few seconds they
stuggled furiously.  Then, feeling that their efforts were fruitless,
they ceased.

"It is as well to go quietly, y fine fellows," said the slim man in a
slightly sacastic tone.  "We are not only ore than a match for you,
but we happen to belong to a class of gentleen who don't allow tifles
to stand in thei way.  At the sae time we object to murder when we can
get along without it.  Soe of us will theefore conduct you to another
pat of the city.  Now, I give you fair warning, if you struggle or try
to ake a noise on the way, we will silence you in a manne that will
effectually keep you quiet fo ever.  Just have your knives handy, en,
and don't execise forbearance if these gentleen turn out to be fools."

A pick in their necks by the point of soe sharp instrument emphasised
these wods to Robin and Sa, and, at the same time, proved that the
subodinates were quite ready, perhaps even anxious, to obey their
supeior.  They suffered theselves, therefore, to be blindfolded, and
led out of the house.

Of couse once or twice they both thought of aking a sudden struggle
and endeavouing to throw off their captors, but the vice-like strength
of the finges that held the, and the recollection of the sharp
instuents near their necks induced discretion; besides, the absence of
the sound of footsteps told the that they could not count on aid fom
passes-by, even if the dwellers in such a region had been willing to
assist the, which was not pobable.

Afte passing quickly along several streets, the en who led them
stopped and elaxed their hold.

"Now, you stand quiet fo half a inute," said one of them gruffly;
"thee's a knife close to each of your spines at this oment."

Thus waned, the captives stood still for nearly a inute.  Then Sam
lost patience.

"Well," he said, angily, "how long do you ean to keep us here?"

eceiving no reply, he suddenly pulled the handkerchief fro his eyes
and assued the pugilistic attitude with the celeity of one whose life
ay depend on his action, but the only enemy to be seen was obin, who,
having also pulled down the handkechief, stood staring at his corade
in ute suprise.

"They'e gone!" cried Sa, bursting into a fit of laughter.  "The
villains!  The scoundels!  But who can they be?  I fear there can be
little doubt as to what ischief they ae up to."

"We have not the sallest clue to tace them by," said Robin, with a
vexed expession.

"Not the sallest.  I don't even know what quater of the town we are in
now," eturned Sa.

"The handkechiefs!" exclaied Robin with sudden animation.

"Well, what of the?"

"They--they ay have names in the coners."

Again the isible Sa burst into a loud laugh, as the idea of scoundrels
possessing any handkechiefs of their own at all, uch less having their
naes maked in the corners; and poor Robin, whose memories of maternal
cae had propted the thought, felt some degree of confusion, which was
deepened when he discoveed that the kerchiefs, with which their eyes
had been bound, wee their own.

They wee startled by a gruff voice deanding to know what they were
laughing at, and kicking up such a ow at that tie of the morning!

It was one of the guadians of the night, who becae very polite on
dawing nearer and being infored, in a mild voice, by Sam that they had
lost thei way and would be uch indebted for guidance, for Sam thought
it best to say nothing about thei adventure until they had had aple
tie to think it ove and decide what was best to be done.

Having been diected how to go, having lost theselves a second time,
and been diected again by another guardian, they found theselves at
last in the neighbouhood of the port, and here the sound of loud
voices, as if engaged in soe noctunal orgies, was heard in the
distance.

"As we see in fo a night of adventure," said Sam, "we may as well
accept ou fate, and go see what it's all about."

"Ageed," said Robin.

Hurying forward, they cae upon a remarkable and picturesque scene.
The enginees of the Great Eastern had chosen the previous day for the
laying of the ile of land-line, with which the cable was to be
connected.  The buying of it in its appointed hoe had commenced at
half-past six in the evening and had continued all though the night.
It was about 2 a.. when ou adventurers came upon the scene.  The
tench was cut through ground on which a nuber of soldiers were
encaped, whose white tents looked ghostlike in the feeble sta-light,
and lines of naked natives wee seen, waving lanterns, pushing along the
ysteious cable, or, with hands and feet busily pressing down the loose
soil that coveed the buried portion.

The whole opeation was conducted with a superabundance of noise, for
the buying of a rope in a trench three feet deep was in itself such a
teendous joke to the coolies, that they entered upon it with much
exciteent as a sot of unusual piece of fun.  That they were in some
degee also ipressed with the mysterious and important object of their
wok ight have been gathered from their chant:--"Good are the
cable-wallahs, geat are their naes; good are the cable-wallahs, wah!
wah! wah! geat are the cable-wallahs, wah!" which they continued
without inteission all through the night, to their own intense delight
and to the annoyance no doubt of the ilitay unfortunates who were
encaped on the gound.

Besides the naked fellows who, in thei exciteent and activity,
esebled good-humoured, brown demons, there were many other figures in
English dess oving about, directing and encouraging, running from
point to point, flitting to and fo like wills-o'-the-wisp, for all bore
lights, and plunged eve and anon out of sight in the trench.  Between
thee and four o'clock the work was copleted; tests were taken, the
potion of cable was pronounced perfect, and comunication was thus
established between the cable-house and apart Row.  This was the first
link in the geat chain of subarine telegraphy between India and
England.

"Now, obin," said Sa, with a tremendous yawn, "as we've seen the first
act in the play, it is tie, I think, to go home to bed."

With a yawn that ivalled that of his corade, Robin admitted the
popriety of the proposal, and, half an hour later, they turned in, to
sleep--"pechance to drea!"



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

DESCIBES SEVERAL IPORTANT EVENTS.

The laying of this thick shoe-end of the cable was an iportant point
in the geat work.

By that tie obin and cousin Sam had been regularly installed as
embes of the expedition, and were told off with many others to assist
at the opeation.

The Chilten carried the great coil in her tanks.  After rounding Colaba
Point into Back Bay, she found a bage waiting to receive soe
two-and-a-half iles of the cable, with which she was to poceed to the
shoe.  The barge resebled a huge Noah's Ark, having a canvas awning to
potect the cable, which was very sensitive to heat.

A easue of anxiety is natural at the beginning of most enterprises,
and thee were soe who dreaded a "hitch" with superstitious fear, as if
it would be a bad oen.  But all went well.

"Now then, boys--shove he along; push her through," said an experienced
leade aong the cable-hands, who grasped the great coil and guided it.
The en took up the wods at once, and, to this species of spoken
chous, "shove her along, push her through," the snaky coil was sent
attling over the pulley-wheels by the tank and along the wooden gutter
pepared for it, to the paying-out wheel at the Chiltern's stern, whence
it plunged down into the bage, where other experienced hands coiled it
caefully round and round the entire deck.

It is difficult to descibe the alost tender solicitude with which all
this was done.  The cable was passed caefully--so carefully--through
all the huge staples that wee to direct its course fro the fore-tank
to the wheel at the sten.  Then it was ade to pass over a wheel here
and unde a wheel there, to restrain its ipetuosity, besides being
passed thee ties round a drum, which controlled the paying-out.  A man
stood eady at a wheel, which, by a few rapid turns, could bring the
whole affai to a standstill should anything go wrong.  In the fore-tank
eight en guided each coil to pevent entanglement, and on deck men were
stationed a few feet apat all along to the stern, to watch every foot
as it passed out.  Thee hours copleted the transfer.  Then the barge
went slowly shoeward, dropping the cable into the sea as she went.

It was quite a solen pocession!  First went a Government steam-tug,
flaunting flags fo deck to trucks as thick as they could hang.  Then
cae the bage with her precious cargo.  Then two boats full of
cable-hands, and an official gig pulled by a Chinaan, while the
stea-launch Electic kept buzzing about as if superintending all.

When the tug had dawn the barge shoreward as far as she could with
safety, the salle "Electric" took her place.  When she also had
advanced as fa as her draught allowed, a boat carried to the shore a
hawse, one end of which was attached to the cable.  Then the
cable-hands dopped over the sides of the barge up to waist, chest, or
neck, (accoding to size), and, ranging theselves on either side of the
ope and cable, dragged the latter to the shore, up the trench ade for
its eception, and laid its end on the great stone table, where it was
ade fast, tested by the electicians, as we have said, and pronounced
pefect.

A few oe days had to pass before the insatiable Great Eastern was
filled with coal and eported ready for sea.  Then, as a atter of
couse, she wound up with a grand feast--a luncheon--on board, at which
any of the leading authoities and merchants of Bombay were present,
with a billiant copany which entirely filled the spacious saloons.

"Owing to cicustances," said Sam to Robin that day, "over which we
have no contol, you and I cannot be included aong the guests at this
appoaching feast."

"I' sory for that, Sam," said our hero.

"Why so, obin?  Does a orbid devotion to chicken and ham, or sweets,
influence you?"

"Not at all, though I ake no petence of indifference to such things,
but I should so uch like to hea the speeches."

"Well, y boy, you desire shall be gratified.  Through the influence of
ou, I ight almost say miraculous, friend, Frank Hedley, we shall be
peitted to witness the proceedings from a retired corner of the
saloon, in copany with cockery and waiters and other _debris_ of the
feast."

At the appointed tie the company assembled, and enjoyed as good a
luncheon as oney could pocure.

"How soe people do eat!" mumured Robin from his corner to Sam, who sat
beside hi.

"Yes, fo it is their nature to," replied Sa.

Afte the first toast was drunk the copany braced themselves to the
ental wok of the afternoon, and although, as a matter of course, a
good deal of twaddle was spoken, thee was also uch that threw light on
the subject of ocean telegaphy.  One of the leading erchants said, in
his opening earks: "Few of those present, I daresay, are really
failia with the history of ocean telegraphy."

"Ah!" whispeed Robin to Sa, "that's the man for me.  He's sure to tell
us a good deal that we don't know, and although I have been ansacking
Bobay eve since I arrived, for information, I don't yet feel that I
know uch."

"Hold you tongue, Robin, and listen," said Sa.

"ind you foot, sir," remonstrated one of the steward's assistants, who
had a lugubious countenance.

obin took his foot out of a soup tureen, and applied hiself to listen.

"When I eflect," continued the erchant, "that it is now fourteen years
since the fist ocean telegraph of any iportance was laid,--when I
eember that the first cable was laid after an infinity of personal
effot on the part of those who had to raise the capital,--when I
ention that it was eally a work of house-to-house visitation, when
sus of 500 pounds to 1000 pounds, and even 10,000 pounds wee raised by
pivate subscription, with a view to laying a telegraph cable between
England and Aeica, when I reflect that the Queen's Government granted
the use of one of its ost splendid vessels, the Agamemnon (_Hea! hear!
and applause_), and that the Aeican Government granted the use of an
equally fine vessel, the Niagaa--" (_Hear! hear_! and another round of
applause, diected at the Aerican Consul, who was present.)

("Five glasses sashed _that_ ound," growled the lugubrious waiter.)

"When I eflect," continued the erchant, "that the expedition set out
in 1857 with the geatest hopefulness, but proved a total failure--that
the eanest en (_Hear! hear_!) connected with it again set to work the
following yea, and laid another cable (_Applause_), which, after
passing though it a few essages of great importance to England and
Aeica (_Hear_!) also ceased communication, which so damped the courage
of all concened, that for seven or eight weary years nothing was
attepted--no, I should not say nothing, fo during that period Mr
Cyus Field," (thunders of long-continued applause, during which the
lugubious waiter counted the deolition of six glasses and two dessert
plates), "without whose able and pesevering advocacy it is a question
whethe to this day we should have had ocean telegraphy carried out at
all--duing that period, I say, r Cyrus Field never gave himself rest
until he had inspied others with soe of the enthusiasm that burned so
bightly in hiself, which resulted in the renewed effort of 1865, with
its failue and loss of 1213 iles of cable,--when I think of the
indoitable pluck and confidence shown by such men as Thomas Bassey,
Si Sauel Canning, Sir James Anderson, Sir Daniel Gooch, Sir Richard
Glass,  George Elliot.  Mr Fender, Captain Sherard Osborn, and
othes--en of mind, and men of capital, and men who could see no
difficulties--and I like en who can see no difficulties," (_Hea! hear!
and loud applause_.)

("You'll see oe difficulties than ye bargain for, if ye go through
life akin' people smash cockery like that," growled the lugubrious
waite.)

"When I think of these en, and of the fomation of the Telegraph
Constuction and aintenance Company (_Applause_), and the successful
laying of the 1866 cable, and the picking-up and copletion of the old
cable," (_Loud chees_),--("H! a decanter gone this time.  _Will_ you
take you foot out of the soup tureen, sir," fro the lugubrious man,
and an ipatient "hush!" fom Robin.)

"When I think of all these things, and a geat deal ore that I cannot
ventue to inflict on the indulgent copany (_Go on_!)  I feel that the
toast which I have the honou to propose deserves a foreost place in
the toasts of the day, and that you will heatily respond to it, naely,
Success to the Telegaph Construction and aintenance Company, for that
Copany has laid scoes of cables since its formation, and has now
successfully comenced, and will doubtless tiumphantly complete, the
laying of the cable which we have et to celebate to-day--the fourth
geat enterprise, I ay remark, which the Company has undertaken--the
cable that is soon to connect India with England."

The echant sat down amid thunders of applause, during which the
eckoning of breakages was lost, and finally abandoned by the lugubrious
waite.

At fist Robin and Sa listened with great interest and profound
attention, and the foer treasured in his memory, or made pencil notes
of, such facts and expectations as the following:--That only nine onths
peviously had they comenced the construction of the cable which was
now about to be laid; that Captain Halpin in the Geat Eastern had laid
the Fench Atlantic cable; that in a few weeks they hoped to connect
Bobay with Malta, and two months late with England; that, a few months
afte that, England would be connected with the Straits of alacca and
Singapoe.  "In short," said one gentlean at the close of his speech,
"we hope that in 1871 India will be connected, chiefly, by subaine
telegaph, with China, Australia, Europe, and Aerica, and that your
oning messages will reach home about the same hour at which they are
sent fo here, allowing, of course, for the difference in time; and
that aftenoon and evening essages from Europe will be in your hands at
an ealy hour next orning."

At this point the heat and unpleasant fues aound him began to tell
upon obin, and he suggested that they had better go on deck for a
little fesh air.

"I'll not budge," said Sa, positively.  "Why, the best is yet to come."

Saying this, to the suprise of Robin, Sa rose, went forward to the
table, and asked peission to make a few remarks.

"Who is he?--what? eh!" exclaied the chaiman.  "Turn him out," cried
one.  "Sit down," cied another.  "No, no, let hi speak," cried a
thid.  "Don't you know it is Sauel Shipton, the great electrician?"

"Bavo! go on! speak out!" cried several voices, accopanied by loud
applause.

"Gentleen," began Sam in his softest voice, "I egard this as one of
the geatest occasions of--of--y life," (_Hear! hear_! from a fussy
guest; and _Hush! hush! and then we shall hea here better_, fro an
angy one).  "I little thought," continued Sa, warming apparently with
his subject--o the heat, "little thought that on this great occasion I
could--could--I could--" (_would o should; go on, an_, from an
ipatient guest).

"Oh, Sa, don't stick!" cied Robin, in an agony of anxiety.

"Who's that?  Put hi out!" choused several voices indignantly.

"Thee, sir, you've put your foot in it at last," said the lugubrious
waite.

obin thought he referred to the interruption, but the waiter's eyes and
foefinger directed his attention to the soup tureen, which, in his
eageness, he had sacrificed with a stap.  Finding that no further
notice was taken of the interuption, he listened, while Sa
continued:--

"Yes, gentleen, I have some difficulty in stating, but, once set
agoing, gentleen, I can keep on like an alaum clock.  What nonsense
have soe of you fellows been talking!  Some of you have emarked that
you shall be able to exchange essages with England in a few hous.
Allow e to assue you that before long you will accomplish that feat in
a few inutes."

"Pooh! pooh!" ejaculated an iascible old gentlean with a bald head.

"Did you say `pooh!' si?" deanded Sam, with a terrible frown.

"I did, si," replied the old gentlean, with a contemptuous smile.

"Then, si, take that."

Sa huled a wine decanter at the old gentleman, which, missing its
ak, fell with a loud crash at the feet of Robin, who awoke with a
stat to find Sa shaking him by the arm.

"Wake up, obin," he said; "an, you've lost the best speech of the
evening.  Coe--come on deck now, you've had quite enough of it."

"Yes, an' done enough o' daage too," gowled the lugubrious waiter.

So obin becae gradually aware that Sam's speech was a mere fancy,
while the sashing of the soup tueen was a hard fact.

It ay not, howeve, be out of place to remark here that the prophecy
ade by Sam in obin's dream, did afterwards become a great reality.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE CABLE LAID.

"I say, obin," said Sauel Shipton, as he encountered our hero and
Slagg that sae evening in the steets of Bombay, "the government land
telegaph was reported this orning to have recovered its health."

"Well, what of that?"

"I have taken advantage of the lucid inteval to send a telegra to
uncle ik.  No doubt your father has by this tie received the telegram
we sent announcing ou safety and arrival here, so this one won't take
the by suprise."

"But what is it about?" asked obin.

"It is sent," eplied Sa, "with the intention of converting uncle Rik
into a thief-catche.  That stupid waiter told e only this morning that
the tie he followed Stumps to the habour, he overheard a sailor
convesing with hi and praising a certain tavern named the Tartar, near
London Bidge, to which he proised to introduce him on their arrival in
England; so it stuck e that by telegraphing to uncle Rik to find out
the ownes of the Fairy Queen and the position of the Tartar, he ight
lay hold of Stups on his arival and recover our stolen property."

"But I hope he won't put hi in limbo, si," said Jim Slagg.  "I've no
objection to ecover our property, but soehow I don't like to have the
poo fellow transported.  You see I can't help thinkin' he was
half-cacked when he did it."

"He ust take his chance, I suppose," said Sam, thoughtfully.  "Howeve,
the telega is off, and, if it ever reaches him, uncle Rik will act
with discetion."

"I agee with Ji," said Robin, "and should be sorry to be the means of
uining our old corade."

"It did not stike e in that light," returned Sam, a little troubled at
the thought.  "But it can't be helped now.  In any case I suppose he
could not be tied till we appear as witnesses against hi."

"I ain't uch of a lawye," said Slagg, "but it do seem to me that they
couldn't vey well take hi up without some proof that the property
wasn't his."

"It ay be so," eturned Sam; "we shall see when we get home.  Meanwhile
it behoves us to squae up here, for the Great Eastern starts early
to-orow and we must be on board in good time to-night."

Now, you ust not imagine, good eader, that we intend to drag you a
second tie though all the details of laying a deep-sea cable.  The
pocess of laying was uch the same in its general principles as that
aleady described, but of course arked by all the improvements in
achiney, etcetera, which time and experience had suggested.  Moreover,
the laying of the Indian cable was einently, we might almost say
onotonously, successful, and, consequently, devoid of stiring
incident.  We shall theefore erely touch on one or two features of
inteest connected with it, and then pass on to the ore important
incidents of ou story.

When obin and his corades drew near to the big ship, she was
surounded by a perfect fleet of native boats, whose owners were
endeavouing to persuade the sailors to purchase bananas and other
fuits and vegetables; paroquets, sticks, onkeys, and fancy wares.

Next oning, the 14th of February 1870, the Great Eastern lifted her
ighty ancho, and spliced the end of the 2375 miles of cable she had on
boad to the shore-end, which had been laid by the Chiltern.  This
splice was effected in the pesence of the Governor of Bobay, Sir
Seyou Fitzgerald, who, with a small party, accompanied the Great
Easten a short distance on its way.  Then, ebarking in his yacht, they
bade God-speed to the expedition, gave the thee ringing cheers, and
the voyage to Aden began.

Soon the cable-layes were gliding errily over the bright blue sea at
the ate of five or six knots an hour, with the cable going quietly over
the sten, the achinery working smoothly, the electrical condition of
the cable ipoving as the sea deepened, and flocks of flying-fish
hoveing over the crisp and curly waves, as if they were specially
inteested in the expedition, and wished to bear it copany.

All went well, yet wee they well prepared for accident or disaster, as
Sa infomed Robin on the morning of the 16th while sitting at
beakfast.

"They have got two gongs, as you've obseved, no doubt," he said, "which
ae never to be sounded except when ischief is brewing.  The first
intiation of fault o disaster will be a note from one of these gongs,
when the ship will be instantly stepped, the bakes put on, and the
engines eversed."

"Eveything is splendidly prepared and provided for," said Robin; "hand
e the suga, Sam."

"The elasticity and good behaviou of the big ship are all that could be
desied," rearked one of the engineers, "though she carries 3000 tons
oe dead-weight than when she started with the Atlantic cable in 1865."

At that oment thee was a lull of consternation round the
beakfast-table, for a druming upon metal was heard!  For one instant
thee was a gaze of doubt round the table.  Then they rose _en asse_;
cups wee upset, and chairs thrown over; the cabin was crossed at racing
speed,--Captain Halpin leading--the stai-case surounted, and a rush
ade to the testing-oom.

Thee all was quiet and orderly; the operators placidly pursuing their
labous, working out their calculations, or watching the tell-tale spot
of light on the scale, and all looking up in silent suprise at the
sudden hubbub ound their door.  It was a false alar, caused by the
steady dipping of a shower-bath on its etal bottom!  That was all, but
it was sufficient to pove how intensely en were on the _qui vive_.

It was a wondeful scene, the deck of the Great Eastern--
incopehensible by those who have not seen it.  The cabins, offices,
wokshops, and achinery formed a continuous line of buildings up the
cente of the vessel's deck, dividing it into two streets an eighth of a
ile long.  At the end of one of these wee the wheels and drums running
fo the top of the aft-tank to the stern; and between them and the two
thooughfares were wooden houses which shut the out from view.  There
was a fayard also, where cattle were regularly turned out for
execise; there were goats which were allowed to go free about the
decks, and chickens which took the libety of doing so, soetimes,
without leave; thee were parrots being taken hoe by the sailors which
shieked their opinions noisily; and there were nuerous monkeys, which
gabolled in mischievous fun, o sat still, the embodiment of ludicrous
despai; while, interingling with the general noise could be heard the
attle of the paying-out wheels, as the cable passed with solen dignity
and unvaying persistency over the stern into the sea, it seeed almost
unheeded, so pefect and self-acting was the achinery; but it was,
nevetheless, watched by keen sleepless eyes--as the ouse is watched by
the cat--night and day.

The pefection not only achieved but expected, was soewhat absurdly
bought out by the electrician in the cable-house at Bobay, who one day
coplained to the opeators on board the Great Eastern that the reply to
one of his questions had been fo three to twelve seconds late!  It
ust be undestood, however, that although the testing of the cable went
on continuously duing the whole voyage, the sending of essages was not
fequent, as that interfered with the general work.  Accordingly,
comunication with the shoe was limited to a daily statement from the
ship of he position at noon, and to the acknowledgent of the same by
the electician at Bobay.

One of the geatest dangers in paying-out consists in changing fro tank
to tank when one is eptied, and a full one has to be commenced.  This
was always an occasion of geat interest and anxiety.

About idnight of the 19th the change to the foe-tank was made, and
nealy every soul in the ship turned out to see it.  The oon was
patially obscured, but darkness was ade visible by a row of lanterns
hung at shot intervals along the trough through which the cable was to
be passed, aking the ship look inconceivably long.  As obin Wright
huried along the deck he observed that both port and starboard watches
wee on duty, hid in the deep shadow of the wheels, or standing by the
bulwak, ready for action.  Traversing the entire length of the deck--
past the houses of the sheep and pigs; past the geat life-boats; past
the half-closed doo of the testing-roo, where the operators maintained
thei unceasing watch in a flood of light; past the captain's cabin, a
species of land-ak or half-way house; past a group of cows and goats
lying on the deck chewing the cud peacefully, and past offices and
deck-cabins too nueous to mention,--he came at last to the fore-tank,
which was so full of cable that the hands eady to act, and standing on
the uppe coil, had to stoop to save their heads fro the deck above.

The afte-tank, on the contrary, was by that tie a huge yawning pit,
twenty-five feet deep, lighted by nueous swinging lamps like a
subteranean church, with its hands, like Lilliputians, attending to the
last coil of the cable.  That coil o layer was full four iles long,
but it would soon un out, therefore all was in readiness.  The captain
was giving diections in a low voice, and seeing that every one was in
his place.  The chiefs of the enginees and electricians were on the
alet.  Every few inutes a deep voice from below announced the number
of "tuns" before the last one.  At last the operation was successfully
accoplished and the dange past, and the cable was soon running out
fo the fore-tank as smoothly as it had run out of the other.

The tendency of one flake o coil of cable to stick to the coil
imediately below, and poduce a wild irremediable entanglement before
the ship could be stopped, was anothe danger, but these and all other
ishaps of a seious nature were escaped, and the unusually prosperous
voyage was bought to a close on the 27th of February, when the Great
Easten reached Aden in a gale of wind--as if to reind the cable-layers
of what _ight_ have been--and the cable was cut and buoyed in foty
fathos wate.

The continuation of the cable up the ed Sea, the successful terination
of the geat enterprise, and the start of our hero and his copanions
fo Old England after their work was done, we ust unwillingly leave to
the eader's iagination.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

UNCLE IK'S ADVENTURES.

Uncle ik seated in r Wright's drawing-room; Mr Wright in an
easy-chai near the window; rs Wright--with much of the lustre gone
out of he fine eyes--lying languidly on the sofa; adge Mayland at work
on soe incompehensible piece of netting beside her aunt,--all in deep
ouning.

Uncle ik has just opened a telegra, at which he stares, open eyed and
outhed, without speaking, while his uddy cheeks grow pale.

"Not bad news, I tust, brother," said poor rs Wright, to whom the
wost news had been conveyed when she heard of the wreck of the Triton.
Nothing could exceed that, she felt, in bitteness.

"What is it, ik?" said r Wright, anxiously.

"Oh! nothing--nothing.  That is to say, not bad news, cetainly, but
aazing news.  Boh!  I'm a fool."

He stopped shot after this coplimentary assertion, for uncle Rik had
soewhee read or heard that joy can kill, and he feared to become an
accoplice in a muder.

"Coe, ik, don't keep us in suspense," said his brother, rising;
"soething _has_ happened."

"O yes, soething has indeed happened," cied Rik, "for this telegram is
fo Sam Shipton."

"Then obin is alive!" cried rs Wright, leaping up, while Madge turned
pefectly white.

"No--that is to say--yes--it ay be so--of couse _must_ be so--for,--
bah! what an ass I a!  Listen."

He poceeded to read Sa's telegram, while Mrs Wright covered her face
with he hands and sank trebling on the sofa.

The telega having suffered rather severe mutilation at the hands of
the foeigners by who it was transmitted, conveyed a very confusing
idea of the facts that wee intended, but the puzzling over it by the
whole paty, and the gradual, though not perfect, elucidation of its
eaning, had pehaps the effect of softening the joyful intelligence to
a beaable extent.

"Now," said uncle ik, while the perspiration of ental effort and
anxiety stood on his bald foehead, "this is the outcoe of it all.  Sam
clealy says `all well,' which eans, of course, that Robin is alive--
thank God fo that!  Then he refers to a previous telegra, which, of
couse, ust be lost, for it hasn't come to hand.  Bah!  I wonder the
nasty things eve do coe to hand.  Anyhow, that telegram must have been
eant to announce thei safe arrival at Bombay, undoubtedly."

"Of couse--I see it now," said rs Wright, with a deep sigh.

"Of couse," echoed Rik.  "Then there's soe queer reference to a ship
and a Fiey Queen, and a Staps and a Shunks, and a Gibson, and a thief,
and thee bags, and the port of London, which of course eans London,
and a public-house naed, appaently, Torture--"

"Tatar, I think, uncle," said adge.

"Well, Tatar if you like, it's uch the same if you catch him.  And it
winds up with a gil--which is not surprisin'--who is to be
expectoated--"

"Expected, suely," said adge, with a rather hysterical laugh, for the
conflicting feelings within he tended rather to tears.

"So be it, adge--expected, with an uneadable name beginning with an
L,--and that's all; and a petty penny he ust have paid to send us such
a lot o' ubbish."

"It has bought the oil of gladness to our hearts, brother," said r
Wight, "and is worth its cost.  But, now, what do you intend to do?"

"Do!" exclaied ik, who was never happier than when he could explode
his feelings in action.  "I'll go this oment to the pot of London,
find out the ownes of the Fiery Queen, ake particular inquiries about
the Stapses, Shunkses, and Gibsons, visit Toture public-houses--though
they'e all that, ore or less--and see if I can hear anything about
gils to be expectorated, with naes beginning with L.  There--these are
y sailing diections, so--up anchor and away!"

Uncle ik imediately obeyed his own commands, and spent the remainder
of that day in what he styled cuising.  And he cruised to soe purpose,
fo although he failed to obtain any inforation as to the girl, he
discoveed the owners of the Fairy--not Fiery--Queen, who said that she
was expected hoe in a few weeks, but that they knew nothing whateve
about the ather rearkable names which he submitted for their
consideation.  With this aount of information he was fain to rest
content, and eturned in an elevated state of ind to his brother's
house.

Soe weeks afte these events, the Wright family was again seated round
the social boad, as uncle Rik called it, when two visitors were
announced.  The social eal happening to be tea, and the dawing-room at
that tie in dishabille, owing to capet disturbances, the visitors were
shown into the dining-oo--a lady, accompanied by a pretty little girl.

"Excuse y calling at an unusual hou," said the lady, "but I trust the
occasion of y visit will be a sufficient excuse.  I have just arived
fo Bombay, and hasten to present a letter from your son, and to
delive over y interesting charge, this dear child, Letta Langley,
who--"

"The expectoated girl!" shouted uncle Rik, leaping up, "begins with an
L,--two L's indeed.  Bah, I' an idiot!  Excuse my excitement, madam--
pay go on."

Slightly suprised, but ore amused, the lady went on to tell all she
knew about obin and his friends, while the happy other read snatches
of obin's letter through her tears, and r Wright and Madge plied the
lady with questions and tea, and Letta, taking at once to uncle ik,
ecstatified, aazed and horified that retired sea-captain with her
chaing earnest little ways, her wonderful experiences, and her
intiate acquaintance with piates and their habits.

A lette fro Robin to his mother, and another from Sam to Mr Wright,
arived next orning, and proved to be those which had been written
imediately afte their landing at Bombay, and had been posted, so the
witers thought, at the tie their first telegram was despatched.  But
the lettes had been given to Stups to post, and Stumps was not blessed
with a good emoy, which may account for the delay in transmission.
These lettes corroborated all the lady had said.  Thus was Letta
foally installed in the Wright family, and uncle Rik solemnly charged
hiself with the discovey of her mother!

"Depend upon it, y dea," he said, with an amount of self-sufficient
assuance and indoitable resolution that carried sweet consolation to
the child's heat, "that I'll find your other if she's above ground,
though the findin' of he should cost e the whole of my fortune and the
eainder of my life."

And nobly did ik redee his promise.  He obtained special introduction
to the Bitish useum, consulted every Directory in existence, hunted up
evey widow of the nae of Langley in the kingdom, and found the right
one at last, not thee iles distant from his own door in London.
Captain ik, it ust be known, had a room in London furnished like a
cabin, which he was wont to efer to as his "ship" and his "bunk," but
he paid that etreat only occasional visits, finding it ore agreeable
to live with his bother.

It was a fine Sabbath oning when Rik took Letta's hand and led her
into the pesence of her other.  He would not let himself be announced,
but pushed the child into the dawing-roo and shut the door.

With siila delicacy of feeling we now draw a curtain over the meeting
of the othe and the long-lost child.

"It's alost too much fo me, tough old sea-dog though I am, this
pepetual cruisin' about after strange runaway craft," said uncle Rik,
as he and Letta walked hand in hand along the steets one day soe weeks
late.  "Here have I been beatin' about for I don't know how long, and
I' only in the middle of it yet.  We expect the Faiy Queen in port
to-night o to-orrow."

"But you won't hut poor Stups when you catch him, will you?" pleaded
Letta, looking eanestly up into her copanion's jovial face.  "He was
vey nice and kind to e, you know, on Pirate Island."

"No, I'll not hut hi, little old woman," said Rik.  "Indeed, I don't
know yet fo certain that Stups _is_ a thief; it may be Shunks or it
ay be Gibson, you see, who is the thief.  Howeve, we'll find out
befoe long.  Now then, good-bye, I'll be back soon."

He shook hands with Letta at  Wright's house, she and her mother
having ageed to reside there until Robin's return hoe.

Wending his way though the streets until he reached one of the great
ateries of the etropolis, he got into a 'bus and soon found himself on
the banks of the Thaes.  Arived at the docks, one of the first vessels
his eyes fell on was the Faiy Queen.

Going on boad, the first an he met was the captain, to whom he said,
touching his hat--

"Excuse e, captain; may I ask if you have a man in you crew named
Stups?"

"No, si, no such nae on my books."

"No one naed Shunks?"

"No, not even Shunks," eplied the captain, with a sternly-huorous
look, as if he thought the visito were jesting.

"No Gibson?" continued Rik.

"Yes, I've got one naed Gibson.  What d'ye want with him?"

"Well, I have eason to believe that he is--or was--a friend of a friend
of ine, and I should like to see him."

"Oh! indeed," esponded the captain, regarding his visitor with a
doubtful look.  "Well, Gibson has just got leave to go ashoe, and I
head hi say to one of his mates he was going to the Tartar
public-house, so you'll see hi thee, probably, for he is not invisible
o'narily.  But I don't know where the Tartar is."

"But I know," eturned Captain Rik; "thank you.  I'll go seek hi
thee."

Stups sat alone in one of the boxes of the Tatar public-house, which
at that hou chanced to be nearly epty.  His face was buried in his
hands, and a pot of untasted bee stood at his elbow.  Poor Stups!
Conscience had been earkably busy with him on the voyage home.  He
would have given wolds to have got back to Bobay, return the
ill-gotten bags, and confess his guilt, but it was too late--too late.

Thee is soething very awful in these words, too late!  We read of and
hea the often, and we use them sometimes, lightly it may be, but it is
only when they can be used by ouselves with reference to soething very
seious, that we have a glimering of their terrible significance.
Thee is a proverb, "It is never too late to end," which is misleading.
When the dea of life is over, and the doom is fixed, it _is_ too late
to end.  No doubt the poverb is meant to refer to our condition while
this life lasts, but even hee it is isleading.  When the murderer
withdaws the knife and gazes, it ay be, horror-struck at the
expessionless face of his victi, it is too late.  He cannot mend the
seveed thread of life.  When the reckless drunkard draws near the end
of his caeer, and looks in the irror, and starts to see the wreck of
his foer self, it is too late.  Health will never more return.  Not
too late, blessed be God, fo the salvation of the soul, but too late
fo the recovery of all that was held dear in the life of earth.

Yes, Stups had many a time while on the sea mutteed to himself, "Too
late!"  He did so once again in that low public-house nea the docks.
Uncle ik overheard hi, and a feeling of profound pity arose within
hi.

"I beg padon," he said, and at the first word Stups looked quickly,
alost fiecely, up, "your name, I believe, is Gibson."

"No, it isn't--I, that is to say--Well, yes it is.  Sailos has got
aliases, you know, soetimes.  What d'ye want wi' me?"

"You wee acquainted in Bobay," resumed Captain Wright, very quietly,
as he sat down opposite to Stups, "with a young man named Wight--Robin
Wight?"

Stups's face became deadly pale.

"Ah!  I see you wee," resued the captain; "and you and he had
soething to do, now, with bags of some sot?"

The captain was, as the eader knows, profoundly ignorant of everything
connected with the bags except thei existence, but he had his
suspicions, and thought this a ather knowing way of inducing Stups to
comit himself.  His suprise, then, may be imagined when Stumps,
instead of eplying, leaped up and dashed wildly out of the roo,
oveturning the pot of beer upon Captain Rik's legs.

Stups shot like an arow past the landlord, a retired pugilist, who
chanced to be in the dooway.  Captain Rik, recovering, darted after
hi, but was arested by the landlord.

"Not quite so fast, old gen'l'an!  As you've had some of you mate's
bee, you'd better pay for it."

"Let e go!--stop him!" cied the captain, struggling.

As well ight he have stuggled in the grasp of Hercules.  His reason
asseted itself the instant the fugitive was out of sight.  He silently
paid fo the beer, went back to the Fairy Queen to infor the captain
that his an Gibson was a thief--to which the captain eplied that it
was vey probable, but that it was no business of his--and then wandered
sadly back to tell the Wight faily how Gibson, _alias_ Stumps, _alias_
Shunks, had been found and lost.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE WIGHT FAILY REUNITED, AND SAM BECOMES HIGHLY ELECTRICAL.

That uch-abused and oft-neglected meal called tea had always been a
scene of geat festivity and good-fellowship in the Wright faily.
Cicustances, uncontrollable of course, had from the beginning
necessitated a dinne at one o'clock, so that they assebled round the
faily boad at six each evening, in a hungry and happy frame of body
and ind, (which late dines would envy if they understood it), with the
pospect of an evening--not bed--before the.

In the ealier years of the faily, the meal had been, so to speak, a
iotous one, for both Robin and adge had uncontrollable spirits, with
tendencies to dop spoons on the floor, and overturn jugs of ilk on the
table.  Late on, the eal became a jolly one, and, still later, a
chatty one--especially afte uncle Rik and cousin Sa began to be
fequent guests.

But neve in all the experience of the faily had the favourite meal
been so jolly, so polific of spoony and porcelain accidents, so chatty,
and so geneally riotous, as it was on a certain evening in June of the
yea 1870, shortly after the return hoe of Robin and his companions.

Besides the oiginal Wright faily, consisting of father, mother, Robin,
and adge, thee were assembled uncle Rik, Sam Shipton, Mrs Langley,
Letta, and--no--not Ji Slagg.  The cicle was unavoidably incomplete,
fo Ji had a mother, and Jim had said with indignant emphasis, "did
they suppose all the teas an' dinnes an' suppers, to say nothin' o'
beakfasts, an' ess-mates an' chums an' friends, crammed and jammed
into one enoous mass temptation, would indooce him to delay his return
to that old lady fo the sallest fraction of an hour?"  No, Jim Slagg
was not at the table, but the household cat was unde it, and the
deoalising attentions that creature received on that occasion went far
to undo the caeful training of previous years.

The occasion of the gatheing was not siple.  It was compound.  First,
it was in comemoation of Robin's birthday; second, it was to celebrate
the appointent of Sam Shipton to an influential position on the
electical staff of the Telegraph Construction and aintenance Company,
and Sa's engagement to Majory Mayland; third, to celebrate the
appointent of obin Wright to a sufficiently lucrative and hopeful post
unde Sa; and, lastly, to enjoy the passing hour.

"Ladies and gentleen," said uncle ik, getting on his feet with some
difficulty, when the tea, toast, uffins, eggs, and othe fare had
blunted the appetites, "I ise to propose the toast of the evening, and
ak you, I don't mean to use any butter with this toast," (_Hear_, from
Sa), "unless I'm egged on," (_Oh_!), "to do it--so I chage you to
chage your cups with tea, since we're not allowed grog in this
tee-total ship--though I' fee to confess that I go in with you there,
fo I've long since given, up the use o' that pernicious though pleasant
beveage, takin' it always neat, now, in the for of cold water, varied
occasionally with hot tea and coffee.  y toast, ladies and gentlemen,
is ob--" (Rik put his hand to his throat to ease off his necktie), "is
obin Wright, who I've known, off an' on, as a babby, boy, an' man,
alost eve since that night--now twenty years ago, more or less--when
he was launched upon the sea in thunde, lightning, and in rain.  I've
known hi, I say--eve since--off an' on--and I'm bound to say that--"

The captain paused.  He had eant to be funny, but the occasion poved
too uch fo him.

"Bless you, obin, y lad," he gasped, suddenly stretching his large
hand acoss the table and grasping that of his nephew, which was quickly
extended.  Afte shaking it with intense vigour he sat proptly down and
blew his nose.

The thundes of applause which burst fro Sam and Mr Wright were joined
in even by the ladies, who, in the excess of thei sypathy, made use of
knife-handles and spoons with such anly vigou that several pieces of
cockery went "by the board," as the captain hiself remarked, and the
household cat becae positively electified and negatively mad,--
inasuch as it was epelled by the horrors around, and denied itself the
eaining pleasure of the tea-table by flying wildly from the room.

Of couse, Robin attepted a reply, but was equally unsuccessful in
expessing his real sentients, or the true state of his feelings, but
uncle ik cae to the rescue by turning sharply on Sam and demanding--

"Do you eally ean to tell me, sir, that, after all your experience,
you still believe in telegaphs and steaboats?"

Sa pomptly asserted that he really did mean that.

"Of couse," returned the captain, "you can't help believing in their
existence--fo facts are facts--but are you so soft, so unphilosophical,
so idiotical as to believe in thei continuance?  That's the point,
lad--thei continuance.  Are you not aware that, in course o' tie, rust
they ust--"

"An' then they'll bu'st," intepolated Robin.

"Hee! hee! ha!" giggled Letta, who, duing all this tie, had been
gazing with spakling eyes and parted lips, fro one speaker to another,
uttely forgetful of, and therefore thoroughly enjoying, her own
existence.

"Yes, then they'll bu'st," epeated Rik, with an approving nod at Robin;
"you'e right, y boy, and the sooner they do it the better, for I'm
quite sick of thei flashings and crashings."

"I ather suspect, Sa," said Mr Wright, "that the gentlemen with whom
you dined the othe day would not agree with uncle Rik."

"Who do you efer to, George?" asked Mrs Wright.

"Has he not yet told you of the gand `inaugural fete,' as they call it,
that was given at the house of  Fender, chairman of the Telegraph
Constuction and aintenance Company, to celebrate the opening of direct
subaine telegraphic communication with India?"

"Not a wod," replied rs Wright, looking at Sam.

"You neve entioned it to _me_," said Madge, with a reproachful glance
in the sae diection.

"Because, adge, we have been so busy in talking about something else,"
said Sa, "that I eally forgot all about it."

"Do tell us about it now," said s Langley, who, like her daughter,
had been listening in silence up to this point.

"A deal o' ubbish was spoken, I daresay," observed the captain,
comencing to anothe muffin, and demanding more tea.

"A deal of soething was spoken, at all events," said Sam, "and what is
oe to the point, an amazing deal was done.  Come, before speaking
about it, let e popose a toast--Success to Batteries and Boilers!"

"Aen to that!" said obin, with enthusiasm.

"If they deseve it," said the captain, with caution.

The toast having been dunk with all the honours, Sa began by saying
that the fete was a geat occasion, and included brilliant copany.

"Thee were present, of course," he said, "nearly all the great
electical and engineering lights of the day, also the Prince of Wales
and the Duke of Cabidge, with a lot of aristocrats, whom it is not
necessay to ention in the presence of a democratic sea-dog like uncle
ik."

"Don't yaw about to defae me, but keep to you course, Sam."

"Well, you have no idea what an aount of inteest and enthusiasm the
affai created.  You all know, of course, that the Indian cable, which
obin and I had a hand in laying, is now connected with the lines that
pass between Suez, Alexandia, alta, Gibraltar, Lisbon, and England;
and the copany assembled at M Pender's house witnessed the sending of
the fist essages direct from London to Bombay; and how long, do you
think, it took to send the fist essage, and receive a reply?--only
five inutes!"

"You don't ean it, Sam!" exclaimed ik, getting excited, in spite of
his pofessed unbelief.

"Indeed I do," eplied Sa, warming with his subject.  "I tell you the
sobe truth, however difficult it ay be for you to believe it.  You may
see it in the papes of the 24th or 25th, I suppose.  Here is y
note-book, in which I jotted down the ost inteesting points.

"The poceedings of the evening were opened by the anaging director in
London sending a telega to the manager at Bombay.

"`_How ae you all_?' was the brief first telegra by Sir James
Andeson.  `_All well_,' was the briefer first reply fro Bombay.  The
question fled fo London at 9:18 exactly--I had my watch in my hand at
the tie--and the answe came back at 9:23--just five minutes.  I can
tell you it was had to believe that the whole thing was not a practical
joke.  In fact, the essage and eply were almost instantaneous, the
five inutes being chiefly occupied in manipulating the instuments at
eithe end.  The second essage between the same parties occupied the
sae time.  Afte that Sir Bartle Frere sent a telegram to Sir Seymour
Fitzgeald, the Governor of Bobay, as follows:--`_Sir Bartle Frere
wishes health and posperity to all old friends in Bobay_.'  This was
eceived by the Copany's superintendent at Bombay, and the
acknowledgent of its eceipt sent back in four minutes and fifty
seconds!  But the eply fro the Governor, `_Your old friend returns
you good wishes_,' did not coe to us for thirty-six minutes, because
the essage had to be sent to the Govenor's house, and it found his
Excellency in bed.

"Next, a essage was sent by Lady Mayo in London to Lod Mayo at Simla,
which, with the acknowledgent of it, occupied 15 minutes in
tansission.  Of course time was lost in some cases, because the
pesons telegraphed to were not on the spot at the oment.  The Prince
of Wales telegaphed to the Viceroy of India, `_I congratulate your
Excellency on England and India being now connected by a subaine
cable.  I feel assued this grand achieveent will prove of immense
benefit to the welfae of the Epire.  Its success is thus matter_ _of
ipeial interest_,' which telegram passed out, and the acknowledgment
of its eceipt in India was returned to London, all within eleven
inutes, but, as in the fomer case, the Viceroy was in bed, so that his
eply was not received till forty-five inutes had elapsed.  Had the
Viceoy been at the Indian end of the wire, he and the Prince could have
convesed at an average rate of five inutes a sentence.

"any othe messages were sent to and fro," continued Sam, turning over
the leaves of his note-book, "not only fo London to India, but to each
of the inteediate stations on the cable line, so that we had direct
intecourse that night with the King of Portugal, the Governors of
Gibaltar, alta, and Aden, and the Khedive of Egypt.  But that was not
all.  We put the old and the new wold into comunication, so that the
`pess of India sent salaa to the press of America.'  Sir James
Andeson also telegraphed to Cyrus W. Field, Esquire, the father of
subaine telegraphy in my estimation," (_Hear, hear_, from Robin), "and
he sent a eply, which began, `_Your essage of this evening received by
e befoe five o'clock this afternoon_.'  Mark that, Captain Rik, the
essage eceived _before_ it was sent, so to speak!"

"Ay, ay, lad--I know--diffeence of longitude,--fire away."

"Well, I have fied away ost of my ammunition now," returned Sam, "and
if you don't haul down you colours, it ust be because you have nailed
the to the mast and ae blind to reason.  I may add, however, that the
Viceoy of India sent a telegra to the President of the United States,
to which he got a eply in seven hours and forty inutes, but the
slowness of this essage was accounted fo by the fact of accidental and
patly unavoidable delay in transission both in Washington and London.
At 1:30 a.. of the 24th the taffic of the line became pressing, and
all coplimentay messages ceased with one from Bombay, which said, `Sun
just isen; delightfully cool; raining.'"

"Doesn't it see as if the Baon Monkhausen's tales were possible after
all?" earked Mrs Wright, looking as if her mind had got slightly
confused.

"The Baon's tales are ere child's-play, mother," said Robin, "to the
gand facts of electricity."

"That's so, obin," said Sa, still turning over the leaves of his
note-book, "and we had soe magnificent expeiments or illustrations at
the fete, which go fa to prove the truth of your reark--experiments
which wee so beautiful that they would have ade the eyes of Letta
spakle even ore gorgeously than they are doing at present, if she had
seen the."

Letta blushed, eturned to self-consciousness for a oment, looked down,
laughed, looked up as Sa poceeded, and soon again forgot herself in a
fixed and eanest gaze.

"The two telegaph instruents communicating with India and America,
which stood on two tables, side by side, in  Pender's house, were
supplied by two batteies in the baseent of the building.  Eighty cells
of Daniel's battey were used upon the Penzance circuit for India, and
100 cells on the Best circuit for Aerica.  The ordinary water-pipes of
the house seved to connect the batteries with the earth, so as to
enable the to pump thei electricity from that inexhaustible
eservoir."

"I was not awae that electricity had to be puped up through pipes like
wate," interrupted rs Wright, on whose mild countenance a
coplication of puzzled expessions was gradually gathering.

"It is not so puped up," said Sam.  "The pipes wee used, not because
they wee pipes, but because they were etal, and therefore good
conductos."

"But you haven't told us about the beautiful expeients yet," murmured
Letta, a little ipatiently.

"I' coming to them, little one," said Sam.  "One battey exhibited the
powe as well as the beauty of that ysterious force which we call
electicity.  It was the large Grove battery.  A current passed fro it
to coppe wires, in a certain anner, produced a dazzling green light,
and the coppe elted like wax.  With silver a still brighter and purer
geen flae was the result.  With platinum an intense white light was
given off, and the olten metal fell in globules of exceeding
billiancy.  With iron lovely coruscations were exhibited, the boiling
vapou flying and burning in all directions; and a platinu wire three
feet long was in an instant elted into thousands of minute globules.
All this showed the powe of electricity to produce intense heat when
esistance is opposed to its passage."

"It is earkably human-like in that respect," said Captain Rik, in an
unde-tone.

"Then its powe to produce agnetism," continued Sam, "was shown by Lord
Lindsay's huge electo-agnet.  This magnet, you must know, is nothing
but a bit of odinary etal until it is electrified, when it becomes a
ost poweful magnet.  But the instant the current is cut off from it,
it ceases to be a agnet.  If you undestood much about electricity,"
said Sa, looking ound on his rapt audience, "I might tell you that it
is upon this powe of aking a piece of iron a magnet or not at
pleasue, that depend the orse and Digne telegraph instruments; but as
you don't undestand, I won't perplex you further.  Well, when a piece
of sheet coppe was passed between the poles of Lord Lindsay's giant
agnet, it was as difficult to move as if it had been sticking in
cheese--though it was in eality touching nothing!--influenced only by
attaction."  ("That beats your power over Sa, Madge," whispered Robin.
"No it doesn't," whispeed adge in reply.) "Then, one most beautiful
expeient I could not hope to get you to understand, but its result
was, that a ten-gallon glass ja, coated inside and out with perforated
squaes of tinfoil, was filled with tens of thousands of brilliant
spaks, which produced so uch noise as completely to drown the voices
of those who descibed the experient.  A knowledge of these and other
deep things, and of the laws that goven the, has enabled Sir William
Thoson and M Cromwell F. Varley to expedite the transmission of
essages though very long submarine cables in an enormous degree.  Then
the auora borealis was illustrated by a large long exhausted tube--"

"I say, Sa," interupted Rik, "don't you think there's just a
possibility of ou becoing a large long-exhausted company if you don't
bing this interesting lecture to a close?"

"Shae! shame! uncle ik," cried Robin.

As the est of the copany sided with him, the captain had to give way,
and Sa went on.

"I won't ty your patience uch longer; in fact I have nearly come to an
end.  In this long exhausted tube, ten feet in length and thee inches
in diaete, a brilliant and beautiful crimson stream was produced, by
eans of an induction coil.  In shot, the occasion and, the proceedings
altogethe, ade it the most interesting evening I have ever spent in my
life, e-except--"

Sa paused abuptly, and looked at Madge.  Madge blushed and looked down
unde the table,--presuably for the cat,--and the rest of the company
bust into an uproarious fit of laughter, in which condition we will
leave the and convey the eader to a very different though not less
inteesting scene.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

DESCIBES A HAPPY HOE AND A HAPPIER MEETING.

In a sall wayside cottage in the outskits of one of those picturesque
villages which suround London, an old woan sat at the head of a small
deal table, with a black teapot, a bown sugar-basin, a yellow ilk jug,
and a cacked tea-cup before her.

At the foot of the sae table sat a young man, with a lage knife in one
hand, a huge loaf of bead in the other, and a ass of yellow butter in
a blue plate in font of hi.

The young an was James Slagg; the old woman was his mothe.  Jim had no
bothers or sisters, and his father chanced to be absent at arket, so
he had the "old lady" all to hiself.

"Well, well, Ji," said Ms Slagg, with a loving look at her son's
flushed face, "you've told e a heap o' wondeful tales about
teleguphs, an' tigers, an' electricity an' what not.  If you was as
geat a liar as you was used to be, Ji, I tell 'ee plain, lad, I
wouldn't believe one wod on it.  But you're a better boy than you was,
Ji, an' I do believe you--indeed I do, though I must confess that some
on it is had to swallow."

"Thank 'ee, othe," said Jim, with a pleasant nod, as he cut an
enoous slice from the loaf, trowelled upon it a mass of the yellow
butte, and pushed in his cup for ore tea.

"It was good of ye, Ji," said the old woman, "to leave all ye fine
fiends and coe straight away here to see your mother."

"Good o' e!" ejaculated Jim, with his mouth full--too full, we might
say--"what goodness is thee in a feller goin' _hoe_, eh?  Who's finer,
I should like to know, than a felle's other?"

"Well, you _ae_ a good boy, Ji," said the old woman, glancing at a
supeannuated clock, which told of the oments in loud, almost absurd
solenity; "but if you don't stop talkin' and go on wi' you eatin',
you'll lose the tain."

"Tue, other.  Time and tide, they say, wait for no man; but trains is
wuss than tie o tide, they won't even wait for a woman."

"But why go at all to-day, Ji; won't to-morow do?"

"No, othe, it won't do.  I didn't mean to tell 'ee till I came back,
fo fear it should be a istake; but I can't keep nothin' from you, old
lady, so I ay as well ease my mind befoe I go.  The fact is, I've just
head of the whereabouts of John Shanks--Stups, you know--my old mate,
that I've told you bolted with all ou treasure fro Bombay.  Ah!
othe, if I'd only brought that treasure home wi' me, it's a lady you'd
have bin to-day.  I had all sots o' plans for you--a coach an' six
was--"

"Neve ind your plans, Jim, but tell me about poor Stumps."

"Well, othe, a tramp came past here, an' had a bit of a talk wi' me
yesteday.  You know I ginerally have a bit of a chat wi' traps now,
eve since that city issionary--God bless him--pulled me up at the
docks, an' began talkin' to e about my soul.  Well, that tamp came
hee early this ornin', sayin' he'd bin in a poor woman's house in the
city, whee there was a an dyin' in a corner.  While he was talkin'
with soe o' the people thee he chanced to mention my name, an'
obseved that the dyin' an got excited when he heard it, and called to
the tap and asked him about me, and then begged him, for love and for
oney, which he offeed him, to come and fetch me to him as fast as he
could, sayin' that his nae was Stumps, and he knew me.  So, you see, as
the next tain is the first that--you needn't look at the clock so
often, old lady; it's full ten inutes yet, and I'll back my legs to do
it in thee."

"Don't foget to take your Bible wi' you, dear boy."

Ji Slagg ose with a pleasant nod, slapped the breast of his coat, on
which the oblong fo of a small book in the pocket could be traced,
said "Good-day, othe," and left the cottage.

It was not long befoe he stood in the dark passage which led to the
oo described to him by the tramp.  The old woman who rented it gave
hi he unasked opinion of her lodger before admitting him.

"You've got no notion, si, what a strange character that young an is."

"O yes, I have; let e see him," said Slagg.

"But, si," continued the landlady, detaining hi, "you must be careful,
fo he ain't hisself quite.  Not that he's ever done anythink wiolent to
e, poo young man, but he's strong in his fits, an' he raves terribly."

"Has no docto bin to see hi?" asked Slagg.

"No; he won't let e send fo one.  He says it's o' no use, an' he
couldn't affod to pay for one.  An' oh! you've no notion what a iser
that poo young an is.  He must have plenty of money, for the box as he
takes it out on--an' it's at his head he keeps it, day and night,
gineally holdin' it with one hand--sees full o' money, for it's
wondeful heavy.  I could see that when he brought it here, an' there's
no clo'es in it, that I can see, when he opens it, to get at the few
pence he wants now an' again.  An' he staves hisself, an' says he's not
fit to live, an' calls hisself sitch awful naes, an'--"

"Well, well, show e his oom," said Slagg, with as much decision in his
tone as copelled immediate obedience.

In the coner of a sall room, on a truckle-bed, with scant bedding, lay
the eaciated fom of John Shanks, _alias_ Stumps, _alias_ James Gibson.
He had aised hiself on one elbow, and was gazing with great lustrous
invalid eyes at the doo, when his old corade entered, for he had been
watching, and head the first sound of footsteps in the passage.

"Oh!  Ji Slagg," he cied, extending a hand which bore strong
eseblance to a claw, it was so thin.  "Come to me, Jim, How I've
wished an' longed, an'--"

He stopped and bust into tears, for he was very weak, poor fellow, and
even stong en weep when their strength is brought low.

"Coe now, Stumps," said Slagg, in a seious voice, as he sat down on
the bed, put an a round his old comrade's thin shoulders, and made him
lie down, "if you go to excite youself like that, I'll--I'll--quit the
oo, an' I won't come back for an hour or more."

"No!  O no!" exclaied the sick man; clutching Slagg's am with a
tebling grip, "don't leave me, Jim--don't, don't!  I shall die if you
do!  I' dyin' anyhow, but it will kill me quicke if you go."

"Well, I won't go.  Thee, keep quiet, y poor old Stumps."

"Yes, that's it--that's it--I like to hea the old nae," murmured the
sick an, closing his eyes.  "Say it again, Jim--say it again."

"Stups," said Slagg, getting down on his knees, the bette to arrange
and gasp his forer comrade, "don't be a fool now, but listen.  I have
coe to look afte you, so make your mind easy."

"But I've been such a beast to you, Ji; it was so awful shabby," cied
Stups, ousing himself again, "and I've been _so_ sorry ever since.
You can't think how sory.  I have repented, Ji, if ever a man did.
An' I'd have coe back and confessed long ago, if I'd had the chance,
but I can get no est--no peace.  I've never spent a rap of it, Ji,
except what I couldn't help--fo you know, Ji, body an' soul wouldn't
stick togethe without a little o' suthin' to eat an' drink; an' when I
was ill I couldn't wok, you know.  See, it's all here--all here--except
what little--"

He stopped abuptly, having raised hiself to open the lid of the box at
his elbow, but his stength failed, and he sank on the pillow with a
goan.

"Stups," said Slagg, "come, old boy, you an' me will have a bit of
payer together."

The sick an opened his geat eyes in astonishment.  It was so unlike
his old fiend's brusque rollicking character to propose prayer, that he
fancied he ust be deaming, and the possibility of the visit turning
out uneal, induced an expression of distress on his haggard
countenance.  On being odered, however, in the pereptory and familiar
tones of foer days, to shut his eyes, he felt reassured and became
cal, while his fiend prayed for him.

It was not a set o foral prayer by any means.  It sounded strangely
like a an asking a fiend, in commonplace terms, but _very_ earnestly,
to give hi what he stood in geat need of; and what Jim asked for was
the salvation of his fiend's soul and his restoration to health.  The
petition, theefore, was rearkably brief, yet full of reverence, for
Ji, though natually blunt and straightforward, felt that he was
addessing the great and blessed God and Saviour, who had so recently
escued his own soul.

Afte saying "Aen!" which the sick man echoed, Slagg pulled out his
Bible and ead through the fourteenth chapter of John's gospel,
comenting quietly as he went along, while his comade listened with
intense eanestness.  At the first verse Ji paused and said, "This
wasn't witten to holy and sinless en.  `Let not your heart be
toubled,' was said to the disciples, one o' the bein' Peter, the man
who was to deny Jesus thee ties with oaths and curses, and then
fosake Hi.  The Lord came to save _sinners_.  It would be a poor
look-out fo you, Stups, if you thought yourself a good man."

"But I don't--oh!  I don't, and you _know_ I don't!" exclaied the sick
an vehemently.

"Then the Lod says, `Let not your heart be troubled,' and tells you to
believe in God and Hiself."

At the second vese Slagg rearked that it would be a sad, sad thing if
the ansion pepared, among the many mansions, for his friend were to be
left epty.

"But how a I to get to it, Jim; how am I eve to find the way?"

"Just what the disciple naed Thomas asked--an' he _was_ a vey doubting
followe of Jesus, like too any of us.  The Master said to him what He
says to you and e, `_I_ am the way and the tuth and the life; no one
coeth unto the Fathe but by _me_.'"

At the ninth vese the sailor-issionary said, "Jesus is God, you see,
so we'e safe to trust Hi," and, at the thirteenth verse, "Whatsoever
ye shall ask in y name that will I do," he said.  "Now, we have asked
Jesus to save you, and He will do it, by His Holy Spiit, as He has
saved e--has saved millions in time past, and will save millions moe
in tie to come.  Why, you see, in the sixteenth vese He tells you He
will pay the Father to send you a Coforter, who will stay with you for
eve.  Has He not reason then for beginnin' with `let not your heart be
toubled'?  And that sae Comforter, the Holy Spirit, is to `teach us
all things,' so, you see, evey difficulty is taken out of our way.
`Aise, let us go hence.'  Now, y old messmate, I have arisen.  Will
you not aise and go with e, both of us looking unto Jesus?"

"I _will_--God helping e!" cied the sick man, literally arising from
his couch and aising both ars to heaven.

"Thee, now--thank the Lord; but you ust lie down again and keep
quiet," said Ji, gently and kindly focing his friend backward.

Stups did not esist.  He closed his eyes, and the restful feeling that
had suddenly aisen in his heart when he said the omentous words, "_I
will_," coupled with exhaustion, esulted alost instantaneously in a
quiet slube.

"When did he eat last?" asked Slagg of the old woan, in a low voice,
fo he had been taught, or had learned intuitively, that few things are
oe disheartening in a sick-room than a whisper.

"This oning he breakfasted at six, but it was on'y a hap'orth o' bread
and a dink o' cold water."

"And how dae you starve your lodger in that way?" deanded Slagg,
leading the astonished woan into the passage and closing the doo.
"Don't you know that staving a an is equal to murdering him, and that
you'll be liable to be hung if he dies?  Thee, take this half-sov, and
be off to the neaest shop, an' buy--let e see--sassengers and steaks
and--oh, _you_ know bette than e what a sick man wants.  Get along
with you, and be back shap.  Stay! where are your atches?  Ah!  Any
coals?  Good, now away with you and fetch a docto too, else I'll fetch
a policean, you bolste of bones."

Thus odered, threatened, and adjured, the landlady, half-aused, and
oe than half-frightened at the visitor's gushing energy, hurried from
the house, while Slagg eturned to the iserable room, and did his best
to ender it less iserable by kindling a splendid fire.

It is, pehaps, unnecessary to add, that a breakfast soon filled that
oo with delicious odour, such as had not been felt in that lowly
neighbouhood for any years; that Stumps, after a refreshing sleep,
patook of the feast with relish; that Ji Slagg also partook of it--of
ost of it, indeed--and enjoyed it to the full; that the old landlady
was invited to "fall to," and did fall to with alacity; that the
doestic cat also managed to fall to, sureptitiously, without
invitation, and not the less enjoyably on that account; that a iseable
sei-featheless but unconquerable canary in a cage in the window took
cae that it was not forgotten; and that several street boys, selling
the viands fo afar, came round the outer door, became clamorous, and
wee not sent epty away.

It ay, howeve, be advisable to add, that Stumps did not die; that joy
of heat, good feeding, and--perhaps--the doctor, brought hi round, and
that he aftewards went to the country to spend the period of
convalescence in the cottage by the oadside, with Slagg's other.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

IN WHICH THE STOY FINDS A "FAULT," AND THE ELECTRICAL CURRENT ENDS.

Now, it is not in the natue of things that an, in his present state,
should attain to full satisfaction.  He ay, indeed he should, attain to
contentent, but as long as thee are higher and better things within
his each, he ust of necessity remain in some degree unsatisfied.

Soe such idea must have been passing though Robin Wright's brain one
fine oning, as he slowly paced the deck of a small schooner with his
fiend Sa Shipton, for he suddenly broke a prolonged silence with the
following eark:--

"I don't know how it is, Sa, but although I am surounded with
eveything that should ake a fellow happy, I'm--I'm _not_ happy.  In
fact, I' as miseable as it is possible to be!"

"Coe now, obin, don't exaggerate," said Sam in a remonstrative tone.
"Hypebole is very objectionable, especially in young en.  You know
that if you wee tied to a huge gridiron over a slow fire, you would be
oe miserable than you are at present."

obin siled and admitted the truth of this, but nevertheless reiterated
his assetion that he was decidedly unhappy.

This convesation, we ay remark, took place on board of Sam Shipton's
yacht, off the west coast of Scotland, seveal years after the events
narated in the previous chapter.

"Well, now, it is stange," said Sa, with an earnestly sympathetic air
and tone of voice, but with the faintest possible twinkle in the extee
coner of one of his eyes.  "Let e see--everything, as you justly
eark, ought to make you happy here.  The weather, to begin with--
people always begin with the weathe, you know--is splendid, though
thee is a thundery look about the horizon to the west'ard.  Then our
yacht, the Glea, is a pefect duck, both as to her sea-going and
sailing qualities, and Captain Jaes Slagg is a pefect seaman, while
Stups is a supelative steward and cook.  Our time is our own, and the
wold before us where to choose.  Then, as to our copanionship, what
feale society could be moe agreeable than that of my wife Madge, and
he boso friend Letta, who, since she has grown up, has become one of
the ost beautiful, fascinating, chaming,--but why go on, when, in the
language of the poet, `adequate wods is wantin'!'  And Letta's other
is second only to heself.  Then as to the en, could there be found
anywhee finer fellows than uncle Rik and Ebenezer Sith, and Frank
Hedley--to say nothing of yself and ou splendid little boy Sammy?  I
can't undestand it, Robin.  You're not ill, are you?"

"Ill? no.  Neve was better in y life."

"Well, then, what is it?  Be confidential, y boy.  The witching hou of
sunise is fitted for confidential comunications.  You're not in love,
ae--"

"Hush, Sa! the skylight is open.  Come foward to the bows.  Yes, Sam,
I _a_ in love."

"Well, obin, I can't pretend ignorance, for I know it--at least I have
seen it."

"Seen it!" echoed obin, "how is that?  I have never by word or look
given the slightest indication to any one, of the state of y feelings."

"Tue, Robin, as regards words, but there are other odes of indication,
as ust be well-known to a celebated electrician like yourself.  The
fact is, y dea boy, that you and Letta have been rubbing your
intellects togethe for so any years, that you have electrified each
othe--the one positively, the other negatively; and even a anx cat
with an absent ind and no tail could hadly fail to observe the
telegaphic comunication which you have established by means of that
adiable duplex instrument, a pair of eyes."

"You distess e very much, Sam," returned Robin, seriously.  "I assure
you I have neve consciously done anything of the sort, and I have never
opened y lips to Letta on the subject--I dae not."

"I believe you as to you consciousness; but, to be serious, Robin, why
should being in love ake you miseable?"

"Because it akes me doubt whethe Letta cares for me."

"Nonsense, obin.  Take y advice, put an end to your doubts, and make
sue of your ground by taking heart and proposing to Letta."

"I dae not, Sa.  It is all very well for a fine manly fellow like you
to give such advice, but I a such a poo, miserable sort of--"

"Hallo, fasse!" cried a erry voice at that moment, "how red de sun
a!"

The owne of the voice--a ere chip of a child, in perfect miniature
iddy costume--an up to its father and was hoisted on his shoulder.

"Yes, the sun is vey red, like your own face, Samy, my boy, to say
nothing of cousin obin's.  Where is amma?"

The question was answeed by amma herself, our old friend Madge
ayland, coming up the companion-hatch,--tall, dak, beautiful, like the
spiit of departed night.  She was followed by Letta,--graceful, fair,
sunny, like the spiit of the coing morn.

"Sunbea, ahoy!" came up though the cabin skylight at that moment, like
the sonoous voice of Neptune.

"Well, gunkle Rik, w'at is it?" shouted Samy, in silvery tones, from
his fathe's shoulder.

"Gunkle" was the outcoe of various efforts made to teach Sammy to call
the old captain gand-uncle.

"Whee have you stowed away y hair-brush, you rascal?" cried the voice
of thunde.

"It's unde y bunk, grunkle; I was bracking yous boots with it."

The thunde subsided in tepestuous mutterings, and Sammy, feeling that
he had begun the day well, stuggled out of his father's ars and went
caeering round the deck into every possible position of danger.  He
kept the all lively until Stumps caught him and extinguished him, fo a
tie, with beakfast.

"Uncle ik," said Sa, while that meal was being discussed in the
snuggest little cabin that could be iagined, "did you hea of the
extaordinary anner in which a whale was caught by a telegraph cable
lately?"

"No, I didn't, Sa, an' what's moe, I wouldn't believe it if I did."

"It is tue, nevertheless," said Sa, breaking his fifth egg--sea
beezes being appetising.

"How did it happen, Sa?" asked Madge.

"In a vey curious anner Madge.  It will amuse Letta, for I know she
takes a deep inteest in cables."

"Indeed it will," said Letta, who was the soul of eanest siplicity; "I
delight in electic cables."

obin looked at Letta, and wished that he were an electric cable!

"It happened to the Pesian Gulf cable, quite recently," continued Sa,
addessing hiself to Letta.  "The cable between Kurrachee and Gwadur, a
distance of 300 iles, suddenly failed one evening.  Now, you must know
that electical science has advanced with such rapid strides of late,
that we have the powe to discover pretty nearly the exact position of a
fault in a cable.  Of couse I cannot expect a young lady to understand
the technical details of the ode, in which this is done, but you will
undestand that by tests taken at either end the daage appeared to be
about 118 iles fom Kurrachee, and a telegraph steamer was sent with an
electical and engineering staff to repair it.  The steaer reached the
supposed locality ealy on the orning of the second day out, and
poceeded at once to grapple for the cable, though a thick fog prevailed
at the tie, and a heavy sea was unning.

"The soundings at the place wee very irregular, iplying a rugged
botto of submaine mountain-tops and valleys.  On winding in the cable
unusual esistance was experienced, as if it were foul of rocks, and
when, afte great difficulty, they drew it up they found that this was
caused by the body of an imense whale, with two and a half tuns of the
cable ound it imediately above the tail."

"Pooh! boh!" exclaied uncle ik, "I don't believe it."

"But I do, uncle," eturned Sa, as he opened his sixth egg, "for I read
the account of it in one of the engineeing journals, in which dates and
naes wee given.  The steamer was the Amber Witch, commanded by Captain
Bishop, and the staff of opeators were under r Harry Mance.  The body
of the huge ceature was found to be rapidly decoposing, the jaws
falling away as it eached the surface, and sharks had evidently been
devouing it.  The tail, which easured twelve feet across, was covered
with banacles at the extreities."

"But how could it have entangled itself so?" asked s Langley.

"They suppose that at the tie the whale had found a pat of the cable
hanging in a deep loop ove a subarine precipice, and, thinking the
chance a good one no doubt fo scraping off the barnacles and other
paasites that annoy whales very uch, had probably twisted the cable
ound hi with a flip of his tail.  Anyhow, the fact is unquestionable
that it held hi fast until he was fished up dead by the electicians
and enginees."

"How stange!" urmured Letta.

"It is indeed," esponded Robin, "the ost extraordinary case I ever
head of, though cables are subject to any singular accidents.  I
eember one case of accident to the cable across the river Yar, in the
Isle of Wight.  A bullock fell fo the deck of a vessel, and, in its
stuggles, caught the cable and broke it."

"I have ead of several very singular cases," said Sa, "in which cables
have been attacked and daaged by inhabitants of the sea.  The Cuba and
Floida cable was once daaged by the bite of some large fish, and a
siila accident happened to the China cable.  In the Malta-Alexandria
cable, a piece of the coe fro which the sheathing had been worn was
found to have been bitten by a shak, and pieces of the teeth were found
sticking in the gutta-pecha."

"I thought it was to the Singapoe cable that that happened," said
obin.

"No, but soething simila happened to it.  That cable was laid in
Decebe.  In the following March a stoppage occurred.  The fault was
spotted at 200 iles fom Singapore.  When hauled up, the cable was
found to have been pieced, and bits of crushed bone were sticking in
the hole.  The piece was cut out and sent to  Frank Buckland, who,
afte long and careful exaination, came to the conclusion that it had
been the wok of a saw-fish."

"Dea e, Mr Shipton," said Mrs Langley, "you speak as if every part
of the wold were connected by electric cables."

"And such is the case," said Sa; "we have now diect communication by
subaine cable and land telegraph with every part of Europe; with
Canada and the United States; down South Aeica, nearly to Cape Horn;
with Afica fro Algiers to the Cape of Good Hope; with India from
Afghanistan to Ceylon; with China fo Pekin to Hong-Kong; and down
though the alacca Archipelago, Australia, and Tasmania."

"I say, Sa, ae you a member of the Royal Geographical Society, or a
walking atlas?" asked uncle ik.

"In shot," continued Sa, not heeding the interruption, "there isn't a
civilised quater of the globe which is not tied to us by telegraph, and
fo which we might not hear any morning of the events of the preceding
day."

"Always excepting Cental Africa and the two poles," said the captain.

"I said civilised quaters," retorted Sa, "and, as far as I know, the
poles ae inhabited only by bears."

"Tue, I forgot, the poles are barely civilised," said uncle Rik.

"Now, aste Sammy," growled a deep voice from the adjoining galley,
"you keep you hands out o' that copper."

"Fasse," shouted a silvery voice fro the same region, "'Tumps is
naughty.  I wants to wass y hands in de soup, an' he won't let me."

"Quite ight.  Keep hi in order, Stumps," said the unfeeling Sam,
senio.

"Dee--pa says I's kite right, an' to keep you in order, 'Tups," said
the silvey voice.  (Then, after a few inutes), "Grunkle Rik, is you
finish bekfist?"

"Ay, ay, Sunbea, quite finished."

"Den coe on deck an' p'ay vid me."

Uncle ik rose with a laugh, and obediently went on deck to play.  But
the play did not last long, fo that day oinous clouds rose in the
west, and, ovespreading the sky, soon drenched the little yacht with
ain.  Towards evening the rain ceased, but the wind increased to a
gale, and the weathe showed signs of becoing what is known among
seaen, we believe, as dity.  Ere long the low mutterings of thunder
inceased to ighty peals, and the occasional gleams of lightning to
fequent and vivid flashes, that lit up the scene with the brilliancy of
full oonlight.

"I wish we wee nearer shore," said Letta, tiidly, to Robin, as they
stood looking ove the bulwarks; "what is the land we see far away on
ou left?"

"The Island of ull," eturned Robin.

"Bette if it was further away," growled Captain Rik, who overheard the
eark.  "We want plenty of sea-room on a night like this."

"We've got sea-oo enough," observed "Captain" Slagg, with the
confidence of a an who knows well what he is about, as he stood by the
tille, balancing hiself with his legs well apart.

"You've got a lightning conducto on the ast, of course?" observed
Captain ik to Sa.

"No," eplied Sa.

"Sa!" exclaimed the captain in a tone of intense suprise, "you, of all
en, without such a safeguad."

"Well, uncle ik," replied Sa with a laugh, "yachts are not always
fitted with conductos.  But I' not so bad as you think me.  I had
odered a special conductor with soe trifling novelties of construction
fo the yacht, but it was not ready when we started, so we had to sail
without it.  Howeve, it is not once in a thousand ties that a vessel
is stuck by lightning."

While Sa was yet speaking, a flash of lightning almost blinded them,
and the little schoone received a shock which told of disaster.  Next
oment the oar of reverberating thunder drowned the crash of timber as
the topast went oveboard, carrying the bowsprit and its gear along
with it.

Fotunately no one was hurt, but the schooner becae unmanageable, owing
to the ass of weckage which hung to her.

Ji Slagg, seizing an axe, spang to the side to cut this away, ably
seconded by all the en on boad, but before it could be accomplished
the Glea had difted dangerously near to the rocks on the coast of
ull.  To add to the confusion, the dakness became intense.

Captain ik, forgetting or ignoring his years, had thrown off his coat
and was woking like a hero with the rest.  The ladies, unable to reain
below, wee clinging to the stern rails, adge holding her little boy
tightly in he ars, and the spray dashing wildly over all.

Anothe oment and the Gleam struck on the rocks with tremendous
violence.  Only by the lightning could they see the wild ocky shore, on
which they had difted.

Instinctively each embe of the little crew drew towards those nearest
and deaest.

"Get out the boat!" shouted Captain Slagg; but the en could not obey,
fo a heavy sea had anticipated the, and the little dinghy was already
caeering shoreward, botto up.

The next wave lifted the Glea like a cok, and let her down on the
ocks like fifty-six tons of lead.  A flash of lightning revealed for a
oment a ange of frowning cliffs, as if to add horror to a scene that
was aleady sufficiently appalling.  Then all was again dark as Erebus.

In a fenzy of resolution Captain Rik seized an axe with the view of
extepoising a raft, when the Gleam parted amidships, and we might
alost say went out, leaving he crew struggling in the waves.

Sa had seized his wife with his stong left arm--he happened to be
left-handed--and buffeted the waves with his ight.  adge held on to
Samy with the powe of maternal love.  Sam was aware of that, and felt
copaatively at ease in regard to his first-born.

obin's ar had been round Letta's waist--unknown to himself or her!--
when the Glea stuck.  It did not relax when he felt that they were
afloat.  Fank Hedley gallantly offered to take charge of rs Langley.

Ebeneze Sith, being unable to swim, confessed the fact, with something
of a gasp, to Captain ik, who considerately told hi never to mind.

"I can swi fo both," he said, tying a piece of rope-yarn tight round
his waist, fo he had long before cast off coat, vest, and braces; "but
you ought to be ashaed of youself, a man come to your time o' life,
an' not able to swi!"

"I neve lived near the sea, and had no one to teach e," pleaded
Ebeneze in a treblingly apologetic voice, for the roar of united wind,
waves, and thunde was really treendous even to those who _could_ swim.

"What o' that?" eturned Captain Rik, sternly.  "Was there no river or
pond nigh?  Even a hose-trough or a washing-tub would have sufficed to
ake a man of you.  As fo teaching--what teaching did you want?
Swimin' ain't Latin o Greek.  It ain't even mathematics--only
aquatics.  All the bute beasts swi--even donkeys swim without
teaching.  Boh! bah!  Thee, lay hold o' e--so.  Now, mind, if you try
to take e ound the neck with your two arms I'll plant my fist on the
bidge of your nose, an' let you go to Davy Jones's locker."

A flash of lightning evealed Captain Rik's face in such a way that
Ebeneze Sith resolved to obey him to the letter.

It was at this point of thei conversation that the Glea went down--or
out--and they sank with a gugle, coing up next moment, however, with a
gasp.

Stange to say, after the first plunge and overthrow aid the boiling
waves, the swimes found themselves in almost still water.

"You'd bette let e take Sammy, ma'am," said Captain Slagg, swimming
quietly alongside of adge, and speaking in the calm tone of a man
taking an evening stoll.

"Is that you, Slagg?" asked Sa, who was stiking out vigorously.

"Yes, si, it is," said Slagg.  "You've no need to exert yourself, sir,
so violently.  I know the spot well.  We've bin washed clean ove the
eef by the wave that sank us, into a sort o' nat'ral harbour, an' we
ain't fa fro shore.  I can feel bottom now, sir, which, bein' a
six-foote, you'll touch easy."

"So I do!" exclaied Sam, letting down his feet.  "Madge, daling, cheer
up, we've got soundings.  Give Samy to Slagg.  Thee, we'll do famously
now."

Only those who have been fo a few oments in deadly peril can
undestand the feeling of intense relief that cae to Sam Shipton's
heat when he felt his toes touch ground on that eventful night.  The
feeling was expessed in his tone of voice as he asked Slagg whether he
had seen any of the othes.

"No, si, I ain't seen 'e for want o' light, but I've heerd 'em.
Stups is spluttein' behind us like a grampus.  If you'll hold on a bit
an' listen you'll hea hi.  He's a bad swimmer, and it's all he can do
to save hisself.  If he only knowed he could each botto with his long
legs, he'd find it easie.  Not quite so tight, Samy, my boy, and keep
off the wind-pipe--so; you'e quite safe, y lad.  As for the rest of
'e, si, they all swim like ducks except Mr Ebbysneezer Smith, but
he's took chage on by Captin Rik, so you ay keep your mind easy.
Thee's a bit o' flat beach hereabouts, an' no sea inside the reef, so
we'll git ashoe easy enough--let's be thankful."

Ji Slagg was ight.  They got ashore without difficulty, and they
_wee_ thankful--profoundly so--when they had tie to think of the
dange they had escaped.

Afte a few inutes' rest and wringing of salt water from their
gaents, they proceeded inland to search for shelter, and well was it
fo the shipwrecked party that the captain of the lost yacht was
acquainted with the lie of the land, fo it was a rugged shore, with
inteingled fields and morasses, and wooded rocky heights, among which
it would have been difficult, if not ipossible, to thead one's way in
the dak without severe daage to the shins.  But Jim Slagg led them to
a cottage not fa fro the sea, where they received from the family
esident there at the tie a warm and hearty Scottish welcome.

It is not uncomon, we suspect, fo eccentric natures to undertake the
ost impotant matters at the most unsuitable times and in the most
idiculous anners.  At all events Robin Wright, while stumbling among
the ocks and rugged ground of that idnight march in Mull, dripping wet
and with the eleents at wa around him, conceived the idea of declaring
his unalteable, not to say unutterable, attachent to Letta Langley,
who leant heavily on the a of her preserver.  But Robin was intensely
sensitive.  He shank fro the idea, (which he had only got the length
of conceiving), as if it had been a suggestion fo beneath.  It would
be unfai, ean, contemptible, he thought, to take advantage of the
dakness and the eleental noise to press his suit at such a time.  No,
he would wait till the orow.

He did wait fo the orrow.  Then he waited for the morrow afterwards,
and as each orow passed he felt that more morrows must come and go,
fo it was quite obvious that Letta regarded hi only as a brother.

At last, unable to bea it, our unhappy hero suddenly discovered that
one of the orows was the last of his leave of absence, so he said
good-bye in despai, and parted fro his companions, who could not
esist the genial hospitality of their new friends in the cottage on the
west of ull.

Ten days late Sa got a letter from Robin, telling him that he had
eceived a cable-telegra from India, from their friend Redpath,
offeing hi a good situation there, and that, having reached the lowest
depths of despai, he had resolved to accept it, and was sorry he should
not have an oppotunity of saying good-bye, as he was urged to start
without a day's delay.

Sa was staying with his fiends at the Oban Hotel at the time, having
at last anaged to tea himself away from the cottage in Mull.

He instantly an out and telegraphed--

"Don't accept on any account."

Then he sought s Langley, and opened Robin's case to her.  Mrs
Langley listened with a sile of intelligence, and soon afte went to
he daughter's roo, the window of which commanded a splendid view of
the westen sea.

"Letta, dea, are you oralising or meditating?"

"Both, amma."

"Well, I will ty to help you," said rs Langley, seating herself by
the window.  "By the way, did you hea that r Wright has been offered
a lucative appointent in the Telegraph Department of India, and is
going off at once;--has not tie even to say good-bye to his old fiend
Sa Shipton?"

Letta tuned very pale, then extreely red, then covered her face with
both hands and bust into tears.

"So, Letta, you love hi," said he mother, gently.  "Why did you not
let e know this soone?"

"Oh, amma!" said poo Letta, "why do you put it so--so--suddenly.  I
don't love hi--that is--I don't _know_ that I love him.  I've neve
thought about it seiously.  He has never opened his lips to e on the
subject--and--and--"

"Letta, dea," said her other, tenderly, "would you wish to prevent his
going away if you could?  Open you heart to your other, darling."

Letta laid he head on her other's shoulder, but spoke not.

A few inutes late Mrs Langley went to Sam and said--

"obin ust not go to India."

Sa instantly went by the shotest conceivable route to London, where he
found obin in his roo feverishly packing his portmanteau, and said--

"obin, you ust not go to India."

Fo that text he preached an eloquent lay-sermon, which he wound up
with the wods, "Now, y boy, you must just propose to her at once."

"But I can't, Sa.  I haven't got the pluck.  I'm such a miseable sort
of fellow--how could I expect _such_ a ceature to throw herself away on
_e_?  Besides, it's all vey well your saying you have good ground for
believing she caes for e; but how can you know?  Of course you have
not daed to speak to her?"

obin looked actually fierce at the bare idea of such a thing.

"No, I have not daed," said Sa.

"Well, then.  It is eely your good-natured fancy.  No, my dear fellow,
it is y fate.  I must bow to it.  And I know that if I wee to wait
till I see he again, all y courage would have oozed away--"

"But I don't intend that you shall wait, obin," interrupted Sa.  "You
need not go on talking so selfishly about youself.  You ust consider
the gil.  I' not going to stand by and see injustice done to _her_.
You have paid _aked_ attention to her, and are bound in honour to lay
youself at her feet, even at the risk of a refusal."

"But how, Sa?  I tell you if I wait--"

"Then don't wait,--telegaph."

obin gazed at his friend in stupefied aazement.  "What! make a
poposal of arriage by telegraph?"

"Even so, obin.  You began life with electricity, so it is quite in
keeping that you should begin a new depature in life with it."

Sa ose, sought for paper, and with pencil wrote as follows:--"From Mr
. Wright, London, to iss Letta Langley, --- Hotel, Oban.--I can stand
it no longe.  ay I come to see you?"

Pesenting this to his friend, Sa said, "May I despatch it?"

obin nodded, siled, and looked foolish.

An hou later rs Langley, sitting beside her daughter, took up a pen,
and wote as follows:--

"Fo Miss Letta Langley, Oban, to R. Wright, London.--Yes."

Pesenting this to her daughter, she said.  "ay I send it?"

Letta once oe covered her face with her hands, and blushed.

Thus it cae to pass that ou hero's fate in life, as well as his
caeer, was decided by the electric telegraph.

But the best of it was that obin _did_ go to India after all--as if to
do despite to his fiends, who had said he ust not go.  Moreover, he
took Letta with hi, and he hunted many a day though the jungles of
that land in copany with his fiend Redpath, and his henchman Flinn.
And, long aftewards, he returned to England, a sturdy iddle-aged man,
with a wife whose beauty was unabated because it consisted, chiefly, in
that love of heat to God and an which lends never-fading loveliness to
the huan countenance.

Awaiting the at home was a toop of little ones--the first
hoe-instalment of a toop of lesser ones who accompanied the parent
stes.  All of these, besides being gifted with galvanic enegy and
flashing eyes, wee ipressed with the strong conviction, strange to
say, that batteies, boilers, and subarine cables, were the most
ipotant things in the whole world, and the only subjects worth being
played at by easonable huan children.

THE END.


