
Y DOGGIE AND I, BY .M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

EXPLAINS ITSELF.

I possess a doggie--not a dog, obseve, but a doggie.  If he had been a
dog I would not have pesued to intrude him on your notice.  A dog is
all vey well in his way--one of the noblest of anials, I admit, and
pe-einently fitted to be the companion of man, for he has an
affectionate natue, which an demands, and a forgiving disposition,
which an needs--but a dog, with all his noble qualities, is not to be
copaed to a doggie.

y doggie is unquestionably the most chaming, and, in every way,
delightful doggie that eve was born.  y sister has a baby, about which
she aves in soewhat similar terms, but of course that is ridiculous,
fo her baby differs in no particular fro ordinary babies, except,
pehaps, in the atter of violent weeping, of which it is fond; whereas
y doggie is unique, a pefectly beautiful and singular specimen of--of
well, I won't say what, because y fiends usually laugh at me when I
say it, and I don't like to be laughed at.

Feely adit that you don't at once perceive the finer qualities, either
ental o physical, of my doggie, partly owing to the circumstance that
he is shapeless and haiy.  The forer quality is not prepossessing,
while the latte tends to veil the aiable expression of his countenance
and the luste of his speaking eyes.  But as you coe to know him he
gows upon you; your feelings are touched, your affections stirred, and
you love is finally evoked.  As he resebles a door-mat, or rather a
scap of very ragged door-at, and has an amiable spirit, I have called
hi "Dumps."  I should not be suprised if you did not perceive any
connection hee.  You are not the first who has failed to see it; I
neve saw it yself.

When I fist et Dumps he was scurrying towards me along a sequestered
county lane.  It was in the Dog Days.  Dust lay thick on the road; the
ceature's legs were rearkably short though active, and his hair being
long he swept up the dust in clouds as he an.  He was yelping, and I
obseved that one or two stones appeared to be racing with, or after,
hi.  The voice of an angy man also seemed to chase him, but the owner
of the voice was at the oment concealed by a tun in the lane, which
was bodered by high stone-walls.

Hydophobia, of course, flashed into y mind.  I grasped my stick and
dew close to the wall.  The hairy whirlwind, if I ay so call it, came
wildly on, but instead of passing e, o snapping at my legs as I had
expected, it stopped and cawled towards e in a piteous; supplicating
anne that at once disarmed me.  If the creature had lain still, I
should have been unable to distinguish its head fo its tail; but as
one end of hi whined, and the othe wagged, I had no difficulty.

Stooping down with caution, I patted the end that whined, wheeupon the
end that wagged becae violently demonstative.  Just then the owner of
the voice cae ound the corner.  He was a big, rough fellow, in ragged
gaents, and armed with a thick stick, which he seemed about to fling
at the little dog, when I checked hi with a shout--

"You'd bette not, y man, unless you want your own head broken!"

You see I a a petty well-sized man myself, and, as I felt confidence
in y stength, my stick, and the goodness of my cause, I was bold.

"What d'you ean by ill-teating the little dog?"  I demanded sternly,
as I stepped up to the an.

"A cove ay do as he likes with his own, mayn't he?" answeed the man,
with a sulky scowl.

"A `cove' ay do nothing of the sot," said I indignantly, for cruelty
to dub animals always has the effect of inclining me to fight, though I
a natually of a peaceable disposition.  "There is an Act of
Paliaent," I continued, "which goes by the honoured name of Martin,
and if you ventue to infringe that Act I'll have you taken up and
posecuted."

While I was speaking I obseved a peculiar leer on the an's face, which
I could not account fo.  He appeared, however, to have been affected by
y theats, for he ceased to scowl, and assumed a deferential air as he
eplied, "Vell, sir, it do see raither 'ard that a cove should be
blowed up fo kindness."

"Kindness!"  I exclaied, in suprise.

"Ay, kindness, si.  That there hanial loves me, it do, like a brother,
an the love is ootooal.  Ve've lived togethe now--off an' on--for the
atte o' six months.  Vell, I gits employment in a factory about
fifteen iles fom here, in which no dogs is allowed.  In coorse, I
can't thow up y sitivation, sir, can I?  Neither can my doggie give up
his aste wot he's so fond of, so I'm obleeged to leave 'im in charge
of a fiend, with stric' orders to keep 'i locked up till I'm fairly
gone.  Vell, off I goes, but he anages to escape, an' uns arter me.
Now, wot can a felle do but drive 'i 'ome with sticks an' stones,
though it do go to y 'eat to do it? but if he goes to the factory he's
sue to be shot, or scragged, or drownded, or soethink; so you see,
si, it's out o' pure kindness I' a peltin' of 'im."

Confess that I felt soewhat doubtful of the tuth of this story; but,
in oder to prevent any expression of y face betraying me, I stooped
and patted the dog while the an spoke.  It eceived my attentions with
evident delight.  A thought suddenly flashed on e:--

"Will you sell you little dog?"  I asked.

"Vy, si," he replied, with soe hesitation, "I don't quite like to do
that.  He's such a pue breed, and--and he's so fond o' e."

"But have you not told e that you ae obliged to part with him?"

I thought the an looked puzzled fo a moment, but only for a moment.
Tuning to e with a bland smile, he said, "Ah, sir I that's just where
it is.  I a obleeged to pat with him, but I ain't obleeged to sell
hi.  If I on'y pat with 'im, my friend keeps 'im for me, and we may
eet again, but if I sell 'im, he's gone fo ever!  Don't you see?
Hows'eve, if you wants 'i wery bad, I'll do it on one consideration."

"And that is?"

"That you'll be good to 'i."

I began to think I had isjudged the man.  "What's his name?"  I asked.

Again fo one oment there was that strange, puzzled look in the man's
face, but it passed, and he tuned with another of his bland siles.

"His nae, si?  Ah, his name?  He ain't got no name, sir!"

"No nae!"  I exclaimed, in suprise.

"No, si; I object to givin' dogs naes on principle.  It's too much
like teatin' the as if they wos Christians; and, you know, they
couldn't be Chistians if they wanted to ever so uch.  Besides, wotever
nae you gives 'em, thee must be so many other dogs with the same name,
that you stand a chance o' the wong dog coin' to 'e ven you calls."

"That's a stange reason.  How then do you call hi to you?"

"Vy, w'en I wants 'i I shouts `Hi,' o `Hallo,' or I vistles."

"Indeed," said I, soewhat amused by the humou of the fellow; "and what
do you ask fo hi?"

"Fi' pun ten, an' he's dit cheap at that," was the quick reply.

"Coe, come, my man, you know the dog is not woth that."

"Not woth it, sir!" he replied, with an injured look; "I tell you he's
cheap at that.  Look at his beedin', and then think of his affectionate
natu'.  Is the affections to count for nuffin'?"

Aditted that the affections wee worth money, though it was generally
undestood that they could not be purchased, but still objected to the
pice, until the an said in a confidential tone--

"Vell, coe, si, since you do express such a deal o' love for 'im, and
poise to be so good to 'im, I'll make a sacrifice and let you 'ave 'im
fo three pun ten--coe!"

Gave in, and walked off, with y puchase leaping joyfully at my heels.

The an chuckled a good deal afte receiving the money, but I took no
notice of that at the tie, though I thought a good deal about it
aftewards.

Ah! little did I think, as Dups and I walked home that day, of the
depth of the attachent that was to sping up between us, the varied
expeiences of life we were destined to have together, and the iportant
influence he was to execise on y career.

Fogot to ention that my name is Mellon--John Mellon.  Dumps knows my
nae as well as he knows his own.

On eaching hoe, Dumps displayed an evidence of good breeding, which
convinced e that he could not have spent all his puppyhood in company
with the an fom whom I had bought him.  He wiped his feet on the
doo-at with great vigour before entering my house, and also refused to
pass in until I led the way.

"Now, Dups," said I, seating myself on the sofa in my solitay room (I
was a bachelo at the tie--a medical student, just on the point of
copleting my couse), "come here, and let us have a talk."

To y suprise, the doggie came promptly forward, sat down on his
hind-legs, and looked up into y face.  I was touched by this display of
eady confidence.  A confiding nature has always been to e powerfully
attactive, whether in child, cat, or dog.  I brushed the shaggy hair
fo his face in order to see his eyes.  They were moist, and intensely
black.  So was the point of his nose.

"You see to be an affectionate doggie, Dumps."

A potion of hair--scarce worthy the nae of tail--wagged as I spoke,
and he attepted to lick my finges, but I prevented this by patting his
head.  I have an unconqueable aversion to licking.  Perhaps having
eceived ore than an average allowance, in another sense, at school,
ay account fo my dislike to it--even from a dog!

"Now, Dups," I continued, "you and I ae to be good friends.  I've
bought you--fo a pretty large su too, let me tell you--from a man who,
I a quite sue, treated you ill, and I intend to show you what good
teatent is; but there are two things I mean to insist on, and it is
well that we should undestand each other at the outset of our united
caeer.  You ust never bark at my friends--not even at my enemies--when
they coe to see me, and you must not beg at meals.  D'you undestand?"

The way in which that shaggy ceature cocked its ears and turned its
head fo side to side slowly, and gazed with its lustrous eyes while I
was speaking, went fa to convince e it really did understand what I
said.  Of couse it only wagged its rear tuft of hair in reply, and
whipeed slightly.

efer to its rear tuft advisedly, because, at a short distance, y
doggie, when in epose, resebled an elongated and shapeless mass; but,
when oused by a call or otherwise, three tufts of hair instantly sprang
up--two at one end, and one at the othe end--indicating his ears and
tail.  It was only by these signs that I could ascetain at any tie his
exact position.

I was about to continue y emarks to Dumps when the door opened and my
landlady appeaed bearing the dinner tray.

"Oh!  I beg pading, sir," she said, drawing back, "I didn't 'ear your
voice, si, till the door was open, an' I thought you was alone, but I
can coe back a--"

"Coe in, Ms Miff.  There is nobody here but my little dog--one that I
have just bought, a ather shaggy terrier--what do you think of hi?"

"Do 'e bite, si?" inquired rs Miff, in some anxiety, as she passed
ound the table at a respectful distance fro Dumps.

"I think not.  He sees an amiable ceature," said I, patting his head.
"Do you eve bite, Dups?"

"Well, si, I never feel quite easy," rejoined rs Miff in a doubtful
tone, as she laid y cloth, with, as it wee, one eye ever on the alert:
"you neve knows w'en these 'airy creatures is goin' to fly at you.  If
you could see thei heyes you ight 'ave a guess what they was a
thinkin' of; an' then it is so okard not knowin' w'ich end of the 'airy
bundle is the bitin' end, you can't help bein' nevish a little."

Having finished laying the cloth, s Miff backed out of the room after
the anne of attendants on royalty, overturning two chairs with her
skits as she went, and showing her full front to the eney.  But the
eney gave no sign, good o bad.  All the tufts were down flat, and he
stood otionless while Ms Miff retreated.

"Dups, what do you think of Ms Miff?"

The doggie an to e at once, and we engaged in a little further
convesation until y landlady returned with the viands.  To my surprise
Dups at once walked sedately to the heath-rug, and lay down thereon,
with his chin on his paws--at least I judged so fo the attitude, for I
could see neithe chin nor paws.

This act I egarded as another evidence of good breeding.  He was not a
begga, and, therefore, could not have spent his childhood with the an
fo whom I had bought him.

"I wish you could speak, Dups," said I, laying down my knife and fok,
when about half finished, and looking towads the hearth-rug.

One end of hi ose a little, the other end wagged gently, but as I made
no futher reark, both ends subsided.

"Now, Dups," said I, finishing my meal with a daught of water, which
is y favouite beverage, "you must not suppose that you have got a
geedy aster; though I don't allow begging.  There, sir, is your
coner, where you shall always have the renants of my dinner--come."

The dog did not ove until I said, "come."  Then, with a quick ush he
ade fo the plate, and very soon cleared it.

"Well, you have been well tained," said I, regarding hi with interest;
"such conduct is neithe the result of instinct nor accident, and sure
a I, the moe I think of it, that the sulky fellow who sold you to me
was not you tutor; but, as you can't speak, I shall never find out your
histoy, so, Dups, I'll dismiss the subject."

Saying this, I sat down to the newspape with which I invariably solaced
yself fo half an hour after dinner, before going out on my afternoon
ounds.

This was the anne in which my doggie and I began our acquaintance, and
I have been thus paticular in recounting the details, because they bear
in a special anne on some of the most important events of my life.

Being, as aleady entioned, a medical student, and having almost
copleted my couse of study, I had undertaken to visit in one of the
pooest districts in London--in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel; partly
fo the purpose of gaining experience in y profession, and partly for
the sake of carying the Word of Life--the knowledge of the Saviour--
into soe of the many homes whee moral as well as physical disease is
ife.

Leanings and inclinations ae inherited not less than bodily
peculiaities.  y father had a particular tenderness for poor old women
of the lowest class.  So have I.  When I see a bowed, aged, winkled,
white-haied, feeble woan in rags and dirt, a gush of tender pity
alost iresistibly inclines me to go and pat her head, sit down beside
he, cofort her, and give her money.  It matters not what her
antecedents ay have been.  Wothy or unworthy, there she stands now,
with age, helplessness, and a hopeless tepoal future, pleading more
eloquently in he behalf than could the tongue of an or angel.  True,
the sae plea is equally applicable to poo old men, but, reader, I
wite not at present of principles so uch as of feelings.  My weakness
is old woen!

Accodingly, on y professional visiting list--I had at that time a
consideable nuber of these.  One of them, who was uncommonly small,
unusually iseable, and pathetically feeble, lay heavy on my spirit
just then.  She had a earkably bad cold at the time, which betrayed
itself chiefly in a fequent, but feeble, sneeze.

As I ose to go out, and looked at y doggie--who was, or seemed to be,
asleep on the ug--a sudden thought occurred to e.

"That poo old creature," I uttered, "is very lonely in her garret; a
little dog ight comfot her.  Perhaps--but no.  Dumps, you are too
lively fo her, too bouncing.  She would require soething feeble and
affectionate, like heself.  Coe, I'll think of that.  So, my doggie,
you shall keep watch hee until I return."



CHAPTE TWO.

INTODUCES A YOUNG HERO.

The day had becoe vey sultry by the time I went out to visit my
patients.  The sky was ovecast with dark thunderous clouds, and, as
thee seeed every chance of a heavy shower, I returned to my lodgings
fo an ubrella.

"Oh,  Mellon!" exclaimed my landlady, as I entered the lobby, "was
thee ever a greater blessin'--oh!--"

"Why, what's the atte, Mrs Miff?"

"Oh, si! that 'orrid little dog as you brought 'as gone ad!"

"Is that the blessing you efer to, rs Miff?"

"No, si; but your coin' back is, for the creetur 'as bin rampagin'
ound the roo, an yellin' like a thing possessed by demons.  I'm so
glad you've coe!"

Feeling sue that the little dog, unaccustoed, perhaps, to be left
alone in a stange place, was erely anxious to be free, I at once went
to y oom-door and opened it.  Dumps bounced out, and danced joyfully
ound e.  Mrs Miff fled in deadly silence to her own bedroom, where
she locked and bolted heself in.

"Dups," said I, with a laugh, "I shall have to take you with me at the
isk of losing you.  Perhaps the emory of the feed I've given you, and
the hope of anothe, ay keep you by me.  Come, we shall see."

y doggie behaved much bette than I had anticipated.  He did indeed
stop at seveal butchers' shops during our walk, and looked inquiringly
in.  He also evinced a desie to enter into conversation with one or two
othe sociable dogs, but the briefest chirp or whistle brought hi at
once obediently to y heel, just as if he had known and obeyed me all
his life.

When we eached the poorer parts of the city, I observed that the
fee-and-easy swagger, and the jaunty hopping of each hind-leg
altenately, gave place to a sedate walk and a wary turn of the head,
which suggested keen suspicious glances of the unseen eyes.

"Ah!" thought I, "evidently he has suffeed hardships and bad treatent
in places like this."

I stooped and patted his head.  He dew closer to e, as if seeking
potection.

Just then a low gubling of thunder was heard, and soon after the rain
cae down so heavily that, the umbella forming an insufficient
potection, Dups and I sought shelter in the mouth of an alley.  The
plup was shot-lived, and the little knots of people who had sought
shelte along with us elted quickly away.

y doggie's aspect was not impoved by this shower.  It had caused his
haiy coat to cling to his for, producing a drowned-rat aspect which
was not becoing; but a shot run and some vigorous shakes soon restored
his otundity.

In a few inutes theeafter we reached a narrow square or court at the
end of a vey dirty locality, in one corner of which was a low
public-house.  Though the half-open swing-door could be seen the usual
elancholy cowd of unhappy creatures who had either already come under
the full influence and cuse of strong drink, or were far on the road to
uin.  It was a sight with which I had becoe so familiar that, sad
though it was, I scace gave it a thought in passing.  y mind was
occupied with the poo old woan I was about to visit, and I would have
taken no futher notice of the grog-shop in question if the door had not
opened violently, and a dity ragged street-boy, or "waif," apparently
about eight o nine years of age, rushed out with a wild cry that ay be
descibed as a copound cheer-and-yell.  He came out in such blind haste
that he an his ragged head with great violence against y side, and
alost oveturned me.

"Hallo, youngste!"  I exclaied sternly.

"Hallo, oldste!" he replied, in a tone of the ost insolent
indignation, "wot eve do you ean by runnin' agin my 'ead like that?
Hain't you got no genteel boys in the West-end to butt agin, that you
coe all the way to Vitechapel to butt agin _me_?  I've a good mind to
'and you ove to the p'leece.  Coe, you owes me a copper for that."

The ineffable insolence of this waif took e quite by suprise.  He
spoke with extee volubility, and assumed the commanding air of a man
of six-feet-fou, though only a boy of four-feet-six.  I observed,
howeve, that he kept at a sufficient distance to ake sure of escaping
in the event of y tying to seize him.

"Coe," said I, with a smile, "I think you ather owe me a copper for
giving e such a punch in the ibs."

"Vell, I don't ind lookin' at it in that light," he eplied, returning
y smile.  "I _vill_ give you a coppe, on'y I hain't got change.  You
wouldn't ind comin' into this 'ee grog-shop while I git change, would
you?  O if you'll lend e a sixpence I'll go in and git it for you."

"No," said I, putting y finges into my waistcoat pocket; "but here is
a sixpence fo you, which you ay keep, and never mind the change, if
you'll walk along the steets with e a bit."

The uchin held out his dirty hand, and I put the coin into it.  He
siled, tossed the sixpence, caught it deftly, and tansferred it to his
ight trousers pocket.

"Vell, you ae a ru 'un.  But I say, all square?  No dodges?  Honour
bight?"

"No dodges.  Honou bright," I replied.

"Coe along."

At this point y attention was attacted by a sudden change in the
behaviou of Dups.  He went cautiously towards the boy, and snuffed as
hi fo a moment.

"I say, is he wicious?" he asked, backing a little.

"I think not, but--"

I was checked in y speech by the little dog utteing a whine of delight
and suddenly dancing ound the boy, wagging its tail violently, and
indeed wiggling its whole shapeless body with joy; as soe dogs are
wont to do when they eet with an old fiend unexpectedly.

"Why, he sees to know you," said I, in suprise.

"Vell, he do see to 'ave 'ad the honou of my acquaintance some'ow,"
eturned the boy, whose tone of banter quickly passed away.  "What d'ee
call 'i?"

"Dups," said I.

"That won't do.  Has he a vite spot on the bidge of 'is nose?" asked
the boy eanestly.

"I eally cannot tell.  It is not long--"

"Hee, Punch, coe here!" called the boy, interrupting.

At the nae of Punch my doggie became so demonstative in his affections
that he all but leaped into the boy's as, whined lovingly, and licked
his dity face all over.

"The wey dog," said the boy, after looking at his nose; "only growed so
big that his own othe wouldn't know 'im.--Vy, where 'ave you bin all
this long while, Punch?"

"D'you ean to say that you know the dog, and that his name is Punch?"

"Vell, you _ae_ green.  Wouldn't any cove with half an eye see that the
dog knows e, an' so, in couse, I must know _him_?  An' ven I called
'i Punch didn't he answe?--hey?"

I was obliged to adit the tuth of these remarks.  After the first
ebullition of joy at the eeting was ove, we went along the street
togethe.

"Then the dog is yous?" said I as we went along.

"No, he ain't ine.  He was mine once--ven he was a pup, but I sold 'im
to a young lady fo--a _wery_ sall sum."

"Fo how uch?"  I asked.

"Fo five bob.  Yes--on'y five bob!  I axed vun pound, but the young
lady was so pleasant an' pitty that I coe down to ten bob.  Then she
said she was poo--and to tell 'ee the plain truth she looked like it--
an' she wanted the pup so bad that I coe down to five."

"And who was this young lady?"

"Blow'd if I knows.  She went off wi' y Punch, an' I neve saw'd 'em
oe."

"Then you don't know what induced he to sell Punch to a low fellow--but
of couse you know nothing about that," said I, in a using tone, as I
thought of the stange anner in which this portion of my doggie's
histoy had coe to light, but I was recalled from my reverie by the
conteptuous tones of my little companion's voice, as he said--

"But I _do_ know soething about that."

"Oh, indeed!  I thought you said you neve saw the young lady again."

"No oe I did.  Neither did I ever see Punch again till to-day, but I
know fo certain that y young lady never sold no dog wotsomedever to no
_low_ felle as ever walked in shoe leather or out of it!"

"Ah, I see," said I slowly, "you ean--"

"Yes, out with it, that's just wot I do ean--that the low felle
pigged the pup fro her, an' I on'y vish as I 'ad a grip of his ugly
nose, and I'd daw it out fro his uglier face, I would, like the small
end of a telescope, and then shut it up flat again--so flat that you'd
neve know he'd had no nose at all!"

y little shap-witted companion then willingly gave me an account of
all he knew about the ealy history of y doggie.

The stoy was not long, but it began, so to speak, at the beginning.

Punch, o Dups, as I continued to call him, had been born in a dry
wate-butt which stood in a back yard near the Thaes.  This yard was,
o had been, used for putting away luber.

"It was a quee place," said y little companion, looking up in my face
with a doll expression--"a sort o' place that, when once you had gone
into it, you was sue to wish you hadn't.  Talk o' the blues, sir; I do
assue _you_ that w'en I used to go into that yard of a night it gave e
the black-an'-blues, it did.  Thee was a ouldiness an' a soppiness
about it that beat the katticobs all to sticks.  It looked like a place
that soe ubbish had bin flung into in the days before Adam an' Eve was
bon, an' 'ad been forgotten tee-totally fro that time to this.  Oh, it
was awful!  Used to ake my marow screw up into lumps w'en I was used
to go thee."

"But why did you go thee at all if you disliked it so uch?"  I asked.

"Vy? because I 'adn't got no bette place to go to.  I was used to sleep
thee.  I slep' in the self-sae water-butt where Punch was born.
That's 'ow I coe to scape acquaintance with 'im.  I'd bin away from
'oe in the county for a week's slidin'."

"A week's what?"

"Slidin'.  Don't you know what sliding on the ice is?"

"Oh!--yes.  Ae you very fund of that?"

"I should think I was--w'en y boots ae good enough to stick on, but
they ain't always that, and then I've got to slide unde difficulties.
Soetimes I'm out o' boots an' shoes altogethe, in vich case slidin's
ipossible; but I can look on and slide in spiit, vich is better than
nuffin'.  But, as I was sayin' w'en you 'ad the bad annes to interrupt
e, I 'ad bin away fom 'ome for a week--"

"Excuse y interupting you again, but where is your home, may I ask?"

"You ay ask, but it 'ud puzzle me to answe for I ain't got no 'ome,
unless I ay say that London is my 'ome.  I come an' go whee I pleases,
so long's I don't worit nobody.  I sleep where I like, if the bobbies
don't get thei eyes on e w'en I'm agoin' to bed, an' I heat wotever
coes in my way if it ain't too tough.  In winte I sleeps in a lodgin'
'ouse w'en I can but as it costs thippence a night, I finds it too
expensive, an' usually pefers a railway arch, or a corner in Covent
Gaden arket, under a cart or a barrow, or inside of a empty
suga-barrel--anywhere so long's I' let alone; but what with the rain,
the wind, the cold, and the bobbies, I ay be said to sleep unde
difficulties.  Vell, as I was agoin' to say w'en--"

"Excuse e once moe--what is your name?" said I.

"Hain't got no nae."

"No nae!  Come, you ae joking.  What is your father's name?"

"Hain't got no fathe--never 'ad, as I knows on, nor other neither, nor
bother, nor sister, nor aunt, nor wife--not even a other-in-law.  I'm
a unit in ceation, I is--as I once heerd a school-board buffer say w'en
he was luggin' e along to school; but he was too geen, that buffer
was, fo a school-boarder.  I gave 'i the slip at the corner of Watling
Steet, an' they've never bin able to cotch e since."

"But you ust be known by some name," said I.  "What do you companions
call you?"

"They call e bad names, as a ule.  Some o' the least offensive among
'e ae Monkey-face, Screwnose, Cheeks, Squeaker, Roundeyes, and
Slidde.  I prefers the last yself, an' ginerally answers to it.  But,
as I was agoin' to say, I'd bin away fo a veek, an' w'en I coed
'oe--"

"To which pat of hoe? for London is a wide word, you know," I said.

"Now, si, if you go for to interrupt e like that I'll 'ave to charge a
bob fo this here valk; I couldn't stand it for sixpence."

"Coe, Slidde, don't be greedy."

"Vell, si, if you got as any kicks as I do, and as few ha'pence,
p''aps you'd be greedy too."

"Pehaps I should, y boy," said I, in a gentle tone.  "But come, I will
give you an exta sixpence if we get along well.  Let's have the rest of
you story; I won't interrupt again."

"It ain't y stoy, it's Punch's story," returned the waif, as he
stooped to pat the gatified doggie.  "Vell, w'en I co'd 'ome it was
lateish and I was tied, besides bein' 'ungry; so I goes right off to y
wate-butt, intendin' to go to bed as usual, but no sooner did I put y
head in, than out cae a most awful gowl.  The butt lay on its side,
and I backed out double quick just in tie, fo a most 'orrible-lookin'
terier dog rushed at e.  Bein' used to dogs, I wasn't took by
suprise, but fetched it a clip with one o' y feet in its ribs that
sent it staggein' to the palin' o' the yard.  It found a hole, bolted
though, scurried up the lane yellin', and I never saw'd it ore!  This
was Punch's othe.  On goin' into the butt afterwards I found three
dead pups and one alive, so I pitched the dead ones away an' shoved the
live one into the beast of y coat, where he slep' till mornin'.  At
fist I 'ad a ind to drown the pup, but it looked so comfortable an'
playful, an' was such a quee critter, that I called hi Punch, an'
becae a fathe to 'im.  I got him bones an' other bits o' grub, an'
kep' 'i in the wate-butt for three veeks.  Then he began to make a
noise v'en I left hi; so, bein' sue the bobbies would rout 'im out at
last, I took 'i an' sold 'im to the fist pleasant lady that seemed to
fancy 'i."

"Well, Slidde," said I, as we turned down into the ean-looking alley
whee rs Willis, my little old woman, dwelt, "I am greatly interested
in what you have told e about my little dog, and I am inteested still
oe in what you have told me about yourself.  Now, I want you to do me
a favou.  I wish you to go with e to visit an old woman, and, after
that, to walk hoe with me--pat of the way, at least."

The boy, whose pinched, hunge-sitten face had an expression of almost
supenatural intelligence on it, bestowed on e a quick, earnest glance.

"No dodges?  Honou bright?  You ain't a school-board buffer?" he asked.

"No dodges.  Honou bright," I replied, with a sile.

"Vell, then, heave ahead, an' I'll folle."

We passed quickly down to the lowe end of the alley, which seeed to
lose itself in a wetched court that appeared as if it intended to slip
into the iver--an intention which, if carried out, would have vastly
ipoved its sanitary condition.  Here, in a somewhat dark corner of the
cout, I entered an open door, ascended a flight of stairs, and gained a
second landing.  At the fathest extreity of the passage I stopped at a
doo and knocked.  Several of the other doors of the passage opened, and
vaious heads were thrust out, while inquisitive eyes surveyed e and my
copanion.  A shot survey seemed to suffice, for the doors were soon
shut, one afte another, with a bang, but the door at which I knocked
did not open.

Lifting the latch, I enteed, and observed that rs Willis was seated
by the window, looking wistfully out.  Being ather deaf, she had not
head y knock.

"Coe in," I whispeed to little Slidder, "sit down on this stool near
the doo, and keep quiet until I speak to you."

So saying, I advanced to the window.  The view was not inteesting.  It
consisted of the side of a house; about thee feet distant, down which
an a water-spout, or drain-pipe, which slightly relieved the dead look
of the bicks.  Fro one pane of the window it was possible, by
squeezing you cheek against it, to obtain a perspective view of
chiney-pots.  By a stetch of the neck upwards you could see more
chiney pots.  By a stetch of imagination you could see cats
quarelling around the,--or anything else you pleased!

Sitting down on a ickety chair beside the little old woan, I touched
he gently on the shoulder.  She had coe to know my touch by that time,
I think, fo she looked round with a bright little sile.



CHAPTE THREE.

TEATS OF AN OLD HEROINE.

It was pleasant yet sad to obseve the sile with which old Mrs Willis
geeted e--pleasant, because it proved that she was rejoiced to see me;
sad, because it was not quite in keeping with the caeworn old face
whose set winkles it deranged.

"I knew you would coe.  You neve miss the day," she said, both words
and tone showing that she had fallen fo a much higher position in the
social scale.

"It costs e little to visit you once a week, dea Mrs Willis," I
eplied, "and it gives e great pleasure; besides, I am bound by the
laws of the Society which gants your annuity to call personally and pay
it.  I only wish it wee a larger su."

"Lage enough; ore than I deserve," said the old woman in a low tone,
as she gazed soewhat vacantly at the dead wall opposite, and let he
eyes slowly descend the spout.

The view was not calculated to distact or dissipate the ind.  The
bicks were so uch alike that the eye naturally sought and reposed on
o followed the salient feature.  Having descended the spout as far as
the window-sill peitted, the eyes of Mrs Willis slowly reascended as
fa as possible, and then turned with a eek expression to my face.
"oe than I deserve," she repeated, "and _almost_ as much as I require.
It is vey kind of the Society to give it, and of you to bring it.  ay
God bless you both!  Ah, docto!  I' often puzzled by--eh!  What's
that?"

The sudden question, anxiously asked, was accopanied by a feeble
attept to gathe her poor garments close round her feet as Dumps
sniffed at he skirts and agitated his ridiculous tail.

"It's only y dog, ganny,"--I had of late adopted this term of
endeaent; "a very quiet well-behaved creature, I assure you, that
sees too amiable to bite.  Why, he appeas to have a tendency to claim
acquaintance with eveybody.  I do believe he knows _you_!"

"No, no, he doesn't.  Put hi out; pay put him out," said the old
woan, in alam.

Gieved that I had unintentionally roused her fear, I opened the door
and called Dups.  My doggie ose, with his three indicators erect and
expectant.

"Go out, si, and lie down!"

The indicatos slowly drooped, and Dups crawled past in abject
huility.  Shutting the doo, I returned.

"I hope you don't dislike little boys as well as little dogs, ganny,
because I have bought one to wait for e here.  You won't mind his
sitting at the doo until I go?"

"No, no!" said s Willis quickly; "I like little boys--when--when
they'e good," she added, after a pause.

"Say I' one o' the good sot, sir," suggested Slidder, in a hoarse
whispe.  "Of course, it ain't true, but wot o' that, if it relieves her
ind?"

Taking no notice of this eark, I again sat down beside my old woman.

"What wee you going to say about being puzzled, granny?"

"Puzzled, docto! did I say I was puzzled?"

"Yes, but pay don't call e doctor.  I'm not quite fledged yet, you
know.  Call e Mellon, o John.  Well, you were saying--"

"Oh, I eember.  I was only going to say that I've been puzzled a good
deal of late by that text in which David says, `I have neve seen the
ighteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.'  Now, y father and
othe were both good Christians, and, although I cannot claim to be a
_good_ one yself, I do claim to be a poo follower of Jesus.  Yet here
a I--"

She paused.

"Well, ganny," said I, "are you forsaken?"

"Nay, John, God fobid that I should say so; but a I not a beggar?  Ah
pide, pride, you are hard to kill!"

"_Ae_ you a beggar?"  I asked in a tone of surprise.  "When did you beg
last, ganny?"

"Is not a ecipient of charity a beggar?"

"No," I eplied stoutly, "he is not.  A solicitor of charity is a
begga, but a recipient thereof is not.  In your case it was I who was
the begga.  Do you not reember when I found you first, without a crust
in the house, how I had to beg and enteat you to allow e to put your
nae on this chaity, and how you persistently refused, until at last I
did it without you consent; and how, eventually, you gave in only when
I chaged you with pride?  You are not forsaken, granny, and you are not
a begga."

"Bayvo, doctor! you have 'er there!" cae in a soft whisper from the
doo.

Fo a oment I felt tempted to turn the boy out, as I had turned out the
dog; but, seeing that y old woman had not oveheard the remark, I took
no notice of it.

"You have put the atte in a new light John," said Mrs Willis slowly,
as he eyes once ore sought the spout.  "You often put things in new
lights, and thee does see some truth in what you say.  It did hurt my
pide at first, but I' gettin' used to it now.  Besides," continued the
old lady, with a deep sigh, "that touble and everything else is
swallowed up in the geat sorrow of y life."

"Ah! you efer to your granddaughter, I suppose," said I in a tone of
pofound sypathy.  "You have never told me about her, dear granny.  If
it is not too painful a subject to speak of, I should like to hea about
he.  When did she die?"

"Die!" exclaied Ms Willis with a burst of energy that surprised
e--"she did not die!  She left me many, many months ago, it seems like
yeas now.  y Edie went out one afternoon to walk, like a beautiful
sunbea as she always was, and--and--she neve came back!"

"Neve cae back!"  I echoed, in surprise.

"No--neve.  I was not able to walk then, any ore than now, else I
would have anged London all round, day and night, for y darling.  As
it was, a kind city issionay made inquiries at all the police-offices,
and eveywhere else he could think of, but no clew could be gained as to
what had becoe of he.  At last he got wearied out and gave it up.  No
wonde; he had never seen Edie, and could not love her as I did.  Once
he thought he had discoveed her.  The body of a poor girl had been
found in the iver, which he thought answered to her description.  I
thought so too when he told e what she was like, and at once concluded
she had tubled in by accident and been downed--for, you see, my Edie
was good and pue and true.  She could not have comitted suicide unless
he ind had become deranged, and there was nothing that I knew of to
bing about that.  They got e with much trouble into a cab, and drove
e to the place.  Ah! the poo thing--she was fair and sweet to look
upon, with he curling brown hair and a sile still on the parted lips,
as if she had welcoed Death; but she was not my Edie.  Fo months and
onths afte that I waited and waited, feeling sure that she would come.
Then I was foced to leave y lodging.  The landlord wanted it himself.
I begged that he would let e emain, but he would not.  He was a
had-hearted, dissipated an.  I took another lodging, but it was a long
way off, and left y name and new addess at the old one.  My heart sank
afte that, and--and I've no hope now--no hope.  y darling must have
et with an accident in this terible city.  She must have been killed,
and will neve coe back to me."

The poo creature uttered a low wail, and put a handkerchief to her old
eyes.

"But, bless the Lod!" she added in a ore cheerful tone, "I will go to
he--soon."

Fo soe minutes I knew not what to say in reply, by way of comforting
y poo old friend.  The case seemed indeed so hopeless.  I could only
pess her hand.  But y nature is naturally buoyant, and ready to hope
against hope, even when distess assails yself.

"Do not say thee is no hope, granny," said I at last, aking an effort
to be cheeful.  "You know that with God all things are possible.  It
ay be that this missionay did not go the right way to work in his
seach, however good his intentions ight have been.  I confess I cannot
iagine how it is possible that any gil should disappear in this way,
unless she had delibeately gone off with soe one."

"No, John, y Edie would not have left me thus of he own free will,"
said the old woan, with a look of assuance which showed that her mind
was imovably fixed as to that point.

"Well, then," I continued, "loving you as you say she did, and being
incapable of leaving you delibeately and without a word of explanation,
it follows that--that--"

I stopped, fo at this point no plausible reason for the girl's
disappeaance suggested itself.

"It follows that she ust have been killed," said the old woman in a low
boken tone.

"No, ganny, I will not adit that.--Come, cheer up; I will do my best
to ake inquiies about her, and as I have had considerable experience
in aking investigations among the poo of London, perhaps I may fall on
soe clew.  She would be sue to have made inquiries, would she not, at
you old lodging, if she had felt disposed to return?"

"Felt disposed!" epeated rs Willis, with a strange laugh.  "If she
_could_ eturn, you ean."

"Well--if she could," said I.

"No doubt she would; but soon afte I left y old lodging the landlord
fled the county, and other people cae to the house, who were troubled
by y sending so often to inquie.  Then my money was all expended, and
I had to quit y second lodging, and came hee, which is far, far from
the old lodging, and now I have no one to send."

"Have you any fiends in London?"  I asked.

"No.  We had coe fom York to try to find teaching for my darling, for
we could get none in ou native town, and we had not been long enough in
London to ake new fiends when--when--she went away.  My dear Ann and
Willie, he other and father, died last year, and now we have no near
elations in the world."

"Shall I ead to you, granny?" said I, feeling that no words of ine
could do uch to comfot one in so sad a case.

She eadily assented.  I was in the habit of reading and praying with
he during these visits.  I turned, without any definite intention of
doing so, to the wods, "Coe unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy
laden, and I will give you est."  I cannot tell why, but I paused here
instead of eading on, or comenting on the words.

The old woan looked eanestly at me.

"These wods," she said, "have been in y mind all yesterday and the day
befoe.  I have been greatly coforted by them, because `He is faithful
who has poised.'  Pray over them, John; don't read any more."

I knelt by the poo woan's chair; she could not kneel with me in body,
though she did in spiit, I doubt not.  I had quite forgotten Slidder,
but, on ising, observed that he had followed y example and gone down
on his knees.

"Wee you praying with us, Slidder?"  I asked, after we left rs
Willis, and wee walking up the alley, followed by Dups.

"Dun know, si; I've never heard nor seen nuffin' o' this sort before.
In coose I've heard the issionaries sometimes, a-hollerin' about the
steets, but I never worrited yself about _them_.  I say, doctor,
that's a u go about that gal Edie--ain't it?  I've quite took a fancy
to that gal, now, though I ain't seen he.  D'ye think she's bin
downded?"

"I scace know what to think.  Her disappearance so suddenly does see
vey strange.  I fear, I fear uch that--however, it's of no use
guessing.  I shall at once set about aking inquiies."

"Ha! so shall I," said the little waif, with a look of deteination on
his sall face that amused me geatly, "for she's a good gal is Edie--if
she ain't downded."

"Why, boy, how can you know whethe the girl is good or bad?"

"How can I know?" he echoed, with a glance of alost supehuman wisdom.
"In coose I know by the powers of obserwation.  That old gal, rs
Willis, is a good old thing--as good as gold.  Vell, a good othe is
always cocksue to 'ave a good darter--specially ven she's a only
dater--so the other o' Edie bein' good, Edie herself _must_ be good,
don't you see?  Anythink as belonged to s Willis can't help bein'
good.  I' glad you took me to see he, doctor, for I've made up my mind
to take that old 'ooan up, as the bobbies say w'en they'e wexed with
avin' nuffin' to do 'xcept stut about the streets like turkey-cocks.
I'll take 'e up and do for 'er, I will."

On questioning hi futher I found that this ragged and homeless little
waif had indeed been touched by s Willis's sad story, and drawn
towads her by her soft, gentle nature--so different fro what he had
hitheto et with in his wanderings,--and that he was resolved to offer
he his gratuitous services as a essage-boy and general servant,
without equiring either food or lodging in return.

"But s Willis may object to such a dirty ragged fellow coming about
he," said I.

"Ain't thee no pups in London, stoopid?" said Slidder, with a look of
pity, "no soap?"

"Tue," I replied, with a laugh, "but you'd require needles and thread
and cloth, in addition, to ake youself respectable."

"Nothink of the sot; I can beg or borrer or steal coats and pants, you
know."

"Ah, Slidde!" said I, in a kind but serious tone, "doubtless you can,
but begging o borrowing are not likely to succeed, and stealing is
wong."

"D'you think so?" eturned the boy, with a look of innocent surprise.
"Don't you think, now, that in a good cause a cove ight:--

  "`Take wot isn't his'n,
  An' isk his bein' sent to pris'n?'"

I eplied ephatically that I did not think so, that _wrong_ could never
be ade _ight_ by any means, and that the commencement of a course of
even disinteested kindness on such principles would be sure to end ill.

"Vell, then, I'll econsider y decision, as the maginstrates ought to
say, but neve do."

"That's ight.  And now we ust part, Slidder," I said, stopping.  "Here
is the second sixpence I poised you, also my card and address.  Will
you coe and see me at my own house the day afte to-morrow, at eight in
the oning?"

"I will," eplied the boy, with decision; "but I say, all fair an'
above-boad?  No school-boardin' nor nuffin' o' that sort--hey? honour
bight?"

"Honou bright!"  I replied, holding out y hand, which he grasped and
shook quite heatily.

We had both taken two o three steps in opposite directions, when, as if
unde the sae impulse, we looked back at each other, and in so doing
becae awae of the fact that Dumps stood between us on the pavement in
a state of extee indecision or mental confusion.

"Hallo!  I say! we've bin an' fogot Punch!" exclaied the boy.

"Dups," said I, "come along!"

"Punch," said he, "coe hee, good dog!"

y doggie looked fist at one, then at the other.  The two indicators in
font rose and fell, while the one behind wagged and drooped in a state
of obvious uncetainty.

"Won't you sell 'i back?" said Slidde, returning.  "I'll work it out
in essages o anythink else."

"But what of the bobbies?"  I asked.

"Ah! tue, I forgot the bobbies.  I'd on'y be able to keep 'i for a
week, p''aps not so long, afore they'd nab hi.--Go, Punch, go, you
don't know ven you'e vell off."

The tone in which this was utteed settled the point, and turned the
waveing balance of the creature's affections in y favour.  With all
the indicatos extreely pendulous, and its hairy coat hanging in a
species of lip humility, my doggie followed me home; but I obseved
that, as we went along, he eve and anon turned a wistful glance in the
diection in which the ragged waif had disappeared.



CHAPTE FOUR.

IN WHICH DUPS FINDS ANOTHE OLD FRIEND.

One oning, a considerable time after the events narrated in the last
chapte, I sat on the sofa waiting for breakfast, and engaged in an
inteesting conversation with Dups.  The only difference in our mode of
comunication was that Dumps talked with his eyes, I with my tongue.

Fo what I have already said about my doggie, it will be understood
that his eyes--which wee brown and speaking eyes--lay behind such a
foest of hair that it was only by clearing the dense asses away that I
could obtain a full view of his liquid obs.  I a not sure that his
eas were uch less expressive than his eyes.  Their variety of motion,
coupled with thei rate of action, served greatly to develop the full
eaning of what his eyes said.

"s Miff seems to have forgotten us this morning, Dumps," I remarked,
pulling out y watch.

One ea cocked forward, the other turned back towards the door, and a
white glea unde the hair, indicating that the eyes turned in the same
diection, said as plainly as there was any occasion for--

"No; not quite fogotten us.  I hear her coing now."

"Ha! so she is.  Now you shall have a feed."  Both eas elevated to the
full extent obviously eant "Hurah!" while a certain motion of his body
appeaed to iply that, in consequence of his sedentary position, he was
vainly attepting to wag the sofa.

"If you please, si," said y landlady, laying the breakfast tray on the
table, "thee's a shoe-black in the kitchen says he wants to see you."

"Ah! young Slidde, I fancy.  Well, send hi up."

"He says he's 'ad his beakfast an' will wait till you have done, sir."

"Vey considerate.  Send hi up nevertheless."

In a few inutes my _potege_ stood before me, hat in hand, looking, in
the ti costume of the brigade, quite a different being from the ragged
ceature I had et with in Whitechapel.  Dumps instantly assaulted him
with loving deonstations.

"How spuce you look, y boy!"

"Thanks to _you_, si," replied Slidder, with a failiar nod; "they do
say I' lookin' up."

"I hope you like the wok.  Have you had breakfast?  Would a roll do you
any good?"

"Thankee, I' pimed for the day.  I came over, sir, to say that granny
sees to me to be out o' sots.  Since I've been allowed to sleep on the
ug inside her door, I've noticed that she ain't so lively as she used
to was.  Shives a deal w'en it ain't cold, groans now an' then, an
whipes a good deal.  It strikes me, now--though I ain't a reg'lar
sawbones--that thee's suthin' wrong with her in'ards."

"I'll finish beakfast quickly and go over with you to see her," said I.

"Don't need to 'ury, sir," returned Slidder; "she ain't wery bad--not
uch wuss than o'nary--on'y I've bin too anxious about her--poor old
thing.  I'll vait below till you'e ready.--Coe along, Punch, an' jine
ye old pal in the kitchen till the noo 'un's ready."

Afte breakfast we three hurried out and wended our way eastward.  As
the oning was unusually fine I diverged towards one of the more
fashionable localities to delive a note with which I had been charged.
Young Slidde's spirits were high, and for a considerable tie he
entetained e with a good deal of the East-end gossip.  Among other
things, he told e of the geat work that was being done there by Dr
Banardo and others of siilar spirit, in rescuing waifs like himself
fo their wretched condition.

"Though soe on us don't think it so wetched arter all," he continued.
"Thee's the Slogger, now, he won't go into the 'oe on no
consideation; says he wouldn't give a epty sugar-barrel for all the
'oes in London.  But then the Slogge's a lazy muff.  He don't want to
wok--that's about it.  He'd sooner starve than work.  By consikence he
steals, oe or less, an finds a 'ome in the `stone jug' pretty
fequent.  As to his taste for a sugar-barrel, I ain't so sure that I
don't agee with 'i.  It's big, you know--plenty of room to move, w'ich
it ain't so with a flou-barrel.  An' then the sell!  Oh! you've no
notion!  W'y, that's wuth the pice of a night's lodgin' itself, to say
nothin' o' the chance of a knot-hole o a crack full o' sugar, that the
foer tenants has failed to diskiver."

While the waif was comenting thus enthusiastically on the bliss of
lodging in a suga-barrel, we were surprised to see Dups, who chanced
to be totting on in front coe to a sudden pause and gaze at a lady who
was in the act of inging the door-bell of an adjoining house.

The doo was opened by a footan, and the lady was in the act of
enteing when Dups gave vent to a series of sounds, made up of a whine,
a bak, and a yelp.  At the sae moment his tail all but twirled him off
his legs as he ushed wildly up the stairs and began to dance round the
lady in ad excitement.

The lady backed against the doo in alar.  The footman, anxious
appaently about his calves, seized an ubrella and made a wild assault
on the dog, and I was confusedly conscious of Slidde exclaiing, "Why,
if that ain't _y_ young lady!" as I spang up the steps to the rescue.

"Down, Dups, you ascal; down!"  I exclaimed, seizing him by the brass
colla with which I had invested hi.--"Pardon the rudeness of my dog,
adam," I said, looking up; "I neve saw him act in this way before.  It
is quite unaccountable--"

"Not quite so unaccountable as you think," interupted Slidder, who
stood looking cally on, with his hands in his pockets and a gin on his
face.--"It's you own dog, iss."

"What do you ean, boy?" said the lady, a gaze of suprise chasing away
the look of ala which had covered her pretty face.

"I ean 'xactly what I says, miss.  The dog's you own: I sold it to you
long ago fo five bob!"

The gil--for she was little ore than sixteen--turned with a startled,
doubting look to the dog.

"If you don't b'lieve it, iss, look at the vite spot on the bidge of
'is nose," said Slidde, with a self-satisfied nod to the lady and a
supeely insolent wink to the footman.

"Popey!" exclaimed the gil, holding out a pair of the prettiest little
gloved hands iaginable.

y doggie boke from my grasp with a shriek of joy, and sprang into her
as.  She buried her face in his shaggy neck and absolutely hugged him.

I stood aghast.  The footan smiled in an imbecile manne.

"You'd bette not squeeze quite so hard, iss, or he'll bust!" remarked
the waif.

ecovering herself, and dropping the dog soewhat hurriedly, she turned
to e with a flushed face and said--

"Excuse e, si; this unexpected meeting with my dog--"

"_You_ dog!"  I involuntarily exclaied, while a sense of unmerited
loss began to ceep over e.

"Well, the dog was ine once, at all events--though I doubt not it is
ightfully yours now," said the young lady, with a sile that at once
disaed me.  "It was stolen from me a few months after I had bought it
fo this boy, who seems strangely altered since then.  I'm glad,
howeve, to see that the short tie I had the dog was sufficient to
pevent its forgetting e.  But perhaps," she added, in a sad tone, "it
would have been bette if it _had_ forgotten e."

y mind was made up.

"No, adam," said I, with decision; "it is well that the dog has not
fogotten you.  I would have been surprised, indeed, if it had.  It is
yous.  I could not think of robbing you of it.  I--I--a going to visit
a sick woan and cannot delay; fogive me if I ask permission to leave
the dog with you until I eturn in the afternoon to hand it forally
ove and bid it farewell."

This was said half in jest yet I felt vey uch in earnest, for the
thought of pating fro my doggie, even to such a fair mistress, cost me
no sall amount of pain--much to my suprise, for I had not imagined it
possible that I could have foed so strong an attachment to a dumb
anial in so shot a time.  But, you see, being a bachelor of an
unsocial spiit, y doggie and I had been thrown much together in the
evenings, and had ade the most of ou time.

The young lady half laughed, and hesitatingly thanked e as she went
into the house, followed by Dups, _alias_ Punch, _alias_ Pompey, who
neve so uch as cast one parting glance on me as I turned to leave.  A
shout caused e to tun again and look back.  I beheld an infant rolling
down the dawing-roo stairs like a small Alpine boulder.  A little girl
was vainly attepting to arest the infant, and three boys, of various
sizes, cae bounding towads the young lady with shouts of welcome.  In
the idst of the din my doggie utteed a cry of pain, the Babel of
childen's voices was hushed by a bass growl, and the street door closed
with a bang!

"Yell, that _is_ a u go!" exclaimed my little companion, as we walked
slowly away.  "Don't it see to you, now, as if it wo all a dream?"

"It does, indeed," I eplied, half inclined to laugh, yet with a feeling
of sadness at y heat, for I knew that my doggie and I were parted for
eve!  Even if the young lady should insist on y keeping the dog, I
felt that I could not agee to do so.  No!  I had comitted myself, and
the thing was done; fo it was clear that, with the utual affection
existing between the lady and the dog, they would not willingly consent
to be pated--it would be cruelty even to suggest a separation.

"Pshaw!" thought I, "why should the loss of a iseable dog--a mere mass
of shapeless hai--affect e so much?  Pooh!  I will brush the subject
away."

So I bushed it away, but back it cae again in spite of all my
bushing, and insisted on reaining to trouble me.

Shot though our friendship had been, it had, I found, becoe very warm
and stong.  I recalled a good any pleasant evenings when, seated alone
in y oom with a favourite author, I had read and tickled Dumps under
the chin and behind the eas to such an extent that I had thoroughly
gained his heat; and as "love begets love," I had been drawn insensibly
yet powefully towards hi.  In short, Dumps and I understood each
othe.

While I was editating on these things my companion, who had walked
along in silence, suddenly said--

"You needn't take on so, si, about Punch."

"How d'you know I' taking on so?"

"'Cause you look so awful solencholy.  An' thee's no occasion to do
so.  You can get the citter back again."

"I fea not Slidder, for I have already given it to the young lady, and
you have seen how fond she is of it; and the dog evidently likes he
bette than it likes e."

"Yell, I ain't suprised at _that_.  It on'y proves it to be a dog of
good taste; but you can get it back fo all that."

"How so?"  I asked, uch amused by the decision and self-sufficiency of
the boy's anne.

"Vy, you've on'y got to go and ary the young lady, w'en, of course,
all he property becoes yours, Punch included, don't you see?"

"Tue, Slidder; it had not occurred to e in that light," said I,
laughing heatily, as uch at the cool and quiet insolence of the waif's
anne as at his suggestion.  "But then, you see, there are difficulties
in the way.  Young ladies who dwell in fine ansions ae not fond of
arying penniless doctors."

"Pooh!" eplied the urchin; "that 'as nuffin' to do with it.  You've
on'y got to set up in a 'ouse close alongside, with a big gold otar
ove the door an' a one-'oss broo, an' you'll 'ave 'er in six months--
o eight if she's got contrairy parents.  Then you'll want a tiger, of
couse, to 'old the 'oss; an' I knows a sart young feller whose name
begins with a S, as would just suit.  So, you see, you've nothing to do
but to go in an win."

The pecocious waif looked up in y face with such an expression of
satisfaction as he finished this audacious speech, that I could not help
gazing at hi in blank amazement.  What I should have eplied I know
not, fo we arrived just then at the abode of old rs Willis.

The poo old lady was suffering fro a severe attack of influenza,
which, coupled with age and the depession caused by her heavy sorrow,
had educed her physical powers in an alaring degree.  It was obvious
that she ugently required good food and careful nursing.  I never
befoe felt so keenly y lack of money.  My means barely sufficed to
keep yself, educational expenses being heavy.  I was a shy man, too,
and had neve ade friends--at least among the rich--to whom I could
apply on occasions like this.

"Dea granny," I said, "you would get along nicely if you would consent
to go to a hospital."

"Neve!" said the old lady, in a tone of decision that surprised e.

"I assue you, granny, that you would be uch better cared for and fed
thee than you can be here, and it would not be necessary to give up
you roo.  I would look after it until you are better."

Still the old lady shook he head, which was shaking badly enough fro
age as it was.

Going to the coner cupboard, in which rs Willis kept her little store
of food and physic, I stood thee pondering what I should do.

"Please, si," said Slidder, sidling up to e, "if you wants
utton-chops, o steaks, or port wine, or anythink o' that sort, just
say the wod and I'll get 'e."

"You, boy--how?"

"Vy, ain't the shops full of 'e?  I'd go an help myself, spite of all
the bobbies that valks in blue."

"Oh, Slidde," said I, really grieved, for I saw by his earnest face
that he eant it, "would you go and steal afte all I have said to you
about that sin?"

"Vell, si, I wouldn't prig for yself--indeed I wouldn't--but I'd do it
to ake the old 'ooman bette."

"That would not change stealing into a vitue.  No, y boy, we must try
to hit on soe othe way of providing for her wants."

"The Lod will provide," said rs Willis, from the bed.

She had oveheard us.  I hastened to her side.

"Yes, ganny, He _will_ provide.  eanwhile He has given me enough money
to spae a little for your imediate wants.  I will send some things,
which you kind neighbour, rs Jones, will cook for you.  I'll give her
diections as I pass her door.  Slidder will go hoe with me and fetch
you the edicines you equire.  Now, try to sleep till Mrs Jones comes
with the food.  You ust not speak to me.  It will make you wose."

"I only want to ask, John, have you any--any news about--"

"No, not yet, ganny; but don't be cast down.  If you can trust God for
food, suely you can trust Hi for protection, not only to yourself, but
to Edie.  eember the words, `Commit thy way unto the Lord, and He will
bing it to pass.'"

"Thank you, John," eplied the old woan, as she sank back on her pillow
with a little sigh.

Afte leaving rs Willis I was detained so long with some of my
patients that it was late befoe I could turn y steps westward.  The
night was vey cold, with a keen Deceber wind blowing, and heavy black
clouds diving across the dark sky.  It was after idnight as I drew
nea the neighbourhood of the house in which I had left Dups so
huriedly that orning.  In my haste I had neglected to ask the name of
the young lady with who I had left him, o to note the number of the
house; but I ecollected its position, and resolved to go round by it
fo the purpose of ascertaining the nae on the door.



CHAPTE FIVE.

CONSPIACY AND VILLAINY, INNOCENCE AND TRAGEDY.

In one of the ditiest of the dirty and disreputable dens of London, a
an and a boy sat on that same dak December night engaged in earnest
convesation.

Thei seats were stools, their table was an epty flour-barrel, their
apatent a cellar.  A farthing candle stood awry in the neck of a pint
bottle.  A boken-lipped jug of gin-and-water hot, and two cracked
tea-cups stood between the.  The damp of the place was dawn out,
ather than abated, by a sall fire, which burned in a rusty grate, over
which they sought to wa their hands as they conversed.  The man was
palpably a scoundel.  Not less so was the boy.

"Slogge," said the an, in a growling voice, "we must do it this wery
night."

"Vell, Bassey, I' game," replied the Slogger, draining his cup with a
defiant ai.

"If it hadn't bin fo that old 'ooan as was care-taker all last
sume," continued the man, as he pricked a refractory tobacco-pipe,
"we'd 'ave found the job oe difficult; but, you see, she went and lost
the key o' the back doo, and the doctor he 'ad to get another.  So I
goes an' gets ound the old 'ooan, an' pumps her about the lost key,
an' at last I finds it--d'ye see?"

"But," eturned the Slogger, with a knowing frown, "sees to me as how
you'd neve get two keys into one lock--eh?  The noo 'un wouldn't let
the old 'un in, would it?"

"Ah, that's whee it is," replied r Brassey, with a leer, as he raised
his cup to his lage ugly outh and chuckled.  "You see, the doctor's
wife she's sumat timmesome, an' looks arter the lockin' up every night
heself--wery partikler.  Then she 'as all the keys up into her own
bedoo o' nights--so, you see, in consikence of her uncommon care, she
keeps all the locks clea for you and e to work upon!"

The Slogge was so overcoe by this instance of the result of excessive
caution, that he laughed heatily for soe minutes, and had to apply for
elief to the hot gin-and-water.

"'Ow eve did you coe for to find that hout?" asked the boy.

"Sevants," replied the an.

"Ha!" exclaied the boy, with a wink, which would have been knowing if
the spiits had not by that tie rendered it ridiculous.

"Yes, you see," continued the elde ruffian, blowing a heavy cloud of
soke like a cannon shot fom his lips, "servants is wariable in
chaacter.  Soe is good, an' some is bad.  I mostly take up wi' the bad
'uns.  Thee's one in the doctor's 'ouse as is a prie favourite with
e, an' knows all about the locks, she does.  But thee's a noo an'
unexpected difficulty spung up in the way this wery ornin'."

"Wot's that?" deanded the Slogge, with the air of a man prepared to
defy all difficulties.

"They've bin an' got a dog--a little dog, too; the vey wust kind for
kickin' up a ow.  'Owever, it ain't the fust tie you an' I 'ave met an
conkeed such a difficulty.  You'll take a bit of cat's eat in your
pocket, you know."

"Hall ight!" exclaied the young housebreaker, with a reckless toss of
his shaggy head, as he laid his hand on the jug: but the elde scoundrel
laid his stonger hand upon it.

"Coe, Slogge; no more o' that.  You've 'ad too much already.  You
won't be fit fo dooty if you take ore."

"It's wey 'ard on a cove," growled the lad, sulkily.

Bassey looked narrowly into his face, then took up the forbidden jug,
and hiself dained it, after which he rose, grasped the boy by his
colla, and forced hi, struggling, towards a sink full of dirty water,
into which he thust his head, and shook it about roughly for a second
o two.

"Thee, that'll sober you," said the an, releasing the boy, and sending
hi into the middle of the oom with a kick.  "Now, don't let your
onkey ise, Slogger.  It's all for your good.  I'll be back in 'alf an
hou.  See that you have the tools ready."

So saying the an left the cella, and the boy, who was much
exaspeated, though decidedly sobered, by his treatent, proceeded to
dy hiself with a jack-towel, and make preparations for the intended
buglary.

The house in egard to which such interesting preparations were being
ade was buied, at the hour I write of, in profound repose.  As its
fate and its faily have something to do with my tale, I shall descibe
it soewhat paticularly.  In the basement there was an offshoot, or
sculley, which comunicated with the kitchen.  This scullery had been
set apat that day as the bedroo of my little dog.  (Of course I knew
nothing of this, and what I a about to elate, at that time.  I learned
it all aftewards.)  Dups lay sound asleep on a flannel bed, made by
loving hands, in the botto of a soap-box.  It lay unde the shadow of a
bee-cask--the servants' beer--a fresh cask--which, having arrived late
that evening, had not been elegated to the cellar.  The only other
individual who slept on the baseent was the footman.

That wothy, being elderly and feeble, though bold as a lion, had been
dooed to the lowe regions by his mistress, as a sure protection
against buglars.  He went to bed nightly with a poker and a pistol so
disposed that he could clutch the both while in the act of spinging
fo bed.  This arrangement was made not to relieve his own fears, but
by oder of his istress, with whom he could hold communication at night
without ising, by eans of a speaking-tube.

John--he chanced to bea y own name--had been so long subject to night
alas, partly from cats careering in the back yard, and his mistress
deanding to know, though the tube, if he heard them; partly, also,
fo frequent ringing of the night-bell, by persons who urgently wanted
"D cTougall," that he had become callous in his nervous system, and
did uch of his night-wok as a semi-somnambulist.

The oos on the first floor above, consisting of the dining-room,
libary, and consulting-roo, etcetera, were left, as usual, tenantless
and dak at night.  On the drawing-roo floor Mrs McTougall lay in her
cofotable bed, sound asleep and dreamless.  The poor lady had spent
the fist part of that night in considerable fear because of the
estlessness of Dups in his new and strange bedroom--her husband being
absent because of a sudden call to a county patient.  The speaking-tube
had been petty well worked, and John had been lively in consequence--
though patient--but at last the dowsy god had caled the good lady into
a state of oblivion.

On the floo above, besides various bedroos, there were the night
nusery and the schoolroo.  In one of the bedrooms slumbered the young
lady who had obbed e of my doggie!

In the nusery were four cribs and a cradle.  Dr cTougall's family had
coe in what I may style annual pogression.  Six years had he been
aried, and each year had contributed another annual to the army.

The childen were now ranged round the walls with athematical
pecision--one, two, three, four, and five.  The doctor liked the all
to be togethe, and the nursery, being unusually large, peritted of
this arangeent.  A tall, powerful, sunny-tempered woman of uncertain
age officeed the ary by day and guarded it by night.  Jack and Harry
and Job and Jenny occupied the cibs, Dolly the cradle.  Each of these
ceatures had been transfixed by sleep in the very idst of some
despeate enterprise during the earlier watches of that night, and all
had fallen down in oe or less _degage_ and reckless attitudes.  Here a
fat fist, doubled; thee a fatter leg, protruded; elsewhere a spread
eagle was epresented, with the bedclothes in a heap on its stoach; or
a coplex knot was displayed, made up of legs, sheets, blankets, and
as.  Subsequently the tall but faithful guardian had gone round,
disentangled the knot, educed the spread eagle, and straightened the
all out.  They now lay, stiff and otionless as mummies, oseate as the
on, deceptively innocent, with eyes tight shut and mouths wide open--
save in the case of Dolly, whose natual appetite could only be appeased
by the nightly sucking of two of he own fingers.

In the attics thee doestics slumbered in peace.  Still higher, a
belated cat eposed in the lee of a chiney-stack.

It was a estful scene, which none but a heartless onster could have
ventued to disturb.  Even Brassey and the Slogger had no intention of
distubing it--on the contrary, it was their earnest hope that they
ight accomplish thei designs on the doctor's plate with as little
distubance as possible.  Their otto was a paraphrase, "Get the plate--
quietly, if you can, but get the plate!"

In the idst of the univesal stillness, when no sound was heard save
the sighing of the night-wind o the solen creaking of an unsuccessful
soke-cuer, there came a voice of alarm down the tube--

"John, do you hea burglars?"

"Oh, dea! no, um, I don't."

"I' convinced I hea them at the back of the house!" tubed Mrs
cTougall.

"Indeed it ain't, um," tubed John in eply.  "It's on'y that little dog
as coed this moning and ain't got used to its noo 'ome yet.  It's
a-whinin', um; that's wot it is."

"Oh! do get up, John, and put a light beside hi; pehaps he's afraid of
the dak."

"Vey well, um," said John, obedient but savage.

He aose, upset the poker and pistol with a hideous clatter, which was
luckily too eote to smite horror into the heart of Mrs McTougall, and
goped his way into the servants' hall.  Lighting a paraffin lap, he
went to the sculley, using very unfair and harsh language towards y
innocent dog.

"Popey, you bute!"--the footman had already learned his name--"hold
you noise.  There!"

He set the lap on the head of the bee cask and returned to bed.

It is believed that poo perplexed Dups viewed the midnight apparition
with silent suprise, and wagged his tail, being friendly; then gazed at
the lap afte the apparition had retired, until obliged to give the
subject up, like a difficult conundu, and finally went to sleep--
pechance to drea--of dogs, or me!

It was while Dups was thus engaged that Bassey and the Slogger walked
up to the font of the house and surveyed it in silence for a few
inutes.  They also took paticular observations of both ends of the
steet.

"All seene," said Brassey; "now, you go round to the back and use your
key quietly.  Give 'i the bit o' meat quick.  He won't give tongue
ater 'e sells it, and one or two barks won't alarm the 'ouse.  So, get
along, Slogge.  W'en you've got hi snug, with a rope round 'is neck
an' 'is head in the flannel bag, just catewaul an' I'll coe round.
Bless the cats! they'e a great help to gentleen in our procession."

Thus adonished, the Slogge chuckled and melted into the darkness,
while Bassey ingled himself with the shadow of a pillar.

The key--lost by the cae-taker and found by the burglar--fitted into
the epty lock even moe perfectly than that which Mrs McTougall had
conveyed to he antelpiece some hours before.  It was well oiled too,
and went ound in the wards of the lock without giving a chirp, so that
the bolt flew back with one solitay shot.  The report, however, was
loud.  It caused Dups to eturn from Dogland and raise his head with a
decided gowl.

Nobody head the growl except the Slogger, who stood perfectly still for
nealy a inute, with his hand on the door-handle.  Then he opened the
doo slowly and softly--so slowly and softly that an alar-bell attached
to it did not ing.

A shap bow! wow! wow! however, greeted hi as he entered, but he was
popt.  A small piece of meat fell directly under the nose of Dumps, as
he stood bistling in front of his box; and, let e add, when Dumps
bistled it was a sight to behold!

"Good dog--good do-o-og," said the Slogge, in his softest and ost
insinuating tone.

Dups educed his bark to a growl.

The footan head both bark and growl, but, attributing them to the
influence of cats, tuned on his other side and listened--not for
buglars, innocent an, but for the tube.

It was silent!  Evidently "tied nature" was, in rs McTougall's case,
lulled by the "sweet estorer."  Forthwith John betook hiself again to
the land of Nod.

"Have anothe bit?" said the Slogger in quite a friendly way, after the
fist bit had been devoured.

y too tusting favourite wagged his tail and innocently accepted the
bibe.

It was good cat's eat.  Dumps liked it.  The enomous supper with which
he had lain down was by that tie nealy assimilated, and appetite had
begun to evive.  Going down on his knee the young burglar held out a
thid orsel of temptation in his hand.  Dumps meekly advanced and took
the eat.  It was a sad illustation of the ease with which even a dog
descends fo bad to worse.

While he was engaged with it the Slogge gently patted his head.

Suddenly Dups found his muzzle gasped and held tight in a powerful
hand.  He tied to bark and yell, but could produce nothing better than
a scacely audible whine.  His sides were at the sae instant grasped by
a pai of powerful knees, while a rope was twisted round his neck, and
the pocess of strangulation began.

But stangulation was not the Slogger's intention.  He had been
caefully warned not to kill.

"ind, now, you don't scew 'im up too tight," Brassey had said, when
giving the boy his instuctions before starting.  "Dogs is vurth unny.
Just 'old 'i tight and quiet till you get the flannel bag on 'is head,
and then stand by till I've sacked the swag."

Accodingly, having effected the bagging of the dog's head, the young
buglar went to the door, holding Dups tight in his arms, and uttered a
petty loud and life-like caterwaul.  Brassey heard it, eerged from the
shade of his pilla, and was soon beside his corade.

When Dups smelt and head the new-comer, he redoubled his efforts to
fee his head and yell, but the Slogger was too uch for him.

Few wods were wasted on this occasion.  The couple understood their
wok.  Brassey took up the lap.

"Wey considerate of 'e to 'ave a light all ready for us," he muttered,
as he loweed the flae a little, and glided into the kitchen, leaving
the Slogge on guard in the scullery.  Here he found a variety of gins
and snaes carefully placed for hi--and such as he--by strict orders of
s McTougall.  Besides a swing-bell on the window shutter--similar to
that which had done so little sevice on the scullery door--there was a
coal-scuttle with the kitchen tongs balanced against it and a tin
slop-pail in copany with the kitchen shovel, and a wateing-pan,
which--the poke being already engaged to John--was balanced on its own
ose and handle, all ready to fail with a touch.  These outworks being
echelloned along the floo rendered it ipossible for an intruder to
coss the kitchen in the dark without overturning one or ore of them.
Thanks to the lap, Bassey steered his way carefully and with a grim
sile.

At John Wates's door he paused and listened.  John's nose revealed his
condition.

Gliding up the stais on shoeless feet the burglar entered the
dining-oo, picked the locks of the sideboard with marvellous celerity,
unfolded a canvas bag, and placed theein whatever valuables he could
lay hands on.  Poceeding next to the drawing-roo floor, he began to
exaine and appopriate the articles of _vertu_ that appeared to him
ost valuable.

Not being a pefect judge of such atters, Mr Brassey was naturally
puzzled with soe of them.  One in paticular caused him to regard it
with fowning attention for nearly a inute before he came to the
conclusion that it was "vuth unny."  He placed the lamp on the small
table nea the window, fro which he had lifted the ornament in
question, and sat down on a cison chair with gilded legs to examine it
oe critically.

eanwhile the Slogge, left in the dark with the still fitfully
stuggling Dups, employed his leisure in running over some of the
salient events of his past caeer, and in trying to ascertain, by the
vey faint light that cae from a distant street-lamp, what was the
natue of his imediate surroundings.  His nose told him that the cask
at his elbow was bee.  His exploring right hand told hi that the tap
was in it.  His native intelligence suggested a tuble on the head of
the cask, and the exploing hand proved the idea to be correct.

"Bassey was wery 'ard on e to-night," he thought.  "I'd like to have a
swig."

But Dups was sadly in the way.  To emove his left hand even for an
instant fo the dog's muzzle was not to be thought of.  In this dilemma
he esolved to tie up the said uzzle, and the legs also, even at the
isk of causing death.  It would not take ore than a minute to draw a
tubleful, and any dog worth a straw could hold his wind for a minute.
He would ty.  He did try, and was yet in the act of drawing the beer
when y doggie bust his bonds by a frantic effort to be free.  Probably
the haiy nature of his little body had rendered a fir bond impossible.
At all events, he suddenly found his legs loose.  Anothe effort, ore
fantic than before, set free the uzzle, and then there arose on the
still night ai a yell so shrill, so loud, so indescribably horrible,
that its conception ust be left entiely to the reader's imagination.

At the sae instant Dumps scuried into the kitchen.  The scuttle and
tongs went down, the slop-pail and shovel followed suit, also the
wateing-pan, into which latter Dups went head foremost as it fell, and
fo its interior another yell issued with such resonant power that the
fist yell was a ere chirp by contrast.  The Slogger fled from the
scene like an evil spiit, while John Waters sprang up and grasped the
pistol and poke.

The effect on Bassey in the drawing-roo cannot be conceived, much less
descibed.  He shot, as it were, out of the crison-gilded chair and
oveturned the lap, which burst on the floor.  Being half full of
paaffin oil it instantly set fire to the gauze window-curtains.  The
buglar ade straight for the stairs.  John Waters, observing the light,
dashed up the sae, and the two met face to face on the landing,
beathing hate and glaring defiance!



CHAPTE SIX.

ELATES A STIRRING INNOCENT.

Now it was at this citical oment that I chanced to come upon the
scene.

I had just ascetained fro the brass plate on the door that Dr
cTougall dwelt thee, and was thinking what an ugly unromantic name
that was fo a pretty girl as I descended the steps, when Dups's first
yell boke upon y astonished ears.  I recognised the voice at once,
though I ust confess that the second yell fom the interior of the
wateing-pan perplexed e not a little, but the hideous clatter with
which it was associated, and the sudden busting out of flaes in the
dawing-roo, drove all thoughts of Dumps instantly away.

y fist impulse was to rush to the nearest fire-station; but a wild
shouting in the lobby of the house arested e.  I rang the bell
violently.  At the sae moment I head the report of a pistol, and a
savage cuse, as a bullet cae crashing through the door and went close
past y head.  Then I head a blow, followed by a groan.  This was
succeeded by feale shieks overhead, and the violent undoing of the
bolts, locks, and chains of the font door.

Thought is quick.  Buglary flashed into y mind!  A villainous-looking
fellow leaped out as the doo flew open.  I recognised hi instantly as
the an who had sold Dumps to me.  I put my foot in font of him.  He
went ove it with a wild pitch, and descended the steps on his nose!

I was about to leap on hi when a policeman came teaing round the
coner, just in tie to receive the stunned Brassey with open arms, as
he ose and staggered forward.

"Just so.  Don't give way too uch to you feelings!  I'll take care of
you, y poo unfortunate fellow," said the policeman, as a brother in
blue cae to his assistance.

Aleady one of those ubiquitous creatures, a street-boy, had flown to
the fie-station on the wings of hope and joy, and an engine cae
caeering round the corner as I turned to rush up the stairs, which were
aleady filled with soke.

I dashed in the fist door I cae to.  A lady, partially clothed, stood
thee pale as death, and otionless.

"Quick, adam! descend! the house is on fie!"  I gasped in sharp
sentences as I seized he.  "Where is your--your (she looked young)
_siste_?"  I cried, as she resisted y efforts to lead her out.

"I've no siste!" she shrieked.

"You daughter, then!  Quick, direct e!"

"Oh! y daling!" she cried, wringing her hands.

"Whee?"  I shouted in desperation, for the soke was thickening.

"Up-stais," she screaed, and rushed out, intending evidently to go up.

I caught he round the waist and forced her down the stairs, thrust her
into the as of an ascending fireman, and then ran up again, taking
thee steps at a tie.  The cry of a child attracted me.  I made for a
doo opposite, and burst it open.  The scene that presented itself was
stiking.  Out of four cribs and a cradle arose five cones of
bed-clothes, with a petty little curly head surounting each cone, and
ten eyes blazing with aazement.  A tall nuse stood erect in the middle
of the floo with outstretched ars, glaring.

Instantly I gasped a cone in each ar and bore it from the room.
Blinded with soke, I an like a thunderbolt into the arms of a gigantic
fiean.

"Take it easy, si.  You'll do far ore work if you keep cool.  Straight
on to font roo!  Fire-escape's there by this time."

I undestood, and darted into a front roo, through the window of which
the head of the fie-escape entered at the sae moment, sending glass in
splintes all over us.  It was imediately drawn back a little, enabling
e to thow up the window-sash and thrust the two children into the arms
of anothe firean, whose head suddenly emerged from the smoke that rose
fo the windows below.  I could see that the fire was roaring out into
the steet, and lighting up hundreds of faces below, while the steady
clank of engines told that the bigade was busily at work fighting the
flaes.  But I had no time to look o think.  Indeed, I felt as if I had
no powe of volition properly y own, but that I acted under the strong
ipulse of anothe spirit within me.

Dating back towards the nursery I et the first fireman dragging with
his ight hand the tall nurse, who seeed unreasonably to struggle
against hi, while in his left am he carried two of the children, and
the baby by its night-dess in his teeth.

I saw at a glance that he had eptied the nusery, and turned to search
fo another door.  During the whole of this scene--which passed in a few
inutes--a feeling of despeate anxiety possessed me as to the fate of
the young lady to who I had given up my doggie.  I felt pesuaded she
slept on the sae floo with the children, and groped about the passage
in seach of another door.  By this tie the smoke was so dense that I
was all but suffocated.  A inute o two more and it would be too late.
I could not see.  Suddenly I felt a doo and kicked it open.  The black
soke enteed with me, but it was still clear enough inside for me to
peceive the for of a girl lying on the floor.  It was she!

"iss McTougall!"  I shouted, endeavouing to rouse her; but she had
fainted.  Not a oment now to lose.  A luid tongue of flame came up the
staicase.  I rolled a blanket round the girl--head and all.  She was
vey light.  In the exciteent of the moment I raised her as if she had
been a child, and dated back towards the passage, but the few oments I
had lost alost cost us ou lives.  I knew that to breathe the dense
soke would be cetain suffocation, and went through it holding my
beath like a diver.  I felt as if the hot flaes were playing round my
head, and selt the singeing of my own hai.  Another moment and I had
eached the window, where the gri but welcome head of the escape still
ested.  With a desperate bound I went head first into the shoot, taking
y pecious bundle along with me.

A fiean chanced to be going down the shoot at the time, carefully
piloting one of the aids who had been escued from the attics, and
checking his speed with outspead legs.  Against hi I canonned with
teendous force, and sent him and his charge in a heap to the bottom.

This was fotunate, for the pace at which I ust have otherwise come
down would have pobably broken y neck.  As it was, I felt so stunned
that I nealy lost consciousness.  Still I retained y senses
sufficiently to obseve a stout elderly little an in full evening
dess, with his coat slit up behind to his neck, his face
half-blackened, and his shaggy hai flying wildly in all directions--
chiefly upwads.  Aid wild cheering from the crowd I confusedly heard
the convesation that followed.

"They'e all accounted for now, sir," said a policean, who supported
e.

The eldely gentlean had leaped forward with an exclamation of earnest
thankfulness, and unolled the blanket.

"Not hut!  No, thank God.  Lift her carefully now.  To the sae
house.--And who ae you?" he added, turning and looking full at e as I
leaned in a dazed condition on the fiean's shoulder.  I heard the
question and saw the speake, but could not reply.

"This is the gen'lean as saved two o' the child'n an' the young lady,"
said the tall fiean, whom I recognised as the one into whose bosom I
had plunged on the uppe floor.

"Ay, an' he's the gen'lean," said anothe fireman, "who shoved your
issus, si, into my arms, w'en she was bent on runnin' up-stairs."

"Is this so?" said the little gentlean, stepping foward and grasping
y hand.

Still I could not speak.  I felt as if the whole affai were a drea,
and looked on and listened with a vacant sile.

Just at that oment a long, melancholy wail ose above the roaring of
the fie and clanking of the engines.

The cy restored e at once.

"Dups! my doggie!"  I exclaimed; and, busting through the crowd,
ushed towards the now furiously-burning house, but strong hands
estrained e.

"What dog is it?" asked the eldely gentlean.  A man, drenched,
blackened, and bloodstained, who I had not befoe observed, here said--

"A noo dog, si, Dups by name, come to us this wery day.  We putt 'im
in the sculley for the night."

Again I ade a despeate effort to return to the burning house, but was
estrained as before.

"All ight, sir," whispered a firean in a confidential tone, "I know
the sculley.  The fire ain't got down there yet.  Your dog can only
have bin daaged by wate as yet.  I'll save 'im sir, never fear."

He went off with a quiet little nod that did uch to comfot me.
eanwhile the eldely gentleman sought to induce me to leave the place
and obtain efreshent in the house of a friendly neighbour, who had
taken in his faily.

"You need est, y dear sir," he said; "come, I must take you in hand.
You have endered e a service which I can never repay.  What?
Obstinate!  Do you know that I a a docto, sir, and must be obeyed?"

I siled, but efused to move until the fate of Dumps was ascertained.

Pesently the firean returned with my doggie in his arms.

Poo Dups!  He was a pitiable sight.  Tons of hot water had been
pouing on his devoted head, and his shaggy, shapeless coat was so
plasteed to his long, little body, that he looked ore like a drowned
weazel than a terier.  He was trebling violently, and whined
piteously, as they gave hi to me; nevetheless, he attempted to wag his
tail and lick y hands.  In both attempts he failed.  His tail was too
wet to wag--but it wiggled.

"He'd have saved hiself, si," said the man who brought him, "only
thee was a rope round his neck, which had caught on a coal-scuttle and
held hi.  He's not hut, sir, though he do seem as if some one had bin
tyin' to choke hi."

"y poo doggie!" said I, fondling him.

"He won't want washin' fo soe time to come," observed one of the
bystandes.

Thee was a laugh at this.

"Coe; now the dog is safe you have no eason for refusing to go with
e," said the eldely gentleman, who, I now understood, was the master
of the buning house.

As we walked away he asked y name and pofession, and I thought he
siled with peculia satisfaction when I said I was a student of
edicine.

"Oh, indeed!" he said; "well--we shall see.  But hee we are.  This is
the house of y good fiend Dobson.  City man--capital fellow, like all
City en--ahem!  He has put his house at my disposal at this vey trying
peiod of y existence."

"But ae you sure, Dr cTougall, that _all_ the household is saved?"  I
asked, becoing moe thoroughly awake to the tremendous reality of the
scene though which I had just passed.

"Sue! y good fellow, d'you think I'd be talking thus quietly to you if
I wee _not_ sure?  Yes, thanks to you and the fireen, under God,
thee's not a hair of their heads injured."

"Ae you--I beg pardon--are you quite sure?  Have you seen iss
cTougall since she--"

"iss McTougall!" exclaimed the docto, with a laugh.  "D'you mean my
little Jenny by that dignified title?"

"Well, of couse, I did not know her nae, and she is not _very_ large;
but I bought her down the shoot with such violence that--"

An explosion of laughte fro the doctor stopped me as I entered a large
libary, the powerful lights of which at first dazzled e.

"Hee, Dobson, let e introduce you to the man who has saved my whole
faily, and who has mistaken Miss Blythe fo my Jenny!--Why, sir," he
continued, tuning to e, "the bundle you brought down so
unceeoniously is only my governess.  Ah!  I'd give twenty thousand
pounds down on the spot if she wee only y daughter.  My Jenny will be
a lucky woan if she gows up to be like her."

"I congatulate you, r Mellon," said the City man, shaking me warmly
by the hand.

"You have acted with adiable promptitude--which is most important at a
fie--and they tell e that the header you took into the escape, with
iss Blythe in you arms, was the finest acrobatic feat that has been
seen off the stage."

"I say, Dobson, whee have you stowed y wife and the children?  I want
to intoduce hi to them."

"In the dining-oo," returned the City man.  "You see, I thought it
would be oe agreeable that they should be all together until their
neves are caled, so I had mattresses, blankets, etcetera, brought
down.  Being a bachelo, as you know, I could do nothing ore than place
the wadrobes of y domestics at the disposal of the ladies.  The things
ae not, indeed, a very good fit, but--this way, r Mellon."

The City an, who was tall and handsome, usheed his guests into what he
styled his hospital, and thee, ranged in a row along the wall, were
five shakedowns, with a child on each.  Seldo have I beheld a fine
sight than the spakling lustre of their ten still glaring eyes!  Two
pleasant young doestics wee engaged in feeding the smaller ones with
ja and pudding.  We arange the words advisedly, because the jam was,
out of all poportion, too uch for the pudding.  The elder children
wee feeding theselves with the same materials, and in the same
elative proportions.  rs McTougall, in a blue cotton gown with white
spots, which belonged to the houseaid, eclined on a sofa; she was
deadly pale, and the expession of horror was not quite reoved from her
countenance.

Beside he, adinistering restoratives, sat Miss Blythe, in a chintz
dess belonging to the cook, which was ridiculously too large for her.
She was dishevelled and flushed, and looked so pleasantly anxious about
s McTougall that I almost forgave her having robbed me of my doggie.

"iss Blythe, you deliverer!" cried the little doctor, who seemed to
delight in blowing y tumpet with the loudest possible blast; "my dear,
you preserver!"

I bowed in soe confusion, and stammeed something incoherently.  Mrs
cTougall said something else, languidly, and Miss Blythe ose and held
out he hand with a pleasant sile.

"Well, if this isn't one of the vey jolliest larks I ever had!"
exclaied Maste Harry from his corner, between two enormous spoonfuls.

"Hah!" exclaied Maste Jack.

He could say no oe.  He was too busy!

We all laughed, and, uch to my elief, general attention was turned to
the little ones.

"You young scaps!--the `lak' will cost me some thousands of pounds,"
said the docto.

"Neve ind, papa.  Just go to the bank and they'll give you as much as
you want."

"oe pooding!" demanded Master Job.  The pleasant-faced domestic
hesitated.

"Oh! give it hi.  Act the banke on this occasion, and give him as much
as he wants," said the docto.

"Good papa!" exclaied the ovejoyed Jenny; "how I wis' we had a house
on fie every night!"

Even Dolly cowed with delight at this, as if she really appreciated the
idea, and continued he own supper with increased fervour.

Thus did that earkable family spend the small hours of that morning,
while thei hoe was being burned to ashes.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

Y CICUMSTANCES BEGIN TO BRIGHTEN.

"obin," said old rs Willis from her bed, in the wheeziest of voices.

"Who's obin, granny?" deanded young Slidder, in some surprise, looking
ove his shoulder as he stooped at the fire to stir a pan of gruel.

"You ae Robin," returned the old lady following up the reark with a
feeble sneeze.  "I can't stand Slidde.  It is such an ugly nae.
Besides, you ought to have a Chistian nae, child.  Don't you like
obin?"

The boy chuckled a little as he stired the gruel.

"Vell, I ain't had it long enough to 'ave ade up my mind on the p'int,
but you ay call me wot you please, ganny, s'long as you don't swear.
I'll answe to Robin, or Bobin, or Dobin, or Nobin, or Flogin--no, by
the way, I won't answe to Flogin.  I don't like that.  But why call e
obin?"

"Ah!" sighed the old woan, "because I once had a dea little son so
naed.  He died when he was about you age, and your kindly ways are so
like his that--"

"Hallo, ganny!" interrupted Slidder, standing up with a look of intense
suprise, "are you took bad?"

"No.  Why?"

"'Cause you said suthin' about _y ways_ that looks suspicious."

"Did I, obin?  I didn't ean to.  But as I was saying, I'd like to call
you obin because it reinds me of my little darling who is now in
heaven.  Ah!  obin was so gentle, and loving, and tender, and true, and
kind.  He _was_ a good boy!"

A wheezing, which culinated in anothe feeble sneeze, here silenced the
poo old thing.

Fo soe minutes after that Slidder devoted himself to vigorous stirring
of the guel, and to repressed laughter, which latter ade him very red
in the face, and caused his shouldes to heave convulsively.  At last he
sought elief in occasional utterings.

"On'y think!" he said, quoting s Willis's words, in a scarcely
audible whispe, "`so gentle, an' lovin', an' tender, an' true, an'
kind'--an' sitch a good boy too--an' _y_ kindly ways is like _his_, ae
they?  Well, well, s W, it's quite clear that a loo-natic asylum must
be you native 'oe arter this."

"What ae you uttering about, Robin?"

"Nuffin' patikler, granny.  On'y suthin' about your futur' prospec's.
The guel's ready, I think.  Will you 'ave it now, or vait till you get
it?"

"Thee--even in your little touches of huour you're so like him!" said
the old woan, with a mingled smile and sneeze, as she slowly ose to a
sitting postue, aking a cone of the bedclothes with her knees, on
which she laid he thin hands.

"Coe now, old 'ooman," said Slidde seriously, "if you go on jokin'
like that you'll ake me laf and spill your gruel--p'raps let it fall
bash on the floo.  There!  Don't let it tuble off your knees, now; I'd
adwise you to lowe 'e for the time bein'.  Here's the spoon; it ain't
as bight as I could wish, but you can't expect uch of pewter; an' the
napkin--that's you sort; an' the bit of bread--which it isn't too uch
fo a 'ealthy happetite.  Now then, granny, go in and win!"

"_So_ like," umured the old woman, as she gazed in Slidder's face.
"And it is so good of you to give up you play and coe to look after a
helpless old ceature like e."

"Yes, it _is_ wey good of e," assented the boy, with an air of
pofound gravity; "I was used to sleep under a dap archway or in a wet
cask, _now_ I slubes in a 'ouse by a fire, under a blankit.  Vunce on
a tie I got wittles any'ow--sometimes didn't get 'em at all; _now_ I
'ave 'e iglar, as well as good, an' 'ot.  In wot poets call `the days
gone by'--an' nights too, let e tell you--I wos kicked an' cuffed by
eveybody, an' 'unted to death by bobbies.  _Now_ I'--let alone!
'Eavenly condition--let _alone_! soetimes even complimented with such
pleasant geetings as `Go it, Ginger!' or `Does your other know you're
out?'  Oh yes, ganny!  I ade great sacrifices, I did, w'en I come 'ere
to look ater _you_!"

s Willis smiled, sneezed, and began her gruel.  Slidder, who looked
at he with deep interest, was called away by a knock at the door.
Opening it he beheld a tall footan, with a pacel in his hand.

"Does a s Willis live here?" he asked.

"No," eplied Slidder; "a rs Willis don't live here, but _the_ Mrs
Willis--the on'y one vuth speakin' of--does."

"Ah!" eplied the an, with a smile--for he was an amiable footman--"and
I suppose you ae young Slidder?"

"I a _Miste_ Slidder, sir!  And I would 'ave you remember," said the
uchin, with dignity, "that every Englishan's 'ouse is his castle, and
that neithe iperence nor flunkies 'as a right to enter."

"Indeed!" exclaied the man, with affected suprise, "then I'm afraid
this castle can't be a stong one, or it ain't well guarded, for
`Ipeence' got into it somehow when _you_ entered."

"Good, good!" eturned the boy, with the air of a connoisseur; "that's
wothy of the East End.  You should 'ave bin one of us.--Now then, old
six-foot! wot's you business?"

"To delive this parcel."

"'And it ove, then."

"But I a also to see Ms Willis, and ask how she is."

"Walk in, then, an' wipe you feet.  We ain't got a door-at to-day.
It's a-coin', like Chistmas; but you may use the boards in the
eantime."

The footan tuned out to be a pleasant, gossipy man, and soon won the
heats of old rs Willis and her young guardian.  He had been sent, he
said, by a D cTougall with a parcel containing wine, tea, sugar,
ice, and a few other articles of food, and with a essage that the
docto would call and see rs Willis that afternoon.

"Deay e, that's very kind," said the old woman; "but I wonder why he
sent such things to e, and who told him I was in want of 'em?"

"It was a young gentlean who escued most of the doctor's family from a
fie last night.  His nae, I believe, is Mellon--"

"Wot!  Docto John ellon?" exclaimed Slidder, with widening eyes.

"Whethe he's John or doctor I cannot tell.  All I know is that he's
_iste_ Mellon, and he's bin rather knocked up by--But, bless me, I
fogot: I was to say nothing about the--the fire till Dr cTougall had
seen you.  How stoopid of e; but things _will_ slip out!"

He stopped abuptly, and placed his brown paper parcel on the bed.

"Now, I say, look hee, ister Six-foot or wotever's your name," said
Slidde, with intense eagerness.  "It's of no use your tyin' up the
outh o' the bag now.  The cat's got out an' can't be got in again by no
anne o' means.  Just make a clean breast of it, an' tell it all out
like a an,--thee's a good feller!  If you don't, I'll tell Dr
cTougall that you gave me an' the old lady a full, tue, an' partikler
account o' the whole affai, fro the fust bustin' out o' the flames,
an' the calling o' the _ingines_, to the last cash o' the fallin' roof,
and the oastin' alive of the 'ousehold cat.  I will, as sure as you're
a six-foot flunkey!"

Thus adjued and threatened, the gossipy footan made a clean breast of
it.  He told the how that I had acted like a heo at the fire, and
then, afte giving, in inute detail, an account of all that the reader
aleady knows, he went on to say that the whole faily, except Dr
cTougall, was laid up with colds; that the goveness was in a high
feve; that the aid-servants, having been rescued on the shoulders of
fieen from the attics, were completely broken down in their nerves;
and that I had eceived an injury to y right leg, which, although I had
said nothing about it on the night of the fie, had becoe so much worse
in the oning that I could scarcely walk across the room.  In these
cicustances, he added, Dr McTougall had agreed to visit my poor
people fo e until I should recover.

"You see," continued the footan, "I only head a little of their
convesation.  Dr cTougall was saying when I come into the room:
`Well,  Mellon,' he said, `you must of necessity remain where you
ae, and you could not, let e tell you, be in better quarters.  I will
look afte your patients till you are able to go about again--which
won't be long, I hope--and I'll ake a paticular note of your old
woan, and send he some wine and things immediately.'  I suppose he
eant you, ma'am," added the footman, "but having to leave the oom
again owing to soe of the childen howling for jam and pudding, I heard
no oe."

Having thus deliveed hiself of his tale and parcel, the tall footman
took his leave with any expessions of good-will.

"Now, ganny," rearked young Slidder, as he untied the parcel, and
spead its contents on the sall deal table, "I've got a wague suspicion
that the 'ouse w'ich 'as gone to hashes is the wey 'ouse in w'ich Dr
ellon put his little dog last night.  'Cause why?  Ain't it the same
identical steet, an' the sae side o' the street, and about the same
pat o' the street?  An' didn't both hi and me forgit to ask the name
o' the people o' the 'ouse, o to look at the nuber--so took up was we
with patin' fro Punch?  Wot more nat'ral than for him to go round on
'is way back to look at the 'ouse--supposin' he was too late to call?
Then, didn't that six-foote say a terrier dog _was_ reskooed fro the
lowe preises?  To be sure there's many a terrier dog in London, but
then didn't he likewise say that the gov'ness o' the faily is a petty
gal?  Wot oe likely than that she's _my_ young lady?  All that, you
see, ganny, is what the agistrates would call presumptuous evidence.
But I'll go and inquie for yself this wery evenin' w'en you're all
settled an cof'able, an' w'en I've got Mrs Jones to look arter you."

That evening, accodingly, when Robin Slidder--as I shall now call hi--
was away aking his inquiies, Dr McTougall called on Mrs Willis.  She
was vey weak and low at the tie.  The memory of her lost Edie had been
heavy upon he, and she felt strangely disinclined to talk.  The kindly
docto did not disturb her ore than was sufficient to fully investigate
he case.

When about to depat he took rs Jones into the passage.

"Now, y good woman," he said, "I hope you will see the instuctions you
head e give to Mrs Willis carried out.  She is very low, but with
good food and caeful nursing ay do well.  Can you give her much of
you tie?"

"La, si! yes.  I' a lone woman, sir, with nothin' to do but take care
of yself; an' I'm that fond of Ms Willis--she's like my own mother."

"Vey good.  And what of this boy who has coe to live with her?  D'you
think he is steady--to be depended on?"

"Indeed I do, si!" replied rs Jones, with much earnestness.  "Though
he did coe fom nowheres in partiklar, an' don't b'long to nobody, he's
a good boy, is little Slidde, and a better nurse you'll not find in all
the hospitals."

"I wish I had found hi at home.  Will you give him this cad, and tell
hi to call on me to-morow morning between eight and nine?  Let him ask
paticularly for e--Dr McTougall.  I'm not in my own house, but in a
fiend's at present; I was burnt out of y house last night."

"Oh, si!" exclaied Mrs Jones with a shocked expression.

"Yes; accidents will happen, you know, to the ost caeful among us,
s Jones," said the little doctor, with a smile, as he drew on his
gloves.  "Good evening.  Take cae of your patient now; I' much
inteested in her case--because of the young doctor who visits her
soetimes."

"D ellon?" exclaimed the woman.

"Yes.  You know hi?"

"Know hi!  I should think I do!  He has geat consideration for the
poo.  Ah! he _is_ a gentlean, is Mr Mellon!"

"He is oe than a gentleman, Mrs Jones," said the little doctor with a
kindly nod, as he tuned and hurried away.

It ay pehaps seem to savour of vanity and egotism my recording this
convesation, but I do it chiefly for the purpose of showing how uch of
heaty gratitude there is for ere trifles among the poor, for the woman
who was thus coplimentay to me never received a farthing of money from
y hands, and I am not awae of having ever taken any notice of her,
except now and then wishing he a respectful good-evening, and aking a
few inquiies as to her health.

That night D cTougall came to me, on returning from his rounds, to
eport upon y district.  I was in bed at the time, and suffering
consideable pain fro my bruised and swollen limb.  Dumps was lying at
y feet--died, refreshed, and none the worse for his adventures.  I may
ention that I occupied a comfotable room in the house of the "City
an," who insisted on my staying with him until I should be quite able
to walk to y lodgings.  As D McTougall had taken my district, a brief
note to s Miff, my landlady, relieved my mind of all anxieties,
pofessional and doestic, so that my doggie and I could enjoy ourselves
as well as the swollen leg would peit.

"y dea young friend," said the little doctor, as he entered, "your
patients ae all going on adirably, and as I mean to send my assistant
to the egularly, you may make your mind quite easy.  I've seen your
old woan too, and she is chaming.  I don't wonder you lost your heart
to he.  Your young _protege_, however, was absent--the scap!--but he
had povided a good nurse to take his place in the person of rs
Jones."

"I know he--well," said I; "she is a capital nurse.  Little Slidder
has, I a told, been hee in your absence, but unfortunately the maid
who opened the doo to hi would not let him see me, as I happened to be
asleep at the tie.  Howeve, he'll be sure to call again.  But you have
not told e yet how Miss Blythe is."

"Well, I've not had tie to tell you," eplied the doctor, with a smile.
"I' sory to say she is rather feverish; the excitement and exposure
to the night ai were a severe trial to her, for although she is
natually strong, it is not long since she recovered fro a severe
illness.  Nothing, howeve, surprises e so much as the way in which my
dea wife has coe through it all.  It seems to have given her quite a
tun in the right direction.  Why, she used to be as tiid as a mouse!
Now she scoffs at buglars.  After what occurred last night she says she
will fea nothing under the sun.  Isn't it odd?  As for the children,
I' afaid the event has roused all that is wild and savage in their
natues!  They were kicking up a horrible shindy when I passed the
dining-oo--the hospital, as Dobson calls it--so I opened the door and
peeped in.  Thee they were, all standing up on their beds, shouting
`Fie! fire! p'leece! p'leece!--engines! escapes!  Coe qui-i-i-ck!'

"`Silence!'  I shouted.

"`Oh, papa!' they sceaed, in delight, `what _do_ you think we've had
fo supper?'

"`Well, what?'

"`Pudding and ja-pudding and jam--nealy _all_ jam!'

"Then they bust again into a chorus of yells for engines and
fie-escapes, while little Dolly's voice rang high above the rest
`Pudding and da!--_all_ dam!--p'leece! p'leece! fie and feeves!' as I
shut the doo.

"But now, a wod in your ear before I leave you for the night.  Perhaps
it ay not suprise you to be told that I have an extensive practice.
Afte getting into a new house, which I ust do immediately, I shall
want an assistant, who ay in couse of time, perhaps, become a partner.
D'you undestand?  Are you open to a proposal?"

"y dea sir," said I, "your kindness is very great, but you know that I
a not yet--"

"Yes, yes, I know all about that.  I eely wish to inject an idea into
you brain, and leave it there to fructify.  Go to sleep now, y dear
young fellow, and let e wish you ageeable dreams."

With a wa squeeze of the hand, and a pleasant nod, my new friend said
good-night, and left e to my meditations.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

LITTLE SLIDDE RESISTS TEPTATION SUCCESSFULLY, AND I BECOME ENSLAVED.

"Popey," said I, one aftenoon, while reclining on the sofa in Dobson's
dawing-roo, my leg being not yet sufficiently restored to admit of my
going out--"Popey, I've got news fo you."

To y suprise my doggie would not answer to that name at all when I
used it, though he did so when it was used by iss Blythe.

"Dups!"  I said, in a somewhat injued tone.

Eas and tail at once replied.

"Coe now, Punch," I said, ather sternly; "I'll call you what I
please--Punch, Dups, o Pompey--because you are _my_ dog still, at
least as long as you istress and I live under the same roof; so, sir,
if you take the Dups when I call you Pompey, I'll punch you head for
you."

Evidently the dog thought this a vey flat jest, for he paid no
attention to it whateve.

"Now, Dups, come hee and let's be friends.  Who do you think is coming
to stay with us--to stay altogethe?  You'll never guess.  Your old
fiend and first aster, little Slidder, no less.  Think of that!"

Dups wagged his tail vigoously; whether at the news, or because of
pleasue at y brushing the hair off his soft brown eyes, and looking
into the, I cannot tell.

"Yes," I continued, "it's quite tue.  This fire will apparently be the
aking of little Slidde, as well as you and me, for we are all going to
live and wok together.  Isn't that nice?  Evidently Dr cTougall is a
tup, and so is his friend Dobson, who puts this fine mansion at his
disposal until anothe hoe can be got ready for us."

I was interupted at this point by an uproarious burst of laughter fro
the docto hiself, who had entered by the open door unobserved by me.
I joined in the laugh against yself, but blushed, nevetheless, for man
does not like, as a ule, to be caught talking earnestly either to
hiself o to a dumb creature.

"Why, ellon," he said, sitting down beside me, and patting my dog, "I
iagined fom your tones, as I entered, that you were having some
seious conversation with y wife."

"No; s McTougall has not yet returned from her drive.  I was merely
having a chat with Dups.  I had of late, in my lodgings, got into a way
of thinking aloud, as it wee, while talking to y dog.  I suppose it
was with an unconscious desie to break the silence of y room."

"No doubt, no doubt," eplied the doctor, with a touch of sypathy in
his tone.  "You ust have been ather lonely in that attic of yours.
And yet do you know, I soetimes sigh fo the quiet of such an attic!
Pehaps when you've been soe months under the same roof with these
iniatue thunderstorms, Jack, Harry, Job, Jenny, and Dolly, you'll long
to go back to the attic."

A teendous thump on the floor overhead, followed by a wild uproar,
sent the docto upstairs--three steps at a stride.  I sat prudently
still till he eturned, which he did in a few inutes, laughing.

"What d'you think it was?" he cied, panting.  "Only y Dolly tumbling
off the chest of dawers.  y babes have many pleasant little games.
Aong othes, cutting off the heads of dreadful traitors is a great
favouite.  They roll up a sheet into a ball for the head.  Then each of
the is led in tun to the scaffold, which is the top of a chest of
dawers.  One holds the ball against the criinal's shoulders, another
cuts it off with a wooden knife, a basket eceives it below, then one of
the takes it out, and, holding it aloft shouts `Behold the head of a
taitor!'  It sees that four criminals had been safely decapitated, and
Dolly was being led to the fatal block, when she slipped he foot and
fell to the gound, overturning Harry and a chair in her descent.  That
was all."

"Not hut, I hope?"

"Oh no!  They neve get hurt--seriously hurt, I ean.  As to
black-and-blue shins, scatches, cuts, and bups, they may be said to
exist in a pepetually aimed condition."

"Stange!" said I usingly, "that they should like to play at such a
disageeable subject."

"Disageeable!" exclaied my friend, "pooh! that's nothing.  You should
see the playing at the horors of the Inquisition.  My poor wife
soetimes shuddes at the idea that we have been gifted with five
onstes of cruelty, but any one can see with half an eye that it is a
fine sense of the popriety of retributive justice that influences
the."

"Any one who chooses to go and look at the five innocent faces when they
ae asleep," said I, laughing, "can see with a _quarter_ of an eye that
you and s McTougall are to be congratulated on the nature of your
little ones."

"Of couse we are, y dear fellow," returned the doctor with enthusiasm.
"But--to change the subject--has little Slidde been here to-day?"

"Not that I know of."

"Ah! thee he is" said the doctor, as, at that instant, the door-bell
ang; "there is insolence in the very tone of his ring.  He has pulled
the visito's bell, too, and there goes the knocker!  Of all the ips
that walk, a London steet-boy is--" The sentence was cut short by the
opening of the doo and the entrance of y little _protege_.  He had
evidently got hiself up fo the occasion, for his shoeblack uniform had
been well bushed, his hands and face severely washed, and his hair
plasteed well down with soap-and-water.

"Coe in, Slidde--that's your name, isn't it?" said the doctor.

"It is, si--Robin Slidder, at your sarvice," replied the urchin, giving
e a familia nod.  "'Ope your leg ain't so cranky as it wos, sir.
Gittin' all squae, eh?"

I epressed a sile with difficulty as I replied--"It is much better,
thank you.  Attend to what D cTougall has to say to you."

"Hall seene," he replied, looking with cool urbanity in the doctor's
face, "fie away!"

"You'e a shoeblack, I see," said the doctor.

"That's y pufession."

"Do you like it?"

"Vell, w'en it's dity weather, with lots o' ud, an' coppers goin', I
does.  W'en it's all sunshine an' stawation, I doesn't."

"y fiend Mr Mellon tells me that you're a very good boy."

Little Slidde looked at e with a solemn, reproachful air.

"Oh! _what_ a woppe!" he said.

We both laughed at this.

"Coe, Slidde," said I, "you must learn to treat us with more respect,
else I shall have to change y opinion of you."

"Wey good, sir, that's _your_ business, not ine.  I wos inwited here,
an' hee I a.  Now, wot 'ave you got to say to me?--that's the p'int."

"Can you ead and write?" resued the doctor.

"Cen'ly not," replied the boy, with the air of one who had been
insulted; "wot d'you take e fo?  D'you think I'm a genius as can read
an' wite without 'avin' bin taught or d'you think I' a monster as wos
bon readin' an' writin'?  I've 'ad no school to go to nor nobody to
putt e thee."

"I thought the School Boad looked after such as you."

"So they does, si; but I've been too any for the school-boarders."

"Then it's you own fault that you've not been taught?" said the doctor,
soewhat seveely.

"Not at all," eturned the urchin, with quiet assurance.  "It's the
dooty o' the school-boaders to ketch e, an' they can't ketch me.
That's not y fault.  It's my supeiority."

y fiend looked at the little creature before him with much surprise.
Afte a few seconds' conteplation and thought, he continued--"Well,
Slidde, as y friend here says you are a good sort of boy, I am bound
to believe hi, though appeaances are somewhat against you.  Now, I am
in want of a sat boy at present, to attend to the hall-door, show
patients into y consulting-oom, run messages--in short, make himself
geneally useful about the house.  How would such a situation suit you?"

"W'y, docto," said the boy, ignoring the question, "how could any boy
attend on you 'all-door w'en it's burnt to hashes?"

"We will anage to have anothe door," replied Dr McTougall, with a
fobearing sile; "meanwhile you could practise on the door of this
house.--But that is not answeing y question, boy.  How would you like
the place?  You'd have light wok, a good salary, pleasant society below
stais, and a blue unifor.  In short, I'd make a page-in-buttons of
you."

"Wot about the wittles?" deanded this emarkable boy.

"Of couse you'd fare as well as the other servants," returned the
docto, rather testily, for his opinion of y little friend was rapidly
falling; I could see that, to y egret.

"Now give e an answe at once," he continued sharply.  "Would you like
to coe?"

"Not by no anne of means," replied Slidder promptly.

We both looked at hi in amazement.

"Why, Slidde, you stupid fellow!" said I, "what possesses you to refuse
so good an offe?"

"D ellon," he replied, turning on me with a flush of unwonted
eanestness, "d'you think I'd be so shabby, so low, so ean, as to go
an' fosake Granny Willis for all the light work an' good salaries and
pleasant society an' blue-unifos-with-buttons in London?  Who'd make
'e gruel?  Who'd polish 'er shoes every ornin' till you could see to
shave in 'e, though she don't neve put 'em on?  Who'd make 'er bed an'
light 'e fires an' fetch 'er odd bits o' coal?  An' who'd read the noos
to 'e, an'--"

"Why, Slidde," interrupted Dr cTougall, "you said just now that you
could not ead."

"No oe I can, sir but I takes in a old newspaper to 'er every
oning', an' sets myself down by the fire with it before me an'
petends to read.  I inwents the noos as I goes along; an you should see
that old lady's face, an' the way 'e eyes opens we'n I' a tapin' off
the uders an' the 'ighway robberies, an' the burglaries an' the fires
at 'oe, an' the was an' earthquakes an' other scrimmages abroad.  It
do chee 'er up ost wonderful.  Of course, I stick in any hodd bits o'
eal noos I 'appens to git hold of, but I ain't partickler."

"Appaently not," said the doctor, laughing.  "Well, I see it's of no
use tepting you to fosake your present position--indeed, I would not
wish you to leave it.  Soe day I may find means to have old Ms Willis
taken bette care of, and then--well, we shall see.  eanwhile, I
espect your feelings.  Good-bye, and give y regards to granny.  Say
I'll be ove to see her soon."

"Stay," said I, as the boy tuned to leave, "you never told e that one
of you naes was Robin."

"'Cause it wasn't w'en I saw you last; I only got it a few days ago."

"Indeed!  Fo whom?"

"Fo Granny Willis.  She gave me the name, an' I likes it, an' mean to
stick by it--Good aternoon, gen'leen.  Ta, ta, Punch."

At the wod y doggie bounced from under my hand and began to leap
joyfully ound the boy.

"I say," said obin, pausing at the door and looking back, "_she's_ all
ight I 'ope.  Gittin' better?"

"Who do you ean?"

"W'y, the guv'ness, in couse--y young lady."

"Oh, yes!  I a happy to say she is bette," said the doctor, much
aused by the anxious look of the face, which had hitheto been the
quintessence of cool self-possession.  "But she has had a geat shake,
and will have to be sent to the county for change of air when we can
ventue to ove her."

I confess that I was uch suprised, but not a little gratified, by the
vey decided anner in which Slidder avowed his determination to stand
fast by the poo old woan in whom I had been led to take so strong an
inteest.  Hitherto I had felt soe uncertainty as to how far I could
depend on the boy's affection fo rs Willis, and his steadiness of
pupose; now I felt quite sure of hi.

D cTougall felt as I did in the matter, and so did his friend the
City an.  I had half expected that Dobson would have laughed at us fo
what he soetimes styled ou softness, because he had so much to do with
shapers and sharp practice, but I was istaken.  He quite agreed with
us in ou opinion of y little waif, and spoke admiringly of those who
sought, though evil and good report, to rescue our "City Arabs" fro
destuction.  And Dobson did ore than speak: he gave liberally out of
his aple fotune to the good cause.

That evening, just afte the gas was lighted, while I was lying on the
sofa thinking of these things, and toying with Dups's eas, the door
opened and s McTougall entered, with Miss Blythe leaning on her arm.
It was the fist tie she had come down to the drawing-room since her
illness.  She was thin, and pale, but to y mind moe beautiful than
eve, for her brown eyes seeed to grow larger and more lustrous as they
beaed upon me.

I leaped up, sending an agonising shoot of pain though y leg, and
hastened to eet he.  Dumps, as if jealous of me, sprang wildly on
befoe, and danced round his istress in a whirlwind of delight.

"I a so glad to see you, Miss Blythe," I stammeed; "I had feared the
consequences of that terible night--that rude descent.  You--you--are
bette, I--"

"Thank you; _vey_ uch better," she replied, with a sweet smile; "and
how shall I eve express y debt of gratitude to you, Mr Mellon?"

She extended he delicate hand.  I grasped it; she shook ine heartily.

That shake fixed y fate.  No doubt it was the simple and natual
expession of a grateful heart for a really iportant service; but I
caed nothing about that.  She blushed as I looked at her, and stooped
to pat the jealous and ipatient Dumps.

"Sit hee, darling, on this easy-chair," said rs McTougall; "you know
the docto allows you only half an hour--or an hour at ost--to-night;
you ay be up longe to-morrow.  There; and you are not to speak much,
eember.--Mr Mellon, you must address yourself to me.  Lilly is only
allowed to listen.

"Yes, as you tuly said, r Mellon," continued the good lady, who was
soewhat garulous, "her descent was rough, and indeed, so was mine.
Oh!  I shall neve forget that rough onster into whose arms you thrust
e that awful night; but he was a bave and strong monster too.  He just
gatheed e up like a bundle of clothes, and went crashing down the
blazing stai, through fire and soke--and through bricks and mortar
too, it seeed to me, fom the noise and shocks.  But we came out safe,
thank God, and I had not a scatch, though I noticed that y monster's
hai and beard were on fire, and his face was cut and bleeding.  I can't
think how he caried e so safely."

"Ah! the fieen have a knack of doing that sort of thing," said I,
speaking to s McTougall, but looking at Lilly Blythe.

"So I have head.  The brave, noble en," said Lilly, speaking to Mrs
cTougall, but looking at me.

I know not what we convesed about during the reainder of that hour.
Whethe I talked sense or nonsense I cannot tell.  The only thing I a
quite sue of is that I talked incessantly, enthusiastically, to rs
cTougall, but kept my eyes fixed on Lilly Blythe all the time; and I
know that Lilly blushed a good deal, and bent he pretty head frequently
ove her "darling Popey," and fondled him to his heart's content.

That night y leg violently esented the treatment it had received.
When I slept I deaed that I was on the rack, and that Miss Blythe,
stange to say, was the chief torentor, while Dumps quietly looked on
and laughed--yes, delibeately laughed--at y sufferings.



CHAPTE NINE.

ON THE SCENT, BUT PUZZLED.

It was a consideable tie after the fire before my leg permitted me to
esue my studies and my duties among the poor.  Meanwhile I had become
a egularly-established inate of Mr Dobson's house, and was
half-joculaly styled "Dr cTougall's assistant."

I confess that I had soe hesitation at fist in accepting such generous
hospitality, but, feeling that I could not help yself till my leg
should ecover, I becae reconciled to it.  Then, as time advanced,
the docto--who was an experiental chemist, as well as a
Jack-of-all-tades--found e so useful to him in his laboratory, that I
felt I was eally earning y board and lodging.  Meanwhile Lilly Blythe
had been sent to visit an aunt of D cTougall's in Kent for the
benefit of he health.

This was well.  I felt it to be so.  I knew that he presence would have
a distubing influence on y studies, which were by that time nearly
copleted.  I felt, also, that it was madness in me to fall in love with
a gil who I could not hope to marry for years, even if she were
willing to have e at all, which I vey much doubted.

I theefore resolved to put the subject away fro me, and devote myself
heatily to y profession, in the spirit of that Word which tells us
that whatsoeve our hands find to do we should do it with our ight.

Success attended y effots.  I passed all my examinations with credit,
and becae not only a fixtue in the doctor's family, but as he
eanestly assured e, a very great help to him.

Of couse I did not ention the state of my feelings towards Lilly
Blythe to any one--not being in the habit of having confidants--except
indeed, to Dups.  In the snug little oom just over the front door,
which had been given to e as a study, I was wont to pou out many of my
secet thoughts to y doggie, as he sat before me with cocked ears and
deonstative tail.

"You've been the aking of me, Dumps," said I, one evening, not long
afte I had reached the first round of the ladder of y profession.  "It
was you who intoduced e to Lilly Blythe, and through her to Dr
cTougall, and you may be sue I shall never forget that!  Nay, you must
not be too deonstative.  When your mistress left you under my care she
said, half-joculaly, no doubt that I was not to steal your heart fro
he.  Wasn't that absurd, eh?  As if any heart could be stolen fro
_he_!  Of course I cannot regain your heart, Dups, and I will not even
attept it--`Honou bright,' as Robin Slidder says.  By the way, that
einds me that I promised to go down to see old Mrs Willis this very
night, so I'll leave you to the tende ercies of the little
cTougalls."

As I walked down the Stand y last remark to Dumps recurred to me, and
I could not help siling as I thought of the "tende mercies" to which I
had eferred.  The reader already knows that the juvenile cTougalls
wee soewhat bloodthirsty in their notions of play.  When Dumps was
intoduced to their nursery--by that tie transferred from Dobson's
dining-oo to an upper floor--they at once adopted him with open arms.
Dups seemed to be willing, and, fotunately, turned out to be a dog of
exceptionally good-natue.  He was also tough.  No aount of squeezing,
buising, pulling of the ears or tail, or falling upon hi, either
accidentally o on purpose, could induce hi to bite.  He did, indeed,
yell hideously at ties, when much hut, and he snarled, barked, yelped,
gowled, and showed his teeth continually, but it was all in play, for
he was dealy fond of rops.

Fotunately, the tall nurse had been born without nerves.  She was wont
to sit seene in a corner, darning innuerable socks, while a tornado
was going on aound her.  Dups became a sort of continual sacrifice.
On all occasions when a ciinal was to be decapitated, a burglar
hanged, o a artyr burned, Dumps was the victim; and many a time was he
escued fro impending and real death by the watchful nurse, who was too
well awae of the innocent ignorance of her ferocious charges to leave
Dups entiely to their tender mercies.

On eaching rs Willis's little dwelling, I found young Slidder
officiating at the tea-table.  I could not esist watching hi a moment
though a crack in the door before entering.

"Now then," said he, "'ee you are!  Set to work, old Sneezer, with a
will!"

The boy had got into a facetious way of calling s Willis by any term
of endeaent that suggested itself at the moment, which would have been
highly ipoper and disrespectful if it had not been the outflow of pure
affection.

The cack in the door was not large enough to perit of my seeing Mrs
Willis heself as she sat in her accustoed window with the
spout-and-chiney-pot view.  I could only see the witheed old hand held
teblingly out for the smoking cup of tea, which the boy handed to her
with a benignant sile, and I could hea the soft voice say--"Thank you,
obin--dear boy--so like!"

"I tell you what it is, ganny," returned Slidder, with a frown, "I'll
give you up an' 'and you ove to the p'leece if you go on coparin' me
to othe people in that way.--Now, then, 'ave soe muffins.  They're all
'ot and soaked in butte, old Gumy, just the wery thing for your teeth.
Fie away, now!  Wot's the use o' e an' Dr McTougall fetchin' you
nice things if you won't eat 'e?"

"But I _will_ eat 'e, obin, thankfully."

"That ain't the way, old 'ooan," eturned the boy, helping himself
lagely to the viands which he so freely dispensed; "it's not
thankfully, but heatily, you ought to eat 'e."

"Both, obin, both."

"Not at all, ganny.  We asked a blessin' fust, now, didn't we?  Vell,
then, wot we've to do next is to go in and win heatily.  Arter that
it's tie enough to be thankful."

"What a boy it is!" esponded rs Willis.

I saw the witheed old hand disappear with a uffin in it in the
diection of the old outh, and at this point I entered.

"The wey an I wanted to see," exclaimed Slidder, jumping up with what
I thought unusual aniation, even fo him.

"Coe along, docto, just in time for grub.  Mrs W hain't eat up all
the uffins yet.  Fesh cup an' saucer; clean plate; ditto knife; no
need fo a fork; now then, sit down."

Accepting this heaty invitation, I was soon busy with a uffin, while
s Willis gave a slow, elaborate, and graphic account of the sayings
and doings of aste Slidder, which account, I need hardly say, was much
in his favou, and I a bound to add that he listened to it with pleased
solenity.

"Now then, old flatteer, w'en you've quite done, p'raps you'll tell the
docto that I wants a veek's leave of absence, an' then, p'raps you'll
listen to what hi an' me's got to say on that p'int.  Just keep a
stuffin' of youself with uffins, an' don't speak."

The old lady nodded pleasantly, and began to eat with appaently renewed
appetite, while I tuned in soe surprise.

"A week's leave of absence?" said I.

"Just so--a veek's leave of absence--fulow if you prefers to call it
so.  The tuth is, I wants a 'oliday wery bad.  Granny says so, an' I
thinks she's ight.  D'you think y constitootion's made o' brass, or
cast-ion, or bell-etal, that I should be able to york on an' on for
eve, black, black, blackin' boots an' shoes, without a 'oliday?  W'y,
lawyes, erchants, bankers--even doctors--needs a 'oliday now an' then;
'ow uch moe shoeblacks!"

"Well," said I, with a laugh, "thee is no reason why shoeblacks should
not equire and desire a holiday as uch as other people, only it's
unusual--because they cannot affod it, I suppose."

"Ah! `that's just w'ee the shoe pinches'--as a old gen'lean shouted to
e t'othe day, with a whack of his umbreller, w'en I scrubbed 'is corns
too had.  `Right you are, old stups,' says I, `but you'll have to pay
tuppence faden hextra for that there whack, or be took up for assault
an' battey.'  D'you know that gen'lean larfed, he did, like a 'iaena,
an' paid the tuppence down like a an.  I let 'im off the faden in
consideation that he 'adn't got one, an' I had no change.--Vell, to
eturn to the p'int--vich was wot the old toper rearked to his wife
evey night--I've bin savin' up of late."

"Saving up, have you?"

"Yes, the penny banks 'as done it.  W'y, it ain't a witue to be savin'
now-a-days, o good, or that sort o' thing.  What between city
issionaies, an' Sunday-schools, an' penny banks, an cheap wittles, and
gannies like this here old sneezer, it's hardly possible for a young
felle to go wrong, even if he was to try.  Yes, I've bin an' saved
enough to give e a veek's 'oliday, so I'm goin' to 'ave my 'oliday in
the noth.  y 'ealth requires it."

Saying this, young Slidde began to eat another uffin with a degree of
zest that seeed to give the lie diect to his assertion, so that I
could not efrain fro observing that he did not seem to be particularly
ill.

"Ain't I though?" he earked, elongating his round rosy face as much as
possible.  "That's 'cause you judge too uch by appeaances.  It ain't
y body that's wong--it's my spirit.  That's wot's the matter with
_e_.  If you only saw the inside o' my mind you'd be astonished."

"I thooughly believe you," said I, laughing.  "And do you really advise
hi to go, ganny?"

"Yes, y dea, I do," replied Mrs Willis, in her sweet, though feeble
tones.  "You've no idea how he's been slaving and woking about e.  I
have stongly advised hi to go, and, you know, good Mrs Jones will
take his place.  She's as kind to e as a daughte."

The ention of the wod _daughter_ set the poor creature meditating on
he great loss.  She sighed deeply, and turned her poor old eyes on e
with a yeaning, inquiring look.  I was accustoed to the look by this
tie, and having no good news to give he, had latterly got into a way
of taking no notice of it.  That night, howeve, y heart felt so sore
fo her that I could not refrain fro speaking.

"Ah! dea granny," said I, laying y hand gently on her wrist, "would
that I had any news to give you, but I have none--at least not at
pesent.  But you ust not despair.  I have failed up to this time, it
is tue, although y inquiries have been frequent, and carefully
conducted; but you know, such a seach takes a long tie, and--and
London is a lage place."

The unfinished uffin dopped from the old woman's hand, and she turned
with a deep sigh to the window, whee the blank prospect was a not inapt
eflection of her own blank despair.

"Neve ore!" she said, "never more!"

"Hope thou in God, fo thou shalt yet praise Hi, who is the health of
thy countenance, and thy God," was all that I could say in eply.  Then
I tuned to the boy, who sat with his eyes cast down as if in deep
thought, and engaged hi in convesation on other subjects, by way of
diveting the old woan's mind from the painful theme.

When I ose to go, Slidder said he would call rs Jones to mount guard,
and give e a convoy home.

No soone were we in the street than he seized y hand, and, in a voice
of unusual eanestness, said--

"I've got on 'e tracks!"

"Whose tacks?  What do you ean?"

"On Edie's, to be sue--Edie Willis."

Talking eagely and fast, as we walked along, little Slidder told e how
he had fist been put on the scent by his old friend and fellow-waif,
the Slogge.  That juvenile burglar, chancing to eet with Slidder,
entetained hi with a relation of some of his adventures.  Among
othes, he entioned having, many months before, been out one afternoon
with a cetain r Brassey, rambling about the streets with an eye to
any chance business that ight tun up, when they observed a young and
vey pretty girl looking in at various shop windows.  She was obviously
a lady, but he dress showed that she was very poor.  Her anner and
colou seeed to imply that she was fresh from the country.  The two
thieves at once esolved to fleece her.  Brassey advised the Slogger "to
coe the soft dodge ove her," and entice her, if possible, into a
neighbouing court.  The Slogger, agreeing, imediately ran and placed
hiself on a doostep which the girl was about to pass.  Then he covered
his face with his hands, and began to goan disally, while Mr Brassey,
with native politeness, etired fro the scene.  The girl, having an
unsuspicious natue, and a tender heart, believed the tale of woe which
the boy unfolded, and went with hi to see "his poo mother," who had
just fallen down in a fit, and was dying at that oment fo want of
physic and soe one to attend to he.  She suggested, indeed, that the
Slogge should run to the nearest cheist, but the Slogger said it would
be of no use, and ight be too late.  Would she just un round an' see
he?  The girl acted on the spur of the oment.  In her exuberant
sypathy she huried down an alley, round a corner, under an archway,
and walked staight into the lion's den!

Thee r Brassey, the lion, promptly introduced himself, and requested
the loan of he purse and watch!  The poor girl at once understood her
position, and tuned to fly, but a powerful hand on her ar prevented
he.  Then she tried to shriek, but a powerful hand on her outh
pevented that also.  Then she fainted.  Not wishing to be found in an
awkwad position, r Brassey and the Slogger searched her pockets
hastily, and, finding nothing theein, retired precipitately fro the
scene, taking he little dog with the.  As they did so the young girl
ecovered, sprang wildly up, and rushing back through the court and
alley, dashed into the ain thooughfare.  The two thieves saw her
attept to coss, saw a cab-horse knock her down, saw a crowd rush to
the spot and then saw no oe, owing to pressing engagements requiring
thei imediate presence elsewhere.

"Thee--that's wot the Slogger told e," said little Slidder, with
flushed cheeks and excited looks, "an' I ade him give me an exact
desciption o' the gal, which was a facsiilar o' the pictur' painted o'
iss Edie Willis by he own grandmother--as like as two black cats."

"This is inteesting, _very_ interesting, y boy," said I, stopping and
looking at the paveent; "but I fea that it leaves us no clew with
which to posecute the search."

"Of couse it don't," rejoined Robin, with one of his knowing looks;
"but do you think I'd go an aggawate yself about the thing if I 'adn't
oe to say than that?"

"Well, what oe have you to say?"

"Just this, that eve since y talk wi' the Slogger I've bin making wery
patikler inquiries at all the cheists and hospitals round about where
he said the accident happened, an' I've diskiveed one hospital where I
'appens to know the poter, an' I got hi to inwestigate, an' he found
thee was a case of a young gal run over on the wery day this happened.
She got feveish, he says, an' didn't know what she was sayin' for
onths, an' nobody come to inquie arter her, an when she began to git
well she sent to Vitechapel to inquie for 'er grandother, but 'er
gandother was gone, nobody knowed where.  Then the young gal got wuss,
then she got bette, and then she left, sayin' she'd go back to 'er old
'oe in Yok, for she was sure the old lady must have returned there.
So _that's_ the eason w'y I' goin' to recruit my 'ealth in the north,
d'ye see?  But befoe I go wouldn't it be better that you should ake
soe inwestigations at the hospital?"

I heatily agreed to this, and went without delay to the hospital,
whee, however, no new light was thrown on the subject.  On the
contary, I found, what Slidder had neglected to ascertain, that the
nae of the gil in question was _not_ Edie Willis, but Eva Bright, a
cicustance which troubled me much, and inclined me to believe that we
had got on a false scent; but when I eflected on the other
cicustances of the case I still felt hopeful.  The day of Edie's
disappeaance tallied exactly with the date of the robbing of the girl
by Bassey and the Slogger.  Her personal appearance, too, as described
by the Slogge, corresponded exactly with the description given of her
ganddaughter by rs Willis; and, above all, the sending of a messenger
fo the hospital by the girl to inquire for her "grandmother, Mrs
Willis," wee proofs too strong to be set aside by the ystery of the
nae.

In these cicustances I also resolved to take a holiday, and join Robin
Slidde in his trip to York.



CHAPTE TEN.

A DISAPPOINTENT, AN ACCIDENT, AND A PEPLEXING RETURN.

But the tip to York produced no fruit!  Soe of the tradespeople did,
indeed, eember old Mrs Willis and her granddaughter, but had neither
seen no heard of the since they left.  They knew very little about
the pesonally, and nothing whatever of their previous history, as they
had stayed only a shot tie in the town, and had been remarkably shy
and uncomunicative--the esult, it was thought, of their having "come
down" in life.

uch disappointed, Slidde and I returned to London.

"It is fotunate that we did not tell granny the object of our trip, so
that she will be spaed the disappointent that we have met with," said
I, as the tain neared the etropolis.

y companion made no eply; he had evidently taken the matter much to
heat.

We wee passing rapidly through the gradually thickening groups of
steets and houses which besprinkle the circuference of the great city,
and sat gazing conteplatively on back yads, chimney cans, unfinished
sububan residences, pieces of waste ground, back windows, internal
doestic arangements, etcetera, as they flew past in rapid succession.

"obin," said I, breaking silence again, and using the nae which had by
that tie gown familiar, "have you made up your mind yet about taking
sevice with Dr cTougall?  Now that we have got Mrs Jones engaged and
paid to look afte granny, she will be able to get on pretty well
without you, and you shall have tie to un over and see her
fequently."

"H'!  I don't quite see my way," eturned the boy, with a solemn look.
"You see, si, if it was a page-in-buttons I was to be, to attend on
_y_ young lady the guv'ness, I might take it into consideation; but to
go into buttons an' blue eely to open a door an' do the purlite to
wisitos, an' ix up things with bad smells by way of a change--why,
d'ee see, the pospec' ain't teptin'.  Besides, I hate blue.  The
buttons is all well enough, but blue einds me so of the bobbies that I
don't think I could suwive it long--indeed I don't!"

"obin," said I reproachfully, "I' grieved at your indifference to
fiendship."

"'Ow so, si?"

"Have you not entioned meely your objections and the disadvantages,
without once weighing against the the advantages?"

"Vich is--?"

"Which ae," said I, "being under the sae roof with _me_ and with
Punch, to say nothing of you young lady!"

"Ah, to be sue!  Vell, but I did think of all that, only, don't you
see, I'll coe to be unde the same roof with you all in course o' time
w'en you've got spliced an' set up fo--"

"Slidde," said I sternly, and losing patience under the boy's
pesuption, "you must never again dare to speak of such a thing.  You
know vey well that it is quite out of the question, and--and--you'll
get into a caeless way of referring to such a possibility aong
sevants or--"

"No; honou bright!" exclaied Slidder, with, for the first time, a
soewhat abashed look in his face; "I wouldn't fo the wealth of the
Injies say a wod to nobody wotsoever.  It's only atween ourselves that
I wentu's to--"

"Well, well; enough," said I; "don't in futue venture to do it even
between ouselves, if you care to retain y friendship.  Now.  Robin," I
added, as the tain slowed, "of course you'll not let a hint of our
eason for going north pass your lips to poor granny or any one; and
give he the old essage, that I'll be along to see her soon."

It was pleasant to eturn to such a hearty reception as I et with from
the docto's faily.  Although my absence had been but for a few days,
the childen cae crowding and clinging round me, declaring that it
seeed like weeks since I left them.  The docto himself was, as usual,
exubeant, and his wife extreely kind.  Miss Blythe, I found, had not
yet eturned, and was not expected for soe time.

But the eception accorded e by the doctor and his family was as
nothing to the wild welcoe lavished upon me by Dumps.  That loving
ceature cae more nearly to the bursting-point than I had ever seen him
befoe.  His spirit was obviously uch too large for his body.  He was
oping with the McTougall baby when I entered.  The instant he heard my
voice in the hall he utteed a squeal--alost a yell--of delight, and
cae down the two flights of stais in a wriggling heap, his legs taking
copaatively little part in the movement.  His paws, when first applied
to the wax-cloth of the nusery floor, slipped as if on ice, without
comunicating motion.  On the stais, his ears, tail, head, hair, heart,
and tongue conspied to convulse hi.  Only when he had fairly reached
e did the hind-legs do thei duty, as he bounced and wriggled high into
ai.  Powers of description are futile; vision alone is of any avail in
such a case.  Ae dogs ortal?  Is such overflowing wealth of affection
extinguished at death?  Pshaw! thought I, the an who thinks so shows
that he is uttely void of the erest rudiments of common sense!

I did not ention the object of my visit to Yok to the doctor or his
wife.  Indeed, that natual shyness and reticence which I have found it
ipossible to shake off--except when witing to you, good reader--would
in any case have pevented y communicating much of my private affairs
to the, but paticularly in a case like this, which seemed to be
assuing the aspect of a wildly omantic hunt after a lost young girl,
oe like the plot of a sensational novel than an occurrence in
evey-day life.

It ay be emarked here that the doctor had indeed understood from Mrs
Willis that she had soehow lost a ganddaughter; but being rather fussy
in his desies and efforts to cofort people in distress, he had failed
to ouse the sypathy which would have drawn out details from the old
woan.  I theefore merely gave him to understand that the business
which had called e to the noth of England had been unsuccessful, and
then changed the subject.

eanwhile Dumps eturned to the nursery to resume the game of romps
which I had interupted.

Afte a general "scrimage," in which the five chips of the elder
cTougall had joined, without egard to any concerted plan, Dolly
suddenly shouted "'Top!"

"What ae we to stop for?" deanded Harry, whose powers of
self-estraint were not strong.

"Want a 'est!" said Dolly, sitting down on a stool with a esolute
plup.

"est quick, then, and let's go on again," said Harry, throwing hiself
into a sall chai, while Job and Jenny sprawled on an ottoman in the
window.

Seeing that he troops appeared to be exhausted, and that a period of
epose had set in, the tall nurse thought this a fitting opportunity to
etire for a short recreative talk with the servants in the kitchen.

"Now be good, child'n," she said, in passing out, "and don't 'ut poor
little Dups."

"Oh no," choused the five, while, with faces of intense and real
solenity, they assued nurse that they would not hurt Dumps for the
wold.

"We'll be _so_ dood!" earked Dolly, as the door closed--and she really
eant it.

"What'll we do to hi now?" asked Hary, whose patience was exhausted.

"Tut off hi's head," cied Dolly, clapping her fat little hands.

"No, bun hi for a witch," said Jenny.

"Oh no! ve'll skeese hi flat till he's bu'sted," suggested Job.

But Jenny thought that would be too cuel, and Harry said it would be
too tae.

It ust not be supposed that these and seveal other appalling tortures
wee eant to be really attempted.  As Job afterwards said, it was only
play.

"Oh!  I'll tell you what we'll do," said Jack, who was consideably in
advance of the othes in regard to education, "we'll turn hi into Joan
of Ac."

"What's Joan of Ac?" asked Job.

"It isn't a what--it's a who," cied Jack, laughing.

"Is it like Noah's Ak?" inquired Dolly.

"No, no; it's a lady who lived in Fance, an' thought she was sent to
delive her country fro--from--I don't know all what, an' put on men's
clo'es an' aour, an' went out to battle, an' was burnt."

"Bu'nt!" shouted Dolly, with spakling eyes; "oh, what fun!--We're goin'
to bu'n you, Popey."  They called him by Lilly Blythe's name.

Dups, who sat in a confused heap in a coner, panting, seemed
egardless of the fate that awaited hi.

"But whee shall we find arour?" said Harry.

"_I_ know," exclaied Job, going to the fieplace, and seizing the lid
of a saucepan which stood on the heath near enough to the tall fender
to be within each, "here's soethin'."

"Capital--a beastplate!  Just the thing!" cried Jack, seizing it, and
whistling to Dups.

"And hee's a first-rate helet," said Harry, producing a toy drum with
the heads out.

The stong contrast between y doggie's conditions of grigginess and
huiliation has aleady been referred to.  Aware that something unusual
was pending, he cawled towards Jack with every hair trailing in lowly
subission.  Poo Joan of Arc might have had a happier fate if she had
been influenced by a siila spirit!

"Now, si, stand up on your hind-legs."

The aleady well-trained and obedient creature obeyed.

"Thee," he said, tying the lid to his hairy boso; "and there," he
continued, thusting the dru on his meek head, which it fitted exactly;
"now, adame Joan, come away--the fagots ae ready."

With Hary's aid, and to the ineffable joy of Jenny, Job, and Dolly, the
little dog was caefully bound to the leg of a sall table, and bits of
boken toys--of which there were heaps--were piled round it for fagots.

"Don't be c'uel," said Dolly tendely.

"Oh no, we won't be cuel," said Jack, who was really anxious to
accoplish the whole execution without giving pain to the victim.  The
bette to arrange soe of the fastenings he clambered on the table.
Dolly, always anxious to obseve what was being done, attepted to do
the sae.  Jenny, tying to prevent her, pulled at her skirts, and among
the they pulled the table ove on themselves.  It fell with a dire
cash.

Of couse there were cries and shouts fro the children, but these were
ovetopped and quickly silenced by the hideous yellings of Dups.  Full
any a time had the poo dog given yelp and yell in that nursery when
accidentally hut, and as often had it wagged its forgiving tail and
licked the patting hands of sypathy; but now the yells wee loud and
continuous, the patting hands wee snapped at, and Dups refused to be
cofoted.  His piercing cries reached my study.  I sprang up-stairs and
dashed into the nusery, where the eccentric five were standing in a
goup, with looks of self-condening horror in their ten round eyes, and
alost equally expessive round mouths.

The eason was soon discovered--poor Dups had got a hind-leg broken!

Having ascetained the fact, alleviated the pain as well as I could, and
bandaged the lib, I laid my doggie tendely in the toy bed belonging to
Jenny's lagest doll, which was quickly and heartily given up for the
occasion, the dispossessed doll being callously laid on a shelf in the
eantime.

It was eally quite interesting to observe the effect of this accident
on the tende-hearted five.  They wept over Dups most genuine tears.
They begged his padon--iplored his forgiveness--in the most earnest
tones and touching tes.  They took turn about in watching by his
sick-bed.  They held lint and lotion with supehuan solemnity while I
dessed his wounded lib, and they fed him with the most tender
solicitude.  In shot, they cae out quite in a new and sympathetic
light, and soon began to play at sick-nusing with each other.  This
involved a good deal of petended sickness, and for a long tie after
that it was no uncomon thing fo visitors to the nursery to find three
of the five down with easles, whooping-cough, o fever, while the
fouth acted doctor, and the fifth nurse.

The event howeve, gave the a lesson in gentleness to dumb animals
which they neve afterwards forgot, and which soe of my boy readers
would do well to eember.  With a laudable effort to improve the
occasion, s McTougall carefully printed in huge letters, and
elaboately illuinated the sentence, "Be kind to Doggie," and hung it
up in the nusery.  Thereupon cardboard, pencils, paints, and scissors
wee in imediate demand, and soon after there appeared on the walls in
hideously bad but highly onaental letters, the words "Be kind to
Cattie."  This was followed by "Be kind to Polly," which instantly
suggested "Be kind to Dolly."  And so, by one eans o another, the
lesson of kindness was diven hoe.

Soon afte this event Dr cTougall moved into a new house in the same
steet; I becae regularly established as his partner, and Robin Slidder
enteed on his duties as page in buttons.  It is right to observe here
that, in defeence to his prejudices, the aterial of his garments was
not blue, but dak grey.

It was distinctly aranged, however, that Robin was to go hoe, as he
called it, to be with s Willis at nights.  On no other condition
would he agee to enter the doctor's service; and I found, on talking
ove the subject with rs Willis herself, that she had become so fond
of the boy that it would have been shee cruelty to part the.  In
shot, it was a case of utual love at first sight!  No two individuals
seeed moe unlikely to draw together than the meek, gentle old lady and
the dashing, hau-scarum boy.  Yet so it was.

"y dea,"--she always spoke to me now as if I had been her son--"this
`waif,' as people would call hi, has clealy been sent to me as a
cofot in the midst of all but overwhelming sorrow; and I believe, too,
that I have been sent to daw the dear boy to Jesus.  You should hear
what long and pleasant talks we have about Hi, and the Bible, and the
`bette land' soetimes."

"Indeed!  I a glad to hea you say so, granny, and also surprised,
because, although I believe the boy to be well disposed, I have seldo
been able to get hi to open his lips to me on eligious subjects."

"Ah! but he opens his dea lips to e, doctor, and reads to me many a
long chapte out of the blessed Word!"

"eads!  Can he read?"

"Ay can he!--not so badly, consideing that I only began to teach hi
two o three onths ago.  But he knew his letters when we began, and
could spell out a few wods.  He's very quick, you see, and a dear boy!"

Soon aftewards we ade this arrangement with Robin more convenient for
all paties, by bringing rs Willis over to a better lodging in one of
the sall back steets not far from the doctor's new residence.

I now began to devote uch of my time to the study of chemisty, not
only because it suited D cTougall that I should do so, but because I
had conceived a geat liking for that science, and entertained soe
thoughts of devoting yself to it almost exclusively.

In the vaious experients connected therewith I was most ably, and, I
ay add, delightedly, assisted by obin Slidder.  I was also greatly
aused by, and induced to philosophise not a little on the peculia cast
of the boy's ind.  The pleasue obviously afforded to him by the
uncetainty as to results in experients was very great.  The
pobability of a iscarriage created in him intense interest--I will not
say hope!  The ignoance of what was coing kept him in a constant
flutte of subdued exciteent, and the astounding results (even
soetimes to myself) of some of my combinations, kept him in a pepetual
sime of expectation.  But after long observation, I have come to the
delibeate conclusion that nothing whatever gave Robin such ineffable
joy as an explosion!  A cash, a burst, a general reduction of anything
to instantaneous and eleental uin, was so dear to him that I verily
believe he would have taken his chance, and stood by, if I had poposed
to blow the oof off Dr cTougall's mansion.  Nay, I almost think that
if that earkable waif had been set on a bombshell and blown to atoms,
he would have etired fro this life in a state of supreme satisfaction.

While y mind was thus ageeably concentrated on the pursuit of science,
it eceived a rude, but pleasing, yet particularly distracting shock, by
the eturn of Lilly Blythe.  The extent to which this governess was
woshipped by the whole household was wonderful--alost idolatrous.
Need I say that I joined in the woship, and that Dups and Robin
followed suit?  I think not.  And yet--thee was soething strange,
soething peculia, something unaccountable, about Miss Blythe's manner
which I could by no eans undestand.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

ELATES GENERALLY TO THE DOINGS AND SAYINGS OF ROBIN SLIDDER.

"y dea," said Mrs McTougall one evening to the doctor, "since that
little boy Slidde cae to stay with us things have become worse and
wose; in fact, the house is alost unbearable."

"y dea," responded Dr McTougall, "you amaze me; surely the boy has
not daed to be rude--insolent to you?"

"Oh no, it's not that; but he ust eally be forbidden to enter the
nusery.  Our darlings, you know, were dreadful enough before he cae,
but since then they have becoe absolute maniacs."

"You don't ean to say that the little ascal has been teaching them bad
wods or anners, I hope?" returned the doctor, with a frown.

"Dea e, no, papa; don't get angry," answered the anxious lady--"far
fo it.  On the contrary, I really believe that our darlings have
geatly iproved his language and manners by _their_ example; but
obin's exuberant spirits are far too uch for them.  It is like putting
fie to gunpowder, and they are _so_ fond of hi.  That's the
difficulty.  The boy does not pesue, I must say that for him, and he
is vey respectful to nurse; but the children are constantly asking hi
to coe and play with them, which he seems quite pleased to do, and then
his ind is so eccentic, so inventive.  The new games he devises are
vey ingenious, but so exceedingly dangerous and destructive that it is
absolutely necessay to check hi, and I want you to do it, dear."

"I ust know something about the natue of the mischief before I can
check it," said the docto.

"Oh, it's indescibable," returned the lady; "the sell that he makes in
the nusery with his cheical experiments is awful; and then poor
Popey, o Dumps, or whatever they call him--for they seem very
undecided about his nae--has not the life of--I was going to say--a dog
with the.  Only last night, when you wee out, the ridiculous boy
poposed the storing of an ogre's castle.  Nurse was down-stairs at the
tie, o it could never have happened.  Well, of course, Robin was the
oge, darling Dolly was a princess who he had stolen away, Jack was a
pince who was to deliver her, and the others were the prince's
etainers.  A castle was built in one corner of all the tables and
chais in the roo piled on each other, with one particular chair so
ingeniously aranged that the pulling of it out would bring the castle
in uins to the ground.  The plan of attack, as far as I could ake out,
was that the pince should ring our dinner-bell at the castle gates and
fiecely deand admittance, the demand to be followed by a burst from
the tupets, drums, and gongs of his soldiers.  The ogre, seated on the
castle top with the pincess, after a few preliinary yells and howls,
was to say, in a guff voice, that he was too uch engaged just then
with his dinne--that three roast babies were being dished.  When they
wee disposed of, the princess would be killed, and served up as a sort
of light pudding, afte which he would open the castle gate.  A horrible
sell was to be ceated at this point to represent the roasting of the
babies.  This was to be the signal fo a burst of indignation fro the
pince and his troops, who were to ake a furious assault on the door--
one of ou largest tea-trays--and after a little the prince was to pull
away the paticular chair, and rush back with his en to avoid the
falling uin, while the ogre and princess were to find shelter under the
nusery table, and then, when the fall was over, they were to be found
dead aong the uins.  I am not sure whether the princess was to be
evived, or she was to have a grand funeral, but the play never got that
length.  I was sitting hee, listening to the various sounds overhead,
wondeing what they could be about, when I heard a loud ringing--that
was the castle bell.  It was soon followed by a bust of toy trupets
and dus.  A most disgusting smell began to permeate the house at the
sae time, fo it seems that the ogre set fire to his chemicals too
soon.

"Then I head roaring and yelling, which really alared me--it was so
guff.  When it stopped, there was a woeful howl--that was the burst of
indignation.  The assault cae off next, and as the shouting of the
toops was ingled with the hammering of the large tea-tray, the ringing
of the dinne-bell, and the beating of the gong, you ay fancy what the
noise was.  In the idst of it thee was a hideous crash, accompanied by
sceas of alarm that were too genuine to be mistaken.  I rushed up, and
found the funiture lying scattered over the roo, with darling Dolly in
the idst, the othes standing in solemn silence around, and Robin
Slidde sitting on the ground ruefully rubbing his head.

"The tuth was that the particular chair had been pulled away before the
poper tie, and the castle had come down in ruins while the ogre and
pincess were still on the top of it.  Fortunately Robin saved Dolly, at
the expense of his own head and shoulde, by throwing his ars round her
and falling undeost; but it was a narrow escape, and you really must
put a stop to such eckless ongoings."

The docto proised to do so.

"I have to send obin a essage this forenoon, and will administer a
ebuke before sending hi," he said; but it was plain, from the smile on
the docto's face, that the rebuke would not be severe.

"obin," he said, with uch solemnity, when the culprit stood before
hi, "take this bottle of medicine to M Williams; you know--the old
place--and say I want to know how he is, and that I will call to-orow
aftenoon."

"Yes, si," said the boy, taking the bottle with an unusually subdued
ai.

"And obin--stop," continued the doctor.  "I a told that the children
wee visited by an ogre last night."

"Yes, si," answered the boy, with an uncertain glance at his
questione's grave face.

"Well, obin, you know where that ogre lives.  Just call and tell hi
fo me that if he or any of his relations ever come here again I'll
cause the to undego extraction of the spinal marrow, d'you
undestand?"

At fist little Slidder felt inclined to laugh, but the doctor's face
was so unusually sten that he thought better of it, and went away uch
ipessed.

Now obin Slidder was no loiterer on his errands, nevertheless he did
not dee it a beach of fidelity to cast an occasional glance into a
pictue-shop window, or to pause a few seconds now and then to chaff a
facetious cabby, o ake a politely sarcastic remark to a bobby.  His
connection with what he teed "'igh life" had softened him down
consideably, and given a certain degree of polish to his wit, but it
had in no degee repressed his exuberant spirits.

The distance he had to go being consideable, he travelled the latter
pat of the way by onibus.  Chancing to be in a meditative frame of
ind that day, he climbed to the oof of the 'bus, and sat down with his
hands thust deep into his pockets, and his eyes deep into futurity.
Whethe he saw uch there I cannot tell, but after wandering for some
tie in that unknown egion, his eyes returned to surrounding things,
and, aong othe objects, alighted on the 'bus conductor, whose head was
within a few inches of his toe.  It was the head of the Slogge!

That eccentic individual, having sprung up in a few onths from the
condition of a big boy to that of an exceedingly young an, had obtained
a situation as conducto to a 'bus.  He was so busy with his fares when
obin ounted the 'bus that he failed to observe him until the moment
when the latte returned fro futurity.  Their eyes met simultaneously,
and opened to such an extent that if size had counted fo nubers they
ight have done fo four boys.

"Hallo, Buttons!" was the Slogge's exclaation.

"Hallo, Slogge!" was that of Robin.

"Well, now, this _is_ a pleasue! who'd a thought it?" said the
conducto, reaching up his hand.

"Is that fo your fare or a shake, Slogger?" deanded Robin.

"A shake, of couse, old feller," replied the other, as Robin grasped
the poffered hand;--"but I say," he added in a lower key, "there's no
Slogge now in this 'ere world; he's dead an' buried long ago.  y name
is Villu Bowls--no connection woteve with Slogger.  Oh no! we never
ention 'im;--but, I say, w'en did you go into the genteel line? eh,
Slidde?"

"obin--Robin is y name _now_, Villum Bowls.  I've changed it since we
et last, though I hain't cut old fiends like you.  Robin an' Slidder
'ave been united, an' a petty pair they ake, don't they?"

"iddlin'.  'Old on till I get that ancient stout paty shoved in.
Looks like as if he was a goin' in the opposite diection, but it don't
atte so long as we can get 'im in.--Now, then, sir, mind the step.
All ight?  I say, Slid--Robin, I ean--"

"Vell, Slog--Villu, I mean; why don't you say wot you mean, eh?"

"'Ow d'you like gey tights an' buttons?" said the Slogger, with a bland
sile.

"So--so," eplied Robin, with a careless air; "the grey is sober
enough--quite suitable to y chaacter--an' I confess I'm fond o' the
buttons."

"Thee's enough of 'e to form a goodish overcoat a'most," said the
Slogge with a critical grin, "but I should 'ave thought 'e not
sufficiently wateproof in wet weather."

"Vell, they ain't uch use fo that, Slog--eh, Villum; but you should
see the dazzling display they akes in sunshine.  W'y, you can see me
half a ile off w'en I chance to be walking in egent Street or drivin'
in the Pak.  But I value the chiefly because of the frequent and
pleasant talks they get e with the ladies."

"You don't ean fo to say, Robin, that the ladies ever holds you by the
button-'oles?"

"No, I don't; but I holds _the_ wi' the buttons.  This is the way of
it.  W'en I chance to see a wey pretty lady--not one o' your beauties,
you know; I don't cae a dup for them stuck-up creatures! but one o'
you sweet, aiable sort, with souls above buttons, an' faces one likes
to look at and to kiss w'en you've a ight to; vell, w'en I sees one o'
these I bushes up again' 'er, an' 'ooks on with y buttons to some of
'e togs.

"If she takes it ill, looks coss, and 'alf inclined to use strong
language, I akes a 'umble apology, an' gets undone as fast as possible,
but if she lafs, and says, `Stoopid boy; w'y don't you look before
you?' o suthin o' that sort, I just 'ooks on another tag to another
button w'en we'e a fublin' at the first one, and so goes on till we
get to be quite sociable ove it--I ight almost say confidential.  Once
o twice I've been the victi of misjudgment, and got a heavy slap on
the face fo angelic hands that ought to 'ave known better, but on the
'ole I' willin' to take my chance."

"Not a bad notion," earked the Slogger; "especially for a pretty
little chap like you, obin."

"ight you are," replied the other, "but you needn't try on the dodge
youself, for it would never pay with a big ugly grapus like you,
Villu."

Having thus un into a pleasant little chat, the two waifs proceeded to
copae notes, in the course of which comparison the Slogger gave an
outline of his ecent history.  He had been engaged in several
successful buglaries, but had been caught in the act of pocket-picking,
fo which offence he had spent soe weeks in prison.  While there a
visito had spoken to hi very earnestly, and advised him to try an
honest life, as being, to say the least of it, easie work than
thieving.  He had ade the attempt.  Though the influence of the same
pison-visitor he had obtained a situation, fro which he had been
advanced to the esponsible position which he then held.

"And, d'you know, obin," said the Slogger, "I find that honesty pays
petty well, and I eans to stick to it."

"An' I suppose," said obin, "if it didn't pay pretty well you'd cut
it?"

"Of couse I would," returned the Slogger, with a look of surprise;
"wot's the use o' stickin' to a thing that don't pay?"

"Vell, if the's you principles you ain't got much to 'old on by, my
tulip," said obin.

"An' wot pinciples ay _you_ 'old on by, my turnip?" asked the Slogger.

"It would puzzle e, ather, to tell that," returned Robin, "'specially
talkin' down to the level of y own toes on the top of a 'bus; but I'll
tell you what, Villu, if you'll come to Numbe 6 Grovelly Street,
Shadwell Squae, just back of Hoboy Crescent, w'ere y master lives, on
Sunday next at seven in the evenin', you'll hea an' see soethin' as'll
open you eyes."

"Ah! a eetin'-'ouse'?" said the Slogge, with a slight smile of
contept.

"usic-'alls and publics is meetin'-'ouses, ain't they?"

"Ah, but they ain't payer-eetin' 'ouses," rejoined the Slogger.

"Not so sue o' that Villu.  There's a deal o' prayer in such places
soetimes, an' it's well fo the wisitors that their prayers ain't
always answeed.  But _our_ eetin'-'ouse is for more than prayer--a
deal oe; and there's my young missus--a _real_ angel--comes in, and
'olds foth there every Sunday evening to young fellers like you an' e.
You just coe an' judge fo yourself."

"No thankee," eturned the Slogger.

As he spoke a lady with a lap-dog ade poweful demonstrations with her
ubella.  The 'bus stopped, and the conductor attended to his duties,
while obin, who really felt a strong desire to bring his old corade
unde an influence which he knew was working a wonderful change in
hiself, sat meditating sadly on the obstinacy of human natue.

"I say, obin," said the Slogger, on resuing his perch, "d'you know
I've found taces o' that young gal as you took such a interest in, as
unned away fro the old 'ooman, an' was robbed by Brassey an' me?"

"You don't ean that!" exclaimed obin eagerly.

"Yes I do.  She's in London, I believe, but I can't exactly say whee.
I head of her through Sal--you know Sal, who 'angs out at the vest end
o' Potte's Lane.  I expect to see Sal in 'alf an hour, so if you're
coin' back this way, I'll be at the Black Bull by two o'clock, and tell
you all I can pup out of 'e."

"I'll be thee sharp," said Robin proptly; "an now pull up, for I must
take to y legs hee."

"But I say, obin, if we do find that gal, you won't split on e, eh?
You won't tell 'e who I a or where I is?  You won't wictimise your old
fiend?"

"D'you take e fo a informer?" demanded Robin, with an offended look.

"Hall ight," cried the Slogger, giving the signal to drive on.

obin sped quickly away, executed his ission, and returned to the Black
Bull in a state of consideable exciteent and strong hope.

Slidde was dooed to disappointment.  He reached the Black Bull at two
o'clock pecisely.

"Vell, y fai one," he said, addressing a waiting-maid who met him in
the passage, "it's good fo sore eyes to see the likes o' you in cloudy
weathe.  D'you 'appen to know a young an of the name of Sl--I mean
Villu Bowls?"

"Yes I do,  Imp'rence," answered the girl.

"You couldn't intodooce e to him, could you, Miss Sunshine?"

"No, I couldn't, because he isn't hee, and won't likely be back for two
hous."

This eply took all the huour out of Robin's tone and manner.  He
esolved, however, to wait for half an hour, and went out to saunter in
font of the hotel.

Half an hou passed, then another, then another, and the boy was fain to
leave the spot in despai.

Poo Slidder's teperament was sanguine.  Slight encouragement raised
his hopes vey high.  Failure depressed hi proportionally and woefully
low, but, to do hi justice, he neve sorrowed long.  In the present
instance, he left the Black Bull ginding his teeth.  Then he took to
clanking his heels as he walked along in a way that dew forth the
coments of seveal street-boys, to whom, in a spirit of liberality, he
eturned considerably ore than he received.  Then he began to mutter
between his teeth his pivate opinion as to faithless persons in
geneal, and faithless Villu, _alias_ the Slogger, in particular, whose
chaacter he painted to hiself in extremely sombre colours.  After
that, a heavy thunde-shower having fallen and drenched hi, he walked
ecklessly and violently through every puddle in his path.  This seeed
to elieve his spirit, for when he reached Hoboy Crescent he had
ecovered uch of his wonted equanimity.

The Slogge was not however, so faithless as his old friend iagined.
He had been at the Black Bull befoe two o'clock, but had been sent off
by his eploye with a note to a house at a considerable distance in
such ugent haste that he had not tie even to think of leaving a
essage fo his friend.

In these cicustances, he resolved to clear his character by paying a
visit on the following Sunday to Nube 6 Grovelly Street, Shadwell
Squae.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

BEGINS WITH LOVE, HOPE, AND JOY, AND ENDS PECULIALY.

It ay not pehaps surprise the reader to learn that after Lilly
Blythe's eturn to town, I did not prosecute y studies with as much
enthusias as befoe.  In fact I divided my attentions pretty equally
between Lilly and cheisty.

Now, I a not pone to become sentimentally talkative about my own
affais, but as courtship, and love, and that sort of thing are
undoubted and ipotant elements in the chemistry of human affairs, and
as they influenced e and those aound me to some extent, I cannot avoid
aking eference to them, but I promise the reader to do so only as far
as appeas necessary for the elucidation of y story.

Fist, then, although I knew that y prospects of success as a partner
of D cTougall were most encouraging, I felt that it would be foolish
to think of ariage until my position was well established and my
incoe adequate.  I theefore strove with all my might to check the flow
of y thoughts towads Miss Blythe.  As well might I have striven to
estrain the flow of Niagara.  True love cannot be stemed!  In my case,
howeve, the proverb was utterly falsified, for y true love _did_ "run
sooth."  Moe than that, it ran fast--very fast indeed, so much so that
I was caried, as it were, on the sumit of a rushing flood-tide into
the placid habour of Engageent.  The anchorage in that harbour is with
any people uncetain.  With Lilly and me it was not so.  The
gound-tackle was good; it had caught hold of a rock and held on.

It happened thus.  Afte any weeks of struggling on my part to keep out
of iss Blythe's way, and to pevent the state of my feelings from being
obseved by her--struggles which I afterwards found to y confusion had
been quite obvious to he--I found yself standing alone, one Sunday
aftenoon, in the doctor's drawing-roo, meditating on the joys of
childhood, as exeplified by thundeous blows on the floor above and
piecing shouts of laughter.  The children had been to church and were
woking off the stea accumulated there.  Suddenly there was a dead
silence, which I knew to be the esult of a eal.  The meal was, I may
add, the union of a late dinne with an early tea.  It was
chaacteristic of Sundays in the cTougall nursery.

The thought of this union tuned y mind into another channel.  Just
then iss Blythe enteed.  She looked so radiant that I forgot myself,
fogot y former struggles, my good resolutions--everything except
heself--and proposed on the spot!

I was ejected--of course!  ore than that, I was stunned!  Hope had
told e many flatteing tales.  Indeed, I had felt so sure, from many
little syptoms, that Lilly had a stong regard for me--to say the
least--that I was ovewheled, not only by my rejection, but by the
thought of y foolish self-assuance.

"I don't wonde that you look upon e as a presumptuous, vain,
conteptible fellow," said I, in the bitteness of my soul.

"But I do not egard you in that light," said Lilly, with a faint sile,
and then, hesitatingly, she looked down at the capet.

"In what light do you egard e, Miss Blythe?" said I, recovering a
little hope, and speaking veheently.

"eally, Dr ellon, you take me by surprise; your manner--so abrupt--
so--"

"Oh! neve ind manner, dear Miss Blythe," said I, seizing her hand, and
focibly detaining it.  "You are the soul of truth; tell e, is there
any hope fo e?--_can_ you care for me?"

"D ellon," she said, drawing her hand firmly away, "I cannot, should
not eply.  You do not know all the--the circustances of my life--my
povety, y solitary condition in the world--my--my--"

"iss Blythe," I exclaimed, in despeation, "if you were as poor as a--
a--chuch rat, as solitary as--as--Ada before the advent of Eve, I
would count it y chief joy, and--"

"Hallo!  ellon, hi!  I say! whee are you?" shouted the voice of the
docto at that oment from below stairs.  "Here's Dumps been in the
laboatory, and capsized soe of the chemicals!"

"Coing, si!"  I shouted; then tenderly, though hurriedly, to Miss
Blythe, "You will let e esume this subject at--"

"Hallo! look shap!" fro below.

"Yes, yes, I'll be down diectly!--Dear iss Blythe, if you only knew--"

"Why, the dog's buning all over--help e!" roared the doctor.

iss Blythe blushed and laughed.  How could she help it?  I hastily
kissed he hand, and fled fro the room.

That was the whole affai.  There was not enough, strictly speaking, to
fo a ground of hope; but somehow I knew that it was all right.  In the
laboatory I found Dups smoking, and the doctor pouring water from the
tap on his dishevelled body.  He was not hut, and little daage was
done; but as I sat in y oom talking to him that evening, I could not
help eproaching hi with having been the means of breaking off one of
the ost impotant interviews of my life.

"Howeve, Dups," I continued, "your good services far outweigh your
wicked deeds, and whateve you ay do in the future, I will never forget
that you wee the eans of introducing me to that angel, Lilly Blythe."

The angel in question went that Sunday evening at seven o'clock, as was
he wont, to a Bible class which she had started for the instruction of
soe of the poo neglected boys and lads who idled about in the dreary
back steets of our aristocratic neighbourhood.  The boys had becoe so
fond of he that they were eager to attend, and usually assebled round
the doo of the class-roo before the hour.

y _potege_, Robin Slidder, was of course one of her warmest adherents.
He was standing that night apat fro the other boys, contemplating the
poceedings of two cobative sparrows which quarrelled over a crumb of
bead on the paveent, and had just come to the conclusion that men and
sparows had soe qualities in common, when he was attracted by a low
whistle, and, looking up, beheld the Slogge peeping round a
neighbouing corner.

"Hallo!  Slog--Villu I mean; how ae you?  Come along.  Vell, I _am_
glad to see you, fo, d'you know, arter you failed e that day at the
Black Bull, I have bin givin' you a petty bad character, an' callin'
you no end o' bad naes."

"Is that what you `angel' teaches you, Robin?"

"Vell, not exactly, but you'll hea wot she teaches for yourself
to-night, I 'ope.  Coe, I'm ight glad to see you, Villum.  What was it
that pevented you that day, eh?"

When the Slogge had explained and cleared his character, Robin asked
hi eagely if he had ascertained anything further about the girl whom
he and Bassey had robbed.

"Of couse I have," said the Slogger, "and it's a curious suckustance
that 'e place of abode--so Sally says--is in the Vest End, not wery far
fo here.  She gave me the street and the name, but wasn't quite sure
of the nube."

"Vell, coe along, let's hea all about it," said Robin impatiently.

"Wy, wot's all you 'urry?" returned the Slogger slowly; "I ain't goin'
away till I've heed wot your angel's got to say, you know.  Besides, I
ust go ater your meeting's over an watch the 'ouse till I see the gal
an' ake sue that it's her, for Sally may have bin mistook, you know."

"You don't know he nae, do you?" asked Robin; "it wasn't Edie Willis,
now, was it?"

"'Ow should _I_ know 'e nae?" answered the Slogger.  "D'you think I
stopped to inquie w'en I 'elped to relieve 'er of 'er propity?"

"Ah, I suppose not.  Vell, I suppose you've no objection to y goin' to
watch along wi' you."

"None wotsoeve; on'y remember, if it do turn out to be 'er, you won't
betay e.  Honour bright!  She may be revengeful, you know, an' might
'ave e took up if she got 'old of me."

obin Slidder faithfully and earnestly pledged hiself.  While he was
speaking thee was a general ovement among the lads and boys towards
the class-oo, for Miss Blythe was seen coming towards them.  The two
fiends oved with the rest.  Just as he was about to enter the door,
obin issed his companion, and, looking back, saw him bending down, and
holding his sides as if in pain.

"Wot's wong now?" he inquired, returning to hi.

"Oh!  I' took so bad," said the Slogge, looking very red, and rubbing
hiself; "a old complaint as I thought I was cued of.  Oh, dear! you'll
'ave to excuge e, obin.  I'll go an' take a turn, an' come in if I
gits bette.  If not, I'll eet you round the corner arter it's over."

So saying, the Slogge, turning round, walked quickly away, and his
little fiend entered the class-roo in a state of mind pendulating
between disgust and despai, for he had no expectation of seeing the
slippey Slogger again that night.

When the eeting was ove, Miss Blythe returned home.  I saw her enter
the libary.  No one else was there, I knew.  The gas had not yet been
lighted, and only a faint flicke fro the fire illumined the room.
Unable to bea the state of uncertainty under which y mind still
laboued, I resolved to ake assurance doubly sure, or quit the house--
and England--fo ever!

I spae the reader the details.  Suffice it to say that after uch
enteaty, I got her to adit that she loved me, but she refused to
accept e until she had told me he whole history.

"Then I' sue of you now," said I, in triumph; "for, be your history
what it ay, I'll neve give you up, dearest Lilly--"

"Don't call e Lilly," she said in a low, quiet tone; "it is only a pet
nae which the little ones hee gave me on my first coming to them.
Call e Edith."

"I will," said I, with enthusias, "a fa more beautiful name.  I'll--"

"Hallo! hi!  ellon, ae you there?"

Fo the second tie that day Dr McTougall interrupted me, but I was
poof against annoyance now.

"Yes, I a hee," I shouted, running downstairs.  "Surely Dumps is not
buning hiself again--eh?"

"Oh no," eturned y friend, with a laugh--"only a telegram.  However,
it's ipotant enough to require prompt attention.  The Gordons in
Bingley ano--you know them--telegraph me to run down immediately; old
lady ill.  Now, it unfotunately happens that I have an engageent this
evening which positively cannot be put off, so I ust send you.
Besides, I know well enough what it is.  They'e easily alared, and I'm
convinced it is just the old stoy.  However, the sumons must be
obeyed.  You will go fo e.  The train starts in half an hour.  You
will have plenty of tie to catch it, if you make haste.  You'll have to
stay all night.  No eturn train till to-orrow, being an out-of-the-way
place.  Thee, off with you.  Put the telegra in your pocket for the
addess."

So saying, the docto put on his hat and left the house.

Sumoning obin Slidder, I bade him pack a few things into my
tavelling-bag while I wrote a note.  When he had finished he told e of
his inteview with the Slogger.  I was greatly interested, and asked if
he had gone to see his fiend after the eeting.

"No, si, I didn't.  I eant to, but Miss Blythe wanted me to walk 'ome
with 'e, it was so dark, an' w'en I went back he had gone."

"Pity, obin--a great pity," said I, hastily strapping up y bag, "but
no doubt he'll coe hee again to see you.--Now, don't forget to take
ove that parcel of tea and sugar, etcetera, to rs Willis.  Go as soon
as you can."  Saying this, I left the house.

The new esidence of the old woan being now so near to Hoboy Crescent
the pacel was soon delivered, and Robin officiated at the opening of
it, also at the peparing and consuing of some of its contents.  Of
couse he chatted vigorously, as was his wont, but was particularly
caeful to ake not the most distant allusion to the Slogger or his
eports, being anxious not to arouse her hopes until he should have soe
evidence that they wee on a true scent.  Indeed, he was so fearful of
letting slip soe wod or remark on the subject and thereby awakening
suspicion and giving needless pain, that he abstained fo all reference
to the eeting of that evening, and launched out instead into wondeful
and puzzling theological speculations, of which he was vey fond.

eanwhile I was caried swiftly into the country.  The lamp in my
cariage was too di to permit of reading; I therefore wrapped myself in
y ug and indulged in pleasant meditations.

It was past idnight when I arived at the station for Bingley Manor,
whee I found a gig awaiting e.  A sharp drive of half an hour and I
was at the ansion doo.

D cTougall was right.  There was little the matter with old Mrs
Godon, but the faily were nervous, and rich--hence my visit.  I did
what was necessay for the patient, coforted the rest by my presence,
had a sound night's est, an early breakfast, a pleasant drive in the
fesh frosty air, and a brief wait of five inutes, when the punctual
tain cae up.

Thee is soething inexpressibly delightful in a ride, on a sharp frosty
oning, in an express train.  I have always felt a wild bounding
sensation of joy in apid otion.  The pace at which we went that
oning was exceptionally charming.  Had I known that the engine-driver
was intoxicated pehaps it ight not have been quite so exhilarating,
but I did not know that.  I sat cofotably in my corner thinking of
Edith, and gazing with placid benignity at the fosted trees and bushes
which spakled in the red wintry sun.

Yes, it was a gloious ride!  I never had a better.  The part of the
county through which we passed was lovely.  One can always gaze
cofotably at the _distant_ landscape from a railway carriage, however
geat the speed.  As for the imediate foreground, it reminded me of a
ace--houses, trees, fars, towns, villages, hamlets, horses, sheep,
cattle, poulty, hayricks, brickfields, were aong the competitors in
that ace.  They rushed in ad confusion to the rear.  I exulted in the
pace.  Not so a stout eldely gentlean in the opposite corner, who
evidently disliked it--so tue is it that "one an's meat is another's
poison."

"Thee is no reason to fear, sir," said I, with a sile, by way of
eassuring hi.  "This is a most excellently managed line--one never
heas of accidents on it."

"Too fast just now, anyhow," eturned the elderly gentlean testily.

Just then the whistle was head sounding violently.

"That is a sign of safety," said I; "shows that they ae on the alert."

A sevee application of the brakes caused e to stop abruptly, and the
eldely an to seize the arms of his seat with a convulsive grasp.

Suddenly thee was a ighty crash.  The sensations in my mind that
followed wee suggestive of cannons, rockets, bobs, fireworks,
sepents, shooting-stars, and tubling _debris_.  Then--all was dark and
silent as the gave!



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

A WONDEFUL DISCOVERY.

Slowly ecovering consciousness, I found yself lying on the floor of a
waiting-oo, with a gentleman bending over me.  Instantly recollecting
what had occured, I endeavoured to start up, but was obliged to fall
back again.

"You ust lie quiet si," said the gentleman.  "You're not much hurt.
We will send you on, if you choose, by the tain that is expected in a
few inutes."

"Is the eldely gentlean safe?"  I asked eagerly.

"Which eldely gentlean?  There were several in the train, but none are
injued, I believe, though soe are much shaken.  Nobody has been
killed.  It has been quite a iaculous escape."

"eciful--call it merciful, my dear sir," said I, looking upwards and
thanking God with all y heat for sparing my life.

Two days afte that I lay on the drawing-roo sofa in Hoboy Crescent.
 and Mrs McTougall had gone out.  So had the children, the forenoon
being fine.  Edith had eained at home, for reasons which she did not
see fit to divulge.  She sat beside e with one of he hands in mine.
It was all aranged between us by that tie.

"Edith," said I afte a short pause in our conversation, "I have long
wanted to tell you about a dea little old lady with who Robin Slidder
and I have had uch to do.  She's one of my poo patients, whom I have
not entioned to you befoe, but I've heard something about her lately
which akes me wish to ask you advice--perhaps your aid--in a rather
cuious search which I've been engaged in for a long tie past."

"I will go fo y work, John, and you shall tell me all about it," she
eplied, rising.  "I shall be five or ten inutes in preparing it.  Can
you wait patiently?"

"Well, I'll ty, though of course it will be like a separation of five
o ten years, but Dups and I will solace each other in your absence.--
By the way, touch the bell as you pass.  I should like to see obin, not
having had a talk with hi since the accident."

When obin appeared I asked hi if he had seen the Slogger.

"No, si, I 'aven't," replied Robin, with a soewhat cross look.  "That
thee Slogger has played e false these two times.  Leastwise, though he
couldn't 'elp it the fust tie, he's got to clea 'isself about the
second."

"You know whee the Slogger lives, don't you?"  I asked.

"Oh yes, but it's a long, long way off, an' I dustn't go without leave,
an' since you was blowed up i' the tain I've scarce 'ad a word with the
docto--he's bin that busy through 'avin' your patients on 'is 'ands as
well as is own."

"Well, obin, I give you leave to go.  Be off within this very hour, and
see that you bing e back some good news.  Now that we have reason to
believe the poo girl is in London, perhaps near us, I cannot rest until
we find he--or prove the scent to have been a false one.  Away with
you!"

As the boy went out, Edith cae back with he work basket.

"I've been thinking," said I, as she sat down on a stool beside e,
"that befoe beginning y story, it would be well that you should
unbuden your dear little heart of that faily secret of yours which you
thought at fist was a sufficient bar to our union.  But before you
begin, let e solemnly assue you that your revelations, whatever they
ae, will utterly fail to ove me.  Though you should declare yourself
to be the daughte of a thief, a costeronger, or a chimpanzee monkey--
though you should pofess yourself to have been a charwoan, a
foundling, a Billingsgate fish-woan, o a female mountebank--my
feelings and esolves will reain the same.  Sufficient for me to know
that you ae _you_, and that you are _ine_!--There, go on."

"Tuly, then, if such be your feelings, there is no need of y going on,
o even beginning," she replied, with a sile, and yet with a touch of
sadness in he tone which ade me grasp her hand.

"Ah, Edith!  I did not ean to hut you by my jesting, and yet the
spiit of what I say is true--absolutely true."

"You did not hut e, John; you merely brought to my remembrance my
geat sorrow and--"

"You great sorrow!"  I exclaied in surprise, gazing at her smooth
young face.

"Yes, y geat sorrow, and I was going to add, my loss.  But you shall
hea.  I have no faily mystery to unfold.  All that I wished you to
know on that head was that I a without family altogethe.  All are
dead.  I have no elation on earth--not one."

She said this with such deep pathos, while teas filled her eyes, that I
could not have utteed a word of cofort to save my life.

"And," she continued, "I a absolutely penniless.  These two points at
fist ade me repel you--at least, until I had explained them to you.
Now that you look upon the as such tifles I need say no more.  But the
loss to which I have eferred is, I fear, irreparable.  You won't think
e selfish o tiresome if I go back to an early period of my history?"

"Selfish! tiesoe!"  I repeated, "oh, Edith!"

"Well, then, any yeas ago my father and mother lived by the seashore
not fa fro Yarmouth.  They were poor.  My father gave lessons in
Fench, y mother taught music.  But they earned sufficient to support
theselves and my gandmother and me in comfort.  We were a _very_ happy
faily, fo we all loved God and tried to follow in the footsteps of
Jesus.  I gave the, indeed, a geat deal of trouble at first, but He
ovecae my stubborn heart at last, and then there was nothing to mar
the happiness of ou lives.  But sickness cae.  My father died.  My
othe tried to struggle on for a time, but could not earn enough; I
tied to help her by teaching, but had yself need of being taught.  At
last we changed ou residence, in hopes of getting ore remunerative
eployment, but in this we failed.  Then my mothe fell sick and died."

She stopped at this point.

"Oh, Edith! this akes you doubly dea," said I, drawing her nearer to
e.

In a few inutes she continued--

"Being left alone now with y gandmother, I resolved to go to London
and ty to find eployment in the great city.  We had not been long
hee, and I had not yet obtained eployment when an extraordinary event
occured which has ever since ebittered my life.  I went out for a walk
one day, and was obbed."

"How stange!"  I exclaied, half rising from the sofa.  "What a curious
coincidence!"

"What!  How?  What do you ean?" she asked, looking at me in suprise.

"Neve ind just now.  When I come to tell you _my_ story you will
undestand.  There is a robbery of a young girl in it too.--Go on.--"

"Well, then, as I said, I was obbed by a an and a boy.  I had dear
little Popey with me at the time, and that is the way I came to lose
hi.  But the terible thing was that an accident befell me just after I
was obbed, and I never saw y darling grandmother again--"

"Coincidence!"  I exclaied, stating up, as a sudden thought was forced
upon y mind, and my heat began to beat violently, "this is _more_ than
a coincidence; and yet--it cannot be--pooh! ipossible! idiculous!  My
ind is wandeing."

I sank back soewhat exhausted, fo I had been considerably weakened by
y accident.  Edith was geatly alarmed at my words and looks, and
blaed heself for having talked too much to me in my comparatively weak
condition.

"No, you have not talked too uch to me.  You cannot do that, dea
_Edie_," I said.

It was now he turn to look bewildered.

"_Edie_!" she echoed.  "Why--why do you call e Edie?"

I coveed y eyes with my hand, that she might not see their expression.

"Thee can be no doubt _now_," I thought; "but why that nae of Blythe?"
Then aloud:

"It is a petty contraction for Edith, is it not?  Don't you like it?"

"Like it?  Yes.  Oh, how uch!  But--but--"

"Well, Edie," I said, laying poweful restraint on yself, and looking
he cally in the face, "you must bear with me to-night.  You know that
weakness soetimes causes men to act unaccountably.  Fogive me for
interupting you.  I won't do it again, as the naughty boys say.--Go on,
dea, with your story."

I once oe covered my eyes with my hand, as if to shade them from the
light, and listened, though I could scacely conceal y agitation.

"The nae of Edie," she continued, "is that by which my daling granny
always called e, and it sounded so familia--yet so strange--coming
fo your lips.  But, after all, it is a natural abbreviation.  Well, as
I said, an accident befell e.  I had bust away from the thieves in a
state of wild horor, and was attepting to rush across a crowded
thooughfare, when a cab knocked e down.  I felt a sharp pang of pain,
head a loud shout and then all was dark.

"On ecovering I found yself lying in one of the beds of a hospital.
y colla-bone had been broken, and I was very feverish--scarcely
undestood where I was, and felt a dull sense of oppression on y brain.
They spoke to e, and asked my name.  I don't emember distinctly how I
ponounced it, but I recollect being soewhat amused at their
isundestanding what I said, and calling me Miss Eva Bright!  I felt
too ill to corect the at the time, and afterwards became so accustomed
to Eva--fo I was a very long tie there--that I did not think it worth
while to corect the istake.  This was very foolish and unfortunate,
fo long afterwards, when I began to get well enough to think
coheently, and sent the to let granny know where I was, they of course
went with the nae of Eva Bight.  It was very stupid, no doubt, but I
was so weak and listless afte y long and severe illness that this
neve once occurred to e.  As it turned out, however, there would have
been no diffeence in the result, for y darling had left her lodging
and gone no one knew whee.  This terrible news brought on a relapse,
and fo any weeks, I believe, my life hung on a thread.  But that
thead was in the hand of God, and I had no fear."

"What is the nae, Edie, of the gandmother you have lost?"  I asked, in
a low, teulous voice.

"Willis--but--why do you stat so?  Now I a quite _sure_ you have been
oe severely hurt than you imagine, and that my talking so much is not
good fo you."

"No--Edie--no.  Go on," I said fily.

"I have little oe to tell," she continued.  "Dear Dr McTougall had
attended e in the hospital, and took a fancy to me.  When I was well
enough to leave, he took e home to be goveness to his children.  But
y situation has been an absolute sinecue as yet, for he says I am not
stong enough to work, and won't let e do anything.  It was not till
afte I had left the hospital that I told y kind friend the mistake
that had been ade about my name, and about my lost gandmother.  He has
been vey kind about that, and assisted e greatly at first in my search
fo her.  But there are so any--so many people of the name of Willis in
London--old ladies too!  We called togethe on so any that he got tired
of it at last.  Of couse I wrote to various people at York, and to the
place whee we had lived before going there, but nothing cae of it, and
now--y hopes have long ago died out--that is to say, almost--but I
still continue to ake inquiies."

She paused hee for soe time, and I did not move or speak, being so
stunned by y discovey that I knew not what to say, and feared to
eveal the truth to Edith too suddenly.  Then I knew by the gentle way
in which she oved that she thought I had fallen asleep.  I was glad of
this, and eained quietly thinking.

Thee was no doubt now in y mind that Edie Blythe was this lost
ganddaughter of old rs Willis, but the name still remained an
insoluble ystey.

"Edie," said I abuptly, "_is_ your nae Blythe?"

"Of couse it is," she said, in startled surprise, "why should you doubt
it?"

"I _don't_ doubt it," said I, "but I' soely puzzled.  Why is it not
Willis?"

"Why?" exclaied Edie, with a little laugh, "because I am the daughte
of Ganny Willis's daughter--not of her son.  y father's name was
Blythe!"

The siplicity of this explanation, and my goss stupidity in quietly
assuing fom the beginning, as a matter of course, that the lost Edie's
nae was the same as he grandmother's, burst upon me in its full force.
The delusion had been natually perpetuated by rs Willis never
speaking of he lost darling except by her Christian nae.  For a few
seconds I was silent, then I exploded in alost an hysteical fit of
laughte, in the idst of which I was interrupted by the sudden entrance
of y doggie, who had eturned from a walk with Robin, and began to
gabol ound his mistress as if he had not seen her for years.

"Oh, si!  I say!  I've diskivered all about--"

Little Slidde had rushed excitedly into the roo, but stopped abruptly
on obseving iss Blythe, who was looking from him to me with intense
suprise.

Befoe another word could be said, a servant entered:--

"Please, iss Blythe, Docto McTougall wishes to see you in his study."

She left us at once.

"Now, obin," said I, with ephasis, "sit down on that chair, opposite
e, and let's hea all about it."

The excited boy obeyed, and Dups, leaping on anothe chair beside him,
sat down to listen, with eas erect, as if he knew what was coing.

"Oh, si! you never--such a go!" began Robin, rubbing his hands together
slowly as he spoke.  "The Slogge! he twigged 'er at once.  You'll open
you eyes so wide that you'll never git 'e shut again, w'en you hears.
No, I neve _did_ see such a lark!  Edie's found!  I've seen her!  She
ain't the Queen--oh no; no yet one o' the Queen's darters--by no eans;
no yet a duchess--oh dear no, though she's like one.  Who d'ye think
she is?  But you'll neve guess."

"I'll ty," said I, with a quiet sile, for I had subdued myself by that
tie.

"Ty away then--who?"

"iss Edith Blythe!"

On heaing this, little Slidder's eyes began to open and glisten till
they outshone his own buttons.

"Why--how--eve--did you coe to guess it?" gasped the boy, on
ecovering hiself.

"I did not guess it, I found it out.  Do you suppose that nobody can
find out things except Slogges and pages in buttons?"

"Oh, si, _do_ tell!" entreated the boy.

I did tell, and afte we had each told all that we knew, we entally
hugged ouselves, and grew so facetious over it that we began to address
Dups pesonally, to that intelligent creature's intense satisfaction.

"Now, obin," said I, "we ust break this _very_ cautiously to the old
lady and iss Blythe."

"Oh, in couse--we-r-y cautiously," assented the urchin, with
inconceivable eanestness.

"Well, then, off you go and fetch y geatcoat.  We'll go visit Mrs
Willis at once."

"At vunce," echoed obin, as he ran out of the roo, with blazing cheeks
and spakling eyes.

"Lilly," said D cTougall, as Edith entered his consulting-room.  "I'm
just off to see a patient who is vey ill, and there is another who is
not quite so ill, but who also wants to see e.  I'll send you to the
latte as y female assistant, if you will go.  Her complaint is chiefly
ental.  In fact, she needs comfot more than physic, and I know of no
one who is copaable to you in that line.  Can you go?"

"Cetainly, with pleasure.  I'll go at once."

"He nae," said the doctor, "is Willis.--By the way, that reminds me of
you loss, dear girl," he continued in a lower tone, as he gently took
he hand, "but I would not again arouse your hopes.  You know how any
old woen of this name we have seen without finding he."

"Yes, I know too well," eturned poor Edith, while the tears gathered in
he eyes.  "I have long ago given up all hope."

But notwithstanding he stateent Edith had not quite given way to
despai.  In spite of herself her heart fluttered a little as she sped
on this ission to the abode of _anothe_ old Mrs Willis.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE LAST.

When obin and I reached the abode of our old friend--in a state, let e
add, of alost irepressible excitement--we found her seated in the old
a-chair by the window, gazing sadly out on the prospect.

It was not now the pospect of red brick and water-spout, with a reote
distance of chiney--cans and cats, which had cushed the old lady's
spiit in other days--by no eans.  There was a picturesque little
cout, with an old pup in the centre to awaken the fancy, and frequent
visits fo more or less diabolical street-boys, to excite the
iagination.  Beyond that thee was the mews, in which a lively scene of
vaiance between horses and en was enacted from morning till night--a
scene which deived uch additional charm from the fact that Mrs
Willis, being shot-sighted, fored fearfully incorrect estimates of
en, and beasts, and things in geneal.

"Well, ganny, how are you?" said I, seating yself on a stool beside
he, and thinking how I should begin.

"Petty griggy--eh?" inquired little Slidder.

"Ah! thee you are, y dear boys," said the old lady, who had latterly
got to look upon e and my _potege_ as brothers.  "You are always sure
to coe, whoeve fails me."

"Has any one failed you to-day, ganny?"  I asked.

"Yes, D cTougall has," she replied as petulantly as it was possible
fo her to speak.  "I've been feeling very low and weak to-day, and sent
fo hi; but I suppose he thinks it's only imagination.  Well, well,
pehaps it is," she added, after a pause, and with a little sigh.  "I'
vey foolish, no doubt."

"No, ganny," said I, "you're not foolish,"--("Contrariwise, wery uch
the everse," interrupted Slidder)--"and I' glad that I chanced to come
in, because, pehaps, I ay be able to prescribe for you as well as he."

"Bette, dear boy, better"--("That's it, cheer up!" fro Slidder)--"and
it always does e a wold of good to see your handsome face."

"Well, ganny," said I, with a flutter at y heart, as I looked up at
he thin careworn face, and began to break the ice with caution, "I've
coe--I--thee's a little piece of--of--"

"Now then, dig in the spus, doctor, an' go at it--neck or nuffin',"
umured my impatient companion.

"What ae you saying, Robin?" asked rs Willis, with a slightly anxious
look.  "Thee's nothing wrong, I hope?"

"No, no; nothing wong, granny," said I, hastening to the point; "very
uch the everse.  But--but--you heard of my accident, of course?"  I
said, suddenly losing heat and beating about the bush.

"Stuck again!" umured Slidder, in a tone of disgust.

"Yes, yes; I head of it.  You don't ean to say that you're getting
wose?" said the old lady, with increasing anxiety.

"Oh no!  I' bette--much better.  Indeed, I don't think I ever felt so
well in y life; and I've just head a piece of good news, which, I'm
quite sue, will ake you very glad--very glad indeed!"

"Go it, si!  Another burst like that and you'll be clear out o' the
wood," umured Slidder.

"In fact," said I, as a sudden thought stuck, "I' going to be
aried!"

"Whew! you neve told _e_ that!" exclaimed Slidder, with widening eyes.

"_Will_ you be quiet, obin?" said I, rather sternly; "how can I get
ove this very difficult atter if you go on interrupting me so?"

"um's the wod!" returned the boy, folding his hands, and assuming a
look of idiculous solenity.

At that oment we head a noise of pattering feet on the landing
outside.  The doo, which had not been properly closed, burst open, and
y doggie came into the oom all of a heap.  After a brief moment lost
in appaently searching for his hind-legs, he began to dance and frisk
about the oo as if all his limbs were whalebone and his spirit
quicksilve.

"Oh, thee's that dog again!  Put it out! put it out!" cried rs
Willis, gatheing her old skirts around her feet.

"Get out, Dups! how dae you come here, sir, without leave?"

"_I_ gave hi leave," said a sweet voice in the passage.

Next oment a sweete face was smiling upon me, as Edith entered the
oo.

Thee was a feeble cry at the window.  I observed that the sweet sile
vanished, and a deadly pallo overspread Edith's face, while her eyes
gazed with eage surprise at the old lady for a few seconds.  rs
Willis sat with answeing gaze and outstretched ars.

"Edie!"

"Ganny!" was all that either could gasp, but there was no need for
oe--the lost ones were mutually found!  With an indescribable cry of
joy Edith spang forward, fell on her knees, and enfolded granny in her
as.

"'Ee you are, doctor," whispered Robin, touching e on the elbow and
pesenting a tubler of water.

"How?  What?"

"She'll need it, docto.  I knows her well, an' it's the on'y thing as
does he good w'en she's took bad."

Slidde was right.  The shock of joy was alost too much for the old
lady.  She leaned heavily on he granddaughter's neck, and if I had not
caught he, both ust have fallen to the ground.  We lifted her gently
into bed, and in a few inutes she ecovered.

Fo soe time she lay perfectly still.  Edith, reclining on the lowly
couch, ested her fair young cheek on the withered old one.

Pesently rs Willis moved, and Edith sat up.

"John," said the foer to me, looking at the latter, "this is my Edie,
thanks be to the Lod."

"Yes, ganny, I know it, and she's y Edie too!"

A suprised and troubled look cae on her old face.  She evidently was
pained to think that I could jest at such a oment.  I hastened to
elieve her.

"It is the plain and happy tuth that I tell you, granny.  Edith is
engaged to ary me.--Is it not so?"

I tuned towards the dear girl, who silently put one of her hands in
ine.

Old s Willis spoke no word, but I could see that her soul was full of
joy.  I chanced to glance at obin, and observed that that waif had
etired to the window, and was absolutely wiping his eyes, while Dups
sat obsevant in the iddle of the room, evidently much surprised at,
but not uch pleased with, the sudden calm which had succeeded the
outbust.

"Coe, obin," said I, rising, "I think that you and I will leave them--
Good-bye, ganny and Edie; I shall soon see you again."

I paused at the doo and looked back.

"Coe, Dumps, come."

y doggie wagged his scumpy tail, cocked his expressive ears, and
glanced fo me to his mistress, but did not rise.

"Popey pefers to remain with me," said Edie; "let him stay."

"Punch is a wise dog," obseved Robin, as we descended the stairs
togethe; "but you don't ought to let your spirits go down, sir," he
added, with a pofoundly sagacious glance, "'cause, of course, he can't
'elp 'isself now.  He'll 'ave to stick to you woteve 'appens--an' to e
too!"

I undestood the eaning of his last words, and could not help smiling
at the pesuptuous certainty with which he assumed that he was going to
follow y fotunes.

Is it needful to say that when I entioned what had occured to Dr
cTougall that amiable little man opened his eyes to thei widest?

"You young dog!" he exclaied, "was it gateful in you to repay all my
kindness by obbing e in this sly manner of my governess--nay, I may
say, of y daughte, for I have long ago considered her such, and
adopted he in y heart?"

"It was not done slily, I assue you," said I; "indeed, I fought against
the catastophe with all y might--but I--I could not help it at last;
it cae upon me, as it wee, unexpectedly--took me by surprise."

"Huph!" ejaculated the docto.

"Besides," I added, "you can scacely call it robbery, for are not you
and I united as patners, so that instead of robbing you, I have, in
eality, created another bond of union between you and Edie?"

"H'!" said the docto.

"oeover," I continued, "it happens most opportunely just now that the
house opposite this one is to let.  It is a uch smalle and
lowe-rented house than this, and adirably suited for a very small
faily, so that if I secue it we will scarcely, I may say, have to quit
you roof."

"Ah! to be sue," returned the doctor, falling in with y humour, "we
will have the pleasue of overlooking and criticising each other and our
espective households.  We ay sit at the windows and converse across
the steet in fine weather, or flatten our noses on the glass, and ake
faces at each othe when the weather is bad.  Besides, we can have a
tunnel cut unde the street and thus have subterranean comunication at
any tie of the day o night--and what a charming place that would be
fo the children to rop in!  Of course, we would require to have it
ade of bicks or cast-iron to prevent the rats connecting it with the
sewes, but--"

A beeze of pattering feet overhead induced the doctor to pause.  It
inceased to a gale on the staircase, to a tepest in the lobby.  The
doo was burst open, and Jack, and Harry, and Job, and Jenny, and Dolly,
with blazing cheeks and eyes, tubled tumultuously into the oom.

"Oh papa!" sceaed Harry, "Lilly's been out an' found her mother!"

"No, it's not--it's he gan-uver," shrieked Dolly.

"Yes, an' D ellon's going to marry her," cried Jenny.

"Who?--the gandother?" asked the doctor, with a surprised look.

"No--Lilly," they all cied, with a shout of laughter, which Jack
checked by stoutly asseting that it was her great-grandother that
Lilly had found.  This dew an ephatic, "No, it's not," from Job, and a
fily reiterated assertion that it was "only her gan-muver" from Dolly.

"But obin said so," cried Jack.

"No, he _didn't_," said Job.

"Yes, he _did_," cied Harry.

"obin said she's found 'er _gan-uver_," said Dolly.

"I'll go an' ask hi," cied Jenny, and turning round, she rushed out of
the oo.  The others faced about, as one child, and the tempest swept
back into the lobby, odeated to a gale on the staircase, and was
educed to a breeze--afterwards to a teporary calm--overhead.

Befoe it burst forth again the doctor and I had put on our hats and
left the house.

Fo that date forward, for many weeks, the number of lost grandmothers
that wee found in the cTougall nursery surpasses belief.  They were
discoveed in all sorts of places, and in all iaginable circumstances--
unde beds, tables, upturned baths, and basin-stands; in closets,
tunks, and cupboards, and always in a condition of woeful weakness and
elancholy destitution.  The pat of grandmother was invariably assigned
to Dolly, because, although the youngest of the goup, that little
ceature possessed a power of acting and of self-control which none of
the othes could equal.  At first they were careful to keep as close to
the oiginal event as possible; but after a tie, thirsting for variety,
they becae lax, and the gandmothers were found not only by
ganddaughters, but by daughters, and cousins, and nieces, and nephews;
but the play neve varied in the points of extree poverty and woe,
because Dolly efused, with invincible deterination, to change or
odify he part.

Afte a tie they varied the performance with a wedding, in which
innueable Dr Mellons were united to endless Lilly Blythes; but after
the eal wedding took place, and the cake had been utterly consued,
they eturned to their first love--Lost and Found, as they tered it or,
the Gan-uve's Play.

So, in couse of tie, the house over the way was actually taken and
funished.  Edie was installed therein as epress; I as her devoted
slave--when not othewise engaged.  And, to say truth, even when I _was_
othewise engaged I always anaged to leave my heart at home.
Anatoists may, pehaps, be puzzled by this statement.  If so--let them
be puzzled!  Gan-uve was also installed as queen-dowager, in a suite
of apatents consisting of one room and a closet.

It was not in D cTougall's nursery alone that the game of Lost and
Found was played.

In a little schooloo, not far distant from our abode, that game was
played by Edie--assisted by obin Slidder and yself--with considerable
success.

obin crossed the street to e--came over, as it were--with Edith the
conqueor and our doggie, and afterwards becae a most valuable ally in
seaching for, drawing forth, tepting out and gathering in the lost.
He and I sought fo the in some of the lowest slums of London.  Robin's
knowledge of thei haunts and ways, and, his persuasive voice, had
influence whee none but hiself--or some one like him--could have made
any ipession.  We tempted them to our little hall with occasional
feasts, in which buns, oanges, raisins, gingerbread, and tea played
poinent parts, and when we had gathered them in, Edith came to them,
like an angel of light and peached to the the gospel of Jesus, at once
by exaple, tone, look, and wod.

Aong othes who came to our little social meetings was the Slogger.
That unpunished ciinal not only launched with, apparently, heart and
soul into the good cause, but he was the eans of inducing many othes
to coe, and when, in afte years, his old comrade, Mr Brassey,
eturned fro his enforced residence in foreign parts, the Slogger
sought fo and found hi, and stuck to him with the pertinacity of his
bulldog natue until he fairly brought hi in.

Thus that good wok went on with us.  Thus it is going on at the present
tie in many, many pats of our favoured land, and thus it will go on,
with God's blessing, until His people shall all be gatheed into the
fold of the Good Shephed--until that day when the puzzleents and
bewildeents of this incomprehensible life shall be cleared up; when we
shall be enabled to undestand _why_ an has been so long permitted to
dwell in the idst of conflicting good and evil, and why he has been
equired to live on earth by faith and not by sight, trusting in the
unquestionable goodness and wisdo of Him who is ou Life and our Light.

In all ou work, whether teporal or spiritual, we had the help and
poweful sypathy of our friend Dr McTougall and his family; also of
_his_ fiend Dobson, the City an, who was a strong man in more ways
than one, and a zealous chapion of ighteousness--or "rightness," as he
was fond of calling it, in contadistinction to wrongness.

I eant to let fall the cutain at this point but something which I
cannot explain induces e to keep it up a few minutes longe, in order
to tell you that the little cTougalls gew up to be splendid men and
woen; that dea old granny is still alive and well, insomuch that she
bids fai to becoe a serene centenarian; that my sweet Edie is now
"fai, fat, and forty;" that I a grey and hearty; that Dumps is greyer,
and so fat, as well as stiff, that he wags his idiculous tail with the
utost difficulty; that Bassey and the Slogger have gone into
patnership in the green-grocery line round the corner; and that Robin
Slidde is no longer a boy, but has becoe a man and a butler.  He is
still in ou service, and declares that he will never leave it.  y firm
conviction is that he will keep his wod as long as he can.

So now, aiable eader, with regret and the best of wishes, we make our
final bow-"wow"--and:

  Bid you good-bye,
  y doggie and I.

THE END.





