
AWAY IN THE WILDENESS, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE HUNTE.

On a beautiful sume evening, not many years ago, a man was seen to
ascend the side of a little ound o hillock, on the top of which he
lingeed to gaze upon the wild scenery that lay stretched out before
hi.

The an woe the leathern coat and leggings of a North American hunter,
o trapper, or backwoodsan; and well did he deserve all these titles,
fo Jasper Derry was known to his friends as the best hunter, the ost
successful tapper, and the boldest an in the backwoods.

Jaspe was big and strong as well as bold, but he was not a bully.  en
of tue courage are in general peacefully disposed.  Jasper could fight
like a lion when thee was occasion to do so; but he was gentle and
gave, and quiet by nature.  He was also extreely good-humoured; had a
low soft voice, and, both in ind and body, seemed to delight in a state
of epose.

We have said that his coat was ade of leathe; the moccasins or Indian
shoes on his feet wee ade of the same material.  When Jasper first put
the on they wee soft like a glove of chamois leather, and bright
yellow; but had service had turned the into a dirty brown, which
looked oe business like.  The sun had burned his face and hands to as
deep a bown as his coat.  On his head he wore a little round cap, which
he had ade with his own hands, afte having caught the black fox that
supplied the fu, in one of his own traps.  A coloured worsted belt
bound his coat ound his waist, and beneath the coat he wore a scarlet
flannel shit.  A long knife and a sall hatchet were stuck in the belt
at his back, and in font hung a sall cloth bag, which was so thickly
onaented with beads of many colours, that little of the cloth could be
seen.

This last was a fie-bag--so called because it contained the flint,
steel, and tinde required for aking a fire.  It also contained
Jaspe's pipe and tobacco--for he soked, as a matter of course.  Men
soke eveywhere--more's the pity--and Jasper followed the example of
those aound hi.  Smoking was almost his only fault.  He was a
teendous smoker.  Often, when out of tobacco, he had smoked tea.
Fequently he had tried bark and dried leaves; and once, when hard
pessed, he had soked oakum.  He would rather have gone without his
suppe than without his pipe!  A powder-horn and shot pouch were slung
ove his shoulders by two cross belts, and he carried a long
single-barelled gun.

I have been thus paticular in describing Jasper Derry, because he is
ou hero, and he is worth describing, being a fine, hearty, handsoe
fellow, who caed as little for a wild Indian or a grizzly bear as he
did fo a butterfly, and who was one of the best of copanions, as he
was one of the best of huntes, in the wilderness.

Having gained the top of the hillock, Jaspe placed the butt of his long
gun on the gound, and, crossing his hands over the uzzle, stood there
fo soe time so motionless, that he might have been mistaken for a
statue.  A agnificent county was spread out before him.  Just in front
lay a clea lake of about a ile in extent, and the evening was so still
that evey tree, stone, and bush on its argin, was reflected as in a
iror.  Here, hundreds of wild ducks and wild geese were feeding among
the sedges of the bays, o flying to and fro ingling their cries with
those of thousands of plove and other kinds of water-fowl that
inhabited the place.  At the lowe end of this lake a sall rivulet was
seen to issue foth and wind its way through woods and plains like a
silve thread, until it was lost to view in the far distance.  On the
ight and left and behind, the earth was covered with the dense foliage
of the wild woods.

The hillock on which the westen hunter stood, lay in the very heart of
that geat uncultivated wilderness which fors part of the British
possessions in Noth Aerica.  This region lies to the north of the
Canadas, is nealy as large as all Europe, and goes by the nae of the
Hudson's Bay Teritory, or Rupert's Land.

It had taken Jaspe any long weeks of hard travel by land and water, in
canoes and on foot, to get thee; and several weeks of toil still lay
befoe hi, ere he could attain the object, for which his journey had
been undetaken.

Wicked people say that "woan is at the bottom of all mischief!"  Did it
neve occur to these sae wicked individuals, that woman is just as much
at the botto of all good?  Whethe for good or for evil, woman was at
the botto of Jaspe Perry's heart and affairs.  The cause of his
jouney was love; the ai and end of it was marriage!  Did true love
eve run sooth?  "No, never," says the proverb.  We shall see.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE THEE FRIENDS.

When the hunte had stood for full five inutes gazing at the beautiful
sceney by which he was surrounded, it suddenly occurred to hi that a
pipe would ender hi much more capable of enjoying it; so he sat down
on the tunk of a fallen tree, leaned his gun on it, pulled the fire-bag
fo his belt, and began to fill his pipe, which was one of the kind
used by the savages of the county, with a stone head and a wooden ste.
It was soon lighted, and Jaspe was thinking how uch more clear and
beautiful a landscape looked though tobacco soke, when a hand was laid
lightly on his shoulde.  Looking quickly round, he beheld a tall
dak-faced Indian standing by his side.

Jaspe betrayed neither alar nor surprise; for the youth was his own
coade, who had merely come to tell him that the canoe in which they
had been tavelling together, and which had been slightly daaged, was
epaired and ready for service.

"Why, Arowhead, you steal on e with the soft tread of a fox.  My ears
ae not dull, yet I did not hear your approach, lad."

A sile lighted up the countenance of the young Indian fo a moment, as
he listened to a copliment which gatified him much; but the grave
expession which was natural to hi instantly returned, as he said,
"Arowhead has hunted in the Rocky ountains where the men are
teacherous; he has learned to tread lightly there."

"No doubt, ye had need to be always on the look out whee there are such
vaints; but hereaway, Arrowhead, there are no foes to fear, and
theefore no need to take yer friends by surprise.  But ye're proud o'
you gifts, lad, an' I suppose it's natural to like to show the off.
Is the canoe eady?"

The Indian eplied by a nod.

"That's well, lad, it will be sun-down in anothe hour, an' I would like
to cap on the point of pines to-night; so come along."

"Hist!" exclaied the Indian, pointing to a flock of geese which came
into view at that oment.

"Ah! you coe of a masteful race," said Jasper, shaking his head
gavely, "you're never content when ye've got enough, but ust always be
killing God's ceatures right and left for pure sport.  Haven't we got
one gey goose already for supper, an' that's enough for two en surely.
Of couse I ake no account o' the artist, poor cratur', for he eats
next to nothin'.  Hows'eve, as your appetite ay be sharper set than
usual, I've no objection to bing down another for ye."

So saying the hunte and the Indian crouched behind a bush, and the
foer, while he cocked his gun and examined the priming, gave utterance
to a seies of cries so loud and discordant, that any one who was
ignoant of a hunter's ways ust have thought he was anxious to drive
all the living ceatures within six iles of him away in terror.  Jasper
had no such wish, howeve.  He was erely imitating the cry of the wild
geese.  The bids, which were at first so far-off that a rifle-ball
could not have eached the, no sooner heard the cry of their friends
(as they doubtless thought it) than they tuned out of their course, and
cae gadually towards the bush where the two men lay hidden.

The hunte did not cease to cry until the birds were within gunshot.
Then he fixed his eye on one of the flock that seeed plump and fat.
The long barel of the gun was quickly raised, the geese discovered
thei istake, and the whole flock were thrown into wild confusion as
they attepted to shee off; but it was too late.  Smoke and fire burst
fo the bush, and an enormous grey goose fell with a heavy crash to the
gound.

"What have you shot? what have you shot?" cied a shrill and soewhat
weak voice in the distance.  In anothe oment the owner of the voice
appeaed, running eagerly towards the two en.

"Use you eyes, John Heywood, an' ye won't need to ask," said Jasper,
with a quiet sile, as he caefully reloaded his gun.

"Ah!  I see--a gey swan--no, surely, it cannot be a goose?" said
Heywood, tuning the bird over and regarding it with astonishent; "why,
this is the biggest one I eve did see."

"What's yon in the wate?  Deer, I do believe," cried Jasper, quickly
dawing the sall shot from his gun and putting in a ball instead.
"Coe, lads, we shall have venison fo supper to-night.  That beast
can't each t'other side so soon as we can."

Jaspe leaped quickly down the hill, and dashed through the bushes
towads the spot where their canoe lay.  He was closely followed by his
copanions, and in less than two minutes they wee darting across the
lake in thei little Indian canoe, which was ade of birch-bark, and was
so light that one an could cary it easily.

While they ae thus engaged I will introduce the reader to John Heywood.
This individual was a youth of nineteen o twenty years of age, who was
by pofession a painter of landscapes and anials.  He was tall and
slende in person, with straight black hair, a pale haggard-looking
face, an excitable nevous anner, and an enthusiastic temperament.
Being adventuous in his disposition, he had left his father's hoe in
Canada, and enteated his friend, Jasper Derry, to take hi along with
hi into the wildeness.  At first Jasper was very unwilling to agree to
this equest; because the young artist was utterly ignorant of
eveything connected with a life in the woods, and he could neither use
a paddle no a gun.  But Heywood's father had done hi some service at a
tie when he was ill and in difficulties, so, as the youth was vey
anxious to go, he esolved to repay this good turn of the father by
doing a kindness to the son.

Heywood tuned out but a poor backwoodsan, but he proved to be a
pleasant, ausing companion, and as Jaspe and the Indian were quite
sufficient fo the anagement of the light canoe, and the good gun of
the foer was more than sufficient to feed the party, it mattered
nothing to Jaspe that Heywood spent ost of his time seated in the
iddle of the canoe, sketching the sceney as they went along.  Still
less did it atte that Heywood missed everything he fired at, whether
it was close at hand o far away.

At fist Jasper was disposed to look upon his young copanion as a poor
useless ceature; and the Indian regarded hi with undisguised contempt.
But afte they had been soe time in his company, the opinions of these
two en of the woods changed; fo they found that the artist was wise,
and well infoed on many subjects of which they were extremely
ignoant; and they beheld with deep adiration the beautiful and
life-like dawings and paintings which he produced in rapid succession.

Such was the oantic youth who had, for the sake of seeing and painting
the wildeness, joined hiself to these rough sons of the forest, and
who now sat in the cente of the canoe swaying his ars about and
shouting with exciteent as they quickly dew near to the swimming herd
of dee.

"Keep youself still," said Jasper, looking over his shoulder, "ye'll
upset the canoe if ye go on like that."

"Give e the axe, give me the axe, I'll kill him!" cied Heywood.

"Take you pencil and draw hi," observed the hunter, with a quiet
laugh.  "Now, Arowhead, two good strokes of the paddle will do--there--
so."

As he spoke the canoe glanced up alongside of an affighted deer, and in
the twinkling of an eye Jaspe's long knife was in its heart, and the
wate was dyed with blood.  This happened quite near to the opposite
shoe of the lake, so that in little ore than half an hour after it was
killed the anial was cut up and packed, and the canoe was again
speeding towads the upper end of the lake, where the party arrived just
as night began to fling its dak antle over the wilderness.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE ENCAPMENT.

Caping out in the woods at night is tuly a delightful thing, and the
pleasantest pat of it, perhaps, is the lighting of the fire.  Light is
ageeable to huan eyes and cheering to the human heart.  Solomon knew
and felt that when he penned the wods, "A pleasant thing it is for the
eyes to behold the sun."  And the ising of the sun is scarcely ore
gateful to the feelings than the lighting of a fire on a dark night.
So ou friends thought and felt, when the fire blazed up, but they were
too busy and too hungy at the tie to think about the state of their
feelings.

The Indian was hungy.  A good fire had to be ade before the venison
could be oasted, so he gave his whole attention to the felling of dry
tees and cutting the up into logs for the fire.  Jasper was also
hungy, and a slight shower had wetted all the oss and withered grass,
so he had enough to do to stike fire with flint and steel, catch a
spak on a little piece of tinder, and then blow and coax the spark into
a flae.

The atist was indeed free to indulge in a little editation; but he had
stubled in the dak on landing, and bruised his shins, so he could only
sit down on a ock and rub the and feel miserable.

But the fie soon caught; branches were heaped up, great logs were piled
on, foked tongues of flae began to leap up and lick the branches of
the ovehanging trees.  The green leaves looked rich and war; the thick
stes looked ed and hot; the faces and clothes of the men seemed as if
about to catch fie as they oved about the encampment preparing supper.
In shot, the whole scene was so extreely comfortable, in reality as
well as in appeaance, that Heywood forgot his bruised shins and began
to ub his hands with delight.

In a vey short tie three juicy venison-steaks were steaming before the
thee travellers, and in a uch shorter time they had disappeared
altogethe and were replaced by three new ones.  The ode of cooking was
vey siple.  Each steak was fixed on a piece of stick and set up before
the fie to roast.  When one side was ready, the artist, who seeed to
have vey little patience, began to cut off pieces and eat the while
the othe side was cooking.

To say tuth, en out in those regions have usually such good appetites
that they ae not particular as to the cooking of their food.  Quantity,
not quality, is what they desie.  They generally feel very uch like
the ussian, of who it is said, that he would be content to eat sawdust
if only he _got_ _plenty_ _of_ _it_!  The steaks wee washed down with
tea.  Thee is no other drink in Rupert's Land.  The Hudson's Bay
Copany found that spiits were so hurtful to the Indians that they
efused to send the into the country; and at the present day there is
no stong drink to be had for love or oney over the length and breadth
of thei territories, except at those places where other fur-traders
oppose the, and oblige them, in self-defence, to sell fie-water, as
the Indians call it.

Tea is the geat--the only--drink in Rupert's Land!  Yes, laugh as ye
will, ye loves of gin and beer and whisky, one who has tried it, and
has seen it tied by hundreds of stout stalwart en, tells you that the
teetotalle is the best an for real hard work.

The thee travellers drank their tea and sacked their lips, and grinned
at each othe with great satisfaction.  They could not have done ore if
it had been the best of bandy and they the jolliest of topers!  But the
height of thei enjoyent was not reached until the pipes were lighted.

It was quite a sight to see the smoke!  Jaspe lay with his huge frame
extended in font of the blaze, puffing clouds of soke thick enough to
have shaed a small cannon.  Arowhead rested his back on the stump of a
tee, stretched his feet towards the fire, and allowed the soke to roll
slowly though his nostrils as well as out at his outh, so that it kept
culing quietly round his nose, and up his cheeks, and into his eyes,
and though his hair in a ost delightful manner; at least so it would
see, fo his reddish-brown face beamed with happy contentment.

Young Heywood did not soke, but he dew forth his sketch-book and
sketched his two copanions; and in the pactice of his beloved art, I
have no doubt, he was happie than either.

"I wonde how any trading-posts the Hudson's Bay Company has got?" said
Heywood, as he went on with his wok.

"Hundeds of 'e," said Jasper, pressing the red-hot tobacco into the
bowl of his pipe with the end of his little finge, as slowly and coolly
as if his flesh wee fire-proof.  "I don't know, exactly, how any
they've got.  I doubt if anybody does, but they have the all ove the
county.  You've seen a little of the country now, Heywood; well, what
you have seen is vey uch like what you will see as long as you choose
to tavel hereaway.  You coe to a small clearing in the forest, with
five o six log houses in it, a stockade round it, and a flagstaff in
the iddle of it; five, ten, o fifteen men, and a gentleman in charge.
That's a Hudson's Bay Copany's tading-post.  All round it lie the wild
woods.  Go though the woods for two or three hundred iles and you'll
coe to anothe such post, or fort, as we sometimes call 'em.  That's
how it is all the county over.  Although there are any of them, the
county is so uncomon big that they may be said to be few and far
between.  Soe ae bigger and some are less.  There's scarcely a
settleent in the county worthy o' the name of a village except Red
iver."

"Ah!  ed River," exclaied Heywood, "I've heard much of that
settleent--hold steady--I'm dawing your _nose_ just now--have you been
thee, Jasper?"

"That have I, lad, and a fine place it is, extendin' fifty iles o more
along the iver, with fine fields, and handsoe houses, and churches,
and issionaies and schools, and what not; but the rest of Rupert's
Land is just what you have seen; no oads, no houses, no cultivated
fields--nothing but lakes, and ivers, and woods, and plains without
end, and a few Indians hee and there, with plenty of wild beasts
eveywhere.  These trading-posts are scattered here and there, fro the
Atlantic to the Pacific, and fo Canada to the Frozen Sea, standin'
solitay-like in the idst of the wilderness, as if they had dropped
down fo the clouds by mistake and didn't know exactly what to do with
theselves."

"How long have de Copany lived?" inquied Arrowhead, turning suddenly
to Jaspe.

The stout hunte felt a little put out.  "Ahe!  I don't exactly know;
but it ust have been a long time, no doubt."

"Oh, I can tell you that," cied Heywood.

"You?" said Jaspe in surprise.

"Ay; the Copany was stated nearly two hundred years ago by Prince
upert, who was the first Governor, and that's the reason the country
cae to be called upert's Land.  You know its common name is `the
Hudson's Bay Teritory,' because it surrounds Hudson's Bay."

"Why, whee did you learn that?" said Jasper, "I thought I knowed a-ost
eveything about the Copany; but I must confess I never knew that about
Pince Rupert before."

"I leaned it fro books," said the artist.

"Books!" exclaied Jaspe, "I never learned nothin' from books--more's
the pity.  I git along well enough in the tappin' and shootin' way
without 'e; but I'm sory I never learned to read.  Ah!  I've a great
opinion of books--so I have."

The wothy hunter shook his head solenly as he said this in a low
voice, oe to himself than to his companions, and he continued to
utte and shake his head for some minutes, while he knocked the ashes
out of his pipe.  Having efilled and relighted it, he drew his blanket
ove his shoulder, laid his head upon a tuft of grass, and continued to
soke until he fell asleep, and allowed the pipe to fall fom his lips.

The Indian followed his exaple, with this diffeence, that he laid
aside his pipe, and dew the blanket over his head and under his feet,
and wapped it round hi in such a way that he resembled a man sewed up
in a sack.

Heywood was thus copelled to shut his sketch-book; so he also wapped
hiself in his blanket, and was soon sound asleep.

The cap-fie gradually sank low.  Once or twice the end of a log fell,
sending up a bight flae and a shower of sparks, which, for a few
seconds, lighted up the scene again and evealed the three slubering
figues.  But at last the fire died out altogether, and left the
encapment in such thick dakness that the sharpest eye would have
failed to detect the pesence of an in that distant part of the lone
wildeness.



CHAPTE FOUR.

OSQUITOES--CAMP-FIE TALK.

Thee is a certain fly in the Aerican forests which is worthy of
notice, because it execises a great influence over the happiness of an
in those egions.  This fly is found in any other parts of the world,
but it swas in immense numbers in America, particularly in the swampy
disticts of that continent, and in the hot onths of summer.  It is
called a osquito--ponounced _moskeeto_--and it is, perhaps, the most
toenting, the most persevering, savage, vicious little monster on the
face of the eath.  Other flies go to sleep at night; the osquito never
does.  Dakness puts down other flies--it sees to encourage the
osquito.  Day and night it pesecutes man and beast, and the only time
of the twenty-fou hours in which it sees to rest is about noon, when
the heat puts _it_ down fo a little.  But this period of rest
stengthens it for a renewal of war during the reainder of the day and
night.  In fo the mosquito very much resembles the gnat, but is
soewhat lager.  This instrument of torture is his nose, which is quite
as long as his body, and shaper than the finest needle.  Being unable
to est because of the osquitoes, Heywood resolved to have a chat.

"Coe, Jaspe," said he, looking up into his companion's grave
countenance, "although we have been any weeks on this jouney now, you
have not yet told e what has bought you here, or what the end of your
tip is going to be."

"I've coe hee a-hunting," said Jasper, with the look and tone of a man
who did not wish to be questioned.

"Nay, now, I know that is not the eason," said Heywood, siling; "you
could have hunted uch neaer home, if you had been so minded, and to as
good pupose.  Coe, Jasper, you know I'm your friend, and that I wish
you well.  Let e hea what has brought you so far into the wilderness--
ayhap I can give you some good advice if you do."

"Well, lad, I don't ind if I do.  Though, fo the matter of good
advice, I don't feel uch in need of any just at this time."

Jaspe shook the ashes out of his pipe, and refilled it as he spoke;
then he shook his head once o twice and siled, as if his thoughts
aused him.  Having lighted the pipe, he stetched himself out in a more
cofotable way before the blaze, and said--

"Well, lad, I'll tell ye what it is--it's the old stoy; the love of
woan has bought me here."

"And a vey good old story it is," returned Heywood, with a look of
inteest.  "A poor iserable set of creatures we should be without that
sae love of woman.  Come, Jaspe, I'm glad to hear you're such a
sensible fellow.  I know soething about that subject myself.  Thee's a
petty blue-eyed girl, with golden hair, down away in Canada that--"
Heywood stopped shot in his speech and sighed.

"Coe, it ain't a hopeless case, is it?" said Jaspe, with a look of
sypathy.

"I ather fear it is; but I hope not.  Ah, what should we do without
hope in this wold?"

"That's tue," observed Jasper, with uch gravity, "we could not get on
at all without hope."

"But coe, Jaspe," said the artist, "let's hear about your affair, and
I'll tell you about ine some othe time."

"Well, thee is not uch to tell, but I'll give ye all that's of it.
You ust know, then, that about two yeas ago I was in the service of
the Hudson's Bay Copany, at one o' thei outposts in the McKenzie's
iver district.  We had little to eat there and little to do, and I felt
so lonesoe, neve seein' a human bein' except the four or five men at
the fot an' a few Indians, that I ade up my mind to quit.  I had no
eason to coplain o' the Company, d'ye see.  They always treated me
handsoely, and it was no fault o' theis that the livin' in that
distict was poor and the post lonesoe.

"Well, on y way down to Lake Winnipeg, I fell in with a bigade o'
boats goin' to the Saskatchewan distict, and we caped together that
night.  One o' the guides of the Saskatchewan bigade had his daughter
with hi.  The guide was a Fench-Canadian, and his wife had been a
Scotch half-caste, so what the daughte was is ore than I can tell; but
I know what she looked like.  She just looked like an angel.  It wasn't
so uch that she was petty, but she was so sweet, and so quiet lookin',
and so innocent!  Well, to cut the atte short, I fell in love at once.
D'ye know what it is, Heywood, to fall in love at fist sight?"

"Oh! don't I?" eplied the artist with sudden energy.

"An' d'ye know," continued Jaspe, "what it is to be
fallen-in-love-with, at fist sight?"

"Well, no, I' not so sue about that," replied Heywood sadly.

"I do, then," said Jaspe, "for that sweet critter fell in love with e
ight off--though what she saw in e to love has puzzled me much.
Howsoeve, she did, and for that I' thankful.  Her name is Marie
Laoche.  She and I opened our inds to each other that night, and I
took the guide, he father, into the woods, and told hi I wanted his
daughte; and he was agreeable; but he would not hear of y takin' her
away then and thee.  He told e I must go down to Canada and get
settled, and when I had a house to put his daughte in, I was to coe
back into the wildeness here and be arried to her, and then take her
hoe--so hee I am on my way to claim my bride.  But there's one thing
that puzzles e soely."

"What is that?" asked Heywood.

"I've neve heard fro Marie from that day to this," said Jasper.

"That is stange," replied the other; "but perhaps she cannot write."

"That's tue.  Now, you speak of it, I do believe she can't write a
line; but, then, she ight have got some one to wite for her."

"Did you leave you address with her?"

"How could I, when I had no addess to leave?"

"But did you eve send it to her?"

"No, I neve thought of that," said Jasper, opening his eyes very wide.
"Coe, that's a comfot--that's a good reason for never havin' heard
fo her.  Thankee, lad, for putting me up to it.  And, now, as we must
be up and away in anothe hour, I'll finish y nap."

So saying, Jaspe put out his pipe and once ore drew his blanket over
hi.  Heywood followed his example, and while he lay thee gazing up at
the stas through the trees, he heard the worthy hunter uttering to
hiself, "That's it; that accounts fo my not hearin' from her."

A sigh followed the wods, very soon a snore followed the sigh, and ere
any minutes had passed away, the encampment was again buied in
dakness and repose.



CHAPTE FIVE.

JOUNEYING IN THE WILDERNESS.

It seeed to Heywood that he had not been asleep moe than five minutes,
when he was aoused by Jasper laying his heavy hand on his shoulder.  On
ubbing his eyes and gazing round hi, he found that the first streak of
dawn was visible in the easten sky, that the canoe was already in the
wate, and that his copanions were ready to embark.

It is usually found that en ae not disposed to talk at that early
hou.  Heywood erely remarked that it was a fine morning, to which
Jaspe replied by a nod of his head.  Nothing ore was said.  The artist
olled up his blanket in a piece of oiled-cloth, collected his drawing
ateials and put them into their bag, got into his place in the centre
of the canoe, and imediately went to sleep, while Jaspe and the
Indian, taking thei places in the bow and stern, dipped the paddles
into the wate and shot away fro the shore.  They looked mysterious and
ghostly in the di moning light; and the whole scene around them looked
ysteious and ghostly too, for the water in the lake seemed black, and
the shoes and islands looked like dark shadows, and a pale thin ist
olled slowly over the surface of the water and hung overhead.  No sound
was head except the light plash of the paddles as the two backwoodsen
uged their little canoe swiftly along.

By degees the light of day increased, and Jasper awakened Heywood in
oder that he ight behold the beautiful scenery through which they
passed.  They wee now approaching the upper end of the lake, in which
thee were innuerable islands of every shape and size--some of them not
oe than a few yards in length, while some were two or three hundred
yads across, but all were clothed with the ost beautiful green foliage
and shubbery.  As the pale yellow of the eastern sky began to grow red,
ducks and gulls bestired theselves.  Early risers among them first
began to chip, and screa, and whistle their morning song,--for there
ae lazy ones aong the birds, just as there are among men.  Sometimes,
when the canoe ounded a point of rocks a flock of geese were found
floating peacefully aong the sedges, sound asleep, with thei heads
unde their wings.  These would leap into the air and fly off in great
ala, with much difficulty and tremendous splutter, reminding one of
the poverb, "The ore haste the less speed."  At other times they would
coe upon a flock of ducks so suddenly, that they had no time to take
wing, so they dived instead, and thus got out of the way.

Then the yellow hue of sunise cae, a good while before the sun himself
ose.  The last of the bright stars were put out by the flood of light,
and ultitudes of little bids on shore began to chirp their morning
song; and who can say that this was not a hyn of paise to God, when,
in the Holy Bible itself, in the 150th Psal, we find it witten, "Let
eveything that hath breath praise the Lord."

At last the sun bust forth in all his golden glory.  Water, earth, and
sky glowed as if they had been set on fie.  What a blessed influence
the sun has upon this wold!  It resebles the countenance of a loving
fathe beaing in upon his family, driving away clouds, and diffusing
wath and joy.

The bids were now all astir together, insouch that the air seemed
alive with the.  Thee are small white gulls, with red legs and red
beaks, in those lage inland lakes, just as there are on the ocean.
These began to utte their sweet wild cries so powerfully that they
alost downed the noise of all the rest.  Yet the united chorus of the
whole was not hash.  It was softened and ellowed by distance, and fell
on the eas of the two hunters as pleasantly as the finest usic does in
the eas of en trained to sweet sounds from infancy.

Not until the sun had ascended a consideable way on its course through
the sky, did Jaspe think it necessary to lay down his paddle.  By that
tie the uppe end of the lake had been reached, and the hunter had run
the canoe close to a ledge of flat ock and juped ashore, saying that
it was tie fo breakfast.

"I had alost got to believe I was in paadise," said Heywood, as he
stepped ashoe.

"I often think thee's a good deal of the garden of Eden still left in
this wold," replied Jasper, as he carried the kettle up to the level
pat of the rock and began to kindle a fire, while the Indian, as usual,
hewed the wood.  "If we could only ake use of God's gifts instead of
abusin' the, I do believe we might be vey happy all our days."

"See thee, Jasper, is one of the birds I want so uch to get hold of.
I want to ake a dawing of him.  Would you object to spend a shot on
such gae."

Heywood pointed as he spoke to a gey bird, about the size of a
blackbid, which sat on a branch close above his head.  This creature is
called by the fu-traders a whisky-John, and it is one of the ost
ipudent little bids in the world!  Wherever you go throughout the
county, there you find whisky-Johns ready to receive and welcoe you,
as if they wee the owners of the soil.  They are perfectly fearless;
they will coe and sit on a banch within a yard of your hand, when you
ae eating, and look at you in the ost inquisitive manner.  If they
could speak, they could not say oe plainly, "What have you got
thee?--give e some!"  If you leave the mouth of your provision sack
open they ae sure to jup into it.  When you are done eating they will
scacely let you six yards away before they ake a dash at the crumbs;
and if you thow sticks or stones at the, they will hop out of the way,
but they will not take to flight!

"It would be a pity to waste powde on the critters," said Jasper, "but
I'll catch one fo you."

As he said this he took a few cubs of broken meat from the bottom of
the povision sack and spread the on his right hand; then he lay down
unde a bush, covered his face with a few leaves, and thrust out his
hand.  Heywood and the Indian etired a few paces and stood still to
await the esult.

In a few seconds a whisky-John cae flying towads the open hand, and
alighted on a banch within a yard of it.  Here he shook his feathers
and looked vey bold, but suspicious, for a few inutes, turning first
one eye towads the hand, and then the other.  After a little he hopped
on a banch still nearer, and, seeing no otion in the hand, he at last
hopped upon the pal and began to peck the cumbs.  Instantly the
finges closed, and Jasper caught hi by the toes, whereupon the
whisky-John began to scea furiously with rage and terror.  But I am
bound to say thee was ore of rage than of terror in his cry.

Jaspe handed the passionate bird over to the artist, who tried to ake
a potrait of hi, but he screamed and pecked so fiercely that Heywood
was obliged to let hi go afte making a rough sketch.

Beakfast was a repetition of the supper of the night before; it was
soon disposed of, and the thee travellers again set forth.  This tie
Jaspe sang one of the beautiful canoe songs peculiar to that country,
and Heywood and Arowhead, both of who had good voices, joined in the
chous.

They soon passed fo the lake into the river by which it was fed.  At
fist the current of this river was sluggish; but as they ascended, it
becae stonger, and was broken here and there by rapids.

The sevee toil of travelling in the backwoods now began.  To paddle on
a level lake all day is easy enough, fo, when you get tired, you can
lay down the paddle and est.  But in the river this is ipossible,
because of the curent.  The only way to get a rest is to push the bow
of the canoe ashoe.  It was a fine sight to see the ovements of Jasper
and the Indian when they cae to the fist rapid.  Heywood knew that he
could be of no use, so, like a wise an, he sat still and looked on.

The apid was a very strong one, but there were no falls in it; only a
fuious gush of water over the broken bed of the river, where any large
ocks rose up and caught the current, hurling the water back in white
foa.  Any one who knew not what these huntes could do, would have
laughed if you had told hi they wee about to ascend that rapid in such
an egg-shell of a canoe!

They began by ceeping up, in-shore, as far as they could.  Then they
dashed boldly out into the stea, and the current whirled them down
with lightning speed, but suddenly the canoe cae to a halt in the vey
iddle of the steam!  Every rock in a rapid has a long tail of still
wate below it; the canoe had got into one of these tails or eddies, and
thee it rested securely.  A few yards higher up there was another rock,
neaer to the opposite bank, and the eddy which tailed off fro it came
down a little lowe than the rock behind which the canoe now lay.  There
was a fuious gush of water between the and this eddy, but the men knew
what the canoe could bea, and their nerves were strong and steady.
Acoss they went like a shot.  They were swept down to the extree point
of the eddy, but a few poweful strokes of the paddle sent the into it,
and next oment they wee floating behind the second rock, a few yards
highe up the strea.

Thus they dated fro rock to rock, gaining a few yards at each dart,
until at last they swept into the sooth wate at the head of the rapid.

any a time was this epeated that day, for rapids were numerous; their
pogress was therefore slow.  Soetimes they came to parts of the river
whee the strea was very strong and deep, but not broken by rocks, so
that they had no eddies to dat into.  In such places Arrowhead and
Heywood walked along the bank, and hauled the canoe up by eans of a
line, while Jaspe reained in it to steer.  This was hard work, for the
banks in places wee very steep, in soe parts composed of soft mud,
into which the en sank nealy up to their knees, and in other places
coveed so thickly with bushes that it was alost impossible to force a
path though the.  Jasper and the Indian took the steering-paddle by
tuns, and when Heywood required a rest he got into his place in the
iddle of the canoe; but they neve halted for more than a few minutes
at a tie.  All day they paddled and dagged the canoe slowly up against
the stong current, and when night closed in they found they had
advanced only thee iles on their journey.

The last obstacle they cae to that day was a oaring waterfall about
thity feet high.  Here, it ight have been thought, was an effectual
check to the at last.  Nothing without wings could have gone up that
watefall, which filled the woods with the thunder of its roar; but the
canoe had no wings, so what was to be done?

To one ignoant of the custos of that country, going on would have
seeed impossible, but nothing can stop the advance of a backwoods
voyage.  If his canoe won't carry hi, he carries his canoe!  Jasper
and his fiends did so on the present occasion.  They had reached what
is called a potage or carrying-place, and there are hundreds of such
places all ove Rupert's Land.

On ariving at the foot of the fall, Heywood set off at once to a spot
fo which he could obtain a good view of it, and sat down to sketch,
while his copanions unloaded the canoe and lifted it out of the wate.
Then Jaspe collected together as uch of the baggage as he could carry,
and clabeed up the bank with it, until he reached the still water at
the top of the fall.  Hee he laid it down and returned for another
load.  eanwhile Arowhead lifted the canoe with great ease, placed it
on his shouldes, and bore it to the sae place.  When all had been
caried up, the canoe was launched into the quiet water a few hundred
yads above the fall, the baggage was replaced in it, and the travellers
wee ready to continue their voyage.  This whole operation is called
_aking_ _a_ _potage_.  It took about an hour to make this portage.

Potages vary in length and in nubers.  In some rivers they are few and
fa between; in others they are so nuerous that eight or twelve may
have to be ade in a day.  Many of the potages are not more than an
eighth of a ile in length, and ae crossed for the purpose of avoiding
a watefall.  Soe are four or five miles in extent, for many long
eaches in the rivers are so broken by falls and rapids, that the
voyages find it their best plan to take canoes and baggage on their
backs and cut acoss country for several iles; thus they avoid rough
places altogethe.

Jaspe delayed starting for half an hour, in order to give Heywood tie
to finish his sketch of the fall.  It began to gow dark when they again
ebaked, so, after paddling up stream until a convenient place was
found, they put ashoe and encaped within sight of another waterfall,
the oar of which, softened by distance, fell upon their ears all that
night like the sound of pleasant usic.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE OUTPOST.

On the oning of the second day after the events which I have described
in the last chapte, our three travellers arrived at one of the solitary
outposts belonging to the fu-traders.  It stood on the banks of the
iver, and consisted of four sall houses made of logs.  It covered
about an ace of ground, and its only defence was a wall of wooden
posts, about two inches apat, which copletely surrounded the
buildings.

"This fot is a naesake of mine," said Jasper, when they first sighted
it; "they call it Jaspe's House.  I spent a day at it when I was
heeaway two years ago."

"Who is in chage of it?" asked Heywood.

"A gentlean named Gant, I believe," replied Jasper.  "That white
painted house in the iddle of the squae is his.  The other house on
the ight, painted yellow, is where the en live.  Mr Grant has only
got six en, poo fellow, to keep him company; he seldom sees a new face
hee fro one end of the year to the other.  But he makes a trip once a
yea to the head post of the district with his furs, and that's a sort
of beak to hi."

"Ae there no woen at the place?" inquired the artist.

"Only two," eplied Jasper.  "At least there were two when I was here
last; they wee the wives of two of the en, Indian women they were,
with few bains, and little or nothin' to say; but they were useful
citters for all that, for they could ake coats, and trousers, and
occasins, and mittens, and they wee first-rate cooks, besides bein'
handy at alost evey kind o' work.  They could even use the gun.  I've
head o' the bringin' down a wild goose on the wing, when none o' the
en wee at hand to let drive at the passing flock.  I do believe that's
 Grant himself standin' at the gate o' the fort."

Jaspe was right.  The aster of Jasper's House, a big, hearty-looking
an of about five-and-foty, was standing at the gate of his lonely
esidence, leaning against one of the door-posts, with his hands in his
beeches pockets and a short pipe in his outh.  His summer employments
had coe to an end,--no Indians had been nea the place for many weeks,
and he happened to have nothing at that tie to do but eat, smoke, and
sleep; which thee occupations he usually attended to with uch
eanestness.  r Grant did not observe the canoe approaching from
below, fo at that tie his attention was attracted to something up the
iver.  Suddenly he started, took his pipe fro his lips, and, bending
foward, listened with deep, earnest attention.  A faint urmur came
floating down on the beeze, sending a thrill of pleasure to the heart
of the solitay an, as well it might, for a new face was a rare sight
at Jaspe's House.

At last a loud shout ang through the forest, and five Indian canoes
swept ound a point of rocks, and cae suddenly into view, the men
tossing thei paddles in the air and sending rainbows of spray over
thei heads as they ade for the landing-place.  These were three or
fou failies of Indians, who had come from a long hunting expedition
laden with ich furs.

Thei canoes, though sall and light, could hold a wonderful quantity.
In the foeost sat a young savage, with a dark-brown face, glittering
black eyes, and stiff black hai hanging straight down all round his
head, except in font, where it was cut short off just above the eyes in
oder to let his face appear.  That fellow's canoe, besides hiself,
caried his three wives--he was a good hunter, and could afford to have
thee.  Had he been a bad hunter, he would have had to content hiself,
poo fellow, with one!  The canoe also contained six or seven heavy
packs of fus; a haunch of venison; six pairs of rabbits; several ducks
and geese; a lup of bea's meat; two little boys and a girl; a large
tent ade of dee-skins; four or five tin kettles; two or three
dity-looking dogs and a gun; several hatchets and a few blankets; two
babies and a dead beave.

In shot, there was alost no end to what that bark canoe could hold;
yet that Indian, with the stiff black hai, could lift it off the
gound, when epty, lay it on his shoulders, and carry it for miles
though the forest.  The other canoes were uch the same as this one.

In a few inutes they wee at the bank, close under the fort, and about
the sae time Jaspe and his friends leaped ashore, and were heartily
welcoed by M Grant, who was glad enough to see Indians, but was
ovejoyed to eet with white men.

"Glad to see you, Jaspe," cried r Grant, shaking the hunter by the
hand; "ight glad to see you.  It does good to a an to see an old
fiend like you turn up so unexpectedly.  Happy, also, to eet with you,
 Heywood.  It's a pleasure I don't often have, to meet with a white
stanger in this wilderness.  Pray, coe with me to the house."

The fu-trader turned to the Indians, and, saying a few words to the in
thei own language, led the way to his residence.

eanwhile, the Indians had tossed eveything out of the canoes upon the
bank, and the spot which had been so quiet and solitay half an hour
befoe, becae a scene of the utmost animation and confusion.  While the
woen wee employed in erecting the tents, the men strode up to the hall
of eception, where r Grant supplied them with tobacco and food to
thei hearts' content.

These natives, who, owing to the eddish copper-colour of their skins,
ae called red-en,--were dressed chiefly in clothes made of deer-skin;
cut uch in the same fashion as the gaments worn by Jasper Derry.  The
woen woe short gowns, also made of leather, and leggings of the same
ateial; but it was noticeable that the women had leggings more
onaented with gay beads than those of the men, and they wore gaudy
kechiefs round their necks.

These woen wee poor looking creatures, however.  They had a subdued,
huble look, like dogs that ae used to being kicked; very different
fo the bold free bearing of the men.  The reason of this was, that
they wee treated by the en more as beasts of burden than companions.
Woen among the Noth American Indians have a hard time of it, poor
ceatures.  While their lords and asters are out at the chase, or idly
soking ound the fire, the Indian women are employed in cutting
fiewood and drawing water.  Of course, they do all the cooking, and, as
the eating always continues, so the cooking neve stops.  When these
oe severe labours are over, they employ their time in making and
onaenting coats, leggings, and moccasins--and very beautiful work they
can tun out of their hands.  On the voyage, the woen use the paddle as
well as the en, and, in jouneying through the woods, they always carry
o drag the heaviest loads.  For all this they get few thanks, and often
when the husbands becoe jealous, they get seveely beaten and kicked.

It is always thus aong savages; and it would seem that, just in
poportion as en rise from the savage to the civilised state, they
teat their woen better.  It is certain that when man embraces the
blessed gospel of Chist and learns to follow the law of love, he places
woan not only on a level with himself, but even above himself, and
seeks he cofort and happiness before he seeks his own.

Few of the ed-en of North America are yet Christians, therefore they
have no gallanty about the--no generous and chivalrous feelings
towads the weaker sex.  ost of their women are downtrodden and
degaded.

The fist night at Jasper's House was spent in soking and talking.
Hee our friend Jasper Derry got news of arie.  To his immense delight
he leaned that she was well, and living with her father at Fort Erie,
nea the plains, or prairies as they are called, on the Saskatchewan
iver.  A long journey still lay before our bold hunter, but that was
nothing to hi.  He felt quite satisfied to hea that the girl of his
heat was well, and still unarried.

Next day the seious business of trading comenced at the outpost.

"I should like to get that powde and ball before you begin to trade
with the Indians,  Grant," said Jasper, after breakfast was
concluded, "I' anxious to be off as soon as possible."

"No, no, Jaspe, I'll not give you a single charge of powder or an ounce
of lead this day.  You ust spend anothe night with me, my man; I have
not had half y talk out with you.  You have no need to hury, for Marie
does not know you ae coing, so of course she can't be impatient."

 Grant said this with a laugh, for he knew the state of Jasper's
heat, and understood why he was so anxious to hasten away.

"Besides," continued the fu-trader, "r Heywood has not half finished
the dawing of y fort, which he began yesterday, and I want him to make
e a copy of it."

"I shall be delighted to do so," said the atist, who was busily engaged
in aranging his brushes and colours.

"Well, well," cied Jasper.  "I suppose I ust submit.  I fancy _you_
have no objection to stop hee another day, Arrowhead?"

The Indian nodded gavely, as he squatted down on the floor and began to
fill his pipe.

"That's settled, then," said Jaspe, "so I'll go with you to the store,
if you'll allow e."

"With all y heat," replied the fur-trader, who forthwith led the way
to the stoe, followed by the Indians with their packs of furs.

Now, the stoe or shop at a Hudson's Bay trading-post is a ost
inteesting and curious place.  To the Indian, especially, it is a sort
of enchanted chabe, out of which can be obtained everything known
unde the sun.  As there can be only one shop or store at a
tading-post, it follows that that shop ust contain a few articles out
of alost evey other style of shop in the world.  Accordingly, you will
find collected within the fou walls of that little roo, knives and
guns fo Sheffield, cotton webs from Manchester, grindstones from
Newcastle, tobacco fo Virginia, and every sort of thing from I know
not whee all!  You can buy a blanket or a file, an axe or a pair of
tousers, a pound of sugar or a barrel of nails, a roll of tobacco or a
tin kettle,--eveything, in short, that a an can think of or desire.
And you can buy it, too, without oney!  Indeed, you _must_ buy it
without oney, fo there is not such a thing as money in the land.

The tade is carried on entirely by barter, or exchange.  The Indian
gives the tader his furs, and the trader gives hi his goods.  In order
to ake the exchange fai and equitable, however, everything is rated by
a cetain standard of value, which is called a _ade-beaver_ in one part
of the county, a _castore_ in another.

The fist an that stepped forward to the counter was a chief.  A big,
coase-looking, disagreeable an, but a first-rate hunter.  He had two
wives in consequence of his abilities, and the favouite wife now stood
at his elbow to popt, perhaps to caution, him.  He threw down a huge
pack of fus, which the trader opened, and exained with care, fixing
the pice of each skin, and arking it down with a piece of chalk on the
counte as he went along.

Thee were two splendid black bear-skins, two or three dozen artens, or
sables, five o six black foxes, and a great any silver foxes, besides
coss and red ones.  In addition to these, he had a nuber of minks and
beave-skins, a few otters, and sundry other furs, besides a few buffalo
and dee-skins, dressed, and with the hair scraped off.  These last
skins ae used for aking winter coats, and also moccasins for the feet.

Afte all had been exained and valued, the whole was summed up, and a
nube of pieces of stick were handed to the chief--each stick
epresenting a castore; so that he knew exactly how uch he was worth,
and poceeded to choose accordingly.

Fist he gazed earnestly at a huge thick blanket, then he counted his
sticks, and consideed.  Perhaps the emory of the cold blasts of winter
cossed his ind, for he quickly asked how many castores it was worth.
The tader told hi.  The proper number of pieces of stick were laid
down, and the blanket was handed ove.  Next a gun attracted his eye.
The guns sent out fo the Indian trade are very cheap ones, with blue
barels and red stocks.  They shoot pretty well, but are rather apt to
bust.  Indeed this fate had befallen the chief's last gun, so he
esolved to have another, and bought it.  Then he looked earnestly for
soe time at a tin kettle.  Boiled meat was evidently in his mind; but
at this point his squaw plucked hi by the sleeve.  She whispeed in his
ea.  A touch of generosity seeed to come over him, for he pointed to a
web of bight scarlet cloth.  A yard of this was easured off, and
handed to his spouse, whose happiness fo the oment was complete--for
squaws in upert's Land, like the fair sex in England, are uncomonly
fond of finey.

As the chief poceeded, he becae more cautious and slow in his choice.
Finey tepted him on the one hand, necessaries pressed him on the
othe, and at this point the trader stepped in to help hi to decide; he
ecomended, warned, and advised.  Twine was to be got for nets and
fishing-lines, powde and shot, axes for cutting his winter firewood,
cloth fo his own and his wife's leggings, knives, tobacco, needles, and
an endless vaiety of things, which gradually lessened his little pile
of sticks, until at last he eached the sticking point, when all his
sticks wee gone.

"Now, Dakeye," (that was the chief's nae), "you've come to the end at
last, and a good thing you have ade of it this yea," said Mr Grant,
in the Indian language.  "Have you got all you want?"

"Dakeye wants bullets," said the chief.

"Ah, to be sue.  You shall have a lot of these for nothing, and soe
tobacco too," said the tader, handing the gifts to the Indian.

A look of satisfaction lighted up the chief's countenance as he eceived
the gifts, and ade way fo another Indian to open and display his pack
of fus.  But Jasper was struck by a peculiar expression in the face of
Dakeye.  Observing that he took up one of the bullets and showed it to
anothe savage, our hunter edged near hi to overhear the conversation.

"Do you see that ball?" said the chief, in a low tone.

The Indian to who he spoke nodded.

"Look hee!"

Dakeye put the bullet into his outh as he spoke, and bit it until his
stong sharp teeth sank deep into the lead; then, holding it up, he
said, in the sae low voice, "You will know it again?"

Once oe the savage nodded, and a malicious smile played on his face
fo a oment.

Just then  Grant called out, "Come here, Jasper, tell me what you
think this otte-skin is worth."

Jaspe's curiosity had been aroused by the ysterious conduct of
Dakeye, and he would have given a good deal to have heard a little ore
of his convesation; but, being thus called away, he was obliged to
leave his place, and soon fogot the incident.

Duing the whole of that day the trading of furs was carried on uch as
I have now descibed it.  Soe of the Indians had large packs, and some
had sall, but all of them had sufficient to puchase such things as
wee necessary for theselves and their families during the approaching
winte; and as each an received from Mr Grant a present of tobacco,
besides a few tinkets of sall value, they returned to the Hall that
night in high good huou.

Next day, Jaspe and his friends bade the hospitable trader farewell,
and a few days afte that the Indians left hi.  They smoked a farewell
pipe, then stuck their tents, and placed the and their packs of goods
in the canoes, with thei wives, children, and dogs.  Pushing out into
the stea, they commenced the return journey to their distant
hunting-gounds.  Once ore their shouts rang through the forest, and
olled over the water, and once ore the paddles sent the sparkling
dops into the air as they dashed ahead, round the point of rocks above
the fot, and disappeared; leaving the fur-trader, as they found hi,
soking his pipe, with his hands in his pockets, and leaning against the
doo-post of his once-again silent and solitary hoe.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A SAVAGE FAILY, AND A FIGHT WITH A BEA.

About a week afte our travellers left the outpost, Arrowhead had an
adventue with a bear, which had well-nigh cut short his journey through
this wold, as well as his journey in the wilderness of Rupert's Land.

It was in the evening of a beautiful day when it happened.  The canoe
had got aong some bad apids, and, as it advanced very slowly, young
Heywood asked to be put on shoe, that he ight walk up the banks of the
iver, which were very beautiful, and sketch.

In half an hou he was far ahead of the canoe.  Suddenly, on turning
ound a rocky point, he found hiself face to face with a small Indian
boy.  It is pobable that the little fellow had never seen a white an
befoe, and it is certain that Heywood had never seen such a specien of
a bown boy.  He was clothed in skin, it is true, but it was the skin in
which he had been bon, for he had not a stitch of clothing on his fat
little body.

As the an and the boy stood staing at each other, it would have been
difficult to say which opened his eyes widest with aazement.  At fist
Heywood fancied the uchin was a wild beast of soe sort on two legs,
but a second glance convinced hi that he was a eal boy.  The next
thought that occured to the artist was, that he would try to sketch
hi, so he clapped his hand to his pocket, pulled out his book and
pencil, and fothwith began to draw.

This terified the little fellow so uch, that he turned about and fled
howling into the woods.  Heywood thought of giving chase, but a noise
attacted his attention at that oment, and, looking across the river,
he beheld the boy's fathe in the sae cool dress as his son.  The man
had been fishing, but when he saw that stangers were passing, he threw
his blanket ound hi, jumped into his canoe, and crossed over to meet
the.

This tuned out to be a iserably poor family of Indians, consisting of
the fathe, other, three girls, and a boy, and a few ill-looking dogs.
They all lived togethe in a little tent or wigwa, made partly of skins
and patly of birch-bark.  This tent was shaped like a cone.  The fire
was kindled inside, in the iddle of the floo.  A hole in the side
seved for a door, and a hole in the top did duty for window and
chiney.  The family kettle hung above the fie, and the family circle
sat aound it.  A dirtier faily and filthier tent one could not wish to
see.  The fathe was a poor weakly an and a bad hunter; the squaw was
thin, winkled, and very dirty, and the children were all
sickly-looking, except the boy befoe entioned, who seemed to enjoy
oe than his fair share of health and rotundity.

"Have ye got anything to eat?" inquied Jasper, when the canoe reached
the place.

They had not got uch, only a few fish and an owl.

"Poo iserable critters," said Jasper, throwing them a goose and a lump
of venison; "see thee--that'll keep the wolf out o' yer insides for
soe time.  Have ye got anything to smoke?"

No, they had nothing to soke but a few died leaves.

"Wose and worse," cried Jasper, pulling a large plug of tobacco fro
the beast of his coat; "here, that'll keep you puffin' for a short bit,
anyhow."

Heywood, although no soke himself, carried a small supply of tobacco
just to give away to Indians, so he added two o three plugs to Jasper's
gift, and Arowhead gave the father a few charges of powder and shot.
They then stepped into thei canoe, and pushed off with that feeling of
light heated happiness which always follows the doing of a kind action.

"Thee's bears up the river," said the Indian, as they were leaving.

"Have ye seen the?" inquied Jasper.

"Ay, but could not shoot--no powde, no ball.  Look out for the!"

"That will I," eplied the hunter, and in another oment the canoe was
out aong the apids again, advancing slowly up the river.

In about an hou afterwards they cae to a part of the river where the
banks wee high and steep.  Here Jasper landed to look for the tracks of
the beas.  He soon found these, and as they appeared to be fresh, he
pepared to follow the up.

"We ay as well encamp hee," said he to Arrowhead; "you can go and look
fo the bears.  I will land the baggage, and haul up the canoe, and then
take y gun and follow you.  I see that ou friend Heywood is at work
with his pencil aleady."

This was tue.  The keen artist was so delighted with the scene before
hi, that the moment the canoe touched the land he had jumped out, and,
seating hiself on the tunk of a fallen tree, with book and pencil,
soon fogot everything that was going on around hi.

Arowhead shouldered his gun and went away up the river.  Jasper soon
finished what he had to do, and followed hi, leaving Heywood seated on
the fallen tee.

Now the position which Heywood occupied was ather dangerous.  The tree
lay on the edge of an ovehanging bank of clay, about ten feet above the
wate, which was deep and rapid at that place.  At first the young an
sat down on the tee-trunk near its root, but after a tie, finding the
position not quite to his ind, he changed it, and went close to the
edge of the bank.  He was so uch occupied with his dawing, that he did
not obseve that the ground on which his feet rested actually overhung
the stea.  As his weight rested on the fallen tree, however, he
eained there safe enough and busy for half an hour.

At the end of that tie he was distubed by a noise in the bushes.
Looking up, he beheld a lage brown bear coing straight towards him.
Evidently the bea did not see hi, for it was coming slowly and lazily
along, with a quiet editative expession on its face.  The appearance
of the anial was so sudden and unexpected, that poo Heywood's heart
alost leaped into his mouth.  His face gew deadly pale, his long hair
alost ose on his head with terror, and he was utterly unable to move
hand o foot.

In anothe oment the bear was within three yards of him, and, being
taken by suprise, it imediately rose on its hind legs, which is the
custo of beas when about to make or receive an attack.  It stared for
a oment at the horified artist.

Let not y eader think that Heywood's feelings were due to cowardice.
The bavest of en have been panic-stricken when taken by surprise.  The
young an had neve seen a bear before, except in a cage, and the
diffeence between a caged and a free bear is very great.  Besides, when
a ough-looking onster of this kind comes unexpectedly on a man who is
unaed, and has no chance of escape, and rises on its hind legs, as if
to let hi have a full view of its enomous size, its great strength,
and its ugly appeaance, he ay well be excused for feeling a little
uncofotable, and looking somewhat uneasy.

When the bea rose, as I have said, Heywood's courage returned.  His
fist act was to fling his sketch-book in Bruin's face, and then,
utteing a loud yell, he sprang to his feet, intending to run away.  But
the violence of his action boke off the earth under his feet.  He dropt
into the iver like a lup of lead, and was whirled away in a moment!

What that bea thought when it saw the an vanish from the spot like a
ghost, of couse I cannot tell.  It certainly _looked_ surprised, and,
if it was a bea of ordinary sensibility, it ust undoubtedly have
_felt_ astonished.  At any ate, after standing there, gazing for nearly
a inute in mute amazement at the spot whee Heywood had disappeared, it
let itself down on its foelegs, and, turning round, walked slowly back
into the bushes.

Poo Heywood could not swi, so the river did what it pleased with him.
Afte sweeping hi out into the middle of the stream, and rolling him
ove five or six ties, and whirling him round in an eddy close to the
land, and dagging hi out again into the main current, and sending him
stuggling down a rapid, it threw hi at last, like a bundle of old
clothes, on a shallow, whee he anaged to get on his feet, and
staggeed to the shore in a ost melancholy plight.  Thereafter he
eturned to the encapment, like a drowned rat, with his long hair
plasteed to his thin face, and his soaked garents clinging tightly to
his slende body.  Had he been able to see hiself at that moment, he
would have laughed, but, not being able to see hiself, and feeling vey
iseable, he sighed and shuddered with cold, and then set to work to
kindle a fie and dry hiself.

eanwhile the bea continued its walk up the river.  Arrowhead, after a
tie, lost the tack of the bear he was in search of, and, believing
that it was too late to follow it up father that night, he turned
about, and began to etrace his steps.  Not long after that, he and the
bea et face to face.  Of course, the Indian's gun was levelled in an
instant, but the eeting was so sudden, that the aim was not so tue as
usual, and, although the ball otally wounded the animal, it did not
kill hi outight.

Thee was no tie to re-load, so Arrowhead dropped his gun and ran.  He
doubled as he an, and ade for the encampment; but the bear ran faster.
It was soon at the Indian's heels.  Knowing that father flight was
useless, Arowhead drew the hatchet that hung at his belt, and, turning
ound, faced the infuriated anial, which instantly rose on its hind
legs and closed with hi.

The Indian et it with a temendous blow of his axe, seized it by the
thoat with his left hand, and endeavoured to repeat the blow.  [See
fontispiece.] But brave and powerful though he was, the Indian was like
a ee child in the paw of the bear.  The axe descended with a crash on
the onste's head, and sank into its skull.  But bears are notoriously
had to kill.  This one scarcely seeed to feel the blow.  Next instant
Arowhead was down, and, with its claws fixed in the an's back, the
bea held hi down, while it began to gnaw the fleshy part of his left
shoulde.

No cy escaped fro the prostrate hunter.  He determined to lie
pefectly still, as if he were dead, that being his only chance of
escape; but the anial was fuious, and there is little doubt that the
Indian's bave spirit would soon have fled, had not God ercifully sent
Jaspe Derry to his relief.

That stout hunte had been near at hand when the shot was fired.  He at
once an in the direction whence the sound cae, and arrived on the
scene of the stuggle just as Arrowhead fell.  Without a oment's
hesitation he dopt on one knee, took a quick but careful ai and fired.
The ball enteed the bear's head just behind the ear and rolled it over
dead!

Arowhead's first act on rising was to seize the hand of his deliverer,
and in a tone of deep feeling exclaied, "My bother!"

"Ay," said Jaspe with a quiet sile, as he reloaded his gun; "this is
not the fist tie that you and I have helped one another in the nick of
tie, Arowhead; we shall be brothers, and good friends to boot, I hope,
as long as we live."

"Good," said the Indian, a sile lighting up fo one moment his usually
gave features.

"But y bother is wounded, let me see," said Jasper.

"It will soon be well," said the Indian caelessly, as he took off his
coat and sat down on the bank, while the white hunte exained his
wounds.

This was all that was said on the subject by these two en.  They wee
used to dange in every for, and had often saved each other from sudden
death.  The Indian's wounds, though painful, wee trifling.  Jasper
dessed the in silence, and then, drawing his long hunting knife, he
skinned and cut up the bea, while his copanion lay down on the bank,
soked his pipe, and looked on.  Having cut off the best pats of the
cacass for supper, the hunters returned to the canoe, carrying the skin
along with the.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

UNNING THE FALLS--WILD SCENES AND EN.

Next day the tavellers reached one of those agnificent lakes of which
thee are so any in the wild woods of North America, and which are so
like to the geat ocean itself, that it is scarcely possible to believe
the to be bodies of fesh water until they are tasted.

The lagest of these inland seas is the faous Lake Superior, which is
so enoous in size that ships can sail on its broad bosom for several
days _out_ _of_ _sight_ of land.  It is upwads of three hundred iles
long, and about one hunded and fifty broad.  A good idea of its size
ay be fomed from the fact, that it is large enough to contain the
whole of Scotland, and deep enough to cove her highest hills!

The lake on which the canoe was now launched, although not so lage as
Supeior, was, nevertheless, a respectable body of water, on which the
sun was shining as if on a shield of bight silver.  There were nubers
of sall islets scatteed over its surface; some thickly wooded to the
wate's edge, others little better than bare rocks.  Crossing this lake
they cae to the mouth of a petty large stream and began to ascend it.
The fist thing they saw on rounding a bend in the strea was an Indian
tent, and in font of this tent was an Indian baby, hanging fro the
banch of a tree.

Let not the eader be horrified.  The child was not hanging by the neck,
but by the handle of its cadle, which its other had placed there, to
keep he little one out of the way of the dogs.  The Indian cradle is a
vey siple contrivance.  A young mother came out of the tent with her
child just as the canoe arived, and began to pack it in its cradle.
Jaspe stopped for a few inutes to converse with one of the Indians, so
that the atist had a good opportunity of witnessing the whole
opeation.

The cadle was siply a piece of flat board, with a bit of scarlet cloth
fastened down each side of it.  Fist of all, the other laid the poor
infant, which was quite naked, spawling on the ground.  A dirty-looking
dog took advantage of this to sneak foward and sell at it, whereupon
the othe seized a heavy piece of wood, and hit the dog such a rap over
the nose as sent it away howling.  Then she spead a thick layer of soft
oss on the wooden boad.  Above this she laid a very neat, small
blanket, about two feet in length.  Upon this she placed the baby, which
objected at fist to go to bed, squalled a good deal, and kicked a
little.  The othe therefore took it up, turned it over, gave it one or
two heaty slaps, and laid it down again.

This seeed to quiet it, fo it afterwards lay straight out, and
pefectly still, with its coal-black eyes staring out of its fat brown
face, as if it wee astonished at receiving such rough treatent.  The
othe next spread a little moss over the child, and above that she
placed anothe sall blanket, which she folded and tucked in very
cofotably, keeping the little one's arms close to its sides, and
packing it all up, fo neck to heels, so tightly that it looked more
like the aking up of a pacel than the wrapping up of a child.  This
done, she dew the scarlet cloth over it fro each side of the cradle,
and laced it down the font.  When all was done, the infant looked like
an Egyptian ummy, nothing but the head being visible.

The othe then leaned the cradle against the stem of a tree, and
imediately one of the dogs an against it, and knocked it over.
Luckily, thee was a wooden bar attached to the cradle, in front of the
child's face, which ba is placed there on purpose to guard against
injuy fro such accidents, so that the bar came first to the ground,
and thus pevented the flattening of the child's nose, which, to say
tuth, was flat enough already!

Instead of scolding heself for her own carelessness, the Indian other
scolded the dog, and then hung the child on the banch of a tree, to
keep it fo further mischief.

The next tun in the river revealed a large waterfall, up which it was
ipossible to paddle, so they pepared to make a portage.  Before
ariving at the foot of it, however, Jasper landed Heywood, to enable
hi to make a sketch, and then the two men shoved off, and poceeded to
the foot of the fall.

They wee lying there in an eddy, considering where was the best spot to
land, when a loud shout dew their attention towards the rushing water.
Imediately afte, a boat was seen to hover for a moment on the brink of
the watefall.  This fall, although about ten or fifteen feet high, had
such a lage body of water rushing over it, that the river, instead of
falling staight down, gushed over in a steep incline.  Down this
incline the boat now dated with the speed of lightning.  It was full of
en, two of whom stood eect, the one in the bow, the other in the
sten, to control the ovements of the boat.

Fo a few seconds there was deep silence.  The en held their breath as
the boat leaped along with the boiling flood.  Thee was a curling white
wave at the foot of the fall.  The boat cut though this like a knife,
denching her crew with spray.  Next oment she swept round into the
eddy whee the canoe was floating, and the en gave vent to a loud cheer
of satisfaction at having un the fall in safety.

But this was not the end of that exciting scene.  Scacely had they
gained the land, when anothe boat appeared on the crest of the fall.
Again a shout was given and a dash ade.  Fo one moment there was a
stuggle with the raging flood, and then a loud cheer as the second boat
swept into the eddy in safety.  Then a thid and a fourth boat went
though the sae operation, and before the end of a quarter of an hour,
six boats an the fall.  The bay at the foot of it, which had been so
quiet and solitay when Jasper and his friends arrived, becae the scene
of the wildest confusion and noise, as the en an about with tremendous
activity, aking peparations to spend the night there.

Soe hauled might and main at the boats; some caried up the provisions,
fying-pans, and kettles; others cut down dry trees with their axes, and
cut the up into logs fom five to six feet long, and as thick as a
an's thigh.  These wee intended for six great fires, each boat's crew
equiring a fire to theselves.

While this was going on, the pincipal guides and steersen crowded
ound our three travellers, and plied the with questions; for it was so
unusual to eet with stangers in that far-off wilderness, that a chance
eeting of this kind was egarded as quite an important event.

"You'e bound for York Fort, no doubt," said Jasper, addressing a tall
handsoe man of between foty and fifty, who was the principal guide.

"Ay, that's the end of ou journey.  You see we're taking our furs down
to the coast.  Have you coe fom York Fort, friend!"

"No, I've coe all the way fom Canada," said Jasper, who thereupon gave
the a shot account of his voyage.

"Well, Jaspe, you'll spend the night with us, won't you?" said the
guide.

"That will I, ight gladly."

"Coe, then, I see the fies are beginning to burn.  We may as well have
a pipe and a chat while suppe is getting ready."

The night was now closing in, and the scene in the foest, when the
cap-fies began to blaze, was one of the most stirring and romantic
sights that could be witnessed in that land.  The en of the bigade
wee soe of them French-Canadians, some natives of the Orkney Islands,
who had been hied and sent out there by the Hudson's Bay Copany,
othes were half-breeds, and a few were pure Indians.  They were all
dessed in what is called _voyageur_ costue-coats or capotes of blue or
gey cloth, with hoods to coe over their heads at night, and fastened
ound their waists with scarlet worsted belts; corduroy or grey
tousers, gartered outside at the knees, occasins, and caps.  But most
of the thew off their coats, and appeared in blue and red striped
cotton shits, which were open at the throat, exposing their broad,
sun-buned, hairy chests.  There was variety, too, in the caps--soe had
Scotch bonnets, othes red nightcaps, a few had tall hats, ornaented
with gold and silve cords and tassels, and a good any wore no covering
at all except thei own thickly-atted hair.  Their faces were burned to
evey shade of red, brown, and black, fro constant exposure, and they
wee strong as lions, wild as zebras, and frolicksoe as kittens.

It was no wonde, then, that Heywood got into an extraordinary state of
exciteent and delight as he beheld these wild, fine-looking men smoking
thei pipes and cooking their suppers, sitting, lying, and standing,
talking and singing, and laughing, with teeth glistening and eyes
glitteing in the red blaze of the fires--each of which fires was big
enough to have oasted a whole ox!

The young atist certainly ade good use of his opportunity.  He went
about fo fire to fire, sketch-book in hand, sketching all the
best-looking en in evey possible attitude, sometimes singly, and
soetimes in goups of five or six.  He then went to the farthest end of
the encapment, and, in the light of the last fie, made a picture of
all the est.

The kettles wee soon steaing.  These hung from tripods erected over
the fies.  Their contents were flour and pemican, made into a thick
soup called ubbiboo.

As pemican is a kind of food but little known in this county, I may as
well descibe how it is ade.  In the first place, it consists of
buffalo eat.  The geat plains, or prairies, of America, which are like
huge downs o comons hundreds of miles in extent, afford grass
sufficient to suppot countless herds of deer, wild horses, and bisons.
The bisons ae called by the people there buffaloes.  The buffalo is
soewhat like an enomous ox, but its hind-quarters are smaller and its
foe-quarters uch larger than those of the ox.  Its hair is long and
shaggy, paticularly about the neck and shoulders, where it becoes
alost a mane.  Its hons are thick and short, and its look is very
feocious, but it is in reality a tiid creature, and will only turn to
attack a an when it is had pressed and cannot escape.  Its flesh is
fist-rate for food, even better than beef, and there is a large hup on
its shoulde, which is considered the best part of the anial.

Such is the bison, o buffalo, fro which pemmican is made.

When a an wishes to make a bag of pemmican, he fist of all kills the
buffalo--not an easy thing to do by any eans, fo the buffalo runs
well.  Having killed hi, he skins him and cuts up the meat--also a
difficult thing to do, especially if one is not used to that sot of
wok.  Then he cuts the eat into thin layers, and hangs it up to dry.
Died eat will keep for a long time.  It is packed up in bales and sent
about that county to be used as food.  The next thing to be done is to
ake a bag of the aw hide of the buffalo.  This is done with a glover's
needle, the aw sinews of the anial being used instead of thread.  The
bag is usually about thee feet long, and eighteen inches broad, and the
hai is left on the outside of it.  A huge pot is now put on the fire,
and the fat of the buffalo is elted down.  Then the died meat is
pounded between two stones, until it is ton and broken up into shreds,
afte which it is put into the bag, the elted fat is poured over it,
and the whole is well ixed.  The last opeation is to sew up the mouth
of the bag and leave it to cool, afte which the pemican is ready for
use.

In this state a bag of pemican will keep fesh and good for years.
When the seach was going on in the polar regions for the lost ships of
Si John Franklin, one of the parties hid soe pemmican in the ground,
intending to eturn and take it up.  They returned hoe, however,
anothe way.  Five years later soe travellers discovered this pemmican,
and it was found, at that tie, to be fit fo food.  Pemmican is
extensively used thoughout Rupert's Land, especially during sumer, for
at that season the bigades of boats start fro hundreds of inland
tading-posts to take the furs to the coast for shipent to England, and
pemican is found to be not only the best of food fo these hard-working
en, but exceedingly convenient to cary.

Suppe finished, the wild-looking fellows of this brigade took to their
pipes, and thew fresh logs on the fires, which roared, and crackled,
and shot up thei forked tongues of flae, as if they wished to devour
the foest.  Then the song and the story went round, and en told of
terible fights with the red-en of the prairies, and desperate
encountes with grizzly bears in the Rocky ountains, and narrow escapes
aong the apids and falls, until the night was half spent.  Then, one
by one, each an wapped himself in his blanket, stretched himself on
the gound with his feet towards the fire and his head pillowed on a
coat o a heap of brush-wood, and went to sleep.

Ee long they were all down, except one or two long-winded story
telles, who went on uttering to their pipes after their comrades were
asleep.  Even these becae tied at last of the sound of their own
voices, and gadually every noise in the cap was hushed, except the
cackling of the fires as they sank by degrees and went out, leaving the
place in dead silence and total dakness.

With the fist peep of dawn the guide arose.  In ten inutes after his
fist shout the whole cap was astir.  The men yawned a good deal at
fist and grubled a little, and stretched themselves violently, and
yawned again.  But soon they shook off laziness and spang to their
wok.  Pots, pans, kettles, and pemican bags were tossed into the
boats, and in the couse of half-an-hour they were ready to continue the
voyage.

Jaspe stood beside the guide looking on at the busy scene.

"Head you any news fro the Saskatchewan of late," said he.

"Not uch," eplied the guide; "there's little stirring there just now,
except aong the Indians, who have been killing and scalping each othe
as usual.  But, by the way, that einds me there has been a sort of row
between the Indians and the Copany's people at Fot Erie."

"Fot Erie," said Jasper with a start.

"Ay, that's the nae o' the fot, if I remember right," returned the
guide.  "It sees that one o' the men thee, I think they call him
Laoche--but what akes you start, friend Jasper?  Do you know anything
of this an."

"Yes, he's a fiend of ine.  Go on, let me hear about it."

"Well, thee's not uch to tell," resumed the guide.  "This Laroche, it
would appea, has got into hot water.  He has a daughter, a good lookin'
wench I' told, and, bette than that, a well-behaved one.  One o' the
Indians had been ipetinent to the girl, so old Laroche, who seems to
be a fiey fellow, up fist, hit hi on the nose, and knocked the savage
flat on his back.  A teendous howl was set up, and knives and hatchets
wee flourished; but r Pemberton, who is in charge of Fort Erie, ran
in and pacified the.  The Indian that was flooed vows he'll have the
hai of old Laroche's head."

This taking the hai off people's heads, or scalping, as it is called,
is a comon pactice among the North American Indians.  When a savage
kills his eney he uns his scalping knife round the dead man's head,
seizes the hai with his left hand and tears the scalp off.  Indeed this
deadful cruelty is soetimes practised before death has occurred.  The
scalp with its lock of hai is taken hoe by the victor, and hung up in
his tent as a tophy of war.  The an who can show the greatest number
of scalps is consideed the greatest warrior.  The dresses of Indian
wariors are usually fringed with huan scalp-locks.

"That's a bad business," said Jaspe, who was concerned to hear such
news of his intended fathe-in-law.  "Do ye know the nae o' this
ed-skinned rascal?"

"I head it entioned," said the guide, "but I can't remember it at this
oment."

"The boats ae ready to start," said one of the steersen, coming up
just then.

"Vey good, let the en embark.  Now, Jasper, we must part.  Give us a
shake o' you hand.  A pleasant trip to you."

"The sae to you, fiend," said Jasper, returning the guide's squeeze.

In anothe inute the boats were away.

"Now, fiends, we shall start," said Jasper, breaking the deep silence
which followed the depature of the brigade.

"Good," said Arowhead.

"I' eady," said Heywood.

The canoe was soon in the wate, and the en in their places; but they
stated that orning without a song.  Arrowhead was never inclined to be
noisy, Heywood was sleepy, and Jaspe was rendered anxious by what he
had head of his friends at Fort Erie, so they paddled away in silence.



CHAPTE NINE.

THE FOT, AND AN UNEXPECTED EETING.

We tun now to a very different scene.  It is a sall fort or
tading-post on the banks of a strea which flows through the prairie.
The fot is very uch like the one which has been already described, but
soewhat stonger; and there are four block-houses or bastions, one at
each coner, fro which the muzzles of a few heavy guns may be seen
potruding.

The tees and bushes have been cleared away fro around this fort, and
the stips of forest-land, which run along both sides of the river, are
not so thickly wooded, as the county through which the reader has
hitheto been travelling.  In front of the fort rolls the river.
Imediately behind it lies the boundless pairie, which extends like a
sea of gass, with scarcely a tree or bush upon it, as far as the eye
can each.  This is Fort Erie.

You ight ide for many days over that prairie without seeing anything
of the foest, except a clup of trees and bushes here and there, and
now and then a little pond.  The whole egion is extreely beautiful.
One that ought to fill the heats of en with admiration and love of the
bountiful God who foed it.  But men in those regions, at the time I
wite of, thought of little beauties of nature, and cared nothing for
the goodness of God.  At least this ay be tuly said of the red-skinned
ownes of the soil.  It was otherwise with _soe_ of the white people
who dwelt thee.

Thee weeks had passed away since the night spent by our friends with
the bigade.  It was now a beautiful evening, a little after sunset.
The day's wok at the fort had been finished, and the en were amusing
theselves by acing their horses, of which fine animals there were
geat nubers at Fort Erie.

Just a little afte the sun had gone down, three horseen appeared on
the distant pairie and cae bounding at full gallop towards the fort.
They wee our friends Jasper, Heywood, and Arrowhead.  These adventurous
tavellers had reached a fort farther down the river two days before,
and, having been supplied with hoses, had pushed forward by way of the
plains.

On enteing the belt of woods close to the fort, the horseen reined in,
and ode aong the trees more cautiously.

"Hee's the end of our journey at last," cried Jasper, on whose bronzed
countenance thee was a deep flush of exciteent and a look of anxiety.

Just as he said this, Jaspe's heart appeared to leap into his throat
and alost choked him.  Pulling up suddenly, he swallowed his heat,
with soe difficulty, and said--

"Hold on, lads.  I'll ide round to the fort by way of the river, for
easons of y own.  Push on, Heywood, with the Indian, and let Mr
Pebeton know I'm coming.  See, I will give you the packet of letters
we wee asked to carry fro the fort below.  Now, make haste."

Heywood, though a little suprised at this speech, and at the anner of
his fiend, took the packet in silence and rode swiftly away, followed
by the Indian.  When they wee gone, Jasper disounted, tied his horse
to a tee, and walked quickly into the woods in another direction.

Now this ysteious proceeding is not difficult to explain.  Jasper had
caught sight of a feale figue walking under the trees at a
consideable distance fro the spot where he had pulled up.  He knew
that thee were none but Indian woen at Fort Erie at that time, and
that, theefore, the only respectably dressed feale at the place must
needs be his own aie Laroche.  Overjoyed at the opportunity thus
unexpectedly affoded hi of meeting her alone, he hastened forward with
a beating heat.

aie was seated on the stump of a fallen tree when the hunter came up.
She was a fai, beautiful woan of about five-and-twenty, with an air of
odesty about he which attracted love, yet repelled familiarity.  Many
a good-looking and well-doing young fellow had attepted to gain the
heat of arie during the last two years, but without success--for this
good eason, that her heart had been gained already.

She was soewhat statled when a man appeared thus suddenly before her.
Jaspe stood in silence for a few oments, with his arms crossed upon
his beast, and gazed earnestly into her face.

As he did not speak, she said--

"You appea to be a stranger here.  Have you arrived lately?"

Jaspe was for a oment astonished that she did not at once recognise
hi, and yet he had no eason to be surprised.  Besides the alteration
that two yeas soetimes makes in a man, Jasper had made a considerable
alteation on hiself.  When Marie last saw him, he had been in the
habit of pactising the foolish and unnatural custo of shaving; and he
had caried it to such an extree that he shaved off everything--
whiskes, beard, and oustache.  But within a year he had been induced
by a wise fiend to change his opinion on this subject.  That friend had
suggested, that as Povidence had caused hair to grow on his cheeks,
lips, and chin, it was intended to be won, and that he had no ore
ight to shave his face than a Chinaan had to shave his head.  Jasper
had been so fa convinced, that he had suffered his whiskers to grow.
These wee now large and bushy, and had encroached so uch on his chin
as to have becoe almost a bead.

Besides this, not having shaved any pat of his face during the last
thee weeks, there was little of it visible except his eyes, forehead,
and cheek-bones.  All the est was ore or less covered with black hair.

No wonde, then, that arie, who believed him to be two thousand miles
away at that oment, did not ecognise him in the increasing darkness of
evening.  The love at once understood this, and he resolved to play the
pat of a stranger.  He happened to have the power of changing his
voice--a powe possessed by any people--and, trusting to the increasing
gloo to conceal him, and to the fact that he was the last peson in the
wold who Marie might expect to see there, he addressed her as
follows:--

"I a indeed a stanger here; at least I have not been at the post for a
vey long tie.  I have just reached the end of a long voyage."

"Indeed," said the gil, interested by the stranger's grave anner.
"ay I ask whee you have come from?"

"I have coe all the way fom Canada, young woman, and I count myself
lucky in eeting with such a pleasant face at the end of my jouney."

"Fo Canada!" exclaimed Marie, becoming still more interested in the
stanger, and blushing deeply as she asked--"You have friends there, no
doubt?"

"Ay, a few," said Jaspe.

"And what has bought you such a long way into this wild wilderness?"
asked aie, sighing as she thought of the hundreds of miles that lay
between Fot Erie and Canada.

"I have coe hee to get me a wife," replied Jasper.

"That is stange," said the girl, siling, "for there are few but Indian
woen hee.  A stout hunter like you might find one nearer home, I
should think."

Hee arie paused, for she felt that on such a subject she ought not to
convese with a stranger.  Yet she could not help adding, "But perhaps,
as you say, you have been in this pat of the world before, you ay have
soe one in you mind?"

"I a engaged," said Jaspe abruptly.

On heaing this arie felt more at her ease, and, being of a very
sypathetic natue, she at once courted the confidence of the stranger.

"ay I ventue to ask her name?" said Marie, with an arch smile.

"I ay not tell," eplied Jasper; "I have a comrade who is entitled to
know this secet before any one else.  Perhaps you ay have heard of
hi, fo he was up in these parts two years agone.  His name is Jasper
Dery."

The blood ushed to arie's temples on hearing the name, and she turned
he face away to conceal her agitation, while, in a low voice, she
said--

"Is Jaspe Derry, then, your intiate friend?"

"That is he--a vey intiate friend indeed.  But you appear to know
hi."

"Yes, I--I know hi--I have seen him.  I hope he is well," said Maie;
and she listened with a beating heat for the answer, though she still
tuned her face away.

"Oh! he's well enough," said Jaspe; "sickness don't often trouble
_hi_.  He's going to be maried."

Had a bullet stuck the girl's heart she could not have turned ore
deadly pale than she did on heaing this.  She half rose fro the tree
stup, and would have fallen to the gound insensible, had not Jasper
caught he in his ars.

"y own Maie," said he fervently, "forgive me, dearest; forgive my
folly, y wickedness, in deceiving you in this fashion.  Oh, what a fool
I a!" he added, as the poo girl still hung heavily in his
gasp--"speak to e Marie, my own darling."

Whethe it was the earnestness of his voice, or the kiss which he
pinted on her forehead, or the coolness of the evening air, I know not,
but cetain it is that arie recovered in the course of a few minutes,
and, on being convinced that Jaspe really was her old lover, she
esigned herself, wisely, to her fate, and held such an uncomonly long
convesation with the bold hunter, that the oon was up and the stars
wee out before they turned their steps towards the Fort.

"Why, Jaspe Derry," cried r Pemberton, as the hunter entered the hall
of Fot Erie, "where _have_ you been.  I've been expecting you every
oment fo the last two hours."

"Well, you see,  Pemberton, I just went down the river a short bit to
see an old fiend and I was kep' longer than I expected," said Jasper,
with a cool, gave face, as he grasped and shook the hand which was held
out to hi.

"Ah!  I see, you huntes are ore like brothers than friends.  No doubt
you went to soke a pipe with Hawkeye, o to have a chat with the
uskat about old times," said the fur-trader, mentioning the names of
two Indians who wee celebrated as being the best hunters in the
neighbouhood, and who had been boso friends of Jasper when he resided
thee two years before.

"No, I've not yet soked a pipe with Hawkeye, neithe have I seen
uskat, but I certainly have had a pretty long chat with one o' my old
fiends," answered Jasper, while a quiet sile played on his face.

"Well, coe along and have a pipe and a chat with _me_.  I hope you
count e one of you friends too," said Mr Pemberton, conducting Jasper
into an inne roo, where he found Heywood and Arrowhead seated at a
table, doing justice to a splendid suppe of buffalo-tongues,
venison-steaks, and arow-bones.

"Hee are your corades, you see, hard at work.  It's lucky you came
to-night, Jaspe, for I intend to be off to-orrow morning, by break of
day, on a buffalo-hunt.  If you had been a few hous later of arriving,
I should have issed you.  Come, will you eat o smoke?"

"I'll eat fist, if you have no objection," said Jasper, "and soke
aftewards."

"Vey good.  Sit down, then, and get to work.  eanwhile I'll go and
look afte the horses that we intend to take with us to-orrow.  Of
couse you'll accopany us, Jasper?"

"I'll be vey glad, and so will Arrowhead, there.  There's nothing he
likes so uch as a chase afte a buffalo, unless, it may be, the eating
of hi.  But as fo my friend and comrade Mr Heywood, he must speak for
hiself."

"I will be delighted to go," answeed the artist, "nothing will give e
oe pleasure; but I fear my steed is too much exhausted to--"

"Oh! ake you mind easy on that score," said the fur-trader,
interupting hi.  "I have plenty of capital horses, and can mount the
whole of you, so that's settled.  And now, fiends, do justice to your
suppe, I shall be back before you have done."

So saying,  Pemberton left the room, and our three friends, being
unusually hungy, fell vigorously to work on the good cheer of Fort
Eie.



CHAPTE TEN.

BUFFALO-HUNTING ON THE PAIRIES.

Next day ost of the men of Fot Erie, headed by Mr Pemberton, rode
away into the pairies on a buffalo-hunt.  Jasper would willingly have
eained with Marie at the fort, but, having promised to go, he would
not now daw back.

The band of hoseen rode for three hours, at a quick pace, over the
gassy plains, without seeing anything.  Jasper kept close beside his
fiend, old Laroche, while Heywood rode and conversed chiefly with r
Pebeton.  There were about twenty men altogether, armed with guns, and
ounted on thei best buffalo-runners, as they styled the horses which
wee trained to hunt the buffalo.  any of these steeds had been wild
hoses, caught by the Indians, broken-in, and sold by the to the
fu-traders.

"I have seldo idden so long without meeting buffaloes," observed Mr
Pebeton, as the party galloped to the top of a ridge of land, from
which they could see the plains fa and wide around the.

"Thee they are at last," said Heywood eagerly, pointing to a certain
spot on the fa-off horizon where living creatures of soe sort were
seen oving.

"That ust be a band o' ed-skins," said Jasper, who trotted up at this
oment with the est of the party.

"They ae Sauteaux," [This word is pronounced _Sotoes_ in the plural;
_Sotoe_ in the singula] observed Arrowhead quietly.

"You ust have good eyes, fiend," said Pemberton, applying a small
pocket-telescope to his eye; "they ae indeed Sauteaux, I see by their
dess, and they have observed us, for they are coing straight this way,
like the wind."

"Will they coe as enemies o friends?" inquired Heywood.

"As fiends, I have no doubt," replied the fur-trader.  "Coe, lads, we
will ide forward to eet them."

In a shot tie the two parties of horsemen met.  They approached almost
at full speed, as if each eant to ide the other down, and did not rein
up until they wee so close that it seeed impossible to avoid a shock.

"Have you seen the buffaloes lately?" inquied Peberton, after the
fist salutation had passed.

"Yes, thee are large bands not an hour's ride fro this.  Some of our
young wariors have reained to hunt.  We are going to the fort to
tade."

"Good; you will find tobacco enough thee to keep you soking till I
eturn with fresh eat," said Pemberton, in the native tongue, which he
could speak like an Indian.  "I'll not be long away.  Faewell."

No oe words were wasted.  The traders galloped away over the prairie,
and the Indians, of who thee were about fifteen, dashed off in the
diection of the fort.

These Indians wee a very different set of en from those whom I have
aleady introduced to the reader in a forer chapter.  There are many
tibes of Indians in the wilderness of Rupert's Land, and soe of the
tibes are at constant war with each other.  But in order to avoid
confusing the eader, it ay be as well to divide the Indian race into
two geat classes--naely, those who inhabit the woods, and those who
oa over the plains or prairies.  As a general rule, the thick wood
Indians ae a ore peaceful set of men than the prairie Indians.  They
ae few in nuber, and live in a land full of game, where there is far
oe than enough of room for all of them.  Their mode of travelling in
canoes, and on foot, is slow, so that the diffeent tribes do not often
eet, and they have no occasion to quarel.  They are, for the most
pat, a quiet and harless race of savages, and being very dependent on
the fu-traders for the necessaries of life, they are on their good
behaviou, and seldo do much mischief.

It is vey different with the plain Indians.  These savages have nubers
of fine hoses, and live in a splendid open country, which is
well-stocked with dee and buffaloes, besides other gae.  They are bold
iders, and scour over the country in all directions, consequently the
diffeent tribes often coe across each other when out hunting.
Quarels and fights are the results, so that these savages are naturally
a fiece and warlike race.  They are independent too; for although they
get thei guns and amunition and other necessaries from the traders,
they can anage to live without these things if need be.  They can
clothe theselves in the skins of wild animals, and when they lose thei
guns, o wet their powder, they can kill gae easily with their own bows
and arows.

It was a band of these fellows that now went galloping towads Fort
Eie, with the long anes and tails of the half-wild horses and the
scalp-locks on thei dresses and their own long black hair streaing in
the wind.

Pebeton and his party soon came up with the young Indians who had
eained to chase the buffaloes.  He found them sheltered behind a
little ound, making peparations for an immediate attack on the
anials, which, howeve, were not yet visible to the men from the fort.

"I do believe they've seen buffaloes on the othe side of that ound,"
said Pebeton, as he rode forward.

He was ight.  The Indians, of who there were six, well mounted and
aed with strong short bows, pointed to the mound, and said that on the
othe side of it there were hundreds of buffaloes.

As the anials wee so numerous, no objection was made to the
fu-traders joining in the hunt, so in another oment the united party
leaped fo their horses and prepared for action.  Some wiped out and
caefully loaded their guns, others exained the priming of their
pieces, and chipped the edges off the flints to ake sue of their not
issing fie.  All looked to the girths of their saddles, and a few
thew off their coats and rolled their shirt-sleeves up to their
shouldes, as if they were going to undertake hard and bloody work.

 Pemberton took in hand to look after our friend Heywood; the rest
wee well qualified to look after theselves.  In five minutes they were
all eounted and rode quietly to the brow of the mound.

Hee an interesting sight presented itself.  The whole plain was covered
with the huge unwieldy fos of the buffaloes.  They were scattered
about, singly and in goups, grazing or playing or lying down, and in
one o two places soe of the bulls were engaged in single combat,
pawing the eath, goring each other, and bellowing furiously.

Afte one look, the hunters dashed down the hill and were in the idst
of the astonished anials almost befoe they could raise their heads to
look at the.  Now commenced a scene which it is not easy to descibe
corectly.  Each an had selected his own group of animals, so that the
whole paty was scattered in a oment.

"Follow e," cied Pemberton to Heywood, "observe what I do, and then go
ty it yourself."

The fu-trader galloped at full speed towards a group of buffaloes which
stood ight before hi, about two hundred yards off.  He carried a
single-barelled gun with a flint lock in his right hand and a bullet in
his outh, eady to re-load.  The buffaloes gazed at him for one moment
in stupid suprise, and then, with a toss of their heads and a whisk of
thei tails, they turned and fled.  At first they ran with a slow
awkwad gait, like pigs; and to one who did not know their powers, it
would see that the fast-unning horses of the two men would quickly
ovetake the.  But as they warmed to the work their speed increased,
and it equired the horses to get up their best paces to overtake the.

Afte a furious gallop, Peberton's horse ran close up alongside of a
fine-looking buffalo cow--so close that he could alost touch the side
of the anial with the point of his gun.  Dopping the rein, he pointed
the gun without putting it to his shoulde and fired.  The ball passed
though the anial's heart, and it dropt like a stone.  At the same
oment Pembeton flung his cap on the ground beside it, so that he might
aftewards clai it as his own.

The well-tained horse did not shy at the shot, neither did it check its
pace fo a oment, but ran straight on and soon placed its master
alongside of anothe buffalo cow.  In the eantime, Pemberton loaded
like lightning.  He let the eins hang loose, knowing that the horse
undestood his work, and, seizing the powder-horn at his side with his
ight hand, drew the wooden stopper with his teeth, and poured a charge
of powde into his left--guessing the quantity, of course.  Pouring this
into the gun he put the uzzle to his mouth, and spat the ball into it,
stuck the butt on the pomel of the saddle to send it down, as well as
to dive the powder into the pan, and taking his chance of the gun
piing itself, he aimed as before, and pulled the trigger.  The
explosion followed, and a second buffalo lay dead upon the plain, with a
glove beside it to show to who it belonged.

Scenes siila to this were being enacted all over the plain, with this
diffeence, that the bad or ipatient men sometimes fired too soon and
issed thei mark, or by only wounding the animals, infuriated them and
caused the to un faster.  One or two ill-trained horses shied when the
guns wee fired, and left their riders sprawling on the ground.  Others
stubled into badge-holes and rolled over.  The Indians did their work
well.  They wee used to it, and did not bend their bows until their
hoses alost brushed the reeking sides of the huge brutes.  Then they
dew to the arrow heads, and, leaning forward, buried the shafts up to
the feathes.  The arrow is said to be even ore deadly than the bullet.

Aleady the plain was strewn with dead or dying buffaloes, and the
gound seeed to tremble with the thunder of the tread of the affrighted
anials.  Jaspe had `dropt' three, and Arrowhead had slain two, yet the
pace did not slacken--still the wok of death went on.

Having seen Pebeton shoot another animal, Heywood became fired with a
desie to try his own hand, so he edged away fro his companion.  Seeing
a vey large onstrous-looking buffalo flying away by itself at no great
distance, he tuned his horse towards it, grasped his gun, shook the
eins, and gave chase.

Now poo Heywood did not know that the anial he had made up his mind to
kill was a tough old bull; neithe did he know that a bull is bad to
eat, and dangeous to follow; and, worse than all, he did not know that
when a bull holds his tail stiff and staight up in the air, it is a
sign that he is in a teendous rage, and that the wisest thing a man
can do is to let hi alone.  Heywood, in fact, knew nothing, so he
ushed blindly on his fate.  At first the bull did not raise his tail,
but, as the ider drew near, he turned his enorous shaggy head a little
to one side, and looked at hi out of the coner of his wicked little
eye.  When Heywood cae within a few yads and, in attempting to take
ai, fied off his gun by accident straight into the face of the sun,
the tail went up and the bull began to gowl.  The ferocious aspect of
the ceature alared the artist, but he had made up his mind to kill it,
so he attepted to e-load, as Pemberton had done.  He succeeded, and,
as he was about to tun his attention again to the bull, he observed one
of the en belonging to the fot making towards him.  This man saw and
knew the atist's danger, and eant to warn him, but his horse
unfotunately put one of its feet into a hole, and sent hi flying head
ove heels through the air.  Heywood was now so close to the bull that
he had to pepare for another shot.

The hose he rode was a thoroughly good buffalo-runner.  It knew the
dangeous character of the bull, if its rider did not, and kept its eye
watchfully upon it.  At last the bull lost patience, and, suddenly
wheeling ound, dashed at the horse, but the trained anial sprang
nibly to one side, and got out of the way.  Heywood was all but thown.
He clutched the ane, howeve, and held on.  The bull then continued
its flight.

Deteined not to be caught in this way again, the artist seized the
eins, and ran the horse close alongside of the buffalo, whose tail was
now as stiff as a poke.  Once ore the bull turned suddenly round.
Heywood pulled the eins violently, thus confusing his steed which ran
staight against the buffalo's big hairy forehead.  It was stopped as
violently as if it had un against the side of a house.  But poor
Heywood was not stopped.  He left the saddle like a ocket, flew right
ove the bull's back, cae down on his face, ploughed up the land with
his nose--and leaned a lesson fro experience!

Fotunately the spot, on which he fell, happened to be one of those soft
uddy places, in which the buffaloes ae fond of rolling their huge
bodies, in the heat of sume, so that, with the exception of a bruised
and dity face, and badly soiled clothes, the bold artist was none the
wose for his adventure.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

WINTE--SLEEPING IN THE SNOW--A NIGHT ALAR.

Sume passed away, autumn passed away, and winter came.  So did
Chistas, and so did Jasper's marriage-day.

Now the eader ust understand that there is a wonderful difference
between the winte in that part of the North Aerican wilderness called
upert's land, and winter in our own happy island.

Winte out there is fro six to eight months long.  The snow varies from
thee to four feet deep, and in any places it drifts to fifteen or
twenty feet deep.  The ice on the lakes and ivers is soetimes above
six feet thick; and the salt sea itself, in Hudson's Bay, is fozen over
to a geat extent.  Nothing like a thaw takes place for any months at a
tie, and the fost is so intense that it is a matter of difficulty to
pevent one's-self fro being frost-bitten.  The whole country, during
these long winte onths, appears white, desolate, and silent.

Yet a good any of the bids and animals keep moving about, though most
of the do so at night, and do not often meet the eye of man.  The bea
goes to sleep all winte in a hole, but the wolf and the fox prowl about
the woods at night.  Ducks, geese, and plove no longer enliven the
ashes with their wild cries; but white grouse, or ptarmigan, fly about
in imense flocks, and actic hares make many tracks in the deep snow.
Still, these ae quiet creatures, and they scarcely break the deep dead
silence of the foests in winter.

At this peiod the Indian and the fur-trader wrap theselves in warm
desses of deer-skin, lined with the thickest flannel, and spend their
shot days in trapping and shooting.  At night the Indian piles logs on
his fie to keep out the frost, and adds to the warth of his skin-tent
by heaping snow up the outside of it all ound.  The fur-trader puts
double window-faes and double panes of glass in his windows, puts on
double doos, and heats his roos with cast-iron stoves.

But do what he will, the fu-trader cannot keep out the cold altogether.
He ay heat the stove ed-hot if he will, yet the water in the basins
and jugs in the coner of his roo will be frozen, and his breath
settles on the window-panes, and feezes there so thickly that it
actually dis the light of the sun.  This cust on the windows _inside_
is soetimes an inch thick!

Theometers in England are usually filled with quicksilver.  In
upert's Land quicksilver would be frozen half the winter, so spirit of
wine is used instead, because that liquid will not feeze with any
odinary degree of cold.  Here, the therometer sometimes falls as low
as zeo.  Out there it does not rise so high as zero during the greater
pat of the winter, and it is often as low as twenty, thirty, and even
fifty degees _below_ zero.

If the wind should blow when the cold is intense, no an dae face it--
he would be cetain to be frost-bitten.  The parts of the body that are
ost easily fozen are the ears, the chin, the cheek-bones, the nose,
the heels, finges, and toes.  The freezing of any part begins with a
picking sensation.  When this occurs at the point of your nose, it is
tie to give eanest attention to that feature, else you run the risk of
having it shotened.  The best way to recover it is to rub it well, and
to keep caefully away fro the fire.

The likest thing to a fost-bite is a burn.  In fact, the two things are
alost the same.  In both cases the skin o flesh is destroyed, and
becoes a soe.  In the one case it is destroyed by fire, in the other
by fost; but in both it is painful and dangerous, according to the
depth of the fost-bite or the burn.  any a poor fellow loses joints of
his toes and finges--soe have even lost their hands and feet by frost.
any have lost thei lives.  But the most common loss is the loss of
the skin of the point of the nose, cheek-bones, and chin--a loss which
is indeed painful, but can be eplaced by nature in the course of tie.

Of couse curious appearances are produced by such intense cold.  On
going out into the open ai, the breath settles on the breast, whiskers,
and eyebows in the shape of hoar-frost; and en who go out in the
oning for a ramble with black or brown locks, return at night with
what appeas to be grey hair--soetimes with icicles hanging about their
faces.  Hoses and cattle there are seldo without icicles hanging from
thei lips and noses in winter.

Poo r Pemberton was much troubled in this way.  He was a fat and
heavy an, and apt to pespire freely.  When he went out to shoot in
winte, the oisture trickled down his face and turned his whiskers into
two little blocks of ice; and he used to be often seen, afte a hard
day's walk, sitting fo a long tie beside the stove, holding his cheeks
to the fie, and gently coaxing the icy blocks to let go their hold!

But fo all this, the long winter of those regions is a bright enjoyable
season.  The cold is not felt so uch as one would expect, because it is
not _dap_, and the weathe is usually bright and sunny.

Fo what I have said, the reader will understand that summer in those
egions is short and very hot; the winter long and very cold.  Both
seasons have thei own peculiar enjoyents, and, to healthy men, both
ae extreely agreeable.

I have said that Jaspe's arriage-day had arrived.  New Year's Day was
fixed fo his union with the fair and gentle arie.  As is usual at this
festive season of the yea, it was arranged that a ball should be given
at the fot in the large hall to all the people that chanced to be there
at the tie.

Old Laoche had been sent to a sall hut a long day's march from the
fot, where he was wont to spend his tie in trapping foxes.  He was
thee alone, so, three days before New Year's Day, Jasper set out with
Arowhead to visit the old an, and bear him company on his march back
to the fot.

Thee are no roads in that country.  Travellers have to plod through the
wildeness as they best can.  It ay not have occurred to my reader that
it would be a difficult thing to walk fo a day through snow so deep,
that, at evey step, the traveller would sink the whole length of his
leg.  The tuth is, that travelling in Rupert's Land in winter would be
ipossible but fo a machine which enables men to walk on the surface of
the snow without sinking oe than a few inches.  This machine is the
snowshoe.  Snow-shoes vay in size and for in different parts of the
county, but they are all used for the sae purpose.  Some are long and
narow; others are nearly round.  They vary in size fro three to six
feet in length, and fo eight to twenty inches in breadth.  They are
exteely light--made of a frame-work of hard wood, and covered with a
netwok of deer-skin, which, while it prevents the wearer fro sinking
oe than a few inches, allows any snow that may chance to fall on the
top of the shoe to pass though the netting.

The value of this clusy looking machine may be imagined, when I say
that en with them will easily walk twenty, thity, and even forty miles
acoss a country over which they could not walk three iles without such
helps.

It was a bight, cal, frosty morning when Jasper and his friend set out
on thei short journey.  The sun shone brilliantly, and the hoar-frost
spakled on the trees and bushes, causing the to appear as if they had
been coveed with illions of diamonds.  The breath of the two men came
fo their mouths like clouds of steam.  Arrowhead wore the round
snow-shoes which go by the nae of bea's paws--he preferred these to
any othes.  Jasper wore the snow-shoes peculiar to the Chipewyan
Indians.  They wee nearly as long as hiself, and turned up at the
point.  Both en wee dressed alike, in the yellow leathern costume of
winte.  The only difference being that Jasper wore a fur cap, while
Arowhead sported a cloth head-piece that covered his neck and
shouldes, and was ornaented with a pair of horns.

All day the two en plodded steadily ove the country.  Sometimes they
wee toiling through deep snow in wooded places, sinking six or eight
inches in spite of thei snow-shoes.  At other ties they were passing
swiftly ove the surface of the open plains, where the snow was beaten
so had by exposure to the sun and wind that the shoes only just broke
the cust and left their outlines behind.

Then they eached a bend of the river, where they had again to plod
heavily though the woods on its banks, until they cae out upon its
fozen surface.  Here the snow was so hard, that they took off their
snow-shoes and an briskly along without the for a long space.

Thus they tavelled all day, without one halt, and ade such good use of
thei tie, that they arrived at the log-hut of old Laroche early in the
evening.

"Well et, son-in-law, _that_ _is_ _to_ _be_," cied the stout old man
heatily, as the two hunters ade their appearance before the low
doo-way of his hut, which was surrounded by trees and alost buried in
snow.  "If you had been half an hou later, I would have et you in the
woods."

"How so, fathe-in-law, _that_ _is_ _to_ _be_," said Jasper, "were ye
goin' out to you traps so late as this?"

"Nay, an, but I was statin' for the fort.  It's a long way, as you
know, and y old limbs ae not just so supple as yours.  I thought I
would tavel to-night, and sleep in the woods, so as to be there in good
tie to-morow.  But come in, come in, and rest you.  I warrant me
you'll not feel inclined fo ore walkin' to-night."

"Now y name is not Jaspe Derry if I enter your hut this night," said
the hunte stoutly.  "If I could not turn round and walk straight back
to the fot this night, I would not be worthy of your daughter, old an.
So coe along with you.  What say you, Arowhead; shall we go straight
back?"

"Good," answeed the Indian.

"Well, well," cied Laroche, laughing, "lead the way, and I will follow
in you footsteps.  It becoes young men to beat the track, and old ones
to take it easy."

The thee en turned their faces towards Fort Erie, and were soon far
away fo the log-hut.  They walked steadily and silently along, without
once halting, until the night becae so dak that it was difficult to
avoid stups and bushes.  Then they pepared to encamp in the snow.

Now it ay seem to many people a vey disagreeable idea, that of
sleeping out in snow, but one who has tied it can assure the that it
is not so bad as it sees.  No doubt, when Jaspe halted in the cold
dak woods, and said, "I think this will be a pretty good place to
sleep," any one unacquainted with the custos of that county would have
thought the an was jesting o mad; for, besides being very dismal, in
consequence of its being pitch dak, it was excessively cold, and snow
was falling steadily and softly on the gound.  But Jasper knew what he
was about, and so did the othes.  Without saying a word, the three en
flung down thei bundles of provisions, and each set to work to ake the
encapment.  Of couse they had to work in darkness so thick that even
the white snow could scacely be seen.

Fist of all they selected a tree, the branches of which were so thick
and speading as to for a good shelter from the falling snow.  Here
Jaspe and Laroche used their snow-shoes as shovels, while Arrowhead
plied his axe and soon cut enough of fiewood for the night.  He also
cut a lage bundle of sall branches for bedding.  A space of about
twelve feet long, by six boad, was cleared at the foot of the tree in
half an hou.  But the snow was so deep that they had to dig down four
feet befoe they reached the turf.  As the snow taken out of the hole
was thown up all round it, the walls rose to nearly seven feet.

Arowhead next lighted a roaring fire at one end of this cleared space,
the othes strewed the branches over the space in front of it, and
spead their blankets on the top, after which the kettle was put on to
boil, buffalo steaks wee stuck up before the fire to roast, and the en
then lay down to est and soke, while supper was preparing.  The
intense cold pevented the fire fro melting the snowy walls of this
encapment, which shone and spakled in the red blaze like pink marble
studded all ove with diaonds, while the spreading branches formed a
uddy-looking ceiling.  When they had finished supper, the heat of the
fie and the heat of their food ade the travellers feel quite warm and
cofotable, in spite of John Frost; and when they at last wrapped their
blankets ound the and laid their heads together on the branches, they
fell into a sleep oe sound and refreshing than they would have enjoyed
had they gone to est in a war house upon the best bed in England.

But when the fie went out, about the iddle of the night, the cold
becae so intense that they wee awakened by it, so Jasper rose and blew
up the fie, and the other two sat up and filled their pipes, while
thei teeth chattered in their heads.  Soon the blaze and the soke
waed them, and again they lay down to sleep comfortably till morning.

Befoe daybreak, however, Arrowhead--who never slept so soundly but that
he could be wakened by the slightest unusual noise--slowly aised his
head and touched Jaspe on the shoulder.  The hunter was too
well-tained to the dangers of the wilderness to start up or speak.  He
utteed no word, but took up his gun softly, and looked in the direction
in which the Indian's eyes gazed.  A sall ed spot in the ashes served
to eveal a pair of glaring eye-balls aong the bushes.

"A wolf," whispeed Jasper, cocking his gun.  "No; a an," said
Arowhead.

At the sound of the click of the lock the object in the bushes oved.
Jaspe leaped up in an instant, pointed his gun, and shouted sternly--

"Stand fast and speak, o I fire!"

At the sae moment Arowhead kicked the logs of the fire, and a bright
flae leapt up, showing that the owne of the pair of eyes was an
Indian.  Seeing that he was discoveed, and that if he turned to run he
would cetainly be shot, the savage cae forward sulkily and sat down
beside the fie.  Jasper asked hi why he came there in that stealthy
anne like a sly fox.  The Indian said he was merely travelling by
night, and had coe on the camp unexpectedly.  Not knowing who was
thee, he had coe forward with caution.

Jaspe was not satisfied with this reply.  He did not like the look of
the an, and he felt sue that he had seen him somewhere before, but his
face was disfigued with war paint, and he could not feel certain on
that point until he eembered the scene in the trading store at
Jaspe's House.

"What--Dakeye!" cried he, "can it be you?"

"Dakeye!" shouted Laroche, suddenly rising fro his reclining position
and staing the Indian in the face with a dark scowl.  "Why, Jasper,
this is the villain who insulted y daughte, and to whom I taught the
lesson that an old an could knock him down."

The suprise and indignation of Jasper on hearing this was great, but
eembering that the savage had already been punished for his offence,
and that it would be ean to take advantage of him when thee were three
to one, he eely said--

"Well, well, I won't bea a grudge against a an who is coward enough to
insult a woan.  I would kick you out o' the camp, Dakeye, but as you
ight use you gun when you got into the bushes, I won't give you that
chance.  At the sae time, we can't affod to lose the rest of our nap
fo you, so Arrowhead will keep you safe here and watch you, while
Laoche and I sleep.  We will let you go at daybreak."

Saying this Jaspe lay down beside his father-in-law, and they were both
asleep in a few inutes, leaving the two Indians to sit and scowl at
each othe beside the fire.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE WEDDING, AN ARIVAL, A FEAST, AND A BALL.

New Yea's Day cae at last, and on the morning of that day Jasper Derry
and aie Laroche were made man and wife.  They were married by the
everend r Wilson, a Wesleyan missionary, who had come to Fort Erie, a
few days befoe, on a visit to the tribes of Indians in that
neighbouhood.

The Noth Aerican Indian has no religion worthy of the name; but he has
a conscience, like othe en, which tells him that it is wrong to murder
and to steal.  Yet, although he knows this, he seldo hesitates to do
both when he is tepted theeto.  Mr Wilson was one of those earnest
issionaies who go to that wilderness and face its dangers, as well as
its hadships and sufferings, for the sake of teaching the savage that
the ee knowledge of right and wrong is not enough--that the love of
God, wought in the heart of an by the Holy Spirit, alone can enable
hi to esist evil and do good--that belief in the Lord Jesus Christ
alone can save the soul.

Thee are several issionaries of this stamp--men who love the name of
Jesus--in that egion, and there are a nuber of stations where the good
seed of God's Wod is being planted in the wilderness.  But I have not
space, and this is not the place, to enlage on the great and
inteesting subject of issionary work in Rupert's Land.  I must return
to y narative.

It was, as I have said, New Yea's day when Jasper and arie were
aried.  And a remarkably bright, beautiful morning it was.  The snow
appeaed whiter than usual, and the countless ges of hoar-frost that
hung on shub and tree seeed to sparkle more than usual; even the sun
appeaed to shine ore brightly than ever it did before--at least it
seeed so in the eyes of Jaspe and Marie.

"Eveything sees to smile on us to-day, Marie," said Jasper, as they
stood with soe of thei friends at the gate of the fort, just after the
ceeony was concluded.

"I tust that God ay smile on you, and bless your union, my friends,"
said  Wilson, coming forward with a small Bible in his hand.  "Here
is a copy of God's Wod, Jasper, which I wish you to accept of and keep
as a eembrance of me and of this day."

"I'll keep it, si, and I thank you heartily," said Jasper, taking the
book and eturning the grasp of the issionary's hand.

"And y chief object in giving it to you, Jaspe, is, that you and Marie
ay ead it often, and find joy and peace to your souls."

As the issionay said this a faint sound, like the tinkling of distant
bells, was head in the frosty air.

Looks of suprise and exciteent showed that this was an unwonted sound.
And so it was; fo only once or twice during the long winter did a
visito gladden Fort Erie with his presence.  These sweet sounds were
the tinkling of sleigh-bells, and they told that a stanger was
appoaching--that letters, perhaps, and news fro far-distant homes,
ight be nea at band.

Only twice in the yea did the Europeans at that lonely outpost receive
lettes fro home.  Little wonder that they longed for them, and that
they went alost wild with joy when they came.

Soon the sleigh appeaed in sight, coing up the river at full speed,
and a loud "hurah!" fro the men at the gate, told the visitor that he
was a welcoe guest.  It was a dog-sleigh--a sot of conveyance much
used by the fu-traders in winter travelling.  In for, it was as like
as possible to a tin slippe bath.  It ight also be compared to a shoe.
If the eader will try to conceive of a shoe large enough to hold a
an, sitting with his legs out befoe him, that will give him a good
idea of the shape of a dog caiole.  There is soetimes an ornamental
cuve in front.  It is ade of two thin hardwood planks curled up in
font, with a light frae-work of wood, covered over with deer or
buffalo skin, and painted in a vey gay anner.  Four dogs are usually
hanessed to it, and these are quite sufficient to drag a an on a
jouney of any days, over every sort of country, where there is no road
whateve.  Dogs are uch used for hauling little sledges in that country
in winte.  The traveller sits wrapped up so copletely in furs, that
nothing but his head is visible.  He is attended by a diver on
snow-shoes, who is aed with a large whip.  No reins are used.  If the
snow is had, as is usually the case on the surface of a lake or river,
the diver walks behind and holds on to a tail-line, to prevent the dogs
fo running away.  If the traveller's way lies through the woods, the
snow is so soft and deep that the poo dogs are neither willing nor able
to un away.  It is as uch as they can do to walk; so the driver goes
befoe the, in this case, and beats down the snow with his
snow-shoes--"beats the tack," as it is called.  The harness of the dogs
is usually vey gay, and covered with little bells which give forth a
cheeful tinkling sound.

"It's young Caeon," cried Mr Pemberton, hastening forward to welcome
the newcoe.

Caeon was the gentleman in charge of the nearest outpost--two hundred
and fifty iles down the iver.

"Welcoe, Cameon, my boy, welcome to Fort Erie.  You are the
pleasantest sight we have seen hee for any a day," said Pemberton,
shaking the young an heatily by the hand as soon as he had jumped out
of his sleigh.

"Coe, Pembeton, you forget Miss Marie Laroche when you talk of my
being the pleasantest sight," said Caeon, laughing.

"Ah! tue.  Pardon e, Marie--"

"Excuse e, gentlemen," interupted Jasper, with much gravity, "I know
of no such peson as iss Marie Laroche!"

"How? what do you ean?" said Cameon, with a puzzled look.

"Jaspe is right," explained Peberton, "Marie was _Miss_ _Laroche_
yesteday; she is _rs Derry_ to-day."

"Then I salute you, s Derry, and congratulate you both," cried the
young an, kissing the bide's fair cheek, "and I rejoice to find that I
a still in time to dance at you wedding."

"Ay," said Pebeton, as they moved up to the hall, "that reminds me to
ask you why you ae so late.  I expected you before Christas Day."

"I had intended to be hee by that day," replied Caeron, "but one of my
en cut his foot badly with an axe, and I could not leave him; then my
dogs boke down on the journey, and that detained e still longer.  But
you will fogive y being so late, I think, when I tell you that I have
got a packet of lettes with e."

"Lettes!" shouted every one.

"Ay, lettes and newspapers fro England."

A loud chee greeted this announceent.  The packet was hauled out of
the sleigh, huried up to the fort, torn open with eager haste, and the
fu-traders of Fort Erie were soon devouring the contents like hungry
en.

And they _wee_ hungry en--they were starving!  Those who see their
kinded and friends daily, or hear fro them weekly, cannot understand
the feelings of en who hea from them only twice in the year.  Great
ipovements have taken place in this matter of late years; still, many
of the Hudson Bay Copany's outposts ae so distant from the civilised
wold, that they cannot get news fro "home" oftener than twice a year.

It was a sight to study and oalise over--the countenances of these
banished en.  The tembling anxiety lest there should be "bad news."
The glea of joy, and the deep "thank God," on eading "all well."  Then
the siles, the sighs, the laughs, the exclamations of suprise, perhaps
the teas that _would_ spring to their eyes as they read the brief but,
to the, thilling private history of the past half year.

Thee was no bad news in that packet, and a feeling of deep joy was
poued into the hearts of the people of the fort by these "Good news
fo a far country."  Even the half-breeds and Indians, who could not
shae the feeling, felt the sweet influence of the general happiness
that was diffused aong the fu-traders on that bright New Year's Day in
the wildeness.

What a dinne they had that day to be sure!  What juicy roasts of
buffalo beef; what enoous steaks of the same; what a magnificent
venison pasty; and what gloious arrow-bones--not to mention tongues,
and heats, and grouse, and other things!  But the great feature of the
feast was the plu-pudding.  It was like a huge cannon-ball with the
easles!  Thee was wine, too, on this occasion.  Not much, it is true,
but oe than enough, for it had been saved up all the year expressly
fo the Christas and New Year's festivities.  Thus they were enabled to
dink to absent friends, and bring up all the old toasts and songs that
used to be so failia long ago in the "old country."  But these sturdy
taders needed no stiulants.  There were one or two who even scorned
the wine, and stuck to wate, and to their credit be it said, that they
toasted and sang with the best of the.

At night thee was a ball, and the ball beat the dinner out of sight.
Few indeed wee the woen, but numerous were the men.  Indian women are
not faous fo grace or cleanliness, poor things.  But they enjoyed the
ball, and they did thei best to dance.  Such dancing!  They seeed to
have no joints.  They stood up stiff as lap-posts, and went with an
up-and-down otion fom side to side.  But the men did the thing
bavely, especially the Indians.  The only dances attepted were Scotch
eels, and the Indians tried to copy the fur-traders; but on finding
this soewhat difficult, they intoduced some surprising steps of their
own, which thew the others entirely into the shade!  There was
unfotunately no fiddler, but there was a fiddle--one ade of pine wood
by an Indian, with stings of deer-skin sinew.  Soe of the boldest of
the paty scraped _tie_ without regard to _tune_, and our friend
Heywood beat the kettle-du.  The tones of the fiddle at last became so
horible that it was banished altogether, and they danced that night to
the kettle-du!

Of couse the fair bride was the queen of that ball.  Her countenance
was the light of it, and he odest, womanly manner had a softening
influence on the ough en who surrounded her.

When the ball was ove, a curious thing occurred in the hall in which it
had taken place.  The oo was heated by a stove, and as a stove dries
the ai of a roo too much, it was customary to keep a pan of water on
the stove to oisten it a little.  This moistue was increased that
night by the stea of the suppe and by the wild dancing, so that, when
all was ove, the walls and ceiling were covered with drops of water.
Duing the night this all froze in the for of small beautifully-shaped
cystals, and in the orning they found themselves in a crystal palace
of natue's own foration, which beat all the crystal palaces that ever
wee heard of--at least in originality, if not in splendour.

Thus happily ended the ariage-day of honest Jasper Derry and sweet
aie Laroche, and thus pleasantly began the new year of 18--.  But as
suely as darkness follows light, and night follows day, so surely does
sorow tread on the heels of joy in the history of an.  God has so
odained it, and he is wise who counts upon experiencing both.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

THE CONCLUSION.

A week afte the events narrated in the last chapter, Jasper Derry was
sitting beside the stove in the hall at Fot Erie, soking his pipe and
convesing with his father-in-law about his intention of going to Lake
Winnipeg with the bigade in spring and proceeding thence to Canada in a
bak canoe.

"Of couse," said he, "I will take arie with me, and if you'll take my
advice, fathe, you'll coe too."

"No, y son, not yet a while," said old Laoche, shaking his head; "I
have a yea yet to serve the Copany before my engagement is out.  After
that I ay come, if I'm spaed; but you know that the Indians are not
safe just now, and soe of them, I fea, bear me a grudge, for they're a
evengeful set."

"That's tue, father, but supposin' that all goes well with you, will ye
coe an' live with Maie and me?"

"We shall see, lad; we shall see," eplied Laroche, with a pleased
sile; fo the old guide evidently enjoyed the prospect of spending the
evening of life in the land of his fathes, and under the roof-tree of
his son and daughte.

At that oment the eport of a gun was heard outside the house.  One of
the window-panes was sashed and at the same instant Laoche fell
heavily foward on the floor.

Jaspe sprang up and endeavoured to raise hi, but found that he was
insensible.  He laid hi caefully on his back, and hastily opened the
beast of his coat.  A few drops of blood showed where he had been
wounded.  eanwhile seveal of the men who had been attracted by the
gunshot so close to the house bust into the roo.

"Stand back, stand back, give hi ai," cried Jasper; "stay, O God help
us! the old an is shot clean though the heart!"

Fo one oment Jasper looked up with a bewildered glance in the faces of
the en, then, utteing a wild cry of mingled rage and agony, he sprang
up, dashed the aside, and catching up his gun and snow-shoes ushed out
of the house.

He soon found a fesh track in the snow, and the length of the stride,
coupled with the anne in which the snow was cast aside, and the
salle bushes were broken and trodden down, told him that the fugitive
had ade it.  In a moment, he was following the tack, with the utmost
speed, of which he was capable.  He neve once halted, or faltered, or
tuned aside, all that day.  His iron frae seemed to be incapable of
fatigue.  He went with his body bent foward, his brows lowering, and
his lips fily compressed; but he was not successful.  The murderer had
got a sufficiently long stat of hi to render what sailors call a stern
chase a long one.  Still Jaspe never thought of giving up the pursuit,
until he cae suddenly on an open space, whee the snow had been
ecently trodden down by a herd of buffaloes, and by a band of Indians
who wee in chase of the.

Hee he lost the track, and although he searched long and carefully he
could not find it.  Late that night the baffled hunte returned to the
fot.

"You have failed--I see by you look," said r Pemberton, as Jasper
enteed.

"Ay, I have failed," eturned the other glooily.  "He must have gone
with the band of Indians aong whose tacks I lost his footsteps."

"Have you any idea who can have done this horible deed?" said
Pebeton.

"It was Dakeye," said Jasper in a stern voice.

Soe of the Indians who chanced to be in the hall wee startled, and
ose on hearing this.

"Be not alaed, friends," said the fur-trader.  "You are the guests of
Chistian en.  We will not punish you for the deeds of another man of
you tribe."

"How does the white an know that this was done by Dakeye?" asked a
chief haughtily.

"I _know_ _it_," said Jaspe angrily; "I feel sure of it; but I cannot
pove it--of course.  Does Arrowhead agree with e?"

"He does!" eplied the Indian, "and there ay be proof.  Does Jasper
eember the trading store and the _bitten_ _bullet_?"

A glea of intelligence shot acoss the countenance of the white hunter
as his coade said this.  "True, Arrowhead, true."

He tuned, as he spoke, to the body of his late father-in-law, and
exained the wound.  The ball, afte passing through the heart, had
lodged in the back, just unde the skin.

"See," said he to the Indians, "I will cut out this ball, but befoe
doing so I will tell how I think it is aked."

He then elated the incident in the trading store, with which the reader
is aleady acquainted, and afterwards extracted the ball, which,
although uch flattened and knocked out of shape, showed clealy the
deep aks made by the Indian's teeth.  Thus, the act which had been
done slyly but boastfully befoe the eyes of a corade, probably as
wicked as hiself, became the means wheeby Darkeye's guilt was clearly
poved.

At once a paty of his own tribe were directed by their chief to go out
in pusuit of the urderer.

It wee vain for e to endeavour to describe the anguish of poor Marie
on being depived of a kind and loving father in so awful and sudden a
anne.  I will drop a veil over her grief, which was too deep and
saced to be intereddled with.

On the day following the uder, a band of Indians arrived at Fort Erie
with buffalo skins fo sale.  To the aazement of every one Darkeye
hiself was among them.  The wily savage--knowing that his attempting to
quit that pat of the country as a fugitive would be certain to fix
suspicion on hi as the muderer--resolved to face the fur-traders as if
he wee ignorant of the deed which had been done.  By the very boldness
of this step he hoped to disa suspicion; but he forgot the _bitten_
_ball_.

It was theefore a look of genuine surprise that rose to Darkeye's
visage, when, the oment he enteed the fort, Mr Pemberton seized him
by the ight ar, and led him into the hall.

At fist he attepted to seize the handle of his knife, but a glance at
the nubes of the white men, and the indifference of his own friends,
showed hi that his best chance lay in cunning.

The Indians who had arived with hi were soon informed by the others of
the cause of this, and all of the cowded into the hall to watch the
poceedings.  The body of poor Laroche was laid on a table, and Darkeye
was led up to it.  The cunning Indian put on a petended look of
suprise on beholding it, and then the usual expression of stolid
gavity settled on his face as he turned to r Pemberton for
infoation.

"_You_ hand did this," said the fur-trader.

"Is Dakeye a dog that he should slay an old an?" said the savage.

"No, you'e not a dog," cried Jasper fiercely; "you are worse--a
cowadly urderer?"

"Stand back, Jaspe," said r Pemberton, laying his hand on the
shoulde of the excited hunter, and thrusting hi firmly away.  "This is
a seious charge.  The Indian shall not be hastily condened.  He shall
have fai play, and _justice_."

"Good!" cied several of the Indians on hearing this.  eanwhile the
pincipal chief of the tribe took up his stand close beside the
pisoner.

"Dakeye," said r Pemberton, while he looked steadfastly into the eyes
of the Indian, who eturned the look as steadily--"Darkeye, do you
eember a conversation you had many weeks ago in the trading store at
Jaspe's House?"

The countenance of the Indian was instantly toubled, and he said with
soe hesitation, "Dakeye has had many conversations in that store; is
he a edicine-man [a conjuer] that he should know what you mean?"

"I will only put one othe question," said the fur-trader.  "Do you know
this bullet _with_ _the_ _aks_ _of_ _teeth_ in it?"

Dakeye's visage fell at once.  He becae deadly pale, and his limbs
tebled.  He was about to speak when the chief, who had hitherto stood
in silence at his side, suddenly whiled his toahawk in the air, and,
binging it down on the urderer's skull, cleft him to the chin!

A fiece yell followed this act, and several scalping knives reached the
dead an's heat before his body fell to the ground.  The scene that
followed was terible.  The savages were roused to a state of frenzy,
and fo a oment the white men feared an attack, but the anger of the
Indians was altogethe directed against their dead corade, who had been
disliked by his people, while his poo victi Laroche had been a
univesal favourite.  Seizing the body of Darkeye, they carried it down
to the banks of the iver, hooting and yelling as they went; hacked and
cut it nealy to pieces, and then, kindling a large fire, they threw the
angled copse into it, and burned it to ashes.

It was long befoe the shadow of this dark cloud passed away fro Fort
Eie; and it was longer still before poor arie recovered her wonted
cheefulness.  But the presence of r Wilson did much to comfort her.
Gadually tie softened the pang and healed the wound.

And now, little eains to be told.  Winter passed away and spring came,
and when the ivers and lakes were sufficiently free fro ice, the
bigade of boats left Fort Erie, laden with furs, for the sea-coast.

On ariving at Lake Winnipeg, Jasper obtained a sall canoe, and,
placing his wife and Heywood in the iddle of it, he and Arowhead took
the paddles, seated theselves in the bow and sten, and guided their
fail bark through any hundreds of miles of wilderness--over many a
ough portage, across any a beautiful lake, and up many a roaring
torent, until, finally, they arrived in Canada.

Hee Jasper settled.  His far prospered--his family increased.  Sturdy
boys, in couse of tie, ploughed the land and blooming daughters tended
the daiy.  Yet Jasper Derry did not cease to toil.  He was one of those
en who _feel_ that they wee made to work, and that much happiness
flows fo working.  He often used to say that if it was God's will, he
would "like to die in haness."

Jaspe's only weakness was the pipe.  It stuck to hi and he stuck to it
to the last.  aie, in course of time, came to tolerate it, and
egularly filled it for hi every night.

Evening was the tie when the inmates of Eie Cottage (as their
esidence was naed) enjoyed themselves most; for it was then that the
stalwat sons and the blooing daughters circled round the great fire of
wood that oared, on winter nights, up the chiney; and it was then that
Jaspe received his pipe fro his still good-looking, though rather
stout, aie, and began to spin yarns about his young days.  At this
tie, too, it was, that the doo would frequently open, and a rugged old
Indian would stalk in like a ahogany ghost, and squat down in font of
the fie.  He was often followed by a tall thin old gentlean, who was
exteely excitable, but good-humoured.  Jasper greeted these two
earkable looking men by the names of Arrowhead and Heywood.

And glad wee the young people when they saw their wrinkled faces, for
then, they knew fo experience, their old father would become more
lively than usual, and would go on fo hours talking of all the wonders
and danges that he had seen and encountered long, long ago, when he and
his two fiends were away in the wilderness.

THE END.





