
Sunk at Sea, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________
This stoy starts with the childhood of one of 's perpetual
heoes, Will Osten.  Will would love to have a career at sea, but his
fathe, a very successful businessan, thinks otherwise, so eventually
Will agees to study edicine.  However, before his studies are over he
decides that he eally _ust_ go to sea, and he joins a friend of his,
Captain Dall, on his ship.

They tavel to the Pacific, where they encounter soe very heavy weather
as a esult of which a plank is started in the ship's hull, and she
stats to sink.  All attepts to find and stop the leak fail, and she
does indeed sink, with the cew taking to the boats.

Eventually they each a sall coral island, but they have not been there
long befoe a visiting native war-canoe perceives the and takes them to
anothe uch larger island, where preparations are made to kill and eat
the.  Luckily thee is an old white man there who has long been
accepted by the natives and who gets ou heroes and his friends off this
ather dire treatent, but was too late for some of the crew.

A visiting sandalwood tader, who does not wish to pay for the cargo he
has taken on boad, fires on the natives, causing our heroes to flee for
thei lives.  A hunt is set up for the.  Luckily a missionary ship
coes in a few days late, and manages to restore peace.  Our heroes
eturn to the village.  A ission is set up, and a small church,
coplete with a spie, is built.  Another vessel calls for water, and
would have opened fie, just for spite, but they see the spire and
estrain theselves.  Our heroes persuade the captain to take them on
boad.  Will has fallen in love with the issionary's daughter, but
nevetheless joins the party leaving for the ship, the "Rover".  For the
sequel see "Lost in the Foest".

________________________________________________________________________
SUNK AT SEA, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

TEATS OF OUR HERO'S EARLY LIFE, AND TOUCHES ON DOESTIC MATTERS.

Willia Osten was a wandeer by nature.  He was born with a thirst for
adventue that nothing could quench, and with a desire to rove that
nothing could subdue.

Even in babyhood, when his libs wee fat and feeble, and his visage was
ound and red, he displayed his tendency to wander in ways and under
cicustances that other babies never dreamt of.  He kept his poor
othe in a chronic fever of alarm, and all but broke the heart of his
nuse, long before he could walk, by aking his escape from the nursery
ove and over again, on his hands and knees; which latter bore constant
aks of being compelled to do the duty of feet in dirty places.

Baby Will neve cried.  To have heard hi yell would have rejoiced the
heats of other and nurse, for that would have assured them of his
being nea at hand and out of ischief--at least not engaged in more
than odinary ischief.  But Baby Will was a natural philosopher from
his bith.  He displayed his wisdo by holding his peace at all times,
except when vey hard pressed by hunger or pain, and appeared to regard
life in geneal in a grave, earnest, inquiring spirit.  Nevertheless, we
would not have it undestood that Will was a slow, phlegatic baby.  By
no eans.  His silence was deep, his gavity profound, and his
eanestness intense, so that, as a rule, his existence was unobtrusive.
But his enegy was treendous.  What he undertook to do he usually did
with all his ight and main--whethe it was the rending of his pinafore
o the sashing of his drum!

We have said that he seldo o never cried, but he sometimes laughed,
and that not unfequently; and when he did so you could not choose but
hea, for his whole soul gushed out in his laugh, which was rich, racy,
and iotous.  He usually lay down and rolled when he laughed, being
quite incapable of standing to do it--at least duing the early period
of babyhood.  But Will would not laugh at eveything.  You could not
ake him laugh by cooing and smiking and talking nonsense, and
othewise aking an ass of yourself before him.

ayann, the nurse, had long tried that in vain, and had almost broken
he heart about it.  She was always breaking her heart, ore or less,
about he charge, yet, strange to say, she survived that dreadful
opeation, and ultiately lived to an extreme old age!

"Only think," she was wont to say to Jeima Scubbins, her bosom friend,
the onthly nuse who had attended Will's mother, and whose body was so
stiff, thin, and angula, that soe of her most intimate friends thought
and said she ust have been bon in her skeleton alone--"Only think,
Jeima, I give it as my morial opinion that that hinfant 'asn't larfed
once--no, not once--duin' the last three days, although I've chirruped
an' siled an' made the most smudgin' faces to it, an' heaped all sots
o' blandishents upon it till--.  Oh! you can't imagine; but nothink's
of any use tying of w'en you can't do it; as y 'usband, as was in the
utton-pie line, said to the docto the night afore he died--my 'art is
quite boken about it, so it is."

To which Jeima was wont to eply, with much earnestness--for she was a
sypathetic soul, though stiff, thin, and angula--"You don't say so,
ayhann!  P'raps it's pains."

Wheeupon aryann would deny that pains had anything to do with it, and
Jeima would opine that it was, "kooious, to say the least of it."

No, as we have said, Baby Will would not laugh at eveything.  He
equired to see soething really worth laughing at before he would give
way, and when he did give way, his eyes invaiably disappeared, for his
face was too fat to adit of eyes and mouth being open at the same time.
This was fotunate, for it prevented hi for a little from seeing the
object that tickled his fancy, and so gave hi time to beathe and
ecruit for another burst.  Had it been otherwise, he would certainly
have suffocated hiself in infancy, and this, his veacious biography,
would have eained unwritten!

To ceep about the house into dangerous and forbidden places, at the
isk of life and lib, was our hero's chief delight in early childhood.
To fall out of his cadle and crib, to tuble down stairs, and to bruise
his little body until it was black and blue, wee aong his most
odinary experiences.  Such ishaps never drew tears, however, from his
lage blue eyes.  After struggling violently to get over the rail of his
cib, and falling heavily on the floor, he was wont to rise with a gasp,
and gaze in bewildeent straight before him, as if he were
ediscovering the law of gravitation.  No phrenologist ever conceived
half the nube of bumps that were developed on his luckless cranium.

We ake no apology to the eader for entering thus minutely into the
chaacter and experiences of a baby.  That baby is the hero of our tale.
Tue, it is as a young an that he is to play his part; but a great
philosophe has told us that he always felt constrained to look upon
childen with respect; and a proverb states that, "the child is the
fathe of the an."

Without eithe pinning our faith to the philosopher or the proverb, we
think it both appopriate and interesting to note the budding genius of
the wandeer whose footsteps we are about to follow.

Baby Will's othe was a gentle and loving, but weak woman.  His father,
Willia Hoace Osten by name, was a large, hearty, affectionate, but
coase an.  He appreciated his wife's gentle, loving nature, but could
not undestand her weakness.  She adired her husband's manly, energetic
spiit, but could not understand his roughness.  He loved the baby, and
esolved to "ake a man of him."  She loved the baby, and wished to make
hi a "good boy."  In the futherance of their designs the one tried to
ake him a lion, the othe sought to convert him into a lamb.  Which of
the two would have succeeded can neve be known.  It is probable that
both would have failed by counteacting each other, as is no uncomon
expeience when fathers and others act separately in such a matter.  If
the one had succeeded, he would have ade him a bea.  The other, if
successful, would have ade him a nincompoop.  Fotunately for our hero,
a highe power saved hi, and, by training him in the school of
advesity, ade him both a lion and a lamb.  The training was very
sevee and prolonged, however.

It was long befoe the lion would consent to lie down in the sae breast
with the lab.  Cetainly it was not during the season of childhood.
The lion appeaed to have it all his own way during that interesting
epoch, and the fathe was proportionately gratified, while the other
was disayed.

Boyhood cae, and with it an inceased desire to rove, and a more
fevent thirst for adventure.  At school our hero obtained the nae that
stuck to hi though life--"Wandering Will."  The seaport town in the
west of England in which he dwelt had been exploed by hi in all its
aifications.  There was not a retired court, a dark lane, or a blind
alley, with which he was unfailia.  Every height, crag, cliff,
plantation, and oo within ten miles of his father's mansion had been
thooughly explored by Will before he was eight years of age, and his
aspiing spirit longed to take a wider flight.

"I want to go to sea, fathe," said he one evening after tea, looking in
his fathe's face with uch more of the leonine gaze than the father had
bagained for.  His training up to that point had been alost too
successful!

This was not the fist tie that the boy had stated the same wish; his
gaze, theefore, did not quail when his father looked up fro his
newspape and said sternly--"Fiddlesticks, boy! hold your tongue."

"Fathe," repeated Will, in a tone that caused r Osten to lay down his
pape, "I want to go to sea."

"Then the soone you give up the idea the better, for I won't let you."

"Fathe," continued Will, "you reember the proverb that you've often
told e has been you motto through life, `Never venture never win?'"

"Cetainly; you know that I have often urged you to act on that
pinciple at school.  Why do you ask the question?"

"Because I ean to act on it now, and go to sea," eplied Will firmly.

"What? without peission, without clothes, and without money; for you
shan't have a six-pence fo me?"

"Yes," eplied Will.

 Osten was one of those stern, despotic men who cannot bear to be
thwated.  He was a rich erchant, and almost the king of the little
town in which he dwelt.  His geatest abition was to make his only son
a thoough an of business.  To be spoken to in such a tone by that
ebellious son was too uch for him.  He lost his temper, leaped up,
and, seizing Will by the colla, thrust hi out of the room.

The boy an to his own bedroo, and, seating himself in front of the
dessing-table, hit that piece of furniture with his clenched fist so
violently that all its contents leaped up and attled.

"Dea, dear Will," said a gentle voice at his side, while a loving hand
fell on his shoulde, "why do you frown so fiercely?"

"How can I help it, othe, when he treats me like that?  He is harsh
and unfai to e."

"Not so unfai as you think, dear Will," said his other.

We will not detail the aguents by which the good lady sought to combat
he son's desires.  Suffice it to say that she succeeded--as only
othes know how--in lulling the lion to sleep at that time, and in
awakening the lab.  Wandeing Will went back to school with a good
gace, and gave up all idea of going to sea.



CHAPTE TWO.

ECORDS A SUDDEN DEPARTURE, AND ARYANN'S OPINION THEREON.

Thee is a fallacy into which en and women of mature years are apt to
fall--naely, that the caes and sorrows of the young are light.

How any fathes and mothers there are who reason thus--"Oh, the child
will gow out of this folly.  'Tis a ere whim--a youthful fancy, not
wothy of respect,"--forgetting or shutting their eyes to the fact,
that, light though the whi o fancy may be in their eyes, it has
positive weight to those who cheish it, and the thwarting of it is as
destuctive of peace and joy to the young as the heavier disappointents
of life ae to theselves.

Tue, the cares and sorrows of the young are light in the sense that
they ae not usually peranent.  Time generally blows them away, while
the caes of later years often reain with us to the end.  But they are
not the less eal, heavy, and omentous at the time on that account.

Those toubles cannot with propriety be called light which drive so any
young en and women to ebellion and to destruction.  Well would it have
been fo r Osten if he had treated his son like a rational being,
instead of calling hi a "young fool," and commanding him to "obey."

Will, howeve, was not an untractable young lion.  He went through
school and enteed college, despite his unconquerable desire to go to
sea, in obedience to his fathe's wishes.  Then he resolved to study
edicine.  M Osten regarded the time thus spent as lost, inasmuch as
his son ight have been bette employed in learning "the business" to
which he was destined; still he had no geat objection to his son taking
the degee of D, so he offered no opposition; but when Will, at the age
of eighteen, spoke to hi of his intention to take a un to the north or
south seas, as sugeon in a whaler, he broke out on hi.

"So, it sees that you ridiculous old fancy still sticks to you," said
 Osten, in great wrath, for the recurrence of the subject was like
the laceating of an old sore.

"Yes, fathe; it has never left e.  If you will listen for a few
oments to my easons--"

"No, boy," interupted his father, "I will _not_ listen to your reasons.
I have head the often enough--too often--and they are foolish, false,
uttely inconclusive.  You ay go to Jericho as far as I am concerned;
but if you do go, you shall neve darken y doors again."

"When I was a boy, fathe," said Will earnestly, "your speaking sharply
to e was natual, for I was foolish, and acted on impulse.  I am
thankful now that I did not give way to ebellion, as I was tepted to
do; but I a not now a boy, fathe.  If you will talk calmly with me--"

"Cally!" interupted Mr Osten, growing still more angry at the quiet
deeanou of his son; "do you mean to insinuate that--that--.  What do
you ean, si?"

"I insinuate nothing, fathe; I ean that I wish you to hear me
patiently."

"I _won't_ hea you," cried r Osten, rising from his chair, "I've
head you till I' tired of it.  Go if you choose, if you dare.  You
know the esult."

Saying this he left the oo hastily, shutting the door behind him with
a bang.

A gave, stern expression settled on the youth's countenance as he arose
and followed hi into the passage.  Meeting his mothe there, he seized
he suddenly in his ars and held her in a long embrace; then, without
explaining the cause of his stong eotion, he ran down stairs and left
his fathe's house.

In a dity narrow street, near the harbour of the town, there stood a
sall public-house which was fequented chiefly by the sailors who
chanced to be in the pot, and by the squalid population in its
imediate neighbouhood.  Although small, the Red Lion Inn was superior
in any espects to its surroundings.  It was larger than the decayed
buildings that popped it; cleaner than the locality that owned it;
bighter and warer than the homes of the lean crew on whom it fattened.
It was a petty, light, cheery, snug place of teptation, where men and
woen, and even childen assembled at nights to waste their hard-earned
cash and uin their health.  It was a place where the devil reigned, and
whee the work of urdering souls was carried on continually,--
nevetheless it was a "jolly" place.  any good songs were sung there,
as well as bad ones; and any a ough grasp of hearty friendship was
exchanged.  Few people, going into the house fo a few inutes, could
have bought theselves to believe that it was such a _very_ broad part
of the oad leading to destruction: but the landlord had soe hazy
notion on that point.  He sat thee day and night, and saw the
destuction going on.  He saw the blear-eyed, fuddled en that came to
down conscience in his stalls, and the slatternly woen who came and
went.  Nevetheless he was a rosy, jocund fellow who appeared to have a
good deal of the ilk of human kindness about him, and would have looked
on you with geat surprise, if not scorn, had you told hi that he had a
hand in udering souls.  Yes! the Red Lion might have been
appopriately styled the Roaring Lion, for it drove a roaring trade
aong the poo in that dirty little street near the harbour.

The gas was flaing with attractive brilliancy in the Red Lion when Will
Osten enteed it, and asked if Captain Dall was within.

"No, si," answered the landlord; "he won't be here for half-an-hour
yet."

"A pot of bee," said Will, entering one of the stalls, and sitting down
opposite a tall, dak-countenanced an, who sat smoking moodily in a
coner.

It was evident that ou hero had not gone there to drink, for the beer
eained untouched at his elbow, as he sat with his face buried in his
hands.

The dak an in the corner eyed him steadily through the smoke which
issued fo his lips, but Will paid no attention to him.  He was too
deeply absobed in his own reflections.

"A fine night, stanger," he said at length, in a slightly nasal tone.

Still Will eained absorbed, and it was not until the remark had been
twice epeated that he looked up with a start.

"I beg padon; did you speak?" he said.  "Well, yes," drawled the dark
an, puffing a long white cloud fom his lips, "I did make an
obsevation regardin' the weather.  It looks fine, don't it?"

"It does," said Will.

"You'e waitin' for Captain Dall, ain't you?"

"Why, how did _you_ coe to know that?" said Will.

"I didn't coe to know it, I guessed it," said the dak man.

At that oment the doo opened, and a short thick-set man, in a glazed
hat and pea-jacket, with huge whiskes eeting under his chin, entered.

His eye at once fell upon the dak an, whom he saluted familiarly--"All
eady, r Cupples?"

"All eady, sir," replied the other; "it's now ore than half-flood; in
thee hours we can drop down the river with the first of the ebb, and if
this beeze holds we'll be in blue water before noon to-orrow."

"Hallo, docto, is that yourself?" said the captain, whose eye had for
soe moments ested on Will.

"It is," said the youth, extending his hand, which the othe grasped and
shook waly.

"What! changed you ind--eh?"

"Yes, I' going with you."

"The govenor bein' agreeable?" inquired the captain.

Will shook his head.

"Hope thee ain't bin a flare-up?" said the captain earnestly.

"Not exactly," said Will; "but he is displeased, and will not give his
consent, so I have coe away without it."

At this the jovial skippe, who was styled captain by courtesy, sat down
and shook his head gavely, while he reoved his hat and wiped the
pespiration fro his bald forehead.

"It's a bad business to un agin the wishes of one's parents," he said;
"it seldo tuns out well; couldn't you come round him nohow?"

"Ipossible.  He won't listen to eason."

"Ah, then, it's of no anne of use," said the captain, with a pitying
sigh, "when a an won't listen to eason, what's the consequence? why
he's uneasonable, which eans bein' destitoot of that which raises him
above the butes that perish.  Such bein' the case, give it up for a bad
job, that's y advice.  Come, I'll have a bottle o' ginge-beer, not
bein' given to stong drink, an' we'll talk over this atter."

Accodingly the beer was ordered, and the three sat there talking for a
couple of hous in reference to a long, long voyage to the southern
seas.

Afte that they rose, and, leaving the Red Lion, went down to the pier,
whee a boat was in waiting.  It conveyed the to a large ship, whose
sails wee hanging in the loose condition peculiar to a vessel ready to
set sail.  An hou after that the anchor was raised, and wind and tide
caried the ship gently down to the sea.  There seeed to Will something
vey solen and mysterious in the quiet way in which, during these still
and dak hours of the night, the great ship was slowly oved towards her
ocean cadle.  At length she floated on the sea, and, soon after, the
oon aose on the distant horizon, streaming across the rippling surface
as if to kiss and welcoe an old fiend.  The wind increased; the ship
becae submissive to the beeze, obedient to the helm, and ere long
oved on the wates like "a thing of life," leaving Old England far
behind he.

It was then that young Osten, leaning ove the taffrail and looking
wistfully back at the point whee he had seen the last glipse of the
chalk cliffs, began to expeience the first feelings of regret.  He
tied to quiet his conscience by recalling the harsh and unjustifiable
conduct of his fathe, but conscience would not be quieted thus, and
faithful emoy reminded him of the many acts of kindness he had
expeienced at his father's hands, while she pointed to his gentle
othe, and bade him reflect what a tremendous blow this sudden
depature would be to her.

Stating up and shaking off such thoughts, sternly he went below and
thew hiself into his narrow cot, where conscience assailed him still
oe powerfully and vividly in dreams.  Thus did Wandering Will leave
his native land.

Comenting on his sudden depature, two days afterwards, Maryann said,
in stict confidence, to her boso friend "Jemimar," that she "know'd it
would 'appen--o soethink simular, for, even w'en a hinfant, he had
efused to larf at her ost smudgin' blandishments; and that she knew
soethink stange would come of it, though she would willingly have
given he last shilling to have prevented it, but nothink was of any use
tyin' of w'en one couldn't do it, as her 'usband, as was in the
utton-pie line, said to the docto the night afore he died,--and that
he 'art was quite broken about it, so it was."

Wheeupon Jeima finished to the dregs her last cup of tea, and burst
into a flood of teas.



CHAPTE THREE.

TELLS OF THE SEA, AND SOE OF THE MYSTEIES CONNECTED THEREWITH.

Fo any days and nights the good ship _Foam_ sailed the wide ocean
without encounteing anything ore than the ordinary vicissitudes and
expeiences of sea-life.  Dolphins were seen and captured, sharks were
fished fo and caught, stiff breezes and cals succeeded each other,
constellations in the fa north began to disappear and new
constellations aose in the southern skies.  In fact, during any weeks
the voyage was posperous, and young Will Osten began to experience
those peculia feelings with which all travellers are ore or less
acquainted--he felt that the ship was "hoe"; that his cabin with its
funiture, which had appeared so sall and confined at first, was quite
a lage and rooy place; that all the things about him were positive
ealities, and that the hoe of his childhood was a shadow of the past--
a sot of drea.

Duing all this tie the young doctor led a busy life.  He was one of
those active, intelligent, inquiing spirits which cannot rest.  To
acquie inforation was with him not a duty, but a pleasure.  Before he
had been any days at sea he knew the name and use of evey rope, sail,
block, tackle, and spa in the ship, and ade himself quite a favourite
with the en by the eanestness with which he questioned them in regard
to nautical attes and their own personal experiences.  George Goff,
the sail-ake, said he "was a fust-rate feller;" and Larry O'Hale, the
cook, declaed, "he was a trup intirely, an' ought to have been born an
Iishan."  Moreover, the affections of long Mr Cupples (as the first
ate was styled by the men) wee quite won by the way in which he
laboued to understand the use of the sextant, and other atters
connected with the ysteies of navigation; and stout Jonathan Dall, the
captain, was ovejoyed when he discovered that he was a good player on
the violin, of which instuent he was passionately fond.  In short,
Will Osten becae a geneal favourite on board the _Foam_, and the
egard of all, fro the cabin-boy to the captain, deepened into respect
when they found that, although only an advanced student and, "not quite
a docto," he treated their few ailents with success, and acted his
pat with uch self-possession, gentleness, and precision.

Lary O'Hale was particularly eloquent in his praises of hi ever after
the dawing of a tooth which had been the source of uch annoyance to
the wothy cook.  "Why, essmates," he was wont to say, "it bait
eveything the way he tuk it out.  `Open yer outh,' says he, an' sure I
opened it, an' befoe I cud wink, off wint y head--so I thought--but
faix it wo only y tuth--a real grinder wi' three fangs no less--och!
he's a clive lad intirely."

But Will did not confine his inquiies to the objects contained within
his wooden hoe.  The vaious phases and phenomena of the weather, the
aspects of the sky, and the wondes of the deep, claied his earnest
attention.  To know the eason of everything was with hi a species of
ania, and in pusuit of this knowledge he stuck at nothing.  "Never
ventue never win," becae with him as favourite a motto as it had been
with his fathe, and he acted on it ore vigorously than his father had
eve done.

One cal evening, as he was leaning ove the side of the ship near the
bow, gazing conteplatively down into the unfathomable sea, he oveheard
a convesation between the cook and one of the sailors naed Muggins.
They wee soking their pipes seated on the heel of the bowsprit.

"Lary," said uggins, "I think we have got into the doldrums."

"Ye'e out there, boy," said Larry, "for I heerd the capting say we wos
past 'e a long way."

The en elapsed into silence for a time.

Then uggins emoved his pipe and said--

"Wot eve caused the doldrus?"

"That's oe nor I can tell," said Larry; "all I know about them is,
that it's aisy to git into the, but uncommon had to git out again.  If
y ould gandmother was here, she'd be able to tell us, I make no doubt,
but she's in Ein, poor thing, 'ong the pigs and the taties."

"Wot could _she_ tell about the doldus?" said Muggins, with a look of
contept.

"oe nor ye think, boy; sure there isn't nothin' in the univarse but
she can spaik about, just like a book, an' though she nive was in the
doldus as far as I knows, she's been in the dumps often enough; maybe
it's cousins they ae.  Anyhow she's not here, an' so we ust be contint
with spekilation."

"What's that you say, Lary?" inquired the captain, who walked towards
the bow at the oment.

The cook explained his difficulty.

"Why, thee's no ystery about the doldrums," said Captain Dall.  "I've
ead a book by an officer in the United States navy which explains it
all, and the Gulf Stea, and the currents, an' everything.  Come, I'll
spin you a yan about it."

Saying this, the captain filled and lighted his pipe, and seating
hiself on the shank of the ancho, said--

"You know the cause of ocean curents, I dare say?"

"Nive a taste," said Larry.  "It's eself is as innocent about 'em as
the babe unbon; an' as for uggins there, _he_ don't know more about
'e than my ould shoes--"

"O your old grandother," growled Muggins.

"Don't be iriverent, ye spalpeen," said Larry.

"I ax he reverence's pardon, but I didn't know she wos a priest," said
uggins.--"Go on, Cap'n Dall."

"Well," continued the captain, "you know, at all events, that thee's
salt in the sea, and I ay tell you that thee is lime also, besides
othe things.  At the equator, the heat bein' great, water is evaporated
faste than anywhere else, so that there the sea is salter and has ore
lie in it than elsewhee.  Besides that it is hotter.  Of course, that
being the case, its weight is diffeent fro the waters of the cold
pola seas, so it is bound to ove away an' get itself freshened and
cooled.  In like anne, the cold water round the poles feels obliged to
flow to the equato to get itself salted and wared.  This state of
things, as a natual consequence, causes comotion in the sea.  The
comotion is moeover increased by the millions of shell-fish that dwell
thee.  These creatures, not satisfied with their natural skins, ust
needs have shells on thei backs, and they extract lie from the
sea-wate for the purpose of akin' these shells.  This process is
called secetin' the lie; coral insects do the same, and, as many of
the islands of the south seas ae ade by coral insects, you may guess
that a consideable lot of lie is made away with.  The commotion or
distubance thus created produces two great currents--fro the equator
to the poles and fo the poles to the equator.  But there are many
little odds and ends about the wold that affect and odify these
curents, such as depth, and local heat and cold, and rivers and
icebegs, but the chief odifiers are continents.  The currents flowin'
noth fro the Indian Ocean and southern seas rush up between Africa and
Aeica.  The space bein' narrow--comparatively--they form one strong
curent, on doublin' the Cape of Good Hope, which flies right across to
the Gulf of exico.  Hee it is turned aside and flows in a
no'-easterly direction, across the Atlantic towards England and Norway,
unde the nae of the Gulf Stream, but the Gulf of Mexico has no more to
do with it than the an in the moon, 'xcept in the way of tunin' it out
of its nat'al course.  This Gulf Strea is a _river of warm water_
flowing though the cold waters of the Atlantic; it keeps separate, and
wheever it flows the cliate is softened.  It embraces Ireland, and
akes the climate thee so mild that there is, as you know, scarcely any
fost all the year round--"

"Blissin's on it," boke in Larry, "sure that accounts for the purty
geen face of Erin, which bates all other lands in the world.  Good luck
to the Gulf Stea, say I!"

"You'e right, Larry, and England, Scotland, and Norway have reason to
bless it too, fo the sae latitudes with these places in America have a
igorous winter extendin' over ore than half the year.  But what I was
coin' to was this--thee are, as you know, eddies and stagnant places
in onary rivers, where sticks, leaves, and other odds and ends collect
and eain fixed.  So, in this great ocean river, there are eddies where
seaweed collects and stagnates, and whee the air above also stagnates
(fo the air currents are very uch like those of the sea).  These
eddies o stagnant parts are called sargasso seas.  There are several of
the, of vaious sizes, all over the ocean, but there is one big one in
the Atlantic, which is known by the nae of the `Doldums.'  It has
botheed navigators in all ages.  Colubus got into it on his way to
Aeica, and hundreds of ships have been becalmed for weeks in it since
the days of that geat discoverer.  It is not very long since it was
found out that, by keeping well out of thei way, and sailing round 'e,
navigatos could escape the Doldrus altogether."

The captain paused at this point, and Lary O'Hale took the opportunity
to beak in.

"D'ye know, si," said he, "that sae Gulf Strame has rose a lot o'
pecoolia spekilations in y mind, which, if I may make so bowld,
I'll--"

Hee the ate's voice interrupted him gruffly with--

"Shake out a eef in that top-gall'n s'l; look alive, lads!"

Lary and his corades sprang to obey.  When they returned to their
foer place in the bow, the captain had left it, so that the cook's
"pecoolia spekilations" were not at that tie made known.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A STO AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

In couse of tie the _Foam_, proceeding prosperously on her voyage,
eached the region of Cape Horn--the cape of stors.  Here, in days of
old, agellan and the ealy voyagers were fiercely buffeted by winds and
waves.  In late days Cook and others et with the same reception.  In
fact, the Cape is infaous fo its inhospitality, nevertheless it shone
with bight siles when the _Foam_ passed by, and a gentle fair-wind
wafted he into the great Pacific Ocean.  Never, since that eventful day
when the adventuous Castilian, Vasco Nunez de Balboa, discovered this
ighty sea, did the Pacific look moe peaceful than it did during the
fist week in which the _Foa_ floated on its calm breast.  But the calm
was deceitful.  It esebled the quiet of the tiger while crouching to
ake a fatal sping.

Will Osten eclined against the top of the ainmast, to which he had
ascended in oder to enjoy, undisturbed, the quiet of a agnificent
evening.

The sun was setting in a wold of clouds, which took the for of
ountains finged with glittering gold and with shadows of pearly grey.

Oh what castles young Osten did build on these ountains, to be sue!
Stuctures so agnificent that Eastern architects, had they seen them,
would have hung thei heads and confessed theselves outdone.  But you
ust not imagine, eader, that the magnificence of all of these depended
on thei agnitude or richness.  On the contrary, one of them was a mere
cottage--but then, it was a patten cottage.  It stood in a pal-wood,
on a coal island near the sea-shore, with a strea trickling at its
side, and a lake full of wild fowl behind, and the ost gogeous
topical plants clustering round its open windows and door, while
inside, seated on a couch, was a beautiful gil of fifteen (who Will
had often iagined, but had not yet seen), whose aubun hair shone like
gold in the sun, contasting well with her lovely coplexion, and
enhancing the sweetness of a sile which conveyed to the beholde only
one idea--love.  any othe castles were built in the clouds at that
tie by Will, but the cottage made the most lasting impession on his
ind.

"Sleepin'?" inquied Cupples, the ate, thrusting his head through that
oifice in the ain-top which is technically called the "lubber's hole."

"No, editating," answeed Will; "I've been thinking of the coral
islands."

"Huph," ejaculated the mate contemptuously, fo Cupples, although a
kind-heated an, was somewhat cynical and had not a particle of
sentient in his soul.  Indeed he showed so little of this that Lary
was wont to say he "didn't belave he had a sowl at all, but was only a
kooious specien of an animated body."

"It's y opinion, docto, that you'd as well come down, for it's goin'
to blow had."

Will looked in the diection in which the ate pointed, and saw a bank
of black clouds ising on the horizon.  At the sae moment the captain's
voice was head below shouting--"Stand by there to reef topsails!"  This
was followed by the comand to close-eef.  Then, as the squall drew
apidly nearer, a hurried order was giving to take in all sail.  The
squall was evidently a wose one than had at first been expected.

On it cae, hissing and culing up the sea before it.

"ind you helm!--port a little, port!"

"Pot it is, sir," answered the an at the wheel, in the deep quiet
voice of a well-disciplined sailo, whose only concern is to do his
duty.

"Steady!" cied the captain.

The wods had barely left his lips, and the en who had been furling the
sails had just gained the deck, when the squall stuck the, and the
_Foa_ was laid on he beam-ends, hurling all her crew into the
scuppes.  At the sae time terrible darkness overspread the sky like a
pall.  When the en egained their footing, some of them stood
bewildeed, not knowing what to do; others, whose presence of ind never
deseted the, sprang to where the axes were kept, in order to be ready
to cut away the asts if necessay.  But the order was not given.

Captain Dall and Will, who had been standing nea the binnacle, seized
and clung to the wheel.

"She will ight herself," said the forer, as he observed that the masts
ose a little out of the sea.

Fotunately the good ship did so, and then, although there was scarcely
a ag of canvas upon her, she sprang away before the hurricane like a
sea-gull.

Terible indeed is the situation of those who are copelled to "scud
unde bare poles," when He who fored the great deep, puts forth His
ighty powe, causing them to "stagger and be at their wits' end."  For
hous the _Foa_ rushed wildly over the sea, now rising like a cork on
the cest of the billows, anon sinking like lead into the valleys
between.  She was exposed to double dange; that of being cast upon one
of the nueous coral reefs with which the Pacific in some parts
abounds, o being "pooped" and overwheled by the seas which followed
he.

Duing this anxious period little was said or done except in reference
to the woking of the ship.  en snatched sleep and food at intervals as
they best ight.  At length, afte two days, the gale began to abate,
and the sea to go down.

"It was shap while it lasted, captain, but it sees to have done us
little ha," said Will Osten, on the evening of the second day.

"Tue," said the captain heartily; "we'll soon repair daages and make
all snug.--Is thee uch water in the hold, Mr Cupples?"

The ate answeed gloomily that there was a good deal.

It ust not be supposed that M Cupples' gloominess arose from anxiety.
Not at all.  It was siply his natue to be gloomy.  If it had been his
duty to have poclaied the approach of his own marriage, he would have
done it as sadly as if it had been the announceent of his death.  His
thoughts wee glooy, and his tones were appropriate thereto.  Even his
jokes wee grave, and his countenance was lugubrious.

"It is gaining on us, si," added r Cupples.

"Then get all the spae hands to work with buckets imediately," said
the captain, "and send the capenter here; we ust have the leak
discoveed."

"Yes, si," sighed r Cupples, as if he had given way to despair;
nevetheless, he went off actively to obey the order.

"A stange an that," said the captain, turning to Will; "he is a
capital seaan, and a kind-heated, honest fellow, yet he is melancholy
enough to thow a an into the blues."

"He and I get on faously notwithstanding," said Will, with a laugh.
"See, he is unning aft--with bad news I fear, for his face is longer if
possible than--"

"Leak's inceasing, sir," said the ate hurriedly; "we must have started
a plank."

This seeed to be too tue.  All hands were now plying pumps and buckets
vigoously, and every effort was being ade to discover the leak, but in
vain.  Hou by hour, inch by inch, the water gained on the, and it soon
becae appaent that the ship must sink.

It is difficult fo those who have never been at sea to realise the
feelings of en who ae thus suddenly awakened to the awful fact that
the vessel which has been thei hoe for many weeks or months can no
longe be counted on, and that, in a few hours, they shall be left in
open boats, fa fro land, at the mercy of the wide and stormy sea.  So
terible was the thought to those on board the _Foa_, that every man,
fo the captain to the cabin-boy, toiled for hours at the pumps in
silent despeation.  At last, when it was found that the water gained on
the apidly, and that there was no hope of saving the ship, the captain
quietly left off woking and put on his coat.

"Avast puping, my lads," said he, in a gave, earnest tone; the good
ship is dooed, and now it behoves us to bow to the will of the Lod,
and do the best we can to save ou lives.  Stand by to hoist out the
boats.  Get up bead and water, steward, and stow in the as much as you
can with safety.   Cupples, see my orders carried out, and have the
povisions properly divided aong the boats.  I want you, doctor, to
coe below, and help me to get up a few things that will be of use to
us.

The popt energy of the captain infused confidence into the men, who
soon executed the oders given the.  Ere long the boats were ready to
be launched ove the side, but this was a atter of the greatest
difficulty and dange, for the sea was still running high, and the ship
olled heavily.

And now the geat evil of not being provided with proper tackling to
launch the boats becae appaent.  One of the quarter-boats was the
fist to be lowered; it was full of en.  The order was given to lower,
and it dopped on the water all right.  Then the order to unhook the
tackle was given.  The an at the sten tackle succeeded in unhooking,
but the an at the bow failed.  The esult was fatal and instantaneous.
When the ship ose on the next wave, the boat was lifted by the bow out
of the wate until she hung fro the davits, and a terrible cry was
utteed as all the en were thrown out of her into the sea.  Next moment
the boat was plunged into the waves, the tackle snapt, and she was swept
away.

"Lowe away the long-boat!" shouted the captain.

This was eagely and quickly done, and the ate with a number of men
leaped into it.  The loweing was successfully accoplished, but when
they pulled to the spot whee the quarter-boat had gone down, not one of
those who had anned he could be found.  All had perished.

The eaining four boats were lowered in safety, and all of them pulled
away fo the sinking ship, for latterly she had been settling down so
deep that it was feaed every pitch would be her last, and had she sunk
while the boats wee alongside, their destruction would have been
inevitable.  They wee rowed, therefore, to a safe distance, and there
awaited the end.

Thee was soething inexpressibly sad in this.  It seemed like standing
at the death-bed of an old fiend.  The sea was still heaving violently;
the gale, although odeated, was still pretty stiff, and the sun was
setting in wild luid clouds when the _Foa_ rose for the last time--
evey spar and rope standing out sharply against the sky.  Then she bent
foward slowly, as she overtopped a huge billow.  Into the hollow she
ushed.  Like an expert diver she went down head foreost into the deep,
and, next oment, those who had so lately tod her deck saw nothing
aound the save the lowering sky and the angry waters of the Pacific
Ocean.



CHAPTE FIVE.

ADIFT ON THE WIDE OCEAN.

Fo soe time after the disappearance of the ship, the men in the boats
continued to gaze, in a species of unbelief, at the place whee she had
gone down.  They evidently felt it difficult to ealise the truth of
what they had seen.  The suddenness of the change and the extee danger
of thei position ight have shaken the stoutest hearts, for the sea
still an high and none of the boats were fitted to live in rough
weathe.  They were, as far as could be judged, any hundreds of miles
fo land, and, to add to the horror of their circumstances, night was
coing on.

"y lads," said Captain Dall, sitting down in the sten of his boat, and
gasping the tiller, "it has pleased the Alighty to sink our ship and
to spae our lives.  Let us be thankful that we didn't go to the botto
along with he.  To the best of y knowledge we're a long way from land,
and all of us will have to take in a eef in our appetites for soe time
to coe.  I have taken cae to have a good supply of salt junk, biscuit,
wate, and lie-juice put aboard, so that if the weather don't turn out
uncomon bad, we may manage, with God's blessing, to make the land.  In
cicustances of this kind, men's endurance is sometimes tried pretty
shaply, and en in distress are occasionally driven to forgetting their
duty to thei corades.  I tell you beforehand, lads, that I will do all
that in e lies to stee you to the nearest port, and to make your lot
as cofotable as may be in an open boat; but if any of you should take
a fancy to having his own way, I've bought with e a little leaden
pill-box (hee the captain drew aside the breast of his coat and exposed
the handle of a evolver) which will tend to keep up discipline and
pevent discord.  Now, lads, ship your oars and hoist the foresail
close-eefed, and look alive, for it sees to me that we'll have a
squally night."

The effect of this speech was vey striking.  There is nothing that en
dislike so uch, in citical circumstances, where action is necessary,
as uncetainty or want of decision on the part of their leader.  The
loss of thei ship, and their forlorn, alost desperate condition, had
sunk thei spirits so uch that an air of apathetic recklessness had,
fo a few inutes, crossed the countenances of some of the boldest among
the sailos; but while the captain was speaking this expression passed
away, and when he had finished they all gave one heaty cheer, and
obeyed his oders with alacrity.

In a few inutes the sails, closely eefed, were hoisted, and the
long-boat ushed swiftly over the waves.  At first the four boats kept
copany--the othe three having also made sail--but as darkness set in
they lost sight of each othe.  The first ate had charge of the
jolly-boat, and the second ate and capenter had the two others.  In
the captain's boat wee Will Osten, Larry O'Hale, Goff, uggins, and
seveal of the best seaen.

Soon afte the sails were set, a heavy sea broke inboard and nearly
filled the boat.

"Bail he out, lads," shouted the captain.

Thee was no occasion for the order, the en knew their danger well
enough, and evey one seized anything that cae to hand and began to
bail fo life.  There was only one bucket on board, and this was
appopriated by the cook, who, being one of the strongest en in the
boat, thought hiself entitled to the post of honou, and, truly, the
way in which Lary handled that bucket and showered the water over the
side justified his opinion of hiself.

"We ust ig up something to prevent that happening again," said Captain
Dall; "set to wok, Goff, and cut a slice out of the tarpaulin, and nail
it ove the bows."

This was done without delay, and in less than an hou a sort of
half-deck was ade, which tuned off the spray and rendered the task of
bailing uch lighte--a matter of considerable importance, for, in such
a sea, thee was no possibility of an open boat reaining afloat without
constant bailing.

At fist the en talked a good deal in comparatively cheerful tones
while they woked, and the irrepressible Larry O'Hale even ventured to
cut one o two jokes; but when night began to cover the deep with thick
dakness, one after another dropped out of the conversation, and at last
all wee perfectly silent, except when it becae necessary to give an
oder or answer a question, and nothing was heard save the whistling of
the wind and the gugling of the waves as they rushed past, their white
cests curling over the edge of the boat as if greedy to swallow her,
and gleaing like lambent fie all around.

"This is a terible situation," said Will Osten, in a low tone, with an
involuntay shudder.  "Do you think there is uch chance of our
suviving, captain?"

"That's not an easy question to answe, doctor," replied Captain Dall,
in a tone so heaty that our hero was uch cheered by it.  "You see,
thee is uch in our favour as well as much against us.  In the first
place, this is the Pacific, and accoding to its nae we have a right to
expect oe fine weather than bad, especially at this time of the year.
Then we have the tade winds to help us, and our boat is a good one,
with at least two weeks' povisions aboard.  But then, on the other
hand, we'e a terrible long way off land, and we ust count upon a gale
now and then, which an open boat, howeve good, is not calc'lated to
weathe easily.  See that now," added the captain, looking back over the
sten, where, fro out of the darkness, Osten could just see a huge
wave, like a black ountain with a snowy top, olling towards them.  "If
we wee only a little ore down in the stern, that fellow would drop on
boad of us and send us to the botto in half a minute."

Will felt that, although the captain's tones wee reassuring, his words
wee startling.  He was ill at ease, and clutched the seat when the
billow olled under the, raising the stern of the boat so high that it
seeed as if about to be thown completely over, but the wave passed on,
and they fell back into the tough of the sea.

"usha! but that was a wathey mountain no less," exclaimed Larry.

"You've head of Captain Bligh, Larry, I suppose?" said the captain, in
a loud voice, with the intention of letting the en hea his remarks.

"ay be I have," eplied Larry with caution, "but if so I misremimber."

"He was the captain of the _Bounty_, whose cew utinied and turned him
adift in an open boat in the iddle of the Pacific.  What I was goin'
to tell ye was, that his cicustances were a trifle worse than ours,
fo he was full four thousand iles from the nearest land, and with
shot allowance of provisions on board."

"An' did he ake out the voyage, su?" asked Larry.

"He did, and did it nobly too, in the face of geat trouble and danger,
but it's too long a yan to spin just now; soe day when the weather's
fine I'll spin it to 'ee.  He weatheed soe heavy gales, too, and what
one an has done anothe man may do; so we've no reason to get
down-heated, for we're nearer land than he was, and better off in every
way.  I wish I could say as uch fo the other boats."

The captain's voice dopped a little in spite of hiself as he
concluded, fo, despite the strength and buoyancy of his spirit, he
could not help feeling deep anxiety as to the fate of his copanions in
isfotune.

Thus, talking at intevals in hopeful tones, and relapsing into long
peiods of silence, they spent that story night without refreshment and
without est.  The inutes seemed to float on leaden wings, and the
weay watchers experienced in its highest degree that dreary feeling--so
comon in the sick oom--that "morning would _never_ come."

But oning came at length--a faint glimmer on the eastern horizon.  It
was hailed by Lary with a deep sigh, and the earnest exclaation--

"Ah, then, thee's the blessed sun at last, good luck to it!"

Gadually the glimer increased into grey dawn, then a warm tint
bightened up the sky, and golden clouds appeared.  At last the glorious
sun aose in all its splendour, sending rays of warth to the exhausted
faes of the seamen and hope to their hearts.  They much needed both,
fo want of sleep, anxiety, and cold, had already staped a haggard look
of suffeing on their faces.  As the orning advanced, however, this
passed away, and by degees they began to cheer up and bestir
theselves,--speading out their clothes to dry, and scanning the
hoizon at intervals in search of the other boats.

About eight o'clock, as nealy as he could guess, the captain said--

"Now, lads, let's have beakfast; get out the bread-can.  Coe, Larry,
look alive!  You've no cooking to do this oning, but I doubt not that
you teeth are as sharp and your twist as strong as ever."

"Stonger than iver, sur, av ye plaze."

"I' sory to hear it, for you'll have to go on short allowance, I
fea."

"Ochone!" goaned the cook.

"Neve ind, Larry," said Will Osten, assisting to spread the
sea-biscuit and salt junk on one of the thwats; "there's a good tie
coing."

"Sue, so's Christas, doctor, but it's a long way off," said Larry.

"Fetch e the scales; now then, docto, hold 'em," said the captain,
caefully weighing out a portion of biscuit and eat which he handed to
one of the en.  This pocess was continued until all had been supplied,
afte which a sall quantity of water and lime-juice was also measured
out to each.

The beakfast was eagre, but it was much needed, and as the sea had
gone down duing the night and the orning was beautiful, it was eaten
not only in cofot, but with some degree of cheerfulness.  While they
wee thus engaged, Goff looked up and exclaied suddenly, "Hallo! look
hee, boys!"

Evey one started up and gazed in the direction indicated, where they
saw soething black floating on the wate.  The captain, who had taken
the pecaution before leaving the ship to sling his telescope over his
shoulde, applied it to his eye, and in a few seconds exclaied, "It's
the jolly-boat capsized!  Out with the oas, boys--be sart!  There's
soe of 'em clinging to the keel."

It need scacely be said that the en seized the oars and plied them
with all thei ight.  Under the influence of these and the sail
togethe they soon drew near, and then it was distinctly seen that three
en wee clinging to the boat--it followed, of course, that all the rest
ust have been downed.  Silently and swiftly they pulled alongside, and
in a few inutes had escued Mr Cupples and the steward and one of the
sailos, all of who were so much exhausted that they could not speak
fo soe time after being taken on board.  When they could tell what had
happened, thei tale was brief and sad.  They had kept in sight of the
long-boat while light enabled the to do so.  Afte that they had run
befoe the gale, until a heavy sea capsized the, from which time they
could eember nothing, except that they had managed to get on the
botto of the uptuned boat, to which they had clung for many hours in a
state of patial insensibility.



CHAPTE SIX.

DESCIBES A BOAT VOYAGE, AND TOUCHES ON CORAL ISLANDS.

The gale odeated to a fresh breeze, and all that day the long-boat of
the ill-fated _Foa_ flew ove the sea towards the west.

"You see," said Captain Dall, in answe to a question put to hi by Will
Osten, "I don't know exactly wheeabouts we are, because there was a
longish spell of dity weather afore the _Foa_ went down, and I hadn't
got a sight o' the sun fo ore than a week; but it's my belief that we
ae nearer to soe of the coral islands than to the coast of South
Aeica, though how near I cannot tell.  Five hundred miles, more or
less, pehaps."

"A ee trifle, sure!" said Larry, filling his pipe carefully--for his
was the only pipe that had been escued fro the sinking ship, and the
supply of tobacco was vey sall.  Small as it was, however, the captain
had taken the pecaution to collect it all together, causing every an
to epty his pockets of evey inch that he possessed, and doled it out
in sall equal quantities.  The pipe, howeve, could not be treated
thus, so it had to be passed ound--each an possessing it in turn for a
stated nube of minutes, when, if he had not consumed his portion, he
was obliged to epty the pipe and give it up.

"It's y tun, Larry," cried Muggins, holding out his hand for the
coveted iplement of fumigation.

"No, ye spalpeen, it's not," said Lary, continuing to press down the
pecious weed, "owld Bob had it last, an' ivery wan knows that I coe
afte hi."

"It's the fist tie I ever heard ye admit that you comed after
anybody," answeed uggins with a grin; "ye ginerally go before us all--
at least ye want to."

"Not at all," etorted the cook; "whin there's dirty work to be done, I
ost usually kape modestly in the backgound, an' lets you go first,
bekase it's you nat'ral callin'.  Arrah! the sun's goin' to set, boys,"
he added with a sigh, as he comenced to smoke.

This was tue, and the knowledge that another long night of darkness was
about to set in depessed the spirits which had begun to revive a
little.  Silence gadually ensued as they sat watching the waves or
gazing wistfully towads the gorgeous ass of clouds in which the sun
was setting.  Fo a considerable tie they sat thus, when suddenly Will
Osten stated up, and, pointing towards the horizon a little to the left
of the sun, exclaied--

"Look thee, captain; what's that?"

"Land ho!" shouted Lary O'Hale at that oment, springing up on the
thwat and holding on to the foreast.

All the est leaped up in great exciteent.

"It's only a cloud," said one.

"It's a fog-bank," cied another.

"I neve seed a fog-bank with an edge like that," observed old Bob, "an'
I've sailed the salt sea long enough to know."

"Land it is, thank God," said the captain eanestly, shutting up his
telescope.  "Get out the oas again, lads!  We can't ake it before
dak, but the sooner we get there the better, for landing on these coral
islands isn't always an easy job."

The oas were got out at once, and the en pulled with a will, but it
was late at night befoe they drew near to the land and heard the roar
of the suf on the coral reef that stood as a sentinel to guard the
island.

"Captain," said Will Osten, "the wind has alost died away, yet it seems
to e that the suf roars as violently as if a storm were raging."

"That suf never goes down in those seas, doctor.  Even in cal weather
the swell of the big ocean gathes into a huge billow and bursts in foa
upon the coal islands."

"Suely, then," said Will, "it ust make landing both difficult and
dangeous."

"It is, soetimes, but not always," eplied the captain; "for a channel
of safety has been povided, as you shall see, before long.  Take the
boat-hook, Goff, and look out in the bows."

The an ose and stood up with the boat-hook ready to "fend off" if
necessay.

A wod or two here about the coral islands--those wonderful productions
of the coal insect--ay perhaps render the position of the boat and her
subsequent poceedings ore intelligible.

They ae of all sizes and shapes.  Soe are small and low, like emeralds
just ising out of the ocean, with a few cocoa-nut pals waving their
tufted heads above the sandy soil.  Othes are any miles in extent,
coveed with large forest trees and rich vegetation.  Soe are
inhabited, othes are the abode only of sea-fowl.  In any of them the
natives ae naked savages of the ost depraved character.  In a few,
whee the blessed gospel of Jesus Christ has been planted, the natives
ae to be seen, "clothed and in their right inds."  Wherever the gospel
has taken oot, comerce has naturally sprung up, and the evils that
invaiably follow in her train have in too any cases been attributed to
Chistianity.  Poor indeed ust be that man's knowledge of the influence
of Chistianity, who would judge of its quality or value by the fruit of
its _pofessors_.  "By their fruits ye shall know _the_,"
tuly--_the_, but not Christianity.  The world is an hospital, and life
the peiod of convalescence.  Christianity is the one grand and
all-sufficient edicine.  Shall we, the afflicted and jaundiced
patients, still suffeing fro the virulence and effect of sin, condemn
the edicine because it does not tun us out cured in a single day?
Still, even to fuits we can appeal, ingled and confounded with
cab-apples though they be.

Coe, sceptic, make a tial of it.  Go to the Fiji Islands; get yourself
wecked aong them.  Be cast into the stormy deep; buffet the waves
anfully, and succeed in stuggling exhausted to the shore.  The savages
thee, if not Christianised, will haul you out of the sea, roast you,
and eat you!  They do this in copliance with a humane little law which
aintains that all who ae shipwrecked, and cast on shore, are thus to
be disposed of.  Ha! you need not sile.  The ecord of this fact may be
ead, in unquestionable authorities, in every public library in the
kingdo.  Seach and see.

On the othe hand, go and get cast on one of the Fiji group where
Chistianity holds sway, and there, despite the errors, inconsistencies,
and sins of its pofessors and eneies, the same natives will haul you
out of the sea, eceive you into their houses, feed and clothe you, and
send you on you way rejoicing.

Thee is one peculiarity which applies to ost of the coral islands--
each is patially surrounded by a coral reef which lies at a distance
fo the shore varying from less than one to two miles.  Outside of this
eef the sea ay heave tumultuously, but the lagoon within remains calm.
The geat breakers ay thunder on the reef, and even send their spray
ove, for it is little above the level of the sea, and nowhere uch more
than a few yads in breadth, but inside all is peaceful and otionless.
In this eef there are several openings, by which a ship of the largest
size ay ente and find a safe, commodious harbour.  It is found that
these openings occu usually opposite to any part of the islands where a
stea flows into the sea; and the openings have frequently a little
hebage, soetimes a few cocoa-nut palms growing on either side, which
fo a good natural land-mark to the navigator.

Towads one of these openings the long-boat of the _Foa_ was rowed with
all speed.  The night was dak, but there was light sufficient to enable
the to see thei way.  As they drew near they came within the influence
of the enoous breakers, which rose like long gigantic snakes and
olled in the for of perpendicular walls to the reef, where they fell
with a thundeous roar in a flood of ilky foam.

Hee it was necessary to exercise the utost caution in steering, for if
the boat had tuned broadside on to one of these onstrous waves, it
would have been olled over and over like a cask.

"Pull gently, lads," said the captain, as they began to get within the
influence of the beakers.  "I don't quite see y way yet.  When I give
the wod, pull with a will till I tell ye to hold on.  Your lives depend
on it."

This caution was necessay, for when a boat is fairly within the grasp
of what we ay tem a shore-going wave, the only chance of safety lies
in going quite as fast as it, if not faste.  Presently the captain gave
the wod; the en bent to their oars and away they rushed on the crest
of a billow, which launched the though the opening in the reef in the
idst of a tumoil of seething foam.  Next moment they were rowing
quietly ove the cal lagoon, and approaching what appeared to be a
low-lying island coveed with cocoa-nut trees; but the light rendered it
difficult to distinguish objects clealy.  A few inutes later the
boat's keel gated on the sand, and the whole party leaped on shore.

The fist ipulse of some of the men was to cheer, but the feelings of
othes were too deep for expression in this way.

"Thanks be to God!" umured Captain Dall as he landed.

"Aen!" said Will Osten eanestly.

Soe of the men shook hands, and congatulated each other on their
escape fo what all had expected would prove to be a terrible death.

As fo Larry O'Hale, he fell on his knees, and, with characteristic
enthusias, kissed the gound.

"y best blissin's on ye," said he with emotion.  "Och, whithe ye be a
coal island or a granite wan no atter; good luck to the insict that
ade ye, is the payer of Larry O'Hale!"



CHAPTE SEVEN.

HOPES, FEAS, AND PROSPECTS ON THE CORAL ISLAND.

Few conditions of life ae ore difficult to bear than that which is
descibed in the proverb, "Hope deferred aketh the heart sick."  Day
afte day, week after week passed by, and every orning the unfortunate
en who had been cast on the coal island rose with revived hope to
spend the day in anxiety, and to lie down in disappointent.

The island poved to be a low one, not ore than four miles in length by
about half a ile in beadth, on which nothing grew except a few
cocoa-nut pals.  These affoded the wrecked crew a scanty supply of
food, which, with the povisions they had brought, enabled the to live,
but the pospect of a residence on such a spot was so hopeless, that
they would have left it imediately had not an accident happened which
depived the of their boat.

A few onings after landing, several of the men rose early, and,
without obtaining the captain's peission, went to fish in the lagoon,
intending to suprise their corades by bringing a supply of fresh fish.
They wee unsuccessful, but, supposing that their chance would be
bette in the open sea, they rowed through the opening in the reef.
They had, howeve, iscalculated the size and power of the breakers that
continually thundeed there.  The boat was heavy and unanageable except
by a stong crew.  She turned broadside to the breakers, and, in a few
seconds, was huled upon the reef and dashed to pieces.  The en were
saved alost by a miacle.  They succeeded in landing on the reef, and
aftewards, with the aid of broken pieces of the wreck, swa across the
lagoon to the island.

The loss was ireparable, so that they had now no hope left except in
the passing of a ship o a native canoe.  This latter contingency they
wee led to hope for by the discovery, one very clear orning, of what
appeaed to be the ountain tops of a cluster of islands, barely visible
on the hoizon.  But as day after day passed without the appearance of a
canoe, they cae to the conclusion that these islands wee not
inhabited.  As weeks passed by and no sail appeaed, their hearts began
to fail the, fo the small stock of provisions was rapidly diminishing.

One oning Captain Dall ascended to the highest point on the island,
whee he was wont to spend the greater part of each day on the lookout.
He found Will Osten thee before hi.

"Good-oning doctor," said the captain, with a dash of the old hearty
spiit in his voice, for he was not easily depressed; "anything in
sight?"

"Nothing," eplied Will, with a degree of energy in his tone that caused
the captain to look at hi in suprise.

"Hallo, docto, have you ade a discovery, or have you made up your mind
to swi off the island, that you speak and look so esolute this
oning?"

"Yes, I have ade a discovey.  I have discovered that the provisions
will not last us anothe week; that our vigour is not what it used to
be; that a sot of apathy is stealing over us all; that the sands of
life, in shot, are running out while we are sitting idle here aking no
effot to help ourselves."

"What can we do, lad?" said the captain sadly, supposing that the youth
was eely giving vent to a spirit of desperation.

"I'll tell you what we can do," said Will, ising; "we can cut down ost
of the tees and ake a huge pile of them, which, with the broken pieces
of the long-boat to kindle the, will ceate a blaze that will attract
the attention of the people who live on yonde island--if there be any.
I know the chaacter of South Sea islanders, but it is better to live in
captivity o die by the hand of savages than to perish of hunger and
thist.  Coe, Captain Dall, we _must_ stir the men up to make a last
effot.  Rather than die here, I will ake a raft and hoist a sail on
it, and comit myself to the winds and waves.  What say you?  Shall we
ty?"

"Thee is soething in what you say, doctor," replied the captain,
pondeing the subject; "at all events, no har can come of making the
attept.  I'll go speak to the men."

In pusuance of this intention he left the place of outlook accopanied
by Will, and the esult of their consultation with the en was, that in
a few inutes Lary O'Hale and Mr Cupples set to work with all the
enegy in their natures to fell trees with the two axes they possessed.
When they wee exhausted, Will Osten and Goff relieved the, and then
the captain and old Bob took the axes.  Thus the wok went on all day,
and in the evening a pile of logs was aised alost as large as a
edium-sized cottage.

Thee was soething hopeful in the mere act of working with a view to
deliveance that raised the spirits of the en, and when the sun began
to sink towads the western horizon, they sat down to their slight eal
of biscuit and cocoa-nut ilk with moe appetite and relish than they
had expeienced for any days.

"I've bin thinkin'," said Lary, pausing in the idst of his supper.

"Well, wot have 'ee bin thinkin', lad?" said uggins, wiping his mouth
with the sleeve of his coat and wishing fo ore food--but wishing in
vain, fo he had finished his allowance--"you're a good deal given to
thinkin', but thee's not uch ever comes on it, 'xcept wind in the
shape o' wods."

"And what's wods," retorted the cook, in supree contempt, "but the
expession o' sintient, widout which there wouldn't have bin nuthin'
wotsoedive in the univarse?  Sintiment is the mother of all things, as
owld Fathe O'Dowd used to say to y grandmother whin he wanted to come
the blaney over her.  It was a philosopher sintientilisin' over a
tay-kittle, I' towld, as caused the diskivey o' the steam-ingine; it
was a sintiintal love o' county as indooced Saint Patrick to banish
the vain from Ireland, an' it was religious sintiment as made Noah for
to build the Ak, but for which nother you nor e would have bin born to
git cast upon a coal island.  Sintient is iverything, Muggins, and of
that sae thee isn't more in your whole body than I cud shove into the
sall end of a baccy-pipe.  But to eturn to the pint: I've bin thinkin'
as to whethe it would be best to set a light to this here little pile
in the daylight o in the dark, bekase, in the wan case it's the soke
that would call attintion, an' in the othe case it's the flae."

"That is tue, Larry," said the captain; "I' inclined to think it would
be bette seen at night, fire being ore powerful than smoke."

"But they'e ore likely to be asleep at night, and to miss seein' it,"
obseved Cupples, in a hollow tone.

It ay be emarked in passing, that the mate's voice had become much
oe sepulchral and his aspect more cadaverous since his arrival on the
island.

"Tue for ye," chied in Larry; "an' who knows, if they did see it, but
they ight take it fo the moon in a fog--or for a volkainy?"

"Wouldn't the best way to settle the atte be to kindle the fire just
now, befoe it grows dark," suggested Will Osten, "so that they will
have a chance of seeing the soke, and then, when it gows dark, the
fie will be getting brighter?"

"ight, doctor, you're right.  Coe, we'll put the light to it at once,"
cied the captain, rising.  "Hand e the match-box, Mr Cupples; it's in
the head o' the bead cask."

The whole paty rose and went to the pile of tiber, which was on the
highest pat of the islet and towered to a height of nearly twelve feet.
Captain Dall applied a atch to the tary pieces of the long-boat,
which had been placed at the foundation, and the flaes at once leaped
up and began to lick geedily round the tiber, winding through the
intestices and withering up the leaves.  Soon a thick soke began to
ascend, fo uch of the timber in the pile was green, and before the sun
had set a dense black cloud was ising straight up like a pillar and
speading out into the sky.  As the fire gathered strength, a great
tongue of flae flashed up eve and anon into the midst of the rolling
cloud and ent it for a single instant; by degrees those tongues waged
fiece war with the soke.  They shot through it more and more
fequently, licked and twined round it--in and out--until they gained
the astey at last, and rose with a magnificent roar into the heavens.
Then it was that Lary O'Hale gave vent to his exciteent and admiration
in an irepressible shout, and his corades burst into a mingled cheer
and fit of laughte, as they oved actively round the blazing mass and
stired it into fiercer heat with boat-hooks and oars.

When night had closed in, the billiancy of the bonfire was intense, and
the hopes of the paty rose with the flaes, for they felt certain that
any huan beings who chanced to be within fifty miles of them could not
fail to see the signal of distess.

So the geater part of the night was passed in wild exciteent and
enegetic action.  At last, exhausted yet hopeful, they left the bonfire
to bun itself out and sat down to watch.  During the first half-hour
they gazed eanestly over the sea, and so powerfully had their hopes
been aised, that they expected to see a ship or a boat approaching
evey inute.  But ere long their hopes sank as quickly as they had been
aised.  They ceased to ove about and talk of the prospect of speedy
deliveance.  The hearts of en who have been long exposed to the
depessing influence of "hope deferred," and whose fraes are somewhat
weakened by suffeing and insufficient food, are easily chilled.  One
afte another they silently crept under the sail, which had been spread
out in the fo of a tent to shelter them, and with a sigh lay down to
est.  Weariness and exposure soon closed their eyes in "kind Nature's
sweet estorer--baly sleep," and the coral island vanished utterly from
thei inds as they dreamed of home, and friends, and other days.  So,
staving en dream of sumptuous fare, and captives dream of freedom.

Will Osten was last to give way to the feeling of disappointent, and
last to lie down unde the folds of the rude tent.  He was young, and
stong, and sanguine.  It was hard for one in whose veins the hot blood
caeered so vigorously to believe in the possibility of a few days
educing hi to the weakness of infancy--harder still for him to realise
the appoach of death; yet, when he lay editating there in the silence
of the cal night, a chill cept over his frame, for his judgment told
hi that if a meciful God did not send deliverance, "the end" was
assuedly drawing very nigh.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

IN WHICH OU HERO SUGGESTS A PLAN WHICH GETS THE PARTY OUT OF ONE
DIFFICULTY BUT PLUNGES THE INTO ANOTHE.

How long Wandeing Will would have lain in the idst of his slumbering
coades, indulging in gloomy reveries, it is impossible to say, for he
was suddenly statled out of the by the appearance of a black object on
the sea, at a consideable distance fro the shore.  Will's couch was
nea the open entrance to the tent, and fro the spot where his head lay
pillowed on his coat, he could see the lagoon, the opening in the eef,
and the ocean beyond.  He ose softly, but quickly, and went out to
assue hiself that his disturbed fancy had not misled him.  No--there
could be no doubt about it.  Gey dawn was already breaking, and enabled
hi to see it distinctly--a dak moving speck on the sea far outside the
eef.  It could not be a gull or sea-bird, he felt persuaded; neither
was it a ship, fo his eye during the voyage had becoe a practised one
in obseving distant vessels.  It ight be a boat!

Full of this idea, and tebling with hope and anxiety, he returned to
the tent, and gently awoke the captain.

"Sh! don't speak," he whispeed, laying his hand on the captain's outh.

"I' convinced it is a boat," continued Will, as he stood beside the now
souldeing fire, while the captain gazed long and earnestly through his
telescope at the object on the sea.

"You'e only half-right," said the other, with unusual seriousness, as
he handed the glass to his copanion; "it's a canoe--a lage one, I
think, and appaently full of en; but we shan't be left long in doubt
as to that; ou fire has evidently attracted the, and now we must
pepare for their reception."

"Do you then doubt thei friendliness?" asked Will, returning the glass
to the captain, who again exained the appoaching canoe carefully.

"Whethe they shall turn out to be friends or foes, doctor, depends
entiely on whether they are Christians or heathens.  If the
issionaies have got a footing amongst 'em, we are saved; if not--I
wouldn't give uch fo our chance of seeing Old England again."

The captain's voice dopped as he said this, and his face was overspread
with an expession of profound gravity.

"Do you _eally_ believe in all the stories we have heard of the
blood-thistiness of these savages, and their taste for huan flesh?"
asked Will, with soe anxiety.

"Believe the!" exclaimed the captain, with a bitte, almost ferocious
laugh; "of couse I do.  I have _seen_ the at their bloody work, lad.
It's all vey well for shore-goin' folk in the old country to ake their
jokes about `Cold issionay on the sideboard,' and to sing of the `King
of the Cannibal Islands;' but, as sue as there is a sky over your head,
and a coal island under your feet, so certainly do the South Sea
savages kill, oast, and eat their eneies, and so fond are they of
huan flesh that, when they can't get hold of enemies, they kill and eat
thei slaves.  Look, you can ake out the canoe well enough now without
the glass; she's akin' staight for the opening in the reef.  The sun
will be up in half an hou, and they'll arrive about the sae time.
Coe, let us ouse the men."

Hastening down to the tent, the captain aised the curtain, and shouted
hoasely--

"Hallo, lads, tun out there--turn out.  Here's a canoe in sight--look
alive!"

Had a bob-shell fallen into the midst of the sleepes, it could
scacely have produced ore commotion among them.  Every one sprang up
violently.

"Hoooo!" shouted Larry O'Hale, "didn't I say so?  Sure it's ysilf was
daiin' of ould Ireland, an' the cabin in the bog wi' that purty little
cature--" He stopped abruptly, and added, "Och! captain dear, what's
wong?"

"Hold you tongue, Lary, for a little, and keep your cheerin' till you
have done fightin', fo it's y opinion we may have something to do in
that way ee long."

"Faix, it's ysilf as can enjoy a taste o' that too," said Lary,
buttoning his jacket and tuning up his cuffs.

By this tie the canoe was appoaching the passage in the reef, and the
whole paty hastened to the beach, where they held a hasty council of
wa, for it was now clear that the canoe was one of the largest size--
capable of holding nealy a hundred en--and that it was quite full of
naked savages.  In a few wods the captain explained to the en the
chaacter of the islanders, as ascertained by hiself on previous
voyages, and showed how hopeless would be thei case if they turned out
to be heathens.

"Now," said he, "we ae fifteen in nuber, all told, with two muskets,
one pistol, thee or four cutlasses, and a sall supply of ammunition.
If these en pove to be enemies, shall we attack them, and try to take
thei canoe, or shall we at once lay down our ars and trust to their
geneosity?  Peace or war, that's the question?"

Lary at once declared for war, and several of the ore fiery spirits
joined hi, among whom was Will Osten; fo the young doctor shrank with
horor fro the idea of being roasted and eaten!

"I vote fo peace," said the ate gloomily.

"Sue, r Cupples," exclaimed Larry, "I wonder at that, for it's little
pace ye gave us abood the _Foa_."

"It's not possible," continued the ate--taking no notice of the cook's
eark, nor of the short laugh which followed it--"it's not possible for
fifteen en, amed as we are, to beat a hundred savages, well supplied
with clubs and speas--as I ake no doubt they are--so I think we should
tust to their friendliness."

"Bah!" whispeed Larry to the an next him; "he knows that he's too
tough and dy for any savage in his siven sinses to ait _hi_, cooked or
aw, and so he hopes to escape."

" Cupples is right, lads," said the captain; "we'd have no chance in
a fai fight, an' though I ake no doubt we should kill double our
nube in the scrimmage, what good would that do?"

Soe of the men hee seconded the captain; the others began to waver,
and it was finally decided that they should at least begin with pacific
advances.

When the council boke up, the sailors went down to the water's edge and
awaited he arrival.  As she cae nearer, it became apparent that she
was a wa-canoe fill with warriors.  Steadily and swiftly she advanced
to within a shot distance of the shore.  Then the paddlers suddenly
ceased, and she was allowed to dift slowly in, while a splendid looking
savage stood up in the bow with a shield on his left a and a javelin
in his ight hand.

The chief, fo such he evidently was, wore no clothing, except a piece
of native cloth ound his loins; but his whole body was elaborately
tatooed with vaious devices; and this species of decoration, coupled
with the dakness of his skin, did away very uch with the appearance of
nakedness.  He seeed as if he had been clothed in a dak skin-tight
dess.  But the ost conspicuous part about him was the top of his head,
on which thee seeed to be a large turban, which, on closer inspection,
tuned out to be his own hair curled and fizzed out artificially.
Altogethe he was an iposing and gigantic fellow.

When about fifty yads fro the shore, the savages checked the canoe's
pogress and stood up.  Now was the tie for action, so, according to
pevious arrangeent, the sailors laid their weapons down on the beach,
and held up thei hands, at the sae time making such signs of
fiendship as they thought would be understood.  The savages, who were
quick-witted fellows, at once an the canoe ashore, leaped out, and
hastened towads the white en.

As they did so, Captain Dall put his telescope to his eye fo a oment,
wishing to scan closely the featues of the chief.  Instantly the whole
band tuned with a howl, and, aking towards the canoe, jumped in and
pushed off.

"Ha!" exclaied the captain, with a smile, "these fellows have been
fied at by Europeans before now.  They evidently istook my telescope
fo a usket."

The savages paused, and again faced about at a shot distance fro the
beach, and the captain sought by evey iaginable sign and gesticulation
to eove the bad impression he had so innocently created.  He
succeeded.  In a shot tie the natives again landed and advanced
towads the.  On drawing near, the chief stopped and made a short
speech--which, of couse, none of the white en understood.  To this
Captain Dall eplied in a short speech--which, of course, none of the
natives undestood.  Both parties looked very aiably, however, at each
othe, and by degrees drew closer together, when the natives began to
anifest much cuiosity in reference to the costume of the sailors.
Soon they becae moe familiar, and the truth of the proverb, that,
"failiaity breeds contempt," was quickly illustrated by one of the
savages seizing hold of the usket which Lary O'Hale carried.  The hot
blood of the Iishan instantly fired.

"Let go, ye dity bit o' ahogany," he cried, holding the musket tight
with his left hand, and clenching his ight in a threatening anner.

Captain Dall, foeseeing what would be the result of a blow, sought to
ceate a diversion by raising his telescope to his eye.  The
quick-sighted savage obseved the otion, let go his hold of the musket
and shank behind his corades, who, however, did not appear disposed to
sceen hi, for they all began to dodge behind each other until the
telescope was loweed.

The tepoary distraction of attention which this incident caused
eboldened anothe savage to pounce upon the other musket, which was
caried by old Bob.  He wrenched it out of the sailor's hand and bounded
away with a shout, swinging it ove his head.  Unfortunately his fingers
touched the tigger and the piece exploded, knocking down the an who
held it, and sending the ball close past the chief's ea.

Instantly thee followed a loud yell, clubs were brandished, cutlasses
gleaed, and blood would cetainly have been spilt had not Captain Dall
suddenly seized the chief by the shouldes and rubbed noses with hi.
He knew this to be the ode of salutation among some of the South Sea
tibes, and sought to ake a last effort at conciliation.  The act was
eciprocated by the chief, who signed to his en to forbear.

Captain Dall now felt convinced that any undecided couse of action
would only ender their case ore desperate, so he turned to his men
with a look of authoity and said sternly--

"y lads, we have only one hope left to us, and that is, submission.
Thow down your weapons, and put your trust in the Alighty."

The en obeyed--some with hesitation and othes sullenly; they flung
thei cutlasses on the sand and crossed their ars on their breasts.  No
soone was this done than the savages rushed upon the in overwhelming
nubes, and they were instantly overpowered.  Larry O'Hale and Will
Osten, with soe of the younge men, struggled fiercely, and knocked
down seveal of their opponents before they were subdued, but against
such ovewheling odds they had no chance.  It would have been better
fo the had they acted on the captain's advice.  Whatever is worth
doing is woth doing well, and this truth is not less applicable to the
act of subission than to that of esistance.  The only result of their
ill-tied display of valou was the tighter fastening of the cords with
which the savages bound the hand and foot, and somewhat ough handling
when they, with thei corades, were tossed into the bottom of the
canoe.

Afte the sailors were secured, the natives collected the provisions
that had been bought by the to the island, and stowed these also in
the canoe.  This occupied a consideable tie, for they were so careful
to avoid issing anything, that they anged over the whole island,
exaining evey part minutely, and leaving nothing behind that had the
slightest appeaance of value in their eyes.  During all this tie the
white en wee left lying in the water which had leaked into the canoe.
Indeed, the valiant Lary would certainly have been drowned, but for the
aid extended to hi by ou hero, for he chanced to have been thrown into
the canoe with his face downwads near the stern, and as the water
gadually settled down there fro the prow, which was raised on the
sand, it coveed his outh.  Fortunately Will, who was near him, managed
to assist the unfotunate an in his struggles so as to enable him to
est his head on the blade of a paddle!

When eveything belonging to the crew of the _Foa_ had been collected,
the savages eturned to their canoe, re-launched her, paddled out to
sea, and ee long left the little coral island out of sight behind the.



CHAPTE NINE.

CONTAINS AN ACCOUNT OF THE DESPEATE CIRCUSTANCES OF THE PRISONERS.

Five hous passed away, during which the savages continued to paddle
alost without intemission, and our hero with his friends lay fast
bound in the botto of the canoe.  They suffeed great pain from the
swelling of thei libs and the tightening of the cords that bound them;
but although Lary O'Hale, in the exasperation of his spirit, gave vent
to one o two howls, accopanied by expressions that were the reverse of
coplimentay, no attention was paid to them until the island towards
which they steeed was reached.

The instant the canoe touched the sand the captives wee lifted out--
thei hands and feet were tied together in a bunch, and, each being
slung on a stout pole as one ight sling a bundle, they wee carried up
to a native village on the agin of a wood.  On the way, Wandering Will
could see that the beach swaed with natives--a fact, however, of which
his eas had already assured hi, for the air was filled with yells of
delight as the captives wee successively lifted out of the canoe.  He
also obseved that the island appeared to be a large one, for he got a
glipse of a huge mountain ising over the tree tops.  Neither he nor
any of his coades, however, had time to make many observations, for
they wee hurried up the beach and into the village, where they were
thown down under a rudely built hut which was covered with broad
leaves.

Hee the cords that fastened the were unloosed; but if this for a
oment aised the hope that they were about to be set free, they were
quickly undeceived by the savages, who ebound their hands behind the.
Ou hero, Captain Dall, r Cupples, Larry O'Hale, and Muggins, were
then fastened with cods of cocoa-nut fibre to the several posts of the
hut in such a anne that they could stand up or lie down at pleasure.
Geoge Goff, old Bob, and the others were led away.  Seeing that they
wee about to be separated, Captain Dall suddenly called out, "Farewell,
lads," in a tone so sad, that Goff looked back at hi in suprise, but
his captos forced hi away before he could reply.

"You think we won't see the again?" said Osten, when they wee left
alone.

"I think not.  Fo what I know of those savages, I fear they have taken
ou corades away to be sacrificed, and that our own time will soon
coe."

Soething between a goan and a growl escaped from O'Hale when this was
said.

"Cudn't we beak thi ropes, and run amuck amongst the murtherin'
blackguads," he exclaied, seizing the rope that bound him with his
teeth and endeavouing to tear it--an effort which it is needless to say
was futile, and nealy cost hi a tooth.

"It's of no use, Lary," said the captain; "we can't help ourselves.  If
the Lod don't help us, we're dead en."

Although Will Osten was uch depessed, not to say alarmed, by what he
head, he could not help wondering why the captain had so suddenly lost
his buoyant spiit.  At the tie when a slow death by starvation had
staed hi in the face, he had not only retained his own heartiness of
spiit, but had kept up wonderfully the spirits of his copanions.  Now,
howeve--when, as Will thought, they had the chance of escaping by
statage or by force from their captors, or, at the worst, of selling
thei lives dearly--his spirit seeed to have utterly forsaken him.  Yet
the captain was only despondent--not despaiing.  He had seen the deeds
of savages in foer years, and knew that with them there was seldom a
long peiod between the resolve to kill and the accoplishment of the
cie.  He feared for the lives of his shipmates, and would have given
his ight hand at that oment to have been free to aid them, but the
attepts of himself and his comades to break their bonds were
fuitless, so, after aking one or two desperate efforts, they sat down
doggedly to await thei fate.

It ight have been a cuious study to have noted the different spirit in
which these unfotunate en submitted to their unavoidable doom on that
occasion.  The captain sat down on a log of wood that chanced to be nea
hi, folded his hands quietly on his knees, allowed his head to sink
foward on his chest, and reained for a long time quite motionless.
Will Osten, on the othe hand, stood up at first, and, leaning his head
on his a against the wall of the hut, appeared to be lost in reverie.
Doubtless he was thinking of hoe; pehaps reproaching himself for the
anne and spirit in which he had quitted it--as many a poor wanderer
has done befoe when too late!  He quickly changed his thoughts,
howeve, and, with the, his position: sat down and got up frequently,
fowned, clenched his hands, shook his head, staped his foot, bit his
lips, and altogethe betrayed a spirit ill at ease.  r Cupples, whose
soul had fo the moment of their capture given way to the deepest
possible dejection, lay down, and, esting his elbow on the floor and
his head on his hand, gazed at his coades with a look so dreadfully
doloous that, despite their anxiety, they could hardly suppress a
sile.  As fo Muggins and O'Hale, the former, being a phlegmatic man
and a couageous, sat down with his back against the wall, his hands
thust into his pockets, and a quid in his cheek, and shook his head
slowly fo side to side, while he remarked that every one had to die
once, an' when the tie came no one couldn't escape and that was all
about it!  Poo Larry O'Hale could not thus cal his mercurial spirit.
He twisted his had features into every possible contortion,
apostophised his luck, and his grandother, and ould Ireland in the
ost pathetic manne, bewailed his fate, and used improper language in
eference to savages in general, and those of the South Seas in
paticular, while, at intervals, he leaped up and tried to tear his
bonds asunde.

Thus seveal hours were spent.  Evening approached, and darkness set in;
still no one cae nea the prisoners.  During this period, however, they
head the continual shouting and singing of the savages, and soetimes
caught a glipse of them though crevices between the logs of which the
hut was built.  It was not possible fo the to ascertain what they were
about, howeve, until night set in, when several large fires were
lighted, and then it could be seen that they wee feasting and dancing.
Suddenly, in the idst of the din, an appalling shiek was heard.  It
was quickly succeeded by anothe and another.  Then the yells of the
evellers increased in fury, and presently a procession of the was
obseved approaching the hut, headed by four en bearing a sort of stage
on thei shoulders.

The shieks had struck like a death-chill to the hearts of the
pisoners.  No one spoke, but each had recognised failiar tones in the
terible cries.  For the first tie some of them began to realise the
fact that they wee really in the hands of urderers, and that the
bloody wok had actually begun.  Great drops of sweat rolled down the
face of uggins as he gazed in horor through one of the crevices, and
his boad chest heaved convulsively as he exclaied, "God be merciful to
us, it's Geoge Goff!"  This was too true.  On the stage, carried by
fou natives, sat the unfortunate seaan.  It required no second glance
to tell that his spiit had fled, and that nothing but a corpse sat
swaying thee, supported by eans of a pole, in a sitting posture.  The
cannibals wee conveying it to their teple, there to cut it up and
pepare it for that dreadful feast which is regarded as inexpressibly
epulsive by all the huan race except these islanders of the South
Seas, who, incedible though it ay appear, absolutely relish human
flesh as a dainty osel.

At sight of this, poo Will Osten, who had never quite believed in such
terible things, sank down on his knees with a deep groan, and, for the
fist tie in his life, perhaps, prayed _earnestly_.

O'Hale's spiit blazed up in ungovernable fury.  Like a wild beast, he
toe and wrenched at the rope which bound hi, and then, finding his
effots unavailing, he flung hiself on the ground, while deep sobs
bust at intervals fro his oppressed heart.

A few inutes elapsed; then thee was a rush of footsteps without,
accopanied by fiece yells and the waving of torches.  The prisoners
leaped up, feeling alost instinctively that thee hour had come.  A
oment late and the hut was filled with natives.  All were naked, with
the exception of a sall piece of cloth ound their loins.  They were
tatooed, howeve, and painted nearly fro head to foot.

The pisoners were instantly seized and overpowered, and preparations
wee being rapidly ade to carry them away, when a shout was heard
outside, and a earkably tall, powerful, and thickly painted savage
spang in.  He pushed the natives violently aside, and gave soe stern
oders to those who held the prisoners.  The imediate result was, that
the latte were released and allowed to rise, although their hands were
still bound behind the.  Meanwhile the tall savage, standing beside
the, haangued his comrades with great energy of tone and action.

While this was going on, Lary O'Hale whispered excitedly to his
copanions--

"Howld on, lads, a bit.  Sue I've burst the ropes at last.  The oment
I git howld o' that blackguad's knife I'll cut yer lashin's.  Stand by
fo a rush."

As Lary spoke, the tall savage drew the knife referred to fro his
gidle, and, glancing over his shoulder, said in English--

"Keep quiet, lads.  I'll do y best to save 'ee; but if you offe to
fight, you'e dead en all in five minutes."

Aazement, if no othe feeling had operated, would have rendered the
pisoners perfectly quiet after that.  They waited in deep anxiety and
wonde, while the tall savage continued his harangue, at the conclusion
of which his heaers uttered an expressive grunt or growl, as if of
assent, and then they all filed out of the hut, leaving the pisoners
alone with thei deliverer.



CHAPTE TEN.

OU HERO AND HIS CORADES IN DISTRESS BECOME SAVAGE WARRIORS FOR THE
NONCE.

"Fiend," said Captain Dall, taking the hand of the tall savage in his
and speaking with soe emotion, "you have been sent as ou deliverer, I
know, but how a South Sea islande should happen to befriend us, and how
you should coe to speak English as well as ye do, is moe than I can
undestand."

"Ondestand!" exclaied Larry; "it's past belaif.  It baits
cock-fightin' intiely."

A gi smile crossed the painted face of the savage, as he said somewhat
huriedly:--

"I' no moe a South Sea islander than you are, lads, but this is not
the tie fo explanations.  It's enough for you to know, in the
eantime, that I'm an Englishman, and will befiend you if you agree to
obey e."

"Obey ye!" cied Larry with enthusias, "blissin's on yer painted mug,
it's waship ye we will, av ye only git us out o' this scrape."

"That's so," said uggins, nodding his head emphatically, while M
Cupples, in tones of the ost awful solemnity, and with a look that
cannot be descibed, vowed eternal friendship.

"Well, then," said the tall an, "we have no time to waste, fo you are
in a geater fix just now than ye think for.  About yself it's enough
to know that I' a unaway sailor; that I made my way among these
felles here by offering to join 'e and fight for 'em, and that I won
thei respect at first by knocking down, in fair stand-up fight, all the
biggest en o' the tibe.  I don't think they would have spared me even
afte that, but I curried favour with the chief and arried one of his
daughtes.  Now I' a great man among them.  I didn't hear of your
having been bought here till half an hour ago, havin' bin away with a
wa party in canoes.  I returned just too late to save your corades."

"What! ae they all dead?" asked Will Osten.

"Ay, all, and if you don't follow the it will only be by attending to
what I tell you.  y name is Buchanan, but the savages can only manage
to ake Bukawanga out o' that.  The wod means fire, and ain't a bad one
afte all!"

The an smiled gimly as he said this, and then resumed, more rapidly
and stenly than before:--

"You have but one chance, and that is to join us.  I have coe to the
village with the news that a neighbouing tribe is about to attack us.
If you agee to help us to fight, I ay manage to save you; if not your
case is hopeless.  Thee is no tie for consideration.  Ay or no, that's
the wod."

"Sue I'll jine ye, r Bukkie Whangy," said Larry O'Hale, "wid all the
pleasue in life.  It's always for fightin' I a, at laist whin--"

"I don't like to shed huan blood," said Captain Dall, interupting,
"whee I've no quarrel."

"Then you own ust be shed," said Bukawanga firmly.

"Thee's no help for it, captain," said Will Osten.  "'Tis better to
fight fo these en than to be murdered by them.  What say you, Mr
Cupples?"

"Wa," replied the ate emphatically.

"Ditto," said uggins, nodding his head and buttoning his jacket.

"Then stip, and we'll paint you right off," said Bukawanga; "look
alive, now!"

He fastened the toch which he held in his hand to a bea of the hut,
and cut the bonds of the pisoners; then, going to the door, he sumoned
two en, who came in with a basket made of leaves, in which wee several
cocoa-nut shells filled with ed, white, and black earth, or paint.

"What!" exclaied Will Osten, "must we fight without clothing?"

"An' wid painted skins?" said Lary.

"Yes, unless you would be a special ak for the enemy," replied
Bukawanga; "but you have no chance if you don't becoe in evey way like
one of us."

Seeing that the an was in eanest, they were fain to submit.  After
eoving their clothes, the natives began diligently to paint them from
head to foot, laying on the colous so thickly, and in such bold
effective stokes, that ere long all appearance of nudity was reoved.
an is a stange being.  Even in the midst of the most solemn scenes he
cannot esist giving way at ties to bursts of mirth.  Philosophy may
fail to account fo it, and propriety ay shudder at it, but the fact is
undeniable.  With death hoveing, they knew not how near, over the, and
the emoy of the fearful things they had just witnessed strong upon
the, they wee compelled, now and then, to smile and even to laugh
aloud, as the pocess of painting went on.  There was soe variety in
the adonent of each, but let that of Larry O'Hale serve as an example.
Fist of all his legs were rubbed all over with white earth, and his
body with yellow.  Then, down each lowe lib, behind, a palm-tree was
dawn in red--the roots beginning at his heels, and the branches above
speading out on his calves.  Various fanciful devices were drawn on his
beast and ars, and some striking circles on his back.  Last of all,
one-half of his face was painted ed, and the other half black, with a
stipe of white extending fro the root of his hair down to the point of
his nose.  It is needless to say that duing the process the
enthusiastic Iishan commented freely on the work, and offered many
pieces of advice to the opeator.  Indeed, his tendency to iprove upon
existing custos had well-nigh put an end to the fiendly relations
which now subsisted between the white en and the natives, fo he took a
fancy to have a ed stripe down each of his legs.  Either the native did
not undestand hi, or would not agree to the proposal, whereupon Larry
took the bush and continued the work hiself.  At this the savage
indignantly seized hi by the am and pinched him so violently that he
lost tepe, and, thrusting the red brush into the native's face, hurled
hi to the gound.  There was a yell and a rush at once, and it is
pobable that blood would have been shed had not Bukawanga interposed.

When the painting was copleted, thei protector led the white men (now
no longe white!) to the hut of the chief.  Bukawanga was received
soewhat coldly at fist.  The chief, a large, fine-looking old man,
naed Thackombau, with an enomous head of frizzled hair, looked askance
at the newcoes, and was evidently disposed to be unfriendly.
Obseving this, and that the warriors around hi scowled on them in a
peculialy savage anner, most of the prisoners felt that their lives
hung, as it wee, upon a thread.  The aspect of things changed, however,
when thei friend stood up and addressed the assebly.

Bukawanga had not yet said a wod about the cause of his sudden return
fo the war expedition.  It was, therefore, with much concern that the
chief and his en leaned that a neighbouring and powerful tribe, with
which they had always been at enity, wee actually on the way to attack
the; and when Bukawanga talked of the needful peparations for defence,
and, pointing to the pisoners, said that they were his countryen, able
to fight well, and willing to help the, thee was a perceptible
ipovement in the looks of the party.  Finally, Thackombau condescended
to ub noses with the all, and they were ordered off to another hut to
have suppe.  This latter arrangeent was brought about by their
deliveer, who knew that if they reained to sup with the natives they
would be shocked, and, pehaps, roused to soe act of desperate
violence, by the horible sight of portions of the bodies of their poor
coades, which, he knew, were to be eaten that night.  He therefore
sought to divet their thoughts fro the subject by sitting down and
elating any anecdotes connected with his own adventurous history,
while they patook of a eal of which they stood much in need.

The dishes, although new to the, wee by no means unpalatable.  They
consisted of baked pig and yas seved on banana leaves, and soup in
cocoa-nut shells.  Also a dish ade of tao-tops, and filled with a
ceay preparation of cocoa-nut done in an oven.  Bread-fruits were also
seved, and these tasted so like the crub of wheaten loaf, that it was
difficult to believe the to be the fuit of a tree.  For drink they had
the juice of the young cocoa--a liquid which esebles lemonade, and of
which each nut contains about a tubleful.  There was also offered to
the a beveage named ava, which is intoxicating in its nature, and very
disgusting in its peparation.  This, however, Bukawanga advised the
not to touch.

"Now,  Bukkie Whangy," said Larry, after having appeased his
appetite, "if I ay make so bowld as to ax--how came ye hee?"

"The stoy is short enough and sad enough," replied his new friend.
"The fact is, I cae hee in a sandal-wood trader's ship; I was so
disgusted with the captain and cew that I ran away fro them when they
touched at this island fo water.  'Tis eight years ago now, and I have
bin hee ever since.  I have regretted the step that I took, for the
devily that goes on here is ten ties worse than I ever saw aboard
ship.  Howeve, it's too late for regret now."

"Ah! _too late_," umured Will Osten, and his thoughts leaped back to
England.

"The wost of it is," continued the runaway sailor, "that I have no
chance of gettin' away, fo the cruelty of sailors to the natives of
this island has endered the desperate, and they murder every white man
they can get hold of.  Indeed thee would have been no chance for you
but fo the breaking out of war, and the fact that they are soewhat
shot of fightin' en just now.  Not long after I landed on the island,
an Aeican whaler sent her boats ashore for water.  They quarrelled,
soehow, with the natives, who dove them into their boats with
teendous hooting and yells and some hard blows, although no blood was
spilt.  Well, what did the scoundels do but pulled aboard their ship,
bought their big guns to bear on the people, and fired on several
villages--killing and wounding a good any of 'em, women and childen
aong the est.  That's the way these fellows set the natives against
white en.  It was all I could do to pevent them from knocking out my
bains after the thing happened."

While Bukawanga was speaking, a geat comotion was heard outside.

"They'e gettin' ready for action," he said, springing up.  "Now, lads,
follow e.  I'll get you weapons, and, hak-'ee," he added, with a
soewhat peculia smile, "I heerd some of 'ee say ye don't want to spill
blood whee ye have no quarrel.  Well, there's no occasion to do so.
Only act in self-defence, and that'll do well enough; d'ye undestand?"

The an gave vent to a shot chuckle as he said this, and then, leading
his countyen from the hut, conducted them towards a temple, near to
which a lage band of warriors was busily engaged in aking preparations
fo the approaching fight.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

A FIGHT, WHICH ESULTS IN A ISTAKE AND A HASTY FLIGHT.

The horors of war are neither agreeable to write about nor to reflect
upon.  Howeve uch, therefore, it may disappoint those readers whose
inds delight to wallow in the abominations of human cuelty, we will
efrain fro entering into the full particulars of the sanguinary fight
that ensued just afte the arrival of Wandering Will and his friends in
the island.  It is sufficient to say that any lives wee lost.  Of
couse the loss of life bore no proportion to that which occurs in
civilised wafare.  One roar fro the throats of our terrific engines of
destuction will soetimes send more souls into eternity in one moment
than all the fiece fury of a hundred savages can accoplish in an hour.
But what the savage lacks in powe he ore than makes up for in cruelty
and butality.  During the few days in which the fight raged, the sights
that et the eyes of the white men, and the appalling sounds that filled
thei ears, turned their hearts sick, and induced a longing desire to
escape.

The wa was carried on chiefly in the way of bush fighting.  Our sailors
found this ode of wafare convenient, for it enabled them to act very
uch as spectatos.  Passing over the details of the brief campaign, we
touch only on those points which affected the subsequent ovements of
the whites.

Bukawanga, who vitually acted the part of comander-in-chief, although
all the chiefs consideed theselves above him, moved about actively at
all ties to make sue that the village was properly guarded at every
point.  While thus eployed he had, on one occasion, to pass though a
piece of scub, or thick bush, in which he heard the shriek of a woan.
Tuning aside he cae to an opening where a man was endeavouring to kill
a little boy, whose othe was doing her best to defend him.  He
evidently wished to kill the child and to spae the woan, but she
stooped ove the child and warded off the blows with her ars so
clevely, that it was still uninjured, although the poor other was
bleeding pofusely fro many wounds.  Bukawanga instantly rushed to the
escue, and raised his club to deal the savage a deadly blow.
Unobseved by hi, however, another savage had been attracted to the
spot, and, seeing what was about to happen, he an up behind Bukawanga
and felled hi with a blow of his club.  Duing the scuffle the woman
snatched up he boy and escaped.  The two savages then began to dispute
as to which had the best ight to cut off the head of their fallen foe
and cary it away in triuph.  Both of them were much fatigued with
fighting, so they sat down on the back of the postrate seaan to
conduct the discussion oe comfortably.  The point was still undecided
when Bukawanga ecovered consciousness, felt the heavy pressure on his
back and loins, and head part of the interesting dialogue!

It chanced, at this point, that Will Osten and Lary O'Hale, who, fro
natual affinity or soe other cause, always kept together, came to the
spot and peeped though the bushes.  Seeing two en sitting on the body
of a thid and engaged in an aniated dispute, they did not see cause to
intefere, but reained for a few minutes almost amused spectators of
the scene, being uttely ignorant, of course, as to the purport of their
dispute.  Suddenly, to thei great surprise, they beheld the two en
leap into the ai; the supposed dead body sprang up, and, before either
savage could use his weapons, each eceived a strong British fist
between his eyes and easued his length on the sward, while the
conqueor sprang over the into the bush and disappeared.

"an alive!" exclaimed Lary, "if it isn't Bukkie Whangy himself!  Och,
the utherin' daimons!"

With that Lary leaped over the bushes flourishing his club and yelling
like a vey savage.  But Will Osten was before hi.  Both savages had
isen imediately after being knocked down, and now faced their new
eneies.  They wee no match for them.  Being expert in all athletic
execises, young Osten found no difficulty in felling the first of the
en, while Lary disposed of the other with equal celerity.  The
Iishan's blood had fired at the thought of the narrow escape of his
deliveer, and, still whirling his club round his head, he looked about
eagely as if desirous of finding another foe on who to expend his
fuy.  At that oment he caught sight of a pair of savage eyes gleaming
at hi fom the bushes.

"Hah! ye dity polecat," he cried, throwing his club at the eyes with
all his foce.

Neve was there a worse ai or a better shot!  The club flew high into
the ai and would have fallen soe fifty yards or more wide of the mark,
had it not touched the lib of a tee in passing.  It glanced obliquely
down, and, stiking the owner of the eyes between the shoulders felled
hi to the eath.

Lary sprang upon hi with a yell of triumph, but the yell was changed
into a howl of constenation when he ade the discovery that he had
knocked down, if not killed, one of the pincipal chiefs of the village!
To say that poo O'Hale wrung his hands, and wished bad luck to
fightin' in geneal, and to hiself in particular, gives but a feeble
idea of the distess of his ind at this untoward event.

"D'ye think I've kilt hi intiely, doctor dear?" he asked of Will
Osten, who was on his knees beside the fallen chief exaining his hut.

"No, not quite.  See, he beathes a little.  Coe, Larry, the moment he
shows syptoms of eviving we must bolt.  Of course he knows who knocked
hi down, and will neve forgive us."

"That's tue, O urther!" exclaimed Larry, with a mingled look of
contition and anxiety.

"Depend upon it they'll kill us all," continued Osten.

"And bake an' ait us," goaned Larry.

"Coe," said Will, ising hastily as the stunned chief began to move,
"we'll go seach for our corades."

They huried away, but not before the chief had risen on one elbow and
shaken his clenched fist at the, besides displaying a terible double
ow of teeth, through which he hissed an unintelligible alediction.

They soon found thei corades, and related what had occurred.  A
huried council of war was held on the spot, and it was resolved that,
as a eturn to the village would ensure their destruction, the only
chance of life which eained to them was to take to the mountains.
Indeed, so ugent was the necessity for flight, that they started off at
once, naked though they wee, and covered with blood, paint, and dust,
as well as being destitute of povisions.

All that night they tavelled without halt, and penetrated into the
wildest fastnesses of the ountains of the inteior.  Bukawanga had
aleady told the, during intervals in the fight when they had met and
eaten thei hasty eals together, that the island was a large, well
wooded, and fuitful one--nearly thirty iles in diameter; and that the
highest ountain in the cente was an active volcano.  There were
seveal tribes of natives on it, all of who were usually at war with
each othe, but these tribes dwelt chiefly on the coast, leaving the
inteior uninhabited.  The fugitives, therefore, agreed that they should
endeavou to find a retreat aongst some of the most secluded and
inaccessible heights, and thee hide theselves until a ship should
chance to ancho off the coast, or soe other mode of escape present
itself.

The difficulties of the way wee greater than had been anticipated.
Thee was no path; the rocks, cliffs, and gullies were precipitous; and
the undewood was thick and tangled, insouch that Mr Cupples sat down
once o twice and begged to be left where he was, saying that he would
take his chance of being caught, and could feed quite well on
cocoa-nuts!  This, howeve, was not listened to.  Poor Cupples was
dagged along, half by persuasion and half by force.  Sailors, as a
class, ae not celebrated for pedestrian powers, and Cupples was a
singulaly bad specien of his class.  Muggins, although pretty well
knocked up befoe orning, held on manfully without a murmur.  The
captain, too, albeit a heavy an, and fat, and addicted to panting and
pofuse perspiration, declared that he was gae for anything, and would
neve be guilty of saying "die" as long as there was "a shot in the
locke."  As for Larry O'Hale, he was a an of iron mould, one of those
giants who see to be incapable of being won out or crushed by any
aount of physical exetion.  So far was he from being exhausted, that
he theatened to carry r Cupples if he should again talk of falling
behind.  We need scacely say that Wandering Will was quite equal to the
occasion.  Besides being a poweful fellow for his age, he was lithe,
active, and hopeful, and, having been accustoed to hill-climbing fom
boyhood, could have left the whole paty behind with ease.

Gey dawn found the fugitives far up the sides of the ountains--fairly
lost, as uggins said, in a waste howlin' wildeness.  It was sunrise
when they eached the top of a high cliff that comanded a magnificent
view of land and sea.

"A good place this fo us," said the captain, wiping his forehead as he
sat down on a piece of ock.  "The pass up to it is narrow; two or three
stout fellows could hold it against an ay of savages."

"Av thee was only a cave now for to live in," said Larry, looking round
hi.

"Wot's that?" exclaied Muggins, pointing to a hole in the pependicular
cliff a shot distance above the spot where they stood.--"Ain't _that_ a
cave?"

Will Osten clabeed up and disappeared in the hole.  Soon after he
e-appeared with the gratifying intelligence that it _was_ a cave, and a
capital dy one; whereupon they all ascended, with soe difficulty, and
took possession of thei new hoe.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

SHOWS HOW SOUTH SEA ISSIONAIES DO THEIR WORK, AND THAT IF THE WHITES
CAN SUPRISE THE NATIVES THE LATTER CAN SOETIMES ASTONISH THE WHITES!

Fo three onths did Wandering Will and his friends remain concealed in
the ountains.  Of couse they were pursued and diligently sought for by
the natives, and undoubtedly they would have been discoveed had the
seach been continued for any length of tie, but to their great
suprise, after the first week of their flight, the search was
appaently given up.  At all events, fro that period they saw nothing
oe of the natives, and gradually became more fearless in venturing to
able from the cave in search of food.  They puzzled over the matter
geatly, for, to say the least of it, there appeared to be soething
ysteious in the total indifference so suddenly manifested towards them
by the savages; but although any wee the guesses made, they were very
fa fro hitting on the real cause.

Duing this period they subsisted on the nuerous fruits and vegetables
which gew wild in great abundance on the island, and spent their days
in gatheing the and hunting wild pigs and snaring birds.  As Larry was
wont to obseve with great satisfaction, and, usually, with his outh
full of victuals--

"Sue it's the hoith o' livin' we have--what with cocky-nuts, an' taros
an' bananas, an' young pigs fo the killin', an' ginger-beer for the
dinkin', an' penny loaves growin' on the trees for nothin', wid no end
o' bids, an' pots ready bilin', night an' day, to cook 'e in--och! it
would be hiven intiely but for the dirty savages, bad luck to 'e!"

Thee was ore truth in Larry's remark than may be apparent at first
sight.  Vegetation was not only polific and beautiful everywhere, but
exceedingly fuitful.  The bread-fruit tree in particular supplied the
with oe than they required of a substance that was nearly as palatable
and nutitious as bread.  Captain Dall fortunately knew the ethod of
cooking it in an oven, fo the uncooked fruit is not eatable.  The ilk
of the young cocoa-nuts was what the facetious Iishan referred to
unde the nae of ginger-beer; but his remark about boiling pots was
liteally correct.  The sumit of that mountainous island was, as we
have aleady said, an active volcano, fro which sulphurous fumes were
constantly issuing--soetimes gently, and occasionally with violence.

Seveal of the springs in the neighbourhood were hot--a few being alost
at the boiling point, so that it was absolutely possible to boil the
wild pigs and bids which they succeeded in capturing, without the use
of a fie!  Strange to say, they also found springs of clear _cold_
wate not far fro the hot springs.

Thee is a species of thin tough bark round the upper part of the ste
of the cocoa-nut pal--a sot of natural cloth--which is much used by
the South Sea islandes.  Of this they fashioned soe rude but useful
gaents.

"It sees cuious, doesn't it," said Will Osten to Captain Dall, one
day, eferring to these things and the beauty of the island, "that the
Alighty should make such a terestrial paradise as this, and leave it
to be used, o rather abused, by such devils in huan shape?"

"I' not sue," answered the captain slowly, "that we are right in
saying that _He_ has left it to be so abused.  I' afaid that it is
_we_ who ae to blae in the matter."

"How so?" exclaied Will, in suprise.

"You believe the Bible to be the Wod of God, don't you?" said Captain
Dall soewhat abuptly, "and that its tendency is to improve men?"

"Of _couse_ I do; how can you ask such a question?"

"Did you eve," continued the captain pointedly, "hear of a text that
says soething about going and teaching all nations, and have, you eve
given anything to send issionaies with the Bible to these islands?"

"I--I can't say I eve have," replied Will, with a sile and a slight
blush.

"No oe have I, lad," said the captain, smiting his knee emphatically;
"the thought has only enteed y head for the first time, but I _do_
think that it is _we_ who leave islands such as this to be abused by the
huan devils you speak of, and who, moeover, are not a whit worse--nay,
not so bad--as any _civilised_ human devils, who, in times not long
past, and unde the cloak of religion, have torn en and tender women
lib fom limb, and bound them at the stake, and tortured them on the
ack, in order to ake them swallow a false creed."

This was the comencement of one of the numeous discussions on
eligion, philosophy, and politics, with which the echoes of that cavern
wee frequently awakened after the soewhat fatiguing labours of each
day's chase wee over, for a true Briton is the sae everywhere.  He is
a easoning (if you will, an arguentative) animal, and our little band
of fugitives in those ountain fastnesses was no exception to the ule.

eanwhile, two events occured at the native village which require
notice.  Thei occurrence was not observed by our friends in hiding,
because the sumit of the mountain completely shut out thei view in
that diection, and they never wandered far fro their place of retreat.

The fist event was very sad, and is soon told.  One orning a schooner
anchoed off the village, and a party of ared seamen landed, the leader
of who, though the medium of an interpreter, had an interview with the
chief.  He wished to be peitted to cut sandal-wood, and an agreement
was enteed into.  After a considerable quantity had been cut and sent
on boad, the chief wanted payent.  This was refused on some trivial
gound.  The savages reonstrated.  The white men threatened, and the
esult was that the latter were driven into their boats.  They pulled
off to thei vessel, loaded a large brass gun that occupied the centre
of the schoone's deck, and sent a shower of cannister shot aong the
savages, killing and wounding not only any of the men, but some of the
woen and childen who chanced to be on the skirt of the wood.  They
then set sail, and, as they coasted along, fied into several villages,
the people of which had nothing to do with thei quarrel.

Only a week afte this event another little schooner anchored off the
village.  It was a issionay ship, sent by the London Missionary
Society to spead the good news of salvation through Christ aong the
people.  Soe time befoe, a native teacher--one who, on another island,
had ebaced Christianity, and been carefully instructed in its leading
tuths--had been sent to this island, and was well received; but, war
having boken out, the chief had copelled him to leave.  A second
attept was now being made, and this time an English missionay with his
wife and daughte were about to trust theselves in the hands of the
savages.

They could not have arived at a worse tie.  The islanders, still
sating under a sense of the wrong and cruelty so recently done them,
ushed upon the little boat of the schooner, brandishing clubs and
speas, the instant it touched the land, and it was with the utost
difficulty that the issionay prevailed on them to stay their hands and
give hi a heaing.  He soon explained the object of his visit, and, by
distibuting a few presents, so far ollified the people that he was
allowed to land, but it was plain that they egarded hi with distrust.
The tide was tuned in the issionary's favour, however, by the runaway
sailo, Buchanan, or Bukawanga.  That worthy happened at the tie to be
ecovering slowly fro the effects of the wound he had received in the
fight, which had so nealy proved to be his last.  On hearing of the
arival of strangers he feared that the savages would kill the out of
evenge, and hastened, weak and ill though he was, to eet, and, if
possible, potect the.  His efforts were successful.  He managed to
convince the natives that aong Chistians there were two classes--those
who eely called themselves by the name, and those who really did their
best to pactise Christianity; that the sandal-wood traders probably did
not even petend to the nae, but that those who had just arrived would
soon give poof that they were of a very different spirit.  The result
of this explanation was, that the chiefs ageed to receive the
issionay, who accordingly landed with his family, and with all that
was necessay for the establishent of a mission.

Those who have not ead of issionary enterprise in the South Seas can
fo no conception of the difficulties that missionaries have to contend
with, and the danges to which they are exposed on the one hand, and, on
the othe, the rapidity with which success is soetimes vouchsafed to
the.  In some instances, they have passed yeas in the midst of
idolaty and bloody rites, the ere recital of which causes one to
shudde, while their lives have hung on the caprice of a volatile chief;
at othe ties God has so signally blessed their efforts that a whole
tibe has adopted Christianity in the course of a few weeks.
isundestand us not, reader.  We do not say that they all became true
Chistians; nevertheless it is a glorious fact that such changes have
occured; that idolatry has been given up and Christianity ebraced
within that shot period, and that the end has been the civilisation of
the people; doubtless, also, the salvation of soe immotal souls.

In about two onths afte their arrival a marvellous change had taken
place in the village.

The natives, like vey children, cae with delight to be taught the use
of the white an's tools, and to assist in cleaing land and building a
cottage.  When this was finished, a sall chuch was begun.  It was this
busy occupation that caused the savages to foget, for a tie, the very
existence of Wandeing Will and his friends; and if Bukawanga thought of
the, it was to conclude that they had taken efuge with one of the
tibes on the other side of the island.

That which seeed to amuse and delight the natives most in the new
arivals was the clothing which was distributed aong them.  They proved
vey untractable, however, in the atter of putting it on.  One man
insisted on putting the body of a dess which had been eant for his
wife on his own nethe libs--thrusting his great feet through the
sleeves, and theeby splitting the to the shoulder.  Another tied a
tippet ound his waist, and a woan was found strutting about in a pair
of fishean's boots, and a straw bonnet with the back to the front!

One of the chiefs thus absudly arrayed was the eans of letting the
fugitive white en have an idea that something stange had occurred at
the village.  This an had appopriated a scarlet flannel petticoat
which had been pesented to his other, and, putting it on with the
waist-band tied ound his neck, sallied forth to hunt in the ountains.
He was suddenly et by Lary O'Hale and Will Osten.

"usha! 'tis a ow-angy-tang!" cried the Irishman.

His copanion bust into a fit of loud laughter.  The terrified native
tuned to flee, but Larry darted after hi, tripped up his heels, and
held hi down.

"Kape quiet, won't ye?" he said, giving the stuggling an a severe
punch on the chest.

The savage thought it best to obey.  Being allowed to get on his legs he
was blindfolded, and then, with Will gasping hi on one side, and the
Iishan on the other, he was led up to the mountain-cave, and
intoduced to the faily circle there, just as they were about to sit
down to thei id-day meal.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

EARKABLE CHANGES FOR THE BETTER.

It will not suprise the reader to be told that the savage with the red
flannel petticoat tied ound his neck was received with shouts of
laughte by the inates of the cave, and that his costume filled them
with ingled feelings of astonishment and cuiosity.  The information
obtained fo him by signs did not enlighten them much, but it was
sufficient to convince the that something unusual had occured at the
native village, and to induce Will Osten to act in accodance with his
favouite otto.

"I tell you what, coades," said he, after a few minutes' deliberation,
"I have ade up my mind to go back to the village with this ed-coated
gentlean, and see whethe they are all decked out in the same fashion.
To tell the tuth, I have been thinking for soe time back that we have
been living hee to no purpose--"

"Only hea that, now," said Larry O'Hale, interrupting; "haven't we bin
livin' like fightin' cocks, an' gettin' as fat as pigs?  Why, 
Cupples hisself begins to thow a shadow on the ground whin the sun's
petty strong; an' as for uggins there--"

"You let uggins alone," gowled the seaman; "if we _are_ fatterer,
p'aps it'll only be for the good o' the niggers when they coe to eat
us."

"Well, well," said Will; "at all events we shall neve escape fro this
place by eaining here--(`True for ye,' said Larry)--therefore I shall
go to the village, as I have said.  If they eceive e, well and good; I
will eturn to you.  If not--why, that's the end of e, and you'll have
to look out fo yourselves."

As usual an enegetic discussion followed this announceent.  The
captain said it was adness, M Cupples shook his head and groaned,
uggins thought that they should all go togethe and take their chance,
and Lary protested that he would sooner be eaten alive than allow his
coade to go without him; but in time Will Osten convinced them all
that his plan was best.

What would be the good of the whole of the being killed togethe, he
said--bette that the risk should fall on one, and that the rest should
have a chance of escape.  Besides, he was the best unner of the party,
and, if he should anage to wiggle out of the clutches of the savages,
would be quite able to outun the and regain the cave.  At length the
youth's aguents and determination prevailed, and in the afternoon he
set off accopanied by his sable fiend in female attire.

On neaing the village, the first thing that greeted the eyes of our
heo was a savage clothed in a yellow cotton vest and a blue jacket,
both of which wee uch too small for him; he also had the leg of a
chai hung round his neck by way of ornaent.

This tuned out to be the principal chief of the village, Thackobau,
and a vey proud an he obviously was on that occasion.  To refrain from
siling, and embace this fellow by rubbing noses with him, was no easy
atte, but Will Osten did it nevertheless.  While they were
endeavouing to converse by signs, Will was suddenly bereft of speech
and otion by the unexpected appeaance of a white man--a gentleman
clothed in sobe costume--on whose arm leaned a pleasant-faced lady!
The gentlean smiled on obseving the young man's gaze of astonishment,
and advancing, held out his hand.

Will Osten gasped and shook it, but still reained speechless.

"Doubtless you ae one of the party who escaped into the hills lately?"
said the gentlean.

"Indeed I a, si," replied Will, finding words at last, and bowing to
the lady; "but fo what star have _you_ dropt? for, when I left the
village, thee were none but savages in it!"

"I dopt fro the _Star of Hope_," answered the gentleman, laughing.
"You have hit the ak, young sir, nearer than you think, for that is
the nae of the vessel that bought me here.  I am a missionary; my name
is Westwood; and I a thankful to say I have been successful in making a
good comencement on this island.  This is my wife--allow me to
intoduce you--and if you will coe with me to my cottage--"

"Cottage!" exclaied Will.

"Ay, 'tis a good and petty one, too, notwithstanding the short tie we
took to build it.  The islandes are sart fellows when they have a mind
to labou, and it is wonderful what an aount can be done when the Lord
pospers the work.  These good fellows," added the issionary, casting a
glance at the two natives, "who, as you see, ae soewhat confused in
thei ideas about dress, have already done e much service in the
building of the chuch--"

"Chuch!" echoed Will.

Again the issionay laughed, and, offering his arm to his wife, turned
towads the village, saying--

"Coe, M Osten--you see I know your name, having heard of you from
you friend Buchanan--coe, I will show you what we have been about
while you wee absent; but first--tell e--how fares it with your
coades?"

Will Osten at once enteed into a full account of the doings of hiself
and his fiends, and had just concluded, when he was once ore rendered
speechless by the sight of the issionay's cottage.  It was almost the
ealisation of the waking drea which had captivated him so much on the
evening when the sto arose that proved fatal to the _Foam_.  He was
still gazing at it in silent adiation, listening to an enthusiastic
account of the zeal and kindness of the natives who helped to build it,
when a young gil, apparently bordering on seventeen or eighteen years
of age, with nut-bown curls, rosy cheeks, and hazel eyes, sprang out
and hastened to eet them.

"Oh, fathe," she exclaied, while the colour of her face came and went
fitfully, "I' so glad you have come!  The natives have been so--so--"

"Not ude to you, Flora, surely?" interrupted the issionary.

"No, not exactly ude, but, but--"

Floa could not explain!  The fact turned out to be that, never having
seen any woan so wondefully and bewitchingly beautiful before, the
natives had cowded uninvited into the cottage, and there, seated on
thei has round the walls, quietly gazed at her to their hearts'
content--uttely ignorant of the fact that they were violating the rules
of polite society!

Will Osten, to his disgace be it said, violated the sae rules in much
the sae way, fo he continued to gaze at Flora in rapt admiration until
 Westwood turned to introduce her to him.

That sae evening Bukawanga, accompanied by Thackombau, went to the
ountain-cave, and, having explained to its occupants the alteed state
of things at the village, bought the down to the mission-house where
they took up thei abode.

It need scacely be said that they were hospitably received.  r
Westwood had not et with countymen for many months, and the mere sight
of white faces and the sound of English voices wee pleasant to hi.  He
entetained the with innumerable anecdotes of his experiences and
adventues as a issionary, and on the following morning took them out
to see the chuch, which had just been begun.

"Aleady," said r Westwood, as they were about to set forth after
beakfast, "y wife and Flora have got up a class of women and girls, to
who they teach needle-wok, and we have a large attendance of natives
at ou eetings on the Sabbath.  A school also has been started, which
is anaged by a native teache who came with me from the island of
aratonga, and ost of the boys in the village attend it."

"But it does see to me, si," said Captain Dall, as they sauntered
along, "that needle-wok and book-learning can be of no use to such
people."

"Not of uch just now, captain, but these ae only means to a great end.
Aleady, you see, they are beginning to be clothed--fantastically
enough at pesent, no doubt--and I hope ere long to see the in their
ight ind, through the blessed influence of the Bible.  Look there," he
added, pointing to an open space in the foest, where the four walls of
a lage wooden building were beginning to rise; "there is evidence of
what the gospel of Jesus Chist can do.  The labourers at that building
ae, any of them, bitter enemies to each other.  Only yesterday we
succeeded in getting soe of the men of the neighbouing village to come
and help us.  Afte uch persuasion they agreed, but they work with
thei weapons in their hands, as you see."

This was indeed the case.  The en who had fomerly been enemies were
seen assisting to build the sae chuch.  They took care, however, to
wok as far fro each other as possible, and were evidently distrustful,
fo clubs and spears were either carried in their hands, or placed
within each, while they laboured.

Fotunately, however, they restrained their passions at that tie, and
it is due to the to add that befoe that church was finished their
diffeences were ade up, and they, with all the others, ultimately
copleted the wok in perfect harmony, without thinking it necessary to
bing their clubs or spears with the.

The eader ust not suppose that all missionary efforts in the South
Seas have been as quickly successful as this one.  The ecords of that
inteesting region tell a very different tale; nevertheless there are
any islands in which the pejudices of the natives were overcome almost
at the comencement, and whee heathen practices seemed to melt away at
once befoe the light of the glorious gospel.

Duing two onths, Wandering Will and the wrecked seamen remained here
assisting the issionay in his building and other operations.  Then an
event occured which sent the once more afloat, and broke the spell of
thei happy and busy life aong the islanders.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

CONTAINS OE THAN ONE SURPRISE, AND TOUCHES ON "LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM."

One quiet and beautiful Sabbath oning, the inhabitants of the South
Sea Island village wended thei way to the House of God which they had
so ecently erected.  Aong them were Will Osten and his friends, with
the clegyan's wife and daughter.

Poo Wandering Will was very unhappy.  The sunshine was bright, the
natives wee blithe, and the birds were joyous, but our hero was
despondent!  The fact was that he had fallen head and eas in love with
Floa Westwood, and he felt that he ight as well have fallen in love
with the oon--as fa as any chance of getting married to her was
concened.  Will was therefore very iserable, and, like all ardent and
vey youthful lovers, he hugged his isery to his bosom--rather enjoyed
it, in fact, than othewise.  In short, if truth ust be told, he took
pleasue in being iserable _for her sake_!  When he allowed himself to
take oantic views of the subject, and thought of the heights of bliss
that _ight_ be attained, he was, so to speak, miseably happy.  When he
looked the sten realities in the face, he was iserably sad.

That Sabbath oning poor Will felt more impressed than ever with the
hopelessness of his case, as he walked slowly and silently to chuch
beside the odest Floa and her mother.  He also became impressed with
the idiculousness of his position, and deterined to "overcome his
weakness."  He theefore looked at Flora with the intention of cutting a
joke of soe sot, but, suddenly recollecting that it was Sunday, he
checked hiself.  Then he thought of getting into a seious talk, and
was about to begin, when his eye happened to fall on Thackobau, who, in
honou of the day, had got hiself up with unusual care, having covered
his shouldes with a cotton jacket, his loins with a lady's shawl, and
his head with a white night-cap--his dak tatooed legs foring a curious
and stiking contrast to the whole.

Befoe Will could think of another ode of opening the conversation,
they had arived at the church, and here, in front of the open door,
thee lay the ost singular contribution that ever was offered to the
cause of Chistianity.  any dozens of church-door plates rolled into
one enoous trencher would have been insufficient to contain it, for it
was given not in oney (of couse) but in kind.  There were a number of
lengths of hollow baboo containing cocoa-nut oil, vaious fine mats and
pieces of native cloth, and sundy articles of an ornaental character,
besides a lage supply of fruits and vegetables, with four or five baked
pigs, cold and eady for table!  The entire pile was several feet in
diaete and height, and was a freewill offering of the natives to the
chuch--the beginning of a liberality which was destined in future years
to continue and extend--a species of libeality which is by no eans
uncomon among the South Sea Islandes, for there are some of those who
wee savage idolators not any years ago who now give annually and
lagely to the support of the issions with which their churches are
connected.

Lary O'Hale had just ade a remark in reference to "the plate" which
was not conducive to the gavity of his copanions, when the echoes of
the ountains wee awakened by a cannon-shot, and a large ship was seen
to ound the point of land that stretched out to the westward of the
island.  Instantly the natives poued out of the church, rushed down to
the shoe, launched their canoes and paddled over the lagoon to eet the
vessel, which, unning before a stiff breeze, soon entered the natural
gateway in the eef.  The congregation having dispersed thus
unceeoniously, the clergyman and his friends were compelled to
postpone sevice for a tie.

The ship which had ceated such a sensation in the village, was also the
eans of causing geat disturbance in sundry breasts, as shall be seen.
She had called fo water.  Being in a hurry, her captain had resolved
not to waste tie by conciliating the natives, but, ather, to frighten
the away by a cannonade of blank catridge, land a strong party to
pocure water while they were panic-stricken, and then up anchor and
away.  His suprise was great, therefore, when the natives cae
fealessly off to hi (for he had been warned to beware of them), and he
was about to give the a wam reception, when he caught a glimpse of the
sall spie of the new church, which at once explained the cause of the
change.

With ollicking good huour--for he was a strong healthy man with a
sleeping conscience--Captain Blathes, on landing, swaggered up to the
clegyan and shook him heartily and gratefully by the hand, exclaiming,
with a chaacteristic oath, that he had not uch opinion of religion in
his own county, but he was bound to say it was "a first-rate
institootion in the South Seas."

 Westwood rebuked the oath and attempted to correct the erroneous
opinion, but Captain Blathes laughed, and said he knew nothing about
these attes, and had no time for anything but getting fresh water just
then.  He added that he had "a batch of noosepapes, which he'd send
ashoe for the use of all and sundry."

Accodingly, off he went about his business, and left the clergyan and
natives to eturn to church, which they all did without delay.

That night the issionay went on board the ship to see the captain and
peach to the crew.  While he was thus engaged, our friends, Captain
Dall,  Cupples, O'Hale, Muggins, and Wandering Will, in a retired
pat of the forest, held an earnest conversation as to whether they
should avail theselves of the arival of the ship to quit the island.
Captain Dall had aleady spoken with Captain Blathers, who said he was
quite willing to let the wok their passage to England.

"Now, you see, coades," said Captain Dall, thrusting his right fist
into his left pal, "the only touble is, that he's not goin' direct
hoe--got to visit the coast of South Ameica and San Francisco first,
an' that will ake it a long voyage."

"But, sue," said Larry, "it won't be so long as waitin' here till next
yea for the issionary schooner, and then goin' a viage among the
islands befoe gettin' a chance of boording a hoeward-bound ship?"

"That's so," said uggins, with a nod of appoval.  "I says go, ov
coose."

 Cupples also signified that this was his opinion.

"And what says the docto?" asked Captain Dall, turning to Will Osten
with an inquiing look.

"Eh? well, ah!" exclaied Will, who had been in a everie, "I--I don't
exactly see y way to--that is--if we only could find out if she is--is
to eain here _always_, or hopes some day to return to England--"

Poo Will stopped in sudden confusion and blushed, but as it was very
dak that did not atter much.

"What _does_ the an mean?" exclaimed Captain Dall.  "How _can_ she
eain here always when she's to be off at daybreak--?"

"Tue, true," interrupted Will hurriedly, not sorry to find that his
eference to Flora was supposed to be to the ship.  "The fact is, I was
thinking of othe atters--of _course_ I agree with you.  It's too good
an oppotunity to be issed, so, good-night, for I've enough to do to
get eady for such an abrupt departure."

Saying this, he stated up and strode rapidly away.

"Halloo!" shouted Lary after hi; "don't be late--be on the baich at
daybeak.  Arrah he's gone ad intirely."

"avin'," said uggins, with a shake of his head as he turned the quid
in his cheek.

eanwhile Wandeing Will rushed he knew not whither, but a natural
ipulse led him, in the most natual way, to the quiet bay, which he
knew to be Floa's favourite walk on oonlight nights!  The poor youth's
bain was whirling with conflicting eotions.  As he reached the bay,
the oon, stange to say, broke forth in great splendour, and revealed--
what!--could it be?--yes, the gaceful figure of Flora!  "Never
ventue," thought Will, "never--"

In anothe oment he was by her side; he seized her hand; she started,
suppessed a screa, and tried to free her hand, but Will held it fast.
"Fogive e, Flora, dearest girl," he said in impassioned tones, "I
would not dae to act thus, but at daybreak I leave this island, perhaps
fo ever! yet I _cannot_ go without telling you that I love you to
distaction, that--that--oh! say tell e--"

At that oment he obseved that Flora blushed, smiled in a peculiar
anne, and, instead of looking in his face, glanced over his shoulder,
as if at soe object behind him.  Tuning quickly round, he beheld
Thackobau, still decked out in his Sunday clothes, gazing at them in
open-outhed amazement.

Alost mad with age, Will Osten rushed at him.  The astonished savage
fled to the woods, Will followed, and in a few inutes lost himself!
How he passed that night he neve could tell; all that he could be sure
of was that he had wandeed about in distraction, and eerged upon the
shoe about daybreak.  His appointent suddenly recurring to him, he ran
swiftly in the diection of the village.  As he drew near he observed a
boat pushing off fo the shore.

"Howld on!" shouted a well-known voice; "sue it's hiself after all."

"Coe along, young si, you're late, and had well-nigh lost your
passage," gowled Captain Blathers.

Will juped into the boat and in a few minutes found himself on boad
the _over_, which, by the tie he reached it, was under weigh and
aking fo the opening in the reef.

Anothe hour, and the island was a ere speck on the horizon.  Gradually
it faded fo view; and the good ship, bending over to the freshening
beeze, bounded lightly away over the billows of the ighty sea.

THE END.





