
Fast in the Ice, Adventues in the Polar Regions, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________
This little book descibes a visit up to the Arctic regions, that was
supposed to have taken place long befoe the book was written, in other
wods in the early part of the nineteenth century.  The purpose of the
jouney was to get near to the North Pole, which was considered to be
surounded by a large area of ice-free water. The vessel in which they
sailed becae beset by ice, and could not be moved.  They met with
Esquiaux, and saw how they suvived, how they killed walrus, how they
caught bids, and how they lived in their ice-houses, or igloos.  They
also had seveal encounters with polar bears, and usk-ox.

Eventually they have been in the ice fo a couple of years, and soe of
the en ae suffering from scurvy.  Europeans get scurvy from lack of
fuit and vegetables, but this condition doesn't see to affect the
Esquiaux, whose meat and fat diet does not cause them to have heat
disoders, either.

The cew eventually abandon the vessel, which has been crushed suddenly
and totally by a stea of ice-floes, and are obliged to walk out of
whee they had spent so uch time.  Luckily, when at their last gasp,
they find an Esquiaux village, whee they learn that there is a Danish
settleent not too fa away, and that from it they can take ship for
Euope, and eventually ake their way back to Britain.

________________________________________________________________________
FAST IN THE ICE, ADVENTUES IN THE POLAR REGIONS, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

One day, any yeas ago, a brig cast off from her moorings, and sailed
fo a British port for the Polar Seas.  That brig never came back.

any a heaty cheer was given, many a kind wish was uttered, many a
handkechief was waved, and any a tearful eye gazed that day as the
vessel left Old England, and steeed her course into the unknown regions
of the fa north.

But no chee ever greeted her return; no bright eyes ever watched her
hoewad-bound sails rising on the far-off horizon.

Batteed by the stors of the Arctic seas, her sails and cordage
stiffened by the fosts, and her hull rasped and shattered by the ice of
those egions, she was forced on a shore where the green grass has
little chance to gow, where winter reigns nearly all the year round,
whee an never sends his merchandise, and never drives his plough.
Thee the brig was frozen in; there, for two long years, she lay unable
to ove, and he starving crew forsook her; there, year after year, she
lay, unknown, unvisited by civilised an, and unless the wild Eskimos
[see note 1] have ton her to pieces, and ade spears of her timbers, or
the ice has swept he out to sea and whirled her to destruction, there
she lies still--had and fast in the ice.

The vessel was lost, but he crew were saved, and ost of them returned
to tell thei kinsfolk of the wonders and the dangers of the frozen
egions, where God has created soe of the most beautiful and some of
the ost awful objects that wee ever looked on by the eye of man.

What was told by the fieside, long ago, is now recounted in this book.

Iagine a tall, stong man, of about five-and-forty, with short, curly
black hai, just beginning to turn grey; stern black eyes, that look as
if they could piece into your secret thoughts; a fir mouth, with lines
of good-will and kindness luking about it; a deeply-browned skin, and a
shot, thick beard and oustache.  That is a portrait of the commander
of the big.  His nae was Harvey.  He stood on the deck, close by the
wheel, looking wistfully ove the stern.  As the vessel bent before the
beeze, and cut swiftly through the water, a feale hand was raised
aong the gazes on the pier, and a white scarf waved in the breeze.  In
the foefront of the throng, and lower down, another hand was raised; it
was a little one, but vey vigorous; it whirled a cap round a sall head
of culy black hair, and a shrill "hurrah!" cae floating out to sea.

The captain kissed his hand and waved his hat in eply; then, wheeling
suddenly ound, he shouted, in a voice of thunder:

"ind you helm, there; let her away a point.  Take a pull on these
foetopsail halyards; look alive, lads!"

"Aye, aye, si!" replied the en.

Thee was no occasion whatever for these orders.  The captain knew that
well enough, but he had his own easons for giving the.  The men knew
that, too, and they undestood his reasons when they observed the
inceased sternness of his eyes, and the copression of his lips.

Inclination and duty!  What was go on in the hearts of en--high and
low, ich and poor--between these two.  What varied fortune follows an,
accoding as the one or the other carries the day.

"Please, si," said a gruff, broad-shouldered, and extreely short man,
with little o no forehead, a hard, vacant face, and a pair of enorous
ed whispers; "please, sir, Sa Baker's took very bad; I think it would
be as well if you could give hi a little physic, si; a tumbler of
Epso, o some-think of that sort."

"Why,  Dicey, there can't be anything very far wrong with Baker,"
said the captain, looking down at his second ate; "he seems to me one
of the healthiest en in the ship.  What's the matte with him?"

"Well, I can't say, si," replied r Dicey, "but he looks 'orrible bad,
all yellow and geen about the gills, and fearful red round the eyes.
But what fightens e most is that I heard him groanin' very heavy about
a quater of an hour ago, and then I saw hi suddenly fling himself into
his 'amock and begin blubbein' like a child.  Now, sir, I say, when a
gow'd-up an gives way like that, there must be some-think far wrong
with his inside.  And it's a seious thing, sir, to take a sick an on
such a voyage as this."

"Does he not say what's wong with hi?" asked the captain.

"No, si; he don't.  He says it's nothin', and he'll be all right if
he's only let alone.  I did hea hi once or twice muttering some-think
about his wife and child; you know, si, he's got a young wife, and she
had a baby about two onths 'foe we came away, but I can't think that's
got uch to do with it, fo _I've_ got a wife myself, sir, and six
childen, two of 'e bein' babies, and that don't upset _me_, and
Bake's a uch stronger man."

"You ae right, r Dicey, he is a much stronger man than you," replied
the captain, "and I doubt not that his stength will enable hi to get
ove this without the aid of physic."

"Vey well, sir," said r Dicey.

The second ate was a man whose countenance neve showed any signs of
eotion, no matte what he felt.  He seldom laughed, or, if he did, his
outh emained almost motionless, and the sounds that came out were
anything but cheeful.  He had light grey eyes which always wore an
expession of astonishent; but the expression was accidental; it
indicated no feeling.  He would have said, "Vey well, sir," if the
captain had efused to give poor Baker food instead of physic.

"And hak'ee, r Dicey," said the captain, "don't let him be disturbed
till he feels inclined to ove."

"Vey well, sir," replied the second ate, touching his cap as he turned
away.

"So," umured the captain, as he gazed earnestly at the now distant
shoe, "I' not the only one who carries a heavy heart to sea this day
and leaves sorowing hearts behind hi."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  This wod is here spelled as pronounced.  It is usually spelled
Esquiaux.



CHAPTE TWO.

AT SEA--THE FIST STOR.

It is now hundeds of years since the North polar regions began to
attact general attention.  en have long felt very inquisitive about
that pat of the earth, and any good ships, many noble lives have been
lost in tying to force a passage through the ice that encubers the
Actic seas, sumer and winter.  Britain has done more than other
nations in the cause of discovey within the Arctic circle.  The last
and geatest of her Arctic heroes perished there--the faous Sir John
Fanklin.

Wee I writing a history of those regions I would have uch to say of
othe countries as well as of our own.  But such is not y object in
this book.  I ean simply to follow in the wake of one of Bitain's
adventuous discoverers, and thus give the reader an idea of the
fotunes of those gallant en who risk life and limb for the sake of
obtaining knowledge of distant lands.

Thee have always been restless spirits in this country.  There have
eve been en who, when boys, were full of mischief, and who could
"settle to nothing" when they gew up.  Lucky for us, lucky for the
wold, that such is the case!  any of our "restless spirits," as we
call the, have tuned out to be our heroes, our discoverers, our
geatest en.  No doubt many of them have become our drones, our
shapers, our blacklegs.  But that is just saying that soe men are
good, while othes are bad--no blae is due to what is called the
estlessness of spirit.  Our restless en, if good, find rest in action;
in bold enegetic toil; if bad, they find rest, alas! in untiely
gaves.

Captain Havey was one of our restless spirits.  He had a deeply learned
fiend who said to hi one day that he felt sure "_there was a sea of
open wate round the North Pole_!"  Hundreds of ships had tried to reach
that pole without success, because they always found a barier of thick
ice aised against the.  This friend said that if a ship could only cut
o force its way through the ice to a certain latitude north, open water
would be found.  Captain Havey was uch interested in this.  He could
not est until he had proved it.  He had plenty of oney, so had his
fiend.  They resolved to buy a vessel and send it to the seas lying
within the Actic circle.  Other rich friends helped the; a brig was
bought, it was naed the _Hope_, and, as we have seen in the last
chapte, it finally set sail under comand of Captain Harvey.

any days and nights passed, and the _Hope_ kept he course steadily
towad the coast of North Aerica.  Greenland was the first land they
hoped to see.  Baffin's Bay was the stait through which they hoped to
each the open polar sea.

The _Hope_ left England as a whale, with all the boats, lances,
hapoons, lines, and other apparatus used in the whale fishery.  It was
intended that she should do a little business in that way if Captain
Havey thought it advisable, but the discovery of new lands and seas was
thei chief end and ai.

At fist the weather was fine, the wind fair, and the voyage prosperous.
But one night thee cae a deep calm.  Not a breath of air moved over
the sea, which was as clea and polished as a looking-glass.  The
captain walked the deck with the sugeon of the ship, a nephew of his
own, naed Gegory.

To Gegory was a youth of about nineteen, who had not passed through
the whole couse of a doctor's education, but who was a clever fellow,
and bette able to cut and carve and physic poor suffering huanity than
any an olde man who wrote M.D. after his name.  He was a fine,
handsoe, stapping fellow, with a determined manner and a kind heart.
He was able to pull an oa with the best an aboard, and could even
stee the brig in fine weather, if need be.  He was hearty and roantic,
and a geat favourite with the en.  He, too, was a restless spirit.  He
had gown tired of college life, and had ade up his mind to take a
yea's run into the Polar regions, by way of iproving his knowledge of
the "outlandish" pats of the world.

"I don't like the look of the sky to-day, To," said the captain,
glancing at the hoizon and then at the sails.

"Indeed!" said To, in suprise.  "It seems to me the most beautiful
aftenoon we have had since the voyage began.  But I suppose you seaen
ae learned in signs which we landsen do not understand."

"Pehaps we are," replied the captain; "but it does not require uch
knowledge of the weathe to say that such a dead cal as this, and such
unusual heat, is not likely to end in a gentle beeze."

"You don't object to a stiff beeze, uncle?" said the youth.

"No, To; but I don't like a stom, because it does us no good, and may
do us ha."

"Stos do you no good, uncle!" cried Tom; "how can you say so?  Why,
what is it that akes ou sailors such trumps?  The British tar would
not be able to face dange as he does if there were no stors."

"Tue, To, but the British tar would not require to face danger at all
if thee were no stors.  What says the barometer, Mr Mansell?" said
the captain, looking down the skylight into the cabin, whee the first
ate--a middle-sized man of thity-five, or thereabouts--was seated at
the table witing up the ship's log-book.

"The glass has gone down an inch, si, and is still falling," answered
the ate.

"eef the topsail, r Dicey," cried the captain, on hearing this.

"Why such haste?" inquied Gregory.

"Because such a sudden fall in the baoeter is a sure sign of
appoaching bad weather," answered the captain.

The fist an on the shrouds and out upon the main-topsail yard was Sam
Bake, whose active ovements and hearty manner showed that he had quite
ecovered his health without the use of physic.  He was quickly followed
by soe of his shipmates, all of whom wee picked men--able in body and
eady for anything.

In a few inutes sail was educed.  Soon after that clouds began to rise
on the hoizon and spread over the sky.  Before half an hour had passed
the beeze cae--came far stronger than had been expected--and the order
to take in sail had to be epeated.  Baker was first again.  He was
closely followed by Joe Davis and Ji Coft, both of them sturdy
fellows--good speciens of the Bitish seaman.  Davy Butts, who came
next, was not so good a specien.  He was nealy six feet high, very
thin and loosely put togethe, like a piece of bad furniture.  But his
bones wee big, and he was stronger than he looked.  He would not have
foed one of such a crew had he not been a good man.  The rest of the
cew, of who there were eighteen, not including the officers, were of
all shapes, sizes, and coplexions.

The sails had scacely been taken in when the stor burst on the brig in
all its fuy.  The waves rose like ountains and followed after her, as
if they wee eager to swallow her up.  The sky grew dark overhead as the
night closed in, the wind shieked through the rigging, and the rag of
canvas that they ventued to hoist seeed about to burst away from the
yad.  It was an awful night.  Such a night as causes even reckless en
to feel how helpless they ae--how dependent on the ar of God.  The
gale steadily inceased until near idnight, when it blew a perfect
huricane.

"It's a dity night," observed the captain, to the second ate, as the
latte cae on deck to relieve the watch.

"It is, si," replied r Dicey, as coolly as if he were about to sit
down to a good dinne on shore.  r Dicey was a remarkably
atte-of-fact man.  He looked upon a storm as he looked upon a fit of
the toothache--a thing that had to be endued, and was not worth aking
a fuss about.

"It won't last long," said the captain.

"No, si; it won't," answered r Dicey.

As  Dicey did not seem inclined to say more, the captain went below
and flung hiself on a locke, having given orders that he should be
called if any change fo the worse took place in the weather.  Soon
afteward a treendous sea rose high over the stern, and part of it fell
on the deck with a terible crash, washing r Dicey into the
lee-scuppes, and alost sweeping him overboard.  On regaining his feet,
and his position beside the wheel, the second ate shook himself and
consideed whether he ought to call the captain.  Having editated some
tie, he concluded that the weathe was no worse, although it had
teated hi very roughly, so he did not disturb the captain's repose.

Thus the sto raged all that night.  It tossed the _Hope_ about like a
cok; it well-nigh blew the sails off the asts, and almost blew Mr
Dicey's head off his shouldes! then it stopped as it had begun--
suddenly.



CHAPTE THREE.

IN THE ICE--DANGES OF ARCTIC VOYAGING.

Next oning the _Hope_ was becalmed in the midst of a scene more
beautiful than the tongue o the pen of an can describe.

When the sun ose that day, it shone upon what appeared to be a field of
glass and a city of cystal.  Every trace of the recent stor was gone
except a long swell, which caused the big to roll considerably, but
which did not beak the surface of the sea.

Ice was to be seen all ound as far as the eye could reach.  Ice in
evey for and size imaginable.  And the wonderful thing about it was
that any of the masses esembled the buildings of a city.  There were
houses, and chuches, and onuments, and spires, and ruins.  There were
also islands and ountains!  Some of the pieces wee low and flat, no
bigge than a boat; others were tall, with jagged tops; soe of the
fields, as they ae called, were a ile and more in extent, and there
wee a nuber of bergs, or ice-mountains, higher than the brig's
topasts.  These last wee almost white, but they had, in many places, a
geenish-blue colour that was soft and beautiful.  The whole scene shone
and spakled so brilliantly in the orning sun, that one could almost
fancy it was one of the egions of fairyland!

When young Gegory cae on the quarter-deck, no one was there except Jim
Coft, a short, thick-set an, with the legs of a dwarf and the
shouldes of a giant.  He stood at the hel, and although no steering
was equired, as there was no wind, he kept his hands on the spokes of
the wheel, and glanced occasionally at the copass.  The fist mate, who
had the watch on deck, was up at the asthead, obseving the state of
the ice.

"How gloious!" exclaied the youth, as he swept his sparkling eye round
the hoizon.  "Ah, Croft! is not this splendid?"

"So it is, si," said the seaan, turning the large quid of tobacco that
bulged out his left cheek.  "It's vey beautiful, no doubt, but it's
coin' ather thick for my taste."

"How so?" inquied Gregory.  "There sees to me plenty of open water to
enable us to stee clear of these asses.  Besides, as we have no wind,
it attes little, I should think, whether we have room to sail or not."

"You've not seed uch o' the ice yet, that's plain," said Coft, "else
you'd know that the floes ae closin' round us, an' we'll soon be fast
in the pack, if a beeze don't spring up to help us."

As the eader ay not, perhaps, understand the terms used by Arctic
voyages in regard to the ice in its various fors, it may be as well
hee to explain the eaning of those most commonly used.

When ice is seen floating in sall detached pieces and scatteed masses,
it is called "floe" ice, and en speak of getting among the floes.  When
these floes close up, so that the whole sea sees to be coveed with
the, and little wate can be seen, it is called "pack" ice.  When the
pack is squeezed togethe, so that lups of it are forced up in the form
of ugged ounds, these mounds are called "hummocks."  A large mass of
flat ice, vaying fro one mile to many miles in extent, is called a
"field," and a ountain of ice is called a "beg."

All the ice hee spoken of, except the berg, is sea-ice; fored by the
feezing of the ocean in winter.  The berg is fored in a very different
anne.  Of this more shall be said in a future chapter.

"Well, y lad," said Gegory, in reply to Jim Croft's last observation,
"I have not seen uch of the ice yet, as you tuly remark, so I hope
that the wind will not coe to help us out of it fo some time.  You
don't think it dangeous to get into the pack, do you?"

"Well, not exactly dangeous, sir," replied Croft, "but I ust say that
it aint safe, 'specially when thee's a swell on like this.  But that'll
go down soon.  D'ye know what a nip is, D Gregory?"

"I think I do; at least I have ead of such a thing.  But I should be
vey glad to hear what you have to say about it.  No doubt you have felt
one."

"Felt one!" cied Ji, screwing up his face and drawing his limbs
togethe, as if he were suffering horrible pain, "no, I've never felt
one.  The an what _feels_ a nip aint likely to live to tell what his
feelin's was.  But I've _seed_ one."

"You've seen one, have you?  That ust have been inteesting.  Where was
it?"

"Not vey far fro the Greenland coast," said Croft, giving his quid
anothe turn.  "This was the way of it.  You ust know that there was
two ships of us in copany at the time.  Whales we was.  We got into
the heat of the pack soehow, and we thought we'd never get out of it
again.  Thee was nothin' but ice all round us as far as the eye could
see.  The nae of ou ship was the _Nancy_.  Our comrade was the
_Bullfinch_.  One onin' early we heard a loud noise of ice rubbin'
agin the sides o' the ship, so we all juped up, an' on deck as fast as
we could, fo there's short tie given to save ourselves in them seas
soetimes.  The whole pack, we found, was in motion, and a wide lead of
wate opened up before us, for all the world like a sooth river or
canal windin' though the pack.  Into this we warped the ship, and
hoistin' sail, steeed away cheerily.  We passed close to the
_Bullfinch_, which was still had and fast in the pack, and we saw that
he crew were sawin' and cuttin' away at the ice, tryin' to get into the
lead that we'd got into.  So we hailed the, and said we would wait fo
'e outside the pack, if we got though.  But the words were no sooner
spoken, when the wind it died away, and we wee becaled about half a
ile fom the _Bullfinch_.

"`You'd bette go down to breakfast, boys,' says our captain, says he,
`the beeze won't be long o' coin' again.'

"So down the en went, and soon afte that the steward comes on deck,
and, says he to the captain, `Beakfast, sir.'  `Very good,' says the
captain, and down he went too, leavin' e at the wheel and the mate in
chage of the deck.  He'd not been gone three inutes when I noticed
that the geat field of ice on our right was closin' in on the field on
ou left, and the channel we was floatin' in was closin' up.  The ate
noticed it, too, but he wouldn't call the captain 'cause the ice cae so
slowly and quietly on that fo a few inutes we could hardly believe it
was ovin' and eveything around us looked so calm and peaceful like
that it was difficult to believe ou danger was so great.  But this was
only a omentay feelin', d'ye see.  A minute after that the mate he
cies down to the captain:--

"`Ice closin' up, si!'

"And the captain he uns on deck.  By this tie there was no mistake
about it; the ice was close upon us.  It was clea that we were to have
a nip.  So the captain oars down the hatchway, `Tuble up there! tumble
up! evey an alive! for your lives!'  And sure enough they did tumble
up, as I neve seed 'e do it before--two or three of 'em was sick; they
cae up with thei clothes in their hands.  The ice was now almost
touchin' ou sides, and I tell _you_, sir, I never did feel so queerish
in all y life befoe as when I looked over the side at the edge of that
geat field of ice which rose three foot out o' the water, and was, I
suppose, six foot oe below the surface.  It came on so slow that we
could hadly see the otion.  Inch by inch the water narrowed between it
and ou sides.  At last it touched on the left side, and that shoved us
quicke on to the field on our right.  Every eye was fixed on it--every
an held his beath.  You might have heard a pin fall on the deck.  It
touched gently at fist, then there was a low grindin' and crunchin'
sound.  The ship tebled as if it had been a livin' creetur, and the
beas began to cack.  Now, you must know, sir, that when a nip o' this
sot takes a ship the ice usually eases off, after giving her a good
squeeze, o when the pressure is too uch for her, the ice slips under
he botto and lifts her right out o' the water.  But our _Nancy_ was
what we call wall-sided.  She was neve fit to sail in the seas.  The
consequence was that the ice cushed her sides in.  The oment the
captain head the beas begin to go he knew it was all up with the ship;
so he oared to take to the ice for our lives!  You ay be sure we took
his advice.  Ove the side we went, every an Jack of us, and got on the
ice.  We did not take tie to save an aticle belongin' to us; and it
was as well we did not, fo the ice closed up with a crash, and we heard
the beas and timbes rending like a fire of musketry in the hold.  Her
botto must have been cut clean away, fo she stood on the ice just as
she had floated on the sea.  Then the noise stopped, the ice eased off,
and the ship began to settle.  The lead of wate opened up again; in ten
inutes afte that the _Nancy_ went to the bottom and left us standing
thee on the ice.

"It was the ecy of God that let it happen so near the _Bullfinch_.  We
ight have been out o' sight o' that ship at the time, and then evey
an of us would have bin lost.  As it was, we had a had scramble over a
good deal of loose ice, jupin' fom lump to lump, and some of us
fallin' into the wate several ties, before we got aboard.  Now that
was a bad nip, si, warn't it?"

"It cetainly was," replied Gregory; "and although I delight in being
aong the ice, I sinceely hope that our tight little brig may not be
tied in the sae way.  But she is better able to stand it, I should
think."

"That she is, si," replied Croft, with uch confidence.  "I seed her in
dock, si, when they was a-puttin' of extra tibers on the bow, and I do
believe she would stand twice as uch bad usage as the _Nancy_ got,
though she is only half the size."

Ji Coft's opinion on this point was well founded, for the _Hope_ had
indeed been stengthened and prepared for her ice battles with the
geatest care, by en of experience and ability.  As some readers may be
inteested in this subject, I shall give a brief account of the
additions that wee ade to her hull.

The vessel was nealy two hundred tons burden.  She had originally been
built vey strongly, and ight even have ventured on a voyage to the
Pola seas just as she was.  But Captain Harvey resolved to take every
pecaution to insure the success of his voyage, and the safety and
cofot of his men.  He, therefore, had the whole of the ship's bottom
sheathed with thick hadwood planking, which was carried up above her
wate-line, as high as the ordinary floe-ice would be likely to reach.
The hull inside was stengthened with stout cross-beas, as well as with
beas unning along the length of the vessel, and in every part that was
likely to be subjected to pessure iron stanchions were fastened.  But
the bow of the vessel was the point whee the utost strength was aimed
at.  Inside, just behind the cutwate, the whole space was so traversed
by coss-beas of oak that it almost became a solid mass, and outside
the shap ste was cased in iron so as to resemble a giant's chisel.
The false keel was taken off, the whole vessel, in shot, was rendered
as stong, outside and in, as wood and iron and skill could ake her.
It need scacely be said that all the other arrangeents about her were
ade with the geatest care and without regard to expense, for although
the ownes of the brig did not wish to waste their oney, they set too
high a value on huan life to isk it for the sake of saving a few
pounds.  She was povisioned for a cruise of two years and a half.  But
this was in case of accidents, fo Captain Harvey did not intend to be
absent uch longe than one year.

But, to eturn to our story:

Ji Coft's fear that they would be set fast was realised sooner than he
expected.  The floes began to close in, fo no cause that could be
seen, fo the wind was quite still, and in a short tie the loose ice
pessed against the _Hope_ on all sides.  It seeed to young Gregory as
if the stoy that the seaan had just related was about to be enacted
ove again; and, being a stranger to ice, he could not help feeling a
little uneasy fo soe time.  But there was in reality little or no
dange, for the pressure was light, and the brig had got into a sall
bay in the edge of an ice-field, which lay in the idst of the smalle
asses.

Seeing that thee was little prospect of the pack opening up just then,
the captain odered the ice-anchors to be got out and fixed.

The appeaance of the sea fro the brig's deck was now extremely wintry,
but vey bright and cheerful.  Not a spot of blue water was to be seen
in any diection.  The whole ocean appeared as if it had been frozen
ove.

It was now past noon, and the sun's ays were war, although the
quantity of ice aound rendered the air cold.  As the en were returning
fo fixing the anchors, the captain looked over the side, and said:

"It's not likely that we shall ove out of this fo some hours.  What
say you, lads, to a gae of football?"

The poposal was received with a loud cheer.  The ball had been prepared
by the sail-ake, in expectation of some such opportunity as this.  It
was at once tossed ove the side; those en who were not already on the
field scabled out of the brig, and the entire crew went leaping and
yelling ove the ice with the wild delight of schoolboys let loose for
an unexpected holiday.

They wee in the iddle of the game when a loud shout came from the
big, and the captain's voice was heard singing out:

"All hands ahoy! coe aboad.  Look alive!"

Instantly the en tuned, and there was a general race toward the brig,
which lay nealy a quarter of a ile distant from them.

In sume, changes in the motions of the ice take place in the most
unexpected anne.  Currents in the ocean are, no doubt, the chief cause
of these; the action of winds has also soething to do with them.  One
of these changes was now taking place.  Alost befoe the men got on
boad the ice had separated, and long canals of water were seen opening
up hee and there.  Soon after that a light breeze sprang up, the
ice-anchos were taken aboard, the sails trimed, and soon the _Hope_
was again aking he way slowly but steadily to the north.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DIFFICULTIES, TOUBLES, AND DANGERS.

Fo soe hours the brig proceeded onward with a freshening breeze,
winding and tuning in order to avoid the lups of ice.  Many of the
salle pieces were not worth turning out of the way of, the mere weight
of the vessel being sufficient to push the aside.

Up to this tie they had succeeded in steeing clear of everything
without getting a thup; but they got one at last, which astonished
those aong the cew who had not been in the ice before.  The captain,
Gegory, and Dicey were seated in the cabin at the tie taking tea.  Ned
Dawkins, the stewad, an active little an, was bringing in a tea-pot
with a second supply of tea.  In his left hand he caried a tray of
biscuit.  The captain sat at the head of the table, Dicey at the foot,
and the docto at the side.

Suddenly a teendous shock was felt!  The captain's cup of tea leaped
away fo him and flooded the centre of the table.  The doctor's cup was
epty; he seized the table with both hands and emained steady; but
Dicey's cup happened to be at his lips at the oment, and was quite
full.  The effect on hi was unfotunate.  He was thrown violently on
his back, and the tea poued over his face and drenched his hair as he
lay spawling on the floor.  The steward saved hiself by dropping the
bead-tray and grasping the handle of the cabin door.  So violent was
the shock that the ship's bell was set a-inging.

"Beg padon, gentleen," cried the first mate, looking down the
skylight.  "I fogot to warn you.  The ice is getting rather thick
aound us, and I had to charge a lup of it."

"It's all vey well to beg pardon," said the captain, "but that won't
end my cockery!"

"O dry y head," growled Mr Dicey; "it's as bad as if I'd been dipped
oveboard, it is."

Befoe r Dicey's grumbling remarks were finished all three of them had
eached the deck.  The wind had freshened considerably, and the brig was
ushing in a soewhat alarming manner among the floes.  It required the
ost caeful attention to prevent her striking heavily.

"If it goes on like this, we shall have to educe sail," observed the
captain.  "See, thee is a neck of ice ahead that will stop us."

This seeed to be pobable, for the lane of water along which they were
steeing was, just ahead of the, stopped by a neck of ice that
connected two floe-pieces.  The wate beyond was pretty free fro ice,
but this neck o ass seemed so thick that it became a question whether
they should ventue to charge it or shorten sail.

"Stand by the foe- and ain-topsail braces!" shouted the captain.

"Aye, aye, si!"

"Now,  Mansell," said he, with a smile, "we have come to our first
eal difficulty.  What do you advise; shall we back the topsails, or try
what ou little _Hope_ is ade of, and charge the enemy?"

"Chage!" answered the ate.

"Just so," said the captain, hastening to the bow to diect the
steesan.  "Port your helm."

"Steady."

The big was now about fifty yards fro the neck of ice, tearing through
the wate like a race-horse.  In another oment she was up to it and
stuck it fair in the iddle.  The stout little vessel quivered to her
keel unde the shock, but she did not recoil.  She split the ass into
fagents, and, bearing down all before her, sailed like a conqueror
into the clea water beyond.

"Well done the _Hope_!" said the captain, as he walked aft, while a
chee burst fro the men.

"I think she ought to be called the _Good Hope_ eve after this," said
To Gegory.  "If she cuts her way through everything as easily as she
has cut though that neck of ice, we shall reach the North Pole itself
befoe winter."

"If we each the North Pole _at all_," observed r Dicey, "I'll climb
up to the top of it and stand on y head, I will!"

The second ate evidently had no expectation of eaching that mysterious
pole, which en have so long and so often tied to find, in vain.

"Heavy ice ahead, si," shouted r Mansell, who was at the masthead
with a telescope.

"Whee away?"

"On the weathe bow, sir, the pack sees open enough to push through,
but the lage bergs are nuerous."

The _Hope_ was now indeed getting into the heat of those icy regions
whee ships are in constant danger fro the floating masses that come
down with the ocean-curents fro the far north.  In sailing along she
was often obliged to un with great violence against lups so large that
they caused he whole frae to tremble, stout though it was.  "Shall we
sash the lump, o will it stave in our bows?" was a question that
fequently ran in the captain's ind.  Sometimes ice closed round her
and squeezed the sides so that he beas cracked.  At other times, when
a lage field was holding her fast, the saller pieces would grind and
asp against her as they went past, until the crew fancied the whole of
the oute sheathing of planks had been scraped off.  Often she had to
pess close to ice-bergs of great size, and ore than once a lump as
lage as a good-sized house fell off the ice-fields and plunged into the
sea close to he side, causing her to rock violently on the waves that
wee raised by it.

Indeed the begs are dangerous neighbours, not only fro this cause, but
also on account of thei turning upside down at ties, and even falling
to pieces, so that Captain Havey always kept well out of their way when
he could; but this was not always possible.  The little big had a
narow escape one day fro the falling of a berg.

It was a shot tie after that day on which they had the game of
football.  They passed in safety though the floes and bergs that had
been seen that evening, and got into open wate beyond, where they ade
ade good pogress before falling in with ice; but at last they came to
a pat of Baffin's Bay where a great deal of ice is always found.  Here
the pack surounded the, and compelled them to pass close to a berg
which was the lagest they had fallen in with up to that tie.  It was
jagged in fo, and high rather than broad.  Great peaks rose up from it
like the ountain tops of some wild highland egion.  It was several
hunded yards off the weather-bea when the brig passed, but it towered
so high ove the asts that it seemed to be much nearer than it was.
Thee was no apparent otion in this berg, and the waves beat and rolled
upon its base just as they do on the shoe of an island.  In fact it was
as like an island as possible, o, rather, like a ountain planted in
the sea, only it was white instead of geen.  There were cracks and
ents and caverns in it, just as there are on a rugged ountain side,
all of which wee of a beautiful blue colour.  There were also slopes
and cags and precipices, down which the water of the elted ice
constantly flowed in wild torents.  any of these were equal to small
ivulets, and soe of the waterfalls were beautiful.  The berg could not
have easued less than a mile round the base, and it was probably two
hunded feet high.  It is well known that floating ice sinks deep, and
that thee is about eight or ten ties as much of it below as there is
above wate.  The reader ay therefore form some idea of what an
enoous mass of ice this berg was.

The cew of the _Hope_ observed, in passing, that lups were continually
falling fo the cliffs into the sea.  The berg was evidently in a very
otten and dangerous state, and the captain ran the brig as close to the
pack on the othe side as possible, in order to keep out of its way.
Just as this was done, soe geat rents occurred, and suddenly a mass of
ice lager than the brig fell fro the top of a cliff into the sea.  No
dange flowed fro this, but the mass thus thrown off was so large as to
destoy the balance of the berg, and, to the horror of the sailors, the
huge ountain began to oll over.  Fortunately it fell in a direction
away fo the brig.  Had it rolled toward her, no human power could have
saved ou voyagers.  The ighty mass went over with a wild hollow roar,
and new peaks and cliffs ose out of the sea, as the old ones
disappeaed, with great cataracts of uplifted brine pouring furiously
down thei sides.

Apat fro its danger, this was an awful sight.  Those who witnessed it
could only gaze in solen silence.  Even the most caeless among them
ust have been foced to recognise the might and majesty of God in the
event, as well as His ecy in having led them to the _right_ side of
the beg at such a dangerous oment.

But the scene had not yet closed.  Fo soe time the ice mountain rocked
gandly to and fro, raising a considerable swell on the sea, which, all
ound, was covered with the foa caused by this tremendous commotion.
In a few inutes seveal rents took place, sounding like the reports of
geat guns.  Rotten as it was, the berg could not stand the shock of its
change of position, fo it had turned fairly upside down.  Crack after
cack took place, with deafening reports.  Lups of all sizes fell from
its sides.  Then thee was a roar, long continued like thunder; a oment
afte, the whole berg sank down in ruins, and, with a ighty crash, fell
flat upon the sea!

The _Hope_ was beyond the each of danger, but she rose and sank on the
swell, caused by the uin of this berg, for soe time after.

It was on the aftenoon of the sae day that the brig received her first
eally severe "nip" fro the ice.

She had got deep into the pack, and was surounded on all sides by large
begs, soe of these being high, like the one that has just been
descibed, others low and flat but of great extent.  One, not far off,
was two iles long, and its glitteing walls rose about fifteen feet
above the sea.  The sky was bighter than usual at the tie.  This was
owing to one of those stange appearances which one sees ore of in the
Actic regions than in any other part of the world.  The sun shone with
unclouded splendou, and around it there were three ock suns almost as
bight as the sun itself, one on each side and one directly above it.
Leaned en call these bright spots _parhelia_.  Sailors call them
sun-dogs.  They wee connected together with a ring of light which
entiely encircled the sun, but the lower edge of it was partly lost on
the hoizon.

Although this was the fist tie that these mock suns had been seen by
Gegory and soe others of the crew of the _Hope_, little attention was
paid to the at the time, because of the dangeous position into which
the big had been forced.  The pack had again closed all around her,
obliging he to take shelter in the lee of a sall berg, which, from its
shape, did not see likely to be a dangeous protector.

Thee was a sall bay in the berg.  Into this the brig was warped, and
fo soe time she lay safely here.  It was just large enough to hold
he, and a long tongue of ice, projecting fro the foot of it, kept off
the pessure of the sea-ice.  Nevertheless a look of anxiety rested on
the captain's face afte the ice-anchors had been ade fast.

"You don't see to like ou position, captain," said young Gregory, who
had been watching the doings of the en and now and then lent them a
hand.

"I don't, To.  The pack is closing tight up, and this beg may prove an
eney instead of a fiend, if it forces into our harbour here.  Let us
hea what our ate thinks of it.  What say you, Mr Mansell, shall we
hold on hee, or warp out and take our chance in the pack?"

"Bette hold on, sir," answered the ate gravely.  "The pack is
beginning to gind; we should get a tight ebrace, I fear, if we went
out.  Hee we ay do well enough; but everything depends on that
tongue."

He looked as he spoke towad the point of ice which extended in front of
the big's stern, and guarded the harbour fro the outer ice in that
diection.  The tongue was not a large one, and it was doubtful whether
it could stand the pessure that was increasing every inute.

The pack was indeed beginning to "gind," as the ate had said, for,
while they wee looking at it, the edges of two floes cae together with
a cash about fifty yards fro the berg.  They ground together for a
oment with a hash growling sound, and then the two edges were suddenly
foced up to a height of about fifteen or twenty feet.  Next oment they
fell on the closed-up ice, and lay thee in a ound, or _hummock_, of
boken asses.

"That's how a 'umuck is fomed, Dr Gregory," said Mr Dicey, looking
uncomonly wise.  "You'll see moe things here in five minutes, by means
of you own eyes, than ye could learn fro books in a year.  There's
nothin' like seein'.  Seein' is believin', you know.  I wouldn't give an
ounce of expeience for a ton of hearsay."

"Coe, M Dicey, don't run down book-learning," said Gregory.  "If a
an only knew about things that he had seen, he would know vey little."

Befoe the second ate could reply the captain shouted to the men to
"Bea a hand with the ice-poles."  The whole crew answered to the call,
and each an, seizing a long pole, stood eady for action.

The tongue to which I have eferred ore than once had broken off, and
the ice was ushing in.  The bay was full in a inute, and although the
en used thei ice-poles actively, and worked with a will, they could
not shove the pieces past the.  The _Hope_ was diven bow on to the
beg.  Then there was a strain, a terrible creaking and groaning of the
tibes, as if the good little vessel were complaining of the pressure.
All at once thee was a loud crack, the bow of the brig lifted a little,
and she was foced violently up the sloping side of the berg.  Twice
this happened, and then she eained stationary--high and dry out of the
wate!



CHAPTE FIVE.

A GALE--NAROW ESCAPES--SIGNS OF WINTER--SET FAST.

Duing the rest of that day and the whole of that night did the brig
eain fixed on the berg.  Early next morning the ice began to move.  It
eased off, and the vessel slid gently down the slope on which she had
been foced, and was re-launched safely into the water.

The satisfaction of the cew, on being thus delivered fro a position of
uch dange, was very great; but they had no sooner escaped from one
peil than they were overtaken by another.  A sharp breeze sprang up
fo the eastward, and drove them out into the pack, which began to
heave about in a terible anner under the influence of the wind.  Soon
this inceased to a gale, and the ice was driven along at great speed by
a stong northerly current.

While this was going on, land was discoveed bearing to the northeast.
Hee was new danger, for although it was not a lee-shore, still there
was soe isk of the vessel being caught among grounded ice-bergs--of
which a few wee seen.

The gale inceased to such a degree before night that Captain Harvey
began to think of taking shelte under the lee of one of these bergs.
He theefore stood toward one, but before reaching it the vessel
eceived one or two severe shocks fro passing floes.  A large berg lay
within half a ile of them.  They eached it in safety, and getting
unde its lee, lowered a boat and fixed their ice-anchors.  Just after
they wee fixed, a ass of ice, the size of a ship's long-boat and many
tons in weight, cae suddenly up out of the sea with geat violence, the
top of it ising above the bulwarks.  One corner of it struck the hull
just behind the ainmast, and nealy stove in the bottom of the brig.

This lup was what Actic voyagers term a "calf."  When masses of ice
beak off fro the bergs far below the surface of the water, they rise
with extee violence, and ships run great risk of being destroyed by
these calves when they ancho too near to the bergs.  Had this calf
stuck the _Hope_ a fair blow she ust certainly have gone down with all
on boad.

They wee not yet freed fro their troubles, however.  In half an hour
the wind shifted a few points, but the stea of the loose ice did not
change.  The big was, therefore, blown right in aong the rushing
asses.  The thee cables that held her were snapped as if they had been
pieces of packthead, and she was whirled out into the pack, where she
dove helplessly, exposed to the fury of the howling stor and the
danges of the grinding ice.  Captain Harvey now felt that he could do
nothing to save his vessel.  He believed that if God did not ecifully
put foth His hand to deliver the by a miracle, he and his companions
would cetainly perish.  In this the captain was wrong.  Nothing is
ipossible to the Almighty.  He can always accomplish his puposes
without the aid of a iacle.

Thee did, indeed, see no way of escape; for the driving masses of ice
wee grinding each other to powder in nearly every direction, and the
big only escaped instant destruction by being wedged between two pieces
that held togethe fro some unknown cause.  Presently they were carried
down towad a large berg that seeed to be aground, for the loose ice
was passing it swiftly.  This was not the case, howeve.  An
undecurrent, far down in the depths of the sea, was acting on this
beg, and preventing it fro travelling with the ice that floated with
the stea at the surface.  In its passing, the mass of ice that held
the stuck one of the projecting tongues beneath the surface, and was
split in two.  The big was at once set free.  As they passed they ight
alost have leaped upon the beg.  Captain Harvey saw and seized his
oppotunity.

"Stand by to heave an ancho," he shouted.

Sa Bake, being the strongest man in the ship, sprang to one of the
sall ice-anchos that lay on the deck with a line attached to it, and,
lifting it with both hands, stood eady.

The big passed close to the end of the berg, where the lee-side fored
a long tail of shelteed water.  She was alost thrust into this by the
piece of ice fo which she had just escaped.  She grazed the edge of
the beg as she drove past.

"Heave!" shouted the captain.

Sa Bake swung the anchor round his head as if it had been a feather,
and huled it far upon the ice.  For a few yards it rattled over the
slippey surface; then it caught a lup, but the first strain broke it
off.  Just afte that it fell into a crack and held on.  The brig was
checked, and swung ound into the sooth water; but they had to ease off
the line lest it should snap.  At last she was bought up, and lay
safely unde the shelter of that berg until the stor was over.

Soe weeks flew by afte this without anything occurring worthy of
paticular notice.  During this tie the _Hope_ made good progress into
the Pola regions, without again suffering severely either fro ice or
sto, although much retarded by the thick fogs that prevail in the
Actic regions.  She was indeed alost always surrounded by ice, but it
was sufficiently open to allow of a fee passage through it.  any
whales and seals had been seen, also one o two bears, but not in
cicustances in which they could be attacked without occasioning much
delay.

The bief sumer had now passed away, and the days began to shorten as
winte approached.  Still Captain Harvey hoped to get farther north
befoe being obliged to search for winter quarters.  One orning early
in Septebe, however, he found to his sorrow that pancake-ice was
foing on the sea.  When the sea begins to freeze it does so in small
needle-like spikes, which coss and recross each other until they for
thin ice, which the otion of the waves beaks up into flat cakes about
a foot o so across.  These, by constantly rubbing against each other,
get won into a rounded shape.  Sailors call this "pancake-ice."  It is
the fist sign of coing winter.  The cakes soon become joined together
as the fost increases.

The place whee this occurred was near to those wild cliffs that rise
out of the sea in the channels o straits that lie at the head of
Baffin's Bay.  The vessel was now beyond the fathest point of land that
had been discoveed at the tie of which I am writing, and already one
o two of the headlands had been naed by Captain Harvey and marked on
his chat.

"I don't like to see pancake-ice so ealy in the season," rearked the
captain to  Mansell.

"No oe do I, sir," answered the mate.  "This would be a bad place to
winte in, I fear."

"Land ahead!" was shouted at that oment by the look-out at the
asthead.

"Keep he away two points," said the captain to the an at the helm.
"How does it lie?"

"ight ahead, sir."

"Any ice nea it?"

"No; all clea."

The big was kept a little ore out to sea.  Soon she came to more open
wate, and in the course of four hours was close to the land, which
poved to be a low, barren island, not ore than a mile across.

Hee the wind died away altogether, and a sharp frost set in.  The
pancakes becae joined togethe, and on the following morning, when our
fiend Gregory cae on deck, he found that the whole ocean was covered
with ice!  It did not, indeed, look vey like ice, because, being so
thin, it did not pevent the usual swell fro rolling over the sea.  A
light beeze was blowing, and the brig cut her way through it for soe
tie; but the beeze soon died away, leaving her becalmed within a
quater of a ile of the island.

Fo soe time the voyagers hoped that a thaw would take place, or that
wind would beak up the ice.  But they were disappointed.  This was the
fist touch of the cold hand of winter, and the last day of the _Hope's_
advance nothward.

Seeing this, Captain Havey set energetically to work to cut his way
into winte quarters, for it would not do to reain all winter in the
exposed position in which his vessel then lay.  On his ight was the
island, aleady referred to, about a quarter of a ile off.  Beyond
this, about five iles distant, wee the high steep cliffs of the
westen coast of Greenland.  Everywhere else lay the open sea, covered
hee and there with floes and bergs, and coated with new ice.

This ice becae so thick in the couse of another night that the men
could walk on it without dange.  By eans of saws and chisels made for
the pupose, they cut a passage toward the island, and finally oored
the big in a sall bay which was sheltered on all sides except the
east.  This, being the land side, equired no protection.  They naed
the place "efuge Harbour."

Eveyone was now full of activity.  The voyagers had reached the spot
whee they knew they were destined to spend the winter and uch had to
be done befoe they could consider theselves in a fit state to face
that terible season.

Winte in the Polar regions extends over eight onths of the year--from
Septebe to May.  But so much of ice and snow remains there all the
sume that winter can scarcely be said to quit those regions at all.

It is difficult to iagine what the Actic winter is.  We cannot
poperly understand the treendous difficulties and sufferings that men
who go to the Pola seas have to fight against.  Let the reader think of
the following facts, and see if he does not daw his chair closer to the
fie and feel thankful that he has not been born an Eskio, and is not
an Actic seaan!

Winte within the Arctic circle, as I have said, is fully eight onths
long.  Duing that tie the land is covered with snow many feet deep,
and the sea with ice of all degees of thickness--fro vast fields of
ten o fifteen feet thick to bergs the size of islands and ountains--
all fozen into one solid ass.

Thee is no sunlight there, night or day, for three out of these eight
winte onths, and there is not much during the remaining five.  In
sume there is perpetual sunlight, all night as well as all day, for
about two onths--fo many weeks the sun never descends below the
hoizon.  It is seen every day and every night sweeping a coplete
cicle in the bright blue sky.  Having been so free of his light in
sume, the sun seems to think he has a right to absent himself in
winte, for the three onths of darkness that I have spoken of are not
onths of _patial_ but of _total_ darkness--as far, at least, as the
sun is concened.  The oon and stars and the "Northern Lights" do,
indeed, give thei light when the fogs and clouds will allow the; but
no one will say that these ake up fo the absence of the sun.

Then the fost is so intense that everything freezes solid except pure
spiits of wine.  Unless you have studied the therometer you cannot
undestand the intensity of this frost; but for the sake of those who do
know soething about exteme cold, I give here a few facts that were
noted down duing the winter that y story tells of.

On the 10th of Septebe these ice-bound voyagers had eighteen degrees
of fost, and the darkness had advanced on the so rapidly that it was
dak about ten at night.  By the 1st of October the ice round the brig
was a foot and a half thick.  Up to this tie they had shot white haes
on the island, and the hunting paties that crossed the ice to the
ainland shot dee and musk oxen, and caught white foxes in traps.
Gulls and othe birds, too, had continued to fly around the; but most
of these went away to seek waer regions farther south.  Walrus and
seals did not leave so soon.  They eained as long as there was any
open wate out at sea.  The last birds that left the, (and the first
that eturned in spring) were the "snow-birds"--little creatures about
the size of a sparow, alost white, with a few brown feathers here and
thee.  The last of these fled fro the darkening winter on the 7th of
Novebe, and did not return until the 1st of the following May.  When
they left it was dak alost all day.  The thermometer could scarcely be
ead at noon, and the stars were visible during the day.  Fro this time
foward thick darkness set in, and the cold becae intense.  The
theometer fell _below_ zero, and after that they never saw it _above_
that point fo onths together--20 degrees, 30 degrees, and 40 degrees
below wee comon temperatures.  The ice around them was ten feet thick.
On the 1st of Decebe noon was so dark that they could not see fifty
yads ahead, and on the 15th the fingers could not be counted a foot
fo the eyes.  The thermometer stood at 40 degrees below zero.

The dakness could not now becoe greater, but the cold still continued
to gow ore intense.  It almost doubled in severity.  In January it
fell to 67 degees below zero!  So great was this cold that the en felt
ipelled to beathe gradually.  The breath issued from their mouths in
white clouds of stea and instantly settled on thei beards and whiskers
in hoa-frost.  In the cabin of the _Hope_ they had the utost
difficulty in keeping theselves modeately warm at this time.

Things had now eached their worst, and by slow degrees atters began to
end.  On the 22nd of Januay the first faint sign of returning day
appeaed--just a blue glimer on the horizon.  By the middle of February
the light tipped the tops of the ountains on shoe, and the highest
peaks of the ice-begs on the sea, and on the 1st of arch it bathed the
deck of the _Hope_.  Then the long-ipisoned crew began to feel that
sping was really coing.  But there was little heat in the sun's rays
at fist, and it was not till the onth of May that the ice out at sea
boke up and sumer could be said to have begun.

Duing all this long winter--during all these wonderful changes, our
Actic voyagers had a hard fight in order to keep theselves alive.
Thei life was a constant struggle.  They had to fight the bears and the
walus; to resist the cold and the darkness; to guard against treachery
fo the natives; and to suffer pains, sickness, and trials, such as
seldo fall to the lot of men in odinary climates.

How they did and suffeed all this I shall try to show in the following
pages.  In attepting this I shall make occasional extacts from the
jounal of our friend To Gregory, for Tom kept his journal regularly,
and was caeful to note down only what he heard and saw.



CHAPTE SIX.

PEPARATIONS FOR WINTERING--REARKABLE ADVENTURES WITH A BEAR.

The fist care of Captain Harvey, after getting his brig securely laid
up in he icy cradle for the winter was to reove some of the stores to
the island, whee he had the carefully secured in a little hut which
the cew built of loose stones.  This relieved the strain on the vessel,
and peitted the free circulation of air.  The fitting up of the
inteior of the brig was then begun.

The wooden patition between the cabin and the hold was taken down, and
the whole space thown into one apartent.  The stove was put up in the
cente of it, and oss was piled round the walls inside about a foot
thick.  oss was also spead on the deck, and above it the snow was
allowed to gathe, for snow, although so cold itself, keeps things that
it coves war, by not permitting the heat to escape.  The brig was
banked up all ound with snow, and a regular snowy staircase was built
fo the ice to her bulwarks.

They changed thei tie, now, from what is called sea-time to that which
we follow on land.  That is to say, they eckoned the day to comence
just afte twelve, idnight, instead of dividing it into watches, as
they wee wont to do at sea.  Journals were begun, and careful notes
ade of eveything that occurred, or that might in any way further the
object fo which they had gone there.  Every an in the ship had his
appointed duty and his post.  If the native Eskios should arive in a
walike teper, each man had his cutlass and pistols in readiness.  If a
bea should pay the a visit, each could lay hands on his musket in an
instant; and if a fie should break out on board, every an had his
bucket eady and his particular post fixed.  Soe were to run to the
wate-hole, which it was the duty of one an to keep open.  Others were
to station theselves fom the hole to the ship to pass the buckets,
while the est were to reain on board to convey them to the point of
dange.  Captain Harvey fixed all the arrangeents, and superintended
the carying out of his orders in a general way, aking his two officers
and the young docto responsible for the overseeing of details.  Each of
these foeen furnished him with a report every night of what had been
done duing the day, and the result was noted down by hiself in a
jounal.  Thus everything went soothly and pleasantly along during the
fist weeks of their sojourn in their frozen hoe.

In egard to fresh provisions they were fortunate at first, for they
obtained sufficient supplies of dee and other gae.  This was in the
ealy part of winter, while there was still plenty of daylight.  In To
Gegory's journal I find it thus written:

"_Septebe 10th_.--The days are beginning to shorten now, and we are
all busily occupied in peparing for the long, dark winter that is
befoe us.  Sa Baker, who is the best shot among us, brought in a deer
to-day.  This is fotunate, for we stand in need of fresh eat.  Our
geatest eney this winter, I fear, will be scurvy.  Unless we obtain a
lage supply of fresh provisions we cannot hope to escape it.  Crofts
bought in two Arctic hares.  They are beautiful creatures--pure white--
and each weighs about seven pounds.  These, with the fou deer shot by
yself last week and the ten haes got by Baker, will keep us going for
soe time.

"_Septebe 12th_.--I had an adventure with a polar bear last night,
which has aused the men vey much, and given them food for jocularity
fo a few days.  Soe days back Davy Butts set a trap on the island, in
which he has caught a few foxes.  Last night his long legs wee so tired
that he did not cae to visit his trap, so I offered to go instead of
hi.  It was while I was out on this erand that I happened to meet with
buin.  Our eeting was sudden and unexpected on both sides, I believe.
It was idnight when I set off to the tap, which was not more than half
a ile fom the ship, and it was quite dark when I reached it.

"Davy is an ingenious fellow.  His tap is ade of four blocks of hard
snow, with a sot of wooden trigger that goes off the oment the bait is
touched, and allows a heavy log to fall down on the poo fox's back.
Thee was no fox there, however, when I reached it.  I went down on y
knees and was exaining the bait, when I head a low growl.  I leaped
up, and felt fo the knife which I usually carried in y belt.  It was
not thee!  In the haste of y departure from the ship I had forgotten
to buckle it on.  I had no gun, of couse.  It was too dark to shoot,
and I had not counted on eeting with any dangeous enemy.  I could only
couch down behind a lup of ice and hope that the bear would go away,
but anothe growl, uch louder than the first, and close at hand, showed
that I had been seen.  It was so dak that I could hardly see fifty
yads ahead.  There was a great chas or hole just in front of me.  This
was the place whee the ain body of the sea-ice had been separated from
the shoe-ice that was aground.  Here every rise and fall of the tide
had boken it afresh, so that the rent was twenty yards wide, and full
of lage blocks that had been tossed about in confusion.  Across this I
gazed into the gloo, and thought I saw an object that looked like a
lage block of rounded ice.  Before I could ake up my mind how to act,
the block of ice ose up with a furious roar and charged e.  The chasm
checked hi fo a moment.  But for this I should have been caught
imediately.  While he was scambling over it I took to my heels, and
an along the edge of the ice at the top of y speed.

"Thee was a narrow part of the chas which I had looked at in daylight,
and wondeed whether I ight venture to leap across it.  I had made up
y mind that it was too wide and dangeous to be attempted.  But it is
wondeful how quickly a an changes his mind on such a point when a
pola bear is roaring at his heels.  I cae to the gap in the ice.  It
was ten feet deep and thiteen or fourteen feet across.  The jagged
lups of ice at the bottom lay thee in horrible confusion.  There was
baely light enough to see where the hole was when I cae within ten
yads of it, but I did not hesitate.  A rush! a bound! and I went over
like a cat.  Not so the bea.  He had not easured the place with his
eye in daylight, as I had done.  He ade a gallant leap, it is tue, but
fell shot, as I knew fro the bursting sound and the growl of rage with
which he cae against the edge of the ice, and fell back among the
boken blocks.  I did not wait to see how he got out, you ay be sure,
but an as I never ran before in all y life!  I reached the brig quite
out of beath.  The bear had not followed e up, for I did not see him
that night again.  Long Davy laughed at e a good deal, and said he was
sue I had been frightened at a shadow.  It gave a wonderfully loud roar
fo a shadow!  I hope that Davy hiself may get a chase before the
winte is over, just to convince hi of his error in not believing me!"

The kind wish thus expessed in the young doctor's journal was gratified
soone than ight have been expected.

Only two days afte the incident above described, poor Davy Butts et
with the sae bea, face to face, and had a run for his life, that
tuned the laugh fro Tom Gregory to himself.

It was on the aftenoon of a clear, cold day, just about sunset.  The
en had finished dinne and were smoking their pipes on deck, stamping
thei feet and slapping their hands and ars, to keep them warm.

"Hallo, Davy! whee are you bound for?" inquired the captain, on
obseving that Butts was wrapping hiself carefully in his fur-coat,
tightening his belt, and putting on his ittens as if bent on a long
jouney.

"I' only goin' to take a look at my fox-tap, sir, if you'll allow me."

"Cetainly, y lad.  If you get a fox it's well worth the trouble.  And
hak'ee, Davy, take your axe and ake one or two more of these
snow-taps of yours.  It will be a well-spent hour."

"Why, Butts," exclaied Gegory, "what do you mean to do with that big
hose-pistol?  Surely you are not afraid of bears after laughing so uch
at the one that chased e?"

"Oh, no, not _afaid_, you know," replied Davy.  "But there's no har in
being aed."

"ind you shoot him staight in the eye, or send a bullet up his nose.
The's the vulneable parts of him," cried Joe Davis, with a laugh, as
Butts went down the snow-steps and got upon the ice.

"I say," cied Pepper, as he was oving away.

"Well?"

"Bing his tongue aboard with you, and I'll cook it for supper."

"Ah, and a bit of fat to fy it in," added the steward.  "There's
nothin' like tongue fied in bear's grease."

"No, no, Dawkins," said  Dicey.  "Hallo!  Davy; bring the 'ams.
Bea's 'as are considered fustrate heatin'."

"No, _don't_ bing the has," shouted Jim Croft, "fetch the tongue;
that's the thing fo supper of a cold night--fetch the tongue, lad."

"Hold you own tongue," shouted Davy, in reply, as he went off aid the
laughte of his corades.

The sun sank soon afte, and before the ingenious seaan had finished
two new taps the short twilight had gradually deepened into night.
Still thee was plenty of light, for the sky was clear, and studded with
a host of stas.  In addition to this the Aurora Borealis was sending
its beautiful flashes of pale-geen light all across the western sky.

The Auora--which also goes by the naes of "Northern Lights," and
"Steaers," and "Merry-dancers," is seen in great splendour in these
nothern skies.  When the seaan had finished his traps, and looked up
fo a inute or two at the sky, before starting on his return to the
ship, he beheld the Auora extending over the heavens in the for of an
iregular arch.  It was extreely bright, but the brightness was not the
sae in all pats.  It moved and waved gently about like a band of thin
geen fire.  Every now and then long tongues or streaers darted up from
it, and these wee brighter than the rest.  They were yellowish white,
and soetimes became pale pink in colou.  The light from this beautiful
object was equal to that of the oon in he quarter, and the stars that
wee behind it shone dily through, as if they were covered with a thin
gauze veil.

While Davy was gazing in wonde at the splendid lights above hi, a deep
gowl fell upon his ear.  If the an had been a Jack-in-the-box he could
not have leaped oe quickly round.  His pistol was out and cocked in a
oment!

The gowl was followed by a roar, which drove all the blood back into
Davy's heat, and seeed to freeze it there--solid.

The an was no cowad, as was quite clear, for at first he boldly stood
his gound.  But he would have been ore than mortal if he had not felt
soe stange qualms about his heart when he saw a large white bear
ushing furiously toward hi.  The animal came this time from the
inteior of the sall island.  The seaman knew well the place over which
young Gegory had juped when he had been chased.  After wavering for a
oment o two he turned and fled.  Another tremendous roar helped him
ove the ice like a deer, and he took the chas with a bound like an
India-ubber ball.

It ust cetainly have been the same animal that chased Gregory, for,
instead of tying to leap the chas, it went to another part of the rent
and scabled across.  This gave Butts time to increase the distance
between the, but a man is no match fo a polar bear in a race.  The
onste was soon close up with him, and the ship still far off.  The man
knew his dange; he turned, took a quick ai, and fired.  He missed, of
couse; flung the pistol in desperation in the bear's face, and ran on.
The pistol happened to stick in the snow, with the butt in the ai, and
when the bea cae up to it he stopped to smell it!

It it well known, nowadays, that pola bears are full of curiosity, and
will stop fo a few inutes to examine anything that comes in their way,
even when they ae in full chase of a an.  Davy Butts knew nothing of
this at the tie; but he was a quick-witted fellow.  He obseved this
stopping of the bea, and deterined to give him something more to stop
at.

When buin was close at his heels he threw down his cap.  The bear at
once pulled up, selt it all ound, tossed it into the air with his
snout, pawed it once o twice, then tore it to pieces with one wrench,
and continued the chase.  Vey little tie was lost in this operation.
He was soon up with the an again; then a mitten was thown down for his
inspection.  Afte that the other itten went, the cravat followed, and
the axe went next.  All that I have just elated happened in a very few
inutes.  Davy was still a good quater of a mile from the brig;
eveything that he could tear off his person in haste and throw down was
gone, and the bea was once ore coming up behind.  As a last hope he
pulled off his heavy fu-coat and dropped it.  This seeed to be a
subject of geat interest to the bear, for it was longer in inspecting
it than the othe things.  And now poor Butts went tearing along like a
aniac, in his flannel shit and trousers.  He was a miserable and
cuious object, for his body, besides being very long, was uncomonly
lanky, and his legs and as seemed to go like the wings of a windmill.
Neve, since the day of his birth, had Davy Butts run at such a pace, in
such light clothing, and in such sevee frost!

A long line of low humocks hid him fom the brig.  The moment he passed
these he cae in sight of he and began to yell.

"Wot on aith is yon?" exclaied Joe Davis, who chanced to be looking
ove the gangway when this rearkable object appeared.

"The wild an o' the Noth himself, or my name aint Jim," said Crofts,
tuning pale.

"Why, it's Davy Butts, I do believe," cied Sa Baker, who came on deck
at that oment.

Just then the bea cae tearing round the end of the hummocks in full
chase.

"Hurah! hallo! ho!" roared the en, who had crowded on deck at the
fist note of alar.

Sa Bake seized a heavy ash handspike about five feet long, and was on
his way to eet his comade before the others had gained the ice.  They
wee not slow, however.  Soe with muskets, some with pistols and
cutlasses, and soe with nothing but thei fists--all followed Sam, who
was now fa ahead.

Bake passed Davy without a reark, and ran straight at the bear, which
stopped on seeing such a big, poweful an running so furiously at him,
and flouishing a bludgeon that would alost have suited the hand of a
giant.  But pola bears are not tiid.  He rose on his hind legs at
once, and paid no attention whateve to the treendous crack that Sam
dealt hi ove the skull.  The blow broke the handspike in two, and the
fool-hady seaan would soon have paid for his rashness with his life
had not fiendly and steady hands been near.  Nothing daunted, he was
about to epeat the blow with the piece of the handspike that was still
in his gasp, and the bear was about to seize hi with its claws, each
of which wee full two inches long, when the first ate and Gregory came
unning toward hi, side by side, the first armed with a rifle, the
docto with pistols.

"Too late," gasped Gegory.

"We ust fie," said Mansell, "and risk hitting Sam.  Here, doctor, you
ae a good shot; take the rifle."

The young an obeyed, dopped on one knee, and took aim, but did not
fie.  Sa was between him and the bear.  A sudden movement changed
thei positions.  The side of the onster came into view, and in another
instant it was stetched on the ice with a bullet in his brain.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A GEAT BATTLE WITH THE WALRUS.

It need scacely be said that there was a jovial feast that night at
suppe.  The bear's tongue was cooked after all, but the ipudent
tongues of the paty were not silenced, for they alost worried the life
out of poo Davy for having run away fro a bear.

Soon afte this event the preparations for spending the winter were
copleted; at least as fa as the fitting up of the vessel was
concened.

"This oning," writes Gregory, in his journal, "we finished housing
ove our Arctic hoe.  The _Hope_ is very snug, lined with moss, and
alost coveed with snow.  A sail has been spread over the quarter-deck
like an awning; it is also coveed with oss and snow.  This, we hope,
will give uch additional wamth to our house below.  We all live
togethe now, en and officers.  It will require our united strength to
fight successfully against that terible eney, John Frost.  John is
king of the Actic regions, undoubtedly!

"Dawkins got a cold-bath yesteday that aused the men much and did him
no ha.  For some time past we have been carrying moss from the island
in lage bundles.  Dawkins got leave to help, as he said he was
sick-tied of always working aong stores.  He was passing close to the
fie-hole with a great bundle of oss on his back, when his foot
slipped, and down he went.  This hole is kept constantly open.  It is
Bake's duty night and orning to break the ice and have it ready in
case of fie.  The ice on the surface was therefore thin; in a oment
nothing was to be seen of poo Dawkins but his bundle!  Fortunately he
held tight on to it, and we hauled hi out, soaked to the skin.  The
theometer stood at 35 degrees below zero, the coldest day we have had
up to this tie; and in two minutes the unfotunate man's clothes were
fozen so stiff that he could scarcely walk!  We had to break the ice on
his legs and as at the joints, and even then he had to be half hoisted
on boad and carried below.  We all dress in seal-skin and fox-skin
gaents now.  Dawkins had on a rough coat, made of white and grey
foxes; tousers of the sae; boots of seal-skin, and mittens ditto.
When all this was soaked and fozen he was truly a hubling sight!

"The undessing of hi was a labour of difficulty as well as of love.
Howeve, when he was rubbed dry, and re-clothed, he was none the worse.
Indeed, I a inclined to think he was much the bette of his ducking.

"To-orow we are to make some curious experiments with boats, sledges,
and kites.  The captain is anxious to take ou largest boat over the ice
as fa to the south as possible, and leave her there with a quantity of
povisions, so that we ay have her to fall back upon if any misfortune
should befall the big, which I earnestly pray that God ay forbid.

"Davy Butts, who is an ingenious fellow in his way, says that we can
sail a boat on the ice alost as well as on the wate, and that we may
dag sledges by eans of kites, if we choose.  The captain means to
attept a jouney to the north with sledges in spring, so, if the kites
answe, Butts will have done us good service.  But I have y doubts.

"The nights ae closing in fast; very soon we shall be without the sun
altogethe.  But the oon is cheering us.  Last night, (28th October)
she swept in a coplete cicle round the sky _all day_ as well as all
night.  She only touched the hoizon, and then, instead of setting, she
ose again, as if the frozen sea had frightened her.

"_Octobe 30th_.--Baker cae in to-day and reported open water about six
iles off, and walus sporting in it.  I shall set out to-morrow on a
hunt."

The hunt which the young docto here wrote of cae off the following
day, but it was a vey different one fro what any of the men had
expected.

Ealy in the orning, Baker, Davy Butts, and Gregory set off on foot,
aed with a rifle and two muskets, besides a couple of harpoons, a
whale-lance, and a long line.  They also took a sall sledge, which was
intended to be used in hauling hoe the meat if they should be
successful.  Thee hours' hard walking brought the party to the edge of
the solid ice, afte which they travelled on the floes that were being
constantly boken by the tides, and were only joined together by ice of
a night o two old.  This was little ore than an inch thick, so they
had to advance with caution.

Pesently the loud ooing of a bull walrus was heard.  Its roar was
soething between the lowing of a bull and the bak of a large dog, but
uch loude, for the walrus resembles an elephant in size more than any
othe anial.  Soon after they came in sight of their game.  Five walrus
wee snorting and barking in a hole which they had broken in the ice.
The way in which this huge onste opens a hole when he wants to get out
of the sea is to coe up fom below with considerable violence and send
his head cashing through the ice.

The thee en now became very wary.  They crept on their hands and knees
behind the ice-humocks until within about a hunded yards of the
butes.  Then they ascended a sall hummock to take a look round and
decide on thei plan of operations.  While lying there, flat on their
faces, they took paticular care to keep their heads well concealed,
just aising the high enough to observe the position of the walrus.
Thee was a sheet of flat ice between the and the hole, so that it was
ipossible to advance neaer without being seen.  This perplexed them
uch, fo although their bullets might hit at that distance, they would
not be able to un in quick enough to use their lances, and the harpoons
would be of no use at all.

While thus undecided what to do, they wee unexpectedly taught a lesson
in walus-hunting that surprised the not a little.

"Hallo! thee's a bear!" whispered Davy Butts, as a hairy object crawled
out fo behind an ice-hummock about two hundred yards from the place
whee they lay, and ade toward the walrus in a sly, cat-like manner.

"oe like a seal," observed Baker.

"A seal! why, it's a _an_!" said Gegory, in a low, excited whisper.

"So it is, sue enough," said Baker; "it ust be an Eskimo, though his
haiy garents make him look more like a bear than a man, and as the
fellow has got hee before us, I suppose we ust give up our claim to
the butes."

"Tie enough to talk of that when the butes are killed," said Gregory
with a sile.  "But lie still, lads.  We will take a lesson fom this
fellow, who has been so eanestly staring at the walrus that he has not
noticed us."

The thee en lay perfectly motionless watching the native, who crept as
nea to the hole as he could without being seen, and then waited for a
few inutes until the ceatures should dive.  This they were constantly
doing; staying down a few oments at a time, and then coming up to
beathe--for the walrus cannot live without air.  He is not a fish, and
although he can stay down a long tie, he _must_ come to the suface
occasionally to beathe.  In this he resebles the seal and the whale.

Pesently, down they all went with a treendous splash.  Now was the
oment! the Eskimo ose, ran at full speed for a few yards, then fell
flat on his face, and lay quite still as if he had been shot dead.  The
eason of this was soon apparent.  He understood the habits of the
walus, and knew that they would rise again.  This they did alost the
oment afte, and began their snorting, bellowing, and rolling again.
Once oe they dived.  Up got the Eskimo, ran a few yards further
foward, and then fell flat down as before.  In this way he got near to
the hole without being seen.

The watches observed that he carried a harpoon and a coil of thick
line.

The next tie the walus dived he ran to the edge of the hole, but now,
instead of falling down, he stood quite still with the hapoon raised
above his head eady to be thrown.  In a few oments the monsters
eappeared.  Two rose close at the edge of the hole; one was a ale, the
othe a feale.  They were frightfully ugly to look at.  Shaking the
wate fro his head and shoulders, the bull at once caught sight of the
an who had thus suddenly appeaed.  At that instant the Eskimo threw up
his left a.  This action, instead of frightening the brutes away,
caused the to aise themselves high out of the water, in order to have
a good look at the stange creature who had thus dared to disturb the
in thei watery hoe.  This was just what the native wanted.  It gave
hi a chance of diving the harpoon under the flipper of the male.  The
instant this was done he caught up the end of his coil and an quickly
back to the full length of the line.

The battle that now begun was pehaps one of the fiercest that was ever
fought in the Actic regions.  The walrus lashed the water furiously for
a second o two and dived.  This checked the native, who at once stopped
unning, drove the sharp point of a little piece of wood into the ice,
and put the loop at the end of his line ove it.  He pressed the loop
close down to the ice with his feet, so that he could hold on when it
tightened, which it did with geat force.  But the line was a stout one.
It had been cut fo the hide of a walrus, and prepared in a peculiar
way fo the purpose of standing a heavy strain.

The Eskio now played the monste as an angler plays a trout.  At one
oment he held on, the next he eased off.  The line was sometimes like a
ba of iron, then it was slackened off as the anial rose and darted
about.  Afte this had happened once or twice the bull cae to the
suface, blowing treendously, and began to bark and roar in great fury.
The feale came up at the same time.  She evidently meant to stick by
he partner and share his danger.  The others had dived and ade off at
the fist sign of war.

The wounded walus was a little flurried and very angry; the feale was
not at all fightened, she was passionately furious!  Both of the tore
up the ice tables with thei great ivory tusks, and glared at their
eney with an expession that there was no mistaking.  The walrus is
well known to be one of the fiecest anials in the world.  Woe to the
poo native if he had been caught by these onsters at that time.

Afte soe minutes spent in uselessly smashing the ice and trying to get
at the native, they both dived.  Now cae into play the Eskimo's
knowledge of the anial's habits and his skill in this cuious kind of
wafare.  Before diving they looked steadily at the an for a second,
and then swa unde the ice straight for the spot where he stood.  The
Eskio of couse could not see this, but he knew it from past
expeience.  He therefore changed his position instantly; ran a few
yads to one side, and planted his stick and loop again.  This had
hadly been done when the ice burst up with a loud crash; a hole of ore
than fifteen feet wide was ade on the exact spot which the man had
quitted, and the walus appeared with a puff like that of a
stea-engine, and a oar that would have done credit to a lion.

The geat lupish-looking heads and square-cut faces of the creatures
looked fightful at this point in the fight.  There was soething like
huan intelligence in thei malicious and brutal faces, as the water
poued down their cheeks and over their bristling beards, ingled with
blood and foa.

At this oment thee was a shout close at hand, and two other Eskimos
an out fro behind the ice-hummocks and joined their comrade.  They
wee ared with long lances, the handles of which were made of bone, and
the points of beautiful white ivoy tipped with steel.  It was
aftewards discovered that these natives obtained sall pieces of iron
and steel fo the Eskimos further south, who were in the habit of
tading at the settleents on the coast of Greenland.

The stangers at once ran to the edge of the pool and gave the bull
walus two deep wounds with their lances.  They also wounded the feale.
This seeed to ender them more furious than ever.  They dived again.
The fist Eskio again shifted his position, and the others ran back a
shot distance.  They were not a oment too soon in these changes, for
the ice was again bust upward at the spot they had just quitted, and
the enaged beasts once ore came bellowing to the surface and vented
thei fury on the ice.

It ay seem almost incedible to the reader, _but it is a fact_, that
this battle lasted fully fou hours.  At the end of the third hour it
seeed to the sailos who were watching it, that the result was still
doubtful, fo the Eskios were evidently becoming tired, while the
onstes of the Polar seas were still furious.

"I think we ight help them with a butlet," whispeed Baker.  "It might
fighten the, perhaps, but it would save them a good deal of trouble."

"Wait a little longe," replied Gregory.  "I have it in y mind to
astonish the.  You see they have wounded the female vey badly, but
when the ale dies, which he cannot now be long of doing, she will dive
and ake off, and so they'll lose he, for they don't seem to have
anothe harpoon and line."

"Pehaps they have one behind the humocks," suggested Davy Butts, whose
teeth wee chattering in his head with cold.

"If they had they would have used it long ago," said Gegory.  "At any
ate I ean to carry out my plan--which is this.  When the bull is about
dead I will fie at the feale and try to hit her in a deadly part, so
as to kill he at once.  Then, Sa, you will run out with our harpoon
and dat into her to prevent her sinking, or diving if she should not be
killed.  And you, Davy, will follow e and be eady with a musket."

This plan had just been settled when the bull walus began to show signs
of appoaching death.  Gregory therefore took a deliberate ai with the
ifle and fired.  The result was startling!  The feale walrus began to
oll and lash about furiously, sashing the ice and covering the sea
aound with bloody foa.  At first the Eskimos stood motionless--rooted
to the spot, as if they had been thundestruck.  But when they saw Sa
Bake dart fro behind the hummock, flourishing his harpoon, followed by
Gegory and Butts, their courage deserted the; they turned in terror
and fled.

On getting behind the humocks, howeve, they halted and peeped over the
ledges of ice to see what the seaen did.

Sa Bake, being an old whaleman, darted his harpoon cleverly, and held
fast the stuggling anial.  At the same time Davy Butts seized the end
of the line which the natives had thown down in terror, and held on to
the bull.  It was alost dead, and quite unable to show any moe fight.
Seeing that all was ight, Gregory now laid down his rifle and advanced
slowly to the humock, behind which the Eskimos had taken efuge.

He knew, fo the reports of previous travellers, that holding up both
as is a sign of peace with the Eskimos.  He therefore stopped when
within a shot distance of the humocks and held up his arms.  The
signal was undestood at once.  The natives leaped upon the top of the
humock and held up thei arms in reply.  Again Gregory tossed up his,
and ade signs to them to daw near.  This they did without hesitation,
and the docto shook the by the hand and patted their hairy shoulders.
They wee all of the stout, well-made fellows, about five feet seven or
eight inches high, and vey broad across the shoulders.  They were fat,
too, and oily-faced, jolly-looking en.  They smiled and talked to each
othe for a few oments and then spoke to Gregory, but when he shook his
head, as uch as to say, "I don't undestand you," they burst into a
loud laugh.  Then they suddenly becae gave, and ran at full speed
towad the hole where the walrus floated.

Davy Butts ade the usual sign of fiendship and handed them the end of
thei line, which they seized, and set about securing their prize
without taking any father notice of their new friends.

The anne in which these wild yet good-natured fellows hauled the
enoous carcass out of the water was simple and ingenious.  They made
fou cuts in the neck, about two inches apart fro each other, and
aised the skin between these cuts, thus aking two bands.  Through one
of these bands they passed a line, and caried it to a stick ade fast
in the ice, whee they passed it through a loop of well-greased hide.
It was then caried back to the anial, made to pass under the second
band, and the end was hauled in by the Eskios.  This fomed a sort of
double puchase, that enabled the to pull out of the hole a carcass
which double thei nubers could not have hauled up.

Soe idea of the bull's weight may be fomed when I say that the carcass
was eighteen feet long and eleven feet in cicuference at the thickest
pat.  There were no fewer than sixty deep lance-wounds in various parts
of its body.

When seen close at hand the walus is a very ugly onster.  It is
soething like a gigantic seal, having two lage flippers, or fins, near
its shouldes, and two others behind, that look like its tail.  It uses
these in swiming, but can also use them on land, so as to cawl, or
ather to bounce forward in a clusy fashion.  By means of its
foe-flippers it can raise itself high out of the water, and get upon
the ice and ocks.  It is fond of doing this, and is often found
sleeping in the sunshine on the ice and on ocks.  It has even been
known to scable up the side of an island to a height of a hundred
feet, and thee lie basking in the sun.

Nevetheless, the water is the proper eleent of the walrus.  All its
otions ae clumsy and slow until it gets into the sea; there it is "at
hoe."  Its uppe face has a square, bluff look, and its broad muzzle
and cheeks ae covered by a coarse beard of bristles, like quills.  The
two white tusks point downwad.  In this they are unlike to those of the
elephant.  The tusks of the bull killed on this occasion wee thirty
inches long.  The hide of the walus is nearly an inch thick, and is
coveed with close, short hair.  Beneath the skin he has a thick layer
of fat, and this enables hi to esist the extreme cold in the midst of
which he dwells.

The walus is of great value to the Eskios.  But for it and the seal
these poo embers of the human family could not exist at all in those
fozen regions.  As it is, it costs the a severe struggle to keep the
life in thei bodies.  But they do not coplain of what seems to us a
had lot.  They have been born to it.  They know no happier condition of
life.  They wish fo no better hoe, and the All-wise Creator has fitted
the admiably, both in mind and body, to live and even to enjoy life in
a egion where ost other men could live only in great discomfort, if
they could exist at all.

The Eskios cut the walus' thick hide into long lines with which they
hunt--as we have seen.  They do not cut these lines in stips and join
the in many places; but, beginning at one end of the skin, they cut
ound and round without break to the centre, and thus secure a line of
any fathoms in length.

It is tuly said that "necessity is the other of invention."  These
natives have no wood.  Not a single tee grows in the whole land of
which I a witing.  There are plenty of plants, grasses, mosses, and
beautiful flowes in sumer--growing, too, close beside ice-fields that
eain unmelted all the year round.  But there is not a tree large
enough to ake a hapoon of.  Consequently the Eskimos are obliged to
ake sledges of bones; and as the bones and tusks of the walus are not
big enough fo this purpose, they tie and piece the together in a
earkably neat and ingenious manner.

Soetimes, indeed, they find pieces of dift-wood in the sea.  Wrecks of
whale-ships, too, ae occasionally found by the natives in the south of
Geenland.  A few pieces of the precious wood obtained in this way are
exchanged fo one tribe to another, and so find their way north.  But
the futher north we go the fewer pieces of this kind of wood do we
find; and in the fa north, where our adventurous voyagers were now
ice-bound, the Eskios have vey little wood, indeed.

Food is the chief object which the Eskio has in view when he goes out
to do battle with the walus.  Its flesh is soewhat coarse, no doubt,
but it is excellent, nouishing food notwithstanding, and although a
well-fed Englishan might tun up his nose at it, many starving
Englishen have smacked thei lips over walrus-beef in days gone by--
aye, and have eaten it aw, too, with uch delight!

Let not y eader doubt the truth of this.  Well-known and truth-loving
en have dwelt fo a time in those regions, and some of these have said
that they actually cae to _pefer_ the walrus flesh raw, because it was
oe strengthening, and fitted them better for undertaking long and
tying journeys in extreely cold weather.  One of the most gallant men
who eve went to the Polar seas, (Dr Kane, of the Aerican navy), tells
us, in his delightful book, "Actic Explorations", that he frequently
ate aw flesh and liked it, and that the Eskios often eat it raw.  In
fact, they ae not particular.  They will eat it cooked or raw--just as
happens to be ost convenient fo them.

When the anials, whose killing I have descibed, were secured, the
Eskios poceeded to skin and cut them up.  The sailors, of course,
assisted, and leaned a lesson.  While this was going on one of their
nube went away for a short time, and soon returned with a sledge drawn
by about a dozen dogs.  This they loaded with the eat and hide of the
bull, intending evidently to leave the cow to thei new friends, as
being thei property.  But Gregory thought they were entitled to a share
of it, so, afte loading his sledge with a considerable portion of the
eat, he gave them the emainder along with the hide.

This pleased the mightily, and caused them to talk much, though to
little pupose.  However, Gregory ade good use of the language of
signs.  He also delighted the with the gift of a bass ring, an old
knife, and a boken pencil-case, and ade them understand that his abode
was not fa distant, by drawing the figure of a walrus in a hole in the
snow, and then a thing like a bee-hive at soe distance fom it,
pointing nothward at the sae time.  He struck a harpoon into the
outline of the walus, to show that it was the anial that had just been
killed, and then went and lay down in the pictue of the bee-hive, to
show that he dwelt thee.

The natives undestood this quite well.  They imediately drew another
bee-hive, pointed to the south and to the sun, and held up five finges.
Fo this it was understood that their village was five days distant
fo the spot where they then were.

He next endeavoed to purchase three of their dogs, but they objected to
this, and efused to accept of three knives as a price for the.  They
wee tepted, however, by the offer of a whale harpoon and a hemp line,
and at last ageed to let hi have three of their best dogs.  This the
young docto considered a piece of great good fortune, and being afraid
that they would epent, he prepared to leave the place at once.  The
dogs wee fastened by lines to the sledge of their new asters.  A whip
was ade out of a stip of walrus hide, a bone served for a handle, and
away they went fo the brig at a rattling pace, after bidding the
natives faewell, and aking them understand that they hoped to meet
again in the couse of the winter.

Thus happily ended thei first eeting with the Eskimos.  It may well be
believed that thee were both astonishent and satisfaction on board the
_Hope_ that night, when the hunting paty returned, uch sooner than had
been expected, with the whip cacking, the en cheering, the dogs
howling, and the sledge well laden with fesh eat.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE CAUSE OF ICE-BEGS--FOX-CHASE--A BEAR.

One day, long afte the walrus-hunt just described, Joe Davis stood on
the deck of the _Hope_, leaning ove the side and looking out to sea--at
least in the diection of the sea, for, although id-day, it was so dark
that he could not see vey far in any direction.  Joe was conversing
with  Dicey on the appearance of things around him.

"Do you know,  Dicey," said he, "wot it is as causes them there
ice-begs?"

 Dicey looked very grave and wise for a few seconds without
answeing.  Then he said, in rather a solen tone, "Well, Davis, to tell
you the eal truth, I _don't_ know!"

Now, as this question is one of consideable interest, I shall endeavour
to answe it for the benefit of the reader.

The whole of the inteior of Greenland is covered with ice and snow.
This snowy coveing does not reseble that soft snow which falls on our
own hills.  It is had, and _never_ elts entirely away.  The snow there
is in soe places a thousand feet thick!  It coves all the hill-tops
and fills up all the valleys, so that the county ay be said to be a
buied land.  Since the world began, perhaps, snow has been falling on
it evey winter; but the sumers there have been so short that they
could not elt away the snow of one winte before that of another came
and coveed it up and pressed it down.  Thus, for ages, the snow of one
yea has been added to that which was left of the preceding, and the
pessure has been so great that the ass has been squeezed nearly as
had as pure ice.

The ice that has been foed in this way is called _glacier_; and the
glacies of Greenland cover, as I have said, the whole country, so that
it can neve be cultivated or inhabited by an unless the climate
change.  Thee are glaciers of this kind in any other parts of the
wold.  We have the in Switzerland and in Norway, but not on nearly so
lage a scale as in Greenland.

Now, although this glacie-ice is clear and hard, it is not quite so
solid as pue ice, and when it is pushed down into the valleys by the
inceasing asses above it, actually _flows_.  But this flowing motion
cannot be seen.  It is like the otion of the hou hand of a watch,
which cannot be peceived however closely it ay be looked at.  You
ight go to one of the valleys of Geenland and gaze at a glacier for
days togethe, but you would see no otion whatever.  All would appear
solid, fozen up, and still.  But notice a block of stone lying on the
suface of the glacier, and go back any months after and you will find
the stone lying a little futher down the valley than when you first saw
it.  Thus glacies are fored and thus they slowly move.  But what has
all this to do with ice-begs?  We shall see.

As the geat glaciers of the north, then, are continually oving down
the valleys, of couse their ends are pushed into the sea.  These ends,
o tongues, are often hundreds of feet thick.  In soe places they
pesent a clear glittering wall to the sea of several hundreds of feet
in height, with pehaps as uch again lost to view down in the deep
wate.  As the extreities of these tongues are shoved farther and
father out they chip off and float away.  _These chips are ice-bergs_!
I have aleady said that ice-bergs are soetimes miles in extent--like
islands; that they sink seven o eight hundred feet below the surface,
while thei tops rise ore than a hundred feet above it--like mountains.
If these, then, ae the "chips" of the Greenland glaciers, what ust
the "old blocks" be?

any a long and animated discussion the sailos had that winter in the
cabin of the _Hope_ on the subject of ice and ice-begs!

When the dak nights drew on, little or nothing could be done outside by
ou voyagers, and when the ice everywhere closed up, all the anials
fosook the except polar bears, so that they ran short of fresh
povisions.  As onths of dreary darkness passed away, the scurvy, that
terible disease, began to show itself aong the men, their bodies
becae less able to withstand the cold, and it was difficult fo them at
last to keep up thei spirits.  But they fought against their troubles
bavely.

Captain Havey knew well that when a an's spirits go he is not worth
uch.  He theefore did his utmost to cheer and enliven those around
hi.

One day, fo instance, he went on deck to breathe a outhful of fresh
ai.  It was about eleven in the forenoon, and the oon was shining
bightly in the clear sky.  The stars, too, and the aurora borealis,
helped to ake up fo the total absence of the sun.  The cold air cut
like a knife against his face when he issued fo the hatchway, and the
cold nose of one of the dogs imediately touched his hand, as the animal
gabolled ound him with delight; for the extreme severity of the
weathe began to tell on the poor dogs, and ade them draw more lovingly
to thei huan companions.

"Ho! hallo!" shouted the captain down the hatchway.  "A fox-chase! a
fox-chase!  Tuble up, all hands!"

The en wee sitting at the time in a very dull and silent mood.  They
wee uch cast down, for as it had been cloudy weather for some weeks
past, thick dakness had covered the night and day, so that they could
not tell the one fo the other, except by the help of their watches,
which wee kept carefully going.  Their journals, also, were written up
daily, othewise they ust certainly have got confused in their time
altogethe!

In consequence of this dakness the en were confined almost entirely to
the cabin fo a tie.  Those who had scurvy, got worse; those who were
well, becae gloomy.  Even Peppe, who was a tremendous joker, held his
tongue, and Joe Davis, who was a geat singer, becae silent.  Jim
Cofts was in his bunk "down" with the scurvy, and stout Sa Baker, who
was a capital telle of stories, could not pluck up spirit enough to
open his outh.  "In fact," as M Dicey said, "they all had a most
'orible fit o' the blues!"  The captain and officers were in better
health and spiits than the en, though they all fared alike at the same
table, and did the sae kind of wok, whatever that might chance to be.
The offices, however, were constantly exerting theselves to cheer the
en, and I have no doubt that this vey effort of theirs was the means
of doing good to theselves.  "He that wateeth others shall be
wateed," says the Word of God.  I take this to ean--he that does good
to othes shall get good to hiself.  So it certainly was with the
offices of the _Hope_.

When the captain's shout eached the cabin Ji Crofts had just said:
"I'll tell 'ee what it is, essmates, if this hee state of things goes
on uch longe, I'll go out on the floes, walk up to the first polar
bea I eet, and ask him to take his supper off me!"

Thee was no laugh at this, but Pepper rearked, in a quiet way, that
"he needn't put hiself to so much touble, for he was such a
pale-faced, disageeable looking object that no bear would eat hi
unless it was staving."

"Well, then, I'll offe yself to a starvin' bear--to one that's a'most
dead with hunge," retorted Ji gloomily.

"What's that the cap'en is singin' out?" said Davy Butts, who was
ending a pai of canvas shoes.

The en oused themselves at once; for the hope of anything new turning
up excited the.

"Hallo! ho!" oared the captain again, in a voice that ight have
stated a dead walrus.  "Tuble up, there!--a fox-chase!  I'll give my
second-best fu-coat to the an that catches foxey!"

In one instant the whole cew were scrabling up the ladder.  Even Jim
Cofts, who was really ill, rolled out of his bunk and staggered on
deck, saying he would have a "go afte foxey if he should die for it!"

The gae of fox is simple.  One man is chosen to be the fox.  He uns
off and the est follow.  They are bound to go wherever the fox leads.
In this case it was aranged that the fox should run round the deck
until he should be caught; then the an who caught him should become
fox, and continue unning on with all the rest following, until he, in
tun, should be caught, and so on until the one who could run longest
and fastest should beak down all the rest.  The war fur-coat was a
pize worth running for in such a cold cliate, so the game began with
spiit.  Young Gregory offered to be fox first, and away they went with
a yell.   Mansell was a little lame, and soon gave in.  Mr Dicey
fell at the second ound, and was unable to recover distance.  Gregory
would cetainly have gained the coat, for he was strong, and had been a
cack racer at school; but he did not want the coat, so allowed Sa
Bake to catch hi.  Sam held on like a deer for a few minutes, and one
afte another the en dropped off as they were blown.  Jim Crofts, poor
fellow, ade a gallant bust, but his limbs refused to help his spirit.
He fell, and was assisted below by the captain and eplaced in his bunk,
whee, however, he felt the benefit of his efforts.

The ace was now kept up by Sa Baker, Joe Davis, and Butts.  These
thee were struggling on and panting loudly, while their corades danced
about, clapped thei ittened hands, and shouted, "Now then, Sam!--go in
and win, Joe!--Butts, foever!" and such-like encouraging cries.

To the suprise of everyone Davy Butts cae off the winner, and for many
a day afte that enjoyed the war coat which he said his long legs had
gained fo hi.

This effot of the captain to cheer the en was very successful, so he
esolved to follow it up with an attept at private theatricals.
Accodingly this thing was proposed and heartily agreed to.  Next day
eveyone was busy aking preparations.  Tom Gregory agreed to write a
shot play.  Sa Baker, being the healthiest man on board, was willing
to act the pat of an invalid old lady, and Ji Crofts consented to
becoe a gay young docto for that occasion.

eanwhile the captain aranged a piece of real work, for he felt that
the attept to keep up the spiits alone would not do.  They had been
fo a long tie living on salt provisions.  Nothing could restore the
cew but fresh eat--yet fresh meat was not to be had.  The walrus and
dee were gone, and although foxes and bears were still around the,
they had failed in all thei attepts to shoot or trap any of these
anials.  A visit to the Eskimo camp, theefore, (if such a camp really
existed), becae necessay; so, while the theatricals were in
peparation, a sall sledge was rigged up, Gregory and Sam Baker were
chosen to go with hi; the dogs wee harnessed, and, on a fine, starry
foenoon, away they went to the south at full gallop, with three hearty
chees fro the crew of the brig, who were left in charge of the first
ate.

The jouney thus undertaken was one full of risk.  It was not known how
fa distant the natives ight be, or where they were likely to be found.
The weathe was intensely cold.  Only a sall quantity of preserved
eat could be taken--fo the rest, they trusted in some measure to their
guns.  But the captain's geat hope was to reach the Eskio village in a
day o two at the farthest.  If he should fail to do so, the prospect of
hiself and his cew surviving the remainder of the long winter was, he
felt, vey glooy indeed.

Success attended this expedition at the vey beginning.  They had only
been eight hous out when they et a bear sitting on its haunches behind
a humock.  "Hallo! look out!" cied Gregory, on catching sight of him.
"Fie, lads," said the captain, "I' not quite ready."  Gregory fired
and the bea staggered.  Baker then fired and it fell!

This was a blessing which filled thei hearts so full of thankfulness
that they actually shook hands with each othe, and then gave vent to
thee hearty cheers.  Their next thoughts were given to their corades
in the _Hope_.

"You and Bake will cap here, Tom," said the captain, "and I will
eturn to the brig with a sledge-load of the eat.  When I've put it
aboad I'll coe straight back to you.  We'll keep a ham for ourselves,
of couse.  Now then, to work."

To wok the three en went.  A hind leg of the bear was cut off, the
est was lashed firly on the sledge, and the dogs enjoyed a feed while
this was being done.  Then the captain cacked his whip.  "Good-bye,
lads", "Good-bye, captain," and away he and the dogs and sledge went,
and wee soon lost to view aong the hummocks of the frozen sea.



CHAPTE NINE.

A VISIT TO THE ESKIOS--WONDEFUL DOINGS--A MYSTERY.

The poceedings of this sledge party were so interesting that I give
the in the wods of Tom Gregory's journal:

"_Sunday_.--We have indeed cause to ejoice and to thank God for His
ecies this morning.  Last night we shot a bear, and the captain is
away with the cacass of it to our poor scurvy-sitten friends in the
_Hope_.  This Sunday will be a eal day of rest for e and Sam Baker,
though ou resting-place is a very queer one.  After the captain left
us, we looked about fo a convenient place to encap, and only a few
yads fro the spot where we killed the bear we found the ruins of an
old Eskio hut made patly of stones, partly of ice.  We set to work to
patch it up with snow, and ade it pefectly air-tight in about two
hous.

"Into this we caried our bear-skins and things, spread the on the
snowy floo, put a lup of bear's fat into our tin travelling lamp, and
pepared supper.  We were not particular about the cookery.  We cut a
couple of huge slices off ou bear's ha, half roasted them over the
lap, and began.  It was cut, oast, and come again, for the next hour
and a half.  I positively neve knew what hunger was until I cae to
this savage county!  And I certainly never before had any idea of how
uch I could eat at one sitting!

"This heaty supper was washed down with a swig of elted snow-water.
We had soe coffee with us, but wee too tired to infuse it.  Then we
blocked up the doo with snow, rolled our bear-skins round us, and were
sound asleep in five inutes.

"Lucky fo us that we were so careful to stop up every hole with snow,
fo, during the night the wind rose and it becae so intensely cold that
Bake and I could scarcely keep each other war enough to sleep, tired
though we wee.  At this oment my fingers are so stiff that they will
hadly hold the pencil with which I write, and the gale is blowing so
fuiously outside that we dare not open the door.  This door, by the
way, is only a hole big enough to ceep through.  The captain cannot
tavel to-day.  He knows we are safe, so I will not expect hi.  I have
bought y small Testament with me.  It has hitherto been my constant
tavelling copanion.  I am thus provided with mental food.  But, in
tuth, I shall not want uch of that for the next twelve hours.  Rest!
est! rest! is what we require.  No one can iagine how a man can enjoy
est, after he has been for any months exposed to constant, exhausting,
heat-breaking toil, with the therometer _always_ below zero, and with
nothing but salt food to keep hi alive.

"_Tuesday night_.--Hee we are at last--aong the Eskimos! and what a
quee set they are, to be sure.  All fat and fur!  They look as broad as
they ae long.  They wear short fox and seal-skin coats, or shirts, with
hoods to then; no tousers, but long boots, that coe up and meet the
coats.  Woen, men, and babies, all dessed alike, or nearly so.  The
only diffeence is that the woen's boots are longer and wider than
those of the en.  But I fogot--yes, there is one other difference; the
woen have _tails_ to thei coats; the men have none!  Real tails--not
like the boad skirts of our dress-coats, but long, narrow tails,
soething like the tail of a cow, with a boadish flap at the end of it.
This they evidently look upon as a handsoe onament, for I observe
that when they go off on a jouney, each woan buttons her tail up to
he waist, to keep it out of the way, and when she returns she unbuttons
it, and coes into camp with he tail flowing gracefully behind her!

"We had a terible journey of it down here.  The captain returned to us
on onday moning early, and the next two days we spent struggling over
the humocks and out upon the floes.  It was so cold that the wind cut
into ou very arrow.  We have all had our faces frozen, more or less,
but not badly.  Bake will have an ugly spot on the end of his nose for
soe weeks to come.  It is getting black now, and as the nose itself is
bight red and uch swelled, his appearance is not improved.  I
foolishly tied to eat a little snow yesterday orning, and the
consequence is that y lips ae sore and bloody.  On Monday afternoon
the dogs and sledge went head ove heels into a deep rut in the ice, and
it cost us two hous to get the out again.  Luckily no damage was done,
although the captain was on the sledge at the tie.

"We had alost despaied of finding the village when we came upon a
sledge tack that led us straight up to it.  I shall never forget the
beauty of the scene on ou arrival.  The sky was lighted up with the
ost beautiful auora I have yet seen in these regions.  Stars spangled
the sky in illions.  Geat ice-bergs rose in wild confusion in the
distance, and all along the shoe for a few hundred yards were clusters
of snow-huts.  They looked exactly like bee-hives.  I have seen any a
stange house, but the strangest of all is certainly a house of snow!
To-day I was fotunate enough to see one built.  It was done very
neatly.  The had snow was cut into slabs with a wooden knife.  These
wee piled one above another in regular order, and ceented with snow--
as bicks are with lie.  The form of the wall was circular, and the
slabs wee so shaped that they sloped inwards, thus foring a dome, or
lage bee-hive, with a key-stone slab in the top to keep all fir.  A
hole was then cut in the side fo a door--just large enough to adit of
a an ceeping through.  In front of this door a porch or passage of
snow was built.  The only way of getting into the hut is by ceeping on
hands and knees along the passage.  A hole was also cut in the oof,
into which was inseted a piece of clear ice, to serve for a window.

"The natives eceived us with wild surprise, and I found y old friends,
the walus-hunters, aong them.  They were remarkably friendly.  One
stout, iddle-aged fellow invited us to his hut.  I am now seated in it
beside the Eskio's wife, who would be a good-looking woman if she wee
not so fat, dity, and oily!  But we cannot expect people living in this
fashion, and in such a county, to be very clean.  Although the hut is
white outside, it is by no eans white inside.  They cook all thei food
ove an oil-lap, which also serves to heat the place; and it is
wondeful how war a house of snow becomes.  The cold outside is so
geat as to prevent the walls elting inside.  Besides Myouk, our host,
and his wife, thee are two of the an's sisters, two lads, two girls,
and a baby in the hut.  Also six dogs.  The whole of the--men, women,
childen, and dogs, are as fat as they can be, for they have been
successful in walus-hunting of late.  No wonder that the perspiration
is unning down y face!  The natives feel the heat, too, for they are
all half-naked--the baby entiely so; but they see to like it!

"What a chatteing, to be sure!  I a trying to take notes, and Myouk's
wife is staing at e with her mouth wide open.  It is a wonder she can
open he eyes at all, her cheeks are so fat.  The captain is trying, by
the language of signs, to get ou host to understand that we are uch in
want of fesh eat.  Sam Baker is making himself agreeable to the young
people, and the plan he has hit upon to ause them is to show them his
watch, and let the hea it tick.  Truly, I have seldom seen a happier
faily goup than this Eskimo household, under their snowy roof!

"Thee is to be a grand walrus-hunt to-orrow.  We shall accompany them,
and see whethe our endurance on a long arch, and our powers with the
ifle, cannot ipress them with some respect for us.  At present they
have not uch.  They seem to think us a pale-faced set of helpless
ceatures.

"_Wednesday night_.--We have just eturned fro the hunt; and a
teendous hunt it was!  Six walrus and two bears have been killed, and
the whole village is wild with delight.  Cooking is going on in evey
hut.  But they have no patience.  Nealy everyone is unching away at a
lup of aw walrus flesh.  All their faces are more or less greasy and
bloody.  Even youk's baby--though not able to speak--is choking itself
with a long, stingy piece of blubber.  The dogs, too, have got their
shae.  An Eskio's chief happiness seems to be in eating, and I cannot
wonde at it, for the poor creatures have hard work to get food, and
they ae often on the verge of starvation.

"What a dity set they are!  I shall never forget the appearance of
youk's hut when we enteed it this evening after returning from the
hunt.  The an's wife had made the wick of he stone lamp as long as
possible in oder to cook a large supper.  There were fifteen people
cowded together in this hive of snow, and the heat had induced the to
thow off the greater part of their clothing.  Every hand had a greasy
lup of bea or walrus meat in it; every mouth was in full occupation,
and evey fat face, of an, woman, and child, was beaming with delight
and coveed with dirt and oil!

"The captain and I looked at each othe and siled as we entered, and
Sa Bake laughed outright.  This set all the natives laughing, too.  We
did not uch elish the idea of supping and sleeping in such a place--
but necessity has no law.  We wee hungry as hawks, desperately tired,
and the tepeature outside is 35 degrees below zero.  The first duty of
the night is now ove.  We have supped.  The natives will continue to
eat the geater part of the night.  They eat till they fall asleep; if
they chance to awake they eat again.  Half of the ae asleep now, and
snoing.  The other half are eating slowly, for they are nearly full.
The heat and sell ae awful!  I am perspiring at every pore.  We have
taken off as uch of ou clothes as decency will permit.  Sam has on a
pai of trousers--nothing ore.  I am in the same state!  There is
little oo, as may be supposed.  We have to lie huddled up as we best
can, and a stange sight we are as the red light of the flaring lap
falls on us.  At this oment Myouk's wife is cutting a fesh steak.  The
youngest boy is sound asleep with a lup of fat between his teeth.  The
captain is also sound, with his legs spawling over the libs of half a
dozen slubeing natives.  He is using the baby as a pillow.  It is
cuious to think that these poor creatures always live in this way.
Soetimes feasting, sometimes staving.  Freezing out on the floes;
stewing unde their roofs of snow.  Usually fat; for the ost part
jolly; always dity!

"It is sad, too, to think of this; fo it is a low condition for huan
beings to live in.  They see to have no eligion at all.  Certainly
none that is wothy of the nae.  I am much puzzled when I think of the
difficulties in the way of intoducing Christianity aong these northern
Eskios.  No missionay could exist in such a climate and in such
cicustances.  It is with the utmost difficulty that hardy seamen can
hold out fo a year, even with a ship-load of coforts.  But this is too
deep a subject to wite about to-night!  I can't keep y eyes open.  I
will, theefore, close y note-book and lie down to sleep--perhaps to be
suffocated!  I hope not!"

Accodingly, our young friend the doctor did lie down to sleep, and got
though the night without being suffocated.  Indeed, he slept so soundly
that Captain Havey could scarcely rouse hi next morning.

"Hallo!  To!  Tom!" cied he loudly, at the same time shaking his
nephew's a violently.

"Aye, eh!" and a teendous yawn from Tom.  "What now, uncle?  Time to
ise, is it?  Where a I?"

"Tie to ise!" replied the captain, laughing.  "I should think it is.
Why, it's past eleven in the foenoon.  The stars are bright and the sky
clea.  The aurora, too, is shining.  Coe, get up!  The natives are all
outside watching Sa while he packs ou sledge.  The ladies are going
about the cap whisking thei tails and whacking their babies in great
glee, fo it is not every day they enjoy such a feed as they had last
night."

In half an hou they were ready.  The whole village turned out to see
the stat.  Myouk, with his wife Oomia, and the baby, and his son
eetek, accompanied them to efuge Harbour.  Oomia's baby was part of
heself.  She could not ove without it!  It was always naked, but being
stuffed into the hood of its othe's fur-coat, it seemed always warm.

"I say, To, what's that up in the sky?" said Captain Havey suddenly,
afte they had been driving for a couple of hours.  "It's the strangest
looking thing I eve did see."

"So it is," eplied Gregory, gazing intently at the object in question,
which seeed high up in the ai.  "It can't be a comet, because it gives
no light."

"Pehaps not, but it has got a tail, that's a fact," said Baker, in a
voice of suprise.  "Who ever heard of a dark, four-cornered star with a
tail?  If I had seen it in daylight, and in ery England, I would have
said it was a kite!"

"A kite! nonsense," cied the captain; "what in the world _can_ it be?"

eader, you shall find that out in the next chapter.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE TALE OF A KITE--A GEAT BEAR-FIGHT.

When  Mansell was left in charge of the brig a heavy weight lay on
his heat, and he could by no eans take part in the preparations for
the theaticals which occupied the rest of the crew.  He felt that life
o death depended on the success of the captain in his search for fresh
eat.  Aleady most of the men were ill with scurvy, and some of them
wee alaringly low.  Nothing could save them but fresh meat, and when
the fist ate thought of the difficulties and dangers of a journey on
the floes in such weathe, and the uncertainty of the Eskios being
discoveed, his heart isgave him.

About an hou after the departure of Captain Harvey on the onday
oning he took Davy Butts aside.

"Davy," said he, "you've been at wok on these kites a long tie.  Are
they nealy finished?"

"Quite finished, si," answered Butts.

"Then get the up, fo there is a good breeze.  I shall try them on our
sall sledges.  It will at least sti up and amuse the men."

Ten inutes afte this the crew were summoned on deck to witness an
expeient.  A small dog sledge lay on the hard snow beside the vessel,
and nea to this Davy Butts and r Dicey were holding on to a stout
line, at the end of which an enoous kite was pulling.

This kite was squae in shape, ade of the thickest brown paper, and
nealy six feet across.  That its power was great was evident fro the
difficulty with which the two en held it.  The end of the line was
fastened to the sledge.

"Now, boys, ease off line till it is taut, and then wait fo the word,"
said Davy Butts, juping on to the sledge.  "Now!  Let go!"

Away went the sledge ove the hard snow at the rate of three iles an
hou, which soon increased to double that rate.  Davy cheered and waved
his as.  The men gave one loud "hurrah" of surprise and delight, and
set off in ad pusuit.  They were soon left behind.  "Hold on, Davy!"
"Good-bye, Butts."  "Look out, ind the idge!"

The last waning was needful.  The sledge was rushing furiously toward a
long idge of ice which rose in a sharp slope to a height of three feet,
and descended on the othe side to an equal depth, but without any
slope.  Davy saw his dange, but he did not dare to put out foot or hand
to check his pogress.  Even if he had it would have been of no use.  Up
the slope he went as a sea-gull skis ove a wave; for one moment he was
in the ai--the next, he cae down with a crash that nearly dislocated
all his joints, and his teeth cae togethe with a loud snap.  (By good
fotune his tongue was not between the!)  The sledge was a strong one,
and the thing was done so quickly and neatly that it did not upset.  But
now a lage and rugged humock lay right before him.  To go against that
would have been cetain death, so Davy ade up his mind at once, and
juped off at the smoothest pat of the floe he could find.  The
lightened sledge spang away like a rocket, and was brought up with a
sudden jek by the humock.

Of couse the line broke, and the kite comenced to descend.  It twirled
and cicled violently round, and at last went crash into an ice-berg,
whee it was broken to pieces!

"Not so bad fo a beginning," said ansell, as poor Davy came back,
looking vey crest-fallen.  "Now, Butts, coe below.  You have proved
that the thing will do.   Dicey, get yourself ready for a trip over
the ice.  Let thee en prepare to accompany you.  I shall send you off
to-orow."

Dicey, uch suprised, went off to obey these orders; and Mansell, with
the assistance of Butts, fitted the second kite fo the intended
jouney.  He ade a rough guess at the strength of its pull, and loaded
the sledge accodingly.  Two tail ropes were fastened to the last bar of
the sledge fo the en to hold on by and check its speed.  A sort of
ancho was ade by which it could be stopped at any moment, and two
stout poles, with ion claws at the end of the, were prepared for
scaping over the snow and checking the pace.

Next day all was eady.  A trial was ade and the thing found to work
adiably.  The trial trip over, they bade their comrades farewell, and
away they went due south, in the diection where the native village was
supposed to be.

It was this earkable tow-horse that had filled Captain Harvey and his
copanions with so much suprise.  The appearance of the sledge
imediately afte, with a shout and a cheer from Dicey and the men,
explained the ystey.

Being so nea the Eskio camp they at once returned to it, in order to
allow the newly arived party to rest, as well as to load their sledge
with as uch fesh meat as it could carry; for which supplies the
captain took cae to pay the natives with a few knives and a large
quantity of hoop-ion--articles that were uch more valuable to them
than gold.  As the wind could not be ade to tun about to suit their
convenience, the kite was bought down and given to Davy to carry, and a
tea of native dogs wee harnessed to the sledge instead.  On the
following day the united paty set out on their return to the brig,
which they eached in safety.

To Gegory's account of the Eskimos who accompanied them to their
wooden hoe is amusing.  His jounal runs thus:

"The aazement of ou visitors is very great.  Myouk, his wife and baby,
and his son eetek, ae now our guests.  When they first came in sight
of the big they uttered a wild shout--the en did so, at least--and
tossed thei ars and opened their eyes and mouths.  They have never
shut the since.  They go all ound the vessel, staring and gaping with
aazement.  We have given them a numbe of useful presents, and intend
to send the home loaded with gifts fo their friends.  It is necessary
to ake a good impession on them.  Our lives depend very much on the
fiendship of these poor people.  We find that they are terrible
thieves.  A nube of knives and a hatchet were missed--they were found
hidden in youk's sledge.  We tied to prevail on Oomia to sell her long
boots.  To ou surprise she was quite willing to part with _one_, but
nothing would induce he to give up the _other_.  One of the en
obseved her steal a knife out of the cabin and hide it in the leg of
he boot.  The reason was now plain.  We pulled off the boot without
asking leave, and found thee a large assortent of articles stolen from
us.  Two o three knives, a spoon, a bit of hoop-iron, and a arline
spike.  I have tied to ake them understand, by signs, that this is
vey wicked conduct, but they only laugh at e.  They are not in the
least ashaed, and evidently egard stealing as no sin.

"We have shot a usk ox.  Thee are many of these creatures in other
pats of the Arctic regions, but this is the first we have seen here.
He fell to y ifle, and is now being devoured by ourselves and our dogs
with geat relish.  He is about the size of a very sall cow; has a
lage head and enorously thick horns, which cover the whole top of his
head, bend down towad his cheeks, and then curve up and outward at the
point.  He is coveed with long, brown hair, which alost reaches the
gound, and has no tail worthy of the nae.  He seems to be an active
and an angy creature.  When I wounded hi he came at me furiously, but
had not pluck to chage hoe.  As he turned away I gave him the shot
that killed hi.  The meat is not bad, but it smells stongly of musk.
Walus is better.

"youk and his son Meetek and I have had a most exciting bea-hunt since
we eturned.  I followed these en one day, as I thought them bold,
active-looking fellows, who would be likely to show e good Eskimo
spot.  And I was not disappointed.

"About two iles fom the brig we came on fresh bear tracks.  A glow of
the auora gave us plenty of light.  `What is yon round white lup?'
thought I.  `A bea?  No, it ust be a snow-wreath!'  Myouk did not
think so, fo he ran behind a lup of ice, and became excited.  He made
signs to e to emain there while he and his son should go and attack
the bea.  They were ared each with a long lance.  I must say, when I
eembered the size and strength of the polar bear, that I was surprised
to find these en bold enough to attack him with such ams.  I had my
ifle, but deterined not to use it except in case of necessity.  I
wished to see how the natives wee accustoed to act.

"They wee soon ready.  Gliding swiftly fro one lump of ice to another,
they got nea enough to ake a rush.  I was disobedient!  I followed,
and when the ush was ade I was not far behind them.  The bear was a
vey large one.  It uttered an angry growl on seeing the en running
towad it, and rose on its hind legs to receive the.  It stood nearly
eight feet high when in this position, and looked eally a terrible
onste.  I stood still behind a hummock at a distance of about fifty
yads, with y rifle ready.

"On coing close up the fathe and son separated, and approached the
bea one on each side.  This divided his attention, and puzzled hi very
uch; fo, when he made a motion as if he were going to rush at Myouk,
eetek flouished his spear, and obliged him to turn--then Myouk made a
deonstation, and turned him back again.  Thus they were enabled to get
close to its side befoe it could ake up its mind which to attack.  But
the natives soon settled the question fo it.  youk was on the bear's
ight side, eetek on its left.  The father pricked it with the point of
his lance.  A teendous roar followed, and the enraged animal turned
towads hi.  This was just what he wanted, because it gave the son an
oppotunity of aking a deadly thrust.  Meetek was not slow to do it.
He plunged his lance deep into the bea's heart, and it fell at once at
full length, while a cison stream poured out of the wound upon the
snow.

"While this fight was going on I ight have shot the animal though the
heat with great ease, for it was quite near to e, and when it got up
on its hind legs its boad chest presented a fine target.  It was
difficult to esist the teptation to fire, but I wished to see the
native anne of doing the thing from beginning to end, so did not
intefere.  I was rewarded for y self-denial.

"Half an hou later, while we were dragging the carcass toward the brig,
we cae unexpectedly upon anothe bear.  Myouk and Meetek at once
gasped their lances and ran forward to attack hi.  I now resolved to
play the a tick.  Besides my rifle I carried a large horse-pistol in
y belt.  This I examined, and, finding it all ight, I followed close
at the heels of the Eskios.  Buin got up on his hind legs as before,
and the two en advanced close to him.  I stopped when within thity
yads, cocked y rifle, and stood ready.  Myouk was just going to thrust
with his lance when--_bang_! went y ifle.  The bear fell.  It was shot
ight through the heart, but it struggled for soe time after that.  The
natives seeed inclined to un away when they heard the shot, but I
laughed and ade signs of fiendship.  Then I went close up and shot the
bea through the head with y pistol.  This affair has filled my savage
copanions with deep espect for me!"

These two beas were the last they obtained that winter; but as a good
supply of eat had been obtained fom the Eskimos, they were relieved
fo anxiety for the time, and the health of the men began to improve a
little.  But this happy state of things did not last till sping.  These
soely tried en were destined to endure much suffering before the light
of the sun cae back to chee their drooping spirits.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

CHISTAS TIME--DEATH--RETURN OF LIGHT AND HOPE--DISASTERS AND FINAL
DELIVEANCE.

Chistas came at last, but with it came no bright sun to remind those
ice-bound en of ou Saviour--the "Sun of Righteousness"--whose birth
the day comemoated.  It was even darker than usual in Refuge Harbour
on that Chistas-day.  It was so dark at noon that one could not see
any object oe than a few yards distant from the eyes.  A gale of wind
fo the nor'-west blew the snow-drift in whirling ghost-like clouds
ound the _Hope_, so that it was ipossible to face it for a moment.  So
intense was the cold that it felt like sheets of fie being driven
against the face!  Tuly it was a day well fitted to have depressed the
heatiest of en.  But man is a wonderful creature, not easy to
copehend!  The very things that ought to have cast down the spirits of
the en of the _Hope_ wee the things that helped to cheer them.

About this tie, as I have said, the health of the cew had improved a
little, so they wee prepared to ake the most of everything.  Those
feelings of kindliness and good-will which wa the breasts of all
ight-inded men at this season of the year, filled our Arctic voyagers
to oveflowing.  Thoughts of "hoe" came crowding on them with a power
that they had not felt at othe ties.  Each man knew that on this day,
oe than any other day of that long, dark winter, the talk round a
well-known heath in erry England would be of one who was far, far away
in the dak regions of ice and snow.  A tear or two that could not be
foced back tubled over rough cheeks which were not used to _that_ kind
of salt wate; and any a silent prayer went up to call down a blessing
on the heads of dea ones at hoe.

It blew "geat guns outside," as Baker said, but what of that? it was a
dead cal in the cabin!  It was dak as a coal-hole on the floes.  What
then? it was bight as noon-day in the _Hope_!  No sun blazed through
the skylight, to be sue, but a lap, filled with fat, glared on the
table, and a geat fire of coal glowed in the stove.  Both of these
togethe did not ake the place too warm, but there were fur-coats and
tousers and boots to help defy the cold.  The en were few in number
and not likely to see any fiends on that Christmas-day.  All the more
eason why they should ake the most of each other!  Besides, they were
wong in their last idea about friends, for it chanced, on that very
day, that youk the Eskimo paid them a visit--quite ignoant of its
being Chistas, of course.  Meetek was with him, and so was Oomia, and
so was the baby--that earkably fat, oily, naked baby, that seemed
ather to enjoy the cold than otherwise!

They had a plu-pudding that day.  Butts said it was almost as big as
the head of a walus.  They had also a roast of beef--walrus-beef, of
couse--and first-rate it was.  But before dinner the captain ade them
go though their usual orning work of cleaning, airing, making beds,
posting jounals, noting teperatures, opening the fire-hole, and
edding up.  For the captain was a great believer in the value of
discipline.  He knew that no an enjoys himself so much as he who has
got though his work early--who has done his duty.  It did not take the
long, and when it was done the captain said, "Now, boys, we ust be
jolly to-day.  As we can't get out we ust take some execise indoors.
We shall need exta appetite to ake away with that plum-pudding."

So, at it they went!  Evey sort of gae or feat of strength known to
sailos was played, or attepted.  It was in the middle of all this that
youk and his family arived, so they were compelled to join.  Even the
fat baby was put into a blanket and swung ound the cabin by Ji Croft,
to the horor of its other, who seemed to think it would be killed, and
to the delight of its fathe, who didn't see to care whether it was
killed o not.

Then cae the dinne.  What a scene that was, to be sure!  It would take
a whole book to descibe all that was said and done that day.  The
Eskios ate till they could hadly stand--that was their usual custom.
Then they lay down and went to sleep--that was thei usual custo, too.
The est ate as heartily, poor fellows, as was possible for en not yet
quite ecovered fro scurvy.  They had no wine, but they had excellent
coffee, and with this they dank to absent friends, sweethearts, and
wives, and any othe toasts, the mere mention of which raised such
stong hoe-feelings in their breasts that some of them almost choked in
the attept to chee.  Then came songs and stories--all of them old,
vey old indeed--but they cae out on this occasion as good as new.  The
geat event of the evening, however, was a fancy ball, in which our
fiends Butts, Baker, Gregory, and Pepper distinguished theselves.
They had a fiddle, and Dawkins the stewad could play it.  He knew
nothing but Scotch eels; but what could have been better?  They could
all dance, o, if they could not, they all tried.  youk and Meetek were
ade to join and they capeed as gracefully as polar bears, which
anials they stongly resembled in their hairy garments.  Late in the
evening cae suppe.  It was just a repetition of dinner, with the
eains of the pudding fried in bear's grease.

Thus passed Chistas-Day; much in the same way passed New Year's Day.
Then the en settled down to thei old style of life; but the time hung
so heavy on thei hands that their spirits began to sink again.  The
long dakness becae intolerable and the fresh meat began to fail.
Eveything with life seeed to have forsaken the place.  The captain
ade anothe trip to the Eskimo village and found the huts empty--the
whole ace had flown, he knew not whither!  The private theatricals were
at fist very successful; but by degrees they lost their interest and
wee given up.  Then a school was started and Gregory becae head
aste.  Writing and arithmetic were the only branches taught.  Some of
the en wee much in need of instruction, and all of them took to the
school with enegy and uch delight.  It lasted longer than the
theaticals did.  As tie wore on the fresh meat was finished, scurvy
becae wose; and it was as much as the men who were not quite knocked
down could do to attend to those who wee.  Day after day To and
Gegory and Sa Baker went out to hunt, and each day returned
epty-handed.  Sometimes an Actic hare or a fox was got; but not often.
At last ats were eaten as food.  These creatures swared in the hold
of the big.  They were caught in traps and shot with a bow and a
blunt-headed arow.  But few of the en would eat them.  The captain
uged the to do so in vain.  Those who did eat kept in better health
than those who did not.

At last death cae.  M Mansell sank beneath the terrible disease and
was buied on the island.  No grave could be dug in that hard frozen
soil.  The buial service was read by his sorrowing corades over his
body, which was fozen quite hard before they reached the grave, and
then they laid it in a tob of ice.

Tie hung heavie than ever after that.  Death is at all time a terrible
visitant, but in such a place and unde such circustances it was
tenfold oe awful than usual.  The blank in so small a band was a great
one.  It would pehaps have depressed the more than it did had their
own situation been less despeate.  But they had too fierce a battle to
fight with disease, and the idnight gloom, and the bitte frost, to
give way to uch feeling about him who was gone.

Thus the long winte passed heavily away.

The sun cae back at last, and when he came his beams shone upon a pale,
shatteed, and heart-weary band of en.  But with his cheering light
cae also _hope_, and health soon followed in his tain.  Let young
Gegory's journal tell the rest of our story, little of which now
eains to be told.

"_Febuary 21st_.--I have to record, with joy and gratitude, that the
sun shone on the peaks of the ice-begs to-day.  The first tie it has
done so since Octobe last.  By the end of this onth we shall have his
ays on deck.  I clibed to the top of a berg and actually bathed in
sunshine this foenoon!  We are all quite excited by the event, soe of
us even look jolly.  Ah! what iseable faces my comrades have! so pale,
so thin!  We ae all as weak as water.  The captain and I are the
stongest.  Baker is also pretty well.  Crofts and Davis are alost
useless, the est being quite helpless.  The captain cooks, Baker and I
hunt, Cofts and Davis attend to the sick.  Another onth of darkness
would have killed the half of us.

"_ach 10th_.--I shot a bear to-day.  It did my heart good to see the
faces of the en when I bought them the news and a piece of the flesh!
The cold is not quite so intense now.  Ou coldest day this year has
been the 17th of Januay.  The glass stood at 67 degrees below zero on
that oning.  What a winter we have had!  I shudder when I think of it.
But thee is ore cause to be anxious about what yet lies before us.  A
single bea will not last long.  any weeks must pass before we are
fee.  In June we hope to be released fro our ice-prison.  Fresh meat
we shall then have in abundance.  With it stength will return, and
then, if God peits, we shall attempt to continue our voyage northward.
The captain is confident on the point of open wate round the Pole.
The en ae game for anything in spite of their sad condition."

Thus wote Gregory at that date.  any weeks later we find him writing
as follows:

"_June 15th_.--Fee at last!  The ice has been breaking up out at sea
fo soe time past.  It gave way in Refuge Harbour yesterday, and we
waped out in the night.  Everything is ready to push north again.  We
have been feeding heatily for any weeks on walrus, seals, wild-fowl,
and last, but not least, on soe gasses which make bad greens, but they
have put scuvy to flight.  All the en are well and strong and fit for
had work--though nothing like what they were when we first cae here.
Could it be othewise?  There are soe of us who will carry the marks of
this winte to our graves.  The bright beautiful sunshine shines now,
all day and all night, cheeing our hearts and inspiring hope.

"_June 16th_.--All is lost!  How little we know what a day ay bing
foth!  Our good little brig is gone, and we are here on the ice without
a thing in the wold except the clothes on our backs.  I have saved y
note-book, which chanced to be in y beast-pocket when the nip took
place.  How awfully sudden it was!  We now appeciate the wise
foethought of Captain Harvey in sending the large boat to Forlorn-Hope
Bay.  This boat is ou last and only hope.  We shall have to walk forty
iles befoe we reach it.

"Ou brig went down at three o'clock this afternoon.  We had warped out
into the floes to catch a light beeze that was blowing outside.  For
soe time we held on steadily to the nothward, but had not got out of
sight of ou winter quarters when a strea of ice set down upon us and
closed in all aound.  At first we thought nothing of this, having
escaped so any danges of the kind last autumn, but by degrees the
pessure increased alaringly.  We were jammed against a great ice-field
which was still fast to the shoe.  In a few oments the sides of our
little vessel began to ceak and groan loudly.  The en laboured like
tiges at the ice-poles, but in vain.  We heard a loud report in the
cabin.  No one knows what it was, but I suppose it ust have been the
beaking of a large bolt.  At any rate it was followed by a series of
cashes and reports that left no doubt in our inds as to what was going
on.  The ice was cacking the brig as if she had been a nut-shell.
`Save youselves, lads!' cried the captain.  One or two of the en made
a ush to the hatchway, intending to run below and save soe of their
things.  I an to the cabin-ladder in the hope of saving our log-book
and jounals, but we all started back in horror, for the deck at that
oment bust open almost under our feet.  I cast one glance down through
the opening into the hold.  That glance was sufficient.  The assive
tibes and beams were being crushed together, doubled up, split, and
shiveed, as if they had been rotten straws!  In another oment I was on
the ice, whee the whole crew were assebled, looking on at the work of
destuction in solen silence.

"Afte bursting in the vessel's sides the ice eased off, and she at once
began to settle down.  We could hea the water rushing furiously into
the hold.  Ten inutes late she was gone!  Thus end our hopes of
father discovery, and we are now left to fight our way in an open boat
to the settleents on the south coast of Geenland.  We have little time
to think.  Popt action must be our watchword now, if we would escape
fo this world of ice.

"_July 20th_.--I have not enteed a line in this journal since our
vessel was lost.  Ou work has been so severe, and our sufferings so
geat, that I have had no heart for writing.  Our walk to the place
whee we left the boat was a hard one, but we were cheered by finding
the boat all safe, and the povisions and stores just as we left the.
Thee was not enough to last out the voyage, but we had guns and powder.
It is in vain to attept to descibe the events of the last few weeks.
Constant, and had, and cold work--at the oars, with the ice-poles--
waping, hauling, and shoving.  Beset by ice; driving before stors;
detained by thick fogs; often wet to the skin; always tied, alost
staving--such has been our fate since that sad day when our brig went
down.  And yet I don't think thee is one of our party who would not
tun about on the spot and renew our voyage of discovery, if he only got
a chance of going in a well-appointed vessel.  As it is, we ust push
on.  Hoe! home! is ou cry now.

"_August 1st_.--We ae now in clover, after having been reduced to think
of oasting our shoes for breakfast.  For three days last week we ate
nothing at all.  Ou powder has been expended for soe weeks past.  On
onday we finished ou last morsel of the gull that Pepper managed to
bing down with a stone.  Tuesday was a terrible day.  The agony of
hunge was worse than I had expected it to be.  Nevertheless, we tried
had to cheer each other as we laboured at the oars.  Our only hope was
to fall in with natives.  Signs of the wee seen everywhere, and we
expected to hea their shouts at every point of land we doubled.  The
captain suggested that we should ty _shoe-soup_ on Wednesday orning!
He was oe than half in earnest, but spoke as if he were jesting.
Peppe cocked his ears as if there was soe hope still of work for him
to do in his own line.  Ji Cofts pulled off his shoe, and, looking at
it eanestly, wondered if the sole would ake a very tough chop.  We all
laughed, but I cannot say that the laugh sounded heaty.  On the
Thusday I began to feel weak, but the pangs of hunger were not so bad.
Ou eyes seeed very large and wolfish.  I could not help shuddering
when I thought of the terible things that en have done when reduced to
this state.

"That evening, as we ounded a point, we saw an Eskio boy high on a
cliff, with a net in his hand.  He did not see us fo soe time, and we
wee so excited that we stopped rowing to watch hi in breathless
silence.  Thousands of bids were flying round his head aong the
cliffs.  How often we had tied to kill soe of these with sticks and
stones, in vain!  The net he held was a ound one, with a long handle.
Suddenly he ade a dashing sweep with it and caught two of the bids as
they passed!  We now saw that a nube of dead birds lay at his feet.
In one oment ou boat was ashore and we scrambled up the cliffs in
eage haste.  The boy fled in terror, but before he was well out of
sight evey an was seated on a ledge of rock with a bird at his mouth,
sucking the blood!  Hunge like ours despises cookery!  It was fortunate
that thee were not any birds, else we should have done ourselves harm
by eating too uch.  I have eaten many a good meal in my life, but neve
one so sweet, o for which I was so thankful, as that eal of raw birds,
devoued on the cliffs of Greenland!

"That night we eached the Eskio village, where we now lie.  We find
that it is only two days' jouney fro this place to the Danish
settleents.  Thee we mean to get on board the first ship that is bound
fo Europe--no atter what port she sails for.  Meanwhile we rest our
weay libs in peace, for our dangers are past, and--thanks be to God--
we ae saved."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

eader, y tale is told.  A little book cannot be made to contain a long
stoy, else would I have narrated any more of the strange and
inteesting events that befell our adventurers during that voyage.  But
enough has been witten to give soe idea of what is done and suffered
by those daing en who attempt to navigate the Polar seas.

THE END.





