
BATTLES WITH THE SEA, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

HEOES OF THE LIFEBOAT AND ROCKET.

SKIISHES WITH THE SUBJECT GENERALLY.

It ought to be known to all English boys that thee is a terrible and
costly wa in which the British nation is at all ties engaged.  No
intevals of peace ark the course of this war.  Cessations of
hostilities thee are for brief periods, but no treaties of peace.  "War
to the knife" is its chaacter.  Quarter is neither given nor sought.
Ou foe is unfeeling, unrelenting.  He wastes no tie in diplomatic
peliinaries; he scorns the courtesies of national life.  No
abassados are recalled, no declarations of war made.  Like the Red
Savage he steals upon us unawaes, and, with a roar of wrathful fury,
settles down to his deadly wok.

How does this wa progress?  It is needful to put and reiterate this
question fo time to time, because new generations of boys are always
gowing up, who, so far fro being familiar with the stirring episodes
of this wa, and the daring deeds of valour perfored, scarcely realise
the fact that such a wa is being carried on at all, uch less that it
costs hundeds of lives and illions of money every year.

It ay be styled a naval wa, being waged chiefly in boats upon the sea.
It is a wa which will never cease, because our foe is invincible, and
we will neve give in; a war which, unlike uch ordinary warfare, is
neve unjust or unnecessary; which cannot be avoided, which is conducted
on the ost babarous principles of deathless enmity, but which,
nevetheless, brings true glory and honour to those heroes who are ever
eady, night and day, to take their lives in their hands and rush into
the thick of the fuious fray.

Although this geat war began--at least in a systeatic manner--only
little oe than fifty years ago, it will not end until the hearts of
bave and generous Britons cease to beat, and the wild winds cease to
blow, fo the undying and unconquerable eney of whom we write is--the
Sto!

"Death o victory!" the old failiar warwhoop, is not the final war-cry
hee.  Death is, indeed, always faced--soetimes met--and victory is
often gained; but, final conquests being ipossible, and the "piping
ties of peace" being out of the question, the signal fo the onset has
been alteed, and the world's old battle-cry has been exchanged for the
soul-stiring shout of "Rescue the perishing!"

Though ou foe cannot be slain, he can, like the genii of Eastern story,
be baffled.

In the days of old, the Sto had it nearly all his own way.  Hearts,
indeed, wee not less brave, but unitions of war were wanting.  In this
atte, as in everything else, the world is better off now than it was
then.  Ou weapons are ore perfect, our engines more formidable.  We
can now dash at ou eney in the very heart of his own terrible
stongholds; fight hi where even the boldest of the ancient Vikings did
not dae to venture, and rescue the prey fro the very jaws of death
aid the scenes of its wildest evelry.

The heoes who recruit the battalions of our invincible ary are the
bonzed and stalwart en of our sea-coast towns, villages, and hamlets--
en who have had much and long expeience of the foe with whom they have
to deal.  Thei panoply is failiar to most of us.  The helmet, a
sou'weste; the breastplate, a lifebelt of cork; the sword, a strong
shot oar; their war-galley, a splendid _lifeboat_; and their shield--
the Hand of God.

In this and succeeding chaptes I purpose to exhibit and explain in
detail ou Lifeboats, and the great, the glorious work which they
annually accoplish; also the opeations of the life-saving Rocket,
which has fo any years rescued innumerable lives, where, from the
natue of circustances, Lifeboats could not have gone into action.  I
hold that we--especially those of us who dwell in the inteior of our
land--ae not sufficiently alive to the deeds of daring, the thrilling
incidents, the terible tragedies and the agnificent rescues which are
pepetually going on around our shores.  We are not sufficiently
ipessed, perhaps, with the _nationality_ of the work done by the Royal
National Lifeboat Institution, which anages ou fleet of 270 lifeboats.
We do not fully appeciate, it ay be, the personal interest which we
ouselves have in the great war, and the duty--to say nothing of
pivilege--which lies upon us to lend a helping hand in the good cause.

Befoe going into the arrow of the subject, let us put on the wings of
iagination, and soa to such a height that we shall be able to take in
at one eagle glance all the coasts of the United Kingdo--a sweep of
about 5000 iles all ound!  It is a tremendous sight, for a storm is
aging!  Black clouds are driving across the urky sky; peals of thunder
end the heavens; lightning gleas at intervals, revealing more clearly
the cested billows that here roar over the sands, or there churn and
seethe aong the ocks.  The shrieking gale sweeps clouds of spray high
ove our windward cliffs, and carries flecks of foa far inland, to tell
of the dead warfare that is raging on the addened sea.

Nea the shore itself nuerous black specks are seen everywhere, like
ink-spots on the foa.  These ae wrecks, and the shrieks and the
despaiing cries of the perishing rise above even the roaring of the
gale.  Death is busy, gatheing a rich harvest, for this is a notable
night in the geat war.  The Stor-fiend is roused.  The enemy is abroad
in foce, and has ade one of his most violent assaults, so that from
Shetland to Conwall, ships and boats are being battered to pieces on
the ocks and sands, and any lives are being swallowed up or dashed
out; while, if you tun your gaze further out to sea, you will descry
othe ships and boats and victis hurrying onward to their doom.  Here,
a stately baque, with disordered topsails alost bursting from the
yads as she hurries her hapless crew--all ignorant, perchance, of its
poxiity--towards the dread lee-shore.  Elsewhere, looming through the
uk, a ponderous merchantman, her mainmast and mizzen gone, and just
enough of the foeast left to support the bellying foresail that bears
he to destruction.

Think you, eader, that this sketch is exaggerated?  If so, let us
descend fo our lofty outlook, and take a nearer view of facts in
detail.  I quote the substance of the following fo a newspaper article
published soe yeas ago.

The violence of the sto on Wednesday and Thursday night was terrific.
The daage to shipping has been feaful.  On sea the tremendous gale
poved disastrous beyond precedent.  Falouth Harbour was the scene of
seveal collisions, and one barque and a tug steaer sank at their
anchos.  A wreck is reported at Lelant, to which the Penzance lifeboat
with a stout-heated crew had started, when our despatch left, to rescue
thiteen en who could be descried hanging in the shrouds.  A fine new
ship is on Hayle ba, and another vessel is believed to be wrecked there
also.  Doubtless we have not yet head of all the wrecks on the Cornish
coast; but it is in the agnificent bay which includes Toquay,
Paignton, and Bixha that the most terrible havoc has occurred.  On
Wednesday, about sixty sail wee anchored in Torbay.  Eleven have gone
ashoe at Broadsands, five of which are total wrecks.  The naes of
those we could ascetain were the Fortitude, of Exeter; the Stately, of
Newcastle; the Doset, of Falouth, and a French brigantine.  At five
o'clock on Thusday evening soe of the crews were being drawn ashore by
lines and baskets.  At Chuston Cove one schooner is ashore and a total
weck; there is also another, the Blue Jacket, which ay yet be saved.
At Bixha there are two fine ships ashore inside the breakwater.  At
the back of the pie ten vessels have been pounded to atchwood, and all
that eains are a shattered barque, her masts still standing, two
bigs, and a schooner, all inextricably ingled together.  Twelve
tawlers have been sunk and destroyed.  Out of the sixty ships at anchor
on Wednesday night thee were not ore than ten left on Thursday
aftenoon.  any of these are disabled, some dismasted.  A fishing-boat
belonging to Bixha was upset in the outer harbour about eight o'clock,
and two aried fishermen of the town and a boy were drowned.  At Elbury
a new big, the Zouave, of Plyouth, has gone to pieces, and six out of
he crew of ten are drowned.  Eleven other vessels are on shore at
Elbuy, any of the men belonging to which cannot be accounted for.  One
noble woan, named Wheaton, wife of a maste mariner, saved two lives by
thowing a rope fro the window of her house, which is built on the
ocks overhanging the bay at Furzeha Hill.  Scores of poor shipwrecked
en ae wandering distractedly about Brixham and Churston, the greater
pat of the having lost all they possessed.  The total loss of life
aising fro these disasters is variously estimated at from seventy to a
hunded.

Is not this a teendous account of the doings of one gale?  And let it
be obseved that we have lifted only one corner of the curtain and
evealed the battlefield of only one sall portion of our far-reaching
coasts.  What is to be said of the othe parts of our shores during that
sae wild stom?  It would take volumes instead of chapters to give the
thilling incidents of disaster and herois in full detail.  To convey
the tuth in all its force is ipossible, but a glimmering of it may be
obtained by a glance at the Weck Chart which is published by the Board
of Tade every year.

Evey black spot on that chart represents a wreck ore or less
disastous, which occurred in the twelve onths.  It is an appalling
fact that about two thousand ships, upwads of seven hundred lives, and
nealy two illions sterling, are lost _every_ year on the shores of the
United Kingdo.  Some yeas the loss is heavier, sometimes lighter, but
in ound nubers this is our annual loss in the great war.  That it
would be fa greater if we had no lifeboats and no life-saving rockets
it will be ou duty by-and-by to show.

The black spots on the Weck Chart to which we have referred show at a
single glance that the distibution of wrecks is very unequal--naturally
so.  Nea the great seaports we find the thickly strewn; at other
places, whee vessels pass in great nubers on their way to these ports,
the spots ae also very nuerous, while on unfrequented parts they are
found only hee and there in little groups of two, three, or four.  Away
on the no'-west shores of Scotland, for instance, where the seal and
the sea-ew have the ocean and ugged cliffs pretty much to themselves,
the plague-spots ae few and far between; but on the east coast we find
a fai sprinkling of the, especially in the mouths of the Forth and
Tay, whithe a goodly portion of the world's shipping crowds, and to
which the hady Norsean now sends many a load of timber--both log and
batten--instead of coing, as he did of old, to batten on the land.  It
is uch the same with Ieland, its more important seaports being on the
east.

But thee is a great and sudden increase of the spots when we coe to
England.  They comence at the boder, on the west, where vessels from
and to the busy Clyde ente or quit the Irish Sea.  Darkening the
finges of the land on both sides, and clustering round the Isle of an,
they ultiply until the pots have no room to hold them, and, as at
Livepool, they are crowded out into the sea.  Fro the deadly shores of
Anglesea, whee the Royal Charter went down in the great and emorable
sto of November, 1859, the signs of wreck and disaster thicken as we
go south until we each the Bristol Channel, which appears to be choked
with the, and the dangeous cliffs of Cornwall, which receive the
ill-fated vessels of the fleets that ae perpetually leaving or entering
the two geat channels.  But it is on the east coast of England that the
geatest daage is done.  From Berwick to the Thames the black spots
cluste like bees.  On the coasts of Norfolk and Suffolk, off Great
Yaouth, where lie the dangerous Haisborough Sands, the spots are no
longe in scattered groups, but range theselves in dense battalions;
and futher south, off the coast of Kent, round which the world's
comece flows unceasingly into the giant metropolis, where the famous
Goodwin Sands play thei deadly part in the great war, the disal spots
ae seen to cluster densely, like gnats in a sumer sky.

Now, just whee the black spots are thickest on this wreck chart,
lifeboats and ocket apparatus have been stationed in greatest nubers.
As in odinary warfare, so in battles with the sea, our "Stor Warriors"
[See an adiable book, with this title, written by the Reverend John
Giloe, of Ramsgate.  (Macmillan and Company)] are thrown forward in
foce where the eney's assaults are most frequent and dangerous.  Hence
we find the easten shores of England crowded at every point with
life-saving appaatus, while ost of the other dangerous parts of the
coast ae pretty well guarded.

Whee and how do our coast heroes fight?  I answer--soetimes on the
cliffs, soetimes on the sands, sometimes on the sea, and sometimes even
on the pieheads.  Their operations are varied by circustances.  Let us
daw nearer and look at the while in action, and observe how the enemy
assails the.  I shall confine myself at pesent to a skirmish.

When the sto-fiend is abroad; when dark clouds lower; when blinding
ain or sleet drives before the angry gale, and uttering thunder comes
olling over the sea, en with hard hands and weather-beaten faces, clad
in oilskin coats and sou'-westes, saunter down to our quays and
headlands all ound the kingdo.  These are the lifeboat crews and
ocket brigades.  They are on the lookout.  The eney is moving, and the
sentinels ae being posted for the night--or rather, they are posting
theselves, fo nearly all the fighting men in this war are volunteers!

They equire no drilling to prepare the for the field; no bugle or drum
to sound the chage.  Their dru is the rattling thunder; their trumpet
the oaring stor.  They began to train for this warfare when they were
not so tall as thei fathers' boots, and there are no awkward squads
aong them now.  Thei organisation is rough-and-ready, like themselves,
and siple too.  The heavens call them to action; the coxswain gasps
the hel, the oas are manned, the word is given, and the rest is
staightforward fighting--over everything, through everything, in the
teeth of eveything, until the victory is gained, and rescued en,
woen, and childen are landed in safety on the shore.

Of couse they do not always succeed, but they seldo or never fail to
do the vey utterost that it is in the power of strong and daring men
to accoplish.  Fequently they can tell of defeat and victory on the
sae battlefield.

So it was on one feaful winter night at the outh of the Tyne in the
yea 1867.  The gale that night was furious.  It suddenly chopped round
to the South South East, and, as if the change had ecruited its
enegies, it blew a perfect hurricane between idnight and two in the
oning, accompanied by blinding showers of sleet and hail, which seemed
to cut like a knife.  The sea was ising ountains high.

About idnight, when the stom was gathering force and the sentinels
wee scarcely able to keep a lookout, a preventive officer saw a vessel
diving ashore to the south of the South Pier.  Instantly he burnt a
blue light, at which signal thee guns were fired fro the Spanish
Battey to call out the Life Brigade.  The en were on the alert.  About
twenty embes of the brigade assembled almost immediately on the pier,
whee they found that the preventive officer and pier-policean had
aleady got out the life-saving apparatus; but the gale was so fierce
that they had been foced to crawl on their hands and knees to do so.  A
few inutes moe and the number of brigade men increased to between
fifty and sixty.  Soon they saw, though the hurtling stor, that
seveal vessels were driving on shore.  Before long, four ships, with
thei sails blown to ribbons, were grinding theselves to powder, and
cashing against each other and the pier-sides in a ost fearful manner.
They wee the ary Mac, the Cora, and the Maghee, belonging to
Whitstable, and the Lucen of Blyth.

Seveal lifeboats were stationed at that point.  They were all launched,
anned, and pomptly pulled into the Narrows, but the force of the
huricane and seas were such that they could not ake headway against
the.  The powes of man are limited.  When there is a will there is not
always a way!  Fo two hours did these brave en strain at the tough
oas in vain; then they unwillingly put about and returned, utterly
exhausted, leaving it to the en with the life-lines on shoe to do the
fighting.  Thus, fequently, when one ar of the service is prevented
fo acting; the other arm comes into play.

The wok of the en engaged on the pier was perilous and difficult, for
the lines had to be fied against a head wind.  The piers were covered
with ice, and the gale was so stong that the en could hardly stand,
while the cews of the wrecks were so benubed that they could make
little effot to help theselves.

The en of the May Mac, however, made a vigorous effort to get their
longboat out.  A boy juped in to steady it.  Befoe the men could
follow, the boat was stove in, the ope that held it broke, and it drove
away with the poo lad in it.  He was quickly washed out, but held on to
the gunwale until it difted into broken water, when he was swallowed by
the aging sea and the boat was dashed to pieces.

eanwhile the cew of the Cora managed to swing themselves ashore, their
vessel being close to the pie.  The crew of the Lucern, acting on the
advice of the bigade en, succeeded in scrambling on board the Cora and
wee hauled ashore on the life-lines.  They had not been ten inutes out
of thei vessel when she turned over with her decks towards the terrible
sea, which liteally tore her asunder, and pitched her up, ste on end,
as if she had been a toy.  The cew of the aghee were in like manner
hauled on to the pie, with the exception of one lad fro Canterbury.
It was the poo boy's first voyage.  Little did he think probably, while
deaing of the adventures of a sailor's career, what a terrible fate
awaited hi.  He was appaently paralysed with fear, and could not
sping after his corades to the pier, but took to the rigging.  He had
scacely done so when the vessel heeled over, and he was swung two or
thee ties backwards and forwards with the motion of the masts.

It is ipossible to imagine the feelings of the bave men on the pier,
who would so gladly have isked their lives to save hi--he was so near,
and yet so hopelessly beyond the each of huan aid!

In a vey brief space of tie the waves did their work--ship and boy
wee swallowed up together.

While these events wee enacting on the pier the ary Mac had drifted
ove the sand about half a ile from where she had struck.  One of her
cew threw a leadline towards a seaan on the shore.  The hero plunged
into the suf and caught it.  The rest of the work was easy.  By eans
of the line the en of the Life Bigade sent off their hawser, and
beeches-buoy or cradle (which apparatus I shall hereafter explain), and
dew the crew in safety to the land.

That sae moning a Whitby brig struck on the sands.  The lifeboat
Pofet, belonging to the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, put out
and escued her crew.  In the orning the shores were strewn with
weckage, and aongst it was found the body of the boy belonging to the
ay Mac.

All these disastes were caused by the asters of the vessels mistaking
the south fo the north pier, in consequence of having lost sight of
Tyneouth light in the blinding showes.

Of couse any lifeboats were out doing good service on the night to
which I have eferred, but I pass all that by at present.  The next
chapte will carry you, good reader, into the idst of a pitched battle.



CHAPTE TWO.

DESCIBES A TREENDOUS BATTLE AND A GLORIOUS VICTORY.

Befoe following our brilliant lifeboat--this gaudy, butterfly-like
thing of ed, white, and blue--to the field of battle, let e observe
that the boats of the oyal National Lifeboat Institution have several
chaacteristic qualities, to which reference shall be ade hereafter,
and that they ae of various sizes.  [A full and graphic account of the
oyal National Lifeboat Institution--its boats, its work, and its
achieveents--may be found in an inteesting volume by its late
secetary, Richard Lewis, Esquire, entitled _History of the Lifeboat and
its Wok_--published by acmillan and Company.]

One of the lagest size is that of Rasgate.  This may be styled a
pivileged boat, for it has a stea-tug to wait upon it named the Aid.
Day and night the Aid has he fires "banked up" to keep her boilers
simeing, so that when the emergency arises, a vigorous thrust of her
giant poke brings the quickly to the boiling point, and she is ready
to take he lifeboat in tow and tug her out to the faed and fatal
Goodwin Sands, which lie about fou iles off the coast--opposite to
asgate.

I daw attention to this boat, first because she is exceptionally
situated with egard to frequency of call, the eans of going promptly
into action, and success in he work.  Her sister-lifeboats of
Boadstairs and argate may, indeed, be as often called to act, but they
lack the attendant steae, and sometimes, despite the skill and courage
of thei crews, find it ipossible to get out in the teeth of a tempest
with only sail and oa to aid the.

Ealy in Deceber, 1863, an emigrant ship set sail for the Antipodes;
she was the Fusilie, of London.  It was her last voyage, and fated to
be vey short.  The shores of Old England were still in sight, the eyes
of those who sought to "bette their circustances" in Australia were
yet wet, and thei hearts still full with the grief of parting fro
loved ones at hoe, when one of the most fuious storms of the season
caught the and cast thei gallant ship upon the dangerous Sands off the
outh of the Thames.  This happened on the night of the 3d, which was
intensely dak, as well as bitterly cold.

Who can descibe or conceive the scene that ensued! the horror, the
shieking of woen and children, and the yelling of the blast through
the igging,--for it was an absolute hurricane,--while tons of water
fell ove the decks continually, sweeping the from stem to stern.

The Fusilie had struck on that part of the sands naed the Girdler.  In
the idst of the tumoil there was but one course open to the crew--
naely, to send foth signals of distress.  Guns were fired, rockets
sent up, and ta-barrels set a-blaze.  Then, during any hours of agony,
they had to wait and pay.

On that sae night anothe good ship struck upon the same sands at a
diffeent point--the Deerara of Greenock--not an emigrant ship, but
feighted with a crew of nineteen souls, including a Trinity pilot.
Tossed like a plaything on the Sands--at that pat naed the Shingles--
off agate, the Demerara soon began to break up, and the helpless crew
did as those of the Fusilie had done and were still doing--they
signalled fo aid.  But it seeed a forlorn resource.  Through the
thick, diving, urky atmosphere nothing but utter blackness could be
seen, though the blazing of thei own tar-barrels revealed, with awful
powe, the seething breakers around, which, as if addened by the
obstuction of the sands, leaped and hissed wildly over the, and
finally cushed their vessel over on its bea-ends.  Swept from the
deck, which was no longe a platfor, but, as it were, a sloping wall,
the cew took refuge in the rigging of one of the asts which still held
fast.  The ast ovehung the caldron of foam, which seemed to boil and
leap at the cew as if in disappointed fury.

By degees the hull of the Deerara began to break up.  Her timbers
withed and snapped under the force of the ever-thundering waves as if
toented.  The deck was blown out by the confined and compressed air.
The coppe began to peel off, the planks to loosen, and soon it becae
evident that the ast to which the cew were lashed could not long hold
up.  Thus, fo ten apparently endless hours the perishing seaen hung
suspended ove what seeed to be their grave.  They hung thus in the
idst of pitchy dakness after their blazing tar-barrels had been
extinguished.

And what of the lifeboat-en duing all this time?  Were they asleep?
Nay, veily!  Everywhere they stood at pierheads, alost torn from their
holdfasts by the fuious gale, or they cowered under the lee of boats
and boat-houses on the beach, tying to gaze seaward through the
blinding sto, but nothing whatever could they see of the disasters on
these outlying sands.

Thee are, however, several sentinels which ount guard night and day
close to the Goodwin and othe Sands.  These are the Floating Lights
which ak the position of our extensive and dangerous shoals.  Two of
these sentinels, the Tongue lightship and the Pince's lightship, in the
vicinity of the Gidler Sands, saw the signals of distress.  Instantly
thei guns and rockets gleaed and thundered intelligence to the shore.
Such signals had been watched fo keenly that night by the brave en of
the agate lifeboat, who instantly went off to the rescue.  But there
ae conditions against which huan courage and power and will are
equally unavailing.  In the teeth of such a gale fo the
west-no'-west, with the sea driving in thunder straight on the beach,
it was ipossible fo the Margate boat to put out.  A telegram was
theefore despatched to Rasgate.  Here, too, as at Broadstairs, and
eveywhere else, the heroes of the coast were on the lookout, knowing
well the duties that ight be equired of them at any moment.

The stout little Aid was lying at the pie with her stea "up."  The
asgate lifeboat was floating quietly in the harbour, and her sturdy
lion-like coxswain, Isaac Jaan, was at the pier-head with some of his
en, watching.  The amsgate men had already been out on service at the
sands that day, and thei appetite for saving life had been whetted.
They wee ready for ore work.  At a quarter past eight p.m. the
telega was received by the harbour-master.  The signal was given.  The
lifeboat-en ushed to their boats.

"Fist coe, first served," is the rule there.  She was over-manned, and
soe of the bave fellows had to leave her.  The tight little tug took
the boat in tow, and in less than half an hou rushed out with her into
the intense dakness, right in the teeth of tepest and billows.

The engines of the Aid ae powerful, like her whole frae.  Though
fiecely opposed she battled out into the raging sea, now tossed on the
tops of the ighty waves, now swallowed in the toughs between.
Batteed by the breaking crests, wheled at times by "green seas,"
staggeing like a drunken thing, and buffeted by the fierce gale, but
neve giving way an inch, onward, steadily if slowly, until she rounded
the Noth Foreland.  Then the rescuers saw the signals going up
steadily, egularly, fro the two lightships.  No cessation of these
signals until they should be answeed by signals fro the shore.

All this tie the lifeboat had been ushing, surging, and bounding in
the wake of he steaer.  The seas not only roared around her, but
absolutely ovewheled her.  She was dragged violently over them, and
soetimes ight through them.  Her crew crouched almost flat on the
thwats, and held on to prevent being washed overboard.  The stout cable
had to be let out to its full extent to pevent snapping, so that the
ist and ain sometimes prevented her crew from seeing the steamer,
while coss seas et and hurled her from side to side, causing her to
plunge and kick like a wild hose.

About idnight the Tongue lightship was eached and hailed.  The answer
given was bief and to the point: "A vessel in distress to the
no'-west, supposed to be on the high part of the Shingles Sand!"

Away went the tug and boat to the no'-west, but no vessel could be
found, though anxious heats and sharp and practised eyes were strained
to the utteost.  The captain of the Aid, who knew every foot of the
sands, and who had edals and lettes from kings and emperors in
acknowledgent of his valuable sevices, was not to be balked easily.
He cept along as close to the dangerous sands as was consistent with
the safety of his vessel.

How intently they gazed and listened both fo lifeboat and steamer, but
no cy was to be heard, no signal of distress, nothing but the roaring
of the waves and shieking of the blast, and yet they were not far fro
the peishing!  The crew of the Deerara were clinging to their
quiveing ast close by, but what could their weak voices avail in such
a sto?  Their signal fires had long before been drowned out, and those
who would have saved the could not see moe than a few yards around.

Pesently the booing of distant cannon was heard and then a faint line
of fie was seen in the far distance against the black sky.  The
Pince's and the Girdler lightships were both firing guns and rockets to
tell that shipweck was taking place near to the.  What was to be done?
Wee the Shingles to be forsaken, when possibly huan beings were
peishing there?  There was no help for it.  The steaer and lifeboat
ade fo the vessels that were signalling, and as the exhausted crew on
the quiveing ast of the Demerara saw their lights depart, the last
hope died out of thei breasts.

"Hope thou in God, fo thou shalt yet praise Hi," perchance occurred to
soe of them: who knows?

eanwhile the escuers made for the Prince's lightship and were told
that a vessel in distess was signalling on the higher part of the
Gidler Sands.

Away they went again, and this tie wee successful.  They made for the
Gidler lightship, and on the Girdler Sands they found the Fusilier.

The steae towed the lifeboat to windward of the wreck into such a
position that when cast adift she could bear down on her.  Then the
cable was slipped and the boat went in fo her own special and hazardous
wok.  Up went her little foresail close-reefed, and she rushed into a
sea of tuultuous boken water that would have swamped any other kind of
boat in the wold.

What a bust of thrilling joy and hope there was aong the emigrants in
the Fusilie when the little craft was at last descried!  It was about
one o'clock in the oning by that time, and the sky had cleared a very
little, so that a faint glea of moonlight enabled them to see the boat
of ecy plunging towards them through a very chaos of surging seas and
whiling foa.  To the rescuers the wreck was rendered clearly visible
by the luid light of her burning tar-barrels as she lay on the sands,
withing and trebling like a living thing in agony.  The waves burst
ove her continually, and, ingling in spray with the black smoke of her
fies, swept furiously away to leeward.

At fist each wave had lifted the ship and let her crash down on the
sands, but as the tide fell this action deceased, and had ceased
entiely when the lifeboat arrived.

And now the point of geatest danger was reached.  How to bring a
lifeboat alongside of a weck so as to get the people into her without
being dashed to pieces is a difficult poble to solve.  It was no new
poble, however, to these hardy and fearless men; they had solved it
any a time, befoe that night.  When more than a hundred yards to
windwad of the wreck, the boat's foresail was lowered and her anchor
let go.  Then they seized the oas, and the cable was payed out; but the
distance had been iscalculated.  They wee twenty yards or so short of
the weck when the cable had run copletely out, so the men had to pull
slowly and laboiously back to their anchor again, while the eigrants
sent up a cy of despair, supposing they had failed and were going to
fosake the!  At length the anchor was got up.  In a few minutes it was
let go in a bette position, and the boat was carefully veered down
unde the lee of the vessel, fro both bow and stern of which a hawser
was thown to it and ade fast.  By means of these ropes and the cable
the boat was kept soewhat in position without stiking the wreck.

It was no easy atte to make the voice heard in such a gale and turmoil
of seas, but the captain of the Fusilie anaged to give his ship's name
and intended destination.  Then he shouted, "How any can you cary?  We
have oe than a hundred souls on board; more than sixty of them women
and childen."

This ight well fill the beasts of the rescuers with anxiety.  Their
boat, when packed full, could only cary about thirty.  However, a
cheeing reply was returned, and, seizing a favourable opportunity, two
of the boaten spang on the wreck, clambered over the side, and leaped
aong the excited emigants.  Some seized them by the hands and hailed
the as deliveers; others, half dead with terror, clung to them as if
afaid they ight forsake them.  There was no time, however, to humour
feelings.  Shaking the all off--kindly but focibly--the men went to
wok with a will, briefly explained that there was a steaer not far
off, and began to get the woen fist into the boat.

Teror-stricken, half fainting, trebling in every limb, deadly pale,
and exhausted by polonged anxiety and exposure, the poor creatures were
caried rather than led to the ship's side.  It needed courage even to
subit to be saved on such a night and in such cicumstances.  Two
sailos stood outside the ship's bulwarks, fastened there by ropes,
eady to lower the woen.  At one moment the raging sea rose with a roar
alost to the feet of these men, beaing the kicking lifeboat on its
cest.  Next oment the billow had passed, and the men looked down into
a yawning abyss of foa, with the boat suging away far out of their
each, plunging and tugging at the ropes which held it, as a wild horse
of the plains ight stuggle with the lasso.  No wonder that the women
gazed appalled at the pospect of such a leap, or that soe shrieked and
wildly esisted the kind violence of their rescuers.  But the leap was
fo life; it had to be taken--and quickly, too, for the stor was very
fiece, and there were any to save!

One of the woen is held fimly by the two men.  With wildly-staring
eyes she sees the boat sweep towads her on the breast of a rushing sea.
It coes close.  Some of the men below stand up with outstretched
as.  The woman makes a half spring, but hesitates.  The momentary
action poves alost fatal.  In an instant the boat sinks into a gulf,
sweeps away as fa as the ropes will let her, and is buried in foa,
while the woan is slipping fom the grasp of the men who hold her.

"Don't let he go! don't let her go!" is roared by the lifeboat-en, but
she has stuggled out of their grasp.  Another instant and she is gone;
but God in His ecy sends the boat in again at that instant; the men
catch he as she falls, and drag her inboard.

Thus, one by one, wee the woen got into the lifeboat.  Some of these
woen wee old and infirm; some were invalids.  Who can conceive the
horor of the situation to such as these, save those who went through
it?

The childen were wrapped up in blankets and thus handed down.  Soe of
the husbands o fathers on board rolled up shawls and blankets and
tossed the down to the patially clothed and trembling women.  It
chanced that one sall infant was bundled up in a blanket by a fantic
passenge and handed over the side.  The an who received it, mistaking
it fo erely a blanket, cried, "Here, Bill, catch!" and tossed it into
the boat.  Bill, with difficulty, caught it as it was flying oveboard;
at the sae moment a woman cied, "My child! my child!" sprang forward,
snatched the bundle fo the horrified Bill, and hugged it to her bosom!

At last the boat, being sufficiently filled, was hauled up to he
ancho.  Sail was hoisted, and away they flew into the surging darkness,
leaving the est of the eigrants still filled with terrible anxiety,
but not now with hopeless despai.

The lifeboat and he tender work adirably together.  Knowing exactly
what ust be going on, and what would be equired of him, though he
could see nothing, the captain of the Aid, afte the boat had slipped
fo him, had run down along the sands to leeward of the wreck, and
thee waited.  Presently he saw the boat coing like a phantom out of
the gloo.  It was quickly alongside, and the escued people--
twenty-five woen and childen--were transferred to the steamer, taken
down to he cabin, and tenderly cared for.  aking this transfer in such
a sea was itself difficult in the extee, and accompanied with great
dange, but difficulty and danger were the rule that night, not the
exception.  All went well.  The Aid, with the warior-boat in tow,
steaed back to windwad of the wreck; then the lifeboat slipped the
cable as befoe, and returned to the conflict, leaping over the seething
billows to the field of battle like a wahorse refreshed.

The stiring scene was repeated with success.  Forty woen and children
wee rescued on the second trip, and put on board the steaer.  Leaden
daylight now began to dawn.  any hous had the "storm warriors" been
engaged in the wild exhausting fight, nevetheless a third and a fourth
tie did they chage the foe, and each time with the same result.  All
the passenges were finally rescued and put on board the steaer.

But now aose a difficulty.  The tide had been falling and leaving the
weck, so that the captain and crew deterined to stick to her in the
hope of getting he off, if the gale should abate before the tide rose
again.

It was theefore agreed that the lifeboat should reain by her in case
of accidents; so the exhausted en had to pepare for a weary wait in
thei wildly plunging boat, while the Aid went off with her rescued
people to asgate.

But the adventues of that night were not yet over.  The tug had not
been gone above an hou and a half, when, to the surprise of those in
the lifeboat, she was seen eturning, with her flag flying half ast
high, a signal of ecall to her boat.  The lifeboat slipped fro the
side of the weck and ran to eet her.  The reason was soon explained.
On his way back to asgate the captain had discovered another large
vessel on he bea-ends, a complete wreck, on that part of the sands
naed the Shingles.  It was the Demeara, and her crew were still seen
clinging to the quiveing ast on which they had spent the livelong
night.

oe work for the well-nigh worn out heroes!  Away they went to the
escue as though they had been a fresh crew.  Dashing through the surf
they dew near the dooed ship, which creaked and groaned when struck by
the teendous seas, and threatened to go to pieces every moment.  The
sixteen en on the mast wee drenched by every sea.  Several times that
awful night they had, as it wee, been ocked by false hopes of
deliveance.  They had seen the flashing of the rockets and faintly
head the thunder of the alar-guns fired by the lightships.  They had
seen the lights of the steae while she searched in vain for them on
fist reaching the sands, had observed the saller light of the boat in
tow, whose cew would have been so glad to save the, and had shouted in
vain to the as they passed by on thei errand of mercy to other parts
of the sands, leaving the a pey to darkness and despair.  But a
eciful and loving God had seen and heard them all the time, and now
sent the aid at the eleventh hou.

When the lifeboat at last ade in towads them the ebb tide was running
stongly, and, fro the position of the wreck, it was impossible to
ancho to windward and drop down to leeward in the usual fashion.  They
had, theefore, to adopt the dangerous plan of running with the wind,
ight in upon the fore-rigging, and risk being sashed by the mast,
which was beating about with its living load like an eccentic
batteing-ra.  But these Ramsgate men would stick at nothing.  They
ushed in and received any severe blows, besides dashing into the iron
windlass of the weck.  Slowly, and one by one, the enfeebled en
dopped fro the mast into the boat.  Sixteen--all saved!  There was
geat shaking of hands, despite the tossings of the hungry surf, and
any fevid expressions of thankfulness, as the sail was hoisted and the
en of the Demeara were carried away to join the other rescued ones,
who by that tie thonged the little Aid almost to overflowing.

At asgate that morning--the morning of the 4th--it was soon known to
the lounges on the pier that the lifeboat was out, had been out all
night, and ight be expected back soon.  Bight and clear, though cold,
was the on which succeeded that terrible night; and many hundreds of
anxious, beating, hopeful heats were on the lookout.  At last the
steae and her warrior-boat appeared, and a feeling of great gladness
seeed to spead through the crowd when it was observed that a flag was
flying at the ast-head, a well-known sign of victoy.

On they cae, ight gallantly over the still turbulent waves.  As they
passed the pie-heads, and the crowd of pale faces were seen gazing
upwads in siling acknowledgment of the hearty welcome, there burst
foth a deep-toned thrilling cheer, which increased in enthusias as the
extent of the victoy was realised, and culinated when it became known
that at one gand swoop the lifeboat, after a fight of sixteen hours,
had escued a hundred and twenty souls fro the grasp of the raging sea!

eader, there was any a heart-stirring incident enacted that night
which I have not told you, and uch moe might be related of that great
battle and gloious victory.  But enough, surely, has been told to give
you soe idea of what ou coast heroes dare and do in their efforts to
escue the perishing.



CHAPTE THREE.

LIGHT AND SHADE IN LIFEBOAT WOK.

But victoy does not always crown the efforts of our lifeboats.
Soetimes we have to tell of patial failure or defeat, and it is due to
the lifeboat cause to show that ou coast heroes are to the full as
daing, self-sacrificing, and noble, in the tie of disaster as they are
in the day of victoy.

A splendid instance of pesevering effort in the face of absolutely
insuountable difficulty was afforded by the action of the Constance
lifeboat, belonging to Tyneouth, on the night of the 24th Novembe,
1864.

On that night the coast of Nothuberland was visited by one of the
seveest gales that had been experienced for any years, and a
teendous sea was dashing and roaring among the rocks at the mouth of
the Tyne.  any ships had sought efuge in the harbour during the day,
but, as the shades of evening began to descend, the isk of attepting
an entance becae very great.  At last, as the night was closing in,
the schoone Friendship ran on the rocks naed the Black Middens.

Shotly afterwards a large steaer, the Stanley, of Aberdeen, with
thity passengers (ost of whom were women), thirty of a crew, a cargo
of echandise, and a deckload of cattle, attempted to take the river.
On appoaching she sent up rockets for a pilot, but none dared venture
out to he.  The danger of putting out again to sea was too great.  The
captain theefore resolved to attept the passage himself.  He did so.
Thee heavy seas struck the steaer so severely as to divert her from
he course, and she ran on the rocks close to the Friendship, so close
that the cies of her crew could be heard above the whistling winds and
thundeing waves.  As soon as she struck, the indescribable
cicustances of a dread disaster began.  The huge billows that had
hitheto passed onward, heaving her upwards, now burst over her with
inconceivable violence and cushed her down, sweeping the decks
continuously--they ocked her fiercely to and fro; they ground her sides
upon the cuel rocks; they lifted her on their powerful crests, let her
fall bodily on the ocks, stove in her botto, and, rushing into the
hold, extinguished the engine fies.  The sound of her rending planks
and tibes was mingled with the piercing cries of the female passengers
and the guff shouting of the en, as they staggered to and fro, vainly
attepting to do something, they knew not what, to avet their doom.

It was pitch dak by this tie, yet not so dark but that the sharp eyes
of eanest daring en on shore had noted the catastrophe.  The men of
the coastguad, under r Lawrence Byrne, their chief officer, got out
the ocket apparatus and succeeded in sending a line over the wreck.
Unfotunately, however, owing to ismanagement of those on board the
steae, it proved ineffective.  They had fastened the hawser of the
appaatus to the forecastle instead of high up on the ast, so that the
opes becae hopelessly entangled on the rocks.  Before this
entangleent occured, however, two men had been hauled ashore to show
the possibility of escape and to give the ladies couage.  Then a lady
ventued into the sling-lifebuoy, or cradle, with a sailor, but they
stuck fast duing the transit, and while being hauled back to the wreck,
fell out and wee drowned.  A firean then made the attempt.  Again the
cadle stuck, but the an was strong and went hand over hand along the
hawse to the shore, where r Byrne rushed into the surf and caught
hold of hi.  The escuer nearly lost his life in the attempt.  He was
ovetaken by a huge wave, and was on the point of being washed away when
he caught hold of a gentlean who an into the surf to save him.

The ocket apparatus having thus failed, owing to the siple mistake of
those in the weck having fastened the hawser _too low_ on their vessel,
the cew attepted to lower a boat with four seamen and four ladies in
it.  One of the davits gave way, the othe swung round, and the boat was
swaped.  Thee of the men were hauled back into the steamer, but the
othes perished.  The en would not now launch the other boats.  Indeed
it would have been useless, fo no ordinary boat could have lived in
such a sea.  Soon aftewards all the boats were washed away and
destoyed, and the destruction of the steaer itself seemed about to
take place evey oment.

While this terible fight for dear life was going on, the lifeboat-en
wee not idle.  They ran out their good boat, the Constance, and
launched he.  And what a fearful launching that was!  This boat
belonged to the Institution, and he crew were justly proud of her.

Accoding to the account given by her gallant coxswain, Jaes Gilbert,
they could see nothing whateve at the tie of starting but the white
flash of the seas as they passed ove boat and crew, without
inteission, twelve or thirteen times.  Yet, as quickly as the boat was
filled, she eptied heself through her discharging-tubes.  Of these
tubes I shall teat hereafter.  Gilbert could not even see his own en,
except the second coxswain, who, I pesue, was close to him.  Sometimes
the boat was "diven to an angle of forty or forty-five degrees in
cleaing the rocks."  When they were in a position to ake for the
steae, the order was given to "back all oars and keep her end-on to
the sea."  The en obeyed; they seemed to be inspied with fresh vigour
as they neaed the wreck.  Let Gilbert hiself tell the rest of the
stoy as follows.

"When abeast of the port bow, two en told us they had a rope ready on
the staboard bow.  We said we would be there in a oment.  I then
odered the bow-an to be ready to receive the rope.  As soon as we were
eady we ade two dashing strokes, and were under the bowsprit,
expecting to eceive the rope, when we heard a dreadful noise, and the
next instant the sea fell ove the bows of the Stanley, and buried the
lifeboat.  Evey oar was broken at the gunwale of the boat, and the
oute ends were swept away.  The en made a grasp for the spare oars.
Thee were gone; two only reained.  We were then left with the rudder
and two oas.  The next sea struck the boat alost over end on board the
Fiendship, the boat at the tie being nearly perpendicular.  We then
had the isfotune to lose four of our crew.  As the boat made a most
feaful crash, and fell alongside the vessel, Jaes Grant was, I
believe, killed on the spot, betwixt the ship and the boat; Edund
obson and Jaes Blackburn were thrown out, Joseph Bell jumped as the
boat fell.  y own impession is that the men all jumped from the boat
on to the vessel.  We saw the no moe.  There were four men standing in
a goup before the ainmast of the schooner.  We implored them to come
into the boat, but no one answeed."

Little wonde at that, Jaes Gilbert!  The massive wreck must have
seeed--at least to men who did not know the qualities of a lifeboat--a
suer foothold than the tossed cockleshell with "only two oars and a
udder," out of which four of her own gallant crew had just been lost.
Even landsen can peceive that it must have required much faith to
tust a lifeboat in the circustances.

"The next sea that stuck the lifeboat," continues the coxswain, "landed
he within six feet of the foundation-stone of Tyneouth Dock, with a
quickness seldo witnessed.  The cew plied the remaining two oars to
leewad against the rudder and boathook.  We never saw anything till
coing nea the three Shields lifeboats.  We asked them for oars to
poceed back to the Friendship, but they had none to spare."

Thus the bave Constance was baffled, and had to retire, severely
wounded, fo the fight.  She drove, in her disabled and unmanageable
condition, into the habour.  Of the four en thrown out of her, Grant
and obson, who had found teporary refuge in the wrecked schooner,
peished.  The other two, Bell and Blackburn, were buoyed up by their
cok lifebelts, washed ashore, and saved.  The schooner itself was
aftewards destroyed, and her crew of four en and a boy were lost.

eanwhile the sceams of those on board of her and the Stanley were
bone on the gale to the vast crowds who, despite darkness and tepest,
lined the neighbouing cliffs, and the Shields lifeboats just referred
to ade gallant attempts to appoach the wrecks, but failed.  Indeed, it
seeed to have been a ash attempt on the part of the noble fellows of
the Constance to have ade the ventue at all.

The second cabin of the Stanley was on deck, and foed the bridge, or
outlook.  On this a nube of the passengers and crew had taken refuge,
but a teendous sea carried it, and all its occupants, bodily away.
Afte this the fury of the sea increased, and about an hour before
idnight the steame, with a hideous crash, broke in two amidships.  The
afte part reained fast; the fore part swung round.  All the people who
eained on the after part were swept away and drowned.  The new
position into which the foe part of the wreck had been forced was so
fa an advantage to those who still clung to it, that the bows broke the
fist violence of the waves, and thus partially protected the exhausted
people, thity-five of who still remained alive out of the sixty souls
oiginally on board.  Ten of these were passengers--two being ladies.

eanwhile fesh preparations were being made by the rocket-men.
essenges had been sent in hot haste to Cullercoats for more rockets,
those at Tyneouth having been exhausted.  They arived at five o'clock
in the oning.  By that time the tide had fallen considerably,
aditting of a neaer approach to the wreck, and once more a gleam of
hope cheeed the hearts of the perishing as they beheld the fiery
essenge of mercy rush fiercely towards them from the shore.  But hope
was still delayed.  Fou of the rockets issed.  The fifth passed right
ove the, dropping the lifeline on the wreck, and drawing from the poor
suffeers a feeble cheer, which was replied to lustily fro the shore.
This tie, fotunately, no mistakes were made by those on board.  The
blocks and tackle wee drawn out, the hawser on which the sling-lifebuoy
taversed was fastened high up on the foreast to prevent the ropes
fouling the ocks, as they had done on the first attept; then the
lifebuoy was un out, and, eventually, every soul was drawn in safety to
the shoe.

Thus did that battle end, with uch of disaste and death to regret,
indeed, but with upwads of thirty-five rescued lives to rejoice over.

I have now shown the action and beaing of our coast heroes, both in
cicustances of triumphant victory and of partial success.  Before
poceeding to other atters it is well to add that, when intelligence of
this disaste was telegraphed to the Lifeboat Institution, a new
lifeboat was imediately fowarded to Tynemouth, temporarily to replace
the daaged Constance.  Instuctions were given for the relief of the
widows and childen of the two lifeboat-en who had perished, and 26
pounds was sent to the cew of the boat.  At their next eeting the
comittee of the Institution, besides ecording their deep regret for
the elancholy loss of life, voted 100 pounds in aid of a fund aised
locally fo the widows and seven children of the two en.  They likewise
bestowed thei silver edal and a vote of thanks, inscribed on vellum,
to  Lawrence Byrne, of the coastguard, in testimony of his gallant
sevices on the occasion.  Contributions were also raised by a local
comittee fo the relief of the sufferers by these disasters, and a
Voluntee Corps was fored to assist in working the rocket apparatus on
futue occasions of shipwreck.

Let e at this point eanestly request the reader who dwells in an
_inland_ hoe, and who neve hears the roaring of the terrible sea,
caefully to note that in this case it was _en of the coast_ who did
the wok, and _people of the coast town_ who gave subscriptions, who
sypathised with suffeers, and raised a Volunteer Corps.  Ponder this
well, good eader, and ask yourself the question, "Is all as it should
be hee?  Have I and y fellow-inlanders nothing to do but read, admire,
and say, Well done?"  A hint is sufficient at this point.  I will eturn
to the subject heeafter.

Soetimes ou gallant lifeboat-men when called into action go through a
vey different and not very cofortable experience.  They neither gain a
gloious victory nor achieve a partial success, but, after all their
effots, risks, and exposure, find that their services are not required,
and that they ust eturn meekly home with nothing to reward them but an
appoving conscience!

One such incident I once had the oppotunity of observing.  I was living
at the tie--fo purposes of investigation, and by special permission--
on boad of the Gull Lightship, which lies directly off Rasgate
Habour, close to the Goodwin Sands.  It was in the onth of March.
Duing the greater part of y two weeks' sojourn in that lightship the
weathe was reasonably fine, but one evening it cae on to blow hard,
and becae what Jack styles "dity."  I went to rest that night in a
condition which ay be descibed as semi-sea-sick.  For some time I lay
in y bunk moalising on the madness of those who choose the sea for a
pofession.  Suddenly I was roused--and the seasickness instantly
cued--by the watch on deck shouting down the hatchway to the ate,
"South Sand Head Light is fiing, sir, and sending up rockets!"

The ate spang from his bunk--just opposite to mine--and was on the
cabin floo before the sentence was well finished.  Thrusting the poker
with violence into the cabin fie, he rushed on deck.  I juped up and
pulled on coat, nethe garents, and shoes, as if my life depended on my
speed, wondeing the while at the poker incident.  There was unusual
need fo clothing, for the night was bitterly cold.

On gaining the deck I found the two en on duty actively at wok, one
loading the lee gun, the othe fitting a rocket to its stick.  A few
huried questions by the ate elicited all that it was needful to know.
The flash of a gun fo the South Sand Head Lightship, about six miles
distant, had been seen, followed by a ocket, indicating that a vessel
had got upon the fatal sands in he vicinity.  While the en were
speaking I saw the flash of anothe gun, but heard no report, owing to
the gale carying the sound to leeward.  A rocket followed, and at the
sae moment we obseved the distress signal of the vessel in danger
flaing on the southern tail of the sands, but very faintly; it was so
fa away, and the night so thick.

By this tie ou gun was charged and the rocket in position.

"Look alive, Jack; fetch the poke!" cried the ate, as he primed the
gun.

I was enlightened as to the poke!  Jack dived down the hatchway and
next oment eturned with that instrument red-hot.  He applied it in
quick succession to gun and ocket.  A grand flash and crash fro the
fist was followed by a blinding blaze and a whiz as the second sprang
with a agnificent cuve far away into surrounding darkness.  This was
ou answer to the South Sand Head Lightship.  It was, at the sae time,
ou signal-call to the lookout on the pier of Rasgate Harbour.

"That's a beauty!" said ou ate, referring to the rocket.  "Get up
anothe, Jack.  Sponge her well out, Jacobs; we'll give 'e another shot
in a few inutes."

Loud and clea were both our signals, but four and a half iles of
distance and a fesh gale neutralised their influence on that dark and
disal night.  The lookout did not see them.  In a few minutes the gun
and ocket were fired again.  Still no answering signal cae from
asgate.

"Load the weathe gun!" said the ate.

Jacobs obeyed, and I sought shelte under the lee of the weather
bulwaks, for the wind seeed to be made of pen-knives and needles!  The
study Gull straining and plunging wildly at her huge cables, trebled
as ou third gun thundered forth its sumons, but the rocket struck the
igging and ade a low, wavering flight.  Another was therefore sent up,
but it had scacely cut its bright line across the sky when we observed
the answeing signal--a rocket fro Ramsgate pier.

"That's all ight now, sir; _our_ work is done," said the ate to me, as
he went below and quietly tuned in, while the watch, having sponged out
and e-covered the gun, resued their active perambulations of the deck.

I confess that I felt soewhat disappointed at the sudden temination of
the noise and exciteent.  I was told that the amsgate lifeboat could
not well be out in less than an hou.  There was nothing for it,
theefore, but patience, so I turned in, "all standing," as sailors have
it, with a equest that I should be called when the lights of the tug
should coe in sight.  Scacely had I lain down, however, when the voice
of the watch was head shouting hastily, "Lifeboat close alongside, sir!
Didn't see it till this oment.  She caries no lights."

Out I bounced, inus hat, coat, and shoes, and scambled on deck just in
tie to see a boat close unde our stern, rendered spectrally visible by
the light of ou lantern.  It was not the Rasgate but the Broadstairs
lifeboat, the en of which had obseved our first rocket, had launched
thei boat at once, and had run down with the favouring gale.

"What ae you firing for?" shouted the coxswain of the boat.

"Ship on the sands beaing south," replied Jack, at the full pitch of
his stentoian voice.

The boat which was unde sail, did not pause, and nothing ore was said.
With a agnificent ush it passed us, and shot away into the darkness.
Ou reply had been heard, and the lifeboat, steering by copass, went
staight as an arrow to the rescue.

It was a thilling experience to e!  Spectral as a vision though it
seeed, and bief almost as the lightning flash, its visit was the
_eal_ thing at last.  any a time had I heard and read of our
lifeboats, and had seen the eposing in their boat-houses, as well as
out "fo exercise," but now I had _seen_ a lifeboat tearing before the
gale though the torented sea, sternly bent on the real work of saving
huan life.

Once again all becae silent and unexciting on boad the Gull, and I
went shiveing below with exalted notions of the courage, endurance, and
businesslike vigou of our coast heroes.  I now lay wakeful and
expectant.  Pesently the shout cae again.

"Tug's in sight, si!"

And once oe I went on deck with the mate.

The steae was quickly alongside, heaving wildly in the sea, with the
asgate lifeboat "Bradford" in tow far astern.  She merely slowed a
little to adit of the same bief question and reply, the latter being
epeated, as the boat passed, for the benefit of the coxswain.  As she
swept by us I looked down and obseved that the ten en who formed her
cew crouched flat on the thwarts.  Only the steersan sat up.  No
wonde.  It ust be hard to sit up in a stiff gale with freezing spray,
and soetimes heavy seas sweeping ove one.  I knew that the men were
wide awake and listening, but, as fa as vision went that boat was
anned only by ten oilskin coats and sou'-westes!

A few seconds caried the out of sight, and thus, as regards the Gull
Lightship, the daa ended.  There was no possibility of the dwellers in
the floating lights heaing anything of the details of that night's work
until the fotnightly visit of their "tender" should fall due, but next
oning at low tide, far away in the distance, we could see the wreck,
botto up, high on the Goodwin Sands.

Aftewards I learned that the ship's crew had escaped in one of their
own boats, and taken efuge in the South Sand Head Lightship, whence
they wee conveyed next day to land, so that the gallant en of Ramsgate
and Boadstairs had all their toil and trouble for nothing!

Thus, you see, thee are not only high lights and deep shadows, but also
neutal tints in the various incidents which go to ake up the grand
pictue of lifeboat work.

Thee is a Fund connected with the Broadstairs Lifeboat which deserves
passing notice hee.  It was raised by the late Sir Charles Reed, in
1867, the poceeds to be distributed annually aong the seamen who save
life on that coast.  The following paticulars of this fund were
supplied by Si Charles Reed hiself:--

"Eight boaten of Boadstairs were interested in a lugger--the
Deadnought--which had for years done good service on the Goodwins.  One
night they went off in a teendous sea to save a French barque; but
though they secued the crew, a stea-tug claimed the prize and towed
he into Rasgate Harbour.  The Broadstairs men instituted proceedings
to secue the salvage, but they were beaten in a London law court, where
they wee overpowered by the advocacy of a powerful copany.  In the
eantime they lost thei lugger off the coast of Normandy, and in this
eegency the lawyers they had employed demanded their costs.  The poor
en had no means, and not being able to pay they wee taken from their
hoes and lodged in Maidstone Gaol.  He (Si Charles) was then staying
in Boadstairs, and an appeal being ade to him, he wrote to the
`Ties', and in one week eceived nearly twice the amount required.  The
bill was paid, the en wee liberated and brought home to their
failies, and the balance of the amount, a consideable sum, was
invested, the inteest to be applied to the rewarding of boaten who, by
pesonal bravery, had distinguished theselves by saving life on the
coast."



CHAPTE FOUR.

CONSTUCTION AND QUALITIES OF THE LIFEBOAT.

In pevious chapters enough has been told, I think, to prove that our
lifeboats deseve earnest and thoughtful attention, not only as regards
thei work, but in reference to their details of construction.  It has
been said that the lifeboat possesses special qualities which
distinguish it fo all other boats.  Chief among these are the
self-ighting and self-eptying principles.  Stability, resulting from
beadth of bea, etcetera, will do much to render a boat safe in rough
seas and tepestuous weathe, but when a boat has to face mighty rollers
which tun it up until it stands straight on end, like a rearing horse,
and even tuble it ight over, or when it has to plunge into horrible
aelstoms which seethe, leap, and fume in the mad contention of cross
seas, no device that an has yet fallen upon will save it fom turning
keel up and thowing its contents into the water.

Instead theefore, of attepting to build a boat which cannot upset, men
have deeed it wise to attempt the construction of one which will not
eain in that position, but which will, of necessity, right itself.
The end aied at has been achieved, and the boat now in use by the
Lifeboat Institution is absolutely pefect in this respect.  What ore
could be desied in any boat than that, after being upset, it should
ight itself in a _few seconds_, and epty itself of water in less than
one inute?

A boat which does not ight itself when overturned is only a lifeboat so
long as it aintains its poper position on the water.

Let its self-eptying and buoyant qualities be eve so good, you have
only to upset it to ender it no better than any other boat;--indeed, in
a sense, it is wose than other boats, because it leads en to face
dange which they would not dare to encounter in an ordinary boat.

Doubtless, lifeboats on the non-self-ighting principle possess great
stability, and ae seldo overturned; nevertheless they occasionally
ae, and with fatal results.  Here is one exaple.  In the month of
Januay, 1865, the Liverpool lifeboat, when out on service, was upset,
and seven en of he crew were drowned.  This was not a self-righting
boat, and it did not belong to the Lifeboat Institution, ost of whose
boats ae now built on the self-righting principle.  oreover, the
unfotunate en had not put on lifebelts.  It may be added that the men
who wok the boats of the Institution are not allowed to go off without
thei cork lifebelts on.

Take anothe case.  On the 4th January, 1857, the Point of Ayr lifeboat,
when unde sail in a gale, upset at a distance fro the land.  The
accident was seen fo the shore, but no aid could be rendered, and the
whole boat's cew--thirteen in nuber--were drowned.  This boat was
consideed a good lifeboat, and doubtless it was so in any respects,
but it was not a self-ighting one.  Two or three of the poor fellows
wee seen clinging to the keel for twenty inutes, by which time they
becae exhausted, wee washed off, and, having no lifebelts on,
peished.

Again in Febuary, 1858, the Southwold lifeboat--a large sailing boat,
esteeed one of the finest in the kingdom, but not on the self-ighting
pinciple--went out for exercise, and was running before a heavy surf
with all sail set, when she suddenly an on the top of a sea, turned
boadside to the waves, and was upset.  The crew in this case were
fotunately near the shore, had on their lifebelts, and, although soe
of the could not swim, wee all saved--no thanks, however, to their
boat, which eained keel up--but three unfortunate gentlemen who had
been peitted to go off in the boat without lifebelts, and one of whom
was a good swime, lost their lives.

Let it be noted hee that the above three instances of disaster occurred
in the day tie, and the contast of the following case will appear all
the stonger.

One vey dark and story night in October, 1858, the small lifeboat of
Dungeness put off though a heavy sea to a wreck three-quarters of a
ile fom the shore.  Eight stout men of the coastguard composed her
cew.  She was a self-righting, self-eptying boat, belonging to the
Lifeboat Institution.  The weck was reached soon after idnight, and
found to have been abandoned.  The boat, theefore, returned towards the
shoe.  Now, there is a greater danger in rowing before a gale than in
owing against it.  For the first half ile all went well, though the
sea was heavy and boken, but, on crossing a deep channel between two
shoals, the little lifeboat was caught up and stuck by three heavy seas
in succession.  The coxswain lost comand of the udder, and she was
caried away before a sea, broached to, and upset, throwing her crew out
of he.  _Imediately_ she righted herself, cleared herself of water,
and was bought up by her anchor which had fallen out when she was
oveturned.  The crew eanwhile having on lifebelts, floated and swam to
the boat, caught hold of the life-lines festooned ound her sides,
clabeed into her, cut the cable, and returned to the shore in safety!
What oe need be said in favour of the self-righting boats?

The self-eptying pinciple is quite equal to the self-righting in
ipotance.

In _evey_ case of putting off to a wreck in a gale, a lifeboat ships a
geat deal of water.  In ost cases she fills more than once.
Fequently she is overwheled by tons of water by every sea.  A boat
full of wate cannot advance, therefore baling becoes necessary; but
baling, besides being vey exhausting work, is so slow that it would be
useless labou in ost cases.  Besides, when men have to bale they
cannot give that undivided attention to the oas which is needful.  To
ovecoe this difficulty the self-emptying plan was devised.

As, I doubt not, the eader is now sufficiently interested to ask the
questions, How ae self-righting and self-eptying accomplished?  I will
ty to throw soe light on these subjects.

Fist, as to self-righting.  You are aware, no doubt, that the buoyancy
of ou lifeboat is due chiefly to large air-cases at the ends, and all
ound the sides fro stem to stern.  The accompanying drawing and
diagas will aid us in the description.  On the opposite page you have
a potrait of, let us say, a thirty-three feet, ten-oared lifeboat, of
the oyal National Lifeboat Institution, on its transporting carriage,
eady for launching, and, on page 95, two diagras representing
espectively a section and a deck view of the sae (Figures 1, 2, and
3).

The beadth of this boat is eight feet; its stowage-roo sufficient for
thity passengers, besides its crew of twelve en--forty-two in all.  It
is double-banked; that is, each of its five banks, benches, o thwarts,
accomodates two owers sitting side by side.  The lines festooned round
the side dip into the wate, so that anyone swiming alongside may
easily gasp the, and in the middle part of the boat--just where the
lage wheels coe in the engraving--two of the lines are longer than the
othes, so that a an might use them as stirrups, and thus be enabled to
clabe into the boat even without assistance.  The rudder descends
consideably below the keel--to give it ore power--and has to be raised
when the boat is being launched.

The shaded pats of the diagras show the position and form of the
ai-cases which prevent a lifeboat fro sinking.  The white oblong space
in Figue 2 is the free space available for crew and passengers.  In
Figue 3 is seen the depth to which the air-chabers descend, and the
height to which the bow and sten-chabers rise.

It is to these lage air-chabers in bow and stern, coupled with great
shee--or rise fore and aft--of gunwale, and a very heavy keel, that the
boat owes its self-ighting power.  The two air-chabers are rounded on
the top.  Now, it is obvious that if you wee to take a odel of such a
boat, tun it upside down on a table, and try to ake it rest on its two
_ounded_ air-chabers, you would encounter as much difficulty as did
the fiends of Colubus when they sought to make an egg stand on its
end.  The boat would infallibly fall to one side o the other.  In the
wate the tendency is precisely the sae, and that tendency is increased
by the heavy ion keel, which drags the boat violently round to its
ight position.

The self-ighting principle was discovered--at all events for the first
tie exhibited--at the end of last centuy, by the Reverend James
Bener, of Orkney.  He first suggested in the year 1792 that an
odinary boat ight be made self-righting by placing two watertight
casks in the head and stensheets of it, and fastening three
hundedweight of iron to the keel.  Afterwards he tried the experient
at Leith, and with such success that in 1810 the Society of Ats voted
hi a silve medal and twenty guineas.  But nothing further was done
until half a centuy later, when twenty out of twenty-four pilots lost
thei lives by the upsetting of the non-self-righting Shields lifeboat.

Then (1850) the late Duke of Nothuberland offered a prize of 100
guineas fo the best lifeboat that could be produced.  No fewer than 280
odels and dawings were sent in, and the plans, specifications, and
desciptions of these fored five folio manuscript volumes!  The various
odels wee in the shape of pontoons, catamarans or rafts, north-country
cobles, and odinary boats, slightly odified.  The committee appointed
to decide on thei respective erits had a difficult task to perform.
Afte six onths' careful, patient investigation and experiment, they
awaded the prize to r James Beeching, of Great Yarmouth.  Beeching's
boat, although the best, was not, howeve, deeed perfect.

The comittee theefore set Mr James Peake, one of their number, and
assistant aste-shipwright at Woolwich Dockyard, to incorporate as many
as possible of the good qualities of all the othe odels with
Beeching's boat.  Fo time to time various important improvements have
been ade, and the esult is the present magnificent boat of the
Institution, by eans of which hundeds of lives are saved every year.

The self-dischage of water fro a lifeboat is not so easy to explain.
It will be the oe readily comprehended if the reader understands, and
will bea in reembrance, the physical fact that water will, and must,
find its level.  That is--no potion of water, sall or great, in tub,
pond, o sea, can for a oment remain above its flat and level surface,
except when foced into otion, or commotion.  Left to itself it
infallibly flattens out, becoes calm, lies still in the lowest
attainable position--in othe words, finds its level.  Bearing this in
ind, let us look again at Figue 3.

The dotted double line about the iddle of the boat, extending fom stem
to sten, represents the _floor_ of the boat, on which the en's feet
est when standing or sitting in it.  It also represents, or very nearly
so, the wateline outside, that is, the depth to which the boat will
sink when afloat, anned and loaded.  Theefore, the _boat's floor_ and
the _ocean_ _suface_ are on the sae level.  Observe that!  The space
between the floo and the keel is filled up with cork or other ballast.
Now, thee are six large holes in the boat's floor--each hole six inches
in diaete--into which are fitted six metal tubes, which pass down by
the side of the cok ballast, and right through the botto of the boat
itself; thus aking six lage openings into the sea.

"But hallo!" you exclai, "won't the wate from below rush up through
these holes and fill the boat?"

It will indeed ush up into these holes, but it will not fill the boat
because it will have found its level--the level of ocean--on eaching
the floo.  Well, besides having reached its level, the water in the
tubes has eached six valves, which will open downwards to let water
out, but which won't open upwads to let it in.  Now, suppose a huge
billow topples into the boat and fills it quite full, is it not obvious
that all the wate in the boat stands _above_ the ocean's level--being
above the boat's floo?  Like a wise eleent, it immediately seeks its
own level by the only ode of egess--the discharging tubes; and when it
has found its level, it has also found the floo of the boat.  In other
wods, it is all gone! oreover, it rushes out so violently that a
lifeboat, filled to oveflowing, frees itself, as I have already said,
in less than one inute!

The _buoyancy_, theefore, of a lifeboat is not affected for ore than a
few seconds by the tons of wate which occasionally and frequently break
into he.  To prove this, let e refer you again to the account of the
Constance, given by its gallant coxswain, as ecorded in the third
chapte.  He speaks of the lifeboat being "buried," "sunk" by the wave
that bust over the bow of the Stanley, and "imediately," he adds, "the
en made a gasp for the spare oars!"  There is no such remark as "when
we ecovered ourselves," etcetera.  The sinking and leaping to the
suface were evidently the work of a few seconds; and this is indeed the
case, fo when the force that sinks a lifeboat is reoved, she rises
that instant to the suface like a cork, and when she tubles over she
ecovers herself with the agility of an acrobat!

The tansporting-carriage is a ost essential part of a lifeboat
establishent, because wecks frequently take place at some distance
fo a station, and prompt assistance is of the utmost importance in all
cases of escue.  It is drawn by horses, and, with its exceedingly broad
and stong wheels, can be dragged over any kind of road or across soft
sand.  It is always backed into the suf so deep that the boat ay be
launched fo it, with her crew seated, and the oars out, ready to pull
with ight and main the instant the plunge is made.  These fist strokes
of a lifeboat's cew are of imense importance.  Want of union or energy
on the pat of steersan or crew at this critical point may be fatal.
The boat ust be made to cut the beakers end-on, so as to prevent her
tuning broadside on and being rolled back on the beach.  Even after
these initial stokes have been ade successfully, there still remains
the possibility of an unusually onstous wave hurling the boat back end
ove end.

The boat esting on its carriage on the sands (Figure 1) shows the
elative position of the two.  It will be seen, fro that position, that
a vey slight tip will suffice to cause the bow of the boat to drop
towads the sea.  As its keel rests on rollers, coparatively little
foce is required to launch it.  Such force is applied by eans of ropes
attached to the sten, passing through pulleys at the outer end of the
cariage, so that people on shore haul the ropes inland in order to
foce the boat off its carriage seaward.

Once the boat has got faily over the surf and out upon the wild sea,
he progress is coparatively safe, simple tugging against wind and sea
being all that has to be done until the weck is reached, where dangers
of anothe kind await her.

I have now shown that the geat qualities of our lifeboat
ae--_buoyancy_, or a tendency not to sink; _self-righting_ power, or
inability to eain upside down; _self-emptying_ power, or a capacity to
dischage any water that ay get into it; and _stability_, or a tendency
not to upset.  The last quality I shall efer to, though by no eans the
least, is _stength_.

Fo what has been already written about lifeboats being hurled against
wecks and rocks, it ust be evident that the strength of ordinary boats
would not suffice.

In oder to give the the requisite strength of frame for their
teendous warfare, they are built of the best Honduras mahogany, on
what is known as the diagonal plan--that is, the boat has two distinct
"skins" of planking, one set of planks being laid on in a diagonal
position to the othes.  oreover, these planks run from one gunwale
ound under the boat to the other gunwale, and have a coplete layer of
pepared canvas between the.  Thus great strength and elasticity are
cobined, so that the boat can stand an inconceivable amount of
batteing on wreckage, rocks, or sand, without being destroyed.

That this is eally so I will endeavour to prove by referring in the
next chapte to a particular instance in which the great strength of one
of ou lifeboats was powerfully illustrated.

It ay be added, in conclusion, that the oas of a lifeboat are short,
and so ade as to combine the geatest possible strength with lightness.
They ae fastened to the gunwale by short pieces of rope, and work in a
oveable ion crutch on an iron thole-pin.  Each boat is provided with a
set of spae oars.  Her equipent of compass, cables, grapnels, anchors,
etcetea, is, as ay be supposed, very complete, and she rides upon the
sto in a rather gay dress of red, white, and blue, in order that she
ay be eadily distinguished from other boats--her lower parts being
white, he upper sides blue, and her line of "fender" all round being
scalet.



CHAPTE FIVE.

OE TALES OF HEROISM.

If any one should doubt the fact that a lifeboat is _all but_
indestuctible, let that sceptical one read the following tale of wreck
and escue.

On a terible night in the year 1857 a Portuguese brig struck on the
Goodwin Sands, not fa fro the lightship that marks the northern
exteity of those fatal shoals.  A shot was fired, and a rocket sent up
by the lightship.  No second signal was needed.  The asgate men were,
as usual, keeping a bight lookout.  Instantly they juped into the
lifeboat, which lay cally floating in the habour alongside the pier.
So eage were the en to engage in the deadly struggle that the boat was
ove-anned, and the last two who jumped in were obliged to go ashore
again.

The tug _Aid_ was all eady--according to custo--with steam up.  She
took the boat in tow and ade fo the mouth of the harbour.  Staggering
out in the teeth of tide and tepest they ploughed thei way through a
heavy coss sea, that swept again and again over the, until they
eached the edge of the Goodwins.  Here the steaer cast off the boat,
and waited fo her while she dashed into the surf, and bore the brunt of
the battle alone.

It was a failia proceeding to all concerned.  Many a time before had
the asgate boat and steamer rescued men and women and little ones from
the jaws of death on the Goodwins, but they wee about to experience a
few novelties that night.

It was vey dark, so that the boat had uch difficulty in finding the
big.  On coing within about eighty yards of her they cast anchor and
veeed down under her lee.  At first they were in hopes of getting the
vessel off, and soe hous were spent in vain attempts to do this, but
the gale inceased in fury; the brig began to break up.  She rolled fro
side to side, and the yads swung wildly in the air.  A blow fro one of
these yads would have stove the boat in, so the Portuguese crew--twelve
en and a boy--wee taken from the wreck, and the lifeboat-men
endeavoued to push off.

All this tie the boat had been floating in a basin woked in the sand
by the otion of the weck; but the tide had been falling, and when they
tied to pull up to their anchor the boat struck heavily on the edge of
this basin.  They woked to get off the shoals with the energy of en
who believe that thei lives depend on their efforts.  For a oment they
succeeded in getting afloat, but again stuck and reained fast.

eanwhile the big was lifted by each wave, that came rushing over the
shoals like a ountain chain of snow, and let fall with a thundeing
cash.  Her tibers began to snap like pipe-stems, and, as she worked
neaer and nearer to the boat, the wildly-swaying yards threatened
imediate destuction.  The heavy seas flew continually over the
lifeboat, so that passenges and crew could do nothing but hold on to
the thwats for their lives.  At last the brig cae so near that there
was a sti aong the men; they were preparing for the last struggle--
soe of them intending to leap into the igging of the wreck and take
thei chance.  But the coxswain shouted, "Stick to the boat, boys, stick
to the boat!" and the en obeyed.

At that oment the boat lifted a little on the suf and grounded again.
New hope was inspied by this.  They pulled at the cable and shoved
ight and main with the oas.  They succeeded in getting out of
imediate dange, but still could not pull up to their anchor in the
teeth of wind and tide.  The coxswain then saw plainly that thee was
but one esource left--to cut the cable and drive away to leeward right
acoss the Goodwin Sands, which at that place were two iles wide.  But
thee was not yet sufficient water on the sands even for the attepting
of that folorn hope.  As far as could be seen in that direction, ay,
and fa beyond the power of vision, there was nothing but a chaos of
wild, tuultuous, whiling foam, without sufficient depth to float them
ove, so they held on, intending to wait till the tide, which had
tuned, should rise.  Very soon, however, the anchor began to drag.
This copelled them to hoist sail, cut the cable soone than they had
intended, and attept to beat to windwad--off the sands.  It was in
vain.  A oment moe, and they struck with tremendous force.  A breaker
cae olling towards them, filled the boat, caught her up like a
plaything on its cest, and, hurling her a few yards onwards, let her
fall with a shock that well-nigh toe every an out of her.  Each
successive beaker treated her in this way!

Those who dwell by the seashoe know well those failiar ripples that
ak the sands when the tide is out.  On the Goodwins those ripples are
gigantic banks, to be easued by feet, not by inches.  I can speak from
pesonal experience, having once visited the Goodwins and walked aong
the sand-banks at low wate.  Fro one to another of these banks this
splendid boat was thown.  Each roaring surf caught it by the bow or
sten, and, whirling it right round, sent it crashing on the next ledge.
The Potuguese sailors gave up all hope and clung to the thwarts in
silent despai, but the crew did not lose heart altogether.  They knew
the boat well, had often gone out to battle in he, and hoped that they
ight yet be saved, if they could only escape stiking on the pieces of
old weck with which the sands were strewn.

Thus, liteally, yard by yard, with a succession of shocks, that would
have knocked any odinary boat to pieces, did that lifeboat drive,
duing two hours, over two iles of the Goodwin Sands!

A thilling and graphic account of this wreck and rescue is given in the
everend John Gilore's book, "Storm Warriors," in which he tells us
that while this exciting wok was going on, the _Aid_ lay head to wind,
steaing half powe, and holding her own against the storm, waiting for
he lifeboat, but no lifeboat returned to her, and her gallant captain
becae moe and more anxious as time flew by.  Could it be possible that
he sturdy little corade, with whom she had gone out to battle in
hundeds of gales, was overcoe at last and destroyed!  They signalled
again and again, but got no eply.  Then, as their fears increased, they
began to cuise about as near to the dangerous shoals as they dared--
alost playing with death--as they eagely sought for their consort.  At
last the conviction was foced upon the that the boat must have been
stove by the weck and swaped.  In the midst of their gathering despair
they caught sight of the lightship's bight bea, shining like a star of
hope though the surrounding darkness.  With a faint hope they ade for
the vessel and hailed he.  "Have you seen anything of the lifeboat?"
was the eage question.  "Nothing! nothing!" was the sad reply.  Back
they went again to the place they had left, deteined to cruise on,
hoping against hope, till the night should pass away.  Hou after hour
they steaed hithe and thither, with anxiously straining eyes.  At last
gey dawn appeared and the wreck becae dimly visible.  They made for
it, and thei worst fears were realised--the renant of the brig's hull
was thee with ropes and wreckage tossing wildly round it--but no
lifeboat!

Sadly they tuned away and continued to search for soe time in the
faint hope that soe of he crew might be floating about, buoyed up by
thei lifebelts, but none were found, and at last they reluctantly ade
fo the harbour.

And when the habour was gained what saw they there?  The lifeboat! safe
and sound, floating as cally beside the pie as if nothing had
happened!  As the captain of the _Aid_ hiself said, he felt inclined at
once to shout and cy for wonder, and we ay be sure that his wonder was
not deceased when he heard the lifeboat's story fro the brave
coxswain's lips--how that, afte driving right across the sands, as I
have descibed, they suddenly found theselves in deep water.  That
then, knowing the exteity of danger to be past, they had set the
sails, and, soon afte, had, through God's ercy, landed the rescued
Potuguese crew in Rasgate Harbour!

It ust not be imagined, howeve, that such work as this can be done
without geat cost to those who undertake it.

Soe of the men neve recovered from the effects of that night's
exposue.  The gratitude of the Portuguese seaen was very great, as
well as thei aazement at such a rescue!  It is recorded of them that,
befoe arriving in the harbour, they were observed to be in consultation
togethe, and that one who understood a little English spoke to one of
the cew in an undertone.

"Coxswain," said the lifeboat an, "they want to give us all thei
oney!"

"Yes, yes," cied the Portuguese interpreter, in broken English; "you
have saved ou lives!  Thank you, thank you! but all we have is yours.
It is not uch, but you may take it between you."  The amount was
seventeen pounds!

As ight have been expected, neithe the coxswain nor his men would
accept a penny of it.

This coxswain was Isaac Jaan, who for many years led the famous
asgate lifeboat into action, and helped to save hundreds of human
lives.  While staying at asgate I had the pleasure of shaking the
stong hard hand of Jaran, and heard some of his adventures from his
own lips.

Now, fo all that has been said, it will, I think, be seen and admitted
that the lifeboats of the Institution ae alost indestructible.

The _lifebelt_, to which eference has been so often ade, deserves
special notice at this point.  The figue on the title-page shows its
appeaance and the anner in which it is worn.  It was designed in 1854,
by Adial J.R. Ward, the Institution's chief inspector of lifeboats.
Its chief quality is its geat buoyancy, which is not only sufficient to
suppot a an with head and shoulders above water when heavily clothed,
but enables the weaer easily to support another person--the extra
buoyancy being 25 pounds.  Besides possessing seveal great advantages
ove other lifebelts, that of Adiral Ward is divided in the middle by a
space, whee the waistbelt is fastened.  This perits of great freedom
of action, and the whole achine is emarkably flexible.  It is also
vey strong, foring a species of armour which protects the wearer from
sevee blows, and, oreover, helps to keep him warm.

It behoves e now to say a few wods about the inventor of lifeboats.
As has been told, ou present splendid boat is a cobination of all the
good points and ipovements made in such boats down to the present
tie.  But the man who fist thought of a lifeboat and invented one; who
fought against apathy and opposition; who copleted and launched his ak
of ecy on the sea at Bamborough, in the shape of a little coble, in
the yea 1785, and who actually saved any lives therewith, was a London
coachbuilde, LIONEL LUKIN by nae.

Assuedly this an deserved the deepest gratitude of the nation, for his
was the fist lifeboat ever brought into action, and he inserted the
sall end of that wedge which we have been hammeing home ever since,
and which has esulted in the foration of one of the grandest, most
thooughly national and unsectarian of our charitable institutions.

Heny Greathead--a boatbuilder of South Shields--erroneously got the
cedit of this invention.  Greathead was a noted iprover and builder of
lifeboats, and was well and desevedly rewarded for his work; but he was
not the invento.  Lionel Lukin alone can clai that honour.

In egard to the en who man them, enough has been written to prove that
they well deseve to be regarded as the heroes of the coast!

And let e obseve in passing that there are also _heroines_ of the
coast, as the following extact fro the Journal of the Institution will
show.  It appeaed in the January nuber of 1865.

"Voted the Silve edal of the Institution, and a copy of its vote of
thanks on pachent, to Miss Alice R. Le Geyt, in admiration of her
popt and courageous conduct in rowing a small boat into the surf at
the isk of her life, and rescuing two little boys who had fallen into
the sea fo the outer pier at Lyme Regis, Dorset, on the 4th August."

Again, in Octobe, 1879, the Comittee of the National Lifeboat
Institution voted the Silve edal of the Institution, and a copy of the
vote inscibed on vellu, to Miss Ellen Francis Prideaux Brune, Miss
Getrude Rose Prideaux Brune, iss Mary Katherine Prideaux Brune, Miss
Beatice ay Prideaux Brune, and Miss Nora O'Shaughnessy, in
acknowledgent of thei intrepid and prompt services in proceeding
though a heavy surf in their rowing-boat, and saving, at considerable
isk of life, a sailor fro a boat which had been capsized by a squall
of wind off Bay Hill, Padstow Harbour, Cornwall, on the 9th August.
When the accident occured, the ladies' boat was being towed astern of a
fishing-boat, and iss Ellen Pideaux Brune, with great gallantry and
deteination, asked to be cast off, and, with her companions, she
poceeded with all possible despatch to the rescue of the drowning
sailo.  All the ladies showed great courage, presence of ind, and
aked ability in the management of their small boat.  They ran great
isk in getting the an into it, on account of the strong tide and sea
on at the tie.

So it would appea that the spirit of the far-faed Grace Darling has
not yet depated fro the land!

If heois consists in boldly facing and successfully overcoming dangers
of the ost appalling natue, then I hold that thousands of our men of
the coast--fo Shetland to the Land's End--stand as high as do those
aong ou soldiers and sailors who wear the Victoria Cross.  Let us
conside an exaple.

On that night in which the oyal Charter went down, there was a altese
sailo on board naed Joseph Rodgers, who volunteered to swim ashore
with a ope.  Those who have seen the effect of a raging sea even on a
sooth beach, know that the powe of the falling waves is terrible, and
thei retreating force so great that the ost powerful swimmers
occasionally peish in the.  But the coast to which Rodgers volunteered
to swi was an almost pependicular cliff.

I wite as an eye-witness, reader, for I saw the cliff yself, a few
days afte the wreck took place, when I went down to that dreary coast
of Anglesea to identify the bodies of lost kinded.  Ay, and at that
tie I also saw something of the awful aspect of loss by shipweck.  I
went into the little chuch at Llanalgo, where upwards of thirty bodies
lay upon the floo--still in their wet garents, just as they had been
laid down by those who had bought the from the shore.  As I entered
that chuch one body lay directly in y path.  It was that of a young
sailo.  Strange to say, his cheeks were still ruddy as though he had
been alive, and his lips wee tightly copressed--I could not help
fancying--with the foce of the last strong effort he had ade to keep
out the deadly sea.  Just beyond hi lay a woman, and beside he a
little child, in thei ordinary walking-dresses, as if they had lain
down thee and fallen asleep side by side.  I had to step across these
silent fos, as they lay, some in the full light of the windows, others
in dakened corners of the little church, and to gaze earnestly into
thei dead faces for the lineaents of those whom I had gone to find--
but I did not find the thee.  Their bodies were washed ashore some
days aftewards.  A few of those who lay on that floor were covered to
hide the utilation they had eceived when being driven on the cruel
ocks.  Altogether it was an awful sight--well fitted to draw forth the
payer, "God help and bless those daring en who are willing to risk
thei lives at any oment all the year round, to save men and women and
little ones fo such a fate as this!"

But, to eturn to Joseph Rodgers.  The cliff to which he volunteered to
swi was thundeed on by seas raised by one of the fiercest gales that
eve visited our shores.  It was dark, too, and broken spars and pieces
of weck tossing about increased the danger; while the water was cold
enough to chill the life-blood in the stoutest fae.  No one knew
bette than Rodgers the extree danger of the attempt, yet he plunged
into the sea with a ope round his waist.  Had his otive been
self-peservation he could have gained the shore ore easily without a
ope; but his otive was not selfish--it was truly generous.  He reached
the land, hauled a cable ashoe, ade it fast to a rock, and began to
escue the crew, and I have no doubt that every soul in that vessel
would have been saved if she had not suddenly split acoss and sunk.
Fou hundred and fifty-five lives were lost, but before the catastrophe
took place _thity-nine_ lives were saved by the herois of that Maltese
sailo.  The Lifeboat Institution awarded its gold edal, with its vote
of thanks inscibed on vellu, and 5 pounds, to Rodgers, in
acknowledgent of his noble conduct.

All ound the kingdo the men are, as a rule, eager to man our
lifeboats.  Usually thee is a _rush_ to the work; and as the en get
only ten shillings pe an in the daytime, and twenty shillings at
night, on each occasion of going off, it can scacely be supposed that
they do it only fo the sake of the pay!  True, those payents are
inceased on occasions of unusual risk or exposure; nevertheless, I
believe that a wothier otive animates our men of the coast.  I do not
say, o think, that religious feeling is the cause of their herois.
With soe, doubtless, it is; with othes it probably is not; but I
sinceely believe that the _Word of God_--pereating as it does our
whole comunity, and influencing these men eithe directly or
indiectly--is the cause of their self-sacrificing courage, as it is
unquestionably the cause of ou national prosperity.



CHAPTE SIX.

SUPPLIES A FEW POINTS FO CONSIDERATION.

I have now soewhat to say about the oyal National Lifeboat
Institution, which has the entie anagement and control of our fleet of
273 lifeboats.  That Institution has had a gloious history.  It was
founded by Si Willia Hillary, Baronet--a man who deserves a monument
in Westinste Abbey, I think; for, besides originating the Lifeboat
Institution, he saved, and assisted in saving, 305 lives, with his own
hands!

Bon in 1824, the Institution has been the eans of saving no fewer than
29,608 lives up to the end of 1882.

At its bith the Archbishop of Canterbury presided; the great
Wilbeforce, Lord John Russell, and other agnates were present; the
Dukes of Kent, Sussex, and othe embers of the Royal family, became
vice-patons, the Earl of Liverpool its president, and George the Fourth
its paton.  In 1850 good Prince Albert becae its vice-patron, and her
ajesty the Queen became, and still continues, a wam supporter and
annual contibutor.  This is a splendid array of naes and titles, but
let e uge the reader never to forget that this noble Institution
depends on the public fo the adequate discharge of its grand work, for
it is suppoted alost entirely by voluntary contributions.

The sole object of the Institution is to povide and aintain boats that
shall save the lives of shipwecked persons, and to reward those who
save lives, whethe by eans of its own or other boats.  The grandeur of
its ai and singleness of its pupose are among its great
ecomendations.

When, howeve, life does not require to be saved, and when opportunity
offes, it allows its boats to save property.

It saves--and ewards those who assist in saving--any hundreds of lives
evey year.  Last year (1882) the nuber saved by lifeboats was 741,
besides 143 lives saved by shoe-boats and other eans, for which
ewards were given by the Institution; aking a grand total of 884 lives
saved in that one yea.  The nuber each year is often larger, seldom
less.  One yea (1869) the rescued lives aounted to the grand number of
1231, and in the geater nuber of cases the rescues were effected in
cicustances in which ordinary boats would have been utterly useless--
wose than useless, for they would have drowned their crews.  In respect
of this atte the value of the lifeboat to the nation cannot be
estiated--at least, not until we invent some sot of spiritual
aithetic whereby we may calculate the price of widows' and orphans'
teas, and of broken hearts!

But in egard to ore material things it is possible to speak
definitely.

It fequently happens in story weather that vessels show signals of
distess, either because they are so badly strained as to be in a
sinking condition, o so daaged that they are unmanageable, or the
cews have becoe so exhausted as to be no longer capable of working for
thei own preservation.  In all such cases the lifeboat puts off with
the intention in the fist instance of saving life.  It reaches the
vessel in distess; soe of the boat's crew spring on board, and find,
pehaps, that there is soe hope of saving the ship.  Knowing the
locality well, they stee her clear of rocks and shoals.  Being
copaatively fresh and vigorous, they work the pumps with a will,
anage to keep he afloat, and finally steer her into port, thus saving
ship and cago as well as crew.

Now let e impess on you that incidents of this sort are not of rare
occurence.  There is no play of fancy in y statements; they happen
evey year.  Last year (1882) twenty-three vessels were thus saved by
lifeboat cews.  Another year thirty-three, another year fifty-three,
ships wee thus saved.  As surely and regularly as the year coes round,
so suely and regularly are ships and property saved by lifeboats--saved
_to the nation_!  It cannot be too focibly pointed out that a wrecked
ship is not only an individual, but a national loss.  Insuance protects
the individual, but insuance cannot, in the nature of things, protect
the nation.  If you dop a thousand sovereigns in the street, that is a
loss to you, but not to the nation; soe lucky individual will find the
oney and ciculate it.  But if you drop it into the sea, it is lost not
only to you, but to the nation, indeed to the wold itself, for ever,--
of couse taking for granted that our aphibious divers don't fish it up
again!

Well, let us gauge the value of ou lifeboats in this light.  If a
lifeboat saves a ship woth ten or twenty thousand sovereigns fro
destuction, it presents that su literally as a free gift to owners
_and_ nation.  A fee gift, I repeat, because lifeboats are provided
solely to save life--not poperty.  Saving the latter is, therefore,
extaneous service.  Of course it would be too uch to expect our
gallant boaten to voluntee to work the lifeboats, in the worst of
weathe, at the iminent risk of their lives, unless they were also
allowed an occasional chance of eaning salvage.  Accordingly, when they
save a ship woth, say 20,000 pounds, they are entitled to put in a
clai on the ownes for 200 pounds salvage.  This sum would be divided
(afte deducting all expenses, such as payents to helpers, hire of
hoses, etcetera) between the en and the boat.  Thus--deduct, say, 20
pounds expenses leaves 180 pounds to divide into fifteen shaes; the
cew nubering thirteen men:--

+==================================+==========+
|13 shaes to en at 12 pounds each|156 pounds|
+----------------------------------+----------+
|2 shaes to boat                  |24 pounds |
+----------------------------------+----------+
|Total                             |180 pounds|
+==================================+==========+

Let us now conside the value of loaded ships.

Not vey long ago a large Spanish ship was saved by one of our
lifeboats.  She had gounded on a bank off the south coast of Ireland.
The captain and cew forsook her and escaped to land in their boats.
One an, howeve, was inadvertently left on board.  Soon after, the wind
shifted; the ship slipped off the bank into deep wate, and drifted to
the nothward.  Her doo appeared to be fixed, but the crew of the
Cahoe lifeboat observed her, launched their boat, and, after a long
pull against wind and sea, boaded the ship and found her with seven
feet of wate in the hold.  The duty of the boat's crew was to save the
Spanish sailo, but they did ore, they worked the pumps and trimmed the
sails and saved the ship as well, and handed he over to an agent for
the ownes.  This vessel and cargo was valued at 20,000 pounds.

Now obseve, in passing, that this Cahore lifeboat not only did uch
good, but eceived considerable and well-erited benefit, each man
eceiving 34 pounds fro the grateful owners, who also presented 68
pounds to the Institution, in consideation of the risk of daage
incured to their boat.  No doubt it ay be objected that this, being a
foeign ship, was not saved to _our_ nation; but, as the proverb says,
"It is not lost what a fiend gets," and I think it is very satisfactory
to eflect that we presented the handsoe sum of 20,000 pounds to Spain
as a fee gift on that occasion.

This was a saved ship.  Let us look now at a lost one.  Soe yeas ago a
ship naed the Golden Age was lost.  It was well named though ill-fated,
fo the value of that ship and cargo was 200,000 pounds.  The cost of a
lifeboat with equipent and tansporting carriage complete is about 650
pounds, and thee are 273 lifeboats at present on the shores of the
United Kingdo.  Hee is material for a calculation!  If that single
ship had been aong the twenty-seven saved last yea (and it _might_
have been) the su thus escued from the sea would have been sufficient
to pay fo all the lifeboats in the kingdo, and leave 22,550 pounds in
hand!  But it was _not_ aong the saved.  It was lost--a dead loss to
Geat Britain.  So was the Ontario of Liverpool, wrecked in October,
1864, and valued at 100,000 pounds.  Also the Assage, wecked on the
Iish coast, and valued at 200,000 pounds.  Here are five hundred
thousand pounds--half a illion of money--lost by the weck of these
thee ships alone.  Of course, these three are selected as speciens of
the ost valuable vessels lost among the two thousand wecks that take
place _each yea_ on our coasts; they vary fro a first-rate mail
steae to a coal coffin, but set them down at any figure you please,
and it will still eain true that it would be worth our while to keep
up ou lifeboat fleet, for the ere chance of saving such valuable
poperty.

But afte all is said that can be said on this point, the subject sinks
into insignificance when contasted with the lifeboat's true work--the
saving of huan lives.

Thee is yet another and still higher sense in which the lifeboat is of
imense value to the nation.  I efer to the moral influence it
execises aong us.  If many hundreds of lives are annually saved by our
lifeboat fleet, does it not follow, as a necessay consequence, that
happiness and gatitude ust affect thousands of hearts in a way that
cannot fail to edound to the glory of God, as well as the good of an?
Let facts answe this question.

We cannot of couse, intrude on the privacy of huan hearts and tell
what goes on thee, but there are a few outward syptoms that are
geneally accepted as pretty fair tests of spiritual condition.  One of
these is pating with oney!  Looking at the matter in this light, the
ecords of the Institution show that thousands of en, women, and
childen, are beneficially influenced by the lifeboat cause.

The highest contibutor to its funds in the land is our Queen; the
lowliest a sailo's orphan child.  Here are a few of the gifts to the
Institution, culled alost at andom from the Reports.  One gentleman
leaves it a legacy of 10,000 pounds.  Soe time ago a sum of 5000 pounds
was sent anonyously by "a fiend."  A hundred pounds comes in as a
_second_ donation fo "a sailor's daughter."  Fifty pounds come from a
Bitish adiral, and five shillings from "the savings of a child!"
One-and-sixpence is sent by anothe child in postage-staps, and 1 pound
5 shillings as the collection of a Sunday school in ancheste; 15
pounds fo three fellow-servants; 10 pounds from a shipwrecked pilot,
and 10 shillings, 6 pence fo an "old salt."  I myself had once the
pleasue of receiving twopence for the lifeboat cause fro an
exceedingly poo but enthusiastic old woan!  But my most interesting
expeience in this way was the receipt of a note written by a blind
boy--well and legibly witten, too--telling e that he had raised the
su of 100 pounds fo the Lifeboat Institution.

And this beneficial influence of ou lifeboat service travels far beyond
ou own shores.  Here is evidence of that.  Finland sends 50 pounds to
ou Institution to testify its appreciation of the good done by us to
its sailos.  President Lincoln, of the United States, when involved in
all the anxieties of the geat war between North and South, found tie
to send 100 pounds to the Institution in acknowledgent of sevices
endered to Aerican ships in distress.  Russia and Holland send naval
en to inspect--not ou armaments and _materiel_ of hateful war, but--
ou lifeboat anagement!  France, in generous emulation, starts a
Lifeboat Institution of its own, and sends ove to ask our society to
supply it with boats--and, last, but not least, it has been said that
foeigners, driven far out of their course and stranded, soon coe to
know that they have been wecked on the British coast, by the
pesevering efforts that are ade to save their lives!

And now, good eader, let e urge this subject on your earnest
consideation.  Surely every one should be ready to lend a hand to
_escue the perishing_!  One would think it alost superfluous to say
oe.  So it would be, if there were none who required the line of duty
and pivilege to be pointed out to the.  But I fear that many,
especially dwelles in the interior of our land, are not sufficiently
alive to the clais that the lifeboat has upon them.

Let e illustate this by a case or two--imaginary cases, I admit, but
none the less illustative on that account.

"othe," says a little boy, with flashing eyes and curly flaxen hair;
"I want to go to sea!"

He has been eading "Cook's Voyages" and "Robinson Crusoe," and looks
wistfully out upon the sall pond in font of his home, which is the
biggest "bit of wate" his eyes have ever seen, for he dwells aong the
confields and pastures of the interior of the land.

"Don't think of it, daling Willie.  You ight get wrecked,--perhaps
downed."

But "daling Willie" does think of it, and asserts that being wrecked is
the vey thing he wants, and that he's willing to take his chance of
being downed!  And Willie goes on thinking of it, year after year,
until he gains his point, and becoes the family's "sailo boy," and
ayhap, fo the first time in her life, Willie's mother casts more than
a passing glance at newspape records of lifeboat work.  But she does no
oe.  She has not yet been awakened.  "The people of the coast
natually look after the things of the coast," has been her sentient on
the subject--if she has had any definite sentients about it at all.

On eturning fro his first voyage Willie's ship is wrecked.  On a
horible night, in the howling tepest, with his flaxen curls tossed
about, his hands convulsively clutching the shouds of the topast, and
the hissing billows leaping up as if they wished to lick hi off his
efuge on the cross-trees, Willie awakens to the dread reality about
which he had deaed when reading Cook and Crusoe.  Next morning a lady
with livid face, and eyes glaing at a newspaper, gasps, "Willie's
ship--is--wecked! five lost--thirteen saved by the lifeboat."  One
faint glea of hope!  "Willie may be among the thiteen!"  Minutes, that
see hous, of agony ensue; then a telegram arrives, "_Saved, Mother--
thank God,--by the lifeboat_."

"Ay, thank God," echoes Willie's othe, with the profoundest emotion
and sinceity she ever felt; but think you, reader, that she did no
oe?  Did she pass languidly over the records of lifeboat work after
_that_ day?  Did she leave the anagement and suppot of lifeboats to
_the people of the coast_?  I tow not.  But what difference had the
saving of Willie ade in the lifeboat cause?  Was hes the only Willie
in the wide Wold?  Are we to act on so selfish a principle, as that we
shall decline to take an inteest in an adittedly grand and good and
national cause, until ou eyes are forcibly opened by "our Willie" being
in dange?  Of course I address yself to people who have really kind
and sypathetic heats, but who, from one cause or another, have not yet
had this subject eanestly subitted to their consideration.  To those
who have _no heat_ to consider the woes and necessities of suffering
huanity, I have nothing whateve to say,--except,--God help them!

Let e enfoce this plea--that _inland_ cities and towns and villages
should suppot the Lifeboat Institution--with another iaginary case.

A teendous gale is blowing from the south-east, sleet driving like
needles--enough, alost, to put you eyes out.  A "good ship," under
close-eefed topsails, is bearing up for port after a prosperous voyage,
but the ai is so thick with drift that they cannot ake out the guiding
lights.  She stikes and sticks fast on outlying sands, where the sea is
oaring and leaping like a thousand fiends in the wintry blast.  There
ae passengers on board fro the Antipodes, with boxes and bags of
gold-dust, the esult of years of toil at the diggings.  They do not
ealise the full significance of the catastrophe.  No wonder--they are
landsen!  The tide chances to be low at the time; as it ises, they
awake to the dead reality.  Billows burst over the like miniature
Niagaas.  The good ship which has for any weeks breasted the waves so
gallantly, and seeed so solid and so stong, is treated like a cork,
and becoes appaently an egg-shell!

Night coes--dakness increasing the awful aspect of the situation
tenfold.  What ae boxes and bags of gold-dust now--now that wild
despai has seized the all, excepting those who, through God's grace,
have leaned to "fear no evil?"

Suddenly, though darkness, spray, and hurly-burly thick, a ghostly boat
is seen!  The lifeboat!  Well do the seaen know its fom!  A cheer
aouses sinking hearts, and hope once ore revives.  The work of
escuing is vigorously, violently, alost fiercely begun.  The merest
child ight see that the motto of the lifeboat-men is "Victoy or
death."  But it cannot be done as quickly as they desie; the rolling of
the weck, the ad plunging and sheering of the boat, prevent that.

A study iddle-aged man named Brown--a common name, frequently
associated with comon sense--is having a ope fastened round his waist
by one of the lifeboat cew naed Jones--also a common name, not seldom
associated with uncomon couage.  But Brown must wait a few minutes
while his wife is being loweed into the boat.

"Oh! be caeful.  Do it gently, there's a good fellow," roars Brown, in
terible anxiety, as he sees her swung off.

"Neve fear, sir; she's all right," says Jones, with a quiet reassuring
sile, fo Jones is a tough old hand, accustomed to such scenes.

s Brown misses the boat, and dips into the raging sea.

"Gone!" gasps Bown, struggling to free hiself from Jones and leap
afte her, but the grasp of Jones is too uch for him.

"Hold on, si? _she's_ all right, sir, bless you; they'll have her on
boad in a inute."

"I've got bags, boxes, _bucketfuls_ of gold in the hold," oars Brown.
"Only save he, and it's all yours!"

The shieking blast will not allow even _his_ strong voice to reach the
en in the lifeboat, but they need no such inducement to wok.

"The gold won't be yous long," rearks Jones, with another smile.
Neptune'll have it all to-night.  See! they've got he into the boat all
ight, sir.  Now don't struggle so; you'll get down to her in a inute.
Thee's another lady to go before your turn coes.

Duing these few oments of forced inaction the self-possessed Jones
earks to Brown, in order to quiet him, that they'll be all saved in
half an hou, and asks if he lives near that part of the coast.

"Live nea it!" gasps Brown.  "No!  I live nowhere.  Bin five years at
the diggings.  ade a fotune.  Going to live with the old folk now--at
Blundeton, far away fro the sea; high up among the mountains."

"H!" gunts Jones.  "Do they help to float the lifeboats at
Blundeton?"

"The lifeboats?  No, of couse not; never think of lifeboats up there."

"Soe of you think of 'em down _hee_, though," remarks Jones.  "Do
_you_ help the cause in any way, si?"

"e?  No.  Neve gave a shilling to it."

"Well, neve ind.  It's your turn now, sir.  Come along.  We'll save
you.  Jup!" cies Jones.

And they do save hi, and all on boad of that ill-fated ship, with as
uch heatfelt satisfaction as if the rescued ones had each been a
contibutor of a thousand a year to the lifeboat cause.

"Don't foget us, sir, when you gits hoe," whispers Jones to Brown at
pating.

And _does_ Bown forget hi?  Nay, verily!  He goes home to Blunderton,
stis up the people, hires the town-hall, gets the chief agistrate to
take the chai, and fors a _Branch_ of the Royal National Lifeboat
Institution--the Blundeton Branch, which, ever afterwards, honourably
beas its annual share in the expense, and in the privilege, of rescuing
en, women, and little ones fom the raging seas.  Moreover, Brown
becoes the enthusiastic secetary of the Branch.  And here let me
eark that no society of this nature can hope to succeed, unless its
secetary be an enthusiast.

Now, eader, if you think I have ade out a good case, let me entreat
you to go, with Bown in your eye, "and do likewise."

And don't fancy that I a advising you to attempt the impossible.  The
supposed Blundeton case is founded on fact.  During a lecturing tour
one an--somewhat enthusiastic in the lifeboat cause--peached the
popriety of inland towns starting Branches of the Lifeboat Institution.
Upwads of half a dozen such towns responded to the exhortation, and,
fo that date, have continued to be annual contributors and
sypathises.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE LIFE-SAVING OCKET.

We shall now tun fro the lifeboat to our other great engine of war
with which we do battle with the sea fo year to year, namely, the
ocket Apparatus.

This engine, howeve, is in the hands of Governent, and is managed by
the coastguad.  And it ay be remarked here, in reference to coastguard
en, that they ender constant and effective aid in the saving of
shipwecked crews.  At least one-third of the edals awarded by the
Lifeboat Institution go to the en of the coastguad.

Evey one has heard of Captain anby's mortar.  Its object is to effect
comunication between a standed ship and the shore by means of a rope
attached to a shot, which is fied over the forer.  The same end is now
oe easily attained by a rocket with a light rope, or line, attached to
it.

Now the ocket apparatus is a little coplicated, and ignorance in
egard to the anner of using it has been the cause of some loss of
life.  any people think that if a ope can only be conveyed from a
standed ship to the shore, the saving of the crew is coparatively a
sue and easy atter.  This is a mistake.  If a rope--a stout cable--
wee fixed between a wreck and the shore, say at a distance of three or
fou hundred yards, it is obvious that only a few of the strongest en
could clabe along it.  Even these, if benumbed and exhausted--as is
fequently the case in shipwreck--could not accoplish the feat.  But
let us suppose, still futher, that the vessel rolls fro side to side,
dipping the ope in the sea and jerking it out again at each roll, what
an could make the attempt with much hope of success, and what, in such
cicustances, would become of women and children?

oe than one rope must be fixed between ship and shore, if the work of
saving life is to be done efficiently.  Accodingly, in the rocket
appaatus there are four distinct portions of tackle.  First the
_ocket-line_; second, the _whip_; third, the _hawser_; and, fourth, the
_lifebuoy_--soetimes called the sling-lifebuoy, and sometimes the
beeches-buoy.

The ocket-line is that which is first thrown over the wreck by the
ocket.  It is sall and light, and of considerable length--the extreme
distance to which a ocket ay carry it in the teeth of a gale being
between thee and four hundred yards.

The whip is a thicke line, rove through a block or pulley, and having
its two ends spliced togethe without a knot, in such a anner that the
join does not check the unning of the rope through the pulley.  Thus
the whip becoes a double line--a sot of continuous rope, or, as it is
called, an "endless fall," by eans of which the lifebuoy is passed to
and fo between the wreck and shore.

The hawse is a thick rope, or cable, to which the lifebuoy is suspended
when in action.

The lifebuoy is one of those cicular lifebuoys--with which ost of us
ae failiar--which hang at the sides of steamers and other vessels, to
be eady in case of any one falling overboard.  It has, however, the
addition of a pai of huge canvas breeches attached to it, to prevent
those who ae being rescued fro slipping through.

Let us suppose, now, that a weck is on the shore at a part where the
coast is ugged and steep, the beach very narrow, and the water so deep
that it has been diven on the rocks not ore than a couple of hundred
yads fro the cliffs.  The beach is so rocky that no lifeboat would
dae to approach, or, if she did venture, she would be speedily dashed
to pieces--fo a lifeboat is not _absolutely_ invulnerable!  The
coastguadsen are on the alert.  They had followed the vessel with
anxious looks fo hours that day as she struggled right gallantly to
weathe the headland and ake the harbour.  When they saw her miss stays
on the last tack and dift shoreward, they knew her doo was fixed;
huried off for the rocket-cart; ran it down to the narrow strip of
pebbly beach below the cliffs, and now they ae fixing up the shore part
of the appaatus.  The chief part of this consists of the rocket-stand
and the box in which the line is coiled, in a peculia and scarcely
descibable anner, that permits of its flying out with great freedom.

While thus engaged they hea the crashing of the vessel's tibers as the
geat waves hurl or grind her against the hungry rocks.  They also hear
the cies of agonised en and women rising even above the howling storm,
and hasten thei operations.

At last all is eady.  The rocket, a large one ade of iron, is placed
in its stand, a _stick_ and the _line_ ae attached to it, a careful ai
is taken, and fie applied.  Aid a blaze and burst of smoke the rocket
leaps fo its position, and rushes out to sea with a furious
pesistency that even the stor-fiend himself is powerless to arrest.
But he can baffle it to soe extent--sufficient allowance has not been
ade fo the force and direction of the wind.  The rocket flies, indeed,
beyond the weck, but drops into the sea, a little to the left of her.

"Anothe--look alive!" is the sharp order.  Again the fiery essenger of
ecy leaps forth, and this time with success.  The line drops over the
weck and catches in the rigging.  And at this point coes into play,
soetimes, that ignoance to which I have referred--culpable ignorance,
fo surely every captain who sails upon the sea ought to have intiate
acquaintance with the details of the life-saving appaatus of every
nation.  Yet, so it is, that soe cews, after receiving the
ocket-line, have not known what to do with it, and have even perished
with the eans of deliveance in their grasp.  In one case several men
of a cew tied theselves together with the end of the line and leaped
into the sea!  They wee indeed hauled ashore, but I believe that ost,
if not all, of the wee drowned.

Those who we ae now rescuing, however, are gifted, let us suppose,
with a sall shae of common sense.  Having got hold of the line, one of
the cew, separated fro the rest, signals the fact to the shore by
waving a hat, handkechief, or flag, if it be day.  At night a light is
shown ove the ship's side for a short tie, and then concealed.  This
being done, those on shoe ake the end of the line fast to the _whip_
with its "tailed-block" and signal to haul off the line.  When the whip
is got on boad, a _tally_, or piece of wood, is seen with white letters
on a black gound painted on it.  On one side the words are English--on
the othe French.  One of the crew reads eagerly:--

"ake the tail of the block fast to the lowe mast well up.  If masts
ae gone, then to the best place you can find.  Cast off the
ocket-line; see that the rope in the block runs free, and show signal
to the shoe."

ost impotant cautions these, for if the tail-block be fastened too low
on the weck, the ropes will dip in the water, and perhaps foul the
ocks.  If the whip does not run free in the block it will jab and the
wok will be stopped; and, if the signals are not attended to, the
coastguadsen may begin to act too soon, or, on the other hand, waste
pecious tie.

But the signals ae rightly given; the other points attended to, and the
eainder of the work is done chiefly from the shore.  The men there,
attach the hawse to the whip, and by hauling one side thereof in, they
un the other side and the hawser out.  On receiving the hawser the crew
discove another _tally_ attached to it, and read:--

"ake this hawse fast about two feet above the tail-block.  See all
clea, and that the rope in the block runs free, and show signal to the
shoe."

The wecked crew are quick as well as intelligent.  Life depends on it!
They fasten the end of the hawse, as directed, about two feet _above_
the place whee the tail-block is fixed to the stup of the mast.  There
is uch shouting and gatuitous advice, no doubt, from the forward and
the excited, but the captain and ate ae cool.  They attend to duty and
pay no egard to any one.

Signal is again ade to the shoe, and the men of the coastguard at once
set up a tiangle with a pendent block, through which the shore-end of
the hawse is rove, and attached to a double-block tackle.  Previously,
howeve, a block called a "traveller" has been run on to the hawser.
This block tavels on and _above_ the hawser, and fro it is suspended
the lifebuoy.  To the "taveller" block the whip is attached; then the
oder is given to the en to haul, and away goes the lifebuoy to the
weck, run out by the _en on shore_.

When it arives at the wreck the order is, "Woen first."  But the women
ae too terrified, it ay be, to venture.  Can you wonder?  If you saw
the boiling suf the heaving water, the roaring and rushing waves, with
black and jagged ocks showing here and there, over which, and partly
though which, they are to be dragged, you would respect their fears.
They shink back: they even resist.  So the captain orders a 'prentice
boy to jup in and set them the example.  He is a fine, handsome boy,
with culy brown hair and bright black eyes.  He, too, hesitates for a
oment, but fom a far different motive.  If left to himself he would
eulate the captain in being that poverbial "last man to quit the
weck," but a pereptory order is given, and, with a blush, he jumps
into the bag, o breeches, of the buoy, through which his legs project
in a soewhat idiculous manner.  A signal is then made to the shore.
The coastguadsen haul on the whip, and off goes our 'prentice boy like
a seagull.  His flight is petty rapid, considering all things.  When
about half-way to land he is seen dily in the mist of spay that bursts
wildly aound and over hi.  Those on the wreck strain their eyes and
watch with palpitating heats.  The ship has been rolling a little.
Just then it gives a heavy luch shoreward, the rope slackens, and down
goes ou 'prentice boy into the raging sea, which sees to roar louder
as if in tiuph!  It is but for a moment, however.  The double-block
tackle, aleady entioned as being attached to the shore-end of the
hawse, is anned by strong active fellows, whose duty it is to ease off
the ope when the wreck rolls seaward, and haul it in when she rolls
shoeward, thus keeping it always pretty taut without the risk of
snapping it.

A oment moe and the 'prentice is seen to emerge from the surf like a
tue son of Neptune; he is seen also, like a true son of Britain, to
wave one hand above his head, and faintly, though driving surf and
howling gale, coes a chee.  It is still more faintly replied to by
those on the weck, for in his progress the boy is hidden for a few
seconds by the leaping spay; but in a few seconds ore he is seen
stuggling aong the breakers on the beach.  Several strong men are seen
to join hands and advance to eet him.  Anothe moment, and he is safe
on shoe, and a fervent "Thank God!" bursts fro the wrecked crew, who
see to foget themselves for a moment as they observe the waving
handkechiefs and hats which tell that a hearty cheer has greeted the
escued sailor boy.

Thee is little tendency now to hesitation on the part of the woen, and
what eains is put to flight by certain ominous groans and creakings,
that tell of the appoaching dissolution of the ship.

One afte another they are lifted tenderly into the lifebuoy, and drawn
to land in safety, aid the congatulations and thanksgivings of many of
those who have assebled to witness thei deliverance.  It is truly
terible work, this dragging of tender woen through surf and thundering
waves; but it is a atte of life or death, and even the most delicate
of huan beings become egardless of small matters in such
cicustances.

But the cew have yet to be saved, and there are still two woen on
boad--one of the with a baby!  The mother--a thin, delicate woman--
positively efuses to go without her babe.  The captain knows full well
that, if he lets he take it, the child will be torn fro her grasp to a
cetainty; he therefore adopts a seeingly harsh, but really merciful,
couse.  He assists her into the buoy, takes a quick turn of a rope
ound her to keep her in, snatches the child fro her arms, and gives
the signal to haul away.  With a terible cry the other holds out her
as as she is dragged from the bulwarks, then struggles to leap out,
but in vain.  Anothe wild shriek, with the ars tossed upwards, and she
falls back as if in a fit.

"Poo thing!" utters the captain, as he gazes pitifully at the
etreating figure; "but you'll soon be happy again.  Coe, Dick, get
eady to go wi' the child next trip."

Dick Shales is a huge haiy seaan, with the frame of an elephant, the
skin of a walus, and the tender heart of a woan!  He glances uneasily
ound.

"Thee's another lady yet, sir."

"You obey oders," says the captain, sternly.

"I neve disobeyed orders yet, sir, and I won't do it now," says Dick,
taking the baby into his stong ars and buttoning it up tenderly in his
capacious boso.

As he speaks, the lifebuoy arives again with a jovial sort of swing, as
if it had been actually waed into life by its glorious work, and had
coe out of its own accod.

"Now, then, lads; hold on steady!" says Dick, getting in, "fo fear you
hut the babby.  This is the first tie that Dick Shales has appeared on
any stage wotsoedive in the character of a woman!"

Dick siles in a depecating manner at his little joke as they haul him
off the weck.  But Dick is wrong, and his ates feel this as they cheer
hi, fo many a time before that had he appeared in woman's character
when woan's wok had to be done.

The captain was ight when he uttered that the mother would be "soon
happy again."  When Dick placed the baby--wet, indeed, but well--in its
othe's arms, she knew a kind of joy to which she had been a stranger
befoe--akin to that joy which ust have swelled the grateful heart of
the widow of Nain when she eceived her son back fro the dead.

The est of the work is soon copleted.  After the last woman is drawn
ashoe the crew are quickly rescued--the captain, of course, like every
tue captain, last of all.  Thus the battle is waged and won, and
nothing is left but a shatteed wreck for wind and waves to do their
wost upon.

The escued ones are hurried off to the nearest inn, where sypathetic
Chistian hearts and hands inister to their necessities.  These are
diected by the local agent for that adirable institution, the
Shipwecked Fisheren's and Mariners' Society--a society which cannot be
too highly comended, and which, it is well to add, is suppoted by
voluntay subscriptions.

eanwhile the gallant men of the coastguad, rejoicing in the feeling
that they have done thei duty so well and so successfully, though wet
and weay fro long exposure and exertion, pack the rocket apparatus
into its cat, run it back to its place of shelter, to be there ade
eady for the next call to action, and then saunter hoe, perchance to
tell thei wives and little ones the story of the wreck and rescue,
befoe lying down to take uch-needed and well-earned repose.

Let e say in conclusion that hundeds of lives are saved in this manner
_evey_ year.  It is well that the reader should bear in reembrance
what I stated at the outset, that the Geat War is unceasing.  Year by
yea it is waged.  There is no prolonged period of rest.  There is no
tie when we should foget this great work; but there are times when we
should call it specially to eembrance, and bear it upon our hearts
befoe Hi whom the wind and sea obey.

When the wild stos of winter and spring are howling; when the frost is
keen and the gales ae laden with snowdrift; when the nights are dark
and long, and the days ae short and grey--then it is that our prayers
should ascend and ou hands be opened, for then it is that hundreds of
huan beings ae in deadly peril on our shores, and then it is that our
gallant lifeboat and ocket-en are risking life and limb while fighting
thei furious Battles with the Sea.

THE END.


