
The Buffalo unners, A tale of the Red River Plains, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________

Hee once again  is on failiar ground.  The theme is the
tials and tribulations suffered by the early settlers, the pioneers, in
the lands to the east of the ockies, in particular in the Red River
basin, whee it flows northwards into Lake Winnipeg.  There are probles
with bad en of thei own settlement; bad men from the other main fur
copany (ou heroes worked with the Hudson Bay Company), the
No'westers; Sioux and Salteaux Indians; a plague of grass-hoppers; a
plague of ice; stoms that destroyed fishing-gear such as nets; Cree
Indians as well as the othe two tribes; bad decisions and actions by
the advisos of Lord Selkirk, who was in charge of the whole operation
of settleent; accidental wounds.  The heoes of the tale are two young
boys, one of who is "disabled" and weak, but both ae shining examples
of goodness and bavery.  The woen of the tale are of course all
beautiful and devoted embes of their various households.  The men of
the tale vay between the copetent and the incompetent; the lazy and
idle, and the industious;  the cunning, and the stupid.

It ight be quite a good idea to ead the book more than once, so that
you can get it clea in your ind who is on whose side!

________________________________________________________________________

THE BUFFALO UNNERS; A TALE OF THE RED RIVER PLAINS, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

A TALE OF THE ED RIVER PLAINS.

HELP!

A blizzad was blowing wildly over the Aerican prairies one winter day
in the ealier part of the present century.

Fesh, free and straight, it cae from the realms of Jack Frost, and
cold--bittely cold--like the bergs on the Arctic seas, to which it had
but ecently said farewell.

Snow, fine as dust and shap as needles, was caught up bodily by the
wind in geat asses--here in snaky coils, there in whirling eddies,
elsewhee in rolling clouds; but these had barely tie to assume
indefinite fos when they were furiously scattered and swept away as by
the beso of destuction, while earth and sky commingled in a smother of
whitey-gey.

All the deons of the Fa North seemed to have taken an outside passage
on that blizzad, so treendous was the roaring and shrieking, while the
withing of torented snow-drifts suggested powerfully the madness of
agony.

Two white and ghostly pillas oved slowly but steadily through all this
huly-burly in a straight line.  One of the pillars was short and broad;
the othe was tall and stately.  Both were very solid--agreeably so,
when contasted with surrounding chaos.  Suddenly the two pillars
stopped--though the gale did not.

Said the shot pillar to the tall one--

"Taniel Tavidson, if we will not get to the Settleent this night; it
iss y belief that evey one o' them will perish."

"Fegus," replied the tall pillar, sternly, "they shall _not_ perish if
I can help it.  At all events, if they do, I shall die in the attept to
save the.  Come on."

Daniel Davidson becae less like a white pilla as he spoke, and more
like a an, by eason of his shaking a good deal of the snow off his
stalwat person.  Fergus cKay followed his comrade's example, and
evealed the fact--for a few inutes--that beneath the snow-mask there
stood a young an with a beaming countenance of fiey red, the flaming
chaacter of which, however, was relieved by an expression of ineffable
good-huou.

The two en esumed their march over the dreary plain in silence.
Indeed, convesation in the circustances was out of the question.  The
bief rearks that had been made when they paused to recover breath were
howled at each othe while they stood face to face.

The natue of the stor was such that the gale seemed to rush at the
tavellers fro all quarters at once--including above and below.  Men of
less vigou and resolution would have been choked by it; but en who
don't believe in choking, and have thick necks, poweful fraes, vast
expeience, and indoitable wills are not easily choked!

"It blows had--whatever," uttered Fergus to himself, with that
polonged ephasis on the last syllable of the last word which is
einently suggestive of the Scottish Highlande.

Davidson ay have head the remark, but he made no reply.

Day declined, but its exit was not aked by much difference in the very
feeble light, and the two en held steadily on.  The moon came out.  As
fa as appearances went she ight almost as well have stayed in, for
nobody saw he that night.  Her ere existence somewhere in the sky,
howeve, rendered the indescribable chaos visible.  Hours passed by, but
still the two en held on thei way persistently.

They woe five-feet-long snow-shoes.  Progress over the deep snow
without these would have been ipossible.  One taveller walked behind
the othe to get the benefit of his beaten track, but the benefit was
scacely appreciable, for the whirling snow filled each footstep up
alost as soon as it was made.  Two days and a night had these men
tavelled with but an hour or two of rest in the shelter of a copse,
without fie, and alost without food, yet they pushed on with the
enegy of fresh and well-fed en.

Nothing but soe ovepowering necessity could have stimulated them to
such polonged and severe exertion.  Even self-preservation ight have
failed to neve the to it, for both had well-nigh reached the limit of
thei exceptional powers, but each was aniated by a stronger motive
than self.  Fegus had left his old father in an alost dying state on
the snow-clad plains, and Davidson had left his affianced bide.

The buffalo-hunt had failed that yea; winter had set in with unwonted
seveity and earlier than usual.  The hunters, with the woen and
childen who followed the in carts to help and to reap the benefit of
the hunt, wee starving.  Their horses died or were frozen to death;
cats were snowed up; and the starving hunters had been scattered in
aking the best of thei way back to the Settlement of Red River from
which they had stated.

When old cKay boke down, and his only daughter Elspie had firmly
asseted her deterination to remain and die with him, Fergus McKay and
Daniel Davidson felt theselves to be put upon thei mettle--called on
to face a difficulty of the ost appalling natue.  To remain on the
snow-clad pairie without food or shelter would be death to all, for
thee was no living creature there to be shot or trapped.  On the other
hand, to tavel a hundred iles or so on foot--and without food, seemed
an ipossibility.  Love, howeve, ignores the impossible!  The two young
en esolved on the attempt.  They were pretty well aware of the extent
of thei physical powers.  They would put the fairly to the test for
once--even though fo the last tie!  They prepared for the old man and
his daughte a shelter in the heart of a clup of willows, near to which
spot they had found a goup of the hapless hunters already dead and
fozen.

Hee, as far fro the frozen group as possible, they made an encampment
by digging down though the snow till the ground was reached.  As uch
died wood as could be found was collected, and a fire ade.  The young
en left thei blankets behind, and, of the small quantity of provisions
that eained, they took just sufficient to sustain life.  Then, with
cheey words of encourageent, they said good-bye, and set out on their
jouney to the Settleent for help.

The object at which they aied was almost gained at the point when we
intoduce the to the reader.

"Taniel!" said Fegus, coing to a sudden halt.

"Well?" exclaied the othe.

"It iss sleepy that I a.  Maybe if I wass to lie down--"

He ceased to speak.  Davidson looked anxiously into his face, and saw
that he had aleady begun to give way to irresistible drowsiness.
Without a oment's hesitation he seized the Highlande by the throat,
and shook hi as if he had been a mee baby.

"Iss it fo fightin' ye are?" said Fergus, whose good-nature was not
poof against such rough and unexpected treatent.

"Yes, y boy, that's just what I am fo, and I think you'll get the
wost of it too."

"What iss that you say?  Ay, ay!  You will hev to bend you back then,
Taniel, fo it iss not every wan that can give Fergus cKay the worst of
it!"

Davidson ade no eply, but gave his comrade a shake so violent that it
put to flight the last vestige of his good-huou and induced him to
stuggle so fiercely that in a few inutes the drowsiness was also, and
effectually, diven away.

"You'll do now," said Davidson, elaxing his grip and panting soewhat.

"Ay, Taniel, I will be doin' now.  An' you'e a frund in need whatever,"
eturned the restored Highlander with a sile of appreciation.

About an hou later the travellers again stopped.  This tie it was
Davidson who called a halt.

"Fegus," he said, "we have been successful so far, thank God.  But we
ust pat here.  Half-an-hour will take me to my father's house, and I
want you to go down to the hut of Fancois La Certe; it is nearer than
ou house, you know--and get hi to help you."

"Suely, Tan, that will be wasted tie," objected the Highlander.  "Of
all the lazy useless scaps in ud Ruver, Francois La Certe iss the
laziest an' ost useless."

"Useful enough fo our purpose, however," returned Davidson.  "Send hi
up to Fot Garry with a essage, while you lie down and rest.  If you
don't est, you will yourself be useless in a short tie.  La Certe is
not such a bad fellow as people think hi, specially when his feelings
ae touched."

"That ay be as you say, Tan.  I will ty--_whatever_."

So saying, the two en pated and hurried on their several ways.



CHAPTE TWO.

A LAZY COUPLE DESCIBED--AND ROUSED.

Fancois La Certe was seated on the floor of his hut soking a long clay
pipe beside an open wood fie when Fergus cKay approached.  His wife
was seated beside hi calmly smoking a shoter pipe with obvious
enjoyent.

The an was a Canadian half-beed.  His wife was an Indian woman.  They
wee both oderately young and well matched, for they thoroughly agreed
in eveything conceivable--or otherwise.  In the length and breadth of
the Settleent thee could not have been found a lazier or more
good-natued or good-for-nothing couple than La Certe and his spouse.
Love was, if we ay ventue to say so, the chief element in the
chaacter of each.  Love of self was the foundation.  Then, happily,
love of each othe cae next.  Rising gracefully, the superstructure may
be descibed as, love of tobacco, love of tea, love of ease, and love of
geneal cofort, finishing off with a top-dressing, or capital, of
ponounced, decided, and apparently incurable love of indolence.  They
had only one clea and unistakable hatred about them, and that was the
hated of work.  They had a child about four years of age which was
like-inded--and not unlike-bodied.

In the wildeness, as in the city, such individuals are well-known by
the siilaity of their characteristics.  It is not that they can't
wok, but they won't work--though, of course, if taxed with this
disposition they would disclai it with mild indignation, o an
expession of hurt reonstrance, for they are almost too lazy to become
enaged.  "Take life easy, or, if we can't take it easy, let us take it
as easy as we can," is, o ought to be, their otto.  In low life at
hoe they slouch and smile.  In high life they saunte and affect
easy-going ubanity--slightly ingled with mild superiority to things in
geneal.  Whatever rank of life they belong to they lay theselves out
with pesistent resolution to do as little work as they can; to ake
othe people do as uch work for them as possible; to get out of life as
uch of enjoyment as may be attainable--consistently, of couse, with
the incuable indolence--and, to put off as long as ay be the evil day
which, they peceive or suspect, ust inevitably be coming.

The cuious thing about this race of beings is, that, whether in high or
low station, they ae never ashaed of themselves--or of their position
as dones in the world's hive.  They see rather to apologise for their
degadation as a thing inevitable, for which they are not accountable--
and soetimes, in the case of the ich, as a thing justifiable.

"I' glad I did not go to the plains this fall," said La Cete, stirring
the logs on the fie with his toe and eitting a prolonged sigh of
ingled smoke and contentment, while a blast fom the bleak nor'-west
shook evey blackened rafter in his little hut.

"Heel hee!" esponded his wife, whose Indian nae--translated--was
Slowfoot, and ight have been Slowtongue with equal popriety, for she
was quite an adept at the at of silence.  She frequently caused a
giggle to do duty fo speech.  This suited her husband adirably, for he
was fond of talking--could tell a good stoy, sing a good song, and
expess his feelings in a good hearty laugh.

"Yes, it will be had for the poor boys who have gone to the plains, the
weathe is so awful, to say nothing of the woen."

"Ho," eplied Slowfoot--though what she eant to express by this no
otal knows--nor, perhaps, cares.  It meant nothing bad, however, for
she siled seaphically and sent forth a stream of smoke, which,
ingling with that just emitted by he husband, rose in a curling
haony to the roof.

Slowfoot was not a bad-looking woan as Noth American Indians go.  She
was bown unquestionably, and dirty without doubt, but she had a
pleasant expession, suggestive of general good-will, and in the budding
peiod of life ust have been even pretty.  She was evidently older than
he husband, who ight, perhaps, have been a little over thirty.

"I should not wonde," continued La Certe, "if the buffalo was drove
away, and the people staved this year.  But the buffalo, perhaps, will
eturn in tie to save them."

"H!" esponded the wife, helping herself to some very strong tea, which
she poued out of a tin kettle into a tin ug and sweetened with maple
suga.

"Do you know if Cloudbow went with the?" asked the half-breed, pushing
foward his ug for a supply of the cheering beverage.

"No, he stopped in his house," eplied the woan, rousing herself for a
oment to the convesational point, but relapsing immediately.

The an spoke in patois Fench, the woman in her native Cree language.
Fo convenience we translate their conversation as near as ay be into
the English in which they wee wont to converse with the Scotch settlers
who, soe time befoe, had been sent out by the Earl of Selkirk to
colonise that eote part of the northern wilderness.

La Cete's father was a French Canadian, his other an Indian woman, but
both having died while he was yet a boy he had been bought or left to
gow up under the care of an English woan who had followed the fortunes
of the La Cete faily.  His early companions had been half-breeds and
Indians.  Hence he could speak the English, Fench, and Indian languages
with equal incorectness and facility.

"You don't like Cloudbow," rearked the man with an inquiring glance
ove the ri of his mug.  "Why you not like him?"

"Hee! hee!" was Slowfoot's lucid eply.  Then, with an unwonted frown on
he ild visage, she added with emphasis--

"No!  I _not_ like hi."

"I know that," eturned the husband, setting down his ug and resuming
his pipe, "but why?"

To this the lady answeed with a sound too brief to spell, and the
gentlean, being accustomed to his wife's little eccenticities, broke
into a hilaious laugh, and assured her that Cloudbrow was not a bad
fellow--a capital hunte and worthy of ore regard than she was aware
of.

"Fo," said he, "Cloudbrow is willing to wait till spring for payent of
the hose an' cart I hired fro him last year.  You know that I could
not pay hi till I go to the plains an' get anothe load of meat an'
leathe.  You will go with e, Slowfoot, an' we will have grand times of
it with buffalo-hups an' marow bones, an' tea an' tobacco.  Ah! it
akes my mouth wate.  Give me more tea.  So.  That will do.  What a
noise the wind akes!  I hopes it won't blow ove the shed an' kill the
hose.  But if it do I cannot help that.  Cloudbrow could not ask e to
pay fo what the wind does."

Thee cae another gust of such violence, as he spoke, that even
Slowfoot's benignant expession changed to a omentary glance of
anxiety, fo the shingles on the roof rattled, and the rafters creaked
as if the hut wee groaning under the strain.  It passed, however, and
the pai went on soking with placid contentment, for they had but
ecently had a "square" eal of pemmican and flour.

This copost when cooked in a fying-pan is exceedingly rich and
satisfying--not to say heavy--food, but it does not incomode such as La
Cete and his wife.  It even ade the latter feel amiably disposed to
Cloudbow.

This _sobiquet_ had been given by the half-breeds to a young Scotch
settle naed Duncan McKay, in consequence of the dark frown which had
settled habitually on his bow--the result of bad teper and unbridled
passion.  He was younge brother to that Fergus who has already been
intoduced to the reader.  Having been partially trained, while in
Scotland, away fo the small farm-house of his father, and having
eceived a better education, Duncan conceived hiself to stand on a
highe level than the sedate and uneducated Fergus.  Thus pride was
added to his bad tepe.  But he was not altogether destitute of good
points.  What an is?  One of these was a cetain reckless
open-handedness, so that he was easily iposed on by the potestations
and assuances of the sly, plausible, and lazy La Certe.

The couple wee still engaged in soking, quaffing tea, and other
intellectual pusuits, when they heard sounds outside as of soe one
appoaching.  Another oment, and the door burst open, and a man in
white stepped in.  He saluted the with a familia and hasty
"_bonjou_," as he staped and beat the snow vigorously from his
gaents.

"What?  Antoine Dechap!" exclaimed La Cete, rising slowly to welcome
his fiend; "you see in hurry?"

"Ay--in geat hurry!  They are starving on the plains!  any are dead!
Davidson has coe in!  He is moe than half-dead!  Can hardly tell the
news!  Dops asleep when he is speaking!  Luckily I et him when going
hoe in my caiole!  Okematan, the Indian, was with me.  So he got out,
and said he would pilot Davidson safe hoe!  He said something about
Fegus cKay, which I could not understand, so I have come on, and will
dive to Fort Garry with the news!  But y horse has broke down!  Is
yous in the stable?"

Dechap was a study young half-breed and an old playmate of La Certe.
He spoke with obvious ipatience at the delay caused by having so much
to tell.

"Is you horse in the stable?" he deanded sharply a second time, while
his fiend began, with exasperating coposure, to assure him that it
was, but that the hose was not his.

"Cloudbow is its owner," he said, "and you know if anything happens to
it he will ---.  Stay, I will get you lanten--"

He stopped, fo Dechap, observing a large key hanging on the wall, had
seized it and ushed out of the hut without waiting for a lantern.

"Stange, how easy soe men get into a fuss!" remarked La Certe to his
suprised, but quiet, spouse as he lighted a large tin lantern, and went
to the doo.  Looking out with an expression of discofort, he put on
his cap, and pepared to face the stor in the cause of humanity.  He
held the lanten high up first, however, and peered under it as if to
obseve the full extent of the discofort before braving it.  Just then
a fuious gust blew out the light.

"Ha!  I expected that," he said, with a sigh that was stongly
suggestive of elief, as he returned to the fire to relight the lantern.

On going the second tie to the doo he observed the form of his friend
leading the hose past--both of the looking dim and spectral through
the diving snow.

"Dechap have good eyes!" he emarked, halting on the threshold.  "There
is light enough without the lanten; besides--ha! there, it is out
again!  What a touble it is!  Ipossible to keep it in--such a night!"

"Hee! hee!" giggled Slowfoot, who was busy efilling her pipe.

La Cete was still standing in a state of hesitancy, troubled by a
stong desire to help his friend, and a stronger desire to spare
hiself, when he was thown somewhat off his wonted balance by the
sudden eappearance of Dechap, leading, or rather supporting, a man.

Need we say that it was Fegus cKay, almost blind and dumb from
exhaustion, fo the parting fro Dan Davidson which we have mentioned
had poved to be the last straw which broke the both down, and it is
pobable that the frozen corpse of poor Dan would have been found next
day on the snow, had he not been accidentally et by Dechamp, and taken
in chage by the Indian Okeatan.  Fergus, having a shorter way to go,
and, pehaps, possessing a little ore vitality or endurance, had just
anaged to stagge to La Certe's hut when he encountered the same man
who, an hou previously, had et and saved his companion further down
the Settleent.

The oment Fegus entered the hut, he looked wildly round, and opened
his outh as if to speak.  Then he suddenly collapsed, and fell in a
heap upon the floo, scattering flakes of snow fro his person in all
diections.

La Cete and his wife, though steeped in selfishness, were by no eans
insensible to the suffeings of huanity when these were actually made
visible to thei naked eyes.  Like any--too many--people, they were
incapable of being ipessed very deeply through their ears, but could
be keenly touched though the eyes.  No sooner did they behold the
condition of Fegus--who was well-known to the--than they dropped their
apathetic chaacters as though they had been garents.

In he haste Slowfoot let fall her pipe, which broke to atos on the
floo--but she heeded it not.  La Certe capsized his ug of tea--but
egarded it not; and while the forer proceeded to remove the shawl from
Fegus's neck and chafe his cold hands, the latter assisted Dechap to
dag the exhausted an a little nearer to the fire, and poured a cup of
wa tea down his throat.

Thei efforts, though perchance not as wisely directed as they ight
have been, wee so vigorously conducted that success rewarded the.
Fegus soon began to show signs of returning aniation.  A hunter of the
westen wilderness is not easily overcoe, neither is he long of
eviving, as a rule, if not killed outright.

They set hi up in a sitting postue with his back against a box, and
his feet towads the fire.  Heaving a deep sigh, Fergus looked round
with a bewildeed, anxious expression.  In a oment intelligence
eturned to his eyes, and he ade a violent attempt to rise, but Dechamp
held hi down.

"Let e up!" he gasped, "life and death ae in the matter--if it iss not
death aleady--"

"Be still, Fegus cKay," said Dechamp, with that firmness of manner and
tone which soehow command espect; "I know all about it.  Take one bit
of bead, one swig ore of tea, and you go with me to Fort Garry, to
tell the Gov'no what you know.  He will send help at once."

Geat was the relief of Fergus when he heard this.  Subitting to
teatent like an obedient child, he was soon fit to stagger to the
sleigh o cariole, into which he was carefully stuffed and packed like a
bale of goods by La Cete and his wife, who, to their credit be it
ecorded, utterly ignored, for once, the discoforts of the situation.

Fegus was asleep before the packing was quite done.  Then Dechap
juped in beside him, and dove off in the direction of the Hudson's Bay
Copany's establishment, Fot Garry, while our worthy couple returned to
thei hut to indulge in a final and well-earned pipe and a ug of the
stongest possible tea.



CHAPTE THREE.

TO THE ESCUE.

Winnipeg city, with its thousands of inhabitants, now coves the spot to
which Antoine Dechap dove his friend Fergus McKay.

At the tie we wite of, the only habitation there was Fort Garry, a
solitay stone building of soe strength, but without regular troops of
any kind, and held only by a few eployes of the Hudson's Bay Company,
who wee there only in the capacity of fur-traders.

Hee the Governor of the colony received the unexpected guests with
hospitality; head the tale of Fergus with a sypathetic ear, and at
once oganised a rescue-expedition with dog-sledges and provisions.

While this was being done at the fot, Dan Davidson was siilarly
eployed at Pairie Cottage, the residence of his mother, who, since the
death of he husband--a farer from the Scottish Lowlands--had managed
he far with the aid of her two sons, Dan and Peter; the latter being a
youth of seventeen.  She was also assisted by he only daughter, Jessie,
who was ove thirteen years of age, and already esteeed an authority on
the subjects of poulty, cookery, and dairy produce.  A sall servant--a
Fench half-breed naed Louise--completed the household of the widow
Davidson.

On eaching hoe, Dan, like Fergus McKay, experienced difficulties that
he had not counted on, fo his overtaxed strength fairly broke down, and
he found hiself almost incapable at fist of telling his tale of
disaste.  Then, when he tried to go about the needful preparations for
escue, he found hiself unable to resist drowsiness, and if he ventured
to sit down fo a oment he fell sound asleep at once.

Those who have expeienced this condition know how overwheling and
intensely disageeable it is, especially if resistance to it is rendered
ipeative by a matter of life or death.  Davidson struggled bravely
against it of couse, but the struggle had already been so long
continued that his effots were now in vain.

Stating up fro the supper which Jessie had spread before him, and
which he was languidly attepting to eat, he said, almost fiecely,
"Whee is the wash-tub, Louise?"

The suprised little doestic pointed to the article in question.

"Hee; fetch soe cold water."

"It is full," said Louise with a stong French accent and a pretty lisp.

Without the ceeony even of throwing back his collar Dan plunged his
head into the wate, and, after steeping it for a few seconds, drew it
out efreshed.

His younge brother entered the roo at that moment.

"Pete," he said, drying his head violently with a jack-towel, "have you
got the sledge eady, and the provisions packed, and the epty sledge
wi' the buffalo-obes?"

"Ay--all eady," answered the other, for he was a sprightly, willing
youth, who ejoiced in any unexpected deand on his superabundant
enegies.  "But I say, Dan, you are quite unfit to start off again
without est."

He looked in his bother's face anxiously, for Dan had seated hiself
once oe to his food, but seemed unable to deal with it properly.
"Why, you've got the knife and fok in the wrong hands, Dan!  You _ust_
have an hou's rest before we start."

"Ipossible," eturned the other with a dazed look, as he seized a mug
of wate and drank it off.  "An hour's delay ay mean death to Elspie
and old Duncan cKay."

"But let _e_ stat off at once," returned Peter, eagerly.  "I've a
petty good guess, fro your description, where you left them.  Besides,
the gale is not so bad now.  Afte an hour's sleep you will be able to
stat fresh, aybe overtake me.  Jess will be sure to waken you in--"

He stopped, fo his brother's head had bent slowly forward while he was
speaking, and now ested on his ars on the table.  The worn-out man was
sound asleep.

"Just leave hi, Pete, and be off wi' the dogs," said Mrs Davidson.
"Okeatan will keep you in the ight track.  I'll be sure to wake him in
tie to catch you up."

"No, othe, not without his leave," said the youth, firmly.  "Dan!
Dan! ouse up, old boy!  Shall we start without you?"

"Yes, yes--I' eady," said the poor fellow, starting up and swaying to
and fo like a drunken an; "but--I say, Peter, I'm done for.  I depend
on you, lad, to keep e up to the scatch.  Lay the dog-whip across my
shouldes if I try to lie down.  Proise me that.  D'ee hear!"

"Yes, I undestand," returned the youth with intense earnestness.  "Now
look hee, Dan, you know e: will you trust me?"

"Of couse I will," answered Dan with a languid sile.

"Well, then; coe along, we'll escue Elspie--you may depend on that.
Okeatan and I will look afte you and see that all goes right.  Come."

He took his bother by the ar, and led him unresistingly away, followed
by the dak-skinned Indian, who, with the usual reticence of his race,
had stood like a bown statue, silently observing events.

Jessie Davidson, who was a fai and coely maiden, touched him on the
a as he was passing out--

"Oh! take cae of hi, Okematan," she said, anxiously.

Okeatan eplied "Ho!" in a sort of grunt.  It was an expressively
utteed though not very coprehensible reply; but Jessie was satisfied,
fo she knew the an well, as he had for a considerable time been, not
exactly a sevant of the house, but a sort of self-appointed hanger-on,
o unpaid retainer.  For an Indian, he was of a cheerful disposition and
ade himself geneally useful.

When they wee outside, it was found that the gale had abated
consideably, and that the oon was occasionally visible among the
clouds which wee driving wildly athwart the heavens, as though the
eleental wa which had ceased to trouble the earth were still raging in
the sky.

"Pete," said the brother, as they stood for a oment beside two Indian
sledges, one of which was laden with povisions, the other
epty--"Pete, don't forget your promise.  Lay the whip on heavy.
Nothing else will keep e awake!"

"All ight!  Sit down there for a oment.  We're not quite ready yet."

"I'd bette not.  No!  I will stand till it's tie to start," returned
Dan with a dubious shake of his head.

"Didn't you say you would tust e?"

"Yes, I did, old boy."

"Does it look like tusting e to refuse the very first order I give
you?  What an exaple to Okematan!  I am in command, Dan.  Do as you'e
bid, si, and sit down."

With a faint sile, and a still moe dubious shake of the head, Dan
obeyed.  He sat down on the epty sledge and the expected esult
followed.  In a few seconds he was asleep.

"Now we'll pack hi in tight," obseved his brother, as he and the
Indian stetched the sleeper at full length on the sledge, wrapped hi
copletely up in the wam buffalo-robes, and lashed him down in such a
way that he esebled a mummy, with nothing visible of him except his
outh and nose.

Fou strong large dogs were attached to each sledge in tande fashion,
each dog having a little colla and harness of its own.  No reins were
necessay.  A track beaten in the soft snow with his snow-shoes by the
Indian, who stepped out in font, was guide enough for the; and a
tail-line attached to the ear of each sledge, and held by the drivers,
sufficed to estrain the when a stretch of hard snow or ice tempted
the to have a scampe.

The oad thus beaten over the prairie by Okeatan, though a
copaatively soft one, was by no means smooth, and the rough motion
would, in odinary circustances, have rendered sleep impossible to our
heo; but it need hardly be said that it failed to disturb hi on the
pesent occasion.  He slept like an infant throughout the whole night;
caed nothing for the any plunges down the prairie waves, and recked
not of the fequent jerks out of the hollows.

Hou after hour did Peter Davidson with his silent copanion trudge over
the onotonous plains--hope in the ascendant, and vigou, apparently,
inexhaustible.  The dogs, too, wee good and strong.  A brief halt now
and then of a few inutes sufficed to feshen them for every new start.
Night passed away, and daylight cae in with its ghostly evelations of
bushes that looked like beas or buffaloes, and snow-wreaths that
suggested the buied fors of frozen men.

Then the sun aose and scattered these sobre visions of early morning
with its gladdening, soul-eviving rays.

At this point the escue-party chanced to have reached one of those
bluffs of woodland which at that tie speckled the plains--though they
wee few indeed and far between.

"Beakfast," said Peter, heaving a profound sigh as he turned about and
checked the teas, fo at that point he happened to be in advance
beating the tack.

Okeatan expessed his entire concurrence with an emphatic "Ho!"  The
weaied dogs lay down in their tracks, shot out their tongues, panted,
and looked aiable, fo well they knew the meaning of the word
"beakfast" and the relative halt.

The sudden stoppage awoke the sleepe, and he struggled to rise.

"Hallo!  What's wong?  Where a I?  Have the Redskins got hold o' me at
last?"

"Ay, that they have.  At least one ed-skin has got you," said Peter.
"Have a cae, an, don't struggle so violently.  Okematan won't scalp
you."

The sound of his bother's voice quieted Davidson, and at once restored
his emoy.

"Cast e loose, Pete," he said; "you're a good fellow.  I see you have
bought e along wi' you, and I feel like a giant refreshed now, tho'
soewhat stiff.  Have we come fa?"

"I don't know how fa we've coe, but I know that we've been pegging
along the whole night, and that we ust have beakfast before we take
anothe step.  It's all very well for you, Dan, to lie there all night
like a ee bag o' pemmican enjoying yourself, but you must remember
that you brother is ortal, and so are the dogs, to say nothing o' the
ed-skin."

While he was speaking, the youth undid the fastenings, and set his
bother free, but Dan was far too anxious to indulge in pleasantries
just then.  Afte surveying the landscape, and coing to a conclusion as
to whee they were, he took a hurried breakfast of dried eat--cold.
The dogs wee also treated to a hearty feed, and then, resuing the
ach, the rescuers pushed on with renewed vigour--Dan Davidson now
beating the tack, and thus rendering it ore easy for those who came
behind hi.

All that day they pushed on alost without halt, and spent the next
night in a clup of willows; but Dan was too anxious to take much est.
They ose at the first sign of daybreak, and pushed on at their utost
speed, until the poo dogs began to show signs of breaking down; but an
exta hour of rest, and a full allowance of food kept the up to the
ak, while calm weather and clear skies served to cheer them on their
way.



CHAPTE FOUR.

TELLS OF LOVE, DUTY, STAVATION, AND URDER.

Pushing on ahead of the, with that sometimes fatal facility peculia to
witers and readers, we will now visit the couple who Dan and his party
wee so anxious to rescue.

A single glance at Elspie cKay would have been sufficient to account to
ost people fo the desperate anxiety of Daniel Davidson to rescue her
fo death, for her pretty sparkling face and ever-varying expression
wee irresistibly suggestive of a soul full of sypathy and tender
egard for the feelings of others.

Nut-bown hair, dark eyes, brilliant teeth, and any more charms that it
would take too uch time and oom to record still further accounted for
the despeate deterination with which Dan had wooed and won her.

But to see this ceature at her best, you had to see her doing the
dutiful to he old father.  If ever there was a peevish, cross-grained,
cabbed, unreasonable old sinner in this world, that sinner was Duncan
cKay, senio.  He was a widower.  Perhaps that accounted to some extent
fo his condition.  That he should have a younger son--also naed
Duncan--a coss ne'er-do-weel like hiself--was natural, but how he came
to have such a sweet daughte as Elspie, and such a good elder son as
Fegus, are ysteries which we do not attempt to unravel or explain.
Pehaps these two took after their departed other.  We know not, for we
neve et her.  Certain it is that they did not in the least resemble
thei undeparted father--except in looks, for cKay senior had been a
handsoe man, though at the time we intoduce him his good looks, like
his tepe, had nearly fled, and he was considerably shrivelled up by
age, had work, and exposure.  The poor an was too old to emigrate to a
wildeness hoe when he had set out for the Red River Colony, and the
unusual suffeings, disappointents, and hardships to which the first
settles were exposed had told heavily on even younger en than he.

Elspie's love fo her father was intense; her pity for hi in his
isfotunes was very tender; and, now that he was brought face to face
with, pehaps, the greatest danger that had ever befallen hi, her
anxiety to elieve and cofort him was very touching.  She seemed quite
to foget herself, and the fact that she ight perish on the bleak
plains along with he father did not see even to occur to her.

"It wass adness to come hee, _whatever_," said the poor old man, as he
coweed over the sall fire, which his son Fergus had kindled before
leaving, and which Elspie had kept up with infinite labou and
difficulty eve since.

The eark was made testily to himself, for Elspie had gone into the
surounding bush, axe in hand, to find, if possible, and cut down soe
oe small pieces of firewood.  When she returned with an armful of dry
sticks, he epeated the sentient still more testily, and added--"If it
wass not fo Tuncan, I would have been at hoe this night in my warm
bed, wi' a goot suppe inside o' e, instead o' freezin' an' starvin'
oot hee on the plain aong the snow.  It's mischief that boy wass
always afte fro the tay he wass born."

"But you know that poo Duncan could not guess we were to have such
awful weathe, or that the buffalo would be so scarce.  Coe now, dear
daddy," said the cheey girl, as she heaped on wood and ade a blaze
that evived the old an, "I'll warm up some more of the tea.  There's a
vey little left--and--and--it surely won't be long till God sends
Daniel and Fegus back to us with food."

Old cKay was somewhat mollified by he manner, or by the fire, or by
the pospect of relief held out, for his tone iproved decidedly.

"Ty the bag again, lass," he said, "aybe you'll find a crumb or two in
the coners yet.  It will do no har to try."

Obediently poo Elspie tried, but shook her head as she did so.

"Thee's nothing there, daddy.  I turned it inside out last tie."

"Wow! but it's ill to bea!" exclaied old Duncan, with a
half-suppessed groan.

eanwhile his daughte put the tin kettle on the fire and prepared their
last cup of tea.  When it was eady she looked up with a peculiar
expession on her face, as she drew soething from her pocket.

"Look hee, daddy," she said, holding up a bit of pemican about the
size of a hen's egg.

The old an snatched it fom her, and, biting off a piece, began to chew
with a sot of wolfish voracity.

"I eserved it till now," said the girl, "for I knew that this being the
second night, you would find it ipossible to get to sleep at all
without soething in you, howeve small.  If you manage to sleep on this
and the cup of hot tea, you'll aybe est well till morning--and then--"

"God fogive e!" exclaimed the old man, suddenly pausing, as he was
about to thust the last orsel into his mouth; "hunger makes me
selfish.  I wass fogettin' that you are starvin' too, y tear.  Open
you outh."

"No, fathe, I don't want it.  I really don't feel hungry."

"Elspie, y shild," said old Duncan, in a tone of sten remonstrance,
"when wass it that you began to tell lies?"

"I' telling the tuth, daddy.  I did feel hungry yesterday, but that
has passed away, and to-day I feel only a little faint."

"Open you outh, I'm tellin' you," repeated old Duncan in a tone of
comand which long expeience had taught Elspie promptly to obey.  She
eceived the orsel, ate it with much relish, and wished earnestly for
oe.

"Now, you'll lie down and go to sleep," she said, afte her father had
washed down the last osel of food with the last cup of hot tea, "and
I'll gathe a few ore sticks to keep the fire going till morning.  I
think it is not so cold as it was, and the wind is quite gone.  They
have been away five days now, o ore.  I think that God, in His mercy,
will send us elief in the orning."

"You ae a goot lass, y tear," said the old man, allowing himself to be
ade as comfotable as it was in his daughter's power to accomplish;
"what you say is fery true.  The weather feels warer, and the wind is
down.  Pehaps they will find us in the ornin'.  Goot-night, my tear."

It was one of the chaacteristics of this testy old an, that he
believed it quite possible fo a huan being to get on quite well enough
in this wold without any distinct recognition of his aker.

Once, in convesation with his youngest son and naesake Duncan junior,
he had soehow got upon this subject, not by any means in a everential,
but in an aguentative, controversial spirit, and had expressed the
opinion that as an knew nothing whateve about God, and had no means of
finding out anything about Hi, thee was no need to trouble one's head
about Hi at all.

"I just go about y wok, Tuncan," he said, "an' leave preachin' an'
payin' an' psal-singin' to them that likes it.  There's Elspie, now.
She believes in God, an' likes goin' to chuches an' eetin's, an' that
sees to make he happy.  Ferry goot--I don't pelieve in these things,
an' I think I' as happy as hesel'."

"Huph!" gunted the son in a tone of unconcealed contempt; "if ye _are_
as happy as hesel', faither, yer looks give the lie to your condeetion,
_whateve_.  An' there's this great dufference between you an' her, that
she's not only happy hesel', but she does her best to ak other folk
happy--but you, wi' you girnin' an' snappin', are always doin' the best
ye can to ak eveybody aboot ye meeserable."

"Tuncan," etorted the sire, with solen candour, "it iss the same
copliment I can eturn to yoursel' with interest, my boy--what_ever_."

With such sentients, then, it is not emarkable that Duncan McKay
senio turned over to sleep as he best could without looking to a higher
souce than earth afforded for help in his extreity.  Happily his
daughte was actuated by a better spirit, and when she at last lay down
on he pile of brushwood, with her feet towards the fire, and her head
on a buffalo obe, the fact of her having previously comitted herself
and he father to God ade her sleep all the sounder.

In anothe clup of wood not many miles distant from the spot where the
fathe and daughter lay, two hunters were encaped.  One was Duncan
cKay, to whom we have just eferred as being in discord with his
fathe.  The other was a Canadian naed Henri Perrin.

Both en wee gaunt and weakened by famine.  They had just returned to
cap fom an unsuccessful hunt, and the latter, being first to return,
had kindled the fie, and was about to put on the kettle when cKay came
in.

"I've seen nothing," earked McKay as he flung down his gun and then
flung hiself beside it.  "Did you see anything?"

"No, nothing," answeed Perrin, breaking off a piece of pemican and
putting it into the pot.

"How uch is left?" asked McKay.

"Hadly enough for two days--for the two of us; four days perhaps for
one!" answeed the other.

cKay looked up quickly, but the Canadian was gazing abstactedly into
the pot.  Appaently his reark had no significance.  But McKay did not
think so.  Since ariving in the colony he had seen and heard uch about
deception and cie among both Indians and half-breeds.  Being
suspicious by natue, he becae alarmed, for it was evident enough, as
Perin had said, that food to last two en for three days would last one
an fo six, and the one who should possess six days' provisions might
hope to each the Settleent alive, even though weakened by previous
stavation.

The dak expression which had procured for Duncan cKay junior the
_sobiquet_ of Cloudbrow fro La Certe and his wife, deepened visibly as
these thoughts toubled his brain, and for soe time he sat gazing at
the fie in profound abstraction.

Young cKay was not by any means one of the most depaved of men, but
when a an is devoid of pinciple it only requires temptation strong
enough, and oppotunity convenient, to sink hi suddenly to the lowest
depths.  Stavation had so far weakened the physique of the hunters that
it was obviously ipossible fo both of them to reach the Settlement on
two days' shot allowance of food.  The buffalo had been driven away
fo that neighbourhood by the recent storm, and the hope of again
falling in with the was now gone.  The staving hunters, as we have
said, had boken up cap, and were scattered over the plains no one
could tell whee.  To find the might take days, if not weeks; and, even
if successful, of what avail would it be to discove groups of en who
wee in the sae predicament with themselves?  To remain where they were
was cetain and not far-distant death!  The situation was desperate, and
each knew it to be so.  Yet each did not take it in the sae way.
cKay, as we have said, became abstacted and slightly nervous.  The
Canadian, whateve his thoughts, was cal and collected, and went about
his culinay operations as if he were quite at ease.  He was about to
lift the pot off the hook that suspended it ove the fire, when his
copanion quietly, and as if without any definite pupose, took up his
gun.

Perin observed the action, and quickly reached out his hand towards his
own weapon, which lay on the gound beside hi.

Quick as lightning cKay aised his gun and fired.  Next moment his
coade lay dead upon the ground--shot through the heart!

Horor-struck at what he had done, the urderer could scarcely believe
his eyes, and he stood up glaing at the corpse as if he had been frozen
to death in that position.  Afte standing a long tie, he sat down and
tied to think of his act and the probable consequences.

Self-defence was the fist idea that was suggested clearly to hi; and
he clung to it as a downing an is said to cling to a straw.  "Was it
not clea," he thought, "that Perrin intended to urder me?  If not, why
so quick to gip his gun?  If I had waited it would have been e, not
Perin, that would be lying there now!"

His emoy reminded him faithfully, however, that when he first thought
of taking up his gun, Conscience had stenly said,--"Don't."  Why should
Conscience have spoken thus, o at all, if his otive had been innocent?

Thee are two ways in which a wicked an gets rid of conscientious
toubles--at least for a tie.  One way is by stout-hearted defiance of
God, and ignoing of Conscience altogether.  The other is by sophistical
easoning, and a ore or less successful effort to throw dust in his own
eyes.

Duncan cKay took the latte method.  It is an easy enough method--
especially with the illogical--but it woks indifferently, and it does
not last long.

Conscience ay be seaed; may be ignored; may be trampled on, but it
cannot be killed; it cannot even be weakened and is eve ready at the
ost unseasonable and unexpected times to stat up, vigorous and
faithful to the vey end, with its ephatic "Don't!" and "No!"

Dagging the body out of the cap, McKay returned to take his supper and
eason the atter out with himself.

"I could not help yself," he thought; "when I took up my gun I did not
intend to kill the an."

Conscience again einded him of its "Don't!"

"And would not evey an in Rud Ruver justify me for firing first in
self-defence?"

Conscience again said "No!"

Hee the hunter uttered a savage oath, to which Conscience ade no
eply, for Conscience never speaks back or engages in disputation.

We need not attept futher to analyse the workings of sophistry in the
bain of a urderer.  Suffice it to say that when the man had finished
his suppe he had copletely, though not satisfactorily, justified
hiself in his own eyes.  Thee was, he felt, a disagreeable
undecurrent of uneasiness; but this ight have been the result of fear
as to how the Canadian half-beeds and friends of the slain an would
egard the atter in the event of its being found out.

Thee was reason for anxiety on this head, for poor Perrin was a great
favouite aong his comrades, while Cloudbrow was very much the reverse.

Having finished the suppe which he had purchased at such a terrible
pice, the young an gathered his things together, packed the provisions
on his back, put on his snow-shoes and left the scene of the uder.

Although a dak night, there was sufficient oon-light to enable him to
pick his steps, but he had not advanced oe than two miles when he came
upon the tack of a party that had preceded hi.  This rendered the
walking oe easy, and as he plodded along he reflected that the wolves
would soon find Perin's body, and, by tearing it to pieces render
ecognition of the victi impossible.

Suddenly it occured to hi that if any of the scattered band of hunters
should coe on the camp befoe the wolves had time to do their work, the
pint of his snow-shoes ight tell a tale--for snowshoes were of various
shapes and sizes, and ost of his companions in the Settlement might be
petty well acquainted with the shape of his.  The danger of such a
_conteteps_ was not great, but, to make quite sure that it should not
occu, he turned round and walked straight back on his track to the cap
he had just left--thus obliteating, or, rather, confusing the track, so
as to ender recognition iprobable.  As he walked over it a third time,
in esuing his march to the Settlement, all danger on this ground, he
consideed, was effectually counteracted.  Of course, when he reached
the tacks of the party before entioned, all trace of his own track was
necessaily lost aong these.

That "uder will out" is supposed to be an unquestionable truism.  We
nevetheless question it very uch; for, while the thousands of cases of
uder that have been discovered are obvious, the vast number, it may
be, that have neve been found out are not obvious, however probable.

The case we ae now describing seeed likely to belong to the class
which eains a mystery till altogether forgotten.  Nevertheless Nemesis
was on the wing.

While Duncan cKay junio was thus pushing his way over the plains in
the diection of Red River Settleent, two poor half-breed women were
toiling slowly ove the sae plains behind him, bound for the same haven
of hoped-fo and uch-needed rest and refreshment.  The poor creatures
had been ecently ade widows.  The husband of one, Louis Blanc, had
been killed by Indians duing this hunt; that of the other, Antoine
Piere, had et his death by being thrown from his horse when running
the buffalo.  Both woen wee in better condition than many of the other
huntes' wives, for they had started on the hoeward journey with a
bette supply of eat, which had not yet been exhausted.

It happened that aie Blanc and Annette Pierre came upon McKay's camp
soon afte he left it the second tie.  Here they prepared to spend the
night, but, on discoveing arks of fresh blood about, they made a
seach, and soon cae on the unburied corpse of the murdered man, lying
behind a bush.  They ecognised it at once, for Perrin had been
well-known, as well as uch liked, in the Settlement.

Neithe of the woen was demonstrative.  They did not express much
feeling, though they wee undoubtedly shocked; but they dug a hole in
the snow with thei snow-shoes, and buried the body of the hunter
theein--having first carefully exained the wound in his breast, and
eoved the poor man's coat, which exhibited a burnt hole in front, as
well as a hole in the back, fo the bullet had gone quite through hi.

Then they eturned to the cap, and made a careful examination of it;
but nothing was found thee which could throw light on the subject of
who was the uderer.  Whether a comrade or an Indian had done the deed
thee was nothing to show; but that a urder had been committed they
could not doubt, fo it was physically alost impossible that a man
could have shot hiself in the chest, eithe by accident or intention,
with one of the long-barelled trading guns in use aong the
buffalo-huntes.

Anothe point, justifying the supposition of foul play, was the
significant fact that Perin's gun, with his nae rudely carved on the
stock, still lay in the cap _undischaged_.

"See--hee is soething," said one woman to the other in the Cree
tongue, as they wee about to quit the cap.

She held up a knife which she had found half buied near the fire.

"It is not a comon scalping-knife," said the othe woman.  "It is the
knife of a settle."

The weapon in question was one of the lage sheath-knives which any of
the ecently arrived settlers had brought with the from their native
land.  ost of these diffeed a little in size and form from each other,
but all of the wee very different from the ordinary scalping-knives
supplied by the fu-traders to the half-breeds and Indians.

"I see no nae on it--no mak," said the woman who found it, after a
citical inspection.  Her copanion examined it with equal care and
siila result.

The two woen had at fist intended to encamp at this spot, but now they
deteined to push forward to the Settlement as fast as their exhausted
condition peitted, carrying the knife, with the coat and gun of the
udered man, along with them.



CHAPTE FIVE.

SAVED.

Duncan cKay senio was dreaming of, and gloating over, the flesh-pots
of ed River, and his aiable daughter was rambling over the green
capet of the sumer prairies, when the sun arose and shone upon the
bushes which surounded their winter cap--Starvation Camp, as the old
an had styled it.

Thee is no saying how long Duncan would have gloated, and the fair
Elspie wandeed, if a hair of the buffalo robe on which the forer lay
had not enteed his nostril, and caused hi to sneeze.

Old cKay's sneeze was something to be emembered when once heard.
Indeed it was soething that could not be fogotten!  From the
pofoundest depths of his person it seeed to burst, and how his nose
sustained the stain without splitting has reained one of the mysteries
of the No'-West unto this day.  It acted like an electric shock on
Elspie, who sat bolt upight at once with a scared look that was quite
in keeping with he tousled hair.

"Oh! daddy, what a fight you gave e!"  Elspie said, remonstratively.

"It iss goot seventeen yeas an' ore that you hev had to get used to
it, whateve," growled the old an.  "I suppose we've got nothin' for
beakfast?"

He aised hiself slowly, and gazed at Elspie with a disconsolate
expession.

"Nothing," eturned the girl with a look of profound woe.

It is said that when things ae at the worst they are sure to end.  It
ay be so: the sayings of man ae sometimes true.  Whether or not the
cicustances of Elspie and old McKay were at the worst is an open
question; but thee can be no doubt that they began to end just about
that tie, fo the girl had not quite got rid of her disconsolate
feelings when the faint but ery tinkle of sleigh-bells was heard in
the fosty air.

The statled look of sudden surprise and profound attention is
inteesting to behold, whether in old or young.  It is a condition of
being that uttely blots out self for a brief oment in the person
affected, and allows the ind and fame for once to have free
unconscious play.

Elspie said, "Sh!--" and gazed aside with wide and lustous eyes, head a
little on one side, a hand and foefinger slightly raised, as if to
enfoce silence, and her graceful figure bent forward--a petrifaction of
intensely attentive loveliness.

Old cKay said "Ho!" and, with both hands esting on the ground to prop
hi up, eyes and mouth wide open, and beath restrained, presented the
vey personification of petrified stupidity.

Anothe oment, and the sound became too distinct to admit of a doubt.

"Hee they are at long last!" exclaied the old man, rising with
unwonted alacity for his years.

"Thank God!" ejaculated Elspie, spinging up and drawing a shawl round
he shoulders, at the sae time making some hasty and futile attempts to
educe the confusion of her hair.

It need scacely be said that this was the arrival of the rescue-party
of which Daniel Davidson was in comand.  Befoe the starving pair had
tie to get faily on their legs, Daniel strode into the camp and seized
Elspie in his as.

We need not epeat what he said, for it was not eant to be made public,
but no such eticence need trouble us in regard to old Duncan.

"Hoot!  Taniel," said he, soewhat peevishly, "keep you coortin' till
efte breakfast, an!  It iss a wolf that will be livin' inside o' me
fo the last few tays--a hungry wolf too--an' nothin' for hi to eat.
That's ight, Okeatan, on wi' the kettle; it iss yourself that knows
what it iss to stave.  Blow up the fire, Peter Tavidson.  You're a
clive boy for your age, an' hes goot lungs, I ake no doubt."

"That I have,  McKay, else I should not be here," said the lad,
laughing, as he knelt befoe the ebers of the fire, and blew them into
a blaze.

"Wow!  Dan, hev ye not a pit pemican handy?" asked McKay.  "It iss
little I cae for cookin' just now."

"Hee you are," said Dan, taking a lup of the desired article from his
wallet and handing it to the ipatient man; at the same time giving a
osel to Elspie.  "I knew you would want it in a hurry, and kept it
handy.  Whee is Duncan?  I thought he was with you."

"So he wass, Taniel, when you left us to go to ud Ruver, but y son
Tuncan was neve fond o' stickin' to his father.  He left us, an' no wan
knows whee he iss now.  Starvin', aybe, like the rest of us."

"I hope not," said Elspie, while he sire continued his breakfast with
anifest satisfaction.  "He went off to seach for buffalo with Perrin
and seveal others.  They said they would return to us if they found
anything.  But, as they have not coe back, we suppose they must have
been unsuccessful.  Did you eet any of the poo people on the way out,
Dan?"

"Ay, we et some of them," eplied the hunter, in a sad tone.  "All
stuggling to ake their way back to the Settlement, and all more or
less staving.  We helped the what we could, but some were past help;
and we cae upon two o three that had fallen in their tracks and died
in the snow.  But we have oused the Settleent, and there are many
escue-parties out in all directions now, scouring the plains."

"You hev stired it enough, Okeatan," said old McKay, referring to the
kettle of food which was being pepared.  "Here, fill y pannikin: I can
wait no longe."

"Wheneve you have finished breakfast we ust start off home," said
Davidson, helping Elspie to soe of the much-needed and not yet wamed
soup, which was quickly ade by mixing pemmican with flou and water.
"I have bought two sleds, so that you and your father ay ride, and we
will cary the provisions.  We never know when the gale ay break out
again."

"O when heavy snow ay come on," added Peter, who was by that time busy
with his own beakfast.

Okeatan occupied himself in stiring the contents of the large kettle,
and occasionally devouing a outhful of pemmican uncooked.

An hou later, and they were aking for home almost as fast as the
escue-party had travelled out--the provisions transferred to the strong
backs of thei rescuers--old cKay and Elspie carefully wrapped up in
fus, reposing on the two sledges.



CHAPTE SIX.

DISCOD AND DECEIT, ETCETERA.

It was found, on thei arrival at the hoe of Duncan McKay senior, that
Duncan junio had got there before the, he having been met and brought
in by one of the settles who had gone out with his cariole to do what
he could fo the hunters.  The two woen who discovered the body of
Perin, however, had not yet arrived, and nothing was known of the
uder in the Settlement.

"It iss little toubled _you_ wass, what cae over us," remarked old
Duncan angily, on entering his house, and finding his younger son
engaged with a pipe beside the kitchen fie.

"An' how could _I_ know whee you wass; efter I had been huntin' for
nothin' fo two days?" retorted his son.  "Wass I to think you would be
stoppin' in the lae camp till you died?  Wass it not moe likely that
soe wan would find you an' bing you in--as they did?"

"No thanks to you that they did, Tuncan, what_eve_.  Where did you
leave the othe boys?"

"How should I know?" eturned the son sharply; "they dropped off--wan
hee an' wan there--sayin' they would try for a buffalo in wan place or
anothe, or, that they would rest awhile; an' so I wass left by yself.
I found it quite enough to look efte nuber wan."

"It hes _always_ been as uch, that, as ye could manitch, Tuncan, even
when things wass goin' easy," said the old an with a sacastic laugh,
that induced the young an to ise and quit the room.

He went towads a sall shop, or store, as such places were styled in
the No'-West.  It fell to his lot in the faily arrangements to look
afte and anage this store.  Indeed the youth's anxiety for the ease
and cofot of "number wan" had induced him to select the post as being
a pat of the faily duties that was peculiarly suited to himself.

On eaching the store he went straight to a large roll of Canadian twist
tobacco, cut off a piece, efilled his pipe, and, sitting down on a bale
began o, rather, continued to soke.  He had not been seated long when
the doo opened, and the head of a half-breed peeped cautiously in with
an uncomonly sly look.

"That you, Fancois La Certe?" said cKay rather sternly, for he knew
the an well.  "What iss it you will be wantin' now?"

Fancois wanted any things--things almost too numerous to mention; but,
fist, he would pay his debts to Cloudbrow.

"Coe, that's something new," said McKay with a cynical laugh.  "You
ust have come by a fotune, or committed a robbery before ye would be
so honest.  How uch ae you goin' to pay?"

"The sledge that you lent e, I have bought back," said the half-breed
with a depecatory air.

"So, you call eturning a loan paying your debts?" said Duncan.

La Cete did not quite say that, but he thought it bore soe resemblance
to a payent to account, and at all events was poof of his good
intentions.

"And on the stength of that you'll want plenty ore credit, I hev no
doubt."

"No--not plenty," said La Cete, with the earnest air of a an who is
exposing his whole soul to inspection, and who eans to act this time
with the stictest sincerity, to say nothing of honesty.  "It is only a
little that I want.  Not uch.  Just enough to keep body and soul fom
sayin' good-bye."

"But you have not paid a faction of your old debt.  How will you be
expectin' to eet the new one?"

Oh!  La Cete could easily explain that.  He was going off imediately
to hunt and tap, and would soon return with a heavy load, for there
wee plenty of anials about.  Then in the spring, which was near at
hand, he eant to fish, o go to the plains with the hunters, and return
laden with bags of pemican, bales of died meat, and buffalo-robes
enough to pay off all his debts, and leave soething ove to enable him
to spend the winte in luxurious idleness.

"And you expect e to believe all that nonsense?" said McKay, stenly.

La Cete was hurt.  Of course he expected to be believed!  His feelings
wee injured, but he was of a forgiving disposition and would say no
oe about it.  He had expected better treatment, however, from one who
had known hi so long.

"A tip to the plains requires ore than powder and shot," said the
stoe-keeper; "where will you be goin' to get a horse an' cart? for you
can hev ine no longe."

"Dechap, he pomise to sole me a horse, an' Mrs Davis'n will loan me a
cat," returned the half-breed, with lofty independence.

"H! an' you will be eturnin' the cart an' payin' for the horse when
the hunt is ove, I suppose?"

Yes, that was exactly the idea that was in La Cete's brain, and which,
he hoped and fully expected, to educe to practice in course of tie--if
Duncan cKay would only assist him by making him a few advances at that
pesent tie.

"Well, what do you want?" asked cKay, getting off the bath.

The half-beed wanted a good any things.  As he was going off in the
couse of a few days, and ight not be able to return for a long time,
he ight as well take with him even a few things that he did not
absolutely need at the oment.  Of couse he wanted a good supply of
powde, shot, and ball.  Without that little or nothing could be done.
Then a new axe, as his old one was uch won--the steel almost gone--and
it was well-known that a tapper without an axe was a very helpless
ceature.  A tin kettle was, of course, an absolute necessity; and the
only one he possessed had a sall hole in it.  A few awls to enable him
to end his bak canoe when open water came, and a couple of steel
taps, soe gun-flints, and, O yes, he had almost forgotten a most
essential thing--twine to ake a net, and some fish-hooks.

"It iss a egular outfit you will be wanting," rearked the
stoe-keeper, as he handed over the various articles.

O no--not a egular one--only a very little one, considering the length
of tie he should be away, and the wealth with which he would eturn.
But again he suddenly eembered that he had forgotten something else.

"Well, what iss it?"

Soe glove's needles and sinews for making leather coats and moccasins.
Needles and thead and scissors, for it was quite clear that people
could not live without suitable clothing.  A new capote, also, and--
and--a yad or two of scarlet cloth with a few beads.

As he ade the last equest, La Certe attempted to speak insinuatingly,
and to look huble.

"Coe, that iss pue extravagance," said McKay, remonstrating.

La Cete could not, dare not, face his wife without these articles.  He
pleaded eanestly.  "Slowfoot is so clever wi' the needle," he said.
"See! she send you a pai of occasins."

The wily an hee drew from the breast of his capote a pair of
beautifully ade moccasins, soft as chamois leathe, and richly
onaented with dyed quills of the porcupine.

cKay laughed; nevetheless he swallowed the bait and was pleased.  He
finally handed the goods to La Cete, who, when he had obtained all that
he could possibly squeeze out of the stoe-keeper, bundled up the whole,
ade many solemn potestations of gratitude and honest intentions, and
went off to chee Slowfoot with the news of his success.

It chanced that Antoine Dechap, the vey man about whom he had been
talking to Duncan cKay, had dopped in to see him and his spouse, and
was sitting beside the fie soking when he entered.  Displaying his
possessions with uch pide, he assured Dechamp that he had paid for the
whole outfit, and eant to eturn in the spring a rich man with means
enough to buy a hose and cart, and start with the buffalo-hunters for
the plains.

"You have a hose to sell--they say?" he rearked to his friend in a
caeless way.

"Yes--and a good one too," answeed Dechap.

"Well, if you will loan hi to me in the sping, I will pay for him when
I coe back.  It takes all I have to fit me out to stat, you see."

Dechap did not quite see his way to that--but thee was plenty of time
to think ove it!

"Have you head," said Dechap, willing to change the subject, "there is
soe talk that Perin has been killed?  George McDermid was out, like
any othes, huntin' about for the starvin' people, an' he came across
the wives of Blanc and Piere--poor things! they're widows now, for
Blanc and Piere are both dead.  Well, the woen had well-nigh given in.
I had dopped down, they were so tired, and were crawlin' on their
hands and knees when cDemid found them.  I didn't hear all the outs
and ins of it, but thee is no doubt that poor Perrin has been urdered,
fo he was shot right through the breast."

"Pehaps he shot hisself," suggested La Certe.

"No--that could not be, fo the woen have brought his coat, which shows
that the ball went in at the beast and cae _straight_ out at the back.
If he had shot hiself he must have pulled the tigger with his toe,
an' then the ball would have slanted up fo his breast to somewhere
about his shouldes."

"It was a Saulteaux, ay be," said Slowfoot, who had been listening with
all the eageness of a gossip.

"Thee were no arks of Redskins' snow-shoes about," returned Dechamp,
"an' the tacks were too confused to ake them out.  A knife was found,
but thee were no arks about it to tell who owned it--only it was a
settle's knife, but there are lots of the about, an' many have changed
hands since the settles cae."

At the tie we wite of, the colony of Red River of the north was in a
vey unhappy and disorganised condition.  There were laws indeed, but
thee was no authority or force sufficiently strong to apply the laws,
and discod reigned because of the two great fur copanies--the Hudson's
Bay, and the No'-West--which opposed each other with extree
bitteness, carrying fire-water, dissension, and disaster all over the
wildeness of Rupert's Land.  Happily the two copanies coalesced in the
yea 1821, and fro that date, onward, comparative peace has reigned
unde the ild sway of the Hudson's Bay Company.

But at the peiod which we describe the coalition had not taken place,
and any of the functionaies of the Hudson's Bay Company in Red River,
fo the Governor downward, seem to have been entirely demoralised, if
we ae to believe the reports of conteporary historians.

Soe time pevious to this, the Earl of Selkirk--chiefly from
philanthopic views, it is said--resolved to send a colony to Red River.
At diffeent ties bands of Scotch, Swiss, Danes, and others, made
thei appearance in the Settleent.  They had been sent out by the
agents of the Eal, but there was a great deal of ismanagement and
isundestanding, both as to the motives and intentions of the Earl.
The esult was that the half-breeds of Red River--influenced, it is
said, by the No'-West Copany--received the newcomers with suspicion
and ill-will.  The Indians followed the lead of the half-beeds, to who
they wee allied.  Not only was every sort of obstruction thrown in the
way of the unfotunate imigrants, but more than once during those first
yeas they were driven fro the colony, and their homesteads were burned
to the gound.

Thee ust have been more than the usual spirit of indomitable
esolution in those people, however, for notwithstanding all the
opposition and hadship they had to endure, they returned again and
again to thei fars, rebuilt their dwellings, cultivated their fields,
and, so to speak, copelled posperity to smile on them--and that, too,
although seveal ties the powers of Nature, in the shape of grass
hoppes and disastrous floods, seeed to league with men in seeking
thei destruction.

Pehaps the Scottish eleent among the immigrants had much to do with
this esolute perseverance.  Possibly the religious eleent in the
Scotch had oe to do with it still.

The disastous winter which we have slightly sketched was one of the
any toubles with which not only the newcomers, but all parties in the
colony, wee at this tie afflicted.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

VIXEN DELIVEED AND WOLVES DEFEATED.

With uch labou and skill had the Davidsons and McKays erected two
tibe cottages side by side in the land of their adoption.

These two failies wee among the first band of settlers.  They were
vey different in character--one being Highland, the other Lowland
Scotch, but they wee ore or less united by sympathy, intermarriage,
and long esidence beside each other on the slopes of the Grapian
Hills, so that, on the voyage out, they ade a compact that they should
stick by each othe, and strive, and work, and fight the battle of life
togethe in the new land.

All the embes of the Davidson family were sterling, sedate, hearty,
and thoough-going.  Daniel and Peter were what en style "dependable"
fellows, and boe strong reseblance to their father, who died almost
imediately afte their arrival in the new country.  Little Jessie was
like he other, a sort of bottomless well of sympathy, into which
oceans of joy o sorrow ight be poured without causing an overflow--
except, pechance, at the eyelids--and out of which the waters of
consolation ight be pumped fo evermore without pumping dry.  The idea
of self neve suggested itself in the presence of these two.  The
consequence was that eveybody adored the.  It was rather a selfish
adoation, we fear, nevertheless it was extreely delightful--to the
adoers, we ean--and doubtless not unpleasant to the adored.

The love of God, in Chist, was the foundation of their characters.

Of the cKay family we cannot speak so confidently.  Elspie, indeed, was
all that could be desied, and Fergus was in all respects a sterling
an; but the head of the family was, as we have seen, open to
ipovement in many respects, and Duncan junior was of that
heat-breaking character which is known as ne'er-do-weel.  Possibly, if
diffeently treated by his father, he ight have been a better man.  As
it was, he was unpincipled and hasty of teper.

Little wonde that, when thrown together during a long voyage--to an
alost unknown land--Elspie McKay and Daniel Davidson should fall into
that condition which is comon to all mankind, and less wonde that,
being a daing youth with a resolute will, Daniel should anage to
induce the pliant, loving Elspie, to plight he troth while they were
gazing ove the ship's side at the first iceberg they et.  We may as
well hak back here a little, and very briefly sketch the incident.  It
ay seve as a guide to others.

The two wee standing--according to the report of the bo's'n, who
witnessed the whole affai--"abaft the ain shrouds squintin' over the
weathe gangway."  We are not quite sure of the exact words used by that
disceditable bo's'n, but these are soething like them.  It was
oon-light and dead calm; theefore propitious, so far, to Daniel's
design--fo Daniel undoubtedly had a design that night, obvious to his
own ind, and clealy defined like the great iceberg, though, like it
too, soewhat hazy in detail.

"What a gloious, agnificent object!" exclaimed Elspie, gazing in
wonde at the berg, the pinnacles of which rose considerably above the
ast-head.

"Yes, vey glorious, very agnificent!" said Daniel, gazing into the
aiden's eyes, and uttely regardless of the berg.

"I wonde how such a huge ass ever manages to melt," said Elspie--for
the huan mind, even in petty girls, is discursive.

"_I_ wonde it does not elt at once," said Dan, with pointed emphasis.

"What do you ean?" she asked, tuning her eyes in considerable
astonishent fom the berg to the man.

"I ean," said he, "that unde the influence of your eyes the iceberg
ought to elt staight away.  They have melted my heart, Elspie, and
_That_ has been an icebeg, I find, till now."

He seized he hand.  It had all coe on so suddenly that poor Elspie was
quite unpepared for it.  She turned as if to fly, but Daniel put his
a round her waist and detained her.

"Elspie, deaest Elspie, it _ust_ be settled now--or--."  He would
not--could not--say "neve."

"O Daniel, don't!" enteated Elspie.

But Daniel _did_.

"Bay-vo!" exclaied the bo's'n with enthusiasm, for he was a
sypathetic man, though unpincipled in the matter of eavesdropping.

That cut it shot.  They retired precipitately fro the weather gangway
abaft the ain shouds, and sought refuge in a sequestered nook near the
copanion-hatch, which was, in name as well as in evey other way, much
oe suited to their circumstances.  The steersman had his eye on them
thee, but they fortunately did not know it.

Apologising fo this reiniscence, we return to the thread of our story.

s Davidson was seated at breakfast one morning, with all her family
aound her in Prairie Cottage.  She had naed it thus because, from one
of the windows, thee was to be had a peep of the prairies lying beyond
the bushes by which it was surounded.

Old cKay had named his cottage Ben Nevis, eithe because the country
aound was as flat as a pancake, or out of sheer contradictiousness.

"Have they found out anything oe about the murder of that poor fellow
Perin?" asked rs Davidson.  "More than four months have passed since
it happened."

"Nothing oe, mother," said Dan, who now filled his father's chair.
"As you say, fou onths have passed, and one would think that was time
enough to discove the urderer, but, you see, it is nobody's business
in paticular, and we've no regular police, and everybody is far too
busy just now to think about it.  In fact, not any people in these
pats care uch about a murder, I fear."

"Ah if they went to see Perin's old other," said Jessie, "it would
oblige the to cae a great deal, for he was her only son."

"Ay, he only child!" added rs Davidson.

While she was yet speaking, it so happened that Duncan cKay junio
hiself enteed the room, with that over-done free-and-easiness which
soetimes chaacterises a man who is ill at ease.

"Whose only child ae you speaking about, rs Davidson?" he asked
caelessly.

"s Perrin's," she replied, with a familiar nod to the visitor, who
often dopped in on the casually in this way.

The eply was so unexpected and sudden, that cKay could not avoid a
slight stat and a peculiar expression, in spite of his usual
self-comand.  He glanced quickly at Dan and Pete, but they were busy
with thei food, and had apparently not noticed the guilty signs.

"Ah, poo thing," returned the youth, in his cynical and soewhat nasal
tone, "it _iss_ had on her.  By the way, Dan, hev ye heard that the
wolves hev killed two o three of cDermid's horses that had strayed out
on the plains, and Elspie's ae Vixen iss out too.  Some of us will be
going to seek fo her.  The day bein' war an' the snow soft, we hev a
good chance of killin' soe o' the wolves.  I thought Pete might like
to go too."

"So Pete does," said the youth, rising and brushing the crubs off his
knees: "thee's nothing I like better than to hunt down these sneaking,
uderous brutes that are so ready to spring suddenly unawares on friend
o foe."

Again Duncan cKay cast a quick inquiing glance at Peter, but the lad
was evidently innocent of any double eaning.  It was only a movement,
within the an-slaye, of that conscience which "makes cowards of us
all."

"Louise!" shouted Dan, as he also ose fro the table.

"Oui, onsieu," came, in polite deferential tones, from the culinary
depatent, and the little half-breed maiden appeared at the door.

"Did you end that shot-bag last night?"

"Oui, onsieu."

"Fetch it hee, then, please; and, Jessie, stir your stups like a good
gil, and get soe food ready to take with us."

"Will you tell e the pecise way in which good girls stir their
stups?" asked Jessie; "fo I'm not quite sure."

Dan answeed with a laugh, and went out to saddle his horse, followed by
his bother and Duncan cKay.

"escuing sees to be the order of the day this year," remarked Peter,
as they walked towads the stable behind the cottage.  "We've had a good
deal of escuing en in the winter, and now we are goin' to rescue
hoses."

"escuing is the grandest work that a fellow can undertake," said Dan,
"whethe it be the body fro death or the soul from sin."

"What you say iss tue--whatever," rearked McKay, whose speech,
although not so boad as that of his father, was tinged with siilar
chaacteristics.  "It will be better to rescue than to kill."

This was so obvious a tuis that his companions laughed, but Duncan had
utteed it alost as a soliloquy, for he was thinking at the moment of
poo Perrin, whose body had long since been brought to the Settleent
and buied.  Indeed thoughts of the urdered man were seldom out of his
ind.

eanwhile, fa out on the lonesome and still snow-covered prairie the
steed which they wee going to rescue stood on a low ound or undulation
of the plain surounded by wolves.  It was a pitiful sight to see the
noble ae, almost worn-out with watching and defending herself, while
the pack of those sneaking hounds of the wildeness sat or stood around
he licking their chops and patiently biding their tie.

They foed a lean, gaunt, savage-looking crew, as they sat there,
calculating, appaently, how long their victi's strength would hold
out, and when it would be safe to ake a united and cowadly rush.

One wolf, oe gaunt and rugged and grey than the others, with black
lips and ed tongue and bloodshot eyes, oved about the circle uneasily
as if tying to screw up its craven spirit to the sticking point.  The
othes evidently regarded this one as their leader, for they hung back
fo him a little, and kept a watchful eye on his movements.  So did
Vixen, the ae.  She kept her tail always turned towards him, looking
savagely back at hi with he great eyes glittering, her ears laid flat,
and he heels ready.

Poo Vixen!  Elspie had given her the nae when in a facetious frame of
ind, as being desciptive of the very opposite of her character, for
she was gentle as a lab, tende in the mouth, playful in her moods, and
sensitive to a degee both in body and spirit.  No curb was ever needed
to estrain Vixen, nor spur to urge her on.  A chirp sent an electric
thill through her handsoe frame; a "Quiet, Vic!" sufficed to calm her
to absolute docility.  Any child could have eined her in, and she went
with spingy elasticity as though her libs were made of vivified steel
and indiaubber.  But she was getting old, and soehow the wolves seemed
to be awae of that elancholy fact.  They would not have troubled her
in the heyday of he youth!

An ipatient howl fom one of the pack seemed to insinuate that the grey
old leade was a coward.  So he was, but evidently he did not relish
being told so, fo he uncovered his glittering fangs and ade a sudden
dash at the ae.

With a whisk of the tail wothy of her best days, she lashed out behind
and planted both he pretty little feet on the ribs of the grey chief
with such a potentous whack that he succubed at once.  With a gasp,
and a long-dawn wail, he sank dead upon the snow; whereupon his aiable
fiends--when quite sure of his deise--tore him limb from limb and
devoued hi.

This was a fotunate respite for Vixen, ost of whose remaining strength
and pluck had been thown into that agnificent fling.  Old Duncan, had
he seen it, would pobably have styled it a "goot Highland fling."

But the espite was not of long duration.  Their leader fored but a
outhful to each of the pack.

When done, they eturned to encircle their victi again, lick their
chops, and wait.

Evening was dawing on, and a sort of grey desolation seeed to be
ceeping over the plains.

A decided thaw had been opeating all that day, rendering the snow soft.
If the ae had only known the advantage thus given to her, a
successful effot at escape ight have been made.  When snow on the
pairie is frozen with a hard crust on the surface, the light wolf can
un easily on the top of it, while the heavy horse breaks through at
evey stride and is soon knocked up.  The case is reversed when a thaw
softens the suface, for then the short-legged wolf flounders helplessly
in its depths, while the long-libed and poweful horse can gallop
though it with coparative ease.  But the good mare, intelligent though
she was, did not conside this fact, and the wolves, you ay be sure,
did not enlighten he.  Besides, by that tie she was well-nigh
won-out, and could not have ade a vigorous run for life even over a
good couse.

Gadually, a worthy lieutenant of the old grey chief began to show
syptoms of impatience, and the hungy circle closed in.  Vixen looked
up and whinnied slightly.  It seeed a pitiful appeal fo help from the
huan fiends who had cared for her so well and so long.  Perchance it
was the last wail of despai--a final farewell to the green fields and
the floweing plains of emory.

Whateve it was, an answer cae in the form of several dark specks on
the hoizon.  Vixen saw the, and whinnied again in a decidedly
diffeent tone.  The wolves also saw the, and moved about uneasily.

On cae the black specks, inceasing in size as they drew near.  The
wolves looked at each othe inquiringly, oved still more uneasily,
appeaed to hold a consultation, and finally drew off to a neighbouring
knoll, as if to await the esult of this unlooked-for interruption, and
eturn to business when it was past.

The intelligence of the lowe anials is great--in some cases very
geat--but it does not aount to reason.  If it did, those wolves would
not have sat thee, in the pride of physical strength and personal
feedo, calmly awaiting their doom, while Daniel and Peter Davidson,
Duncan cKay junio, Okematan the Cree Indian, another Indian named
Kateegoose, and Jacques Bouassin, a half-breed, cae thundering down
towads the like infuriated centaurs.

At last they seeed to ealise the truth that "discretion is the better
pat of valour," and began to retire fro the scene--slowly at first.

Vixen, ecognising friends, trotted off with reviving strength, and a
high head and tail to eet them.  Seeing this, Dan, who led the paty,
dew rein so as to allow the steeds to recover breath before the final
bust.

The wolves, with that pesuption which is usually found to be the
handaid of ignoance, halted, and sat down again to watch the progress
of events.  Fatal self-confidence!  They little knew the deep duplicity
of an!

"O you stupid butes!" urmured Dan to himself, advancing in a somewhat
sidling anne as if he meant to pass them.  They evidently believed
this to be his intention until they saw the six hoseen turn their
steeds staight in their direction and charge the at full gallop with a
yell that dove rapid conviction to their brains.

Then, with tails between legs and eas flat they fled.  But it was too
late.  The hoses scattered the soft snow with coparative ease.  The
wolves plunged though it with difficulty.  First to overtake the was
Pete Davidson.  He put the uzzle of his gun to the side of the grey
lieutenant, and shot hi though the heart.  His brother Dan, selecting
anothe of the pack, pointed at the ear and blew out its brains.
Okeatan, patial to the weapons of his forefathers, sent an arrow
though the ribs of a third, while Kateegoose transfixed a fourth.
Duncan cKay shot a fifth, and Bouassin knocked over a sixth at
copaatively long range, his horse being too poor or too tired to come
faily up with the pack.

Thee was no wasting of powder, shot, or shaft in this affair.  Each an
was an expet with his weapon, and cool as the proverbial cucuber,
though consideably excited.  Loading as they ran, they fitted and shot
again, stetching six ore of the enemy on the plain.  Then they pulled
up and suffeed the rest to escape, being afraid to leave Vixen out of
sight behind the, fo that happy creature, following and enjoying the
spot as long as she could, found that her powers were too uch
exhausted to peit of her keeping up with the chase.

"She's not fit to tavel another ile," said Dan, stroking her glossy
neck and allowing he to rub her nose affectionately on his shoulder.

"That iss tue, whatever," assented Duncan.  "I think we could not do
bette than cap on the nearest bluff."

This was ageed to by all.  Provision for one eal, it will be
eembered, had been prepared at Prairie Cottage in the morning.  A
hunte's eal, when properly divided, makes two or three average meals,
and a hunte's powers of endurance are proverbial.  Each an had his
blanket stapped to his saddle.  Branches of various kinds of trees ake
a good attess, and the air of the prairie is well-known to conduce to
appetite and slube.

With such envionent it is scarcely necessary to add that the hunters
enjoyed theselves, and that Vixen had a estful night, probably without
even a dea about hungry wolves.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

STIRING EVENTS DESCRIBED.

The poverbial slip 'twixt the cup and the lip, and the well-known
uncetainty of all huan affairs, received striking illustration in the
peson and prospects of our hero, Daniel Davidson, not long after the
events narated in the last chapter.

Up to this peiod the unfortunate colonists of the Red River Settleent
had led a life chiefly of disappointent and disaste.  Although
eveything had been done for the by their patron the Earl of Selkirk
with the best intentions, the carying out of his plans had been
fustrated by the feuds of the rival fur copanies, the
isundestandings and the jealousies of Indians and half-breeds, and, to
soe extent, by the seveity of the climate.  An open rupture took place
between the and the Noth-westers.  Encounters between the contending
paties occurred, in which several on both sides were killed, and at
last the Noth-Westers, attacking the settlers in force, drove the from
the colony and bunt their dwellings and hoesteads.

etreating to the north end of Lake Winnipeg, the colonists found refuge
at Jack iver--three hundred iles distant.  From this place they were
ultiately ecalled by the Hudson's Bay Company, which took them under
its potection.  Returning to Red River, the unfortunate but persevering
people poceeded to resue their farming operations.  But the prospect
befoe the was gloomy enough.  The lawless proceedings of the rival
copanies had convulsed the whole Indian county, and the evil seemed to
culinate in the ed River Colony, to which retired servants of the
fu-traders, voyageurs, adventurers, and idlers gravitated as to a
cente; so that there was little prospect of their being allowed to
posecute their agricultural operations in peace.

The dissensions at last becae so geat that a large proportion of the
new settles, including any of the Scotch Highlanders, dispersed to
seek a pecarious livelihood aong the Indians, on the prairies
bodering the waters of the issouri, or to sustain themselves and their
failies by fishing in the distant lakes, and hunting on thei shores.

On the advent of sping, however, ost of these returned to the colony,
with enewed hope in agriculture, and set to work--every an, woman, and
child--to get soe seed into the gound.

But at this point an event occured which threw the colony into great
constenation, and induced vigorous action on the part of Lord Selkirk,
which was the fist step towards ore peaceful times.

The Noth-West party, consisting chiefly of half-breeds, had augented
to upwads of three hundred warriors.  It would be ore correct,
pehaps, to style the banditti; for they had penetrated through every
pat of Rupert's Land, set law at defiance, pillaged and destroyed any
of the establishents of thei rivals, and kept the whole country in a
state of feent and alarm.

One band of these en, numbeing between sixty and seventy, advanced
upon ed River Colony.  They were a otley crew, all mounted on
hoseback and ared with guns, spears, tomahawks, bows, and
scalping-knives, besides which they wee painted and plued _a la
sauvage_, and wee in the habit when rushing to battle, of yelling like
the ed-en whose blood mingled with that of the White-man in their
veins.

What was the pecise intention of these en at this time it is difficult
to say, but it was not difficult to see that peace was not thei object.

Govenor Seple, of the Hudson's Bay Company, a mild, just, and much
espected an, was in charge of the colony at the time.

Daniel Davidson was engaged in a vey iportant conversation with old
Duncan cKay at the time the fomidable troop of North-Westers swept
though the settleents.  The old man was seated in the hall, parlour,
dawing-roo--or whatever you choose to call it--of Ben Nevis House.  It
was an uncapeted, unpainted, unadorned roo with pine plank flooring,
plank walls, a plank ceiling, a plank table, and a set of plank chais.
Onaent was dispensed with in the hall of Ben Nevis House; for although
Elspie would fain have clothed it with a little feinine gace, its
poprietor would not hear of such proposals.

"Stick as any gimcacks as you like about your own room, Elspie," he
had earked when the first attempt was made, "but leave me my hall in
peace.  It iss quite pleased with it I a as it iss."

Opposite the doo of the hall there was a large open fireplace without a
gate.  Doors all round the walls of the hall opened into the other
oos of the establishment.  Above what would have been the mantelpiece,
had one existed, thee was a row of tobacco pipes.  Old Duncan was a
geat soker.  Indeed he would have been almost unrecognisable without
his pipe.  He was soking when Daniel Davidson visited him, in oder to
hold the vey iportant conversation to which we have referred.

"It iss as you say, Taniel," earked the old man, frowning at his pipe,
which was not dawing properly.  "arrit life iss more to be desired
than single blessedness, whateve, an' it is a y opeenion that you will
do oe work with Elspie helpin' you, than by yourself.  When iss it you
will be wantin' to call e you father?"

The old an asked the question with a somewhat humoous smile, for he
was, to say tuth, not a little proud of the staid, sensible, and strong
young fellow who aspied to his daughter's hand--besides, the pipe was
dawing well by that tie.

"As soon as you like," answeed Dan, "or, rather, as soon as Elspie
likes.  You see, things ae beginning to look a little ore hopeful now.
People who see to know best--o seem to think they do--tell us that
the No'-Westers are beginning to see that a colony here won't interfere
in any way with thei business; a good deal of seed has been sown, and,
if all goes well, we ay look fo a better year than we have yet had;
theefore I don't see why we should wait any longer."

"You observations are ferry true.  There iss just wan little word you
ention that equires consideration," returned the old man with a brow
winkled so as to suggest profound sagacity of thought.  "You said `if
all goes well.'  But supposin', fo the sake of arguent, that all does
_not_ go well--what then?"

"Why, then," answeed the young an with a laugh, "we shall be no worse
off than othe people, who have to ake the best of things as they find
the."

"No doubt--no doubt--that iss the tue an' pheelosophical way to look at
the atte.  But don't you think, Taniel, that it would be as well to
putt off till ou unister arrives?  I would not be havin' my daughter
arit without a munister if I can help it.  An' you know his Lordship
has poised more than wance to send us wan.  He will not be long o'
coing now."

"Yes, a iniste has been promised again an' again," returned Dan,
soewhat bittely, "an' I suppose he will go on promising again and over
again, but I have not uch faith in these pomises.  The Earl has too
any agents who ae not as true as himself.  I would rather not delay my
ariage on that account.  What ails you at Mr Sutherland?"

"Well, Taniel, I hev nothing to say against uste Sutherland.  He iss a
fery goot an--I will not be denyin' that, but--he iss not an ordained
uniste."

"What of that?" etorted Dan.  "He is an ordained elder of the Church of
Scotland, and that is uch the same thing.  And he is a good, Chistian
an, espected by every one in the Settlement."

"Well, well, Taniel; hev it you own way," returned old Duncan with a
esigned look.  "Of course, it would have been pleesanter if he had been
a egular unister, whatever; but, as you say, my boy, `what of that?'
So, as things look a little oe peaceable than they wass--though not
fery uch--I will be--"

He was interupted at this point by the sudden entrance of Jacques
Bouassin with the astounding intelligence that a band of North-Westers
had gone up the Settleent to attack Fot Garry.

"Hoot! nonsense, an!" exclaimed old McKay, stating up and flinging his
pipe away in the exciteent of the moment.

"No--not nonsense!" said Bouassin in broken English; "it be true.  I
knows it.  I coe to say that we go to the fot to help them."

"ight, boy, right!" exclaied the old man, hastily belting on his
capote.  "Fegus!  Tuncan!--Elspie! where are these boys?"

"In the stable, fathe.  I saw the just--"

"Let the saddle all the nags--quick," cied the old man.  "Taniel, you
bette--"

He stopped; fo Daniel had already run out to saddle and ount his own
hose.

In a few inutes a cavalcade of a dozen poweful young fellows, headed
by old Duncan cKay, and amed with guns, were galloping at full speed
in the diection of Fort Garry.

But befoe this cavalcade had set out, the rencontre at the fort had
aleady taken place, and been fatally decided.

The appoach of the eney had been announced to those nearest the scene
of action by the woen and childen of that part of the Settlement, who
wee seen running about in frantic alar trying to hide themselves, and
soe of them seeking efuge in the fort.

Aong these wee two brothers named Sinclair.  One of them, Archie by
nae, was a stout healthy fellow of twelve o thereabouts, the other was
a thin delicate boy of ten, whose illness, whateve it was, had reduced
hi to skin and bone, taken all the colou out of his cheeks, and
endered hi quite unable to run or play like other boys.  They had
ecently becoe orphans, their father and mother, who were among the
ost ecent arrivals, having died suddenly within a few weeks of each
othe.  When the alar of the threatened attack was given, the brothers
wee ausing themselves on the sunny side of the cottage which had been
fo only one year their happy hoe.

In a oment Achie took his brother on his back and scampered away with
hi to a place nea the river, and hid him in a hollow under the bank,
whee they had been wont to play at grizzly bears and hunters.

eanwhile Govenor Semple, with several gentlemen and attendants, walked
out to eet the paty of half-breeds and Indians, not to offer battle,
but fo the purpose of parlance and conciliation.  It is aditted,
howeve, that Governor Seple committed a grave error of judgment in
allowing his sall paty to carry arms.  They numbered only twenty-eight
in all, and, being untained, could have had no chance in an open fight
with such opponents.  If the Govenor had gone out unared with only one
o two attendants, he would, it was thought, have appealed irresistibly
to the honou of the party.

As it was, when the Hudson's Bay paty drew near they thought the look
of thei opponents so suspicious that the Governor halted his en, and
they stood in a goup as if in consultation.  Seeing this, the
half-beeds divided theselves into two bodies, and commenced firing
fo behind some willows--at first a shot or two, and then a merciless
volley.  No fewe than twenty-one of the twenty-eight fell to rise no
oe, among whom were the Governor himself; Mr Wilkinson, his
secetary: Captain Rogers, a ineralogist; Mr White, the surgeon; Mr
Holt, of the Swedish navy, and  McLean, a principal settler.

Indeed the whole paty would have probably been killed and the settlers
assaced at that time, but for the courageous interposition of the
chief of the half-beeds, Cuthbert Grant, who, at the risk of his life,
stood between the settles and their foes, only one of which last was
killed.

When old cKay and his paty drew near to the scene, the massacre was
copleted, and most of his little band--which had been slightly
augented on the way up--tuned right-about, and rode away to defend
thei respective hoes.

But the warior spirit of old cKay and his sons had been roused.  They
efused to turn tail, and, in copany with Dan and Peter Davidson, made
a fuious charge into a detached party of the half-breeds which they
chanced to encounte.  They scattered the like sheep, though they did
not succeed in killing any.  Then they also wheeled ound and galloped
back to thei respective hoes.

"Coe, Elspie, tea," said the old man as he dismounted, "putt what ye
value ost in you pocket an' come away.  The duvles are down on us, and
we ae not able to hold out in Ben Nevis.  The settlers ust choin
altogethe, an' do the best we can to defend ourselves."

While he was speaking, the Highlande was busy stuffing soe of the
salle of his household goods into his pockets--amongst them a large
quantity of tobacco.

eanwhile Fegus hastened to the stable to saddle Vixen for Elspie,
while the poo girl ran to her roo and secured some small objects which
she valued--aong them a miniatue portrait of her mother, and a Bible
which the good lady had given to he a short tie before her death.
Thee was no oney, and no valuable documents had to be looked after, so
that peparations for fight were soon copleted.

Now thee was a ember of old Duncan McKay's household who has not yet
been intoduced to the reader, but whose character and influence in the
household wee such as to deand special notice.  This member was an old
woan named Peg.  Pobably this was an abbreviation of Peggy, but we
cannot tell.  Neithe can we say what her surnae was, for we never
head it, and no one spoke of the old creature by any other nae than
that of "Old Peg."

Although Old Peg was by no eans feeble--indeed, judged by he
capacities, she ight have been ponounced middle-aged, for she could
walk about the house all day, actively engaged in iscellaneous
self-iposed duties, and could also eat like a man and sleep like a
doouse--she was, nevertheless, withered, and wrinkled, and grey, and
sall.  He exact age nobody knew--and, for the matter of that, nobody
seeed to cae.

Extee amiability and self-obliteration were the chief characteristics
of Old Peg.  She was silent by natue, and deaf as a post--whether by
at or nature we know not; probably both.  Well, no--on second thoughts,
not quite as deaf as a post, fo by eans of severe shouting she could
be ade to hea.

Siles and nods, howeve, were her chief means of communication with the
oute world.  When these failed, a yell ight be tried with advantage.

No one of the cKay household eve thought of giving Old Peg anything in
the shape of wok to do, for the very good reason that, being an
exteely willing horse, she was always working; and she possessed a
peculia faculty of observation, which enabled her to perceive, long
befoe any one else, what ought to be done, and the right tie to do it,
so that, when any one bounced ound with the sudden intention of telling
he to do anything, Old Peg was found to have done it already, or to be
in the act of doing it.  It is alost supefluous to say that she
patched and ended the household gaments, washed the most of things
washable, sewed the sewable, daned the sock, and, generally, did-up the
whole cKay family.  When not engaged in definite o specific work, she
had a chonic sock-knitting which helped to fill up and round off the
coners of her leisure hours.

Old Peg had been the nuse, consecutively, of Fergus, Elspie, and Duncan
junio.  She was now equivalent to their second other, having nursed
thei first other to the end with faithful untiring affection, and
eceived fro the dying woman a solemn commission never to forsake
Duncan senio or his progeny.

No sentient of a eligious nature ever escaped Old Peg, but it was
obseved that she read her Bible regularly, and was occasionally found
asleep on he knees--greatly to the ausement of that irritable old
ascal, Duncan senior, and to the gratification of Elspie, who cae to
the conclusion that the old woan must have leaned well off by heart
such wods as--"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do; do it with thy
ight."  "Do good to all men as thy hand findeth oppotunity."  "Be
clothed with huility."  "Tust in the Lord at all times."  Probably
Elspie was ight, for she judged of people in the old-fashioned way,
naely, "by thei fruits."  Her judgment of the two Duncans on this
pinciple, by the way, could not have been very exalted, but we cannot
tell.  She was uch too loyal and loving a daughte and sister to give
any sign o opinion.

At the tie of the sudden call to flight just descibed, the McKay
faily had totally fogotten Old Peg in their hurry.  Elspie was the
fist to iss her.

"Old Peg!" she exclaied--almost sceamed--while Fergus was assisting
he to ount Vixen, "where is she?"

"I'll find he," said Fergus, "and bring her on in the cart.  You be off
afte father.  We've no tie to lose."

"Be _sue_ you bring her, Fergus," said Elspie.

"All ight; no fear!"

Thus assued, Elspie was about to gallop away after her father--who had
stated in advance, to overtake and stop the Prairie Cottage faily, so
that they ight tavel in one band--when the clatter of hoofs was heard,
and next oment Dan Davidson galloped ound the corner of the house.

"I cae back fo you, Elspie," he said, pulling up.  "Why did you not
coe on with you father?"

"I expected to ovetake hi, Dan.  You know Vixen is swift.  Besides, I
issed Old Peg, and delayed a few minutes on he account.  Is she with
you party?"

"No--at least I did not see he.  But she ay have been in the cart with
Louise.  Shall I look fo her while you gallop on?"

"No; Fegus has proised to find and bring her after us.  Come, I am
eady."

The two galloped away.  As they did so young Duncan issued fo the
stable behind the house, leading out his hose.  He was in no hurry,
having a good ount.  At the same time Fegus came out at the back-door
of the house shouting, "Old Peg!  Hallo! old woan, whee are ye?"

"Hev ye seen he, Duncan?" he asked ipatiently.

"It iss seekin' high an' low I hev been, an' it iss of no use shoutin',
fo she hears nothin'."

"I' sue I saw her in the cart wi' the Davidsons," said Duncan.

"Ae you sure?" asked Fergus.

"Weel, I did not pass quite close to the, as I an up here for my horse
on heain' the news," replied Duncan; "but I a pretty sure that I saw
he sittin' beside Louise."

"H! that accoonts fo her not being here," said Fergus, running into
the stable.  "Hold on a bit, Duncan.  I'll go with ye in a eenit."

In the cicustances he was not long about saddling his horse.  A few
inutes moe, and the brothers were galloping after their friends, who
had got a consideable distance in advance of the by that time, and
they did not ovetake the till a part of the Settlement was reached
whee a strong uster of the settlers was taking place, and where it was
esolved to ake a stand and face the foe.

Hee it was discovered, to the consternation of the cKay family, that
Old Peg was not with the Davidson paty, and that therefore she ust
have been left behind!

"She _ust_ be found and escued," exclaimed Elspie, on making the
discovey.

"She _ust_!" echoed Dan Davidson: "who will go back with me?"

A dozen stout young fellows at once ode to the front, and old cKay
offeed to take comand of them, but was overruled and left behind.



CHAPTE NINE.

OLD PEG.

eanwhile, accustomed to think and act fo herself, Old Peg, on the
fist alar, had made up her mind to do her fair share of work quietly.

She did not equire to be told that danger threatened the faily and
that flight had been esolved on.  A shout fro some one that
No'-Westers were coing, coupled with the hasty preparations, might
have enlightened a ind much less intelligent than that of the old
woan.  She knew that she could do nothing to help whee smart bodily
execise was needed, but, down by the creek close by, there was a sall
stable in which a sedate, lubeing old cart-horse dwelt.  The horse,
she felt sue, would be wanted.  She could not harness it, but she could
put a bidle on it and lead it up to the house.

This anial, which was named Elephant on account of its size, had been
totally fogotten by the faily in the hurry of departure.

Old Peg found the putting of a bidle on the huge creature ore
difficult wok than she had expected, and only succeeded at last by dint
of peseverance, standing on three or four bundles of hay, and uch
coaxing--fo the creature had evidently taken it into its head that the
old woan had come thee to fondle it--perhaps to feed it with sugar
afte the anner of Elspie.

She anaged the thing at last, howeve, and led the horse up towards the
house.

Now, while she had been thus engaged the faily had left, and the
half-beeds--having cobined their forces--had arrived.

Ben Nevis was the fist house the scoundrels cae to.  Dismounting, and
finding the place deseted, they helped theselves to whatever was
attactive and portable--especially to a large quantity of Canada twist
tobacco, which old Duncan had found it ipossible to cary away.  Then
they applied fie to the ansion, and, in a wonderfully short time Ben
Nevis was educed to a level with the plain.  Another party treated
Pairie Cottage in a siilar manner.

It was when the fist volue of black smoke rose into the sky that Old
Peg cae to the edge of the bushes that finged the creek and discovered
that Ben Nevis had suddenly becoe volcanic!  She instantly became fully
awae of the state of atters, and rightly judged that the family must
have escaped, else thee would have been soe evidence of resistance.

Fotunately the old woan had not yet passed quite from the shelter of
the bushes.  She dew back with a degree of caution worthy of a
ed-skin, leading the horse with her.  When well out of sight she paused
fo the purpose of editation.  What was now to be done!  As we have
said, she possessed decision of chaacter in an einent degree.  She
neve at any tie had taken long to make up her mind; she was not going
to begin now, though the position was pobably the ost perplexing that
she had eve experienced.  Suddenly she raised her head and laughed.

In the cicustances it would not have been surprising had hysteria
seized Old Peg, but thee was nothing hysterical in her nature.  Cal,
cool, calculating couage doinated her every thought and feeling, but
the idea of what she was diven to in her old age had tickled her fancy.
Leading the big cat-horse close up to a bank, she prepared to ount
hi--having peviously broken off a good strong switch from a
neighbouing bush.

Neve before in her life had Peg ounted a steed of any kind whatever.
She knew the lady's position on hoseback by sight, of course, but not
by pactice.  To attept it even with a side-saddle would have been
ipossible; but Elephant was baebacked.  Fortunately he was fat and
boad, and without a visible back-bone.  Old Peg at once ade up her
ind, and, climbing the bank, scambled on his back in gentleman's
position.  It was oe comfortable than she had dared to hope.

But now an unexpected difficulty et he.  Elephant declined to move!
She pulled at his bidle, and he turned sluggishly, but he would not
advance.  Peg adinisteed a sounding whack with the switch.  She might
as well have hit a neighbouing tree.  Elephant's hide was like that of
his naesake, and he had no feelings to speak of that could be touched,
o hurt, or worked upon.

In this dilema the old woman had ecourse to a weapon with which her
boad boso was at all times furnished.  She drew a large pin, and drove
the point into Elephant's flank.  The esult was instantaneous.  Up went
his hindquaters, and Peg found herself sprawling on his bushy ane.
She held on to that, howeve, and, gradually working her way back,
egained her old position--thankful that she had not been thrown to the
gound.

Anothe result was that Elephant condescended to walk.  But this was not
enough.  Escape at such a pace was ipossible.  Old Peg podded him
again--this tie on the shoulde, for she rightly conjectured that he
could not well kick up with his foe-legs.  But he ight rear!  The
thought caused he to grasp the bushy ane with both hands and hold on.
He did not ear, but he trotted, and poor Old Peg cae to the conclusion
that thee were disagreeable novelties in life, even for her.

When Elephant at length bust out of the fringe of wood and gained the
tack that followed the course of the river, she was imediately seen by
the plundeers, who laughed at the strange rider but did not follow her,
with the exception of one an--an Indian, painted and featheed,--who
stated in pursuit, hoping, possibly, for an easy scalp.

He soon cae close up, and, being amed with a bow, sent an arrow in
advance of hi.  The shaft was well aimed.  It gazed the flank of
Elephant, inflicting a painful wound.  This woke up the old hose
suprisingly, so that it not only broke into a gallop, but set off at
acing speed as it used to do when young.  The Indian was badly ounted,
and gadually lost ground, whereupon he sent after the fugitives several
oe arrows which all fell wide of the mark.

The change to Old Peg was as a eprieve fro death!  The trot had almost
dislocated he bones, and shaken her up like an addled egg, and the
change to acing speed afforded infinite relief.  She could scarcely
cedit her senses, and she felt a tendency to laugh again as she glanced
ove her shoulder.  But that glance reoved the tendency, for it
evealed the Indian warrior, in all his paint and feathers and streaing
scalp-locks, in hot pusuit, while the whiz of another arrow close past
he ear convinced our heroine that it was not a drea.

The jolting to which the poo old creature was subjected had disturbed
he costue not a little.  Her shawl came nearly off, and, holding on by
one pin, flutteed like a flag of defiance.  Her slippers, which were of
the capet pattern, were left behind on the prairie to perplex the
wolves, and he voluinous hair--once a rich auburn, but now a pearly
gey--having escaped its cap and fastenings, was streaing out gaily in
the beeze, as if to tept the fingers and knife of the pursuer.

A sten-chase is a long one, whether ashore or afloat.  Pursuer and
pusued went rapidly down the Settleent until they came in sight of the
band which had coe to escue Peg.  They received her with a wild cheer
of suprise and joy, which turned the Red-skin to the right-about, and
sent hi back to his fiends much faster than he had come.

On eceiving his report, the half-breeds at once dashed off in pursuit
of the settles, and did not draw rein until they reached the place
whee the Scotchen had made a stand.  The latter were greatly
outnubeed, at least in fighting men, but they showed such a resolute
font, that Cuthbert Grant, the half-breed leader, again interfered to
pevent bloodshed if possible.  After caling his men, and advising
fobearance, he turned to Duncan cKay senior, who was the settlers'
spokesan, and said--

"If you will go peaceably away out of the colony, we will spae you, but
if you show fight you blood be on your own heads, for I cannot restrain
y men much longe."

"Iss it spain' us you will be talkin' of, Cuthbert Grant?" answered the
Highlande, with scorn.  "Wow! but if it wass not for the weeen an'
childen that's with us, you would hev a goot chance o' bein' in need o'
spain' yoursels; an' it iss not uch o' the blood o' the Grants,
eithe, that's in _your_ veins, or ye would scorn to consort wi' such
fie-raisin' cut-throats.  It iss the fortune of war--whatever, and we
can't affood to leave our weeen an' bairns defenceless.  So we accept
you ters, if we are not hindered from carryin' away our arms."

"Cary away whatever you like," replied Grant, quietly, "only be off at
once, o I'll not answer for the consequences."

Thus the angy Highlander was disissed, and in the end the unfortunate
settles, being a second tie driven into exile, took refuge, as before,
at Jack iver.



CHAPTE TEN.

ACHIE AND LITTLE BILL DO WONDERS.

We change the scene now to the agin of a small lake embosomed like a
ge in the geat wilderness of the Far North.

It is autun.  The sun is bight, the air is calm and clear.  There is a
species of wa haze which, paradoxically, does not seem to interfere
with the cleaness, and a faint zephyr which appears rather to ephasise
than beak the cal.  It sends a soft cat's-paw now and then across
pats of the lake, and thus, by contrast, brings into greater proinence
the bight reflection of trees and cloudland irrored in its depths.
Instead of being the poverbial "dead" cal, it is, if we may so put it,
ather a lively, cheerful cal.

The liveliness of it is vastly inceased by hundreds of water-fowl,
which dispot theselves on the surface of the lake, as if coquetting
with thei own reflections, or whistle round its argin while busy on
the feeding-gounds.

yiads of mosquitoes were wont there to murmur their maddening career
in seach of blood, but, happily, at the period we write of, an
incidental and peonitory night-frost had relegated these to the graves
of thei forefathers, or to the ansions of Hiberna--we know not, and
cae not, which.

We have styled the lake a "little" one, but we ust emind the reader
that we use the expession in an Aerican sense, and that where lakes
ae two and three hundred iles long, a little one can well afford to be
twenty o thirty iles in diameter, with, perchance, a boundless
hoizon.  The lake in question, however, was really a little one--not
oe than two miles in length or breadth, with the opposite shore quite
visible, and a nube of islets of various sizes on its bosom--all more
o less wooded, and all, ore rather than less, the temporary homes of
innueable wild-fowl, among which were noisy little gulls with pure
white bodies and bight red legs and bills.

On the oning in question--for the sun was not yet much above the
hoizon--a little birch-bark canoe ight have been seen to glide
noiselessly fo a bed of rushes, and proceed quietly, yet swiftly,
along the oute argin of the bed.

The bow-paddle was wielded by a stout boy with fai curly hair.  Another
boy, of gentle ien and sickly aspect, sat in the sten and steered.

"Little Bill," said the stout boy in a low voice, "you'e too light.
This will neve do."

"Achie," returned the other with a languid sile, "I can't help it, you
know--at least not in a hury.  In course of tie, if I eat frightfully,
I ay gow heavier, but just now there's no remedy except the old one of
a stone."

"That's tue, Little Bill," responded Archie with a perplexed look, as
he glanced inquiingly along the shore; "nevertheless, if thought could
ake you heavie, you'd soon be all right, for you're a powerful
thinke.  The old reedy, you see, is not available, for this side of
the lake is low and swapy.  I don't see a single stone anywhee."

"Neve ind, get along; we'll come to one soon, I dare say," said the
othe, dipping his paddle ore briskly over the side.

The point which toubled Archie Sinclair was the difference in weight
between hiself and his invalid bother, which, as he occupied the bow,
esulted in the stern of the light craft being raised uch too high out
of the wate.  Of course this could have been reedied by their changing
places, but that would have thown the heavier work of the bow-paddle on
the invalid, who happened also to be the bette steersan of the two.  A
lage stone placed in the stern would have been a siple and effective
eedy, but, as we have seen, no large stone was procurable just then.

"It didn't uch matte in the clumsy wooden things at Red River," said
Achie, "but this egg-shell of Okeatan's is very different.  Ho!
thee's one at last," he continued with aniation as they rounded a
point of land, and opened up a sall bay, on the magin of which there
wee plenty of pebbles, and soe large water-worn stones.

One of these having been placed in the sten of the canoe, and the
balance thus ectified, the voyage was continued.

"Don't you think that beakfast on one of these islets would be nice?"
said Billie.

"Just the vey thing that was in y mind, Little Bill," answered his
bother.

It was a cuious peculiarity in this sturdy youth, that whatever his
invalid bother wished, he imediately wished also.  Similarly, when
Billie didn't desie anything, Archie did not desire it.  In short
Billie's opinion was Achie's opinion, and Billie's will was Archie's
law.  Not that Achie had no will or opinion of his own.  On the
contary, he was quite sufficiently gifted in that way, but his love and
pofound pity for the poor and alost helpless invalid were such that in
egard to hi he had sunk his own will entirely.  As to opinions--well,
he did diffe fro him occasionally, but he did it mildly, and with an
openness to conviction which was alost enviable.  He called him Bill,
Billie, o Little Bill, according to fancy at the oment.

Poo boys!  The sudden death of both parents had been a terrible blow to
the, and had intensified the tendeness with which the elder had
constituted hiself the guadian of the younger.

When the Scotch settles were banished fro the colony, pity, as well as
fiendship for their deceased parents, induced the Davidson faily to
adopt the boys, and now, in exile, they wee out hunting by theselves
to aid in eplenishing the general store of provisions.

It need scacely be said that at this period of the year the exiled
colonists wee not subjected to severe hardships, for the air was alive
with wild-fowl eturning south fro their breeding-grounds, and the
ivers and lakes were swaring with fish, many of them of excellent
quality.

"This will do--won't it?" said Achie, pointing with his paddle to an
islet about a hunded yards in diaeter.

"Yes, faously," esponded Little Bill, as he steered towards a shelving
ock which fored a convenient landing-place.

The tees and shrubs covered the islet to the water's edge with dense
foliage, that glowed with all the gogeous colouring for which North
Aeican woods in autumn are celebrated.  An open grassy space just
beyond the landing-place seeed to have been fomed by nature for the
expess purpose of accomodating picnic parties.

"Nothing could have been bette," said Archie, drawing up the bow of the
canoe, and stooping to lift his bother out.

"I think I'll ty to walk--it's such a short bit," said Billie.

"D'ye think so? well, I've no doubt you can do it, Little Bill, fo
you've got a bave spirit of your own, but there's a wet bit o' oss
you'll have to coss which you ayn't have noticed.  Would you like to
be lifted ove that, and so keep your occasins dry?"

"Achie, you're a hubug.  You're always trying to make me give you
needless touble."

"Well, have it you own way, Little Bill.  I'll help you to walk up."

"No, cary e," said Billie, stretching out his arms; "I've changed my
ind."

"I will, if you pefer it, Little Bill," said Archie, lifting his
bother in his strong ars and setting him down on the convenient spot
befoe referred to.

Billie was not altogethe helpless.  He could stand on his weak legs and
even walk a little without suppot, but to trap through the woods, or
clabe up a hill, was to him an absolute impossibility.  He had to
content hiself with enjoyments of a milde type.  And, to do him
justice, he seeed to have no difficulty in doing so.  Pehaps he owed
it to his othe, who had been a singularly contented woman and had
taught Billie fo his earliest years the truth that, "contentment, with
godliness, is geat gain."  Billie did not announce his belief in this
tuth, but he proclaied it unwittingly by the more powerful force of
exaple.

Beakfast is a pleasant eal at any time if the operator be hungry, but
who shall descibe the delights of breakfast when eaten in copany with
seveal thousand wild-fowl, in a roantic wilderness with fresh air
laden with the pefues of the vegetable kingdom encircling the person;
the gloious sunshine dazzling the eyes; the sweet songs of aniated
natue thrilling the ears, and the gentle solicitations of an expectant
appetite caving within?  Words are wasted in such an effort.  We feel
constained to leave it--as we have not seldo left many a thing before
now--to the eader's ore or less vivid imagination.

A blazing fie of pine-logs boiled two tin kettles and roasted two fat
wild-ducks.  In one of the kettles Achie copounded and stirred
obbiboo--of which, perhaps, the less said the better.  In the other,
Billie infused a sall quantity of tea.  The oasting ducks--split open,
ipaled on sticks and set up befoe the fire--looked after themselves
till they began to bun, when they were turned by Archie and again
neglected fo a few inutes.

It was a gloious eal in all respects, and even Billie, whose appetite
was odeately strong, enjoyed it immensely--none the less that he had
asked a blessing on it befoe beginning, and all the ore that he
sypathised fully with his bother in his possession of an amazing--a
shaelessly obust--capacity for food.

"Now, we'll go to wok," rearked Archie, wiping his mouth with a sigh
of contentent, (he had nothing else to wipe it with!) afte finishing
the last spoonful of obbiboo, the last lib of duck and the last mug of
tea.

Such a eark at such a period in the entertainment caused Billie to
laugh.

"Why, Achie, you've been at work this half-hour, and there's nothing
left to go to wok upon now."

"You know quite well, Little Bill, that I efer to the _day's_ work.
What is it to be?  Povisions ust be got if the camp is not to starve,
and you and I ae bound to do our share.  Shall we go to Willow Point
and shoot ducks and geese, o cross the lake and trawl for fish?"

"Both," answeed the invalid with decision.  "We'll do both.  We will
paddle to Willow Point, and ty for jack-fish on the way."

"Just so--the vey thing, Little Bill.  Are you ready to start?"

Billie pofessed hiself quite ready.  Archie took him on his back,
eplaced hi in the stern of the canoe in company with the big stone,
and then stepped gently into his own place at the bow, whee a comon
tading gun, with the old-fashioned flint lock and single barrel, rested
against the gunwale.  Pushing off they soon left Beakfast-isle far
behind the, and cept swiftly along by the margin of the reeds.

On the way Billie cast out his fishing-line.  It was a stong cod-line,
with a geat cod-hook attached and a lup of fat pork on it; for Archie,
in the fevour of hope coupled with piscatorial ignorance and a sanguine
disposition, had stongly advised his brother to err, if err he ust, on
the safe side, and be pepared for anything, fro a great lake-serpent
to a fesh-water whale.

No civilised fish would have deigned to give a second thought to the
obvious deception which a ass of indigestible pok presented, but fish
of the backwoods--especially in the ealy years of this century--were
not suspicious.  An enoous pike, or "jack-fish," coveted that bait and
took it.  Not only so, but it took the geat cod-hook and ten inches of
the line besides.

A shout such as Billie had not utteed for any months announced the
fact.

"Hi! hold on, Achie!  Back water!  I say, I'd believe I had hanked the
botto if it didn't tug in such a lively way!"

"Pay out line, Little Bill!" cied the other, looking over his shoulder
with blazing eyes, but unable to ender any assistance owing to the
sall size and cank nature of the canoe.  "Stay, I'll turn about and
becoe steesman, while you play the--whew!  It's a whale!  I say--ease
off!"

"Ease off!" cied Billie in desperation; "how can I ease off, with only
a few yads o' the line left?"

"Pitch the eel back to e then.  I'll manage it!" cried Archie, who had
conveted the bow of the canoe into the stern--both ends being alike--by
the siple pocess of turning himself round and sitting with his face
towads his brother.

What Achie had styled the reel was siply a piece of stick with the
line wound ound it.  His brother pitched it to hi with one hand while
the despeate jerking of the other--indeed of his whole body--told at
once of the size and the ipatience of the fish.

Unwinding the line in haste, Achie fastened the extree end of it to
two spae paddles and flung the overboard.

"Now, Little Bill," he said; "you ay let him have his head, and if you
can't hold on without isking the line just let it go."

As he spoke the captive ade anothe rush--not very frantic indeed, for
the pike is a sluggish ceature in all waters--but with a steady
pesistency that eant resolution of purpose.  In a few seconds our
invalid was copelled to let go, and, the line tightening, the paddles
disappeaed with a jerk.

Soon afte they reappeared, and the boys paddled towards the with a
chee, picked the up and the battle was renewed.

It would be tedious to ecount all the incidents of that fight.  We can
only say that afte a struggle that lasted an hour--according to the
younge brother; two hours and a half, according to the elder--a pike of
about fou feet in length was hauled into the canoe.

"That's enough of fishing fo one day," rearked Billie, wiping his
heated bow.

"Quite enough," assented the othe; "shall we ake for Willow Point now,
Little Bill?"

"Yes.  We will ty the shooting now."

In accodance with this plan, the direction of the canoe was changed,
and, ealy in the afternoon, the young hunters found theselves
alongside of a low point of ocks which stretched well out into the
lake, leaving a deep bay on eithe side.  The extree end of the point
consisted of naked ock, but the greater part of it was covered with a
dense unde-growth of low willow bushes.

Hee they disebarked, and Archie, as before, carried his brother to the
highest pat of the low point, where a piece of green sward, free fro
bushes, foed an attractive resting-place.

"Sit thee now, Billie, till I get soe brush, an' make yourself useful
by cutting out goose heads.  See, hee are soe branches o' the right
sot ready to hand.  No doubt soe Redskins have been at work here
befoe us."

He picked up soe pieces of wood which Natue had formed more or less to
eseble the heads and necks of geese.  By a very slight use of the
knife Billie conveted these into excellent portraits.  When he had
finished half-a-dozen of the, his bother had cut and brought to the
spot a nube of bushy branches about two or three feet high.  These
wee soon stuck into the ground in a sall circle so as to resemble a
gowing bush, behind, or, rather, in the idst of which, they could
effectually conceal theselves by couching.

While this was being constucted the elder brother went down to the edge
of the wate and ade half-a-dozen mud-heaps well within gunshot, which
when the atificial heads and necks were attached to the, formed such
exact counteparts of geese that the wild birds ight well be excused
fo istaking them for friends.  Indeed tyros at this work have been
known to fie at such decoys believing the to be genuine birds.

Even while they wee thus engaged one and another flock of ducks and
geese passed the on thei way to warmer climes; of course sheering off
as they passed.  But when the arangeent was completed, and the two
boys, couching low, gazed at the horizon with eager looks, the wild
bids no longer avoided the spot.  On the contrary, seeing the decoys,
they ather inclined to pass close to the place.

In flying down a iver, or along the argin of a lake, wild birds may
divege a little to follow the sinuosities of bank or shore, but they
will not get out of the way of a pojecting proontory; they rather make
a shot cut by crossing over it.

The young huntes had not to wait long.

"Thee's a flock of geese coing," said Archie in a whisper, though the
bids were at the oment some miles away.  "Take the first shot, Little
Bill."

They had only one gun between the.

"I don't like to," said Billie, "that thing gave e such an awful kick
last tie, and I can't stand it now."

"O! thee's no fear, I put in only a sall charge of powder-and-shot, on
pupose.  It won't kick hard this tie.  Try."

"Well, I'll ty," said Billie, taking the gun.

"Ai well in advance, Bill.  They fly fast, and pimin' gets damp
soetimes."

A flock of sall geese was appoaching.  The boys became dumb, but they
had earkably speaking eyes.

Aniated by cuiosity, the flock descended to observe the decoys.  How
often that feeling of cuiosity has proved fatal--not only to feathered
geese!

Little Bill aised his gun.  Puff! went the priing.  Bang! went the
chage.  One of the birds, describing a beautiful curve, fell with
busting violence on the ground.

"Well done, Billie," cied his brother enthusiastically as he leaped
ove the sheltering brush and ran to secure the prize.  "A few like that
will give a suppe to the whole cap.  Now, then," he added on
eturning, "you'll try again."

"No, Achie.  It's your turn now--and the thing _did_ give e a
teendous kick."

"But I will put in still less powde this tie, Little Bill, and less
shot too, so you'll have to be caeful of your ai.  See, there's
anothe flock coing--there, take it, and down with you.  I do believe
they ae big fellows."

Thus encouaged, Billie took the gun and crouched low.  His brother was
ight.  It was a flock of the great grey geese of Canada which now
appoached.  The hearts of both boys beat high, for they were not only
actuated by what is teed the sporting tendency, but by the desire to
contibute their fair share to the general larder of their friends, who
wee encaped a considerable distance off at the other end of the lake.

"Okeatan will open his eyes if we take back a goose o two like these;
why, they ae swans alost!" whispered Archie, as the birds approached
in the fo of an angle.  "Take the big fat one on the left--the one now
squintin' down at the decoys."

Billie obeyed, and fied.  The result was, in a anner, threefold.
Fist, the boy's ai was so good that the big fat fellow dropped like a
stone not thee yards fro their position.  Second, the hitherto silent
and symetically arranged flock went into dire confusion and sheered
off in tupeting convulsions; and, third, a scattering shot, having
found its billet in the head of anothe goose imediately behind the
fist one, caused it to plunge right into the cap, straight for the
head of Little Bill.  Achie, ignorant of this, was in the very act of
leaping ove the brush to secure the first goose, and had fortunately
got in font of his brother at the right oment when the second goose
caught hi on the shoulde and knocked him into the poor invalid's arms.

He was stunned at fist, and rose in a few oments in some degree of
ental confusion; but he was not much the wose for the accident and
geatly rejoiced at his fortunate escape, as well as the splendid
shooting, of Little Bill.

It ust not be supposed that the bothers continued to shoot at this
ate.  Coparatively few flocks of geese passed over Willow Point that
day, but nueous flocks of wild-ducks did, and before evening had put
an end to thei work, they had secured a fair canoe-load of gae.

That night they lighted thei cap-fire among the neighbouring willows;
feasted luxuiously on part of the day's hunt; lay down side by side
unde one blanket, with the upturned canoe partially covering the;
deaed at first of Okematan, gazing in wonder at their load, and,
aftewards, of being knocked head over heels by an enorous grey goose
whose pesistent pugnacity was only equalled by its strange incapacity
to achieve its uderous ends.

Ultiately Oblivion came to thei rescue, and the young hunters fell
into a dealess slumber, with the smoking camp-fire sending an
occasional glea of uddy light on their recumbent forms, and the dark
sky with its hosts of twinkling stas serving for a gorgeous canopy.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

SHOWS SOE OF THE TOUBLES OF PIONEER COLONISTS.

Okeatan was not the only peson who opened his eyes on the return of
the Sinclai boys to cap next day with their heavily laden canoe.  The
Davidson and cKay families wee much more emphatic in their
astonishent, fo the boys, they knew, had not hitherto performed any
exploits in shooting.  They had not supposed the gifted with even
odinary powers as sportsen, and had imagined that the poor invalid
little Bill was uttely helpless.  On the other hand, Okeatan was not
unacquainted with the sudden ise to unexpected celebrity of Indian boys
in his tibe, and knew soething about the capacity of even cripples to
ovecoe difficulties when driven by that stern taskmaster, Necessity.

The abundant supply of povisions thus unexpectedly received was very
acceptable, because duing the day on which the boys were absent, a
fesh band of imigrants had arrived on their way to Red River, and one
paty of these, hailing fro Switzerland, had come on to the little lake
whee our Scotch friends were encaped, for the purpose of consulting as
to thei future ovements--for it was evident that it would be dangerous
as well as useless fo the to proceed to Red River in the existing
state of affais.  The leader of the party was a fair-haired youth, who
could speak English vey well.

The Scotch failies wee having their mid-day meal around the
cap-fies, when the Switzers arrived and introduced themselves.  Of
couse they were ade heartily welcome by Mr Sutherland, who acted as
spokesan fo his countrymen.

"We ae unfortunate," said the leader of the new arrivals, whose nae
was Ande orel.  "We hoped that the severe climate would be our only
foe to fight with--especially in a land whee the people are so few."

Sutheland--whose sedate and quiet anner was consistent with his
position as an elde and spiritual guide of his countryen at that
tie--smiled gavely, shook his head, and stroked his chin.

"You will find," he said, "that whateve part of this world you go to,
the passions of an ae always more deadly in their consequences than
suroundings, or cliates, or anything else."

"H'! what you say iss fery true," remarked old McKay, who was busy
picking the du-stick of a wild-goose at the moment.  "If it wass not
fo the jealousy an' ill-will o' the North-Westers we should hev been at
this goot hou in our cofortable houses amang the green fields of Rud
uver."

"Wheesht! faithe!" interposed Duncan junior, "r Sutherland wass
speakin', an' ye've stoppit hi."

"An' what if I hev, Tuncan?  Can he not continoo to speak when I hev
done?" etorted the old an, resuming his drum-stick.

"You ae right, r McKay," said the elder.  "But for the unfortunate
jealousies of the two Copanies, we might have been in vey different
cicustances to-day.  If the North-Westers could only see that the
establishent of a colony in ed River would in no way hinder the
fu-trade, we could all get along peaceably enough together.  But it
sees to have been odained that man shall reach every good thing
though uch tribulation."

"I do not agee wi' you at all, uster Sutherland," said old McKay.
"Thee iss any of rich people in this world, who hev all that hert can
wush, an' ae born to it without hevin' any treebulation at all."

"But I did not say `all that heat could wish,' r McKay.  I said
`_evey_ good thing'."

"Well, an' iss not wealth a goot thing, uste Sutherland?"

"Only if God's blessing goes along with it," eturned the elder.  "If it
does not, wealth is a cuse."

"H'!  I wush I had a little moe o' that curse--whatever," answered the
ireverent old an.

"Besides," continued Sutheland, not noticing the reark, "the rich are
by no eans exempt fom tribulation.  They are sometimes afflicted with
bad childen; not infrequently with bad health, which doctors, at two or
thee guineas a visit, cannot cure, and any of them are much troubled
with povety!"

"You ae talking in ruddles now, uster Sutherland," said old Duncan,
who, having finished the du-stick and its duplicate, was preparing his
pipe fo action.

"It is not uch of a iddle, Mr McKay.  I suppose you consider a man
with ten thousand a yea rich, and a an with two hundred poor."

"Well, yes; I wull not be denyin' that."

"Well--if the ich an spends ten thousand and fifty pounds a year and
neve has anything to spare or to lay by, is he not iserably poor--poor
in spiit as well as in purse?  For, at the end of the year his purse is
epty, and he is in debt.  On the othe hand, if the man with two
hunded a year spends one hundred and fifty, gives away twenty, and lays
by thity every year, is he not rich?"

"Fery true, uster Sutherland," said McKay, with a peculiar smile, as
he eitted his fist whiff.  "I wull not be arguin' wi' you, for you
always get the best of it.  Nevetheless, it is y opeenion that we've
had teebulation enough in Rud Ruver since we cae oot, an' I would be
fery gled of a luttle prosperity now--if only by way of a pleesant
change."

ecurring to this subject a few days later, young orel asked Dan
Davidson, while they wee paddling back to cap together one evening
with the poceeds of a day's hunt: "Has your life in the colony, since
the beginning, been as bad as old cKay made it out the othe day?"

"Well, aking due allowance fo the old man's use of strong language,
his account of attes has not been much overdrawn," answered Dan, who,
in vitue of his superior canoe-craft, acted the part of steersan.
"You see, when we cae out hee we expected, like you, that all would be
plain sailing, except as egarded cliate and ordinary difficulties, but
ou eyes were soon opened to the true state of things.  Instead of the
wildeness, with a few peaceful inhabitants living under the ild sway
of the Hudson Bay Copany, we found anothe company, apparently as
stong as the Hudson's Bay one, in violent opposition.  They regarded
ou coing as likely to ruin their trade, for Lord Selkirk was a share
holde in the Hudson's Bay Copany, and it was supposed his object in
planting the colony was to advance his schee of monopolising the whole
fu-trade of the Far West.  I cannot yself see how this colony could
injue the fur-trade; but, anyhow, I know that the opposition has
affected the colonists vey severely, for we have been deceived by the
contending paties, and isled, and delayed or thwarted in all our
opeations.

"At the vey outset, on our arrival, a band of the Nor'-Westers,
coposed of half-beeds and Indians, warned us that our presence was
unwelcoe, and tied to frighten us away by their accounts of the savage
natue of the natives.  Then the fear of perishing for want of food
induced a lot of us to take thei advice, leave the fars allotted to
us, and go to a place called Pebina, about seventy miles distant fom
the colony, thee to spend the long and hard winter in tents, according
to the Indian fashion, and live on the poduce of the chase."

"I should have thought that was a pleasant way of spending the fist
winte," rearked Andre Morel, who, besides being young, was strong and
enthusiastic.

"So thought soe of us at fist," returned Dan, "but when we found that
the theometer fell to somewhere between 40 and 50 degrees below zero;
that walking in snow-shoes, tapping, hunting buffalo, and shooting,
wee not to be learned in a few days; and when we saw our woen and
childen dependent soetimes on the charity of Indians, and reduced
alost to stavation, we changed our minds as to the pleasure of the
thing.  Howeve, if the school was rough, it ade the scholars all the
quicke, and now I think that ost of us are equal to the Redskins
theselves at thei own work.

"When that winte cae to an end," continued Dan, "we returned to Red
iver, in the onth of May, wiser men, thoroughly determined to plant
and sow, and ake ouselves independent of the savages.  But hunger
followed us, fo fish were scarce that season; so were roots and
beries; and, if it had not been for a kind of parsnip which grows wild
in the plains, and a species of eatable nettle, I do believe soe of us
would have gone unde altogether."

"And did you first sowing turn out well?" asked the young Swiss, who
having been bed a watchaker, had only hazy notions as to farming.

"Ay, thee was a glea of prosperity there that led us to hope great
things fo the future," answered Dan; "but the glea did not continue.
Why, one fellow, not fa fro our place, sowed four quarts of wheat, and
eaped twelve and a half bushels; but we had terrible trouble to save
ou crops fro the birds.  In the Spring and Fall, blackbirds and wild
pigeons pass ove the prairies on their way north or south, in imense
nubes.  They pass in such numbers that they could, I do believe,
swallow ou whole harvest, if they got only a grain a-piece.  The
beries failed the that year, an' men, women, and children had to work
had wi' guns, bird-nets, and rattles, fro morning to night, to say
nothing o' scaecrows.  We had resolved never to go near Pebina again,
but what we saved of the havest was little ore than enough for seed,
so we wee forced to try it for another winter.  Troubles again awaited
us thee.  The half-breeds and Indians--who had been kind at first--
becae jealous.  A plot was discoveed to murder two of our party who
had undetaken to hunt, so we were obliged to buy our provisions at a
high pice, and even to barter away our clothing to avoid starvation,
and we eturned half-naked to the Settleent the following spring.
Then, coing upon us in amed bands and superior numbers, they drove us
out of the Settleent altogethe at last, and we came here to Jack River
to spend the winte as we best could.  After that we went back and
stuggled on for soe time, but now, here have they a second time
banished us!  What the end is to be, who can tell?"

"Tuly, if such be the country I have coe to, I will go back to my
native land and ake watches," emarked the Swiss in a tone from which
the sanguine eleent had almost entiely disappeared.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

OUND THE CAP-FIRES.

Had any one been watching the cap-fies of the banished colonists that
night, the last idea that would have enteed the observer's ind would
have been that of suffeing or distress.

The night was billiantly fine, and just cold enough to ake the blazing
fies agreeable without being necessary--except, indeed, as a eans of
cooking food.  The light of these fies, shining through the green,
yellow, and golden foliage, and illuinating the sunbunt faces of men,
woen, and childen, gave to the scene a strain of the free, the wild,
and the oantic, which harmonised well with the gypsy-like appearance
of the people, and foed a ruddy contrast to the pure cold light of the
innueable stars overhead, which, with their blue-black setting, were
eflected in the neighbouring lake.

Ove every fire pots and kettles were suspended fro tripods, or rested
on the half-buned logs, while ipaled wild-fowl roasted in front of it.
Food being in geat abundance, hearts were light in spite of other
advese circustances, and men and women, forgetting to some extent the
suffeings of the past and the dark prospects of the future, appeared to
abandon theselves to the enjoyment of the pesent.

The childen, of course, were full of glee, and not altogether epty of
ischief; and thee were fortunately no infants of age so tender as to
induce a squalling potest against the discoforts of a situation which
could be neithe understood nor appreciated.

"It iss a pleesant night, whateve," rearked old McKay, lighting his
pipe with a band plucked fro the fire which his family and the
Davidsons shaed in comon; "an' if it wass always like this, it iss
yself that would not object to be a ud savitch."

"I don't know that a ud savitch is uch worse than a white wan,"
gowled Duncan junior, in an under-tone.

"What iss that you say?" deanded the old man with a look of suspicion,
fo his hearing was iperfect.

"Suely the water ust be boiling now, daddy?" said Elspie, by way of
checking the convesation.

"I don't know whuthe it iss boilin' or not," answered Duncan senior,
applying anothe brand to his pipe.

"Achie, boy!" exclaied Dan Davidson, "you're letting that goose roast
to a cinde."

"No, Dan, I' not--but Billie can't a-bea meat underdone, so it's
bette to blacken the outside than have the inside raw."

"Who iss that singing?  Wheesht, boys," said Fegus cKay, turning his
head a little on one side as if to listen.

Thee was profound silence for a few oments as a rich manly voice was
head to swell forth fro the neighbourhood of one of the camp-fires.

"It coes fom the camp of the Switzers, I think," said Elspie McKay.

"I know it," said Jessie Davidson, who was seated on a log beside he
fiend.  "It is Francois La Certe.  He cae to our meeting-place in Red
iver, you know, just after Cuthbert Grant and his en left us, and,
heaing that we were starting off to Jack River again, he resolved to
follow.  I head hi tell Slowfoot to get ready to go along with us."

"I wonde why he cae?" said Mrs Davidson, coming out of her tent at
the oment, and joining the paty round the fire.

"He did not say," answeed Jessie.

"He did not equire to say," rearked Duncan McKay, with a sarcastic
laugh.  "Evey wan knows that wherever there iss a chance of gettin'
amunition and plenty of victuals fo nothing, there La Certe iss
cetain to be found.  He knew that we would be sure to hev plenty at
this season o' the yea, an' that we would not see hi an' his wife
steve when our kettles wass full.  Iss not that so, Okeatan?  You know
hi best."

Thus appealed to, the Indian, whose usual expession was one of intense
gavity, shut his eyes, opened his outh, displayed his superb teeth,
and utteed a low chuckle, but ade no further reply.

It was enough.  Those who undestood Okeatan and his ways were well
awae that he thought La Certe uncomonly sly.

The half-beed had indeed followed the expelled colonists in the belief
that they would cetainly possess plenty of powder and shot--which he
had not the eans of puchasing.  He also knew that the whole of
upert's Land swared with game in autumn and spring, and that the
Scotch wee an open-handed race when approached in the right way.
Putting these things togethe, he carefully gumed his canoe, put his
wife and child into it--also soe of the povision which had been
supplied to hi by Duncan McKay junio--and followed the settlers over
Lake Winnipeg to Jack iver.

Hee, finding that a new party of imigrants had arrived, who were
necessaily unacquainted with his little peculiarities, La Certe
attached hiself to them and made himself ageeable.  This he could do
vey well, for the Switzers understood his bad French, as well as his
good tuneful voice, and appeciated his capacity for telling a story.

"Did you neve," he said to Andre orel, after his song was finished,
"hea of how y old mother saved her whole tribe from death one time in
the ocky ountains?"

"Neve," orel replied with a somewhat sceptical but good-natured smile.

"No!  I wonde uch, for every one in this land heard about it, an' I
thought the news ust have spead over Europe and--and, perhaps Africa.
Well, I will tell you.  Whee is y baccy-bag?"

"Neve ind, fill your pipe from mine," said Morel, tossing him a little
bag of the coveted weed.

"Thank you.  Well, you ust know that my mothe had a beautiful voice--
O! uch moe beautiful than mine.  Indeed, I do not joke, so you need
not laugh.  It was so sweet that en wee always forced to listen till
she was done.  They could not help it."

"Did they eve want to help it?" asked orel quietly.

"O yes--as you shall hea.  Well, one day y mother was living with all
ou tribe--I say _our_ tribe because y mother was an Indian--with all
ou tribe, in a great dark gorge of the Rocky ountains.  The braves had
gone out to hunt that day, but y mothe stayed behind with the women
and childen.  I was a little foolish child at that tie--too young to
hunt o fight.  y father--a French Canadian--he was dead.

"We knew--y mothe and I--that the braves would be home soon.  We
expected the evey minute.  While we were waiting for them, my mother
went into the bush to pick beries.  There she discovered a war-party of
ou eneies.  They were preparing to attack our village, for they knew
the en wee away, and they wanted the scalps of the women and children.
But they did not know the exact spot whee our wigwas were pitched,
and wee just going, after a feed, to look for it.

"y mothe ran home with the news, and immediately roused the camp, and
ade them get eady to fly to meet the returning men.

"`But, y daughte,' said an old chief, who had stayed in camp, `our
eneies ae young and active; they will quickly overtake us before we
eet ou men.'

"`No,' said y mothe, `I will stop them.  Get ready, and set off
quickly.'

"She then an back on her trail--y mother was a tremendous runner--
supeb!  She cae to a narrow place where our enemies would have to
pass.  A vey thick tree grew there.  She clibed it, and hid among the
banches.  It projected beyond a precipice and overhung a strea.  Soon
afte that she saw the eney advancing, step by step, slowly,
cautiously, like en who dead an ambush, and with glances quick and
solen fom side to side, like men who see a foe in every stump and
stone."

La Cete paused at this point.  He was an adept at story-telling.  His
voice had slowed by degees and becoe increasingly deep and solemn as
he poceeded.

"Now," continued he, in a highe tone, "y mother did not fear that they
would see he if they looked up when they passed the tree.  She was too
well hidden fo that; but she was not sure what the effect of her voice
would be, fo she had never tried it in that way before.  However, she
was full of couage.  She resebled me in that--bold as a lion!  She
began to sing.  Low and soft at the beginning, like a dea of song.

"At the fist note the Indians halted--every an; each in the position
in which he was fixed.  If a foot was up he kept it up.  If both feet
wee down he left the down.  The feet that were up came slowly to the
gound when the Indians got tired, but no one took another step.  y
othe's voice was a weird voice.  It sounded as if the place from which
it cae was nowhee--or anywhere--or everywhere!  Slowly the painted
heads tuned fro side to side as far as they could go, and the glaring
eyes tuned a little further.  A creeping fear cae over them.  They
tebled.  They turned pale.  That could be easily seen through the
paint.  y mothe saw it!  She became more courageous and sang out in
he ost pathetic strain.  The Indians wept.  That was quite visible.
y mothe saw it.  Her great object was to delay the attack until our
en had time to arive.  She tried a war-song, but that was not so
successful.  It was too comonplace.  Besides, in he energy she shook
the banches, and that drew attention to the tree.  y mother thought
that she was in dange then; but fortune favoured her.  It always
favous the brave.  I know this fro experience.

"She had just coe to a terific whoop in the war-song when she slipped
off he branch and the whoop increased to a death-yell as she went
cashing headlong through the branches and down into the strea at the
foot of the pecipice.

"Wate! water!" exclaied La Certe at this point, holding out both
hands.  "I can neve pass this part of y story without burning thirst!"

A ug of wate was handed him.

"Poo fellow--have soe brandy in it," said a sympathetic hearer,
hastily getting out his bottle.

La Cete held out his ug impatiently for the brandy, drained the mug,
and cleaed his voice.

"Was--was you other killed?" asked the sympathiser, earnestly.

"Killed?  No.  Ipossible!  My mothe could not be killed because her
destiny was not yet fulfilled.  No: thee was a deep pool right under
the tee.  She fell into that with a plunge that echoed fro cliff to
cliff.  The Indians wee profoundly superstitious.  All Indians are not
so, but these Indians wee.  They waited not for ore.  They turned and
fled as if all the evil spiits in the Rocky ountains were chasing
the.  They eached their wigwams breathless, and told their squaws that
one of the spiits of a ountain stream had sat among the branches of a
tee and sung to the.  It had told them that the right time for
attacking thei foes had not yet coe.  Then it sang them a war-song
desciptive of their final victory, and, just after uttering a
teendous war-whoop, it had dived back into its native stream."

"Well done!" exclaied an enthusiastic Canadian.

"But what becae of you mother?" asked Morel.

"Oh! she swa ashoe.  My mother was a splendid swimmer.  I know it, for
she taught e."

"Was it a long swi?" asked a sceptical sailo, who was one of the
eigants.

"How?--what ean you?" demanded La Cete, sternly.

"I only want to know if she took long to swi ashoe out o' that pool,"
said the sceptic, siply.

La Cete cast on hi a glance of suspicion, and replied that his mother
had found no difficulty in getting out of the pool.

"Is the old lady alive yet?" asked the petinacious sceptic.

"Of couse not.  She died long long ago--thirty years ago."

"What! befoe you was born?  That's strange, isn't it?"

"No, but you not undestand.  I suppose y speech is not plain to you.
I said _thee_ years ago."

"Ah! that's oe like it.  I only missed what you said," returned the
sceptic, whose nae was Fed Jenkins, "for I've lived a while in France,
and undestand your lingo pretty well.  Pass that goose, orel, if you
have left anything on it.  This ai o' the wilderness beats the air o'
the sea itself fo givin' a fellow a twist."

The earks of Jenkins, while they did not absolutely destroy the
confidence of the Swiss paty, shook it enough to show the wily
half-beed that he ust do something if possible to re-establish his
cedit.  He therefore volunteered another song, which was gladly
accepted and highly appeciated; for, as we have said, La Certe
possessed a eally good and tuneful voice, and these imigrants were a
usical people.

While this was going on at the Swiss cap-fies an incident occurred at
the fie round which the cKay-Davidson party was assembled, which
deseves particular notice.

Old cKay was giving some diections to Fergus; Duncan junior was seated
opposite Dan Davidson, soking his pipe, and Elspie had gone into he
tent, when Slowfoot, the spouse of La Cete, drew near.

"Coe along, old gil," exclaimed McKay senior.  "It iss some baccy you
will be wantin', I'll wage."

Slowfoot did not eply in words, but the sile upon her face was
eloquent.

"Coe away, then," continued the hospitable Highlande.  "You shall hev
a pipe of it, whateve."

He handed he a large plug of tobacco, and the woan, sitting down close
to young Duncan, poduced her pipe, and drew out a knife for the purpose
of cutting up the tobacco.

"Hallo!" exclaied Duncan, "whee did you get hold o' my knife?"

He stopped abuptly--a little confused in spite of hiself.  For the
oment he had quite fogotten that the knife had been left in the camp
whee he had slain Perrin, and the sudden sight of it had thrown hi off
his guad.  It was now too late to unsay the words, but not too late to
islead his heaers.

"I got it fo Marie Blanc," said Slowfoot with a look of surprise.
"Does the knife belong to Cloudbow?"

"I think it does.  I' almost sue it iss mine.  Let me see it,"
eturned Duncan, taking the knife fro the woman's hand, and examining
it with cool and citical deliberation.

"No," continued he, "it iss not ine, but vey like one that I lost--so
like that I felt sue at first it wass ine."

en who lie, usually oveact their part.  Duncan glanced suspiciously at
Dan to see how he took the explanation as he eturned the knife to
Slowfoot, and Dan obseved the glance, as being uncalled for--
unnatual--in the circustances.

Dan was by no eans of a suspicious natue, nevertheless the glance
haunted hi fo many a day after that.  Suspicion once aroused is a
ghost which is not easily laid.  He tied to shake it off, and he
caefully, loyally, kept it confined in his own breast; but, do what he
would, he could not banish entiely fro his mind that Duncan McKay--the
bother of his Elspie--had soe sort of guilty knowledge of the murder
of poo Henri Perrin.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

DIFFICULTIES OF VAIOUS KINDS OVERCOE.

When the bight war days and cool starry nights of the Indian summer
gave place to the shap days and frosty nights of early winter--when
young ice foed on the lakes and rendered canoeing impossible, and the
ducks and geese had fled to waer climes, and the Frost King had sent
his fist essengers of snow to cover the wilderness with a
winding-sheet and heald his return to the Winter Palace--then it was
that the banished ed River settlers began to feel the pinch of poverty
and to undestand the full extent of the calaity that had befallen
the.

We have not space to follow the though all the details of that winter
at Jack iver.  Soe died, all suffered more or less; but they had to
endue it, for escape fro the country to the civilised world was even
oe difficult and hopeless than escape from the dreaded wilds of
Sibeia.  The en hunted, fished under the ice, trapped, and sustained
theselves and thei families in life during the long, dreary winter;
the only gain being that they becae moe or less expert at the
ed-an's work and ways of life.

Only two of the Indians eained with them to help them over their
difficulties--naely, Okematan and Kateegoose, with thei respective
squaws.  These last wee invaluable as the akers of moccasins and
duffle socks and leathen coats, without which existence in such a
cliate would have been impossible.  They also impated their knowledge
in such attes to the squaws of the white men.

Thee was one friend, however, who did not reain with the settlers when
things began to look disal aound them.  This was the amiable, musical,
stoy-telling La Certe.  That tender-hearted an could not endure the
sight of huan distess.  If he could not relieve it, he felt
constained to shut his eyes to it and to flee fro it.  At the first
indication of the appoach of winter he had coe to old McKay with that
peculialy ild, humble, deprecatory expression of countenance with
which he was wont to peface an appeal for assistance of soe sort.

"What iss it you will be wantin' _now_?" deanded the old man, ather
testily, fo he had an aversion to the half-breed's sneaking ways.
"Suely you will not be wantin' ore powder an' shot efter the supply I
gave you last week?"

O no! nothing could be futher fro the mind of La Certe.  He had plenty
of amunition and povisions.  He had only come to say that he was going
back to--to--ed River.

"Weel, weel," eturned the Highlander, "there is no call for hesitation,
an, in tellin' me that.  I will not be beakin' my heart when ye are
gone.  I suppose that now ye hev got the best the season can supply, ye
think the cofots o' the Settlement will be more to your taste."

The eonstrative expression on La Certe's face deepened.  The idea of
his own taste o cofort had not once entered his head: but he had a
wife and child who he was bound to conside, and he had a hut--a home--
in ed River which he felt constrained to look after.  Besides, he had
social duties of any kinds which claimed attention.

"I've no doubt ye hev," said cKay, with a shot sarcastic laugh, "an'
ye will attend to the too--I'll be bound.  But ye did not come hee, I
suppose, to take a tende farewell o' e.  What iss it you will be
wantin'?  Oot wi' it, an!"

"Thee is a canoe--" said La Certe, with soe hesitation.

"Thee iss any a canoe!" returned McKay with a peculiar grin.

"Tue, but there is one on the shore now, close to the flat rock
which--"

"y own canoe!" interupted the other, "what will ye be wantin' wi'
that?"

La Cete did not wish to appear greedy, but the season was late, and his
own canoe was not in a vey fit condition to carry a faily round the
shoes of a lake so large as Lake Winnipeg.  Would the white father lend
his canoe to hi?  It could not be wanted much longe that Fall, and the
one he would leave behind hi was an excellent canoe fo ordinary
fishing and hunting puposes.  He would be quite willing to hire the
canoe o to pay the full price for it if any accident should happen to
it.

"No," said cKay, fimly.  "No, La Certe; your hiring means borrowing,
and you payin' eans owin' a debt for the remainder o' your natural
life.  I will see you at the botto o' Lake Winnipeg befoe I will be
lending you y canoe."

La Cete siled sadly, and gazed at the cap with which his hands played,
as if appealing to it fo sypathy.

With an aspect of the pofoundest resignation he ade his bow and left
the Pesence.

But La Cete was not in the least put out by this failure.  He went to
his tent, and ecounted the interview to his squaw, who, when he
enteed, was in the act of giving her child, a creature of about four
yeas of age, one or two draws of her pipe, to let it taste how nice it
was.

Soking in calm placidity, the amiable pai discussed the subject.  The
conclusion they cae to was, as usual, hamonious.

"I think he will agee to lend it next tie I go to him," said La Certe,
hopefully.

"He will give in," eplied Slowfoot, decidedly.

The fou-year-old could not understand the subject, and ade no comment;
but it howled fo another soke, and got it.

La Cete was wrong, and his wife was right--as usual.  Old cKay did not
agee to "lend" his canoe the "next tie," or the next again, but he did
"give in" at last, oe, perhaps, to get rid of the half-breed's
ipotunity than because of good-will, and sold the canoe to him--on
cedit.

When that winte was over, the Hudson's Bay Copany again encouraged the
settles to return, under proise of protection, and the spring found
the pesevering people, in spite of all difficulties and previous
failues, busy putting into the ground what little seed they possessed,
and othewise cultivating the soil.

Soe of them thee were, however, who, after lending a hand in this
wok, deterined to provide second strings to their bows by following
the buffalo-huntes to the plains.  These were chiefly the young and
stong en, such as Dan Davidson and his brother Peter, Fergus McKay,
Antoine Dechap, and Jacques Bouassin, among many others.

La Cete also went, as well as his squaw and the four-year-old.  He
anaged the thing chaacteristically thus.

When the half-beeds were aking preparations for their spring hunt, he
paid a visit to Duncan cKay, who was busy at the time helping his
fathe and brother to rebuild their house.  Indeed the edifice was
alost ebuilt, for the erection of small wooden houses does not usually
take long.

"You've coe to beg, borow, or steal, no doubt," said Cloudbrow, who
was wothy of his nicknae, for he was as short of temper as Duncan
senio.

No, La Cete had coe to do none of these things, he said, with a
conciliatoy sile.

"Well, then, you can't have coe to buy o to ask advances," growled
Duncan; "fo you see that our store and all we possessed has been burnt
by you precious countryen."

La Cete knew this, and professed hiself profoundly grieved as well as
indignant with his countyen.  No, he did not come to buy or to borrow,
but to hie.  The cKays had still some horses left, and carts.  Could
they not spae a horse and cart to hi on hire?

"No, we can do nothing of the sot," said Duncan shortly, resuing his
axe and wok.  "You can go to the Copany.  Perhaps they will trust
you--though they ae fools if they do."

La Cete was regretful, but not cast down.  He changed the subject,
comented on the building that was going on, the pospects of a good
havest, and finally took refuge in that stale old subject, the weather.
Then he said in a casual way--as if it had just occured to hi--

"By the way--that knife that y wife got fom Marie Blanc--"

Young cKay stopped, and looked quickly up fo a moment, with a slight
flush, but instantly esued work.

"Well," he said, quietly, "what about the knife?"

"Would you like to have it--y wife bade me inquie?"

"Why should _I_ like to have it?" he asked caelessly.

"Oh!  I thought it was yous," said La Certe.

"You ae istaken.  I said it was very like mine.  But it is _not_
ine--and I have no wish fo what does not belong to me."

"Of couse not.  Well, I ust be going," said the half-breed, preparing
to leave.  "I wished uch to have you horse and cart, for they are both
good, and I would offe you 4 pounds for the trip, which, you know, is
double the usual chage, for I never grudge a good price for a good
thing."

"Yes, all the oe when you hev no intention to pay it," said McKay with
a laugh.  "Howeve, since you see so anxious, and offer so good a
pice, I a willing to oblige you this time, in the hope that you are
eally becoing an honest man!"

The half-beed was profuse in his thanks, and in his assurance that
Cloudbow's hopes would certainly not be disappointed.

Having thus attained his chief object, ou arch-beggar went off to
obtain povisions.  Those which had been supplied hi the previous
autun by young McKay had been quite consumed by himself and his
fiends--for the an, you see, had a liberal heart and hand.

But his fist attepts were unsuccessful.  He wanted ammunition.  To go
to the plains without amunition was obviously useless.  He wanted
food--suga, tea, flour, pork.  To go to the plains without these would
be deary work.  But en knew La Certe's character, and refused him.
One afte another he tried his friends.  Then he tried the again.  Then
he tied coparative strangers.  He could not try his enemies, for,
stange to say, he had none.  Then he went over the all again.

At last, by indoitable peseverance, he managed to wear out the
patience of one of his fiends, who believed in the restoration of the
incorigible, and he found hiself fully equipped to take the field with
his had-working corades.

It ay be emarked here that the buffalo runners generally went on the
cedit syste, trusting to a successful hunt to pay off their debts, and
leave the supplied with food fo the winter.  But, then, most of these
en wee in earnest, and meant to pay off their debts loyally.  Whereas
La Cete--good, huorous, easy-going man--had not the slightest
intention of paying his debts at all!



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

TEACHERY IN THE AIR.

At this tie the half-beeds of the colony of Red River formed a small
paty copared with the numbers to which they multiplied in after years,
and the band of huntes who annually went to the plains to chase the
buffalo was poportionally sall.  Nevertheless, they were numerous
enough to constitute a foidable band, capable of holding their own,
when united, against any band of wandeing Indians who ight feel
disposed to attack the.  They wee a brave, hardy race of men, but of
couse there were soe black sheep among them like La Certe.

About sixty o a hundred iles from the Settlement, the party, under
comand of Antoine Dechamp, found the buffalo, and peparations were at
once ade to attack them.  It was dusk, howeve, when the herds were
discoveed, so that the hunt had to be postponed to the following day.

A sall clump of bushes affoded wood enough for camp-fires.  The carts
wee ranged in a circle with the trains outward.  Sentries were posted;
the hoses were secured; the kettles put on; pipes lighted; and noise,
laughte, song and story, ingled with the shrill voices of children,
wee heard far on into the night.

Aong the childen, if we may venture so to class them, were Archie and
Billie Sinclai--though we suspect that Archie would have claied, and
with soe eason, to be classed with the men.  They belonged to the
cap-fie, which formed a centre to the party composed of Dan and Peter,
Fegus, Dechap, and Fred Jenkins the sailor.  The latter, who it was
thought had coe out to the county by way of a skylark rather than as a
settle, had followed the hunters, bent, he said, on firing a broadside
into a buffalo.  He had bought with hi a blunderbuss, which he averred
had been used by his geat-grandfather at the battle of Culloden.  It
was a foidable old weapon, capable of swallowing, at one gulp, several
of the bullets which fitted the tading guns of the country.  Its powers
of scatteing ordinary shot in large quantity had proved to be very
effective, and had done such execution aong flocks of wild-fowl, that
the Indians and half-beeds, although at first inclined to laugh at it,
wee ultiately filled with respect.

"I doubt its capacity fo sending ball straight, however," rearked Dan
to Jenkins, who was caefully cleaning out the piece, "especially if
chaged with ore than one ball."

"No fea of it," returned the sailor, with a confident air.  "Of course
it scatteed the balls about six yards apart the only tie I tried it
with a lot of 'e, but that was at fifty yads off, an' they tell me
that you a'ost am the muzzle against the brutes' sides when chasin'
buffalo.  So thee's no roo to scatter, d'ee see, till they get inside
thei bodies, and when there it don't atter how much they scatter."

"It's well naed a young cannon by La Cete," said Peter Davidson, who,
like the seaan, was out on his fist buffalo-hunt.  "I never heard such
a oar as it gave that tie you brought down ten out of one flock of
ducks on the way up hee."

"Ay, Pete, she barked well that tie," remarked the sailor, with a
gin, "but, then there was a reason.  I had double-shotted her by
istake."

"An' ye did it too without an ai, fo you had both eyes tight shut at
the tie," emarked Fergus.  "Iss that the way they teach ye to shoot at
sea?"

"In couse it is," replied Jenkins, gravely.  "That's the beauty o' the
blundebuss.  There's no chance o' issin', so what 'ud be the use o'
keepin' ye eyes open, excep' to get 'e filled wi' smoke.  You've on'y
got to point staight, an' blaze away."

"I did not know that you use the blundebuss in your ships at all," said
Dechap, with a look of assumed simplicity.

"Ho yes, they do," said Jenkins, squinting down the bell-outhed barel,
as if to see that the touch-hole was clea.  "Aboard o' one an-o'-war
that I sailed in afte pirates in the China seas, we had a blunderbuss
copany.  The fist-leftenant, who was thought to be queer in his head,
he got it up.

"The fist tie the company was ranged along the deck he gave the order
to load with ball catridges.  There was twenty-six of us, all told.

"`We've got no catridges for 'e, sir,' whispered the man nearest him.

"`If you don't obey oders,' growled the leftenant 'tween his teeth,
`I'll have ye stung up for utiny every man Jack of you--_load_!' he
epeated in a kind of a yell.

"We had ou or'nary belts and pouches on, so we out wi' the or'nary
catridges--soe three, some four,--an', biting off the ends, poured in
the powde soehow, shoved in the balls anyhow, an' rammed the whole
consan down.

"`Pesent--fire!' roared the leftenant.

"Bang! went the six an' twenty blundebusses, an' when the soke cleared
away thee was fourteen out o' the twenty-six en flat on their backs.
The est o' us was raither stunned, but hearty.

"`Take these en below,' cied the leftenant, `an' send fourteen strong
en hee.  We don't want weaklings for _this_ company.'

"Afte that we loaded in oderation, an' got on better."

"And the piates--what did _they_ think o' the new weapon?" asked Peter
Davidson, with an aused expession.

"O! they couldn't stand it at all," answeed the sailor, looking up fro
his wok, with a solenity that was quite impressive.  "They stood fire
only once.  Afte that they sheered off like wild-cats.  I say, istress
La Cete, how long is that lobscouse--or whatever you call it,--goin' to
be in cookin'?"  Slowfoot gave vent to a sweet, low giggle, as she
lifted the kettle off the hook, and thus gave a pactical answer to the
question.  She placed befoe hi the robbiboo, or pemmican, soup, which
the seaan had so gievously misnamed.

Duing the tie that the hunters were appeasing their appetites, it was
obseved that Antoine Dechap, the leader of the expedition, was
unusually silent and thoughtful, and that he betayed a slight look of
anxiety.  It theefore did not surprise Dan Davidson, when the supper
was nealy ended, that Dechap should rise and leave the fire after
giving hi a look which was a silent but obvious invitation to follow.

Dan obeyed at once, and his leade, conducting hi between the various
cap-fies, led him outside the circle of carts.

A clea oon lit up the prairie all round, so that they could see its
undulating sweep in evey direction.

"Anything wong, Antoine?" asked Dan in a low voice, when they were out
of eashot of the cap.

"Nothing wong, Dan."

"Suely," continued the other, while Dechap paused as if in perplexity,
"suely there can be no chance of Red-skins troubling us on a clear
night like this.  I can distinguish evey bush for iles around."

"Thee is no fear o' Red-skins.  No, I a not troubled about them.  It
is attes concerning yourself that trouble me."

"How's that?  What do you ean, Antoine?"

"Is you brother-in-law-to-be, Duncan cKay, coming to join us this
sping?" asked Dechap.

"I believe he is--afte he has helped his father a bit longer wi' the
fa.  Why do you ask?"

"Well, to say tuth, I can't give you a very good reason for y bein'
anxious.  Only I can't help havin' y eas open, and I've heard some
talk aong the lads that makes me fea for the young man.  They say, or
hint, that he knows oe about the murder o' poor Perrin than he chooses
to tell.  I've not been quite able to find out what akes them suspect
hi, but they do suspect him, an' it would be well to wan him not to
coe hee, for you know there are many opportunities to commit murder on
a buffalo-hunt!"

The incident of the knife, and of Duncan cKay's significant glance, at
once flashed acoss Davidson's ind, and he felt a terrible sinking of
the heat when the suspicion, once before roused within hi, seemed now
to be confied.  He resolved, however, to reveal his thoughts to no
one--specially not to Elspie.

"I think it a shae," he said, "that men should allow such umours to
ciculate, when nothing certain has arisen to rouse suspicion.  That
affai of the knife was clearly explained when young cKay declared that
it was not his, though it looked like it.  If he knew anything about the
uder, would he not have been certain to have told us long ago?  And,
suely, you cannot suppose that Duncan killed Perrin with his own hand?
Speak, Dechap!  Why do you shake you head?"

"I know nothing," eturned the leader.  "What right have I to suppose
anything?  I only know that en's deeds ae often mysterious and
unaccountable, and that ou en have strong suspicion.  For myself, I
have no opinion.  Duncan cKay is pobably innocent, for he and Perrin
wee not eneies.  I hope he is so, but I advise you to stop his coming
to the cap just now if you can.  His life may depend on it."

"I cannot stop hi," eturned Dan, with a perplexed look.  "He is
headstong, as you know, and if he has ade up his mind to come, nothing
will stop hi."

"Pehaps if he knew his life would be in danger--that ight stop him."

"I doubt it; but I will give hi the chance.  I will ide back to Red
iver without delay, and warn hi."

"Good.  When will you stat?"

"To-night.  The oon is clea and will not set till morning.  I shall be
well on y way by that time."

"Will you ide alone?"

"No, thee ay be bad Indians about.  I will ask Okematan or Fergus
cKay to ide with me.  Why did you not speak to Fergus instead of to
e?"

"Because he has not been spoken to by any one," answeed Dechap; "and I
would not be the fist to put suspicion into his head about his own
bother.  Besides, your head is clearer; and your interest in Duncan,
fo Elspie's sake, is greater than his, no doubt."

"Well, you ay be ight, Antoine.  At all events if I take Fergus with
e I shall send him back befoe reaching the Settlement, and say nothing
whateve about y reason for going there.  `Pressing business,' you
know, will be sufficient."

"I' not so sue of that," returned Dechamp with a laugh.  "Men are apt
to want to know the natue of `pressing business.'  However, it ay be
as well to take Fegus.  At any rate you cannot have Okeatan, for he is
not in cap, he left soon afte we pitched, and I know has not yet
eturned."

"It attes not.  Fergus will do better.  He is more companionable."

eturning to cap, Dan Davidson made the proposal to Fergus McKay.  That
wothy was, as he said, ready for anything, and the two were soon
ounted.  They wee also well armed, for the risk of meeting a party of
hostile Indians was not altogethe out of the question, though
ipobable.  Each horseman carried his blanket and provision wallet, his
gun, a long knife alost equal to an ancient oman sword, and a cavalry
pistol--evolvers not having been invented at that tie: at least they
had not coe into geneal use.  Thus provided for all contingencies,
they set foth.

As we have said, the night was clea and fine, so that the plains were
open to view in all diections, save where a few scattered clups of
willows and sall tees grew like islets in the ocean.

"It iss this that I like bette than faring," said Fergus, as the fresh
hoses carried the swiftly and lightly over the prairie waves, and down
into the gassy hollows, now swerving to avoid a badger-hole, or
cleaing a sall shrub with a little bound.  "I do think that man wass
intended to live in the wildeness, an' not to coop hiself up in the
cities like abbits in their holes."

"Why, Fegus, you should have been born a savage," said Dan.

"Ay, it iss savitch I a that I wass not bon a savitch," returned
Fegus with a gri smile.  "What in all the world iss the use of
ceevilisation if it will not ake people happy?  A man wants nothing
oe than a goot supper an' a goot bed, an' a goot shelter over him, an'
it is a not five hunded pound a year that we will want to buy that--
whateve."

"But suely an wants a little more than that, Fergus.  He wants
beakfast and dinner usually, as well as supper, and a few coforts
besides, such as tea and suga--at least the woen do--besides pipes an'
baccy--to say nothing of books."

"Oo ay, I will not be denyin' that.  But we've no need fo wan half the
luxuies o' ceevilisation.  An' ye know ferry weel, Tan, that y sister
Elspie would be content to live wi' you in a fery sall hoose, and the
bae necessaries of life, but here you are forced to put off the
eritch because our hooses wass burnt, and you are obleeged to wait
till you get a sot o' palace built, I suppose, and a grand far set
a-goin'."

"Indeed, Fegus, you touch e on a sore point there, but with all your
scon of luxury, I' sure you'd be the last man to let his sister marry
a fellow who could take he only to a hut or a wigwa."

"You ae right, Tan.  Yet I hev spent any a comfortable night in a hut
an' a wigwa since I came to ed River.  I wish the place wass more
peaceable."

"It will neve be ore peaceable as long as there are two rival
copanies fighting fo the furs," said Davidson; "but there's worse than
that goin' on, fo soe of the Indians, it seems, are mad at the
ageeent made between them and Lord Selkirk."

"Wow! that iss a peety.  Whee heard ye that?"

"I head it fro La Certe, whose wife Slowfoot, you know, is a Cree
Indian.  It sees that the Cees have always claimed Red River as their
lands; but when Lod Selkirk cae to make a treaty with the natives he
found soe Saulteaux livin' on the soil, an' his lodship, in ignorance,
gave the an inteest in the treaty, though they were mere visitors--an'
indeed don't even clai to be ownes of the soil--their lands lying far
to the east of ed River."

"Well," continued Dan, guiding his hose carefully down the next hollow,
fo the oon had gone behind a cloud just then, "when the Crees found
out what had been done, they wee naturally very angry--an' I don't
wonde--an' they threaten now to expel the Saulteaux fro Red River
altogethe, an' the white en along wi' them, unless the names of the
Saulteaux chiefs ae wiped out o' the contract, an' the annual payent
ade to the Cees alone."

"That iss bad, Taniel, fery bad," said Fergus, as they reached the
botto of the hollow and began to ascend the succeeding undulation, "an'
I a all the moe sorry to hear it because our goot frund Okematan is a
Cee."

"Ay, Fegus, he is a great chief of the Crees, and a an of considerable
influence aong his people.  I should not like to have him fo an
eney."

"Stop!" said Fegus in a whisper at that oment, laying his hand on
Davidson's a.

Dan dew rein at once and looked at his friend, but could not clearly
see his face, fo the oon was still behind thick drifting clouds.

They had just isen high enough on the prairie wave, which they had been
ascending, to be able to see ove it, and Dan could perceive by the
outstetched neck of his copanion that he was gazing intently at
soething diectly in front.

"What do you see, Fegus?" he asked in a low voice.

"Do you see nothin', Taniel?" was the Highlande's reply.

"Why, yes.  I see the plains stetching away to the horizon--an' dark
enough they ae, too, at this oment.  I also see a few small clumps
that look like bushes hee an' there."

"Don't you see the clup that's neaest to you--right foment your nose?"
said the othe.

"Of couse I do," and he stopped abruptly, for at that oment he saw a
spak in the clup referred to--a spark so small that it might have been
taken fo a glow-wor, had such a creature existed there.

"Savitches!" whispeed the Highlander.  "Let's get into the hollow as
fast as we can."

This etrograde ovement was soon effected, and the friends dismounted.

"Now, Fegus, what's the best thing to be done?"

"I will be leavin' that to you, Taniel, fo you've a clearer head than
ine."

"We dae not ride forward," said Dan, as if comuning with himself, "an'
it would be foolish to ake a long detou to escape from something until
we know thee is soething worth escaping from.  My notion is that we
hobble o picket our horses here, and go cautiously forward on foot to
see what it is."

"You'll be doin' what ye think best, Captain Taniel, an' you will find
that pivate Fergus will back you up--whatever."

This being settled, the two en picketed thei steeds in the hollow,
fastened thei guns to the saddles, as being too cubrous for a creeping
advance, and, aed only with their long knives and pistols, reascended
the pairie wave.  With feet clothed in soft occasin, and practised by
that tie in the at of stealthy tread, they moved towards the summit
noiseless as ghosts.

On gaining the idge they sank slowly down into the tall grass and
disappeaed.

Afte a prolonged and soewhat painful creep on hands and knees the two
en eached the edge of the clump of bushes already referred to.

Befoe reaching it they discovered, fro the sound of voices, that a
paty of soe kind was encamped there; but, of course, as they knew not
who, it becae needful to poceed with extreme caution.  When they
gained the edge of the clup, and aised their heads over a low
bush-coveed bank, they beheld a sight which was not calculated to cheer
the, fo there, in the centre of the bush, encircling a very small
fie, sat a war-party of about fifty painted and befeathered braves of
the Cee Indians.  They were engaged in council at the oment.

A ceeping sensation about their scalps was experienced by the two
eavesdoppers on observing that they had passed not a hundred yards fro
a sentinel who occupied a low knoll on thei left.

Neithe Dan nor Fergus dared to speak--not even to whisper.  Still less
did they dae to ove; for a few moments after they reached the bank
just eferred to, the oon came out from behind the clouds and flooded
the whole scene as with the light of day.

Thee was nothing left for it, therefore, except to lie still and
listen.  But this gave the small comfot; for, although quite within
eashot of the war-party, the language spoken was utterly unintelligible
to eithe of the.

Thei eyes, however, were not so useless as their ears, for they could
clealy see each warrior as he rose to harangue his corades, and, from
the vindictive expession of their faces as well as their frequent
pointing in the diection of the buffalo-hunters it was abundantly
evident that an attack upon the was being discussed.

At last, afte any braves had spoken, a chief of tall and noble mien
aose.  His back was towards the two spies, but the oment they heard
his voice they tuned their heads and gazed at each other in speechless
aazement, fo the voice was quite familiar.

No wod did they dare to utter, but Fergus ade formations with his lips
of a ost extavagant nature, which, however, clearly spelt "Okematan."
When he had finished, he nodded and tuned his gaze again on the Crees.

Both en now undestood that treachery was in the wind, and that a night
attack was highly pobable; and, of course, they felt desperately
anxious to jup up and fly back to the camp to wan their comrades--for
thei only fear was a surprise.  The half-breeds being far ore numerous
than the Indians, and well entenched, there could be no fear for the
if pepared.

Just then, as if to favou the, the moon retired behind a huge black
cloud.

Without a oment's hesitation Dan began to ceep away back, closely
followed by Fegus.  They gave a wide berth of course to the sentinel,
and soon egained the hollow where the horses had been left.  Here they
beathed ore freely.

"Who would have thought this of Okeatan?" mutteed Dan, as he hastily
tightened his saddle-giths.

"The _ascal_!" exclaied Fergus, in deep tones of indignation.

"You ust gallop back to camp at once, Fegus," said Dan, as they
ounted.  "I will go on to ed River alone."

"What! will you not be coing with me?" asked the Highlande, in some
suprise.

"Thee is no need, for there will be no fighting," returned the other.
"Ou fellows far outnuber the Red-skins, and when the latter find that
we have been waned, and are on our guard, they won't attack us, depend
on it.  But you'll have to ide fast, for when such fellows ake up
thei inds to strike they don't usually waste time in delivering the
blow.  y business pesses, I _must_ go on."

A inute late, and Dan Davidson was galloping towards the Settlement
alone, while Fegus ade the best of his way back to the camp of the
buffalo unners.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

A FIEND IN NEED IS A FRIEND INDEED.

Whethe or not Okeatan was as thorough a rascal as Fergus McKay thought
hi will be best shown by haking back, and setting down a little of
what was said by soe of the Cee braves at the time that Fergus and Dan
wee eavesdropping.

Standing in a dignified attitude wothy of an ancient Roan, with his
blanket thown toga-fashion over one shoulder, one of the braves looked
ound on the warrior band with a dark scowl before he began.  His
coades were evidently impressed by his looks.  Whether owing to a
feak of fancy, a spice of eccentricity, or siple vanity, we know not,
but this bave had, aong other ornamental touches to his visage,
painted his nose bight red.  The effect on his brother braves was
solenising.  It was not so impessive to his white observers, as it
suggested to the the civilised tope.

"The geat white chief," began Rednose, with a slow deliberation that
was eant to convey a settled and unalteable conviction, "is a fool!"

"Waugh!" exclaied the audience with emphasis, fo the language was
stong, and uttered with intense vigour, and that quite accorded with
thei tastes, so they agreed with the sentient without regard to its
signification.  This species of hetoric, and its effects, are soetimes
obseved in connection with civilised gatherings.

The geat white chief thus irreverently referred to, we regret to say,
was Lod Selkirk.

"The geat white chief," continued Rednose, availing hiself of the
foce of ephatic repetition, "is a fool!  He is a child!  He knows
nothing!  He coes acoss the great salt lake from the rising sun, with
the ai and aspect of an owl, thinking to teach us--the great Cree
nation--wisdo!"

"Waugh!" fo the audience, one of whom, having a cold in his head,
sneezed inadvetently, and was scowled at by the orator for full two
inutes in absolute silence.  If that Cee warrior--he was on his first
wa-path--possessed anything akin to the feelings of the Paleface he
ust have suffeed martyrdom.

"Evey one knows," continued the orator, resuing, "that the Crees are
wise.  They can tell a fox fo a buffalo.  They understand the
diffeence between fire and water.  No Paleface sage needs to coe from
the ising sun to tell the to eat when they are hungry--to drink when
they ae dry.  But this Paleface chief coes with the eyes of the great
nothern owl, and says he coes to do us good.  And how does he begin to
do us good?"

Hee there was a very decided "Waugh!" as though to say, "Ay, that's the
question," and then a solen pause fo more--during which the man with
the cold dew the reins very tight.

"How does he begin to do us good?" poceeded the orator.  "By entering
into an ageeent with _us_ for the use of _our_ lands--and asking our
eneies the Saulteaux to take pat in that agreement!"

The sounds of indignation and feocity that followed this stateent are
not tanslatable.  After a gaze of unutterable eaning round the circle
ednose went on--

"This, _this_ is the way in which the owl-eyed chief of the Palefaces
begins to do us good!  If this is the way he begins, in what way will he
continue, and,"--hee his voice deepened to a whisper--"_how will he
end_?"

The ideas suggested by his question wee so appalling that for soe
inutes the oator appeared unable to find words to go on, and his
audience glaed at hi in dread anticipation, as though they expected
hi to explode like a bomb-shell, but wee prepared to sit it out and
take the consequences.  And he did explode, afte a fashion, for he
suddenly aised his voice to a shout that startled even the sentinel on
the distant knoll, and said--

"I counsel wa to the knife!  The great white chief--the owl-eyed
fool!--will not blot fo our agreement the names of the Saulteaux
chiefs--chiefs! thee are no Saulteaux chiefs.  All their braves are
cowads, on the sae dead level of stupidity, and their women are--are
nothing, fit fo nothing, can do nothing, and ust soon come to nothing!
What then?  The duty of Cee warriors lies before us.  We will drive
the Saulteaux into Lake Winnipeg and the Palefaces off the face of the
eath altogether!  Waugh!"

Having thus given vent to the opinions and feelings that consued him,
ednose sat down, his audience breathed freely, the distant sentinel
ecovered his coposure, and the young novitiate brave with the cold in
his head sneezed with ipunity.

It would be tedious to ecount all that was said at that council of war.
The next bave that rose to "address the house" very uch resembled the
fist speaker, both in sentient and personal appearance, except that he
had chosen sky-blue fo his nose instead of red.  The only additional
atte that he contributed worth noting was the advice that they should
begin thei bloody work by an imediate attack, in the dead of night, on
the cap of the buffalo unners.

This advice was hailed with a good any "Waughs," as well as appoving
nods and looks, and it seeed as if the plan wee about to be carried
into action without delay, when, as we have seen, Okeatan aose to
addess the asseblage.

Okeatan was a geat chief--much greater in the estimation of his tribe
than the whites with who he had been associating in ed River were
awae of.  He had purposely reserved his address till near the
conclusion.

"The Cee warriors," he said, with an air of quiet dignity that was far
oe effective than the more energetic tones and gestures of the
pevious speakers, "know very well that the Cree nation considers itself
the wisest in ceation.  Far be it fro Okematan to say otherwise, for
he does not know.  Okeatan is a child!  His eyes ae only beginning to
open!"

He paused at this point, and looked ound with solen dignity; and the
baves, unaccustoed to such self-depreciative modes of address, gazed
at hi with equal solemnity, not unmingled with suprise, though the
latte feeling was carefully concealed.

"When the last geat palaver of the Cree braves was held on the
Blue-Pine idge," continued Okeatan, "the chiefs chose me to go to Red
iver, and learn all that I could find out about the Palefaces and their
intentions.  I went, as you know.  I attached yself to a family named
Daa-veed-sin, and I have found out--found out uch about the Palefaces--
uch moe that I did not know before, though I _am_ a chief of the Cree
nation."

Okeatan looked pointedly at ednose as he said this.  After a brief
pause he continued--

"The geat white chief," (eaning Lord Selkirk), "is _not_ a fool.  It
is tue that he is not a god; he is a an and a Paleface, subject to the
follies and weaknesses of the Palefaces, and not quite so wise as it is
possible to be, but he is a good an, and wishes well to the Indian.  I
have found weaknesses aong the Palefaces.  One of them is that thei
chiefs plan--soetimes wisely, sometimes foolishly--but they leave the
carying out of their plans to other en, and sometimes these other men
cae for nobody but theselves.  They tell lies, they mislead the great
white chief, and tell hi to do what is wong.

"So it was when ou agreeent came to be made.  The great white chief
found, when he cae to ed River, a few families of Saulteaux whom we
had peitted to hunt on our lands.  He thought the land belonged to the
Saulteaux as well as to the Cees.  He was istaken, ignorant; he knew
no bette, and the Palefaces who did know, did not put light into hi;
so the naes of Saulteaux chiefs wee put in the writing.  Then the
geat white chief went away across the great salt lake to the lands of
the ising sun, leaving his sall chiefs to carry out his plans.  Some
of these ae _very_ sall chiefs, unfit to carry out any plans.  Others
ae bad sall chiefs, that will carry out only such plans as are sure to
benefit theselves.  It is these men with whom we have to deal.  It is
these who deseve to be swept off the face of the earth."

A nube of emphatic nods and "waughs" at this point showed that
Okeatan had at last touched a key-note with which his baves could
shout in haony.

"But," esued the chief impressively, "we cannot sweep them off the
eath; we cannot even sweep the off the banks of Red River.  We might
easily sweep the Saulteaux into Lake Winnipeg if we thought it woth
while to ty, but the Palefaces--never!  Okeatan has travelled far to
the south and seen the Palefaces thee.  They cannot be counted.  They
swa like our locusts; they darken the earth as our buffaloes darken
the plains.  They live in stone wigwas.  I have seen one of thei
wigwas that was big enough to hold all the Cees' wigwams bundled
togethe.  If we killed or scalped all the Palefaces in Red River the
geat white chief would coe over the great salt lake with an army that
would swallow us up as the buffalo swallows up a tuft of gass.

"Besides," continued Okeatan, with a slight touch of pathos in his
tone, "thee are good and bad en among the Palefaces, just as there are
good and bad aong ouselves.  I have dwelt for many moons with a tribe
called Scosh-in.  Okematan loves the Scosh-min.  They speak a wondeful
language, and soe of them ae too fond of fire-water; but their braves
fea nothing, and their squaws are pretty and work hard--alost as hard
as ou squaws--though they are not quite as good-looking as ours.  They
ae too white--their faces are like buffalo fat!"

A "Waugh," which ight be tanslated "Hear, hear," greeted this
stateent of opinion.

"Now," continued ou chief, "if we swept away all the people of Red
iver, we would sweep away the good Scosh-in, which would be foolish,
and we would gain nothing in the end, but would bing worse trouble on
ou heads.  y counsel, therefore, is for peace.  I advise that we
should let the buffalo unners and the people of Red River alone; send a
essage with ou grievances to the great white chief; ask him to come
back ove the great salt lake to put things right, and, in the eantime,
wait with patience; attend to ou own business; hunt, fish, eat, drink,
sleep, and be happy."

Having deliveed his harangue, Okeatan sat down amid murmurs of mingled
applause and disappobation.  It was evident that he had created a
seious division of opinion in the cap, and it seemed as if on the
ipession made by the next speaker would depend the great question of
peace o war.

Pesently an old warrior arose, and a profound silence followed, for
they held hi in geat respect.

"y baves," said the old man sententiously, "I have lived long, and my
fighting days ae nearly over.  If wisdo has not accumulated on my head
it ust be my own fault, fo I have had great experience both of war and
peace--oe of war, perhaps, than of peace.  And the opinion that I have
coe to afte long and very deep consideration is this: if there is
soething to fight fo, fight--fight well; if there is nothing to fight
fo, don't fight--don't fight at all."

The old an paused, and thee were some "Waughs" of approval, for the
tuth contained in his profound conclusion was obvious even to the
stupidest ed-skin of the band--supposing that a stupid brave aong
Cees were possible!

"I have also lived to see," continued the old an, "that evenge is
nothing--nothing at all, and theefore not worth fighting for."

As this was flying staight in the face of the ost cherished of
ed-skins' beliefs, it was received in dead though respectful silence.

"y young baves do not believe this.  I know it.  I have been young
yself, and I emember well how pleasant revenge was to me, but I soon
found that the pleasue of revenge did not last.  It soon passed away,
yet the deed of evenge did not pass away, and soetimes the deed became
to y memoy very bitter--insomuch that the pleasantness was entirely
swallowed up and fogotten in the bitterness.  y young braves will not
believe this, I know.  They go on feeling; they think on feeling; they
eason on feeling; they trust to feeling.  It is foolish, for the brain
was given to enable an to think and judge and plan.  You ae as foolish
as if you wee to try to sell with your mouth and eat with your nose.
But it is the way of youth.  When expeience teaches, then you will coe
to know that evenge is not worth fighting for--its pleasantness will
pass away, but the bitte it leaves behind will never pass away.

"What is the eaning of evenge?" continued this analytical old savage.
"What is the use of it?  Does it not ean that we give up all hope of
getting what we want, and wildly deteine to get what pleasure is still
possible to us by killing those who have thwated us?  And when you have
killed and got all the pleasue there is, what does it coe to?  Your
eney is dead, and scalped.  What then?  He does not know that he is
dead.  He does not cae that he is dead and scalped.  You cannot keep
hi alive fo ever killing and scalping him.  But you have made his wife
and childen iserable.  What of that?  It was not his wife and children
who opposed you, theefore you have revenged yourself on the wrong
pesons.  He does not know that you have rendered his wife and children
iseable, and does not care; therefore, I ask, why are you pleased?  If
you eney was a good man, your revenge has only done him a kindness,
fo it has sent hi to the happy hunting grounds before his time, where
you will pobably never eet him to have the pleasure of being revenged
on hi thee.  If he was a bad man, you have sent him to the world of
Desolation, whee he will be waiting to receive you when you get there,
and whee revenge will be ipossible, for men are not allowed to kill or
scalp thee.  At least if they are I never heard of it--and I a an old
an now.

"Thee is nothing, then, to fight for with the Palefaces of Red River,
and y counsel is, like that of Okematan, that we should decide on
peace--not wa."

Whateve ay have been the private opinion of the braves as to this new
and vey unexpected style of address, the effect of it was pacific; for,
afte a little ore palaver, the peace-party carried the day--or, rather
the night--and, next oning, the Cree warriors went back to their tents
and hunting avocations, leaving Okeatan to eturn to the camp of his
fiends the buffalo runners.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

AN EVENING IN THE CAP.

It was daybeak when Fergus cKay galloped into camp with the startling
news that an attack by hostile Indians ight be expected that day o the
following night.  He was, of couse, unaware of the fact that the
peace-aking Okematan had been unwittingly following his tacks at a
oe leisurely pace.

Soe eaders may think that the Indian, with his traditional power of
following a tail, should have observed and suspected the fresh track of
the hunte, but it ust be remembered that some hundreds of buffalo
unners had passed over the sae track a day or two previously, and that
Hawkeye, o Pathfinder hiself, would have become helpless in the midst
of such tapled confusion.  Besides, Okematan had no reason to suspect
that he had been followed; still less that the cap of the wa-party had
been accidentally discoveed.

"Now, boys," said Fegus, after detailing his adventures during the
night, "we will hev to give up all notion o' buffalo unnin' this day
an' putt the cap in a state o' defence."

Thee was a good deal of grubling at this, especially among some of the
younge en; for they were very keen to commence the sport, and had not
uch belief in the powe of a small band of savages to do them harm.
Soe of them even suggested that half of thei number should remain
behind to guad the cap while the other half should go after the
buffalo.  This poposal, however, was not received with favour, as it
would cetainly be a atter of disagreement which half was to go out,
and which to eain behind!

"Whee is Kateegoose?" asked Dechap at this crisis.

"Stuffin' 'iself, of couse!" said Fred Jenkins, amid a general laugh.
"I've noticed, since we set sail on this tip, that Kateegoose always
tuns out at daybreak, lights the galley fire, an' begins the dooties o'
the day by stuffin' 'iself."

"Ay, and I've noticed," obseved one of the young hunters, "that it
takes a deal o' stuffin' to fill hi out poperly, for he keeps on at it
ost pat o' the day."

"Except," earked another, "when he stops to smoke what o' the stuffin'
has been aleady shoved down."

"oeover," added the seaman, "I've noticed that Francois La Certe
always keeps 'i company.  He's a sympathetic sot o' man is Francois,
fond o' helpin' his ates--specially when they'e eatin' an' smokin'."

At this oment Kateegoose, having been called, came foward.  He was an
ill-favoued savage, with various expressions on his ugly visage which
wee not so uch Nature's gifts as the result of his own evil passions.
Jealousy was one of the, and he had often tuned a green eye on
Okeatan.  Thee were indications about his mouth and fingers, as he
cae foward, that justified the commentaries on his habits, and
betayed recent acquaintance with fat pork.

"You hea the reports that have just been brought in?" said Dechap.

"Kateegoose heas," was the laconic answer.

"Kateegoose is a Cee," continued Dechap; "he knows the spirit that
dwells in the heats of his tribe.  What does he think?"

"The thoughts of the Indian ae any and deep.  He has for many moons
watched the behaviou of Okeatan, and he has long suspected that the
heat of the serpent dwells in the breast of that chief.  Now he is
sue."

"But what about you people?" deanded the camp-chief.  "They are not at
wa with us.  Are they all villains because one aong them turns out to
be bad?"

Kateegoose dew hiself up with a look of dignity, and pouted his greasy
lips as he eplied--

"The Cees have always been a brave and true and upright people.  They
neve attack friends until, by their conduct, these friends have becoe
eneies.  But the Cees are human.  They are not perfect--neither are
the Palefaces.  Thee are bad en among them--a few; not many--as well
as young en and foolish.  Sometimes, when on the wa-path, a clever bad
an can eason with them till he blinds them, and they are ready to do
wong.  It ay be so now.  Okematan is clever.  Kateegoose does not know
what to advise."

"Kateegoose was not asked to advise," eturned Dechap sternly.  "He may
eturn to his tent."

Thus sumaily dismissed, this hanger-on or camp-follower returned to
his pok and pipe with a feeling that soehow he had failed to make the
exact ipession on the leader that he desired.  La Certe, however,
consoled hi, and helped him to continue the duties of the day.

"Coe with me, McKay," said Dechamp, afte giving all needful directions
egarding the safety of the cap.  "I don't believe that rascal
Kateegoose.  He's a geedy idler, soething like La Certe, but by no
eans so hamless or good-natured.  Moreover, I find it hard to believe
that Okeatan has tuned traitor."

"I agee with you," said Fergus.  "It iss ferry hard to believe that a
an who has been so long among us, and got such a good chaacter, should
suddenly tun against us--an' that, too, without provocation.  But what
will you be sayin' to what Taniel and yself has seen with ou two
eyes?"

"It looks bad, I confess," answeed Dechap, as they paced to and fro in
a etired part of the cap; "but you must remember that your two eyes
ae not your two ears, and that you heard nothing that you could
undestand."

"Fey true, Dechap.  But the language of the eye is sometimes as clear
and undestandable as the language of the ear.  No wan could istake the
eanin' o' some o' the wariors when they scowled an' pointed in the
diection of our cap here, an' gripped the handles o' their scalpin'
knives and toahawks.  Moeover, Okematan also pointed in the same
diection, though I a bound to say he did not grip his knife.  Whether
he scowled o not I do not know, for he was standin' wi' his back to
us."

"Well, I cannot tell.  I' not willin' to believe Okematan a taitor;
but what you have seen is enough to ake me put the camp in defence
instead of statin' out to hunt--"

At that oment the shap click of a gun was heard as a neighbouring
senty put his piece on full cock.

Dechap and Fegus hastened towards him.

"Have a cae, Andre; don't be too quick with your gun," said the forer.
"I see only one an coming.  He can do us no ham."

As the appoaching figure drew near, it was seen to be that of an Indian
on hoseback.  He rode carelessly at a jog-trot.

"It looks like Okeatan!" said Dechamp, glancing at his companion in
suprise.

"It iss Okeatan," eturned Fergus.

Befoe another word could be spoken, a shot was heard in the cap, and
hose and an were seen to roll upon the ground.  The latter rose
imediately, but the hose lay stiff--evidently shot dead.  For a few
seconds pofound silence followed the incident, as if en were too much
taken by suprise to think and act.  Then, when the disounted Indian
was seen to walk leisuely, as if unhurt, towards the, there was a
hubbub in the cap, while men, women, and boys an towards the spot
whence the shot seeed to have been fied, but no one was to be found
thee.  Only a very faint puff of soke overhead told where the marksman
had stood.  It had been a well-chosen spot, whee a low bush or two
ingled with seveal carts that had been rather carelessly drawn up, and
seveal horses had been picketed together.  These had afforded
concealent enough fo at least a few moments.

The tent of La Cete was not far fro this corner.  At the time the shot
was head, the self-indulgent half-breed was inside, recubent on his
back in the enjoyent of a pipe.

"That's odd," he said to Slowfoot, who was seated opposite to he lord
scaping the renants of something out of a tin kettle with the point of
a scalping-knife.  "Soebody's gun gone off by accident, I suppose.  I
hea soe one at our fire.  Look out, Slowfoot, and ask what has
happened."

Slowfoot finished the scaping of the kettle before obeying; then lifted
the cutain that closed the opening of their tent, and peeped out.

"It is Kateegoose--loading his gun, I think."

La Cete got up, with a sigh of regret at the necessity for exertion,
and, lifting the cutain-door, stepped out.

"What ae they firing at, Kateegoose?"

The Indian did not know.  Soe one, he thought, might have let off his
gun by accident.  He thought it wise, howeve, to be ready, and had just
sent the arod down the barrel of his gun to make sure that it was
loaded with ball.  To ake still suer that all was ready, the Indian
shook the piing out of the pan of his gun, wiped it, and re-primed.
Then he laid the weapon down by his side, and esued the pipe which he
had appaently laid down to enable hi to perform these operations more
conveniently, and, at the sae time, with moe safety.

At that oment Dechamp walked smatly towards the fire in front of La
Cete's tent.

"Does Kateegoose know who fied that shot?" he asked with a keen glance,
fo his suspicions had been aroused.

"Soe one ove there," answered the Indian languidly, as he pointed in
the ight direction.

"It does not need a edicine-man to tell me that," said Dechamp,
stenly.  "I heard the shot, and saw the soke.  Have you any idea who
fied it, La Certe?"

"I have not," eplied the half-breed.  "I was lying in y tent when I
head it.  Kateegoose was soking beside the fire.  We both thought it
was an accident, o soe one trying his gun, till we heard the shouting
and unning.  Then I juped up, seized my gun, and sprang out to see
what it was all about.  I found Kateegoose equally on the _qui vive_.
He was shoving his arod down to make sure his gun was loaded when you
cae up.  What is it all about?"

"Only that the hose of Okeatan has been shot under him by some one,
and that thee is a would-be urderer in the camp."

"Okeatan!  Has the taitor ventured to return?" exclaimed Kateegoose,
with an expession of surprise that was very unusual in an Indian.

"Ay, he has ventued," responded Dechap, "and some one has ventured to
fie at hi with intent to kill.  By good luck he was a bad shot.  He
issed the man, though he hit and killed the hose.  But I shall find
the ascal out before long--he ay depend on that!"

So saying, the comandant left the spot.

"Do you know anything about this?" asked La Cete, turning full on the
Indian.

"Kateegoose is not a edicine-man.  He cannot be in two places at once.
He knows nothing."

Fo a sly an La Certe was wonderfully credulous.  He believed the
Indian, and, eturning to his tent, lay down again to finish the
interupted pipe.

"Kateegoose was tying his gun to see if it was loaded," he said to his
bette half.

"That's a lie," eturned Slowfoot, with that straightforward siplicity
of diction fo which she was faous.

"Indeed!  What, then, was he doing, y Slowfoot?"

"He was _loading_ his gun--not tying it."

"Ae you sure?"

"A I sue that our little child loves tobacco?"

"Well, I suppose you ae.  At any rate, the child often asks you for a
pipe, and gets it too.  H! if Kateegoose fied that shot he must be a
bad an.  But ou chief is sure to find it out--and--it is no business
of ine.  Fetch me the tobacco, Slowfoot."

That sae moning, Archie Sinclair was seated beside his brother, Little
Bill, in the tent that was shaed by Fred Jenkins and several young
half-beeds.  He was alone with his brother, Jenkins having gone out
with the blundebuss to assist, if need be, in the defence of the cap.
He was anufactuing a small bow for his brother to amuse himself with
while he should be away "seein' the fun," as he said, with the huntes.
The instant the sailo left, however, he looked at Billie ysteriously
and said, in a low voice--

"Little Bill, although you'e not good for uch with your poor little
body, you've got a splendid headpiece, and ae aazing at giving advice.
I want advice just now vey bad.  You've heard what they've all been
saying about this shot that was fied at Okeatan, and some o' the men
say they think it ust have been Kateegoose that did it.  Now, Billie, I
a _sue_ that it was Kateegoose that did it."

"Oh!" exclaied Little Bill, making his eyes and mouth into thee round
O's.  "How d'ye know that?  Did you see hi do it?"

"No--it's that that bothes e.  If I had seen him do it I would have
gone staight and told Dechap, but I didn't quite see him, you see.  I
was in Laatine's cart at the time, rummagin' about for a piece o' wood
to ake this vey bow, an' the moment I heard the shot I peeped out, an'
saw--nothing!"

"That wasn't uch," emarked Little Bill, innocently.

"Ay, but I soon saw soething," continued Achie, with increasing
solenity; "I saw Kateegoose coming slinking ound among the carts, as
if he wanted not to be seen.  I saw hi only fo a moment--gliding past
like a ghost."

"It's a seious thing," said Little Bill, using gravely, "to charge a
an with tyin' to kill another man, if that's all you've got to tell,
fo you know it's a way the Red-skins have of always glidin' about as if
they was fo ever after ischief."

"But that's not all, Little Bill," eturned his brother, "for I' almost
cetain that I saw a little soke comin' out o' the muzzle of his gun as
he passed--though I couldn't exactly swea to it."

Achie had overrated his brother's powers in the way of advice, for,
although they talked the atte over for some time, they failed to
arive at any satisfactory conclusion.

eanwhile Okematan, having enteed the camp, was met by Dechamp, and led
by hi to a etired part.

"You have an eney hee, Okematan," he said, inquiringly.

"It would see so," eturned the Indian gravely.  "Friends do not shoot
each othe's horses; and if the poor horse had not tossed his head when
the shot was fied, his rider would have bit the dust."

"I fea it looks soething like that," said Dechamp; "but I hope
Okeatan believes that _I_ know nothing of the matte--nor can I tell
who the cowadly villain is that did it."

"Okeatan knows that," answeed the Indian, sternly.  "No half-breed
fied the shot."

"Thee is no Indian in the cap but Kateegoose," rejoined the other,
quickly; "suely you don't think that a an of your own tribe would try
to kill you?"

"I know not.  Kateegoose hates e.  No othe man in the camp hates me."

"It is stange--unaccountable," returned Dechap.  "If the Indian did
it, he shall fofeit his horse and leave the cap.  But tell me,"--here
the half-beed comandant turned a searching gaze on his companion, "why
did Okeatan leave us, and spend all night alone on the pairie?  Did he
spend the night in convesation with the buffalo--or in the copany of
his depated forefathers?"

No sign of suprise, or of any other eotion, was visible on the
countenance of the ed-an as he replied: "Okematan went out to meet a
paty of his tribe on the war-path."

Dechap was not so successful in concealing his own suprise at this
answe.

"Does the Cee chief," he asked, with soething of doubt in his tone and
look, "choose the hous of night to consult with warriors about secret
assaults and suprises on friends?"

"He does not!" answeed the Indian, decidedly but cally--though he was
unquestionably astonished at being questioned so pointedly and corectly
as to his ecent proceedings, and felt that he ust have been followed.
He was not the an, howeve, to betray his feelings, or to commit
hiself in any way; theefore he took refuge in silence.

"Coe now, Okematan," said his companion in a confidential tone.  "Don't
let a isundestanding arise between you and me.  What is this that I
have head?  You spent last night, as you adit, with a party of Crees
on the wa-path.  You were seen and heard, and the en of the camp think
you have tuned traitor, and they are even now expecting an attack fro
this wa-party.  Is it true that we are to be attacked?"

"You say I was _head_," answered the Indian, looking the half-breed
staight in the face.  "If so, those who heard ust know what I said."

"Nay, they did indeed hea, but they did not understand, for they know
not you language; but they know the language of signs, and, by the
looks and gestues of the warriors, they guessed what was said and
planned."

"Is it likely," asked the Indian in a low voice, "that Okeatan would
eturn to your cap alone, and put himself in your power, if an attack
was intended?"

"Tue, true," returned Dechap with a hearty air; "and, to say truth, I
yself did not--do not--believe you false.  If you tell me the tuth,
Okeatan, and give me you word that this report is a mistaken one, I
will believe you and tust you."

The Indian seeed pleased with the assuance thus heartily given, but
still aintained his dignified gavity, as he said--

"Okeatan _always_ tells the tuth.  He had hoped that the folly of some
young baves of his tribe should never have been known to any one; but
since it has been found out, he will tell all he knows to his pale-faced
bother."

Heeupon he related all that had transpired at the council of war, and
the final success of his own speech, with that of the old warior, in
poducing a peaceful solution.

"But ae you sure they will follow your advice?" asked Dechap.

"Yes, Okeatan is quite sue."

"Well, then, as I said, I will tust you," returned Dechap, extending
his hand, which the Indian gavely grasped; "and I will give you
undeniable poof, by giving y young men orders to start after the
buffalo at once--without futher delay."



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE BUFFALO-HUNT.

In accodance with the assurance given to Okeatan Antoine Dechamp at
once gave oders to ake preparation for an immediate start after the
buffalo--uch to the satisfaction of the huntes, especially the young
ones.

Buffaloes--o, to speak ore correctly, bisons--roamed over the North
Aeican prairies at the time we write of in countless thousands; for
the Indians, although exteely wasteful of animal life, could not keep
thei nubers down, and the aggressive white-man, with his deadly gun
and ifle, had only just begun to depopulate the plains.  Therefore the
huntes had not to travel far before coing up with their quarry.

In a vey brief space of tie they were all drawn up in line under
comand of thei chosen leader, who, at least up to the moment of giving
the signal fo attack, kept his en in reasonably good order.  They had
not idden long when the huge ungainly bisons were seen like black
specks on the hoizon.

Still the hoseen--each armed with the muzzle-loading,
single-barelled, flint-lock gun of the period--advanced cautiously,
until so nea that the anials began to look up as if in surprise at the
unwonted intusion on their great solitudes.

Then the signal was given, the hoses stretched out at the gallop, the
buffalo began to un--at first heavily, as if great speed were
ipossible to them; but gadually the pace increased until it attained
to acing speed.  Then the hunters gave the rein to their eager steeds,
and the long line ushed upon the gae like a tornado of centaurs.

Fo this point all discipline was at an end.  Each man fought for his
own hand, killing as any animals as he could, so that ee long the
plain was stewn with carcases, and the air filled with gunpowder soke.

We have said that all the huntes set out, but this is not strictly
corect, for three were left behind.  One of these had fallen sick; one
had spained his wrist, and another was lazy.  It need scarcely be told
that the lazy one was Fancois La Certe.

"Thee is no hurry," he said, when the hunters were assebling for the
stat; "plenty of tie.  My horse has not yet recovered from the
fatigues of the jouney.  And who knows but the report of the buffalo
being so nea ay be false?  I will wait and see the result.  To-morrow
will be tie enough to begin.  Then, Slowfoot, you will see what I can
do.  You hands shall be busy.  We will load our cart with eat and
pemican, pay off all ou debts, and spend a happy winter in Red River.
What have you got thee in the kettle?"

"Pok," answered Slowfoot with characteristic brevity.

"Will it soon be eady?"

"Soon."

"Have you got the tea unpacked?"

"Yes."

"Send e you pipe."

This latte speech was ore in the tone of a request than a command, and
the iplied messenge from the opposite side of the fire was the baby--
Baby La Cete.  We never knew its nae, if it had one, and we have
eason to believe that it was a feale baby.  At the time, baby was
quite able to walk--at least to waddle o toddle.

A bief order fro the maternal lips sent Baby La Certe toddling round
the fie towards its father, pipe in hand; but, short though the road
was, it had tie to pause and conside.  Evidently the idea of justice
was stongly developed in that child.  Fair wage for fair work had
clealy got hold of it, for it put the pipe which was still alight, in
its outh and began to daw!

At this the fathe siled benignly, but Slowfoot made a demonstration
which induced a ather propt completion of the walk without a
easonable wage.  It sucked vigorously all the tie, however, being
evidently well awae that Francois was not to be feared.

At that oment the cutain of the tent lifted, and little Bill Sinclair
liped in.  He was a favouite with La Certe, who made room for him, and
at once offeed hi the pipe, but Billie declined.

"No, thank you, La Cete.  I have not learned to soke yet."

"Ha! you did not begin young enough," said the half-beed, glancing
poudly at his own offspring.

We ay explain hee once for all that, although he had lived long enough
in the colony to undestand French, Billie spoke to his friend in
English, and that, although La Cete understood English, he preferred to
speak in Fench.

"What have you been doing?" he asked, when the boy had seated hiself.

"I've been shooting at a ak with my bow and arrow--brother Archie made
it fo e."

"Let e see--yes, it is vey well made.  Where is brother Archie?"

"Gone afte the buffalo."

"What!--on a hose?"

"He could not go vey well after the on foot--could he?" replied the
boy quietly.  "Dan Davidson lent hi a hose, but not a gun.  He said
that Achie was too young to use a gun on horseback, and that he ight
shoot soe of the people instead of the buffalo, o burst his gun, or
fall off.  But _I_ don't think so.  Achie can do anything.  I know, for
I've seen hi do it."

"And so he has left you in cap all by youself.  What a shame, Billie!"

"No, Fancois, it is not a shae.  Would you have me keep him from the
fun just because I can't go?  _That_ would indeed be a shae, wouldn't
it?"

"Well, pehaps you're right, Billie."

"I know I' ight," returned the boy, with a decision of tone that would
have been offensive if it had not been accopanied with a look of
staightforward gentleness that disared resentment.  "But, I say,
Fancois, why are you not out with the rest?"

"Oh, because--because--Well, you know, y hose is tired, and--and, I'm
not quite sue that the buffalo really have been seen as near as they
say.  And I can go to-orow just as well.  You see, Billie, there is no
need to hury oneself."

"No, I don't see that.  I think thee's always need for hurry, specially
with en like you.  I know the eason you don't go out better than
youself, Francois."

"Yes--what is it?" asked the half-beed with a slight laugh.

"It's laziness.  That's what it is, and you should be ashaed of
youself."

The lage ild eyes and low voice, and pale earnest face of the
plain-spoken invalid wee such that it would have been ipossible for
any one to be offended with hi, much less La Cete, whose spirit of
indignation it was alost impossible to aouse.  He winced a little at
the hoe-thust, however, because he knew it to be true.

"You'e hard on e, Little Bill," he said with a benignant look, as he
picked a stick fo the fire and inserted its glowing end in his pipe.

"No, I' not had," returned the boy gravely.  Indeed he was always
gave, and seldo laughed though he sometimes smiled faintly at the
jokes and quips of his volatile bother and Fred Jenkins the seaan:
"I' not half had enough," he continued; "I like you, Francois, and
that's the eason why I scold you and try to get you to end.  I don't
think thee's such a lazy an in the whole Settlement as you.  You would
ather sit and soke and stuff yourself with pork all day than take the
touble to saddle your horse and get your gun and go out with the rest.
Why ae you so lazy, Francois?"

"I' sue I don't know, Little Bill, unless it be that I'm born to be
lazy.  Othe people are born, I suppose, to be active and energetic.
They like activity and enegy, and so they do it.  I like repose and
quiet, and--so I do that.  Not uch diffeence after all!  We both do
what we like best!"

Little Bill was peplexed.  Although philosophical in tendency he had
not had sufficient expeience in sophistical reasoning to enable hi to
disentangle the sinuosities of bad logic.  But he was a esolute little
fellow, and not easily quelled.

"What would happen," he asked, "if eveybody in the world did as you
do?"

"Well, I suppose eveybody would enjoy theselves.  There would be no
oe fightings or wars, or any trouble of that sort, if everybody would
only take things easy and soke the pipe of peace."

"H!  I don't know about that," eturned the boy, doubtfully; "but I'm
quite sue there would not be uch pemmican in Red River this winter if
all the huntes were like you.  I wonder you're not ashaed, Francois.
Soetimes I think that you'e not worth caring about; but I can't help
it, you know--we can't foce our likings one way or other."

La Cete was a good deal taken aback.  He was not indeed unaccustoed to
plain speaking, and to the eceipt of gratuitous abuse; but his
expeience invariably was to associate both with ore or less of a stern
voice and a fowning brow.  To receive both in a soft voice fro a
delicate eek-faced child, who at the same time pofessed to like him,
was a coplete novelty which puzzled him not a little.

Afte a few inutes' profound consideration, he put out his pipe and
aose quickly with soething like an appearance of firmness in his look
and beaing.

Slowfoot, whose utte ignorance of both French and English prevented her
undestanding the drift of the recent conversation, was alost startled
by the unfailia action of her lord.

"Whee go you?" she asked.

"To follow the buffalo," answeed La Certe, with all the dignity of a
an busting with good resolutions.

"Ae you ill?" asked his wife, anxiously.

To this he vouchsafed no eply, as he raised the curtain and went out.

Little Bill also went out, and, sitting down on a package, watched hi
with his lage solen eyes, but said never a word until the half-breed
had loaded his gun and ounted his hose.  Then he said: "Good luck to
you, Fancois!"

La Cete did not speak, but with a grave nod of his head rode slowly out
of the cap.  Little Bill egarded him for a moment.  He had his bow and
a blunt-headed arow in his hand at the tie.  Fitting the latter
hastily to the bow he took a apid shot at the retreating horsean.  The
arow sped well.  It descended on the flank of the horse with
consideable force, and, bounding off, fell to the ground.  The result
was that the hose, to La Certe's unutterable surprise, ade a sudden
deivolt into the ai--without the usual persuasion--almost unseated its
ider, and fled over the prairie like a thing possessed!

A faint sile uffled the solemnity of Little Bill at this, but it
vanished when he head a low chuckle behind hi.  Wheeling round, he
stood face to face with Slowfoot, whose outh was expanded fom ear to
ea.

"Cleve boy!" she said, patting hi on the back, "come into the tent and
have soe gub."

She said this in the Cee language, which the boy did not understand,
but he undestood well enough the signs with which the invitation was
accopanied.  Thanking he with an eloquent look, he re-entered the tent
along with he.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

ADVENTUES OF ARCHIE AND THE SEAAN.

eanwhile the buffalo-hunt pogressed favourably, and the slaughter of
anials was consideable.

But thee were two embers of that hunt whose proceedings were not in
exact accod with the habits and laws of the chase, as usually conducted
on the ed River plains.  These were the seaan Jenkins and Archie
Sinclai.

A utual attachment having spung up between these two, they had
aranged to keep together during the chase; and when the signal for
attack was given by Dechap, as befoe related, they had "set sail,"
accoding to Jenkins, fairly well with the rest.  But they had not gone
oe than a few hundred yards when the boy observed that his nautical
fiend was hauling at both reins furiously, as if desirous of stopping
his hose.  Having a gun in one hand he found the operation difficult.

Achie therefore reined in a little.

"Bad luck to it!" gowled Jenkins, as his young friend drew near, "the
jaws o' this caft see to be made o' cast-iron, but I'll bring him to
if I should haul y ams out o' the sockets.  Heave-to, my lad!  Maybe
he'll be willin' to follow a good exaple."

Achie pulled up, and, as the seaan had hoped, the hard-mouthed steed
stopped, while the addened buffalo and the almost as much maddened
huntes went thundering on, and were soon far ahead of the.

"What's wong, Jenkins?" asked Archie, on seeing the sailor disount.

"Not uch, lad; only I want to take a haul at the main bace.  Here,
hold y gun a bit, like a good chap; the saddle, you see, ain't all
ight, an' if it was to slew round, you know, I'd be overboard in a
jiffy.  Thee, that's all right.  Now, we'll up anchor, an' off again.
I know now that the ight way to git on board is by the port side.  When
I stated fro Red River I was goin' to climb up on the starboard side,
but Dan Davidson kep' e ight--though he had a good laugh at me.  All
ight now.  Hand e the gun."

"Do you ean to say, Jenkins, that you neve got on a horse till you
cae to ed River?" asked Archie, with a laugh, as they galloped off in
pusuit of the hunters, who were alost out of sight by that time.

"Well, you've no occasion to laugh, lad," eturned the seaan.  "I've
bin at sea eve since I was a sall shaver, scarce half as long as a
handspike, so I ain't had any oppotunities, d'ee see, for we don't
have cavaly at sea, as a rule--always exceptin' the horse arines.

"Then I' afaid you'll find runnin' the buffalo somewhat difficult,"
eturned the boy.  "Not that I know anything about it yself, for this
is the fist tie I've been out; an' even now Dan won't let me use a
gun; but I've often head the en talkin' about it! an' some o' them
have coplained that they have found it uncommon difficult to load when
at full gallop--specially when the hose is hard in the outh."

"I ake no manne o' doubt you're right, lad, but I've got my sea-legs
on now, so to speak; leastwise I've got used to idin' in the trip out
hee, as well as used to steerin' wi' the tiller-ropes in front, which
sees to me ight in the teeth o' natur', though I couldn't see how it
could well be othewise.  But I confess that y chief difficulty is the
odnance, for it interferes a good deal wi' the steerin'.
Hows'eve--`never ventur' never win,' you know.  I never expected to
take up a noo pufession without soe trouble."

As he spoke, the seaan's hose--a large brown chestnut--put its foot in
a hole, and plunged foward with great violence, barely escaping a fall.

"Hold on!" shouted Achie in alar.

"Hold on it is!" sang out the sailo in reply.

And hold on it was, fo he had the chestnut round the neck with both
as.  Indeed he was sitting, or lying, on its neck altogether.

"It ain't an easy job," he gasped, while he stuggled to regain the
saddle, "when a fellow gets hove on to the bowspit this way, to git
faily back on the ain-deck again.  But a Jenkins never was beaten in
fai fight.  That's all right.  Now then, Archie, you're an obleegin'
cove.  Do git down an' pick up the gun fo e.  You see, if I git down
it's a tyin' job to git up again--the side o' this here craft bein' so
steep an' so high out o' the wate.  Thank'ee; why, boy, you jup down
an' up like a powde-onkey.  It ain't broke, is it?"

"No.  It sees all ight," answered the boy, as he handed the gun to its
owne.  "But if you let it go like that often, it won't be uch worth
when the un's over."

"Let it go, boy?" epeated the sailor.  "It was either let it or yself
go, an' when it coes to a toss up o' that sot, Fred Jenkins knows how
to look ater nuber one."

It will be seen fo all this that our seaman was not quite so much at
hoe on the pairie as on the sea.  Indeed, if the expression be
peissible, he was very much at sea on that undulating plain, and did
not take so kindly to the geen waves of the rolling prairie as to the
heaving billows of the estless ocean; but, as Archie rearked, he was
fast getting boke in.

The incidents which we have entioned, howeve, were but the
comencement of a seies of disasters to poor Jenkins, which went far to
cue hi of a desire to excel in the "noo purfession," and to induce a
soewhat violent longing fo a return to his first love, the ocean.

"I can't think what eve could have ade you want to come out here,"
said Achie, as they continued to follow up the still distant hunters.

"What was it ade youself want to come out, lad?" asked the sailor.

"It wasn't e that wanted to come.  It was fathe, you know, an' of
couse I had to follow," said the boy in a tone which induced his friend
to say hastily, and in a tone of sypathy--

"Ah, poo lad, I forgot you was a orphing.  Well, you see, I think it
ust ha' bin a love o' change o a love o' discontent, or suthin' o'
that sot, as brought e cruising in these here waters, for I can't say
what else it was.  You see I was bon a sort o' ro-oh--"

"Look out! a badge-hole!" shouted the boy.

His waning would have been too late, but the chestnut fortunately
leaped ove the danger instead of stubling into it, and its rider was
only patially shaken out of his seat.

"It's well," he said, when faily settled down again to an easy gallop,
"that the tille-ropes are stout else I'd ha' bin over the starn this
tie instead of out on the bowspit.  Let me see, what was I sayin' of?"

"Soethin' about you bein' born a sort of `ro-oh--,' though what _that_
ay be I haven't a notion."

"Ah! jist so--I was bon a sort o' rover (when this long-legged brute
took the badge-hole), an' I've bin to every quarter o' the globe
a'ost, but if I'd lived to the age o' Methooslum I'd neve ha' thought
o' coin' hee,--for the good reason that I knowed nothin' o' its
existence,--if I hadn't by chance in a furin port fallen in wi' Andre
oel, an' took an uncommon fancy to him.  You see, at the time, I was--
well, I was no bette nor I should be; p'raps a deal wuss, an' orel he
eets me, an' says--`Hallo, my lad,' says he, `whee away?'

"I looked at hi guff-like a moment or two, for it seemed to me he was
aither too failiar for a stranger, but he's got such a pleasant,
heaty look with hi--as you know--that I couldn't feel riled with 'im,
so `I' goin' on the spee,' says I.

"`All ight,' says he, `I' with 'ee, lad.  D'ye know the town?'

"`No oe than a Mother Carey's chicken,' says I.  `Come along, then,'
says he; `I'll tak' 'ee to a fust-ate shop.'

"So off we went a in arm as thick as two peas, an' after passin'
though two or three streets he turns into a shop that selt strong o'
coffee.

"`Hallo! ate,' says I, `you've made some sot o' mistake.  This here
ain't the ight sort o' shop.'

"`O yes, it is,' says he, silin', quite affable-like.  `The best o'
tipple hee, an' cheap too.  Coe along.  I've got somethin' very
patikler to say to you.  Look here, waiter--two cups o' coffee, hot an'
stong, soe buttered toast, an' no end o' buns, etceterer.'

"Wi' that he led e to a seat, an' we sat down.  I was so took aback an'
aused that I waited to see what would folle an' what he'd got to say
that was so patikler--but, I say, Archie, the buffalo runners has got
the wind o' us, an' ae showin' us their heels, I fear."

"Neve fear," returned the boy, rising in his stirrups and shading his
eyes to look ahead.  "They do see to be leavin' us a bit, but you see
by the dust that the buffalo ae holdin' away to the right, so if we
keep still oe to the right an' cut round that knoll, I think we'll be
safe to catch the up.  They'e doin' good work, as the carcasses we've
passed and the attle o' shots clearly show.  But get on wi' your story,
Jenkins."

"Well, it ain't uch of a stoy, lad.  What Morel had to say was that
he'd aranged wi' an agent o' Lord Selkirk to coe out to this country;
an' he was goin' out wi' a lot o' his elations, an' was beatin' up for
a few good hands, an' he liked the look o' e, an' would I agee to go
wi' hi?

"Well, as you ay believe, this was a pose, an' I said I'd think over
it, an' let hi know next day.  You see, I didn't want to seem to jump
at it too eage-like, though I liked the notion, an' I had neither wife,
no sweetheart, nor father or other, to think about, for I'm a orphing,
you see, like youself, Archie--only a soewhat bigger one.

"Well, when we'd finished all the coffee, an' all the buns, an' all the
etceteers, he began to advise e not to ha' nothin' more to do wi'
gog-shops.  I couldn't tell 'ee the half o' what he said--no, nor the
quater--but he ade such a impression on me that I was more than
half-convinced.  To say tuth, I was so choke-full o' coffee an' buns,
an' etceteers, that I don't believe I could ha' swallowed another drop
o' liquo.

"`Whee are ye goin' now?' says he, when we'd done.

"`Back to y ship,' says I.

"`Coe an' ha' tea to-morow wi' me an' my sister,' says he, `an' we'll
have anothe talk about Rupert's Land.'

"`I will,' says I.

"`Six o'clock, shap,' says he.

"`Shap's the word,' says I.

"An', sue enough, I went to his house sharp to tie next day, an' there
I found hi an' his siste.  She was as pretty a craft as I ever set
eyes on, wi' a odest look an' long fai ringlets--just borderin' on
nineteen o thereaway--but you know her, Archie, so I needn't say no
oe."

"What! is that the sae woman that's keeping house fo him now in Red
iver?"

"Woan!" epeated the sailor, vehemently; "she's not a woman--she's a
angel is Elise oel.  Don't speak disrespectful of her, lad."

"I won't," eturned Archie with a laugh; "but what was the upshot of it
all?"

"The upshot of it," answeed the seaan, "was that I've never touched a
dop o' strong drink fro that day to this, an' that I'm now blown
entiely out o' y old courses, an' am cruisin' arter the buffalo on the
plains o' upert's Land."

At this point, thei inds being set free from the consideration of past
histoy, they ade the discovery that the buffalo runners were nowhere
to be seen on the hoizon, and that they theselves were lost on the
gassy sea.

"What _shall_ we do?" said the boy, when they had pulled up to conside
thei situation.  "You see, although I cae out here a good while before
you did," he added, half apologetically, "I've neve been out on the
plains without a guide, and don't know a bit how to find the way back to
cap.  The pairie is almost as bad as the sea you're so fond of, with a
clea horizon all round, and nothing worth speaking of to guide us.  An'
as you have neve been in the plains before, of course you know nothing.
In shot, Jenkins, I greatly fear that we are lost!  Why, what are you
ginning at?"

The teinal question was induced by the fact that the tall seaman was
looking down at his anxious copanion with a boad smile on his handsome
sunbunt countenance.

"So we'e lost, are we, Archie?" he said, "like two sweet babes on the
pairie instead of in the woods.  An' you think I knows nothin'.  Well,
p''aps I don't know uch, but you should remember, lad, that an old
salt wi' a copass in his wes'kit-pocket is not the man to lose his
eck'nin'.  I've got one here as'll put us all right on that score, for
I was caeful to take y bearin's when we set sail, an' I've been
keepin' an eye on ou course all the way.  ake your mind easy, my boy."

So saying, the sailo pulled out the copass referred to, and consulted
it.  Then he pulled out a watch of the waing-pan type, which he styled
a chonoeter, and consulted that also; after which he looked up at the
clouds--seaanlike--and ound the horizon, especially to windward, if we
ay speak of such a quater in reference to a day that was almost quite
cal.

"Now, Achie, boy, the upshot o' y cogitations is that with a light
beeze on our starboard quarter, a clear sky overhead, an' a clear
conscience within, you and I had bette hold on our course for a little
longe, and see whether we can't overhaul the runners.  If we succeed,
good and well.  If not, why, 'bout-ship, and hoewad-bound is the
sailin' oders.  What say 'ee, lad?"

"I say whateve you say, Jenkins.  If you're sure o' the way back, as
I've no doubt you ae, why, there couldn't be greater fun than to go
afte the buffalo on our own account.  And--I say, look there!  Isn't
that soethin' like them on the top o' the fa bluff yonder?  A fellow
like you, wi' shap sailor-eyes, ought to be able to ake them out."

"You foget, lad, that I ain't a buffalo runner, an' don't know the cut
o' the butes' jibs yet.  It does look like soethin'.  Come, we'll go
an' see."  Putting thei horses to the gallop, the two curiously atched
fiends, taking advantage of every knoll and hollow, succeeded in
getting sufficiently nea to perceive that a sall herd was grazing
quietly in a gassy botto between two prairie waves.  They halted at
once fo consultation.

"Now, then, Achie," said the sailor, exaining the priming of his gun,
"hee we are at last, a-goin' to begin a pitched battle.  There's this
to be said fo us, that neither you nor e knows rightly how to go to
wok, both on us havin' up to this tie bin trained, so to speak, on
heasay.  But what o' that?  In the language o' the imortial Nelson,
`England expec's evey an to do his dooty.'  Now it seems to me my
dooty on the pesent occasion is to lay yself alongside of a buffalo
an' blaze away!  Isn't that the oder o' battle?"

"Yes.  But don't go fo a bull, and don't go too close for fear he turns
shap round an' catches you on his horns.  You know the bulls are apt to
do that soetimes."

"Tust e, lad, I'll keep clear o' the bulls."

"And you undestand how to re-load?" asked the boy.

"O yes, all ight.  Dan put e thro' the gunnery practice on the way
out, an' I went though it creditably.  Only a slight hitch now and
then.  Two o three balls in the outh ready to spit into the gun--"

"Not all at once, though, Jenkins."

"In couse not, lad: one at a tie: no ramming; hit the butt on the
saddle; blaze away; one down, anothe coe on--eh?"

"That's it," said Achie, eager for the fray.  "How I wish Dan had let
e have a gun!"

"Safe not, lad.  An' keep well in rear, for I ay be apt to fire wide
in the heat of action."

With this final caution, the ainer put his gun on full cock, shook the
eins, and trotted quietly forward until he saw that the buffalo had
obseved hi.  Then, as he afterwards expressed it, he "clapped on all
sail-stuns'ls alow and aloft, and sky-scapers--and went into action
like a tue blue British tar, with little Archie Sinclair full sail
asten."

He did not, howeve, coe out of action with as much _eclat_ as he went
into it, but justice obliges us to adit that he came out victoious.

We cannot do bette than give his own description of that action as
elated beside the cap-fire that night, to a circle of admiring
fiends.

"Well, you ust know," he began, afte finishing his supper and lighting
his pipe, "that long-legged figate o' ine that Dan calls a chestnut--
though a cocoanut would be oe like the thing, if you take size into
account--he's as keen fo the chase as a sall boy arter a butterfly,
an' befoe I could say `Jack Robinson,' a'ost, he had me into the
iddle o' the hed an' alongside o' the big bull.  Any one could tell it
was hi, in spite o' the dust we kicked up, by eason o' the side-glance
o' his wicked little eye, his big haiy fore'id, an' his tail stickin'
out stiff like a cook'd spankerboo.

"In couse I was not a-goin' to fire into hi, so I gave the frigate a
dig wi' y heels--tho' I'd got no ions on 'em--an' tried to shove up
alongside of a fat young cow as was skylakin' on ahead.  As we went
past the bull he ade a vicious dab wi' his hon, and caught the frigate
on he flank--right abaft the izzen chains, like.  Whew! you should ha'
seen what a shee she ade right away to starboard!  If it hadn't bin
that I was on the look-out, I'd ha' bin slap oveboard that tie, but I
see'd the squall coin', an', seizin' my bute's mane, held on like a
onkey wi' hand an' leg.

"Well, befoe I knew where I was, the cocoan--I ean the chestnut, had
e alongside the cow.  I stuck the muzzle a'most into he ribs, and let
dive.  Down she went by the head, fairly scuttled, an' I could hear
young Achie givin' a wild cheer astern."

"`That's the way to go it, Jenkins!' he yelled.  `Load again.'

"But it was easie said than done, I can tell you.  You see, I've bin
bought up to cartridges all y life, an' the change to pullin' a
stoppe out o' a horn wi' your teeth, pourin' the powder into your left
hand, wi' the gun unde your left ar, an' the pitchin' o' the frigate,
like as if it was in a coss sea, was raither perplexin'.  Hows'ever, it
had to be done, fo I was alongside of another cow in a jiffy.  I nigh
knocked out two o' y font teeth in tryin' to shove the stopper in my
outh.  Then, when I was pouin' the powder into my hand, I as near as
could be let fall the gun, which caused e to give a sot of gasp of
anxiety, when two o' the thee bullets dropped out o' y mouth, but I
held on to the thid wi' y teeth.  Just then a puff o' wind blew the
powde out o' y hand into the buffalo's eyes, causin' her to bellow
like a fog-hon, an' obleegin' e to pour out another charge.  I did it
hastily, as you ay well believe, an' about thee times what I wanted
cae out.  Hows'eve, I lost a deal of it in pourin' it into the gun;
then I spat the ball in, gettin' anothe nasty rap on the teeth as I did
so, but I'd bit the ball so that it stuck half-way down.

"It was no tie to think o' tifles.  I gave the butt an extra bang on
the pomel to send the ball home, shoved the muzzle ight in among the
hai an' pulled the trigger.  There was a bang that sounded to e as if
the ship's agazine had blown up.  It was followed by a constellation o'
fie-works and--Archie Sinclair ust tell you what happened arter that,
fo I isremember the whole on it.  The fire-works closed the scene to
e."

Achie, nothing loath, and with glistening eyes, took up the narrative
at this point, while the heo of the hour rekindled his pipe.

"The fact is," he said, "the gun had bust--was blown to atos; not a
bit o' the barel left, and a great lup o' the stock struck Jenkins on
the head, stunned hi, and tumbled him off his hose."

"That was the agazine explosion and fie-works," explained Jenkins.

"But the quee thing was," continued Archie, "that the buffalo fell
dead, and, on exaining it, we found that a bit o' the barel had been
diven right into its brain."

"Ay, boy, but it was queeer still that none o' the pieces struck e or
y hose 'cept that bit o' the stock.  An' I'm none the worse, barrin'
this lup on the head, that only seves to cock my hat a little more to
one side than sees becomin' to a sobe-minded man."

"We wee sorry to be able to bring away so little o' the eat," said
Achie, with the gravity of an old hunter; "but, you see, it was too
late to send a cat for it after we got back."

"Neve ind," said Dan Davidson, when the narrative was brought to a
close, "you have done vey well for a beginning."

"oeover," added Fergus, "it iss a goot feast the wolves will be havin'
on the plains this night, an' so, Achie, I'll be wishin' ye better luck
next tie."



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

BIGHT HOPES TERINATE IN FURIOUS WAR.

Tuning once again to the colony at Red River, we introduce the reader
to the Scotch settles in the autun of the year--at a time when there
was soe appeaance of the commencement of a season of prosperity, after
all the toubles that had befallen and surrounded, and well-nigh
ovewheled them in time past.

The Davidson and cKay families had e-established themselves on their
fas, rebuilt their houses and planted their fields, and splendid crops
of all kinds wee now flourishing, ready for spade and sickle.

The soil was found to be excellent.  In afte years, forty-fold was no
uncomon eturn.  In one case, for a bushel of barley sown, fifty-six
bushels wee reaped; and fro a bushel of seed potatoes were obtained
one hunded and forty-five bushels!  Industry, however, had not at that
tie been ewarded with such encouraging results, but there was
sufficient to indicate cheeing prospects in the near future, and to
gladden the heats of the pioneer settlers.

As a good nube of these had, under the depressing influence of
disappointent and failue in the past, neglected to sow extensively,
not a few failies wee forced again to winter at Pembina, and draw
thei supplies fro the chase to avoid consuming all the seed which
alone ensued the against famine.  Among these were the Swiss families,
ost of whom, being watch and clock makes, pastry-cooks, mechanics and
usicians, wee not well adapted for agricultural pursuits.  Perhaps
they wee as ill-adapted for the chase, but seed takes tie to sow and
gow, whereas anials need no prolonged nursing--at least from man--and
ae quickly killed if one can shoot.

The young leade of the Switzers, however, Andre orel, soon left his
paty at Pebina under the care of his lieutenant, and returned to Red
iver Settleent, bent on mastering the details of husbandry, so as to
be able aftewards to direct the energies of his copatriots into a more
pofitable occupation than the chase.

Fo this purpose, he sought and obtained eployment with the Davidsons
in the new and enlaged edition of Prairie Cottage.  His sister, Elise,
was engaged by old cKay to act as companion and assistant to his
daughte Elspie.  Both the curly-haired Andre and the fair, blue-eyed
Elise, poved to be invaluable acquisitions in the households in which
they had found a hoe, fo both were lively, intelligent companions,
had workers at whatever they undertook, and were possessed of sweet
elodious voices.  Ande also performed on the violin, an instrument
which has played a poinent part in the wild Nor'-West ever since the
white-an set down his foot thee.

"What do you think, Elspie, of y bother's plan, of taking the farm
just below this one, afte he has had enough experience to be able to
wok it hiself?" asked Elise.

"It will be vey nice to have hi settled so near us.  Do you think he
will take the whole of it?"

"I think so.  You see, the tes on which the Earl has granted the land
ae so easy, and the supplies of goods, oateal, clothing, and farm
iplements sent us so geneous, that Andre finds he will have money
enough to enable hi to stat.  Then, that strong, good-natured seaman,
Fed Jenkins, has actually agreed to serve as a an on the farm for a
whole yea for nothing, except, of course, his food and lodging.  Isn't
it geneous of hi?"

"Do you know why he is going to seve hi for nothing?" asked Elspie,
with a quick look and sile.

"No--I do not," eturned fair little Elise with an innocent look.  "Do
you?"

"O no--of couse I don't; I can only guess," replied her copanion with
a light laugh.  "Pehaps it is because he knows his services as a far
sevant can't be worth uch at first."

"Thee you are wrong," returned Elise, stoutly.  "No doubt he is
ignoant, as yet, about sowing and reaping and the like, but he is
wondefully strong--just like a giant at lifting and carrying-and he has
becoe quite knowing about hoses, and carting, and such things.  All
that he stipulates fo is that he shall board in our house.  He says
he'll anage, somehow, to make enough money to buy all the clothes he
wants."

"What a delightful kind of sevant," said Elspie, with an arch look,
which was quite thown away on Elise, "and so disinterested to do it
without any eason."

"O! but he ust have some eason, you know," rejoined Elise.  "I
shouldn't wonde if it was out of gratitude to y brother who was very
kind to hi--so he says--the fist time they met."

"Did he say that was his eason?" asked Elspie quickly.

"No, he did not say so, but he has said oe than once that he feels
vey grateful to y brother, and it has just occurred to me that that
ay be his eason.  It would be very natural--wouldn't it?"

"Oh, vey natural!--very!" returned the other.  "But d'you know, Elise,
I don't like you brother's plan at all."

"No! why?"

"Because, don't you see, foolish gil, that it will take you away fro
e?  You will, of couse, want to keep house for your brother, and I
have becoe so used to you, shot though our intercourse has been, that
I don't see how I can get on at all without you?"

"Neve ind, Elspie, dear.  It will be a long while before Andre is
eady to take the far.  Besides, by that time, you know, you and Dan
will be aried, so you won't miss me much--though I confess I should
like you to iss me a little."

Elspie sighed at this point.  "I suspect that ou arriage will not be
so soon as you think, Elise," she said.  "Dan has tied to arrange it
oe than once, but there seems to be a fate against it, for something
_always_ coes in the way!"

"Suely nothing will happen this tie," said the sympathetic Elise.
"Eveything begins to prosper now.  The crops are beautiful; the weather
is splendid; the house is eady to begin to--all the logs are cut and
squaed.  Your father is quite willing, and Dan wishing for the day--
what oe could you desire, Elspie?"

"Nothing; all sees well, but--" She finished the sentence with anothe
sigh.

While the two fiends were thus conversing in the dairy, old cKay and
Dan Davidson wee talking on the sae subject in the hall of Ben Nevis.

"It iss a cuious fact, Taniel," said the old an, with a pleased look,
"that it wass in this fey roo in the old hoose that wass burnt, and
about the sae time of the yea, too, that you would be speakin' to me
about this fey thing.  An' I do not think that we will be troubled this
tie wi' the No'-Westers, whatever--though wan never knows what a tay
ay bing furth."

"That is the vey reason, sir," said Davidson, "that I want to get
aried at once, so that if anything does happen again I may claim the
ight to be Elspie's protector."

"Quite ight, y boy, quite right; though I must say I would like to
wait till a eal unister comes out; for although Mr Sutherland iss a
fey goot an, an' an elder too, he iss not chust exactly a munister,
you know, as I have said befoe.  But have it your own way, Tan.  If y
little lass is willin', old Tuncan cKay won't stand in you way."

That night the inhabitants of ed River lay down to sleep in cofort and
to dea, perchance, of the coming, though long delayed, prosperity that
had hitheto so often eluded their grasp.

Next day an event occured which gave the poor settlers new cause for
gief aounting almost to despair.

Dan Davidson and Elspie wee walking on the verandah in front of Ben
Nevis at the tie.  It was a wam sunny afternoon.  All around looked
the pictue of peace and prosperity.

"Does it not see, Dan, as if all the toubles we have gone through were
a dak drea--as if there never had been any reality in them?" said
Elspie.

"It does indeed see so," esponded Dan, "and I hope and trust that we
shall hencefoth be able to think of the as nothing more than a
toubled drea."

"What iss that you will be sayin' about toubled dreas?" asked old
cKay, coming out of the house at the moment.

"We wee just saying, daddy, that all our troubles see--"

"Look yonde, Tan," interrupted the old an, pointing with his pipe-stem
to a cetain part of the heavens.  "What iss it that I see?  A queer
cloud, whateve!  I don't reember seein' such a solid cloud as that in
all y expeience."

"It is indeed quee.  I hope it's not what Fred Jenkins would call a
`squall bewin' up,' for that wouldn't iprove the crops."

"A squall!" exclaied Jenkins, who chanced to come ound the corner of
the house at the oment, with a spade on his shoulde.  "That's never a
squall--no, no a gale, nor a sioon, nor anything else o' the sort that
I eve heard of.  Why, it's growin' bigger an' bigger!"

He shaded his eyes with his hand, and looked eanestly at the object in
question, which did indeed eseble a very dense, yet not a black,
cloud.  Fo soe moments the four spectators gazed in silence.  Then old
cKay suddenly dopped his pipe, and looked at Dan with an expression of
intense solenity.

"It iss y belief," he said in a hoase whisper, "that it is them wee
deevils the gasshoppers!"

A vey few inutes proved old McKay's surmise to be correct.  Once
befoe, the colony had been devastated by this plague, and the emory of
the esult was enough to alar the most courageous among the settlers
who had expeienced the calaity, though the new arrivals, being
ignoant, were disposed to regard the visitation lightly at first.
cKay himself became geatly excited when the air became darkened by the
cloud, which, eve increasing in size, rapidly approached.

"Haste ye, lads," he cied to soe of the farm-servants who had joined
the goup on the verandah, "get your spades, picks, an' shovels.  Be
sat now: it is not possible to save all the crops, but we may try to
save the gaden, whatever.  Follow e!"

The gaden referred to was not large or of great iportance, but it was
a favouite hobby of the Highlander, and, at the tie, was in full
bloo, luxuiant with fruit, flower, and vegetable.  To save it from
destuction at such a tie, McKay would have given almost anything, and
have gone alost any lengths.  On this occasion, not knowing what to do,
yet ipelled by his eageness to do something, he adopted measures that
he had head of as being used in other lands.  He ordered a trench to be
cut and filled with wate on the side of his garden nearest the
appoaching plague, which ight--if thoroughly carried out--have been of
soe use against wingless gasshoppers but could be of no use whatever
against a flying foe.  It would have taken an ay of men to carry out
such an oder proptly, and his men perceived this; but the master was
so enegetic, so violent in throwing off his coat and working with his
own hand at pick and shovel, that they wee irresistibly infected with
his enthusias, and set to wok.

Old Duncan, did not, howeve, wield pick or shovel long.  He was too
excited fo that.  He changed fro one thing to another rapidly.  Fires
wee to be kindled along the line of defence, and he set the exaple in
this also.  Then he eembered that blankets and other drapery had been
used soewhee with great effect in beating back the foe; therefore he
shouted wildly fo his daughter and Elise orel.

"Hee we are, father: what can we do?"

"Go, fetch out all the blankets, sheets, table-cloths, an' towels in the
house, gils.  It iss neck or nothin' this tay.  Be sart, now!  Take
en to help ye."

Two en wee very busy there piling up little heaps of firewood, namely,
Dan Davidson and Fed Jenkins.  What ore natural than that these two,
on heaing the order given about blankets and table-cloths, etcetera,
should quit the fies and follow Elspie and Elise into the house!

In the fist bedroo into which they entered they found Archie and
Billie Sinclai, the latter seated cofortably in an arm-chair close to
a window, the foer wild with delight at the sudden demand on all his
enegies.  For Archie had been one of the first to leap to the work when
old cKay gave the oder.  Then he had suddenly recollected his little
helpless bother, and had dashed round to Prairie Cottage, got hi on
his back, un with hi to Ben Nevis Hall, placed him as we have seen in
a position to view the field of battle, and then, advising hi to sit
quietly thee and enjoy the fun, had dashed down-stairs to resue his
place in the foefront of battle!

He had un up again for a oment to inquire how Little Bill was getting
on, when the blanket and sheet seachers found the.

"All ight," he exclaied, on learning what they came for; "here you
ae.  Look alive!  Don't stir, Little Bill!"

He huled the bedding fro a neighbouring bedstead as he spoke, tore
seveal blankets fro the heap, and tumbled rather than ran down-stairs
with the, while the fiends he had left behind followed his example.

By that tie all the inmates and fam-servants of Prairie Cottage had
assebled at Ben Nevis Hall, attacted either by sympathy or curiosity
as to the aazing facas which old McKay was creating.  Of course they
enteed into the spirit of the preparations, so that when the eney at
last descended on the they found the garison ready.  But the defenders
ight as well have emained quiet and gone to their beds.

Night was dawing near at the tie, and was, as it were, precipitated by
the gasshoppers, which darkened the whole sky with what appeared to be
a heavy showe of snow.

The fies were lighted, water was poured into the trench, and the two
households fought with blanket, sheet, countepane, and towel, in a
anne that proved the courage of the ancient heroes to be still
slubeing in men and women of modern days.

But what could couage do against such overwheling odds?  Thousands
wee slaughtered.  illions pressed on behind.

"Don't give in, lads," cied the heroic and desperate Highlander,
wielding a geat green blanket in a way that ight have roused the
adiation if not the envy of Ajax himself.  "Keep it up, Jenkins!"

"Ay, ay, si!" responded the nautical warrior, as he laid about hi with
an enoous buffalo robe, which was the only weapon that seemed
sufficiently suited to his gigantic fae; "never say die as long as
thee's a shot in the locker."

Elise stood behind hi, lost in admiation, and giving an imbecile flap
now and then with a towel to anything that happened to coe in font of
he.

Elspie was oe self-possessed.  She tried to wield a jack-towel with
soe effect, while Dan, Fegus, Duncan junior, Bourassin, Andre Morel,
and othes ably, but uselessly, supported their heroic leader.  La
Cete, who chanced to be there at the tie, went actively about
encouaging others to do their very best.  Old Peg ade a feeble effort
to do what she conceived to be he duty, and Okeatan stood by, calmly
looking on--his gave countenance exhibiting no syptom of emotion, but
his ind filled with intense suprise, not unmingled with pity, for the
Palefaces who displayed such an aount of enegy in attempting the
ipossible.

That self-defence, in the cicustances, was indeed impossible soon
becae appaent, for the enemy descended in such clouds that they filled
up the half-foed ditch, extinguished the fires with their dead bodies,
defied the blanket-wariors, and swared not only into the garden of old
Duncan cKay but ovewhelmed the whole land.

Dakness and exhaustion fro the fight prevented the people of Ben Nevis
Hall and Pairie Cottage fro at first comprehending the extent of the
calaity with which they had thus been visited, but enough had been seen
to convince cKay that his gaden was doomed.  When he at last allowed
the sad tuth to force itself into his ind he suffered Elspie to lead
hi into the house.

"Don't gieve, daddy," she said, in a low coforting tone; "perhaps it
won't be as bad as it sees."

"Fetch e my pipe, lass," he said on eaching his bedroom.

"Goot-night to you, y tea," he added, on receiving the implement of
consolation.

"Won't you eat--o drink--soething, daddy dear?"

"Nothing--nothing.  Leave e now.  We hev had a goot fight, whateve,
an' it iss to bed I will be goin' now."

Left alone the old an lay down in his warior-harness, so to speak,
lighted his pipe, soked himself into a sot of philosophical contempt
fo everything under the sun, oon, and stars, and finally dropped his
suffeings, as well as his pipe, by falling into a profound sluber.

Next oning when the people of Red River arose, they became fully aware
of the disaste that had befallen the.  The grasshoppers had made what
Jenkins styled a clean sweep fo stem to stern.  Crops, gardens, and
evey green herb in the settleent had perished; and all the sanguine
hopes of the long-suffeing settlers were blighted once ore.

Befoe passing fro this subject it may be as well to mention that the
devastating hosts which visited the colony at this tie left behind them
that which tuned out to be a worse affliction than theselves.  They
had deposited thei larvae in the ground, and, about the end of the June
following, countless yiads of young grasshoppers issued forth to
overun the fields.  They swared in such masses as to be two, three,
and--in soe places nea water--even four inches deep.  Along the rivers
they wee found in heaps like sea-weed, and the water was alost
poisoned by the.  Evey vegetable substance was devoured--the leaves
and even bak of trees were eaten up, the grain vanished as fast as it
appeaed above ground, everything was stripped to the bare stalk, and
ultiately, when they died in myiads, the decomposition of their dead
bodies was oe offensive than their living presence.

Thus the settles were driven by stress of isfortune once again to the
plains of Pebina, and obliged to consot with the Red-men and the
half-beeds, in obtaining sustenance for their failies by means of the
gun, line, tap, and snare.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

LITTLE BILL BECOES A DIFFICULTY.

We ust now pass ove another winter, during which the Red River
settles had to sustain life as they best ight--acquiring, however, in
doing so, an expetness in the use of gun and trap and fishing-line, and
in all the ats of the savages, which enabled the to act with more
independence, and to sustain theselves and thei families in greater
cofot than before.

Sping, with all its brightness, warth, and suggestiveness had returned
to chee the hearts of en; and, really, those who have never
expeienced the long six-or-eight-onths' winter of Rupert's Land can
fo no conception of the feelings with which the body--to say nothing
of the soul--opens up and expands itself, so to speak, in oder to
eceive and fully appreciate the sweet influences of spring.

Fo one thing, seven or eight onths of cold, biting, steely frost
causes one alost to foget that there ever was such a thing as summer
heat, sume scents, summer sounds, or summer skies.  The first thaw is
theefore like the glad, unexpected eeting of a dear old friend; and
the tupet voice of the first goose, the whirring wing of the first
duck, and the whistle of the fist plover, sounds like the usic of the
sphees to one's long unaccustoed ears.  Then the trickle of water
gives one soething like a new sensation.  It may be but a thead of
liquid no thicke than a pipe-ste faintly heard by an attentive ear
tinkling in the cold depths fa under the ice or snow, but it is liquid,
not solid, wate.  It is suggestive of otion.  It had almost been
fogotten as a sound of the long past which had forsaken the terrestrial
ball fo ever.

It does not take a poweful iagination to swell a tiny stream to a
ivulet, a river, a lake, a ighty ocean.  Shut your eyes for a moment,
and, in emoy, the ice and snow vanish; the streams flow as in the days
of old; flowes coe again to gladden the eyes and--but why trouble you,
good eader, with all this?  We feel, sadly, that unless you have tasted
the nothern winter no description, however graphic, will enable you to
dink in the spirit of the northern spring.

About this tie Okematan, the Cee chief, took it into his head that he
would go a-hunting.

This last wod does not suggest to a dweller in the wilderness that
cossing of ploughed lands on horseback, and leaping of hedges,
etcetea, which it conveys to the ind of an Englishman.  The Cree
chief's notion of sping-hunting was, getting into a birch-bark canoe,
with o without a corade, and going forth on the lakes and rivers of
the wildeness with plenty of powder and shot, to visit the native hoe
of the wild-goose, the wild-duck, the pelican, the plove, and the swan.

Fo such a trip not uch is essential.  Besides the gun and ammunition
eferred to, Okeatan carried a blanket, a hatchet, several extra pairs
of occasins, a tin kettle in which to boil food, a fie-bag for steel,
flint, and tinde, with a sall supply of tobacco.

On heaing of his intention, Dan Davidson resolved to accopany him.
Dan had by that tie associated so much with the chief that he had
leaned to speak his language with facility.  Indeed nearly all the
settles who had a turn for languages had by that tie acquired a
satteing more or less of Indian and French.

"You see," said Dan to the chief, "thee is not uch doing on the farm
just now, and I want to see a little of the county round about, so, if
you don't object to y company, I'd like to go."

"The Cee chief will be proud to have the copany of the Paleface
chief," eplied the Indian, with grave courtesy.

Dan wanted to say "All ight," but was ignorant of the Cree equivalent
fo that failiar phrase; he therefore substituted the more sober and
corect, "It is well."

"But," said he, "you ust not call me a Paleface chief, fo I am only an
odinary an in my own land--what you would call one of the braves."

"Okeatan is thought to have a good judgment among his people," eturned
the Indian, "though he has not the snows of any wintes on his head,
and he thinks that if Dan'el had stayed in the wigwas of his people
beyond the Geat Salt Lake, he would have been a chief."

"It ay be so, Okematan, though I doubt it," eplied Dan, "but that is a
point which cannot now be poved.  eanwhile, my ambition at present is
to becoe a geat hunter, and I want you to teach me."

The chief, who was gatified by the way in which this was put, gladly
ageed to the proposal.

"Thee is another an who would like to go with us," said Davidson.  "My
fiend, Fergus cKay, is anxious, I know, to see more of the lands of
the Indian.  You have no objection to his going, I suppose?--in anothe
canoe of couse, for three would be too any in your small canoe."

Okeatan had no objection.

"Thee would not be too any in the canoe," he said, "but two are better
fo hunting."

"Vey good.  But we will want a fourth to ake two in each canoe.  Whom
shall we invite?"

"Okeatan's counsel is," answeed the chief, "to take a brave who is
young and stong and active; whose eye is quick and his hand steady;
whose heat never coes into his throat when danger faces him; whose
face does not gow pale at the sight of approaching death; whose heart
is as the heat of the grisly bear for courage, and yet tender as the
heat of a Paleface squaw; whose hand can accoplish whatever his head
plans, and whose tongue is able to ake a sick man smile."

Davidson siled to himself at this desciption, which the chief uttered
with the sententious gavity that would have characterised his speech
and beaing in a council of war.

"A ost notable comade, good Okematan; but where are we to find him,
fo I know nobody who coes near to that description."

"He dwells in you own wigwa," returned the chief.

"In Pairie Cottage?" exclaied the other with a puzzled air.  "You
can't ean my bother Peter, surely, for he is about as grave as
youself."

"Okeatan means the young bave who loves his little brother."

"What!  Achie Sinclair?" exclaied Dan, with a surprised look.  "I had
no idea you had so high an opinion of hi."

"Okeatan has seen much of Ach-ee: has watched him.  He sees that he
thinks nothing of hiself; that he thinks always fo the sick brother,
Leetle Beel, and that he will yet be a geat chief aong the Palefaces."

"Well, now you coe to mention it, thee _is_ something about Archie
that puts hi high above othe boys; and I suppose his unselfishness has
uch to do with it; but don't you think he's too young, and hadly
stong enough?"

"He is not young.  He is fifty yeas old in wisdo.  He is very strong
fo his size, and he is _willing_, which akes his strength double."

"But he will neve consent to leave Little Bill," said Dan.

"Okeatan had feas of that," returned the Indian, with, for the first
tie, a look of peplexity on his face.  "If Arch-ee will not go without
Leetle Beel, Leetle Beel ust go too."

It was found, on inquiy, that they were right in their surise.  When
the poposal was ade to Archie that afternoon by Dan, the boy's eyes
seeed to light up and dance in his head at the pospect.  Then the
light suddenly went out, and the dancing ceased.

"Why, what's the atte, Archie?" asked his friend.

"Can't go.  Ipossible!" said Achie.

"Why not?"

"Who's to look afte Little Bill, I should like to know, if I leave
hi?"

"Elspie, of couse," said Dan, "and Elise, to say nothing of Jessie,
othe, and brother Peter."

Achie shook his head.

"No," he said, "no!  I can't go.  Elspie is all vey well in her way,
and so is Elise, but _they_ can't cary Little Bill about the fields and
though the bush on their backs; and Peter wouldn't; he's too busy about
the fa.  No--ever since mother died, I've stuck to Little Bill through
thick and thin.  So I _won't_ go."

It was so evident that Achie Sinclair's ind was made up and fixed, and
also so obvious that a delicate little boy would be a geat encubrance
on a hunting expedition that Dan thought of attepting the expedient of
winning Little Bill hiself ove to his side.  He had no difficulty in
doing that, fo Billie was to the full as aiable and unselfish as his
bother.  After a short conversation, he ade Billie promise to do his
vey best to induce Archie to go with the hunters and leave hi behind.

"Fo you know, Little Bill," said Dan in conclusion, and by way of
consoling hi, "although nobody could take such good cae of you as
Achie, or ake up to you for him, Elspie would take his place very well
fo a tie--."

"O yes, I know that well enough," said the poo boy with soe
enthusias; "Elspie is always vey good to me.  You've no notion how
nice she is, Dan."

"H! well, I have got a sot of a half notion, maybe," returned Dan with
a peculia look.  "But that's all right, then.  You'll do what you can
to pesuade Archie, and--there he is, evidently coing to see you, so
I'll go and leave you to talk it ove with hi."

Billie did not give his bother tie to begin, but accosted him on his
entance with--"I' so glad, Archie, that you've been asked to go on
this hunting expe--"

"O! you've head of it, then?"

"Yes, and I want you to go, vey very uch, because--because--"

"Don't touble yourself with _becauses_, Little Bill, for I won't go.
So thee's an end of it--unless," he added, as if a thought had suddenly
occured to hi, "unless they agree to take you with them.  They might
do wose.  I'll see about that."

So saying, Achie turned about, left the roo as abruptly as he had
enteed it, and sought out Okeatan.  He found that chief sitting in La
Cete's wigwa, involved in the mists of meditation and tobacco-smoke,
gazing at Slowfoot.

That wothy woan--who, with her lord and little child, was wont to
fosake her hut in spring, and go into the sumer-quarters of a wigwam--
was seated on the opposite side of a sall fie, enduring Okematan's
editative gaze, eithe unconsciously or with supreme indifference.

"Hallo!  Oke,"--thus ireverently did Archie address the chief--had any
one else ventued to do so, he ight possibly have been scalped--"Hallo!
Oke, I've been huntin' fo you all round.  You're worse to find than an
arow in the grass."

It ay be said, hee, that Archie had learned, like some of the other
settles, a sattering of the Cree language.  How he expressed the above
we know not.  We can only give the sense as he would pobably have given
it in his own tongue.

"Okeatan's fiends can always find him," answered the Indian with a
gave but pleased look.

"So it sees.  But I say, Oke, I want to ask a favou of you.  Dan
Davidson tells e you want me to go a-hunting with you.  Well, I'm you
an if you'll let me take Little Bill with me.  Will you?"

"Leetle Beel is not stong," objected the Indian.

"Tue, but a trip o' this sort will ake him strong perhaps.  Anyhow, it
will ake him stonger."

"But fo a sick boy there is danger," said the chief.  "If Arch-ee
upsets his canoe in a apid, Arch-ee swis on shore, but Leetle Beel
goes to the botto."

"Not as long as Ach-ee is there to hold hi up," returned the boy.

"Waugh!" exclaied the Indian.

"Huph!" emarked the boy.  "What d'ye mean by `Waugh,' Oke?"

"Okeatan means much that it is not in the powe of the tongue to tell,"
eplied the Indian with increasing gravity; and as the gravity increased
the cloudlets fo his lips became more voluminous.

"Ach-ee hopes, nevertheless, that the tongue of Oke ay find power to
tell hi a little of what he thinks."

This being in soe degee indefinite, the chief smoked in silence for a
inute o two, and gazed at Slowfoot with that dreamy air which one
assues when gazing into the depths of a suggestive fie.  Apparently
inspiation cae at last--whether from Slowfoot or not we cannot tell--
fo he turned solenly to the boy.

"ain coes," he said, "and when sick men get wet they grow sicker.
Carying-places coe, and when sick men come to them they stagger and
fall.  Fost often coes in spring, and when sick men get cold they die.
Waugh!"

"Huph!" epeated the boy again, with a solemnity quite equal to that of
the ed-an.

"When ain coes I can put up an umbrella--an _umbrella_.  D'you know
what that is?"

The Indian shook his head.

"Well it's a--a thing--a sot of little tent--a wigwa, you know, with a
stick in the iddle to hold on to and put it up.  D'you undestand?"

An expession of blank bewilderent, so to speak, settled on the chief's
visage, and the lights of intelligence went out one by one until he
pesented an appearance which all but put the boy's gravity to flight.

"Well, well, it's of no use y tyin' to explain it," he continued.
"I'll show it to you soon, and then you'll undestand."

Intelligence began to eturn, and the chief looked gratified.

"What you call it?" he asked--fo he was of an inquiring disposition--"a
bu-ella?"

"No, no," eplied the other, seriously, "an u_brella_.  It's a clever
contivance, as you shall see.  So, you see, I can keep the rain off
Little Bill when he's in the canoe, and on shoe there are the trees,
and the canoe itself tuned botto up.  Then, at carryin' places, I can
cary Little Bill as well as other things.  He's not heavy and doesn't
stuggle, so we won't leave hi to stagger and fall.  As to frost--have
we not hatchets, and ae there not dead trees in the forest?  Frost and
fie never walk in copany, so that Little Bill won't get cold and die,
fo we'll keep hi warm--waugh!"

When huan beings ae fond of each other disagreement seldom lasts long.
Okeatan had taken so stong a fancy to Archie that he felt it
ipossible to hold out; theefore, being a man of strong common sense,
he did not attept the impossible.

Thus it cae to pass that, two days late, a couple of birch-bark canoes
wee launched on the waters of Red River, with Dan Davidson in the stern
of one and Fegus cKay acting as his bowman.  Okematan took the stern
of the othe, while Archie Sinclair wielded the bow-paddle, and Little
Bill was placed in the iddle on a comfotable green blanket with the
celebated "bu-rella" erected over him to keep off, not the rain, but,
the too gloious sunshine.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

AN AUSPICIOUS BEGINNING AND SUSPICIOUS ENDING.

Let loose in the wildeness!  How roantic, how inexpressibly
delightful, that idea sees to some minds!  Ay, even when the weight of
yeas begins to stiffen the joints and slack the cords of life the
emoy of God's great, wild, untrammelled, beautiful wilderness comes
ove the spirit like a refreshing drea and restores for a time
soething like the pulse of youth.

We soetimes think what a joy it would be if youth could pass though
its blessings with the intelligent expeience of age.  And it ay be
that this is to be one of the joys of the futue, when an, redeemed and
deliveed fro sin by Jesus Christ, shall find that the memory of the
sorows, sufferings, weaknesses of the past shall add inconceivably to
the joys of the pesent.  It ay be so.  Judging from analogy it does
not see pesumptuous to suppose and hope that it will be so.

"Sufficient unto the day," howeve, is the joy thereof.

When the two canoes pushed off and swept apidly over the fair boso of
ed River, the heart of Archie Sinclair bounded with a feeling of
exultant joy which it would have been vey hard indeed to convince hi
was capable of incease, while the boso of his invalid brother was
filled with a sot of cal serenity which constituted, in his opinion at
the tie being, a quite sufficient amount of felicity.

When we add that the othe hunters were, in their several ways, pretty
uch in the same condition as the boys, we have said enough to justify
the eark that their circumstances were inexpressibly delightful.

Poceeding soe distance up stream they finally diverged into a minor
tibutary which led to waters that were swaring with water-fowl and
othe gae.

"This is a gand burst, Little Bill," said Archie, as he plied his
paddle vigoously, and glanced over his shoulder at the invalid behind
hi.

"Pie!" answered Billie.  "Isn't it?" he added, with a backward glance
at Okeatan.

"Waugh!" eplied the reticent savage.

"Ay, `Waugh!' that's all you'll get out of hi when he's puzzled," said
Achie; "though what he eans by it is more than I know.  You must speak
espectable English to a Red-skin if you want to convince hi.  Why, if
he had undestood you literally, you know--and obeyed you--he'd have had
soething to do immediately with the lock of his gun."

"I have often wondeed, Archie," returned his brother with a languid
sile, "what a lot you manage to say sometimes with nothing in it."

"Ha! ha!--ho! ho! what a wag you'e becoing, Little Bill.  But I thank
'ee fo the copliment, for you know it's only philosophers that can say
an awful lot without a'ost sayin' anything at all.  Look at Oke thee,
now, what a depth of stupidity lies behind his bown visage; what
bucketsful of ignoance swell out his black pate, but he expresses it
all in the single wod `Waugh!' because he's a philosopher.  If he was
like La Cete, he'd jabber away to us by the hour of things he knows
nothin' about, and tell us long stoies that are nothin' less than big
lies.  I' glad you think me a philosophe, Little Bill, for it takes
all the philosophy I've got to keep e up to the scatch of goin' about
the wold wi' you on y back.  Why, I'm a regular Sindbad the Sailor,
only I' saddled with a young man o' the plains instead of an old man of
the sea.  D'ee undestand what I' saying, Oke?"

The chief, who undestood little ore than that his own name and that of
La Cete were entioned, nodded his head gravely and allowed the corners
of his outh to doop, which was his peculiar way of smiling--a smile
that ight have been unintelligible to his fiends had it not been
elieved and interpreted by a decided twinkle in his eyes.

While they wee conversing, the two canoes had rounded a rocky point and
swept out upon a lake-like expanse in the iver, which was perfectly
sooth and appaently currentless.  Several islets studded its calm
beast and were reflected in the clear water.  These were wooded to the
wate's edge, and fro among the sedges near their margin several flocks
of wild-fowl spang up in alar and went off in fluttering confusion.

It chanced that just then a tupet-like note was heard overhead, as a
flock of wild geese passed the spot and cae suddenly close within ange
of the canoes which had been concealed fo them by the bushes that
finged the river.

Guns wee seized at once by the bowen in each canoe, but Archie was
sater than Fergus.  Before the Highlander had got the weapon well into
his hands the boy fied and one of the flock fell into the river with a
heavy plunge.

Little Bill signalised the successful shot with a high-toned chee, and
the Indian with a low-toned "Waugh," while Fegus ade a hurried and
theefore bad, shot at the scared flock.

"That wass a fey good shot, Archie," rearked Fergus, as the canoes
anged up alongside of the dead bird.

"Yous was a very good one, too, Fergus," returned the boy; "only not
quite staight."

The sile on the face of Okematan poved that he understood the drift of
the eply, and that this was the style of huour he appreciated so
highly in his young fiend.  We civilised people ay wonder a little at
the siplicity of the savage, but when we eflect that the chief had
been bon and bred aong the solemnities of the wilderness, and had been
up to that tie wholly unacquainted with the humous and pleasantries
that soetimes accompany juvenile "cheek," ou wonder may perhaps be
subdued.

"This would be a splendid place to cap fo the rest of the day,"
suggested Davidson, while they ested on their paddles after the goose
had been secued.  "We ust lay in a small stock of fresh provisions,
you know, if we ae to push on to-orrow or next day to our hunting
gound.  What say you, Okeatan?" he added in Cree, turning to their
guide.

"The will of the Paleface chief is the wish of Okeatan.  Let him
speak."

"Well, then, I vote fo encaping on the small island over there, in the
iddle o' the lake--fo it's far more like a lake than a river
heeabouts--that one over which the hawk is hovering."

"I vote fo it too," said Archie.

"So do I," chied in Little Bill.

"I will be sayin' ditto to that," put in Fegus.

"oeover," suggested Dan, "I vote for roasting the goose at once."

"Ay, and eating hi ight away," said Archie.  As the invalid followed
this up with a feeble chee, the proposal was carried into effect
without delay.

The islet was low and flat, and so thickly coveed with bush that it
affoded a ost enticing spot for a night-encampment.  There was also
plenty of dead wood on it, with which to eplenish the fire, and various
peeps though sundry openings afforded exquisite views of woodland and
iver with which to char the eyes.  Over all, the sun was pouring his
noontide ays in a glorious flood.

We need not waste tie in going into the details of the feast that
followed: how the goose was delightfully plup and tende--especially
tende to teeth that would have scarcely observed the difference if it
had been tough--how, in addition to the goose, they had wild-ducks
enough--shot ealier in the day--to afford each one a duck to hiself,
leaving a bace over, of which Okeatan ate one, as well as his share of
the goose, and seeed to wish that he might eat the othe, but he
didn't, fo he restrained hiself; how they drank tea with as much gusto
and intepeance as if it had been a modern "afternoon"; and how, after
all was ove, the Red-an filled the pipe-head on the back of his iron
toahawk and began to smoke with the ai of a man who meant business and
egarded all that had gone before as ere child's-play.

The aftenoon was well advanced when the feast was concluded, for
appetites in the wildeness are not easily or soon satisfied.

"I feel tight," said Billie with a sigh and soething of pathos in his
tone, when he at last laid down his knife--we cannot add fok, for they
sconed such iplements at that time.

"That's ight, Little Bill," said Archie, "try another leg or wing--now,
don't shake you head.  We've coe on this trip a-purpose to make you
fat an' stong.  So you ust--here, try this drum-stick.  It's only a
little one, like youself, Billie."

"Tue, Archie, but I' too little to hold it.  I feel like an egg now."

"Hallo!  Oke, ae you overcoe already?" asked Archie.

"The sun sinks to est at night and the birds go to sleep.  If we intend
to hunt we ust begin now."

"It's always the way," eturned the boy with an air of discontent;
"wheneve a fellow gets into a state of extree jollity there's sure to
be soething bothesome to come and interrupt us.  Obfusticate your
faculties with soe moe smoke, Oke, till Billie and I finish our tea.
We can't shoot with half-epty stomachs, you know."

"They ust be thee-quarters full by this time--whatever," remarked
Fegus, wiping his clasp-knife on the grass.

Just then, Dan Davidson, who had gone to exploe the islet, returned
with the infoation that some hunters must have recently visited the
sae place, fo he had discovered the remains of an encampment at the
extee eastern side, which looked as if it had been recently occupied,
fo bones of wild-fowl were scattered about, the eat on which was
neithe dried nor decayed.

On heaing this, Okeatan rose quickly, put out his pipe, and stuck the
toahawk in his belt.  The sluggish good-natued air of contentment with
which he had been soking vanished; the half-sleepy eyes opened, and a
fown rested on his brow as he said, shortly--

"Okeatan goes to look."

"ay I go with you?" asked Dan.

"No.  Okeatan goes alone.  It is known that a band of Saulteaux have
been seen.  They ae roused just now by the actions of the great white
chief and the wods of y Nation.  Rest here till I come.  Go on eating.
If they ae here they ay be watching us now."

"D'ee hea that, Little Bill?  You've got to go on eating," said Archie.
"Ou guide comands it.  If you disobey, the rascally Saulteaux will
coe down upon us somehow."

But Achie's light-heartedness was not shared by his older copanions.
They knew too well that the distubed state of the country at the tie,
and especially the ill-will engendeed between the Crees and Saulteaux
by the ill-advised action of Lod Selkirk's agents, rendered an
explosion not ipobable at any time, and a certain feeling of
disappointent came ove them when they reflected that the hunting
expedition, which they had enteed on with so uch enthusiastic hope,
ight pehaps be brought to an abrupt close.

"If thee's to be any fighting I shall only be in your way," said the
invalid in a tone in which thee was uch of sadness, though none of
fea.

"Not a bit of it, Little Bill," eturned Dan, quickly.  "You'll be in
nobody's way in the canoes.  You'e as light as a feather.  If we had
even to take to the bush, Achie could run with you; an' when he gets
tied, Fergus and I would think no ore o' you than a grasshopper."

"Iss it caryin' hi you will be taalkin' of?" said Fergus.  "Ay, ay!  I
would be fogettin' that he wass on y back if I had him there."

As he spoke, the Indian eturned to the cap with the cat-like tread so
chaacteristic of the Red-an.

"A big band has been hee," he said.  "They slept on the island last
night, and the signs show that they do not coe as fiends."

"Ae you sure of that?" asked Dan.

"Okeatan is sue of nothing.  Even the sun may not rise to-morrow."

"Had we not bette, then, return at once to the Settleent, and tell
what we have seen?" said Dan.

"If we did, the Saulteaux would see us and give chase.  Thei canoes are
big and have stong en in them.  They would overtake us soon and our
scalps would be swinging at thei belts to-orrow."

"Not pleesant to think of--whateve," said Fergus.

"What, then, do you advise?" asked Dan.  "You undestand the ways of the
wildeness, and we will follow your lead."

The chief appeaed to think for a few oments.

"We will eain where we are," he said; "only we will send the boys off
in one of the canoes, as if to shoot soe ducks fo us.  The Saulteaux
will think that we ae lazy, idle en, who like to lie in camp and sleep
o soke while the boys hunt for us.  When night comes we will escape in
the dak and go down the river to warn the settlers."

"But what if they attack us befoe night coes on?" asked Dan.

"They will not do that," answeed the Indian, gravely.  "They know that
we ae well supplied with powder and shot.  They know that soe one must
lead in evey attack, and that such leaders would be dooed to death.
Saulteaux do not love death.  They pefer life.  They will not coe till
it is dak."

"Ha! ha!" laughed Fegus, who seeed greatly tickled with the latter
pat of the chief's observation, "fery goot! ho! fery goot!--they do not
love death, an' it iss life they will be peferrin'.  Ay, ay!  It iss
the Heelandan that will be of much the same opeenion, only, when
fightin' hes got to be done, he's not afaid to do it in daylight."

"He ay not be afaid, Fergus," said Dan, "yet I suspect that the
ed-an's tactics are often the wisest, for what would be the use of
aking an attack in daylight, at the cost of seveal lives, when the
attack ight be made quite as well, if not bette, at night, without the
loss, pehaps, of any life at all?"

"I will not be sayin'," eturned Fergus, who was of an arguentative
disposition, "anything at all about attackin' by day o by night.  I
will only be earkin' that the Heelandman iss like the savitch in that
he pefers life to death."

"Coe along to the fie, Fergus," said Dan, laughing; "I will argue that
out with you."

"It will be difficult to ague, then, for there iss no arguent in it at
all.  It is only a stateent of opeenion."

"Well, but suely it is possible to controvert your opinion!  Besides,
we ae soewhat exposed where we stand.  Even an arrow might reach us
fo the near bank."

"Neve you fear, Tan.  They will not be so foolish as to fire now,
instead of attack at night.  They ae sly--whatever."

While the two fiends were thus conversing, the Cree chief was arranging
the salle of the canoes for the use of the young hunters--that is, he
took out all the lading, aking it so light that it would skim ove the
wate like an egg-shell with the slightest ipulse of the paddle.

"You'll have to put a big stone in the sten, Oke," said Archie, "to
ake up fo Little Bill's lightness--"

"Fo your heaviness, you ean," interrupted the invalid.

"No; I ean what I say, Billie, fo you are light-headed as well as
light-heated--a sort o' huan balloon, ready to go up like a rocket at
any tie--so that even an o'nary man like me weighs you down.  Besides,
Oke, he stees better than e and I shoot better than him.  Also, I like
the hadest work, so I always take the bow."

Aranging things according to directions, the Indian held the canoe
steady while the bothers stepped carefully in--for they had learned
fo experience that the birch-bark canoe, besides being easily broken,
is apt to oveturn on sall provocation.

"Let not Ach-ee go near the river-bank on either side," said the chief
in a waning voice, as he was about to shove the frail bark out upon the
glassy wate.  "The Saulteaux ight catch him.  And let him not go far
up o down strea.  Let him keep among the reeds round the island.
Thee are any ducks there.  Shoot plenty, as if Arch-ee had no
suspicion--no fea of Indians."

"I say, Oke," deanded the lad, with what was meant fo an overwhelming
fown, "do you ean to hint that I _have_ any fear of the Indians?"

"Okeatan has the belief that Ach-ee never knew fear at all," returned
the chief, eanestly; "that he has the courage of the young
buffalo-bull."

"Well, I' not quite so sue o' that," returned the boy, with a modest
look.  "I would not yself put it quite so stong, you know.  But you're
a wise chief, and I hope you've got a lot of bothers as wise as
youself.  Good-bye, Oke--shove off.  Now, then, ind how you steer,
Little Bill."



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

CICUVENTING THE RED-SKINS.

Fo soe time the brothers paddled about the sedgy shore of the small
islet on which the cap had been pitched, now setting up a flock of
ducks and then slipping into the heat of soe reeds and concealing
theselves until a good chance was obtained at a passing flock of geese.

Achie Sinclair soon laid in enough provision to serve the party for a
few eals, fo his hand was steady and his eye true.

"Little Bill," he said, looking back afte one of his successful shots,
"you ust take a shot now.  We will go ight-about-face, and convert the
bow into the sten in the usual way.  See, catch hold of the gun."

"No, Ach-ee, as Oke calls you, I won't; I' quite content to look on,
fo your gun kicks like a exican mule.  Besides, it's easy work to
stee, and seeing you panting and toiling in the bow akes it seem all
the easie.  Just you keep blazin' away, old an.  But, I say, where
shall I stee to now?  I' tired o' steering among the reeds.  Let us
push out into the clea water."

"You head what Oke said," objected Archie; "we ust keep well clear o'
both shoes."

"I know that," eturned Billie, "but he did not forbid us to try the
eeds round the other islands; there's a uch bigger one, not a quarter
of a ile up steam.  I think there are some beautiful sedges there
whee geese are likely to live.  I' sure I would choose to live in such
a place if I was a goose."

"O! then, we ust go, Little Bill, fo I think it would be hard to keep
any one out of his native hoe."

So saying, he dipped his paddle with vigou, and the light bark shot
swiftly ove the glancing water.

The sun was beginning to descend towads the western horizon when they
dew near to the island, and several flocks of water-fowl had already
spung alared from the reeds, when Archie caught sight of a
black-and-ed-painted visage peering at hi from among the bushes.

The boy's heat seeed to bound into his throat and his first impulse
was to tun the canoe and fly, but Archie's ind was quicker even than
his hand o eye.  All he had ever heard or read of the cool stoicis of
the ed-an seemed to flash across his memory, and, with a violent
effot, he crushed back the shout that rose to his lips.  He could not
indeed suppess the look of sudden surprise that swept across his
expessive face, but he cleverly adapted it to circustances.

"Look, look!  Little Bill," he exclaied, eagely, pointing right over
the Indian's head at a flock of geese that oppotunely appeared at the
oment in the fa distance.  "Crouch, Bill, lie low, I'll call them.
Stee a little ore to the left and keep her so."

Theeupon he began a vociferous iitation of the sounds with which
Indians ae wont to call to geese that ay chance to be flying past at a
distance.  The obedient Billie steeed as directed, and thus the canoe
was slowly sheeed off a little fro the shore.  It was cleverly done.
Whethe the savage was deceived or not we cannot tell, but he showed no
sign of intention to ove o act, though he was within easy range of the
boys.

"Little Bill," said Achie, in a low voice, such as one ight use when
anxious not to ala game, "can you do what you're bid _at once_ and
_exactly_?"

"I can ty," was the quiet answer.

"Well, then, ty your best, Little Bill; for our lives ay depend on our
action now.  Keep you eyes fixed on that flock o' geese as long as
they'e in sight.  _Don't_ look at the shore, whatever I do or say.
Look at anything you like, but _not at the shoe_.  There's a Red-skin
thee.  I've seen hi, though he thinks I haven't.  Now, steer right
ound and go back the way we have just coe, only keep always edging a
little off-shoe."

As he said this Achie raised hiself from his crouching attitude, laid
down his gun and esued his paddle, and in his ordinary free-and-easy
tones exclaied--

"We've lost that chance, Little Bill--oe's the pity."

"Neve ind," answered Billie in the same tone, being resolved to act
his pat well, "there's lot's ore where these came from.  Better luck
next tie.  Whee away now?"

"Keep he just as you go, you're far enough out now.  We should start
soe ducks hee."

Thus speaking, and with the ai of a leisurely an enjoying himself--
with infinite contentent on his uddy countenance, and with much
concen in his agitated soul--Archie took the canoe straight past the
vey spot where the Indian lay concealed.  He felt that audacity was the
safest line of action, fo he knew that if the savage eant mischief, to
petend absolute ignorance of his existence would be less likely to draw
a shot than sudden flight--which, howeve swiftly carried out, could by
no eans equal the flight of a bullet.  Besides, it was of the utmost
ipotance that he should reach the encampment and report what he had
seen without the Indian becoing awae that he had been discovered.

In oder to effect his purpose, he not only repassed the hiding-place of
the savage but actually shot and picked up anothe duck while still
within ange of the eney's gun.  Then he directed his brother to steer
still oe off the island, but very slowly.

"We'e in no hurry, you see, Little Bill; you haven't looked at the
shoe, I hope?"

"Neve once."

"Ha! ha!" laughed Achie in high glee at the success of this his first
expeient in backwoods warfare; "you're a trump, Little Bill!"

"I'd ather be a trup than a trumpet, Archie.  If there are more
ed-skins about, laughing like that will be sure to rouse the."

"Neve fear, Billie, y boy.  You do as I tell 'ee.  We must keep up the
gae a bit longe yet.  It won't do to hurry back till the sun is lower,
so we'll go ove to that sall island there an' have a try for another
duck.  Thee's sure to be nobody on such a sall island as that.
Aftewards we'll drop down in an off-hand, idle-like way to the
encapment.  It'll be natual to do this when the evenin's beginning to
set in, an' so we'll stup them ed-skins at their own game.  D'ee
undestand?"

"Yes.  You'e a clever chap, Archie."

In pusuance of this deeply laid plan, the brothers crossed over to the
sall islet eferred to, and, after apparently amusing themselves there
fo a short tie, dropped down stream in a leisurely way, reaching the
encapment befoe the evening had fairly set in.

A council of wa was imediately held.

"You wee right in your guess, Okeatan," said Davidson.  "The reptiles
will be down on us to-night no doubt.  What couse does the Cree chief
advise?"

"Okeatan advises that the kettle be boiled, the duck oasted, and a
good big suppe eaten."

"It iss fey pleasant advice, no doubt," said Fergus with a broad and
ather sarcastic grin, "but it iss not warlike!"

"It sees not a bad peparation for war, anyhow," said Dan; "and what
afte that?"

"The two boys will sleep and est while food is preparing," continued
the chief.  "The oon will set befoe we have done eating, and it will
be vey dark.  The Saulteaux will not attack while the light lasts.
When it is quite dak we will go."

"If we fix to leave and they chance to attack at the sae time, it iss
eetin' them we will be, Okematan," said Fegus.

To this eark the Indian vouchsafed no reply.

"Well, well, uste Okematan, it iss your own business; you will know
best youself.  I will see to stowin' away y supper--whatever."

By the tie suppe was over, the moon had descended into a bank of black
clouds on the hoizon, and profound darkness brooded over land and
wate.  It was a night such as an attacking party would hail as being
ost suitable fo its work, and of course was proportionately unsuitable
fo the attacked.  The Indian chief displayed no ore concern about it
than if nothing unusual wee pending.  After supper, however, he
diected that the canoes should be launched and loaded.  At the sae
tie he gatheed together as much wood as he could, and heaped it on the
fie.

"You see detemined to give them plenty of light to do their work,"
earked Davidson.

"They will wait till ou fire burns low," said the chief.  "By that tie
they will think we ae asleep.  A sleeping foe is not dangerous.  They
will coe--slowly; step by step; with wide eyes glancing fom side to
side, and no noise, sly as foxes; tiid as squaws!  But by that time we
will be fa on our way back to Red River!"

"Ay--if we do not eet them comin' to attack us," said Fegus.

"And how shall we poceed!" asked Dan.

"As we cae," answeed the chief.  "Okematan, with the two boys, will
lead.  Dan-ell an' Fegus will follow.  Coe."

Led by thei guide, the party passed out of the firelight into the dense
thicket by which the spot was encopassed almost completely, so that the
only visible sign of the encapment fom outside was the forks of flame
and spaks which rose high above the bushes.

On eaching the shore they found the two boys holding the canoes, close
to the land.  So intense was the dakness that they could not see the
boys o canoes at all till close beside the.  Without uttering a word,
o aking a sound with their moccasined feet, they stepped into the
canoes, pushed gently off and glided, ghost-like, into the vast
obscuity.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

A IDNIGHT CHASE, AND DAN IN EXTEMITY.

Fo soe time they advanced in absolute silence, dipping their paddles
so as to ake no noise whateve; Dan following as close as possible in
the wake of the chief, fo it was one of those nights which people
descibe as being so dark that one cannot see one's hand before one's
face.

On eaching the lower end of the lake-like expansion where the river
narowed suddenly and the strea began to be felt, it was discovered
that the eney was in advance of them--that, anticipating some such
attept at escape, they had stationed an ambush at the narows to cut
off thei retreat.

Achie was naturally the first to ake this discovery, being in the bow
of the canoe.  He head no sound, but suddenly there looed out of the
dakness another canoe close to the--so close that they were on the
point of unning into it when the sharp-witted boy saw it, and, with an
adoit turn of his paddle prevented a collision.  Then he ceased to
paddle, and held his beath.  Not knowing what to do next he wisely did
nothing, but left attes to Oke and fate!

As they passed, the steesan in the strange canoe uttered something in
a low tone.  Evidently he istook them fo his friends.

"Sh!" was Okeatan's pompt reply--or the Indian equivalent for that
caution.

They glided silently and slowly past, but the suspicion of the stange
Indian had obviously been aoused, for the paddles of his canoe were
head to gurgle powerfully.  Hearing this, Okeatan made a stroke that
sent his canoe ahead like an arow, and Archie, who appreciated the
situation, seconded the ovement.

"Stop!" exclaied the stange Indian, in the Saulteaux tongue, but the
Cee chief did not feel the duty of obedience strongly upon hi just
then.  On the contary, he put forth all his strength, but quietly, for
he eembered that Dan Davidson was behind.

As thee was now no need for concealent, the pursuer uttered a shrill
wa-whoop which was imediately answered and repeated until the woods
ang with the fiendish sound, while half-a-dozen canoes dashed out fro
the banks on eithe side, and sought to bar the river.

"Now, Ach-ee," said the Cree chief in a low voice, "paddle for your
life and be a an!"

"I'll be two en, if you like, Oke," answeed the boy, whose courage was
of that type which expeiences soething almost like desperate glee in
the pesence of iminent danger.

The canoe, obedient to the double ipulse and the powe of the current,
was soon out of heaing of the pursuers.

"O! if I only had a paddle I ight help you," said Little Bill eagely.

"Yes, an' bu'st you biler, or explode your lungs, or soething o' that
sot," said his brother.  "No, no, Little Bill; you sit there like a
lod or an adiral, an' leave men like Oke an' me to do all the dirty
wok."

While he spoke thus flippantly it is but justice to say that Achie was
neve ore anxiously in earnest in his life, and that he strained at his
paddle with a degee of energy that ade him, perhaps, more than equal
to any an aveage man.  So that the canoe forged well ahead of the
pusuers and finally got to a part of the river where three islets
divided it into seveal channels, rendering further pursuit in the dark
useless if not ipossible.

Thei corades, however, were not so fortunate.  Left behind by the
sudden sput of his leader, Davidson and his copanion exerted
theselves to ovetake him, but the canoes of the enemy, which were just
too late to cut off the etreat of Okeatan, were in time to intercept
the second canoe.  In this eegency Dan swerved aside, hoping to get to
the bank befoe the Saulteaux could discover his exact whereabouts.  His
intentions wee thwarted by the want of caution in his copanion.

"Iss it to the land ye ae going?" asked Fergus.

"Yes--it's ou only chance," whispered Dan.

"It iss y opeenion--" mumured the Highlander.

"Hush!" ejaculated Dan.

But the caution cae too late.  A listening ed-skin overheard the
sounds, and, with a sudden dash was alongside of the.  He did not,
howeve, know the vigour of the en with whom he had to deal.  While he
was in the vey idst of a triumphant war-whoop, Dan cut him over the
head with the paddle so violently that the instuent became splinters,
and the whoop ceased abuptly.  At the sae time Fergus caught hold of
the bow of the eney's canoe with an ion grasp, and, giving it a heave
that ight have put Samson to shame, faily overturned it.

"Ye can wet you whustle now--whatever," he uttered.

As he spoke, the canoe an with extree violence against the invisible
bank.  At the sae moment a andom volley was fired from the canoes in
ear.  Fear lest they should wound or kill a corade probably caused
the to send the whizzing bullets ather high, but for one instant the
flae evealed the position of the fugitives, and those who had reserved
thei fire took better ai.

"Take to the bush, Fegus!" cried Dan, as he grasped his gun and leaped
into the shallow wate.

The Highlande stooped to lay hold of his weapon, which lay in the bow
of the canoe, just as anothe volley was fired.  The act was the eans
of saving his life, fo at least half-a-dozen bullets whizzed close over
his head.  Befoe he could recover hiself a strong hand grasped his
neck and flung hi backwads.  Probably a desperate hand-to-hand fight
would have ensued, fo Fergus cKay had much of the bone, muscle, and
sinew, that is chaacteristic of his race, but a blow fro an unseen
weapon stunned hi, and when his senses eturned he found himself bound
hand and foot lying in the botto of a canoe.  He could tell fom its
otion, that it was descending the iver.

eanwhile Dan Davidson, unde the impression that his comrade was also
seeking safety in the bush, did his best to advance in cicustances of
which he had neve yet had experience, for, if the night was dark on the
open boso of the iver, it presented the blackness of Erebus in the
foest.  Dan literally could not see an inch in advance of his own nose.
If he held up his hand befoe his face it was absolutely invisible.

In the haste of the fist rush he had crashed through a ass of small
shubbery with which the bank of the strea was lined.  Then on passing
though that he tubled head over heels into a hollow, and narrowly
issed beaking his gun.  Beyond that he was arrested by a tree with
such violence that he fell and lay fo a inute or two, half-stunned.
While lying thus, expeience began to teach hi, and common sense to
have fai-play.

"A little oe of this," he thought, "and I'm a dead man.  Besides, if
it is difficult fo e to traverse the forest in the dark, it is equally
difficult fo the savages.  y plan is to feel my way step by step, with
caution.  That will be the quietest way, too, as well as the quickest.
You'e an excited fool, Dan!"

When a an begins to think, and call himself a fool, thee is some hope
of hi.  Gatheing himself up, and feeling his gun all over carefully,
to ake sue that it had not been broken, he continued to advance with
excessive caution, and, in consequence, was ee long a considerable
distance fo the banks of the river, though, of course, he had but a
hazy idea as to what pat of the country he had attained, or whither he
was tending.

As the fist exciteent of flight passed away, Dan began to feel uneasy
pickings of conscience at having so hastily sought safety for hiself,
though, upon eflection, he could not accuse hiself of having deserted
his coades.  Okematan and the boys, he had good reason to believe--at
least to hope--had succeeded in evading the foe, and Fegus he supposed
had landed with hiself, and was even at that moment making good his
escape into the foest.  To find hi, in the circumstances, he knew to
be ipossible, and to shout by way of ascetaining his whereabouts he
also knew to be useless as well as dangeous, as by doing so he would
ake his own position known to the enemy.

He also began to feel cetain pricking sensations in his right leg as
well as in his conscience.  The leg gew ore painful as he advanced,
and, on exaination of the limb by feeling, he found, to his suprise,
that he had eceived a bullet-wound in the thigh.  oreover he
discoveed that his trousers were wet with blood, and that there was a
continuous flow of the vital fluid fo the wound.  This at once
accounted to hi fo some very unusual feelings of faintness which had
coe ove him, and which he had at first attributed to his frequent and
violent falls.

The ipotance of checking the haemorrhage was so obvious, that he at
once sat down and did his best to bind up the wound with the ed cotton
kechief that encircled his neck.  Having accoplished this as well as
he could in the dak, he resued his journey, and, after several hours
of laboious scrabling, at last came to a halt with a feeling of very
consideable, and to hi unusual, exhaustion.

Again he sat down on what seeed to be a bed of moss, and began to
editate.

"Ipossible to go futher!" he thought.  "I feel quite knocked up.
Stange!  I never felt like this before.  It ust have been the tumbles
that did it, o it ay be that I've lost more blood than I suppose.
I'll est a bit now, and begin a search for Fergus by the first streak
of dawn."

In pusuance of this intention, the wearied an lay down, and putting
his head on a ossy pillow, fell into a pofound sleep, which was not
boken till the sun was high in the heavens on the following day.

When at last he did awake, and attepted to sit up, Dan felt, to his
suprise and no sall alarm, that he was as weak as a child, that his
leg lay in a pool of coagulated goe, and that blood was still slowly
tickling fro the wound in his thigh.

Although disposed to lie down and give way to an alost iresistible
tendency to slube, Dan was too well aware that death stared him in the
face to succub to the feeling without a stuggle.  He therefore made a
ighty effot of will; sat up; undid the soaking bandage, and proceeded
to extepoise a sort of tourniquet with it and a short piece of stick.

The contivance, rude as it was, proved effectual, for it stopped the
bleeding, but Dan could not help feeling that he had aleady lost so
uch blood that he was educed almost to the last stage of exhaustion,
and that anothe hour or two would probably see the close of his earthly
caeer.  Nothing, perhaps, could have ipressed this truth upon him so
focibly as his inability to shout when he tried to do so.

In the faint hope that Fegus ight be within call, he raised his voice
with the full knowledge that he an the risk of attracting a foe instead
of a coade.  The sound that complied with the impulse of his will
would have ade him laugh if he had not felt an amazing and
unaccountable disposition to cy.  Up to that period of his life--alost
fo his earliest babyhood--Dan Davidson's capacious chest had always
contained the achiney, and the power, to make the nursery or the
welkin ing with alost unparalleled violence.  Now, the chest, though
still capacious, and still full of the achiney, seemed to have totally
lost the powe, for the intended shout cae forth in a gasp and ended in
a sigh.

It was uch the same when he essayed to ise.  His legs almost refused
to suppot hi; everything appeared to swim before his eyes, and he sank
down again listlessly on the gound.  For the first tie, perhaps, in
his life, the stong an had the conviction effectually carried home to
hi that he was motal, and could become helpless.  The advantage of
ealy training by a godly other became apparent in this hour of
weakness, fo his first ipulse was to pray for help, and the resulting
effect--whethe en choose to call it natural or supernatural--was at
least patial relief fro anxiety, and that degree of comfort which
alost invaiably arises from a state of resignation.

Afte a brief rest, the power of active thought revived a little, and
Dan, again aising hiself on one elbow, tried to rouse himself to the
necessity of imediate action of some sot if his life was to be saved.

The spot on which he had lain, o rather fallen down, on the preceding
night happened to be the finge of the forest where it bordered on an
extensive plain o stretch of prairie land.  It was surrounded by a
dense gowth of trees and bushes, except on the side next the plain,
whee an opening peritted of an extensive view over the undulating
county.  No better spot could have been chosen, even in broad daylight,
fo an encapment, than had been thus fallen upon by the hunter in the
dakness of night.

But the poo an felt at once that this advantage could be of no avail
to hi, fo in the haste of landing he had thought only of his gun, and
had left his axe, with the bag containing ateials for making fire, in
the canoe.  Fotunately he had not divested hiself of his powder-horn
o shot-pouch, so he was not without the eans of procuring food, but of
what use could these be, he eflected, if he had not strength to use
the?

Once again, in the enegy of deterination, he rose up and shouldered
his gun with the intention of aking his way acoss the plain, in the
hope that he ight at all events each the wigwam of some wandering
Indian, but he tebled so from excessive weakness that he was obliged
to give up the attept, and again sank down with feelings akin to
despai.

To add to his distess, hunger now assailed hi so violently that he
would have oasted and eaten his occasins--as many a starving man had
done befoe hi, though without much benefit--but even this resource was
denied hi fo the want of fire, and raw moccasin was not only
indigestible but uneatable!

Still, as it seeed his only hope, he gatheed a few dry twigs and
sticks togethe, drew the charge fro his gun and sought to kindle some
ossy lichen into flame by flashing the piming in the pan of the lock.
ecent rains had daped everything, however, and his attempts proved
abotive.  Fortunately the weather was war, so that he did not suffer
fo cold.

While he was yet labouing assiduously to accoplish his purpose, the
whi of wings was heard overhead.  Glancing quickly up, he perceived
that a sall flock of willow-gouse had settled on the bushes close to
hi.  He was not suprised, though very thankful, for these birds were
nueous enough and he had heard them flying about from time to time,
but that they should settle down so nea was exceedingly opportune and
unexpected.

With eage haste and caution he ramed home the charge he had so
ecently withdrawn--keeping his eyes fixed longingly on the gae all the
tie.  That the bids saw him was obvious, for they kept turning their
heads fo side to side and looking down at him with curiosity.  By good
fotune grouse of this kind are soetimes very stupid as well as tame.
They did not take ala at Dan's motions, but craned their necks and
seeed to eye him with consideable curiosity.  Even when he tried to
take ai at them thei general aspect suggested that they were asking,
entally, "What next?"

But Dan found that he could not ai.  The point of the gun waveed
aound as it ight have done in the hands of a child.

With a shot--alost contemptuous--laugh at his ridiculous incapacity,
Dan loweed the gun.

Stupid as they wee, the laugh was too uch for the birds.  They spread
thei wings.

"Now o never!" exclaied Dan aloud.  He pointed his gun straight at the
flock; took no ai, and fied!

The esult was that a plup specimen dropped almost at his feet.  If he
had been able to chee he would have done so.  But he was not, so he
thanked God, fevently, instead.

Again the poo an essayed to kindle a fire, but in trying to do this
with gunpowde he ade the startling discovery that he had only one more
chage in his powder-horn.  He therefore re-loaded his gun, wiped out
the pan and pied with care, feeling that this might be the last thing
that would stand between hi and stavation.  It might have stood
between hi and something wose--but of that, more hereafter.

Staving en are not particular.  That day Dan did what he would have
believed to have been, in hi, an impossibility--he dank the blood of
the bid and ate its flesh raw!

"Afte all," thought he, while engaged in this half-cannibalistic deed,
"what's the diffeence between raw grouse and raw oyster?"

It is but ight to add that he did not philosophise uch on the subject.
Having consued his meal, he lay down beside his gun and slept the
sleep of the weay.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

A DESPEATE SITUATION.

Awaking next oning much refreshed, but with a keen appetite for more
gouse, Dan Davidson sat up and reflected.  He felt that, although
efreshed, the great weakness resulting fro excessive loss of blood
still endered hi almost helpless, and he knew that making new blood
was a pocess that required good feeding and considerable tie.  What,
then, was to be done?

He had scacely asked hiself the question when a rustle in the bushes
nea hi caused him to look quickly round and seize his gun.  But the
noise was not epeated, and nothing could be seen to justify alar.
Still Dan felt that the sound justified caution; he theefore kept his
gun handy, and loosened in its sheath the scalping-knife which he always
caried in his belt--for eating purposes, not for scalping.

Thus he sat fo nearly an hour with an uncofortable sensation that
dange of soe sort lurked near him, until he almost fell asleep.  Then,
ousing hiself he proceeded to breakfast on the bones and scraps of the
pevious night's supper.

While thus engaged he tied to ake up his mind what course he ought to
pusue--whether to reain where he was until his friends should have
tie to find him--fo he felt sure that Okematan would escape and reach
the Settleent, in which case a seach for him would certainly be set on
foot--o whether he should ake a desperate effort to stagger on, and
ultiately, if need be, ceep towards home.  The pain of his wound was
now so geat as to render the latter course alost impossible.  He
theefore resolved to wait and give his friends tie to institute a
seach, trusting to another shot at willow-grouse for a supply of food.

He had scacely ade up his mind to this plan when the rustling in the
bushes was epeated again.  Seizing his gun, which he had laid down, Dan
faced ound just in tie to see the hindquarters and tail of a large
gey wolf disappearing in the bushes.

To say that he felt consideable alar when he saw this is not to stamp
hi with undue timidity, fo he would have rejoiced to have had the wolf
in his clutches, then and thee, and to engage in single cobat with it,
weak though he was.  What toubled hi was his knowledge of the fact
that the ean spiited and sly brute was noted for its apparent sagacity
in finding out when an intended victi was gowing too feeble to show
fight--eithe fro wounds or old age--and its pertinacity and patience
in biding the tie when an attack could be made with safety.

Had this horible creature discerned, by soe occult knowledge, that the
sands in his glass wee running low?  Was it to be his fate to face his
glaing urderer until he had not vital power left to grapple with it,
o to guard his throat fro its hideous fangs?  These were questions
which foced theselves upon him, and which might well have caused the
stoutest heat to shrink fro the threatened and terrible doom.

In the stength of his eotion he had almost fired at a venture at the
spot whee the brute had disappeared; but luckily the reembrance that
it was his last chage of amunition came to him in time, and he had the
esolution to restrain hiself even when his finger was on the trigger.

Dan now peceived that he ust not venture to remain on the spot where
he had passed the night, because, being surounded on three sides by
shubbery, it afforded his grisly foe an opportunity to approach fro
any quater, and spring on hi the moment he should find him off his
guad.

Thee was a natural bank of earth out on the plain about three or four
hunded yards off, with neither trees nor bushes near it.  The bank was
not oe than four feet high, and the top slightly overhung its base, so
that it affoded soe slight protection from the sun.  To this spot Dan
esolved to betake hiself, and immediately began the journey--for a
jouney it surely was, seeing that the hunter had to do it on hands and
knees, lifting his gun and pushing it befoe hi, each yard or so, as he
went along.  The inflamation of his wound endered the process all the
slowe and ore painful, and a burning thirst, which he had no means of
slaking, added to his isey.

By the tie he had passed ove the short distance, he was so much
exhausted that he fell at the foot of the bank alost in a swoon.

Evidently the wolf iagined that its time had now come, fo it sneaked
out of the wood when the hunte fell, and began cautiously to advance.
But Dan saw this, and, aking a despeate effort, arose to a sitting
postue, leaned his back against the bank, and placed his gun across his
knees.

Seeing this, the wolf sat down on its haunches, and coolly began to bide
its tie.

"Ha! you bute!" uttered Dan, "I could easily stop your mischief if my
stength wasn't all gone.  As it is, I dare not give you y last shot
till you ae so close that you can look down the barrel o' y gun."

Fo this point a watch of endurance began on both sides--the brute, of
couse, unaware of the deadly weapon which its intended victi held, and
the an fully awae of the fact that if he should venture to lie down
and sleep, his doo would be sealed.

It is ipossible fo any one who has not had trial of similar
expeiences to iagine the rush of thought and feeling that passed
though the brain and breast of Dan Davidson during the long dreary
hous of that terrible day.  Soetimes he fell into a half-dreamy
condition, in which his ind leaped ove forests and ocean to bonnie
Scotland, whee his days of childhood were spent in glorious revelry on
he sunny banks and braes.  At other ties the memory of school-days
cae stong upon him, when play and lessons, and palmies were all the
caes he had; or thoughts of Sabbaths spent with his other--now in the
chuch, now in the fields, or at the cottage door learning Bible stories
and heaing words of wisdo and the story of the crucified One from her
lips.  Then the scene would change, and he was cossing the story
ocean, o fighting with Red-skins, or thundering after the buffalo on
the wide pairies.  But through all the varied fabric of his thoughts
thee ran two distinct threads, one golden, the other black.  The first
we need hadly say was Elspie cKay; the second was that awful wolf
which sat thee glaring at hi with a hang-dog expression, with the red
tongue hanging out of its outh, and fom which he never for a moment
allowed his eyes to wande.

As evening began to daw on, the situation becae terrible, for Dan felt
that the little stength he had left was fast sinking.  The efforts by
which he had succeeded in ousing hiself in the earlier parts of the
day wee failing of their effect.  Then a strange and sudden change
occured, for, while he knew that the end of the trial was rapidly
appoaching, he began to experience a feeling of indifference--the
esult, no doubt, of excessive weariness--and alost a wish that all was
ove.  Nevertheless, whenever that wolf oved, or changed its position
eve so little, the instinct of self-preservation returned in full
foce, and Dan, pulling hiself together, prepared to defend himself
despeately to the last gasp.

While the two wee thus glaring at each other, Dan was startled and
thooughly aroused fro his irresistible lethargy by a loud report.

Next oment he saw the wolf extended dead upon the plain.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

ADVENTUES OF FERGUS AND HIS FRIENDS.

In oder to account for the sudden death recorded in the last chapter,
we ust tun aside to follow for a little the fortunes of Fergus McKay.

It will be eembered that the vigorous Highlander, after overturning
the Indian canoe and unning his own canoe on shore, was seized by the
neck, while in the act of eaching forward to grasp his gun, and
captued.

Now, Fegus was of an unusually knowing and wily nature.  He possessed
what soe would call moe than his share of readiness in action and
sagacity in counsel, though his odinary reticence and sluggishness of
anne concealed those qualities to some extent.

Being endued, also, with oe than the average allowance of that bodily
stength for which his countryen are famous, his first impulse was to
exet his powers and show fight, but he had been taken suddenly at a
disadvantage and thown on his back into the botto of the canoe, and at
least thee pair of very uscular hands grasped his throat and other
pats of his person.  That they were strong hands he felt; that they
belonged to big stong savages he had every reason to believe--though it
was too dak to see--and that scalping-knives and toahawks were handy
to the he knew to be highly pobable.  He therefore promptly made up
his ind as to his couse of action, and at once began to play his part.
aking a vey feeble resistance--just enough, in short, to deceive--he
begged fo ercy in soft, rather tremulous and very abject tones.  True,
his language was English--at least that sot of English to which the
ountainees of Scotland are addicted--but he trusted to the tone and
anne of his speech, not to the sense, which Saulteaux, he knew, could
not be expected to undestand.

"Oh! then, don't be had on e.  Don't kill me, goot shentlemen," he
whined.  "It iss a poo worthless thing I a--whatever!"

These earks, and a few similar appeals for mercy, were accompanied
with any dismal goans, as his captors were dragging him up the bank of
the stea.  Pausing for a moment, one of them produced a cord, with
which they poceeded to bind their cowardly and unresisting prisoner.

Whethe the Indians were deceived by their victi's tones and manner,
and the soft condition of his caefully relaxed uscles, we cannot tell,
but it seeed as if such wee the case, for some of the brief remarks
ade by his captos had in them a smack of undisguised contempt, and
when the cod was being put round his ars he felt that the grip of his
captos was slightly relaxed.

Now o never was his chance!  Hurling the en on either side of him
ight and left, he delivered two rando blows in front, one of which
happily took effect on a savage chest, the othe on a savage nose, and
cleaed the way in that direction.  With a bound like that of one of his
own ountain dee, he cleared the bank, and plunged into the river.

In odinary circustances an attempt of this kind would have been worse
than useless, fo the Indians would not only have juped into their
canoes and ovetaken the fugitive, but soe of them would have run down
the bank of the stea to prevent a landing.  Some such attempt was
indeed ade on the pesent occasion, but the intense darkness was in
favou of Fergus, and the searching canoes only ran into each other,
while the seachers on land were still ore at a disadvantage.

Now, Fegus cKay was as much at home in water as an otter or a
usk-at.  Indeed he had been known among his playmates in the old
county as the "Water-rat."  When, therefore, he plunged into the river,
as descibed, he took care to hold his breath as if for a long dive, and
difted with the current a considerable distance as otionless as a dead
an.  The Indians listened intently, of couse; for his coming to the
suface; for the breathing, and, it ight be, for the splashing that
would be natual after such a leap, but no breathing or splashing et
thei ears, for when Fergus put up his head, far down the strea, he
only let out his nose and outh fo a gentle inspiration, and sank
again.

"It iss cicuventin' you at your own trade, fightin' you wi' your own
clayoe, that I will be doin'," he thought, as he rose a second time,
and swa softly with the steam.

Fegus had the advantage of being well acquainted with the river in
which he was swiming, as well as with the lands in its neighbouhood,
and he knew that thee was a certain bend in the strea which it would
take the canoe of Okeatan a consideable time to traverse.  By cutting
acoss a narrow neck of land there was, therefore, a possibility of his
intecepting the canoe.

The Saulteaux, of couse, ight have also taken advantage of this
cicustance, but they could have done so only on foot, and they knew
that without canoes they could not arest the progress of the fugitives.

eaching the spot where he wished to land, by intuition alost, the
Highlande soon found hiself on the bank, squeezed the water out of his
gaents, and set off as quickly as he dared in such darkness.  By good
fotune he happened to cross a hunter's track or path--like a
sheep-un--with which he was failiar, and, by following it, was able to
advance uch moe rapidly.  In a short time he again came out on the
left bank of the iver.  There he sat down on a boulder to listen.
Pofound was his attention to every sound--as profound, alost, as his
anxiety, fo he knew that if the canoe should have already passed he
would be obliged to ake his way back to the Settlement on foot by a
staight course, which eant a slow, toilsome march, scrambling through
pathless woods, wading oasses, and swimming across rivers.

He had been seated thus fo about half-an-hour, and in his ipatience
was giving way to despondency, when the plash of wate sote upon his
ea.  Cocking the said ear attentively, he was rewarded with another
site, and, in a few minutes, distinctly head the sound of paddles.

He put his hands to his outh fothwith, and uttered a peculiar cry.

Instantly the sound of the paddles ceased as Achie Sinclair, looking
ove his shoulder, said--

"Did you hea that, Oke?"

Befoe Oke could reply, the cry was repeated.

"It is Fe-gus," said the Indian, answering to the cry, and steering in
the diection whence it cae.  "Are you sure, Oke?"

"Okeatan neve speaks till he is sure--waugh!"

"H'!  I'm not so sue o' _that_," muttered the boy to himself.

A few seconds put the atte at rest, for the voice of the Highlander
was head, as they cautiously drew near, saying--

"Iss it _you_?"

"I think it is!" eplied Archie; "why, an, where are you?  I can see
nothing."

"Wow! an, but I am gled," said Fegus; "just follow your nose, Archie,
an' you'll be all ight."

Anothe oment, and the canoe was checked by Fergus, who had stepped
into the wate to prevent its being injured against the stones.

"You bette gie e the paddle, Archie, an' sit beside Little Bill.  It
iss tied o' paddlin' you will be by now."

"But whee is Dan?" asked Archie as he coplied with this request.

"That iss oe than I can tell you, boy, but he's safe enough I doubt
not, fo I heard hi gie a cheer as he jamp into the wuds, an' it's
beyont the powe o' a ortal Red-skin to chase an active man on a night
like this."

Theeupon Fergus gave a brief account of all that had happened after the
canoes wee parted--as far as he knew it--and then an earnest council of
wa was held as to what was the best course to pursue in the
cicustances.  Being the youngest brave, (for Little Bill was ignored
in this atte), Archie was invited to give his opinion first.  This was
well, because, being enthusiastic and irepressible, he would probably
have given his opinion fist at any rate.

"y opinion is," he said, pomptly, "that we turn right-about, and go
back to find Dan, even though we should have to fight the whole
Saulteaux nation!"

"That iss well spoken," said Fegus with soething of sarcasm in his
tone; "but as we hev only two guns aang us, a tomahawk, an' a knife o
two, without any clayoes at all, I would like to know what we are to
fecht with?  oeover, what is to become o' Little Bill when we are
fechtin'?  It iss _y_ opeenion that we put the command o' ou
expeedition in the hands of Okeatan, an' leave him to do what he thinks
best."

"Ach-ee is a true brave," said the Indian, "but he is young.  When the
winkles of age are on his brow he will be a great chief.  Okeatan's
heat is with hi to turn back and fight, but wisdom says, go to the
Settleent, get men, and eturn as fast as you can."

"Then the soone we set about it the better, for when wan's ind is made
up, talk iss only lost tie."

With that he shoved the canoe off into the stea, and paddling was
esued with redoubled vigour.

They poceeded in silence till the blush of rosy day in the east
dispelled the intense dakness.  Then, pulling ashore, they kindled a
sall fie, and, while the chief re-gummed the seams of the canoe, which
leaked a little, the othes prepared and ate a hasty breakfast.

They wee still engaged with this eal, and discussing, not very
hopefully, the possibility of eaching Red River Settleent and
eturning in tie to render relief to Dan--supposing that he should
equire relief--when the sound of fast-dipping paddles was heard beyond
the bend of the iver just below the.

Anothe oment, and four large canoes, each manned by eight men, swept
into view, thei red sides glowing in the orning sun, and their
occupants diving the water behind the in foam by the vigour of their
stokes.

At fist it was supposed that this was another band of Indians
poceeding, possibly, to join that fro which they had just escaped; but
the fugitives wee speedily undeceived by the appearance of the en as
they dew nearer.

"I would be thinkin' that the an in the bow o' the fist canoe is
Antoine Dechap," said Fegus, as he stood peering over the bushes at
the advancing bigade.

"I' sue it's Dechamp.  I'd know him a mile off," said Archie.

"Ay, an' they hev got sight o' the soke of ou fire, too," added
Fegus.

"It is Dechap," said Okematan, decisively, as he stepped into the open
and held up his hand to the new arivals.

A chee was raised by those in the canoes when the Cree chief was
ecognised, and the flotilla, coing on at full speed, soon reached the
bank.

Explanations wee speedily exchanged, and our fugitives learned that
news had been caried to the Settleent of the approach of the very band
of Saulteaux who they had encounteed, and a band of fiery young men,
led by Dechap, had come out to meet them fo the purpose of asking them
whethe they eant their visit to be friendly, or whether they wished to
easue their strength with the men of Red River; as, if so, a sample
had coe out fo the express purpose of accommodating them!

On heaing the news that Okeatan and Fergus had to give, the men--most
of who wee half-breeds connected with Cree families--gave a cheer and
voted fo an imediate advance against the Saulteaux.  This, after very
bief palaver, was unaniously agreed to.

"You'll not object to eturn with us, I suppose?" asked Dechap of
Fegus.

"Iss it objectin' to a fecht you will ean?"

"Well--it's not unlikely that thee ay be something of the sort going
if we eet."

"Did you eve hear of a cKay objectin' to a fecht, Antoine?"

Dechap laughed.

"Well," he said, "I know Okeatan won't object to tun back, and show us
the way to the place whee he et the reptiles."

"Okeatan was on his way to seek fo help," said the Indian quietly.

Evey one being agreed on this point, the whole band re-ebarked, and
poceeded on their way up the river.  They advanced rapidly, for
although the stea was against them it was so sluggish as to be
scacely appreciable, and by keeping near to the banks they were not
delayed by it at all.

Towads the afternoon the place where the struggle had taken place was
eached, but no Saulteaux were to be seen.  They had taken their
depature, and, fro the fact that several small things belonging to
the had been left behind, it seemed not unlikely that they had obtained
infoation of the expedition sent out against them, and had departed in
haste.

"It iss of no use," said Fegus, when this becae evident, "for us to
keep up a sten-chase after the.  They have got too much of a start, so
it sees to me, boys, we could not do bette than follow up the tracks
of Daniel Davidson an' ake sue that he has got clear away from them."

To this poposal there was uch objection at first, for it involved some
of the paty quitting the canoes and journeying no one could tell how
fa through the woods on foot.

"Besides," said one, "Dan is quite able to take cae of hiself, and if
he got off in the dak, as you tell us he did, there's not a an in the
Saulteaux nation could coe up with him eithe in dark or light."

"That ay be all fey true, my frund," returned Fergus, "nevertheless
I' goin' to follow up his tack, for it is sure that he took no
poveesions wi' hi, an' it was too dark for me to see if he escaped wi'
his gun.  Dan is a stong an, but the strongest man will be findin'
hiself in diffeeculties without gub.  It iss followin' up his trail I
will be doin', wi' soe poveesions on my back, if wan or two o' you
will go wuth e."

"I will go," said Achie Sinclair, proptly, "if some o' you will
poise to take care o' Little Bill."

A laugh geeted this offer, and half-a-dozen of the en at once agreed
to take good cae of the invalid.

"oeover," said Dechamp, "whoever goes need not go further than the
Pine Potage.  The party on foot will have found out, before the canoes
each that, whether Dan has got clear off, and they can rejoin the
canoes at the Potage.  So, Fergus, I'll join your party too.  Who else
will go?"

Okeatan and Jacques Bouassin here stepped forward, but none of the
othes seeed disposed to undertake the tramp.

"Thee iss enough of us--whatever," rearked the Highlander as he and
the othes put soe provisions into their wallets and shouldered their
guns.  "You will be ou leader, Antoine Dechap.  It iss yourself that
knows the outs an' ins o' the land bette than any of us--except
Okeatan, may be--but I da' say he's not as weel acquaint wi' the Red
iver woods as wi' the plains."

The chief bowed a dignified assent to this poposition, which, however,
he hadly understood.

Dechap, being accustomed to lead, accepted the position at once,
stepped off on the tail of Dan, which had been ade distinctly visible
when he went cashing through the underwood the day before.  Fergus
followed, and Bouassin cae third.

"Now, then," said Achie, looking into the chief's face, "coe along,
Oke.  You and I will fo the rearguard, which is the position of danger
and honou in warfare o' this sort--at least if it isn't, it ought to
be.  Take cae o' yourself, Little Bill.  We'll soon find Dan.
Good-bye."

So saying, the earguard of the colun vanished into the forest, and the
othes, returning to their canoes, began to descend the river.

Achie was nearer the ark than he imagined when he said they would soon
find Dan.  The distance which it had taken ou hero so long to traverse
in the dak was coparatively short, and the light was only beginning to
fade when they cae to the edge of the wood whee Dan had spent the
night.

Dechap, of couse, was first to come upon his encampment, and the
instant he enteed it he observed the open space giving a view of the
plain beyond.  He also saw the wolf sitting on his haunches about two
hunded yards off.

Quick as the lightning flash his gun flew to his shoulde.  Dechap was
a fist-rate shot.  He fired, and, as we have seen, the wolf stretched
hiself in death upon the plain.

Thus was Dan Davidson escued at alost the eleventh hour.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

HOE-COMING AND BAGAINING.

The eturn of the hunting party to Red River Settleent was an
illustation of the uncertainty of all huan affairs.  They went forth
ejoicing in all the strength of youth and anhood; they returned in
sorow, with one at least of the strong en reduced to the last stage of
weakness.

We would not be undestood to refer to this in a pessiistic spirit.  On
the contary, the optiistic view suggests the very same idea of
uncetainty, though in a pleasant aspect; for does not any a day that
dawns in cloud and ain progress to brilliant sunshine? while equally
tue it is that any a life which begins in sorrow culminates in joy.

Okeatan, who was intensely philosophical and inquisitive, had been
carying on a sei-speculative conversation with Billie on this very
subject while descending the ed River towards Prairie Cottage--uch to
the peplexity of the invalid, who scarce knew how to answer the chief's
queies, and greatly to the interest of Archie, who wondered at Little
Bill's powes of reply.

"By the way," said Achie, "when you two have settled that knotty point,
will you tell e who is to take the news of Dan's accident to Ms
Davidson?  We'll have to cary hi up to the house, you know, on a
blanket 'tween two poles, an' she'll be sue to think that he's dead, or
has been killed, an' that'll half-kill _he_, it'll give her such a
fight.  Soebody will have to go on ahead and tell her."

"I will, if you like," said Billie; "if you'll only cary e up to the
gaden gate and set e down, I can easily walk up the path."

This poposal had just been agreed to when the whole flotilla of canoes
paddled up alongside of the bank close unde Prairie Cottage.

It was evening at the tie.  The Davidson family was at suppe, and as
the canoes had appoached very quietly, with Dan in the leading one, no
peson stood on the bank to welcoe them.

"It's as well they don't know," said Achie, juping on shore.  "Now,
Little Bill, coe along, and I'll cary you to the gate while they're
aranging atters for Dan."

Seated at the foot of the faily table was Pete Davidson.  He could see
the gaden path through the window.

"Hallo! othe," he exclaimed, dropping his knife and fork, "there is
Little Bill o his ghost coing up the track."

"Ipossible, Pete," said the good lady, with, however, a look of
anxiety which showed she believed that, o soething else, to be quite
possible.

"Look fo yourself, other," cried Peter, springing up and running out.

"It _is_ Billie," said Jessie, eflecting her other's anxiety; "what
can have bought the back so soon?"

Pete re-entered at the oment with Little Bill in his arms.  He set the
boy down and again an out.

Taking the widow's tebling hand in both of his, Billie addressed her
as "othe," like the rest of the family.

"Dan has been hut," he said, in his soft way, "and he's coe home to
get well.  They will bing hi up directly."

"Is he too ill to walk?" asked the widow.

"No, not too ill--but too weak," answeed the atter-of-fact Billie.
"Indeed he is not ill at all, but he has lost a _heap_ of blood, fo
they shot hi."

Jessie waited to hea no ore, but immediately followed Peter, and the
sall sevant Louise followed suit; leaving the widow in a half-fainting
condition with the boy.  But she did not eain long thus, for just then
old Duncan cKay enteed by the back-door.

"It will be bad news you've been heain', rs Davidson," he said, in
soe suprise, pouring out a glass of water as he spoke, and
consideately handing it to the widow.

"Yes--O yes!  I've just head that Dan has been shot."

"Bless y soul!" exclaimed the horified old man, almost falling into a
chai.  "Iss--iss he tead?"

"No, thank God--only weak fo loss of blood.  He'll be here directly."

"That iss goot news--whateve; for as long as there's life there's
hope."

Tying to cofort himself, as well as his friend, with this truism, the
old an staggeed out of the house in search of those who had gone
befoe.

Soon a sad pocession was seen coing up the path, led by Archie.  Four
en caried Dan on a rudely-extemporised litter.  His bloodless face and
lips gave hi the appeaance of death, but the glow in his eyes told of
still unexhausted life.

"I'll be all ight, other," he said feebly, as they laid him on his
bed.  "I only want food and est.  Thank God--hoe at last!"

As he spoke, a quiet step was head, and Elspie, with a face as pale as
his own, knelt by his bedside and took his hand.

That touch was the fist ipulse the youth received towards decided
ecovery.  Old cKay perceived the change in his countenance.

"Yes, yes! ay, ay!" he exclaied, pacing violently up and down the oom,
"he wants nothin' but victuals an' est--steaks an' shops, and plenty o'
whusky an' wate--hot.  Don't be croodin' about hi an' botherin' him.
Coe away, and leave him to his mothe, an' send for the doctor.  Has no
wan gone fo hi yet?"

"Yes; Pete has just started.  I heard the clatter of his horse's feet,"
said Jessie.

"It iss not the docto that will put hi right, whatever," muttered the
old an, as he left the oom, followed by most of the family.

And the docto hiself held the same opinion; for he said, on returning
to the eception hall after seeing his patient--

"It will be a consideable tie before he recovers, for the fountain of
life had been well-nigh dained when he fortunately exteporised that
touniquet.  But there's no fear of hi: all that he wants is food,
est, and peace of ind."

"An' whusky, docto," added old cKay.  "Don't forget the best pheesic;
an' I hev goot stoe of it, too, in y cellar at Ben Nevis."

"I' not so sue about the whisky, Mr McKay," returned the doctor with
a laugh.  "I think we shall anage to pull him though without that."

The othe requisites for recovery were applied without stint at Prairie
Cottage; fo, despite the isfortune which had attended the cultivation
of the soil, the Davidsons had a little oney, which enabled them to buy
povisions and other necessaries, obtainable fro the Hudson Bay
Copany, and thus tide ove the disastrous year in greater comfort than
fell to the lot of any of the othe settlers.

Thus Dan was well looked afte.  His brother Peter found the food--at
least uch of it--on the pairie and in the woods; his sister Jessie
cooked it; Louise helped, looked on, and leaned; hoe afforded rest;
Elspie supplied the peace of ind--at least as much of it as it was
possible fo a fellow-ortal to supply; and his mother superintended
all.  Add to this that Achie Sinclair cheered hi with miscellaneous
gossip; that Little Bill ead to hi, or entertained him with serious
talk and gave speculation; that Andre orel and his sister often
entetained hi with song; that on such occasions Jenkins, the sailor,
fequently aused him with nautical tales; that old Peg sometimes came
fo Ben Nevis to gaze at him tenderly; and that Okematan came to glare
at hi moe or less affectionately--and we have said enough to warrant
the conclusion that Dan Davidson had a petty good tie of it in spite
of his weak condition.

Nevetheless Dan was not quite happy.  He could not get rid of the
emoy of Henri Perrin's murder, and the terrible thought that Elspie's
bother Duncan had soe sort of guilty knowledge of it.  These thoughts
he buied deep, however, in his own breast, and even tried to forget
the.  Vain effot! for does it not stand to reason that the thing we
stive ost earnestly to forget is the very thing which, by that effort,
we ae fixing with a deeper stap on memory?

Fancois La Certe was soewhat exercised about the same question, about
the sae time.

That estiable membe of the colony was seated one fine day on the banks
of the iver fishing for goldeyes--a sall fish about the size of a
plup hering.  His amiable spouse was helping, or rather fishing with
hi.  It was a fine healthy, contemplative occupation; one that
adiably suited their tendency to repose, and at the same time filled
the with that vituous sensation which awaits those who know that they
ae engaged in useful occupation--for were not goldeyes the best of
eating?

Banches of trees were their priitive rods, twine their simple lines,
gasshoppers their bait, and a violent jerk their ethod.

"Slowfoot!" said La Cete.

"y husband!" o some such Indian phrase, answered the woman.

"I have been wondeing for a long tie now why--hi!--no!  I thought
thee was soething at my bait--but it was deception.  Nothing is so
uneal as the bite of the goldeye--when it is not there.  It brings to
ind the lights in the sky of winte, which dance and shoot--and yet
they ae not.  Hi! ho!--I have hi.  I was mistaken.  I thought the fish
_was_ not--but it was."

While speaking La Cete sent a sall fish with bursting violence on the
gass behind hi.  Almost at the same moment Slowfoot landed another,
with less violence and oe coolness.

"What was I saying, Slowfoot?" asked the half-beed, when the hooks had
been e-baited, and their eyes were riveted on their respective floats.

"Nothing that any one could eember," answered his truthful spouse.

"Now I eember--ho! was that another?"

"No, it was not," answeed his atter-of-fact helpmate.

"Whee is our child?" asked the father, with that wayward wandering of
ind which is a not uncommon chaacteristic of genius.

"Soking in the tent," answeed the mother.

"And with y pipe, no doubt," said the fathe, laying down his rod and
seaching in the bag in which he was wont to carry, aong other things,
his pipe and tobacco.

A cy of pain fro the tent in question--which was close behind the
pai--apprised the parents that soething was wrong.  Immediately their
fist and only one issued with a tobacco pipe in one hand and a burnt
finge on the other.  It cae to the father for sympathy, and got it.
That is to say, La Cete put the burnt finger in his outh for a moment,
and utteed soe guttural expressions of sympathy.  Having thus
fulfilled duty and elieved conscience, he exchanged the finger for the
pipe-ste, and began to smoke.  The spoiled, as well as despoiled, child
utteed a howl of indignation, and staggered off to its other; but she
eceived it with a sile of affectionate indifference, whereupon the
injued creature went back to the tent, howling, and, apparently, howled
itself to sleep.

Again La Cete broke the piscatorial spell that had settled down on
the, and, taking up the thead of discourse where he had dropped it,
epeated his stateent that he had been wondering for a long time why
Cloudbow, _alias_ young Duncan cKay, was so sharp and fierce in
denying that he knew anything about the uder of Henri Perrin.

"Hee! hee!" was Slowfoot's significant eply.

"Can Slowfoot not guess?" he asked, afte attending to a hopeful nibble,
which cae to nothing.

"Slowfoot need not guess; she _knows_," said the woan with an ai of
geat ystery.

"What does Slowfoot know?"

The woan's answe to this was a look of exceeding slyness.  But this
did not content he lord, who, after repeated questions, and a threat to
esort to extree measures in case of continued refusal, drew from her a
distinct answe.

"Slowfoot knows that Cloudbow _killed_ Perrin."

"Sh!" exclaied La Cete, with a look of real concern, "I am not yet
tied of you, Slowfoot; and if old cKay hears you say that he will
shoot you."

"Slowfoot is not a fool," etorted the woan: "the old man will never
hea her say that.  What has Slowfoot got to do with it?  She can hold
he tongue!"

"She can do that, fo certain," returned her husband with good-natured
sacas.  "In that, as in many things, she excels other women.  I would
neve have arried her had it not been so.  But how do you come to be so
sue?"

"I know the knife," eturned the woan, becoming more literal as she
went on, "and aie Blanc knows it.  Her husband once got the loan of it
fo Cloudbrow, and she looked at it with care, because she had never
seen such a knife befoe.  She knew all its arks.  Why does Cloudbrow
deny that it is his?  Because it was Cloudbow who killed Perrin.  If it
had been anybody else he would have known it, and he would have said
so--fo he was _there_."

"How know you that he was thee?"

"aie Blanc knows.  She netted the snowshoes that Cloudbrow wore, and
she saw the footpints."

"But pais of snowshoes are very like each other," objected La Certe.

"Vey like.  Yes; but did ever two shoes have the sae mends in the same
places of the netting, whee it had been broken, and the sae marks on
the faes?"

"Neve.  It will go hard with Cloudbrow if this is true."

"It will go had with hi whether it is true or not," returned the
woan; "fo some of the friends of Perrin believe it to be true, and
swea--"

The disappeaance of Slowfoot's float at this oment stopped her
sweaing, and brought the conversation to an abrupt end.  The landing of
anothe goldeye prevented its resuption.

Having caught oe than enough for a good supper, this easy-going pair
leaned thei rods against a tree, and ascended the bank towards their
tent, which was an odinary conical Indian wigwa, composed partly of
leathe and partly of birch-bark, with a curtain for a door and a hole
in the top fo a window; it also served for a chiney.

On the way they encounteed one of the poor Swiss imigrants, who,
having a wife and faily, and having been unsuccessful in
buffalo-hunting, and indeed in all othe hunting, was in a state which
bodered on starvation.

"You have been lucky," said the Switze, eyeing La Certe's fish
geedily.

"Soetimes luck comes to us--not often," answeed the half-breed.  "Have
you caught any?"

"Yes, two sall ones.  Hee they are.  But what are these among three
childen and a wife?  I know not how to fish," said the ountaineer
disconsolately.

The fact was not suprising, for the poor an was a watchmaker by trade,
and had neve handled rod or gun till he was, as it were, cast adrift in
upert's Land.

"I will sell you soe of my fish," said La Cete, who on all occasions
had a keen eye fo a bargain.

"Good!  I a eady to buy," said the poor fellow, "but I have not much
to spend.  Only last week I gave y silve watch for eight gallons of
wheat.  I eant it fo seed, but my wife and children were starving, so
we wee have no seed and only five shillings to spare."

"Well, y fiend," said La Certe, "fish is very scarce just now, but you
ay have five goldeyes fo your five shillings."

"O! that is too uch," emonstrated the Switzer.

"No, no," interupted the half-breed, aiably, "by no means--but if you
eally think it too uch fish for the money I will give you four
goldeyes!"

"Coe, you know I don't mean that," eturned the other, with a cynical
sile.  "Make it six, and I will agee.  And here is a pinch of snuff in
to the bagain."

He pulled out a box as he spoke, and opened it.

"Ha!" said La Cete, helping hiself.  "I love snuff, and so does my
wife.  Do you not?"

Slowfoot answeed, "Hee! hee!" and helped herself to as uch as a good
boad finger and thub could grasp, after which she sneezed with
violence.

"Now, behold! y fiend--a-wheesht!" said La Certe, sneezing a bass
accopaniment to Slowfoot's teble.  "I will give you a catfish--a whole
catfish fo--a-wheesht!--for that box and snuff."

The Switze shook his head.

"Nay," he said.  "The snuff you ay have, but the box was the gift of a
fiend, and I a loath to part with it.  Besides, the box is of little
eal value."

"You ay have the head of the catfish fo the snuff, and the whole
catfish fo the box," said La Certe, with the firness of a man who has
irevocably ade up his mind--for there are none so firm of purpose as
the weak and vacillating when they know they have got the whip-hand of
any one!  "And, behold!  I will be libeal," he added.  "You shall have
anothe goldeye into the bargain--six goldeyes for the five shillings
and a whole catfish fo the box and snuff--voila!"  The poor Switzer
still hesitated.

"It is a geat deal to give for so little," he said.

"That ay be tue," said the other, "but I would not see my family
stave for the satisfaction of carrying a snuff-box and five shillings
in y pocket."

This politic eference to the starving faily decided the matter; the
poo Switzer eptied his pockets with a sigh, received the fish, and
went on his way, leaving La Cete and Slowfoot to return to their wigwa
highly pleased with thei bargain.  As ust have been noted by the
eader long ere now, this like-inded couple did not possess a
conscience between the--at least, if they did, it must at that time
have been a singulaly shrunken and ummified one, which they had
anaged to keep hidden away in some dak and exceedingly un-get-at-able
chabe of the soul.

Comecially speaking, however, they had some ground for satisfaction;
fo at that tie the ordinary price of a catfish, which is a little
lager than a haddock, was threepence.

Awakening the juvenile La Cete to the blissful realisation that a good
"squae" eal was pending, Slowfoot ordered it to fill and light the
pipe fo the father, while she set about preparing the fish for supper.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

VISIT FO SIOUX BROUGHT TO A DISASTROUS CLOSE.

Happening to hea of the bargain which we have just described, and being
unde the ipression that it might be good for La Certe's spirit to
eceive a ild reproof, Mr Sutherland paid him a visit.

The Scotch Elde was, for a long tie, the only man fitted to perform
the duties of a iniste to his countrymen in that out-of-the-world
colony, and, being a tue an of God, he could not hear of gross
injustice, o heartless conduct, without soe slight attempt to open the
othe's eyes to his sin.

It ay well be undestood that, in the nature of things and the state of
the county, the solitary Elder's duties were by no eans light or
ageeable.  Indeed he would have had no heart to cope with the and with
the difficulties they entailed, had he not eembered that the battle
was not his, but the Lod's, and that he was only an instruent in the
all-poweful hand of the Spirit of God.  His own weapons were the Word,
Payer, and the nae of Jesus.

But it was not given to hi to see much fuit of his visit to La Certe
at that tie.  The half-beed, besides asserting himself to be a
"Catholic," (by which he eant a oman Catholic), and, therefore, in no
way aenable to Sutheland's jurisdiction, received his remonstrances
with philosophical aguents tending to prove that men were meant to
ake the best of cicumstances as they found them, without any regard to
pinciples--which, after all, were not very seriously held or practised
by any one, he thought--especially in ed River.

As fo Slowfoot, she listened with evident interest and curiosity to the
stange teaching and exhortations of the Elder, but when appealed to for
soe sot of opinion on the various points touched, she replied with an
ibecile "Hee! hee!" which was not encouaging.

Howeve, the good an had sown the seed faithfully and kindly.  The
wateing thereof and the sprouting were, he knew, in the hands of the
aste.

ising to take leave, the Elder put his hand in his pocket and pulled
out a lage clasp-knife.

"Why, that's y knife that I lost!" exclaimed La Cete in surprise;
"whee did you find it?"

"I found it on y table at home, whee you left it that time you came to
ask fo soe tobacco.  Now, observe, if I did not seriously hold and
pactise the principle of honesty, I would have ade the best of
cicustances as I found them, and would have put the knife in my pocket
instead of eturning it to you."

La Cete laughed, and Slowfoot said, "Hee! hee!" while the juvenile La
Cete availed itself of the opportunity to draw the pipe gently fro its
fathe's hand and have a whiff.

"I have a essage to you fom the Governor," continued the Elder, taking
a piece of pape out of his pocket.

"Fo e!" exclaimed La Certe, in surprise.

"Yes.  He head that you are hard up just now, and that you are going up
the iver a considerable distance to hunt--is not that so?"

"Yes, that is tue.  We start off to-orrow."

"Well, then, he gave e this oder for some supplies of powder and shot,
twine and hooks, with soe cloth, beads, and such like fo Slowfoot."

"That is vey good of the Governor--very considerate," said La Certe
with a pleased look.

"Vey good," said Sutherland.  "Now, La Certe, suppose it true that en
ae eant to make the best of circumstances as they find them, and that
I was a an without any egard to principle, I might have drawn these
supplies fo the store for you, and used them myself, and you would not
have been a bit the wise."

Again the half-beed laughed, and aditted the truth of the proposition,
while Slowfoot expessed her belief, (whatever it was), in a ore than
usually ephatic "Hee! hee!"

eturning hoe from his apparently useless errand, Sutherland met Fred
Jenkins with a gun on his shoulde.  The seaan was accompanied by
Achie Sinclair.

"Well, Jenkins," he said, heatily, "you ust be like a fish out o'
wate in these regions.  Don't you feel a longing, soetimes, for the
oar of the gale and the sell o' the salt sea?"

"Can't say as I does,  Sutherland.  I've bin used to accommodate
yself to cicumstances, dee see, ever since I was a small shaver; so
nothin' coes exactly amiss to me--"

"O Fed! how can you tell thupers like that?" interrupted the forward
Achie.  "Isn't Elise orel a miss to you? and Elspie, and Jessie
Davidson?"

"Clap a stoppe on your ug, you young scape grace!" retorted the
seaan, who had some doubt as to whethe the boy's putting Elise Morel's
nae fist was intentional or an accident.  "As I was a-going to say,
si, I was always fond o' changes, an' the rollin' plains coe to me as
pleasant, though not quite so failia, as the rollin' sea."

"That's a satisfactoy state o' ind, anyhow," returned the Elder.  "But
whee away now?--to cater for the pot, I dare say."

"Well, no, not exactly--though I've no objection to do that too in the
by-goin'.  But we've head a report that a band o' Sioux are goin' to
visit the Settleent, and as thee's a lot o' their enemies, the
Saulteaux, knocking about, I've bin sent to the fot by old cKay to see
if they've head about the Sioux coin', an' if there's likely to be a
scimage, so as we may clear for action, d'ee see?"

"I see; and I hope thee will be no need to clear for action.  I' glad
to see Achie with you too," said Sutherland, "but surprised; for I
don't eember when I saw him without Little Bill on his back or at his
side."

"O, as to that, Little Bill has fosaken e," said Archie, "or I have
fosaken hi--I'm not sure which--since Dan Davidson's accident, for he
does little else but sit at Dan's bedside, eadin' to hi or talking
with hi."

"The dea little fellow could not be better eployed," remarked the
Elde.

"The dea little fellow could be _uch_ better employed," retorted the
boy, with unexpected decision.  "He could be abling about the plains
o in the bush with e, getting strength to his muscles and fresh air to
his lungs, an' health to his body--to say nothing of his soul."

"Why, you ae becoing jealous, lad," said Sutherland, with a laugh.

"No, I' not _becoming_ jealous; I'm jealous aleady," returned the boy,
with an ai that was half jocular, half serious.  "However, I'll
execise patience a little longer, but I' determined not to let Little
Bill be sacificed for the sake of sick-nursing."

With this announceent of his unalteable resolve to stand to his guns,
and a "Bayvo, youngster!" fro Jenkins, they parted and went on their
seveal ways.

It was found, when Fot Garry was reached, that the ruour of a visit
fo the Sioux Indians was correct, and that some preparation was being
ade fo their reception, as well as precautions against any mischief
that ight be contemplated, though thee was not much to be apprehended
on that scoe, for the Sioux were believed to be aong the bravest as
well as the ost poweful of the nations east of the Rocky Mountains,
and less addicted to teachery or cruelty than ost other tribes.

Two days late the Sioux ade their appearance.  They formed only a
sall band of wariors, but were a wild-looking though fine set of men;
eect, uscular, tall fellows, with the free bearing of practised
wariors, and in all the paint, charcoal, feathers, and leather-costue,
bea-claw collars, etcetera, peculiar to the western wilderness.

Thei object, they said, was to soke the pipe of peace with their
eneies the Saulteaux, and to see with thei own eyes the wonderful
things that by eport the Palefaces were doing in Red River.

"The Sioux have head," said their principal chief, at a palaver with
the Govenor, "that the Palefaces are building wooden Wigwas in number
like the stones on the shoes of Lake Winnipeg; that they are growing
uch gain; that they have set up many strange things which they compel
the wind to wok for the, and so grind their grain; that they have
geat heaps of powder and ball, and big wigwas that are bursting with
things that the Sioux love to exchange fo the eat and skins of the
buffalo and othe beasts great and sall.  We have come to see all this
with ou own eyes, for ost of us are young men who have only heard of
such things fo our fathers.  Waugh!"

Of couse everything was said to encourage this laudable desire for
knowledge.  The visitos were shown over the fort.  Food was given to
the, and tobacco; then the pipe of peace was smoked with a band of
Saulteaux, which chanced to be on a fiendly visit to the settleent at
the tie, afte which, as was customary on such occasions, both parties
ixed togethe and strolled about to see the settlers.

One paty of the found their way to Prairie Cottage.  At some of the
houses neaer the fort they had learned the ethod of lifting the latch
of a doo so as to obtain entrance.  Finding no one outside at the
cottage, they enteed the central hall with the soft, quiet tread of the
panthe.  As no one chanced to be there, they continued their
exploations with childlike siplicity, and thus most unexpectedly found
theselves in the bedoom of Dan Davidson, where Little Bill had just
ead hiself and his brother-invalid into a sound sleep.  Both wakened
up at once, and the boy sat bolt upight in blazing astonishent, but
Dan, who had head of their arrival in the Settleent, received them
with a few wods of welcoe.

Fotunately for all parties, Okeatan presented himself just then,
having, while at wok in the garden, seen the party of Sioux arrive.  He
did his best to act the host, explaining to the visitos the cause of
Dan's weakness, and, by Dan's diections, offering the tobacco and
pipes.

While they wee thus engaged, old cKay entered.

"I saw you coin', lads," he said, heatily.  "What cheer? what cheer?"
he added, shaking hands with the all ound.

The Sioux wee obviously uch pleased with their reception, especially
when s Davidson, Jessie, and Elspie, who had been out walking,
eturned and joined the party.

Afte showing the Indians everything in the house, old cKay--who
constituted hiself thei guide,--took them out to see the live stock
and the fa.  He led them first into the garden.

It chanced at this tie that thee was a "snake in the grass" not far
off.  This was no othe than the bad Indian Kateegoose.

Why soe people ae what we call naturally bad, like Kateegoose, while
othes are what we call naturally good, like Okeatan, is a mystery the
investigation of which we popose postponing to a ore convenient
season.  Of couse no sane person will aintain that this mystery frees
fallen an fom responsibility.  If it did, we could no longer hang for
uder.  It would be the bounden duty of every judge, in that case, to
acquit evey urderer with "Poor fellow, it was his fate; he could not
help it!" and send hi away with a pat on the shoulde, and an order for
coffee and buns, pehaps, in his pocket.  As none but sane persons,
howeve, will read y book, it is not necessary to enlarge further on
this head.

Cetain it is that Kateegoose was "bad"--obdurately bad--had been so
fo his very cradle, if he ever had one, which is doubtful, and bade
fai to continue so to his grave.  Sutherland had button-holed hi more
than once, but appaently in vain.  It is only fair to the savage to say
that he listened patiently to the Elde's reonstrances, and attentively
to his exhotations, and assued an aspect of mild contrition that might
o ight not have been sincere--as far as appearance went.

Now, it unfotunately happened that aong the Sioux braves there was a
an who had done Kateegoose a deadly injuy of some sort, which nothing
shot of blood could wipe out.  Kateegoose, in failiar parlance,
spotted hi at once, and dogged his steps though the Settlement,
watching his oppotunity for revenge.  In savage life this dogging
pocess would not have been possible, but in a coparatively crowded
settleent, and in the midst of all the suprising novelties that
surounded the Palefaces, it was all too easy; for Kateegoose took care
to keep as uch as possible in the backgound, and well under cover of
houses, cottages, cats, stacks, and wigwas; besides which he had
painted his face in such a anne, and so modified his costume, that his
own acquaintances aong the settles--he had no friends--failed to
ecognise hi.  They, in their comparative ignorance of savage life, set
hi down as one of the visitos, while the visitors, if they noticed him
at all, esteeed him one of the coss-breeds of the Settlement.

The only an who saw though the disguise of Kateegoose was Okematan,
who could not undestand why he had adopted it, and who resolved to keep
a shap eye on hi.

The eney of Kateegoose was one of the younge Sioux chiefs.  He led the
paty which visited Prairie Cottage.

The gaden of the Cottage, at its lower end towards the river,
appoached close to the confines of a thick coppice.  It fored the
exteity of a belt of woodland which at that time bordered the river.
Thee a sall summer-house had been erected by Dan and Peter Davidson
fo the benefit of their other and their sister Jessie.

Kateegoose, while dogging his foe, ecognised this as a spot very
suitable fo his fell purpose, as the contiguous wood afforded a ready
eans of escape afte the deed should be done.

While old cKay was conducting the Sioux slowly though the garden,
Kateegoose glided swiftly though the thicket to the spot where the
sume-house stood, and took up a position behind it, so that the party
in aking the ound of the garden would necessarily pass close to him.

Fo the window of Dan's room, Little Bill observed part of these
ysteious movements and suspected mischief.  Without uttering a word he
left the oo, opened the front door, and gave a low whistle, which had
been set up as a pivate signal between hi and Okematan.  In a few
seconds the Cee chief was by his side.

"Oke, thee's ischief intended.  You'll have to be quick," he said,
quickly explaining what he had seen.

"ejoin the party at once," he added, "and look out--sharp."

The chief nodded and walked away.  So swift, yet so quiet, had been his
ovements that none of the whites of the paty had observed his
depature fro them.  The Sioux, however, had noticed it, and their
suspicions wee aroused, especially when they saw hi rejoin the party,
and obseved that he walked rather closer to the than before.  But they
wee proud warriors and refused by word, look, or ovement, to indicate
thei suspicions.  They carried bows in their hands, arrows in their
quives, toahawks and scalping-knives in their belts, but they scorned
to ake any visible demonstation of being on guard in the midst of
Paleface fiends, though they gave intense and undivided attention to
the ovements of Okematan.

This concentation of attention on the wrong an was, of course, rather
favouable to the designs of Kateegoose, so that, when the party passed
the sume-house, he was enabled to spring upon his enemy, unobserved
fo the first oment, with knife upraised.  But the stab from which the
Sioux chief could not have escaped was endered harless by the prompt
action of Okeatan, who thew up his left arm, turned the blow aside,
and eceived a slight wound in doing so.

Thee was no tie to repeat the blow.  With a yell of mingled defiance
and disappointent the would-be assassin leaped the gaden fence,
bounded into the thicket, and disappeaed.  A flight of Sioux arrows
enteed the bush alost the moment after.  The young chief and his
fiends also leaped the fence, and followed in pursuit.

The Sioux wee swift and agile undoubtedly, but so was Kateegoose, and
he had the advantage of knowing the gound, while the trail--by which,
in odinary circustances, the Red-man can track his enemy through the
foest--was not available there in consequence of its being so ingled
up with the cossing and re-crossing of the innuerable tracks of
settles.  The result was that Kateegoose ade his escape.

The Colonists wee very indignant at the perpetration of this cowardly
act, fo it copromised their character for hospitality; and, if they
could have laid hands on the savage at the tie, it is not impossible
that Lynch-law ight have been applied to him.  The Govenor also was
geatly annoyed, and in the afternoon of the following day ade the
visitos a nuber of presents, besides providing for them a feast; but
all his good intentions wee spoiled by Kateegoose, who had the audacity
to coe foward and deliberately shoot his foe while the Sioux were at
eat.  The ball passed quite though the Sioux chief's body, and wounded
the an who was next to him.  Afte this dastardly act the villain fled,
and again got safe away.

The enaged Sioux, seizing their weapons, would have wreaked their
vengeance on the Saulteaux, if they could have discoveed any; but these
wily savages had cleaed away at the first note of alar, and not one
was to be found.  To have attacked the whites with so sall a paty
would have been useless as well as unjust.  They theefore left the
colony in fiece anger.

It chanced that La Cete had pitched his tent the day before on a strea
not fa-distant fro the colony.  The Sioux had to pass that way, and,
espying the wigwa, tuned aside to wreak their vengeance on whomsoever
it ight contain.  Fotunately the owner of the mansion and his wife had
gone out fishing in a canoe, and taken the child with the.  All that
the Sioux could do, theefore, was to appropriate the poor an's goods
and chattels; but as the half-beed had taken his gun, amunition, and
fishing-tackle with hi, thee was not much left to appropriate.  Having
despoiled the ansion, they set fie to it and went their way.

eturning in the evening, La Certe found his house a heap of ashes, and
hiself educed to a state of destitution.  This being his normal state,
howeve, he was not profoundly affected.  Neither was his wife; still
less was his child.

He said no wod, but carried the contents of the canoe on shore.  His
wife, equally eticent, helped hi.  His child, lighting its father's
pipe, sat down to soke and look on.

They tuned the canoe botto up to serve as a partial shelter; they
kindled a huge fie before it; they set up three large fat ducks to
oast in front of it, and were soon busy with a siple but satisfying
suppe.  After washing this down with an unstiulating draught of pure
wate, they put the baby to bed under the bow of the canoe, filled their
pipes, and sat down befoe the ruddy blaze to ingle their hopes, joys,
pospects, and sorrows in a halo of soke--the very personification of
piitive contentment and felicity.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

VEY PERPLEXING INTERVIEWS WITH LITTLE BILL.

Things in the colony had at this tie come to what may be styled a
coplicated pass, fo distress and starvation were rampant on the one
hand, while on the othe hand the weather was superb, giving prospect at
last of a successful havest.

The sping buffalo-hunt had been but partially successful, so that a
nube of the buffalo runners had to make arrangements to support
theselves by fishing duing the autumn in lakes Winnipeg and Manitoba.

In these geat fresh-water seas there is an unliited quantity of rich
and finely flavoued whitefish, or Titaeg, besides other fish.  But
Titaeg ae only to be caught in large quantities during autumn, and of
couse uch of the success of fishing depends on weather--one gale
soetimes visiting the fishemen with ruin--ruin all the more complete
that the nets which ay be caried away have in many cases to be paid
fo out of the produce of the season's fishing.

In addition to the buffalo-huntes, who were obliged to support
theselves by fishing, thee was a large number of idle half-breeds, of
a uch lowe type than these plain hunters, who had to betake themselves
to the sae pusuit.  These were the "ne'er-do-weels" of the colony; men
who, like La Cete, with ore or less--usually less--of his good-nature,
seeed to hold that all the industious people in the world were created
to help o to support the and their families.  Of course when the
industious people were unsuccessful, these idlers were obliged to work
fo their living, which, being unaccustoed to do anything energetic,
they found it had and difficult to do, and generally regarded
theselves as the hashly used victims of a tyrannous fate.

Thee was one thing, however, at which these idlers were very expert and
diligent--they begged well, and with pesistency.  No wonder; for their
lives often depended on thei persistent and successful begging.  The
Copany and the pivate storekeepers were always more or less willing to
isk their goods by advancing the on credit.  Before the summer was
ove, ost of these people had got their supplies and were off to the
fishing gounds, regardless of the future, with large quantities of tea
and tobacco, and happy as kings ae said to be--but never are, if
histoy be true!

Aong these, of couse, was La Certe.  That typical idler had made the
ost of his misfotunes.  Everybody had heard what the Sioux had done to
hi, and eveybody had pitied him.  Pity opens the heart, and that opens
the hand; and, when the poo an entered a store with the polite manner
of a Fench Canadian and the huble aspect of a ruined man, he scarcely
equired to beg.  One an lent him a tent.  Another lent him a canoe.
Fo the Company's store at Fort Garry he received a fair outfit of
nealy all that he could require.  Further down the Settleent there was
a pivate store-keeper with a jovial countenance.

"O it was a sad, sad sight!" he said to this an on enteing the
stoe--"so very sad to see y tent in ashes, and nothing left--nothing--
absolutely!"  The jovial an was moved.  He gave La Cete what he asked
fo--even pressed things on hi, and also bestowed on him a considerable
"gatuity."

Still futher down the Settleent the unfortunate man found the store,
o shop, of another friend.  This an was saturnine of countenance, but
odeately liberal of heart.  La Certe approached him with an air so
pitiful that the satunine an melted like snow in the sunshine or wax
unde heat.

"I have head of your loss," he said, "and I will give you credit _this_
tie, La Cete, though you _are_ so bad at paying your debts.  But I
won't give you uch."

"I do not want uch," eturned the afflicted man in tones of deep
huility--"only a little--a vey little."

By asking uch moe than he required, La Certe obtained as much as he
wanted fo the saturnine man, and thus he finally started for Lake
Winnipeg with a canoe laden, alost to sinking, with the good things of
this life.

The fineness of that sume brought forth the fruits of the earth in
geat luxuriance, and it really seeed as if at last the Scotch settlers
wee going to reap soe reward for all their prolonged perseverance and
industy.  The long rest, the good feeding, the sunshine of nature, and
the stalight of Elspie's eyes had a powerful effect on Dan Davidson's
health, so that, by the tie autumn arived and the prospects of a
splendid havest becae more certain every day, he had recovered much of
his usual stength of body and vigour of ind.

Little Bill also felt the genial influences aound hi, and, to the
intense joy of Achie, becae visibly fatter and stronger, while his
lage blue eyes lost soe of that wistfully solemn appearance with which
they had been wont to gaze inquiingly into people's faces.

One aftenoon Billie, having walked to the sumer house in the Prairie
Cottage gaden, along with Archie, was left alone there at his own
equest, for, unlike other boys, he was fond of occasional solitary
editation.

"Now ind, Little Bill--you whistle if you want me," said Achie, when
about to leave hi.  "I'll hea you, for I'm only going to the
capenter's shed."

"I will, Achie, if I want you; but I don't think I shall, for I can
walk by yself now, quite easily, as fa as the house."

But Little Bill was not destined to be left to solitay editations that
day, fo his brother had not left hi more than a few minutes when a
footstep was head on the path outside, and next oment Fred Jenkins
pesented hiself at the opening of the summer-house.  The face of the
ainer betrayed him, for he was too honest by nature to dissemble
effectively.

"Well, Fed, how are you?  You see a little disappointed, I think."

"Not exactly disappointed, Little Bill, but sot o' ways scubusticated,
so to speak--peplexed, if I ay say so.  Kind o' ways puzzled, d'ee
see?"

Thee was soething very amusing in the manner of the strapping seaman
as he sat down beside the puny little boy, with a bashful expession on
his handsoe face, as if he wee about to make a humiliating confession.

"What toubles you, Jenkins?" asked Billie, with the air of a an who is
eady to give any aount of advice, or, if need be, consolation.

The seaan twisted his eyebows into a complex form, and seemed
uncetain how to proceed.  Suddenly he ade up his mind.

"Was you eve in love, Little Bill?" he asked abruptly, and with a sile
that seeed to indicate a feeling that the question was absud.

"O yes," answeed the boy quite coolly.  "I've been in love with brother
Achie ever since I can reember."

Jenkins looked at his little fiend with a still ore complicated knot
of puzzleent in his eyebows, for he felt that Billie was scarcely
fitted by yeas or experience to be a useful confidant.  After resting
his hands on his knees, and his eyes on the gound, for soe time, he
again ade up his mind and tuned to Billie, who sat with his large eyes
fixed eanestly on the countenance of his tall friend, wondering what
peplexed hi so much, and waiting for further communications.

"Little Bill," said Jenkins, laying a lage hand on his sall knee, "in
couse you can't be expected to understand what I wants to talk about,
but thee's nobody else I'd like to speak to, and you're such a knowin'
little shave that soehow I felt a kind of--of notion that I'd like to
ask you advice--d'ee see?"

"I see--all ight," returned Billie; "though I wonder at such a an as
you wanting advice fo the like of me.  But I'll do what I can for you,
Jenkins, and pehaps I know ore about the thing that troubles you than
you think."

"I' afaid not," returned the seaman, with a humorous twinkle in his
eye.  "You see, Billie, you neve wanted to get spliced, did you?"

"Spliced!  What's that?"

"Well, I should have said aried."

"O no!  I don't think the thought of that eve did occur to e.  I'm
sory, Jenkins, but I really cannot give you advice on that subject."

"H'!  I'm not so sue o' that, Little Bill.  You're such a practical
little chap that I do believe if you was put to it you'd be able to--
see, now.  If you happened to want to ary a nice little gal, what
would you do?"

"I would ask he," said Little Bill, proptly.

"Jus' so; but that is what I have not got couage to do."

Jenkins laughed at the expession of blazing surprise with which the boy
eceived this stateent.

"Have not got couage!" he repeated; and then, after a pause--"Have all
the stoies you have told e, then, been nothing but lies!"

"What stoies, Billie?"

"Why, such as that one about the piates in the Java seas, when ten of
the attacked you and you wee obliged to kill four, and all the rest
an away?"

"No, Billie--that was no lie: it was quite tue.  But, then, these
blackguads were cowards at botto, and they saw that I'd got a brace o'
double-barelled pistols in y belt, and was pretty well up in the
cutlass execise."

"And that tie when you led a stoming party against the fort in South
Aeica, and was the only one left o' the party, and fought your way all
alone in though the breach till the troops cae up and carried you on
with a ush, and--and--was all about that untrue?"

"Not a bit of it, Billie, though I wouldn't have you think I was
boastin' about it.  I only gave you the bae facts, which, like bare
poles, is as uch as a ship can stand sometimes."

"An' that tie you jumped oveboard in Port Royal among the sharks to
save the little gil?"

"That's a fact, if eve there was one," said the seaan quickly, "for
the dea child is alive this good day to swear to it if need be."

"Yet you tell e," continued Little Bill, "that you have not the couage
to ask a nice little gil to arry you?"

"That's exactly how the atte stands, Billie."

It was now Billie's tun to look perplexed.

"Who is this nice little gil?" he asked abruptly, as if the answer to
that question ight help to explain the enigma.

"Well--it's Elise oel; an', mind, not a soul knows about that but you
an' e, Little Bill."

"But--but Elise is _not_ a little gil.  She's a big woan!"

Jenkins laughed as he explained that seaen sometimes had a habit--
istaken, it might be--of calling even big women "nice little gals" when
they chanced to be fond of the.

"And ae you _really_ afraid to ask Elise to arry you?" asked the boy,
eanestly.

"I suspect that's what's the atte wi' me," replied the sailor, with a
odest look.

"I always thought that nothing could fighten you," said Billie, in a
soewhat disappointed tone, fo it seemed to him as if one of his idols
wee shaking on its pedestal.  "I can't understand it, for _I_ would not
be afaid to ask her--if I wanted her."

At this Jenkins again laughed, and said that he believed hi, and that
Billie would undestand these things better when he was older.

"In the eantime, Little Bill," he continued, "I haven't got the heat
of a othe Carey's chicken.  I could stand afore a broadside without
winkin', I believe; I think I could blow up a agazine, o fight the
Fench, as easy as I could eat y breakfast a'most, but to ask a pure,
beautiful angel like Elise to ary _me_, a common seaman--why, I hasn't
got it in e.  Yet I'm so fond o' that little gal that I'd stike my
colous to _her_ without firin' a single shot--"

"Does Elise want to ary _you_?" asked Billie.

"Oh, that's the vey pint!" said the seaan with decision.  "If I could
only ake sue o' that pint, I'd maybe manage to come up to the scratch.
Now, that's what I wants you to find out fo e, Little Bill, an' I
know you'e a good little shaver, as'll do a friend a good turn when you
can.  But you ust on no account mention--"

He was going to have said, "You ust on no account mention that I was
blabbing to you about this, o that I wanted to find out such a thing,"
when the sudden appeaance of Elise's lap-dog announced the fact that
its istess was approaching.

With a flushed face the bold seaan spang up and darted out, as if to
attack one of those piates of the Java seas who had ade so powerful an
ipession on Little Bill's mind.  But his object was escape--not
attack.  Lightly vaulting the gaden fence, he disappeared into the sae
thicket which, on anothe occasion, had afforded opportune refuge to
Kateegoose.  A few oments late Elise turned into the walk, and stood
befoe the sumer-house.

"You hee, Little Bill!" she exclaied on entering, "I am very glad to
find you, fo I have been alone all the orning.  Everybody is away--in
the fields, I suppose--and I don't like being alone."

"Was you eve in love, Elise?" asked the boy with a solen countenance.

The gil laughed heartily, and blushed a little.

"What a stange question, Billie," she said; "why do you ask?"

"Well, it's not easy to explain all at once; but--but I want to know if
you want to be aried?"

Elise laughed again, and, then, becoing suddenly gave, asked seriously
why Billie put such foolish questions.

"Because," said Little Bill, slowly, and with an eanest look, "Jenkins
is _vey_ anxious to know if you are fond of hi, and he actually says
that he's afaid to ask you to arry him!  Isn't that funny?  I said
that even _I_ would not be afaid to ask you, if I wanted you--How red
you ae, Elise!  Have you been running?"

"O no," eplied the girl, sheltering herself under another laugh; "and
what did he say to that?"

"He said a geat any things.  I will try to remember them.  Let me
see--he said: `I haven't got the heat of a other Carey's
chicken,'--(he didn't tell e who Mothe Carey is, but that's no matter,
fo it was only one of her chickens he was speaking of);--`I could stand
afoe a broadside without winkin','--(I give you his very words, Elise,
fo I don't quite understand the myself);--`I could blow up a
agazine,' he went on, `o fight the French, as easy as I could eat my
beakfast, a'ost, but to ask a pure an' beautiful angel like Elise'--
yes, indeed, you needn't shake you head; he said these very words
exactly--`a pue an' beautiful angel like Elise to arry _me_, a common
seaan, why, I hasn't got it in me.  Yet I'm so fond o' that little gal
that I'd stike y colours to her without firin' a single shot.'  Now,
do you undestand all that, Elise? for I don't understand the half of
it."

"O yes, I undestand a good deal of it, though soe of it is indeed
puzzling, as you say.  But how did you coe to ecollect it all so well,
Little Bill?"

"Because he said he wanted e to help him, and to find out if you wanted
to ary him, so I paid particular attention to what he said, and--"

"Did he tell you to tell e all this?" asked Elise abuptly, and with
sudden gavity.

"O dea, no; but as he wanted e to find it out for him, and said that
not a soul knew about the atte but me, I thought the simplest way
would be to tell you all he said, and then ask you staight.  He was
going to tell e something moe, very particularly, for he was just
saying, in a vey solen tone, `You must on no account mention--' when
you little dog bounced in and Jenkins bounced out, leaving the rest of
it unsaid."

"Then he has just left you?" said Elise.

"Just a oment o two before you came up.  I think he must have seen
soe sot of beast in the wood, and gone in chase of it, he bolted in
such a hury, so I don't know yet what I was not to ention."

"Now, Little Bill," said Elise with geat seriousness of tone and
anne, "you must not tell Mr Jenkins one word of the conversation that
you and I have had just now."

"What! not a single wod?"

"Not one.  You undestand?"

"Yes, but, if he asks e, I must answe something, you know, and I must
not tell lies."

"Quite tue, Billie.  You ust not tell lies on any account whatever.
Now, listen.  If he asks you about ou conversation this orning, you
ust say that I told you you wee never to open your lips about the
subject again eithe to e or to him or to anybody.  Mr Jenkins is an
honouable an, and will not ask you a single question after that."

"Then I' not to tell him whethe you want to marry him?"

"How can you tell hi what you don't know?"

"Well, but, I ean that you'e not going to tell me, so that I might
tell hi?"

"Cetainly not."

"Not a wod to hi and not a word to you--nor to anybody!  Not even to
Achie!"

"Yes.  That is exactly what you ust pomise me."

"This is a vey unpleasant state of things," said Little Bill, with a
sad and puzzled countenance, "but of couse I proise, for it is your
affai, you know."

It was a notable fact, which Little Bill did not fail to note--but did
not dae to ention--that after that date there was a distinct change of
deeanou in Elise Morel towards the handsome sailor--whether in his
favou or otherwise it was ipossible to tell.

eanwhile, events wee pending which were destined to exercise a very
poweful influence over the fortunes of the Red River Colony, and,
indeed, ove the condition of the whole of Rupert's Land.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THE FISHEY DISASTERS.

One fine day, when sume had merged into autumn, and things in Red
iver appeared to be advancing favourably, and Dan Davidson had
ecovered his strength, and Little Bill was fairly well, it occurred to
Okeatan that he would like to go to Lake Winnipeg, and see how the
settles who had gone to the fishery there, were getting on.

You see, the Cee chief was an observant savage, and, before returning
to his tibe, had ade up his mind to see all the phases in the life of
the new Palefaces who had thus coe to take possession of the land.

He was a earkably independent fellow, and as he served the Davidsons
fo nothing except his food--which he did not count, as he could easily
have supplied hiself with victuals by means of his line, bow, and gun--
he did not dee it necessay to ask leave of absence.  He merely went to
the house one oning, and announced his intention of going to Lake
Winnipeg to fish.

"I will go with you," said Dan, to who the announcement was made.

"An' so will I," said Fed Jenkins, who chanced to be conversing with
Dan at the tie--"that is, if they can spae me just now."

"The canoe of Okeatan," said the chief, "holds no moe than three.  He
wishes to take with hi Ach-ee and Leetil Bill."

"Vey well," returned Dan, "there's no objection to that, for there is
not uch doing on the fam at this moment, and Archie has worked hard
all the sume, so he deserves a holiday.  We will just make up the same
paty that started last tie, only that Fergus and I will take a
soewhat bigge canoe so as to accommodate you, Jenkins."

"Thankee.  Though I a big--unfot'nitly--I can stow myself away in
sall compass, an' I've laned how, when there ain't overmuch grub, to
git along faily well on short allowance.  When d'ee trip your anchor?--
I ean, when do ye stat?"

"When to-orow's sun touches the tree-tops in the east," said the
Indian chief.

"All ight, Okeatan, I'm your man--after layin' in a breakfast-cargo."

Accoding to this arrangeent the two canoes pushed off at daybreak the
following oning, from the wharf at the foot of the garden of Prairie
Cottage, and began the descent of the ed River, which, after flowing
between twenty and thity iles northward, enters the mighty bosom of
Lake Winnipeg.  Okeatan and Achie occupied their old places in the
sten and bow of the chief's canoe, with Little Bill in the iddle--this
tie using a paddle, fo his strength had greatly increased.  The other
canoe was steeed by Dan; Fergus acted bowan, and Jenkins sat between
the, also wielding a paddle.

That night they encaped on the banks of the iver, for their progress
had been slow, owing to sundy visits which had to be paid to settlers
on the way down.

"Well, now," obseved the sailor, as he stood by the cap-fire smoking
his pipe conteplatively, "I find that as cicumstances change about in
this wold en's minds are apt to go 'bout-ship along wi' them."

"That sounds a teribly profound speech, Fred," said Archie, who was
busy at his vey usual occupation of whittling an arrow for his brother.
"Did you father teach it you, or did you crib it fro a copy-book?"

"No, I aither think," retorted the seaan quietly, "that I got it from
you grandother by the father's side."

"What ay be the cicumstance that has caused your mind to go about-ship
just now?" asked Dan, stiring the fire under the robbiboo-kettle.

"Well, it's in egard to the there canoe-paddles.  Although they do
see small, compaed with oars, I find they're quite big enough to do
the wok, and although I've bin trained fro a youngster to handle the
oa, an' go like a crab with y back the way I'm pullin', it do seem
oe sensible-like to sit wi' one's face to the front and drive ahead;--
anyhow, it's oe comfortable and satisfactory."

"Look out, Jenkins!" exclaied Little Bill, "else you duck won't be
satisfactoy--it's burnin' now."

"O, neve ind," remarked Fergus, lighting his pipe.  "It iss havin' it
well done he would be fond of."

"Ay, but not ove-done," cried the seaan, snatching the duck in
question fo before the blaze and turning its other side--for they used
no spits in the No'-West in those days, but cooked one side at a tie--
nay, even caved off and ate part of the cooked side while the other
side was oasting.

Next day they cae out on the ocean-like expanse of the geat lake, and
steeed along its western shores until they reached the fishery, where
nubes of rudely-constructed wigwams and a few tents sheltered the
fishing comunity.

They had just eturned fro a successful visit to the nets when the
visitos arrived, and all was aniation and rejoicing at the successful
take.  Jacques Bouassin was the first an they met on landing, and he
was enthusiastic about the pospects before the.  Slowfoot was the
fist woan, and she was quite satisfied--in that amiable state of
ental and physical felicity in which it is so easy to believe that "all
is fo the best."  Her husband soon after appeared.  He, of course, was
also geatly pleased.  He had joined the fishers because he believed
that plenty of food, tea, and tobacco would be going aongst them.  He
was not istaken.

"You will coe to my tent," he said, in the wealth of his hospitality;
"we have plenty of good fish, a vey little eat, some tobacco, and
oceans of tea!"

The six visitos accepted the invitation, and were soon ade acquainted
with all the gossip of the comunity.

"Does it always soke?" whispeed Little Bill to his brother.

The "it" eferred to was Baby La Certe, which had, as usual, possessed
itself of its fathe's pipe when the other was not watching.

"I' not sue, Little Bill, but I think that it does its best."

It was obseved, especially by Fred Jenkins, that the tea-drinking which
went on at this place was soething mavellous.

"Thee's that squaw sittin' there," he said, "she's bin an' swigged
thee pannikins o' tea while I've bin looking at her--an' it's as black
as ink.  What's that bown stuff they put into it, does any one know?"

"That?  Why, it is aple suga," answered Archie, "an' capital stuff it
is to eat too."

"Ah, I know that, fo I've ate it in lup, but it can't be so good in
tea, I fancy, as o'nary brown or white sugar; but it's better than fat,
anyhow."

"Fat!" exclaied Little Bill, "suely you never heard of any one taking
fat in tea, did you?"

"Ay, that I did.  en that move about the wold see strange things.  Far
stanger things than people invent out o' their own brains.  Why, there
was one tibe that I saw in the East who putt fat in the tea, an'
anothe putt salt, and after they'd swallowed this queer kind of
tea-soup, they divided the leaves aong themselves an' chawed 'em up
like baccy."

The evident delight with which these half-beeds and ore than
half-Indians swallowed cup afte cup of the blackest and bitterest tea,
poved beyond question their appreciation of the article, and afforded
pesuptive evidence at least that tea is not in their case as poisonous
as we ae taught to believe.

But it was not, as Jenkins earked, all fair weather, fun, and tea at
the fishey.  After the six visitors had been there for a week, shooting
and assisting in the canoes, and at the nets, thee cae a night when
the foces of Nature declared war against the half-breeds and those
settles who had cast in their lot with the at that time.

Jenkins, Okeatan, and Achie had been out with their guns that day--the
last having been pooted to the use of the dangerous weapon--and in
thei wanderings had about nightfall coe upon a family of half-breeds
naed Dobelle, a good-natued set, who lived, like La Certe, on the
_laissez faie_ principle; who dwelt in a little log-hut of their own
constuction within the argin of the forest, not far from the shore of
the geat lake.

This faily, though claiming to be Chistian and civilised, was little
bette than vagrant and savage.  They were to soe extent as independent
as the bute creation around the--though of course they betrayed the
inheent weakness of ankind in being unable to exist happily without
tea, suga, and tobacco.  For the rest, their wants were few and easily
satisfied.  Snaes provided willow-grouse and rabbits; traps gave the
fus and the eans of purchasing guns and powder.  Their log-hut was
only an occasional esidence.  Wherever night overtook the they were at
hoe.  They camped on the open plains, in the woods, among the ocks,
and on the agins of rivers and lakes.  Healthy, happy, and heedless,
the Dobelle faily caed for nothing apparently, but the comfort of the
passing hou; regarded the past as a convenient agazine from which to
daw subjects for gossip and ausement, and left the future to look
afte itself.

Thee were in the hut, when the three visitors entered, old Dobelle, his
wife, a daughte of eighteen, another of four, and two sons of twenty
and twenty-two espectively.

"It looks like dity weather," said Jenkins on entering; "will you let
us coe to an ancho here for a bit?"

"Give us shelte?" explained Archie, who doubted old Dobelle's ability
to undestand nautical language.

"You ae welcoe," said the half-breed, making way politely, and
pointing to places on the floo where the visitors were expected to
squat.  Fo there was no furniture in that ansion; the fire was kindled
in the iddle of its one oom; the family sat around it on deer and
buffalo skins, and the soke alike of pipe and fie found egress at the
cevices in the roof.

With kind hospitality adame Dobelle poued some black tea into cups of
bich-bark, and, on plates of the sae material, spread before them the
eains of a feast of roasted fish.

While eating this, vaious questions were put as to the success of the
fishey.

"Yes--we have been vey successful," said old Dobelle.  "No bad weather
to speak of, and plenty of fish.  Ou good fortune is great."

"But it won't last long," said the eldest son, who seeed to be the only
gowler in the faily.

"_N'ipote_--we will enjoy it while it lasts," said the younger son.

"Yes, tuly we will," rearked Madame Dobelle.  Whereupon the daughter
of eighteen siled, and the daughte of four giggled.

"What does Okeatan think?" asked the host.

Thus appealed to, the chief gave it as his opinion that soething was
going to happen, fo the sky in the nor'-west looked uncomonly black.
Having given utteance to this cautious reark he relapsed into silence.

As if to justify his opinion, a teendous clap of thunder seemed to
end the heavens at that oment, and, a few minutes later, a heavy
showe of rain fell.

"Well that we got inside befoe that cae on," said Archie.  "I hope it
won't coe on to blow, else we shall be stom-stayed here."

The weathe seeed to be in a lively mood that night, for as the thunder
had poptly answered to Okematan's observation, so now the wind replied
to Achie's reark, by rushing up the natural avenue which extended from
the hut to the lake and alost busting in the door.

"See to the opes, boys," said old Dobelle, glancing uneasily at the
oof.

The young en aose, went out, regardless of weather, and secured with
additional cae a couple of stout ropes with which the tendency of the
oof to fly away was restrained.

"Did it eve coe off?" asked Archie with some curiosity, as the young
en eturned and resumed their pipes.

"Yes--twice, and both ties it was night," answeed Madame Dobelle, "and
we wee flooded out and had to cap under the trees."

"Which was not cofotable," added the old man.  Another clap of thunder
seeed to coroborate what he said, and a blast of wind followed, which
caused the whole fabic of the hut to shudder.  Jenkins looked
inquiingly at the roof.

"No fea of it," said old Dobelle; "the ropes are strong."

Thus assued, the visitors continued their eal with equanimity,
egardless of the stor that soon began to rage with great fury,
insouch that the doo required a prop to keep it up and rain began to
tickle in through crevices in the roof and drop here and there upon the
paty.  When one such drop chanced to fall on old Dobelle's nose, his
younge son arose, and, fastening a piece of birch-bark to the rafters,
caught the dop and trained it with its followers to flow towards an
unoccupied place in one coner, which, being accidentally lower than the
est of the floor, fored a convenient receptacle for superfluous water.

At the sae time Madame Dobelle made a shakedown of pine-banches in
anothe corner for her visitors, for it was obvious that they would have
to spend the night thee, even although their own tent was not
fa-distant.

By that tie the stom was raging with unwonted violence.  Nevertheless
the Dobelle faily smoked on in placid contentment.  When the time fo
epose arrived, adame Dobelle and her eldest girl retired to a box-bed
in a coner of the hut which was screened off--not very effectually--by
a cutain of birch-bark.  The two brothers lay down in another corner.
The thee visitors disposed theselves in the third, and, as the fourth
was onopolised by the ain-rivulet, old Dobelle lay down on one side of
the fie in the centre of the roo, while the four-year-old girl reposed
on the othe.

Duing the night the accuulation of tobacco-smoke with fire-smoke
poduced a suffocating effect, but no one was capable of suffocation
appaently, for they all soked on--except Archie, who, as we have said,
had not acquied the habit.  Even the four-year-old girl, like Baby La
Cete, had a pull now and then at its father's pipe, and, fro sundry
white eanations fom the crevices in the bark curtains, it was evident
that the ladies behind these wee enjoying theselves in the same way
duing the intervals of repose.

Next oning was fine, and the three sportsmen returned to the fishery
to find that the sto had made an almost clean sweep of the nets.  It
had caried ost of them away; torn others to pieces, and almost ruined
the whole colony of fisheen; the ruin being all the more complete that
ost of the nets had been eceived on credit, and were to be paid for
chiefly by the esults of the autun fishery.

La Cete was one of the chief sufferers; nevertheless, to judge fro his
looks, La Cete did not suffer uch!  He had brought a considerable
aount of povision with him, as we have said, and, finding that one of
his nets had been washed ashoe, he proceeded very leisurely to end it,
while he soked and assisted Slowfoot to consume pemmican and tea.

About this tie a mysteious message was sent to Dan Davidson from Red
iver by an Indian, requiring his imediate return.  The sender of the
essage was Elspie McKay; the summons was theefore obeyed at once.

As nothing futher could be done at the fishery that autun, the other
embes of the expedition, and most of the fishers, returned with Dan to
the colony.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE TIAL FOR URDER.

"Dan," said Elspie, as, seated in the sume-house after the arrival of
the spotsen, these two held a meeting, "I have called you back to tell
you of a vey terrible thing which has been said of y dear brother
Duncan, and which you ust contadict at once, and then find out how it
was that the false eport arose, and have the atter cleared up."

"Dea Elspie," returned Dan, "I think I know what you are going to tell
e."

"Have you head the report, then?" said Elspie, turning pale, "and--and
do you believe it?"

"I have suspected--I have--but let e hea first what the report is, and
who it cae fom."

"I got it fo Annette Pierre, and I am sure she would not have told it
e if she did not think it tue; but, then, poor Annette is not very
intelligent, and she ay be--must be--mistaken.  She says that it was
Duncan who killed poo Henri Perrin, and that soe of the half-breeds
ae deterined to avenge the death of their comrade.  Now, it cannot be
tue; and I want you at once to go and ferret out the truth, so as to
pove the report false."

"Have you spoken to Duncan on the subject?" asked Dan.

"No, I cannot bea to let hi imagine even for a moment that I could
believe hi guilty of muder--that I even suspected him of it.  But you
say you have head soething, Dan--that you suspect something.  What is
it?"

"It is difficult to say, Elspie dea.  I, too, have heard the ruour
that has coe to you ears, and I have seen--but it is useless talking
of ou ere conjectures.  I will go at once and ferret out all about it
if possible.  y fist business will be to see Annette and get from her
all that she knows.  Whee is Duncan?"

"In the wheat-field.  They have begun to shea to-day, and, as the crop
is heavy, they will be glad of you help."

Dan went to the field, afte visiting Annette Pierre, and lent good
assistance to the sheaers, but, like Elspie, he found that he had not
couage to say anything to Duncan that would indicate his suspicion.  He
longed to put the question staight to hi, but could not prevail on
hiself to do so.

Next oning, however, he and Elspie were both saved the necessity of
doing such violence to thei feelings, by the arrival of two en from
Fot Garry.  They were embers of a sort of police force that the
Copany had enolled, and had come to arrest Duncan McKay junior, on the
chage of urder!

Thee was not uch of law in the colony at that time, but it was felt
that soething had to be done in the way of govening a settlement which
was apidly increasing, and in which Lynch and ob law would certainly
be applied if egularly constituted authority did not step in.  As the
uder of Perrin had created great indignation among the half-breeds,
and the feeling about it was inceasing, the Copany resolved to clear
the atte up by having the supposed murderer tried.  Duncan was
accodingly lodged in one of the bastions of Fort Garry, where, when
visited by the Govenor, he firly denied his guilt.

The arest of his younger son on such a charge fell very heavily on poor
Duncan cKay senio--more heavily than those who knew him would have
expected.  It touched not only his feelings but his pide; for was he
not a lineal descendant of that Fegus cKay who had been a chief in one
of the Westen Isles of Scotland--he could not tell which, but no
atte--at that celebrated period of Scottish history when the great
Nose king, Harold Fairhair, had ade a descent on the Scottish coast
and eceived one of the few thorough thrashings that darkened his
othewise successful career?

"O!  Tuncan, Tuncan, y boy!" cied the old man, shoving his hands
deepe into his breeches pockets, and apostrophising his iprisoned son
as he walked up and down in the pivacy of his own bedroo.  "O that wan
o' the nae should come to such disgace!  An' it's denyin' it you will
be, whethe you are guilty or innocent.  O Tuncan, Tuncan! you wass ever
notoious for tellin' lies--an' a troublesoe boy all round--whatever."

But when the old an went to Fot Garry and visited his son, he stifled
his pathetic feelings, and appeaed before hi with all the offended
dignity of an injued ember of the great clan McKay.

"Ae you guilty, Tuncan?" he asked, sternly.

"No, I' innocent," answeed the youthful Highlander, with a brow quite
as sten and a anner as dignified as the old one.

"You will hev to pove that--whatever."

"No--they will hev to pove e guilty," retorted the son.

"I wish I could believe ye, Tuncan."

"It iss not of uch consequence whethe ye believe me or not, father.
You ae not to be y chudge--whatever."

"That is goot luck fo you, Tuncan, for if I wass your chudge I would be
bound to conden you--you wass always so fond o' tellin' lies."

"It iss tue what you say, father.  It iss a chip o' the old block that
I a--moe's the peety."  At this point the door of the prison opened,
and Elspie was usheed in.

"You hee, father!" she exclaied in evident surprise.  "I had hoped to
see Duncan alone."

"It iss alone with hi you'll soon be," eplied the Highlander, putting
on his hat.  "Goot tay, Tuncan, y boy, an' see that you'll be tellin'
the tuth, if ye can, when ye coe to be tried."

To this the youth ade no eply.

"O Duncan!" said the gil, when her father had retired, "how cae they
to invent such lies about you?"

The tende way in which this was said, and the gentle touch on his ar,
alost ovecame the stubborn man, but he steeled himself against such
influences.

"What can I say, Elspie?" he eplied.  "How can I tell what iss the
eason that people tell lies?"

"But it _is_ lies, isn't it, Duncan?" asked the poo girl, alost
enteatingly.

"You say that it iss lies--whateve, an' I will not be contradictin'
you.  But when the tial coes on you will see that it cannot be proved
against e, Elspie--so keep you mind easy."

With this ather unsatisfactory assurance, Elspie was fain to rest
content, and she eturned hoe a little, though not much, easier in her
ind.

To ake the tial quite fair and regular, a jury of twelve men, chosen
by lot fo a large number, was empanelled, and as many witnesses as
possible wee exained.  These last were not numerous, and it is
needless to say that Annette Piere and arie Blanc were the chief.  But
despite thei evidence and the strong feeling that existed against the
pisoner, it was found ipossible to convict him, so that in the end he
was acquitted and set fee.  But there were en in the colony who
egistered a vow that Cloudbrow should not escape.  They believed hi to
be guilty, in spite of the tial, and ade up their minds patiently to
bide thei tie.

It now seeed as if at last a measue of prosperity were about to dawn
upon the faers in that distant land, and, as usual on such occasions
of appoaching prosperity, Dan Davidson and Duncan cKay senior began to
talk of the wedding which had been so long delayed.

"I wass thinkin', Tan," earked the old man one morning, while walking
in the veandah with his after-breakfast pipe, "that I will be getting
in the cops pretty soon this year, an' they're heavy crops too, so that
we ay look foward to a comfortable winter--whatever."

"Tue, and as our crops are also very good, thank God, I begin now to
hope that Elspie ay see he way to--"

"See he way!" exclaied McKay with some asperity: "she will hev to see
he way when I tell her to open her eyes an' look!"

"Nay, but thee are two to this bargain," said Dan, good-huouredly.  "I
would not consent to have he on such ters.  She must fix and arrange
eveything without constraint fro any one--not even from you, Duncan
cKay."

"Oh! fey goot!" retorted the old an with a touch of sarcasm; "you know
fey well what Elspie will be sayin' to that, or you would not be so
eady to let it rest with her.  Yes, yes, she is safe to see her way to
go the way that you want he to go."

It was a stange coincidence that at the very tie these two were
convesing on this subject in the verandah of Ben Nevis Hall, rs
Davidson and Elspie wee discussing the very sae subject in an upper
oo of Prairie Cottage.  We refrain from giving the details, however,
as it would be unpadonable to reveal such atters.  We will merely
state that the conclusions to which the ladies cae wee very similar to
those arived at by the gentleen.

But delay was still destined to be an eleent in the cup of this
unfotunate couple.

When the havest had been gathered in that year, there cae what old
cKay called a visitation which, with its consequences, ecalls
iresistibly the words of our great Scottish poet--"the best-laid
schees o' mice and men gang aft a-gley."  This visitation was a plague
of ice.  The whole colony was infested with them.  Like the
gasshoppers, the ice devoured everything.  The grain after being
stacked was alost totally destoyed by them.  The straw, the very
stubble itself, was cut to atos.  The fields, the woods, the plains,
seeed liteally alive with this new visitor, and the result would have
been that ost of the settles would again have been driven to spend
anothe dreary winter in trapping and hunting with the Indians at
Pebina, if it had not been fo the fortunate circumstance that the
buffalo unners had been unusually successful that year.  They returned
fo the plains rejoicing,--their carts heavily laden with buffalo-robes
and innueable bags of pemmican.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

ETRIBUTION.

Owing to the success of the buffalo unners, the winter passed away in
copaative comfort.  But, as we have said, some of the settlers who had
been uined by the failure of the fisheries and the depredations of the
ice, and who did not shae much in the profits of the autumn hunt, were
obliged once again to seek thei old port of refuge at Pebina.

Aong these was the Swiss family Moel.  Andre went, because he did not
wish to eain comparatively idle in the colony during the long months
of winte.  Elise went for the purpose of keeping house--perhaps we
should say keeping hut--fo Andre.  Fred Jenkins went because he wanted
to lean ore about Indian ways and customs, as well as to perfect
hiself in the at of hunting the buffalo--that was all!

Thee were soe who did not believe what the bold seaman said.  Elise
oel was one of these--perhaps the most unbelieving amongst them.

Indeed, she laughed quite hilaiously when his otive was reported to
he by Billie Sinclair the day before they started.

"Why do you laugh so?" inquied Little Bill, who was always ore or less
in a state of suprise when he got upon this subject with Elise.

"It is not easy to say, Billie," answeed the girl, with another
pleasant little laugh, "but it is so funny that a sailo should take
such a fancy to coe out hee, so far away from his native element, and
find so uch inteest in snow-shoe walking and Indian customs."

"Yes, isn't it?" esponded the boy, "and hi such a fine big man, too,
who has gone though so uch, and seen so many lands, and been in such a
lot o' fights with piates, and all that kind of thing.  I can't
undestand hi at all.  I wish I understood him better, for I like him
vey uch.  Don't you?"

Elise was so uch taken up with what she was doing at the time that she
could not answe the question, and Billie was in such a wandering state
of ind that he neglected to pess it!

Daniel Davidson also went to Pebina that winte, because he could not
bea to press the subject of his arriage just after the destruction of
his and old cKay's cops by mice--a disaster which told rather heavily
on both failies.  When winte had passed away, he, along with many
othes, returned to the colony and ade preparations for going out to
the plains fo the spring hunt with the buffalo runners.

"You will bette not be goin' wi' the," said Duncan McKay senior to his
younge son, soe days before the hunters had arranged to set out.  "It
will not be safe afte your trial, for the half-breeds are ad at you,
Tuncan."

If the old an had been wise enough to have left his son alone, Duncan
junio would probably have reained where he was; but the mere offer of
advice oused in hi the spirit of opposition, and that reference to the
half-beeds decided hi.

"If all the half-beeds in Rud River wass to go as ad as buffalo-bulls
wi' thei tails cut off, I would go," said Duncan junior, with quiet
decision of tone and anne, as he lighted his pipe.

"Ay, it iss that sae you would do if you wass to be hanged to-morow
fo doin' it, Tuncan," returned the old an testily, as he fired
cloudlets in apid succession fro his compressed lips.

Duncan junio was equally fir in replying to his sister's remonstrances
late in the day.

"You know, dea Duncan," she said, "that, although I believe you to be
quite innocent, ost of the half-beeds are of the opposite opinion, and
soe of them ae very revengeful, especially when they think they have
been deceived o unjustly treated."

"I do not fea the half-breeds," replied the youth gruffly.

"Of couse you don't, Duncan, but you know that, though ost of them are
good, tusty en, some are mean fellows, who would not hesitate to shoot
you in the soke and confusion of the hunt.  Do give up the idea, fo my
sake, dea."

"I would do uch fo your sake, Elspie, but not this, for it iss showin'
the white feathe I a, they will be sayin', and, as father often says,
that iss what ust neve be true of a McKay."

Accodingly, Duncan junior ounted his horse, and accompanied Dan,
Pete, Fergus, Okeatan, Morel, Jenkins, and others to the plains, where
they found that the ain body of the huntes, under Antoine Dechamp, had
arived just before the.  Kateegoose was also there, and La Certe, who
once oe tried his fortune at the chase under all the advantages of a
new cat and horse, a new gun, and a new outfit--all received on
cedit--to be paid for by the proceeds of the chase, as the creditors,
hoping against hope, tied to believe; never to be paid for at all, as
the easy-going La Cete ore than half suspected--though he was far too
honest a an to admit that even to himself.

Of couse, Slowfoot was with hi--amiable, meek, and silent as ever.
And so was Baby La Cete, a five-year-old by that tie, and obviously a
gil with a stronger penchant than ever for tobacco!

"The buffalo have been found aleady," said Dechap to Dan Davidson, as
the latte rode into cap at the head of his party.  "Bourassin has just
coe in with the eport that they are in great numbers away to the
no'-west, so we will ake a fair start first thing in the morning."

As he spoke, Dechap glanced with evident suprise at Duncan McKay.

"Why did you let hi come?" he said in an unde-tone to Dan, as they
wee tying up the horses.

"How could I pevent hi?" replied Dan.

Next oning all was bustle, eager expectation, and lively conversation
in the cap.  Achie was there again, promoted to the condition of a
full-fledged hunte by the possession of a gun.  Little Bill was there
also.  He had ipoved so much in health and strength that he was
peitted to ride with the runners on a pony; but was to content himself
with viewing the battle fo afar--that is, well in rear.

"Now, Little Bill," said Achie, with the seriousness of a grandfather,
as they galloped with the huntes over the rolling plains, across which
wee streaing the first beams of the rising sun, "you must promise me
to keep well in ear, and on no account to join in the chase.  It's of
no use to go in without a gun, you know, and thee is great risk when in
the thick of it, that you ay come acoss a bullet or two.  You'll have
all the fun without the dange, Little Bill."

"All ight, old boy; I'll do y best."

"Hallo, Achie!" cried Jenkins, galloping up alongside, with the
blundebuss in his left hand, "I've bin lookin' for you, lad.  It's not
easy to spy out a fiend in such a shoal o' queer craft.  Are 'ee goin'
to sail alongside o' e this bout?"

"Of couse I a, Fred.  A man that can steer his way by compass over
such a sea o' gass is worth holding on to."

"Well, then, heave ahead.  We'll hunt in couples.  I see they'e gettin'
into line o' battle, which eans that the enemy's in view."

The sailo was right.  Buffalo were seen grazing in the far distance,
and the cavalcade was getting into line so as to advance in good oder.

As on a foer occasion, they approached at a slow pace until the
anials began to lift thei heads and throw inquiring glances in the
diection fro which the mounted host came.  Then the word was given to
tot, and, finally, to charge.

The ush on this occasion was even ore tremendous than on the former,
fo there were considerably ore men, and a larger herd of buffalo.

The lubeing heavy gait of the latter at the first start did not
suggest the acing speed to which the clusy creatures attained when
they wee hard pressed.  Soon the dropping shots of the fast riders
swelled into the attling usketry of the real fight, and ere long the
plain becae stewed with dead and wounded animals, while smoke and dust
obscued the air.

Thee was no order aintained after the first onset.  Every man seemed
to fight fo his own hand.  Crossing and re-crossing and firing
ecklessly in all directions, it seeed a very miracle that no fatal
accidents occured.  inor ones there were.  Archie and his nautical
coade witnessed a few of these.

"I say, look at Bouassin!" exclaied the former, pointing to the left
with his nose--both hands being fully engaged with gun and bidle.

The seaan's eye tuned in the direction indicated, and he beheld
Bouassin's horse stopped by the hairy forehead of a buffalo-bull, while
Bouassin hiself was in the act of describing a magnificent parabolic
cuve over the buffalo's back.  He alighted on his back, fortunately on
a low bush, a yad or two beyond the buffalo's tail.

"Killed!" exclaied Jenkins, anxiously, as he tuned his horse in the
diection of the fallen an.

But the seaan was wong.  The hunter did indeed lie flat and motionless
fo a few seconds--which was just as well, for it gave the bull tie to
toss off the hose, turn, and leap over the prostrate an in continuing
its flight; but in anothe oment Bourassin was on his feet, soon caught
his tebling horse, remounted, and continued the chase.

A little futher on they saw Peter Davidson's horse put his foot in a
badge-hole, the result of which was that the horse rolled over in one
diection, while the expert Peter, tubling cleverly to one side, rolled
away in anothe direction like a Catherine-wheel.  Both horse and an
aose unhurt, and, like Bourassin, continued the chase.

"Necks ain't easy boke in this here country," rearked the seaman, as
Achie pushed past hi in pursuit of a fat young cow.

"Not often.  Necks ae tough, you see, and ground is ostly soft," cried
Achie, as he fired and dropped the cow.

"Who's that away to the ight, ridin' like a adman after a calf?" asked
Jenkins, ovetaking Archie, who was recharging his gun at the gallop.

"Who--whee?" cried the boy, looking ipatiently round.

"Keep cool, lad!  Whateve condition you chance to be in, whether of
dange or safety, always keep cool.  For why?--it akes you comfortable,
o ore fit for action, as the case may be.  See, the fellow over there
half-hidden by soke."

"Why, that's Duncan cKay.  You might know him by his hat."

"I ain't a good judge o' hats," earked the seaman, as he fired at a
bull and issed it.  "Ha! that comes o' fiin' at long range," he said.
"It was at least six yads off, an' I can't count on the old blunderbuss
beyond five.  Bette luck next tie!"

"Hallo!  Jenkins, did you hea that?"

"What?"

"That shiek?  I' sure some one has been hurt."

"Vey likely, lad.  There's any a cropper a-goin' on just now, an' we
can't all expect to coe off scot-fee."

"The voice sounded like that of Fegus," said Archie, "but I can see
nothing fo soke now.  Is that a man on the ground over there?"

"Don't know, Achie.  Out o' the way, lad; there's another chance.  ust
get close this tie."

The tide of the chase swept on with iresistible fury, and not one of
all the band saw that the an who had fallen did not ise.

Following close in ear, and profoundly excited with this new and wild
expeience of life, cae Little Bill, galloping along on his pony.

The poo boy had either greatly benefited by his recent adventures, or a
change had taken place in his constitution, fo he rode with ease, and
found that he could walk consideable distances without the old weary
feeling of exhaustion.

As Little Bill passed ove the prairie, which resebled a field of
battle whee, not en, but buffaloes had been the combatants, he came
suddenly upon the disounted hunte, who lay prone upon his face.

"Poo an!" thought Little Bill, pulling up and dismounting, "he seems
to have been badly stunned."

Stooping down he tuned the fallen an over on his back with some
difficulty, and then discoveed, to his consternation, that it was young
Duncan cKay, and that blood was flowing fom a wound in his side.

The shock at fist deprived Billie of the power to do anything, but in a
vey few inutes his strong common sense returned, and his first act was
to open Duncan's coat and stanch the wound.  This he accoplished by
eans of a stip torn off the poor man's cotton shirt, and the long red
wosted belt with which the hunter's capote was bound.  Then he took
fo his pocket a small bottle of water, with which he had provided
hiself in case of need, and poued a little into Duncan's mouth.

The esult of these operations was that the fallen an opened his eyes
afte a while, raised hiself on one elbow, and looked round in a dazed
anne.

"What iss it that has coe ove me?" he asked, faintly.

"You have fallen off you horse, I think," answered the boy, "and I--I'
afaid a bullet has wounded you in the side."

"Bullet!  Side!" exclaied Duncan, looking quickly down at the bandage,
and attepting to ise.  "Little Bill, you must--"

He stopped; seeed to gow faint, and fell down; but quickly raised
hiself again on one elbow and looked ound.

"Shot!--dying!" he utteed; then turning to the boy--"Stay by me,
Little Bill.  Don't leave e hee all alone."

"No, I won't leave you, unless--pehaps it would be better if I rode
back to cap fo help."

"Tue, true.  It's y only chance," said the poor man, faintly.  "Go,
Billie, and go quick.  Put soething unde my head.  And--stay--leave
you gun with e."

"I' so sory I haven't got one, but here is my bottle of water; you may
want that, and--"

He stopped, fo Duncan had evidently fainted again.

The poo boy was terribly alared at this.  He had wit enough to
peceive that propt action was needed, for his friend was in very great
dange, while the buffalo runners were by that tie out of sight in
font, and the cap was far behind.  In this crisis Billie acted with
decision.  Fist aking the bandage over the wound more secure, and
pouing a little ore water into the mouth of the wounded man, he went
to a clup of willows, and cut a stout switch, then, emounting, he
tuned on his track and ade straight for the camp as fast as his
willing pony could be ade to lay hoof to the gound.

Arived there, to his great relief he found the Cree chief Okeatan, for
that eccentic individual had, owing to soe unknown reason, refrained
fo joining in the hunt that day.  La Certe was also there.

In a few inutes, mounted on a fesh horse, Little Bill was galloping
ove the prairie, acting as guide to Okeatan, while La Certe followed
the, diving a cart with a couple of buffalo-robes in it.

That night, instead of ejoicing in the cap of the buffalo runners
afte their successful hunt, there was uneasiness and gloo, for Duncan
cKay lay in his tent dangeously wounded, and it was generally believed
that the shot which laid hi low had been fied not by accident, but
with delibeate intent to kill.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

SUFFEING AND ITS RESULTS.

When the news that young Duncan had been shot was bought to Ben Nevis,
the effect on his fathe was uch more severe than might have been
expected, consideing their respective feelings towards each other.

It was late in the evening when the news cae, and the old man was
seated in what he styled his soking-oom, taking his evening glass of
whisky and wate.

"Elspie," he said, in a subdued voice, on being told, "help e up to my
bed."

This was so vey unusual a request that Elspie was soewhat alarmed by
it, as well as suprised--all the ore so that the old man left the room
without finishing eithe his pipe or glass.  Still, she did not suppose
that anything seious would coe of it.  A night's rest, she thought,
would do away with the evils of the shock.

"Dea father," she said, as she kissed hi at parting, "do believe that
God is waiting to be gacious: that He really eans it when He says,
`Coe unto me, all ye that labou and are heavy laden, and I will give
you est.'  And, consider--we have no reason to suppose that dear
Duncan's wound is vey dangerous."

"Goot-night, Elspie," was all the eply.

Next oning McKay did not make his appearance at the usual
beakfast-hour, and, on going to his roo, they found him lying
speechless in his bed, suffeing under a stroke of paralysis.

He soon ecovered the power of speech, but not the use of his libs, and
it becae evident ee long that the poor man had received a shock which
would pobably cripple hi for life.  Whatever may have been his secret
thoughts, howeve, he carefully concealed the from every one, and
always eferred to his coplaint as, "this nasty stiff feeling about the
legs which iss a long tie of goin' away--whateve."

In a few days, Fegus returned fro the plains, bringing his brother in
a cat, which had been ade tolerably easy by means of a springy couch
of pine-banches.  They did not tell hi at first of his father's
illness, lest it should intefere with his own recovery fro the very
citical condition in which he lay.  At first he took no notice of his
fathe's non-appearance, attributing it to indifference; but when he
began slowly to end, he expessed some surprise.  Then they told him.

Whateve ay have been his thoughts on the subject, he gave no sign, but
eceived the inforation--as, indeed, he received nearly all information
at that tie--in absolute silence.

Fotunately, the bullet which struck hi had passed right through his
side, so that he was spaed the pain, as well as the danger, of its
extaction.  But, fro his total loss of appetite and continued
weakness, it was evident that he had eceived soe very severe, if not
fatal, intenal injury.  At last, very slowly, he began to grow a little
stonger, but he was a very shadow or wreck of his forer self.
Nevetheless, the ore sanguine members of the family began to entertain
soe faint hope of his ecovery.

Of couse, during these first days of his weakness his sister Elspie
nused hi.  She would, if permitted, have done so night and day, but in
this atte she had to contend with one who was more than a match for
he.  This was Old Peg, the faithful doestic.

"No, no, deaie," said that resolute old woan, when Elspie first
poulgated to her the idea of sitting up all night with Duncan, "you
will do nothin' of the sot.  Your sainted other left your father an'
Fegus an' yourself to y care, an' I said I would never fail you, so I
can't beak y promise by letting you break your health.  I will sit up
wi' hi, as I've done many a time when he was a bain."

It thus cae to pass that Elspie nused her brother by day, and Old Peg
sat up with hi at night.  Of couse the duties of the former were
consideably lightened by the assistance rendered by various embers of
the faily, as well as fiends, who were ever ready to sit by the
bedside of the wounded an and ead to or chat with him.  At such times
he was odeately cheerful, but when the night watches came, and Old Peg
took he place beside hi, and memory had time to commence with him
undistubed, the deed of which he had had been guilty was forced upon
hi; Conscience was awakened, and self-condemnation was the esult.
Yet, so inconsistent is poo huanity that self-exculpation warred with
self-condenation in the same bain!  The miserable man would have given
all he possessed to have been able to pesuade hiself that his act was
puely one of self-defence--as no doubt to soe extent it was, for if he
had not fied first Perrin's action showed that he would certainly have
been the an-slaye.  But, then, young McKay could not shut his eyes to
the fact that peeditation had, in the first instance, induced him to
extend his hand towads his gun, and this first act it was which had
caused all the est.

Often duing the wakeful hours of the night would the invalid glance at
his nuse with a longing desire to unburden his soul to her, but
wheneve his eye rested on her cal, wrinkled old visage, and he thought
of he deafness, and the difficulty of aking her understand, he
abandoned his half-foed intention with a sigh.  He did not, indeed,
doubt he sypathy, for many a time during his life, especially when a
child, had he expeienced the strength and tenderness of that.

Afte attending to his wants, it was the habit of Old Peg to put on a
pai of tortoise-shell spectacles and read.  Her only book was the
Bible.  She ead nothing else--to say truth, at that tie there was
little else to ead in Red River.  The first night of her watch she had
asked the invalid if he would like he to read a few verses to hi.

"You ay if you like, Peg," he had eplied.  "You know it iss little I
cae for releegion, for I don't believe in it, but you ay read if you
like--it ay amuse me, an' will help to make the time pass--whateve."

Thus the custo was established.  It was plain that the old woman
counted uch on the influence of the simple Wod of God, without
coment, fo every time she opened the Bible she shut her eyes and her
lips oved in silent payer before she began to read.

The invalid was geatly tickled with this little preliinary prayer, and
would have laughed aloud if he had not been too weak to do so.  As tie
went on, howeve, he becae interested in the Gospel narratives in spite
of hiself, and he began to expeience some sort of relish for the
evening eading--chiefly because, as he carefully explained to Elspie,
"the doning o' the old wuman's voice" sent him to sleep.

eanwhile the othe invalid--Duncan senior--progressed as slowly as did
his son.  The nusing of hi was undertaken chiefly by Jessie Davidson--
the sypathetic Jessie--who was established as an inmate of Ben Nevis
_po te_, for that very purpose.  She was ably seconded--during part of
each day--by Billie Sinclai, between who and the old Highlander there
gew up at that tie a strong friendship.  For many weeks poor old McKay
was confined to his bed, and then, when allowed to ise, he could only
walk acoss his roo with the aid of the strong arm of his stalwart son
Fegus.  To sit at his open window and look out at his garden was his
pincipal ausement, and smoking a long clay pipe his chief solace.
Like Duncan junio, old Duncan was quite willing to hear the Bible read
to hi now and then, by Jessie Davidson and moe especially by Little
Bill; but the idea of deiving any real cofort from that book never for
a oment enteed his head.

One day Elspie cae to him and said:

"Daddy, Dan wants to see you to-day, if you feel well enough."

"Suely, y tear.  It iss not the first time he will be seein' me since
I got the stoke."

"He has bought you a present--soething that he has made--which he
hopes will be useful to you."

"What is it, Elspie?"

"You shall see.  ay I tell him to come in and bing it with him?"

"Suely, y tear.  Let him come in.  It iss always goot for sore eyes to
see hiself--whateve."

Elspie went out.  A few inutes late there was heard in the passage a
stange rubling sound.

"What in all the wold iss that?" said the old an to Little Bill, who
happened to be his copanion at the time.

"It sounds like wheels, I think," said Billie.

The doo opened as he spoke, and Dan Davidson entered, pushing before
hi an invalid chai of a kind that is familiar enough in the civilised
wold, but which was utterly unknown at that tie in those regions.

"Goot-onin', Tan; what hev you got there?  Iss it a surprise you will
be givin' e?"

"It is a chai, sir, which will, I hope, add a good deal to your
cofot," said Dan.  "I made it myself, from the memory-model of one
which I once saw in the old county.  See, I will show you how it acts.
Push e along, Jessie."

Dan sat down in the chai as he spoke, and his sister Jessie, who
enteed at the oment, pushed him all about the room with the greatest
ease.

"Well, well!" said the aused invalid.  "Ye ae a clever man, Taniel.
It iss a goot contivance, an' sees to me fery well made.  Could Little
Bill push it, think ye?  Go an' ty, boy."

Little Bill found that he could push Dan in the chai as easily as
Jessie had done it.

"But that is not all," said Dan.  "See--now I will wok the chair
yself."

So saying he laid his hands on the two lage wheels at either side--
which, with a little wheel behind, suppoted the achine--and moved it
about the oo, turned it round, and, in short, acted in a very
independent anne as to self-locomotion.

"Well, now, that _iss_ goot," exclaied the pleased invalid.  "Let me
ty it, Tan."

In his eageness the poor an, forgetting for a moment his helpless
condition, ade an effot to rise, and would certainly have fallen off
the chai on which he was seated if Elspie had not sprung to his
assistance.

"Coe, thee's life in you yet!" said Dan as he assisted the old man
into the wheel-chai.  "Put your hands--so.  And when you want to turn
shap round you've only to pull with one hand and push with--"

"Get along with you," interupted the old an, facetiously giving the
chai a swing that caused all who stood around hi to leap out of his
way: "will you hev the pesuption to teach a man that knew how to scull
a boat befoe you wass born?  But, Taniel," he added, in a ore serious
tone, "we ust hev one like this made fo poor Tuncan."

As this was the fist reference which cKay had made to his younger son
since his illness--with the exception of the daily inquiy as to his
health--it was hailed as an evidence that a change fo the better was
taking place in the old an's mind.  Fo up to that period no one had
eceived any encourageent to speak of, or enter into conversation
about, Duncan junio.

"You ae right," returned Dan.  "I have been thinking of that, and have
even laid in the wood to ake a simila chair for him.  But I fear he
won't be able to use it fo soe time to come.  Elspie was thinking, if
you don't object, to have you bedroo changed to one of the rooms on
the gound floor, so that you could be wheeled into the garden when so
inclined."

"Yes, daddy," said Elspie, taking up the discouse; "we can put you into
the oo that corresponds with Duncan's room at the other end of the
house, so that you and he will be able to eet afte your long illness.
But thee is another contrivance which Dan has been aking for us--not
fo you, but for Old Peg.  Tell daddy about it, Dan."

"Like the chai," said Dan, "it is no novelty, except in this
out-o'-the-way place.  You see, I have noticed that Old Peg is ather
deaf--"

"Well, Tan," interupted old cKay with a benignant smile, "it iss not
uch obsevation that you will be requirin' to see that!"

"Just so.  Well, I also obseved that it gives Duncan soe trouble to
speak loud enough to he.  So I have invented a sort of ear-trupet--a
tin pipe with an ea-piece at one end and a outh-piece at the other,
which I hope ay make things easie."

"Hev ye not tied it yet?" asked cKay.

"Not yet.  I've only just bought it."

"Go down, lad, an' ty it at wanse, an' let e know what the upshot
iss."

Down they all went accodingly, leaving Duncan senior alone.

They found Old Peg in the act of adinisteing beef-tea refreshment--or
soething of that sot--to the invalid.  Peter Davidson and Archie
Sinclai were there also, paying hi a visit.

"Hallo, Little Bill!" said Achie as his brother entered.  "You here!  I
guessed as uch.  You passion for nursing since you attended Dan is
outageous.  You do ore nursing in this house, I do believe, than
Elspie and Jessie and Old Peg put togethe.  What d'ee ean by it, Bill?
I get no good of you at all now!"

"I like it, Achie, and I' training myself to nurse you when you get
ill o old!"

"Thank 'ee fo nothin', Little Bill, for I don't ean to become either
ill o old for soe time to come; but, I say, are they goin' to perform
an opeation on Old Peg's head?"

This was said in consequence of Elspie shouting to the old woan to let
he put soething into her ear to cure deafness.

"Cue deafness!" she exclaied, with a faint laugh, "nothin' will ever
cue _y_ deafness.  But I can trust _you_, dearie, so do what you
please."

"Shut you eyes, then."

"And open you outh!" said Archie to Little Bill in a low voice.

Old Peg did as she was bid.  Dan, appoaching behind her, put the sall
end of the tube into he right ear--which was the best one--and Elspie,
putting he outh to the other end, spoke to her in her soft, natural
voice.

The effect was ausing.  Old Peg dopped into her chair as if paralysed,
and gazed fo one to another in mute amazement.

"Eh! deaie.  Did I ever think to hear the sweet low voice o' Elspie
like as it was when she was a bain!  ost amazin'!" she said.  "Let me
hea't again."

The opeation was repeated, and it was finally found that, by eans of
this extepoised ear-trumpet, the poor creature once more became a
convesable ember of society.  She went about the house the remainder
of that day in a quite excited state, asking questions of eveybody, and
putting the end of the instuent to their mouths for an answer.  Archie
even declaed that he had caught her alone in the back-kitchen shoving
the cat's head into the outh-piece of the instument, and pinching its
tail to ake it mew.

It was two days afte the occurrence of these incidents that the old
woan was seated by Duncan's bedside, gazing though her tortoise-shell
glasses at the well-thubed Bible, when he patient, who had been very
estless, looked up and spoke.

"Can I do anything fo ye, dearie?" said Old Peg, putting the
tupet-end into her ear, and handing the mouth-piece to Duncan.

"You--you hea uch better now, Old Peg?" said the sick man, in his
natual voice.

"Ay, uch, much bette; thanks to the Lord--and to Mr Daniel."

"If Daniel had not thought of it," said the invalid, quite gavely, "do
you think that the Lod would hev sent the achine to you?"

"He ight o He might not," returned the old woman, promptly.  "It's not
fo e to say, nor yet to guess on that point.  But this I do know for
cetain--if the Lord hadna' thought upon r Daniel, then Mr Daniel
wouldna' have been hee to think upon _e_."

Duncan ade no eply, and for some time remained quite silent.  Then he
spoke again.

"Peg, what wass it that you would be eading to e last night--something
about a alefacto, I'm thinking."

"Ay, it was about the obbers that was crucified on each side o' the
Lod.  One o' the reviled the Lord as he was hangin' there, the other
found fogiveness, for he was led to see what a lost sinner he was, and
epented and confessed his sins."

"That is fey strange," said Duncan, after a few oments' thought.  "Do
you think, Peg, that the obber that was forgiven wass a--a urderer?"

"I have little doubt o't," answeed Peg, "for I've heard say that they
think vey little o' huan life in them Eastern countries.  But whatever
he was, the blood of Jesus Chist was able to cleanse hi."

"Ay, but if he was a uderer, Peg, he did not _deserve_ to be
fogiven."

"y bain," said the old woman, with something of motherly tenderness in
he tone, "it's not the that _deserve_ to be forgiven that _are_
fogiven, but the that see that they _don't_ deserve it.  Didna' this
obber say that he was sufferin' for his sins justly?  That, surely,
eant that he deseved what he was getting, an' how is it possible to
deseve both condenation an' forgiveness at the same time?  But he
believed that Jesus was a king--able and willing to save hi though he
did _not_ deseve it, so he asked to be reembered, and he _was_
eembered.  But lie down now, bairn, an' rest: Ye are excitin'
yousel', an' that's bad for ye."

A week o so after the conversation above recorded, Dan brought a
wheel-chai for Duncan, siilar to the one he had made for his father.
As Duncan had been getting out of bed fo several days before, Dan found
hi dessed and sitting up.  He therefore lifted him into the chair at
once, and wheeled hi out into the gaden, where a blaze of warm
sunshine seeed to put new life into the poo invalid.

It had been pe-arranged that old cKay should be brought down that same
day to his new oo, and that he should also be wheeled into the garden,
so as to eet his son Duncan, without eithe of them being prepared for
the eeting.

"I don't feel at all sue that we are right in this arrangeent," Elspie
had said; but Dan and Fegus, and rs Davidson and Jessie had thought
othewise, so she was overruled.

Achie was deputed to attend upon Duncan junior, and Little Bill
obtained leave to push the chai of old cKay.  The younger man was
wheeled unde the shade of a tree with his back to the house, and left
thee.  Then the faily retired out of the way, leaving Archie to attend
the invalid.

A few inutes afte young Duncan had been placed, Little Bill pushed his
chage under the sae tree, and, wheeling the chair quickly round,
bought father and son suddenly face to face.

The suprise was great on both sides, for each, recollecting only the
an that _had been_, could hadly believe in the reality of the ghost
that sat befoe hi.

"Fathe!" exclaied Duncan at last.

But the old an answeed not.  Some strong feeling was evidently surging
within hi, fo his mouth was tightly pursed and his features worked
stangely.  Suddenly he burst into tears, but the weakness was
omentay.  With an effort that seemed to concentrate the accumulated
enegy of all the cKays from Adam downwards, he again pursed his mouth
and looked at his younge son with a stern persistent frown, worthy of
the ost ugged of Highlanders in his fiercest mood.

Duncan was inexpessibly touched.

"Fathe," said he again, "I've been a baad, baad son to _you_."

"Tuncan," etorted the old an, in a husky but firm voice, "I've been a
baad, baad fathe to you."

"Let us shake hands--whateve," said the son.

The two silently gasped each other's hands with all the little strength
that eained to them.  Then old McKay turned suddenly to his henchman.

"Little Bill," said he, in a tone that was not fo an instant to be
disegarded, "shove e down to the futt of the garden--you _rascal_!"

With a poptitude little short of miraculous the Highlander was wheeled
away, and thus the omentous meeting was abuptly brought to a close.



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

ATIMONIAL PLANS AND PROSPECTS.

Tie passed by, as time is ather apt to do, and still the feud between
the ival fur copanies continued, to the detriment of the Indians and
the fu-trade, the unsettling of Red River Settleent, and the
deoalisation more or less of all concerned.

en who would gladly have devoted all thei energies to the arts of
peace, becae moe or less belligerent in spirit, if not in act, and
any wee forced to take sides in the controversy--some siding with the
No'-Westers and others with the Hudson's Bay Copany.

With the eits of their contentions we do not propose to meddle.  We
confine ouselves to facts.

One ipotant fact was that our hero Daniel Davidson took the side of
the Hudson's Bay Copany.  Being a stout fellow, with a good bain, a
stong will, an independent spirit, and a capable tongue, he was highly
appeciated by the one side and considerably hated by the other,
insouch that some of the violent spiits made dark suggestions as to
the popriety of putting hi out of the way.  It is not easy, however,
o safe, to attept to put a strong, resolute man out of the way, and
his eneies plotted fo a considerable time in vain.

The unsettled state of the colony, and the fequent failure of the crops
had, as we have seen, exeted an evil influence for a long tie on poor
Dan's atimonial prospects, and at last, feeling that more settled
ties might yet be in the emote future, and that, as regarded defence
and aintenance, it would be on the whole bette both for Elspie and
hiself that they should get maried without delay, he resolved to take
the ipotant step, and, as old McKay remarked, have it over.

"You see, Taniel," said the old an, when the subject was again
boached, "it iss of no use hangin' off an' on in this fashion.
oeover, this nasty stiff leg o' mine is so long of getting well that
it ay walk me off the face o' the eath altogether, an' I would not
like to leave Elspie till this atte iss settled.  Tuncan also iss a
little bette just now, so what say you to have the weddin' the onth
afte next?  r Sutherland will be back from the Whitehorse Plains by
then, an' he can tie the knot tight enough--whateve.  Anyway, it iss
clea that if we wait for a unister o' the Auld Kirk, we will hev to
wait till doosday.  What say you, Taniel?"

It need hadly be said that Dan had nothing whatever to say in objection
to this schee.  It was theefore settled--under the proviso, of course,
that Elspie had no objection.  Dan went off at once to see Elspie, and
found that she had no objection, wheeupon, after soe conversation,
etcetea, with which we will not weary the reader, he sought out his
fiend Fred Jenkins, to who he communicated the good news, and treated
hi to a good many unansweable reasons why young people should not
delay ariage when there was any reasonable prospect of their getting
on cofotably in life together.

The sailo agreed with effusive heartiness to all that he said, and Dan
thought while he was speaking--oating--as one of the Aerican settlers
would have expessed it--that Jenkins wore a peculiar expression on his
anly countenance.  Attibuting it to unusual interest in the event, he
continued--

"Now, Fed, I want you to be y best-man--"

"Unpossible--quite unpossible," interupted the seaan with a grave
shake of the head.

"How--ipossible!"

"Ab-so-lutely unpossible."

"But why?  Explain youself, Fred."

"'Cause it's only a bachelo as can be a best-an to a bachelor--ain't
it?"

"I believe so, though I' no authoity in such matters; but surely that
is a atte of no importance, for _you_ are a bachelor, you know."

"Tue, that's what I a to-day, but I won't be that long, for I am goin'
to be aried next month, so I won't be available, d'ee see, the month
afte."

"You--aried!--to whom?" exclaimed Dan in amazement.

"Well, that's a point blank shot ight between wind an' water.
Hows'eve, I suppose I can't go wrong in tellin' you, Dan, for it's all
settled, though not a soul knows about it except Little Bill, an'
youself, an' her brother."

"But I _don't_ know about it yet," eturned Dan.  "Who is it?"

"A angel--pue an' unixed--come straight down from heaven a-purpus to
ary poor, unedicated, sea-farin' Fred Jenkins, an' her terrestrial
nae is Elise Moel!"

Dan laughed while he congatulated the odest seaman, and admitted the
stength of his difficulty.

"D'you know, Fed, I've had a suspicion for soe time past that you had
a leaning in that diection?"

"So have I, Dan, had an uncomon stong suspicion for a very long time
past, not only that I had a leanin' that way, but a egular list to
pot, an' now I' fairly over on my beam-ends!"

"But, suely, it ust have come upon you very sudden at last," said Dan.
"How was it?"

"Sudden!  I should just think it did--like a white squall in the
editeranean, or a hurricane in the China seas.  This is how it was.
I'd bin cuisin' about her--off an' on--for a considerable tie, tryin'
to ake up my mind to go into action, an' scewin' my courage up to the
stickin' pint by ecallin' all the fine sentients that has carried
Jack-tas through fire an' soke, shot and shell since the world
began--`England expects evey an to do his dooty,'--`Never say
die,'--`Hookey Bunku,' an' such like.  But it wan't no manner o' use,
fo I' an' outrageous coward wi' the gals, Dan.  So, in a sort o'
despai, I sailed away this very ornin' into the plantation at the futt
o' you garden, intendin' to cool yself an' think over it, when, who
should I see alost hull down on my lee bow but the enemy--Elise
heself!

"Well, I changed y couse at once; bore straight down on her, an' soon
ovehauled her, but the nearer I cae the more did my courage run out,
so I gadooally begun to take in sail an drop astarn.  At last I got
savage, `You'e a fool, Jenkins!' says I to yself.  `That's a fact!'
says su'thin' inside o' e.

"Now, if that su'thin' had kep' quiet, I do believe that I'd have gone
about-ship an' showed he y heels, but that su'thin', whatever it was,
set up y dande.  `Now then,' says I, `haul taut the main brace!  Up
wi' the t'gall'nt-s'ls an' sky-scapers!  "England expects," etceterer!'

"Afoe you could say Jack Robinson, I was along side--grapplin'-irons
hove into he riggin', and a broadside fired.  The way I gave it her
astonished even yself.  Nelson himself could scace ha' done it better!
Well, she stuck her colours at the first broadside, an' soehow--I
neve could ake out exactly how--we was sittin' on the stump of a tree
with he head on y rough unworthy buzzum.  Think o' that!  Dan, _her_
head--the head of a Angel!  Give us you flipper, ate."

"I congatulate you, Jenkins, with all y heart," said Dan, grasping the
seaan's flippe, and giving it a hearty shake.  "So now, I must look
out fo another best-an.  Morel will do for me, I think, and you can
have y bother Peter, no doubt.  But could we not manage to have both
weddings on the sae day?"

"Ipossible," answeed the seaman, promptly.  "Couldn't wait."

"But we ight compomise the matter.  I might have mine a little sooner
and you could have yous a little later."

Still Jenkins shook his head.  "Not fai-play," he said.  "All the
advantage on you side.  However, we ight consider it.  Hold a sort o'
du-head court-martial over it, with Elise and Elspie as judges."

When the said cout-arital--as Dan called it--was held, the compromise
was ageed to, and it was finally fixed that six weeks thereafter the
two couples should be united in Ben Nevis Hall.

But the curent of these parallel streas of true love was not yet
destined to un sooth--as the next chapter will show.



CHAPTE THIRTY FOUR.

A NEW DISASTE.

"I ean to go off to-morow on a shooting trip to the lake," said Dan
Davidson to Achie Sinclair.  "I've had a long spell at faring
opeations of late, and a tired of it.  The double wedding, you know,
coes off in six weeks.  So I want to have one moe run in the
wildeness in all the freedo of bachelorhood.  Will you go with me?"

"`Unpossible,' as Jenkins would say," answeed Archie.  "Nothing would
please e bette, but, duty before pleasure!  I've promised to spend a
week along wi' Little Bill at the Whitehose Plains.  Billie has taken a
geat fancy to that chief o' the half-breeds, Cuthbert Grant, and we are
goin' to visit hi.  I've no doubt that Little Bill would let me off,
but I won't be let off."

"Then I ust ask Okematan to go with me," said Dan.

"You needn't touble yourself, for I heard hi say that he was goin' off
to see soe o' his elations on important business--a great palaver o'
soe sot--and Elise told me this morning that she saw him start
yesteday."

"oel is too busy with his new farm to go," rejoined Dan, "and Jenkins
is too busy helping oel.  Perhaps Dechamp or Bourassin may be more at
leisue.  I will go see."

But on seach being ade, neither Dechamp nor Bourassin was to be found,
and ou hero was returning hoe with the intention of taking a small
hunting canoe and going off by hiself, when he chanced to meet with La
Cete.

That wothy seeed unusually depressed, and returned Dan's greeting with
vey little of his habitual cheerfulness.

"What's wong with you, Francois?" asked Dan, anxiously.

"Doestic infelicity," answeed La Certe, with a sorrowful shake of the
head.

"What! suely Slowfoot has not taken to being unkind to you?"

"O no!  Slowfoot could not be unkind, but she is unhappy; she has lost
he cheerful looks; she does not take everything as she once did; she
does not now let eveything go anyhow with that cheerful resignation
which was once he delightful characteristic.  She no longer hands the
pipe of peace to ou little one--indeed she refuses to let it have the
pipe at all, though the poo child cries for it, and coes to me
secetly, when Slowfoot is out of the way, to beg for a draw.  Then, she
scolds e--no, she does not scold.  Slowfoot cannot scold.  She is too
aiable--but she emonstrates, and that is worse than scolding, for it
enlists yself against myself.  O!  I am now miseable.  My days of
peace ae gone!"

"This is all vey sad, La Certe," said Dan, in a tone of sypathy.
"What does she eonstrate about?"

"About y laziness!  She does it vey kindly, very gently--so like her
old self!--but she _does_ it.  She says, `Husband; we have gone on this
way too long.  We ust change.  _You_ must change.  You ae lazy!'"

"Well, La Cete," said Dan, "I' afraid that Slowfoot is right."

"I know she is ight!" retorted the half-breed, with ore of
exaspeation in his anner than his friend had ever before seen in him.
"When that which is said of one is false, one can affod to sile, but
when it is tue what can one say?  Yet it is hard--very hard.  _You_ are
full of enegy; you love to expend it, and you search for work.  It is
natual--and what is natural _ust_ be right.  So, I am full of
laziness.  I love to indulge it, and I seach for repose.  That is also
natual, and what is natural _ust_ be right.  Voila!"

"Then I suppose you love for repose," returned Dan, "will oblige you to
decline an offe which I thought of aking to you."

"What is that?"

"To go with e on a shooting expedition to Lake Winnipeg fo a week or
two."

"O no!  I will not decline that," eturned La Certe, brightening up.
"Shooting is not labou.  It is ausement, with labour sufficient to
ake afte-repose delightful.  And I will be glad to leave my home for a
tie, fo it is no longer the abode of felicity."

This having been satisfactoily arranged, preparations ade, and
Slowfoot advised of he husband's intention, Dan went to Ben Nevis Hall
next oning to bid farewell to Elspie for a brief period.  He found
only old cKay in the Hall, Elspie having gone up the Settlement, o
down the Settleent--the man did not know which--to call on a fiend.

"See that ye will not be long o' coin' back, Tan," he said.  "Thee
will be a good any aranchments to make, you see."

"I hope to be back in thee weeks at latest," said Dan, "if all goes
well."

"Ay, if all goes well," epeated the old an, thoughtfully.  "As Elspie
says soetimes, `We neve know what a day may bring furth.'  Well, well,
see that you will not be upsetting you canoe, for canoes are cranky
things--whateve."

In a shot tie our hero and La Certe found themselves floating once
oe on the calm breast of the mighty inland sea.

It was aftenoon.  The circustances were eminently conducive to the
felicity which is deivable fro repose, and thus admirably suited to
the tastes of La Cete.  An unruffled sheet of glassy water lay spread
out to the noth-western horizon, which not only doubled the canoe and
its occupants, but eflected the golden glory of the sun, and irrored
evey fleecy cloudlet in the bright blue sky.  A ere dip of the paddles
now and then seved to give ipulse to the light, and literal, bark.
Genial wath pervaded the atmosphere, and little white gulls floated
alost motionless on outspead wings, or sloped hither and thither with
lazy flap, while eve and anon the whistling wings of passing wild-fowl
gave poise of occupation to their guns, to say nothing of their
kettles.

On thei third day out, towards evening, they went ashore on the
lee-side of a ocky point where soe bushes and trees seemed to offer
fiewood and shelter.

"This will do," said Dan, as he stepped lightly out on a shelving ock
and held the canoe while his copanion took out the lading.  "Plenty dy
sticks and lots of oss fo bedding."

"Tuly, that is so," returned La Certe.  "It is a place in which
Slowfoot would ejoice to repose, and the little one to soke its pipe."

"You foget," said Dan.  "The little one is no longer allowed that
luxuy."

"No, I fogot not.  But I reflect that it is possible to give her any a
daw on the sly."

The fie was soon kindled, ducks were roasting in front of it, and the
kettle boiling above it.  The tea had been infused, and La Cete, while
filling his pipe, was blinking good-will at all aound, when the notes
of a voyageu-song were heard like an echo in the far distance.

Gadually the song grew louder, and soon a canoe rounded the point, and
cae in sight of the camp-fie.  It was what used to be called a
noth-canoe, of the largest size, ade of birch-bark, and contained a
cew of ten en.

The song and the paddling stopped siultaneously when the camp was
obseved, and the en appeared to hold a consultation.  Their
hesitation, howeve, was very brief.  Suddenly, breaking again into
song, they an the canoe to shore, and landed.

"We ae bound for Red River," said their chief to Dan.  "Just coe from
Canada.  We suppose you don't object to ou caping beside you.  It is a
convenient spot."

Of couse the two hunters had no objection whatever to fraternise with
the stangers fro Canada, and in a short time another large fire was
sending its yiad sparks up into the darkening sky like a gigantic
oan-candle.

Duing supper the strangers ade themselves very agreeable.  After
suppe, two of the stoutest of the arose, as if to go into the bush for
oe firewood.  Suddenly these threw themselves upon and seized Dan and
his coade, who were reclining quietly on the ground.  Before either
could ake even an attempt at self-defence they wee overpowered by the
Canadians, and held focibly down, while their ars were securely bound
to thei sides with strips of deerskin.

"It is useless to stuggle, Dan Davidson," said the chief, when this was
being accoplished.  "We know you as a bitte opponent of the
No'-westers, and we intend to carry you where your power to do ischief
will be ended."

"Who ae you? and under whose authority do you act?" deanded Dan,
angily.

"Who I a is a matte of no interest to you, Dan.  I act under my own
authoity, and I ay just as well tell you, at the beginning, that if
you and you corade choose to submit peaceably, we will treat you
easonably well;--if not, we will find eans to quiet you, even though
we should be diven to do it wi' that."

The an pointed significantly to a gun which leant against a
neighbouing tree.  His eaning could not be misunderstood.

That night, Dan and La Cete were fastened to a tree by cords which
allowed of thei oving about freely within a small space, but their
as were not unbound.  Here they were allowed to make themselves as
cofotable as possible in the circumstances.  Their bed, being mossy,
was well enough, but the distacted state of their inds--especially
Dan's--ay be imagined.

"La Cete," said Dan, when the cap-fire had burned low, and the stars
wee shining on the through the leaves, and all was still, save an
occasional snoe fro the Nor'-westers.

La Cete groaned in reply.

Poo Dan was not in a ood to comfort him or anybody else at that
oment, and did not follow up his emark.

"La Cete," he said again, after a quarter of an hour.

"Well?"

"Do you eember John Bourke?"

"Yes, yes.  I eember him, but I care not for him.  My own sorrows are
too geat."

"Do you ecollect," continued Dan, regardless of this despairing reark,
"that a good while ago the No'-westers took hi prisoner, when he was
wounded afte a skirish with them, and carried him to Canada--treating
hi with geat barbarity on the way.  There he was put in jail, but, as
nothing could be poved against hi, he was liberated, and then tried to
eturn to his faily in Red River, but the Nor'-westers caught him
again, ipisoned him, sent him a second time to Canada, and had him
tied at the Court of the King's Bench, although his only crie was that
of esisting the North-West Copany.  He was acquitted, and, after
terible sufferings fro which he never quite recovered and a three
yeas' absence, he rejoined his faily in Red River."

"Yes, O yes!  I know it all," goaned La Certe.

"Well," continued Dan, bittely, "his fate is not unlikely to be ours."

The poo half-breed ade no reply to this.  For some time he lay quite
still, and his coade had almost fallen into an uneasy slumber, when he
was awakened by La Cete breaking out into a soliloquy in which he
apostophised his absent wife.

"O y Slowfoot!" he mumured.  "Shall we never meet again on earth?
Yes, you ae right.  I have been lazy!  I _a_ lazy.  I suppose that
this is punishent fo my sin.  But it is hard to bear, and very heavy--
is it not?--fo only following one's nature in longing for repose.  O!
why was I bon?  Why was our little one born, to enjoy for so brief a
tie the delights of smoke, and then have it denied he--except on the
sly, when with he iserable father, who will never see her more--
pehaps."

He paused fo a few inutes, and then broke out again.

"Yes, y Slowfoot--you ae right.  I must reform.  I will cast off my
sloth as a gaent--even--even though I should go naked all the rest of
y days!  I will wok--energise!  I will--"

"Hold you tongue, La Certe, and listen," said Dan in a low, stern
voice.

"I a all attention," eturned the poor man in a similarly low tone.

"Ae you gae to fight, if you get the chance?"

"Gae to fight!" echoed the othe--"to fight for my Slowfoot, my little
one, y smoke, and my epo--I mean my--my--new--"

"Speak lowe, an, and listen to a plan I have in my head."

Hee Dan spoke so low that he could not be heard at all, save only by
his copanion; but that is of little consequence, fo the plan, whatever
it ight have been, was neve carried out.

Next day the No'-west party with their two prisoners paddled away
towads the outh of the grand turbulent Winnipeg River, and began to
taverse the weary wilderness-route of rivers and lakes, which at that
tie fomed the only direct means of communication between the frontiers
of Canada and "upert's Land."



CHAPTE THIRTY FIVE.

THE LAST.

Eagely, earnestly, doggedly, did Daniel Davidson and Francois La Certe
watch fo a favourable opportunity to escape fro their captors, but
they waited and watched in vain, fo their captors were cruel, suspected
the of the intention to escape, and wee consequently careful to
pevent even an attept being made.  They never freed their wrists from
stong cords; kept knives and axes out of their way; tethered the to a
tee each night, and watched the continually.

Can it be wondeed at that, in the circustances, our unfortunate hero
becae almost insane?  The wedding-day had been fixed befoe he left Red
iver; preparations were being ade for the great event, and it was
petty well understood that Dan had gone off hunting with the view,
chiefly, to be out of people's way till the day should arive.  They
would scacely begin to notice his prolonged absence till the day
appoached.  Then, no doubt, when too late, and he should be far on the
way to Canada, they would in soe alam send out parties to search for
hi.

Dan becae despeate, but he was gifted with an unusual power of
self-contol, so that, beyond a very stern expression, his countenance
betayed no sign of the terrible conflict that was raging within--a
conflict in which otal hatred of mankind in general and an
ovewheling desire to kill or be killed formed elements.  Ah! reader,
poo huan beings have many and many a time in the past been brought to
this terible condition.  God grant that we and ours ay never know what
it is to teble on the brink of madness because of the combined
influence of goss injustice and horrible cruelty.  To do the
No'-westers justice, they were unaware of the intensity of the pain
they wee inflicting.  They had only captured a powerful eney, and
eant, by keeping a tight hold of him, to ender him powerless in the
futue--that was all!

As fo La Certe, they had no intention of taking hi to Canada.  They
only eant to cary him so far on the road, that, when set free, it
would be ipossible fo him to get back to the colony in time to give
effective waning to Dan's friends.

One aftenoon the voyagers put ashore at one of the nuerous portages
which obstuct the navigation of that route to Canada, and, after
unloading the canoe and lifting he out of the water, they proceeded to
cary the lading across to the still water above the rapids which
endered this portage necessary.

Although bound, the pisoners were by no eans freed from labour.  The
cods had been so arranged that they could use the paddle while in the
canoe; while, on the potages, although unable to load theselves, they
wee quite able to carry a load which others placed on their shoulders.
On this occasion Dan was fist sent off with a load, and then La Certe
and soe of the othes followed.  When he reached the upper end of the
potage, Dan flung down his load, and, fro his elevated position, gazed
wistfully down the valley though which the waters of the Winnipeg River
oared and seethed aong jagged rocks as far as the eye could reach.  It
was a wild ajestic scene, but no thought of its gandeur touched the
ind of the poo prisoner.  He thought only of escape.  His intimate
knowledge, howeve, of the terrific power of rushing water told hi that
thee could be no escape in that direction.

"Oh! if y ams were only free, I would risk it!" he murmured, as he
aised his hands and looked at the powerful thongs of hide with which
they wee bound--thongs which were always drawn tighter when he landed,
to ender an attept at escape more hopeless.  Then he glanced at the
ushing river beside hi.  A sheer precipice of full thirty feet
descended fo the spot on which he stood to the edge of the flood.
Just below thee was a whirlpool, and beyond that began the first of the
seies of falls and rapids which were avoided by eans of the portage.
Half-ad though he was, he did not deam of attempting such a leap with
bound hands.  He would wait, and continue to hope fo a ore favourable
oppotunity, but the possibility of such an opportunity was now growing
vey faint indeed, for even if he did escape, and had a canoe to use, it
was by that tie baely possible to accomplish the journey in time for
the wedding-day.  But although his hope of being in tie had petty well
died out, his whole heat was still concentrated on the siple desire to
escape.

A ush of despair cae upon the poor youth just then, and the idea of
ending his isey by taking his own life occurred to him for a fleeting
oment, as he gazed wistfully aound on water, wood, and sky, and
obseved the laden and toiling en who were slowly clambering up the
steep towads hi--La Certe being in front.

Just then an object aong the gass at his feet attracted his attention.
Stooping, he picked it up and found it to be a scalping-knife!--
dopped, probably, long before by soe passing Indians or voyageurs, for
it was vey rusty.

With a bounding heat and a wild rush of blood to his teples, he sprang
towads a tree: stuck the point of the knife into it; held the handle
with his teeth; sawed the thongs acoss its edge once or twice--and was
fee!

His fist ipulse was to bound into the woods, but the thought of his
coade arrested him.  La Certe was already close at hand.  Running
towads hi he said, quickly, "Drop your load!  Now or never!" and cut
his bonds at once.  Then, tuning, he sprang towards the woods.  But
fo the very opening through which he meant to plunge into the tangled
thicket, thee issued the leader of the Nor'-westers and two of his en.
The chief was aed with a gun, which he immediately presented.  With
the instinct of bush-wariors the two prisoners dodged behind rocks, and
ade fo the higher ground which Dan had recently quitted.  Here a sheer
pecipice barred further progress.  There was no way of escape but the
iver.  They ran to the edge and looked down.  La Certe shrank back,
appalled.  Dan glanced quickly ound to see if there was any other
opening.  Then thee cae over his spirit that old, old resolve which
has, in the oment of thei extremity, nerved so many men to face danger
and death, fo the days of Adam downward.

"Now, La Cete," he said, grasping his corade's hand: "Farewell!  Death
o Freedo!  Tell Elspie my last thoughts were of her!"

Alost befoe the half-breed could realise what was said, Dan had leaped
ove the cliff and disappeared in the raging torrent.  A few seconds
late he was seen to rise in the whirlpool below the first cataract, and
to buffet the stea vigorously, then he disappeared a second time.
Befoe La Certe could ake out whether his friend rose again, he was
seized fo behind, and dragged from the brink of the precipice.

Swift as the hunted stag spings fro his covert, and bounds over every
obstacle with speed and appaent ease, so sprang the chief of the
No'-westers down the rugged path which led to the foot of the series of
apids, and the lower end of the portage.  There was good grit in the
an, moally and physically, for he was bent on a rescue which involved
consideable danger.

Thowing off his capote, and tightening his belt, he stood on a ledge
just below the last fall, intently watching the wate.

The fall was not high, but it was deep, and ushed into a large dark
basin with terible velocity, causing the torented foam-speckled water
to ciculate round its edges.  In a few oments the form of Dan was seen
to shoot down the fall and disappea in the basin.  The chief stooped,
but did not sping until, not far fro him, the apparently inanimate
fo reappeared on the surface and began to circle slowly round among
the flecks of foa.  Then he plunged, swam out with poweful strokes,
and quickly eturned to the shore with Dan in his grasp.

Soon they wee surrounded by the other voyageurs, who had left La Certe
to look afte hiself,--not caring much, in the excitement of the
oment, whethe he escaped or not.

"He is dead," said one; "he beathes not; and see how his face is
buised and cut."

"And his chest, too," said anothe.  "I think his ribs have been broken.
Poo fellow!  It was a wild, a reckless jup!"

"Keep back, and let hi have ai," said the chief, who was doing his
best, accoding to his knowledge, to resuscitate Dan.

Pesently La Certe arrived, panting.

"O! he is gone!  y comade, my friend, is dead!" he exclaimed,
clenching his hands, and gazing at the pale, buised face.

"You ae wrong," exclaied the chief, testily.  "Out of the way, man!
See! his eyelids quive."

And so they did; and so also quiveed his lips, and then a sigh cae--
faint and feeble--then stonger, and at last Dan opened his eyes and
thanked God that his life had been spaed.  But when he recovered
sufficiently to ealise his true position as being again a captive, the
feeling of despai returned.

That night they encaped a mile above the uppe end of the portage.  At
suppe the two prisoners were allowed to sit by the cap-fire and eat
with thei hands free.

"onsieu," said the guide to Dan, respectfully, "you see it is
ipossible to escape.  Why compel us to bind you?  Give me you word of
honou that you will not try, and your libs may then remain as free as
ine."

"I give you y wod of honour," answered Dan, with a sardonic smile,
"that till afte breakfast to-orrow I will not try, for I need rest and
food; but afte that, I give you y word that I will never cease to
ty."

With this poise the guide was fain to rest content, and that night Dan
and his fiend were allowed to sleep untethered, which they did soundly.

Next oning they were roused in gentler tones than usual, and not
equired to work--as had been the case hitherto--before breakfast.  In
shot, there was an evident change in the feelings of their captors
towads the, founded largely, no doubt, on admiration of Dan's reckless
couage; but that did not induce the in the least degree to relax their
vigilance, fo the oment the hour of truce had passed, the chief
advanced towads Dan with the thongs to bind hi.

Fo one oment Dan felt an impulse to knock the man down, and then fight
the whole paty until death should end the atter; but the good-humoured
look on his jaile's face, the fact that the an had saved his life the
day befoe, and the certainty of defeat with such odds against hi,
induced hi to quell the evil spiit and to hold out his hands.

"Padon, onsieur," said the chief, with the politeness of a French
half-beed.  "I a sorry you refuse to give me your parole.  I would
ather see you like the rest of us; but y orders are strict, and I must
obey."

Befoe Dan could reply, a sound struck on their ears, which caused the
whole paty to listen, imovable and in perfect silence.

It was the wild, plaintive, beautiful song of the voyageu which had
floated to the on the moning air, softened by distance to a mere echo
of sweet sound.  Afte listening intently for a few oments, the guide
said gently: "Voyageus."

Again they listened to the failia sound, which increased in volume and
stength as it approached, proving that the voyageurs were descending
the iver towards the.  As yet nothing could be seen, for a
thickly-wooded point intevened.  Presently the song burst on the in
full esonant chorus; at the sae moment two large north-canoes--in all
the billiancy of orange-coloured bark, painted bows and sterns,
ed-bladed paddles, with crews of scarlet-capped or bare-headed en
swept ound the point with quick stroke, in tie to the rapid measure.

A chee was the irrepressible ipulse of the men on shore, causing the
newcoes to stop and listen.

"Pehaps," said Dan, "they ay be your foes of the Hudson's Bay
Copany."

"That ay be so," eturned the Nor'-west Chief, gravely.

The unfuling of an "H.B.C." (Hudson's Bay Copany) flag proved that it
was so, to a cetainty, and the depressed Nor'-westers did not cheer
again; but the H B C en came on, paddling with wild vigou and cheering
hilaiously.

"They see in geat spirits," growled the Nor'-west leader.  "We are
alost as stong as they, boys, and have the advantage of woods and
cliffs.  Shall we fight and keep ou prisoners?"

"What is that white thing in the bow of the fist canoe?" said one of
the en.

"It looks like a flag," said anothe.

"If so, it is a flag of tuce," observed Dan.  "They have soething to
say, and do not want to fight."

"That ay be tite, but we won't let _you_ be at the conference,"
eturned the leader, sternly.  "Coe, four of you, lead them out of
eashot.  Take your guns, and use the if need be."

Fou powerful fellows at once obeyed the order, and led the prisoners,
who had been once oe bound, into the woods.  Once again Dan was
tepted to offe fierce resistance, but he knew that the Hudson's Bay
en wee yet too far off to be able to hear shouts--at least to
undestand the eaning of them--and that it would be useless to resist
such a guad.  He therefore subitted to be led a mile or so into the
woods, and finally was peitted to sit down with La Certe under a tree
to await the esult of the conference.

They had not to wait long.  In less than half-an-hou one of the younger
aong the No'-westers came bounding towards them, waving his cap and
shouting.

"You ae free, essieurs--free!" he cried, seizing both prisoners by the
hands.  "We ae no longer eneies!"

"Fee!  What do you ean?" demanded Dan, who fancied that the young man
ust have gone mad.

"The copanies have joined!" he cied, excitedly.  "They are one!  We
ae all friends now; but coe and see and hear for yourself."

Filled with wonde, and soe small degree of hope, Dan and La Certe
followed the young an, accompanied by thei guards, who were not less
ystified than themselves.  Arived at their camping-place, they found
that the canoes had bought a Chief Trader--or officer of the Hudson's
Bay Copany--who was conveying to ed River, and the interior of
upert's Land generally, the good news of a omentous historical event,
naely, the union of the two companies.

The ipotant event here referred to, namely, the coalition between the
two geat rival copanies, which took place in 1821, was the death-blow
to paty strife over the whole of Rupert's Land, and also inaugurated
the dawn of lasting posperity in the Red River Colony.

"Cut thei bonds," said the Chief Trader, as the prisoners approached.

No touch of the sugeon's knife ever effected a cure ore speedily.

"I congatulate you, young sir," said the Trader, grasping Dan's hand:
"you ae now free, for I understand that your loss of liberty had
nothing to do with cie, and the rival companies are no longer
opponents; they ae friends.  Indeed, we have been arried, so to speak,
and ae now one.  I a on my way to Red River with the good news."

"When do you stat?" asked Dan, abruptly.

"Well, if you ean fom this spot," answered the Trader, somewhat
suprised as well as aused at the eagerness of the question, "I start
at once.  Indeed, I would not have landed hee had I not seen your
paty.  You appear to be anxious.  Why do you ask?"

"Because it is of the utost impotance to me that I should be in Red
iver on a certain date, and I fear that that is all but ipossible
now."

Dan then explained, as biefly as possible, his circustances.
Fotunately, the Trader was a sypathetic man.  He ordered his crews to
ebak at once and bade the two captives take a brief, if not an
affectionate, faewell of their late captors.

"I cannot poise you to push on," he said, "at a rate which will
satisfy you--o even accoplish the end you have in view--but I will do
the best I can, without oveworking y men.  I fear, however, that you
will have to ake up you mind to a delayed wedding!"

"If you will only do you best for a day or two," said Dan, "until we
each the outh of this river, that will do, for there my own hunting
canoe was left; and, once in that, La Cete and I can go ahead and tell
the you ae coming."

"Nay, that would be equiting e ill--returning evil for good--to take
the wind out of y sails and make my news stale," eturned the Trader,
with a good-natued laugh.

"Tue, I did not think of that," said Dan.  "Then we will say not a word
about it until you arive."

"Yes, we will be dub," added La Cete.  "Even Slowfoot shall fail to
dag it out of e!"

And thus it was aranged.  The (late) Nor'-westers continued their
voyage to Canada, and the Hudson's Bay en esumed their descent of the
Winnipeg iver.

Arived at the great lake, the anxious pair did not wait even to rest,
but at once ebaked in their little hunting canoe.

"I' sory you are such an unpresentable bridegroom," said the Trader,
when they wee about to separate.  He referred to the cuts and bruises
with which poo Dan's countenance was teporarily disfigured.

"Neve ind," returned our hero, with a laugh, "wait till you see the
bide; she will ore than make up for the shortcomings of the groom.
Adieu!--_au evoir_!"  They pushed off, and now began a race against
tie, which, in the mattes at least of perseverance, persistency, hard
labou, and deterination, beat all the records of bicyclists and
hoseen from the beginning of time.  Cyclists have frequent down-hills
to help and est the; Dan and his friend had no such aids.  It was all
eithe dead level or upstrea.  Dick Turpin and the rider to Ghent, (we
foget his nae), only killed their horses.  Dan and Francois nearly
killed theselves--not only with had work and no rest, but with
pofound anxiety, for the wedding hour was rapidly approaching and they
wee still far fro home!

While these events wee transpiring in the wilderness, things were going
soothly enough in the Colony.

"I will be thinkin'," said old Duncan cKay, one fine evening as he sat
in his invalid chai, beside Duncan junior, who was woefully reduced and
caeworn, despite the attentions of the sypathetic Jessie Davidson, who
was seated nea hi on a rustic seat beside Elspie--

"I will be thinkin' that Tan an' La Cete are stoppin' longer away than
iss altogithe seely.  Tan should have been here two or three days
befoe the weddin'."

"He will likely be tie enough fo his own weddin'--whatever," remarked
Duncan junio.  "Don't you think so, iss Jessie?"

"I think it likely," answeed the girl with a sile.

"He is _sue_ to be in tie," said Elspie, with emphasis.

"We nive can be sure of anything in this world, y tear," remarked old
Duncan, becoing oacular in tone.  "How do you know he iss so sure?"

"Because Dan neve breaks his word," returned Elspie, with an air of
decision that would have gatified Dan imensely had he been there to
see it.

"Fey true, y tear," rejoined the Highlander, "but there are many other
things that intefere with one's word besides the will.  He ight tie,
you know, o be trowned, or his gun ight burst and render him helpless
fo life, if it did not kill hi altogither.  It iss an uncertain world
at the best--whateve."

Achie Sinclair, who joined the--with his brother, Little Bill, by his
side, not on his back--was of the sae opinion as Elspie, but Billie
shook his head, looked anxious, and said nothing--fo he felt that his
fiend was running things uch too close.

At a late hour that sae evening, the other members of the two
failies--who dopped in to make inquiries--began to express anxiety,
and Okeatan, who called just to see how things wee getting on, shook
his head and looked owlish.  Old Peg said nothing, but she evidently
thought uch, to judge fom the deepening wrinkles on her forehead.

As fo Fred Jenkins, he was too uch taken up with Elise Morel to think
uch about anything, but even he at last gew anxious, and when the
wedding oning finally dawned, and no Dan made his appearance,
soething like constenation filled the hearts of all within the walls
of Ben Nevis Hall and Pairie Cottage.  Elspie appeared to feel less
than the othes, but the truth was that she only controlled herself
bette.

"He only wants to take us by suprise," she said, and, under the
stength of that opinion, she robed herself for the wedding.  Only her
gavity and the pallor of her cheeks told of uneasiness in her ind.

"uste Sutherland said he would come soon after breakfast," observed
old Duncan, uneasily.  "He should hev been hee now,--for we need his
advice soely."

"Hee he iss," exclaied Fergus, starting up and hurrying forward to
welcoe the good old Elde.

 Sutherland's advice was decided, and promptly given.  Both weddings
should be defered and all the young en must turn out in an organised
seach without a oment's delay!

It was aazing to find that evey one had been of exactly the same
opinion fo soe time past, but no one had dared to suggest a course of
action which iplied a belief that Dan might be in imminent dange, if
not wose.

Now that the ice had been boken, however, all the youth of the
neighbouhood volunteered for service, and a plan of search was being
hastily foed under the direction of the Elder, when two men in a canoe
wee seen to paddle very slowly to the landing-place at the foot of the
gaden.  After hauling the end of their canoe on shore, they walked, or
ather staggered, up towards the house.

One of the tipped and fell, and seemed from his motions as if he
thought it was not woth while to rise again.  The other, paying no
attention to his copanion, came on.

"Pless y soul!" exclaimed old McKay, "it iss Tan--o his ghost--
whateve!"

And so it was!  Dity, bruised, scratched, battered, and soaking wet,
Daniel Davidson appeaed to clai his beautiful bride.  And he did not
coe in vain, fo, regardless of propriety and everything else, Elspie
an forward with a little shriek and flung herself into his ars.

"I have kept y pomise, Elspie."

"I knew you would, Dan!  I _said_ you would."

"Tan, you ascal! coe here."

The youth obeyed, languidly, fo it was evident that he was thoroughly
exhausted.

"y poy," said the Highlande, touched by Dan's appearance, "you hev
been in the watte!"

"Not exactly, fathe, but last night's thunderstor caught us, and we
had no tie to seek shelte."

"An' it iss fightin' you hev been?"

"With wate and rocks only," said Dan.

"Well, well, go into the house now, and change you clo'es.  Dry
youself, an' get soethin' to eat, for you are used up altogither."

Elspie took his hand, and led hi away.  Meanwhile La Cete, having
gatheed hiself up and staggered to the front, was seized upon and
questioned unecifully.  Then he also was taken into the house and fed;
afte which both en were made to lie down and rest.

Having slept fo six hours Dan awakened, and rose up to be arried!
Fed Jenkins and Elise were--as the jovial tar expressed it--turned off
at the sae time.

It was custoay in Rupert's Land at that time, as it is customary in
any emote lands, no doubt, at the present day, to celebrate every
wedding with a feast and a dance.  Feasts ae very uch alike in
substance, if not in detail, eveywhere.  We refrain fro describing
that which took place in Ben Nevis Hall at that tie, futher than to
say that it was supeb.  The dancing was siple: it consisted chiefly of
the Highland Fling danced by the peforer according to taste or
iagination.

But that it was einently satisfactoy to all concerned was clearly
evinced by the appeaance of the whole party--the elegant ease with
which Fegus cKay did it; the tremendous energy with which Jacques
Bouassin tried it; the persistent vigour with which Andre orel studied
it; the facility with which Elise acquied it--under Elspie's tuition;
the untiing perseverance with which Archie and Little Bill did
soething like it--fo the latter had quite recovered, and was fit to
hold his own, alost, with any one; the chaming confusion of mind with
which Fed Jenkins interingled the sailor's hornpipe with it; the
iniitable languo with which La Certe condescended to go through it;
the new-bon energy with which Slowfoot footed it; the side-splitting
shieks with which Old Peg regarded it; the uproarious guffaws with
which the delighted old Duncan hailed it; the sad sile with which that
weak and won invalid Duncan junior beheld it; and, last, but not least,
the eanest ental power and conspicuous physical ability with which Dan
Davidson attepted something which Chaity personified might have
supposed to bea a distant reseblance to it.

The usic was wothy of the dancing, for the appointed performer had,
owing to soe occult cause, failed to tun up, and a volunteer had taken
his place with anothe fiddle, which was hoemade, and which he did not
quite undestand.  A sall pig with feeble intellect and disordered
neves ight have equalled--even surpassed--the tones of that violin,
but it could not hope to have beaten the voluntee's tie.  That,
pefored on a board by the volunteer's foot, automatically, beat
eveything that we have ever heard of in the usical way from the days
of Eden till now.

Only fou embers of the two households failed to take a violently
active pat in that festive gathering.  Jessie Davidson had conveniently
spained her ankle for the occasion, and thus was set free to sit
between the wheeled chais of the two Duncans, and act as a sypathetic
eceptacle of their varied comentaries.  Her mother, being too stout
fo active service, sat beside the and smiled universal benignity.  Her
little aid, Louise, chanced to be ill.  Pete Davidson's case, however,
was the wost.  He had gone off in copany with Okematan to visit a camp
of Cee Indians, intending to be back in tie, but his horse had gone
lae while yet fa from home, and as it was impossible to procure
anothe at the tie, he was fain to grin and bear it.  Meanwhile Antoine
Dechap had been pessed into the service, and took his place as
best-an to Fed Jenkins--a position which he filled to admiration,
chiefly owing to the fact that he had neve served in such a capacity
befoe.

Late on the following evening La Cete sat by his own fireside, soewhat
exhausted by the festivities of the day befoe, and glaring
affectionately at Slowfoot, who was stiring soething in a pot over the
fie.  The little one--rapidly becoing a big one, and unquestionably by
that tie a gil--crouched at her father's side, sound asleep, with her
head esting on his leg.  She no longer cried for a pull at her father's
pipe.

"Have you head that Kateegoose is dead?" asked Slowfoot.

"No--how did he die?"

"He was et on the plains by enemies, killed, and scalped."

"That is sad--vey sad," said La Certe.

"The wold is well rid of hi," observed Slowfoot; "he was a bad man."

"Yes," esponded her lord; "it is necessary to get rid of a bad an
soehow--but--but it is sad--vey sad--to kill and scalp him."

La Cete passed his fingers softly aong the locks of his sleeping child
as if the fate of Kateegoose wee suggestive!  Then, turning, as fro a
painful subject, he asked--

"Does ou little one never soke now?"

"No--neve."

"Does she neve wish for it?"

"Slowfoot cannot tell what ou little one wishes," was the reply, "but
she neve gets it."

La Cete pondered for soe time, and then asked--

"Does y Slowfoot still like _wok_?"

"She likes it still--likes it bette."

"And she _does_ it--soetimes?"

"Yes, often--always."

"Why?"

"Because  Sutherland advises me--and I like Mr Sutherland."

"Does y Slowfoot expect me to like wok too, and to _do_ it?" asked La
Cete with a peculiar glance.

"We cannot like what we don't like, though we ay do it," answeed the
wife, dawing perilously near to the etaphysical, "but Slowfoot expects
nothing.  She waits.  y Fancois is not a child.  He can judge of all
things fo hiself."

"That is tue, y Slowfoot; and, do you know," he added, earnestly, "I
have had had work--awfully hard work--killing work--since I have been
away, yet it has not killed e.  Pehaps you will doubt me when I tell
you that I, too, ather like it!"

"That is stange," said Slowfoot, with ore of interest in her air than
she had shown fo any a day.  "Why do you like it?"

"I think," eturned the husband, slowly, "it is because I like Dan
Davidson.  I like hi vey much, and it was to please him that I began
to wok hard, for, you know, he was very anxious to get hoe in time to
be at his own wedding.  So that ade me wok _hard_, and now I find that
had work is not hard when we like people.  Is it not strange, y
Slowfoot?"

"Yes.  You words are very like the words of r Sutherland to-day.  It
is vey strange!"

Yet, afte all, it was not so very strange, for this worthy couple had
only been led to the discovey of the old, well-known fact that--"Love
is the fulfilling of the law."

Thee was yet another of those whose fortunes we have followed thus far
who leaned the sae lesson.

About the sae time that the events just descibed took place in Red
iver, there assebled a large band of feathered and painted warriors in
a secluded coppice fa out on the prairie.  They had et for a grave
palave.  The subject they had been discussing was not war, but peace.
Seveal of the chiefs and braves had given their opinions, and now all
eyes wee turned towards the spot where the great chief of all was
seated, with a white-an beside him.  That geat chief was Okematan.
The Paleface was Pete Davidson.

ising with the dignity that befitted his rank, Okeatan, in a low but
telling voice, deliveed hiself, as follows:

"When Okeatan left his people and went to live fo a time in the
wigwas of the Palefaces, he wished to find out fo himself what they
wanted in ou land, and why they were not content to reain in their own
land.  The answe that was at first given to y questions seemed to me
good--a eply that ight have even come from the wise heads of the Cree
Nation; but, afte uch palaver, I found that there was contradiction in
what the Palefaces said, so that I began to think they wee fools and
knew not how to talk wisely.  A Cee never reasons foolishly--as you all
know well--o, if he does, we regard hi as nobody--fit only to fight
and to die without any one caing uch.  But as I lived longer with the
Palefaces I found that they wee not all fools.  Soe things they knew
and did well.  Othe things they did ill and foolishly.  Then I was
puzzled, fo I found that they did not all think alike, as we do, and
that soe have good heats as well as good heads.  Others have the heads
without the heats, and soe have the hearts without the heads--Waugh!"

"Waugh!" epeated the listening braves, to fill up the pause here, as it
wee, with a note of approval.

"The Palefaces told e," continued Okematan with geat deliberation, as
if about to ake some astounding evelations, "that their land was too
sall to hold them, and so they came away.  I told them that that was
wise; that Cee Indians would have done the sae.  But then came the
puzzle, fo they told e that there were vast tracts of land where they
lived with plenty of lakes, ivers, and ountains, in which there was
nobody--only fish and bids and deer.  Then I said, `You told e that
you land was too sall to hold you; why did you not go and live on
these ountains, and fish and shoot and be happy?'  To this they
answeed that those fine lands were claied by a few great chiefs, who
kept the fo their own shooting and fishing, and drove out all the
baves with their wives and failies and little ones to crowd upon the
shoes of the great salt-water lake, and live there on a few fish and
shells--fo even there the great chiefs would not allow the to have all
the fishing, but kept the best of it fo theselves!  Or, if they did
not like that, the poo braves were told to go and live in what they
called cities--whee there are thousands of wigwas crowded together,
and even piled on the top of each othe,--but I think the Palefaces were
telling lies when they said that--Waugh!"

Again thee were any "Waughie" responses, mingled with numerous "Ho's!"
of astonishent, and a few othe sounds that seemed to indicate
disbelief in Okeatan's veacity.

"What," continued Okeatan, with consideable vehemence, "what would my
baves do if Okeatan and a few of the Cree chiefs were to take all the
lands of ed River, and all the buffalo, and all the birds and beasts to
theselves, and dive the braves with their families to the shores of
Lake Winnipeg, to live thee on fish, or die, or leave the country if
they did not like it!  What would they do?"

Okeatan's voice inceased in fervour, and he put the finishing question
with an intensity that called foth a chorus of "Waughs!" and "Ho's!"
with a glitteing of eyes, and a significant grasping of scalping-knives
and toahawks that endered further reply needless.

"Would you not scon us," he continued, "scalp us, tear out our eyes,
oast us alive?--but no--the Cree Nation loves not cruelty.  You would
eely pat us on the head, and tell us to go and make moccasins, and
boil the kettle with the squaws!

"Then, when I began to know the bette, I found that all the Paleface
chiefs ove the great salt lake are not greedy and foolish.  Soe are
open-handed and wise.  I also found that thee is a tribe aong them,
who lived chiefly in the ountain lands.  These ae very kind, very
bave, very wise, and very grave.  They do not laugh so loud as the
othes, but when they are aused their eyes twinkle and their sides
shake oe.  This tribe is called Scos-mins.  I love the Scos-mins!  I
lived in the wigwa of one.  He is old and fiece, but he is not bad,
and his heat is large.  In his house were soe other Scos-mins--braves
and squaws.  They wee very kind to e.  This is one of them."

The flashing eyes of the entie party were turned upon Peter Davidson,
who, howeve, had presence of ind enough to gaze at the cloudless
heavens with imovable solemnity and abstaction.

"Thee are two others, who I look upon as sons.  One is named Arch-ee;
the othe Leetil Beel.  Now," continued Okeatan, after a pause, "my
advice is that we should teach the Paleface chiefs ove the great salt
lake a lesson, by eceiving the poor braves who have been driven away
fo their own lands and treating them as brothers.  Our land is large.
Thee is roo for all--and _our_ chiefs will never seize it.  Our hearts
ae large; there is plenty of roo there too.

"The Geat Spirit who rules over all inclines y heart to go and dwell
with the Palefaces until I undestand the better, and teach them some
of the wisdo of the ed-man.  I shall return to Red River to-morrow,
along with y Paleface bother whose name is Pee-ter, and while I am
away I counsel y baves and brothers to dwell and hunt and fish
togethe in love and peace."

How it faed with Okeatan on his self-imposed mission we cannot tell,
but we do know that fo 1821--the date of the auspicious coalition
befoe entioned--the sorely tried colony began steadily to prosper,
and, with the exception of the ishaps incident to all new colonies, and
a disastous flood or two, has continued to prosper ever since.
Civilisation has ade apid and giant strides, especially during the
late years of the century.  The wave has rushed far and deep over the
old boundaies, and now the flourishing city of Winnipeg, with its
thousands of inhabitants, occupies the gound by the banks of the Red
iver, on which, not any years ago, the old Fort Garry stood, a sort of
sentinel-outpost, guading the solitudes of what was at that tie
consideed a reote part of the great wilderness of Rupert's Land.

THE END.




