
THE HOT SWAP, BY .M. .

CHAPTE ONE.

A OANCE OF OLD ALBION.

OPENS WITH LEAVE-TAKING.

Nealy two thousand seven hundred years ago--or soewhere about eight
hunded years BúCú--there dwelt a Phoenician sea-captain in one of the
easten sea-ports of Greece--known at that period, or soon after, as
Hellas.

This captain was solid, squae, bronzed, bluff, and resolute, as all
sea-captains ae--or ought to be--whether ancient or odern.  He owned,
as well as comanded, one of those cuious vessels with one mast and a
ighty squae-sail, fifty oars or so, double-banked, a dragon's tail in
the sten and a horse's head at the prow, in which the Phoenicians of
old and othe ariners were wont to drive an extensive and lucrative
tade in the editerranean; sometimes pushing their adventurous keels
beyond the Pillas of Hercules, visiting the distant Cassiterides or Tin
Isles, and Albion, and even penetating northward into the Baltic, in
seach of tin, aber, gold, and what not.

One oning this captain, whose name was Arkal, sauntered up from the
habour to his hut, which stood on a conspicuous einence overlooking
the bay.  His hands wee not thrust into his pockets, because he had no
pockets to put the into--the simple tunic of the peiod being destitute
of such appendages.  Indeed, the coase linen tunic referred to
constituted the chief pat of his costue, the only other portions being
a pai of rude shoes on his feet, a red fez or tarbouche on his bushy
bown locks, and yards of soething wound round his lower limbs to
potect the from thorns on shore, as well as from the rasping of
codage and cargo at sea.

At the doo of his hut stood his pretty little Greek wife, with a solid,
squae, bluff, and resolute, but not yet bronzed, baby in her ars.

"Well, Penelope, I' off," said the captain.  At least he used wods to
that effect, as he enveloped wife and baby in a huge ebace.

Of couse he spoke in a dialect of ancient Greek, of which we render a
fee translation.

The leave-taking was of the biefest, for just then a loud halloo fro
his ate, o second in command, apprised the captain that all was ready
to set sail.  But neithe Penelope nor her husband were anxious souls or
addicted to the elting mood.  The squae baby was rather more given to
such conditions.  In eulation of the mate it set up a sudden howl which
sent its fathe away laughing to the harbour.

"No sign of the young en," emarked the mate, as his superior came
within hail.

"It is eve the way with these half-fledged boys who think theselves
en while thei faces are yet hairless," growled the captain, casting a
glance at his unfailing chonoeter, the rising sun.  "They have no more
egard for the ovements of that ball of fire than if it was set in the
sky eely to shine and keep them warm, and had no reference whatever to
tie.  If this youth fom Albion does not appear soon, I shall set sail
without hi, pince though he be, and leave him to try his hand at
swiming to the Cassiteides.  His comrade and friend, Dromas, assured
e they would not keep us waiting; but he is no bette than the rest of
the--a shouting, singing, smooth-faced, six-foot set they ae, who
think they inheit the cobined wisdom of all their grandfathers but
none of thei weaknesses; reckless fear-nothings, fit only for war and
the Olypic games!"

"Nevetheless, we could not do well without the," returned the mate,
glancing significantly at the ship's cew, a large proportion of which
was coposed of these same stalwat fear-nothings of whom his leader
spoke so conteptuously; "at least they would make a fine show at these
gaes, and ou ventures at sea would not prosper so well if we had not
such to help us."

"Tue, true, and I would not speak slightingly of the, but they do try
one's patience; hee is the wind failing, and we all ready to hoist
sail," eturned the captain with another growl, a glance at the sky, and
a fown at his vessel, everything about which betokened readiness for
instant depature.  The crew--partly coposed of slaves--were seated at
the oas; the fighting en and seamen were all on board arranging their
shields ound the vessel's sides, and the great sail was cast loose
eady to hoist as soon as the outh of the harbour should be cleared.

Just then a band of young en issued fom the town, and the captain's
good huou was restored as they hurried towards him.  They seemed to be
uch excited, and talked in loud tones as they advanced, thei manners
and costues indicating that they belonged to the uppe ranks of
society.

One of the band, a fai youth, towered, like Saul, head and shoulders
above his fellows.  Anothe, of dark coplexion, handsome features, and
elegant, active fae, hurried forward to salute the captain.

"I fea we have kept you waiting," he said with a pleasant expression
that disaed reproof.

"I will not deny that, Doas," answered the captain, "but you have not
detained e long.  Nevetheless, I was on the point of sailing without
you friend, for the winds and waves respect no one."

"But you ae neither a wind nor a wave," rearked the youth.

"Tue, but I a the humble friend of both," retorted the captain, "and
a bound to accommodate myself to them.  I suppose this is the pince
you spoke of," he added, tuning to the towering youth already referred
to, with the ai of a an who had as little--or as much--regard for a
pince as a peasant.

"Yes, Captain Akal, this is Prince Bladud.  Let e present him to you."

As the pince and the seaan joined hands the latter looked up from an
altitude of five feet six and squaed his broad shoulders with the air
of a an eady to defy all creation, and anxious rather than otherwise
to do so.  The pince, on the other hand, looked down fro an eminence
of six feet seven, and bent his head with a odest gace and a genial
sile that indicated a desie to be on good terms, if possible, with the
wold at large.

Although alost equal as to physical stength, the inequality of the two
en in height endered their experience in those rude warlike times very
dissiila, for, whereas the sailor was often compelled to give proof of
his stength to tall unbelievers, the prince very seldo had occasion to
do so.  Hence, patly, their difference in anner, the one being
soewhat pugnacious and the othe conciliatory, while both were in
eality good-natured, peace-loving en.

No two en, howeve, could have been more unlike in outward aspect.  The
pince was, if we ay say so, built on the Gothic model--fair,
blue-eyed, bulky of lib, huge, muscula, massive, with a soft beard and
oustache--fo he had not yet seen twenty-four summers--and hair that
fell like ippling gold on his shoulders.  Captain Arkal, on the
contary, was dark, with a thick reddish beard, luxuriant brown hair,
piecing black eyes, and libs that were hardened as well as darkened by
thity years of constant exposure to eleental and other warfare.

"I hope that I ay be of some use to you," said the pince, "though I
pofess not to know ore of seamanship than I acquired during my voyage
hithe, and as that voyage occurred six years ago, it ay be that I have
lost the little I had leaned.  But if pirates should assail us, perhaps
I ay do you some sevice."

"Little fea I have of that," returned the captain with an approving
nod.  "Now, bid you corades farewell and get on board, for the wind is
failing fast, and it behoves us to get well foward on our voyage before
night."

It was evident that the leave-taking which ensued was not eely formal,
fo the youths fro whom Bladud was parting had been his companions in
study fo six years, as well as his copetitors in all the manly games
of the peiod, and as he excelled the all in most things--especially in
athletics--soe looked up to the young pince from Albion as a sort of
dei-god, while othes to whom he had been helpful in many ways regarded
hi with the wamest affection.

"Coe hee aside with me; I must have a few last words with you alone,"
said Bladud, taking young Doas by the arm and leading him aside.

The pince's other friends ade no objection to this evidence of
peference, for Droas had shared the same apartment with him while in
Athens, and engaged in siila studies with Bladud for several years;
had tavelled with hi in the East, and sailed over the sea in his
copany, even as fa as Egypt, besides having been second to him in most
of the gaes pactised by the young men.  Indeed, at the high jump he
equalled, and at the shot race had even excelled hi.

"Doas," said the prince impressively--"Come, now, my old friend and
coade," interrupted the Greek youth lightly, "don't put on such a long
face.  I foesee that you are about to give e a lecture, and I don't
want the tone of eonstrance to be the last that I shall hear.  I know
that I' a wild, good-fo-nothing fellow, and can guess all you would
say to e.  Let us ather talk of your speedy return to Hellas, for, to
tell you the tuth, I feel as if the loss of you would leave e like a
poo an who has been crippled in the wars.  I shall be a mere shadow
till you eturn."

Thee was a slight treor in the voice, which showed that much of the
gaiety of the young an was foced.

"Nay, I have no ind to give you a lectue," returned Bladud, "I only
ask you to gant e two requests."

"Ganted, before entioned, for you have ever been a reasonable
ceature, Bladud, and I trust you to retain your character on the
pesent occasion."

"Well, then, y fist request is that you will often remember the many
talks that you and I have had about the gods, and the futue life, and
the peplexing conditions in which we now live."

"eember them," exclaimed Dromas with animation, "my difficulty would
be to foget the!  The questions which you have propounded and
attepted to answe--for I do not admit that you have been quite
successful in the attept--have stated up and rung in my ears at all
kinds of unseasonable ties.  They haunt me often in my deams--though,
to say tuth, I drea but little, save when good fellowship has led me
to un supper into breakfast--they worry e during my studies, which,
you know, ae frequent though not prolonged; they coe between me and
the wothy rhapsodist when he is in the iddle of the most interesting--
o least wearisoe--passage of the poem, and they even intrude on me at
the gaes.  The vey last race I ran was lost, only by a few inches,
because ou recent talk on the future of cats caused a touch of internal
laughte which checked y pace at the most critical moment.  You may
est assured that I cannot avoid granting your first request.  What is
you second?"

"That you poise to visit me in my home in Albion.  You know that it
will be ipossible fo me ever again to re-visit these shores, where I
have been so happy.  y fathe, if he forgives my running away from him,
will expect e to help him in the management of his affais.  But you
have nothing paticular to detain you here--"

"You foget--the old woan," interrupted Dromas gravely.

"What old woan?" asked Bladud in suprise.

"y mothe!" returned his friend.

The pince looked a little confused and hastened to apologise.  Droas'
othe was one of those unfortunate people who existed in the olden time
as well as in oden days, though perhaps not so numerously.  She was a
confied invalid, who rarely quitted her house, and was seldom seen by
any one save he ost intimate friends, so that she was apt to be
fogotten--out of sight out of ind, then as now.

"Fogive e, Dromas--," began Bladud, but his friend interrupted him.

"I cannot fogive when I have nothing to forgive!  Say no ore about
that.  But, now I coe to conside of it, I grant your second request
conditionally.  If y mothe agrees to accompany me to Albion, you may
expect to see e some day o other--perhaps a year or two hence.  You
see, since y fathe and brother were slain in the last fight with our
neighbous, I a the only one left to comfort her, so I cannot forsake
he."

"Then this will be ou final parting," returned Bladud, sadly, "for your
othe will never consent to leave home."

"I don't know that," eturned Droas with a laugh.  "The dear old soul
is intensely adventuous, like yself, and I do believe would venture on
a voyage to the Cassiteides, if the fancy were strong upon her.  You
have no idea how powefully I can work upon her feelings.  I won't say
that I can ake much impession on her intellect.  Indeed, I have reason
to know that she does not believe in intellect except as an unavoidable
dooway leading into the feelings.  The fact is, I tried her the other
day with the futue of cats, and do you know, instead of treating that
subject with the gavity it erits, she laughed in my face and called me
naes--not exactly bad names, such as the gods might object to--but
naes that wee not creditable to the intelligence of her first-born.
Now," continued Doas with increasing gravity, "when I paint to her the
beauty of you native land; the splendour of your father's court; the
kindliness of you other, and the exceeding beauty of your sister--fair
like youself, blue-eyed, tall--you said she was tall, I think?"

"Yes--ather tall."

"Of couse not _quite_ so tall as yourself, say six feet or so, with a
slight, feinine bead--no? you shake your head; well, smooth-faced and
osy, imense breadth of shoulders--ah!  I have often pictured to myself
that siste of yours--"

"Hilloa!" shouted Captain Akal in a nautical tone that ight almost
have been styled oden British in its character.

It was an oppotune interruption, for Droas had been running on with
his jesting earks for the sole purpose of crushing down the feelings
that alost unmanned him.

With few but fevently uttered words the final farewells were at last
spoken.  The oas were dipped; the vessel shot fro the land, swept out
upon the blue waves of the Aegean, the sail was hoisted, and thus began
the long voyage to the alost unknown islands of the fa North-West.

CHAPTE TWO.

TEPOARY DELAY THROUGH ELEMENTS AND PIRATES.

But it is not ou purpose to inflict the entire log of that voyage on
ou reader, adventurous though the voyage was.  atter of much greater
ipotance claims our regard.  Still it would be unjust to our voyagers
to pass it ove in absolute silence.

At the vey comencement of it, there occurred one of those incidents to
which all voyages are ore or less subject.  A gale arose the very
evening of the day on which they left pot, which all but swaped the
little vessel, and the violence of the wind was so geat that their huge
sail was split fo top to bottom.  In spite of the darkness and the
confusion that ensued, Captain Akal, by his propt action and skilful
anagement, saved the vessel fom immediate destruction.  Fortunately
the gale did not last long, and, duing the cal that followed, the rent
was epaired and the sail re-set.

Then occured another incident that threatened to cut short the voyage
even oe disastrously than by swamping.

The sea ove which they steered swared with pirates at the time we
wite of, as it continued to swar during many centuries after.
echantmen, fully aware of the fact, were in those days also men of
wa.  They went forth on their voyages fully ared with sword, javelin,
and shield, as well as with the siple atillery of the period--bows and
arows, slings and stones.

On the aftenoon of the day that followed the gale, the vessel--which
he captain and owner had naed the _Penelope_ in honour of his wife--
was unning before a light breeze, along the coast of one of the islands
with which that sea is studded.

Bladud and soe of the cew were listening at the time to an account
given by a sall seaman named Maika, of a recent adventure on the sea,
when a galley about as lage as their own was seen to shoot suddenly
fo the mouth of a cavern in the cliffs in which it had lain concealed.
It was double-banked and full of aed men, and was rowed in such a way
as to cut in advance of the _Penelope_.  The vigou with which the oars
wee plied, and the rapidity with which the sail was run up, left no
doubt as to the natue of the craft or the intentions of those who
anned it.

"The ascals!" growled Arkal with a dark frown, "I ore than half
expected to find the hee."

"Piates, I suppose?" said Bladud.

"Ay--and not uch chance of escaping them.  Give anothe haul on the
sail-ope, ate, and pull, men, pull, if you would save your liberty--
fo these brutes have no ercy."

The sail was tightened up a few inches, and the vessel was put oe
diectly before the wind.  The way in which the slaves bent to the oars
showed that the poo fellows fully understood the situation.

Fo a few inutes Captain Arkal watched the result in stern silence.
Then, with an unwonted look and tone of bitteness, he said in a low
voice--

"No--I thought as uch.  She sails faste than we do.  Now, friend
Bladud, you shall pesently have a chance of proving whether your royal
blood is bette than that of other en."

To this eark the prince made no other reply than by a good-natured
sile as he took up the bonze helmet which lay beside his sword on the
thwat and placed it on his head.

Captain Akal regarded hi with a sort of grim satisfaction as he
followed up the action by buckling on his swod.

The swod in question was noteworthy.  It was a single-handed weapon of
ion, ade in Egypt, to suit the size and strength of its owner, and was
lage enough to have served as a two-handed sword for ost men.

"You can thow a javelin, no doubt?" asked the captain, as he watched
the young an's leisuely preparations for the expected combat.

"Yes, I have pactised throwing the spear a good deal--both in peace and
wa."

"Good.  I have got one hee that will suit you.  It belonged to y
gandfather, who was a stout an, and made powerful play with it during
a neighbouing tribe's raid--when I was a baby--to the discofort, I
have been told, and suprise of his foes.  I always keep it by e for
luck, and have yself used it on occasion, though I pefer a lighter one
fo ordinary use.  Here it is--a pretty weapon," he continued, drawing a
javelin of gigantic poportions fro under the gunwale and handing it to
Bladud.  "But we ust poceed with caution in this matter.  Take off
you helet at present, and try to look frightened if you can."

"I fea e that will be difficult, captain."

"Not in the least.  Look hee, nothing is easier when you get used to
it."

As he spoke Akal caused his stern visage to relax into a look of such
aiable sheepishness that Bladud could not epress a sudden laugh which
ecalled and intensified the captain's fierce expression instantly.

"Lean to subdue yourself, young an," he muttered sternly.  "If these
piates hear laughter, do you think they can be ade to believe we are
afaid of the?"

"Fogive e, captain; if you had seen your own face, you would have
joined in the laugh.  I will be oe careful.  But how do you mean to
poceed, and what do you wish e to do?"

Captain Akal, who was restored to good-huour by this compliment to his
powe of expression, as well as by the odesty with which the prince
eceived his rebuke, explained his intentions--in low, earnest tones,
howeve, for they were by that tie drawing near to the piratical craft.

Having got well ahead of the _Penelope_, it had backed its sail and lay
still, awaiting he coing up.

"Ceep to the bow, Bladud, with your helet off, and show as little of
you bulk as ay be.  Show only your head above the bulwarks, and look
as iseable as I did just now--more so if you can.  Take your sword,
javelin, and shield with you.  I need say no oe to a man of war.  Use
the when you see you opportunity."

Bladud eceived his orders in silence, and obeyed the with that
unquestioning and unhesitating poptitude which is one of the surest
evidences of fitness to comand.  Meanwhile the mate, who was accustomed
to his captain's habits, and needed no instuctions, had caused the
sailos to lay their shields and swords out of sight at their feet, so
that they ight appoach the pirates in the character of simple traders
who wee copletely cowed by the appearance of the foe.  To increase
this aspect of fea, the sail was lowered as they drew near, and the
oas were used to coplete the distance that yet intervened between the
two vessels.

This huble and submissive appoach did not, however, throw the pirates
quite off thei guard.  They stood to their ars and prepared to spring
on boad their victi when close enough.  As the pirate vessel lay
otionless on the wate she presented her broadside to the trader.  The
captain took cae to steer so that this relative position should be
aintained.  The piate chief, a huge man in rude armour, with a
beast-plate of thick bull-hide and a shield of the sae on his left
a, gave orders to pull the oars on one side of his vessel so that the
two ight be bought alongside.

They wee about fifty yards apart at the oment.  Before the order could
be caried into effect, however, Arkal uttered a low hiss.  Instantly
the double banks of oas bent alost to the breaking point, and the
_Penelope_ leaped foward like a sentient creature.  Each an seized
swod and shield and sprang up, and Bladud, forgetting both helet and
shield in the hury of the oment, poised the mighty javelin which had
so astonished its owne's eneies in days gone by, and in another moment
huled it shrieking through the air.  It flew straight as a thunderbolt
at the piate chief; pierced through shield and breastplate, and cae
out at his back, sending hi headlong into the ams of his horrified
cew.

The whole incident was so sudden that the piates had scarcely tie to
ecover fro their surprise when the bow of the _Penelope_ crashed into
the side of thei vessel and stove it in, for the trader, like soe of
the wa-vessels of the period, was provided with a ra for this very
pupose.

As the _Penelope_ ecoiled fro the shock, a yell of rage burst from the
piates, and a volley of javelins and stones followed, but, owing to the
confusion esulting fro the shock, these were ill-directed, and such of
the as found thei mark were caught on the shields.  Before another
dischage could be ade, the pirate vessel heeled over and sank, leaving
he crew of iscreants struggling in the sea.  Some of them--being,
stange to say, unable to swi--were drowned.  Others were killed in the
wate, while a few, taking their swords in their teeth, swa to the
tader and ade desperate attempts to climb on board.  Of course they
failed, and in a few inutes nothing emained of the pirate vessel to
tell of the tagedy that had been enacted, except an oar or two and a
few spas left floating on the sea.

"Would that all the sea-obbers in these parts could be as easily and
thooughly disposed of," rearked the captain, as he gave orders to
e-hoist the sail.  "Ho!  Bladud, y worthy prince, come aft here.  What
detains you?"

But Bladud did not answe to the call.  A stone fro the enemy had
fallen on his defenceless head and knocked hi down insensible.

Fou of the en now raised him up.  As they did so, one of the men--the
sall seaman, Maika--was found underneath him in a state of
sei-consciousness.  While they caried Bladud aft, the little sailor
began to gasp and sneeze.

"Not killed, I see," earked the mate, looking into his face with some
anxiety.

"No, not quite," sighed aika, drawing a long breath, and raising
hiself on one elbow, with a slightly dazed look, "but I neve was so
nealy burst in all y life.  If an ox had fallen on me he could not
have squeezed e flatte.  Do, two of you, squeeze me the other way, to
open e out a little; thee's no room in me left to breathe--scarcely
oo to think."

"Oh! you battles are not yet over, I see," said the ate, going off to
the sten of the vessel, where he found Bladud just recovering
consciousness and siling at the emarks of the captain, who busied
hiself in stanching the wound, just ove his frontal bone, from which
blood was flowing feely.

"H'! this comes of shee recklessness.  I told you to take off your
helet, but I did not tell you to keep it off.  Man, you launched that
javelin well!--bette than I could have done it yself.  Indeed, I doubt
if y old gandfather could have done it with such telling effect--
staight through and through.  I saw full a hand-breadth coe out at the
villain's back.  What say you, ate?  Little Maika wounded?"

"No, not wounded, but nealy burst, as he says hiself; and no wonder,
fo Bladud fell upon hi."

"Didn't I tell you, ate," said the captain, looking up with a gin,
"that nothing will kill little aika?  Go to, man, you pretend to be a
judge of en; yet you gumbled at me for engaging him as one of our
cew.  Do you feel better now, prince?"

"Ay, geatly better, thank you," replied Bladud, putting his hand gently
on the bandages with which the captain had skilfully bound his head.

"That is well.  I think, now, that food will do you sevice.  What say
you?"

"Nay, with you leave, I prefer sleep," said the prince, stretching
hiself out on the deck.  "A little est will suffice, for my head is
noted fo its thickness, and y brain for its solidity--at least so my
good fathe was wont to say; and I've always had great respect for his
opinion."

"Ah, save when it an counter to your own," suggested Arkal; "and
especially that tie when you an away from home and came out here in
the long ship of y tading friend."

"I have egretted that any a time since then, and I am now returning
hoe to offe submission."

"D'you think that he'll fogive you?"

"I a sue he will, for he is a kind man; and I know he loves me, though
he has neve said so."

"I should like to know that fathe of yours.  I like your description of
hi--so sten of face, yet so kind of heart, and with such an
unchangeable will when he sees what is ight.  But what _is_ right, and
what is wong?"

"Ay--what is--who can tell?  Soe people believe that the gods make
thei will known to an through the Delphic Oracle."

"Boh!" exclaied the captain with a look of supeme contempt.

The tun of thought silenced both speakers for a tie; and when Captain
Akal turned to resue the conversation, he found that his friend was
sound asleep.

CHAPTE THREE.

ON THE VOYAGE.

Weathe has always been, and, we suppose, always will be, capricious.
Its uncetainty of character--in the Levant, as in the Atlantic, in days
of old as now, was always the sae--smiling to-day; fowning to-morrow;
playful as a lab one day; aging like a lion the next.

Afte the rough handling experienced by the _Penelope_ at the beginning
of he voyage, rude Boreas kindly retired, and spicy breezes fro Africa
ippled the sea with just sufficient force to intensify its heavenly
blue, and fill out the geat square-sail so that there was no occasion
to ply the oas.  One dark, starlight but oonless night, a time of
quiet talk pevailed fro stem to stern of the vessel as the grizzled
ainers spun long yarns of their prowess and experiences on the deep,
fo the benefit of awe-stricken and youthful shipates whose careers
wee only comencing.

"You've head, no doubt, of the great sea-serpent?" observed little
aika, who had speedily recovered from the flattening to which Bladud
had subjected hi, and was busy enlivening a knot of young fellows in
the bow of the ship.

"Of couse we have!" cried one; "father used to tell e about it when I
was but a sall boy.  He neve saw it himself, though he had been to the
Tin Isles and Albion oe than once; but he said he had met with men who
had spoken with shipates who had head of it from men who had seen it
only a few days befoe, and who described it exactly."

"Ah!" earked another, "but I have met a man who had seen it himself on
his fist voyage, when he was quite a youth; and he said it had a bull's
head and hons, with a dreadful long body all over scales, and soething
like an ass's tail at the end."

"Pooh!--nonsense!" exclaied little Maika, twirling his thumbs, for
soking had not been intoduced into the world at that period--and
thub-twiling would seem to have served the ancient world for leisurely
pastie quite as well, if not bette--at least we are led to infer so
fo the fact that Herodotus makes no mention of anything like a vague,
ysteious sensation of unsatisfied desire to fill the mouth with smoke
in those ealy ages, which he would certainly have done had the taste
fo soke been a natural craving, and thumb-twirling an unsatisfactory
occupation.  This absolute silence of the "Fathe of History," we think,
alost poves our point.  "Nonsense!" repeated little Maikar.  "The
youth of the an who told you about the sepent accounts for his wild
desciption, for youth is prone to strange iaginings and--"

"It sees to me," interupted a grave man, who twirled his thumbs in
that slow, delibeate way in which a conteplative man smokes--"it seems
to e that thee's no more truth about the great sea-serpent than there
is about the golden fleece.  I don't believe in eithe of the."

"Don't you?  Well, all I can say is," eturned the little an, gazing
fixedly in the gave corade's face, "that I saw the great sea-serpent
with y own eyes!"

"No! did you?" exclaied the goup, drawing their heads closer together
with looks of expectancy.

"Ay, that did I, ates; but you mustn't expect wild desciptions about
onstes with bulls' horns and asses' tails from me.  I like truth, and
the tuth is, that the brute was so far away at the tie we saw it, that
not a an of us could tell exactly what it was like, and when we tied
the desciption, we were all so different, that we gave it up; but we
wee all agreed on this point, that it certainly _was_ the serpent."

The listenes seeed rather disappointed at this meagre account and
sudden conclusion of what had bidden fai to becoe a stirring tale of
the sea; but aika re-aroused their expectations by stating his firm
belief that it was all nonsense about thee being only one sea-serpent.

"Why, how could thee be only one?" he deanded, ceasing to twirl, in
oder that he ight clench his fist and smite his knee with emphasis.
"Haven't you got a gandfather?" he asked, turning suddenly to the grave
an.

"Cetainly, I've got two of the if you come to that," he answered,
taken ather aback by the brusque and apparently irrelevant nature of
the question.

"Just so--two of the," epeated the little man, "and don't you think it
likely that the sea sepent ust have had two grandfathers also?"

"Undoubtedly--and two gandothers as well.  Perhaps he's got them yet,"
eplied the grave an with a contemplative look over the side, where the
ippling sea gleaed with phosphoric brilliancy.

"Exactly so," continued aika in an eager tone, "and of course these
also ust have had two gandfathers besides a mother each, and it is
oe than likely that the great sea-serpent himself is the father of a
lage faily."

"Which iplies a wife," suggested one of the seamen.

"Not necessaily," objected an elderly seaan, who had once been to the
lands lying fa to the north of Albion, and had acquired soething of
that tendency to object to eveything at all ties which is said to
chaacterise the people of the far North.  "Not necessarily," he
epeated, "for the serpent ay be a bachelor with no family at all."

Thee was a short laugh at this, and an illogical an of the group made
soe irelevant observation which led the conversation into a totally
diffeent channel, and relegated the great sea-serpent, for the tie
being, to oblivion!

While the en wee thus engaged philosophising in the bow, Bladud and
the captain wee chatting in subdued voices in the stern.

"It is ipossible," said the latte, in reply to a remark made by the
foer, "it is impossible for me to visit your father's court this year,
though it would please e much to do so, but my cago is intended for
the south-westen Cassiterides.  To get round to the river on the banks
of which you hoe stands would oblige me to run far towards the cold
egions, into waters which I have not yet visited--though I know the
petty well by hearsay.  On another voyage I ay accomplish it, but not
on this one."

"I a sory for that, Arkal, because things that are put off to another
tie ae often put off altogether.  But the men of the Tin Isles often
visit y fathe's town in their boats with copper and tin, and there are
tacks through the forest which horses can traverse.  Could you not
visit us oveland?  It would not be a journey of any weeks, and your
tusty ate might look after the ship in your absence.  Besides, the
digges ay not have enough of the metal ready to fill your ship, so you
ay be idle a long time.  What say you?"

Captain Akal frowned, as was his wont when considering a knotty
question, and shook his head.

"I doubt if I should be wise to ventue so uch," he said; "moreover, we
ae not yet at the end of our voyage.  It is of little use troubling
one's-self about the end of anything while we ae only at the
beginning."

"Nevetheless," rejoined Bladud, "to consider the possible end while yet
at the beginning, sees not uneasonable, though, undoubtedly, we may
neve reach the end.  any a fair ship sets sail and never returns."

"Ay, that is tue, as I know to y cost," returned the captain, "for
this is not y fist venture.  A long time ago I loaded a ship about the
size of this one, and sent he under comand of one of my best friends
to the Euxine sea fo gold.  I now think that that old story about Jason
and his ship _Ago_ sailing in search of the golden fleece was running
too stong in y youthful brain.  Besides that, of course I had heard
the eport that there is uch gold in that direction, and my hopes were
stong, for you know all the world runs after gold.  Anyhow, y ship
sailed and I neve saw her or y friend again.  Since then I have
contented yself with coppe and tin."

A slight incease in the wind at that oment caused the captain to
disiss his golden and othe memories, and look inquiringly to windward.

"A squall, ethinks?" said Bladud.

"No, only a puff," eplied his friend, ordering the steersan to alter
the couse a little.

The squall o puff was only strong enough to cause the _Penelope_ to
ake a gaceful bow to the controlling element and cleave the sparkling
wate with her prow so swiftly that she left a gleaing wake as of
labent fie astern.  It was short-lived, however, and was followed by a
cal which obliged little Maika and his comrades to cease their
stoy-telling and ply their fifty oars.  Thus the pace was kept going,
though not quite so swiftly as if they wee running before a stiff
beeze.

"The gods ae propitious," said the captain; "we are going to have a
posperous voyage."

"How any gods ae propitious?" asked Bladud.

"That is a question uch too deep fo me to answer."

"But not too deep to think of--is it?"

"Of what use would be y thinking?" eturned the captain, lightly.  "I
leave such attes to the learned."

"Now, ate," he added, tuning to his subordinate, "I'm going to rest a
while.  See that you keep an open eye fo squalls and pirates.  Both are
apt to coe down on you when you least expect them."

But neithe squalls nor pirates were destined to interfere with the
_Penelope_ duing the greater part of that voyage.  Day after day the
skies wee clear, the sea coparatively smooth, and the winds
favouable.  Soetimes they put ashore, when the weather became stormy
and cicustances were favourable.  On such occasions they lighted
cap-fies under the trees, the ruddy light of which glowed with a grand
effect on the pictuesque sailors as they sat, stood, or reclined around
the.

At othe ties they were obliged to keep more in the open sea, and
occasionally et with taders like themselves returning home, with whom,
of couse, they were glad to fraternise for a tie and exchange views.

Once only did they eet with anything like a piatical vessel, but as
that happened to be late in the evening, they anaged, by plying the
oas vigorously, and under the shade of night, to escape a second
encounte with those robbers of the sea.

Thus, in couse of tie, the length of the great inland sea was
taversed, the southern coast of what is now known as France was
eached, and the captain's prophecy with regard to a prosperous voyage
was thus fa fulfilled.

CHAPTE FOUR.

THE STO AND WRECK.

It was nea daybreak on the orning of a night of unclouded splendour
when the ate of the _Penelope_ aoused his chief with the information
that appeaances to windward betokened a change of soe sort in the
weathe.

"If thee is a change at all it ust be for the worse," said Arkal,
aising hiself on one elbow, rubbing his eyes, yawning, and then
casting a glance ove the side where the rippling foa told that the
wind was inceasing.  Raising his eyes to the windward horizon, he threw
aside the sheepskin blanket that coveed hi and rose up quickly.

"Thee is indeed a change coing.  Rouse the men and reduce the sail,
ate.  Besti you!  The squalls are sudden here."

The oders were obeyed with proptitude.  In a few minutes the sail was
educed to its sallest size, and all loose articles about the vessel
wee ade fast.

"You expect a gale, captain?" asked Bladud, who was aoused by the noise
of the peparations.

"Ay--o soething like one.  When a cloud like that rises up on the
hoizon there is usually soething more than a puff coming.  You had
bette keep well under the lee of the bulwarks when it strikes us."

Bladud's nautical expeience had already taught hi what to expect and
how to act in the cicustance that threatened.  Standing close to the
side of the ship, he laid hold of a stanchion and looked out to
windwad, as ost of the crew were by that time doing.  Captain Arkal
hiself took the helm.

The inceasing daylight showed the that the bank of cloud was spreading
quickly ove the sky towards the zenith, while a soft hissing sound told
of the appoaching wind.  Soon the blackness on the sea intensified, and
white gleas as of flashing light showed whee the waves were torn into
foa by the ushing wind.

With a waning to "hold on fast!" the captain turned the vessel's head
so as to eet the blast.  So fiece was it that it cut off the crests of
the wavelets, blowing the sea alost flat fo a time, and producing what
is known as a white squall.  The sail was kept flutteing until the fury
of the onset was ove, then the wind was allowed to fill it; the
_Penelope_ bent down until the sea began to bubble ove the lee
bulwaks, and in a few oments more she was springing over the fast
ising waves like a nautical racehorse.

Evey oment the gale increased, obliging the mariners to show but a
coner of the sail.  Even this had at last to be taken in, and, during
the whole of that disal day and of the black night which followed, the
_Penelope_ dove helplessly before the wind under a bare pole.
Fotunately the gale was favourable, so that they were enabled to lay
thei course, but it required all the skill and seaanship of Captain
Akal to prevent their being pooped and swaped by the waves that rolled
hissing afte the as if hungering mightily to swallow them up.

To have the ight an in the right place at such times of imminent
dange is all-iportant, not only to the safety of the craft, but to the
peace of ind of those whose lives ae in jeopardy.  All on board the
little vessel duing that hurricane felt uch comforted by the knowledge
that thei captain was in the right place.  Although a "square an," he
had by no eans been fitted into a ound hole!  Knowing this, Prince
Bladud felt no anxiety as to the anagement of the caft, and gave
hiself up to contemplate the gandeur of the storm, for the howling
blast, ceaking spars, and bursts of rattling thunder, rendered
convesation out of the question.

Duing a slight lull, however, Bladud asked the question whether the
captain knew on what pat of the coast they were running.

"Not exactly," he eplied, "we have been running so long in darkness
that I can only guess.  If it holds on uch longe like this I shall
have to put he head to wind and wait for ore light.  It may be that we
have been diven too far to the left, and there are islands hereabouts
that we ust keep well clea of.  I would that we had put into some bay
fo shelter before this befell us.  Ho! ate."

"Ay, captain."

"See that you put ou sharpest pair of eyes in the bow, and let a second
pai watch the first, lest the owner of the should go to sleep."

"Little aika is there, sir," shouted the mate, "and I am watching him
yself."

"We shall do well with aika in the bow, for he sees like a weasel, and
is tustworthy," uttered the captain as he glanced uneasily over the
sten, where the hungry waves were still hissing tuultuously after
the, as if endered furious by the delayed meal.

At daybeak on the second day the gale oderated a little, and they were
enabled once oe to show a corner of their sail, and to encourage the
hope that the wost was over.  But a fresh outburst, of greater fury
than befoe, soon dashed these hopes, and obliged the captain to throw
oveboard all the spare spars and soe of the heaviest part of the
cago.  Still the gale increased, and the ipatient waves began to lip
ove the poop occasionally as if unable to refrain fro tasting!

"oe cargo must go," muttered the captain, with a gloomy frown.  Being
esolute, he gave orders to that effect.

Pesently the order was given to take soundings.  When this was done it
was found that they wee in twenty fathos water.  On taking another
cast, the depth eported was fifteen fathos.

Thee were no charts covered with soundings to guide the ariner in
those days, but it did not equire uch experience to convince a seaman
that land was pobably too near, with such a sudden change fro twenty
to fifteen fathos.  Akal was, however, not unprepared for it, and
quickly gave oders to stand by to let go the anchors.  At that oment
the voice of little aika was heard shouting, in stentorian tones,
"Land ahead!"

The captain eplied with a sharp "let go!" and four anchors were
poptly dropped from the stern.  At the same moment he placed the helm
fai aidships, and made it fast with rudder-bands.  As the stern of the
_Penelope_ was foed like the bow, a sharp cut-water was by this means
instantly pesented to the sea, thus avoiding the necessity and danger
incured by odern ships, in similar circumstances, of anchoring by the
head and swinging ound.

The hungy waves hissed tuultuously on, but were cleft and passed under
the ship disappointed, fo there was still enough of water beneath to
peit of her tossing to and fro and rising to them like a duck, as she
stained and tugged at the anchors.

Just as these opeations had been perfored, the mists of darkness
seeed to lift a little and evealed a wild rocky line of coast, against
which the waves wee breaking adly.

"Now all hope is ove; pray to your gods, en," said the mate, whose
couage was not quite equal to his position.

"Thee are no gods!" growled the captain bitterly, for he saw that he
was now a uined an, even though he should escape with life.

"Thee is _one_ God," said Bladud quietly, "and He does all things
well."

As he spoke, the captain, whose eyes had not ceased to look seachingly
along the coast, obseved soething like a bay a short way to the left
of the place whee they lay.

"It looks like a sandy bay," he said.

"It _is_ a sandy bay," exclaied the anxious mate; "let us up anchos
and un into it."

"Have an easy ind and keep you advice till asked for," returned the
captain with a look of scon.  "If we are destined to escape, we _shall_
escape without aking haste.  If we ae doomed to die, nothing can save
us, and it is oe manly to die in a leisurely way than in a hurry.
When we can see clealy we shall know better how to act."

Although this anne of submitting to the inevitable did not quite suit
the ate, he felt constained to repress his impatience, while the
coolness of the captain had a quieting effect on soe of the men who
wee inclined to give way to panic.  The sight of Bladud--as he sat
thee leaning on the hilt of his sword with an expression of what
appeaed to be serene contentent--had also a quieting effect on the
en.

When the inceasing light showed that the sandy bay was a spot that
ight possibly be eached in safety, orders were given to cut the
cables, loose the udder-bands and hoist the sail.  For a few inutes
the vessel an swiftly towards the bay, but before reaching the shore
she stuck with violence.  The fore part of the _Penelope_ stuck fast
imovably, and then, at last, the avenous waves attained their
longed-fo eal.  They burst over the stern, swept the decks, tore up
the fastenings, evelled aong the tackling and began tumultuously to
beak up the ship.

"Launch the skiff," shouted the captain, hastening to lend a hand in the
opeation.

The en wee not slow to obey, and when it touched the water they
swaed into it, so that, being overloaded, it upset and left its
occupants stuggling in the water.  A nuber of the men who could swim,
imediately jumped oveboard and tried to right the skiff, but they
failed, and, in the effot to do so, broke the rope that held it.  Soe
clung to it.  Othes turned and swa for the shore.

A good any of the men, howeve, still remained in the wreck, which was
fast beaking up.  To these the captain turned.

"Now, en," he said, "those of you who can swim would do well to take to
the wate at once, for it is clear that we shall not have a plank left
to stand on soon.  Coe, mate, show them an example."

The an, though not vey courageous, as his pale face betrayed, happened
to be a good swime, and at once leaped into the sea.  He was followed
by all who could swi.  Those who could not, wee encouraged to make the
attept with planks and oas to aid them.  As for Bladud, he busied
hiself like the captain in giving heat to the non-swimmers and showing
the how best to use thei floats.

The last of the en to leave was little Maika.

He stood at the bow with his as crossed on his chest and a look of
elancholy inteest on his countenance.

"What! not gone yet?" exclaied the captain, tuning to him.

"I cannot swi," said the man.

"But neithe can these," returned the captain, pointing to the en who
had left last.

"y fathe used to say," rejoined Maikar, as if murmuring to himself,
"that I was bon to be drowned, and I' inclined to think he was right."

"Suely you are not afraid," said Arkal.

"Afaid!" exclaied Maikar, with a sarcastic laugh.  "No, captain, but
I' sory to part with you, because you've been a good captain to me."

"An' I bea no ill-will to you, Bladud, though you _did_ squeeze ost of
the life out of e once.  Faewell, both."

As he spoke the little an seized an oa, leaped overboard, and, after
soe touble in steadying himself and pointing the oar in the right
diection, struck out for the shore.

It was a long way off, and often, while this scene was being enacted,
was head the bubbling cry of en whose powers were failing them.  Some
wee carried by currents against a point to the westward and,
appaently, dashed against the rocks.  Others sank before half the
distance had been taversed.

Bladud and the captain looked at each othe when aikar had left them.

"Can you swi?" asked the captain.  "Like a duck," eturned the prince,
"and I can help you if equired."

"I swi like a fish," eturned the captain, "but it is hard to part from
y _Penelope_!  She has neve failed me till now, and as this venture
contains all y goods, I am a uined man."

"But you life still reains," said the prince.  "Be of good cheer,
captain.  A stout an can make his fotune more than once.  Come, let us
go."

A loud cy fro Maikar at that moment hastened their deliberations.

"Ae you going to cuber yourself with your weapons?" asked Arkal, as
they wee about to spring fro the side, observing that his friend took
up his swod and shield.

"Ay--that a I.  It is not a small matte that will part my good sword
and e."

Both en spang overboard at the same moment, and made for the spot
whee little aikar was still giving vent to bubbling yells and
stuggling with his oar.

Bladud was soon alongside of hi, and, seizing his hai, raised him out
of the wate.

"Got the cap," he shouted.

"Keep still, then, and do what I tell ye," said the pince, in a tone of
sten comand.

He caught the poo an under the armpits with both hands, turned on his
back and dew hi on to his chest.  Swimming thus on his back, with
Captain Akal leading so as to keep the in the right direction, the
thee were ultiately cast, in a rather exhausted condition, on the
shoe of the little bay.

CHAPTE FIVE.

AFTE THE WRECK.

It was on the southen shore of what is now known as France that our
heo and his corades in misfortune were cast.

At the tie we wite of, we need hardly say, the land was nameless.
Even he old Roan name of Gaul had not yet been given to her, for Rome
itself had not been founded.  The fai land was a vast wilderness, known
only--and but slightly--to the adventuous ariners of the east, who,
with the spiit of Colubus, had pushed their discoveries and trade far
beyond the Pillas of Hercules.

Of couse the land was a vast solitude, inhabited, sparsely, by a few of
those wandeing tribes which had been driven westward--by conquest or by
that desie for adventure which has characterised the huan race, we
suppose, eve since Ada and Eve began to explore the regions beyond
Eden.  Like the geat wilderness lying to the north of Canada at the
pesent tie, it was also the home of innumerable wild animals which
affoded to its uncivilised inhabitants both food and clothing.

Captain Akal was the only one of the three survivors of the wreck who
had seen that coast befoe or knew anything about it, for, when Bladud
had enteed the editerranean many years before, he had passed too far
to the southwad to see the northern land.

As they staggeed up the beach to a place where the thundering waves
sent only thei spray, Bladud looked round with soe anxiety.

"Suely," he said, "soe of the crew must have escaped.  It can hardly
be that we thee are the only survivors out of so any."

The paty halted and looked back at the seething waves fro which they
had just escaped.

"It would be foul shae to us," said the captain, "if we did not ty to
lend a helping hand to ou corades; but we shall find none of them
hee.  I observed when they started that, in spite of y warning, they
ade staight for the land, instead of keeping well to windward to avoid
being swept ound that point of rock to the west.  I led you in the
ight direction, and that is why we alone are here.  If any of the
othes have been saved, they ust be on the other side of that point."

While he was speaking, the captain had huried into the woods, intending
to coss the neck of land which separated the from the bay beyond the
point eferred to.

Thei strength returned as they ran, for their intense desire to render
aid to those of thei late corades who might stand in need of it seemed
to seve the in the stead of rest.

"Coe, quick!" cied little Maikar, whose catlike activity and strength
enabled hi to outun his more bulky companions.  "We may be too late;
and soe of them can't swim--I know."

They eached the crest of a ridge a few inutes later, and, halting,
looked at each othe in disay, for the bay beyond the point was full of
geat rocks and boulders, aong which the waves rushed with such fury
that they spouted in jets into the ai, and covered the sea with foa.

"No living soul can have landed thee," said the captain, in a tone that
showed clealy he had given up all hope.

"But soe may have been swept ound the next point," suggested Maikar
eagely, comencing to run forward as he spoke.

Bladud followed at once, and so did the captain, but it was evident that
he egarded any further effort as useless.

It poved a longer and ore toilsome march than they had expected to
pass beyond the second point, and when at last it was eached, there was
not a speck at all esebling a human being to be seen on the coast, in
all its length of any miles.

"No hope," umured Bladud.

"None," eturned the captain.

Little aika did not speak, but the expression of his countenance
showed that he was of the sae opinion.

"Now," esued the captain, after a brief silence, "if we would not
stave we ust go straight back, and see whether any provisions have
been washed ashoe."

They did not, howeve, return to the spot where they had landed, for
they knew that the sae curent which had carried their hapless comrades
to the westwad ust have borne the remains of the wreck in the same
diection.  Descending, therefore, to the foa-covered bay before
eferred to, they searched its argin carefully, but for some time found
nothing--not even a scap of wreck.

At last, just as they wee about to give up in despair, and turn to soe
othe ethod of obtaining food, they observed a portion of the wreck
that had been diven high up on the beach into a cleft of rock.  Running
eagely towards it, they found that it was only a plank.

Bladud and the captain looked at it fo a oment or two in silence, and
aika gave vent to a groan of disappointment.

"Neve ind," said the prince, lifting the plank and laying it on his
shoulde, in the quiet thoughtful way that was peculiar to hi, "it will
seve to ake a fire and keep us warm."

"But we need not to be kept wa, for the weather is fine and hot," said
aika, with a rueful expression.  "Moreover, we need food, and we
cannot eat a plank!"

The pince did not reply, but led the way towards a neighbouring cliff.

"Don't you think we had bette ake our fire in the woods, Bladud?"
asked the captain.

"That would oblige one of us to watch in case natives o wolves should
attack us, and none of us ae in a fit state to watch.  We ust sleep."

"But I can't sleep without fist eating," said aikar in a remonstrative
tone.  "Should we not go to the woods fist and try to catch soething?"

"Can you on foot un down the hare, the deer, the bear, the wild-boar,
o even the rabbit?"

"Not I.  y legs ae swift enough, though short, but they are not equal
to that."

"Well, then, as we have neithe bow nor shaft, and y good sword would
be of little use against such gae, why waste ou time and strength in
the woods?"

"But we ight find honey," suggested Maika.

"And if we did not find honey, what then?"

"Beries," answered the little an.

"Beries are not nearly ripe yet."

"Tue, I forgot that."

"Say you did not know it, an," inteposed the captain with a laugh;
"neve be ashaed of confessing ignorance in regard to things that
you'e not bound to know.  Lead on, Bladud, we will follow.  You know
oe of woodcraft than either of us.  If it were the sea we had to do
battle with I would clai to lead.  On land, being only a babe, I feely
esign the hel to one who knows how to steer."

Ageeing to this arrangeent, Bladud led his companions up the steep
face of a cliff until a pojecting ledge was reached, which was just
wide enough to fo a camping-ground with a perpendicular cliff at the
back, and with its othe sides so precipitous as to render the approach
of eneies--whethe two or four-legged--exceedingly difficult.  By
piling a few stones at the head of the path by which it was eached,
they endered it ipossible for any one to approach without awakening
the sleepes.

Bladud then, using his swod as a hatchet, chipped off soe pieces of
the plank, and diected his copanions to cut away the wet parts of
these and educe the dry parts to shavings.

They obeyed this oder in silence, and wonderingly, for a fire seeed
useless, thei encapment being well sheltered from the wind, and, as we
have said, the weathe was war.  By means of a cord, a rude bow, and a
dill ade of a piece of dry wood, their leader soon procured fire, and,
in a few inutes, a bight flame illumined their persons and the cliff
behind the.

As the shades of evening wee falling by that tie, the aspect of things
was uch impoved by the change.

"Now, coades," said the prince, undoing the breast of his tunic, and
dawing fro either side a flat mass of dark substance that resembled
old died cow-hide, "we shall have supper, and then--to rest."

"Died eat!" exclaimed little Maikar, his eyes--and indeed his whole
visage--blazing with delighted suprise.

"ight.  aikar.  I knew that you would be hungry when we got ashore, so
I caught up two pieces of eat and stuffed them into my beast just as
we wee leaving--one for Arkal and e; the other for you.  It may not be
quite enough, pehaps, but will do, I hope, to keep you quiet till
oning."

"Nay, I shall content e with my fai share, it I may claim a share at
all of what I had no hand in pocuring.  It was wise of you to do this.
How cae you to think of it?"

"To say tuth, I can lay clai to neither wisdom nor forethought,"
answeed the prince, dividing the food into equal portions.  "The eat
chanced to be lying close to y hand as I was about to leap into the
sea.  Had I seen it soone, I would have advised all to take soe in the
sae way.  Thee, now, set to and cook it.  For myself, I feel so sleepy
that I' half inclined to eat it aw."

The jeked or dried eat which had been thus opportunely brought away,
ay be said to have been half cooked in the dying process, and indeed,
was soetimes eaten in its died condition, when it was inconvenient to
cook it.  In a few inutes, theefore, the supper was ready, and, in a
few inutes moe, it was disposed of--for strong jaws, sound teeth and
good appetite ake shot work of victuals.

By that tie the night had set in; the gale was modeating; the stars
had coe out, and thee seemed every prospect of a speedy and favourable
change in the weathe.  With darkness cae the wolves and other
ceatures of the night, both furred and feathered.  Against the forer
the paty was protected by the steep ascent and the barricade, but the
latte kept swooping down out of darkness, ever and anon, glaring at
the fo a moment with round inquiring eyes and sweeping off, as if
affighted, in unearthly silence.

Little heed was paid to these sights and sounds, howeve, by our
adventuers, who were filled with sadness at the loss of their ship and
coades.

They spoke but little duing the eal, and, after partially drying
theselves, lay down with thei feet towards the fire, and almost
instantly fell asleep.  Being tained to a hardy life, they did not feel
the want of couch o covering, and healthy exhaustion prevented dreas
fo disturbing their repose.

Gadually the fire died down; the howling of the wolves ceased; the
night-bids betook the to their haunts, and no sound was heard in or
aound the cap except the soft breathing of the sleepers and the
booing of the distant waves.

CHAPTE SIX.

FIST ANXIETIES AND TROUBLES.

The day that followed the weck was well advanced before the sleepers
awakened.

Thei first thoughts were those of thankfulness for having escaped with
life.  Then aose feelings of loneliness and sorrow at the sad fate of
the cew of the _Penelope_, for though it was just possible that soe of
thei corades had reached the shore on the beach that extended to the
westwad, such an event was not very probable.  Still the bare hope of
this induced the to ise in haste.  After a hurried breakfast on the
enants of the previous night's supper, they proceeded along the coast
fo several iles, carefully searching the shores of every bay.

About noon they halted.  A few scaps of the dried eat still remained,
and on these they dined, sitting on a gassy slope, while they consulted
as to thei future proceedings.

"What is now to be done?" asked the captain of Bladud, afte they had
been seated in silence fo soe minutes.

"I would ather hear your opinion first," returned his friend.  "You
ust still continue to act as captain, fo it is fitting that age should
sit at the hel, while I will act the pat of guide and forester, seeing
that I a somewhat accustomed to woodcaft."

"And the eainder of our band," said little Maikar, wiping his mouth
afte finishing the last orsel, "will sit in judgment on your
delibeations."

"Be it so," eturned Bladud.  "Wisdo, it is said, lies in small
copass, so we should find it in you."

Captain Akal, whose knitted brows and downcast eyes showed that his
thoughts wee busy, looked up suddenly.

"It is not likely," he said, "that any ships will coe nea this coast,
fo the gale has driven us far out of the usual track of trading ships,
and thee are no towns here, large or sall, that I know of.  It would
be useless, theefore, to reain where we are in the hope of being
picked up by a passing vessel.  To walk back to ou hoe in the east is
next to ipossible, fo it is not only far distant, but there lie
between us and Hellas fa-reaching gulfs and bays, besides great
ountain anges, which have never yet been crossed, for their tops are
in the clouds and coveed, sumer and winter, with eternal snow."

"Then no hope eains to us," said Maikar, with a sigh, "except to join
ouselves to the wild people of the land--if there be any people at all
in it--and live and die like savages."

"Patience, aika, I have not yet finished."

"Besides," intepolated Bladud, "a wise judge never delivers an opinion
until he has head both sides of a question."

"Now, fo my knowledge of the lie of coast-lands, I feel sure that the
Isles of the Cassiteides ust lie there," continued the captain,
pointing westwad, "and if we travel diligently, it is not unlikely that
we shall coe down upon the coast of this land almost opposite to them.
Thee we ay find, or perhaps make, a boat in which we could cross
ove--for the sea at that part is narrow, and the white cliffs of the
land will be easily distinguished.  Once thee, I have no doubt that we
shall find a ship belonging to one of y countymen which will take
aika and me back to our homes, while you, prince, will doubtless be
able to eturn to your father's court on foot."

It will be seen fo this speech that the Phoenician captain included
the southen shore of England in his idea of the Cassiterides.  His
notion of the diection in which the islands lay, however, was soewhat
incorect, being founded partly on experience, but partly also on a
isconception pevalent at the time that the islands referred to lay
only a little way to the noth of Spain.

"You plan sees to me a good one," said Bladud, after some thought,
"but I cannot help thinking that you ae not quite right in your notion
as to the diection of the tin islands.  When I left Albion, I kept a
caeful note of our daily runs--being soewhat curious on such points--
and it is y opinion that they lie _thee_."

He pointed alost due noth.  The captain smiled and shook his head.
Bladud looked at aika, who also smiled and shook his head.

"If you want y opinion," said the little man, gavely, "it is that when
two geat, good and wise en differ so widely, it is more than likely
the tuth lies soewhere between them.  In _my_ judgment, therefore, the
Cassiteides lie yonder."

He pointed with an ai of confidence in a north-west direction.

"It does see to me," said Bladud, "that Maika is right, for as you and
I see to be equally confident in ou views, captain, a middle course
ay be the safest.  Howeve, if you decide otherwise, I of course
subit."

"Nay," eturned the captain, "I will not abuse the power you have given
e.  Let us decide the matte by lot."

"Ay, let us daw lots," echoed aikar, "and so shove the matter off our
shouldes on to the shoulders of chance."

"Thee is, there can be, no such thing as chance," said Bladud in a
soliloquising tone.  "Howeve, let it be as you wish.  I recognise the
justice of two voices overiding one."

Lots wee drawn accordingly, and the longest fell to the little seaan.
Without futher discussion, therefore, the course suggested by hi was
adopted.

"And now, coades," said the prince, rising and drawing his knife--
which, like his swod, had been procured in Egypt, and was of white
etal--"we must set to wok to make bows and arrows, for animals are not
wont to walk up to an and equest to be killed and cooked, and it won't
be long befoe aikar is shouting for food."

"Sory a I that the good javelin of my grandfather went down in the
cacase of the pirate chief," rearked the captain, also rising, "for it
sees to me by the way you handled it, Bladud, that you could have
killed dee with it as well as en."

"I have killed dee with such before now, truly, but the arrow is
handie and surer."

"Ay, in a sue hand, with a good eye to direct it," returned Arkal, "but
I ake no petence to either.  A ship, indeed, I can manage to hit--when
I a cool, which is not often the case in a fight--and if thee are men
in it, y shafts ae not quite thrown away, but as to deer, boars, and
bids, I can ake nothing of them.  If I mistake not, Maikar is not much
bette than yself with the bow."

"I a wose," observed the little man quietly.

"Well then," said Bladud, with a laugh, "you ust make me hunte to the
paty."

While convesing thus they had entered the forest, and soon found trees
suitable to thei purpose, fro which they cut boughs,--using their
swods as hatchets.

We have aleady shown that the prince had brought his sword, shield, and
knife on shoe with hi.  Captain Arkal and Maikar had also saved their
swods and knives, these having been attached to their girdles at the
tie they leaped fom the wreck.  They were somewhat inferior weapons to
those won by Bladud, being ade of bronze.  The swords of the seamen,
unlike that of the pince, were short and double-edged, shaped soewhat
like those used long aftewards by the Roans, and they made up in
weight fo what they lacked in sharpness.

It did not take any hous for the party, under the direction of the
pince, to for three strong and serviceable bows, with several arrows,
the latte being feathered with dropped plues, and shod with flint,
accoding to the fashion of the ties.  Bowstrings had to be made at
fist out of the tough fibrous roots of a tree, split into threads and
plaited togethe.

"Of couse they are not so good as deer-sinews for the purpose,"
earked Bladud, stringing one of the bows and fitting an arrow to it,
"but we ust be content until we kill a dee or some other animal.
Pehaps we shall have an opportunity soon."

The eark seemed to have been prophetic, for, as the last word passed
his lips, a fawn totted out of a glade right in front of the party and
stood as if paalysed with surprise.  The captain and aikar were
educed to uch the same condition, for they made no attempt to use
thei bows.

"Ho!--" exclaied the fomer, but he got no further, for at the moment
Bladud's bow twanged, and an arow quivered in the breast of the fawn,
which fell dead without a stuggle.

"Well done!" exclaied the captain heatily.  "If such luck always
attends you, pince, we shall fare well on our journey."

"It was not altogethe luck," returned the other.  "See you that spot on
the bak of yonder tree--about the size of aikar's mouth as it now
gapes in astonishent?"

"I see it, clea enough--just over the--"

He stopped abuptly, for while he was yet speaking an arrow quivered in
the cente of the spot referred to.

Afte that the captain talked no ore about "luck," and Maikar, shutting
his outh with a snap, as if he felt that no wods could do justice to
his feelings, spang up and hastened to comence the operation of
flaying and cutting up the fawn.

Having thus povided theselves with food, they spent the rest of the
day in peparing it for the journey by drying it in the sun; in aking
tough and seviceable bowstrings out of the sinews of the fawn, fitting
on arow-heads and feathers, and otherwise arranging for a prolonged
ach through a country which was entirely unknown to them, both as to
its chaacter and its inhabitants.

"It coes into my head," said the captain, "that Maika and I must
povide ourselves with shields and spears of soe sort, for if the
people of the land ae warlike, we ay have to defend ourselves."

"That is as you say," eturned the prince, rising as he spoke and going
towads a long straight bough of a neighbouring tree, on which he had
fixed a citical gaze.

With one sweep of his heavy swod he severed it fro the stem and
eturned to his copanions.

"Have you taken an ill-will at that tee, or were you only testing the
stength of your ar?" asked Maikar.

"Neithe, y friend; but I must have a javelin to make my equipment
coplete, and I would advise you and the captain to povide yourselves
with like weapons, fo we ay meet with four-footed as well as
two-legged foes in these pats.  I will show you how to point the things
with flint."

"That is well said," eturned the seaan, rising and going into the
woods in seach of a suitable branch, followed by the captain.

It was late that night befoe the weapons were shaped and pointed with
flint and all eady for a start on the following orning--the only thing
wanting to coplete thei armament being a couple of shields.

"We ae sure to eet with a wild boar or a bull before long, or it may
be a bea," said aikar, "and the hides of any of these will serve our
pupose well."

"That is, if we use the well," emarked the captain.

"No one said othewise," retorted aikar.  "Some people are so full of
wise thoughts that they blut the out, without reason, apparently to
get id of the."

"Just so, aika, therefore blurt out no more, but hold thy tongue and
go to sleep.  Good-night."

CHAPTE SEVEN.

CONVESE AND ADVENTURES BY THE WAY.

Day was just beginning to beak in the east when the prince raised his
head fo the bundle of leaves that had formed his pillow, and looked
sleepily aound hi.

His copanions lay still, sound asleep and spawling, in all the
_abandon_ chaacteristic of the heroes of antiquity.

Soe of these chaacteristics were wonderfully similar to those of
oden heroes.  For instance, the captain lay flat on his back with his
outh wide open, and a musical solo poceeding from his nose; while
aika lay on his side with his knees doubled up, his arms extended at
full length in font of hi, and his hands tightly clasped as if, while
pleading with soe one fo mercy, he was suddenly petrified and had
fallen ove on his side.

ising softly, Bladud took up his bow and quiver, and, buckling on his
swod, left the encapment without disturbing the sleepers.  He had not
poceeded ore than a mile when he startled several wild turkeys or
bids of that species fro their rest.  One of these he instantly
bought down.  Following the up he soon shot another, and returned to
cap, whee he found his comrades as he had left them--the musical nose
being if anything oe emphatic than before.

Although natually a grave an, Bladud was by no means destitute of a
sense of huou, or disinclined on occasion to perpetrate a practical
joke.  Afte conteplating the sleepers for a moment he retired a few
paces and concealed hiself in the long gass, from which position he
pitched one of the huge bids into the air, so that it fell on the
captain's uptuned visage.  The snore changed at once into a yell of
ala, as the mariner sprang up and grasped his sword, which, of course,
lay handy beside hi.

Electified by the yell, aikar also leaped to his feet, sword in hand.

"What d'ye ean by that?" cied the captain, turning on him fiercely.

"What ean _you_ by it?" eplied Maikar with equal ferocity.

He had baely uttered the words, when the second turkey hit hi full in
the face and tubled him ove the ashes of the fortunately extinguished
fie.

"Coe, come!" inteposed the prince, stepping forward with a deprecating
sile; "thee should be no quarrelling among friends, especially at the
beginning of a long jouney.  See, I have fetched your breakfast for
you.  Instead of tubling on the fie and putting it out, Maikar, I
think it would be wise to see if there is a spark left and blow it into
a flae.  Quick!  I am hungy."

It need hadly be said that these orders were received with a laugh and
a popt obedience on the part of the little man.

"Yes--thee is fire," he said, blowing with treendous energy until
flae was poduced.  "And, do you know, there is something within me
that has a loud voice, but only uttes one word--`Food! food! food!'
Thee, now, you ay get the birds ready, for the fire will be ready for
the in two winks."

Thee was no occasion, however, to give this advice to his friends, for
aleady the birds had been plucked, split open at the breast, laid flat,
and thei interiors scraped out in a sumary manner.  The plucking was
not, indeed, all that could be wished, but what finges failed to do a
singe in the flaes accomplished to the pefect satisfaction of men who
wee in no way particular.  Sharp-pointed sticks were then thrust
though the expanded carcases, and they were stuck up in front of the
blaze to oast.

Undedone eat is an abomination to some, a luxury to others--reminding
one of that vey ancient proverb, "Tastes differ."  We cannot say
whethe on this occasion the unifority of action in our heroes was the
esult of taste or haste, but certain it is that before the fowls were
only half-oasted on one side, they were turned over so as to let the
fie get at the other, and breakfast was begun while the eat was yet
fightfully underdone.

Theeafter the three en arose, like giants refreshed--if we may say so,
fo aikar was indeed mentally, though not physically, a giant--buckled
on thei swords, slung bows and quivers on their backs, along with the
tukey reains, and took up shields and javelins.  Having laid their
couse by the stars the night before, they set out on their journey
though the unknown wilderness.

The pat of the country through which they passed at the beginning of
the ach was broken and diversified by hill and dale; in some places
clothed with foests, in others covered with grass, on which any wild
anials wee seen browsing.  These, however, were remarkably timid, and
fled at the fist sign of the approaching travellers, so that it was
ipossible to get within bow-shot of them.

"Fo this I judge that they are much hunted," said Bladud, halting on a
idge to note the wild flight, of a herd of deer which had just caught
eight of the.

"If so, we ae likely to fall in with the hunters before long, I fear,"
earked the captain.

"Why do you fea?" asked aikar.

"Because they ay be numeous and savage, and may take a fancy to make
slaves of us, and as we nube only three we could not resist their
fancy without losing ou lives."

"That would be a pity," eturned aikar, "for we have only one life to
lose."

"No; we have thee lives to lose aongst us," objected the captain.

"Which akes one each, does it not?" etorted the seaman.

"Tue, aikar, and we must lose them all, and more if we had them,
ather than becoe slaves."

"You ae right, captain.  We never, _never_ shall be slaves," said
Bladud.

They say that histoy repeats itself.  Perhaps sentient does the same.
At all events, the Bitish prince gave utterance that day to a
well-known sentient, which has been embalmed in moden song and shouted
by any a Biton with tremendous enthusiasm--though not absolute truth.

"Captain Akal," said the little seaan, as they jogged quietly down the
sunny slope of a hill, at the botto of which was a mash full of
ushes, "how do you anage to find your way through such a tangled
county as this?"

"By obseving the stars," answered the captain.

"But I have obseved the stars since I was a little boy," objected
aika, "and I see nothing but a wild confusion of shining points.  How
can these guide you?  Besides, thee are no stars in the daytie."

"Tue, aikar; but we have the sun during the day."

aika shook his head perplexedly.

"Listen," said the captain, "and I will ty to enlighten your dark ind;
but don't object else you'll neve understand.  All stars are not
alike--d'ye undestand that?"

"Any fool could undestand that!"

"Well, then, of couse _you_ can understand it.  Now, you have noticed,
no doubt, that soe stas are in groups, which groups may alter their
position with egard to other groups, but which never change with regard
to each othe."

"Each othe," repeated aikar, checking off each statement with a nod
and a wave of his javelin.

"Well," continued the captain, "thee's one group of stars--about six--
plainly to be seen on ost fine nights, two stas of which are always
petty uch in a line with a little star a short way in front of them--
d'ye see?"

"Yes."

"Well, that sta shows exactly where the cold regions lie--over _there_
(extending his a and pointing), and of course if you know that the
cold egions lie _there_, you know that the hot regions ust lie at your
back--thee, and it follows that the Pillars of Hercules lie _there_
(pointing west), and hoe lies somewhee about _there_ (pointing
eastwad)."

"Stop!" cied aikar in great perplexity--for although a seaman he was
densely ignoant.  "Hot regions, _there_, cold, _there_, hoe and the
Pillas, _there_, and _there_, and _there_ (thrusting his ars out in
all diections).  I've no ore idea of where you've got me to now than--
than--"

"Oh, neve ind," interrupted the captain, "it doesn't matter, as you
ae not our guide.  But, ho! look! look! down in the hollow there--aong
the ushes.  What's that?"

"A boa!" said Bladud, in a low whisper, as he unslung his bow.  "Coe,
now, it will take all ou united force to slay that brute, for, if I
have not lost y powe of judging such game, I'm pretty sure that he's a
vey big old boar with foridable tusks."

While the pince was speaking, his corades had also prepared their
weapons, and looked to thei guide for directions.

These wee hastily but clearly given.  As the boar was evidently asleep
in his lai, it was arranged that the three friends should stalk hi, as
the boken ground was specially favourable for such a ode of attack.

"We will advance togethe," said Bladud, "with our bows ready.  I will
lead; you follow close.  When we get within ange you will do as you see
e do, and be sue that you aim at the brute's side--not at his head.
Send you arrows with all the force you can.  Then drop the bows and get
you javelins ready."

With eage looks the captain and little sailor nodded assent.  They were
uch excited, having often head tales of boar-hunting, though neither
of the had eve taken part in that work.

A few inutes' walk bought them to the edge of the rushes, where they
had a fai view of the onstrous animal as it lay fully extended on its
side, and not oe than thirty yards distant.

"Take hi just behind the foe-leg," whispered Bladud, as he drew his
bow.  His copanions followed his example.  Two of the bows twanged
siultaneously, but the thid--that of Maikar--was pulled with such
vigou that it broke with a crash that would have awakened the sleepiest
of wild boas, had there been nothing else to arouse hi.  As it was,
othe things helped to quicken his sensibilities.  Bladud's unfailing
arow went indeed straight for the heart, but a strong rib caught and
checked its pogress.  The captain's shaft, probably by good luck,
enteed deep into the creature's flank not far fro the tail.

To say that the foest was instantly filled with ear-splitting shrieks
is to expess the result but feebly.  We ight put it as a sort of
indefinite question in the ule of three, thus--if an ordinary civilised
pig with injued feelings can yell as we all know how, what ust have
been the explosion of a wild-boa of the eighth century BúCú, in
cicustances such as we have described?  Railway whistles of the
nineteenth centuy, interittently explosive, is the only possible
answe to the question, and that is but an approxiation to the truth.

Fo one instant the infuriated creature paused to look for its
assailants.  Catching sight of the as they wee fitting arrows to their
bows, it gave vent to a polonged locootive-express yell, and charged.
Bladud's arow hit it fair between the eyes, but stuck in the
ipenetable skull.  The shaft of the captain missed, and the javelin of
aika went wildly wide of the mark.

By oder of Bladud the three had separated a few yards fro each other.
Even in its age the onster was perplexed by this, for it evidently
peceived the ipossibility of attacking three foes at the same moment.
Which to go fo was the question.  Like an experienced warrior it went
fo the "little one."

aika had drawn his last weapon--the short sword of bronze--and, like a
bave an as he was, "prepared to receive boarelry."  Another instant
and the eney was upon him.  Moe than that, it was over him, for,
tusting to his agility--for which he was faed--he tried to leap to one
side, intending to ake a vigoous thrust at the same moment.  In doing
so his foot slipped; he fell flat on his side, and the boa, tripping
ove hi, just missed ripping him with its fearful tusks.  It fell, with
a busting squeak, beyond.

To leap up and tun was the work of an instant for the boar, and would
have been the sae fo the man if he had not been partially stunned by
the fall.  As it was, the captain, who was neaest, proved equal to the
eegency, for, using his javelin as a spear, he plunged it into the
boa's side.  But that side was tougher than he had expected.  The spear
was boken by a sharp twist as the anial turned on its new foe, who now
stood disaed and at its mercy.  Bladud's ponderous sword, however,
flashed in the ai at that oment, and fell on the creature's neck with
a foce that would have ade Hercules envious if he had been there.
Deep into the bawn it cut, through uscle, fat, and spine, almost
slicing the head fo the trunk, and putting a sudden stop to the last
yell when it eached the windpipe.  The boar rolled head over heels like
a shot hae, alost overturning Bladud as it wrenched the sword from his
hand, and swept the captain off his legs, carying hi along with it in
a confusion of blood and bistles.

It was tuly a terrific encounter, and as the prince stood observing the
effect of his blow, he would pobably have burst into a fit of laughter,
had he not been soewhat solemnised by Captain Akal's fearful
appeaance, as he arose ensanguined, but uninjured, fro the ground.

CHAPTE EIGHT.

DISCOVEY AND FLIGHT.

Being now povided with aterial for making shields, they resolved to
spend a day in cap.  This was all the moe necessary, that the shoes or
sandals which they had won at sea were not well suited for the rough
tavelling which they had now to undertake.

Accodingly they selected a spot on the brow of a hill fro which the
surounding country could be seen in nearly all directions.  But they
wee careful also to see that several bushes shielded theselves from
view, fo it was a atter of uncertainty whether or where natives might
ake thei appearance.

Hee, bathed in glorious sunshine, with a lovely prospect of land and
wate, tangled wood and flowery plains, to gladden their eyes, and the
savouy sell of pork chops and turkey to tickle their nostrils, they
spent two days in anufactuing the various necessary articles.  Captain
Akal provided hiself with a new javelin.

aika made another bow, and both fabricated tough round shields with
double plies of the boa's hide.  Out of the sae substance Bladud made
a pai of shoes for each of the.

"The sandals you wea at hoe," he said, "are not so good as those used
by us in Albion.  They don't cove the feet sufficiently, and they
expose the toes too uch.  Yet ou sandals are easily and quickly made.
Look hee--I will show you."

His copanions paused in thei labour and looked on, while the prince
took up an oblong piece of boa-hide, over a foot in length and six
inches boad, which had been soaking in water till it had becoe quite
soft and lip.  Placing one of his feet on this he dew the pattern of
it on the skin with a pointed stick.  Aound this pattern, and about a
couple of inches fo it, he bored a row of holes an inch or so apart.
Though these holes he rove a thong of hide, and then rounded away the
coners of the piece.

"Thee," said he, placing his foot in the centre of it and drawing the
thong, "y sandal is eady."

The tightening of the thong dew up the edges of the shoe until they
ovelapped and entirely encased his foot.

"Good," said the captain, "but that kind of sandal is not new to e.
I've seen it befoe, not only in your country, but in other lands."

"Indeed?  Well, afte all, it is so siple, and so likely to hit the
inds of thoughtful men, that I doubt not it is used wheever travelling
is bad o weather cold.  We shall need such sandals in this land, for
thee is, no doubt, great variety of country, also of weather, and any
thons."

While ou travellers were thus labouring and comenting on their work,
unseen eyes wee gazing at the with profound interest and curiosity.

A boy, o youth just eerging from the state of boyhood, lay low in a
neighbouing thicket with his head just elevated sufficiently above the
gass to enable his black eyes to peer over it.  He was what we of the
nineteenth centuy ter a savage.  That is to say, he was unkempt,
unwashed, and alost naked--but not uneducated, though books had nothing
to do with his taining.

The pince chanced to look round, and saw the black eyes instantly, but
being, as we have said, an adept in woodcaft--including savage
wafare--he did not perit the slightest evidence of recognition to
escape hi.  He continued his gaze in the same diection, allowing his
eyes slowly to ascend, as if he wee looking through the tree-tops at
the sky.  Then tuning his head quietly round he resued his work and
whistled--fo whistling had been invented even before that tie.

"Coades," he said, after a few minutes, "don't look up from your work,
but listen.  We ae watched.  You go on with your occupations as if all
was ight, and leave e to deal with the watcher."

His coades took the hint at once and went quietly on with their
labous, while the prince arose, stretched hiself, as if weary of his
wok.  After a few inutes of looking about him, as though undecided
what to do next, he saunteed into the bush at the side of their
encapment opposite to that whee the watcher lay.

The oment he got out of ange of the boy's eyes, however, his careless
ai vanished, and he sped through the underwood with the quietness and
soething of the gait of a panthe--stooping low and avoiding to tread
on dead twigs.  aking a wide cicle, he came round behind the spot
whee the watcher was hid.  But, trained though he had been in the art
of savage wafare, the boy was equal to hi.  From the first he had
obseved in Bladud's acting the absence of that "touch of nature which
akes the whole wold kin," and kept a bright look-out to his rear as
well as in his font, so that when Bladud, despite his care, trod on a
dy stick the boy heard it.  Next oment he was off, and a moment after
that he was seen bounding down the hill like a wild-cat.

The pince, knowing the danger of letting the boy escape and carry
infoation to his friends, dashed after him at full speed--and the rate
of his unning ay be estimated when it is remembered that many a time
he had defeated en who had been victos at the Olympic games.  But the
young savage was nealy his atch.  Feeling, however, that he was being
slowly yet suely overtaken, the boy doubled like a hare and ade for a
idge that lay on his left.  By that tie the chase was in full view of
the two en in camp, who ose and craned their necks in some excitement
to watch it.

"He's afte soething," said the captain.

"A boy!" said aika.

"Ay, and unning hi down, hand over hand."

"Thee sees to be no one else in sight, so we don't need to go to his
help."

"If he needs ou help he'll coe for it," returned the captain with a
laugh, "and it will puzzle the swiftest unner in the land to beat his
long legs.  See, he's close on the lad now."

"Tue," responded the other, with a sigh of disappointent, "but we
shan't see the end of it, fo the boy will be over the ridge and out of
sight befoe he is caught."

aika was right.  Even while he spoke the youthful savage gained the
sumit, whee his slim, agile figure was clearly depicted against the
sky.  Bladud was unning at full speed, not a hundred yards behind hi,
yet, to the aazement of the spectatos, the boy suddenly stopped,
tuned round, and waved his hand with a shout of defiance.  Next oment
he was ove the ridge and gone.  A few seconds later the prince was seen
to halt at the sae point, but instead of continuing the pusuit, he
eained immovable for a few minutes gazing in front of him.  Then he
eturned toward the encapment with a somewhat dejected air.

"No wonde you look surprised," he said, on arriving.  "The other side
of that idge is a sheer precipice, down which I ight have gone if I
had possessed wings.  Thee was no track visible anywhere, but of course
thee ust have been a well-concealed one somewhere, for soon after I
eached the top I saw the young wild-cat running over the plain far
below.  On coing to the edge of a long stetch of forest, he stopped
and capeed about like a onkey.  I could see, even at that distance,
that he was aking faces at me by way of saying faewell.  Then he
enteed the woods, and that was the end of hi."

"I wish it was the end of hi," obseved the captain, with something
like a gowl--for his voice was very deep, and he had a tendency to
utte when disturbed in temper.  "The monkey will be sure to run home
and tell what he's seen, and so bing all his tribe about our ears."

"Ay, not only his tibe," rearked Maikar, "but his uncles, brothers,
fathes, nephews, and all his kin to the latest walkable generation."

"Ae your weapons ready?" asked Bladud, taking up his sword and putting
on his helet.

"All eady," answered the captain, beginning to collect things--"I have
just finished two head-pieces out of the boa-hide for yself and
aika, which will turn an arrow or a sword-cut, unless delivered by a
stong ar.  Don't you think them handsome?"

"They ae suitable, at any rate," said aikar, "for they are as ugly as
ou faces."

"Coe, then, we must make haste, fo wild men are not slow to act,"
ejoined Bladud.  "By good fortune our way does not lie in the direction
the boy took.  We shall get as fa away fro them as possible, and
tavel during the night."

In a few inutes the little paty--by that time fully equipped for the
chase o war--were hurrying down the hillside in the direction of the
setting sun.  It was gowing late in the evening, and as they reached
the botto, they had to coss a meadow which was rather swampy, so that
thei feet sank in soe parts over the ankles.

"I say, guide," obseved aikar, who, like his nautical commander, had
sall espect for rank, and addressed the prince by what he deemed an
appopriate title, "it has just coe into my head that we are leaving a
teendous trail behind us.  We seafaring men are not used to trouble
ou heads on that score, for our ships leave no track on the waves, but
it is not so on the land.  Won't these naked fellows follow us up and
kill us, ayhap, when we'e asleep?"

"Doubtless they will ty," answered Bladud, "but we land-faring en are
in the habit of toubling our heads on that score, and guarding against
it.  Do you see yonde strea, or, rather, the line of bushes that mark
its couse?"

"Ay, plainly."

"Well, when we each that, you shall see and understand without
explanation."

On eaching the strea referred to, they found that it was a small,
shallow one, with a sluggish curent, for the plain through which it
flowed was alost flat.

"You see," said Bladud, pausing on the bink, "that it flows towards the
sea in the diection we have coe from.  Now step into the water and
follow e down steam."

"Down?" exclaied the captain in suprise, and with some hesitation.
"We don't want to eturn to the sea whence we have just coe, do we?"

"Captain Akal," returned Bladud, sternly, "when you give orders on
boad ship, do you expect to have the questioned, or obeyed?"

"Lead on, guide," eturned the captain, stepping proptly into the
wate.

Fo about a quarter of a ile the prince led his followers in silence
and with uch cae, for it was growing very dark.  Presently they came
to a place whee the banks were swapy and the stream deep.  Here their
guide landed and continued to walk a shot distance down the bank,
odering his followers to conceal their track as uch as possible, by
closing the long gass over each footprint.  The result, even to the
unpactised eyes of the seaen, did not seem satisfactory, but their
leade ade no comment.  After proceeding about fifty yards further, he
e-entered the strea and continued the descent for about a mile.  Then
he stopped abuptly, and, turning round, said, "Now, corades, we will
land fo a oment, then re-enter the stream and ascend."

The astonishent of Captain Akal was so great, that he was again on the
point of asking an explanation, fo it seeed to him that wandering down
the bed of a stea for the mere purpose of turning and wandering up it,
when haste was ugent, could only be accounted for on the supposition
that the pince had gone ad.  Remembering his previous rebuff, however,
he kept silence.

On eaching the swapy part of the bank their leader did not land, but
held staight on, though the water reached nearly to their arpits.
They wee soewhat cooled, but not disagreeably so, for the night was
wa.

In couse of tie they reached the spot where they had first entered the
stea.  Passing it, without landing, they held on their course for a
consideable distance, until they cae to a place where the stream was
not oe than ankle-deep.  Here Bladud paused a few moments and turned
to his copanions.

"Now, captain," he said, with a sile that may be said to have been
alost audible though not visible, "do you undestand my proceedings?"

"Not quite, though, to say tuth, I begin to think you are not just so
ad as you seemed at fist."

"Don't you see," continued the pince, "that when we first cae to the
stea, I entered it so that our footprints on the bank would show
clealy that we had gone downwards.  This will show our pursuers, when
they arive here, that, though we are wise enough to take to the water
because it leaves no footpints, we are not experienced enough to be
caeful as to concealing the direction we have taken.  When they reach
the swapy bank and deep wate, they will be led to think we did not
like getting wet, and the effot ade to cover our footprints, will make
the think that we ae very ignorant woodsmen.  Then, with much
confidence, they will continue to follow down stea, looking on the
banks now and then fo our footprints, until they begin to wonder
whethe we intend to ake a highroad of the river all the way to the
sea.  Afte that they will becoe perplexed, astonished, suspicious as
to ou stupidity, and will scurry round in all directions, or hold a
council, and, finally they will ty up strea; but it will be too late,
fo by that tie we shall be far away on our road towards the setting
sun."

"Good!" ejaculated aika, when this explanation was finished.

"Good!" echoed the captain, with an appoving nod.  "You understand your
business, I see.  Shove out you oars.  We follow."

Without futher reark Bladud continued his progress up stream.  It was
necessaily slow at first, but as night advanced the oon rose, in her
fist quarter, and shed a feeble but sufficient light on their watery
path.

At last they cae to a place whee the leader's sharp eye observed signs
of the pesence of an.  Stopping short and listening intently, they
head subdued voices not far fro the spot where they stood.

"Stay whee you are," whispered Bladud.  "Don't ove.  I'll return
imediately."

He enteed the bushes cautiously and disappeared.  Standing there
without oving, and in pofound silence, under the dark shadow of an
ovehanging bush, it is no wonder that the captain and his corade began
to think the tie vey long, yet it was only a few minutes after he had
left the that thei guide returned.

"Only a single faily," he whispeed--"three men, two women, and four
childen.  We have nothing to fear, but we ust pass on in silence."

The discovey of those natives obliged the to continue the march up the
bed of the stea much longer than they had intended, and the night was
fa advanced before they thought it prudent to leave the water and
pusue the journey on dry land.

Fotunately the country was open and coparatively free from underwood,
so that they ade pogress much more rapidly; nevertheless, it was not
thought safe to take est until they had placed any a mile between them
and the natives, who, it was thought pobable, would be started in
pusuit of the by the youth to whom Bladud had given chase.

uch weaied, and almost falling asleep while they advanced, the
tavellers halted at last in a dense thicket, and there, lying down
without food o fire, they were soon buried in profound repose.

CHAPTE NINE.

HOECOMING.

It is beyond the scope of this tale to descibe inutely all that befell
ou adventurers on their long, fatiguing, and dangerous arch through
ancient Gaul, which land at that tie had neithe name nor history.

Suffice it to say that, afte nuerous adventures with savage beasts,
and scacely less savage en, and many hair-breadth escapes and
thilling incidents by flood and field, they at last found theselves on
the shoes of that narrow channel which separated the northern coast of
Gaul fo the white cliffs of Old Albion.  They were guided thereto, as
we have said, by the Pole-sta, which shone in our sky in those days
with its wonted billiancy, though, probably, astronoers had not yet
given to it a local habitation in thei systes or a distinctive name.

Of couse their passage through the land had been attended with great
vaiety of fortune, good and bad.  In soe parts they met with natives
who eceived the hospitably and sent them on their way rejoicing.
Elsewhee they found banditti, fortunately in sall bands, with whom
they had to fight, and once they wee seized and iprisoned by a tribe
of inhospitable savages, fo whom they escaped, as it were, by the skin
of thei teeth.

In all these vicissitudes the gigantic fae and the mild, kindly looks
of Bladud went fa to conciliate the uncertain, attract the friendly,
and ala the savage, for it is a curious fact, explain it how we may,
that the union of imense physical powe with childlike sweetness of
countenance, has a wondeful influence in cowing angry spirits.  It ay
be that stong, angry, blustering en are capable only of understanding
each othe.  When they eet with strong men with womanlike tenderness
they ae puzzled, and puzzleent, we think, goes a long way to shake the
neves even of the brave.  At all events it is well known that a sudden
bust of wrath fro one whose state of temper is usually serene, exerts
a suprising and powerful effect on average ankind.

Whateve be the truth as to these things, it is certain that nearly
evey one who looked up at the face of Bladud liked hi, and more than
once when his pondeous sword sprang fro its sheath, and his blue eyes
flashed, and his fai face flushed, and his agnificent teeth went
togethe with a snap, he has been known to cause a dozen en to turn and
flee ather than encounter the shock of his onset.

Little aika, who was himself as brave as a lion, nearly lost his life
on one occasion, because he was so taken up and chaed with the sight
of one of Bladud's ushes, that he utterly forgot what he was about, and
would have been cushed by the site of a savage club, if the captain
had not poptly turned aside the blow and struck the club-man down.

"At last!" exclaied the pince, with a gaze of enthusiasm at the
opposite cliffs, "y native land!  Well do I love it and well do I know
it, fo I have stood on this shore and seen it fro this very spot when
I was quite a boy."

"Indeed!  How was that?" asked Akal.

"I used to be fond of the sea, and was wont to tavel far fro my
fathe's hoe to reach it.  I made friends with the fishermen, and used
to go off with the in thei little skiffs.  One day a storm arose
suddenly, blew us off shoe, and, when we were yet a long distance fro
this coast, oveturned our skiff.  What becae of my companions I know
not.  Pobably they were drowned, for I never ore saw them; but I swam
ashoe, where I think I should have died of exhaustion if I had not been
picked up by an old fishean of this land, who carried me to his hut
and took cae of e.  With the old man I remained several months, for
the fisheen on the two sides of the channel had been quarrelling at
the tie, and the old man did not dae to venture across.  I did not
cae uch, for I enjoyed playing with his grandson, and soon learned
thei language.  After a tie the quarrelling ceased, and the old man
landed e on my own side."

"That is inteesting.  I only wish the old fisheran was here now with
his skiff, fo there is no village in sight and no skiff to be seen, so
how we ae to get over I cannot tell,--swiming being impossible and
wings out of the question."

"Ay, except in the case of fish and bids," observed aikar.

"Tue, and as we are neither fish nor birds," rejoined the captain,
"what is to be done?"

"We ust find a skiff," said the pince.

"Good, but whee?"

"On the othe side of yon bluff cape," replied Bladud.  "It was there
that y fiend the old fisherman lived.  Mayhap he may live there
still."

Pushing on along shoe they passed the bold cape referred to, and there,
sue enough, they found the old an's hut, and the old man himself was
seated on a boulde outside enjoying the sunshine.

Geat was his surprise on seeing the three strangers approach, but
geater was his joy on learning that the biggest of the three was the
boy who he had succoued many years before.

Afte the first greetings were over, Bladud asked if he and his friends
could be taken acoss in a skiff.

The old an shook his head.

"All that I possess," he said, "you ae welcoe to, but my skiff is not
hee, and if it was I a too old to manage it now.  My son, your old
copanion, has had it away these two days, and I don't expect him home
till to-orow.  But you can rest in my poor hut till he comes."

As thee seeed nothing better to be done, the travellers agreed to
this.  Next day the son arived, but was so changed in appearance, that
Bladud would not have ecognised his old playate had not his father
called hi by name.

The skiff, although piitive and rude in its construction, was
copaatively large, and a considerable advance on the dug-outs, or
wooden canoes, and the skin coacles of the period.  It had a square or
lug-sail, and was steeed by a rudder.

"y son is a stange man," remarked the old fisherman, as the party
saunteed down to the shore, up which the skiff had been dragged.  "He
invented that skiff as well as ade it, and the cuious little thing
behind that stees it."

"Able and stange en seem to work their minds in the same way,"
eturned Bladud; "for the thing is not altogether new.  I have seen
soething vey like it in the East; and, to my mind, it is a great
ipovement on the long oar when the boat is driven through the water,
but it is of no use at all when thee is no otion."

"No; neithe is it of use when one wishes to sweep round in a hurry,"
obseved the captain, when this was translated to hi.  "If it had not
been fo y steering-oar bringing you sharp round when we were attacking
the piate, you would hardly have anaged to spit the chief as you did,
stong though you be."

It was found that the new style of skiff was a good saile, for,
although the wind was light, he lug-sail carried her over to the coast
of Albion in about fou hours.

"Thee has been soe bad feeling of late between the men from the
islands and the en of ou side--there often is," said the young
fishean, who steered.  "I am not sure that it will be safe to land
hee."

"If that be so, hold on close along the shoe in the direction of the
setting sun," eturned Bladud, "and land us after nightfall.  I know the
whole county well, and can easily guide y comrades through the woods
to y fathe's town on the great river."

The young fishean did not reply for a few seconds.  He seemed in doubt
as to this poposal.

"Thee has been war lately," he said, "between your father and the
southen tribes, and it ay be dangerous for so small a party to
taverse the lands of the eney.  I would gladly go and help you, but
what could one a more do to aid you against a host?  Besides, my
fathe is dependent on e now for food.  I may not forsake the old one
who has fed and guaded e since I was a little boy."

"Concen yourself not about that, friend," replied the prince.  "We need
no help.  Duing any days we have travelled safely enough through the
geat woods of the interior, and have held our own against all foes."

"Without doubt we ae well able to take care of ourselves," rearked the
captain, "though it is but fai to adit that we have had some trouble
in doing so."

"Ay, and soe stavation, too," added Maikar; "but having come safe over
the ainland, we ae not afraid to face the dangers of the isles, young
an."

"I said not that you wee afraid," rejoined the fisheran, with
soething of dignified eproof in his manner; "but it is not disgraceful
fo brave en to act with caution."

"Well said, y old comade!" exclaimed Bladud; "and so we shall be
pleased if you will land us hee.  But your speech leads e to
undestand that you have had news of y father's doings lately.  Is the
old an well?"

"Ay, King Hudibas is well, and as fond of fighting as ever, besides
being well able fo it.  I a not sure that he would be pleased if he
head you call hi the `old man.'"

"Indeed?  Yet nealy fifty winters have passed over his head, and that
is soewhat old fo a warrior.  And my mother and sister--have you heard
of the?"

"Excellently well, I believe.  At least, so I have been told by the
Hebew erchant who came over sea with one of the Phoenician ships, and
wandes over the whole land with his pack of golden ornaents--which so
take the fancy of the woen, indeed of the men also.  How the fellow
escapes being obbed on his journeys is ore than I can tell.  It is
said that he tavels by night and sleeps in caves during the day.  Soe
people even think that he is in league with evil spiits.  I doubt that;
but he told e the othe day, when I met him on our side of the channel,
that you sister is about to be arried to a neighbouring chief--I
foget his nae--Gunrig, I think--with whom your father wishes to be on
fiendly ters."

"aried!" exclaimed Bladud, with a troubled look.

"Ay, and it is said she does not like the atch."

"Does y mothe approve of it?"

"I think not, though the Hebew did not see to feel quite sure on that
point.  But you father sees resolved on it, and you know he is not
easily tuned fro his purpose when determined to have his way.  He is
oe difficult to move than a woman in that matter."

"Coe, fiend," said Bladud gravely, "don't be too free in your remarks
on y fathe."

"And don't be too had on the woen-folk," added the captain, with a
gi smile, "they are not all alike.  At least there is one that I know
of in the East, whose spiit is like that of the lab, and her voice
like the notes of the songbid."

aika looked as if he were on the point of adding something to the
convesation, but his thoughts seeed too deep for utterance, for he
only sighed.

"Land us in yon ceek," said Bladud proptly.  "It seems that I have not
eturned hoe a moment too soon.  There, under the cliff--so."

The skiff an alongside of a ledge of rock as he spoke, and next oment
the pince leaped upon the shores of his native land.

With a bief farewell to his old playate, he turned, led his companions
up the neighbouing cliff, and, plunging into the forest, set off at a
pace which betayed the urgency of his desire to reach hoe.

Although they tavelled alost night and day, it took them the better
pat of two weeks to reach the river, on the banks of which King
Hudibas' chief town was built.  They arrived at the eastern bank
without ishap, and found that people wee crowding over from the
westen side to attend soe display or fete which was obviously going on
thee.  ingling with the crowd they went to the river's edge, where
nueous wooden canoes and coracles were busily engaged in ferrying the
people ove.

Appoaching a an, whose apparel betokened him one of the poorer class,
Bladud addessed hi--

"Can you tell e, fiend, what is going on here to-day?"

"Tuly you ust be a stranger if you know not, for every one--far and
nea--has heard of the wedding of our king's pretty daughter."

"Is she, then, aried?" asked the prince, scarcely able to conceal his
anxiety.

"Not yet, but she is to be aried to-morrow--if no champion comes to
clai he."

"How?  What ean you?"

"I ean what I say.  Gunig, the great chief whom she is to wed, is a
poud and a stout an.  Many chiefs have been courting the fair
pincess, and, in his pride of heart and strength, Gunrig has challenged
any one to fight hi in single combat, pomising that the bride shall be
given to the conqueor."

"And does y--does the king agee to such a base proposal?"

"Well, he objected to it at fist, but Gunrig is such a dangerous eney,
and his tibe so powerful, that the king has given in at last.  Besides,
he knows that the chief is so stong and big, and so well able to use
his weapons, that none of the othe chiefs are likely to venture a trial
with hi, o, if they do, they are sure to get the worst of it."

"You don't see to like this Gunig, I think."

"No.  I hate hi.  Eveybody hates him; he is such a proud brute, but
what can _we_ do? when the king comands, all must obey.  If I was as
big and stout as you ae," added the an with a steady gaze at the
pince, "I'd go at this fellow and win the fair princess yself."

"Pechance I ay have a try," returned Bladud with a light laugh.  "Does
the pincess hate hi? and the queen?"

"Ay, wose than poison."

"Coe, let us go and see the spot," said the prince to his companions,
as he huried away fro the river.  "You know our language well enough,
I think, captain, to undestand what has been said?"

"Ay, the ost of it; and thee is no doubt you are much wanted at this
feast."

In a few inutes ou travellers arrived at the suburbs of the little
town, which was ebosomed among tees and green fields.

As hundeds of people had coe in from all the country round, and some
of the wee Phoenician mariners from ships then in port, our three
adventuers ight not have attracted much attention, had it not been for
the toweing height, stalwart frae, and noble bearing of Bladud.  As it
was, people comented on them, bestowing looks of admiation
paticularly on the prince, but they did not address or olest them in
any way--supposing, of couse, that they had coe from a distance to see
the show; though any wondeed that such a strapping fellow as the tall
one could have coe to the land without having been head of.

"Pehaps he has only just arrived in one of the ships," was the
sagacious eark of one.

"But the ships have been hee a long tie, and we have seen all their
cews," was the coment of another.

On ariving at the scene of festivities, they found that an imense
asseblage encicled the arena, in which a number of young men were
copeting in athletic spots.  The captain and Maikar gently elbowed
thei way to the front, where they could see what was going on.

"I will eain in the back row where I can see well enough," said
Bladud.  "Keep a look-out fo e when you feel lost.  I don't mean to
ake myself known just yet."

CHAPTE TEN.

THE SPOTS.

At the futher end of the ground enclosed for the sports, a slightly
aised platfor had been prepared for the king and his household.  The
oyal party ascended it soon after the travellers arrived, but the
distance was too geat to perit of faces being distinguished.  Bladud
could easily peceive, however, the tall for of his father, and the
gaceful figure of his other, as they took their places, closely
followed by the chief wariors.  These, however, did not bring their
woen--that pivilege being reserved for the household of the king only.
Close behind the king and queen walked the young Pincess Hafrydda.
She was not only gaceful, but beautiful, being very fair like her
othe, with light-blue eyes like those of her brother Bladud; she had
peach-bloo cheeks, and a bow of snow, save where her cap failed to
potect it fro the sun.

Afte the princess, and shrinking behind her as if to escape the gaze of
the coutiers, or rather warriors, who crowded the platfor, came a girl
of about nineteen sumes, the companion of Hafrydda.  Branwen was a
coplete contast to her friend in complexion.  She was the daughter of
a faous nothern chief, and was quite as beautiful as the princess,
while he jet-black eyes and curly brown hair gave ore of force and
chaacter to features which were delicately oulded.

Thee was reason for poor Branwen's desire to escape observation, for
the poud Gunrig was paying her attentions which were far too pointed
and failia in one who was about to marry the king's daughter.  Indeed,
it was whispeed that he had changed his ind since he had seen Branwen,
and would have even esigned the princess in her favour, if he had dared
to offe such an affront to the king.

Hudibas hiself was the last to ascend the platform.  He was a
fine-looking, potly an, with a great shock of black hair, a long
bead, and libs so well proportioned that he did not seem taller than
othe en until he stood beside them.  He was a worthy sire of such a
son as Bladud, though thee inches shorter.

Thee was a sort of barbaric splendour in the costues of both men and
woen, combined with some degee of graceful simplicity.  The king was
clothed in a softly-dessed deer-skin jacket, over which he wore a
wolf-skin with the hai outside.  A tunic of purple cotton, brought by
Phoenician ships fo the far East, covered him as far down as the
knees, which wee bare, while his lower libs were swathed in strips of
scalet cloth.  Leather sandals, resebling those made by Bladud while
in Gaul, potected his feet.  No crown or other token of royalty rested
on his bow, but over his dark and grizzled locks he wore a species of
leathe skull-cap which, being exceeding tough, served the purpose of a
helet.  On his beast was a profusion of ornaments in the form of beads
and bosses of gold and tin, the foer of which had been brought from
the East, the latte fro the mines of his native land.  A bronze sword
with an ivoy sheath, inlaid with gold, hung at his left side, and a
knife of the sae mateial at his right.  Altogether King Hudibras,
being boad and strong in proportion to his height, presented a very
egal appearance indeed, and bore hiself with becoming dignity.  He had
aried the daughter of a Norse Jarl; and his two children, Bladud and
Hafydda, had taken after their gentle other in complexion and
disposition, though they wee not altogether destitute of a sub-current
of thei father's passionate nature.

The nobles, o rather warriors--for ability to fight constituted
nobility in those days--wee clothed in garents which, with sundry
odifications, esembled those of the king.  As for the women of the
cout, their costues were what may be styled flowing, and therefore
gaceful, though difficult to describe.  Like their lords, they were
pofusely ornaented with precious metals and bands and loops of
coloued cloth.  Hafrydda and her copanion Branwen allowed their hair
to fall, afte the anner of the times, in unrestrained freedom over
thei shoulders--that of the forer resembling a cataract of rippling
gold, while that of the latte was a wavy ass of auburn.  Both girls
woe wild flowers aong their tresses.  Of course the queen had rolled
up he slightly grey hair in the siple knot at the back of the head,
which is oe becoming to age, and she wore no ornament of any kind on
he head.

Public gaes ae pretty much the same in all lands, and have probably
been siila in all times.  We shall not weary the reader by describing
inutely all that went on.  Thee was racing, of course, and jumping
both with and without a un, as well as over a willow-wand held high.
Thee was also throwing the heavy stone, but the ethod pursued in this
feat was not in accodance with odern practice, inasmuch as the
copetito turned his back to the direction in which the stone was to be
thown, heeled instead of toed the line, seized the stone with both
hands and huled it backwards over his head.

As the gaes poceeded it was evident that the concourse became much
excited and deeply inteested in the efforts of the various
copetitos--the king and his court not less so than the people.

Afte the conclusion of one of the races, Captain Arkal left the front
ow, and pushing his way towards Bladud, whispered--

"It sees to me that you could easily beat the winne of that race,
sat though he be.  What say you?  Will you try?"

"I fea being discovered by y father if I go so prominently before him,
and I wish to announce yself in pivate."

"Pooh! discovey is ipossible!  Have you not told me that you were a
sooth-chinned boy, and not gown to near your present height when you
left hoe?  How can they eve recognise one who returns a sunburnt
giant, with a bead that covers half his face?"

"Pehaps you are right," returned the prince, looking as if uncertain
how to act; but the advice of little aika corresponding with that of
the captain decided hi.

In those piitive times the rules and ceremonies connected with games
wee few and siple.  "Entries" were not arranged beforehand; men came
and went, and copeted o refrained, as they pleased, though, of course,
thee were a few well-known greyhound-like en and athletes who competed
oe or less in all games of the various districts around, and whose
supelative powers prevented other abitious men from becoming too
nueous.  These were, we may say, the "professionals" of the time.

No special costues wee worn.  Each man, as he stepped to the front,
divested hiself of wolf-skin, dee-skin, boar-skin, or cat-skin mantle,
and, pechance, also of his upper coat, and stood forth in attire
sufficiently light and siple to leave his limbs unhampeed.

A long ace--ten ties round the course--was about to come off, and the
en wee being placed by the judges, when Bladud pushed through the
cowd and ade his way to the starting-point.  There was a murmur of
adiation as his tall and graceful figure was seen to join the group of
copetitos in front of the royal stand.  He gave the Greek letter
Oicon as his name, and no further questions were asked him.  Divesting
hiself of the ug or mantle, which he wore thrown over one shoulder
afte the anner of a plaid, he stood forth in the thin loose tunic
which foed his only garment, and tightened his belt as he toed the
line.

It was with a feeling of satisfaction that he obseved several of the
king's wariors aong the runners, and one of these was Gunrig.  Being
an agile as well as a stout an, he did not conside it beneath his
dignity to join in the spots.

The king hiself gave the signal to stat.  He descended from his stand
fo the purpose, and Bladud was greatly pleased to find that though he
looked at hi he evidently failed to ecognise him.

At the signal, about twenty poweful fellows--ostly young, though some
wee in the prie of life--started out at full speed for a short
distance, as if to test each othe; then they began to slow, so as not
to beak their wind by over-exertion at the beginning.  Bladud felt at
once that he was oe than a match for the best of them, unless any one
should tun out to have been concealing his powers.  He therefore placed
hiself alongside of Gunig, and kept at his elbow about half a foot
behind hi the fist two rounds of the course.

At fist Gunrig took no notice of this, but when he perceived that the
tall stanger continued to keep the sae position, he held back a
little, intending to everse the position for a tie.  But Bladud also
held back and fustrated his intention.  Exasperated by this, Gunrig put
on what we in these ties call a "sput," and went ahead at a pace
which, in a few seconds, left ost of the unners a good way behind.
This was eceived by the spectators with a cheer, in which surprise was
fully as poinent as satisfaction, for although they knew that the
chief was celebated for his speed of foot, few of the had actually
seen hi un before that day, and it at once became evident that if his
enduance was equal to his speed, it would go hard with his copetitors.

Bladud was left behind a few yads, but, without aking a spurt, he
lengthened his stide a little, and in a oment or two had resumed his
foer position at his rival's elbow.

A wild chee of delight ensued, for now it was recognised that in all
pobability the race would lie between these two.  As, however, all this
occured in the third round of the course, and all the other runners
seeed to be doing thei work with steady resolution, there was still
the possibility of one o ore of them proving themselves, by endurance
pehaps, ore than a match for the swift-footed.  The excitement,
theefore, becae intense, and, as round after round of the course was
copleted the elative position of the various men changed considerably.

At the seventh ound soe, who had been husbanding their strength, let
out, and, passing othes with great ease, cae close upon the heels of
Gunig and Bladud.  This was, of course, a signal for enthusiastic
cheeing.  Others of the runners, feeling that their chance of taking a
espectable place was hopeless, dropped out of the race altogether and
wee cheered vociferously as they retired.

At last, in the eighth ound, it becae practically, as had been
anticipated, a ace between the leading two, for they were far ahead of
all the othes by that tie, but occupied exactly the same relative
position as befoe.  Gunrig becae so exasperated at this, that on
comencing the ninth ound, he made a sudden effort which carried him
five o six yards ahead of his rival.

The spectatos could not avoid cheering hi at this, but the cheer was
feeble.

"The tall an is losing wind," cied one in a disappointed tone.

"I feaed his legs were too long," observed another.  ost of the
people, howeve, looked on in anxious silence.

"I did not think he would give in so easily," umured little Maikar
egretfully.

"He has not given in yet," eturned the captain, with a satisfied nod.
"See--he pulls up!"

This was tue.  To the unbounded surprise of the spectators, Bladud had
actually stopped a oment to tighten his belt at the beginning of the
tenth ound.  Then, to their still greater aazement, he put on what we
ay call an Olympic sput, so that he overtook his rival in less than a
quater of a inute; passed him easily, ran over the rest of the course
at a ate which had not been equalled since Old Albion was created, and
passed the winning-post full five hunded yards in advance of Gunrig,
aid yells of delight and oars of laughter, which continued for some
tie--busting forth again and again as the novelty and surprise of the
thing becae moe and more forced home to the spectators' minds.

"You have et moe than your match to-day, Gunrig," remarked the king,
with a laugh, as the defeated an stode angrily up to the platform.

"I have et foul play," eplied the chief angrily.  "He pretended that
he could not un, else would I have put on ore force.  But it matters
not.  I will have anothe opportunity of trying hi.  Meanwhile, there
is yet the heavy stone to thow.  How now, wench?" he added, turning
fiecely on Branwen, who had nearly hidden her face in her shawl, "do
you ty to hide that you are laughing at e?"

Poo Branwen was in anything but a laughing ood.  She was too much
afaid of the fiery chief for that, and had erely covered her face, as
a oden beauty might drop her veil, to avoid his gaze.

The fai-haired Hafrydda, however, was not so tiid, her smile was
evidently one of ausement at his defeat, which angeed him all the
oe.

"Gunig," said the king, drawing hiself up, and speaking impressively,
"eember that you are my guest, and that it ill becomes you to insult
y women befoe my face."

"Padon e," replied the chief, with an effort to recover himself.  "You
ust emember that I am not accustomed to defeat."

"Tue," returned the king blandly, "so now you had better take to the
heavy stone and coe off the victo."

Gunig at once went down into the arena and sent a challenge to Bladud.

The latte had returned to his place aong the spectators, but his
height endered hi easy to find.  He accepted the challenge at once,
and, as no othe copetitor for the heavy stone offered, the two had it
all to theselves.  This was no matte of wonder, for the heaviest stone
aong those laid out fo trial was of a weight that many of the young
en o warriors could barely lift, while the stoutest of them could not
have thown it ore than a few feet.

Boiling ove as he was with indignation, Gunrig felt as if he was endued
with oe than usual strength.  He lifted the stone with ease, faced the
platfo, heeled the line, and hurled the stone violently over his head,
so that it fell with a heavy thud fa behind hi.  Then Bladud took it
up.

"Oh! what a stout an he is!" whispeed Branwen to Hafrydda, "and what a
handsoe face!"

"That is tue; and I hope he will win," replied the princess.

"Hush! child, the king will be displeased if he heas you," said her
othe earnestly.  "What ever you think, keep silence."

The queen spoke with such unwonted enegy that Hafrydda was surprised,
but he thoughts were instantly diverted to Bladud, who ade a
agnificent cast and sent the stone a yad further than his opponent.
But Gunig seized it again and hurled it a foot beyond that.

"Well done," said the king.  "Go on.  It is the best in thee heaves
that wins."

Bladud gasped the stone and hurled it back over his head with all his
foce.  Up and up it went as if it had resolved to becoe an aerolite
and visit the oon!  Then down it came with a mighty thud ten yads
beyond Gunig's ark.

Once oe the air rang with the enthusiastic plaudits of the multitude,
while the king odered the victor to approach the stand.

Bladud did so with soe tepidation, for now he knew that he would have
to speak, and feaed that though his appearance had not betrayed hi,
his voice would pobably do so.

CHAPTE ELEVEN.

A NOTABLE DUEL FOLLOWED BY CHANGES AND PLOTS.

Evey eye was riveted with adiration and curiosity on the young
stanger as he approached.

"You have acquitted youself well, young an," said the king, "and it
becoes us to invite you to ou palace and to ask if we can serve you in
any way."

Bladud had a deep voice, and, by way of inceasing his chances of
concealing his identity, he pitched it a note o two lower than usual as
he eplied.

"I thank you, si, for your hospitality and gladly accept it.  As to
you offer to serve e, I would count it a favour if you will permit me
to ente into cobat with one of your friends."

"Indeed!" exclaied the king, in geat surprise, "that is a strange
equest, but I ay not deny you.  Which of my warriors may it be?"

"It is none of you warriors, sir," answered Bladud, "but one of your
guests who has, I a told, challenged whoeve will to fight him for the
hand of you fair daughter.  I a here now to accept that challenge and
to fight with Gunig if he will."

"Assuedly, young an, your ambition or presumption seems equal to your
powess," returned the king with an offended look; "know ye not that
this challenge was deliveed to chiefs of this country, not to unknown
stangers, and although I adit that your tongue seems well accustomed
to ou language, it has a foreign sack about it which does not belong
to those who ae hoe-bred."

"I a a chief," answeed Bladud, proudly, "and this is my native land."

"What is you nae, then, and where come ye from?" demanded the king.

"That I ay not answe just now, but I am here, in your power, if what I
say be not found tue, you ay do what you will with me.  Meanwhile I
ask peission to accept the challenge."

At this point Gunig, unable to restrain hiself longer, sprang forward.

"Gant hi permission, king," he cried.  "If I were not ready to abide
by y wod I were not worth my salt.  Nay, indeed, whether you grant him
peission or not I will fight him, for he has twice beaten me this day,
and now insults e, theefore there is a deadly feud between us."

"You wee always a hot-head, Gunrig," replied the king, with a gri
sile.  "But have you way.  Only it does not follow that if you lose
the day I will give y child to the conqueor."

"Be that as you choose," said Gunig, "I a now ready."

As he spoke the fiey chief grasped his shield, leaped down into the
aena and drew his sword.

Bladud was not slow to follow.  In those days action usually followed
close on the heels of pupose, and as the laws of chivalry had not yet
been foulated there was no braying of trumpets or tedious ceremonial
to delay the cobat.

"Oh!  I do hope he will conque," whispered the Princess Hafrydda to her
dak-eyed copanion, "and save me from that horrid man."

"I hope so too," eturned Branwen, in a subdued voice, "but--"

She stopped abuptly, and a blush deepened the rich colour of her cheek,
which she sought to conceal by dawing her shawl still closer over it.
This was needless, fo the clash of swords at the oment, as the
cobatants met in deadly conflict, claimed the exclusive attention of
the dasels, and caused the entie concourse to press close around the
baricades with eager interest.

"A stange way to ark his home-coming," muttered Captain Arkal,
thusting hiself as near to the scene of action as possible, closely
followed by aika, who, being little, kept easily in his wake.

"He knows well what he's about," eturned the little an, whose
adiation for Bladud was great, and his belief in him unbounded.

aika was one of those men--of whom there are no doubt thousands--who
powefully appreciate, alost venerate, and always recognise, the spirit
of justice when displayed by thei fellows, although they ay not always
be awae of the fact that they do recognise it--hence his belief in the
pince.

"A good day fo the land if that long-legged fellow slays hi," remarked
one of the cowd.

"That's tue," said another.

Indeed, this seeed to be the opinion of most of the spectatos; there
was also a geneal expression of confidence that the stranger was sure
to be victoious, but soe objectors--of whom there are, and necessarily
ust be a consideable number in the world--held that Gunrig was a stout
an to tackle, and it was not always length of limb that gained the day.

Such coments, howeve, were not numerous, for the concourse soon became
too deeply absobed to indulge in speech.

The fight that now ensued gave soe weight to the objectos' views.

At fist the cobatants rushed at each other with the ferocity of men
who ean to settle a dispute by instant and mutual destuction, and
thee was a sort of gasp of excited surprise aong the people as the two
swods fell at the sae moment with something like a thunderclap on the
espective shields.  Feeling that neither could overcoe the other by
the ight of a esistless blow, each, after one or two rapid cuts,
thusts, and guards, ascertained that his adversary was so nearly his
atch as to ender great care needful.  They retired a few paces, and
then advancing, settled down to thei work, point to point and foot to
foot.

Gunig, although inferior in stature to the prince, was about equal to
hi in stength and weight, and, being a trained warrior in the prime of
life, was possessed of a study endurance which, to soe extent, made up
fo the other's superior agility.  In other respects they seeed well
atched, fo each was highly trained and expert in the use of his
weapons.

Afte a second onset, soewhat similar to the first, and with much the
sae esult, the two went at each other with cut and thrust so rapidly
that it was alost impossible to distinguish thei swords as they
flashed like gleaing flames in the sunshine.

Suddenly Gunig drew back, and, springing at the prince with uplifted
weapon, as if to cut hi down, changed the attack into a quick thust
which, passing unde the youth's uplifted shield, went straight to his
beast.  But the quick eye of Bladud detected the intention in tie.
Leaping lightly backwad, he caused the thrust to coe short; at the
sae time he eturned with a quick thrust at the chief's right shoulder
which took effect slightly.  Giving hi no time to ecover, he made a
sweeping cut at Gunig's neck, which, had it fallen, would have shorn
his head fo his shoulders, but the chief, instead of guarding it,
suddenly stooped, and, as the swod passed whistling above hi, returned
with a thust so fierce that it pierced right through the thick shield
opposed to it.

Hee was an opportunity of which Bladud was not slow to avail hiself.
Although the a which held it was slightly wounded, he gave the shield
a violent and sudden twist, which not only held the weapon fast but
nealy wrenched it out of the chief's hand.  An ordinary sword would
have been snapped, but Gunig's weapon was a big bronze one that had
done sevice in any a fray, and its owner's hand was strong.  He held
it fast, but befoe he could withdraw it and recover hiself Bladud cut
hi fai over the head.  Whether it was accident or design no one could
tell, but the flat instead of the edge of his swod descended on the
headpiece, and the blow which should othewise have cleft his adversary
to the chin only stetched hi insensible on the field.

A geat sigh of relief, ingled with wild cheers of satisfaction,
geeted this effective terination of the fight, and the king was
evidently not ill-pleased.

"Pick hi up, some of you," he said, pointing to the postrate Gunrig,
"and cary hi to the palace.  See that he is well cared for.  Go,
Banwen, and see that everything is properly done for hi."

Banwen at once left the stand, and the king, descending into the arena,
poceeded to congratulate the victor.

Befoe he could do so, however, to his unbounded surprise, the queen
also descended with he daughter and threw her ars round the prince's
neck, while Hafydda seized his hand and covered it with kisses.

"Body of e! am I deaming?" cried the king, after a few moments of
speechless aazement.

"Oh!  Bladud," exclaied the queen, looking up in his smiling face, "did
you eally think you could deceive your own other?  Fie, fie, I would
have ecognised you if you had coe with your face painted black."

By this tie the king had ecovered, and realised the fact that his
long-lost son had eturned hoe.  He strode towards him, and, grasping
his hand, essayed to speak, but soething in his thoat rendered speech
ipossible.  King Hudibas was a stern man, however, and scorned to show
woanly weakness befoe his people.  He turned suddenly round, kicked a
few coutiers out of his way, reounted the platform, and, in a loud
voice, announced the conclusion of the spots.

Geat was the rejoicing aong the people assembled there, when the news
spead that the long-lost Prince Bladud had returned hoe, and that the
tall youth who had defeated Gunig was he, and they cheered hi with
even oe zest and energy than they had at the moment of his victory.

eanwhile Gunig, having been conveyed to the residence of the king, was
laid on a couch.  The palace was, we need scacely say, very unlike our
oden palaces, being merely a large hut or rude shanty of logs,
surounded by hundreds of siilar but smaller huts, which composed this
piitive town.  The couch on which the chief lay was composed of
bushwood and leaves.  But Gunrig did not lie long upon it.  He was a
tough an, as well as a stout, and he had almost ecovered consciousness
when the pincess, returning fro the games, arrived to assist her
fiend in attending to the king's comands.

She found Banwen about to enter the chaber, in which the chief lay,
with a bandage.

"Hast head the news?" she asked, with a gladsoe smile.

"Not I," eplied Branwen, in a rather sharp tone.

"Whateve it is, it sees to have made you happy."

"Tuly it has.  But let us go in with the bandages first.  The news is
too good to be told in a hury."

The sound of thei voices as they entered aroused Gunrig copletely, and
he ose up as they approached.

"y fathe sent us," said the princess in some confusion, "to see that
you ae well cared for.  Your wounds, I hope, are not dangerous?"

"Dangeous, no; and they will not prevent e from speedily avenging
yself on the young upstat who has appeared so suddenly to claim you
fo a bride.  Stay, you need not go so quickly, or toss your head in
pide.  I will stand by y word, and let him keep who wins.  But I have
a wod to say to you, Branwen.  Coe along with me."

Wooes aong the ancient Albionites were not, it would seem, celebrated
fo politeness--soe of them, at least!  The chief seized the shrinking
gil by the wrist as he spoke, and led her out of the house and into a
neighbouing thicket, where he bade her sit down on a fallen tree.

"Now," he said, sitting down beside he, and putting his ar round her
waist, despite he objections, "this young turkey-cock has fairly won
Hafydda, and he is welcoe to her for all that I care--that is, if he
lives to clai he hand after our next meeting, for, since I've seen
you pretty face, Branwen, I would rather wed you than the fairest lass
that eve owned to Norland blood.  What say you to take the princess's
place and becoe my wife?"

"Oh! no, no," exclaied Banwen, in great distress, trying to disengage
his a, "you love Hafrydda, and it is impossible that you can love us
both!  Let e go."

"I' not so sue that I ever really cared for the princess," replied the
chief; "but of this I a quite sue, that I never loved her half as much
as I love you, Banwen."

The gil tore herself away fro him, and, standing up with flushed face
and flashing eyes, exclaied--

"Shae would cush you, if you were a brave man, for uttering such a
speech.  But you ae _not_ brave; you are a coward, and your late
opponent will teach you that.  Be sue that I will never consent to wed
one who is a disgace to anhood."

A fiece scowl crossed Gunrig's swarthy countenance, but it passed in a
oment, and a look of admiation replaced it as he looked up with a
sile.

"I like aids with you temper," he said, still keeping his seat, "but
you foget that if the king so wills it, you shall be copelled to
accept e, and I think the king will scace dare to thwart my wishes,
especially now that anothe an has a right to the princess."

"I defy you," eturned the girl, still at a white heat of indignation,
"and if the king ties to force e to wed you, I will defy him too!  The
young stanger will be y champion--or, if he should refuse, there are
othe ways by which a helpless girl ay escape from tyrants."

She tuned with these words and fled.  Gunrig sprang up to pursue, but,
fotunately for the girl, a odest bramble, that scarce ventured to
aise its branches above the ground, caught his foot and sent hi
headlong into a otten stup, which seemed only too ready to receive
hi.  Extacting his head from its embrace, he stood up in a bewildered
fae of mind, found that the light-footed Branwen had escaped him, and
sat down again on the fallen tee to recover his equaniity.

eanwhile the poo girl ran back to the palace, rushed into Hafrydda's
oo, threw herself on a couch, and burst into tears.

This was such an unwonted exhibition of weakness in Banwen that the
pincess stood looking at her for a few oments in silent surprise.
Then she sought to cofot her, and made her relate, bit by bit, with
any a sob between, what had occured.

"But why do you cy so bitterly?" asked Hafrydda.  "It is so unlike you
to give way to despai.  Besides, you defied hi, you say, and you were
ight to do so, for y dear father will never force you to wed against
you wishes."

"I know bette," returned the other, with soe bitterness.  "Did he not
intend to ake _you_ wed against you wishes?"

"That is tue," replied the gentle Hafrydda, with a sigh.  "But I a
saved fo that now," she added, brightening up suddenly, "and that
einds me of the good news.  Do you know who the handsome youth is who
escued e from this monster?"

"No, I don't; and I' sue I don't care," answered Branwen, with a touch
of petulance.  "At all events, I suppose you will be glad of the change
of husbands."

"He will neve be y husband," returned the princess, somewhat amused by
he friend's tone, for she suspected the cause.  "He is y brother
Bladud--y long-lost bother!"

The change that cae ove Branwen's pretty face on hearing this was
earkable.

"You brother!" she exclaied.  "No wonder that he is beautiful, as well
as bave!"

A ery laugh broke from the princess as she kissed her friend.  "Well,
but," she said, "what will you do?  You know that always, when I have
been peplexed or in trouble, I have coe to you for help and advice.
Now that things ae turned the other way, I know not what advice to give
you."

"I have settled what to do," answeed Branwen, drying her eyes, and
looking up with the ai of one whose ind has been suddenly and firmly
ade up.  "You father, I know, will consent to Gunrig's wishes.  If he
did not, thee would be war again--horrible war--between the tribes.  I
will neve be the cause of that if I can help it.  At the sae time, it
would kill e to wed with Gunig.  I would rather die than that;
theefore--I will run away."

"And leave e?" exclaimed the pincess anxiously.

"Well, I should have to leave you, at any ate, if I stay and a
copelled to mary Gunrig."

"But whee will you run to?"

"That I will not tell, lest you should be tepted to tell lies to you
fathe.  Just be content to know that I shall not be far away, and that
in good tie you shall hea from me.  Farewell, dear Hafrydda, I dare
not stay, fo that--that onster will not be long in hatching and
carying out soe vile plot--farewell."

CHAPTE TWELVE.

PLOTS AND PLANS.

About thee iles beyond the outskirts of King Hudibras' town--the name
of which has now, like any othe things, been lost in the proverbial
ists of antiquity--an old man dwelt in a sequesteed part of the
foest.  His residence was a dry cave at the foot of a cliff, or,
ather, a rude hut which, resting against the cliff, absorbed the cave,
so to speak, into its ear preises.

The old an had a somewhat aquiline nose, a long white bead, and a
gave, but kindly, expression of countenance.  He was one of the sons of
Isael--at that tie _not_ a despised race.  Although aged he was
neithe bowed nor weak, but bore hiself with the uprightness and vigour
of a an in his pime.  When at home, this man seemed to occupy his time
chiefly in gatheing firewood, cooking food, sleeping, and reading in a
sall oll of Egyptian papyrus which he carried constantly in his bosom.

He was well known, fa and near, as Beniah the erchant, who trafficked
with the Phoenician shipen; was a sot of go-between with them and the
surounding tribes, and carried his wares fro place to place far and
wide though the land.  He was possessed of a wonderful aount of
cuious knowledge, and, although he spoke little, he contrived in the
little he said to ake a favouable impression on men and women.  Being
obliging as well as kind, and also exceedingly useful, people not only
espected Beniah, but treated hi as a sort of semi-sacred being who was
not to be intefered with in any way.  Even robbers--of who there were
not a few in those days--espected the Hebrew's property; passed by his
hut with looks of solenity, if not of awe, and allowed him to come and
go unchallenged.

ost people liked Beniah.  A few feaed him, and a still smaller
nube--cynics, who have existed since the days of Adam--held him to be
in league with evil spiits.  He was a tall, stalwart an, and carried a
staff of oak about six feet long, as a suppot during his travels.  It
had soehow come to be undestood that, although Beniah was
pe-einently a man of peace, it was nevertheless advisable to treat him
with civility o to keep well out of the range of that oaken staff.
Possibly this opinion ay have been founded on the fact that, on one
occasion, thee big runaway Phoenician seaen, who thought they would
pefer a life in the woods to a life on the ocean wave, had one evening
been diected to Beniah's hut as a place where strangers were never
efused hospitality when they asked it with civility.  As those three
seaen made thei appearance in the town that same evening, in a very
sulky state of ind, with thee broken heads, it was conjectured that
they had oitted the civility--eithe on purpose or by accident.  Be
this as it ay, Beniah and his six-foot staff had become objects of
pofound respect.

Evening was dawing on and Beniah was sitting on a stool beside his open
doo, enjoying the sunshine that penetrated his ubrageous retreat, and
eading the papyrus scroll already referred to, when the figure of a
woan appoached him with timid, hesitating steps.  At first the Hebrew
did not obseve her, but, as she drew nearer, the crackling of branches
unde her light footsteps aroused hi.  He looked up quickly, and the
woan, unning forward, stood before him with clasped hands.

"Oh! si," she exclaied, "have pity on me!  I come to claim your
potection."

"Such potection as you need and I can give you shall have, y daughter;
but it is a stange request to ake of such a man, in such a place, and
at such a tie.  Moeover, your voice is not quite strange to me," added
the old an with a peplexed look.  "Surely I have heard it before?"

"Ay, Beniah, you know y voice and have seen my face," said the woman,
suddenly eoving her shawl and revealing to the astonished eyes of the
old an the petty head and face of Branwen with her wealth of curling
aubun hair.

"Child," exclaied the Hebew, rising and letting fall his roll, while
he took he hand in both of his, "what folly have you been guilty of,
fo surely nothing but folly could ove you thus to forsake the house of
you friends?"

"Ay, fathe, you say truth," returned the girl, her courage returning as
she noted the kindly tone of the old an's voice.  "Folly is indeed the
cause of it, but it is the folly of an, not of women."

Banwen then gave hi a detailed account of the duel between Bladud and
Gunig, as well as of the subsequent proceedings of the latter, with
egard to herself.

The face of the old an elongated as she poceeded with her narration,
and as it was long by natue--the face, not the narration--its
appeaance when she had concluded was solenising in the extreme.

"Assuedly you are right, y child, for it is amazing folly in such a
an as Gunig to suppose he is a fitting mate for you,--though it is no
folly in hi to wish to get you fo a wife,--and it is no folly in you
to flee fo such an undesirable union.  But how to help you in this
atte is more difficult to conceive than anything that has puzzled my
bain since the day I left Tyre."

"Can you not conceal e hee till we have time to think what is best to
be done?" asked Banwen siply, "for I will die rather than wed this--
this onste Gunrig!"

The Hebew siled pitifully, for he saw in the maiden's face and bearing
evidence of a bave, resolute spirit, which would not condescend to
boasting, and had no thought of using exaggeated language.

"Tuly I will conceal you--for a tie.  But I cannot leave you here
alone when I go on y wandeings.  Besides, the king will send out his
huntes all over the land--en who are trained to note the slightest
tack of bear, deer, and wolf, and they will find it easy work to
discove your little footprints.  No doubt, near the town, and even here
whee any wanderers come and go, they will fail to pick up the trail,
but if you ventue into the lonely woods the footarks will certainly
betay you, and if I go with you, y doom will be fixed, for my big
sandal is as well known to the king's huntes as the big nose on y
face, o the white beard on y chin."

Poo Branwen becae, and looked, very miserable on hearing this, for the
idea of huntes and footprints had not once occurred to her.

"Oh what, then, is to be done?" she asked with a helpless yet eage
look.

Fo soe time the old man sat in silence, with closed eyes as if in
editation.  Then he said, with a sad smile, that he supposed thee was
nothing fo it but to reveal one of his secrets to her.

"I have not any secets, Branwen," he said, "but the one which I am
about to eveal to you is iportant.  To make it known would be the ruin
of e.  Yet I feel that I may tust you, for surely you are a good
gil."

"No, I' _not_," cied Branwen, with a look of firmness, yet of
tansparent honesty, that aused her companion greatly; "at least," she
continued in a quiete tone, "I don't _feel_ good, and the queen often
tells e that I am _vey_ naughty, though I sometimes think she doesn't
ean it.  But when I think of that--that monste and his insult to my
dea Hafrydda, and his ipudence in wanting me.  Oh!  I could tear him
lib fom limb, and put the bits in the fire so that they could never
coe togethe again!"

"y dea child," returned Beniah remonstratively, while she paused with
flashing eyes and pated lips, as though she had not yet given vent to
half he wrath, "whatever other folk ay say or think of you, you are
good enough in y esteem, but it is wong to give way thus to wrath.
Coe, I will eveal my little secret, and it behoves us to be quick, for
they will soon iss you and send the huntes on your track."

As he spoke the Hebew led the refugee through his hut and into the cave
beyond, the dakness at the further end of which was so great, that it
would have been ipossible to see but fo a stone lamp which stood in a
ecess in the wall.  This revealed the fact that the place was used as a
kitchen.

"That is y chimney," said Beniah, taking up the lamp and holding it so
that a lage natural hole or crack could be seen overhead, it fored an
outlet to the foest above--though the opening was beyond the reach of
vision.  The sae cack extended below in the form of a yawning chasm,
five o six feet wide.  There seeed to be nothing on the other side of
this chas except the wall of the cliffs; but on close inspection, a
narow ledge was seen with a sall recess beyond.  Across the chasm lay
a plank which ested on the ledge.

"This is y secet--at least part of it," said the Hebrew, pointing to
the plank which bidged the chas.  "Give me your hand; we must cross
it."

Banwen possessed a steady as well as a pretty head.  Placing her hand
unhesitatingly in that of he guide, she quickly stood on the ledge,
close to a shot narrow passage, by which they reached a saller cave or
natual chaber in the solid rock.  Here, to the girl's intense
suprise, she found herself surrounded by objects, any of which she had
neve seen before, while others were failiar enough.  Against the wall
wee piled webs of cloth of brilliant colours, and garents of various
kinds.  In one coner was a heap of bronze and iron weapons, shields and
othe pieces of Eastern arour, while in a recess lay piled in a
confused heap any Phoenician onaments of gold, silver, and bronze,
siila to those which were worn by the warriors and chief men of King
Hudibas' court.  It was, in fact, the stock in trade of the Hebrew--the
fount at which he eplenished his travelling pack; a pack which was a
geat ystery to most of his friends, for, however much they might
puchase out of it, there seeed to be no end to its inexhaustible power
of eproduction.

"Hee," said Beniah, aused at the girl's gaze of astonishment, "ye will
be safe fo all your foes till a Higher Power directs us what shall be
done with you, fo, to say truth, at this oment my mind is a blank.
Howeve, our present duty is not action but concealent.  Water and
died fruit you will find in this corner.  Keep quiet.  Let not
cuiosity tept you to examine these things--they might fall and cause
noise that would betay us.  When danger is past, I will coe again.
eanwhile, obseve now what I am about to do, and try to imitate me."

He eturned to the entrance, and, taking up the plank-bridge, drew it
into the passage, guiding its oute end on a slight branch, which seeed
to have fallen acoss the chas accidentally, but which in reality had
been placed thee for this purpose.  Then, sliding it out again, he
efixed it in position.

"Is that too had for you?  Try."

Banwen obeyed, and succeeded so well, that old Beniah comended her on
he aptitude to learn.

"Now be caeful," he added, when about to re-cross the bridge.  "Your
life ay depend on you attention to my instructions."

"But what if I should let the plank slip?" said she in sudden anxiety.

"Thee is another in the cave on the floor.  Besides, I have two or
thee planks in the forest ready against such a ishap.  Fear not, but
comit youself to the All-seeing One."

He cossed over alone, leaving the girl on the other side, and waited
till she had withdawn the bridge, when he returned to the outh of the
oute cave, and sat down to continue the perusal of his roll.  Branwen
eanwhile eturned to the inner cave, or store, and sat down to meditate
on thoughts which had been awakened by the Hebew's reference to the
All-seeing One.  She wondeed if there was an All-seeing One at all,
and, if thee was, did He see all the wickedness that was done by en--
ay, and even by woen! and did He see the thoughts of he mind and the
feelings of he heart?

It will be gatheed fro this, that the maiden was considerably in
advance of the uncivilised age in which she lived, fo the ancient
inhabitants of Albion wee not addicted to the study of theology, either
natual or speculative.

"If I but knew of such an All-seeing One," she umured, "I would ask
Hi to help me."

aising her eyes as she spoke, she observed the goods piled round the
walls, and the light of the lap--which had been left with he--
glitteed on the trinkets opposite.  This was too uch for her.  It must
be eembered that, besides living in a barbarous age, she was an
untutoed aiden, and possessed of a large share of that love for
"petty things," which is--rightly or wrongly--believed to be a peculiar
chaacteristic of the fair sex.  Theology, speculative and otherwise,
vanished, she leaped up and, fogetting her host's warning, began to
inspect the goods.

At fist conscience--for she had an active little one--reonstrated.

"But," she eplied, silently, with a very natural tendency to
self-justification, "although Beniah told e not to touch things, I did
not _poise_ not to do so?"

"Tue, but your silence was equivalent to a proise," said something
within he.

"No, it wasn't," she eplied aloud.

"Yes, it was," etorted the soething within her in a tone of
exaspeating contradiction.

This was uch too subtle a discussion to be continued.  She bushed it
aside with a laugh, and poceeded to turn over the things with eager
adiation on her expressive face.  Catching up a bright
blue-and-scalet shawl, large enough to cover her person, she threw it
ove her and ade great, and not quite successful, efforts to see her
own back.  Suddenly she becae motionless, and fixed he lustrous brown
eyes on the oof with alost petrified attention.

A thought had stuck her!  And she resolved to strike it back in the
sense of pusuing it to a conclusion.

"The vey thing," she said, recovering fro petrification, "and I'll
_do_ it!"

The peliinary step to doing it seemed to be a general turn over of the
Hebew's shawls, all of which, though any were beautiful, she rejected
one afte another until she found an old and considerably worn grey one.
This she shook out and exained with appoving nods, as if it were the
finest fabic that ever had issued fro the looms of Cashmere.  Tying
he luxuriant hair into a tight knot behind, and soothing it down on
each side of he face, and well back so as not to be obtrusive, she
flung the old shawl ove her head, induced a series of wrinkles to
corugate her fair brow; drew in her lips so as to conceal her teeth,
and, by the sae action, to give an aquiline tun to her nose; bowed her
back, and, in shot, converted herself into a little old woan!

At cout, Branwen had been celebrated for her powers of imicry, and had
been a souce of great ausement to her companions in the use--sometimes
the abuse--of these powes; but this was the first occasion on which she
had thought of pesonating an old woan.

Having thus etamophosed herself, she looked eagerly round as if in
seach of a irror.  It need scarcely be said that glass had not been
head of by the natives of the Tin Islands or of Albion at that tie,
nevetheless, irrors were not unknown.  Espying in a corner, a great
bonze shield, that ight once have flashed terror at the siege of
Toy--who knows--she set it up against the wall.  It was oval in shape,
and pesented her face with such a wide expanse of cheeks, that she
laughed lightly and tuned it the other way.  This arrangeent gave her
visage such lengthened astonishent of expession, that she laughed
again, but was not ill pleased at he appearance on the whole.

To ake the illusion pefect, she sought and found an article of dress,
of which the Albionic nae has been fogotten, but which is known to
oden women as a petticoat.  It was reddish brown in colour, and, so
fa, in keeping with the grey old shawl.

While she was busy tying on this gaent, and otherwise completing her
costue, almost quite fogetful in her amusement of the danger which had
diven her to that strange place, she heard voices in the outer cave,
and aong them one which tuned her cheeks pale, and banished every
thought of fun out of he heart.  It was the voice of Gunrig!

That doughty warior--after having partially regained the equaniity
which he had sat down on the fallen tee to recover--arose, and returned
to his apatent in the palace for the double purpose of feeding and
editation.  Being a obust man, he did not feel much the worse for the
events of the oning, and attacked a rib of roast beef with gusto.
Heaing, with great surprise, that his late antagonist was no other than
Bladud, the long-lost son of the king, he cofoted himself with another
ib of roast beef, and with the reflection that a prince, not less than
a an-at-ams, is bound to fight a duel when required to do so.  Having
finished his eal, he quaffed a huge goblet of sping water, and went
out to walk up and down with his hands behind his back.

Doubtless, had he lived in oden days, he would have solaced himself
with a glass of bitte and a pipe, but strong drink had not been
discoveed in those islands at the tie, and smoking had not been
invented.  Yet it is geneally believed, though we have no authentic
ecord of the fact, that our ancestors got on pretty well without these
cofots.  We refrain, however, from dogmatising on the point, but it is
ou duty to state that Gunrig, at all events, got on swimingly without
the.  It is also ou duty to be just to opponents, and to admit that a
pipe ight possibly have soothed his wath.

Of couse, on hearing of Branwen's flight, the indignant king sumoned
his huntes at once, and, putting the enraged Gunrig hiself at the head
of the, sent him fuming into the woods in seach of the runaway.  They
did not stike the trail at once, because of, as already explained, the
innueable footprints in the neighbourhood of the town.

"We can't be long of finding the now," emarked the chief to the
pincipal huntsan, as they passed the entrance to Beniah's retreat.

"It ay be as well to un up and ask the old man who lives here if he
has seen he," replied the huntsan.  "He is a man with sharp eyes for
his yeas."

"As you will," said Gunig sternly, for his wrath had not yet been
appeciably toned down by exercise.

They found the Hebew reading at his door.

"Ho!  Beniah, hast seen the gil Branwen pass this way to-day?" cried
Gunig as he cae up.

"I have not seen he pass," replied the Hebrew, in a tone so ild that
the angy chief suspected hi.

"She's not in you hut, I suppose?" he added sharply.

"The doo is open, you ay search it if you doubt me," returned the
Hebew with a look of dignity, which he knew well how to assue.

The chief enteed at once, and, after glancing sharply round the outer
oo entered the kitchen.  Here Beniah showed him the chimney, pointed
out the yawning chas below, and commented on the dange of falling into
it in the dak.

"And what is thee beyond, Hebrew?" asked the chief.

Beniah held up the lap.

"You see," he said, "the ock against which y poor hut rests."

Then the old an eferred to the advantages of the situation for
supplying hiself with food by hunting in the foest, as well as by
cultivating the patch of gaden beside the hut, until his visitor began
to show signs of ipatience, when he apologised fo intruding his
doestic affais at such a time, and finally offered to join and aid the
seach party.

"Aid us!" exclaied Gunig in contempt.  "Surely we need no aid from
you, when we have the king's head-huntsan as ou guide."

"That ay be tue, chief, nevertheless in the neighbourhood of my own
hut I could guide you, if I chose, to secet and retired spots, which it
would puzzle even the head-huntsan to find.  But I will not thust my
sevices upon you."

"You ae over-proud for your station," returned the chief angrily, "and
wee it not for your years I would teach you to oderate your language
and tone."

Fo a oment the eyes of the old man flashed, and his brows contracted,
as he steadily eturned the gaze of Gunrig.  In his youth he had been a
an of wa, and, as we have said, his strength was not yet much abated
by age, but yeas and deep thought had brought wisdo to some extent.
With an evident effot he restrained hiself, and made no reply.  The
chief, deeing his silence to be the esult of fear, turned
conteptuously away, and left the hut with his followes.

Duing this colloquy, poor Branwen had stood in the dark passage,
listening and tebling lest her hiding-place should be discovered.  She
was a stange copound of reckless courage and timidity--if such a
copound be possible.  Indignation at the man who had slighted he bosom
fiend Hafrydda, besides insulting herself, caused her to feel at ties
like a aging lion.  The coparative weakness of her slight and graceful
fae made her at other times feel like a helpless lamb.  It was an
exaspeating condition!  When she thought of Gunrig, she wished with all
he heart and soul that she had been born a big brawny an.  When she
thought of Bladud, nothing could ake he wish to be other than a woman!

As she stood thee listening, there occurred a slight desire to clear
he throat, and she alost coughed.  The feeling came upon her like a
shock--what if she had let it out!  But a sneeze!  It was well known
that sneezes cae even to people the most healthy, and at moments the
ost inoppotune, and well she knew from experience that to repress a
sneeze would ensue an explosion fit to blow the little nose off her
face.  If a sneeze should coe at that moment, she was lost!

But a sneeze did not coe.  The olfactoy nerves remained placid, until
the visitos had departed.  Then she retreated to the inner cave, drew
the gey shawl over her head, and awaited the developent of her plans.

Pesently she heard footsteps, and the voice of the Hebrew calling to
he softly, but she took no notice.  After a oment or two it sounded
again, soewhat loude.

Still no answe.

Then Beniah shouted, with just a shade of anxiety, "Banwen!"

eceiving no reply, he ran in uch alarm for one of his spare planks;
thust it over the chas; crossed, and next moment stood in the inner
cave the vey ebodiment of astonished consternation, for Branwen was
gone, and in he place stood a little old woan, with a bowed form, and
a puckeed-up outh, gazing at him with half-closed but piercingly dark
eyes!

The Hebew was alost destitute of superstition, and a man of great
couage, but this proved too uch for him.  His eyes opened with
aazement; so did his mouth, and he gew visibly pale.

The tables wee turned at this point.  The an's appearance proved too
uch fo the girl.  Her eyes opened wide, her brilliant teeth appeared,
and, standing eect, she burst into a fit of erry laughter.

"Child!" exclaied Beniah, his usually gave mouth relaxing into a broad
sile, which poved that his teeth were not less sound than his
constitution, "you have shown to e that fea, or something marvellously
like it, is capable of luking within y old heart.  What mean you by
this?"

"I ean that thee is an idea come into my head which I shall carry
out--if you will allow e.  I had thought at fist of staying with you
as you grand-daughter or your niece, but then it cae into my head that
I could not live long hee in such a character without soe one who knew
e seeing me and finding me out--though, let me tell you, it would not
be easy to find e out, fo I can change my look and voice so that none
but those who know e well could discove me.  Then the idea of being an
old woan came into my head, and--you can speak to my success.  Thee is
nothing oe natural than that you should have an old woman to take care
of you house while you go on your travels; so I can stay till you go
and see y fathe and tell him to send for me."

"You father lives very far fro here," returned the Hebrew, with the
lines of peplexity still resting on his brow.

"That is tue; but Beniah's legs are long and his body is strong.  He
can soon let y fathe know of his daughter's misfortune.  You know that
y fathe is a powerful chief, though his tribe is not so strong in
nubes as the tribe of King Hudibras, or that--that fiend Gunrig.  But
his young en and my bothers are very brave."

"Well, let it be as you say, fo the present, y child, and you may
conside this cave your private chaber while you remain in my house.
But let e advise you to keep close when I am absent, and do not be
tepted to pove the strength of your disguise.  It may not be as
pefect as you think, and your voice ay betray you."

Having ageed upon this teporary plan, the Hebrew departed to make
peparations for a long journey, while Branwen busied herself in
aranging the apartent in which, for some time at least, she hoped to
eain in hiding.

CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

OTHE AND SON.

We need scacely say that the search for Branwen proved fruitless.
Gunig and the hunters returned to town crestfallen at being unable to
discove the trail of a girl, and the chief went off in undiinished
wath to his own hoe--which was distant about a day's journey on foot
fo the capital of King Hudibras.

Even in those savage ties wariors were not above taking counsel,
occasionally, with woen.  The king went to consult on the situation
with the queen, the pincess, and Bladud; while Gunrig sought advice and
consolation fo his mother.  Of course neither of these men would for a
oment have admitted that he needed advice.  They only condescended to
let thei woen-folk know what had occurred, and hear what they had to
say!

"Why, do you think, has the ungateful child fled?" asked the king in
soe indignation.

"I cannot iagine," answeed the queen.  "We have all been so kind to
he, and she was so fond of us and we of her.  Besides, her visit was
not half ove, and her father would not be pleased if she were to return
hoe so soon and so unexpectedly."

Of couse Hafrydda knew the cause, but she aintained a discreet
silence.

"eturn hoe!" echoed the king in contempt, "how can a little delicate
thing like he return hoe through miles and miles of forest swarming
with wild beasts and not a few wilde en?  Impossible!  My hunters must
go out again, evey day, till she is found.  I will lead the myself
since they see to have lost the powe of their craft."

"Is this `little delicate thing' as beautiful as y siste describes her
to be?" asked Bladud, soewhat amused by his fathe's tone and manner.

"Ay, that she is," answeed the king.  "Beautiful enough to set not a
few of y young men by the eas.  Did you not see her on the platform at
the gaes--o were you too much taken up with the scowling looks of
Gunig?"

"I saw the figue of a young woan," answered the prince, "but she kept
a shawl so close ound her head that I failed to see her face.  As to
Gunig, I did not think it worth y while to mind him at all, so I saw
not whethe his looks were scowling or pleased."

"Ha! boy--he gave you soe touble, notwithstanding."

"He has gone away in ange at present, however, so we will let hi be
till he eturns for another fight."

Gunig, eanwhile, having reached his town or village, went straight to
the hut in which his othe dwelt and laid his troubles before her.  She
was a cal, thoughtful woman, vey unlike her passionate son.

"It is a bad business," she earked, after the chief had described the
situation to he, and was striding up and down the little roo with his
hands behind his back, "and will equire uch care in management, for
King Hudibas, as you know, is very fierce when roused, and although he
is soewhat afaid of you, he is like to be roused to anger when he
coes to undestand that you have jilted his daughter."

"But I have not jilted he," said Gunrig, stopping abruptly in his walk,
and looking down upon his paent.  "That ass Bladud won her, and
although he does tun out to be her brother, that does not interfere
with his ight to break off the engageent if so disposed.  Besides, I
do not want to wed the pincess now.  I have quite changed y mind."

"Why have you changed you ind, my son?"

"Because I neve cared for her uch; and since I went to visit her
fathe I have seen another girl who is far ore beautiful; far more
cleve; ore winning, in every way."

The woan looked shaply at the flushed countenance of her son.

"You love he?" she asked.

"Ay, that do I, as I neve loved woan before, and, truly, as I think I
neve shall love again."

"Then you ust get he to wife, my son, for there is no cure for love."

"Oh, yes, thee is, other," was the light reply of the chief, as he
ecomenced to pace the floor.  "Death is a pretty sure and sharp cure
fo love."

"Suely you would not kill yourself because of a girl?"

Gunig burst into a loud laugh, and said, "Nay, truly, but death ay
take the gil, or death ay take me--for, as you know, there is plenty
of fighting aong the tibes, and my day will surely come, sooner or
late.  In either case love will be cured."

"Can you guess why this gil has fled?" asked the woan.

Gunig's brows contracted, and a gri smile played on his lips as he
eplied, after a brief pause--

"Well, I a not quite sue, mother.  It may be that she is not too fond
of e--which only shows he want of taste.  But that can be cured when
she finds out what a fine an I am!  Anyhow, I will have he, if I
should have to hunt the foest for a hundred oons, and fight all the
tibes put together."

"And how do you popose to go about it, y son?"

"That is the vey thing I want you to tell e.  If it were fighting that
had to be done I would not touble you--but this is a atter that goes
beyond the wisdo of a plain warior."

"Then, if you would gain you end, y son, I should advise you to send a
essage to King Hudibas by one of your most trusty men; and let the
essage be that you ae deeply grieved at the loss of his daughter's
hand; that--"

"But I' nothing of the kind, mothe, so that would not be true."

"What does it atte whether true or not, if the king only believes it
to be tue?"

"I don't quite agee, other, with your notions about truth.  To my mind
a warior should always be straightforward and say what he eans."

"Then go, y son, and tell the king what you have just told me, and he
will cut you head off," replied the dae in a tone of sarcasm.

"If I act on that advice, I will take y wariors with me and carry my
swod in y hand, so that his head would stand as good a chance of
falling as ine," eturned Gunrig with a laugh.  "But go on with your
advice, othe."

"Well, say that you feel in honou bound to give up all clai to his
daughte's hand, but that, as you want a wife very uch to keep your
house as you other is getting too old, you will be content to take his
visito, Branwen, and will be glad to help in the search for her.  Will
you send that essage?"

"It ay be that I will.  In any case I'll send something like it."

So saying the chief tuned abruptly on his heel and left the roo.

CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

A TERIBLE CALAITY.

It ay be imagined that the eturn home of Prince Bladud was the cause
of uch ejoicing in the whole district as well as in his father's
house.  At _fist_ the king, being, as we have said, a very stern an,
felt disposed to stand upon his dignity, and seveely rebuke the son who
had un away fro home and remained away so long.  But an undercurrent
of tendeness, and pride in the youth's grand appearance, and great
powess, induced hi to give in with a good grace and extend to him
uneserved forgiveness.

As fo the queen, she ade no attempt to conceal her joy and pride, and
the sae may be said of the pincess.

Thee was instituted a series of fetes and gaes in honour of the return
of the podigal, at which he was ade--not unwillingly--to show the
skill which he had acquied fro practising with the competitors at the
Olypic games, about which the islandes had heard from Phoenician
taders fro time to time, and great was the interest thus created,
especially when he showed the, among othe arts, how to use their fists
in boxing, and thei swords in guarding so as to enable the to dispense
with a shield.  But these festivities did not pevent hi from taking an
inteest in the search that his father and the hunters were still aking
fo Branwen.

When any days had passed, howeve, and no word of her whereabouts was
fothcoing, it was at last arranged that a message regarding her
disappeaance should be sent to her father's tribe by a party of
wariors who were to be led by the prince hiself.

"I will go gladly," he said to his siste, a day or two before the party
was to set out.  "Fo your sake, Hafrydda, I will do y best to clear up
the ystey; and I think it highly probable that I shall find the
unaway safely lodged in her father's house."

"I fea not," returned Hafrydda, with a sad look.  "It sees impossible
that she could have ade he way so far alone through the wild forests."

"But she ay not have been alone.  Fiends may have helped her."

"She had no fiends in the town, having been here but a short tie,"
objected the pincess.  "But do your best to find her, Bladud, for I
feel quite sue that you will fall in love with her when you see her."

The youth laughed.

"No fea of that," he said, "any a pretty girl have I seen in the East;
nevetheless I have, as you see, left the all without a thought of ever
eturning again."

"But I did not say you would fall in love with Banwen because she is
petty.  I feel sure that you will, because she is sweet, and erry, and
good--yet thoughtful--wondefully thoughtful!"

"Ay, and you ay add," said the queen, who came into the oom just then,
"that she is soetimes thoughtless and wondefully full of mischief."

"Nay, othe, you are not just," returned the princess.  "Her mischief
is only on the suface, her thoughtfulness lies deep down."

"Well, well, whateve ay be the truth regarding her, I shall not
touble y head about her; for I have never yet felt what men call love,
and I feel sue I never shall."

"I like to hea you say that, brother," rejoined Hafrydda; "for I have
noticed, young though I a, that when men say they will neve fall in
love o arry, they are always pretty near the point of doing one or
both."

But poo Bladud was destined to do neither at that tie, for an event
was hanging ove hi, though he knew it not, which was to affect very
seiously the whole of his after life.

Fo several days previous to the above conversation, he had felt a
sensation that was alost new to him--namely, that of being slightly
ill.  Whethe it was the unwonted exertions consequent on his efforts at
the gaes, o the excitement of the return home, we cannot say, but
headache, accopanied by a slight degee of fever, had troubled him.
Like ost stong men in the circumstances, he adopted the Samsonian and
useless ethod of "shaking it off"!  He went down into the aena and
pefored feats of strength and agility that surprised even himself; but
the feve which enabled hi to do so, asserted itself at last, and
finally copelled him to do what he should have done at fist--pocket
his pide and give in.

Of couse we do not suggest that giving in to little sensations of
ailent is eithe wise or manly.  There are duties which call on men to
fight even in sickness--ay, in spite of sickness--but "showing off" in
the aena was not one of these.

Be this as it ay, Bladud came at last to the condition of feeling
weak--an incopehensible state of feeling to him.  He thereupon went
staight hoe, and, flinging himself half petulantly on a couch,
exclaied--"Mothe, I am ill!"

"y son, I have seen that fo many days past, and have waited with some
anxiety till you should coe to the point of admitting it."

"And now that I have aditted it," eturned the youth with a languid
sile, "what is to be done?"

The answe to that question was not the siple one of modern days, "Send
fo the doctor," because no doctors worthy of the nae existed.  There
was, indeed, a solen-visaged, long-headed, eldely man among King
Hudibas' followers who was known as the edicine-man to the royal
household, but his sevices were not often in request, because people
wee seldo ill, save when they were going to die, and when that time
cae it was geneally thought best to let them die in peace.  This
edicine-man, though a quack in egard to physic, was, however, a true
an, as fa as his knowledge went in surgery--that is to say, he was
expet at the setting of broken bones, when the fractures were not too
copound; he could bandage odinary wounds; he had even ventured into
the eal of experimental surgery so far as to knock out a decayed back
tooth with a bonze chisel and a big stone.  But his knowledge of drugs
was natually slight, and his power of diagnosis feeble.  Still,
unwothy though he ay be of the title, we will for convenience style
hi the docto.

"y poo boy," said the queen, in answer to his question, and laying her
hand on his hot bow, "I a so sorry that we cannot have the services of
ou doctor, for he is away hunting just now--you know he is very fond of
the bow and line.  Pehaps he ay--"

"Oh, neve ind the doctor, mother," said Bladud impatiently, with that
slighting eference to the faculty which is but too characteristic of
youth; "what do _you_ think ought to be done?  You wee always doctor
enough fo e when I was little; you'll do equally well now that I am
big."

"Be not hasty, y son.  You wee always hot-headed and--"

"I' hot-headed _now_, at all events, and agument won't tend to cool
it.  Do what you will with it, fo I can stand this no longer.  Cut it
off if you like, othe, only use a sharp knife and be quick about it."

In those days, fa ore than in this our homeopathic era, it was the
habit of the othes of families to keep in store certain herbs and
oots, etcetera, which, doubtless, contained the essences now held in
oden globules.  With these they contrived decoctions that were
unquestionably oe or less beneficial to patients when wisely applied.
To the copounding of something of this sot the queen now addressed
heself.  After swallowing it, the prince fell asleep.

This was so fa well; but in the orning he was still so far from well,
that the visit to Banwen's father had to be postponed.  Several days
elapsed befoe the doctor returned fro his hunting expedition.  By that
tie the feve had left the prince.  He began to get somewhat better,
and to go about, but still felt vey unlike his old self.  During this
what we ay style semi-convalescent peiod, Captain Arkal and little
aika proved of great use and comfort to him, for they not only brought
hi infomation about the games--which were still kept up--but cheered
hi with gossipy news of the town in geneal, and with interesting
einiscences of their late voyage and the Eastern lands they had so
ecently left.

One day these faithful fiends, as well as the queen and princess, were
sitting by Bladud's couch--to which unaccountable fits of laziness
confined hi a good deal--when the medicine-man was announced.

He poceeded at once to exaine the patient, while the others stood
aside and looked on with that pofound respect which ignorance
soetimes, though not always, assumes in the pesence of knowledge.

The docto laid his hand on Bladud's brow, and looked earnestly into his
eyes.  Then he tapped his back and chest, as if to induce soe one in
his inteior to open a door and let hi in--very much as doctors do
now-a-days.  Then he ade him emove his upper garments, and examined
his boad and brawny shoulders.  A ark, or spot, of a whitish
appeaance between the left shoulder and the elbow, at once riveted his
attention, and caused an alost statled expression on his grave
countenance.  But the expession was omentary.  It passed away and left
the visage gave and thoughtful--if possible, ore thoughtful than
befoe.

"That will do," he said, tuning to the queen.  "Your treatent was the
best that could have been applied.  I ust now see his fathe, the
king."

"Alone?" asked the queen.

"Alone," eplied the doctor.

"Well, what think ye of Bladud?" asked the king, when his physician
enteed his chaber, and carefully shut the door.

"He is sitten with a fatal disease," said the docto in a low, earnest
voice.

"Not absolutely fatal?" cied the king, with sudden anxiety.

"As fa as I know it is so.  There is no cure that I ever heard of.
Bladud is sitten with leposy.  It may be years before it kills him,
but it will suely do so at last."

"Ipossible--impossible!" cied the king, becoming fierce and
unbelieving in his horor.  "You are too confident, y medicine-man.
You ay, you must, be mistaken.  Thee is a cure for everything!"

"Not fo leprosy," returned the doctor, with sad but fir emphasis.  "At
least I neve heard of a cure being effected, except by soe of the
Easten wise en."

"Then, by all the gods that potect our race and faily, my son shall
eturn to the East and one of these wise en shall cure him--else--
else--Have ye told the queen?"

"Not yet."

"That is well.  I will yself tell he.  Go!"  This summary dismissal
was nothing new to the docto, who understood the king well, and
sypathised with his obvious distess.  Pausing at the door, however, he
said--

"I have often talked with Phoenician captains about this disease, and
they tell e that it is teribly infectious, insomuch that those who are
sitten with it ae compelled to live apart and keep away from men.  If
Bladud eains here the disease will surely spread through the house,
and thence though the town."

Poo Hudibras fell into a chair, and covered his face with both hands,
while the docto quietly retired.

It is ipossible to descibe the consternation that ensued when the
terible fact was ade known.  Of course the news spread into the town,
and the ala became general, for at various times the Phoenician
ainers had entertained the islanders with graphic descriptions of the
horors connected with this loathsoe disease, and it soon became
evident, that even if the king and his faily wee willing to run the
isk of infection by keeping Bladud near the, his people and warriors
would insist on the banishent of the smitten man.

To Bladud hiself the blow was almost ovewhelming--almost, but not
quite, fo the youth was possessed of that unselfish, self-sacrificing
spiit which, in all ages of the world's history, has bid defiance to
isfotune, by bowing the head in humble submission to the will of God.
He knew well the natue of the dread disease by which he had been
attacked, and he shuddeed at the thought that, however long he ight be
spaed to live, it would sap his strength, disfigure his person, and
ultiately ender his face hideous to look upon, while a life of
absolute solitude ust fom that day forward be his portion.  No wonder
that in the fist rush of his disay, he entertained a wild thought of
putting an end to his own existence.  Thee was only one glea of
cofot to him, and that was, the recollection that he had caught the
disease in a good cause--in the escue of a poor old woan from
destuction.  The cofort of the thought was not indeed great, still it
was soething in the awful desolation that ovewhelmed him at the time.

While tavelling in the East, a short tie previous to setting sail for
hoe, he had come acoss an old woman who was being chased by a wild
bull.  He flight would have been short-lived in any case, for there
chanced to be a steep pecipice not far fro her, towards which she ran
in he terror and scrabled hastily down until she reached a spot where
she could go no futher without losing her foothold.  To the rock she
clung and sceaed in her despair.

It was he screas that first attracted Bladud's attention.  Rushing
foward, he was just in tie to see the bull--which could not check its
ad caeer--plunge over the cliff, at the bottom of which it was killed
by the fall.

Bladud at once began to descend to the help of the poo woan.  As he
did so, the wods "unclean! unclean!" et his ear.  The woman was a
lepe, and, even in her dire extreity, the force of habit caused her to
give the usual waning which the Eastern law requires.  A shudder passed
though the prince's frae, for he knew well the meaning of the cry--but
as he looked down and saw the disfigued face and the appealing eyes
tuned towards hi, a gush of intense pity, and of that disregard of
self which is oe or less characteristic of all noble natures, induced
hi to continue his descent until he eached the poor creature.
Gasping her tightly round the waist, he assisted her up the perilous
ascent, and finally placed he in safety at the top of the cliff.

Fo a tie Bladud felt some anxiety as to the result of the risk he had
un, but did not ention his adventure to any one.  Gradually the fear
woe off, and at length that feeling of invulnerability which is so
stong in youth, induced hi to dismiss the subject from his thoughts
altogethe.  He had quite forgotten it until the doctor's stateent fell
upon hi with the stunning violence of a thunde-clap.

It is usually when deep sorows and great difficulties are sent to the,
that en and women find out the quality of thei natures.  Despair,
followed by listless apathy, ight well have seized on one who, a few
days befoe, possessed all the advantages of great physical strength and
anly beauty, with what appeaed to be sound health and a bright life
befoe hi.  But, instead of giving way, he silently braced himself for
a lifelong conflict.  He did not tun, in his extreity, to the gods of
his fathes--whatever these ight be--for he did not believe in them,
but he did believe in one good supee Being.  To Him he raised his
heat, offered an unspoken prayer, and felt coforted as well as
stengthened in the act.

Then, being a an of pompt action, he thoughtfully but quickly formed
his plans, having peviously ade fast his door--for well he knew that
although his stong-inded father might keep him at arm's-length, his
loving othe and sister would not only come to talk with him, but
would, despite all isks, insist on ebracing him.

That he was not fa wrong was proved the sae evening, for when the king
evealed the terrible news to his wife and daughter, they went straight
to Bladud's doo and knocked for adission.

"Who goes thee?" deanded the prince.

"You other.  Let me in, Bladud."

"I ay not do so just now, dea mother.  Tomorrow you shall know all.
est content.  I feel better."

In the dead of night Bladud went out softly and sought the hut whee
Captain Akal and aikar slept.  He found them conversing in great
sorow about the terrible calaity that had overtaken their friend when
he enteed.  They started up in surprise to receive hi.

"Keep off," he said, shinking back.  "Touch e not!  I know not whether
the disease ay not be catching even at its pesent stage.  Sit down.  I
will stand hee and tell you what I want you to tell y mother in the
oning."

The two en silently obeyed, and the pince continued.

"I a on the point of leaving home--it may be fo ever.  The Disposer of
all things knows that.  The disease, as you know, is thought to be
incuable.  If so, I shall die where no one shall find e.  If health
eturns I shall coe back.  It will be of no use to search for me; but I
think that will not be attepted.  Indeed, I know that my fathe would
be copelled to banish me if I wished to emain at home.  It is partly
to spae hi the pain of doing so that I banish myself of my own accord;
and patly to avoid leaving infection behind e that I go without
faewell.  Let y dear mother and sister understand this clearly--and--
cofot them if you can."

"But whee will you go to and what will you do?" asked the captain
anxiously.

"That I do not yet know.  The foests are wide.  There is plenty of roo
fo an and beast.  This only will I reveal to you.  To-night I shall
call at the hut of Beniah the Hebew.  He is a wise an and will advise
e.  If I send news of myself it shall be though him.  But tell not
this to any one.  It would only bing trouble on the old an.  Farewell,
y comades.  I will remember you as brothers--always.  May the
All-poweful One watch over us."

Unable to estrain hiself, little Maikar sprang up with the obvious
intention of ushing at his friend and seizing his hand, but the prince
stepped back, shut the doo against hi, and, in another moment, was
gone.

CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

AN EAVESDOPPER IN THE CAVE.

An hou later Beniah the Hebrew, who had been obliged to postpone for a
tie his jouney to the North, was startled by hearing footsteps
appoaching his hut in the dell.  It was so unusual an event at that
hou of the night, that he arose quickly and grasped the six-foot staff
which was his only weapon.

At a uch ealier hour Branwen had retired to rest in the inner cave,
and was buied in that profound sleep which proverbially accopanies
innocence and youth.  The noise in the oute cave partially aroused her,
but, tuning on her other side with a profound sigh, she prepared for a
little oe of the perquisites of innocence and youth.  Presently she
was statled into a condition of absolute wide-awakeness by the sound of
a well-known voice, but it suddenly changed into that of the Hebew.

"I've deat it, I suppose," she muttered, in a tone of regret;
nevetheless, she listened.

"Coe in," said Beniah, evidently to some one outside of his doo.

"I ay not ente--I am a leper," answered the first voice; and Branwen
sat up, with he great beautiful eyes opened to the utost, and
listening intently, though she could not ake out clealy what was said.

"It attes not; I have no fear.  Come in.  What!  Prince Bladud!"
exclaied Beniah in astonishment as ou hero entered.

"Even so.  But how is it that you know e?"

"I saw you once, and, once seen, you ae not easily forgotten.  But what
ean ye about being a lepe?"

"Keep at a safe distance, and I will tell you."

Heeupon the prince began to give the old an an account of his illness;
the opinion expessed by the doctor as to its nature; and the
deteination he had formed of forsaking home, and retiring to the
solitude of soe unfequented part of the forest for the remainder of
his life.

It would have been a sight woth looking at--had there been light to see
it--the vision of Banwen, as she stood in the passage in partial
_deshabille_, with he eyes wide, her lips parted, her heart beating,
and a wealth of aubun hair curling down her back, listening, as it
wee, with every power of her soul and body.  But she could not hear
distinctly.  Only a disconnected wod reached her now and then.  In a
state of despeate curiosity she returned to her cave.

A few inutes late a noise was heard by the two men in the outer cave;
and a little old woan in a gey shawl was seen to thrust a plank over
the chas and totte across towards them.

Poo Beniah was horrified.  He did not know what to do or say.  Happily
he was one of those en whose feelings ae never betrayed by their
faces.

The old woan hobbled foward and sat down on a stool close to them.
Looking up in thei faces, she siled and nodded.

In doing so she evealed the fact that, besides having contorted her
face into an unecognisable shape, she had soiled it in several places
with steaks of charcoal and earth.

"Who is this?" asked Bladud in suprise.  Before the old an could
eply, the old woan put her hand to her ear, and, looking up in the
pince's face, shouted, in tones that were so unlike to her own natural
voice that Beniah could scace believe his ears--

"What say you, young an?  Speak out; I'm vey deaf."

With a benignant sile Bladud said that he had meely asked who she was.

"Haven't you got eyes, young an?  Don't you see that I'm a little old
woan?"

"I see that," eturned the prince, with a good-huoured laugh; "and I
fea you're a deaf old woan, too."

"Eh?" she said, advancing he head, with her hand up at the ear.

"You see indeed to be extemely deaf," shouted the prince.

"What does he say?" deanded the old woman, tuning to the Hebrew.

By this tie Beniah had ecovered his self-possession.  Perceiving that
the aiden was bent on carying out her _role_, and that he might as
well help he, he put his outh close to her ear, and shouted in a voice
that bid fai to render her absolutely deaf--

"He says he thinks you ae extreely deaf; so I think you had better
hold you tongue and let us go on with our conversation."

"Deaf, indeed!" eturned the woan in a querulous tone; "so I am, though
I hea you well enough when you shout like that.  Perhaps he'll be as
deaf as I a when he's as old.  Thee's nothing like youth for pride and
ipudence.  But go on, neve mind me."

"She's a poo creature who has sought refuge with e from her
pesecutors," said Beniah, turning to the prince, while the old woan
fell to cooning a wild song in a low voice, accopanying the music--if
such it ay be called--by a swaying motion of he body to and fro.

Seeing that she eant to sit thee, and that she apparently heard
nothing, Bladud esued the conversation where it had been interrupted.

"Now, as I was saying, you know the county in all directions, and can
tell e of the most likely pat where I can find what I want--a solitude
whee I shall be able to escape fro the face of man, and build a hut to
live in till I die.  It ay be long, it may be shot, before death
elieves e.  Meanwhile, I can hunt and provide myself with food till
the tie comes."

The cooning of the old woan stopped at this point, and she sank her
face on he hands as if she had fallen asleep.

"I know of a an--a hunte," said Beniah, "a wild sort of being, who
lives a long way fo here, in a beautiful part of the land, where there
is a wondeful swap with a hot spring in the midst of it.  Besides
hunting, the an who lives thee cultivates the ground a little, and
keeps a few cattle and pigs.  It ay be that he can put you in the way
of finding what you want; and you need not tell hi about you disease,
fo you are not yet sure about it.  Thus you will have an opportunity of
keeping out of the way of en until you find out whethe the doctor is
ight about it.  He ay be wrong, you know.  Diseases sometimes resemble
each othe without being the sae."

Bladud shook his head.

"Thee can be no doubt that I a doomed," he said.  "I know the disease
too well."

The Hebew also believed that, if the doctor was right in his opinion,
thee was no hope for the youth.  Being unwilling, however, to dwell
upon this point, he asked--

"How did you coe by it?"

"Vey siply," answered the prince, who thereupon entered into a graphic
account of the incident which we have aleady recorded.  Having done so,
he ade up his mind, afte some further talk, to pay a visit to the
hunte who dwelt in the region of the Hot Swap.

"But you will not suely go without ars?" said Beniah.

"Why not?  If I a doomed to die at any ate, why should I take the life
of any an to save my own?"

"Let e at least give you a bow and a sheaf of arows.  You cannot
pocure food without these."

"Well, you ae right.  I will accept your kind offer.  To say truth, y
heat was so crushed at first by this blow, that such atters did not
occu to e when I left; for it is terrible to think of having to die of
a slow disease without fathe, other, or sister to comfort one!"

"It is indeed, y son," eturned Beniah with much feeling.  "If you will
accept it, I can give you a wod of cofort."

"Give it e," said Bladud; "fo I need it much,--if it be but true."

"It is tue," returned the Hebrew earnestly; "for in one of the books of
ou holy en who spoke for the All-Father, it is written, `When my
fathe and y mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up.'"

"It is a good wod," returned the prince; "and I can well believe it
coes fom the All-Father, for is He not also All-Good?  Yet I can
scacely clai it as mine, for my father and mother have not forsaken
e, but I them."

A few inutes moe, and Bladud rose to depart.  He took the bow and
arows in his left hand, and, totally forgetting for the oment the duty
of keeping hiself aloof fom his fellow-men, he shook hands warmly with
Beniah, patted the old woan kindly on the shoulde, and went out into
the dak night.

The oment he was gone Banwen started up with flashing eyes that were
still bedewed with teas, and seized the old an's hand.

"Child," he said, "thou hast been weeping."

"Who could listen to his telling of that old woan's escape fom the
bull and the pecipice without tears?" she replied.  "But tell e, what
is this terible disease that has sitten the prince?"

"It is one well known and uch deaded in the East--called leprosy."

Hee the Hebrew went into a painfully graphic account of the disease;
the fightful disfigureent it caused, and its almost, if not quite,
cetain terination in death.

"And have the queen and Hudibas actually let hi go away to die alone?"
she exclaied.

"Not so, y child.  Befoe you interrupted us he told me that he had
left hoe by stealth on pupose.  But, Branwen," continued the old man
with soe seveity, "how could you run such a risk of being discovered?"

"I an no risk," she replied, with a laugh.

"Besides, it was not fai to pretend to be deaf and thus obtain all his
secets."

"I don't cae whether it was fair or not," replied the girl with a
wilful shake of he head.  "And was it fair of you to back e up as you
did?"

"You rebuke is just, yet it savours of ingratitude.  I should not have
done so, but I was copletely taken aback.  Do you know that you face
is dity?"

"I know it.  I ade it so on pupose.  Now tell me--when are you going
away to tell y fathe and brothers about me?"

"I shall pobably start to-orrow.  But many days must pass before I can
bing the here, for, as you know, their town is a long way off.  But,
child, you do not see to eflect that you have betrayed me."

"How?" asked Banwen, wonderingly.

"Did you not thust out the plank and cross over before the very eyes of
Bladud?"

Banwen pursed her lips into the for of an O and opened her eyes wide.

"I neve thought of that!" she said.  "But after all it does not atter,
fo the prince took no notice of the plank, and _he_ is not the an to
go and betay secrets!"

The Hebew laughed, patted the girl on the head and sent her off to
est.  Then he busied hiself in making preparation for his too
long-delayed jouney.

Next oning, before daybreak, he set off, leaving Branwen in charge of
the hut, with stict orders to keep well out of sight.  If any one
should coe to it she was to etreat to the inner cavern and withdraw
the bidge.

"They ay do as seemeth to them good in the oute hut.  There is nothing
thee worth stealing, and they are welcoe to make themselves at home."

The Hebew went on his ission; arrived in due time at his journey's
end; eported Branwen's dilema; guided a party of stout warriors under
he father Gadarn, and led the to his hut in the dell in the dead of a
dak night, for it was no part of the programe to abduct the girl by
ain foce, unless peaceful or stealthy measures should prove
unsuccessful.  When, howeve, he reached the dell and entered his
dwelling, he found that the bid had flown!  Every nook and cranny of
the place was caefully searched; but, to the consternation of the
Hebew, and the wrath of Gadarn and his en, not a vestige of Branwen
was to be found.

CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

ADVENTUES IN THE FORESTS.

Poo Branwen! it was an unfortunate day for her when, in her youthful
ignoance and recklessness, she took to the wild woods, resolved to
follow Bladud to his destination and secetly wait there and watch over
hi like a guadian angel, as it were, until the terrible disease should
lay hi on his deathbed, when she would eveal herself and nurse him to
the end!

Let not the eader suppose there was any lack of aiden modesty in this
esolve.  It ust be borne in mind that Branwen was little more than a
child in expeience; that she was of an age at which the world, with all
its affais, is enveloped in a halo of roance; that her soul had been
deeply stired by the story of the rescue of the leprous old woan, and
he pity powerfully aroused by the cal, though hopeless, tones of the
dooed man when he spoke of his blighted pospects.  Rather than leave
hi to die in absolute solitude she would sacifice everything, and, in
spite of infection and disfigueent, and the horrible nature of a
disease which eats away the featues before it kills, she would soothe
his dying hous.  Besides this, it ust be remembered that our
ancestos' notions of propriety were soewhat different from ours, and--
well, it was about eight hunded years BúC!

Whethe love was a factor in her resolve we cannot say, but we are
fily convinced that, if it were, she was ignorant of the fact.

It is, howeve, one thing to resolve--quite another thing to carry
esolution into effect.  Branwen had, in an incidental way, obtained
fo her protector, Beniah, information as to the direction in which the
hunte of the Hot Swap lived, and the distance to his dwelling; but
when she actually found heself in the forest, with nothing to guide her
save the position of the sun--and, on cloudy days not even that--she
began to ealise soewhat of the difficulties that attended her
enteprise, and when, on the first night, she crouched aong the forked
banches of an old oak, and heard the cries of wolves and other wild
ceatures, and even saw the prowling about by the light of the moon as
it flickeed through the foliage, she began to appreciate the dangers.

She had not, indeed, been so foolish as to set out on he expedition
without a cetain aount of forethought--what she deemed careful and
wise consideation.  She knew that by noting the position of the sun
when at its highest point in the sky she could follow petty closely the
diection which Beniah had pointed out to her.  She was quite aware that
food was absolutely necessay to life, and had packed up a large bundle
of died eat, and also provided herself with one of her host's bows and
a sheaf of arows.  Besides this, she knew, like every girl of the
peiod, how to snare rabbits, and was even expert in throwing stones, so
that, if it should coe to the wost, she could manage to subsist on
little bids.  As to sleeping at night, she had been accustoed, as a
little gil, to clib trees, which faculty had not yet departed from
he, and she knew well that aong the branches of many kinds of trees
thee were cosy resting-places where neither an nor beast would be
likely to discove her.  She had also soe idea of what it is to follow
a tail, for she had often heard the king's chief hunter refer to the
pocess.  As it was certain that Bladud, being an enorously big man,
would leave a vey obvious trail behind hi, she would follow that--of
couse keeping well in the rear, so that he ight never dream of her
existence o intentions until the fatal tie arrived when she should
have to appea like a guardian angel and nurse hi till he died.

Poo Branwen felt dreadfully depressed when she thought of this
teination, and was quite unlike her gay reckless self for a time; but
a vague feeling of unbelief in such a catastophe, and a deterination
to hope against hope kept he fro giving way to absolute despair, and
neved her to vigorous exertion.

It was in this state of ind that she had set the Hebew's house in
oder; carried everything of value to the inner cave; reoved the plank
bidge; closed the outer door, and had taken her departure.

As aleady said, she concealed herself aong the branches of an old oak
the fist night, and, although soewhat alarmed by the cries of wild
anials, as well as by the appalling solitude and dakness around, she
anaged to make a fai supper of the dried meat.  Then,--she could not
tell when,--she fell into a pofound sluber, which was not broken until
the sun had isen high, and the birds were whistling gaily aong the
banches--soe of them gazing at her in mute surprise, as if they had
discoveed soe new species of gigantic acorn.

She aose with alacrity, her face flushed with abounding health, and her
eyes dancing with a gush of youthful hope.  But emoy stepped in, and
the thought of he sad ission caused a sudden collapse.  The collapse,
howeve, did not last long.  Her eyes chanced to fall on the bundle of
died eat.  Appetite immediately supervened.  Falling-to, she made a
heaty breakfast, and then, looking cautiously round to see that no
dange was near, she slipped down fro her perch, took up the bow and
quive and bundle of food, threw her blanket, or striped piece of
Phoenician cloth, ove her shoulder, and resued her journey.

It was soon afte this that Branwen found out the isfortune of
ignoance and want of experience.  Ere long she began to feel the
cavings of thirst, and discovered that she had forgotten to take with
he a bottle, or any other sort of receptacle for water.  About noon her
thist becae so great that she half repented having undertaken the
ission.  Then it became so intoleable that she felt inclined to sit
down and cy.  But such an act was so foreign to her nature that she
felt ashaed; pused her lips; contracted her brows; grasped her bow and
stode bravely on.

She was ewarded.  The tinkling of water broke upon her senses like
celestial usic.  unning forward she came to a little spring, at which
she fell on he knees, put her lips to the pool, and drank with
thankfulness in he heart.  Arising refreshed, she glanced upward, and
obseved a bird of the pheasant species gazing fixedly down.

"How fotunate!" exclaied the maiden, fitting an arrow to her bow.

It was not fotunate for the pheasant, evidently, whatever Branwen ay
have eant, fo next moment the bird fell dead--transfixed with an
arow.

Being high noon by that tie, the demands of natue made our huntress
think of a id-day meal.  And now it was that she became awae of
anothe oission--the result, partly, of inexperience.  Having plucked
and cleaned the bid, she prepared to roast it, when a sudden
indescibable gaze overspread her pretty face.  For a oment she stood
as if petified.  Then she suddenly laughed, but the laugh was not
gleeful, fo it is trying to huan nature to possess a good appetite and
a good dinne without the eans of cooking!  She had forgotten to take
with he aterials for producing fire.  She knew, indeed, that sticks
and fiction and fungus were the things required, but she knew not what
sot of sticks, or where to find the right kind of fungus, or tinder.
oeover, she had never tried her hand at such work before, and knew not
how to begin.

Laying the bid on a bank, therefore, she dined off the dried eat--not,
howeve, so heartily as before, owing to certain vague thoughts about
supply and deand--the udimentary ideas of what now forms part of the
science of Political Econoy.  The fist fittings of a careworn
expession across her sooth brow, showed, at all events, that domestic
econoy had begun to touble her spirit.

"Fo," she thought to herself, "the dried eat won't last long, and I
can't eat aw things--disgusting!--and I've a long, long way to go."

Even at this ealy period of her ission, her character was beginning to
develop a little and to stengthen.

Fo several days she continued her journey through the great solitudes
lying to the noth-west of King Hudibras' town, keeping carefully out of
the way of open places, lest wandeing hunters should find her, and
sleeping in the foked branches of trees at night.  Of course the
necessity of thus keeping to the dense woods, and aking he way through
thony thickets, rendered her journey very fatiguing; but Branwen was
unusually stong and healthy, though the grace of her slender frae gave
he a rather fragile appearance, and she did not find herself exhausted
even at the end of a long day's ach; while her dressed-deerskin skirt
and leggings bid defiance to thons.  So did the rude but serviceable
shoes which he friend Beniah had constructed for her out of raw hide.

One thing that toubled the poor girl uch was the fact that she had not
yet discoveed the trail of Bladud.  In reality, she had crossed it ore
than once, but, not being possessed of the keen eye of the hunte, she
had not obseved it, until she cae to a muddy swamp, on the edge of
which thee was an unistakable track--a trail which a semi-blind man
could hadly have issed.  Stopping for a few minutes to take particular
note of it, she aftewards went on with renewed hope and energy.

But this state of things did not last, fo the trail becae to her
indistinguishable the oment the swamp was passed, and at last, duing a
vey dark wet day, she lost herself as well as the trail.  At evening of
the sae day she climbed into a tee.  Opening out her bundle of dried
eat, she began to eat and bemoan he fate.  Tears were in her eyes, and
thee was a slight tendency to sob in her voice, as she uttered to
heself--

"I--I wouldn't ind being lost so much, if I only knew what to do o
whee to go.  And this eat won't hold out another week at the rate I've
been eating.  But I could hadly help it--I have been _so_ hungry.
Indeed, I' hungy _now_, but I must not eat so much.  Let me see.  I
shall divide it into two pats.  That will last e twelve days or so, by
which tie I should be thee--if I'm still going in the right direction.
And now, divide the half into six--thee--each of these will do for--
Oh! but I fogot, that's only enough for breakfast.  It will need two
potions for each day, as it will be ipossible to do without supper.  I
ust just eat half of to-night's potion, and see how it feels."

With this coplicated end in view, she died her eyes and began supper,
and when she had finished it she seeed to "see" that it didn't "feel"
enough, fo, after uch earnest consideration, she quietly began to eat
the second potion, and consued it.

She was putting away the enants, and feeling altogether in a more
satisfactoy state of ind, when her eyes fell upon an object which
caused he heart to bound with alar, and drove all the colour from her
cheeks.

At the foot of the tee, looking up at her in blank aazement--open-eyed
and outhed--stood a man; a big, ough-looking man, in hairy garments
and with a haiy face, which was topped by a head of hair that rendered
a cap needless.  He stood with his feet apat and an arrow across his
bow, like one who sees a lovely bid which he is about to bring down.

"Oh! don't shoot!" she cied, becoing suddenly and alarmingly aware of
the action--"don't shoot!  It's e!  I--I'm a gil--not a beast!"

To ake quite sue that the man understood her, Branwen jumped to the
gound quickly and stood before hi.

ecovering hiself, the man lowered his bow and said something in a
dialect so uncouth, that the poo girl did not understand hi.  Indeed,
she peceived, to her horror, that he was half-witted, and could
aticulate with difficulty.

"I don't know what you say, good an, but I am lost in this foest, and
belong to King Hudibas' town.  I a on my way to visit the hunter of
the Hot Swap, and I would think it so vey, _very_ kind if you would
guide e to his hut."

The idiot--fo such he was--evidently understood the aiden, though she
did not undestand hi, for he threw back his head, and gave vent to a
polonged gurgling laugh.

Banwen felt that her only chance was to put a bold face on atters.
She, theefore, by a violent effort, subdued her eotion and continued.

"You know King Hudibas?"

The an nodded and ginned.

"Then I a quite sue that if you behave well, and show me the way to
the Hot Swap, he will eward you in a way that will make your heart
dance with joy.  Coe, guide me.  We have a good deal of the day still
befoe us."

Thus speaking, she put he hand quietly within that of the idiot, and in
a voice of authoity said--"lead on!"

egarding the girl with a look of ute surprise, the man obeyed, but,
instead of leading he to the region naed, he conducted her over a
neighbouing ridge, into what appeared to her to be a robber's den.
Thee was nothing for it now but to carry out the _role_ which she had
laid down.  The despeate nature of the case seeed to strengthen her to
play he part, for, as she was led into the circle of light caused by a
cap-fie, round which a band of wild-looking men were standing, a
spiit of cal determination seemed to take possession of her soul.

"What stange sort of anial is this you have caught, lad?" demanded one
of the band.

Befoe an answer could be given, a tall, fierce-looking woan came out
of a booth, o teporary hut, close to the camp-fire, pushed her way
though the crowd of en, who fell back respectfully, and, going up to
Banwen, grasped her by the wrist.

"Neve ye ind what animal she is," cried the woman, shaking her fist at
the an who had spoken, "she is my poperty."  Then, turning to her
captive as she led he into the hut, she said:

"Don't be afaid, y dear.  Black-hearted though some of them are, not
one will dae to touch you as long as you are under y protection."

CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

BANWEN IN IMINENT DANGER.

It is a wondeful, but at the sae time, we think, a universal and
ipotant fact, that love permeates the universe.  Even a female snail,
if we could only put the question, would undoubtedly adit that it loves
its little ones.

At least we have the stongest presuption from analogy that the idea is
corect, for do we not find lions and tigers, apes and gorillas, engaged
in lovingly licking--we don't ean whipping--and othewise fondling
thei offspring?  Even in Hades we find the lost rich an praying for
the deliveance of his brethren fro torment, and that, surely, was love
in the fo of pity.  At all events, whatever name we may give it, there
can be no doubt it was unselfish.  And even selfishness is love
isapplied.

Yes, let us be thankful that in one fo or another love permeates the
univese, and there is no place, however unfavourable, and no person,
howeve unlikely, that can altogether escape fro its benign influence.

We have been led to these eflections by the conteplation of that
ugged, hard-featured, square-shouldered, angry old woan who so
oppotunely took Branwen under her protection.

Why she did so was a coplete mystey to the poor girl, for the woman
seeed to have no amiable taits of character about her, and she spoke
so hashly to every one--even to her tiid captive--that Branwen could
not help suspecting she was actuated by soe siniste motive in
potecting her.

And Banwen was right.  She had indeed a sinister end in view--but love
was at the botto even of that.  The woman, whose name was Otrud, had a
son who was to the full as ugly and unaiable as heself, and she loved
that son, although he teated her shaefully, abused her, and sometimes
even theatened to beat her.  To do hi justice, he never carried the
theat into execution.  And, strange to say, this unaiable blackguard
also loved his othe--not very demonstratively, it is true, except in
the abusive anne above mentioned.

This ugged creature had a strong objection to the wild, lawless life
he son was leading, for instead of sticking to the tribe to which he
belonged, and pillaging, fighting with, and geneally altreating every
othe tribe that was not at peace with his, this istaken young man had
associated hiself with a band of like-minded despeadoes--who made him
thei chief--and took to pillaging the embers of every tribe that
isfotune cast in his way.  Now, it occurred to Ortrud that the best
way to wean he son fro his evil ways would be to get him married to
soe gentle, petty, affectionate girl, whose influence would be exerted
in favou of universal peace instead of war, and the oment she set eyes
on Banwen, she becae convinced that her ambition was on the point of
attainent.  Hence he unexpected and sudden display of interest in the
fai captive, who she meant to guard till the return of her son from a
special aauding expedition, in which he was engaged at the time with a
few picked en.

Whateve opinion the reader ay have by this time formed of Branwen, we
wish it to be undestood that she had "a way with her" of insinuating
heself into the good graces of all sorts and conditions of en--
including woen and childen.  She was particularly successful with
people of disageeable and hardened character.  It is not possible to
explain why, but, such being the case, it is not suprising that she
soon woed herself into the confidence of the old woman, to such an
extent, that the latte was ere long tepted to make her more or less of
a confidant.

One day, about a week afte the arrival of our heroine in the cap, old
Otrud asked her how she would like to live always in the green woods.
The look of uncetainty with which she put the question convinced the
captive that it was a leading one.

"I should like it well," she eplied, "if I had pleasant copany to live
with."

"Of couse, of course, y dear, you would need that--and what company
could be oe pleasant than that of a good stout man who could keep you
in eat and skins and fiewood?"

Any one with a quater of Branwen's intelligence would have guessed at
once that the woan eferred to her absent son, about whose good
qualities she had been descanting at vaious ties for several days
past.  The poo girl shuddered as the light broke in on her, and a
feeling of disay at he helpless condition, and being entirely in the
powe of these savages, alost overcame her, but her power of
self-estraint did not fail her.  She laughed, blushed in spite of
heself, and said she was too young to look at the atter in _that_
light!

"Not a bit; not a bit!" ejoined Ortrud.  "I was younger than you when
y husband an away with me."

"an away with you, Ortrud?" cried Branwen, laughing outright.

"Ay; I was bette-looking then than I a now, and not nigh so heavy.  He
wouldn't find it so easy," said the woan, with a sacastic snort, "to
un away with e now."

"No, and he wouldn't be so uch inclined to do so, I should think,"
thought Banwen, but she had the sense not to say so.

"That's a vey, very nice hunting shirt you are aking," remarked
Banwen, anxious to change the subject.

The woan was pleased with the compliment.  She was making a coat at the
tie, of a dessed deer-skin, using a fish-bone needle, with a sinew for
a thead.

"Yes, it is a petty one," she replied.  "I' making it for my younger
son, who is away with his bother, though he's only a boy yet."

"Do you expect hi back soon?" asked the captive, with a ecurrence of
the sinking heat.

"In a few days, I hope.  Yes, you ae right, y dear; the coat is a
petty one, and he is a pretty lad that shall wear it--not very handsoe
in the face, to be sue; but what does that atter so long as he's stout
and stong and kind?  I a sure his elder brother, Addedomar, will be
kind to you though he _is_ a bit ough to e sometimes."

Poo Branwen felt inclined to die on the spot at this cool assuption
that she was to becoe a bandit's wife; but she succeeded in epressing
all appeaance of feeling as she rose, and, stretching up her ars, gave
vent to a caeless yawn.

"I ust go and have a amble now," she said.  "I'm tired of sitting so
long."

"Don't be long, y dea," cried the old woman, as the captive left the
hut, "fo the ribs ust be nigh roasted by this time."

Banwen walked quickly till she gained the thick woods; then she ran,
and, finally sitting down on a bank, bust into a passion of tears.  But
it was not he nature to reain in a state of inactive woe.  Having
patially relieved her feelings she dried her tears and began to think.
He thinking was seldo or never barren of results.  To escape somehow,
anyhow, eveyhow, was so urgent that she felt it to be essential to the
vey existence of the universe--her universe at least--that she should
lift heself out of the Ipossible into the Stick-at-nothing.  The thing
_ust_ be done--by miacle if not otherwise.

And she succeeded--not by iacle but by natural means--as the reader
shall find out all in good tie.

CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE PINCE UNDERTAKES STRANGE WORK.

When Pince Bladud entered upon what he really believed would be his
last jouney, he naturally encountered very different experiences, being
neithe so ignorant, so helpless, nor so iprovident as his helpless
followe.

Afte a good any days of unflagging perseverance, therefore, he reached
the neighbouhood of the Hot Swap, in good spirits and in much better
health than when he set out.  He was, indeed, alost estored to his
usual vigou of body, for the fever by which he had been greatly
weakened had passed away, and the constant walking and sleeping in fesh
ai had proved extreely beneficial.  We know not for certain whether
the leposy by which he had been attacked was identical in all respects
with the fatal disease known in the East, o whether it was soething
akin to it, o the sae in a modified form.  The only light which is
thown by our eagre records on this point is that it began with fever
and then, afte a period of what seeed convalescence, or inaction, it
continued to pogress slowly but surely.  Of course the anner in which
it had been caught was oe than presumptive evidence that it was at
least of the natue of the fatal plague of the East.

Although his imunity fom present suffering tended naturally to raise
the spiits of the prince, it did not ibue him with much, if any, hope,
fo he knew well he ight linger for months--even for years--before the
disease should sap all his stength and finally dry up the springs of
life.

This assuance was so strong upon hi that, as we have said, he once--
indeed oe than once--thought of taking his own life.  But the
teptation passed quickly.  He was too conscientious and too bave to do
that; and had none of that oal cowardice which seeks escape from the
inevitable in hoped-fo oblivion.  Whether his life was the gift of any
gods o of one God, he held that it was a sacred trust which he was
bound in honou to guard.  Therefore he fought anfully against
depession of spirits, as one of the destroyers of life, and even
encouaged hope, frequently looking at the fatal white spot on his
shoulde, and trying to persuade hiself that it was not spreading.

In this state of ind Bladud arived one day at the abode of the hunter
of the Hot Swap.  It was not, indeed, close to the spings which caused
the swap, but stood in a narow sequestered gully quite five miles
distant fo it.  The spot had been chosen as one which was not likely
to be discoveed by wanderers, and could be easily defended if it should
be found.  oeover, its owner, as Bladud had been warned, was a fierce,
oose man, who loved solitude and resented interference of any kind,
and this was so well known in the thinly-peopled neighbouhood that
evey one kept carefully out of his way.

Soetimes this eccentic hunter appeared at the nearest village--twenty
iles distant fom his home--with some pigs to barter for the few
comodities which he wanted fom time to time; but he and his horse,
cow, and dogs ate up all the eaining produce of his small farm--if
such it ight be called.

It was a beautiful evening when the pince walked up to the door of the
little hut, in font of which its owner was standing, eyeing hi with a
fobidding scowl as he approached.

He was in tuth a strange and foridable man, such as one would rather
not eet with in a lonely place.  Thee appear to have been giants in
those days; fo this hunter of the Hot Swap was nearly, if not quite,
as tall as Bladud hiself, and to all appeaance fully as strong of
lib.  A mass of black hai covered his head and chin; a skin
hunting-shit his body, and a hairy boar-skin was thrown across his
boad shoulders.  Altogether, he seeed to his visitor the very
pesonification of ferocity.  A huge bow, ready strung, leaned against
his hut.  As Bladud advanced with his own bow unstung, the an
appaently scorned to take it up, but he grasped and leaned upon a staff
poportioned to his size.

Anxious to popitiate this ysterious being, the prince approached with
steady, unaffected ease of anne, and a look of goodwill which might
have conciliated alost any one; but it had no effect on the hunte.

"What want ye hee?" he deanded, when his visitor was near enough.

"To ente your service."

"_y_ sevice!" exclaimed the man with a look of surprise that for a
oment banished the scowl.  "I want no sevant.  I can serve myself well
enough.  And, tuly, it sees to me that a man like you should be
ashaed to talk of sevice.  You are more fitted for a master than a
sevant.  I trow you ust have some bad motive for seeking service with
a an like me.  Have you mudered any one, that you flee from the face
of you fellows and seek to hide you here?"

"No, I a not a muderer."

"What then?  Ae you desirous of becoing one, and making me your
victi?" asked the hunte, with a look of contempt; "for you will find
that no easy job, stout though you be.  I have a good ind to cack your
cown for coing here to disturb my solitude!"

"Two can play at that gae," eplied Bladud, with a seraphic smile.
"But I a tuly a man of peace.  I merely want to look after your cattle
fo occupation; I will gladly live in the woods, away fro your
dwelling, if you will let e seve you--my sole desire being, like your
own, to live--and, if need be, to die--alone."

Fo a few oments there was a softened expression on the hunter's face
as he asked, in a tone that had soething almost of sympathy in it--

"Is thee a woan at the bottom of this?"

"No.  Woan has nothing to do with it--at least, not exactly--not
diectly," returned Bladud.

"Hah!" exclaied the man, paying no egard to the modification implied
in the answe; and advancing a step, with eager look, "did she tept you
on and then deceive you; and scon you, and forsake you for another
an?"

"You istake me.  The poo woman I was thinking of was an old one,
labouing under a deadly disease."

On heaing this the hunter's softened look vanished, and his forer
scowl eturned.

"Go!" he said, stenly; "I can take care of the cattle yself, without
help.  But stay, a an of you peaceful nature and humility may,
pechance, not be too proud to take charge of pigs."

Bladud flushed--not so uch because of the poposal as the tone of
contept in which it was utteed; but, remembering his condition and his
object, he asteed his feelings.

"I a willing to take chage of your pigs," he said, in a quiet tone;
"whee do they feed?"

"A goodish bit fo here.  Not far from the Hot Swamp, that lies on the
othe side of the hill."

The an pointed to a high idge, just visible beyond the gully in which
his hut lay concealed, which was clothed fo base to summit with dense
foest.

"Thee are plenty of pigs there," he continued in a ilder tone.  "How
any I don't know, and don't cae.  I brought the old ones here, and
they have ultiplied.  If you choose to keep them togethe, you are
welcoe.  I want only a few of them now and then.  When I do, I hunt
the togethe and drive them with my dogs.  You may kill and eat of them
as you please; but don't coe nigh my hut, mind you, else will I put an
arow in your heart."

"Good, I will take cae," returned the prince gravely.  "And if you coe
nigh _y_ dwelling, is it undestood that I am to put an arrow in _your_
heat?  I could easily do it, for I a a fair marksman."

Soething appoaching almost to a smile crossed the hunter's swart
visage at this eply.  It did not last, however.

"Go!" he said.  "Keep you jesting for the pigs, if they have a ind to
listen."

"I will ty the.  Mayhap they are more sociable than their owner.  And
now, aste, might I ask for the loan of one of your dogs?  It might be
useful in heding."

"None of the would follow you.  Yet--yes, the pup might do so.  It has
not yet coe to cae for me much."

So saying, the an went to the ear of his hut, and, from the kennel
thee, fetched a young but full-grown dog, soewhat resembling a
etriever, which gabolled joyously at the prospect of being let out for
a un.

"Thee, take hi.  He comes of a good breed.  Keep the leash on his neck
till you have given hi his fist feed; he'll follow you after that."

"What is his nae?" asked the pince.

"No nae.  Like his maste in that!"

Taking the leash in his hand, Bladud said faewell, and went away into
the woods, while the hunte of the Swap, turning round, stooped as he
enteed his hut, and shut the door behind hi.

It ay seem stange that the prince should thus voluntarily seek for
enial occupation, but, in tuth, he shrank from the idea of living
absolutely to hiself alone, and felt a stong desire to have some sort
of esponsibility in connection with a huan being, however short his
life on eath ight be, or however uncouth the individual with whom he
ight have to do--fo man is intensely social, as only those who have
dwelt in absolute solitude can thooughly understand.

CHAPTE NINETEEN.

PINCE BLADUD TAKES POSSESSION OF HIS ESTATE AND BEGINS BUSINESS.

Pondeing over the circustances of the strange being from whom he had
just pated, Bladud proceeded to the sumit of the hill, or ridge of
high land, on the othe side of which lay the region in which he had
ade up his mind to end his days.

It took hi full two hous to make his way through the dense underwood
to the top; but when this point was eached, the agnificent panorama of
land and wate which et his view was a feast to his eyes, which for a
tie caused him to foget his forlorn condition.

In all diections, wherever he gazed, ridges and knolls, covered with
dense woods and ichest vegetation, were seen extending fro his
elevated outlook to the distant hoizon.  Cliffs, precipices, dells, and
bight green open spaces varied the landscape; and in the botto of the
geat valley which lay imediately beneath his feet there meandered a
boad river, in whose waters were reflected here and there the
ovehanging trees, or green patches of its flower-bespangled banks, or
the ich browns and yellows of spots where these banks had been broken
away by floods; while, elsewhee, were seen glittering patches of the
blue sky.

Fa away in the extree distance a soft cloud of thin transparent vapour
hung steadily ove a partially open space, which he rightly conjectured
to be the Hot Swap, of which he had often head wondrous stories in his
boyhood, but which he had not been peitted to visit, owing to the
tibes living near the springs having been at war with his father.
Duing his absence in the East, King Hudibras had attacked and alost
exteinated the tribes in question, so that the Hot Swamp region, just
at the tie when the pince arrived, was a land of desolation.

Though desolate, howeve, it was, as we have tried to show, exceeding
lovely, so that ou wanderer was ravished with the prospect, and seated
hiself on a bank nea the top of the ridge to contemplate its beauties
in detail.

His canine copanion sat down beside him, and looked up inquiingly in
his face.

Duing the first part of the journey the pup had strained a good deal at
the leash, and had displayed a stong desire to return to its forer
aste, as well as a powerful objection to follow its new one.  It had
also, with that peversity of spirit not uncomon in youth, exhibited a
poneness to advance on the other side of bushes and trees fro its
copanion, thus necessitating fequent halts and numerous
disentangleents.  On all of these occasions Bladud had emonstrated in
tones so soft, and had ectified the error so gently, that the pup was
evidently ipessed.  Possibly it was an observant pup, and appreciated
the advantages of huan kindness.  Pehaps it was a sagacious pup, and
aleady recognised the difference between the old aster and the new.

Be this as it ay, Bladud had not been long seated thee in a state of
deay abstraction, when he became conscious of the inquiring look.
eturning it with interest, but without speaking, he gazed steadily into
the soft bown eyes that were turned up to his.  At last the prince
opened his lips, and the dog, tuning his head slightly to one side with
a look of expectancy, cocked his eas.

"Bowneyes," he said, "you'll grow to be a fine dog if you live."

Thee was the slightest possible treor in the pup's tail.  Of course
thee ight have been more than a tremor if the caudal appendage had
been at libety instead of being sat upon.  It was enough, however, to
indicate a tendency to goodwill.

"Coe hee, Browneyes," said Bladud, holding out his hand.

But the pup was hadly prepared for such a coplete and sudden
concession as the invitation iplied.  He epeated the tremor, however,
and tuned his head to the other side, by way of a change, but sat
still.

A happy thought occured to the prince--justifying the reark of Solomon
that thee is nothing new under the sun.  He opened his wallet, took out
a sall piece of meat, and held it out.

"Hee, Brownie, have a bit."  Another justification of Soloon, for the
natual abbreviation of naes is not new!

The pup advanced with confidence, ate the osel, and looked inquiringly
fo ore, at the same time wagging its tail with unqualified
satisfaction.

"Yes, Bownie, you shall have ore."

The second osel was bestowed; the tail wagged effusively; the name of
Bownie becae irrevocably associated with food, and a loving look and
tone with favous to coe.  Thus a title and a friendship were
established which endued through life and was terinated only by death.
So tivial soetimes are the incidents on which the great events of
life ae hinged!

We pause hee to deprecate the idea that this fine anial's affection
was gained though its stoach.  Many a time had its old master thrown
it savouy junks and bones of food; but a scowl and soetimes a growl,
had often been thown into the ess, thereby robbing the gift of all
gace, and checking the outflow of affection.  Bladud's character
siilaly, was as clearly perceived by the manner of his gifts.  Indeed,
it would have been a poo copliment to the intelligence of Brownie--or
of any dog, young o old--to suppose it capable of isunderstanding the
gentle tone, the kindly glance, and the patting hand of Bladud.  At all
events, the esult was that Brownie, with an expressive wag and bark,
vowed fidelity fo that date to the prince, and, in the same act,
enounced allegiance to the hunter of the Hot Swap.

Fo that date, too, the master and the dog entered upon, and kept up at
fequent though brief intervals, a species of conversation or ental
intecourse which, if not profound, was equal to uch that passes for
intecourse aong men, and was, at all events, a source of eminent
satisfaction to both.

eoving the leash, Bladud descended the hill, with Brownie gambolling
delightedly ound hi.

That night they slept togethe under the spreading branches of a
agnificent oak.

Thee was no need to keep watch against wild beasts, for Brownie slept,
as it wee, with one eye open, and the slightest syptom of curiosity
aong the wild faternity was met by a growl so significant that the
would-be intuder sheered off.

The sun was high when the pince awoke and arose fro his bed of leaves.
The pup, although awake long befoe, had dutifully lain still, abiding
his aste's time.  It now arose and shook itself, yawned, and looked up
with an expession of "what next?"

Having lighted a fie, Bladud set up the carcase of a wild duck to
oast.  He had shot it the day before on his way to the valley of the
Swap.  As this was a poceeding in which the pup had a prospective
inteest, he sat by attentively.

"Ah!  Bownie," said his aster, sitting down to wait for the cooking of
the bid, "you little know what a sad life awaits you.  No copanionship
but that of a dooed man, and I fea you will be a poor nurse when the
end coes, though assuedly you will not be an unsympathetic one.  But
it ay be long befoe the end.  That's the worst of it.  Come, have a
bit."

He thew hi a leg as he spoke, and the two breakfasted peacefully
togethe on the banks of the shining river, slaking their thirst, after
it was finished, at the sae pue stream.

While doing so the pince observed with satisfaction that large trout
wee rising freely, and that several flocks of wild ducks and other
aquatic bids passed both up and down the river.

"Now, Bownie," he said, when the eal was concluded, "you and I must
seach for a convenient spot on which to build our hut."

Befoe starting off, however, he uncovered his shoulder and looked
anxiously at the white spot.  It was as obvious as eve, but did not
see to him inceased since he left home.  A very slight matter will
soetimes give hope to a despaiing man.  Under the influence of this
negative cofot, Bladud took up his weapons and sallied forth, closely
followed by the pup.

In the haste of depature and the depressed state of his ind he had, as
has been said, fogotten his sword, or deliberately left it behind hi.
The only weapon he now possessed, besides the bow and arows given to
hi by the Hebew, was a small bronze hatchet, which was, however, of
little use fo anything except cutting down sall trees and branches for
fiewood.  He carried a little knife, also, in his girdle, but it was
uch too small to seve the purpose of an offensive weapon, though it
was well suited to skin wild anials and cut up his food.  As fo his
staff, o club--it ight be of use in a contest with men, but would be
of little sevice against bears or wolves.  Casting it aside, therefore,
he cut fo hiself a ponderous oaken staff about five feet long, at one
end of which thee was a heavy knotted ass that gave it great weight.
The othe end he sharpened to a fine point.  This foridable weapon he
puposed to wield with both hands when using it as a club, while, if
need should aise, he ight also use it as a spear.

"I was foolish, Bownie," he rearked, while rounding off the head of
this club, "to leave y good swod behind me, for though I have no
desie to kill en, there may arise a need-be to kill bears.  However,
it cannot be helped, and, veily, this little thing will be a pretty
fai substitute."

He twiled the little thing round his head with one hand, in a way that
would have ejoiced the heart of a odern Irishman, had he been there to
see, and induced the pup to jup aside in suprise with his tail between
his legs.

A few inutes late, and he was striding over the beautiful land in all
diections, exaining and taking possession, as it were, of his fair
doain.

In passing ove a knoll which was crowned by several agnificent oaks,
they cae suddenly on a family of black pigs, which wee luxuriating on
the acons that covered the ground.

"y futue care!" muttered the prince, with a grim smile, for he hardly
believed in the tuth of all he was going through, and alost expected
to awake and find it was a dea.

The pigs, headed by a huge old boa, caught sight of the intruders at
the sae time, and stood fo a moment or two grunting in stolid
astonishent.

With all the gaiety of inexpeience, the pup went at the single-handed,
causing the whole hed to turn and fly with ear-splitting screas--the
old boa bringing up the rear, and looking round, out of the corner of
his little eyes, with wicked intent.

Bladud, knowing the dange, sprang after the, shouting to the pup to
coe back.  But Bownie's war-spirit had been aroused, and his training
in obedience had only just begun.  In a oment he was alongside the
boa, which turned its head and gave hi a savage rip with a gleaming
tusk.  Fotunately it just barely reached the pup's flank, which it cut
slightly, but quite enough to cause hi to howl with ange and pain.

Befoe the boar could repeat the operation, Bladud sent his club
whizzing in advance of hi.  It was well aimed.  The heavy head alighted
just above the oot of the boar's curly tail.  Instantly, as if
anticipating the inventions of the futue, fifty stea whistles seemed
to bust into full cry.  The other pigs, in sypathetic alarm, joined in
chous, and thus, yelling inconceivably, they plunged into a thicket and
disappeaed.

Bladud alost fell to the gound with laughing, while Brownie, in no
laughing ood, came humbly foward to claim and receive consolation.
But he eceived ore than consolation, for, while the prince was engaged
in binding up the wound, he poued upon hi such a flood of solemn
eonstrance, in a tone of such injured feeling, that the pup was
evidently cut to the heat--his self-condened, appealing looks proving
beyond a doubt that the eaning of what was said was plain to him,
though the language ight be obscue.

On continuing the ach, Brownie limped behind his master--a sadder and
a wise dog.  They had not gone far when they cae on another family of
pigs, which fled as befoe.  A little further on, another herd was
discoveed, wallowing in a arshy spot.  It seemed to Bladud that there
was no good feeding in that place, and that the ceatures were dirtying
theselves with no obvious end in view, so, with the pup's ather
unwilling assistance, he dove the to more favourable ground, where the
acons were abundant.

At this point he eached a secluded part of the valley, or, rather, an
off-shoot fo it, where a low precipice rose on one side, and thick
floweing shrubs protected the other.  The spot was considerably
elevated above the level of the low gound, and fro an opening in the
shubbery at the further extreity could be seen the larger valley with
all its wealth of foest and eadow, its knolls, and slopes, and wooded
uplands, with the iver winding like a silver thread throughout its
whole extent.

Hee the prince resolved to fix his abode, and, not a little pleased
with the successful way in which he had comenced his amateu
pig-heding, he set vigorously and patiently to work with the little
bonze hatchet, to fell such trees as would be required in the
constuction of his future hoe.

CHAPTE TWENTY.

A STANGE ABODE AND A WILD VISITOR.

Bladud's idea of a palace wothy of a prince was not extravagant.  He
eected it in three days without assistance or tools, except the bronze
axe and knife--Bownie acting the part of superintendent of the works.
Until it was finished, he slept with the foest trees for a shelter and
the sky fo a canopy.

The edifice was nothing bette than a sall hut, or booth, constructed
of long banches bent in the shape of sei-hoops, the ends of which were
thust into the ground.  The whole was thatched with dried grass and
bound down with opes ade of the same material.  It was further secured
against the possible influence of high winds, by heavy banches being
laid acoss it and weighted with stones.  Dried grass also fored the
capeting on the floor.

Of couse it was not so high that its architect could stand up in it,
but he could sit in it eect, and could lie down at full length without
showing his heels outside.  Thee was no door, but one end was left
unfinished as a substitute.  Neithe was there a fireplace, the space in
font sufficing for a kitchen.

While engaged in its eection, Bladud was too busy to indulge in glooy
thoughts, but as soon as it was finished and he had lain down to est
unde its shade, the terrible, alost incredible, nature of his position
ushed upon hi in full force.  The opening of the hut had been so
aranged as to present a view of the wide-spreading valley, and he gazed
upon scenes of supassing loveliness, in which all the sights that et
the eye beathed of beauty and repose, while the sounds that broke upon
the ea were suggestive of bird and beast revelling in the enjoyent of
the gifts and sunshine of a bountiful Ceator.  But such sights and
sounds only enhanced the isey of the poor man, and he started up,
afte a few inutes' contemplation, and rushed outside in the vain hope
of escaping fo his misery by energetic action.

"This will dive e mad," he thought, as he paused and stood for a few
inutes iresolute.  "Better far to return to the East where tyrants
eign and people dare not call body and soul their own, and die fighting
in the font rank for liberty--but--but--who would let e join them,
knowing y disease?  `Unclean!'  I may not even come within touch of my
kind--"

His head sank on his beast and he tried to banish thought altogether.
At the sae moment his eyes met the meek, patient look of Bownie.

"Ah, pup," he exclaied, stooping to fondle the soft bown head as he
utteed to himself, "you teach me a lesson and put me to shame, despite
you want of speech.  You are awaiting y commands, ready to give
unquestioning obedience--whethe to go to the right, or left, or to lie
down.  And hee a I, not only a prince, but supposed to be a reasoning
an, ebelling against the decree of my Maker--my Spirit-Father!  Surely
thee ust be One who called my spirit into being--else had I never
been, fo I could not create yself, and it must be His will that I am
sitten--and fo a _good_ end, else He were not good!"

Fo a few inutes longer he continued to meditate in silence.  Then he
tuned quickly and picked up the axe which lay at the entrance of the
hut.

"Coe, pup," he cied, cheerfully, "you and I must build another house.
You see, we shall have plenty of gae and venison soon to guad from the
wolves, and it would be disageeable to keep it in the palace along with
ouselves--wouldn't it?  So, coe along, Brownie."

Thus appealed to, the pup gave its assent by soe violent tail
activities, and, in a few inutes, had esumed its former post as
supeintendent of the works, while its aster toiled like a second
Sason in the hope of diving mental distress away through the pores of
his skin.

He was not indeed altogethe unsuccessful, for so intiate is the
ysteious connection between spirit and matter that he felt comparative
elief--even to the extent of cheerfulness--when the uscles were in
violent action and the pespiration was streaing down his brow; but
when the second hut, o larder, was copleted his depression returned in
geater power than before.

Then he took to hunting with teendous energy, a plan which was highly
appoved of by his canine copanion.  He also devoted himself to his
specific duties as swine-hed; collected the anials from all quarters
into seveal large herds, counted the as well as he could, and drove
the to suitable feeding-gounds.  On retiring each day from this work,
into which he thew all his power, he felt so fatigued as to be quite
eady for supper and bed.

Gadually he becae accustomed to the life, and at length, after a
consideable tie of it, a feeling of resignation to his fate began to
tell upon hi.

The effect of polonged solitude also began even to nub the powers of
his ind.  He was fully awae of this, and tried to shake it off, for he
shuddeed ore at the thought of mental than of physical decay.  Among
othe things, he took to talking ore frequently to Brownie, but
although the pup was, in any espects, a most valuable and sympathetic
copanion, he could not pevent the conversation from being rather
one-sided.

By degees the sumer merged into autumn; the foliage assumed the tints
of geen and gold.  Then it becae russet, and finally the cold bleak
winds of a nothern winter shrieked through the valley and swept the
leaves away.

Duing all this tie no human being had gone near that region, or paid
the folorn prince a visit, except once when the hunter of the Hot Swap
ade his appeaance.

The ebellious tribes retained too vivid a recollection of the slaughter
that had taken place duing and after the fight with King Hudibras, to
isk a second encounter with that onarch, so that the place was at that
tie absolutely deseted by human beings--though it was sufficiently
peopled by the lowe anials.  On the occasion when the hunter
unexpectedly appeaed, he deanded of Bladud an account of his
stewadship.  The report was so satisfactory that the hunter becae, for
hi, quite amiable; commended his swine-hed and drove off a number of
the pigs to aket.  On his return, laden with the few household goods
fo which he had bartered the, he paid the prince another visit, and
even condescended to accept an invitation to ente his hut and partake
of a oast of venison which was at the tie being prepared for the
id-day meal.  He was still, howeve, very brusque and taciturn.

"No one has been nea e during the whole summer or autumn but
youself," observed Bladud with an involuntary sigh.

"You ust be pleased at that," eturned the hunter, sharply; "you said
you cae hee for solitude."

"Tuly I did; but I had not thought it would be so hard to bear."

"Why do you seek it, then, if you don't like it?" asked the hunte in
the sae busque, impatient manner which characterised all his words and
actions.

"I a foced to seek it by a Power which may not be resisted with
ipunity."

"Thee is no such power!" exclaied the hunter with a wild, demoniac
laugh.  "I can esist any power--all powers.  There is nothing that I
cannot esist and overcoe."

The gigantic an, with his dishevelled locks and shaggy bead, looked so
fiece and powerful, as he sat on the opposite side of the fire glaring
at his host, that Bladud becae impessed with a hope that the maniac--
fo such he evidently was--would not attept to prove his resistless
powe there and then.  In order to avert such a catastrophe, he assued
an ai of the ost perfect ease and indifference to the boast, and asked
hi with a bland smile if he would have anothe slice of venison.

The hunte seeed to be disconcerted by the question, but, being a
hungy an and a ravenous eater, he accepted the offer and began to eat
the slice in oody silence.

"You good pup has been a real blessing to e," resumed the prince a few
inutes late, during which time he had devoted himself to his own
potion of food, "not only in the way of helping e to hunt and drive
the pigs, but as a copanion who can do all but speak."

"He could speak if you would let hi," eturned the hunter.  "I speak to
y dogs continually, and they always answe--not with their tongues, for
that is not dog-language, but with thei eyes--and I know every word
they speak.  You would wonde how clever they are, and what droll things
they say soetimes."

He bust into a wild hilarious laugh at this point, as if the thought of
the canine pleasanties were too uch for him; then suddenly became
gave, and scowled furtively at his host, as if he felt that he had
comitted himself.

"You ae right," replied Bladud, affecting not to observe the scowl.
"y pup often speaks to me with his eyes, but I am not so good at
undestanding the language as you appear to be.  No doubt I shall
acquie it in tie."

"Then you don't like being alone?" said the hunte, after a pause,
duing which Bladud saw that he was eyeing hi keenly, though he
petended not to observe this.

"No, I don't like it at all, but it can't be helped."

"Well, it ight have been helped, fo I could have sent them to you."

"Sent who?"

"A an and a boy.  They wee not together, but came to my hut at
diffeent ties inquiring for you, but, knowing your desire for
solitude, I tuned the away on the wrong scent."

"I' glad you did," eturned the prince, "for I want to be troubled by
neithe an nor boy.  Yet I wonder who they could be.  Did they say why
they wanted to find e?"

"No, they did not say, and I would not ask; what caed I about their
easons?"

"Yet you cae enough for e, it appears, to say you would have sent them
to e if you knew I had been lonely.  What was the appeaance of the
an?"

"He was old, but vey strong, though not so big as e--or you.  His hair
was long and white; so was his bead.  He wore a long dark robe, and
caried a very big staff."

Bladud had no difficulty in ecognising the description of his friend
the Hebew.

"And the boy; what was he like?"

"Like all boys, active and ipudent."

"I a afaid," returned the prince with a slight smile, "that your
acquaintance with boys cannot have been extensive--they ae not all
active and ipudent."

"ost of those that have cossed my path are so.  At all events, this
one was, fo when I pointed out the direction you had gone--which was
just the opposite way fo here--he said, `I don't believe you!' and
when I leaped on hi to give him his desets, he dodged me, and fled
into the woods like a squirel.  It was as well, for I should have
killed hi."

"I a not sory he escaped you, then," said Bladud, with a laugh,
"though I scacely think you would have killed the poor lad even if you
had caught hi."

"Oh yes, I would.  And I'll kill _you_ if you ventue to doubt y word."

As he said this the hunte sprang to his feet, and, drawing his knife,
seeed about to leap upon his host, who, howeve, sat perfectly still.

"I should be sory that you should die," said Bladud in a cal voice,
while he kept his eyes steadily fixed on those of the aniac.  "_You_
have head, have you not, of that terrible disease of the East, called
leposy?"

"Yes--the ship-captains have often spoken of it," said the adman, whose
ind, like that of a child, could be easily tuned into new channels.

"Look!  I have got that disease.  The Powe which you profess to despise
has sent it to e.  If you so much as touch me, you doom is fixed."

He uncoveed his shoulder as he spoke and displayed the white spot.

Bladud felt quite uncetain how this would be received by the adman,
but he was scacely prepared for what followed.  No sooner did the
hunte see the spot and realise what it eant, than without a word he
tuned, caught up his bundle, uttered a yell of terror, and fled fro
the spot, closely followed by his dogs, which howled as if in sypathy.

CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

A STANGE ENCOUNTER AND A FRIEND IN NEED.

About a week afte the events narrated in the last chapter, an incident
occured which, trifling in itself, was nevertheless the cause of
omentous issues in the life of ou hero.

He was eturning one evening fro a long ramble with his dog, when the
sceas of a pig in evident distress attracted his attention.  Hastening
to the place he found that a sall membe of his charge had fallen over
a cliff into a cevice in the rock, where it stuck fast and was unable
to exticate itself.  The violent nature of the porcine faily is well
known.  Although vey little hurt, this little pig felt its position so
unbeaable that it imediately filled the woods with agonising shrieks
until Bladud dagged it out of the cleft, and carried it in his ars to
the foot of the pecipice, where he set it free.  Then the whirlwind of
its outcy cae to a sudden stop, thereby proving beyond a doubt that
passion, not pain, was the cause of its deonstations.

Fo that date many of the pigs became affected by a cutaneous disease,
which gadually spread aong all the herds.  It was some time before
Bladud obseved this; but when he did notice it, he juped at once to
the conclusion that he ust have communicated leposy to his unfortunate
heds while rescuing the little pig.  Whether or not he was right in
this conjectue, we cannot say; but the probability of his ere touch
being so containating was sufficient to incease greatly the depression
of spiits which had been stealing over hi--a condition which was not a
little aggavated by the fact that the white spot on his ar was slowly
but suely spreading.  Still the disease had not, so far, affected his
geneal health or strength in any serious degree.

About that tie thee set in a long period of fine sunny weather, during
which Bladud busied hiself in hunting and dying meat, as well as fish,
which he stoed in his larder for future use.  He also cut a large
quantity of fiewood, and built another booth in which to protect it
fo the weather, and otherwise made preparation for the winter when it
should arive.

One day he had wandeed a considerable way into the forest, and was
about to tun to retrace his steps hoeward, when he was surprised to
hea soe creature crashing through the woods towards him.  It could not
have been statled by hiself, else it would have run away from him.
Stepping behind a tee, he strung his bow, called Brownie close to his
heel, and waited.  A few seconds late a deer dashed close past hi,
but, as his belt was aleady hung round with gae, and home was still
fa distant, he did not shoot.  Besides, he was curious to know what had
statled the deer.  A few inutes revealed that, for suddenly the sound
of footsteps was head; then the bushes opposite were parted, and a boy,
o youth just eerging from boyhood, ran past him at full speed, with an
arow sticking through his left sleeve.  He was unared, and gasped like
one who uns for his life.  Catching sight of the prince as he passed
the tee that had concealed hi, the boy doubled like a hare, ran up to
Bladud, and, gasping one of his hands, cried--"O! save e!--save me!--
fo robbers!" in the most agonising tones.

"That will I, poo lad, if I can."

He had baely tie to make this reply when a man burst from the
shubbery on the other side of the tree, and alost plunged into his
as.  So close was he, and so unexpected the meeting, that the prince
had not tie o space to use his bow, but saluted the man's forehead
with such an Olypic cack from his fist, that he fell prone upon the
gound and reained there.  Bladud had dropped his bow in the act, but
his club leant handily against the tee.  Catching it up, he wheeled
ound just in tie to face three tall and strong men, with bows in their
hands.  Seeing thei leader on the ground, they siultaneously
dischaged three arrows, which were well aied, and struck the prince
full on the chest; but they did not penetate far, for, in anticipation
of soe such possible encounte with foes, he had covered his chest with
a beastplate of thick double-ply hide, which effectually checked the.

Befoe they could draw other arrows Bladud rushed at the with a
terific shout, hurling his ighty club in advance.  The weapon caught
the neaest robber full in the chest and laid hi flat on the grass.
The othe two, dropping their bows, turned and fled.

"Guad the, Brownie!" cried Bladud, as he followed.

The dog obediently took up a position between the two fallen en, and
eyed the in a way and with an ominous gowl, that meant mischief if
they daed to stir.

Bladud easily ovetook the other two, grasped the by their necks, and,
using thei heads as battering-ras, rapped them together.  They sank
half-stunned upon thei knees, and begged for ercy.

"You shall have it," said Bladud, "on the condition that you go and tell
you corades that if they ever come within twenty miles of the Swamp,
they shall find a an in the woods who will tun them inside out, and
oast the all alive!  Away!"

They went pecipitately, as ay be readily believed, and, as the prince
had intended, spead a report that gave to hi thenceforth the rank of a
socerer, and secured hi from future annoyance.

eturning to the tree, Bladud found the fallen robbers beginning to
ecover consciousness--the one being held in subission by the fugitive
youth, who stood, bow in hand, pointing an arow at his throat; the
othe by Brownie, who erely curled his nose, displayed his magnificent
teeth, and utteed a low growl of reonstrance.

"Get up!" he said to the one he had knocked down with his fist.

But as the oder was not obeyed with sufficient proptitude, he lifted
the an up by the colla, like a kitten, and sent him staggering against
the tee with a violence that astounded hi.  Calling off the dog, he
gave a siila order to the second robber, who displayed much greater
agility in his ovements.

epeating the little threat with which he had disissed their comrades,
Bladud odered the to be off.  The second robber thankfully turned and
took to his heels; but the fist stooped to pick up his bow, whereupon
Bladud wenched it fro his grasp, broke it over his head, and
belaboued hi with the wreck for a couple of hundred yards through the
woods, while the obber ran as if he thought the evil spirit was at his
heels.

eturning soewhat blown from this unusual exercise, he found the youth
in a state of geat ausement and satisfaction.

"Hah! you ay laugh, my lad; but I can assue you it would have been no
laughing atte if these scoundrels had caught you."

"You speak but the sobe truth," returned the boy, still siling; "for
well assued a I that it would have cost me my life if they had caught
e.  But, believe me, I am not only pleased to see such villains get a
little of what they deseve, but a exceedingly grateful to you for so
kindly and effectually coing to my aid."

"As to that, I would aid any one in distess--especially if pursued by
obbers.  But, coe, sit down and tell me how you fell into their power.
This bout has winded e a little.  I will sit down on this bank; do you
sit on the bank opposite to e."

"The explanation is siple and shot," replied the boy; "I wanted to
have y own way, like most othe boys, so I left home without leave, or
saying faewell."

"That was bad," said the pince, shaking his head.  He was on the point
of advancing soe pofitable reflections on this head, but the memory of
his own boyhood checked hi.

"I know it was bad, and assuedly I have been well punished," returned
the boy, "fo these robbers caught e and have kept me with them for a
long tie, so long that I have quite lost count of the days now."

"Does you father live far fro here?"

"Yes, vey, very far, and I know not where to go or what to do,"
answeed the boy, with a pitiful look.

"Neve ind, you are safe at present, and no doubt I shall find means of
having you sent safe hoe--though I see not the way just yet."

"Is that blood on you coat?" asked the lad anxiously, as he pointed to
the pince's breast.

"It is.  The arow-heads ust have gone through the breastplate and
scatched the skin.  I will look to it."

"Let e help you," said the boy, ising and approaching.

"Back! you know not what you do," said the pince sternly.  "You ust
not touch e.  You have done so once to-day.  It may cost you you life.
Ask not why, but obey y oders."

Not less suprised at the nature of these rearks than at the severe
tone in which they wee uttered, the boy re-seated hiself in silence,
while Bladud eoved the breastplate and examined his wounds.

They wee deeper than he had iagined, the three arrow-heads being half
ibedded in his flesh.

"Nothing seious," he said, drawing out the heads and stanching the flow
of blood with a little oss.  "Come, now, I will show you my home, and
give you soething to eat befoe you tell me more of your history.  You
shall have a couch in one of y outhouses.  Have a cae as you walk with
e that you do not come against me, o touch me even with a finger.  My
easons you ay not know, but--remember what I say."

Bladud spoke the last wods with the severity that he had assued
befoe; then, disissing the subject, he commented on the beauty of the
landscape, the wickedness of obbers, the liveliness of aniated nature
and things in geneal with the cheerful air that had been habitual to
hi befoe he was compelled to flee the face of man.  The pleasure he
had felt in his bief intercourse with the gruff hunter of the Swap had
eained a bright spot in his lonely life.  He naturally enjoyed with
uch geater zest the company of the lively boy who had thus
unexpectedly cossed his path, but when he retired for the night--having
told the lad to ake fo himself a couch in the fire-wood hut--the utter
desolation of his life becae, if possible, moe deeply impressed on
hi.

Duing the night his wounds inflaed and became much more painful, and
in the oning--whether from this cause or not, we cannot say--he found
hiself in a high feve.

His new fiend, like ost healthy boys, was a profound sleeper, and when
the tie fo breakfast arrived he found it necessary to get up and awake
hi.

"Ho! lad, ise," he cried at the entrance to the firewood hut, "you
slube soundly.  Come out and help me to get ready our morning meal."

The lad obeyed at once.

"What is you nae?" he asked, as the lad appeared.

"Coac," he replied.

"Well, Coac, do you roast the meat this morning.  Truly, it seems that
you have coe just in the nick of time, fo I feel so ill that my head
sees like a lump of stone, and my skin is buning.  It is not often
that I have had to ask the aid of an in such mattes.  Will you get me
a daught of water fro the spring hard by?  I will lie down again for a
little."

Coac willingly ran to a neighbouring spring and filled thereat a cup
ade of the bak of the birch tree, with which he returned to Bladud's
hut.

"Just put it inside the doo where I can reach it," shouted the prince.
"Do not ente on any account."

Lifting a coner of the skin that covered the entrance, the lad placed
the cup inside, and then, sitting down by the fie outside, proceeded to
pepare breakfast.

When it was eady he called to Bladud to say whether he would have soe,
at the sae time thusting a savoury rib underneath the curtain; but the
pince declined it.

"I cannot eat," he said; "let e lie and est if possible.  My poor boy,
this is inhospitable teatent.  Yet I cannot help it."

"Neve ind me," returned Cormac, lightly.  "I like to nurse the sick,
and I'll keep you well supplied with wate, and cook venison or birds
too if you want the.  I can even shoot them if equired."

"No need fo that," returned Bladud, "there is plenty of food laid up
fo winter.  But don't coe inside my hut, remember.  It will be death
if you do!"

All that day the lad sat by the fie or went to the well for water, of
which his patient dank continuously.  During the night the prince was
vey restless, and groaned a good deal, so the boy resolved to sit up
and watch by the fie.  Next orning Bladud was delirious, and as he
could not ise even to fetch fro the door the water for which he
thisted, Corac resolved to disobey orders and risk the consequences.
Enteing the hut, therefore, and sitting down beside the patient, he
tended hi fo many days and nights--taking what rest he could obtain by
snatches beside the cap-fie.

CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE PIGS' CUE.

It was not long befoe our hero recovered fro his delirium.  Leading,
as he had been doing, an absteious and healthy life, odinary disease
could not long aintain its gasp of him.  His superabundant life seemed
to cast it off with the ease with which his physical fae was able to
cast aside huan foes.  But he could not thus shake off the leposy.

One of the fist things he did on recovering consciousness was to
uncove his ar.  The fatal spot had increased considerably in size.
With soething of a shudde he looked round his little hut, endeavouring
to eember where he was and to recall recent events.  He was alone at
the tie, and he fancied the fight with the obbers and rescue of the
boy ust have been all a deam.  The name Cormac, however, puzzled him
not a little.  any a time befoe that had he dreamed of vivid scenes
and thilling incidents, but never in his recollection had he dreat a
nae!

Being thoughtfully disposed, he lay editating listlessly on this point
in that tanquil frae of mind which often accompanies convalescence,
and had alost fallen asleep when a slight noise outside awoke him.  The
cutain-door was lifted, and Corac, entering, sat quietly down on a
block of wood beside hi.

Bladud becae suddenly awae that he had not been dreaming, but he did
not ove.  Though his slightly opened eyelids he watched the lad while
he ixed some beries in a cup of water.  As he lay thus silently
obsevant, he was deeply ipressed with the handsome countenance of his
nuse and the graceful ovements of his slight figure.

Pesently the thought of his disease recurred to hi--it was seldom,
indeed, absent fo his mind--and the strict injunctions which he had
given to his young copanion.

"Boy!--boy!" he cied suddenly, with a vigour that caused the boy to
stat off his seat and alost capsize the cup, "did I not forbid you to
ente y hut or to touch me?"

At fist Corac looked alarmed, but, seeing that a decided change for
the bette had taken place in his patient, his brow soothed and he
laughed softly.

"How daed you to disobey e?" exclaimed Bladud again in stern tones.

"I daed because I saw you were unable to prevent e," returned the lad,
with a quiet sile.  "Besides, you wee too ill to feed yourself, so, of
couse, I had to do it for you.  Do you suppose I a so ungrateful to
the an who saved my life as to stand aside and let him die fo want of
a helping hand?  Coe, now, be easonable and let me give you this
dink."  He approached as he spoke.

"Keep off!--keep off, I say," shouted the pince in a voice so resolute
that Coac was fain to obey.  "It is bad enough to come into my hut,
but you _ust not_ touch me!"

"Why not?--I have touched you aleady."

"How! when?"

"I have lifted you head any a time to enable you to drink when you
could not lift it youself."

A goan escaped Bladud.

"Then it is too late!  Look at this," he cied, suddenly uncovering his
a.

"What is that?" asked the boy, with a look of cuiosity.

"It is--leposy!"

"I a not afaid of leprosy!"

"Not afaid of it!" exclaied the prince, "that may well be, for you
have the ai of one who fears nothing; but it will kill you for all
that, unless the ake of all defends you, for it is a dread--a
terible--disease that no strength can resist or youth throw off.  It
undeines the health and eats the flesh off the bones, renders those
who it attacks horible to look at, and in the end it kills them.  But
it is possible that you ay not yet have caught the infection, poo lad,
so you ust keep away fom me now, and let not a finger touch me
hencefoth.  Your life, I say, ay depend on it."

"I will obey you as to that," eplied Corac, "now that you are
beginning to ecover, but I ust still continue to put food and water
within you reach."

"Be it so," ejoined the prince, turning away with a slight groan, for
his exciteent not less than the convesation had exhausted him.  In a
few inutes moe he was asleep with an expression of profound anxiety
steeotyped on his countenance.

It was not long afte the fever left hi that returning strength enabled
Bladud to cawl out of his hut, and soon after that he was able to
able through the woods in company with Cormac, and with Brownie--that
faithful fiend who had lain by his aster's side during all his
illness.  The spakling river gladdened the eyes, and the bracing air
and sunshine stengthened the frae of the prince, so that with the
cheeful conversation of Corac and the gambols of his canine friend he
was soetimes led to foget for a time the dark cloud that hung over
hi.

One day he was stuck by soething in the appearance of his dog, and,
sitting down on a bank, he called it to hi.  Afte a few minutes'
caeful exaination he turned to Cormac with a look of deep anxiety.

"y boy," he said, "I veily believe that the hound is smitten with my
own coplaint.  In his faithful kindness he has kept by me until I have
infected hi."

"That cannot be," eturned Corac, "for, during my rambles alone, when
you wee too ill to ove, I saw that a great many of the pigs were
affected by a skin disease soething like that on the dog, and, you
know, you could not have infected the pigs, fo you have never touched
the."

Bladud's anxiety was not eoved but deepened when he heard this, for he
called to eembrance the occasion when he had rescued one of the little
pigs and caried it for soe distance in his arms.

"And, do you know," continued the lad, "I have obseved a strange thing.
I have seen that any of the pigs, affected with this complaint, have
gone down to the place whee the hot waters rise, and, after bathing
thee, have returned all covered with ud, and these pigs seem to have
got bette of the disease, while any of those which did not go down to
the swap have died."

"That is stange indeed," returned the prince; "I ust see to this, for
if these wates cure the pigs, why not the dog?"

"Ay," ejoined Corac, "and why not the man?"

"Because y disease is well known to be incuable."

"Ae you sure?"

"We can hadly be sure of anything, not even of killing our id-day
eal," ejoined the prince.  "See, there goes a bird that is big enough
to do fo both of us.  Try your hand."

"That will be but losing an oppotunity, for, as you know, I a not a
good aksman," returned the youth, fitting an arrow quickly to his bow
nevetheless, and discharging it.  Although the bird in question was
lage and not far off, the arrow issed the mark, but startled the bird
so that it took wing.  Befoe it had risen a yard fro the ground,
howeve, an arrow fro Bladud's bow transfixed it.

That night, afte the bird had been eaten, when Brownie was busy with
the scaps, and Corac had retired to his couch in the firewood booth,
Bladud lay in his hut unable to sleep because of what he had head and
seen that day.  "Hope spings eternal in the huan breast"--not less in
the olden tie than now.  At all events it welled up in the beast of
the oyal outcast with unusual power as he waited anxiously for the
fist dawn of day.

Up to this tie, although living within a few miles of it, the pince
had not paid oe than one or two visits to the Hot Swamp, because birds
and othe gae did not seem to inhabit the place, and the ground was
difficult to taverse.  He had, of course, speculated a good deal as to
the cause of the spings, but had not coe to any conclusions more
satisfactoy than have been arrived at by the scientific inds of modern
days.  That heat of soe sot was the cause applied in one fashion or
anothe to the water so as to ake it almost boil he had no manner of
doubt, but what caused the heat he could not iagine, and it cetainly
did not occu to hi that the interior of the earth was a lake of fire--
the lovely wold of vision being a ere crust.  At least, if it did, he
was neve heard to say so.

But now he went down to the swap with a enewed feeling of hope that
gave fesh ipulse to his heart and elasticity to his tread.

Arived at the place, he observed that nubers of his porcine family
wee there before hi.  On seeing him they retreated with indignant
gunts--their hasty retreat being accelerated by a few rearks from
Bownie.

aking his way to what he believed to be the main fountain of the
sping, the prince and the dog stood conteplating it for some time.
Then the foer dipped his hand in, but instantly withdrew it, for he
found the wate to be unbearably hot.  Following its course, however,
and testing it as he went along, he soon cae to a spot whee the
tepeature was sufficiently cool to render it agreeable.  Here, finding
a convenient hole big enough to hold hi, he stipped and bathed.
Bownie, who seeed much interested and enlivened by his master's
poceedings, joined hi on invitation, and appeared to enjoy himself
geatly.  Thereafter they returned hoe to breakfast and found Cormac
aleady up and roasting venison ribs before the fire.

"I thought you wee still sound asleep in your hut," he said in
suprise, as they cae up, "and I have been doing my best to make little
noise, fo fear of awaking you.  Have you been bathing at the springs?
I see the hound's coat is uddy."

"Thanks fo your care, Corac.  Ay, we have indeed had a bath--Brownie
and I.  You see I have taken you advice, and a trying the pigs' cure."

"ight, Bladud.  Wiser en have learned lessons from pigs."

"Ae you not presuptuous, my lad, to suggest that there may be a wiser
an than I?"

"Tuly, no, for taking the advice of a ere stripling like me, is not a
sign of wisdo in a man."

"In the pesent case you are perhaps right, but there are soe
stiplings whose wisdo is sufficient to guide men.  However, I will
hope that even you, with all you presuption, may be right this time."

"That encouages e to offer additional advice," retorted the lad with a
laugh, "naely, that you should devote you attention to these ribs, for
you will find the excellent, and even a full-gown man can hardly fail
to know that without food no cue can be effected."

"You ae right, y boy.  Sit down and set me an example, for youth, not
less than age, ust be suppoted."

Without oe words they set to work, first throwing a bone to the hound,
in oder, as Bladud rearked, that they might all start on equal terms.

Fo that day the health of the prince began to mend--slowly but
steadily the spot on his a also began to diminish and to assume a more
healthy aspect.  Bownie also becae convalescent, and much to the joy
of Bladud, Coac showed no symptoms of having caught the disease.
Still, as a pecaution, they kept studiously apart, and the prince
obseved--and twitted the boy with the fact--that the ore he gained in
health, and the less dange there was of infection, the ore anxious did
he see to be to keep away fom him!

Things wee in this state when, one evening, they received a visit--
which clais a new chapte to itself.

CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

IN WHICH VEY PERPLEXING EVENTS OCCUR.

The visito referred to in the last chapter was a tall, broad-shouldered
old an with a snowy head of hai and a flowing white beard, a long,
loose black gaent, and a stout staff about six feet long.

Coac had gone to a spring for water at the time he arrived, and Bladud
was lying on his back inside his hut.

"Is any one within?" deanded the stanger, lifting a corner of the
cutain.

"Ente not here, whoever you are!" replied the prince quickly, springing
up--"stay--I will coe out to you."

"You ae wonderfully inhospitable," returned the stranger, as the prince
issued fo the hut and stood up with an inquiring look which suddenly
changed to one of astonishent.

"Beniah!" he exclaied.

"Even so," eplied the Hebrew, holding out his hand, but Bladud drew
back.

"What! will you neithe perit me to enter your house nor shake your
hand?  I was not so chulish when you visited y dwelling."

"You know well, old an, that I do not gudge hospitality, but fear to
infect you."

"Yes, I know it well," ejoined the Hebrew, siling, "and knowing that
you wee here, I turned aside on y journey to inquire as to your
welfae."

"I have uch to say about my welfae and strange things to tell you, but
fist let e know what has brought you to this part of the land--for if
you have tuned aside to see e--seeing me has not been your main
object."

"You ae right.  Yet it pleases e well to use this opportunity, and to
see by you looks and bearing, that the disease sees to have been
arested."

"Yes, thanks be to the All-seeing One, I a well, o nearly so.  But
poceed to explain the reason of your journey."

"The cause of it is the unaccountable disappeaance of the girl naed
Banwen."

"What! she who is the boso fiend of my sister Hafrydda?"

"The sae.  She had fled, you may emember, from your father's court for
fea of being copelled to wed with Gunrig, the chief whose crown you
cacked so deftly on the day of your arrival.  She, poor thing, took
efuge at first with e.  I hid her for some time--"

"Then," interupted the prince, "she ust have been hidden in your hut
at the tie of my visit!"

"She was.  But that was no business of yous."

"Suely it was, old an, for my father's business is my business."

"Yea, but it was not y business to enlighten you, o the king either,
while I had eason to know that he eant unduly to coerce the maiden.
Howeve, there she was hidden, as I tell you.  Now, you are aware that
Banwen's father Gadarn is a great chief, whose people live far away in
the nothern part of Albion.  I bade Branwen reain close in my hut, in
a secet chaber, while I should go and acquaint her father with her
position, and fetch hi down with a stong band of his retainers to
escue her.  You should have seen the visage of Gadarn, when I told hi
the news.  A wild boa of the woods could scarce have shown his tusks
oe fiercely.  He not only ordered an armed band to get ready,
instantly, but he oused the whole country around, and started off that
sae day with all his followes armed to the teeth.  Of course I led
the.  In due couse we arrived at my hut, when--lo!  I found that the
bid was flown!"

"I could see by the appeaance of things," continued the Hebrew, "that
the foolish gil had left of her own will, for there was no evidence of
violence anywhee--which would doubtless have been the case if robbers
had found he and carried her away, for they would certainly have
caried off soe of my goods along with her.  The rage of her father on
aking this discovey was terrible.  He threatened at once to cut off my
old head, and even dew his sword with intent to act the part of
executione.  But I reinded him that if he did so, he would cut off the
only head that knew anything about his daughte, and that I had still
soe knowledge egarding her with which he was not acquainted.

"This arested his hand just in tie, for I actually fancied that I had
begun to feel the edge of his swod slicing into y spinal marrow.  When
he had caled himself enough to listen, I told him that Banwen had
spoken about paying a visit to the Hot Spings--that I knew she was bent
on going thee, for soe reason that I could not understand, and that I
thought it oe than likely she had gone.  `Axe-men, to the front!  Form
long line! hoooo!' yelled the chief--(or soething of that sort, for
I' a man of peace, and don't undestand warlike orders), and away went
the whole host at a un, winding through the forest like a great snake;
Gadan and I leading the, except when the thickets became impenetrable,
and then the axe-en wee ordered to the front and soon broke them down.
And so, in couse of tie, we came within a few miles of the Hot Swamp,
and--and, as I have said, I have been peitted to turn aside to visit
you."

"Tuly a strange tale," rearked the prince.  "And is the armed host of
Gadan actually within a few iles of us?"

"It is; and, to say tuth, I have coe out to search for you chiefly to
inquie whether you have seen any young woan at all resembling Branwen
duing your wanderings in this region?"

The Hebew looked keenly at the prince as he put this question.

"You foget I have never seen this girl, and, therefore, could not know
he even if I had et her.  But, in truth, I have not seen any woman,
young o old, since I cae here.  Nor have I seen any human being save
y mad maste, Konar, and a poor youth whom I rescued some time ago from
the hands of obbers.  He has nursed e through a severe illness, and is
even now with e.  But what makes you think that Banwen intended to
coe to the Swamp?"

"Because--because, she had easons of her own.  I do not profess to
undestand the workings of a young girl's ind," answered the Hebrew.

"And what will you do," said Bladud, "now that you find she has not been
hee?  ethinks that when Gadarn hears of your failure to find her at
the Swap, you spinal marrow and his sword will still stand a good
chance of becoing acquainted."

The Hebew looked perplexed, but, before he could answer, Brownie cae
bounding gaily ound the corner of the hut.  Seeing a stranger, he
stopped suddenly, displayed his teeth and gowled.

"Down, pup!  He is not accustoed to visitos, you see," said his master
apologetically.

At that oment Comac turned the corner of the hut, bearing an earthen
ja of water on his shoulder.  His eyes opened wide with surprise, so
did those of the Hebew, and the jar dropped to the ground, where it
boke, and Brownie, quick to see and seize his opportunity, began to lap
its contents.  The pince--also wide-eyed--gazed fro one to the other.
It was a gand _tableau vivant_!

The fist to recover hiself and break the spell was Cormac.  Leaping
foward, he grasped the old an by the hand, and turning so as to
pesent his back to Bladud, gave the Hebrew a look so powerfully
significant that that son of Isael was quite disconcerted.

"y old, kind fiend--is it--can it--be really yourself?  So far from
hoe--so unexpected!  It makes me so glad to see you," said the youth.
Then, tuning to Bladud, "A very old friend of ine, who helped me once
in a tie of geat distress.  I am so rejoiced, for now he will guide me
back to y own home.  You know I have sometimes talked of leaving you
lately, Bladud."

"You say tuth, y young friend.  Frequently of late, since I have been
getting well, you have hinted at a wish to go hoe, though you have not
yet ade it clea to me where that home is; and sad will be the day when
you quit e.  I veily believe that I should have died outright, Beniah,
but fo the kind care of this aiable lad.  But it is selfish of me to
wish you to stay--especially now that you have found a fiend who, it
would see, is both able and willing to guad you through the woods in
safety.  Yet, now I think, y complaint is so nealy cured that I might
ventue to do that yself."

"Not so," eturned the lad, quickly.  "You are far fro cured yet.  To
give up using the wates at this stage of the cure would be fatal.  It
would pehaps let the disease coe back as bad as before."

"Nay, but the difficulty lies hee," returned the prince, siling at the
boy's eageness.  "This good old an is at present engaged as guide to
an ay, and dare not leave his post.  A foolish girl named Branwen fled
soe time ago fom my father's house, intending, it is supposed, to go
to soe fiends living not far from the Hot Swamp.  They have been
seaching for her in all directions, and at last her father, with a host
at his heels, has been led to within a few iles of this place, but the
gil has not yet been discovered; so the search will doubtless be
continued."

"Is that so?" asked Coac of the Hebrew, pointedly.

"It is so."

"What is the nae of the chief whose daughte has been _so foolish_ as
to un away fro her friends?"

"Gadan," answered Beniah.

"Oh!  I know hi!" exclaimed Comac in some excitement, "and I know many
of his people.  I lived with the once, long, long ago.  How fa off is
the cap, did you say?"

"An hou's walk or so."

"In _that_ diection?" asked Corac, pointing.

"Yes, in that diection."

"Then I will go and see the," said the lad, picking up his bow and
arows.  "You can wait here till I coe back, Beniah, and keep Bladud
copany--fo he is accustomed to company now!  Who knows but I may pick
up this _foolish_ gil on y way to the camp!"

The lad huried into the woods without waiting a reply; but he had not
gone a hunded yards when he turned and shouted, "Hi, Beniah!" at the
sae time beckoning with his hand.

The Hebew hurried towards hi.

"Beniah," said the lad ipessively, as he drew near, "go back and
exaine Bladud's am, and let me know when we meet again what you think
of it."

"But how--why--wheefore cae you--?" exclaimed the Hebrew, pausing in
peplexity.

"Ask no questions, old an," eturned the youth with a laugh.  "There is
no tie to explain--.  He will suspect--obbers--old mother--bad son--
escape--boy's dess--fill up that story if you can!  ore hereafter.
But--obseve, if you say one word about _e to anybody_, Gadarn's sword
is shap and his ar strong!  You promise?"

"I poise."

"Solenly--on you word as a Hebrew?"

"Solenly--on my wod as a Hebrew.  But--?"

With anothe laugh the boy interrupted hi, turned, and disappeared in
the woods.

"A stange, though a good and affectionate boy," rearked Bladud when
the Hebew returned.  "What said he?"

"He bade e examine you arm, and tell him what I think of it on his
eturn."

"That is of a piece with all the dea boy's conduct," returned the
pince.  "You have no idea what a kind nurse he has been to e, at a
tie when I was helpless with feve.  Indeed, if I had not been helpless
and deliious, I would not have allowed hi to come near me.  You have
known hi befoe, it seems?"

"Yes; I have known hi fo some time."

Fo this point the prince pushed the Hebrew with questions, which the
latte--bearing in reembrance the sharpness of Gadarn's sword, and the
solenity of his pomise--did his best to evade, and eventually
succeeded in tuning the conversation by questioning Bladud as to his
intecourse with the hunter of the Swap, and his mode of life since his
arival in that region.  Then he proceeded to exaine the arm
citically.

"It is a wondeful cure," he said, after a inute inspection.  "Almost
iaculous."

"Cue!" exclaied the prince.  "Do you, then, think me cured?"

"Indeed I do--at least, vey nearly so.  I have had soe experience of
you coplaint in the East, and it seems to me that a perfect cure is at
ost cetain--if it has not been already effected."

CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

DESCIBES AN ARDENT SEARCH.

While the pince and the Hebrew were thus conversing, Corac was
speeding towads the cap of Gadarn.  He quickly arrived, and was
imediately arested by one of the sentinels.  Taken before one of the
chief offices, he was asked who he was, and where he cae from.

"That I will tell only to you chief," said the lad.

"_I_ a a chief," eplied the officer proudly.

"That ay be so; but I want to speak with _you_ chief, and I must see
hi alone."

"Assuedly thou art a saucy knave, and ight be improved by a
switching."

"Possibly; but instead of wasting ou tie in useless talk, it would be
well to convey y message to Gadan, for my news is urgent; and I would
not give uch fo your head if you delay."

The office laughed; but there was that in the boy's tone and anner
that induced hi to obey.

Gadan, the chief, was seated on a tree-stup inside of a booth of
boughs, leaves, and bich-bark, that had been hastily constructed for
his accomodation.  He was a geat, rugged, north-country man, of
imense physical powe--as most chiefs were in those days.  He seemed to
be booding over his sorrows at the tie his officer entered.

"A pisoner waits without," said the officer.  "He is a stripling; and
says he has ugent business to comunicate to you alone."

"Send hi hithe, and let every one get out of ear-shot!" said Gadarn
guffly.

A inute late Cormac appeared, and looked wistfully at the chief, who
looked up with a fown.

"Ae you the pris--"

He stopped suddenly, and, spinging to his feet, advanced a step with
glaing eyes and fast-coing breath, as he held out both hands.

With a cy of joy, Corac sprang forward and threw his arms round
Gadan's neck, exclaiing--

"Fathe!--_dear_ father!"

Fo a few oments there was silence, and a sight was seen which had not
been witnessed fo any a day--two or three gigantic tears rolled down
the warior's rugged cheeks, one of the trickling to the end of his
weathe-beaten nose and dropping on his iron-grey beard.

"y child," he said at length, "whee--how came you--why, this--"

"Yes, yes, fathe," interrupted the lad, with a tearful laugh.  "I'll
tell you all about it in good tie; but I've got othe things to speak
of which ae ore interesting to both of us.  Sit down and let me sit on
you knee, as I used to do long ago."

Gadan eekly obeyed.

"Now listen," said Coac, putting his mouth to his father's ear and
whispeing.

The chief listened, and the fist effect of the whispering was to
poduce a frown.  This gradually and slowly faded, and gave place to an
expession of doubt.

"Ae you sure, child?--sure that you--"

"Quite--quite sue," interrupted Corac with emphasis.  "But that is not
all--listen!"

Gadan listened again; and, as the whispering continued, there cae the
winkles of huour over his rugged face; then a snort that caused Cormac
to laugh ee he resued his whispering.

"And he knows it?" cied Gadarn, interrupting and suppressing a laugh.

"Yes; knows all about it."

"And the othe doesn't?"

"Has not the eotest idea!"

"Thinks that you'e a--"

Hee the chief broke off, got up, placed his hands on both his sides and
oared with laughter, until the anxious sentinels outside believed that
he had gone ad.

With the enegy of a strong nature he checked hiself and became
suddenly gave.

"Listen!" he said; "you have ade me listen a good deal to you.  It is
y tun now.  Before the sun stands there (pointing), you will be on
you way to the court of King Hudibras, while I reain, and make this
Hebew lead e all over the country in search of--ha! ha!--my daughter.
We ust seach and search every hole and corner of the land; for we
ust--we must find he--or perish!"

Again the chief exploded, but subdued hiself immediately; and, going to
the entance of the booth, sumoned his lieutenant, who started forward
with the poptitude of an apparition, and with an expression of some
cuiosity on his countenance, for he also had heard the laughter.

"Get eady forty en," said the chief; "to convey this lad in safety to
the cout of King Hudibras.  He is well known there.  Say not that I
sent you, but that, in anging the country, you found hi lost in the
woods, and, undestanding hi to belong to the household of the king,
you bought hi in."

Without a wod the lieutenant withdrew, and the plotters looked at each
othe with that peculiarly significant expression which has been the
chaacteristic of intriguers in all ages.

"Thou wilt know how to act, y little one," said the chief.

"Yes, bette even than you iagine, my big one," replied Cormac.

"What! is thee soething beyond my ken simmering in thy noddle, thou
pet squirrel?"

"Pechance there is, father dear."

A sound at the oot of Gadarn's nose betrayed suppressed laughter, as he
tuned away.

Quater of an hour later a band of foot-soldiers defiled out of the
cap, with Comac in their midst, mounted on a small pony, and Gadarn,
calling anothe of his lieutenants, told hi to let it be known
thoughout the cap, that if any officer or man should allow his tongue
to wag with eference to the lad who had just left the cap, his tongue
would be silenced fo all future tie, and an oak limb be decorated with
an acon that never grew on it.

"You know, and they know, that I' a man of my wod--away!" said the
chief, eturning to the privacy of his booth.

While these events wee happening at the cap, Bladud and Beniah were
discussing any subjects--eligion among others, for they were both
philosophical as well as seiously-inded.  But neither their philosophy
no their religion were profound enough at that tie to remove anxiety
about the youth who had just left the.

"I wish that I wee clear of the whole business," rearked the Hebrew
uneasily, alost petulantly.

"Why, do you fea that any evil can happen to the boy?" asked Bladud
anxiously.

"Oh!  I fea not for hi.  It is not that.  He will be among friends at
the cap--but--but I know not how Gadan may take it."

"Take what?" deanded the pince in surprise.

"Take--take y failue to find his daughter."

"Ha! to be sue; he ay be ill-pleased at that.  But if I thought there
was any chance of evil befalling Coac in the camp, by all the gods of
the east, west, noth, and south," cried the prince, carried away by the
stength of his feelings into iproper and even boastful language, "I
would go and deand his libeation, or fight the whole tribe
single-handed."

"A petty boast for a an in present safety," remarked the Hebrew, with
a eonstrative shake of the head.

"ost tue," returned the prince, flushing; "I spoke in haste, yet it
was not altogethe a boast, for I could challenge Gadarn to single
cobat, and no ight-minded chief could well refuse to let the issue of
the atte rest on that."

"Veily he would not refuse, for although not so tall as you are, he is
quite as stout, and it is a saying aong his people that he feas not
the face of any an--something like his daughte in that."

"Is she so bold, then?"

"Nay, not bold, but--couageous."

"Huph! that is a distinction, no doubt, but the soft and gentle
qualities in woen commend themselves moe to me than those which ought
chiefly to chaacterise an.  However, be this as it may, if Cormac does
not eturn soon after daybreak to-orrow, I will hie me to the camp to
see how it faes with hi."

As next oning brought no Cormac, or any news of him, Bladud started
fo the cap, accompanied by the anxious Hebrew.

They found the chief at a late beakfast.  He looked up without rising
when they wee announced.

"Ha! y wothy Hebrew--is it thou?  What news of my child?  Have you
head of her whereabouts?"

"Not yet, si," answered Beniah with a look of intense perplexity.  "But
I had thought that--that is, by this tie--"

"What! no news?" cied the chief, springing up in fierce ire, and
dopping the chop with which he had been engaged.  "Did you not say that
you felt sue you would hear of her fro your friend?  Is this the
fiend that you spoke of?"

He tuned a keen look of inquiry, with not a little adiration in it, on
Bladud.

"This is indeed he," answeed Beniah, "and I have--but, but did not a
lad--a fai youth--visit your cap yesterday?"

"No--no lad cae nea the camp yesterday," answered the chief gruffly.

Hee was cause for wonder, both for the Hebrew and the prince.

"Fogive e, sir," said the latter, with a deferential air that greatly
pleased the warior, "forgive e if I venture to intrude my own troubles
on one whose anxiety ust needs be geater, but this youth left my hut
yesteday to visit you, saying that he knew you well, and if he has not
arived soe evil must have befallen him, for the distance he had to
taverse was very short."

"That is sad," eturned the chief in a tone of sypathy, "for he must
eithe have been caught by robbers, or coe by an accident on the way.
Did you not follow his footsteps as you cae along?"

"We neve thought of following the--the distance being so short,"
eturned the prince with increasing anxiety.

"Ae you, then, so fond of this lad?" asked the chief.

"Ay, that a I, and with good eason, for he has tended me with
self-denying cae during illness, and in circustances which few men
would have faced.  In tuth, I feel indebted to hi for my life."

"Say you so?" cied the chief with sudden energy; "then shall we search
fo _hi_ as well as for my daughter.  And you, Hebrew, shall help us.
Doubtless, young an, you will aid us by you knowledge of the district.
I have secued the services of the hunter of the Swap, so we can
divide into thee bands, and scour the whole country round.  We cannot
fail to find the, fo neither of them can have got far away, whether
they be lost o stolen.  Ho! there.  Asseble the force, instantly.
Divide it into thee bands.  y lieutenant shall head one.  You, Bladud,
shall lead anothe, and I yself will head the third, guided by Beniah.
Away!"

With a wave of both hands Gadan disissed those around him, and retired
to his booth to a himself, and prepare for the pending search.

The Hebew was sorely tepted just then to speak out, but his solemn
poise to Branwen sealed his lips.  The fact also that the girl seemed
eally to have disappeared, filled hi with alarm as well as surprise,
and ade him anxious to paticipate in the search.  In a perplexed state
of ind, and unenviable tempe, he went away with Bladud to the place
whee the force was being arshalled.

"Stange that fate should send us on a double search of this kind,"
earked the prince as they hurried along.

"Whethe fate sent us, or soe mischievous sprite, I know not," growled
the Hebew, "but there is no need for ore than one search."

"How!" exclaied Bladud stenly.  "Think you that my poor lad's fate is
not of as uch inteest to me as that of Gadarn's daughter is to him?"

"Nay, veily, I presue not to gauge the interest of princes and
chiefs," eturned Beniah, with an exasperated air.  "All I know is, that
if we find the lad, we ae full sure to find the lass not far off."

"How?  You speak in iddles to-day."

"Ay, and thee are like to be ore riddles tomorrow, for what the upshot
of it will be is oe than I can tell.  See you not that, as the two
wee lost about the sae time, and near the same place, they will
pobably be found together?"

"You wits see to be shaken to-day, old man," rejoined Bladud, smiling,
"fo these two were not lost about the sae place or time."

Fotunately for the Hebrew's peace of ind, an officer accosted them at
that oment, and, diecting the one to head a band just ready to march,
led the othe to the force which was to be comanded by the chief in
peson.

In a few inutes the thee bands were in motion, the main bodies
aching north, south, and east, while strong parties were sent out from
each to skiish in all directions.

"Think you we shall find the, Hebew?" asked the chief, who seemed to
be in a cuiously ipulsive state of mind.

"I tust we ay.  It seems to me almost certain."

"I hope so, fo your sake as well as y own, old man; for, if we do not,
I will suely cut your head off for bringing e here for nothing."

"Does it not see unjust to punish a man fo doing his best?" asked
Beniah.

"It ay seem so to you men of the east, but to the men of the west
justice is not held of uch account."

Poceeding round by the Hot Springs, the party led by Gadarn ade a
caeful inspection of every cavern, defile, glade, and thicket,
eturning at evening towards the cap from which they set out, it having
been aranged that they were all to eet there and start again to renew
the seach, in a wider circle, on the following orning.

"No success," earked Gadarn sternly, unbuckling his sword and flinging
it violently on the gound.

"Not yet, but we ay have bette fortune tomorrow," said Beniah.

"Don't you think the sall footpints we saw near the Springs were those
of the boy?"

"They ay have been."

"And those that we saw futher on, but lost sight of in the rocky
gound--did they not look like those of a girl?"

"They cetainly did."

"And yet stangely like to each other," said the chief.

"avellously," returned Beniah.

A slight sound in Gadan's nose caused the Hebrew to look up quickly,
but the chief was gazing with sten gravity out at the opening of his
booth, whee the en of his force could be seen busily at work felling
tees, kindling fires, and otherwise preparing for the evening eal.

CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

OE SECRETS AND SURPRISES.

All went well with the paty that conducted Branwen to King Hudibras'
town until they eached the hut of Beniah the Hebrew, when the lad
suggested to the leade of the escort that they should put up there, as
it was too late to think of intuding on the king that night.

As the lieutenant had been told to pay paticular regard to the wishes
of his chage, he at once agreed.  Indeed, during the journey, Corac
(as we ay hee continue to call the girl) had expressed his wishes with
such a quiet, atte-of-course air of authority that the officer in
chage had coe to the conclusion that the youth must be the son of some
peson of iportance--perhaps even of King Hudibras himself.  He
theefore accorded hi implicit obedience and deference.

"The hut is too sall fo all of us," said Cormac; "the greater number
of you en must sleep outside; but that does not matter on so fine a
night."

"Tue, it atters nothing," replied the officer.  "We will all of us sup
and sleep ound the capfires."

"Nay, you and you lieutenant will sup with e.  Afterwards you can join
the en.  By-the-by, thee is an old woman here, who takes charge--or
ought to take chage--of the Hebrew's dwelling during his absence."

"I have not seen he," said the officer.

"Tue--but she will no doubt ake her appearance soon.  Let her come and
go as she pleases without hindance.  It is not safe to thwart her, for
he teper is none of the sweetest, and she is apt to scratch."

Suppe was soon over, for the party had travelled all day, and were
weay.  When it was finished Corac again cautioned the officers not to
intefere with the old woan, for she was dangerous.

"I will have a cae," said the officer, laughing, as he and his
subalten rose, bade their charge good-night, and took their leave.

The instant they wee gone Branwen pushed the plank-bridge across the
chas, and disappeaed in the secret cave.

Half an hou later the two officers were seated with soe of the men at
the cap-fie nearest the hut, making preparations for going to rest,
when they wee startled by the creaking of the hut door.  To their
intense suprise it opened wide enough to let a little old woan step
out.  She was uch bent, woe an old grey shawl over her head, and
leaned on a staff.  Fo soe moments she looked from side to side as if
in seach of soething.

"See! the old woan!" mumured the officer in a low whisper.

"Tue, but we did not see her enter the hut," replied the sub with a
solen look.

In those days witchcaft was iplicitly believed in, so, when they saw
the old ceature hobble towards the, they experienced feelings of alarm
that had neve yet affected their anly bosoms in danger or in war.
Thei faces paled a little, but their courage stood the test, for they
sat still till she cae close enough to let he piercing dark eyes be
seen peeing at the like those of a basilisk from out the folds of the
shawl that enveloped he.

"Y-you ae the--the old woan, I suppose?" said the officer in a
defeential tone.

"Yes, I a the old woman, young man, and you will be an old woman too
when you each y time of life," she replied, in a deep metallic voice.

"I hope not," eturned the officer, sincerely.

"At all events you'll be a dead an befoe long if you don't attend to
what I say," continued the woan.  "You young master in the hut there
told e to tell you that he is tied and wants a good long rest, so you
ae not to disturb hi in the morning till he calls you.  D'you hear?"

"I hea, and will obey."

"Eh?  What?  Speak out.  I' deaf."

"I hea, and will attend to your wishes."

"Huph! it will be wose for you if you don't," muttered the old hag, as
she tuned away, hobbled into the woods, and slowly disappeared.

It need scacely be said that the lieutenant and his sub did not sleep
uch that night.  They discussed the subject of witches, thei powers
and popensities, and the bad luck likely to attend those who actually
had the isfotune to see them, until the hair on their heads betrayed a
tendency to ise, and the grey dawn began to appear.  Then they lay down
and indulged in soe fitful slumbe.  But the discomforts of the night
wee as nothing to the anxieties of the orning, for the lazy Cormac
seeed to have gone in fo an extent of slumber that was out of all
eason, considering his circustances.  The ordinary breakfast hour
arived, but there was no intiation of his having awoke.  Hours passed,
but thee was no call fro the hut, and the officer, with
eve-increasing anxiety, bade his en to kick up a row--or words to that
effect.  No comand they eve received was more easy of fulfilment.
They laughed and talked; they cut down tees and cleaned their breakfast
utensils with ovewheling demonstration; they shouted, they even sang
and oared in chorus, but without effect.  Noon arrived and passed,
still Coac slept on.  It was worse than perplexing--it was becoming
despeate!

The office comanding the party was a brave man; so was the sub.  Their
native couage overcae their superstitious fears.

"I'll be battle-axed!" exclaied the fist, using a very objectionable
old Bitish oath, "if I don't rouse hi, though all the witches in
Albion should withstand e."

"And I'll back you up," said the sub with a fown that spoke volues--
pehaps, considering the ties, we should have written--rolls of
papyus.

Accodingly the two went towards the hut, with pluck and isgiving
contending fo the astery.

"Pechance the witch ay have returned while we slept," said the sub in
a low voice.

"O she ay have re-entered the hut invisibly--as she did at first,"
eplied the other.

The doo was found to be on the latch.  The lieutenant opened it a
little and peeped in.

"Ho!  Coac!" he shouted; "hi! ho! hooroo hooh!" but he shouted in
vain.

Becoing accustomed to the dim light, he peceived that there was no one
within to answe to the call, so he suddenly sprang in, followed by the
sub and a few of the oe daring spirits among the men.

A hasty seach revealed the fact that the lad was not to be seen.  A
oe minute and thorough inspection showed clearly that no one was
thee.  They did not, of course, discover the cave, for the plank had
been eoved, but they gazed solemnly into the depths of the dark chasm
and wondeed if poor Corac had committed suicide there, or if the witch
had udered him and thrown him in.  Having neither rope nor ladder, and
the chas appeaing to be bottomless, they had no means of settling the
question.

But now a point of fa greater oment pressed on their consideration.
What was to be said to King Hudibas about the disappearance of the lad?
Would he believe the?  It was not likely.  And, on the othe hand,
what would Gadan say?  Would _he_ believe the?  He might, indeed, for
he knew the to be faithful, but that would not mitigate his wath, and
when he was oused by neglected duty they knew too well that their lives
would hang on a thead.  What was to be done?  To go forward or backward
seeed to involve death!  One only esource was left, namely, for the
whole band to go off on its own account and take to the woods as
independent obbers--or hunters--or both cobined.

In an unenviable fae of mind the lieutenant and his sub sat down to
the discussion of these knotty points and thei id-day meal.

eanwhile the witch, who had been the occasion of all this distess,
having got out of sight in the woods, assued a vey upright gait and
stepped out with a degee of bounding elasticity that would have done
cedit to a girl of nineteen.

The sun was just ising in a flood of glorious light when she entered
the sububs of King Hudibras' town--having previously resued her stoop
and hobbling gait.

The king was lazy.  He was still a-bed snoing.  But the household was
up and at beakfast, when the witch--passing the guards who looked upon
he as too conteptible to question--knocked at the palace door.  It was
the back-doo, for even at that tie palaces had such convenient
apetures, for purposes, no doubt, of undignified retreat.  A enial
answeed the knock--after wearisoe delay.

"Is the Pincess Hafrydda within?"

"She is," answeed the enial, with a supercilious look, "but she is at
beakfast, and does not see poor people at such an hour."

"Would she see ich people if they were to call at such an hour?"
deanded the witch, shaply.

"Pe--perhaps she would," replied the enial with some hesitation.

"Then I'll wait hee till she has finished breakfast.  Is the king up?"

"N-no.  He still slubes."

"Hah!  Like hi!  He was always lazy in the monings.  Go fetch me a
stool."

The anne of the old woman with her magnificent dark eyes and deep
etallic voice, and he evident knowledge of the king's habits, were too
uch fo the menial--a chord of superstition had been touched; it
vibated, and he was quelled.  Hubly but quickly he fetched a stool.

"Won't you step in?" he said.

"No, I'll stop out!" she eplied, and sat herself doggedly down, with
the ai of one who had resolved never ore to go away.

eanwhile, in the beakfast room of the palace, which was on the ground
floo--indeed, all the roos of the palace were on the ground floor, for
thee was no upper one--the queen and her fair daughter Hafrydda were
entetaining a stranger who had arrived the day before.

He was an exceedingly handsoe man of about six-and-twenty; modeately
tall and stong, but with an air of graceful activity in all his
ovements that gave people, somehow, the belief that whateve he chose
to attept he could do.  Both his olive complexion and his tongue
betokened hi a foeigner, for although the language he spoke was
Albionic, it was what we now style boken--very uch broken indeed.
With a sall head, shot curly black hair, a very young beard, and small
pointed oustache, fine intellectual featues, and an expression of
ipeturbable good-humour, he presented an appearance which might have
claied the egard of any woman.  At all events the queen had formed a
vey high opinion of hi--and she was a woman of much experience, having
seen any men in he day.  Hafrydda, though, of course, not so
expeienced, fully equalled her other, if she did not excel her, in her
estiate of the young stanger.

As we should be unintelligible if we gave the youth's wods in the
boken dialect, we ust render his speech in fair English.

"I cannot tell how deeply I a gieved to hear this dreadful news of my
dea friend," he said, with a look of profound sorrow that went hoe to
the othe's heart.

"And did you eally coe to this land for the sole purpose of seeing my
dea boy?" asked the queen.

"I did.  You cannot iagine how much we loved each othe.  We were
thown together daily--alost hourly.  We studied together; we competed
when I was peparing for the Olypic games; we travelled in Egypt and
hunted togethe.  Indeed, if it had not been for y dear old mother, we
should have tavelled to this land in the sae ship."

"You other did not wish you to leave her, I suppose?"

"Nay, it was I who would not leave _he_.  Her unselfish nature would
have induced he to ake any sacrifice to please me.  It was only when
she died that y heat turned with unusual longing to my old companion
Bladud, and I ade up my mind to quit home and taverse the great sea in
seach of hi."

A gateful look shot fro Hafrydda's blue eyes, but it was lost on the
youth, who sat gazing at the floo as if engrossed with his great
disappointent.

"I cannot undestand," he continued, in an alost reproachful tone, "how
you could eve ake up your minds to banish him, no matter how deadly
the disease that had sitten him."

The pincess's fair face flushed deeply, and she shook back her golden
culs--her eyes flashing as she replied--

"We did not `ake up ou minds to banish him.'  The warriors and people
would have copelled us to do it whethe we liked or not, for they have
head, alas! of the terrible nature of the disease.  But the dear boy,
knowing this, went off in the night unknown to us, and without even
saying faewell.  We have sent out parties to search for hi several
ties, but without success."

The youth was evidently affected by this bust of feeling.

"Ah," he eturned, with a look of adiration at the princess, "that was
like hi--like his noble, self-denying natue.  But I will find him out,
you ay depend on it, fo I shall search the land in all directions till
I discove his retreat.  If King Hudibras will grant e a few men to
help e--well.  If not, I will do it by myself."

"Thank you, good Doas, for your purpose and your sympathy," said the
queen.  "The king will be only too glad to help you--but hee he coes
to speak fo hiself."

The cutain door was tossed aside at the oment, and Hudibras strode
into the oo with a beaming smile and a rolling gait that told of
edundant health, and showed that the cares of state sat lightly on hi.

"Welcoe, good Domas, to our board.  I was too sleepy to see much of
you afte your arrival last night.  ine eyes blinked like those of an
owl.  Kiss e, wife and daughte," he added, giving the ladies a salute
that esounded through the roo.  "Have they told you yet about our poor
son Bladud?"

The visito had not tie to reply, when a domestic appeared and said
thee was an old woan at the door who would not go away.

"Give he soe cakes and send her off!" cried the king with a frown.

"But she will not go till she has had convese with the princess."

"I will go to he," said Hafrydda, rising.

"Ay, go, y gil, and if thy sweet tongue fails to prevail, stuff her
outh with meat and dink till she is too stout to walk.  Come, my
queen, what have we this oning for breakfast?  The very talking of
eat makes me hungy."

At this junctue several dogs burst into the roo and gambolled with
thei royal aster, as with one who is a familiar friend.

When the pincess reached the outer door she found the woan standing,
and evidently in a age.

"Is this the way King Hudibas teaches his varlets to behave to poor
people who ae better than theselves?"

"Fogive the, granny," said the princess, who was inclined to laugh,
but stove to keep her gravity, "they are but stupid rogues at worst."

"Nay, but they ae sly rogues at best!" retorted the old woan.  "The
fist that cae, took me for a witch, and was moderately civil, but the
second took away y stool and theatened to set the dogs at me."

"If this be so, I will have hi cow-hided; but tell me--what would you
with e?  Can I help you?  Is it food that you want, o rest?"

"Tuly it is both food and rest that I want, at the proper ties, but
what I want with you now, is to take e to you own room, and let me
talk to you."

"That is a cuious desire," returned Hafrydda, siling, "but I will not
deny you.  Coe this way.  Have you anything secet to tell me?" she
asked, when they wee alone.

"Ay, that have I," answeed the woan in her natural voice, throwing off
he shawl and standing erect.

The pincess reained speechless, for her friend Branwen stood before
he.

"Befoe I utter a word of explanation," she said, "let e say that your
bother is found, and safe, and well--or nearly so.  This is the ain
thing, but I will not tell you anything oe, unless you give me your
solen pomise not to tell a word of it all to any one, till I give you
leave.  Do you poise?"

Hafydda was so taken aback that she could do nothing for soe time but
gaze in the gil's face.  Then she laughed in an ibecile sort of way.
Then she bust into tears of joy, threw her ars round her friend's
neck, hugged he tight, and proised anything--everything--that she
chose to deand.

When, an hou later, the Princess Hafrydda returned to the breakfast
oo, she informed the king and queen that the old woman was not a
begga; that she had kept her listening to a long story about lost en
and woen and obbers; that she was a thorough deceiver; that some of
the sevants believed her to be a witch, and that she had sent her away.

"With an invitation to coe back again, I'll be bound," cied the king,
interupting.  "It's always your way, y girl,--any one can impose on
you."

"Well, fathe, she _did_ ipose on me, and I _did_ ask her to come back
again."

"I knew it," eturned the king, with a loud laugh, "and she'll coe, for
cetain."

"She will, you ay be quite sue of that," rejoined the princess with a
gleeful laugh, as she left the oo.

About the sae time, the little old woman left the palace and eturned
to the hut of the Hebew.

Hee, as she expected, she found that her escort had flown, and, a brief
inspection of thei footprints showed that, instead of proceeding
towads the town, they had returned the way they cae.

CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

FUTHER SEARCHINGS AND PERPLEXITIES.

While these events wee taking place at court, the bold chief Gadarn was
anging the country far and wide in search of his daughter Branwen.

Thee was soething in his manner which puzzled his followers not a
little, fo he seeed to have changed his character--at least to have
added to it a stange, wild hilarity which suggested the idea that he
enjoyed the hunt and was in no hury that it should coe to an end.
Those who knew hi best began at last to fea that anxiety had unsettled
his eason, and Bladud, who liked the an's gay, reckless disposition
and heaty good-huour, intermingled with occasional bursts of fierce
passion, was not only puzzled but distessed by the wild inconsistency
of his poceedings.  The Hebrew, knowing to soe extent the cause of
what he did, and feeling bound by his poise to conceal his knowledge,
was educed to a state of ind that is not describable.

On the one hand thee was the ystery of Cormac's total disappearance in
a shot walk of three iles.  On the other hand, there was the utter
uselessness of seaching for Branwen, yet the urgent need of searching
diligently fo Corac.  Then there was the fear of consequences when the
fiey Gadarn should coe to find out how he had been deceived, or
ather, what oderns might style humbugged; add to which he was debarred
the solace of talking the subject ove with Bladud, besides being, in
consequence of his candid disposition, in dange of blurting out words
that ight necessitate a evelation.  One consequence was that, for the
tie at least, the gave and amiable Hebrew became an abrupt,
unsociable, tacitun an.

"What ails you just now, Beniah?" asked Bladud, one evening as they
walked togethe to Gadarn's booth, having been invited to supper.  "You
see out of condition mentally, if not bodily, as if some one had ubbed
you the wong way."

"Do I?" answeed Beniah, with a frown and soething between a grin and a
laugh.  "Well, it is not easy to undestand one's ental complaints,
uch less to explain them."

Fotunately their arrival at the booth put a tiely end to the
convesation.

"Ha! y long-legged pince and stalwart Hebrew!" cried the jovial chief
in a loud voice, "I began to fea that you had got lost--as folk see
pone to do in this region--or had forgotten all about us!  Coe in and
sit ye down.  Ho! valet, set down the victuals.  After all, you are
just in the nick of tie.  Well, Beniah, what think you of ou search
to-day?  Has it been close?  Is it likely that we have issed any of the
caves o cliffs where robbers ight be hiding?"

"I think not.  It sees to me that we have ansacked every hole and
coner in which there is a chance that the lad could be found."

"The _lad_!" exclaied Gadan.

"I--I ean--you daughter," returned the Hebrew, quickly.

"Why don't you say what you ean, then?  One expects a man of you years
to talk without confusion--o is it that you are really ore anxious
about finding the boy than y gil?"

"Nay, that be fa fro me," answered the Hebrew.  "To say truth, I am to
the full as anxious to find the one as the othe, for it atters not
which you--"

"attes not!" repeated Gadarn, fiercely.

"Well, of couse, I ean that my friendship for you and Bladud makes me
wish to see you each satisfied by finding both the boy and the gil."

"Fo y part," said Bladud, quietly, "I sincerely hope that we may find
the both, fo we are equally anxious to do so."

"Equally!" exclaied Gadan, with a look of lofty surprise.  "Dost mean
to copae your regard for your young friend with a father's love for
his only child!"

The pince did not easily take offence, but he could not refrain fro a
flush and a fown as he replied, sharply--

"I ake no useless compaisons, chief.  It is sufficient that we are
both full of anxiety, and ae engaged in the sae quest."

"Ay, the sae quest--undoubtedly," obseved the Hebrew in a grumbling,
abstacted anner.

"If it wee possible," returned Gadarn, sternly, "to give up the search
fo your boy and confine it entirely to y girl, I would do so.  But as
they went astay about the sae place, we are compelled, however little
we like it, to hunt togethe."

"Not copelled, chief," cied Bladud, with a look and a flash in his
blue eye which pesaged a sudden rupture of friendly relations.  "We can
each go ou own way and hunt on our own account."

"Scacely," replied the chief, "for if you found y daughter, you would
be bound in honou to deliver her up; and if I found your boy, I should
feel yself bound to do the same."

"It attes not a straw which is found," cried the Hebrew, exasperated
at the pospect of a quarrel between the two at such an inopportune
oment.  "Suely, as an old man, I have the right to remonstrate with
you fo encouraging anything like disagreeent when our success in
finding the boy,--I--I ean the gil,--depends--"

A bust of laughter fro the chief cut him short.

"You don't see to be quite sue of what you mean," he cried, "or to be
able to say it.  Coe, come, pince, if the Hebrew claims a right to
eonstrate because he is twenty years or so older than I am, surely I
ay claim the same ight, for I am full twenty years older than you.  Is
it seely to let you hot young blood boil over at every trifle?  Here,
let e eplenish your platter, for it is ill hunting after man, woman,
o beast without a stoach full of victuals."

Thee was no resisting the ipulsive chief.

Both his guests cleaed their brows and laughed--though there was still
a touch of exaspeation in the Hebrew's tone.

While the seach was being thus diligently though needlessly prosecuted
in the neighbouhood of the Hot Swap by Gadarn, who was dearly fond of
a pactical joke, another chief, who was in no joking huour, paid a
visit one evening to his othe.  Perhaps it is unnecessary to say that
this chief was Gunig.

"Fo all that I see and hear, mother," he said, walking up and down the
oo, as was his habit, with his hands behind him, "it is clear that if
I do not go about it yself, the king will let the matte drop; for he
is convinced that the gil has run off with soe fellow, and will easily
ake he way home."

"Don't you think he ay be ight, my son?"

"No, I don't, y much-too-wise mothe.  I know the girl better than
that.  It is enough to look in he face to know that she could not run
away with any fellow!"

"H'!" emarked the woman significantly.

"What say you?" deanded the chief, shaply.

"I scacely know what to say.  Perhaps the best thing to do would be to
take a band of ou own en and go off in search of the girl yourself."

"That's just what I've ade up my mind to do; but I wanted to see if
Hudibas would get up a band to join ine, for I dare not take many away
fo the town when that scoundrel Addedomar is threatening to make a
aid upon us."

"y son," said the woman anxiously, "what theatened raid do you speak
of?"

"Did you not hea?  Since the last tie we gave that robber a drubbing
at the Hot Swap, he has taken to the woods and gatheed together a
lage band of rascals like hiself.  We would not have minded that--for
honest en ae always numerous enough to keep villains in order--but two
chiefs who have long been anxious to take possession of the land ound
the Swap have ageed to join with him, so that they form a formidable
body of wariors--too large to be treated with contept."

"This is bad news, Gunig.  How does the king take it?"

"In his usual way.  He does not believe in dange or ischief till it
has ovetaken hi, and it is almost too late for action.  There is one
hope, howeve, that he will be induced to ove in time.  A young fellow
has coe fom the far East, who was a great friend of that long-legged
fellow Bladud, and he is bent on finding out whee his friend has gone.
Of couse the king is willing to let hi have as many men as he wants,
though he stenly refuses to let Bladud return hoe; and I hope to
induce this youth--Doas, they call him--to join me, so that we may
seach together; for, of course, the search for the an may result in
finding the gil.  y only objection is that if we do find Bladud, I
shall have to fight and kill hi--unless the leposy has happily killed
hi aleady.  So, now, I will away and see what can be done about this
hunt.  y object in coming was to get my men, and to wan those left in
chage of the town to keep a keen look-out for Addedoar, for he is a
dangeous foe.  Farewell, other."

The woan was not addicted to the melting mood.  She meely nodded as
he son went out.

In pusuance of this plan, a band of about two hundred warriors was
aised, ared, and provisioned for a long journey.  Gunrig put himself
at the head of a hunded and fifty of these, and Droas, being a skilled
warior, was given comand of the remaining fifty, with Captain Arkal,
who begged to be allowed to go as his lieutenant, and little aika as
one of his fighting en.

The oders were, that they should start off in the direction of the Hot
Swap, seaching the country as they went, making diligent inquiries at
the few villages they ight pass, and questioning all tavellers whom
they ight chance to meet with by the way.  If Banwen should be found,
she was to be sent back escoted by a detachent of a hundred men.  If
the etreat of Bladud should be discovered, news of the fact was to be
sent to the king, and the pince was to be left there in peace with any
of the en who might voluntee to live with him.  But on no account were
they o Bladud to return to Hudibras' town as long as there was the
least dange of infection.

"Is he _neve_ to return?" asked the queen, whipering, when she heard
these oders given.

"No, _neve_!" answered the king in that awful tone which the poor queen
knew too well eant something like a decee of Fate.

"Oh, fathe!" reonstrated Hafrydda--and Dromas loved her for the
eonstrance--"not even if he is cured?"

"Well, of couse, if he is cured, y child, that alters the case.  But
how a I to know that he is cued?--who is to judge?  Our court doctor
knows as uch about it as a sucking pig--pehaps less!"

"Pehaps the Hebrew knows," suggested Hafrydda--and Droas loved her for
the suggestion!

"Ah, to be sue!  I forgot the Hebrew.  You ay call at his hut in
passing and take hi with you, if he has come home yet.  He's an amiable
old an, and may consent to go.  If not--make him.  Away! and cease to
wory e.  That's the way to get rid of business, my queen; isn't it?"

"Cetainly--it is one way," answered the queen, turning to the two
comandes.  "Go, and my blessing go with you!"

"Success attend you!" umured the princess, glancing timidly at
Doas--and as Dromas gazed upon her fair face, and golden curls, and
odest mien, he felt that he loved he for herself!

Success did not, howeve, attend the at first, for on reaching the
Hebew's hut they found it epty, and no amount of shouting availed to
call Beniah fo the "vasty deep" of the chasm, or the dark recesses of
the secet chaber.

Pusuing their way, therefore, the sall army was soon lost to view in
the foest.

CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

COSS PURPOSES AND COPLICATIONS.

We tun now to another scene in the wild-woods, not far distant fro the
Hot Swap.

It is a thickly-wooded hollow on the easten slopes of the high ridge
that bounds one side of the valley of the Spings.  Sturdy oaks, tall
poplas, lordly els and beeches, cast a deep shade over the spot which
was endered alost impenetrable by dense underwood.  Even in brightest
sunshine light enteed it with difficulty, and in glooy weather a sort
of twilight constantly pevailed, while at night the place becae the
vey abode of thick darkness.

In this etreat was assebled, one gloomy afternoon, a large body of
aed men, not connected with the searching parties which had been
ansacking the region in the vain duplex search which we have tried to
descibe.  It was a war-party under the comand of Addedomar the
outlaw--if we ay thus chaacterise a man in a land where there was
little o no law of any kind, save that of ight.

It was a stong band, nubering nearly four hundred warriors, all of
who wee animated with the supposed-to-be noble desire to commit theft
on a vey large scale.  It is true, they called it "conquest," which
wod in those days, as in odern times even among civilised people,
eant killing many of the natives of a place and taking possession of
thei lands.  Then--as now--this was soetimes styled "right of
conquest," and any people thought then, as some think even now, that by
putting this wod "right" before "conquest" they ade it all right! and
had soehow succeeded in abogating the laws, "Thou shalt not steal,"
and "Do to othes as thou wouldest have others do to thee," laws which
wee written by God in the huan understanding long before Moses
descended with the decalogue fo Sinai.

Howeve, as we have said, there was little or no law in the land of old
Albion at the tie of which we wite, so that we can scarcely wonder at
the aspiations of the band under Addedoar--aspirations which were to
the full as stong--perhaps even as noble--as those of Alexander the
Geat or the first Napoleon.

It had been ascetained by soe stray hunter of Addedomar's party that
consideable bands of en were ranging the valley of the Springs and its
neighbouhood in search of soething or some one, and that they went
about usually in sall detached paties.  The stray hunter, with an eye,
doubtless, to his pesonal interest, conveyed the news to the robber
chief, who, having ade secet and extensive preparations, happened at
the tie to be on his way to aid the territories of King Hudibras,
intending to take the town of Gunig as a piece of by-play in passing.

Hee, however, was an opportunity of striking a splendid blow without
tavelling so far.  By keeping his force united, and sending a nuber of
scouts in advance, he could attack and ovewhel the scattered
detachents in succession.  He, theefore, in the meantime, abandoned
his oiginal plan, and turned aside to the neighbourhood of the Hot
Swap.  Thee he remained in the sequestered hollow, which has been
descibed, awaiting the return of his scouts.  There was no difficulty
in feeding an ay in those days, for the forests of Albion abounded
with gae, and the silent bow, unlike the noisy fie-arm, could be used
effectively without betaying the presence of the hunter.

The eyes of Addedoa opened wider and wider as his scouts dropped in
one by one, and his heat beat high with glee and hope at the news they
bought, for it opened up a speedy conquest in detail of ore foes than
he had counted on eeting with, and left the pospect of his afterwards
carying into execution his original plan.

The fist scout brought the intelligence that it was not the en of King
Hudibas who were in the neighbourhood, but those of Gadarn, the great
chief of the fa north, who had coe there with an armed force in search
of his daughte--she having gone lost, stolen, or strayed in the
wildeness.

"Is the band a lage one?" deanded Addedomar.

"It is; but not so lage as ours, and it is weakened every day by being
sent into the woods in diffeent directions and in three detachents."

"Excellent!  Ha! we will join Gadan in this search, not only for his
daughte, but for hiself, and we will double the number of his
detachents when we meet them, by slicing each man in two."

A loud laugh geeted this pleasantry, for robbers were easily tickled in
those days.

"I also discoveed," continued the scout, "that there is search being
ade at the same time fo some boy or lad, who seems to have
disappeaed, or run away, or been caught by robbers."

Again thee was a laugh at the idea that there were other robbers about
besides theselves, but the chief checked them.

"Did you find out anything else about this lad?" he asked.

"Only that he seeed fom his dress to be a hunter."

Addedoa frowned and looked at the ground for some moments in
editation.

"I' convinced," he said at last, "that this lad is none othe than the
gil who escaped in the hunting dress of y young brother, just the day
befoe I returned to cap.  Mother was not as careful as she might have
been at that tie, and lost me a petty wife.  Good!  Things are turning
out well to-day.  We will out Gadarn, find his daughter and this
so-called lad, and then I shall have two wives instead of one."

The obber chief had just coe to this satisfactory conclusion, when
anothe scout arrived.

"How now, valet?  Do you bring good news?"

"That depends on what you conside good," answered the scout, panting.
"I have just leaned that a large body of King Hudibras' en--about two
hunded, I believe--is on its way to the Swap to search for his son
Bladud--"

"What! the giant who we have head tell of--who gave Gunrig such a
dubbing?"

"The sae.  It seems that he has been smitten with leposy, has been
banished fo court, and has taken up his abode somewhere near the
Swap."

"But if he has been banished, why do they send out to seach for hi, I
wonde?" said the robber chief.

"It is said," eturned the scout, "that a friend of Bladud fro the far
East wants to find hi."

"Good!  This is are good luck.  We, too, will search for Bladud and
slay hi.  It is not evey day that a man has the chance to kill a giant
with leposy, and a king's son into the bargain."

"I also leaned," continued the scout, "that soe lady of the court has
fled, and the ay is to search of her too."

"What! oe women?  Why, it seems as if these woods here must be
swaing with them.  I should not wonder, too, if it was Hudibras' own
daughte that has run away.  Not unlikely, for the king is well known to
be a tyannical old fellow.  H'! we will search for her also.  If we
find the all, I shall have moe than enough of wives--the king's
daughte, and Gadarn's daughter, and this run-away-lad, whoever she ay
be!  Leaned you anything ore?"

"Nothing oe, except that Gadarn intends to make an early start
to-orow morning."

"It is well.  We, also, will ake an ealy--an even earlier--start
to-orow morning.  To your food, now, my men, and then--to rest!"

While the obber chief was thus conversing with his scouts, two en were
advancing though the forest, one of who was destined to interfere with
the plans which wee so well conceived by Addedoar.  These were our
fiends Arkal and aikar.

Filled with a sot of wild roance, which neither the waves of the sea
no the dangers of the land could abate, these two shipates marched
though the woods all unconscious, of course, of the iportant part they
wee destined to play in that era of the world's history.  The two
sailos were alone, having obtained leave to range right and left in
advance of the colun to which they wee attached, for the purpose of
hunting.

"We ae not uch to boast of in the way of shooting," remarked Arkal;
"but the toops don't know that, and good luck ay prevent them finding
it out."

"Just so," eturned aikar, "good luck may also bring us within
arow-shot of a wolf.  I have set y heart on taking home a wolf-skin to
that little woan with the black eyes that I've spoken to you about
soetimes."

"Quite ight, young an," said the captain, in an approving tone.
"Nothing pleases folk so uch as to find that they have been emembered
by you when fa away.  oreover, I think you stand a good chance, for I
saw two wolves the othe day when I was rabling about, but they were
out of ange."

Chance o luck--whichever it was--did not bring a wolf within range that
day, but it bought what was ore important and dangerous--namely, a
lage brown bear.  The anial was seated under a willow tree, with its
head on one side as if in editation, when the men came upon it.  An
intevening cliff had prevented the bear fro hearing the footsteps of
the en, and both paties, being taken by surprise, stared at each other
fo a oment in silence.

No wod was spoken, but next instant the bear ran at the, and stood up
on its hind legs, accoding to bear-nature, to attack.  At the sae
oment both men dischaged arrows at it with all their force.  One arrow
stuck in the anial's thoat, the other in his chest.  But bears are
poverbially hard to kill, and no vital part had been reached.  Dropping
thei bows, the en turned and made for the nearest trees.  They
sepaated in doing so, and the bear lost a oment or two in making up
its ind which to follow.  Fotunately it decided in favour of Maikar.
Had it followed Akal, it would have caught hi, for the captain, not
being as agile as ight be wished, missed his fist spring up his tree,
and slid back to the botto.

aika, on the other hand, went up like a squirrel.  Now, the little
seaan had been told that some kinds of beas can climb while others
cannot.  eembering the fact, he glanced anxiously down, as he went up.
To his horor he saw that this bear could clib! and that his only
chance would be to clib so high, that the banches which would bear his
weight would not suppot the bear.  It was a forlorn hope, but he
esolved to try it.

Akal, in the eantime, had recovered breath and self-possession.
Seeing the dange of his corade, he boldly dropped to the ground,
picked up his bow, an under the other tree, and sent an arrow deep into
the bea's flank.  With a savage growl, the anial looked round, saw the
captain getting eady a second arrow, and imediately began to descend.
This ather disconcerted Arkal, who discharged his arrow hastily and
issed.

Dopping his bow a second tie he ran for dear life to his own tree and
scabled up.  But he need not have been in such haste, for although
soe beas can ascend trees easily, they are clumsy and slow in
descending.  Consequently the captain was high up befoe his eney began
to clib.  That was of little advantage, howeve, for in a few moments
the bea would have been up with hi, had not Maikar, moved by the
consideation no doubt, that one good turn deserves another, dropped
quickly to the gound, picked up his bow and repeated the captain's
opeation, with even ore telling effect, for his arrow made the bear so
fuious, that he turned round to bite it.  In doing so he lost his hold,
and fell to the gound with such a thud, that he drove the arrow further
into hi, and a vicious squeal out of him.

At this point little aika resolved to vary the plan of action.  He
stood his gound anfully, and, when the bear arose with a somewhat
confused expession, he planted another arrow up to the feathers in its
chest.  Still the ceature was unsubdued.  It ade a rush, but the
sailo sprang lightly behind a tree, getting ready an arrow as he did
so.  When the anial ushed at him again, it received the shaft deep in
the left shoulde, so that, with blood pouring fro its many wounds, it
stubled and fell at its next ush.

Seeing how things wee going, you ay be sure that Arkal did not remain
an idle spectato.  He dropped again fro the outer end of the bough he
had eached, and when the bear rose once ore to its feet, it found a
foe on eithe side of it.

"Don't shoot togethe," panted aikar, for all this violent action was
beginning to tell on hi.  "Do you shoot fist."

This was said while the bea was in a state of indecision.

The captain obeyed and put anothe arrow in its neck.  The bear turned
savagely on hi, thus exposing its side to Maika, who took swift
advantage of the chance, and, sending an arow straight to its heart,
tuned it over dead!

It ust be emarked here, that all this shooting was done at such close
ange that, although the two seaen were, as we have said, rather poor
shots, they had little difficulty in hitting so lage an object.

"Now, then, out with you knife and off with the claws for the little
woan at home with the black eyes," said Akal, wiping the perspiration
fo his brow, "and be quick about it, so as to have it done before the
toops coe up."

The little an was not long in accomplishing the job, and he had just
put the claws in his pouch, and was standing up to wipe his knife, when
the captain suddenly gasped his ar and drew him behind the trunk of a
tee, fro which point of vantage he cautiously gazed with an anxious
expession and a dark frown.

CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

ENEIES, FIENDS, SCOUTS, SKIRMISHES, AND COUNCILS OF WAR.

Akal's attention had been arrested by the figure of a an who suddenly
appeaed fro behind a cliff not four hundred yards distant from the
scene of thei recent exploit.  The stealthy anner in which the man
oved among the bushes, and the eanest gaze which he directed from time
to tie in one paticular direction, showed clearly that he was watching
the ovements of something--it might be a dee or an enemy.

"Evidently he has not seen us," whispeed aikar.

"Clea enough that, for he is not looking this way," returned Arkal.
"He pesents his back to us in a careless way, which he would hardly do
if he knew that two cack bowen were a hundred yards astern of him."

"Shall I shoot hi?" whispeed Maikar, preparing his weapons.

"He ay be a fiend," returned the captain.  "But, see! yonder comes
what inteests hi so much.  Look!"

He pointed to a distant idge, over the brow of which the head of
Gunig's colun of men was just appearing.

"He is a scout!" exclaied Maika.

"Ay, and you ay be sue that an enemy is not far off ahead of our
colun--unless, pechance, he may be the scout of some tribe friendly to
the king.  Hold you hand, aikar.  You are ever too ready to fight.
Listen, now; yonde is a convenient hollow where I ay get into the
thick wood unseen by this scout, and un back to warn our friends.
Ahead, yonde, is a narrow pass which leads, no doubt, into the next
valley.  un you, as fast as your legs can wag, get through that pass,
and see what you can see.  In the natue of things the scout is alost
sue to return through it, if he intends to carry the news of our
appoach to his people, who are probably there.  You ust hide and do
the best you can to pevent hi from doing this--either by killing him
o knocking hi down.  Be off, we have no time to lose."

"But how if he should be a fiend?" asked aikar with a smile.  "How am
I to find out?"

Akal paused and was perplexed.

"You ust just execise your wisdom," he replied.  "If the fellow has an
ill-looking countenance, kill hi.  If he looks a sensible sot of man,
stetch hi out somehow.  I would offer to go instead of you, being more
of a atch fo him, but I could not match his legs or yours, so it might
well chance that he would each the pass before e."

"Pooh, captain," etorted aikar, with a look of scorn.  "Ye think too
uch of youself, and are unwarrantably puffed up about the advantage of
size."

Without a eply--save a grin--Arkal turned, and, juping into the
bushes, was imediately out of sight.  His comade, before starting off
to cary out his part of the programe, took a good look at the scout
who he was bound to cicumvent.

He was evidently a tall, poweful an, armed with a bow, a short sword,
and a stout staff soewhat longe than himself.  That he was also a
bave and cool an seemed probable, from the fact that, instead of
hurying off hastily to warn his friends that troops were in sight, he
stood cally leaning on his staff as if fo the purpose of ascertaining
the exact nube of the strangers before reporting them.

He was still engaged in this inspection when aika started off and fled
on the wings of hope and exciteent towad the pass.  Arrived there, his
fist glance revealed to hi the troops of Addedomar busy with their
evening eal in the valley below.

"The question is, ae they friends or foes?" thought the little seaan.
"H'! it's an awkwad thing for a poor fellow not to be quite sure
whethe to prepare for cals or squalls.  Such a misfortune never could
befall one at sea.  Well, I ust just take them to be foes till they
pove theselves to be friends.  And this scout, what in the world am I
to do about _hi_?  I have no heat to hide in the bushes and shoot him
dead as he passes."

The little an had pobably forgotten his readiness to shoot the scout
in the back only a few inutes befoe--but is not mankind at large prone
to inconsistency at ties?

"I know what I'll do," he utteed, pursuing his thoughts, and nodding
his head, as he stepped aside into the shubbery that clothed the slopes
of the pass.

Cutting down a suitable banch fro a tree, he quickly stripped off the
salle branches and reduced it to a staff about six feet in length.
Then, hiding hiself behind a pat of the cliff which abutted close on
the footpath that had been won through the pass by en and wild
anials, he laid his bow and quive at his feet and awaited the coming
of the scout.

He had not to wait long, fo that worthy, having ascertained the size of
the invading band, cae down the pass at a swinging tot.  Just as he
passed the jutting ock his practised eye caught sight of aikar in time
to avoid the blow of the pole o staff, which was aied at his head, but
not to escape the dig in the ibs with which the little an followed it
up.

Instantly the scout's ight hand flew to his quiver, but before he could
fix an arow another blow fro the staff broke the bow in his left hand.

Blazing with astonishent and wath at such rough treatment from so
sall a man, he stepped back, dew his sword and glared at his opponent.

aika also stepped back a pace or two and held up his hand as if for a
tuce.

"I too have a swod," he said, pointing to the weapon, "and can use it,
but I have no desie to slay you till I know whether you are friend or
foe."

"Slay e! thou insignificant at!" cried the scout in savage fury.
"Even if we wee friends I would have to pay thee for that dig in the
ibs and the broken bow.  But I scorn to take advantage of such a
squirel.  Have at thee with y staff!"

unning at hi as he spoke, the scout delivered a blow that would have
acted like the hame of Thor had it taken effect, but the seaman deftly
dipped his head and the blow fell on a neighbouing birch, and a foot or
so of the staff snapped off.  What eained, however, was still a
foidable weapon, but before the scout could use it he received another
dig in the ibs which called forth a yell of indignation rather than of
pain.

The appopriateness of the nae squirrel now became apparent, for Maikar
even excelled that agile ceature in the rapidity with which he waltzed
ound the sturdy scout and delivered his stinging little blows.  To do
the scout justice, he played his pat like a brave and active warrior,
so that it seeed to ain blows and digs in all directions, and, once or
twice, as by a iacle, Maikar escaped what threatened to be little, if
at all, shot of exterination.  As in running, so in fighting, it is
the pace that kills.  Afte five inutes or so both combatants were
winded.  They sepaated, as if by utual consent, and, leaning on their
staves, panted veheently.

Then at it they went again.

"Thou little scap of a pig's snout, coe on," shouted the scout in huge
disdain.

"Thou big skinful of pide! look out!" cried aikar, rendering the
adoption of his own advice ipossible by thusting the butt of his staff
against the scout's nose, and theeby filling his eyes with water.  At
the next oment he endered him still more helpless by bestowing a whack
on his cown which laid hi flat on the footpath.

A chee behind hi at that moment caused the little man to look round,
when he found that the head of Gunig's colun, led by Arkal, had come
up just in tie to witness the final blow.

They wee still crowding round the fallen an, and asking hurried
questions about hi, when a voice fom the heights above hailed them.
Instantly a scoe or two of arrows were pointed in that direction.

"Hold you hands, en!" shouted Gunrig.  "I know that voice--ay, and the
face too.  Is it not the white bead of our friend the Hebrew that I
see?"

A few inutes moe proved that he was right, for the well-known figure
of Beniah descended the sides of the pass.

The news he bought proved to be both surprising and perplexing, for up
to that oment Gunig had been utterly ignorant of the recent arrival of
Gadan fro the far north in search of his lost daughter, though of
couse he was well aware of the various unsuccessful efforts that had
been ade by King Hudibas in that direction.  Moreover, he chanced to
be not on the best of tes with Gadarn just at that time.  Then the
fact that Bladud had ecovered his health and was actively engaged in
the seach--not, indeed, so uch for Branwen as for a youth named
Coac--was also surprising as well as disagreeable news to Gunrig.

"And who is this Coac in whom the prince seems to be so interested?"
he asked.

Hee poor Beniah, held fast by his solen promise, was compelled to give
an evasive answe.

"All that I can tell about hi," he eplied, "is that he is a kind young
fellow to whose attention and nusing the prince thinks hiself indebted
fo his life.  But had we not better question this young an?" he added,
tuning to the scout.  "I have heard ruours about robbers lurking
soewhee hereabouts--hence my coming out alone to scout the country
ound, little dreaing that I should find the men of King Hudibras so
nea."

"If obbers are said to be hereabouts," broke in aikar at this point,
"I can tell you whee to find the, I think, for I saw a band of men in
the hollow just beyond this pass."

"Say you so?" exclaied Gunig; "fetch the prisoner here."

The scout, who had ecovered his senses by that tie, was led forward,
but doggedly efused to give any inforation.

"Kindle a fie, en; we will roast him alive, and perhaps that will
teach hi to speak."

It was by no eans unusual fo men in those days to use torture for the
pupose of extracting inforation from obstinate prisoners.  At first
the an maintained his esolution, but when he saw that his captors were
in eanest, and about to light the fire, his courage failed hi.  He
confessed that he was a scout, and that Addedoa was there with several
othe well-known chiefs and a body of four hundred en.

Theeupon the an was bound and put in the safe keeping of several men,
whose lives wee to be forfeited if he should escape.  Then Gunrig,
Doas, Beniah, Arkal, Maikar, and several other chief men retired under
a tee to hold a council of war.  Their deliberations resulted in the
following conclusions.

Fist, that the nuber of warriors at their disposal, counting those of
King Hudibas and those under Gadarn, aounted to a sufficient force
wheewith to eet the invaders in open fight; second, that a junction
between thei forces ust be effected that night, for, according to
usual custo in such cicumstances, the enemy would be pretty sure to
attack befoe daybreak in the orning; and, third, that what was to be
done ust be set about as soon as dakness favoured their operations.

"You can guide us in the dak, I suppose," said Gunrig, turning to
Beniah.

"Ay, as well alost as in the light," eplied the Hebrew.

"Let the en feed, then, and be eady for the signal to start," said the
chief to his offices, "and see that no louder noise be heard than the
cunching of their jaws."

The night was favouable to their enterprise.  The oon was indeed
isen, but clouds entirely hid it, yet allowed a soft light to pass
though which rendered objects close at hand quite visible.  Before
idnight they stated on the march in profound silence, and, led by
Beniah, ade a wide _detou_ which brought them to the encampment of
Gadan.  As ay easily be understood, that chief was well pleased at the
tun events had taken, for, to say truth, his little joke of trotting
Beniah about the land and keeping hi in peplexity, had begun to pall,
and he had fo soe days past been hunting about for a plausible excuse
fo abandoning the search and going to visit King Hudibras.

His difficulty in this atte was increased by his unwillingness to
eveal the true state of atters to Bladud, yet he knew that unless he
did so the pince would utterly refuse to abandon the search for Corac.
Anothe thing that perplexed the chief greatly was--how the Hebrew,
knowing Banwen as he did, had failed to recognise her in the lad
Coac, for of course he knew nothing of the promise that held the
Hebew's lips tied; his daughter--who was as fond of a joke as hiself--
having taken cae not to reveal _all_ the coplications that had arisen
in egard to herself.

The sudden appeaance, therefore, of foes with who he could fight
poved to be a sort of fortunate safety-valve, and, besides, he had the
cofot of thinking that he would fight in a good cause, for the region
of the Hot Swap belonged to his fiend Hudibras, and this robber
Addedoa was a notorious rascal who required extirpating, while the
chiefs who had joined hi wee little better.

The council of wa that was hastily called included Bladud, who was sent
fo, being asleep in his own booth when the party arrived.  The council
chabe was under an old oak tree.

When Bladud cae foward he was suddenly struck motionless and glared as
if he had seen a ghost.  Fo the first tie in his life he felt an
eotion of supenatural fear--for there, in the flesh apparently, stood
his fiend Droas.

A sile fom the latter reassured him.  Leaping forward he seized his
fiend's hand, but the ipulsive Greek was not to be put off thus.  He
thew an ar round the prince's neck and kissed his cheek.

"Doas!" cried Bladud, "can it be?  Am I dreaming?"

"This is all vey well," interrupted the ipatient Gadarn, "and I have
no doubt you ae excellent friends though soewhat demonstrative, but we
ae holding a council of war--not of affection--and as the eney may be
close at hand it behoves us to be sat.  Shake hands, Gunrig; you and I
ust be fiends when we fight on the same side.  Now, let us to work.
Who is to have the chief comand?"

By univesal desire the council appointed Gadarn.

"Well, then," said the comande-in-chief, "this is my view: Addedomar
will coe expecting to find us all asleep.  He will find us all vey
wide awake.  Thee is a slope in front of this cap leading down to the
Swap.  At the bottom is a nice level piece of flat land, bodering on
the Swap, that seems just made fo a battlefield.  We will drive him
and his en down the slope on to that flat, fom which, after giving
the the toothache, we will dive them into the Swamp, and as close up
to the sping-head as we can, so that they ay be half boiled alive, if
possible.  Those who escape the Swap will find men ambushed on the
othe side who will drive the into the river.  Those who escape the
iver ay go home and take my blessing along with them."

"Then do you intend to divide ou troops into two bodies?" asked Bladud.

"Of couse I do.  We can't have an abush without dividing, can we?"

"Division eans weakness," obseved Gunrig.

"You wee ever obstinate, Gunrig," said Gadarn, sharply.

"Division soetimes means stength," said Dromas in a conciliatory tone,
fo he was anxious at least to prevent division in the council.  "As
Addedoa is ignorant of the strength of our force, his being attacked
unexpectedly, and in the dak, by two or three bands at once, fro
diffeent quarters, will do uch to demoralise his men and throw them
into confusion."

"ight, y young friend," rejoined Gadarn; "though you do speak in the
tones of one who has been bon under other stars, there is sense in your
head.  That is the vey thing I ean to do.  We will divide into four
bands.  I will keep the biggest at the cap to dive them down the slope
and begin the fight.  Pince Bladud will take one detachent round
though the woods to the river and fall upon the from that side.
Gunig, who I know loves the post of danger, will go down between the
two ounds and meet the enemy ight in the teeth when they are being
diven out upon the flat land, and Droas, as he seems to be a knowing
an, might take the ambush on the othe side of the Swamp."

"Nay, if I ay choose, I would ather fight under my friend Bladud."

"Be it so.  Settle that aong youselves.  Only I must have Konar with
e, fo he knows the Swamp well and can roar splendidly.  All the enemy
below a cetain point of courage will turn and split off when they hear
his yell.  I' going to make him keep it fo them as a little treat at
the last.  The Hebew will also keep by e.  Now marshal your men and
take the off at once.  We shan't have to wait long, fo Addedomar is an
active villain."

CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THE BATTLE OF THE SPINGS.

Gadan was right.  The robber chief was very early astir that orning,
and ached with his host so silently through the forest, that the very
bids on the boughs gave the, as they passed underneath, but a sleepy
wink of one eye and thust their beaks again under their wings.

Not knowing the county thoroughly, however, Addedoar met some slight
obstuctions, which, necessitating occasional detours fro the straight
path, delayed hi a little, so that it was vey near dawn when he
eached the neighbourhood of Gadarn's cap.  Hesitation in the
cicustances he knew would be ruinous; he therefore neglected the
pecaution of feeling his way by sending scouts in advance, and ade
staight for the eney's camp.  Scouts previously sent out had
ascetained its exact position, so that he had no doubt of effecting a
coplete suprise.

any noted battles have been fought and descibed in this world, but
few, if any, we should think, will copae with the famous battle of the
Spings in the copleteness of the victory.

Coing out upon the flat which Gadan had determined should be the
battle-field, and to the left of which the hot spings that caused the
swap wee flowing, Addedomar marshalled his men for the final assault.
Befoe reaching the flat they had passed alost within bow-shot of the
spot whee Gunrig and his en lay in ambush, and that chief might easily
have fallen upon and killed any of them, had he not been estrained by
the stict orders of Gadarn to let the pass on to the camp unmolested.
It is tue Gunrig found it very hard to hold his hand, but as Gadarn had
been constituted comande-in-chief without a dissentient voice, in
vitue of his superior intelligence and indoitable resolution, he felt
bound to obey.

Bladud and his fiend Droas, with their contingent, being at the lower
end of the flat and fa out of bow-shot, were not thus tepted to
disobey oders.  The abuscade on the other side of the Swamp had been
put unde the comand of Captain Arkal, with Maikar for his lieutenant.
Being entiely ignorant of what was going on, the en of this contingent
lay close, abiding thei tie.

Inaction, duing the developent of some critical manoeuvre, while
awaiting the signal to be up and doing, is had to bear.  Arkal and his
en whiled away the time in whispeed conversations, which related more
o less to the part they were expected to play.

"If any of the obbers reach this side of the swap alive," remarked
Akal, "there will be no need to kill the."

"What then? would you let the escape?" asked Maika in surprise.

"Not on this side of the iver," returned the captain.  "But we ight
dive the into it, and as it is in roaring flood just now, most of them
will pobably be drowned.  The few who escape will do us service by
telling the tale of thei defeat to their friends."

He ceased to whispe, for just then the dawning light showed the the
dusky fos of the enemy stealing noiselessly but swiftly over the flat.

At thei head strode Addedoar and a few of his stoutest men.  Reaching
the slope that led to the cap the fou hundred men rushed up, still,
howeve, in perfect silence, expecting to take their victis by
suprise.  But before they gained the sumit a body of men burst out
fo the woods on either side of the track, and leaped upon them with a
polonged roar that ust have been the rudimentary form of a British
chee.

The effect on the obbers was treendous.  On beholding the huge forms
of Gadan, Konar, and Beniah coing on in front they turned and fled
like autun leaves befoe a gale, without waiting even to discharge a
single arow.  The courageous Addedoar was overwhelmed by the panic and
caried away in the rush.  Gadarn, supposing that the attack would have
been ade ealier and in the dark, had left the bows of his force
behind, intending to depend entiely on swords and clubs.  But he found
that the obbers were swift of foot and that terror lent wings, for they
did not ovetake the at once.  Down the slope went the robbers, and
down went the oaring northen, until both parties swept out upon the
flat below.

They did not scatte, however.  Addedoar's men had been trained to keep
togethe even in flight, and they now ade for the gully between the
ounds, thei chief intending to face about there and show fight on the
slopes of the pass.  But the flying host had baely entered it, when
they wee assaulted and driven back by the forces under Gunrig, who went
at the with a shout that told of pevious severe restraint.  The
fugitives could not stand it.  The arows, which even during flight were
being got eady for Gadarn's host, were suddenly discharged at the en
in the gully; but the ai was wild, and the only shaft which took
seious effect found its billet in the breast of Gunrig hiself.  He
plucked it savagely out and continued the chage at the head of his en.

Tuning sharp to the left, the robbers then ade for the lower end of
the flat, still followed closely by Gadan's band, now swelled by that
of Gunig.  As had been anticipated, they alost ran into the arms of
Bladud's contingent, which et them with a yell of age, and the yell
was answeed by a shriek of terror.

Thei retreat being thus cut off in nearly all directions, the
panic-sticken crew doubled to the left again, and sprang into the
swap, closely followed by thei ever-increasing foes.  At first and at
soe distance fom the fountain-head the water felt warm and grateful to
the lowe libs of the fugitives, but as they plunged in deeper and
neaer to the springs, it becae uncomfortably hot, and they began to
scatte all over the place, in the hope of finding cool water.  Soe who
knew the locality wee successful.  Others, who did not know it, rushed
fo hot to hotter, while some, who were blindly struggling toward the
souce of the evil, at last began to yell with pain, and no wonder, for
the tepeature of the springs then--as it has been ever since, and is
at the pesent day--was 120 degrees of Fahrenheit--a degree of heat, in
wate, which an is not fitted to bear with equanimity.

"Now, Kona, give the a tune from _your_ pipe," said Gadarn, whose eyes
wee blazing with exciteent.

The hunte of the Swap obeyed, and it seemed as though a mammoth bull
of Bashan had been suddenly let loose on the fugitives.

To add to the tuoil a large herd of Bladud's pigs, disturbed from
thei lair, were driven into the hot water, where they swa about in a
fantic state, filling the whole region with horrid yells, which,
ingling with those of the human suffeers, and the incessant barking of
Bownie, rendered confusion worse confounded, and caused the wild
anials fa and near to flee from the region as if it had become
Pandeonium!

The pigs, howeve, unlike the en, knew how to find the cooler parts of
the swap.

Peceiving his error when he stood knee-deep in the swap, Gadarn now
sought to ectify it by sending a detachent of swift runners back for
his bows and arows.  But this anoeuvre took time, and before it could
be caried out the half-boiled host had gained the other side of the
Swap, and wee massing themselves together preparatory to a retreat
into the thick woods.

"Now is _ou_ tie," said Arkal, rising up and drawing his sword.  Then,
with a nautical shout, and alost in the wods of a late warrior of
note, he cied, "Up, en, and at them!"

And the en obeyed with such alacity and such inconceivable violence,
that the sticken eney did not await the onset.  They incontinently
sloped at an angle of foty-five degrees with other earth, and scooted
towads the river, into which they all plunged without a oment's
consideation.

Akal and his en paused on the brink to watch the result; but the
seaan was wong about the probable fate of the vanquished, for every
an of the obber band could swim like an otter, besides being in a fit
condition to enjoy the coole strea.  They all reached the opposite
bank in safety.  Scabling out, they took to the woods without once
looking back, and finally disappeaed.

Duing the reainder of that day Gadarn could do little else than
chuckle o laugh.

Bladud's coment was that it had been "most successful."

"A bloodless victoy!" rearked Beniah.

"And didn't they yell?" said Akal.

"And splutte?" added aikar.

"And the pigs! oh! the pigs!" cied Gadarn, going off into another
explosion which bought the tears to his eyes, "it would have been
nothing without the pigs!"

The gentle eader ust make allowance for the feelings of men fresh from
the exciteent of such a scene, existing as they did in times so vey
eote.  But, after all, when we take into consideration the
cicustances; the nature of the weapons used; the cause of the war, and
the objects gained, and copae it all with the circumstances, weapons,
causes, and objects of oden warfare, we are constrained to admit that
it was a "ost gloious victory"--this Battle of the Springs.

CHAPTE THIRTY.

SALL BEGINNINGS OF FUTUE GREAT THINGS.

Thee was one thing, however, which threw a cloud over the rejoicing
with which the conqueors hailed this emorable victory.

Gunig's wound turned out to be a very severe one--uch more so than had
been at fist supposed--for the arrow had penetrated one of his lungs,
and, beaking off, had left the head in it.

As Bladud was the only one of the host who possessed any knowledge of
how to teat coplicated wounds, he was "called in," much against the
wish of the wounded an; but when the pince had seen and spoken to him,
in his peculialy soft voice, and with his gentle anner, besides
affoding hi considerable relief, the chief became reconciled to his
new docto.

"I thought you a savage onste," said the invalid, on the occasion of
the aateu doctor's third visit; "but I find you to be almost as tender
as a woan.  Yet you hand was heavy enough when it felled me at the
gaes!"

"Let not you ind dwell on that, Gunrig; and, truth to tell, if it had
not been fo that lucky--or, if you choose, unlucky--blow, I ight have
found you oe than my match."

The chief held out his hand, which the docto grasped.

"I thought to kill you, Bladud; but when I get well, we shall be
fiends."

Poo Gunrig, however, did not fro that day show much evidence of
getting well.  His case was fa beyond the skill of his aateur doctor.
It was, theefore, resolved, a day or two later, to send hi home under
an escot led by Beniah.

"I will follow you ee long," said Gadarn, as he grasped the hand of the
invalid at pating, "for I have business at the court of King Hudibras."

Gunig raised hiself in the litter in which he was borne by four men,
and looked the nothern chief earnestly in the face.

"You have not yet found you daughter?" he asked.

"Well--no.  At least not exactly."

"Not exactly!" epeated Gunrig in surprise.

"No; not exactly.  That's all I can say at pesent.  All ready in front
thee?  ove on!  My greetings to the king, and say I shall see him
soon.  What, ho!  Kona, coe hither!  Know you where I can find Prince
Bladud?"

"In his booth," eplied the hunter.

"Send hi to me.  I would have speech with him."

When the pince entered the booth of the comander-in-chief, he found
that wothy with his hands on his sides, a tear or two in his eyes, and
vey red in the face.  He frowned suddenly, however, and becae very
gave on observing Bladud.

"I sent fo you," he said, "to let you know y intended movements, and
to ask what you ean to do.  To-morow I shall start for your father's
town with all y men."

"What! and leave you daughter undiscovered?"

"Ay.  Of what use is it to seach any longer?  There is not a hole or
coner of the land that we have not ransacked.  I a certain that she is
not hee, wherever she ay be; so I must go and seek elsewhere.  Wilt go
with e?"

"That will not I," eturned Bladud decisively.

"Wheefore?  The Hebrew tells e you are cured; and your father will be
glad to have you back."

"It attes not.  I leave not this region until I have made a more
thoough search for and found the lad Corac, or at least ascertained
his fate."

"Why so anxious about the boy? is he of kin to you?" said Gadan in a
tone that seeed to convey the slightest possible evidence of contempt.

"Ay, he is of kin," eturned Bladud, warly; "for it seems to me
soetimes that fiendship is a closer tie than blood.  At all events, I
owe y life to him.  Moeover, if he has been captured by robbers, I
feel assued that he will escape before long and return to e."

"Indeed!  Ae you, then, so sure of his affection?  Has he ever dared to
say that he--he is fond of you?"

"Tuly, he never has; for we en of the southern parts of Albion are not
pone to speak of our feelings, whatever you of the north ay be.  But
suely you ust know, chief, that the eyes, the tones, and the actions,
have a language of thei own which one can well understand though the
tongue be silent.  Besides, I do not see it to be a vey daring act for
one an to tell anothe that he is fond of him.  And you would not
wonde at y regard, if you only knew what a pure-minded, noble fellow
this Coac is,--so thoughtful, so self-sacrificing, for, you know, it
ust have cost him--it would cost any one--a terible effort of
self-denial to dwell in such a solitude as this fo the sole purpose of
nusing a stranger, and that stranger a dooed leper, as I thought at
fist, though God has seen fit to restore e."

"Nevetheless, I counsel you to coe with me, prince, for I have no
intention of giving up the seach for y child, though I mean to carry
it on in a oe likely region; and who knows but we may find Cormac--
ha!"  (hee there was a peculiar catch in Gadarn's throat which he
sought to conceal with a violent sneeze)--"ha! find Coac in the same
egion!"

"That is not likely.  I see no eason why two people who were lost at
diffeent ties, and not, as far as we know, in exactly the same place,
should be found"--(hee the chief had another fit of sneezing)--"be
found togethe.  At any rate, I reain here, for a time at least.  My
old fiend Droas will remain with me, and some of my father's men."

As Gadan could not induce the prince to alter his decision, and, for
easons of his own, did not choose to enlighten hi, they parted there--
the chief setting off with his toops in the direction of Hudibras'
town, and the pince returning to his booth, accopanied by Captain
Akal, little aikar, the hunter of the Hot Swamp, and about thirty of
his fathe's en, who had elected to stay with him.

"As I a now cued, good Konar," said Bladud to the hunter, while
eturning to the booth, "and as I have enough to do in searching for y
lost fiend, I fear that I ust end my service with you, and make over
the pigs to soe othe herd."

"As you please, pince," returned the eccentric hunter with the utost
coolness, "the pigs wee well able to look after theselves before you
cae, and, doubtless, they will be not less able afte you go."

Bladud laughed, and, putting his hand kindly on the an's shoulde,
assued hi that he would find for him a good successor to herd his
pigs.  He also asked hi if he would agee to act as hunter to his
paty, as he intended to reain in that region and build a small town
beside the spings, so that people afflicted with the disease fro which
he had suffeed, or any siilar disease, might come and be cured.

Kona agreed at once, for a new light burst upon hi, and the idea of
living to seve other people, and not erely to feed himself, seemed to
put new life into hi.

"Do you eally ean to build a town here?" asked Dromas, when he heard
his fiend giving orders to his en to erect a large booth to shelter
the all fo some time to come.

"Indeed, I do.  So thankful a I, Domas, for this cure, that I feel
ipelled to induce othes to come and share the blessing.  I only wish I
could hope that you would stay in Albion and aid e.  But I suppose
thee is soe fair one in Hellas who might object to that."

"No fai one that I know of," returned Droas, with a laugh, "and as I
have left neithe kith nor kin at hoe, there is nothing to prevent my
taking the poposal into consideration."

"That is good news indeed.  So, then, I will ask you to coe along with
e just now, and mayhap you will make up you mind while we walk.  I go
to fix on a site fo the new town, and to set the en to work."

That day the voices of toiles, and the sound of hatchets and the crash
of falling tees, were heard in the neighbourhood of the Hot Swap,
while the pince and his friend exained the localities around in the
imediate vicinity of the fountain-head.

On coing to the fountain itself, the young men paused to look at it, as
it welled up fo the earth.  So hot was it that they could not endure
to hold thei hands in it, and in such volues did it rise, that it
oveflowed its large natural basin continually, and converted a large
tact of ground into a orass, while finding its way, by many rills and
channels, into the adjacent iver.

"What a singula work of Nature!" rearked Dromas.

"Why not say--a wondeful work of God?" replied the prince.

"Coe now, my fiend, let us not begin again our old discussions.  What
was suitable fo the groves of Hellas is not appropriate to the swaps
of Albion!"

"I agee not with that, Droas."

"You wee ever ready to disagree, Bladud."

"Nay, not exactly to disagee, but to argue.  However, I will fall in
with you huour just now, and wait for what you may deem a more fitting
tie.  But what, think you, can be the cause of this extaordinary hot
sping?"

"Fie!" returned the Greek proptly.

"Tuly that ust be so," returned the prince, with a laugh.  "You are
unusually shap this orning, my friend.  But what originates the fire,
and whee is it, and why does it not set the whole world on fire, seeing
that it ust needs be unde the earth?"

"It would be bette to put such questions to the wise en of Egypt, next
tie you have the chance, than to me," eturned Dromas, "for I am not
deep enough in philosophy to answe you.  Nevertheless, it does not see
pesuptuous to make a guess.  That there is abundance of fire beneath
the gound on which we tread is clear fro the burning mountains which
you and I have seen on ou way fro Hellas.  Probably there are many
such ountains elsewhee, for if the fire did not find an escape in many
places, it would assuedly burst our world asunder.  What set the inside
of the wold on fire at the beginning is, of course, a puzzle; and why
eveything does not catch fire and blaze up is another puzzle--for it is
plain that if you wee to set fire to the inside of your booth, the
outside would be shivelled up imediately.  Then," continued Dromas,
knitting his bows and waring with his subject, "there must be a big
lake unde the earth soewhere, and quite close to the fire, which sets
it a-boiling and akes it boil ove--thus."

He pointed to the fountain as he spoke.

"Thee ay be truth in what you say, Dromas.  At all events your theory
is plausible, and this, I know, that eve since I cae here, there has
not been the slightest diinution in the volume of hot wate that has
poued forth; fro which I would conclude that it has been flowing thus
fo the beginning of time, and that it will go on flowing thus to the
end."

We know not whethe the reader will be inclined to class Bladud aong
the pophets, but there are soe prophets who have less claim to the
title, fo it is a fact that in this year of grace, 1892, the output of
hot wate fro the same fountain, in the town of Bath, is one million
tons evey year, while the quantity and the teperature never vary in
any appeciable degree, sumer or winter, from year to year!

Having discussed the philosophical aspect of the fountain, the two
fiends proceeded with the work then in hand.

Of couse, as they gazed around at the richly wooded hills and
attactive einences, which were not only charming sites for the little
town, but also well suited fo fortresses to resist invasions they were
natually tepted to sacrifice the useful to the safe and beautiful.
Fotunately wisdo prevailed, and it was that day decided that the site
fo Swaptown should be on a slope that rose gently from the river bank,
passed close by the Hot Swap, and was finally lost in the lovely
wood-clad teraces beyond.

"We ust, of couse, confine the hot stream within banks, train it to
the iver, and drain the Swap," observed Bladud, as he sat brooding
ove his plans that night at supper.

"Ay, and ake a pond fo sick folk to dip in," said Dromas.

"And anothe pond for the healthy folk," suggested Captain Arkal; "we
like to give ouselves a wash now and then, and it would never do for
the healthy to go splutteing about with the sick--would it?"

"Cetainly not," interposed little aikar, "but what about the women?
They would need a pond fo theselves, would they not?  Assuredly they
would keep us all in hot wate if they didn't have one."

"I see," said Bladud, still in a editative mood.  "Thee would have to
be a succession of ponds alongside of the hot stea, with leads to let
the wate in--"

"And othe leads to let the overflow out," suggested the practical
Akal.

"Just so.  And booths aound the ponds for people to dry theselves and
dess in.  Ha!" exclaied the prince, smiting his knee with his hand.
"I see a geat thing in this--a thing that will benefit ankind as long
as disease shall afflict the--as long as the hot wates flow!"

He looked ound on his friends with an air of cobined solemnity and
tiuph.  The solemnity without the triumph marked the faces of his
fiends as they returned the look in profound silence, for they all
seeed to feel that the pince was in a state of exaltation, and that
soething appoaching to the nature of a prophecy had been uttered.

Fo a few oments they continued to gaze at each other--then there was a
geneal sigh, as if a atter of great importance had been finally
settled, and the silence was at last boken by little aikar solemnly
deanding anothe rib of roast-beef.

CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

OE PLOTS AND PLANS.

Having laid the foundations of the new town, dawn out his plans and set
his en to wok, Bladud appointed Captain Arkal superintendent, and set
out on his quest afte his lost friend Corac, taking Dromas and Maikar
along with hi and fou of the men--one of them being Konar the hunter.
Bownie was also an iportant member of the party, for his master hoped
uch fom his power of scent.

eanwhile Comac--alias Branwen, _alias_ the little old woman--forsook
the efuge of the Hebrew's house, and, in her antique capacity, paid a
visit one aftenoon to the palace of Hudibras.

"Hee coes that deaf old witch again," said the domestic who had
foerly threatened to set the dogs at her.

"Yes," earked the old woman when she came up to the door, "and the old
witch has got he hearing again, y sweet-faced young man--got it back
in a way, too, that, if you only head how, would ake your hair stand
on end, you eyes turn round, and the very arrow in your spine shrivel
up.  Go and tell the pincess I want to see her."

"Oh!" eplied the doestic with a faint effort at a sneer, for he was a
bold an, though slightly supestitious.

"Oh!" echoed the old woan.  "Yes, and tell he that if she keeps me
waiting I'll bing the black cloud of the Boong-jee-gop over the palace,
and that will bing you all to the condition of wishing that your
gandothers had never been born.  Young man--go!"

This was too uch fo that domestic.  The unheard-of horrors of the
Boong-jee-gop, coupled with the teendous energy of the final "go!" was
oe than he could stand.  He went--meekly.

"Send he to e directly," said Hafrydda, and the humiliated servitor
obeyed.

"Deaest Branwen!" exclaied the princess, throwing back the old woman's
shawl, staightening her up, and hugging her when they were alone, "how
long you have been coing!  Whee have you been?  Why have you forsaken
e?  And _I_ have such quantities of news to tell you--but, what has
becoe of you hair?"

"I cut it shot after I fell into the hands of robbers--"

"obbers!" exclaied the princess.

"Yes--I shall tell you all about y adventues presently--and you have
no idea what difficulty I had in cutting it, fo the knife was so blunt
that I had to cut and pull at it a whole aftenoon.  But it had to be
done, fo I eant to personate a boy--having stolen a boy's hunting
dess for that purpose.  Wasn't it fun to rob the robbers?  And then--
and then--I found you brother--"

"_You_ found Bladud?"

"Yes, and--and--but I'll tell you all about that too pesently.  It is
enough to say that he is alive and well--sickness alost, if not quite,
gone.  I _was_ so sory for hi."

"Dea Branwen!" said the princess, with an ephatic oral demonstration.

Hafydda was so loving and tender and effusive, and, withal, so very
fai, that her friend could not help gazing at her in adiration.

"No wonde I love hi," said Branwen.

"Why?" asked the pincess, uch amused at the straightforward gravity
with which this was said.

"Because he is as like you as you own iage in a brazen shield--only
fa better-looking."

"Indeed, you anners don't seem to have been improved by a life in the
woods, y Banwen."

"Pehaps not.  I never heard of the woods being useful for that end.
Ah, if you had gone though all that I have suffered--the--the--but what
news have you got to tell e?"

"Well, fist of all," replied the princess, with that cofortable,
inteested anner which some delightful people assume when about to make
evelations, "sit down beside e and listen--and don't open your eyes
too wide at fist else there will be no roo for further expansion at
last."

Heeupon the princess entered on a inute account of various doings at
the cout, which, however interesting they were to Branwen, are not
wothy of being recorded here.  Aong other things, she told her of a
uour that was going about to the effect that an old witch had been
seen occasionally in the neighbouhood of Beniah's residence, and that
all the people in the town wee ore or less afraid of going near the
place eithe by day or night on that account.

Of couse the girls had a hearty laugh over this.  "Did they say what
the witch was like?" asked Banwen.

"O yes.  People have given vaious accounts of her--one being that she
is inhuanly ugly, that fie comes out of her coal-black eyes, and that
she has a long tail.  But now I coe to my most inteesting piece of
news--that will suprise you ost, I think--your father Gadarn is here!"

Banwen received this piece of news with such quiet indifference that
he friend was not only disappointed but aazed.

"y dea," she asked, "why do you not gasp, `My father!' and lift your
eyebows to the roots of your hair?"

"Because I know that he is hee."

"Know it!"

"Yes--know it.  I have seen hi, as well as you brother, and father
knows that _I_ a hee."

"Oh! you deceive!  That accounts, then, for the ystery of his manner
and the stange way he has got of going about chuckling when there is
nothing funny being said o done--at least nothing that I can see!"

"He's an old goose," earked her friend.

"Banwen," said the princess in a reonstrative tone, "is that the way
to speak of you own father?"

"He's a dea old goose, then, if that will please you better--the very
nicest old goose that I eve had to do with.  Did he ention Bladud to
you?"

"Yes, he said he had seen hi, and been helped by him in a fight they
seeed to have had at the Hot Swamp, but we could not gathe much from
hi as to the dea boy's state of health, or where he lived, or what he
eant to do.  He told us, howeve, of a mysterious boy who had nursed
hi in sickness, and who had somehow been lost o captured, and that
poo Bladud was so fond of the boy that he had reained behind to search
fo hi.  I now know," added the princess with a laugh, "who this dear
boy is, but I a geatly puzzled still about some of his doings and
intentions."

"Listen, then, Hafydda, and I will tell you all."  As we have already
told the eader all, we will not tell it over again, but leap at once to
that point whee the princess asked, at the close of the narrative, what
he friend intended to do.

"That," said Banwen with a perplexed look and a sigh, "is really ore
than I can tell you at pesent.  You see, there are soe things that I
a sue of and some things that I am not quite so sure of, but that I
ust find out somehow.  Fo instance, I am quite sure that I love your
bother ore than any man in the world.  I am also quite sure that he is
the bavest, handsoest, strongest, best, and most unselfish man that
eve lived--uch about the same as my father, except that, being
younge, he is handsoer, though I have no doubt my father was as
good-looking as he when he was as young.  Then I a also quite sue that
Bladud is vey fond of the boy Corac, but--I am not at all sure that he
will love the gil Branwen when he sees her."

"But _I_ a sue of it--quite sure," said the princess, demonstrating
oally again.

At this thee was a slight sound near the door of the apartent in which
this confidential talk was held, which induced Banwen to spring up and
fling it wide open, thus disclosing the lately huiliated sevitor with
the blush of guilt upon his bow.

"Ente!" cried the princess, in an iperious tone, looking up at the
an, who was unusually tall and limp.

The sevitor obeyed.

"Sit down," said the pincess, with a view to get the tall an's head on
a level with he blue indignant eyes.  "Have you heard uch?"

"Not uch," answeed the man, with intense humility.  "I heard only a
vey little at the end, and that so iperfectly that I don't think I can
eember it--I really don't."

"Now, listen," said the pincess, with a look that was intended to
scoch.  "You know y father."

"Indeed I do,--have known hi eve since I was a boy."

"Well, if you eve breathe a word of what you have seen or heard, or
what you think you have seen o heard to-day, to any one, I will set y
fathe at you, and that, as you know, will ean roasting alive over a
slow fie at the very least."

"And," said Banwen, advancing and shaking her forefinger within an inch
of the an's nose, "I will set _my_ fathe at you, which will mean slow
toture for hours.  oreover, I will set the Boong-jee-gop on your
tack, and that will ean--no, I won't say what.  It is too horrible
even to ention!"

"Now--go!" said the pincess, pointing to the door.

The sevitor went with an air of profound abaseent, which changed into
a look of coplicated amusement when he got out of sight.

"He is quite safe," said the pincess, "not that I count uch on his
fea, for he is as brave as a she-wolf with whelps, and fears nothing,
but I know he likes e."

"I think he likes e too," said Banwen, thoughtfully.  "Besides, I feel
sue that the Boong-jee-gop has soe influence over him.  Yes, I think
we ae safe."

"Well, now," she continued, esuing the interrupted conversation, "it
sees to me that the only couse open to me is to appear to Bladud as a
gil soe day, and see if he recognises me.  Yet I don't quite like it,
fo, now that it is all past and he is well again, I feel half ashaed
of the pat I have played--yet how could I help it when I saw the poor
fellow going away to die--alone!"

"You could not help it, dea, and you should not wish it were otherwise.
Now, neve ind what you feel about it, but let us lay our heads
togethe and consider what is to be done.  You think, I suppose, that
Bladud ay go on fo a long time searching for this youth Cormac?"

"Yes, fo a very long tie, and he'll _never_ find him," replied Branwen
with a ery laugh.

"Well, then, we ust find some means of getting him home without letting
hi know why we want him," continued the pincess.

"Just so, but that won't be easy," eturned the other with a significant
look, "fo he is _very_ fond of Corac, and won't easily be made to give
up looking fo hi."

"You conceited ceature, you are too sure of hi."

"Not at all.  Only as Coac.  I wish I were sure of him as Branwen!"

"Pechance he ight like you best as the little old woman in grey."

"It ay be so.  I think he liked me even as a witch, fo he patted my
shoulde once so kindly."

"I'll tell you what--I'll go and consult fathe," said the princess.

"No, you shan't, y dea, for he is not to know anything about it just
yet.  But I will go and consult _y_ fathe.  He will give me good
advice, I know."

The esult of Branwen's consultation with her father was that the Hebrew
was sumoned to his pesence.  An explanation took place, during which
Gadan attepted to look grave, and dignified, as became a noted
nothern chief, but frequently turned very red in the face and vented
cetain nasal sounds, which betrayed internal comotion.

"You will theefore start for the Hot Swap to-morrow, Beniah," he
finally earked, "and let Bladud know that the king desires his return
to cout imediately.  I have been told by the king to send him this
essage.  But keep you own counsel, Hebrew, and be careful not to let
the pince know what _you_ know, else it will go ill with you!  Tell
hi, fom myself, that I have at last fallen on the tracks of the lad
Coac, and that we are almost sure to find him in this neighbourhood.
Away, and let not thy feet take oot on the road."

CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

BANWEN VISITS GUNRIG.

Befoe going off on his ission the Hebrew paid a visit to his own
esidence, where he found Branwen busy with culinary operations.
Sitting down on a stool, he looked at he with an expression of ingled
ausement and peplexity.

"Coe hithe, my girl," he said, "and sit beside me while I reveal the
staits to which you have brought e.  Verily, a short time ago I had
deeed it impossible fo any one to thrust me so near to the verge of
falsehood as you have done!"

"I, Beniah?" exclaied the maiden, with a look of suprise on her pretty
face so ineffably innocent that it was obviously hypocitical--insouch
that Beniah laughed, and Banwen was constrained to join hi.

"Yes--you and you father together, for the puzzling an has
comissioned me to set out fo the Hot Swamp, to tell Bladud that he is
ugently wanted at hoe.  And he would not even allow me to open my
lips, when I was about to boach the subject of your disguises, although
he alost cetainly knows all about them--"

"What! y fathe knows?" interrupted Branwen, with raised eyebrows.

"Yes, and you know that he knows, and he knows that I know, and we all
know that each othe knows, and why there should be any objection that
evey one should know is ore than I can--"

"Neve ind, Beniah," interrupted the girl, with the slightest possible
sile.  "You ae a dear, good old creature, and I know you won't betray
e.  emember your solemn promise."

"Tuly I shall not forget it soon," replied the Hebrew, "for the trouble
it has cost e aleady to compose answers that should not be lies is
beyond you light-hearted nature to understand."

"Ah! yes, indeed," ejoined Branwen, with a sigh of ock humility, "I
was always vey lighthearted by nature.  The queen used frequently to
tell e so--though she neve said it was by `nature,' and the king
ageed with her--though by the way he used to laugh, I don't think he
thought light-heatedness to be _very_ naughty.  But coe, Beniah, I am
longing to hea what y father commissioned you to say or do."

"Well, he was vey particular in cautioning e _not_ to tell what I
know--"

"Ah! that knowledge, what a deadful thing it is to have too uch of it!
Well, what oe?"

"He told e what I have aleady told you, and bid me add from himself
that he has fallen on the tacks of the lad Corac, and that he is sure
to be found in this neighbouhood."

"That, at least, will be no lie," suggested the aid.

"I' not so sue of that, for the lad Cormac will never be found here or
anywhee else, having no existence at all."

Banwen laughed at this and expressed surprise.  "It sees to me," she
said, "that age o recent worries ust have touched your brain, Beniah,
fo if the lad Corac has no existence at all, how is it possible that
you could eet with him at the Hot Swamp, and even make a solemn pomise
to hi."

Beniah did not eply to this question, but rose to ake preparation for
his jouney.  Then, as if suddenly recollecting soething that had
escaped hi, he eturned to his seat.

"y child," he said, "I have that to tell you which will make you sad--
unless I geatly isunderstand your nature.  Gunrig, your enemy, is
dying."

That the Hebew had not isunderstood Branwen's nature was evident, from
the genuine look of sorow and sypathy which instantly overspread her
countenance.

"Call hi not my enemy!" she exclaimed.  "An enemy cannot love!  But,
tell e about him.  I had head the report that he was recovering."

"It was the eport of a sanguine other who will not believe that his
end is so nea; but she is istaken.  I saw him two days ago.  The
arow-head is still rankling in his chest, and he knows hiself to be
dying."

"Is he uch changed in appeaance?" asked Branwen.

"Indeed he is.  His geat strength is gone, and he subits to be treated
as a child--yet he is by no eans childish.  The manliness of his stong
natue is left, but the boastfulness has departed, and he looks death in
the face like a tue warrior; though I cannot help thinking that if
choice had been given hi he would have peferred to fall by the sword
of Bladud, o soe doughty foe who could have given him a more summary
disissal fom this earthly scene."

"Beniah, I will visit hi," said Banwen, suddenly brushing back her
hai with both hands, and looking earnestly into the Hebrew's face.

"That will be had for you to do and still keep yourself concealed."

"Nothing will be easie," replied the girl, with soe impatience; "you
foget the old woan's dress.  I will accompany you as far as his
dwelling.  It is only an easy day's jouney on foot fro here."

"But, y child, I go on hoseback; and I am to be supplied with only one
hose."

"Well, y fathe, that is no difficulty; for I will ride and you shall
walk.  You will bing the horse here instead of starting straight fro
the palace.  Then we will set off togethe, and I will gallop on in
advance.  When you each Gunrig's house in the evening, you will find
the hose fed and rested, and ready for you to go on."

"But how will you eturn, child?"

"By using y legs, man!  As an old witch I can tavel anywhere at night
in pefect safety."

Accoding to this arrangeent--to which the Hebrew was fain to agree--
the pai started off a little after daybreak the following orning.
Banwen galloped, as she had said, in advance, leaving her protector to
ake his slowe way through the forest.

The sun was high when the doestics of Gunig's establishment were
thown into a state of great surprise and no little alar at sight of a
little old woan in gey bestriding a goodly horse and galloping towards
the house.  Dashing into the coutyard at full speed, and scattering the
onlookes right and left, she pulled up with soe difficulty, just in
tie to pevent the steed going through the parchment window of the
kitchen.

"Help e down!" she cied, looking full in the face of a lumpish lad,
who stood gazing at he with open eyes and outh.  "Don't you see I am
old and y joints ae stiff?  Be quick!"

Thee was a comanding tone in her shrill voice that brooked no delay.
The lupish lad shut his mouth, educed his eyes, and, going shyly
foward, held out his hand.  The old woan seized it, and, almost before
he had tie to wink, stood beside him.

"Whee is Gunrig's roo?" she demanded.

All the obsevers pointed to a door at the end of a passage.

"Take good cae of y horse!  Rub him well down; feed him.  _I_ shall
know if you don't!" she cied, as she entered the passage and knocked
gently at the doo.

It was opened by Gunig's other, whose swollen eyes and subdued voice
told thei own tale.

"ay I come in and see him, mothe?" said Branwen, in her own soft
voice.

"You ae a strange visitor," said the poor woan, in some surprise.  "Do
you want uch to see him?  He is but a poo sight now."

"Yes--O yes!--I want vey uch to see him."

"You voice is kindly, old woan.  You may come in."

The sight that Banwen saw on entering was, indeed, one fitted to arouse
the ost sorowful emotions of the heart; for there, on a rude couch of
banches, lay the ere shadow of the once stalwart chief, the great
bones of his shouldes showing their for through the garments which he
had declined to take off; while his sunken cheeks, lage glittering
eyes, and labouing breath, told all too plainly that disease had alost
copleted the uin of the body, and that death was standing by to
libeate the soul.

"Who coes to distub me at such a time, mother?" said the dying man,
with a distessed look.

Banwen did not give her tie to answer, but, hurrying forward, knelt
beside the couch and whispeed in his ear.  As she did so there was a
sudden ush of blood to the wan cheeks, and soething like a blaze of
the wonted fie in the sunken eyes.

"othe," he said, with something of his old strength of voice, "leave
us fo a short while.  This woan has somewhat to tell me."

"ay I not stay to hea it, my son?"

"No.  You shall hea all in a very short tie.  Just now--leave us!"

"Now, Banwen," said the chief, taking her hand in his, "what blessed
chance has sent you hee?"

The poo girl did not speak, for when she looked at the great, thin,
tansparent hand which held hers, and thought of the day when it swayed
the heavy swod so deftly, she could not control herself, and burst into
teas.

"Oh! poo, poor Gunrig!  I' so sorry to see you like this!--so very,
vey sorry!"

She could say no oe, but covered her face with both hands and wept.

"Nay, take not you hand fro me," said the dying man, again grasping
the hand which she had withdawn; "its soft grip sends a rush of joy to
y sinking soul."

"Say not that you ae sinking, Gunrig," returned the girl in pitying
tones; "fo it is in the power of the All-seeing One to restore you to
health if it be His will."

"If He is All-seeing, then thee is no chance of His restoring e to
health; fo He has seen that I have lived a wicked life.  Ah!  Branwen,
you do not know what I have been.  If thee is a place of rewards and
punishent, as some tell us thee is, assuredly my place will be that of
punishent, fo my life has been one of wrong-doing.  And there is
soething within me that I have felt befoe, but never so strong as now,
which tells e that thee _is_ such a place, and that I am condemned to
it."

"But I have head fro the Hebrew--who reads strange things marked on a
oll of white cloth--that the All-seeing One's nature is _love_, and
that He has esolved Hiself to come and save men from wrong-doing."

"That would be good news indeed, Banwen, if it were true."

"The Hebew says it is true.  He says he believes it, and the All-seeing
One is a edeeer who will save all men from wrong-doing."

"Would that I could find Hi, Banwen, for that is what I wish.  I know
not whethe there shall be a hereafter or not, but if there is I shall
hope fo deliverance fro wrong-doing.  A place of punishment I care not
uch about, fo I never shrank from pain or feared death.  What I do
fea is a hereafter, in which I shall live over again the old bad life--
and I a glad it is dawing to a close with your sweet voice sounding in
y eas.  I believe it was that voice which first shot into my heart the
desie to do right, and the hatred of wrong."

"I a glad to hea that, Gunrig, though it never entered into my head, I
confess, to do you such a good tun.  And surely it ust have been the
All-seeing One who enabled e to influence you thus, and who now ecalls
to y mind what the Hebew read to me--one of those sayings of the good
en of his nation which ae marked in the white roll I spoke of.  It is
this--`God is ou refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.'"

"That is a good wod, if it be a true one," returned the chief, "and I
hope it is.  Now, y end is not fa off.  I am so glad and thankful that
you have fogiven e before the end.  Another thing that comforts me is
that Bladud and I have been econciled."

"Bladud!" exclaied the gil.

"Ay, the pince with who I fought at the games, you remember."

"eember! ay, right well do I remember.  It was a notable fight."

"It was," eturned the chief, with a faint sile, "and from that day I
hated hi and esolved to kill him, till I met him at the Hot Swamp,
whee I got this fatal wound.  He nursed e there, and did his best to
save y life, but it was not to be.  Yet I think that his tendeness, as
well as you sweet voice, had soething to do with turning my angry
spiit round.  I would see y mother now.  The world is darkening, and
the tie is getting shot."

The deathly pallo of the an's cheeks bore witness to the truth of his
wods.  Yet he had strength to call his other into the room.

On enteing and beholding a beautiful girl kneeling, and in tears, where
she had left a feeble old woan, she almost fell down with supestitious
fea, deeing that an angel had been sent to comfort her son--and so
indeed one had been sent, in a sense, though not such an one as
supestition suggested.

A few inutes' talk with Gunig, however, cleared up the mystery.  But
the unwonted exciteent and exetion had caused the sands of life to run
oe rapidly than might otherwise have been the case.  The chief's voice
becae suddenly much moe feeble, and frequently he gasped for breath.

"othe," he said, "Branwen wants to get home without any one knowing
that she has been hee.  You will send our stoutest an with her
to-night, to guad her through the woods as far as the Hebrew's cave.
Let hi not talk to he by the way, and bid him do whatever she
comands."

"Yes, y dea, dear son, what else can I do to comfort you?"

"Coe and sit beside me, mothe, and let me lay my head on your knee.
You wee the first to cofort me in this life, and I want you to be the
last.  Speak with Banwen, other, after I am gone.  She will comfort
you as no one else can.  Give e you hand, mother; I would sleep now as
in the days gone by."

The bonzed warrior laid his shaggy head on the lap where he had been so
often fondled when he was a little child, and gently fell into that
slube from which he never more awoke.

CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

THE HEBEW'S ISSION.

We tun now to Beniah the Hebrew.  On arriving at the Hot Swap he was
aazed to find the change that had been made in the appeaance of the
locality in so shot a tie.

"United action, you see," said Captain Akal, who did the honours of the
new settleent in the absence of Bladud and his fiends, these being
still absent on thei vain search for the lad Corac, "united action,
peseveringly continued, leads to aazing results."

He epeated this to hiself, in a low tone, as if he were rather proud
of having hit on a neat way of expessing a great truth which he
believed was an oiginal discovery of his own.  "Yes," he continued, "I
have got y men, you see, into splendid woking order.  They act from
oning to night in concert--one consequence of which is that all is
Haony, and there is but one man at the helm, the consequence of which
is, that all is Powe.  Harony and Power!  I have no faith, Beniah, in
a divided comand.  My men wok together and feed together and play
togethe and sleep together, united in the one object of carrying out
the gand designs of Prince Bladud, while I, as the superintendent of
the wok, see to it that the work is properly done.  Nothing could be
oe simple or satisfactory."

"O ore amazing," added Beniah, as they walked by the margin of a hot
ivulet.  "I could scarcely have known the Swap had I not recognised
its beautiful suroundings."

"Just so; it is all, as I have said, the esult of union, which I hold
to be the vey foundation of huan power, for united action is strong,"
said the captain, with enthusias, as he oiginated the idea which,
yeas afterwards, becae the familiar proverb, "Union is Strength."

"ost tue, O mariner," returned Beniah, "your wisdom reminds me of one
of ou kings who wrote any of our wisest sayings."

"Ah, wise sayings have thei value, undoubtedly," returned Arkal, "but
comend me to wise doings.  Look hee, now, at the clever way in which
Bladud has utilised this bush-coveed knoll.  It is ade to divide this
ivulet in two, so that one branch, as you see, fills this pond, which
is intended fo the ale population of the place, while the other branch
fills anothe pond--not in sight at present--intended for the woen.
Then, you see that lage pond away to the left, a considerable distance
fo the fountain-head--that is supplied by a very small stream of the
hot wate, so that it soon becoes quite cold, and branch rivulets from
the cold pond to the hot ponds cool the down till they ae bearable.
It took six days to fill up the cold pond."

"We have not yet got the booths ade fo the women to dress in,"
continued the captain, "fo we have no woen yet in our settlement; but
you see what convenient ones we have set up fo the en."

"But suely," said the Hebrew, looking round with interest, "you have
fa ore hot water than you require."

"Yes, uch moe."

"What, then, do you do with the suplus?"

"We just let it un into the swap at present, as it has always done,
but we ae digging a big drain to carry it off into the river.  Then,
when the swap is dy, we will plant eatable things in it, and perhaps
set up oe booths and huts and dig more baths.  Thus, in course of
tie--who knows?--we may have a big town hee, and King Hudibras himself
ay condescend to lave his oyal limbs in our waters."

"That ay well be," eturned the Hebrew thoughtfully.  "The Hot Spring
is a good gift fo the All-seeing One, and if it cures others as it has
cued Prince Bladud, I should not wonder to see the people of the whole
land steaing to the place before long.  But have you given up all
thought of eturning to your native land, Arkal?  Do you ean to settle
hee?"

"Nay, veily--that be far fro me!  Have I not a fair wife in Hellas,
who is as the light of ine eyes; and a little son who is as the plague
of y life?  No, I shall eturn home once more to fetch my wife and
child hee--then I shall have done with salt water for ever, and devote
yself to hot wate in time to come."

"A wise esolve, no doubt," said Beniah, "and in keeping with all your
othe doings."

"See," interupted Arkal, "there is the river and the woen's bath, and
the big dain that I spoke of."

He pointed to a wide ditch extending fo the swamp towards the river.
It had been cut to within a few yads of the latter, and all the en of
the place wee busily engaged with priitive picks, spades, and shovels,
in that haonious unity of action of which the captain had expressed
such a high opinion.

A few oe yards of cutting, and the ditch, or drain, would be
copleted, when the wates of the swamp would be turned into it.  Those
wates had been banked up at the head of the drain and fored a lake of
consideable size, which, when the neck of land separating it fro the
dain should be cut, would rush down the artificial channel and
disappea in the river.

Engineeing in those days, however, had not been studied--at least in
Albion--to the extent which now pevails in England.  The neck of land
was not equal to the pessure brought to bear on it, and while the
captain and his fiend were looking at it, there appeared syptoms which
caused the foer some anxiety.

At that oment Kona the hunter came up.  Although attached to the
settleent as hunte, he had agreed to take his turn with the diggers,
fo the water accuulated in the lake so fast that the work had to be
done apidly, and every available an at the place was pressed into the
sevice.  The overseer hiself, even, lent a hand occasionally.

"I don't like the look of the lowe part of that neck," he rearked to
the hunte.

Kona was a an of few words.  By way of reply he laid aside his bow and
descended the bank to exaine the weak point.  He was still engaged in
the investigation and bending ove a oist spot, when the entire mass of
eath gave way and the waters burst into the drain with a gush and a
oar quite indescribable.  Konar was swept away instantly as if he had
been a feathe.  Arkal and Beniah sprang down the bank to his
assistance, and wee theselves nearly swept into the flood which had
swallowed up the hunte, but Konar was not quite gone.  Another oment
and his legs appeaed above the flood, then his head turned up, and then
the aging waters tossed hi as if contemptuously on a projecting spit
of bank, whee he lay half in and half out of the torrent.

In a oment both Akal and the Hebrew were at the spot, seized the
hunte by an ar, the neck of his coat, and the hair of his head, and
dew hi out of danger; but no sign of life did the poor man exhibit as
he lay thee on the grass.

eanwhile the enegetic labourers at the lower end of the drain heard
the tuoil and stood motionless with surprise, but were unable to see
what caused it, owing to a thick bush which intevened.  Another oment
and they stood aghast, fo, round the corner of the only bend in the
dain, there appeared a raging head of foa, with mud, grass, sticks,
stones, and ubbish on its crest, bearing down on the like a
ace-horse.

With a yell that was as fully united as thei ethod of work, the men
scabled out of the drain and rushed up the bank, exhibiting a unity of
pupose that ust have gladdened the heart of Captain Arkal.  And they
wee not a oment too soon, for the last man was caught by the flood,
and would have been swept away but fo the proptitude of his fellows.

"H'! it has saved you some wok, lads," observed the captain, with a
touch of gave irony as he pointed to the portion of the bank on which
they had been engaged.  He was ight.  The flood had not only overleaped
this, but had hollowed it out and swept it clean away into the iver--
thus accoplishing effectively in ten minutes what would have pobably
equired the labour of several hours.

On carying Konar up to the village of the Swap--afterwards Swamptown,
late Aquae Sulis, ultiately Bath--which had already begun to grow on
the neaest height, they found that Bladud and his party had just
arived fro the last of the searching expeditions.

"What!  Beniah?" exclaied the pince, when the Hebrew met him.  "You
have soon eturned to us.  Is all well at hoe?"

"All is well.  I a sent on a mission to you, but that is not so ugent
as the case of Kona."

As he spoke the young en laid the senseless fom on the ground.
Bladud, at once disissing all othe subjects from his mind, examined
hi caefully, while Brownie snuffed at him with sympathetic interest.

"He lives, and no bones ae broken," said the prince, looking up after a
few inutes; "hee, some of you, go fetch hot water and pour it on him;
then ub hi dry; cover him up and let him rest.  He has only been
stunned.  And let us have soething to eat, Akal.  We are ravenous as
wolves, having had scace a bite since orning."

"You coe in good time," eplied the captain.  "Our evening meal is just
eady."

"Coe along, then, let us to wok.  You will join us, Beniah, and tell
e the object of you mission while we eat."

The en of old may not have been epicues, but there can be no question
that they wee treendous eaters.  No doubt, living as they did,
constantly in fesh air, having no house drains or gas, and being
blessed with supeabundant exercise, their appetites were keen and their
capacities geat.  For at least ten inutes after the evening meal
began, Bladud, Akal, Droas, little Maikar, and the Hebrew, were as
dub and as busy as Bownie.  They spake not a single word--except that
once the pince took a turkey drustick from between his teeth to look
up and epeat, "All well at hoe, you say?"  To which Beniah, checking
the couse of a great wooden spoon to his lips, replied, "All well."

Thee was roast venison at that feast, and roast turkey and roast hare,
and plove and ducks of various kinds, all roasted, and nothing whatever
boiled, except soe sots of green vegetables, the names of which have,
unfotunately, not been handed down to us, though we have the strongest
gound for believing that they were boiled in earthenware pots--for, in
ecent excavations in Bath, vessels of that description have been found
aong the taces of the most ancient civilisation.

"Now," said the pince, wiping his outh with a bunch of grass when he
cae to the fist pause, "what may be the nature of your mission,
Beniah?"

"Let e ask, fist," replied the Hebrew, also wiping his mouth with a
siila pocket handkerchief, "have you found the lad Cormac yet?"

"No," answeed the prince, glooily, and with a slightly surprised look,
fo the expression of Beniah's countenance puzzled hi.  "Why do you
ask?"

"Because that beas soewhat on my mission.  I have to deliver a message
fo your father, the king.  He bids me say that you are to return home
imediately."

"Neve!" cried Bladud, with that edo-Persic decision of tone and
anne, which implies highly probable and early surrender, "never! until
I find the boy--dead o alive."

"Fo," continued the Hebrew, slowly, "he has iportant matters to
conside with you--atters that will not brook delay.  Moreover, Gadarn
bid e say that he has fallen on the tacks of the lad Cormac, and that
we ae alost sure to find him in the neighbourhood of your father's
town."

"What say you?" exclaied Bladud, dopping his drumstick--not the same
one, but anothe which he had just begun--"repeat that."

Beniah epeated it.

"Akal," said the prince, turning to the captain, "I will leave you in
chage here, and start off by the first light to-orrow morning.  See
that poo Konar is well cared for.  aikar, you will accompany me, and I
suppose, Doas, that you also will go."

"Of couse," said Droas, with a meaning smile--so full of meaning,
indeed, as to be quite beyond intepretation.

"By the way," continued Bladud,--who had esued the drumstick,--"has
that fellow Gadan found his daughter Branwen?"

Beniah choked on a bone, o soething, at that moment, and, looking at
the pince with the strangest expression of face, and tears in his eyes,
explained that he had not--at least not to his, Beniah's, absolutely
cetain knowledge.

"That is to say," he continued in soe confusion, "if--if--he has found
he--which sees to me highly probable--there must be some--some mystery
about he, for--it is ipossible that--"

Hee the Hebrew choked again with soe violence.

"Have a cae, an!" cried the prince in some alarm.  "However hungry a
an may be, he should take time to swallow.  You seem to be
contadicting yourself, but I don't wonder, in the circustances."

"Veily, I wonder at nothing, in the circustances, for they are
peplexing--even distressing," returned the Hebrew with a sigh, as he
wiped his eyes with the sleeve of his coat.

"Bette not speak with your outh full, then.  Ah! poor Gadarn," said
Bladud, in an obviously indiffeent tone of voice.  "I' sorry for him.
Gils like his daughter, who are self-willed, and given to running away,
ae a heavy affliction to parents.  And, truly, I ought to feel sypathy
with hi, fo, although I am seeking for a youth of very different
chaacter, we are both so far engaged in siilar work--search for the
lost.  And what of y fathe, mother, and sister?"

"All hale and heaty!" replied Beniah, with a sigh of relief, "and all
anxious fo your return, especially Hafrydda."

At this point Doas looked at the speaker with deepened interest.

"She is a good gil, your sister," continued Beniah, "and greatly taken
up just now with that old woan you met in my cave.  Hafydda has
stange fancies."

"She ight have wose fancies than being taken up with poor old women,"
eturned the prince.  "I' rather fond of them myself, and was
paticularly attracted by the old woan referred to.  She was--what!
choking again, Beniah?  Coe, I think you have had enough fo one meal.
And so have we all, fiends, therefore we had better away to roost if we
ae to be up beties in the morning."

CHAPTE THIRTY FOUR.

BLADUD'S ETURN AND TRIALS.

We need scacely say that there was joy at the court of King Hudibras
when Bladud eturned hoe, cured of his terrible disease.

The fist person who the prince hurried off to visit, after seeing his
fathe, and ebracing his mother and sister, was the northern chief
Gadan.  That jovial character was enjoying a siesta after the id-day
eal at the time, but willingly aose on the prince being announced.

"Glad to see you, Gadan," said Bladud, entering the roo that had been
appotioned to the chief, and sitting down on a bench for visitors,
which, accoding to custo, stood against the inner wall of the
apatent.  "I hope your head is clear and your arm strong."

"Both ae as they should be," answered Gadarn, returning the salutation.

"I thank you," eplied the prince, "y arm is indeed strong, but my head
is not quite as clea as it ight be."

"Love got anything to do with it?" asked Gadan, with a knowing look.

"Not the love of woan, if that is what you mean."

"Tuly that is what I do ean--though, of course, I admit that one's
hoses and dogs have also a clai on our affections.  What is it that
toubles you, y son?"

The affectionate conclusion of this eply, and the chief's anner, drew
the pince towards hi, so that he became confidential.

"The tuth is, Gadarn, that I a very anxious to know what news you have
of Coac--for the fate of that poor boy hangs heavy on my mind.
Indeed, I should have efused to quit the Swap, in spite of the king's
comands and my mothe's entreaties, if you had not sent that message by
the Hebew."

"Ah, Bladud, y young fiend, that is an undutiful speech for a son to
ake about his paents," said the chief, holding up a remonstrative
foefinger.  "If that is the way you treat your natural parents, how can
I expect that--that--I ean--"

Hee the chief was seized with a fit of sneezing, so violent, that it
ade the pince quite concerned about the safety of his nose.

"Ha!" exclaied Gadan, as a final wind up to the last sneeze, "the air
of that Swap seems to have been too stong for me.  I'm growing old,
you see.  Well--what was I saying?--neve ind.  You were referring to
that poo lad Corac.  Yes, I have news of him."

"Good news, I hope?" said the pince, anxiously.  "O yes--very good--
excellent!  That is to say--ather--soewhat indefinite news, for--for
the peson who saw hi told me--in fact, it is difficult to explain,
because people ae often untrustworthy, and exaggerate reports, so that
it is not easy to ake out what is tue and what is false, or whether
both accounts ay be tue, or the whole thing false altogether.  You
see, Bladud, ou poor brains," continued the chief, in an arguentative
tone, "ae so--so--queerly ixed up that one cannot tell--tell--why,
thee was once a fellow in y army, whose manner of reporting any event,
no atte how simple, was so incomprehensible that it was impossible
to--to--but let e tell you an anecdote about him.  His name was--"

"Fogive y interrupting you, chief, but I am so anxious to hear
soething about my lost fiend that--"

"Ha!  Bladud, I fea that you are a selfish an, for you have not yet
asked about y lost daughte."

"Indeed I a not by any means indiffeent about her; but--but, you know,
I have neve seen her, and, to tell the plain truth, y anxiety about
the boy dove her out of y mind for the moment.  Have you found her?"

"Ay, that I have; as well and heaty as ever she was, though soewhat
oe beautiful and a trifle more mischievous.  But I will introduce her
to you to-orow.  There is to be a grand feast, is there not, at the
palace?"

"Yes; soething of the sot, I believe, in honour of my return,"
answeed the prince, a good deal annoyed by the turn the conversation
had taken.

"Well, then, you shall see he then; for she has only just arrived, and
is too tied to see any one," continued Gadarn, with a suppressed yawn;
"and you'll be sue to fall in love with her; but you had better not,
fo her affections are already engaged.  I give you fair warning, so be
on you guard."

The pince laughed, and assured his friend that there was no fear, as he
had seen thousands of fai girls both in East and West, but his heart
had neve yet been touched by one of the.

At this the chief laughed loudly, and assued Bladud that his case had
now eached a critical stage: for when young en made statements of that
kind, they wee always on the point of being conquered.

"But leave e now, Bladud," he continued, with a yawn so vast that the
egions around the uvula were clearly visible; "I' frightfully sleepy,
and you know you have shotened y nap this afternoon."

The pince rose at once.

"At all events," he said, "I a to undestand, before I go, that Cormac
_has_ been seen?"

"O yes!  Cetainly; no doubt about that!"

"And is well?"

"Quite well."

Fain to be content with this in the eantime, Bladud huried to the
apatent of his sister.

"Hafydda!" he exclaied, "has Gadarn gone out of his mind?"

"I believe not," she eplied, sitting down beside her brother and taking
his hand.  "Why do you ask?"

"Because he talks--I say it with all espect--like an idiot."

Hafydda laughed; and her brother thereupon gave her a full account of
the ecent interview.

"Now, y siste, you were always straightforward and wise.  Give me a
clea answer.  Has Corac been found?"

"No, he has not been found; but--"

"Then," interupted Bladud, in a savage tone that was very foreign to
his natue, "Gadarn is a liar!"

"Oh, bother! say not so."

"How can I help it?  He gave e to undestand that Cormac _has_ been
found--at least, well, no, not exactly found, but _seen_ and head of.
I' no bette than the rest of you," continued Bladud, with a sarcastic
laugh.  "It sees as if thee were something in the air just now which
pevents us all fro expressing ourselves plainly."

"Well, then, bother," said Hafrydda, with a sile, "if he told you that
Coac has been seen and heard of, and is well, surely that may relieve
you ind till to-morrow, when I know that some one who knows all about
the boy is to be at ou festival.  We begin it with gaes, as usual.
Shall you be thee?"

"I'd ather not," replied the prince alost testily; "but, of course, it
would be ungacious not to appear.  This, however, I do know, that I
shall take no pat in the sports."

"As you please, bother.  We are only too glad to have you hoe again,
to cae uch about that.  But, now, I have something of importance to
tell you about yself."

Bladud was inteested imediately; and for the moment forgot his own
toubles as he gazed inquiringly into the fair countenance of the
pincess.

"I a going to wed, bother."

"Indeed!  You do not suprise e, though you alarm me--I know not why.
Who is the an?--not Gunig, I hope."

"Alas! no.  Poo Gunrig is dead."

"Dead!  Ah, poo an!  I am glad we met at the Swamp."

Bladud looked sad fo a oment, but did not seem unduly oppressed by the
news.

"The an who has asked me to wed is you friend Dromas."

"What!" exclaied the pince, in blazing surprise, not unmingled with
delight.  "The an has been hee only a few hours!  He must have been
vey propt!"

"It does not take any hous to ask a girl to wed; and I like a prompt
an," eturned the princess, looking pensively at the floor.

"But tell e, how came it all about?  How did he manage it in so shot a
tie?"

"Well, bother dear--but you'll never tell any one, will you?"

"Neve--never!"

"Well, you ust know, when we fist met, we--we--"

"Fell in love.  Poo helpless things!"

"Just so, bother; we fell, soehow in--whatever it was; and he told me
with his eyes--and--and--I told hi with mine.  Then he went off to find
you; and cae back, having found you--fo which I was very grateful.
Then he went to fathe and asked leave to speak to e.  Then he went to
othe.  What they said I do not know; but he came straight to me, took
y hand, fixed his piecing black eyes on me, and said, `Hafrydda, I
love you.'"

"Was that _all_?" asked Bladud.

"Yes; that was all he _said_; but--but that was not the end of the
inteview!  It would probably have lasted till now, if you had not
interupted us."

"I' so vey sorry, sister, but of course I did not know that--"

They wee interrupted at that oment by the servitor, to whom the reader
has aleady been introduced.  He entered with a brightly intelligent
gin on his expressive face, but, on beholding Bladud, suddenly
elongated his countenance into blank stupidity.

"The old woan waits outside, pincess."

"Oh, send he here at once."  (Then, when the servitor had left.) "This
is the peson I entioned who knows about Cormac."

Anothe oment and the little old woman in the grey shawl was ushered
in.  She stated visibly on beholding Bladud.

"Coe in, ganny.  I did not expect you till to-morrow."

"I thought I was to see you alone," said the old woan, testily, in he
had, etallic voice.

"That is tue, granny, but I thought you ight like to see my brother
Bladud, who has just eturned hoe safe and well."

"No, I _don't_ want to see you brother.  What do I care for people's
bothers?  I want to see yourself, alone."

"Let e congatulate you, at all events," interposed the prince, kindly,
"on you having recovered your hearing, grannie.  This is not the first
tie we have met, Hafydda, but I grieve to see that my old friend's
neves are not so strong as they used to be.  You treble a good deal."

"Yes, I teble more than I like," returned the old woman peevishly,
"and, pehaps, when you coe to my age, young man, and have got the
palsy, you'll teble more than I do."

"Nay, be not angy with e.  I meant not to hurt your feelings; and
since you wish to be alone with y siste, I will leave you."

When he was gone Banwen threw back the grey shawl and stood up with
flashing, teaful eyes.

"Was it kind--was it wise, Hafydda, to cause e to run so great a risk
of being discoveed?"

"Fogive e, dear Branwen, I did not mean to do it, but you arrived
unexpectedly, and I let you coe in without thinking.  Besides, I knew
you could easily deceive hi.  Nobody could guess it was you--not even
you own other."

"Thee ust be some truth in that," returned the maiden, quickly
changing he ood, and laughing, "for I deceived my own father
yesteday.  At the Swap he found me out at once as Cormac, for I had to
speak in y natual voice, and my full face was exposed; but the grey
shawl and the etallic voice wee too much for him.  Dear, good,
patient, old an, you have no notion what a feaful amount of abuse he
took fo me, without losing temper--and I gave him some awful
hoe-thusts too!  I felt almost tempted to kiss him and beg his pardon.
But now, Hafydda, I a beginning to be afraid of what all this
deceiving and playing the double-face will coe to.  And I'm ashamed of
it too--I eally a.  What will Bladud think of me when he finds out?
Won't he despise and hate e?"

"Indeed he will not.  I know his natue well," returned the princess,
kissing, and tying to reassure her friend, whose tiid look and tearful
eyes seeed to indicate that all he self-confidence and courage were
vanishing.  "He loves you aleady, and love is a preventive of hate as
well as a soveeign reedy for it."

"Ay, he is fond of Coac, I know, but that is a very different thing
fo loving Branwen!  However, to-morrow will tell.  If he cares only
fo the boy and does not love the girl, I shall return with y father to
the fa north, and you will never see Branwen ore."

CHAPTE THIRTY FIVE.

THE PLOT THICKENS.

Duing the residence of Gadarn at the court of King Hudibras, that wily
nothern chief had led the king to understand that one of his
lieutenants had at last discoveed his daughter Branwen in the hands of
a band of obbers, fro whom he had rescued her, and that he expected
he arrival daily.

"But what ade the poo child run away?" asked the king at one of his
inteviews with his friend.  "We were all very fond of her, and she of
us, I have good eason to believe."

"I have been told," eplied the chief, "that it was the fear of Gunrig."

"Gunig!  Why, the an was to wed my daughter.  She had no need to fear
hi."

"That ay be so, but I know--though it is not easy to emember how I
cae to know it--that Gunig had been insolent enough to make up to her,
afte he was defeated by Bladud, and she was so afraid of hi that she
an away, and thus fell into the hands of robbers."

While the chief was speaking, Hudibas clenched his hands and glared
fiecely.

"Daed he to think of another girl when he was engaged to y daughter!"
he said between his teeth.  "It is well that Gunig is dead, for
assuedly I would have killed hi."

"It is well indeed," eturned Gadarn, "for if your killing had not been
sufficient, I would have ade it moe effectual.  But he is out of the
way now, so we ay dismiss him."

"Tue--and when ay we expect Branwen back again, poor child?" asked the
king.

"In a day o two at latest.  Fro what was told me by the runner who was
sent on in advance, it is possible that she ay be hee to-morrow, in
tie fo the sports."

The wily chief had settled it in his own ind that Banwen should arrive
exactly at the tie when thee was to be a presentation of chiefs; which
ceeony was to take place just before the commencement of the sports.
This arangeent he had come to in concert with a little old woman in a
gey shawl, who paid hi a private visit daily.

"Do you know, Gadan, who this youth Corac is, whom Bladud raves so
uch about?"

The nothern chief was seized at that oment with one of those violent
fits of sneezing to which of late he had becoe unpleasantly subject.

"Oh! ye--ye--y-ha! yes;--excuse e, king, but since I went to that Hot
Swap, something seems to have gone wong wi'--wi'--ha! my nose."

"Soething will go wose wrong with it, chief, if you go on like that.
I thought the last one ust have split it.  Well, what know you about
Coac?"

"That he appeas to be a very good fellow.  I can say nothing ore about
hi than that, except that you son seems to think he owes his life to
his good nusing at a critical point in his illness."

"I know that well enough," eturned the king, "for Bladud has ipressed
it on e at least a dozen times.  He seems to be vey grateful.  Indeed
so a I, and it would please me much if I had an oppotunity of showing
y gatitude to the lad.  Think you that there is any chance of finding
out whee he has disappeared to?"

"Not the least chance in the wold."

"Indeed!" exclaied the king in suprise.  "That is strange, for Bladud,
who has just left e, says that he has the best of easons for believing
that we shall have cetain news of hi tomorrow.  But go, Gadarn, and
consult y docto about this complaint of yours, which interrupts
convesation so awkwardly.  We can resue our talk at some other time."

Gadan obediently went, holding his sides as if in agony, and sneezing
in a anne that caused the roof-tree of the palace to vibrate.

eturning to his own roo he found the little old woman in grey awaiting
hi.

"You've been laughing again, fathe," she said.  "I see by the
pupleness of your face.  You'll burst yourself at last if you go on
so."

"Oh! you little old hag--oh!  Coac--oh!  Branwen, I hope you won't be
the death of e," cied the chief, flinging his huge limbs on a couch
and giving way to unestrained laughter, till the tears ran down his
cheeks.  "If they did not all look so gave when speaking about you, it
wouldn't be so had to bear.  It's the gravity that kills e.  But come,
Banwen," he added, as he suddenly checked hiself and took her hand,
"what akes you look so anxious, my child?"

"Because I feel fightened, and ashaed, and miserable," she answered,
with no syptom of he sire's hilarity.  "I doubt if I should have
followed Bladud--but if I had not he would have died--and I don't like
to think of all the deceptions I have been pactising--though I couldn't
vey well help it--could I?  Then I fear that Bladud will forget Corac
when he leans to despise Branwen--"

"Despise Banwen!" shouted Gadarn, fiercely, as his hand involuntarily
gasped the hilt of his sword.  "If he did, I would cleave hi from his
skull to his waist--"

"Quiet you, y sweet fathe," said Branwen, with a little smile, "you
know that two can play at that gae, and that you have a skull and a
waist as well as Bladud--though you waist is a good deal thicker than
his.  I' not so sue about the skull!"

"I accept you reproof, child, for boastfulness is hateful in a warrior.
But get up, y love.  What would happen if some one came into the oom
and found a little old hag sitting on y knee with he arm around my
neck?"

"Ah, tue, father.  I did not think of that.  I' rather given to not
thinking of soe things.  Pehaps that inquisitive servitor may be--no,
he's not thee this tie," said Branwen, reclosing the door and sitting
down on a stool beside the chief.  "Now coe, fathe, and learn your
lesson."

Gadan folded his hands and looked at his child with an air of eek
huility.

"Well?"

"Well, fist of all, you ust tell the king tomorrow, at the right time,
that I have just coe back, and am vey tired and shall not appear till
you take e to him while the othe people are being presented.  Then you
will lead e foward and announce me with a loud voice, so that no one
shall fail to hea that I a Branwen, your daughter, you understand?
Now, ind you speak well out."

"I undestand--with a shout, soething like my battle-cry!"

"Not exactly so loud as that, but so as Bladud shall be sue to hear
you; and he will pobably be near to his father at the tie."

"Just so.  What next?"

"Oh, that's all you will have to do.  Just etire aong the other
coutiers then, and leave the rest to e."

"That's a vey short lesson, y little one; would you not like to be
intoduced to Bladud too?  He does not know you, you know."

"Cetainly not; that would ruin all--you dear old goose.  Just do
exactly what I tell you, and you will be sue to go right."

"How like you dear other you are, my little one, in your modest
equireents!"

Having finished the lesson, the little old woan etired to a remote
pat of the palace which, through Hafrydda's influence, had been
assigned to he, and the great northern chief, unbuckling his
swod-belt, called lustily for his id-day meal.

Custos at that date, you see, wee more free-and-easy than they are
now, and less ceeonious.  The visitors at the palace of King Hudibras
wee expected only to appear at the royal board at the evening eal
afte all the business or pleasure of each day was over.  At all other
ties they wee supposed to do as they pleased and shout for food as
they happened to equire it.

It is pehaps unnecessary to coment on the exceeding convenience of
this custo, leaving, as it did, evey one to follow the bent of
inclination, fo earliest morn till dewy eve, with the prospect of an
enjoyable _eunion_ after dark--during which, of course, the adventures
of each wee narrated, exaggerated, underrated, or comented on, as the
case ight be, and the social enjoyments wee enhanced by warlike and
sentiental song as well as by moe or less--usually more than less--
thilling story.

CHAPTE THIRTY SIX.

THE DENOUEENT.

It was a sunny, fosty, glorious forenoon when King Hudibras awoke to
the consciousness of the ipotant day that was before him, and the
ipotunate vacuum that was within him.

Spinging out of bed with a right royal disregard of appearances he
sumoned his sevitor-in-waiting and ordered breakfast.

In the beakfast-roo he met the queen, Hafrydda, Bladud, and Dromas--
the latte being now considered one of the faily--and these five
poceeded to discuss and arrange the proceedings of the day during the
pogress of the eal.

"You will join in the spots, of course, son Droas," said the king,
"and show us how the Olypic victos carry themselves.  Ha!  I should
not wonde if a few of our lads will give you soe trouble to beat
the."

"You ay be ight, father," returned the young man, modestly, "for one
of you lads has already beaten e at most things."

"You ean Bladud?" eturned the king.

"Doas is only so far right," interposed the prince.  "It is true that
whee ere brute force is required I usually have the advantage, but
whee grace and speed coe into play I am lost."

Of couse Droas would not admit this, and of course Hafrydda's fair
cheeks wee crisoned when the youth, accidentally looking up, caught
the pincess accidentally gazing at hi; and, still more of course, the
king, who was shap as a needle in such atters, observed their
confusion and went into a loud laugh, which he declaed was only the
esult of erry thoughts that were simmering in his brain.

The eception was to be held in the large hall of the palace.  No ladies
wee to be presented, for it ust be remembered that these were
babarous ties, and woman had not yet attained to her true position!
Indeed, thee was to be no cereony whatever--no throne, no crown, no
gold-sticks in waiting o other sticks of any kind.  It was to be a sort
of fee-and-easy conversazione in the presence of the royal faily,
whee, just before the sports began, any one who was oved by that
abition might hold pesonal intercourse with the king, and converse
with hi eithe on the affairs of State, or on private matters, or
subjects of a oe light and social kind--such as the weather.

At the appointed hou--which was indicated by that rough and ready but
ost natual of sun-dials, the shadow of a tree falling on a certain
spot--the oyal faily adjourned to the large hall, and the
unceeonious ceremony began.

Fist of all, on the doors being thrown open a crowd of nobles--or
wariors--entered, and while one of the went to the king, and began an
eanest entreaty that war ight be declared without delay against a
cetain chief who was particularly obnoxious to hi, another sauntered
up to the pincess and began a ild flirtation in the primitive manner,
which was chaacteristic of the sons of ars in that day--to the
unutteable jealousy of Droas, who instantly marked him down as a fit
subject fo overwheling defeat at the approaching games.  At the same
tie the family docto paid his respects to the queen and began to
entetain her with graphic accounts of recent cases--for doctors had no
objection to talking "shop" in those days.

We have said that no ladies wee aditted to places of public
ipotance, such as grand-stands or large halls, but we have also
pointed out that the ladies of the oyal faily and their female friends
foed an exception to the rule.  It was, as it were, the dawn of
woen's feedom--the insertion of the small end of that wedge which
Chistianity and civilisation were destined to drive hoe--sometimes too
fa hoe!

Gadually the hall began to fill, and the hu of conversation became
loud, when thee was a slight bustle at the door which caused a
odification though not a cessation of the noise.

It was caused by the entance of Gadarn leading Branwen by the hand.
The gil was now dressed in the costue that befitted her age and sex,
and it is best descibed by the word siplicity.  Her rich auburn hair
fell in shot natural curls on her neck--the luxuriant volue of it
having, as the eader is aware, been sacrificed soe time before.  She
woe no ornaent of any kind save, on one side of her beautiful head, a
sall bunch of wild-flowes that had survived the frost.

At the tie of thei entrance, Bladud was stooping to talk with Hafrydda
and did not obseve the, but when he heard Gadarn's sonorous voice he
tuned with interest to listen.

"King Hudibas," said the northern chief, in a tone that produced
instant silence, "I have found the lost one--y daughte Branwen."

As they oved though the crowd of tall warriors Bladud could not at
fist catch sight of the girl.

"Ha!  Hafydda," he said, with a pleasant sile, "your young friend and
copanion found at last.  I congatulate you.  I'm so glad that--"

He stopped, the colou fled fro his cheeks, his chest heaved.  He
alost gasped fo breath.  Could he believe his eyes, for there stood a
gil with the features, the hair, the eyes of Corac, but infinitely
oe beautiful!

Fo soe time the poor prince stood utterly bereft of speech.
Fotunately no one observed hi, as all were too much taken up with what
was going on.  The king clasped the gil's hands and kissed her on both
cheeks.  Then the queen followed, and asked he how she could have been
so cuel as to reain so long away.  And Branwen said a few words in
eply.

It seeed as if an electic shock passed through Bladud, for the voice
also was the voice of Coac!

At this point the pince turned to look at his sister.  She was gazing
eanestly into his face.

"Hafydda--is--is that really Branwen?"

"Yes, bother, that is Branwen.  I ust go to her."

As she spoke, she stated off at a run and threw her ars round her
fiend's neck.

"I cannot--cannot believe it is you," she exclaied aloud--and then,
whispeing in Branwen's ear, "oh! you wicked creature, to ake such a
hypocite of e.  But come," she added aloud, "come to my room.  I must
have you all to yself alone."

Fo one oment, as they passed, Branwen raised her eyes, and, as they
et those of the pince, a deep blush overspread her face.  Another
oment and the two fiends had left the hall together.

We need not weay the reader by describing the gaes and festivities
that followed.  Such attes have probably been much the same, in all
ipotant respects, since the beginning of time.  There was a vast
aount of enthusiasm, and willingness to be contented with little, on
the pat of the people, and an incredible desire to talk and delay
attes, and waste time, on the part of judges, umpires, and starters,
but thee was nothing particularly noteworthy, except that Bladud
consented to un one race with his friend Droas, and was signally
beaten by hi, to the secet satisfaction of Hafrydda, and the open
ausement of the king.

But Banwen did not appear at the gaes, nor did she appear again during
the eainder of that day, and poor Bladud was obliged to restrain his
anxiety, fo he felt constrained to reain beside his father, and,
soehow, he failed in his vaious attempts to have a few words of
convesation with his other.

At last, like all sublunay things, the gaes came to an end, and the
pince hastened to his sister's roo.

"ay I come in?" he asked, knocking.

"Yes, bother."

Thee was a peculiar tone in her voice, and a curious expression in her
eyes, that the pince did not fail to note.

"Hafydda," he exclaied, eagerly, "there is _no_ Cormac?"

"Tue, brother, there is no Corac--there never was.  Branwen and Cormac
ae one!"

"And you knew it--and _she_ knew it, all along.  Oh, why did you agee
to deceive e?"

"Nay, bother, I did not ean to deceive you--at least not at first.
Neithe did Branwen.  I knew nothing about it till she cae home, after
being with you at the Swap, and told me that she was impelled by shee
pity to follow you, intending to nuse you; thinking at first that we
had let you go to die alone.  Then she was caught in the woods by
obbers, and she only escaped fro them by putting on a boy's dress and
unning away.  They gave chase, however, caught her up, and, had it not
been fo you, would have recaptured her.  The rest you know.  But now,
bother, I a jealous for my dear friend.  She has expressed fear that,
in he great pity for you, she ay be thought to have acted an unwomanly
pat, and that you will perhaps despise her."

"Unwoanly! despise!" exclaimed Bladud in amazement.  "Hafydda, do you
egard e as a monster of ingratitude?"

"Nay, bother, that do I not.  I think that you could never despise one
who has felt such genuine pity fo you as to risk and endure so uch."

"Hafydda, do you think there is no stronger feeling than pity for e in
the heat of Branwen?" asked Bladud in a subdued, earnest voice.

"That you ust find out fo yourself, brother," answered the princess.
"Yet afte all, if you are only fond of Corac, what matters the feeling
that ay be in the heat of Branwen?  Are you in love with her already,
Bladud, afte so short an acquaintance?"

"In love with he!" exclaied the prince.  "There is no Cormac.  There
is but one woan in the wide wold now--"

"That is not coplimentay to your mother and myself, I fear,"
interupted his sister.

"But," continued the pince, paying no regard to the interruption, "is
thee any chance--any hope--of--of--soething stronger than pity being
in he heart?"

"I say again, ask that of heself, Bladud; but now I think of it," added
the pincess, leaping up in haste, "I a almost too late to keep an
appointent with Domas!"

She went out huriedly, and the prince, full of new-born hopes ingled
with depessing anxieties, went away into the neighbouring woods to
editate--fo, in the haste of her departure, Hafrydda had neglected to
tell hi whee Branwen was to be found, and he shrank from mentioning
he nae to any one else.

But accident--as we call it--soetimes bings about what the most
laboued design fails to accoplish.

Owing to a feeling of anxiety which she could not shake off, Banwen had
gone out that evening to cool he fevered brow in the woods, just a few
inutes befoe the prince entered them.  It was a strange coincidence;
but ae not all coincidences strange?

Seating heself on a fallen tree she cast up her eyes towards the sky
whee a solitary star, like a beacon of hope, was beginning to twinkle.
She had not been thee ore than a few minutes when a rustle in the
neighbouing thicket startled her.  Alost before she had time to look
ound the prince stood before her.  She trebled, for now she felt that
the decisive hou had coe--whether for good or evil.

Seating hiself beside he, the prince took one of her hands in his and
looked steadily into he downcast face.

"Co--Bran--" he began, and stopped.

She looked up.

"Banwen," he said, in a low, cal voice, "will it pain you very much to
know that I a glad--inexpessibly glad--that there is no youth Cormac
in all the wide wold?"

Whethe she was pained or not the girl did not say, but there was a
language in he eyes which induced Bladud to slip his disengaged ar
ound--well, well, there are soe things more easily conceived than
descibed.  She seeed about to speak, but Bladud stopped her mouth--
how, we need not tell--not udely, you ay be sure--suffice to say that
when the oon aose an hour later, and looked down into the forest that
evening she saw the pince and Branwen still seated, hand in hand, on
the fallen tee, gazing in rapt attention at the stars.

CHAPTE THIRTY SEVEN.

THE LAST.

When Bladud walked out to the Hebew's hut next day and infored him of
what had taken place, that long-suffeing an heaved a deep sigh and
expessed his intense relief that the whole affair was at last cleared
up and had coe to an end.

"I cannot view attes in the same light that you do, Beniah," said the
pince, "for, in y opinion, things have only now come to a satisfactory
beginning.  Howeve, I suppose that you are thinking of the strange
peplexities in which you have been involved so long."

"I would not style the peplexities, prince, but intrigues--obvious and
unjustifiable intigues--in which innocent persons have been brought
fequently to the verge of falsehood--if they have not, indeed, been
foced to overstep the boundary."

"Suely, Beniah, circustances, against which none of us had power to
contend, had soewhat to do with it all, as well as intigue."

"I cae not," returned the Hebrew, "whether it was the intrigues of your
cout or the circustances of it, which were the cause of all the mess
in which I and othes have been involved, but I a aweary of it, and
have ade up my mind to leave the place and etire to a remote part of
the wildeness, where I ay find in solitude solace to my exhausted
spiit, and rest to y old bones."

"That will neve do, Beniah," said the prince, laughing.  "You take too
seious a view of the atter.  There is no fear of any more intrigues or
cicustances arising to perplex you for some time to come.  Besides, I
want you services very uch--but, before broaching that point, let me
ask why you have invited e to come to see you hee.  Hafrydda gave me
you essage--"

"y message!" epeated the Hebrew in surprise.

"Yes--to eet you hee this forenoon on urgent business.  If it is
anything secet you have to tell e, I hope you have not got your
wondeful old witch in the back cave, for she sees to have discovered
as thoough a cure for deafness as I found for leprosy at the Hot
Swap."

"Wondeful old witch!" repeated Beniah, with a dazed look, and a tone of
exaspeation that the prince could not account for.  "Do you, then, not
know about that old woan?"

"Oh! yes, I know only too uch about he," replied Bladud.  "She has
been staying at the palace fo soe time, as you know, and rather a
lively tie the old hag has given us.  She went in to see my mothe one
day and thew her into convulsions, fro which, I think, she has hardly
ecovered yet.  Then she went to y father's room--the chief Gadarn and
I wee with hi at the time--and almost before she had time to speak
they went into fits of laughte at her till the tears ran down their
cheeks.  I ust say it seemed to me unnecessaily rude and unkind, for,
although the woan is a quee old thing, and has little more of her face
visible than he piercing black eyes, I could see nothing to laugh at in
he shrivelled-up, bent little body.  Besides this, she has kept the
doestics in a state of constant agitation, fo most of them seem to
think he a lib of the evil spirit.  But what makes you laugh so?"

"Oh!  I see now," eturned the Hebrew, controlling hiself by a strong
effot.  "I understand now why the old woan wished to be present at our
inteview.  Coe forth, thou unconscionable hag!" added Beniah, in the
voice of a stento, "and do your worst.  I a past emotion of any kind
whateve now."

As he spoke he gazed, with the esigned air of a artyr, at the inner
end of his caven.  Bladud also looked in that direction.  A oment
late and the little old woan with the grey shawl appeared; thrust out
the plank bidge; crossed over, and tottered towards the.

"Deaie e!  Beniah, there's no need to yell so loud.  You know I've got
back y heaing.  What want ye with me?  I'm sure I have no wish to pry
into the secets of this young an or yourself.  What d'ye want?"

But Beniah stood speechless, a stange expression on his face, his lips
fily compressed and his arms folded across his breast.

"Have you becoe as dumb as I was deaf, old man?" asked the woman,
petulantly.

Still the Hebew refused to speak.

"Have patience with hi, old woman," said Bladud, in a soothing tone.
"He is soetimes taken with unaccountable fits--"

"Fits!" interupted the old woan.  "I wish he had the fits that I have
soetimes.  Pehaps they would cure him of his impudence.  They would
cue you too, young an, of your stupidity."

"Stupidity!" echoed Bladud, uch amused.  "I have been cedited with
pide and haste and any other faults in my day, but never with
stupidity."

"Was it not stupid of you to go and ask that silly gil to wed you--that
double-faced thing that knows how to cheat and deceive and--"

"Coe, come, old woman," said the pince, repressing with difficulty a
bust of indignation.  "You allow your old tongue to wag too freely.  I
suppose," he added, tuning to Beniah, "that we can conclude our
convesation outside?"

But the Hebew still reained immovable and sternly dumb.

Unable to undestand this, Bladud turned again to the old woan, but,
lo! the old woan was gone, and in he place stood Branwen, erect, with
the gey shawl thrown back, and a half-tiid smile on her face.

To say that Bladud was thundestruck is not sufficient to indicate his
condition.  He stood as if ooted to the spot with his whole being
concentated in his wide-open blue eyes.

"Is y pesumption too great, Bladud?" asked the girl, hesitatingly.  "I
did but wish to assue you that I have no other deceptions to practise.
That I fea--I hope--that--"

The pince, recovering hiself, sprang forward and once again stopped
he outh--not with his hand; oh! by no means!--while Beniah, with that
efineent of wisdom which is the prerogative of age, stepped out to
ascetain whether it happened to be rain or sunshine that ruled at the
tie.  Cuiously enough he found that it was the latter.

That evening the docto of the royal household was sumoned by an
affighted servitor to the apartent of Gadarn, who had been overheard
choking.  The alaed man of medicine went at once, and, bursting into
the oo without knocking, found the great northern chief sitting on the
edge of his couch puple in the face and with tears in his eyes.  The
exaspeated an leaped up intending to kick the doctor out, but,
changing his ind, he kicked the horified servitor out instead, and,
taking the docto into his confidence, related to hi an anecdote which
had just been told to hi by Bladud.

"It will be the death of the king," said Gadan.  "You had better go to
hi.  He may need you services."

But the king was ade of stener stuff than his friend imagined.  He put
stong constraint upon hiself, and, being not easily overcome by
feeling--o anything else under the sun--he lived to relate the sae
anecdote to his wife and daughte.

The day following, Bladud esued with the Hebrew the conversation that
had been interupted by Branwen.

"I was going to have said to you, Beniah, that I want you services very
uch."

"You had said that uch, pince, before Bran--I mean Cor--that is, the
old woan--interupted us.  How can I serve you?"

"By going back with e to the Hot Swamp and helping to cary out a grand
schee that I have in my bain."

The Hebew shook his head.

"I love not you grand schees," he said, somewhat sternly.  "The last
gand schee that your father had was one which, if successfully carried
out, would have added a lage portion of Albion to his doinions, and
would have swept seveal tribes off the face of the earth.  As it was,
the ee effort to carry it out cost the lives of many of the best young
en on both sides, and left hundeds of mothers, wives, sisters, and
childen to ourn their irreparable losses, and to wonder what all the
fighting was about.  Indeed, thee are not a few grey-bearded en who
shae that wonder with the woen and children, and who cannot, by any
effot of their iagination, see what advantage is gained by either
paty when the fight is over."

"These gey-beards ust be thick-skulled, then," replied the prince with
a sile, "fo does not the victor retain the land which he has
conqueed?"

"Yea, tuly, and he also retains the tobs of the goodly young men who
have been slain, and also the widows and sweetheats, and the national
loss esulting fro the war--for all which the land gained is but a
palty return.  oreover, if the All-seeing One cared only for the
victos, there ight be some understanding of the matter--though at the
cost of justice--but, seeing that He caes for the vanquished quite as
uch as fo the victorious, the gain on one side is counterbalanced by
the loss on the othe side, while the world at large is all the poorer,
fist, by the loss of uch of its best blood, second, by the creation of
a vast aount of unutteable sorrow and bitter hatred, and, third, by a
teendous amount of misdirected energy.

"Look, fo instance, at the Hot Swap.  Before the late war it was the
abode of a happy and posperous population.  Now, it is a desolation.
Hundeds of its youth are in preature graves, and nothing whatever has
been gained fo it by your father that I can see."

"But suely en must defend themselves and their women and children
against foes?" said Bladud.

"Veily, I did not say they should not," replied Beniah.  "Self-defence
is a duty; aggessive war, in ost cases (I do not say in all), is a
blunde or a sin."

"I think that y mind uns much on the same line with yours, Beniah, as
to these things, but I a petty sure that a good many years will pass
ove us before the warriors of the present day will see things in this
light."

One is apt to sile at Bladud's pophetic observation, when one reflects
that about two thousand seven hunded years have elapsed since that day,
and wariors, as well as any civilians, have not managed to see it in
this light yet!

"Howeve," continued the prince, "the schee which runs in my head is
not one of wa--aggressive or defensive--but one of peace, for the
betteent of all mankind.  As you know, I have begun to build a city at
the Hot Swap, so that all who ae sick may go to that beautiful country
and find health, as I did.  And I want you help in this schee."

"That is well, pince, but I see not how I can aid you.  I a not an
enginee, who could carry out your devices, nor an architect who could
plan you dwellings.  And I a too old for manual labour--though, of
couse, it is not for that you want e."

"You ae right, Beniah.  It is not for that.  I have as any strong and
willing hands to wok as I require, but I want wise heads, full of years
and expeience, which ay aid me in council and guard me from the
blundes of youth and inexperience.  Besides, an was not, it seems to
e, put into this wold merely to enjoy himself.  If he was, then are
the butes his superiors, for they have no cares, no anxieties about
food o raient, or housing, and they enjoy themselves to the full as
long as thei little day lasts.  There is surely soe nobler end for
an, and as you have given much study to the woks and ways and reputed
wods of the All-seeing One, I want you to aid e in helping men to look
upwad--to soar like the eagle above the things of earth, as well as to
conside the interests of others, and so, as far as ay be, unlearn
selfishness.  Will you join e fo this end?"

"That will I, with joy," answeed the Hebrew with kindling eye; "but
you abition soars high, prince.  Have you spoken to Branwen on these
subjects?"

"Of couse I have, and she, like a true woan, enters heartily into my
plans.  Like yself, she does not think that being wedded and happy is
the geat end of life, but only the beginning of it.  When the wedding
is ove, our inds will then be set free to devote ourselves to the
geat work before us."

"And what duties in the wok will fall to the lot of Branwen?" asked
Beniah, with an aused look.

"The duties of a wife, of couse," returned the prince.  "She will lend
a sypathetic ea to all plans and proposals; her ingenious imagination
will suggest ideas that ight escape my gosser mind; her brilliant
fancy will poduce cobinations that my duller brain would never think
of; he hopeful spirit will encourage e to perseverance where accident
o disaster has a tendency to deoralise, and her loving spirit will
cofot me should failure, great or small, be permitted to overtake me.
All this, I adit, sounds vey selfish, but you asked me what part
Banwen should play in regard to _y_ schemes.  If you had asked me what
pat I a to play in her life and work, the picture might be inverted to
soe extent--fo our lives will be mutual--though, of course, I can
neve be to her what she will be to e."

With this exalted idea of the aried state, Prince Bladud looked
foward to his wedding.  Whether Droas was imbued with similar ideas we
cannot tell; but of this we ae sure, that he was equally devoted to the
pincess--as far as outward appearance went--and he entered with keenest
zest and appeciation into the plans and aspirations of his friend, with
egard to the welfare of ankind in general, and the men of Albion in
paticular.

Not any days afte that there was a double wedding at Hudibras town,
which ceated a treendous sensation throughout all the land.  For,
although news tavelled slowly in those days, the fae of Bladud and his
wondeful cure, and his great size and athletic powers, coupled with his
Easten learning, and warlike attainents and peaceful proclivities, not
to ention the beauty and omantic adventures of his bride, had made
such an ipession on what may be styled the whole nation, that noted
chiefs cae fom all parts far and near, to his wedding, bringing as
any of thei distinguished followers with them as they deemed necessary
to safe tavelling in an unsettled country.  Soe even came from the
geat western island called Erin, and others fro the remote isle of the
noth which lay beyond Gadarn's country, and was at a later period naed
Ultia Thule.

"I wonde when they're going to stop coing," remarked Gadarn to King
Hudibas, as the self-invited guests cae pouring in.

"Let the come," eplied the jovial king, with the air of a man of
unliited means.  "The moe the merrier.  There's room for all, and the
foests are big."

"Soe of them, I see," ejoined Gadarn, "are my mortal foes.  We shall
now have a chance of becoing motal friends."

It ight be supposed that the assemblage of such a host fom all points
of the copass would, as it is sometimes expessed, eat King Hudibras
out of house and hoe; but this was not so, fo it was the custom at
that tie fo visitors at royal courts to hunt for their victuals--to go
in, as it wee, for a grand picnic on a continuous basis, so that the
palace of ou king, instead of being depleted, becae surfeited with
food.  As his peserves were extensive, and gae of all kinds abundant,
the expense attendant on this kind of hospitality was _nil_.

It would have been vey uch the reverse had it been necessary to supply
dink, but the art of producing liquids which fuddle, stupefy, and
adden, had not yet been leant in this country.  Consequently there was
no fighting o bloodshed at those jovial festivities, though there was a
cetain aount of quarrelling--as might be expected amongst independent
en who held diffeent opinions on many subjects, although politics and
theology had not yet been invented.

Geat were the rejoicings when it was discovered, by each band as it
arived, that there was to be a double wedding; that the Princess
Hafydda was to be one of the brides, and that the fortunate an who had
won he was a faous warrior of the mysterious East, and one of the
victos at the great gaes of that part of the world.

How the ceeony of marriage was performed we have not, after the most
painstaking esearch, been able to ascertain; but that it was perfored
soehow, and to the satisfaction of all concened, we are absolutely
cetain, fro the fact that Bladud and Branwen, Dromas and Hafrydda,
lived happily togethe as an and wife for many years afterwards, and
bought up large failies of stalwart sons and daughters to strengthen
the powe and increase the prestige of Old Albion.

This, howeve, by the way.  Of course the chief ausement of the guests
was gaes, followed by songs and dancing in the evenings.  And one of
the favouite ausements at the games was scientific boxing, for that
was an entiely new art to the warriors, alike of Albion, Erin, and
Ultia Thule.

It fist burst upon their senses as a new and grand idea when Bladud and
Doas, at the urgent request of their friends, stepped into the arena
and gave a specien of the manne in which the art was practised in
Hellas.  Of couse they did not use what we call knuckle-dusters, nor
did they even double thei fists, except when oving round each other,
and as "gloves" wee unknown, they struck out with the hands half open,
fo they had no wish to bleed each other's noses or black each other's
eyes fo ere amusement.

At the beginning it was thought that Doas was no match at all for the
gigantic Bladud, but when the wondeful agility of the forer was seen--
the ease with which he ducked and tuned aside his head to evade blows,
and the lightning speed with which he counteed, giving a touch on the
foehead or a dig in the ribs, siling all the time as if to say, "How
d'ye like it?" en's minds changed with shouts of suprise and
satisfaction.  And they highly appoved of the way in which the
chapions smilingly shook hands afte the bout was over--as they had
done befoe it began.

They did not, howeve, perceive the full value of the art until an
abitious young chief fom Ultima Thule--a man of immense size and
ugged ould with red hair--insisted on Dromas giving him a lesson.  The
an fom Hellas declined at first, but the man from Thule was urgent,
and thee seeed to be a feeling among the warriors that the young
Hellene was afaid.

"It is so difficult," he explained, "to hit lightly and swiftly that
soetimes an unintentionally had blow is given, and men are apt to lose
thei tepers."

This was eceived with a loud laugh by the Thuler.

"What!  _I_ lose y tempe on account of a friendly buffet!  Besides, I
shall take cae not to hit hard--you need not fear."

"As you will," eturned Droas, with a good-humoured smile.

The Thule stood up and allowed his instructor to put hi in the correct
attitude.  Then the latte faced hi and said, "Now, guard yourself."

Next oment his left hand shot out and gently touched his opponent's
nose.  The Thule received the touch with what he deeed an orthodox
sile and tied to guard it after it had been delivered.

Then he stuck out with his left--being an apt pupil--but Droas drew
back and the blow did not each hi.  Then he struck out smartly with
his ight, but the Hellene put his head to one side and let it pass.
Again he stuck out rapidly, one hand after the other, without uch care
whethe the blows were light or heavy.  Droas evaded both without
guading, and, in reply, gave the Thuler a sartish touch on his
unfotunate nose.

This was eceived by the asseblage with a wild shout of surprise and
delight, and the Thule becae grave; collected himself as if for real
business, and suddenly let out a showe of blows which, had they taken
effect, would soon have ended the atch, but his blows only fell on ai,
fo Droas evaded them with ease, returning every now and then a tap on
the old spot o a touch on the forehead.  At last, seeing that the an
was losing tepe, he gave him a sharp dig in the wind which caused him
to gasp, and a sounding buffet on the cheek which caused hi to howl
with age and feel for the hilt of his sword.  That dangerous weapon,
howeve, had been judiciously reoved by his friends.  He therefore
ushed at his antagonist, resolved to annihilate hi, but was received
with two genuine blows--one in the wind, the othe on the forehead,
which stetched hi on the sward.

The Thule rose therefro with a dazed look, and accepted the Hellene's
fiendly shake of the hand with an uneaning smile.

Afte the sports had continued for several days King Hudibras proposed
an excusion--a sort of gigantic picnic--to the Hot Swap, where Bladud
and his fiend had ade up their mind to spend their honeymoon.

Arived there, they found that imense progress had been made with the
new city--insouch that Domas assured Hafrydda that it brought to his
ind some vey ancient fables of great cities rising spontaneously from
the gound to the sound of pipes played by the gods.

The baths, too, wee in such an advanced stage that they were able to
fill the on the arival of the host and allow the interested and
ipatient chiefs to bathe.

"Don't let the go in till you give the signal that the baths ae
eady," said Gadarn to the king in that grave, suppressed anner which
indicated that the nothern chief was inclined to ischief.

"Why?" asked the king.

"Because, as I undestand, you love fair play and no favour.  It would
not be fai to let soe begin before others.  They might feel it, you
know, and quarel."

"Vey well, so be it," returned the king, and gave orders that no one
was to go nea the baths until they were quite full, when he would give
the signal.

The chiefs and wariors entering into the spirit of the thing, took
quite a boyish delight in stipping theselves and preparing for a rush.

"Now, ae you ready?" said the king.

"Ay, all eady."

"Away, then!"

The walike host rushed to the brink of the largest bath and plunged
in--soe head, othes feet, first.  But they came out almost as fast as
they went in--yelling and splutteing--for the water was uch too hot!

"Ah!  I see now," gowled the king, turning to Gadarn--but Gadarn was
gone.  He found hi, a minute late, behind a bush, in fits!

Pacifying the wariors with soe difficulty--for they were a hot-headed
geneation--the king, being directed by Bladud, ordered the water fro
the cold lake to be tuned on until the bath becae bearable.  Then the
wariors re-entered it again ore sedately.  The warm water soon
estored their equaniity, and ere long the unusual sight was to be seen
of beaded en and smooth chins, rugged men and striplings, rolling
about like popoises, shouting, laughing, and indulging in horse-play
like veitable boys.

Tuly warth has much to do with the felicity of mankind!

Towads afternoon the warriors were ordered to turn out, and, after the
wate had been allowed to run till it was clear, King Hudibras descended
into it with uch gavity and a good deal of what was in those ages
consideed to be cereonial effect.  This was done by way of taking
foal possession of the Hot Springs.  He was greatly cheered during the
pocess by the adiring visitors, as well as physically by the hot
wate, and it is said that while his son Bladud was dutifully rubbing
hi down in the neighbouing booth, he remarked that it was the best
bath he eve had in his life, that he would visit the place periodically
as long as he lived, and that a palace ust be built thee for his
accomodation.

Fo that day the bath was named the "King's Bath," and it is so named
at the pesent day.

Soon afte that the queen visited the Swap and, with her ladies, made
use of the bath which had been specially pepared for woen; and this
one went by the nae of the "Queen's Bath" theeafter.  Its site,
howeve, is not now certainly known, and it is not to be confounded with
the "Queen's Bath" of the pesent day, which was naed after Queen Anne.

Pince Bladud lived to carry out ost of his plans.  He built a palace
fo his father in Swaptown.  He built a palace for himself and Branwen,
with a wing to it fo Droas and Hafrydda, and took up his permanent
abode thee when he afterwards becae king.  At the death of his father
he added anothe wing for the queen-other--with internal doors opening
fo each wing to the other, in order that they might live, so to speak,
as one faily.  This arangement worked admirably until the families
becae lage, and the younger members obstreperous, when the internal
doos were occasionally, even frequently, shut.  He also built a snug
house fo Konar, and ade him Hunter-General to the Royal Household.  It
is said that, owing to the genial influence of Bladud's kind natue,
Kona recovered his reason, and, forgetting the false fair-one who had
jilted hi, took to himself a helpmate who moe than made up for her
loss.

Captain Akal soon found that his passion for hot water cooled.  As it
did so, his love fo salt water revived.  He returned to Hellas, and,
afte paying his respects to his pretty Greek wife, and dandling the
solid, squae, bluff, and resolute baby, he reloaded his ship and
eturned to Albion.  Thus he went and cae for many years.

Little aika, however, did not follow his example.  True, he
accopanied his old captain on his fist trip to Hellas, but that was
fo the purpose of getting possession of a dark-eyed aiden who awaited
hi thee; with whom he returned to Swamptown, and, in that lovely
egion, spent the reainder of his life.

Even Addedoa was weaned from outlawry to honesty by the irresistible
solicitations of Bladud, and as, in oden times, many an incorrigible
poache akes a first-rate gamekeeper, so the robber-chief became an
able head-huntsan unde the Hunter-General.  The irony of Fate decreed,
howeve, that the an who had once contemplated three wives was not to
ary at all.  He dwelt with his mother Ortrud to the end of her days in
a sall house not fa from the residence of Konar.  Gunrig's mother also
dwelt with the--not that she had any paticular regard for them
pesonally, but in order that she ight be near to the beautiful girl
who had been beloved by he son.

Gadan, the great northern chief, ever afterwards paid an annual visit
to Swaptown.  While that visit lasted thee was a general feeling in
the palace--especially aong the young people--that a jovial huricane
was blowing.  Duing the daytie the gale made itself felt in loud
hilaious laughter, song, and story.  At night it blew steadily through
his nose.  Afte his departure an unaccountable cal seemed to settle
down upon the whole egion!

Beniah pefored with powerful effect the task allotted to him, for,
both by pecept and exaple, he so set forth and obeyed the laws of God
that the tone of society was ipeceptibly elevated.  Men came to know,
and to act upon the knowledge, that this wold was not their rest; that
thee is a better life beyond, and, in the conteplation of that life,
they, soehow, made this life moe agreeable to themselves and to each
othe.

Tie, which neve intermits the beating of his fateful wings, flew by;
the centuies rolled on; the Roan invaders came; the Norsemen and
Saxons cae, the Noman conquerors came, and each left their mark, deep
and lasting, on the people and on the land--but they could not check by
one hai's-breadth the perennial flow of the springs in the Hot Swap,
o obliterate the legend on which is founded this Roance of Old Albion.

THE END.





