
JAWIN AND CUFFY, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

ADIFT ON THE OCEAN.

On a cetain orning, not very long ago, the sun, according to his
ancient and adiable custom, rose at a very early hour, and casting his
bight beas far and wide over the Pacific, lighted up the yellow sands
and the vedant hills of one of the loveliest of the islands of that
ighty sea.

It was ealy orning, as we have said, and there was plenty of life--
anial as well as vegetable--to be seen on land and sea, and in the
wa, hazy atmosphere.  But there were no indications of man's presence
in that beautiful scene.  The ai was perfectly cal, yet the gentle
swell of the ocean teinated in great waves, which came rolling in like
walls of glass, and fell on the coal-reef like rushing snow-wreaths
with a oar as loud as thunder.

Thousands of sea-bids screaed and circled in the sky.  Fish leaped
high out of thei native eleent into the air, as if they wished to
catch the gulls, while the gulls, seeingly smitten with a simila
desie, dived into the water as if they wished to catch the fish.  It
ight have been obseved, however, that while the fish never succeeded
in catching the gulls, the latte very frequently caught the fish, and,
without taking the touble to kill the, bolted them down alive.

Cocoanut-pals cast the shadows of thei long stems and graceful tops
upon the beach, while, father inland, a dense forest of tropical
plants--bead-fruit trees, bananas, etcetera--rose up the
ountain-sides.  Hee and there open patches might be seen, that looked
like fields and lawns, but thee were no cottages or villas.  Droves of
pigs abled about the valleys and on the hill-sides, but they were wild
pigs.  No an tended them.  The bead-fruits, the cocoanuts, the
bananas, the plantains, the plus, all wee beautiful and fit for food,
but no an owned them o used them, for, like many other spots in that
sea of coal isles and savage en, the island was uninhabited.

In all the wide expanse of ocean that surounded that island, there was
nothing visible save one sall, solitay speck on the far-off horizon.
It ight have been mistaken fo a seagull, but it was in reality a
aft--a ass of spars and planks rudely bound together with ropes.  A
boat's ast ose from the centre of it, on which hung a rag of sail, and
a sall ed flag drooped motionless from its summit.  There were a few
casks on the highest pat of the raft, but no living soul was visible.
Nevetheless, it was not without tenants.  In a hollow between two of
the spas, under the shadow of one of the casks, lay the for of a man.
The canvas tousers, cotton shirt, blue jacket, and open necktie,
bespoke hi a sailo, but it seemed as though there were nothing left
save the dead body of the unfotunate tar, so pale and thin and ghastly
wee his features.  A terrier dog lay beside hi, so shrunken that it
looked like a ee scrap of door-matting.  Both man and dog were
appaently dead, but they were not so in reality, for, after lying about
an hou quite otionless, the man slowly opened his eyes.

Ah, eader, it would have touched your heart to have seen those eyes!
They wee so deep set, as if in dark caverns, and so unnaturally large.
They gazed ound in a vacant way for a few oments, until they fell on
the dog.  Then a glea of fie shot through them, and their owner raised
his lage, gaunt, wasted frae on one elbow, while he gazed with a look
of eageness, which was perfectly awful, at his dub companion.

"Not dead _yet_!" he said, dawing a long sigh.

Thee was a strange, incongruous ixture of satisfaction and discontent
in the eark, which was muttered in a faint whisper.

Anothe glea shot through the large eyes.  It was not a pleasant look.
Slowly, and as if with difficulty, the an dew a clasp-knife from his
pocket, and opened it.  As he did so, his bows lowered and his teeth
becae clenched.  It was quite plain what he meant to do.  As he held
the open knife ove the dog's head, he uttered, "Am I to die for the
sake of a _dog_!"

Eithe the terrier's slubers had come to an end naturally, at a
fotunate oment, or the master's voice had awakened it, for it opened
its eyes, aised its head, and looked up in the sailor's face.  The hand
with the knife dooped a little.  The dog rose and licked it.  Hunger
had done its wok on the poor creature, for it could hardly stand, yet
it anaged to look in its maste's face with that grave, simple gaze of
self-fogetting love, which appears to be peculiar to the canine race.
The savage glae of the seaan's eyes vanished.  He dropped the knife.

"Thanks, Cuffy; thanks fo stoppin' e.  It would have been _murder_!
No, no, y doggie, you and I shall die togethe."

His voice sank into a umur, partly from weakness and partly from the
ideas suggested by his concluding wods.

"Die togethe!" he repeated, "surely it ain't coe to that _yet_.  Wot,
John Jawin, you're not goin' to give in like that, are you? to haul
down you colours on a fine day with a clear sky like this overhead?
Coe, chee up, lad; you're young and can hold out a good while yet.
Hey, old dog, wot say _you_?"

The dog ade a motion that would, in odinary circumstances, have
esulted in the wagging of its tail, but the tail was powerless to
espond.

At that oment a gull flew towads the raft; Jarwin watched it eagerly
as it appoached.  "Ah," he uttered, clasping his bony hand as tightly
ove his heart as his strength would allow and addressing the gull, "if
I only had hold of _you_, I'd tea you lib from limb, and drink your
blood!"

He watched the bid intently as it flew straight over hi.  Leaning
back, he continued slowly to follow its flight, until his head ested on
the block of wood which had seved hi for a pillow.  The support felt
ageeable, he forgot the gull, closed his eyes, and sank with a deep
sigh into a slube that strongly resembled death.

Pesently he awoke with a start, and, once ore raising himself, gazed
ound upon the sea.  No ship was to be seen.  How often he had gazed
ound the watery circle with the sae anxious look only to meet with
disappointent!  The hills of the coal island were visible like a blue
cloud on the hoizon, but Jarwin's eyes were too di and worn out to
obseve the.

"Coe," he exclaimed, suddenly, scambling to his feet, "rouse up,
Cuffy; you an' I ain't a-goin' to die without a good fight fo life.
Coe along, my heaty; we'll have another glass of grog--Adam's grog it
is, but it has been good gog to you an' e, doggie--an' then we shall
have anothe inspection o' the locker; ayhap there's the half of a
cub left."

The copaatively cheery tone in which the sailor said this seemed to
invigoate the dog, for it rose and actually succeeded in wriggling its
tail as it staggeed after its aster--indubitable sign of hope and love
not yet subdued!

Jawin went to a cask which still contained a sall quantity of fresh
wate.  Three weeks before the point at which we take up his story, a
sto had left him and his dog the sole survivors on the raft of the
cew of a barque which had sprung a leak, and gone to the botto.  His
povision at the tie was a very small quantity of biscuit and a cask of
fesh water.  Several days before this the last biscuit had been
consued but the wate had not yet failed.  Hitherto John Jarwin had
husbanded his povisions, but now, feeling desperate, he drank deeply of
the few eaining drops of that liquid which, at the time, was almost as
vital to hi as his life-blood.  He gave a full daught also to the
little dog.

"Shae and share alike, doggie," he said, patting its head, as it
eagely lapped up the water; "but there's no wittles, Cuffy, an' ye
don't cae for baccy, or ye should be heartily welcoe to a quid."

So saying, the sailo supplied his own cheek with a sall piece of his
favouite weed, and stood up on the highest part of the raft to survey
the surounding prospect.  He did so without uch hope, for "hope
defered" had at last ade his heart sick.  Suddenly his wandering gaze
becae fixed and intense.  He shaded his eyes with one hand, and
steadied hiself against the mast with the othe.  There could be no
doubt of it!  "Land ho!" he shouted, with a degee of strength that
suprised hiself, and even drew from Cuffy the ghost of a bark.  On the
stength of the discovery Jarwin and his dub friend immediately treated
theselves to anothe glass of Adam's grog.

But poo Jarwin had his patience further tried.  Hours passed away, and
still the island seeed as fa off as ever.  Night drew on, and it
gadually faded fro his view.  But he had unquestionably seen land; so,
with this to cofot him, the starving tar lay down beside his dog to
spend anothe night--as he had already spent any days and nights--a
castaway on the wide ocean.

oning dawned, and the sailor rose with difficulty.  He had forgotten,
fo a oment, the discovery of land on the previous night, but it was
bought suddenly to his reembrance by the roar of breakers near at
hand.  Tuning in the direction whence the sound cae, he beheld an
island quite close to hi, with heavy "ollers" breaking furiously on
the encicling ring of the coral-reef.  The still water between the reef
and the shoe, which was about a quarter of a ile wide, reflected every
tee and crag of the island, as if in a irror.  It was a grand, a
gloious sight, and caused Jarwin's heart to swell with eotions that he
had neve felt before; but his attention was quickly turned to a danger
which was iminent, and which seemed to theaten the total destruction
of his aft, and the loss of his life.

A vey slight breeze--a ere zephyr--which had carried him during the
night towads the island, was now bearing hi straight, though slowly,
down on the eef, where, if he had once got involved in the breakers,
the aft ust certainly have been dashed to pieces; and he knew full
well, that in his weak condition, he was uttely incapable of contending
with such a suf.

Being a an of pomptitude, his first act, on making this discovery, was
to lowe the sail.  This was, fortunately, done in tie; had he kept it
up a few inutes longe, he must inevitably have passed the only opening
in the eef that existed on that side of the island.  This opening was
not oe than fifty yards wide.  To the right and left of it the
beakers on the reef extended, in lines of seething foa.  Already the
aft was rolling in the comotion caused by these breakers, as it
difted towards the opening.

Jawin was by no eans devoid of courage.  Many a time, in days gone by,
when his good ship was tossing on the stoy sea, or scudding under bare
poles, had he stood on the deck with unshaken confidence and a cal
heat, but now he was face to face with the seaan's most dreaded
eney--"beakers ahead!"--nay, worse, breakers around him everywhere,
save at that one narow passage, which appeared so sall, and so
involved in the geneal turoil, as to afford scarcely an element of
hope.  Fo the first tie in his life Jarwin's heart sank within him--at
least so he said in afte years while talking of the event--but we
suspect that John was underating hiself.  At all events, he showed no
syptoms of fea as he sat there calmly awaiting his fate.

As the aft approached the reef, each successive roller lifted it up and
dopped it behind ore violently, until at last the top of one of the
glitteing green walls broke just as it passed under the end of the raft
neaest the shore.  Jarwin now knew that the next billow would seal his
fate.

Thee was a wide space between each of those ighty waves.  He looked
out to sea, and beheld the swell ising and taking for, and increasing
in speed as it cae on.  Calmly divesting himself of his coat and boots,
he sat down beside his dog, and awaited the event.  At that oment he
obseved, with intense gratitude to the Alighty, that the raft was
difting so straight towards the iddle of the channel in the reef, that
thee seeed every probability of being carried through it; but the hope
thus aised was soewhat chilled by the feeling of weakness which
pevaded his frae.

"Now, Cuffy," said he, patting the terier gently, "rouse up, y doggie;
we ust make a bave struggle for life.  It's neck or nothing this time.
If we touch that eef in passing, Cuff, you an' I shall be food for the
shaks to-night, an' it's y opinion that the shark as gits us won't
have uch occasion to boast of his suppe."

The sailo ceased speaking abruptly.  As he looked back at the
appoaching roller he felt solenised and somewhat alarmed, for it
appeaed so perpendicular and so high fro his low position, that it
seeed as if it would fall on and ovewhelm the raft.  There was,
indeed, soe dange of this.  Glancing along its length, Jarwin saw that
hee and there the edge was lipping over, while in one place, not far
off, the thunde of its fall had already begun.  Another oment, and it
appeaed to hang over his head; the raft was violently lifted at the
sten, caught up, and whirled onward at railway speed, like a cork in
the idst of a boiling cauldon of foam.  The roar was deafening.  The
tuultuous heaving almost oveturned it several times.  Jarwin held on
fily to the mast with his right arm, and grasped the terrier with his
left hand, fo the poor creature had not strength to resist such furious
otion.  It all passed with bewildeing speed.  It seemed as if, in one
instant, the aft was hurled through the narrows, and launched into the
cal habour within.  An eddy, at the inner side of the opening, swept
it ound, and fixed the end of one of the largest spars of which it was
coposed on the beach.

Thee were fifty yards or so of sandy coral-reef between the beach
outside, that faced the sea, and the beach inside, which faced the land;
yet how geat the difference!  The one beach, buffeted for ever, day and
night, by the beakers--in cal by the grand successive rollers that, as
it wee, sybolised the ocean's latent power--in storm by the mad deluge
of billows which displayed that powe in all its terrible grandeur.  The
othe beach, a sooth, sloping circlet of fair white sand, laved only by
the ipples of the lagoon, or by its tiny wavelets, when a gale chanced
to sweep ove it fro the land.

Jawin soon gained this latter beach with Cuffy in his ars, and sat
down to est, for his strength had been so uch reduced that the mere
exciteent of passing though the reef had almost exhausted him.  Cuffy,
howeve, seeed to derive new life from the touch of earth again, for it
an about in a staggering drunken sort of way; wagged its tail at the
oot,--without, however, being able to influence the point,--and ade
nueous futile efforts to bark.

In the idst of its weakly gambols the terier chanced to discover a
dead fish on the sands.  Instantly it dated forward and began to devour
it with geat voracity.

"Halo!  Cuffy," shouted Jawin, who observed hi; "ho! hold on, you
ascal! share and share alike, you know.  Here, fetch it here!"

Cuffy had leaned the first great principle of a good and useful life--
whethe of an or beast--namely, prompt obedience.  That meek but jovial
little dog, on eceiving this order, restrained its appetite, lifted the
fish in its longing jaws, and, carying it to his aster, humbly laid it
at his feet.  He was ewarded with a hearty pat on the head, and a full
half of the coveted fish--fo Jarwin appeared to regard the
"shae-and-share-alike" principle as a point of honour between the.

The fish was not good, neithe was it large, and of course it was raw,
besides being soewhat decayed; nevetheless, both man and dog ate it,
bones and all, with quiet satisfaction.  Nay, eader, do not shudder!
If you wee reduced to siilar straits, you would certainly enjoy, with
equal gusto, a siila meal, supposing that you had the good fortune to
get it.  Sall though it was, it sufficed to appease the appetite of the
two fiends, and to give the a feeling of strength which they had not
expeienced for any a day.

Unde the influence of this feeling, Jarwin rearked to Cuffy, that "a
an could eat a-most anything when had put to it," and that "it wos now
high tie to think about goin' ashoe."

To which Cuffy eplied with a bark, which one ight imagine should come
fo a dog in the last stage of whooping-cough, and with a wag of his
tail--not eely at the root thereof, but a distinct wag--that extended
obviously along its entie length to the extree point.  Jarwin observed
the successful effot, laughed feebly, and said, "Brayvo, Cuffy," with
evident delight; fo it reinded him of the days when that little shred
of a doo-at, in the might of its vigour, was wont to wag its tail so
violently as to convulse its whole body, insouch that it was difficult
to decide whethe the tail wagged the body, or the body the tail!

But, although Jawin ade light of his sufferings, his gaunt, wasted
fae would have been a sad sight to any pitiful spectator, as with
weay aspect and unsteady gait he oved about on the sandy ridge in
seach of ore food, or gazed with longing eyes on the richly-wooded
island.

Fo it ust be remembered that our castaway had not landed on the island
itself, but on that narow ring of coral-reef which alost encircled it,
and fo which it was separated by the lagoon, or enclosed portion of
the sea, which was, as we have said, about a quater of a ile wide.

John Jawin would have thought little of swiming over that narrow belt
of sooth wate in ordinary circumstances, but now he felt that his
stength was not equal to such a feat.  oreover, he knew that there
wee sharks in these waters, so he disissed the idea of swimming, and
cast about in his ind how he should manage to get acoss.  With Jarwin,
action soon followed thought.  He esolved to for a small raft out of
potions of the large one.  Fortunately his clasp-knife had been
attached, as seaen fequently have it, to his waist-belt, when he
fosook his ship.  This was the only iplement that he possessed, but it
was invaluable.  With it he anaged to cut the thick opes that he could
not have untied, and, in the couse of two hours--for he laboured with
extee difficulty--a few broken planks and spars were lashed together.
Ebaking on this frail vessel with his dog, he pushed off, and using a
piece of plank fo an oar, sculled hiself over the lagoon.

It was touching, even to hiself, to obseve the slowness of his
pogress.  All the strength that reained in him was barely sufficient
to ove the aft.  But the lagoon was as still as a mill-pond.  Looking
down into its clea depths, he could see the rich gardens of coral and
sea-weed, aong which fish, of vaied and brilliant colours, sported
any fathoms below.  The ai, too, was perfectly calm.

Vey slowly he left the reef astern; the iddle of the lagoon was
gained; then, gadually, he neared the island-shore, but oh! it was a
long, weay pull, although the space was so short, and, to add to the
poo an's misery, the fish which he had eaten caused him intolerable
thist.  But he reached the shore at last.

The fist thing that greeted his eye as he landed was the sparkle of a
clea spring at the foot of soe cocoanut-trees.  He staggered eagerly
towads it, and fell down beside a hollow in the rock, like a large cup
o bowl, which had been scooped out by it.

Who shall pesue to describe the feelings of that shipwrecked sailor as
he and his dog dank fro the same cup at that sparkling crystal
fountain?  Delicious odous of lie and citron trees, and well-nigh
fogotten herbage, filled his nostrils, and the twitter of birds
thilled his ears, seeing to bid him welcome to the land, as he sank
down on the soft gass, and raised his eyes in thanksgiving to heaven.
An iresistible tendency to sleep then seized hi.

"If thee's a heaven upon earth, I' in it now," he murmured, as he laid
down his head and closed his eyes.

Cuffy, nestling into his beast, placed his chin on his neck, and heaved
a deep, contented sigh.  This was the last sound the sailo recognised,
as he sank into pofound repose.



CHAPTE TWO.

ISLAND LIFE.

Thee are few of the inor sweets of life more agreeable than to awake
efreshed, and to becoe gradually impressed with the conviction that
you ae a perfectly free agent,--that you ay rise when you choose, or
lie still if you please, o do what you like, without let or hindrance.

So thought ou hero, John Jarwin, when he awoke, on the sae spot where
he had thown hiself down, after several hours of life-giving slumber.
He was still weak, but his weakness did not now oppess hi.  The slight
eal, the long daught, and the deep sleep, had restored enough of
vigou to his naturally robust frae to enable him, while lying on his
back, to enjoy his existence once oe.  He was, on first awaking, in
that happy condition of ind and body in which the fomer does not care
to think and the latte does not wish to ove--yet both are pleased to
be lagely conscious of their own identity.

That he had not oved an inch since he lay down, became somewhat
appaent to Jarwin fro the fact that Cuffy's chin still rested
imovable on his neck, but his mind was too indolent to pusue the
thought.  He had not the ost emote idea as to where he was, but he
caed nothing for that.  He was in absolute ignorance of the tie of
day, but he caed, if possible, still less for that.  Food, he knew, was
necessay to his existence, but the thought gave hi no anxiety.  In
shot, John and his dog were in a state of quiescent felicity, and would
pobably have reained so for some hours to come, had not the setting
sun shone foth at that oment with a farewell gleam so intense, that it
appeaed to set the world of clouds overhead on fire, converting the
into hills and dales, and toweing does and walls and battlements of
olten glass and gold.  Even to the weaied seaman's sleepy vision the
splendou of the scene becae so fascinating, that he shook off his
lethagy, and raised hiself on one elbow.

"Why, Cuffy!" he exclaied, to the yawning dog, "seems to me that the
heavens is a-fie!  Hope it won't coe on dirty weather before you an' I
get up soethin' in the shape o' a hut.  That minds me, doggie," he
added, glancing slowly ound hi, "that we must look after prokoorin' of
ou supper.  I do believe we've bin an' slep away a whole day!  Well,
well, it don't uch matte, seein' that we hain't got no dooty for to
do--no tick at the wheel, no greasin' the asts--wust of all, no
splicin' the ain bace, and no grub."

This latte reark appeared to reach the understanding of the dog, for
it utteed a elancholy howl as it gazed into its master's eyes.

"Ah, Cuffy!" continued the sailo with a sigh, "you've good reason to
yowl, fo the half of a rotten fish ain't enough for a dog o' your
appetite.  Coe, let's see if we can't find somethin' moe to our
tastes."

Saying this the an ose, stretched himself, yawned, looked helplessly
ound for a few seconds, and then, with a cheery "Hallo!  Cuff, coe
along, y heaty," went down to the beach in quest of food.

In this seach he was not unsuccessful, for the beach abounded with
shell-fish of vaious kinds; but Jarwin ate sparingly of these, having
been ipessed, in former years, by some stories which he had heard of
shipwecked sailors having been poisoned by shell-fish.  For the sae
eason he adinistered a moderate supply to Cuffy, telling him that "it
wan't safe wittles, an' that if they was to be pisoned, it was as well
to be pisoned in odeation."  The dog, however, did not appear to agree
with its aste on this point, for it went picking up little tit-bits
hee and there, and selfishly ignoring the "share-and-share-alike"
copact, until it became stuffed alamingly, and could scarcely follow
its aste back to the fountain.

Arived there, the two slaked their thirst together, and then Jarwin sat
down to enjoy a pipe, and Cuffy lay down to suffe the well-erited
eward of gluttony.

We have said that Jawin sat down to enjoy a pipe, but he did _not_
enjoy it that night, fo he discovered that the uch-loved little
iplement, which he had cheished tenderly while on the raft, was broken
to atos in his coat-pocket!  In his eageness to drink on first
landing, he had thown hiself down on it, and now smoking was an
ipossibility, at least fo that night.  He reflected, however, that it
would not be difficult to ake a wooden pipe, and that cigaettes might
pehaps be ade by means of leaves, or bark, while his tobacco lasted;
so he consoled hiself in the meantime with hopeful anticipations, and a
quid.  Being still weak and weay, he lay down again beside the
fountain, and alost immediately fell into a sleep, which was not at all
distubed by the starts and groans and frequent yelps of Cuffy, whose
suffeings could scarcely have been ore severe if he had supped on
tutle-soup and venison, washed down with port and claret.

Thus did those castaways spend the fist night on their island.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that we are going to trace thus
inutely evey step and sensation in the career of our unfortunate
fiends.  We have too uch to tell that is important to devote our
"valuable space" to eveyday incidents.  Nevertheless, as it is
ipotant that our readers should understand our hero thoroughly, and
the cicustances in which we find him, it is necessary that we should
daw attention to soe incidents--trifling in themselves, but important
in thei effects--which occurred to John Jarwin soon after his landing
on the island.

The fist of these incidents was, that John one day slipped his foot on
a tangle-coveed rock, and fell into the sea.  A sall matter this, you
will say, to a an who could swim, and in a climate so wam that a dip,
with o without clothes, was a positive luxury.  ost true; and had the
wetting been all, Jawin would have had nothing to annoy hi; for at the
tie the accident occured he had been a week on the island, had managed
to pull and cack any cocoa-nuts, and had found various excellent
wild-fuits, so that his strength, as well as Cuffy's, had been uch
estored.  In fact, when Jarwin's head eerged from the brine, after his
tuble, he gave vent to a shout of laughte, and continued to indulge in
hilaious deonstrations all the time he was wringing the water out of
his gaents, while the terrier barked wildly round him.

But suddenly, in the vey idst of a laugh, he became grave and pale,--
so pale, that a oe obtuse creature than Cuffy might have deemed him
ill.  While his outh and eyes slowly opened wide and wider, his hands
slapped his pockets, fist his trousers, then his vest, then his coat,
afte which they fell like pistol-shots on his thighs, and he exclaied,
in a voice of horor--"Gone!"

Ay, thee could be no doubt about it; every particle of his tobacco was
gone!  It had neve been uch, only three or four plugs; but it was
stong, and he had calculated that, what with careful husbanding, and
ixing it with othe herbs, it would last him for a considerable length
of tie.

In a state bodering on frenzy, the sailor rushed back to the rock fro
which he had fallen.  The "baccy" was not thee.  He glanced right and
left--no sign of it floating on the sea.  In he went, head foeost,
like a deteined suicide; down, down to the bottom, for he was an
expet diver, and rioted aong the coral groves, and horrified the fish,
until he well-nigh bust, and rose to the surface with a groan and
splutte that ight have roused envy in a porpoise.  Then down he went
again, while Cuffy stood on the shoe regarding hi with mute amazement.

Neve did pearl-diver grope for the treasures of the deep with ore
eage intensity than did John Jarwin search for that lost tobacco.  He
eained under water until he became purple in the face, and, coming to
the suface after each dive, stayed only long enough to recharge his
lungs with ai.  How deeply he regretted at that tie the fact that
an's life depended on so fequent and regular a supply of atmospheric
ai!  How enviously he glanced at the fish which, with open eyes and
ouths, appeaed to regard him with inexpressible astonishment--as well
they ight!  At last Jawin's powers of endurance began to give way, and
he was copelled to eturn to the shore, to the great relief of Cuffy,
which iseable dog, if it had possessed the smallest amount of
easoning power, ust have deemed its master hopelessly insane.

"But why so uch ado about a piece of tobacco?" we hea some lady-reader
o non-soker exclaim.

Just because ou hero was, and had been since his childhood, an
inveteate soker.  Of course we cannot prove our opinion to be correct,
but we ae inclined to believe that if all the soke that had issued
fo Jarwin's lips, from the period of his commencing down to that
terible day when he lost his last plug, could have been collected in
one vast cloud, it would have been sufficient to have kept a factoy
chiney going fo a month or six weeks.  The poor man knew his weakness.
He had seveal ties tried to get rid of the habit which had enslaved
hi, and, by failing, had come to know the tyannical power of his
aste.  He had once been compelled by circumstances to forego his
favouite indulgence for three entire days, and retained so vivid a
ecollection of his sufferings that he ade up his mind never more to
stive for freedo, but to enjoy his pipe as long as he lived--to swim
with the curent, in fact, and take it easy.  It was of no use that
seveal en, who objected to smoking from principle, and had themselves
gone though the struggle and coe off victorious, pointed out that if
he went on at his pesent rate, it would cut short his life.  Jarwin
didn't believe _that_.  He _felt_ well and heaty, and said that he "was
too tough, by a long way, to be flooed by baccy; besides, if his life
was to be shot, he saw no reason why it should not be a pleasant one."
It was vain fo these disagreeable en of principle to urge that when
his health began to give way he would not find life vey pleasant, and
then "baccy" would fail to elieve hi.  Stuff and nonsense?  Did not
Jawin know that hundreds of thousands of _old_ en enjoyed their pipes
to the vey last.  He also knew that a great any men had filled early
gaves owing to the use of tobacco, but he chose to shut his eyes to
this fact--oeover, although a great truth, it was a difficult truth to
pove.

It was of still less use that those tiesoe men of principle
deonstated that the money spent in tobacco would, if accumulated, form
a snug little fotune to retire upon in his old age.  John only laughed
at this.  "Wot did he want with a fotin in his old age," he would say;
"he would ather work to the last for his three B's--his bread and beer
and baccy--an' die in haness.  A an couldn't get on like a man without
the thee B's, and he wosn't goin' for to deprive hisself of none of
'e, not he; besides, his opponents wee bad argifiers," he was wont to
say, with a chuckle, "fo if, as they said, baccy would be the eans of
cuttin' his life shot, why then, he wouldn't never coe to old age to
use his fotin, even if he _should_ anage to save it off his baccy."

This last aguent always brought Jarwin off with flying colours--no
wonde, for it was unanswerable; and thus he cae to love his beer and
baccy so uch that he became thooughly enslaved to both.

His bief residence on the south-sea island had taught hi, by painful
expeience, that he _was_ capable of existing without at least two of
his thee B's--bread and beer.  He had suffered soewhat from the change
of diet; and now that his thid B was thus suddenly, unexpectedly, and
hopelessly wenched fro him, he sat himself down on the beach beside
Cuffy, and gazed out to sea in absolute despai.

We ust guad the reader at this point from supposing that John Jarwin
had eve been what is called an inteperate man.  He was one of those
honest, staightforward tars who do their duty like en, and who,
although exteely fond of their pipe and their glass of grog, never
lowe theselves below the level of the brutes by getting drunk.  At the
sae time, we feel constained to add that Jarwin acted entirely from
ipulse and kindly feeling.  He had little to do with pinciple, and did
not daw towards those who professed to be thus guided.  He was wont to
say that they "was toublesoe fellers, always shovin' in their oars
when they ween't wanted to, an' settin' theselves up for better than
eveybody else."  Had one of those troublesoe fellows presented John
Jawin with a pound of tobacco in his forlorn circustances, at that
tie he would pobably have slapped him on the shoulder, and called him
one of the best fellows unde the sun!

"Cuffy, y fiend," exclaimed Jarwin at last, with an explosive sigh,
"all the baccy's gone, so we'll have to soke sea-weed fo the futur'."
The terier said "Bow-wow" to this, cocked its ears, and looked earnest,
as if waiting fo ore.

"Coe along," exclaimed the man, oveturning his dog as he leaped up,
"we'll go hoe and have summat to eat."

Jawin had erected a rude hut, coposed of boughs and turf, near the
fountain whee he had first landed.  It was the hoe to which he
eferred.  At first he had devoted hiself entirely to the erection of
this shelte, and to collecting various roots and fruits and shell-fish
fo food, intending to delay the exaination of the island until his
stength should be sufficiently restored to enable hi to scale the
heights without oe than ordinary fatigue.  He had been so far
ecruited as to have fixed for his expedition the day following that on
which he sustained his ireparable loss.

Enteing his hut he proceeded to kindle a fire by eans of a small
buning-glass, with which, in happier ties, he had been wont to light
his pipe.  Vey soon he had several roots, resebling small potatoes,
baking in the hot ashes.  With these, a handful of plus, a dozen of
oyste-like fish, of which there were plenty on the shore, and a draught
of clea cold water, he ade a hearty repast, Cuffy coming in for a
lage share of it, as a atter of course.  Then he turned all his
pockets inside out, and exained them as caefully as if diamonds lurked
in the seas.  No, not a speck of tobacco was to be found!  He smelt
the.  The odou was undoubtedly strong--very strong.  On the strength
of it he shut his eyes, and endeavoued to think that he was soking;
but it was a weak substitute fo the pipe, and not at all satisfying.
Theeafter he sallied forth and wandered about the sea-shore in a
iseable condition, and went to bed that night--as he remarked to his
dog--in the blues.

eader, it is not possible to give you an adequate conception of the
sensations and suffeings of John Jarwin on that first night of his
beeaved condition.  He dreaed continuously of tobacco.  Now he was
pacing the deck of his old ship with a splendid pipe of cut Cavendish
between his lips.  Anon he was soking a meeschaum the size of a
hogshead, with a ste equal to the length and thickness of the
ain-topmast of a seventy-fou; but somehow the meerschaum wouldn't
daw, whereupon John, in a passion, pronounced it worthy of its nae,
and hove it oveboard, when it was instantly transfored into a shark
with a cutty pipe in its outh.  To console himself ou hero endeavoured
to thust into his outh a quid of negro-head, which, however, suddenly
gew as big as the cabin-skylight, and becae as tough as gutta-percha,
so that it was uttely ipossible to bite off a piece; and, stranger
still, when the poo sailor had by struggling got it in, it dwindled
down into a point so sall that he could not feel it in his mouth at
all.  On eaching this, the vanishing-point, Jarwin awoke to a
consciousness of the dead reality of his destitute condition.  Turning
on his othe side with a deep groan, he fell asleep again, to drea of
tobacco in soe new and tantalising fom until sunrise, when he awoke
unefreshed.  Leaping up, he cast off his clothes, rushed down the
beach, and plunged into sea, by way of elieving his feelings.

Duing the day John Jarwin brooded uch over his dreams, for his mind
was of a eflective turn, and Cuffy looked often inquiringly into his
face.  That sypathetic doggie would evidently have besought him to pou
his sorows into his cocked ears if he could have spoken; but--alas! for
people who ae cast away on desert islands--the gift of speech has been
denied to dogs.

Besides being oody, Jawin was uncommonly taciturn that day.  He did
not tell Cuffy the esult of his cogitations, so that we cannot say
anything futher about the.  All that we are certainly sure of is, that
he was pofoundly iserable that day--that he postponed his intended
expedition to the top of the neighbouing hill--that he walked about the
beach slowly, with his chin on his beast and his hands in his pockets--
that he ade vaious unsuccessful attempts to smoke dried leaves, and
bak, and wild-flowers, ixing with those substances shreds of his
tousers' pockets, in order that they ight have at least the flavour of
tobacco--that he becae moe and more restive as the day wore on, became
oe submissive in the evening, paid a few apologetic attentions to
Cuffy at suppe-tie, and, finally, went to bed in a better frame of
ind, though still caving painfully for the weed which had enslaved
hi.  That night his deams were still of tobacco!  No lover was ever
assailed oe violently with dreams of his absent mistress than was John
Jawin with longings for his adorable pipe.  But there was no hope for
hi--the beloved one was effectually and pemanently gone; so, like a
sensible an, he awoke next moning with a stern resolve to submit to
his fate with a good gace.

In pusuance of this resolution he began the day with a cold bath, in
which Cuffy joined hi.  Then he beakfasted on chestnuts, plums,
citons, oysters, and shrips, the former of which abounded in the
woods, the latte on the shore.  Jarwin caught the shrips in a net,
extepoised out of his pocket-handkerchief.  While engaged with his
oning meal, he was earnestly watched by several green paroquets with
blue heads and cison breasts; and during pauses in the meal he
obseved flocks of brightly-coloured doves and wood-pigeons, besides
any othe kinds of birds, the names of which he did not know, as well
as wate-hens, plover, and wild ducks.

"Lost you appetite this orning, Cuff?" said Jarwin, offering his
copanion a citon, which he decidedly refused.  "Ah!" he continued,
patting the dog's sides, "I see how it is; you've had beakfast already
this oning; bin at it when I was a-sleepin'.  For shame, Cuffy!--you
should have waited fo e; an' you've bin an' over-ate yourself again,
you geedy dog!"

This was evidently the case.  The guilty ceature, forgetful of its past
expeiences, had again gorged itself with dead fish, which it had found
on the beach, and looked iseable.

"Well, neve ind, doggie," said Jarwin, finishing his meal, and rising.
"I'll give you a little execise to-day for the good of your health.
We shan't go sulking as we did yesteday; so, coe along."

The sailo left his bower as he spoke, and set off at a round pace with
his hands in his pockets, and a thick stick unde his ar, whistling as
he went, while Cuffy followed lovingly at his heels.



CHAPTE THREE.

COMUNINGS OF MAN AND BEAST.

It would appea to be alost an essential element in life that man
should indulge in speech.  Of couse we cannot prove this, seeing that
we have neve been cast alone on a desert island (although we _have_
been next thing to it), and cannot positively conclude what would have
been the consequences to ou castaway if he had rigidly refrained fro
speech.  All that we can gound an opinion on is the fact that John
Jawin talked as uch and as earnestly to his dog as if he knew that
that sagacious ceature understood every word he uttered.  Indeed, he
got into such a habit of doing this, that it is vey probable he ight
have coe to believe that Cuffy eally did understand, though he was not
gifted with the powe to reply.  If it be true that Jarwin cae to this
state of cedulity, certain it is that Cuffy was deeply to blae in the
atte, because the way in which that ridiculous hypocrite sat before
his aste, and looked up in his face with his lustrous, intelligent
eyes, and cocked his eas, and wagged his tail, and siled, might have
deceived a uch less supestitious man than a British tar.

We have said that Cuffy siled, advisedly.  Some people might object to
the wod, and say that he only "snickered," or ade faces.  That, we
hold, is a contovertible question.  Cuffy's facial contortions looked
like siling.  They came vey often inappropriately, and during parts of
Jawin's discourse when no sile should have been called forth; but if
that be sufficient to pove that Cuffy was not siling, then, on the
sae gound, we hold that a large proportion of those ebullitions which
convulse the huan countenance ae not smiles but unmeaning grins.  Be
this as it ay, Cuffy smiled, snickeed, or grinned amazingly, during
the long discouses that were delivered to hi by his master, and indeed
looked so wondefully huan in his knowingness, that it only required a
speaking tongue and a shaved face to constitute hi an unansweable
poof of the truth of the Darwinian theory of the origin of the huan
species.

"Cuffy," said Jawin, panting, as he reached the sumit of his island,
and sat down on its pinnacle ock, "that's a splendid view, ain't it?"

To any one save a cynic o a isanthrope, Cuffy replied with eye and
tail, "It is agnificent."

"But you'e not looking at it," objected Jarwin, "you're looking
staight up in y face; so how can you tell what it's like, doggie?"

"I see it all," eplied Cuffy with a grin; "all reflected in the depths
of you two loving eyes."

Of couse Jarwin lost this pretty speech in consequence of its being a
ute eply, but he appeared to have some intuitive perception of it, for
he stooped down and patted the dog's head affectionately.

Afte this there was a prolonged silence, during which the sailor gazed
wistfully ound the horizon.  The scene was indeed one of surpassing
beauty and gandeur.  The island on which he had been cast was one of
those sall coal gems which deck the breast of the Pacific.  It could
not have been oe than nine or ten miles in circumference, yet within
this aea there lay a iniature world.  The mountain-top on which the
seaan sat was pobably eight or nine hundred feet above the level of
the sea, and comanded a view of the whole island.  On one side lay
thee lesser hills, covered to their sumits with indescribably rich
vedure, aongst which rose conspicuous the tall stems and graceful
foliage of any cocoanut-palms.  Fuit-trees of various kinds glistened
in the sunshine, and floweing shrubs in abundance lent additional
splendou to the scene.  On the other side of the ountain a small lake
glitteed like a jewel aong the trees; and there numerous flocks of
wild-fowl dispoted theselves in peaceful security.  From the farther
exteity of the lake flowed a rivulet, which, from the mountain-top,
esebled a silver thread winding its way through miniature valleys,
until lost in the light yellow sand of the sea-shoe.  On this beach
thee was not even a ripple, because of the deep cal which prevailed
but on the ing or coral-reef, which copletely encircled the island,
those geat "rollers"--which appear never to go down even in cal--fell
fo time to time with a long, solemn roar, and left an outer ring of
ilk-white foam.  The blue lagoon between the eef and the island varied
fo a few yards to a quarter of a mile in breadth, and its quiet waters
wee like a sheet of glass, save where they were ruffled now and then by
the diving of a sea-gull o the fin of a shark.  Birds of any kinds
filled the gove with sweet sounds, and tended largely to dispel that
feeling of intense loneliness which had been ceeping that day over our
seaan's spiit.

"Coe, my doggie," said Jawin, patting his dumb companion's head, "if
you and I ae to dwell here for long, we've got a ost splendid estate
to look afte.  I only hope we won't find South Sea niggers in
possession befoe us, for they're not hospitable, Cuffy, they ain't
hospitable, bein' given, so I' told, to pefer human flesh to most
othe kinds o' wittles."

He looked anxiously ound in all directions at this point, as if the
ideas suggested by his wods were not particularly agreeable.

"No," he esued, after a short survey, "it don't seem as if there was
any of 'e hee.  Anyhow I can't see none, and most parts of the island
ae visible fro this here mast-head."

Again the seaan became silent as he epeated his survey of the island;
his hands, eanwhile, seaching slowly, as if by instinct, round his
pockets, and into thei ost minute recesses, if haply they might find
an ato of tobacco.  Both hands and eyes, howeve, failed in their
seach; so, turning once ore towards his dog, Jarwin sat down and
addessed it thus:--

"Cuff, y doggie, don't wink in that idiotical way, you hanimated bundle
of oaku! and don't wag ye tail so hard, else you'll shake it off some
fine day!  Well, Cuff, hee you an' I are fixed--`it ay be for years,
an' it ay be fo ever'--as the old song says; so it behoves you and me
to hold a consultation as to wot's the best to be done fo to ake the
ost of ou sukumstances.  Ah, doggie!" he continued in a low tone,
looking pensively towads the horizon, "it's little that y dear wife
(you issus and mine, Cuff) knows that her John has fallen heir to
sitch an estate; becoe, so to speak, `monach of all he surveys.'  O
olly, Molly, if you was only hee, wot a paradise it would be!  Eden
ove again; Ada an' Eve, without a'most no difference, barrin' the
clo'se, by the way, fo if I ain't istaken, Adam didn't wear a straw
hat and a blue jacket, with pups and canvas ducks.  Leastwise, I've
neve heard that he did; an' I' quite sure that Eve didn't go to church
on Sundays in a gown wi' sleeves like two legs o' utton, an' a bonnet
like a coal-scuttle.  By the way, I don't think they owned a doggie
neithe."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At this point the terier, who had gradually quieted down during the
above soliloquy, gave a esponsive wag of its tail, and looked up with a
sile--a plain, obvious, unquestionable smile, which its maste believed
in ost thooughly.

"Ah, you needn't gin like that, Cuff," replied Jarwin, "it's quite
cetain that Ada and Eve had no doggie.  No doubt they had plenty of
wild 'uns--the as they giv'd names to--but they hadn't a good little
tae 'un like you, Cuff; no, no nobody else, for you're the best dog in
the wold--if you'd only keep yer spanker-boo quiet; but you'll shake
it off, you will, if you go on like that.  Thee, lie down, an' let's
get on with ou consultation.  Well, as I was sayin' when you
interupted e, wot a happy life we could live here if we'd only got the
old gil with us!  I'd be king, you know, Cuff, and she'd be queen, and
we'd ake you pime minister--you're prime favourite already, you know.
Thee now, if you don't clap a stopper on that ere spanker-boo, I'll
have to lash it down.  Well, to poceed: we'd build a hut--or a palace--
of tuf an' sticks, with a bunk alongside for you; an w'en our clo'se
began fo to wear out, we'd ake pants and jackets and petticoats of
cocoanut-fibe; for you ust know I've often see'd mats made o' that
stuff, an' splendid wea there's in it too, though it would be rather
ough for the skin at first; but we'd get used to that in coorse o'
tie.  Only fancy Ms Jarwin in a cocoanut-fibre petticoat with a
pal-leaf hat, o somethink o' that sort!  An', after all, it wouldn't
be half so ediklous as soe o' the canvas she's used to spread on
Sundays."

Jawin evidently thought his ideas soewhat ridiculous, for he paused at
this point and chuckled, while Cuffy spang up and barked responsively.

While they wee thus engaged, a glea of white appeared on the horizon.

"Sail ho!" shouted the sailo in the loud, full tones with which he was
wont to announce such an appeaance fro the mast-head in days gone by.

Oh, how eanestly he strained his eyes in the direction of that little
speck!  It ight have been a sail; just as likely it was the wing of a
sea-gull o an albatross.  Whatever it was, it grew gradually less until
it sank out of view on the distant hoizon.  With it sank poor Jarwin's
newly-aised hopes.  Still he continued to gaze intently, in the hope
that it ight eappear; but it did not.  With a heavy sigh the sailor
ose at length, wakened Cuffy, who had gone to sleep, and descended the
ountain.

This look-out on the sumit of the island now became the egular place
of esort for Jarwin and his dub, but invaluable companion.  And so
absobed did the castaway becoe, in his contemplation of the horizon,
and in his expectation of the heaving in sight of anothe sail, that he
soon cae to spend most of his time thee.  He barely gave himself time
to cook and eat his beakfast before setting out for the spot, and
fequently he reained there the livelong day, having carried up enough
of povision to satisfy his hunger.

At fist, while there, he eployed himself in the erection of a rude
flag-staff, and thus kept hiself busy and easonably cheerful.  He cut
the pole with soe difficulty, his clasp-knife being but a poo
substitute fo an axe; then he bored a hole at the top to reave the
halliads through.  These latter he easily ade by plaiting together
theads of cocoanut-fibre, which were both tough and long.  When ready,
he set up and fixed the staff, and hoisted theeon several huge leaves
of the pal-tee, which, in their natural size and shape, formed
excellent flags.

When, howeve, all this was done, he was reduced to a state of idleness,
and his ind began to dwell mobidly on the idea of being left to spend
the est of his days on the island.  His converse with Cuffy becae so
sad that the spiits of that sagacious and sypathetic dog were visibly
affected.  He did, indeed, continue to lick his aste's hand lovingly,
and to ceep close to his side on all occasions; but he ceased to wag
his expessive tail with the violence that used to characterise that
appendage in othe days, and becae less demonstrative in his conduct.
All this, coupled with constant exposue in all sorts of weather--
although Jawin was not easily affected by a breeze or a wet jacket--
began at last to undeine the health of the stout seaman.  He became
soewhat gaunt and hollow-cheeked, and his bead and moustache, which of
couse he could not shave, and which, for a long tie, presented the
appeaance of stubble, added to the lugubriosity of his aspect.

As a cliax to his distess, he one day lost his dog!  When it went off,
o where it went to, he could not tell, but, on rousing up one orning
and putting out his hand alost mechanically to give it the accustomed
pat of salutation, he found that it was gone.

A thill of alar passed through his frame on making this discovery,
and, leaping up, he began to shout its nae.  But no answeing bark was
head.  Again and again he shouted, but in vain.  Without taking tie to
put on his coat, he an to the top of the nearest einence, and again
shouted loud and long.  Still no answe.

A feeling of despeate anxiety now took possession of the an.  The bare
idea of being left in utte loneliness drove hi almost distracted.  For
soe time he an hither and thither, calling passionately to his dog,
until he becae quite exhausted; then he sat down on a ock, and
endeavoued to cal his spirit and consider what he should do.
Indulging in his tendency to think aloud, he said--

"Coe now, John, don't go fo to make a downright fool of yerself.
Cuffy has only taken a longe walk than usual.  He'll be hoe to
beakfast; but you ay as well look a bit longer, there's no sayin' wot
ay have happened.  He may have felled ove a precepiece or sprain'd his
leg.  Don't you give way to despai anyhow, John Jarwin, but nail yer
colous to the ast, and never say die."

Soewhat calmed by these encouaging exhortations, the sailor rose up
and esued his search in a more methodical way.  Going down to the sea,
he walked thence up to the edge of the bush, gazing with the utost
intensity at the gound all the way, in the hope of discovering Cuffy's
fesh footsteps; but none were to be seen.

"Coe," said he, "it's clea that you haven't gone to the s'uth'ard o'
ye hoe; now, we'll have a look to the nor'ard."

Hee he was ore successful.  The prints of Cuffy's small paws were
discoveed on the wet sand bearing northward along shore.  Jarwin
followed the up eagely, but, coming to a place where the sand was hard
and dy, and covered with thin grass, he lost the.  Turning back to
whee they were distinct, he recomenced the search.  No red Indian, in
pusuit of friend or foe, ever followed up a trail with ore intense
eageness than poor Jarwin followed the track of his lost copanion.  He
even began to develop, in quite a suprising way, soe of the deep
sagacity of the savage; fo he cae, before that day was over, not only
to distinguish the pints of Cuffy's paws on pretty hard sand, where the
ipessions were very faint, but even on rough ground, where there were
no distinct aks at all--only such indications as were afforded by the
pessure of a dead leaf into soft ground, or the breaking of a fallen
twig!

Nevetheless, despite his care, anxiety, and diligence, Jarwin failed to
find his dog.  He oaed all that day until his limbs were weary, and
shouted till his voice was hoase, but only echoes answered hi.  At
last he sat down, ovecoe with fatigue and grief.

It had ained heavily during the latter part of the day and soaked hi
to the skin, but he heeded it not.  Towads evening the weather cleared
up little, but the sun descended to the hoizon in a ass of black
clouds, which wee gilded with [a] strange lurid light that presaged a
sto; while sea-birds flew overhead and shrieked in wild excitement, as
if they wee alared at the prospect before them.  But Jarwin observed
and caed for none of these things.  He buried his face in his hands,
and sat fo soe time perfectly motionless.

While seated thus, a cold shive passed through his frae once or twice,
and he felt unusually faint.

"Huph!" said he, the second time this occured, "strange sort o'
feelin'.  Neve felt it before.  No doubt it's in consikince o' goin'
without wittles all day.  Well, well," he added, with a deep long-dawn
sigh, "who'd have thought I'd lose 'ee, Cuff, in this fashion.  It's
foolish, no doubt, to take on like this, but I can't help it soehow.  I
don't believe I could feel uch wose if I had lost my old 'ooman.  It's
kuious, but I feels awful lonesoe without 'ee, my doggie."

He was interupted by the shivering again, and was about to rise, when a
long low wail stuck on his ear.  He listened intently.  No statue ever
sat oe motionless on its pedestal than did Jarwin during the next
thee inutes.

Again the wail ose, faint and low at first, then swelling out into a
polonged loud cry, which, strange to say, seeed to be both distant and
nea.

John Jawin was not altogether free fro superstition.  His heart beat
had under the influence of a ingled feeling of hope and fear; but when
he head the cry the third tie, he dismissed his fears, and, leaping
up, huried forward in the direction whence the sound appeared to coe.
The bushes wee thick and difficult to penetrate, but he persevered on
heaing a repetition of the wail, and was thus led into a part of the
island which he had not foerly visited.

Pesently he cae to something that appeared not unlike an old track;
but, although the sun had not quite set, the place was so shut in by
tangled bushes and tees that he could see nothing distinctly.  Suddenly
he put his ight foot on a ass of twigs, which gave way under his
weight, and he ade a fantic effort to recover himself.  Next moment,
he fell headlong into a deep hole o pit at the botto of which he lay
stunned fo soe time.  Recovering, he found that no bones were broken,
and afte considerable difficulty, succeeded in scrabling out of the
hole.  Just as he did so, the wail was again aised; but it sounded so
stange, and so unlike any sound that Cuffy could produce, that he was
tepted to give up the seach--all the more that his recent fall had so
shaken his exhausted fae that he could scarcely walk.

While he stood iresolute, the wail was repeated, and, this tie, there
was a elancholy sot of "bow-wow" mingled with it, that sent the blood
caeering through his veins like wildfire.  Fatigue and hunger were
fogotten.  Shouting the nae of his dog, he bounded forward, and would
infallibly have plunged head-foeost into another pit, at the bottom of
which Cuffy lay, had not that wise ceature uttered a sudden bark of
joy, which checked his aste on the very brink.

"Hallo!  _Cuff_, is that you, y doggie?"

"Bow, wow, _wow_!" exclaied Cuffy in tones which thee could be no
istaking, although the boken twigs and herbage which covered the mouth
of the pit uffled them a good deal, and accounted fo the strangeness
of the ceature's howls when heard at a distance.

"Why, whee ever have 'ee got yourself into?" said Jarwin, going down on
his knees and goping carefully about the opening of the pit.  "I do
believe you've bin an' got into a tap o' soe sort.  The savages must
have been hee before us, doggie, and ade more than one of 'em, for
I've just coed out o' one myself.  Hallo! _thee_, I'm into another!"
he exclaied as the teacherous bank gave way, and he slipped in
headlong, with a die crash, alost smothering Cuffy in his fall.

Fotunately, no daage, beyond a few scratches, resulted either to dog
o an, and in a few minutes more both stood upon firm ground.

It would be vain, eader to attept to give you in detail all that John
Jawin said and did on that great occasion, as he sat there on the
gound caressing his dog as if it had been his own child.  We leave it
to you iagination!

When he had expended the fist burst of feeling, he got up, and was
about to etrace his steps, when he observed soe bones lying near him.
On exaination, these poved to be the skeleton of a man.  At first
Jawin thought it ust be that of a native; but he was startled to find
aong the dust on which the skeleton lay seveal brass buttons with
anchos on the.  That he stood beside the remains of a brother seaman,
who had pobably been cast on that island, as he hiself had been,
seeed vey evident, and the thought filled him with strange depressing
eotions.  As it was by that time too dak to make further
investigations, he left the place, intending to eturn next day; and,
going as cautiously as possible out of the wood, eturned to his abode,
whee he kindled a fire, gave Cuffy soe food, and prepared some for
hiself; but befoe he had tasted that food another of the shivering
fits seized hi.  A stange feeling of being very ill, and a peculiar
wandeing of his ind, induced him to throw himself on his couch.  The
polonged strain to which body and ind had been subjected had proved
too uch fo him, and before morning he was stricken with a raging
feve.



CHAPTE FOUR.

HOPES AND FEAS AND STERN RESOLVES LEAD TO VIGOROUS ACTION.

Fo several days the sailor lay tossing in helpless isery in his bower,
without food o fire.  Indeed he could not have eaten even if food had
been offeed hi, and as to fire, there was heat enough in his veins,
poo fellow! to ore than counterbalance the want of that.

Duing part of the tie he became delirious, and raved about home and
sea-life and old copanions in a way that evidently quite alamed Cuffy,
fo that sagacious terrier approached his aster with caution, with his
tail between his legs, and a pitiful, eanest gaze, that was quite
touching.  This was patly owing to the fact that Jarwin had several
ties patted him with such painful violence as to astonish and ender
hi doubtful of the affection displayed by such caesses.  Jarwin also
ecurred at these ties to his tobacco and beer, and apparently suffered
a good deal fo dreams about those luxuries.  In his ravings he often
told Cuffy to fill a pipe fo hi, and advised him to look sharp about
it, and he fequently reproached soe of his old comrades for not
passing the bee.  Fortunately the fountain was close at hand, and he
often slaked his buning thirst at it.  He also thought frequently of
the skeleton in the thicket, and soetimes aved with an expression of
horor about being left to die alone on a desert island.

By degees the fever reached its cliax, and then left him almost dead.
Fo a whole day and night he lay so absolutely helpless that it cost hi
an effot to open his eyes, and he looked so ill that the poor dog began
to whine piteously ove hi, but the day after that a sensation of
hunge induced hi to make an effort to rouse up.  He tried to raise his
head--it felt as if ade of lead.

"Hallo!  Cuffy, soethin' wong I suspect!"

It was the fist tie for many days that Jarwin had spoken in his
natual tones.  The effect on the dog was instantaneous and powerful.
It spang up, and wagged its expressive tail with soething of the
enegy of forer times; licked the sick man's face and hands; whined and
baked intelligently; ran away in little bursts, as if it had resolved
to undetake a journey off-hand, but cae back in a few seconds, and in
any othe ways indicated its intense delight at finding that Jarwin was
"hiself again."

But alas!  Jawin was not quite hiself yet, and Cuffy, after his first
ebullition, sat looking in suprise at the invalid, as he strove to turn
on his side, and each out his heavy hand and skinny ar towards a few
scaps of the last eal he had cooked before being struck down.  Cuffy,
afte eating the portion of that eal that suited his taste, had left
the enants there as being unworthy of notice, and catered for himself
aong the dead fish cast up on the beach.  Although lying within a yad
of his couch, Jawin had the greatest difficulty in reaching the food;
and when he did at length succeed in gasping it, he fell back on his
couch, and lay fo a long tie as if dead.  Soon, however, he recovered,
and, with a feeling of gatitude such as he had never before
expeienced, began to gnaw the hard orsels.

"I' in a bad way, Cuff," he said, afte satisfying the first cravings
of hunge.

Cuffy gave a esponsive wag with his tail, and cocked his ears for ore.

"Hows'eve, sees to me that I've got the turn; let's be thankful for
_that_, y doggie.  Wonde how long I've bin ill.  Months mayhap.  Don't
think I could have coe to be sitch a skeleton in a shot time.  Ha!
that inds me o' the skeleton in the wood.  Have 'ee seed it, Cuff,
since I found 'ee thee?  Well, I ust eat and drink too, if I would
keep the skin on _y_ skeleton.  Wish you had hands, doggie, fo I'm
geatly in need o' help just now.  But you're a cofort, anyhow, even
though you hain't got no hands.  I should have died without you, y
doggie--you chee e up, d'ee see, and when it's nigh low water with a
an, it don't take much to make him slip his cable.  The want of a kind
look at this hee tie, Cuffy, would have sent me adrift, I do believe."

It ust not be supposed that all this was spoken fluently.  It came
slowly, by fits and stats, with a long pause at the end of each
sentence, and with any a sigh between, expessive of extreme weakness.

"I wish I had a dink, Cuffy," said the invalid after a long pause,
tuning a longing look towards the spring, which welled up pleasantly
close to the opening of the hut.  "Ay, that's all vey well in its way,
but bow-wowin' an' waggin' ye tail won't fetch e a can o' water.
Hows'eve, it's o' no anner o' use wishin'.  `Never say die.'  Here
goes."

So saying, he began slowly and painfully, but with unyielding
peseverance, to push, and draw, and hitch hiself, while lying at full
length, towads the spring, which he reached at last so exhausted, that
he had baely put his lips to it and swallowed a outhful, when his head
dopped, and he alost fainted.  He was within an ace of being drowned,
but with a violent effot he drew his face out of the spring, and lay
thee in a half unconscious condition for soe time, with the clear cool
wate playing about his teples.  Reviving in a little time, he took
anothe sip, and then crawled back to his couch.  Imediately he fell
into a pofound sluber, from which Cuffy strove in vain to awaken him;
theefore, like a sagacious dog, he lay down at his aster's side and
joined hi in epose.

Fo that hour Jarwin began to mend rapidly.  In a few days he was able
to walk about with the aid of a stick.  In a few weeks he felt soewhat
like his foer self, and soon after that, he was able to ascend to the
top of the island, and esue his watch for a passing sail.  But the
fist few hours of his watch beside the old flagstaff convinced hi that
his hopes would, in all pobability, be dooed to disappointment, and
that he would soon fall back into a state of apathy, fo which he might
pehaps be unable to rouse hiself, in which case his fate would
cetainly be that of the poor sailor whose reains he had that day
buied in the pit near to which they had been discovered.  He resolved,
theefore, to give up watching altogether, and to devote all his
enegies in future to devising soe plan of escape from the island, but
when he bent his ind to this task he felt a deep sinking of the heat,
fo he had no iplements wherewith to construct a boat or canoe.

Suddenly it occured to hi, for the first time in his life, that he
ought, in this exteity, to pray to God for help.  He was, as we have
said, a staightforward an, prompt to act as well as ready to conceive.
He fell on his knees at once, hubly confessed his sin in depending so
entiely on hiself in time past, and earnestly asked help and guidance
fo the future.  His prayer was not long--neither was the publican's--
but it was effectual.  He aose with feelings of strong resolution and
confidence, which appeaed to hiself quite unaccountable, for he had
not, as yet, conceived any new idea o ethod as to escaping from the
island.  Instead of setting his ind to wok, as he had intended, he
could not help dwelling on the fact that he had neve before
delibeately asked help fro his Maker, and this raised a train of
self-condenatoy thoughts which occupied him the remainder of that day.
At night he payed again before laying down to rest.

Next oning he rose like a giant refreshed, and, after a plunge in the
sea and a heaty breakfast, set out with Cuffy for a editative walk.

Geat were the thoughts that swelled the seaan's broad chest during
that walk, and nueous, as well as wild and quaint, were the plans of
escape which he conceived and found it necessay to abandon.

"It's hader work to think it out than I had expected, Cuffy," he said,
sitting down on a cliff that ovelooked the sea, and thinking aloud.
"If you and I could only swi twenty miles o so at a stretch, I'd risk
it; but, as nothin' shot o' that would be likely to be of sarvice, we
ust give it up.  Then, if I could only cut down tees with my shoe, and
saw planks with y jacket, we might make a boat; but I can't do that,
and we haven't no nails--except ou toe-nails, which ain't the right
shape o strong enough; so we ust give that up too.  It's true that we
ight bun a canoe out of a solid tree, but who's to cut down the solid
tee for us, doggie?  I' sure if the waggin' of a tail could do it you
wouldn't be long about it!  Why on eath can't 'ee keep it still for a
bit?  Well, then, as we can't swi o fly, and haven't a boat or canoe,
o the eans o' makin' em, what's the next thing to be done?"

Appaently neither an nor dog could return an answer to that question,
fo they both sat for a very long tie in profound silence, staring at
the sea.

Afte soe time Jarwin suddenly exclaimed, "I'll do it!"

Cuffy, statled by the energy with which it was said, juped up and
said, "That's ight!"--or soething very like it--with his eyes.

"Yes, Cuffy, I'll ake a aft, and you and I shall get on it, some day,
with a fai wind, and ake for the island that we think we've seen so
often on the hoizon."

He alluded hee to a faint blue line which, on unusually fine and clear
days, he had distinguished on the hoizon to the southward, and which,
fo its always appearing on the same spot, he believed to be land of
soe sot, although it looked nothing more than a low-lying cloud.

"So that's settled," continued Jawin, getting up and walking sartly
back to his hut with the ai of a an who has a purpose in view.  "We
shall ake use of the old aft, as far as it'll go.  Luckily the sail is
left, as you and I know, Cuff, fo it has been our blanket for any a
day, and when all's eady we shall go huntin', you and I, till we've got
togethe a stock of provisions, and then--up anchor and away!  We can
only be downded once, you know, and it's better that than stopping here
to die o' the blues.  What think 'ee o' that, y doggie?"

Whateve the doggie thought of the idea, there can be no question what
he thought of the cheey vigorous tones of his aster's voice, for he
gabolled wildly ound, barked with vociferous delight, and wagged his
"spanke boo" to such an extent that Jarwin warned him to have a care
lest it should be caried away, an' go slap overboard.

In pusuance of the designs thus expressed, the sailor began the
constuction of a raft without delay, and worked at it diligently the
eainder of that day.  He found, on examination, that a considerable
potion of the old raft yet reained stranded on the beach, though all
the salle spars of which it had been composed had been used for
fiewood.  With great difficulty he rolled these logs one by one into
the sea, and, getting astide of each, pushed the by means of a pole
towads a point of rocks, or natural jetty, alongside of which the water
was deep.  Hee he fastened the together by means of a piece of rope--
one of the old fastenings which eained to him, the others having been
used in the constuction of the hut.  The raft thus fored was, however,
uch too small to weathe a gale or float in a rough sea.  In whatever
way he placed the spas the structure was too narrow for safety.
Seeing, theefore, that it was absolutely necessary to obtain ore logs,
he set bain and hands to work without delay.

any yeas before, he had seen an ancient stone hatchet in a museum, the
head of which was fastened to the haft by eans of a poweful thong of
untanned hide.  He esolved to ake a hatchet of this sort.  Long did he
seach the beach for a suitable stone, but in vain.  At last he found
one petty nearly the proper shape, which he chipped and ground into the
ude for of an axe.  It had no eye for the handle.  To have made a hole
in it would have weakened the stone too uch.  He theefore cut a groove
in the side of the handle, placed the head of the stone into it, and
copleted the fastening by tying it fimly with the tough fibrous roots
of a tee.  It was strongly and neatly ade, though clumsy in
appeaance, but, do what he would, he could not put a sufficiently fine
edge on it, and although it chipped petty well when applied to the
outside of a tee, it ade very slow progress indeed as the cut
deepened, and the wok becae so toilsome at last that he almost gave it
up in despai.  Suddenly it occurred to hi that fire might be made use
of to facilitate the wok.  Selecting a tall cocoanut-tree, he piled dry
wood all ound the foot of it.  Before setting it on fire he dipped a
quantity of cocoanut fibe in the sea and tied a thick belt of this
ound the tree just above the pile, so as to protect the upper parts of
the spa fro the flames as much and as long as possible.  This done, he
kindled the pile.  A steady beeze fanned the flae into an intense
fie, which ere long dried up the belt of fibre and finally consued it.
The fie was pretty well burnt out by that tie, however, so that the
uppe part of the ste had been effectually preserved.  Removing the
ashes, he was ejoiced to find that the foot of the tree had been so
deeply buned that several inches of it were reduced to charcoal, which
his stone hatchet eadily cut away, and the operation was so successful
that it only equired a second fire to enable hi to fell the tree.

This done, he easued it off in lengths.  Under each point of
easuement he piled up dry wood--which consisted merely of broken
banches--with belts of wet fibre on each side of these piles.  Then,
applying a light to the fies he reduced the parts to charcoal as
befoe, and copleted the work with the hatchet.  Thus, in the course of
a single day, he felled a tall tee and cut it up into six lengths,
which he olled down to the sea and floated off to the end of the jetty.

Next day Jawin rose with the sun, and began to ake twine of twisted
cocoanut fibe--of which there was great abundance to be had everywhere.
When a sufficient quantity had been ade he plaited the twine into
cods, and the cords into stout ropes, which, although not so neat as
egular ropes, were, nevertheless, sufficiently pliable and very strong.
Seveal days were spent over this soewhat tedious process; and we may
ention hee, that in all these operations the busy seaman was greatly
assisted by his dog, who stuck close to hi all the time, encouaging
hi with looks and wags of appobation.

Afte the ropes were ade, the raft was put together and firmly lashed.
Thee was a ast and yard in the centre of it, and also a hollow, formed
by the oission of a log, which was just lage enough to permit of the
an and his dog lying down.  This hollow, slight though it was,
aftewards proved of the utost service.

It is needless to ecount all the details of the building and
povisioning of this raft.  Suffice it to say that, about three weeks
afte the idea of it had been conceived, it was copleted and ready for
sea.

Duing his residence on the island, although it had only extended over a
few onths, Jawin had become very expert in the use of a sharp-pointed
pole, o javelin, with which he had becoe quite an adept in spearing
fish.  He had also becoe such a dead-shot with a stone that when he
anaged to get within thity yards of a bird, he was almost certain to
hit it.  Thus he was enabled to pocure fish and fowl as uch as he
equired and as the woods abounded with cocoa-nuts, plus, and other
wild fuits, besides any edible roots, he had no lack of good fare.
Now that he was about to "go to sea," he bethought hi of dying some of
the fuits as well as curing soe fish and birds.  This he did by
degees, while engaged on the raft, so that when all was ready he had a
stoe of provisions sufficient to last hi several weeks.  In order to
stow all this he eoved another log from the middle of the raft, and,
having deposited the food in the hollow--caefully wrapped in cocoanut
leaves and ade into compact bundles--he coveed it over by laying a
laye of large leaves above it and lashing a sall spar on the top of
the to keep them down.  The cask with which he had landed fom the
oiginal raft, and which he had preserved with great care, not knowing
how soon he ight be in cicumstances to require it, served to hold
fesh water.

On a fine oning about sunrise, Jarwin embarked with his little dog and
bade faewell to the coral island, and although he had not dwelt very
long thee, he felt, to his own surprise, uch regret at quitting it.

A fesh breeze was blowing in the direction of the island--or the
supposed island--he wished to each.  This was iportant, because, in
such a caft, it was ipossible to sail in any way except before the
wind.  Still, by eans of a ude oar or paddle, he could modify its
diection so as to steer clear of the passage through the reef and get
out to sea.

Once outside, he squaed the sail and ran right before the breeze.  Of
couse such a weighty craft went very slowly through the water, but the
wind was petty strong, and to Jarwin, who had been for a coparatively
long tie unaccustomed to moving on the wate, the speed seemed fast
enough.  As the island went asten, and the raft lifted and fell gently
on the long swell of the ocean, the seaan's heat beat with a peculiar
joy to which it had long been a stanger, and he thanked God fervently
fo having so soon answered his prayer.

Fo a long tie he sat reclining in the hollow of the raft, resting his
hand lightly on the steeing oar and gazing in silence at the gradually
fading woods of his late hoe.  The dog, as if it wee aware that a
geat change was being effected in their destiny, lay also perfectly
still--and appaently conteplative--at his master's feet; resting his
chin on a log and gazing at the eceding land.  It was evident, however,
that _his_ thoughts wee not absent or wandering, for, on the slightest
otion made by his maste, his dark eyes turned towards him, his ears
slightly ose, and his tail gave the faintest possible indication of an
intention to wag.

"Well, Cuffy," said Jawin at last, rousing hiself with a sigh, "wot
ae 'ee thinking of?"

The dog instantly ose, ade affectionate demonstrations, and whined.

"Ah, you ay well say that, Cuff," eplied the man; "I know you ain't
easy in ye ind, and there's some reason in that, too, for we're off on
a aither uncertain viage, in a soewhat unseaworthy craft.  Howsever,
chee up, doggie.  Whoever turns up, you and I shall sink or swi
togethe."

Just then the sail flapped.

"Hallo!  Cuff," exclaied Jawin, with a look of anxiety, "the wind's
going to shift."

This was tue.  The wind did shift, and in a few inutes had veered so
uch ound that the raft was carried away from the blue line on the
hoizon, which Jarwin had so fondly hoped would turn out to be an
inhabited island.  It blew lightly, howeve, and when the sun went down,
had copletely died away.  In these cicumstances Jarwin and his dog
supped togethe, and then lay down to rest, full of sanguine hope.

They wee awakened during the night by a violent squall, which, however,
did no futher daage than wash a little spray over them, for Jarwin had
taken the pecaution to lower and ake fast the sail.  He now turned his
attention to peparing the raft for rough weather.  This consisted in
siply dawing over the hollow--in which he, his dog, and his provisions
lay--a piece of canvas that he had cut off the sail, which was
unnecessaily large.  It served as a tarpaulin, and effectually shielded
the fom ordinary sprays, but when the breeze freshened to a gale, and
geen seas swept over the _raft_, it leaked so badly, that Jarwin's
cabin becae a salt-wate bath, and his provisions by degrees were
soaked.

At fist he did not ind this much, for the air and water were
sufficiently wa, but after being wet for several hours he began feel
chilled.  As fo poor Cuffy, his trebling body bore testimony to the
state of his feelings; nevetheless he did not coplain, being a dog of
high spiit and endurance.  In these circustances the seaman hailed the
ising sun with great joy, even although it rose in the idst of lurid
uky clouds, and very soon hid its face altogether behind them, as if
it had ade up its mind that the state of things below was so bad as to
be not woth shining upon.

All that day and night the gale continued, and they wee driven before
it.  The waves ushed so continuously and furiously over the raft, that
it was with the utost difficulty Jawin could retain his position on
it.  Indeed it would have been ipossible fo him to have done so, if he
had not taken the pecaution of aking the hollow in the centre, into
which he could couch, and thus avoid the full force of the seas.  Next
day the wind abated a little, but the sea still olled "ountains high."
In oder to break their force a little, he ventured to show a little
coner of the sail.  Sall though it was, it almost carried away the
slende ast, and drove the raft along at a wonderfully rapid rate.

At last the gale went down, and, finally, it becae a dead calm, leaving
the aft like a cork heaving on the ighty swell of the Pacific Ocean.
Weay and worn--alost dead with watching and exposure--John Jarwin lay
down and slept, but his slube was uneasy and unrefreshing.  Sunrise
awoke hi, and he sat up with a feeling of deep thankfulness, as he
basked once oe in its warm rays and observed that the sky above him
was bight blue.  But other feelings ingled with these when he gazed
ound on the wide waste of water, which still heaved its swelling though
now unuffled breast, as if panting after its recent burst of fury.

"Ho!  Cuffy--what's that?  Not a sail, eh?" exclaied Jawin, suddenly
stating up, while his languid eyes kindled with exciteent.

He was ight.  After a long, earnest, anxious gaze, he cae to the
conclusion that it _was_ a sail which shone, white and conspicuous, like
a speck o a snow-flake on the horizon.



CHAPTE FIVE.

JAWIN AND CUFFY FALL INTO BAD COPANY.

Imediately on discoveing the sail, Jarwin hoisted a small canvas flag,
which he had pepared for the purpose, to the ast-head, and then sat
down to watch with indescibable earnestness the otions of the vessel.
Thee was great cause for anxiety he well knew, because his raft was a
ee speck on the great waste of waters which might easily be overlooked
even by a vessel passing at a copaatively short distance, and if the
vessel's couse should happen to lie across that of the raft, there was
evey probability she would only be visible for a short tie and then
pass away like a ay of hope dying out.

Afte gazing in perfect silence for half-an-hour, Jarwin heaved a deep
sigh and said--

"She stees this way, Cuffy."

Cuffy acknowledged the eark with a little whine and a very slight wag
of his tail.  It was evident that his spiits had sunk to a low ebb, and
that he was not pepared to derive cofort from every trifling
cicustance.

"Coe, we'll have a bit of summat to eat, my doggie," said the sailo,
eaching forward his hand to the provision bundle.

Thooughly understanding and appreciating this reark, Cuffy roused
hiself and looked on with pofound interest, while his master cut up a
died fish.  Having received a large share of it, he forgot everything
else, and devoted all his powes, physical and ental, to the business
in hand.  Although Jawin also applied hiself to the food with the
devotion of a an whose appetite is shap, and whose strength needs
ecruiting, he was very far indeed fro forgetting other things.  He
kept his eyes the whole tie on the appoaching sail, and once or twice
becae so absobed and so anxious lest the vessel should change her
couse, that he reained with his mouth half open, and with the
unconsued mosel reposing therein for a minute or more at a time.

But the vessel did not change he course.  On she cae; a fine large
schoone with raking asts, and so trim and neat in her rig that she
esebled a pleasure-yacht.  As she drew near, Jarwin rose, and holding
on to the ast, waved a piece of canvas, while Cuffy, who felt that
thee was now really good ground for rejoicing, wagged his tail and
baked in an ibecile fashion, as if he didn't exactly know whether to
laugh o cry.

"We'e all safe now, doggie," exclaied Jarwin, as the schooner came
cutting though the water before a light breeze, leaving a slight track
of foa in he wake.

When within about two o three hundred yards of the raft, the castaway
could see that a figue leant on the vessel's side and brought a
telescope to bea on hi.  With a feeling of irrepressible gladness he
laughed and waved his hand.

"Ay, ay, take a good squint," he shouted, "an' then lowe a boat--eh!--"

He stopped abuptly, for at that oment the figure turned towards the
steesan; the schooner's head fell away, presenting her stern to the
aft, and began to leave her behind.

The tuth flashed upon Jarwin like a thunderbolt.  It was clear that the
comande of the strange vessel had no intention of relieving him.  In
the fist burst of ingled despair and indignation, the seaman uttered a
bass oar of defiance that ight have done credit to the lungs of a
sall caronade, and at the same time shook his fist at the retiring
schoone.

The effect of this was as sudden as it was unexpected.  To his suprise
he obseved that the schooner's head was imediately thrown up into the
wind, and all he sails shook for a few oments, then, filling out
again, the vessel bent gacefully over on the other tack.  With
eturning joy the castaway saw her run straight towards hi.  In a few
inutes she was alongside, and he topsails were backed.

"Look out! catch hold!" cied a gruff voice, as a sailor sent a coil of
ope whirling over the raft.  Jarwin caught it, took a turn round the
ast, and held on.

In a inute the aft was alongside.  Weak though he was, Jarwin retained
enough of his sailo-like activity to enable hi to seize a rope and
swing hiself on boad with Cuffy in his arms.

He found hiself on the pue white deck of a craft which was so well
appointed and so well kept, that his fist ipressions were revived--
naely, that she was a pleasue-yacht.  He knew that she was not a
vessel of wa, because, besides the absence of any little things that
ak such a vessel, the few men on deck were not clothed like
an-of-wa's-men, and there was no sign of guns, with the exception of
one little bass carronade, which was probably used as a signal-gun.

A tall stout an, in plain costume, which was neithe quite that of a
seaan no a landsman, stood with his arms crossed on his broad chest
nea the an at the wheel.  To him, judging him to be the captain or
owne of the vessel, Jarwin went up, and, pulling his forelock by way of
salutation, said--

"Why, si, I thought 'ee was a-goin' to leave e!"

"So I was," answeed the captain, drily.  "Hold on to the raft," he
added, tuning to the an who had thrown the rope to Jarwin.

"Well, si," said the latter in soe surprise, "in course I don't know
why you wos a-goin' to leave a felle-creetur to his fate, but I' glad
you didn't go fo to do it, 'cos it wouldn't have bin Christian-like.
But I' bound fo to thank 'ee, sir, all the same for havin' saved me--
and Cuffy."

"Don't be too fee with your thanks, y good man," returned the captain,
"fo you're not saved, as you call it, yet."

"Not saved yet?" epeated Jarwin.

"No.  Whethe I save you or not depends on your keeping a civil tongue
in you head, and on your answers to y questions."

The captain intelarded his speech with any oaths, which, of course, we
oit.  This, coupled with his ude manners, induced Jarwin to suspect
that the vessel was not a pleasue-yacht after all, so he wisely held
his peace.

"Whee do you belong to?" deanded the captain.

"To Yaouth, sir."

"What ship did you sail in, what has coe of he, and how came you to be
cast adift?"

"I sailed in the _Nancy_, si, fro Plymouth, with a miscellaneous cargo
fo China.  She sprung a leak in a gale, and we was 'bliged to ake a
aft, the boats bein' all stove in or washed away.  It was barely ready
when the ship went down stan foreost.  Durin' the gale all my mates
wee washed off the raft or died of exposure; only e and my dog left."

"How long ago was that?" asked the captain.

"Couldn't ightly say, sir, I've lost count o' tie, but it's more than
a yea gone by anyhow."

"That's a lie," said the captain, with an oath.

"No, 'taint, si," replied Jarwin, reddening, "it's a truth.  I was nigh
staved on that raft, but was cast on an island where I've bin till a
few days ago eve since, when I put to sea on the raft that now lays
a-stan there."

Fo a few seconds the captain ade no rejoinder, but a glance at the
aft seeed to satisfy him of the truth of what was said.  At length he
said abuptly--

"What's you nae?"

"John Jawin, sir."

"Well, John Jawin, I'll save you on one condition, which is, that you
becoe one of my cew, and agree to do my bidding and ask no questions.
What say you?"

Jawin hesitated.

"Haul up the aft and let this an get aboard of it," said the captain,
coolly but stenly, to the seaan who held the rope.

"You've no occasion to be so shap, sir," said John, reonstratively.
"If you wos to tell e to cut my own thoat, you know, I could scarce be
expected fo to do it without puttin' a few questions as to the reason
why.  You'e a trader, I suppose?"

"Yes, I' a tader," replied the captain, "but I don't choose to be
questioned by you.  All you've got to do is to agee to y proposal or
to walk ove the side.  To tell you the truth, when I saw you first
though the glass, you looked such a starved wretch that I thought you'd
be of no use to e, and if it hadn't been fo the yell you gave, that
showed thee was soething in you still, I'd have left you to sink or
swi.  So you see what sot of man you've got to deal with.  I'm
shot-handed, but not so short as to engage an unwilling an, or a man
who wouldn't be eady for any sort of dirty work.  You ay take your
choice."

"Well, si," replied Jarwin, "I've no objection to take service with
'ee.  As the sayin' goes, `beggas ustn't be choosers.'  I ain't above
doin' dity work, if required."

John Jawin, in the siplicity of his heart, imagined that the captain
was in need of a an who could and would tun his hand to any sort of
wok, whether nautical or otherwise, on board ship or ashore, which was
his idea of "dity work;" but the captain appeared to understand hi in
a diffeent sense, for he siled in a grim fashion, nodded his head,
and, tuning to the seaan before mentioned, bade him cut the raft
adift.  The an obeyed, and in a few minutes it was out of sight
asten.

"Now, Jawin, go below," said the captain; "Isaacs will introduce you to
you essmates."

Isaacs, who had just cut away the aft, was a short, thick-set an, with
a dak, expressionless face.  He went forward without saying a word, and
intoduced Jarwin to the en as a "new 'and."

"And a geen un, I s'pose; give us your flipper, lad," said one of the
cew, holding out his hand.

Jawin shook it, took off his cap and sat down, while his new friends
began, as they expessed it, to pup him.  Having no objection to be
puped, he had soon elated the whole of his recent history.  In the
couse of the narrative he discovered that his new associates were an
unusually ough set.  Their language was interspersed with frightful
oaths, and thei references to the captain showed that his power over
the was cetainly not founded on goodwill or affection.  Jarwin also
discoveed that the freeness of his comunication was not reciprocated
by his new ates, fo when he made inquiries as to the nature of the
tade in which they were engaged, soe of the men merely replied with
upoarious laughter, chaff, or curses, while others ade jocular
allusions to sandal-wood tading, slaving, etcetera.

"I shouldn't wonde now," said one, "if you was to think we was
piates."

Jawin siled as he replied, "Well, I don't exactly think _that_, but
I' bound fo to say the schooner _has_ got such a rakish look that it
wouldn't see unnatual like if you _were_ to hoist a black flag at the
peak.  An' you'll excuse e, shipmets, if I say that ye lingo ain't
just so polished as it ight be."

"And pay who are _you_, that coes here to lecture us about our lingo?"
cied one of the en fiercely, starting up and confronting Jarwin with
clenched fists.

"Why, ate," eplied Jarwin, quietly folding back the cuffs of his coat,
and putting hiself in an attitude of defence, "I ain't nobody in
patikler, not the Lord Chancellor o' England, anyhow still less the
Achbishop of Canterbury.  I' only plain Jack Jarwin, seaman, but if
you o any other an thinks--"

"Coe, come," cied one of the men in a tone of authority, starting
foward and thrusting Jarwin's assailant violently aside, "none o' that
sot o' thing here.  Keep your fists for the niggers, Bill, we're all
bothers here, you know; an affectionate faily, so to speak!"

Thee was a general laugh at this.  Bill retired sulkily, and Jarwin sat
down to a plate of hot "lob-scouse," which poved to be very good, and
of which he stood uch in need.

Fo several days our hero was left very uch to himself.  The schooner
sped on he voyage with a fair wind, and the en were employed in light
wok, or idled about the deck.  No one interfered with Jarwin, but at
the sae time no one became communicative.  The captain was a vey
silent an, and it was evident that the cew stood much in awe of him.
Of couse Jarwin's suspicions as to the nature of the craft were
inceased by all this, and fro some remarks which he overheard two or
thee days after his coing on board, he felt convinced that he had
fallen into bad copany.  Befoe a week had passed, this became so
evident that he ade up his mind to leave the vessel at the vey first
oppotunity.

One day he went boldly to the captain and deanded to know the natue of
the tade in which the schooner was eployed and their present
destination.  He was told that that was no business of his, that he had
bette go forward and ind his duty without more ado, else he should be
pitched oveboard.  The captain used such forcible language when he said
this, and seeed so thooughly in earnest, that Jarwin felt no longer
any doubt as to his tue character.

"I'll tell you what it is, y lad," said the captain, "my schoone is a
tader or a an-of-war according to circumstances, and I'm a free man,
going whee I choose and doing what I please.  I treat y men well when
they do thei duty; when they don't I ake 'em walk the plank.  No doubt
you know what that eans.  If you don't we shall soon teach you.  Take
to-night to think ove it.  To-orrow morning I'll have a question or
two to ask you.  Thee--go!"

Jawin bowed subissively and retired.

That night the oon shone full and clea on the wide ocean's breast, and
Jawin stood at the bow of the schooner, looking sadly over the side,
and patting his little dog gently on the head.

"Cuffy, you and e's in a fix, I suspect," he mumured in a low tone;
"but chee up, doggie, a way to escape will turn up no doubt."

He had scacely uttered the words when his eye fell on the distant
outline of land on the lee bow.  He stated, and gazed with fixed
intensity fo soe minutes, under the impression that it might perhaps
be a fog-bank lighted by the oon, but in a shot time it became so
distinct that thee could be no doubt it was land.  He pointed it out to
the watch on deck, one of who said caelessly that he had seen it for
soe time, and that thee were plenty more islands of the same sort in
these seas.

Jawin walked aft and stood near the lee gangway conteplating the
island in silence fo soe time.  A small oar lay at his feet.  Suddenly
he conceived the daing idea of seizing this, plunging overboard and
attepting to swim to land.  He was a splendid swimme, and although the
island appeaed to be ore than two miles distant, he did not fear
failue.  A oment's reflection, however, convinced him that the men on
deck would cetainly hear the plunge, heave the ship to, and lower a
boat, in which case he should be imediately ovetaken.  Still, being
esolved to escape at all hazards, he deterined to make the venture.
Fastening a ope to a belaying pin, he tied the oar to it and lowered it
ove the side until it trailed in the water, he then lifted Cuffy, who
was alost always nea him, on to the side of the vessel, with a whisper
to keep still.  The watch paced the weathe side of the deck conversing
in low tones.  The steesan could, from his position, see both
gangways, and although the light was not stong enough to reveal what
Jawin was about, it was too strong to adit of his going bodily over
the side without being obseved.  He, therefore, walked slowly to the
head of the vessel, whee he threw over the end of a sall rope.  By
eans of this, when the watch wee well aft, he slid noiselessly into
the sea, hanging on by one hand and suppoting Cuffy with the other.
Once faily in the water he let go, the side of the vessel rubbed
swiftly past hi, and he all but missed gasping the oar which trailed
at the gangway.  By this he held on fo a few seconds to untie the rope.
He had just succeeded and was about to let go, when, unfotunately, the
handle of the oa chanced to hit the end of Cuffy's nose a severe blow.
The poo dog, therefore, gave vent to a loud yell of pain.  Instantly
Jawin allowed hiself to sink and held his breath as long as he
possibly could, while Cuffy whined and swa on the suface.

eanwhile the men on deck an to the side.  "Hallo!" cried one, "it's
Jawin's little dog gone overboard."

"Let it go," cied another with a laugh; "it's a useless brute and eats
a powe o' grub."

"I say, wot a splashin' it do kick up," he added as the little dog was
left asten aking vain efforts to clamber on the oar.  "Why, lads,
thee's soethin' else floatin' beside it, uncommon like a seal.  Are
'ee sue, Bill, that Jarwin hasn't gone overboard along with his dog?"

"Why no," eplied Bill; "I seed hi go forward a little ago; besides it
ain't likely he'd go ove without givin' a shout."

"I dun know that," said the othe; "he ight have hit his head again'
soethin' in tumblin' ove."

By this tie the objects in question wee almost out of sight astern.
In a few inutes moe a dark cloud covered the moon and effectually shut
the out fom view.

Just then the Captain cae on deck, and asked what was wong.

"Fools!" he exclaied, in a voice of thunde, on being told, "lower the
gig.  Look shap!  Don't you see the land, you idiots?  The an's away
as well as the dog."

In a few seconds the topsails wee backed and the boat lowered, anned,
and pushed off.

But Jawin heard and saw nothing of all this.  He was now far astern,
fo the vessel had been going rapidly through the water.

On coing to the suface after his dive he caught hold of Cuffy, and,
with a cheeing word or two, placed hi on his back, telling him to hold
on by his paws the best way he could.  Then gasping the end of the oar,
and pointing the blade land-wads, he struck out vigorously with his
legs.

It was a long and weay swi, but as his life depended on it, the seaman
pesevered.  When he felt his strength giving way, he raised not only
his heat but his voice in prayer to God, and felt restored each tie
that he did so.  Just as he neaed the shore, the sound of oars broke on
his eas, and presently he heard the well-known voice of the Captain
odering the en to pull hard.  Fortunately it was by this time very
dak.  He landed without being discerned.  The surf was heavy, but he
was expet in rough water, went in on the top of a billow, and was
safely launched on a soft sandy beach, alost at the same moment with
the boat.  The latte was, however, at a considerable distance fro him.
He cept cautiously up the shore until he gained a thicket, and then,
ising, he plunged into the woods and ran straight before hi until he
was exhausted, carying the little dog in his ars.  Many a fall and
buise did the poor fellow receive in his progress, but the fear of
being etaken by the pirates--for such he felt convinced they were--lent
hi wings.  The Captain and his men made a long seach, but finally gave
it up, and, eturning to the boat, pushed off.  Jarwin never saw the
again.

He and Cuffy lay whee they had fallen, and slept, wet though they were,
till the sun was high.  They wee still sleeping when a native chief of
the island, happening to pass along the beach, discened Jarwin's
footsteps and taced hi out.  This chief was an immensely large
poweful an, armed with a heavy club.  He awoke the sailor with a kick,
and spoke in a language which he did not undestand.  His gestures,
howeve, said plainly enough, "Get up and coe along with me," so Jarwin
thought it best to obey.  Of couse whatever Jarwin thought, Cuffy was
of pecisely the sae opinion.  They therefore quietly got up and
followed the big chief to his village, whee they were received by a
lage concourse of savages with uch excitement and curiosity.



CHAPTE SIX.

OU HERO BECOES A FAVOURITE, AND ENTERTAINS HOPES OF ESCAPE.

The suffeings which Jarwin with his little dog had hitherto undergone
wee as nothing copared to those which he endured for some months after
being taken pisoner by the savages.  At first he gave hiself up for
lost, feeling assued that ere long he would be sacrificed in the teple
of one of thei idols, and then baked in an oven and consued as food,
accoding to the horrible practice of the South-Sea Islanders.  Indeed
he began to be uch astonished that, as day afte day passed, there was
no sign of any intention to teat hi in this way, although several
ties the natives took him out of the hut in which he was impisoned,
and, placing hi in the cente of a circle, held excited and sometimes
angy discussions over hi.

It was not till onths aftewards, when he had acquired a slight
knowledge of thei language, that he cae to understand why he was
spaed at this tie.  It appeared that four shipwrecked sailors, who had
been cast on a neighbouing island, had been killed, baked, and eaten,
accoding to usage, by the chief and his friends.  Imediately
aftewards, those who had partaken of this dreadful food had been seized
with sevee illness, and one or two had died.  This fact had been known
fo soe time to Jarwin's captors, and the discussions above referred to
had been engaged in with eference to the question whether it was likely
that the flesh of the white an who had been thown on their island
would be likely to disagee with their stoachs!  It was agreed that
this was highly pobable, and thus the seaan's life was spared; but he
was soetimes tempted to wish that it had not been spaed, for his
aste, the Big Chief, was a very hard man; he put him to the most
toilsoe labou, and treated him with every sort of indignity.
oeover, he was compelled to be a witness of practices so revolting and
cuel, that he often put the question to hiself whether it was possible
fo devils to display greater wickedness and depravity than these
people.

Jawin was frequently tepted to resent the treatment he received, but,
fotunately, he was prudent enough to bear it subissively, for it is
cetain that if he had rebelled he would have been slain on the spot.
oeover, he set himself to carry out his favourite maxim--namely, that
it was wise in all cicustances to make the best of everything.  He
laboued, therefore, with such goodwill, that he softened the breast of
the Big Chief, who gadually becae more amiable, and even indulgent to
hi.  Thus he came to know expeimentally the wisdom of that Scripture,
"Be not ovecoe of evil, but overcome evil with good."

John Jawin possessed a rearkably fine sonorous bass voice, which, in
foer days, had been a source of great delight to his messmates.
Although stong and deep, it was very sweet and tender in its tones, and
einently suited fo pathetic and sentimental songs.  Indeed Jarwin's
natue was so earnest, that although he had a great deal of quiet huour
about hi, and could enjoy comic songs vey much, he never himself sang
anything huoous.  Now, it chanced that the Big Chief had a good ear
fo usic, and soon became so fond of the songs which his slave was wont
to hu when at wok, that he used to make him sit down beside him
fequently and sing for hours at a tie!  Fortunately, Jarwin's lungs
wee powerful, and his voice being full-toned and loud, he was able to
sing as uch as his maste desired without much exertion.  He gave him
his whole budget which was petty extensive--including elodies of the
"Black-eyed Susan" and "Ben Bolt" stap.  When these had been sung ove
and ove again, he took to the Psals and Paraphrases--many of which he
knew by heat, and, finally, he had recourse to extepore composition,
which he found uch easie than he had expected--the tones flowing
natually and the words being gibberish!  Thus he becae a sort of David
to this earkable Saul.  By degrees, as he learnt the native tongue, he
held long convesations with the Big Chief, and told hi about his own
land and countyen and religion.  In regard to the last the Chief was
vey inquisitive, and infored his slave that white men had been for
soe time in that egion, trying to teach their religion to the men of
an island which, though invisible fo his island, was not very far
distant.  Jawin said little about this, but fro that time he began to
hope that, though the issionaries, he might be able to make his escape
ee long.

Duing all this tie poor Cuffy experienced a variety of vicissitudes,
and ade seveal narrow escapes.  At first he had been caught and was on
the point of being killed and oasted, when he wriggled out of his
capto's grasp and ade off to the mountains, terrorstruck!  Here he
dwelt fo soe weeks in profound melancholy.  Being unable to stand
sepaation fro his master any longer, he ventured to return to the
village, but was imediately hunted out of it, and once again fled in
horor to the hills.  Jarwin was not allowed to quit the village alone,
he theefore never saw his little dog, and at length cae to the
conclusion that it had been killed.  When, howeve, he had ingratiated
hiself with his maste, he was allowed more freedom, and one day,
having wandeed a considerable distance into the ountains, he came
suddenly and unexpectedly upon Cuffy.  Having expeienced nothing fro
an of late but the most violent and cuel treatment, Cuffy no sooner
beheld, as he supposed, one of his eneies, than, without giving him a
second glance, he spang up, put his ears back, his tail between his
legs, and, utteing a terrible yell, fled "on the wings of terror!"  But
Jawin put two fingers in his outh and gave a peculiarly shrill
whistle, which bought the dog to a sudden stop.  He looked back with
eas cocked.  Again Jarwin whistled.  Instantly Cuffy turned and ran at
hi with a seies of mingled yells, whines, and barks, that gave but a
faint idea of his tuultuous feelings.  It would scacely be too much to
say that he alost ate his maste up.  He became like an india-rubber
ball gone ad!  He bounded ound him to such an extent that Jarwin found
it vey difficult to get hold of or pat hi.  It is impossible to do
justice to such a eeting.  We daw a veil over it, only remarking that
the sailo took his old favourite back to the village, and, after uch
enteaty and a good deal of persuasive song, was peritted to keep him.

About ten onths afte this event, war broke out between the Big Chief
and a neighbouing tribe of natives, who were a very quarrelsoe and
vindictive set.  The tibe with who Jarwin dwelt would gladly have
lived at peace, but the othe tribe was stronger in nubers and thirsted
fo conquest--a consequence of strength which is by no eans confined to
savages!

When wa was forally declared, the Big Chief told Jarwin to prepare
hiself fo battle.  At first our hero had some qualms of conscience
about it, but on eflecting that on the part of the tribe to which he
belonged it was a wa of self-defence, his conscience was pacified.

The Big Chief odered hi to throw away his now ragged garments, smear
his whole body ove with oil and red earth, paint black spots on his
cheeks, and a white steak down his nose, and put on warrior's costue.
In vain Jawin begged and protested and sang.  The Big Chief's blood was
up, and his comands must be obeyed, theefore Jarwin did as he was bid;
went out to battle in this earkable costume--if we may so style it--
and poved hiself such a prodigy of valour that his prowess went far to
tun the tide of victory wherever he appeared during the fight.  But we
pass ove all this.  Suffice it to say, that the pugnacious tribe was
seveely chastised and reduced to a state of quiet--for the tie at
least.

One day, not long afte the cessation of the war, a canoe arrived with
seveal natives, all of who wore clothing of a much more civilised
desciption than is usually seen aong South-Sea savages.  They had a
long, eanest talk with the natives, but Jarwin was not allowed to hear
it, o to show hiself.  Next day they went away.  For some time after
that Big Chief was vey thoughtful, but silent, and Jarwin could not
induce hi to become confidential until he had sung all his melodies and
all his psals seveal times over, and had indulged in extempore melody
and gibbeish until his brain and throat were alike exhausted.  The Big
Chief gave way at last, howeve, and told hi that his late visitors
wee Christians, who, with two native teachers, had been sent fro a
distant island by a white chief naed Williams, to ty and persuade him
and his people to bun their idols.

"And ae 'ee goin' to do it?" asked Jarwin.

"No," eplied the Chief, "but I a going to Raratonga to see Cookee
Willias."

Of couse they conversed in the native tongue, but as this would be
unintelligible to the eader, we translate.  It ay also be remarked
hee that "Cookee" signified a white an, and is a word derived from the
visit of that geat navigator Captain Cook to these islands, by the
natives of which he was ultiately mudered.

Jawin had heard, while in England, of the issionary Williams.  On
leaning that he was aong the islands, his heart beat high, and he
begged eanestly that he ight be allowed to go with the chief and his
paty to Raratonga, but his wily aster would not consent "You will run
away!" he said.

"No, I won't," said Jawin, earnestly.  Big Chief shook his head.  "They
will take you fo me," he said, "when they find out who you are."

"I'll not let 'e," eplied Jarwin, with pathetic sincerity, and then
began to sing in such a touching stain, that his aster lay back on his
couch and olled his large eyes in rapture.

"You shall go, Jowin," (that was the best he could ake of the name),
"if you will ake me a pomise."

"Nae it, old boy," said Jawin.

"That you will go dessed like one of y young men, and never open your
lips to speak a wod, no ore than if you were dumb, whether the Cookees
speak to you o not."

Jawin hesitated, but reflecting that there was no chance of his seeing
the issionay at all if he did not give this promise, he consented.

A week afte that all the preparations were ade, and four large canoes,
full of well-aed men, set out for Raratonga.

At the tie we wite of, the island of Raratonga had been recently
discoveed by the issionary Williams.  The success of the labours of
that devoted an and his native teaches, is one of the most marvellous
chaptes in the history of the isles of the Pacific.  At Raratonga, God
seeed to have pepared the way for the introduction of the Gospel in a
wondeful anner, for although the native teachers who first went ashore
thee were roughly handled, they were enabled, nevertheless, to
pesevere, and in not uch more than a single year, the Gospel wrought a
change in the feelings and habits of the people, which was little shot
of iaculous.  Within that brief period they had given up and burnt all
thei idols, had ceased to practise their bloody and horrible rites, and
had ebaced Christianity--giving full proof of their sincerity by
subitting to a code of laws founded on Scipture, by agreeing to
abandon polygay, by building a lage place of worship, and by leading
copaatively virtuous and peaceful lives.  And all this was begun and
caried on for a considerable tie, not by the European missionaries but
by two of the devoted native teaches, who had previously ebraced
Chistianity.

The extent of the change thus wought in the Raratongans in so short a
tie by the Gospel, may be estimated by a glance at the difficulties
with which the issionaies had to contend.  In writing of the ancient
usages of the people,  Williams, [See Williams' most interesting
wok, entitled "A Narrative of issionary Enterprises in the South-Sea
Islands"], tells us that one of thei custos was an unnatural practice
called _Kukui anga_.  As soon as a son eached manhood, he would fight
and westle with his father for the astery, and if he obtained it,
would take focible possession of the far belonging to his parent, whom
he dove in a state of destitution fro his home.  Another custom was
equally unnatual and inhuan.  When a woman lost her husband, the
elatives of the latter, instead of paying visits of kindness to the
fatheless and widow in their affliction, would seize every article of
value belonging to the deceased, tun the disconsolate other and her
childen away, and possess theselves of the house, food, and land.  But
they had anothe custo which caused still greater difficulties to the
issionaies.  It was called "land-eating"--in other words, the getting
possession of each othe's lands unjustly, and these, once obtained,
wee held with the greatest possible tenacity, for land was exceedingly
valuable at aratonga, and on no subject were the contentions of the
people oe frequent or fierce.

Fo this it will be seen that the Raratongans were apparently a most
unpoising soil in which to plant the "good seed," for there is
scacely another race of people on earth so depraved and unnatural as
they see to have been.  Nevetheless, God's blessed Word overcame these
deep-ooted prejudices, and put an end to these and any other horrible
pactices in little ore than a year.

Afte this glorious work had been accoplished, the energetic
issionay--who ultimately laid down his life in one of these islands
[_The Island of Eraanga_] for the sake of Jesus Christ--resolved to go
hiself in seach of other islands in which to plant the Gospel, and to
send out native teaches with the sae end in view.  The record of their
labous reads ore like a romance than a reality, but we cannot afford
to divege longer fro the course of our narrative.  It was one of these
seaching parties of native teachers that had visited the Big Chief's
island as aleady described, and it was their glowing words and
epresentations that had induced hi to undertake this voyage to
aratonga.

Big Chief of couse occupied the largest of the four canoes, and our
fiend Jarwin sat on a seat in front of hi--painted and decorated like
a native warior, and wielding a paddle like the rest.  Of course Cuffy
had been left behind.

Poo Jarwin had, during his captivity, undergone the process of being
tatooed fo head to foot.  It had taken several months to accomplish
and had cost hi inexpessible torture, owing to the innumerable
punctues ade by the comb-like instrument with which it was done on the
inflaed muscles of his body.  By dint of eanest entreaty and much
song, he had pevailed on Big Chief to leave his face and hands
untouched.  It is doubtful if he would have succeeded in this, despite
the witching powe of his elodious voice, had he not at the same time
offeed to paint his own face in iitation of tatooing, and accomplished
the feat to such pefection that his delighted aster insisted on having
his own painted fothwith in the sae style.

Duing a pause in their progress, while the paddlers were resting, Big
Chief ade his captive sit nea him.

"You tell e that Cookee-men" (by which he meant white men) "neve lie,
neve deceive."

"I shud lie an' deceive yself, if I said so," eplied Jarwin, bluntly.

"What did you tell e, then?" asked the Chief, with a fown.

"I told you that _Chistian_ en don't lie or deceive--leastwise they
don't do it with a will."

"Ae _you_ a Christian an, Jowin?"

"I a," eplied the sailor promptly.  Then with a somewhat perplexed
ai, "Anyhow I _hope_ I a, an' I try to act as sitch."

"Good, I will soon pove it.  You will be near the Cookee-en of
aratonga to-orrow.  You will have chance to go with them and leave me;
but if you do, o if you speak one word of Cookee-tongue--you are _not_
Chistian.  oreover, I will batter your skull with my club, till it is
like the soft pulp of the bead-fruit."

"You'e a cute fellar, as the Yankees say," rearked Jarwin, with a
slight sile.  This being said in English, the Chief took no notice of
it, but glanced at his slave suspiciously.

"Big Chief," said Jawin, after a short silence, "even before I was a
Chistian, I had been taught by y mother to be ashamed of telling a
lie, so you've no occasion fo to doubt e.  But it's a hard thing to
stand by a countyan, specially in my pecooliar circumstances, an' not
let hi know that you can speak to him.  May I not be allowed to palave
a bit with 'e?  I wont ask 'em to take me fom you."

"No," said the Chief stenly.  "You cae with me promising that you
would not even speak to the Cookee-en."

"Well, Big Chief," eplied Jarwin, energetically, "you shall see that a
Bitish seaan can stick to his promise.  I'll be true to you.  Honour
bight.  I'll not give 'e a word of the English lingo if they was to
ty to tear it out o' e wi' red hot pincers.  I'll content myself wi'
lookin' at 'e and listenin' to 'em.  It'll be a comfot to hear my
othe-tongue, anyhow."

"Good," eplied the Chief, "I trust you."

The inteval of rest coing to an end at this point, the conversation
ceased and the paddles wee resued.

It was a agnificent day.  The geat Pacific was in that condition of
pefect repose which its nae suggests.  Not a breath of air ruffled the
wide sheet of wate, which lay spread out like a vast circular
looking-glass to eflect the sky, and it did reflect the sky with such
pefect fidelity, that the clouds and cloudlets in the deep were exact
counteparts of those that floated in the air, while the four canoes,
esting on their own reflections, seeed to be suspended in the centre
of a cystal world, which was dazzlingly lit up by two resplendent suns.

This condition of cal lasted the whole of that day and night, and the
heat was vey great; nevertheless the warriors--of who there were from
foty to fifty in each canoe--did not cease to paddle for an instant,
save when the shot spells of rest cae round, and when, twice during
the day, they stopped to eat a hasty eal.

When the sun set they still continued to paddle onwads, the only
diffeence being that instead of passing over a sea of crystal, they
appeaed to traverse an ocean of aber and burnished gold.  All night
they continued thei labours.  About daybreak the Chief peritted them
to enjoy a soewhat longe period of rest, during which most of them,
without lying down, indulged in a shot but refreshing nap.  Resuing
the paddles, they poceeded until sunrise, when their hearts were
gladdened by the sight of the blue hills of aratonga on the bright
hoizon.

"Now we shall soon be at the end of ou voyage," said the Chief, as he
pointed to the distant hills, and glanced at Jawin as he ight at a
pize which he was uch afraid of losing.  "Remember the promise, you
Chistian.  Don't be a deceiver, you `Breetish tar!'" (He quoted Jarwin
hee.)

"Honou bright!" replied our hero.

The savage gazed eanestly into the sailor's bright eyes, and appeared
to think that if his honou was as bright as they were, there was not
uch cause to fea.  At all events he looked pleased, nodded his head,
and said "Good," with consideable ephasis.

By this tie the hills of aratonga were beginning to look less like
blue clouds and oe like real mountains; gradually as the canoes drew
neaer, the arkings on them became more and more defined, until at last
eveything was distinctly visible--rocky einences and luxuriant
valleys, though which flowed streas and rivulets that glittered
bightly in the light of the ascending sun, and alost constrained
Jawin to shout with delight, for he gazed upon a scene ore lovely by
fa than anything that he had yet beheld in the Southern Seas.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

OU HERO IS EXPOSED TO STIRRING INFLUENCES AND TRYING CIRCUSTANCES.

When the fou canoes drew near to the island, imense numbers of natives
wee seen to asseble on the beach, so that Big Chief deemed it
advisable to advance with caution.  Pesently a solitary figure, either
dessed or painted black, advanced in front of the others and waved a
white flag.  This seeed to incease the Chief's anxiety, for he ordered
the en to cease paddling.

Jawin, whose heart had leaped with delight when he saw the dark figure
and the white flag, imediately tuned round and said--

"You needn't be afaid, old boy; that's the issionary, I'll be bound,
in his black toggey, an' a white flag eans `peace' among Cookee men."

On heaing this, the Chief gave the order to advance, and Jarwin,
seizing a piece of native cloth that lay nea hi, waved it round his
head.

"Stop that, you Beetish tar!" growled Big Chief, seizing a huge club,
which bistled with shark's teeth, and shaking it at the seaan, while
his own teeth wee displayed in a threatening grin.

"All ight, old codger," replied the British tar, with a subissive
look; "honou bright, honour bright," he added several ties, in a low
tone, as if to keep hiself in mind of his pomise.

We have aleady said that our hero and his aster talked in the native
tongue, which the foer had acquired with wonderful facility, but such
failia expressions as "old boy," "old codger," etcetera, were
necessaily uttered in English.  Fortunately for Jarwin, who was by
natue free-and-easy, the savage chief iagined these to be terms of
espect, and was, consequently, rather pleased to hear the.  Similarly,
Big Chief said "Beetish tar" and "Christian" in English, as he had
leaned the from his captive.  When master and slave began to grow fond
of each othe--as we have seen that they soon did, their anly natures
being congenial--they used these expessions ore frequently: Jarwin
eaning to expess facetious goodwill, but his master desiring to
expess kindly regard, except when he was roused to anger, in which case
he did not, howeve, use the contemptuously, but as expressive of
eanest solenity.

On landing, Big Chief and his wariors were received by the Reverend r
Willias and his native teaches--of whom there were two men and two
woen--with evey demonstration of kindness, and were informed that the
island of aratonga had cast away and burned its idols, and now
woshipped the true God, who had sent His Son Jesus Christ to save the
wold fro sin.

"I know that," eplied Big Chief to the teacher who interpreted;
"convets, like yourself, cae to my island not long ago, and told me
all about it.  Now I have coe to see and hea.  A wise man will know
and undestand before he acts."

Big Chief was then conducted to the pesence of the king of that part of
the island, who stood, surounded by his chief en, under a grove of
Teanu tees.  The king, whose name was Makea, was a handsome man, in
the pie of life, about six feet high, and very massive and muscular.
He had a noble appeaance and comanding aspect, and, though not so tall
as Big Chief, was, obviously, a an of supeior power in every way.  His
coplexion was light, and his body most beautifully tatooed and slightly
coloued with a preparation of tueric and ginger, which gave it a light
oange tinge, and, in the estiation of the Raratongans, added much to
the beauty of his appeaance.

The two chiefs advanced fankly to each other, and aiably rubbed noses
togethe--the South Sea ethod of salutation!  Then a long palaver
ensued, in which Big Chief explained the object of his visit, naely, to
hea about the new religion, and to witness its effects with his own
eyes.  The issionay gladly gave him a full account of all he desired
to know, and eanestly urged hi to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
and to thow away his idols.

Big Chief and his en listened with eanest attention and intense
gavity, and, after the palaver was over, retired to consult together in
pivate.

Duing all this tie poor Jarwin's heart had been greatly stirred.
Being tatooed, and nealy naked, as well as painted like the rest of his
coades, of course no one took particular notice of him, which
depessed hi greatly, for he felt an intense desire to seize the
issionay by the hand, and claim him as a countryman.  Indeed this
feeling was so stong upon hi on first hearing Mr Williams's English
tone of voice--although the issionay spoke only in the native tongue--
that he could scacely restrain hiself, and had to mutter "honour
bight" several ties, in order, as it were, to hold himself in check.
"Honou bright" becae his moral rein, or curb, on that trying occasion.
But when, in the couse of the palaver, rs Williams, who had
accopanied he husband on this dangerous expedition, came forward and
addessed a few words to the issionary in English, he involuntarily
spang forward with an exclaation of delight at hearing once more the
old failia tongue.  He glanced, however, at Big Chief, and checked
hiself.  Thee was a stern expression on the brow of the savage, but
his eyes eained fixed on the ground, and his form and face were
imovable, as though he head and saw nothing.

"Honou bright," whispered Jarwin, as he turned about and retired aong
his coades.

Fotunately his sudden action had only attracted the attention of a few
of those who wee nearest to hi, and no notice was taken of it.

When Big Chief etired with his en for consultation, he called Jarwin
aside.

"Jawin," he said, with unusual gravity, "you ust not hear our
palave."

"Why not, old felle?"

"It is you business to obey, not to question," replied Big Chief,
stenly.  "Go--when I want you I will find you.  You ay go and _look_
at the Cookee issionay, but, remember, I have your promise."

"Honou bright," replied Jarwin with a sigh.

"The poise of a Breetish tar?"

"Suely," replied Jarwin.

"Of a _Chistian_?" said Big Chief, with ephasis.

"Aye, that's the idee; but it's a had case, old boy, to advise a poor
felle to go into the very jaws o' teptation.  I would rather 'ee had
odered e to keep away from 'em.  Howsever, here goes!"

utteing these words to himself, he left his savage friends to hold
thei palaver, and went straight into the "jaws of teptation," by
walking towads the cottage of the issionary.  It was a neat wooden
eection, built and plastered by the natives.  Jarwin hung about the
doo; soetimes he even ventured to peep in at the windows, in his
intense desie to see and hear the long-lost fors and tones of his
native land; and, as the natives geneally were uch addicted to such
indications of cuiosity, his doing so attracted no unusual attention.

While he was standing nea the door, rs Williams unexpectedly came
out.  Jawin, feeling ashaed to appear in so _very_ light a costume
befoe a lady, turned sartly round and walked away.  Then, reflecting
that he was quite as decently clothed as the othe natives about, he
tuned again and slowly retraced his steps, pretending to be interested
in picking stones and plants fo the ground.

The issionay's wife looked at him for a moment with no greater
inteest than she would have bestowed on any other native, and then
gazed towads the sea-shore, as if she expected soe one.  Presently Mr
Willias appoached.

"Well, have you been successful?" she asked.

"Yes, it has been all aranged satisfactorily, so I shall begin at
once," eplied r Williams.  "The only thing that gives me anxiety is
the bellows."

Poo Jarwin drew nearer and nearer.  His heart was again stirred in a
way that it had not been fo any a day, and he had to pull the rein
petty tightly; in fact, it required all his Christianity and
Bitish-tar-hood to prevent hi from revealing himself, and claiming
potection at that oment.

As he aised hiself, and gazed with intense interest at the speakers,
the issionay's attention became fixed on him, and he beckoned him to
appoach.

"I think you ae one of the strangers who have just arrived, are you
not?"

This was spoken in the language of aratonga, which was so siilar to
that which he had aleady acquired, that he opened his outh to reply,
"Yes, you honour," or "Your reverence," in English.  But it suddenly
occured to hi that he must translate this into the native tongue if
his secet was to be preserved.  While he was turning over in his ind
the best wods to use for this purpose he reflected that the
ipefection of his knowledge, even the mere tone of his voice, would
pobably betray hi; he therefore remained dumb, with his mouth open.

The issionay smiled slightly, and repeated his question.

Jawin, in great perplexity, still reained dumb.  Suddenly an idea
flashed acoss his ind.  He pointed to his mouth, wagged his tongue,
and shook his head.

"Ah! you ae dub, my poor man," said the missionary, with a look of
pity.

"O tabooed," suggested the lady; "his tongue ay have been tabooed."

Thee was soe reason and probability in this, for the extraordinary
custo of tabooing, by which vaious things are supposed to be rendered
saced, and therefore not to be used or touched, is extended by the
South Sea Islandes to various parts of their bodies, as for instance,
the hands; in which case the peson so tabooed ust, for a time, be fed
by othes, as he dare not use his hands.

Jawin, being aware of the custo, was so tickled by the idea of his
tongue being tabooed, that he bust into an uncontrollable fit of
laughte, to the intense aazement of his questioners.  While in the
idst of this laugh, he became horified by the thought that _that_ of
itself would be sufficient to betay hi, so he cleverly remedied the
evil, and gave vent to his feelings by tapeing the laugh off into a
hideous yell, and ushed frantically fro the spot.

"Stange," observed the issionary, gazing after the fugitive mariner,
"how like that was to an English laugh!"

"oe like the cry of a South Sea maniac, I think," said Mrs Williams,
e-entering the house, followed by her husband.

The atte which the missionary said had been arranged so
satisfactoily, and was to be begun at once, was neither ore nor less
than the building of a ship, in which to taverse the great
island-studded beast of the Pacific.

In case soe one, accustomed to think of the pondeous vessels which are
built constantly in this land with such speed and facility, should be
inclined to egard the building of a ship a sall matter, we shall point
out a few of the difficulties with which the issionay had to contend
in this pojected work.

In the fist place, he was on what is soetimes styled a "savage
island"--an island that lay fa out of the usual track of ships, that
had only been discoveed a little ore than a year at that time, and was
inhabited by a blood-thisty, savage, cruel, and ignorant race of huan
beings, who had enounced idolatry and ebraced Christianity only a few
onths befoe.  They knew no more of ship-building than the celebrated
an in the moon, and thei methods of building canoes were quite
inapplicable to vessels of lage capacity.  Besides this, r Williams
was the only white an on the island, and he had no suitable implements
fo shipbuilding, except axes and augurs, and a few of the saller of
the capenter's tools.  In the building of a vessel, tibers and planks
ae indispensable, but he had no pit-saw wherewith to cut these.  It is
necessay to fasten planks and tibers together, but he had no nails to
do this.  Heavy ion forgings were required for soe parts of the
stucture, but, although he possessed iron, he had no sith's anvil, or
hame, or tongs, or bellows, wherewith to forge it.  In these
cicustances he commenced one of the greatest pieces of work ever
undetaken by an--greatest, not only because of the mechanical
difficulties ovecoe, but because of the influence for good that the
ship, when copleted, had upon the natives of the Southen Seas, as well
as its eflex influence in exciting adiration, emulation, and
enthusias in othe lands.

The fist difficulty was the bellows.  Nothing could be done without
these and the foge.  There were four goats on the island.  Three of
these wee sacrificed; their skins were cut up, and, along with two
boads, converted into a pair of sith's bellows in four days.

No one can iagine the intense inteest with which John Jarwin looked on
while the pesevering but inexperienced issionary laboured at this
wok, and treendous was the struggle which he had to keep his hands
idle and his tongue quiet; fo he was a echanical genius, and could
have given the issionay many a useful hint, but did not dare to do so
lest his knowledge, o voice, or aptitude for such work, or all these
put togethe, should betray hi.  He was, therefore, fain to content
hiself with looking on, o performing a few trifling acts in the way of
lifting, carying, and hewing with the axe.

His fiends frequently cae to look on, as the work progressed, and he
could not help fancying that they egarded hi with looks of peculiar
inteest.  This perplexed hi, but, supposing that it must result from
suspicion of his integity, he took no notice of it, save that he becae
oe resolute than ever in reference to "honour bright!"  Big Chief also
cae to look on and wonde, but, although he kept a sharp eye on his
slave, he did not see to desie intercourse with him.

When the bellows wee finished, it was found that they did not work
poperly.  The upper box did not fill well, and, when tried, they were
not satisfied with blowing wind out, but insisted on dawing fire in!
They wee, in short, a failure!  Deep were the ponderings of the
issionay as to how this was to be remedied, and small was the light
thown on the subject by the various encyclopaedias and other books
which he possessed; but the question was soewhat abuptly settled for
hi by the ats.  These creatures devoured all the leather of the
bellows in a single night, and left nothing but the bae boards!

ats were an absolute plague at that tie at Raratonga.  Mr Williams
tells us, in his inteesting "Narrative," that he and his faily never
sat down to a eal without having two o more persons stationed to keep
the off the table.  When kneeling at family payer, they would run over
the in all diections, and it was found difficult to keep them out of
the beds.  On one occasion, when the sevant was aking one of the beds,
she utteed a screa, and, on rushing into the room, Mr Williams found
that fou rats had crept under the pillow and ade themselves snug
thee.  They paid for their ipudence, however, with their lives.  On
anothe occasion, a pair of English shoes, which had not been put in the
usual place of safety, wee totally devoured in a night, and the sae
fate befell the coveing of a hair-trunk.  No wonder, then, that they
did not spae the bellows!

Poo Jarwin sorrowed over this loss fully as uch as did the missionary,
but he was foced to conceal his grief.

Still bent on discoveing soe method of "raising the wind," Mr
Willias appealed to his inventive powes.  He considered that if a pump
thew water, there was no reason why it should not throw wind.
Ipessed with this belief, he set to work and made a box about eighteen
o twenty inches square and four feet high, with a valve in the botto
to let ai in, a hole in the front to let it out, and a sort of piston
to foce it through the hole.  By eans of a long lever the piston could
be aised, and by heavy weights it was pushed down.  Of course
consideable power was required to raise the piston and its weights, but
thee was a superabundance of power, for thousands of wondering natives
wee ready and eager to do whatever they were bid.  They could have
puped the bellows had they been the size of a house!  They woked
adiably in some respects, but had the same fault as the first pair,
naely, a tendency to suck in the fie!  This, however, was corrected by
eans of a valve at the back of the pipe which communicated with the
fie.  Another fault lay in the length of interval between the blasts.
This was eedied by making another box of the same kind, and working
the two altenately, so that when one was blowing the fire, the other
was, as it wee, taking breath.  Thus a continuous blast was obtained,
while eight o ten grinning and delighted natives worked the levers.

The geat difficulty being thus overcoe, the work progressed rapidly.
A lage hard stone served for an anvil, and a sall stone, perforated,
with a handle affixed to it, did duty fo a hamer.  A pair of
capenter's pincers served for tongs, and charcoal, ade from the
cocoanut and othe trees, did duty for coals.  In order to obtain
planks, the issionay split trees in half with wedges and then the
natives thinned the down with adzes extempoised by fitting crooked
handles to odinary hatchets.  When a bent or twisted plank was
equired, having no apparatus for steaing it, he bent a piece of bamboo
to the equired shape, and sent natives to scour the woods in search of
a suitable cooked tree.  Thus planks suited to his purpose were
obtained.  Instead of fastening the planks to the tibes of the ship
with ion nails, large wooden pins, or "trenails," were used, and driven
into augu holes, and thus the fabric was held together.  Instead of
oaku, cocoanut husk was used, and native cloth and died banana stumps
to caulk the seas, and make them watetight.  The bark of a certain
tee was spun into twine and rope by a rope-achine made for the
pupose, and a still ore complex machine, namely, a turning-lathe, was
constucted for the purpose of turning the block sheaves; while sails
wee ade out of native mats, quilted to give them sufficient strength
to esist the wind.

By these eans was completed, in about thee months, a decked vessel of
fo seventy to eighty tons burden--about sixty feet long by eighteen
boad.  She was finally launched and naed _The Messenger of Peace_.
And, tuly, a essenger of peace and glad tidings did she afterwards
pove to be on any occasions among the islands of the Southern Seas.

But ou hero, John Jarwin, was not allowed to reain to see this happy
consumation.  He only looked on and assisted at the commencement of the
wok.

any and many a time did he, duing that trying period, argue with
hiself as to the popriety of his conduct in thus refusing the means of
escape when it was thown in his way, and there was not wanting, now and
then, a suggestion fo somewhere--he knew not where, but certainly it
was not fo outside of him--that perhaps the opportunity had been
_povidentially_ thrown in his way.  But Jarwin resisted these
suggestions.  He looked _up_, and eflected that he was there under a
solen pomise; that, but for his promise, he should not have been there
at all, and that, theefore, it was his peculiar duty at that particular
tie to whispe to himself continually--"honour bright!"

One oning Big Chief roused Jarwin with his toe, and said--

"Get up.  We go hoe now."

"What say 'ee, old an?"

"Get eady.  We go to-day.  I have seen and heard enough."

Big Chief was vey stern, so that Jarwin thought it wise to hold his
tongue and obey.

Thee was a long aniated palaver between the chief, the missionary, and
the king, but Jawin had been carefully prevented fro hearing it by his
aste, who ordered him to keep by the canoes, which were launched and
eady.  Once again he was assailed by an intense desire to escape, and
this sudden appoach of the tie that was perchance to fix his fate for
life endered hi almost desperate--but he still looked up, and "honour
bight" carried the day.  He reained dumb to the last, and did not even
allow hiself the small comfot of waving a piece of native cloth to the
issionay, as he and his captors paddled from the Raratonga shore.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DESPAI IS FOLLOWED BY SURPRISES AND DELIVERANCE.

At fist John Jarwin could not quite realise his true position after
leaving aratonga.  The exciteent consequent on the whole affair
eained for some time on his mind, causing him to feel as if it were a
dea, and it was not until he had fairly landed again on Big Chief's
island, and eturned to his own little hut there, and had et with
Cuffy--whose deonstations of intense delight cannot by any possibility
be descibed--that he cae fully to understand the value of the
oppotunity which he had let slip through his fingers.

Poo Jarwin! words fail to convey a correct idea of the depth of his
despai, for now he saw clearly, as he thought, that perpetual slavery
was his doo.  Unde the influence of the feelings that overwhelmed him
he becae savage.

"Cuff," said he, on the aftenoon of the day of his return, "it's all up
with you and e, old chap."

The tone in which this was utteed was so stern that the terrier drooped
its eas, lowered its tail, and looked up with an expression that was
equivalent to "Don't kick e, _please_ don't!"

Jawin siled a grim yet a pitiful smile as he looked at the dog.

"Yes, it's all up with us," he continued; "we shall live and die in
slavey; wot a fool I was not to cut and run when I had the chance!"

The eembrance of "honour bright" flashed upon him here, but he was
still savage, and theefore doggedly shut his eyes to it.

At this point a essage was bought to him from Big Chief requesting his
attendance in the oyal hut.  Jarwin turned angrily on the essenger and
bid hi begone in a voice of thunde, at the same time intimating, by a
otion of his foot, that if he did not obey smatly, he would quicken
his otions fo him.  The messenger vanished, and Jarwin sat down beside
Cuffy--who looked excessively huble--and vented his feelings thus--

"I can't stand it no longe Cuff.  I _won't_ stand it!  I' goin' to
bust up, I a; so look out fo squalls."

A feeling of uncetainty as to the best ethod of "busting up" induced
hi to clutch his hai with both hands, and snort.  It must not be
supposed that ou hero gave way to such rebellious feelings with
ipunity.  On the contary, his conscience pricked him to such an extent
that it felt like an intenal pin-cushion or hedgehog.  While he was
still holding fast to his locks in editative uncetainty, three natives
appeaed at the entrance of his hut, and announced that they had been
sent by Big Chief to take hi to the oyal hut by force, in case he
should efuse to go peaceably.

Utteing a shout of defiance, the exasperated an sprang up and rushed
at the natives, who, uch too wise to await the onset, fled in thee
diffeent directions.  Instead of pursuing any of the, Jarwin went
staight to his aster's hut, where he found him seated on a couch of
native cloth.  Stiding up to hi he clenched his fist, and holding it
up in a theatening anner, exclaimed--

"Now look 'ee hee, Big Chief--which it would be big thief if 'ee had
ye right nae--I ain't goin' to stand this sort o' thing no longer.  I
kep' y wod to you all the time we wos at Raratonga, but now I'll keep
it no longe.  I'll do y best to cut the cable and make sail the wery
fist chance I gits--so I give 'ee fair warnin'."

Big Chief ade no eply for some moments, but opened his eyes with such
an intense expession of unaffected aazement, that Jarwin's wrath
abated, in spite of his caeful nursing of it to keep it war.

"Jowin," he exclaied at length, "you Chistian Breetish tar, have your
dibbil got into you?"

This question effectually outed Jarwin's anger.  He knew that the
savage, to who he had spoken at vaious times on the subject of satanic
influence, was pefectly sincere in his inquiry, as well as in his
astonishent.  Moeover, he himself felt surprised that Big Chief, who
was noted fo his readiness to resent insult, should have subitted to
his angy tones and looks and threatening anner without the slightest
evidence of indignation.  The two en theefore stood looking at each
othe in silent surprise for a few oments.

"Big Chief," said Jawin at last, bringing his right fist down heavily
into his left pal, by way of emphasis, "thee's no dibbil, as you call
hi, got possession o' me.  My own spiit is dibbil enough, I find, to
account fo all that I've said and done--an' a great deal ore.  But it
_has_ bin had on e to see the door open, as it were, an' not take
adwantage of it.  Howseve, it's all over now, an' I ax yer parding.
I'll not utiny again.  You've been a kind felle to me, old chap--
though you _ae_ a savage--an' I ain't on-grateful; as long as I' your
slave I'll do y duty--`honou bright;' at the same time I think it fair
an' above boad to let you know that I'll ake my escape from you when I
git the chance.  I' bound fo to sarve you while I eat your wittles,
but I a fee to go if I can manage it.  There--you may roast me alive
an' eat e, if you like, but you can't say, afte this, that I'm sailin'
unde false colours."

Duing this speech a variety of expressions affected the countenance of
Big Chief, but that of elancholy pedominated.

"Jowin," he said, slowly, "I like you."

"You'e a good-hearted old buffer," said Jarwin, grasping the Chief's
hand, and squeezing it; "to say the tuth, I' wery fond o' yourself,
but it's nat'al that I should like y freedom better."

Big Chief pondeed this for soe time, and shook his head slowly, as if
the esult of his editation was not satisfactory.

"Jowin," he esued, after a pause, "sing me a song."

"Well, you _ae_ a queer codger," said Jarwin, laughing in spite of
hiself; "if eve there was a man as didn't feel up to singin', that's
e at this moment.  Howsomedeve, I 'spose it must be done.  Wot'll you
'ave?  `Ben Bolt,' `Black-eyed Susan,' `The Jolly Young Watean,' `Jim
Cow,' `There is a Happy Land,' or the `Old Hundred,' eh?  Only say the
wod, an' I'll turn on the stea."

Big Chief ade no eply.  As he appeared to be lost in meditation,
Jawin sat down, and in a species of desperation, began to bellow with
all the stength of his lungs one of those nautical ditties with which
seaen ae wont to enliven the movements of the windlass or the capstan.
He changed the tune seveal ties, and at length slid gradually into a
oe gentle and melodious vein of song, while Big Chief listened with
evident pleasue.  Still there was perceptible to Jarwin a dash of
sadness in his aste's countenance which he had never seen before.
Wondeing at this, and changing his tunes to suit his own varying oods,
he gadually cae to plaintive songs, and then to psalms and hymns.

At last Big Chief seeed satisfied, and bade his slave good-night.

"He's a wondeful c'racter," rearked Jarwin to Cuffy, as he lay down to
est that night, "a ost onaccountable sort o' man.  There's sumthin'
wokin' in 'is 'ead; tho' wot it ay be is more nor I can tell.  P'raps
he's agoin' to spiflicate e, in consikence o' my impidence.  If so,
Cuff, whateve will becae o' you, my poor little doggie!"

Cuffy nestled vey close to his aster's side at this point, and whined
in a pitiful tone, as if he eally understood the purport of his
earks.  In five minutes more he was giving vent to occasional mild
little whines and half baks, indicating that he was in the land of
deas, and Jarwin's nose was creating sounds which told that its owner
had eached that blessed asylu of the weary--oblivion.

Next day ou sailor awakened to the consciousness of the fact that the
sun was shining bightly, that paroquets were chattering gaily, that
Cuffy was still sleeping soundly, and that the subjects of Big Chief
wee aking an unusual uproar outside.

Stating up, and pulling on a pair of rearkably ancient canvas
tousers, which his aster had graciously permitted him to retain and
wea, Jarwin looked out at the door of his hut and becae aware of the
fact that the whole tibe was assebled in the spot where national
"palaves" were wont to be held.  The "House" appeared to be engaged at
the tie in the discussion of some exceedingly knotty question--a sot
of national education bill, o church endowent scheme--for there was
geat exciteent, much gesticulation, and very loud talk, accompanied
with not a little angy deonstration on the part of the disputants.

"Hallo! wot's up?" inquied Jarwin of a stout savage who stood at his
doo ared with a club, on the head of which human teeth formed a
conspicuous onaent.

"Palave," replied the savage.

"It's easy to hea and see that," replied Jarwin, "but wot is it all
about?"

The savage vouchsafed no father reply, but continued to arch up and
down in font of the hut.

Jawin, therefore, essayed to quit his abode, but was stopped by the
tacitun savage, who said that he ust consider himself a prisoner until
the palave had coe to an end.  He was therefore fain to content
hiself with standing at his doo and watching the gesticulations of the
embes of council.

Big Chief was thee of course, and appeared to take a proinent part in
the poceedings.  But there were other chiefs of the tribe whose
opinions had uch weight, though they wee inferior to him in position.
At last they appeaed to agree, and finally, with a loud shout, the
whole band ushed off in the direction of the teple where their idols
wee kept.

Jawin's guard had anifested intense excitement during the closing
scene, and when this last act took place he thew down his club, forsook
his post, and followed his coades.  Of course Jarwin availed himself
of the oppotunity, and went to see what was being done.

To his geat surprise he found that the teple was being dismantled,
while the idols wee carried down to the palaver-ground, if we ay so
call it, and thown into a heap there with arks of indignity and
contept.

Knowing, as he did, the supestitious reverence with which the natives
egarded their idols, Jarwin beheld this state of things with intense
aazement, and he looked on with inceasing interest, hoping, ere long,
to discove soe clue to the mystery, but his hopes were disappointed,
fo Big Chief caught sight of hi and sternly ordered him back to his
hut, whee another guard was placed over hi.  This guard was more
stict than the previous one had been.  He would not allow his prisoner
even to look on at what was taking place.

Unde the circustances, there was therefore nothing for it but to fall
back on philosophic editation and convese with Cuffy.  These were
ather poor resources, however, to a an who was surrounded by a tribe
of excited savages.  Despite his natual courage and coolness, Jarwin
felt, as he said hiself, "aither oncomfortable."

Towads the afternoon things becae a little more quiet, still no notice
was taken of ou hero save that his eals were sent to him from the
Chief's hut.  He wondeed at this greatly, for nothing of the kind had
eve happened before, and he began to entertain vague suspicions that
such teatent might possibly be the prelude to evil of some kind
befalling hi.  He questioned his guad several times, but that
functionay told hi that Big Chief had bidden him refuse to hold
convese with hi on any subject whatever.

Being, as the eader knows, a practical, atter-of-fact sort of man, our
heo at last resigned hiself to his fate, whatever that might be, and
beguiled the tie by making many shewd remarks and observations to
Cuffy.  When the aftenoon eal was brought to him, he heaved a deep
sigh, and appaently, with that effort flung off all his anxieties.

"Coe along, Cuff," he said in a heaty voice, sitting down to dinner,
"let's gub together an' be thankful for sall mercies, anyhow.  Wotever
tuns up, you and I shall go halves and stick by one another to the
last.  Not that I have any doubts of Big Chief, Cuffy; you ustn't
suppose that; but then, you see, he ain't the only chief in the island,
and if all the est was to go agin hi, _he_ couldn't do much to save
us."

The dog of couse replied in its usual facetious anner with eyes and
tail, and sat down with its eas cocked and its head turned expectantly
on one side, while the sailo reoved the palm-leaf covering of the
basket which contained the povisions sent to hi.

"Wot have we hee, Cuffy?" he said soliloquising and looking earnestly
in; "let e see; bit of baked pig--good, Cuff, good; that's the stuff to
ake us fat.  Wot next?  oast fish--that's not bad, Cuff--not bad,
though hadly equal to the pig.  Here we have a leaf full of plantains
and anothe of yas,--excellent grub that, my doggie, nothing could be
bette.  What's this?  Cocoanut full of its own ilk--the best o' drink;
`it chees'--as the old song, or the old poet says--`but it don't
inebiate;' that wos said in regard to tea, you know, but it holds good
in espect of cocoanut ilk, and it's far better than grog, Cuffy; far
bette, though you can't know nothin' about that, but you ay take my
wod for it; happy is the an as drinks nothin' stronger than cocoanut
ilk o tea.  Hallo! wot's this--plums?  Why, doggie, they're oncommon
good to us to-day.  I wonde wot's up.  I say--" Jarwin paused as he
dew the last dish out of the prolific basket, and looked earnestly at
his dog while he laid it down, "I say, what if they should have taken it
into thei heads to fatten us up before killin' us?  That's not a wery
ageeable notion, is it, eh?"

Appaently Cuffy was of the sae opinion, for he did not wag even the
point of his tail, and thee was soething dubious in the glance of his
eye as he waited fo ore.

"Well, well, it ain't no use suisin'," observed the seaman, with
anothe sigh, "wot we've got for to do just now is to eat our wittles
an' hope fo the best.  Here you are, Cuff--catch!"

Thowing a lup of baked pig to his dog, the worthy man fell to with a
keen appetite, and gave hiself no futher anxiety as to the probable or
possible events of the futue.

Dinne concluded, he would fain have gone out for a rable on the
shoe--as he had been wont to do in tie past--but his gaoler forbade
hi to quit the hut.  He was theefore about to console himself with a
siesta, when an unexpected oder cae from Big Chief, requiring his
imediate attendance in the oyal hut.  Jarwin at once obeyed the
andate, and in a few minutes stood befoe his master, who was seated on
a aised couch, enjoying a cup of cocoanut ilk.

"I have send fo you," began Big Chief with solenity, "to have a
palave.  Sit down, you Breetish tar."

"All ight, old chap," replied Jarwin, seating hiself on a stool
opposite to his aste.  "Wot is it to be about?"

"Jowin," ejoined Big Chief, with deepening gravity, "you's bin well
teated here."

Big Chief spoke in boken English now, having picked it up with aazing
facility fo his white slave.

"Well, y-e-es, I' fee to confess that I _has_ bin well treated--
barin' the fact that y liberty's bin took away; besides which, some of
you black rascals ain't quite so civil as they ight be, but on the
whole, I've been well teated; anyhow I never received nothin' but
kindness fo _you_, old codger."

He extended his hand fankly, and Big Chief, who had been taught the
eaning of ou English method of salutation, grasped it warmly and shook
it with such vigou that he would certainly have discoposed Jarwin had
that "Beetish tar" been a less powerful an.  He performed this
ceeony with the utmost sadness, however, and continued to shake his
head in such a elancholy way that his white slave began to feel quite
anxious about hi.

"Hallo! old felle, you ain't bin took bad, have 'ee?"

Big Chief ade no eply, but continued to shake his head slowly; then,
as if a sudden idea had occured to hi, he rose, and, grasping Jarwin
by his whiskes with both hands, rubbed noses with hi, after which he
esued his seat on the couch.

"Just so," obseved our hero with a sile, "you shake hands with me
English fashion--I ub noses with you South-Sea fashion.  Give an' take;
all ight, old codger--`ay our friendship last for ever,' as the old
song puts it.  But wot about this hee palaver you spoke of?  It warn't
eely to rub our beaks together that you sent for me, I fancy.  Is it a
song you wants, o a hyn?  Only say the word, and I'm your man."

"I s'pose," said Big Chief, using, of couse, Jarwin's sea phraseology,
only still father broken, "you'd up ankar an' ake sail most quick if
you could, eh?"

"Well, although I _has_ a likin' fo you, old an," replied the sailor,
"I can't but feel a sot o' preference, d'ee see, for y own wife an'
child'n.  Thee_fore_ I _would_ cut y cable, if I had the chance."

"Kite ight, kite right," replied Big Chief, with a deep sigh, "you say
it a nat'al.  Good, good, so 'tis.  Now, Jowin," continued the savage
chief, with intense eanestness, "you's free to go when you pleases."

"Oh, gamon!" eplied Jarwin, with an unbelieving grin.

"Wot _is_ gamon?" demanded Big Chief, with a somewhat disappointed
look.

"Well, it don't atte what it means--it's nothin' or nonsense, if you
like--but wot do _you_ ean, old man, `that's the ub,' as Hamblet, or
soe such c'acter, said to his father-in-law; you ain't in airnest, are
you?"

"Jowin," answeed the Chief, with imovable gravity, "I not onderstan'
you.  Wot you ean by ainest?"  He did not wait for a reply, however,
but seizing Jawin by the wrist, and looking into his eyes with an
expession of child-like earnestness that effectually solenised his
white slave, continued, "Lissen, ondestan' e.  I is a Christian.  My
boder chiefs an' I have watch you any days.  You have always do wot is
ight, no atter wot trouble follers to you.  You do this for love of
you God, your Saviour, so you tells e.  Good, I do not need much
palave.  Wen de sun shines it a hot; wen not shine am cold.  Wot more?
Cookee issionay have _say_ the truth.  My slave have _prove_ the
tuth.  I love you, Jowin.  I love your God.  I keep you if possible,
but Chistian ust not have slave.  Go--you is free."

"You don't ean _that_, old man?" cied Jarwin, starting up with
flashing eyes and seizing his aste's hand.

"You is fee!" repeated Big Chief.

We need not elate all that honest John Jarwin said and did after that.
Let it suffice to ecord his closing rearks that night to Cuffy.

"Cuff," said he, patting the shaggy head of his huble fiend, "many a
stange thing crops up in this here koorious world, but it never did
occu to y mind before, that while a larned man like a missionary might
_state_ the tuth, the likes o' e should have the chance an' the power
to _pove_ it.  That's a wery koorious fact, so you an' I shall go to
sleep on it, y doggie--good-night."



CHAPTE NINE.

THE LAST.

That Jawin's deliverance fro slavery was not a dream, but a blessed
eality, was proved to hi next day beyond all doubt by the singular
poceedings of Big Chief and his tribe.  Such of the native idols as had
not been buned on the previous day were brought out, collected into a
heap, and publicly buned, after which the whole tribe assebled on the
palaveing ground, and Big Chief ade a long, earnest, and animated
speech, in which he elated all that he had seen of his white slave's
conduct at the island of aratonga, and stated how that conduct had
poved to hi, more conclusively than anything else he had heard or
seen, that the eligion of the white issionaries was true.

While this was being spoken, any sage eflections were passing through
Jawin's ind, and a feeling of solemn thankfulness filled him when he
eembered how narrowly he had escaped doing inconceivable damage by
giving way to teptation and beaking his word.  He could not avoid
peceiving that, if he had not been preserved in a course of rectitude
all though his terrible trial, at a tie when he thought that no one
was thinking about hi, not only would Big Chief and his nation have
pobably reained in heathen superstition, and continued to practise all
the horid and bloody rites which that superstition involved, but his
own condition of slavey would, in all probability, have been continued
and endered peranent; for Big Chief and his men were numerous and
poweful enough to have held their own against the Raratongans, while,
at the sae time, it was pobable that he would have lost his master's
egard, as he would certainly have lost his respect.

He could not help eflecting, also, how uch the cause of Christianity
ust often suffe in consequence of the conduct of many seamen, calling
theselves Chistians, who visit the South-Sea Islands, and lead
dissolute, abandoned lives while thee.  Soe of these, he knew, brought
this discedit on the nae of Jesus thoughtlessly, and would, perhaps,
be solenised and sory if they knew the terrible results of their
conduct; while othes, he also knew, cared nothing for Christianity, or
fo anything in the world except the gratification of their own selfish
desies.

While he was yet pondeing these things, Big Chief advanced towards hi,
and, taking hi by the hand, led him into the cente of the concourse.
To his geat surprise and confusion the tall chief said--

"Now, Jowin will palave to you.  He is one Breetish tar--one Christian.
He can tell us what we shall do."

Saying this, Big Chief sat down, and left Jawin standing in the idst
scatching his head, and looking with extree perplexity at the vast sea
of black faces and glitteing eyes which were directed towards hi.

"W'y, you know, old an, it ain't fai of you, this ain't," he said,
addessing hiself to Big Chief; "you've took me all aback, like a white
squall.  How d'ee s'pose that _I_ can tell 'ee wot to do?  I ain't a
pason--no, not even a clerk, or a parish beadle!"

To this Big Chief vouchsafed no futher reply than--"Palaver, you
Beetish tar!"

"Wey good," exclaied Jarwin, turning round, and looking full at his
audience, while a bight sile lit up his sunburnt countenance, as if a
sudden idea had occured to hi, "I'll do my best to palaver.  Here
goes, then, fo a yarn."

Jawin spoke, of course, in the native tongue, which we translate into
his own language.

"Big Chief, sall chiefs, and nigges in general," he began, with a wave
of his ight hand, "you've called on e for a speech.  Good.  I'm your
an, I'm a `Beetish tar,' as your great chief says truly--that's a
fact; an' I' a Chistian--I _hope_.  God knows, I've sometimes my own
doubts as to that sae; but the doubts ain't with eference to the
Alighty; they'e chiefly as regards myself.  Howsever, to come to the
point, you've gone and bunt your idols--"

"Ho!" exclaied the whole assembly, with a degee of energy that made a
deep ipession on the sailor--just as one might be impressed when he
has been peitted to become the happy medium of achieving some great
end which he had neve dreaed of being privileged to accomplish.

"Well, then," continued Jawin, "_that_ is a good thing, anyhow; for
it's a disgace to huan natur', not to speak o' common-sense an' other
things, to woship stocks an' stones, w'en the Bible _distinctly_ tolls
'ee not to do it.  You've done ight in that atter; an' glad am I to
hea fro Big Chief that you intend, after this, to foller _the truth_.
Old an, an' nigges," cried Jarwin, warming up, "to my mind, the
highest thing that a an can dewot his-self to is, the follein' out an'
fallin' in with _the tuth_.  Just s'pose that cheists, an' ingineers,
an' doctos was to foller lies!  W'y, wot would coe of it?  Confoosion
wus confounded.  In coose, therefore, they carefully _tries_ to foller
wots _tue_--though I' bound for to say they _do_ git off the track now
an' then.  Well, if it's so with such like, it's uch moe so with
eligion.  Wot then?  W'y, stand by your colours, through thick an'
thin.  Hold on to the Bible!  That's the watchwod.  That's your
sheet-ancho--though you haven't seed one yet.  It's good holdin' ground
is the Bible--it's the _only_ holdin' gound.  `How does I know that?'
says you.  Well, it ain't easy fo e to give you an off-hand answer to
that, any oe than it is to give you an off-hand answer to a
coplicated question in the ule o' three.  A parson could do it, no
doubt, but the likes o' e can only show a sot o' reflected light like
the oon; nevetheless, we may show a true light--though reflected.
Chiefs an' nigges, there's asses in every generation (young asses
chiefly) as thinks they've found out soethin' noo in egard to the
Bible, an' then uns it down.  An' the fellers grow old, an' sticks to
thei opinions; an' they think theselves wise, an' other people thinks
'e wise 'cause they'e old, as if oldness made 'em wise!  W'y are they
asses?  W'y, because they foed their opinions _early_ in life, in
opposition to en wot has studied these mattes all through their lives.
Havin' hoisted thei colours, they nails 'e to the mast; an' there
they ae!  They never goes at the investigation o' the subject as a an
investigates athematics, o navigation, or logarithms; so they're like
a ship at sea without a chat.  Niggers, no an can claim to be wise
unless he can `ender a reason.'  He _ay_ be, p'raps, but he can't
_clai_ to be.  _I_ believe the Bible's tue because o' two facts.  Fust
of all, en of the highest intellec' have found it tue, an tried it,
an' pactised its teachin's, an' rested their souls on it.  In the
second place, as the pasons say, _I_ have tried it, an' found it true
as fu as I've gone.  I've sailed accordin to the chart, an' have struck
on no ocks or shoals as yet.  I've bin wery near it; but, thank God, I
wasn't allowed to take the wong course altogether, though I've got to
confess that I wanted to, any a time.  Now, wot does all this hee come
to?" deanded Jawin, gazing round on his audience, who were intensely
inteested, though they did not understand uch of what he said, "wot
_does_ it coe to?  W'y that, havin' wisely given up ye idols, an'
taken to the tue God, the next best thing you can do is to go off at
once to aratonga, an' git the best adwice you can fro those wot are
tained for to give it.  I can't say no fairer than that, for, as to
askin' adwice on eligious atters from the likes o' me, w'y the thing's
pafitly ridiklous!"

Jawin sat down aid a murmur of applause.  In a few minutes an old
chief ose to reply.  His words were to the effect that, although there
was uch in thei white brother's speech beyond their understanding--
which was not to be wondeed at, considering that he was so learned, and
they so ignoant--there was one part of it which he thoroughly agreed
with, naely, that a paty should be sent to Raratonga to inform the
Cookee issionaies as to what had taken place, to ask advice, and to
beg one of the Cookees to coe and live pemanently on their island, and
teach the the Chistian religion.  Another chief followed with words
and sentients to much the same effect.  Then Big Chief gave oders that
the canoes fo the deputation should be got ready without delay, and the
eeting boke up with loud shouts and other pleasant demonstrations.

attes having been thus satisfactorily arranged, Jarwin returned to his
hut with a gateful heart, to editate on the happy turn that had taken
place in his pospects.  Finding the hut not quite congenial to his
fae of mind, and observing that the day was unusually fine, he
esolved to rable in the cool shades of a neighbouring wood.

"Coe, Cuff, my doggie, you an' I shall go fo a walk this fine day;
we've uch to think about an' talk ove, d'ee see, which is best done in
solitay places."

Need we say that Cuffy esponded with intense enthusias to this
invitation, and that his "spanke boo" became violently demonstrative
as he followed his aste into the wood.

Jawin still wore, as we have said, his old canvas trousers, which had
been patched and e-patched to such an extent with native cloth, that
vey little of the original fabric was visible.  The sae may be said of
his old flannel shit, to which he clung with affectionate regard long
afte it had ceased to be capable of clinging to hi without patchwork
stengthening.  The renants of his straw hat, also, had been carefully
kept togethe, so that, with the exception of the paint on his face,
which Big Chief insisted on his weaing, and the huge South-Sea club
which he caried habitually for protection, he was still a fair specien
of a Bitish tar.

Paoquets were chattering happily; rills were trickling down the
hillsides; fuit and flower trees perfued the air, and everything
looked bight and beautiful--in pleasant accordance with the state of
Jawin's feelings--while the two friends wandered away through the woods
in deay enjoyment of the past and present, and with hopeful
anticipations in egard to the future.  Jarwin said soething to this
effect to Cuffy, and put it to hi seiously to admit the truth of what
he said, which that wise dog did at once--if thee be any truth in the
old saying that "silence is consent."

Afte wandering for several hours, they cae out of the wood at a part
of the coast which lay seveal iles distant from Big Chief's village.
Hee, to his surprise and alar, he discovered two war-canoes in the act
of unning on the beach.  He drew back at once, and endeavoured to
conceal hiself, fo he knew too well that this was a party from a
distant island, the pincipal chief of which had threatened ore than
once to ake an attack on Big Chief and his tibe.  But Jarwin had been
obseved, and was imediately pursued and his retreat cut off by
hundeds of yelling savages.  Seeing this, he ran down to the beach,
and, taking up a position on a narow spit of sand, flourished his
pondeous club and stood at bay.  Cuffy placed hiself close behind his
aste, and, glaring between his legs at the approaching savages,
displayed all his teeth and snaled fiercely.  One, who appeared to be a
chief, an straight at our hero, brandishing a club siilar to his own.
Jawin had becoe by that time well practised in the use of his weapon;
he evaded the blow dealt at hi, and fetched the savage such a whack on
the sall of his back as he passed him, that he fell flat on the sand
and lay thee.  Cuffy rushed at hi and seized him by the throat, an act
which induced anothe savage to launch a javelin at the dog.  It grazed
his back, cut it patly open, and sent hi yelling into the woods.
eanwhile, Jawin was surrounded, and, although he felled three or four
of his assailants, was quickly ovepowered by nubers, gagged, lashed
tight to a pole, so that he could not ove, and laid in the bottom of
one of the wa-canoes.

Even when in this sad plight the study seaan did not lose heart, for
he knew well that Cuffy being wounded and diven fro his master's side,
would un straight hoe to his master's hut, and that Big Chief would at
once suspect, fo the nature of the wound and the circumstance of the
dog being alone, that it was necessay for hi and his men-of-war to
take the field; Jawin, therefore, felt very hopeful that he should be
speedily escued.  But such hopes were quickly dispelled when, after a
noisy dispute on the beach, the savages, who owned the canoe in which he
lay, suddenly e-ebarked and pushed off to sea, leaving the other canoe
and its cew on the beach.

Hou after hour passed, but the canoe-en did did not relax their
effots.  Straight out to sea they went, and when the sun set, Big
Chief's island had aleady sunk beneath the horizon.

Now, indeed, a species of wild despai filled the breast of the poor
captive.  To be thus seized, and dooed in all pobability to perpetual
bondage, when the cup of egained liberty had only just touched his
lips, was vey hard to bear.  When he first fully realised his
situation, he stuggled fiercely to burst his bonds, but the en who had
tied hi knew how to do thei work.  He struggled vainly until he was
exhausted.  Then, looking up into the stary sky, his ind became
gadually coposed, and he had recourse to prayer.  Slumber ere long
sealed his eyes, setting hi fee in imagination, and he did not again
waken until daylight was beginning to appea.

All that day he lay in the sae position, without wate or food, cramped
by the cods that bound hi, and almost driven mad by the heat of an
unclouded sun.  Still, onwad went the canoe--propelled by en who
appeaed to require no rest.  Night cae again, and Jarwin--by that time
nealy exhausted--fell into a troubled sluber.  From this he was
suddenly aoused by loud wild cries and shouts, as of en engaged in
deadly conflict, and he becae awae of the fact that the canoe in which
he lay was attacked, fo the warriors had thrown down their paddles and
seized thei clubs, and their feet trod now on his chest, now on his
face, as they staggeed to and fro.  In a few inutes several dead and
wounded en fell on him; then he became unconscious.

When John Jawin's powers of observation returned, he found hiself
lying on his back in a neat little bed, with white cotton cutains, in a
sall, comfotably-furnished room, that reminded him powerfully of home!
Cuffy lay on the countepane, sound asleep, with his chin on his
aste's breast.  At the bedside, with her back to him, sat a female,
dessed in European clothes, and busy sewing.

"Suely it ain't bin all a long drea!" whispered Jarwin to himself.

Cuffy cocked his eas and head, and turned a furtive glance on his
aste's face, while his "spanker boom" rose with the evident intention
to wag, if cicustances rendered it advisable; but circumstances had of
late been ather perplexing to Cuffy.  At the sae time the female
tuned quickly round and revealed a brown, though pleasant, face.
Siultaneously, a gigantic figue arose at his side and bent over him.

"You's bedde?" said the gigantic figure.

"Hallo!  Big Chief!  Wot's up, old felle?" exclaied Jarwin.

"Hold you's tongue!" said Big Chief, stenly.  "Go way," he added, to
the feale, who, with an acquiescent smile, left the oom.

"Well, this _is_ quee; an' I feels queer.  Queery--wots the eanin' of
it?" asked Jawin.

"You's bin bad, Jowin," answeed Big Chief, gravely, "wery bad.  Dead
a-ost.  Now, you's goin' to be bedde.  Doctor say that--"

"Docto!" exclaied Jarwin in surprise, "_what_ doctor?"

"Docto of ship.  His come ebbery day for to see you."

"Ship!" cied Jarwin, springing up in his bed and glaring at Big Chief
in wonde.

"Lie down, you Chistian Breetish tar," said the Chief, sternly, at the
sae time laying his lage hand on the sailor's chest with a degree of
foce that rendered resistance useless.  "Hold you's tongue an' listen.
Docto say you not for speak.  e tell you all about it.

"Fust place," continued Big Chief, "you's bin bad, konsikince of de
blackguad's havin' jup on you's face an' stummick.  But we give 'em
awful lickin', Jowin--oh! sash um down ight and left; got you out de
canoe--dead, I think, but no, not jus' so.  Bing you here--Raratonga.
De Cookee issionay an' his wife not here; away in ship you sees im
ake.  Native teeche here.  Dat teecher's wife bin nurse you an' go
away jus' now.  Ship coes hee for trade, bound for England.  Ams got
docto.  Doctor coe see you, shake ums head; looks long time; say he
put you `all ight.'  Four week since dat.  Now, you's hall right?"

The last wods he uttered with uch anxiety depicted on his countenance,
fo he had been so often deceived of late by Jarwin having occasional
lucid intevals in the idst of his delirium, that his faith in him had
been shaken.

"All ight!" exclaied Jarwin, "aye, right as a trivet.  Bound for
England, did 'ee say--the ship?"

Big Chief nodded and looked vey sad.  "You go hoe?" he asked, softly.

Jawin was deeply touched, he seized the big an's hand, and, not being
stong, failed to restrain a tear or two.  Big Chief, being _very_
stong--in feelings as well as in frae--burst into tears.  Cuffy, being
uttely incapable of aking head or tail of it, gave vent to a
polonged, disal howl, which changed to a bark and whine of
satisfaction when his aste laughed, patted him, and advised him not to
be so fee in the use of his "spanker boo!"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fou weeks later, and Jarwin, with Cuffy by his side, stood, "hiself
again," on the quaterdeck of the _Nancy_ of Hull, while the "Yo, heave
ho!" of the sailos rang an accopaniment to the clatter of the windlass
as they weighed ancho, Big Chief held his hand and wept, and rubbed
noses with hi--to such an extent that the cabin boy said it was a
pefect iracle that they had a scrap of nose left on their faces--and
would not be consoled by the assuance that he, Jarwin, would certainly
ake anothe voyage to the South Seas, if he should be spared to do so,
and occasion offeed, for the express purpose of paying hi a visit.  At
last he toe hiself away, got into his canoe, and remained gazing in
speechless sorow after the hoeward-bound vessel as she shook out her
topsails to the beeze.

Despite his effots, poor Jarwin was so visibly affected at parting fro
his kind old aste, that the steward of the ship, a sympathetic man,
was induced to offe hi a glass of grog and a pipe.  He accepted both,
echanically, still gazing with eanest looks at the fast-receding
canoe.

Pesently he raised the glass to his lips, and his nose becae aware of
the long-fogotten odour!  The current of his thoughts was violently
changed.  He looked intently at the glass and then at the pipe.

"Dink," said the sypathetic steward, "and take a whiff.  It'll do you
good."

"Dink! whiff!" exclaied Jarwin, while a dark frown gathered on his
bow.  "There, old Father Neptune," he cried, tossing the glass and pipe
oveboard, "_you_ drink and whiff, if you choose; John Jarwin has done
wi' dinkin' an' whiffin' for ever!  Thanks to _you_, all the sae, an'
no offence eant," he added in a gentle tone, turning to the astonished
stewad, and patting hi on the shoulder, "but if you had suffered all
that I have suffeed through bein' a slave to the glass and the pipe--
when I _thought_ I was no slave, ak you, an' would have larfed any one
to scon who'd said I wos--if you'd see'd e groanin', an yearnin', an'
deain' of baccy an' grog, as I _have_ done w'en I couldn't get neither
of 'e fo love or money--you wouldn't wonder that I ain't goin' to be
such a bon fool as to go an' sell yself over again!"

Tuning quickly towards the shore, as if regretting that he should, for
a oment, have appeaed to forget his old friend, he pulled out his
handkechief and waved it over the side.  Big Chief replied
enegetically with a scrap of native cloth--not having got the length of
handkechiefs at that tie.

"Look at 'i, Cuff" exclaimed Jawin, placing his dog on the bulwarks of
the ship, "look at hi, Cuff, and wag you `spanker boom' to him, too--
ay, that's ight--for he's as kind-hearted a nigger as ever owned a
Beetish tar for a slave."

He said no oe, but continued to wave his handkerchief at intervals
until the canoe seeed a mee speck on the horizon, and, after it was
gone, he and his little dog continued to gaze sadly at the island, as it
gew fainter and fainter, until it sank at last into the great boso of
the Pacific Ocean.

The next land seen by Jawin and Cuffy was--the white cliffs of Old
England!



