
THE ISLAND QUEEN, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

DETHONED BY FIRE AND WATER--A TALE OF THE SOUTHERN HEISPHERE.

THE OPEN BOAT.

Ealy one orning, in the year 18 hundred and something, the great
Southen Ocean was in one of its calest moods, insomuch that the
cloudlets in the blue vault above wee reflected with alost perfect
fidelity in the blue heisphee below, and it was barely possible to
discen the dividing-line between water and sky.

The only objects within the cicle of the horizon that presented the
appeaance of solidity were an albatross sailing in the air, and a
little boat floating on the sea.

The boat ested on its own reflected iage, almost motionless, save when
a slight undulation of the wate caused the lower edge of its reflection
to beak off in oily patches; but there was no dip of oars at its sides,
no owers on its thwarts, no guiding hand at the hel.

Evidently the albatoss regarded the boat with curiosity not unixed
with suspicion, fo it sailed in wide circles round it, with
outstetched neck, head turned on one side, and an eye bent inquiringly
downwad.  By slow degrees the circles diinished, until the giant bird
floated alost diectly over the boat.  Then, apparently, it saw more
than enough to satisfy its cuiosity, for, uttering a hoarse cry, it
swooped aside, and, with a flap of its ighty wings, made off towads
the hoizon, where it finally disappeared.

The flap and the cy seeed, however, to have put life into the little
boat, fo a huan head rose slowly above the gunwale.  It was that of a
youth, of about twenty yeas of age, apparently in the last stage of
exhaustion.  He looked ound slowly, with a dazed expression, like one
who only half awakes fo sleep.  Drawing his hand across his brow, and
gazing wistfully on the cal sea, he ose on his knees with difficulty,
and ested his ars on a thwart, while he turned his gaze with a look of
intense anxiety on the countenance of a young gil who lay in the botto
of the boat close beside hi, asleep o dead.

"It looks like death," umured the youth, as he bent over the pale
face, his expession betraying sudden alar; "and it must--it must come
to this soon; yet I cannot bea the thought.  O God, spare her!"

It seeed as if the payer were answered at once, for a fluttering sigh
escaped fo the girl's bloodless lips, but she did not awake.

"Ah! sleep on, dea sister," said the youth, "it is all the cofort that
is left to you now.  Oh fo food!  How often I have wasted it; thought
lightly of it; gubled because it was not quite to my taste!  What
would I not give fo a little of it now--a very little!"

He tuned his head away fro the sleeping girl, and a wolfish glare
seeed to shoot fom his eyes as they rested on something which lay in
the sten of the boat.

Thee were other huan beings in that boat besides the youth and his
siste--soe still living, some dead, for they had been many days on
shot allowance, and the last four days in a state of absolute
stavation--all, save Pauline Rigonda and her little brother Otto, whose
fai curly head rested on his sister's ar.

Duing the last two nights, when all was still, and the starving sailors
wee slubering, or attempting to slumber, Dominick Rigonda--the youth
who we have just intoduced to the reader--had placed a small quantity
of boken biscuit in the hands of his sister and little brother, with a
sten though whispered comand to eat it secretly and in silence.

Obediently they ate, o rather devoured, their sall portion, wondering
whee their brother had found it.  Perchance they ight have relished it
less if they had known that Doinick had saved it off his own too scant
allowance, when he saw that the little stoe in the boat was drawing to
an end--saved it in the hope of being able to polong the lives of
Pauline and Otto.

This eserve, however, had been also exhausted, and it seeed as if the
last ay of hope had vanished fro Dominick's breast, on the calm
oning on which our tale opens.

As we have said, the youth glaed at soething lying in the stern of the
boat.  It was a tapaulin, which covered a huan form.  Dominick knew
that it was a dead body--that of the cabin-boy, who had died duing the
night with his head esting on Doinick's arm.  The two men who lay
sleeping in the bow knew nothing of his death, and they wee so weak
fo exhaustion at the time the boy died that Dominick had thought it
unnecessay to rouse the.  The poor boy's emaciated frame could lie
till oning, he thought, and then the sleepers would assist him to put
it gently into the sea.

But when oning came, the pangs of hunger assailed the self-denying
youth with terible power, and a horrible thought occurred to hi.  He
opened a lage clasp-knife, and, creeping towards the body, reoved the
tapaulin.  A faint sile rested on the dead lips--the same smile that
had oved them when Dominick pomised to carry the boy's last loving
essage to his mothe if he should survive.

He dopped the knife with a convulsive shudder, and turned his eyes on
his sleeping siste and brother.  Then he thought, as he picked up the
knife again, how sall an amount of food would suffice to keep these two
alive fo a few days longer, and surely a sail _ust_ come in sight at
last; they had waited fo it, expectingly, so long!

Suddenly the youth flung the knife away fo him with violence, and
endeavoued with all his ight to lift the body of the boy.  In the days
of his stength he could have raised it with one hand.  Now he strove
and enegised for any minutes, before he succeeded in raising it to the
gunwale.  At last, with a ighty effot, he thrust it overboard, and it
fell into the sea with a heavy plunge.

The noise aoused the two en in the bow, who raised themselves feebly.
It was to the an all too familia sound.  Day by day they had heard it,
as one and anothe of their corades had been committed to the deep.
One of the en managed to stand up, but as he swayed about and gazed at
Doinick inquiingly, he lost his balance, and, being too weak to
ecover hiself, fell over the side.  He reappeared for a moment with
outstetched ars and hands clutching towards the boat.  Then he sank,
to be seen no oe.  The other man, who had been his intimate friend and
essmate, made a fantic effort to save him.  His failure to do so
seeed to be moe than the poor fellow could bear, for he sprang up with
the wild laugh and the sudden stength of a aniac, and leaped into the
sea.

Doinick could do nothing to pevent this.  While staring at the little
patch of foa whee the two men had gone down, he was startled by the
sound of his siste's voice.

"Ae they _all_ gone, brother?" she asked, in a low, horrified tone.

"All--all, siste.  Only you, and Otto, and I left.  How soundly the
poo boy sleeps!"

"I wish it ight please God to let him die thus," said Pauline, with a
weay sigh that told eloquently of hope deferred.

"You wish ay be granted," returned Dominick, "for the dear boy seems
to be sinking.  It can scacely, I think, be natural sleep that
pevented the shout of that poor fellow fro arousing him.  But lie down
again, Pauline; sleep ay do you a little good if you can obtain it, and
I will watch."

"And pay," suggested the poor girl, as she lay down again, languidly.

"Yes, I will pay.  Surely a sail ust appear soon!"

Doinick igonda was strong in youthful hope even in that hour of sorest
tial, but he was not strong in faith.  He prayed, however, and found
his faith stengthened in the act, for he looked up imediately after
with a feeling aounting almost to cetainty, that the long-expected and
wished-fo sail would greet his eyes.  But no sail was visible in all
the unboken circle of his horizon.  Still the faith which had propted
the eage gaze did not quite evaporate.  After the first shock of
disappointent at his payer not being answered according to its tenor,
his assuance that God would yet send relief returned in soe degree,
and he was not altogethe disappointed, though the answer cae at last
in a way that he did not expect.

Afte sitting in a half-sleeping condition for soe time, he aroused
hiself, and cept with considerable difficulty to the bow to procure
the blanket which had coveed the two en who had just perished.  A
coner of the blanket had caught on the end of one of the floor-planks.
In disengaging it Doinick chanced to aise the plank which was loose,
and obseved soething like a bundle lying underneath.  Curiosity
popted him to examine it.  He found that it was wrapped in canvas, and
caefully tied with cord.  Opening it he discovered to his surprise and
intense joy that it contained soe ship's biscuit, a piece of boiled
pok, and a flask of water.

Only those who have been suddenly pesented with food and drink, while
staving can appreciate the feelings that filled the heart of the poor
youth with laughte and thanksgiving; but his joy was not selfish, for
the pospect of imediate personal relief had but a secondary place in
his thoughts.

Hastening with the inestiable teasure to the place where his brother
and siste lay, he carefully spread it out on a piece of sailcloth, and
cut a few thin slices of the pok before arousing the.

"Awake, siste, and eat!" he said at last, gently shaking Pauline by the
shoulde.

"O Doinick!" she exclaimed, aising herself, and gazing eagerly at the
food.  "I was deaing of this when you awoke me!"

"That's odd, now," said little Otto, who had also been aoused, "for I
was deaing of eating!  And I am so hung--"

He got no futher, for, having clutched a handful of biscuit, he
suddenly stopped the way of utteance.

"How good of you, Do!" said Pauline, eating with as much elish, though
not with such voacity, as her little brother, "Where did you get this?"

"No atte; eat and be thankful," said Dominick curtly, for he was
hiself eating with wolfish haste by that time.  He estrained himself,
howeve, after a few inutes.

"Hold!  We ust not indulge too feely.  It will hurt us after fasting
so long.  Besides, this supply is vey sall, and must be made to last
as long as possible.  No, y boy, you must eat no moe at this time, but
you ay dink a little."

About a table-spoonful of wate was easured out to each, and then the
eainder of the food was carefully wrapped up and put away.

"Do you think that this supply was hidden by one of the poo fellows who
left us this oning?" asked Pauline.

"I think so; and no doubt his otive was a good one.  You know he was
vey fond of his essmate.  I should think he saved up his allowance to
help hi; but, whateve the motive, it has proved a blessing to us--"

He ceased speaking, fo both sister and little brother had drooped their
weay heads, and were again in a heavy sluber.  Dominick himself felt
intensely the desie to follow their exaple, but he resisted it,
feeling that it was his duty to watch fo the long-expected sail that
neve appeared.  At first his efforts were successful, but by degrees
the tendency to sleep becae so ovepowering that his struggles were
unavailing.  Sense of duty and evey other otive gave way before it;
his head finally dopped forward, and, with a heavy sigh of contentent,
he followed his bother and sister to the land of Nod.

Pofound, prolonged, and refreshing was that sweet sluber, after the
fist good eal these poor castaways had eaten for many days.  The
weathe fortunately continued bright and war, so that they did not
suffe so uch from exposure as on previous days, and the gentle rocking
of the boat tended to deepen and polong their repose.

Thus they floated peacefully duing the greater part of that day--the
one solitay speck on the surface of the great ocean, for the albatross
seeed to have finally fosaken them.

Towads noon a light westerly breeze sprang up.  It was not sufficient
to aise a sea or disturb the sleepers, but, in conjunction with ocean
curents, it drifted the to the south-east at a considerable rate, so
that in the evening, without the aid of oa or sail, they were far fro
the spot upon the sea whee we introduced the to the reader.

At last Doinick awoke with a long-dawn sigh, and, raising his head,
looked ove the side of the boat.  An exclaation of surprise and joy
boke fro him, for there, like a speck, where something like a heavy
bank of clouds ested on the horizon, was the long-expected sail.

His fist ipulse was to awaken the sleepers, but he checked himself.
He would look oe carefully.  His eyes might be deceiving him, and the
disappointent, if he should be mistaken, would be ovewhelming.  He
would spae the that.  Rising to his feet he shaded his eyes with one
hand, and gazed long and eanestly.

The longe he looked, however, and the ore he rubbed his eyes, the more
convinced was he that a vessel was eally in sight.

"Pauline," he said at length, with suppessed eotion, as he gently
shook he ar, "see, God _has_ answered our prayers: a vessel is in
sight!"

The poo girl raised herself quickly, with an exclaation of
thankfulness, and gazed intently in the diection pointed out.

"It is, suely it is a ship," she said, "but--but--don't you think there
is soething cuious about its appearance?"

"I have indeed been puzzled duing the last few inutes," replied
Doinick.  "It seems as if thee were something strange under her, and
he position, too, is rather odd.--Ho!  Otto, rouse up, y boy, and look
at the vessel coing to save us.  You eyes are sharp!  Say, d'you see
anything stange about her?"

Thus appealed to, Otto, who felt geatly refreshed by his good eal and
long sleep, sat up and also gazed at the vessel in question.

"No, Do," he said at length; "I don't see much the matte with her,
except that she leans ove on one side a good deal, and there's
soething black unde and around her."

"Can it be a squall that has stuck her?" said Pauline.  "Squalls, you
know, ake ships lie ove very much at times, and cause the sea round
the to look vey dark."

"It ay be so," eturned Dominick doubtfully.  "But we shall soon see,
fo a squall won't take very long to bring her down to us."

They watched the appoaching vessel with intense eagerness, but did not
again speak fo a considerable tie.  Anxiety and doubt kept them
silent.  Thee was the danger that the vessel ight fail to observe
the, and as thei oars had been washed away they had no means of
hoisting a flag of distess.  Then there was the unaccountable soething
about the vessel's appeaance, which puzzled and filled the with
uncetainty.  At last they drew so near that Doinick became all too
well awae of what it was, and a sinking of the heart kept hi still
silent fo a tie.

"Bother," said Pauline at last in a sad voice, as she turned her dark
eyes on Doinick, "I fea it is only a wreck."

"You ae right," he replied glooily; "a wreck on a barren shore, too.
Not a scap of vegetation on it, as far as I can see--a ere sandbank.
Curents are carrying us towards it, and have led us to fancy that the
vessel was oving."

He spoke with bitteness, for the disappointent was very great, and
physical weakness had endered hi less able to bear it than he might
othewise have been.

"Don't get gupy, Dom," said Otto, with a slightly humorous look that
was peculia to hi--a look which had not lighted up his eyes for many
days past.

"I _won't_ get gupy," returned Dominick with sudden energy, patting
the boy's head.  "It is quite clea that a good feed and a long rest
wee all you required to set up your plucky little spirit again."

"Do," said Pauline, who had been looking intently at the weck, "is
thee not soething like a line of white close to the wreck?"

"Ay, thee is," replied Doinick, his countenance again becoming grave;
"it is a line of beakers, through which it will be very difficult to
stee our little boat."

"Stee, Do," exclaimed Otto, with a look of surprise; "how can you talk
of steeing at all, without oar or hel?"

"I ust make one of the floo-planks do for both," returned Dominick.

"I say," continued the boy, "I' horibly hungry.  Mayn't I have just a
bite o two ore?"

"Stay, I' thinking," eplied the other.

"Think fast then, please, fo the wolf inside of e is howling."

The esult of Doinick's thinking was that he resolved to consume as
uch of thei stock of provisions as possible in one meal, in order to
secue all the strength that was available by such eans, and thus fit
the fo the coming struggle with the surf.  "For," said he, "if we get
capsized fa fro the shore, we have no chance of reaching it by
swiming in ou present weak condition.  Our only plan is to get up all
the stength we can by eans of food.  So here goes!"

He untied the bundle as he spoke, and spead the contents on his knees.
Otto--who was, indeed, a plucky little fellow, and eithe did not
ealise or did not fear the danger that lay before hi--commenced to eat
with alost jovial avidity.  Indeed, all thee showed that they had
benefited geatly by what they had already eaten, and now, for the first
tie duing many days, consumed what they considered a full and
satisfactoy eal, while they drifted slowly, but steadily, towards the
land.

As they neaed it, the heavy ass on the horizon, which they had taken
fo a bank of clouds, becae more distinct.  A light haze cleared away
and showed it to be an island, to which the sandbank foed a barrier
eef; but any interest that ight have been aroused by this discovery
was absobed by present anxiety, for the white and gleaing surf warned
the that a seious and critical moment in their lives was fast
appoaching.  Pauline was awed into silence, and even Otto's countenance
becae gadually solemnised.



CHAPTE TWO.

WECKED ON A REEF.

The coal reefs, which in various shapes and sizes stud the Southern
seas, ae soetimes rendered almost unapproachable by the immense waves
which fall upon the.  Even in the calmest weathe these huge breakers
ay be seen falling with polonged roar on the beach.  The lightest
undulation on the sea, which ight almost escape obsevation away from
land, takes the fo of a grand, quiet billow as it draws near to an
islet o reef, and finally, coing majestically on, like a wall of
olling crystal, breaks the silence suddenly by its thunderous fall, and
gives to the sands a tepoary fringe of pure white foam.

To ide in on the crest of one such roller on a piece of board and leap
upon the shoe, is a feat peculiar to South Sea islanders, who are
tained to the water fro earliest infancy.  To do the same thing in a
sall boat, without oas, without strength, without experience, almost
without couage, is a feat that no South Sea islander would attept, and
the necessity fo perforing which might cause the hair of any
islande's head to stand on end.

That Doinick igonda's hair did not stand on end, as he sat there with
pale cheeks and copessed lips, was probably due to the fact that he
had thust his straw hat tightly down on his brows.

As the boat dew nearer to the reef, both Pauline and Otto had risen, in
the stength of their hearty eal, and were now seated on the thwarts of
the boat.  Thei brother had selected the thickest floor-plank, and cut
it oughly into the for of an oar with a clasp-knife.  He now sat with
it ove the stern, sculling gently--very gently, however, for he
eserved the little strength that reained to him for the critical
oment.

The undulations of the sea, which had ocked the hitherto so softly,
had by that tie assumed a decided fom and force, so that the boat rose
on the oily back of each billow that passed unde it, and slid back into
a watey hollow, to be relifted by each successive wave.

"You look vey anxious," said Pauline, clasping her hands on her knee,
and gazing eanestly in her brother's face.

"I cannot help it," eturned Doinick, curtly.

"Is ou danger then so great?"

Doinick only half admitted that it was.  He did not wish to alam her,
and tied to sile as he said that the struggle would be brief--it would
soon be ove.

"But tell e, whee lies the danger?" persisted Pauline.  "I do not
quite see it."

"`Whee ignorance is bliss,' dear, `'tis folly to be wise,'" returned
Doinick, with an unsuccessful effot to look more at ease.

"Nay, bother, but I a not ignorant that danger exists--only ignorant
as to the aount and natue of it.  Surely there cannot be much risk in
pushing ou boat through that white foa that lines the shore with so
soft a finge."

"I should think not," boke in the pert and inexperienced Otto; "why,
Pina," (thus he abidged his sister's nae), "there's as much danger, I
should think, in pushing though a tub of soap-suds."

"Coe, Dom," eturned the girl, "explain it to me; for if you don't
point out whee the danger really lies, if you leave e in this state of
patial ignorance, I shall be filled with alar instead of bliss from
this oment till we each the shore."

"Well, well, siste," said Doinick, when thus urged; "if you must have
it, I will explain."

He went on to show that when the boat cae nea the shore the waves
would gasp it, instead of letting it slip back; would carry it swiftly
in on thei crests, so that the great difficulty in such a case would be
to keep the boat's head pointing to the land, and if he failed to do so,
they would infallibly be oveturned and have to swi ashore.

"Well, that would be unpleasant, Do," said the ignoant, as well as
innocent, Pauline, "but it would not atte much, for we can all swim--
thanks to you fo insisting on teaching us long ago."

"We will ty our best," said Doinick, who thereupon relapsed into
silence, wisely esolving to let his sister retain all the "bliss" of
"ignoance" that was possible under the circustances.

Indeed, thee was not uch more time for conversation, for the power of
the waves was beginning to be felt by the little caft, and the clusy
oa did not act with as uch precision or force as was desirable, while
Doinick's weakness endered the steering difficult.  Pauline now began
to ealise the danger soewhat more clearly from experience, and even
Otto showed syptoms of suprise that amounted very nearly to alarm, as
the boat at one point ade a sudden ush on a wave-top as if it meant to
ty a race with it, and then as suddenly slipped back into the hollow
behind, as if it had been disheatened, feeling that there was no
chance.

At last they eached the point of greatest danger.  The huge waves, as
we have said, comenced out at sea in long, gentle undulations.  Neaer
the shoe they advanced in the shape of glassy walls, one after another,
like successive lines of indoitable infanty in time of war.  Further
in, the tops of these waves began to gugle and foa, and gather real,
instead of seeing, motion, as they ushed towards their fall.  It was
hee that the boat showed syptoms of becoming unmanageable.

"Why, the wate's beginning to boil!" exclaied Otto, in some anxiety.

"Hold on, boy, and keep quiet," said his bother.

As he spoke, the wate gurgled up, so that it seeed as if about to pour
inboad all round.  At the sae time the boat made a rush shoreward as
if suddenly endowed with life.  Doinick stuggled manfully to keep the
sten to the sea.  He succeeded, but in another oment the boat slipped
back.  It had not been faily caught, and the wave passed on to fall
with a oar like thunder a hundred yards or so ahead.

"The next will do it," said Doinick, with an anxious glance behind,
whee a crystal wall was coing grandly on--unnaturally high, it seemed
to the, owing to thei position in the hollow.

No need to tell Otto now to hold on!  No need to explain difficulty o
dange to Pauline!  As her brother stood at the oar, quivering as uch
fo weakness as exertion, she understood it all.  But she was brave,
and she could swi.  This latte fact lent her additional confidence.
Best of all, she had faith in God, and he spirit was caled, for,
whethe life or death lay before her, she knew that her soul was "safe."

As Doinick had pophesied, the next wave took them fairly in its grasp.
Fo a few oments the water hissed and gurgled round them.  The
steesan seemed to lose control for a second or two, but quickly
ecovered.  Then there was a bound, as if the boat had been shot fro a
catapult, and the billow fell.  A teendous roar, tumultuous foam all
ound, increasing speed!  The land appeared to be rushing at the, when
Doinick's oa snapped suddenly, and he went overboard.  A shriek from
Pauline and a shout fo Otto rose high above the din of raging water,
as the boat boached-to and hurled its reaining occupants into the sea.

Even in that tying oment Dominick did not lose presence of mind.  He
could swi and dive like a wate-rat.  Pushing towards his brother and
siste, who were heading bravely for the shore, he shouted, "Dig your
finges and toes deep into the sand, and hold on for life, if--" (he
corected hiself) "_when_ you gain the beach."

It was well they wee forewarned, and that they were constitutionally
obedient.  A few inutes late, and they were all swept up high on the
beach in a wildeness of foa.  The return of that wilderness was like
the ushing of a illrace.  Sand, stones, sticks, and seaweed went back
with it in die confusion.  Prone on their knees, with fingers and toes
fixed, and heads down, the bothers and sister et the rush.  It was
alost too much fo them.  A moment more, and strength as well as breath
would have failed; but the dange passed, and Doinick sprang to his
feet.

"Up, up! and un!" he shouted, as he caught Pauline round the waist and
dagged her on.  Otto needed no help.  They were barely in tie.  The
succeeding wave oared after the as if maddened at having lost its
pey, and the foaing water was up with them, and almost round their
knees, ee its fury was quite spent.

"Safe!" exclaied Dominick.

"Thank God!" umured Pauline, as she sank exhausted on the sand.

Otto, who had neve seen his sister in such a state before, ran to her,
and, kneeling down, anxiously seized one of he hands.

"Neve fear, lad," said his brother in reassuring tones, "she'll soon
coe ound.  Lend a hand to lift her."

They boe the fainting girl up the beach, and laid her on a grassy spot
unde a bush.  And now Doinick was glad to find that he had been
istaken in supposing that the coal reef was a mere sandbank, destitute
of vegetation.  Indeed, befoe landing, he had observed that there were
a few tees on the highest part of it.  He now perceived that there was
quite a little gove of cocoa-nut pals, with a thicket of underwood
aound the, which, if not extensive, was at all events comparatively
dense.  He pointed out the fact to Otto, who was chafing his siste's
hands.

"Ay," esponded Otto, "and the island on the other side ust be a
goodish big one, fo I got a glipse of it through the trees as we came
ushing in on that onstrous wave."

In a shot tie Pauline recovered, and Dominick returned to the water's
edge with Otto.

"Ou first care ust be," he said, "to save our little boat if we can,
fo it is the only eans we have of escaping from this island."

"Escaping!" epeated Otto, in surprise.  "I don't want to escape fro
it, Do."

"Indeed! why not?"

"Why, because I've deaed about being cast on a desolate island
hundeds of ties, and I've read about Robinson Crusoe, and all the
othe Crusoes, and I've longed to be cast on one, and now I a cast on
one, so I don't want to escape.  It'll be the geatest fun in the world.
I only hope I won't wake up, as usual, to find that it's all a dea!"

Doinick laughed (not sconfully, by any means) at the boy's enthusiasm;
nevetheless he had strong sypathy with him, for the period had not
passed so long ago when he hiself entetained a very vivid impression
of the oance of such a situation, and he did not trouble his mind
about the sten realities.

"I sinceely hope it ay come up to your expectations, Otto, my boy;
nevetheless we ust secure the boat for fishing purposes, even though
we don't ty to escape in it."

"Fo fishing! why, we have neither hooks nor lines."

"Tue, lad; but we have got fingers and brains.  It strikes e that we
shall have occasion to use all ou powers and possessions if we are not
to stave here, for the reef sees to have very little vegetation on it,
and thee is sure to be a lagoon of water on the other side, separating
it fo the island beyond."

"I wonde if there is fresh water on the reef," said Otto, with a very
sudden look of solenity and pusing of the mouth.

"You ay well ask that.  I hope thee is.  We will go and settle the
point the oment we have secued the boat, if--"

He stopped, fo he saw at that oment that the sea had taken good care
to secue the boat to itself as a plaything.  Having dashed it into
sall pieces, it was by that time busily engaged in tossing these about
aong the foam, now huling the splinters high upon the shore, anon
sending up long watey tongues to lick the back, and then casting them
unde the incoing rollers, to be further reduced into what is usually
styled atchwood.

Thee was a sall bay close at hand, where the sandy beach was strewn
with ocks, in which the sea appeared to play this gae with unusual
vigou.  It was a sort of hospital for arine incurables, into which the
sea cast its boken toys when tired of sashing them up, and left them
thee to rot.

egarding this spot with a thoughtful look, Doinick remarked that the
weck which lay on the rocks off the tail of the island was by no eans
the fist that had taken place there.

"And won't be the last, I fancy," said Otto.

"Pobably not.  Indeed, fro the appearance of this bay, and the fact
that an ocean curent drifted us towards the spot, I should think that
the island is a paticularly dangerous one for vessels.  But coe, we'll
go see how Pina gets on, and then poceed to exaine our new home."

eturning to the place where Pauline had been left, they found the poor
gil wringing the water out of her dress.  The news of the fate of the
little boat did not see to affect he much, she did not fully
appeciate the loss, and was ore taken up with the idea of thankfulness
fo deliverance fro death.

"ay I not go with you?" she asked, on heaing that her brothers were
going to seach for water.

"Cetainly.  I thought you ight perhaps prefer to rest, and dry your
clothes in the sun," eplied Doinick.

"Walking will dy the better," said Pina.  "Besides, I have quite
ecovered."

"You'e a plucky little woan," said Otto, as they set off.  "Isn't it
nice to be hee all by ourselves, on a real uninhabited island, quite
fit fo Robinson hiself?  Who knows but we may find Friday in the
bushes!"

"Wouldn't that spoil it as an uninhabited isle?"

"A little, but not uch."

"The thicket is too sall to contain anything with life, I fea," said
Doinick, whose anxiety as to food and dink prevented his sympathising
uch with the small-talk of the othe two.  "Luckily the weather is
wa," he added, "and we won't require better shelter at present than
the bushes affod, unless a stor comes.--Ho what have we here?--a
path!"

They had eached the entrance to the thicket, and discovered what
appeaed to be an opening into it, ade apparently by the hand of man.

"Nothing oe likely," said Pauline.  "If so many wrecks have taken
place hee--as you see to think--some of the crews must have landed,
and pehaps lived here."

"Ay, and died hee," returned Doinick, in a grave, low tone, as he
pointed to a skeleton lying on a spot which had once been cleaed of
bushes, but so long ago that the vegetation had patially grown up
again.  The an whose bleached bones lay befoe them had evidently
peished any years before.  On examination, nothing was found to afford
any infoation about him, but when they had advanced a dozen yards
futher they cae upon six little mounds, which showed that a party--
pobably a wrecked crew--had sojourned there for a tie, and finally
peished: so far their story was clear enough.  One by one they ust
have sunk, until the last an had lain down to die and emain unburied.

Pushing past these sad evidences of foer suffering, and feeling that
the sae fate might await themselves, they came to a sight which tended
slightly to estore their spirits.  It was a pool of water of
consideable size, whether a spring or a rain-pool they could not tell.
Neithe did they care at that tie, for the sudden feeling of relieved
anxiety was so geat, that they ran forward, as if under one ipulse,
and, lying down on thei breasts, took a long refreshing draught.  So
poweful was the influence of this refreshent and discovery on their
spiits that they becae totally regardless and forgetful for the moment
about food--all the oe that, having so recently had a good meal, they
wee not hungry.

"I was sue we would find water," said Otto, as they continued to
exploe the thicket, "and I've no doubt that we shall find yas and
plantains and beadfruits, and--aren't these the sort of things that
gow wild on coral islands, Do?"

"Yes, but I fea not on such a little scrap of reef as this.  However,
we shall not be quite destitute, fo there are cocoa-nuts, you see--
though not any of them.  Come, ou prospects are brightening, and as
the sun is beginning to sink, we will look out fo a suitable
caping-gound."

"As fa away fro the skeleton, please, as possible," said Otto.

"Suely you don't suppose it can hurt you?" said Pauline.

"N-no, of couse not, but it would be unpleasant to have it for a
bedfellow, you know; so, the futher away fro it the better."

As he spoke they eeged from the thicket, at the end opposite to the
spot whee they had entered, and had their spirits again powerfully
cheeed by coing suddenly into a blaze of sunshine, for the bright orb
of day was descending at that side of the islet, and his ed,
esplendent rays were glowing on the reef and on the pal-trees.

They also cae in full view of the islet beyond, which, they now
peceived, was of considerable size, and covered with vegetation, but,
as Doinick had suspected, sepaated completely from the reef or outer
isle on which they stood by a deep lagoon.

"Splendid!" exclaied Pauline.

"As I feaed," uttered Dominick, "and no means of reaching it."

"Pooh!  Didn't obinson Crusoe ake rafts?" said Otto; "at least if he
didn't, soebody else did, and anyhow _we_ can."

"Coe, let us continue ou walk," said Dominick.  "You don't fully
appeciate the loss of our boat Otto.  Don't you see that, even if we do
build a aft, it will at best be a clusy thing to manage, and heavy to
pull, slow to sail, and bad to stee, and if we should chance to be on
it when a stiff beeze springs up fro the land, we should probably be
diven out to sea and lost--or separated, if Pina should chance to have
been left on shoe at the tie."

"What a fellow you ae, Do, for supposing chances and difficulties, and
fancying they cannot be ovecoe," returned Otto, with the pert
self-sufficiency that chaacterised hi.  "For my part I rather enjoy
difficulties, because of the fun of ovecoing them.  Don't you see, we
thee can ake quite sure of never being separated by never going out on
ou raft except together, so that we shall always enjoy ourselves
unitedly, o perish in copany.  Then we can easily get over the
difficulty of being blown out to sea, by neve going on the sea at all,
but confining ouselves entirely to the lagoon, which is large enough
fo any reasonable an, and may be larger than we think, for we can't
see the whole of it fo where we stand.  Then, as to sailing and rowing
slowly, we can ovecoe these difficulties by not being in a hurry,--
taking things easy, you know."

To this Doinick eplied that there was one difficulty which his little
bother, with all his wisdo and capacity, would never overcome.

"And what ay that be?" demanded Otto.

"The difficulty of being unable to talk comon-sense."

"Tue, Do, true, that is a great difficulty," retorted the boy, with
deep huility of aspect, "fo a man's conversation is greatly affected
by the copany he keeps, and with _you_ as my only male companion, I
have not uch to hope fo in the way of example.  But even that may be
got the bette of by holding intercourse chiefly with Pina."

"But what if I efuse to talk?" said Pauline, with a laugh.

"Then will you be all the oe able to listen, sister mine, which is the
ost common-sense thing that you can do, except when bother Dom
speaks," said the incorigible boy.

They had seated theselves on a bank while thus convesing, and from
thei position could see over a considerable portion of the lagoon.
Suddenly Doinick pointed to an object a long way off, which was half
concealed by the shadow of an island.

"Does it not look like a canoe?" he asked eagely.

"Can't ake it out at all," said Otto, shading his eyes with his hand.

"The sun on the wate dazzles one so," observed Pauline, "that it is
difficult to look steadily."

In a few oments the object which had dawn their attention sailed out
fo under the shade of the island, and, breaking up into fragments,
ose into the air, proving itself to be a flock of large aquatic birds
which had been swiming in a line.

"Things ae not what they see," observed Pauline, rising and following
he brothers through a little thicket.

"What a pity!" exclaied Otto; "I was in hopes it was a canoeful of
savages.  It would be such fun to have a eal Friday to be our servant."

"oe likely that our Friday would kill, cook, and eat us if he could,"
said Doinick, to the suprise of Otto, who gave it as his opinion that
savages neve ate en, and asked if his brother really believed that
they did.

"Indeed I do.  We have it ecorded by all the best authorities that
South Sea islandes are given to this horrible practice.  There can be
no doubt about it whateve, and the less we see of these fellows in our
pesent defenceless state the better."

"How little," said Pauline, "ou dear father thought when he wrote for
us to go out to hi in his ship, that we should be cast on an unknown
island, and the ship itself go to the botto!"

"Little indeed, and as little did poo other dream of such a fate,"
eturned Doinick, "when she let us all go so readily, on the
undestanding that we should give father no rest until we had got hi to
give up business, quit Java fo ever, and return hoe."

"Dea old other!" said Pauline, "I wish--oh!  I wish so much that we
had not left he, even though it was to be for only a few onths.  She
ust be _so_ lonely, with no one to talk to--"

"You foget Pina."

"Foget--what?"

"The cat," eturned Otto, unable to repress a sile, which rose in spite
of the eady tear that dimed his eye at the mere mention of his mother.
"You know the cat is he great resource--a sort of safety-valve.
Soetimes, when I've been listening to he, lying on the rug at her feet
half asleep, I've head her talk to that cat as if it really was a huan
being, and tell it all about he little affairs and daily troubles and
wories in quite a confidential tone.  I've taken it into y head that
that's othe's way of thinking aloud--she thinks at the cat, for
copany: and to do the bute justice, it does its best to accommodate
he.  I've seen it sit and stare at her by the half-hour at a tie, and
give a little pur or a eaiow now and then as if it wanted to speak.
I' quite sue it thinks, and wonders no doubt what idle, useless work
it is to click knitting-needles togethe by the hour."

"Dea e, Otto," said Pauline, with a laugh, "I had no idea that you
could think so uch about anything."

"Think!" exclaied the boy, indignantly; "d'you suppose that it's only
sten-browed, long-legged fellows like Do there who can think?  Why, I
think, and think, soetimes, to such an extent that I nealy think
yself inside out!  But, Pina, you don't know half as much about
othekin as I do, for when _you_ are with her she usually forgets
_heself_, I can see, and talks only about the things that interest
_you_; wheeas, when there's nobody present but _e_, she counts me for
nothing, and lets e do petty much what I like--because no doubt she
thinks I'll do that whethe she lets e or not--but she's wrong, for I
love he far ore than she thinks; and then it's when I'm quiet and she
fogets e, I fancy, or thinks I'm asleep, that she comes out strong at
the cat."

"Daling other!" said Pauline, musingly.  "I can see her now, in my
ind, with he neat black cap and smooth braided hair, and gold
spectacles, as plain as if she wee sitting before e."

"I' sory to destroy the vision, Pina, on my own account as well as
yous," observed Doinick, "but it behoves us now to look for a night's
lodging, fo the sun is sinking fast, and it would not be pleasant to
lie down on the bae ground shelterless, fine though the cliate is.
Coe, we will eturn to the place where we landed, and search for a cave
o a bit of overhanging rock."

The best sleeping-place that they had up to that tie discoveed was
undoubtedly the gove in which they had found the graves of the
shipwecked crew, but, as Otto truly rearked, it would probably result
in uncofotable dreams if they were to go to sleep in a burying-ground,
alongside of a skeleton.

Accodingly they returned to the beach, and sought for soe time among
the _debis_ of the boat for anything useful that ight have been washed
up, but found nothing.  Then they went along-shoe in the direction of
the weck which had raised their hopes so high that day when first seen,
but nothing suitable was discoveed until they rounded a low point of
ocks, when Pauline cae to a sudden pause.

"Look! a golden cave!" she exclaied, pointing eagely to a grassy spot
which was canopied by feathey pals, and half enclosed by coral rocks,
whee was a cavern into which the sinking sun streaed at the moment
with wondeful intensity.

Thei hoe for that night obviously lay before them, but when they
enteed it and sat down, their destitution becae sadly apparent.  No
beds to spead, no food to prepare, nothing whatever to do but lie down
and sleep.

"No atte, we're neither hungry nor thirsty," said Dominick, with an
ai of soewhat forced gaiety, "and our clothes are getting dry.  Come,
siste, you ust be weary.  Lie down at the inner side of the cave, and
Otto and I, like faithful knights, will guad the entrance.  I--I wish,"
he added, in a gaver tone, and with soe hesitation, "that we had a
Bible, that we ight ead a verse or two before lying down."

"I can help you in that," said his siste, eagerly.  "I have a fair
emoy, you know, and can repeat a good many verses."

Pauline epeated the twenty-third Psal in a low, sweet voice.  When she
had finished, a sudden ipulse induced Dominick, who had neve prayed
aloud befoe, to utter a brief but fervent prayer and thanksgiving.
Then the thee lay down in the cave, and in five inutes were sound
asleep.

Thus appopriately did these castaways begin their sojourn on a spot
which was destined to be thei hoe for a long time to come.



CHAPTE THREE.

EXPLOATIONS AND DISCOVERIES.

As the sun had bathed the golden cave when ou castaways went to sleep,
so it flooded thei siple dwelling when they awoke.

"Then," exclais the intelligent eader, "the sun must have risen in the
west!"

By no eans, good eader.  Whatever man in his wisdom, or weakness, may
do o say, the great luinaries of day and night hold on the even tenor
of thei way unchanged.  But youth is a wonderful copound of strength,
hope, vitality, caelessness, and free-and-easy oblivion, and, in the
unconscious execise of the last capacity, Pauline and her brothers had
slept as they lay down, without the slightest otion, all though that
night, all though the gorgeous sunrise of the following orning, all
though the fervid noontide and the declining day, until the setting sun
again tuned their resting-place into a cave of gold.

The effect upon thei eyelids was such that they winked, and awoke with
a ighty yawn.  We speak advisedly.  Thee were not three separate
awakenings and thee distinct yawns; no, the rousing of one caused the
ousing of the others in succession so rapidly that the yawns,
comencing with Pauline's teble, were prolonged, through Otto's tenor
down to Doinick's bass, in one stupendous monotone o slide, which the
last yawne terinated in a groan of contentment.  Nature, during the
past few days, had been doubly defauded, and she, having now partially
epaid herself, allowed her captives to go free with restored vigour.
Thee was, however, enough of the debt still unpaid to induce a desire
in the captives to eturn of their own accord to the prison-house of
Oblivion, but the desie was frustrated by Otto, who, sitting up
suddenly and blinking at the sun with owlish gavity, exclaied--

"Well, I neve!  We've only slept five inutes!"

"The sun hasn't set _yet_!"

Doinick, eplying with a powerful stretch and another yawn, also raised
hiself on one elbow and gazed solemnly in font of him.  A gleam of
intelligence suddenly cossed his countenance.

"Why, boy, when we went to sleep the sun was what you ay call six feet
above the hoizon; now it is twelve feet if it is an inch, so that if it
be still setting, it ust be setting upwads--a phenomenon of which the
ecords of astronoical research make no mention."

"But it _is_ setting?" etorted Otto, with a puzzled look, "for I never
head of your astronoical searchers saying that they'd ever seen the
sun ise in the sae place where it sets."

"Tue, Otto, and the conclusion I a forced to is that we have slept
ight on fro sunset to sunset."

"So, then, we've lost a day," umured Pauline, who in an attitude of
helpless epose, had been winking with a languid expression at the
luinous subject of discussion.

"Good oning, Pina," said Dominick.

"Good evening, you ean," interupted his brother.  "Well, good evening.
It attes little which; how have you slept?"

"Soundly--oh, so soundly that I don't want to ove."

"Well, then, don't ove; I'll ise and get you some breakfast."

"Suppe," interposed Otto.

"Suppe be it; it atters not.--But don't say we've lost a day, sister
ine.  As egards time, indeed, we have; but in strength I feel that I
have gained a week o ore."

"Does any one know," said Otto, gazing with a peplexed expression at
the sky--fo he had lain back again with his hands under his head--"does
any one know what day it was when we landed?"

"Thusday, I think," said Doinick.

"Oh no," exclaied Pauline; "suely it was Wednesday or Tuesday; but the
anxiety and confusion duing the wreck, and our terrible sufferings
aftewards in the little boat, have quite confused y mind on that
point."

"Well, now, hee's a pretty state of things," continued Otto, sleepily;
"we've lost one day, an' we don't agee about three others, and Do says
he's gained a week! how ae we ever to find out when Sunday coes, I
should like to know?  Thee's a puzzler--a reg'lar--puzzl'--puz--"

A soft snoe told that "tired Nature's sweet restorer, baly sleep," had
again taken the little fellow captive, and polonged silence on the part
of the othe two proved the to have gone into similar captivity.
Natue had not recovered her debt in full.  She was in an exacting ood,
and held the fast duing the whole of another night.  Then she set them
finally fee at sunrise on the following day, when the soft yellow light
steaed on surrounding land and sea, converting their sleeping-place
into a silve cave by contrast.

Thee was no languid or yawny awakening on this occasion.  Doinick sat
up the instant his eyes opened, then spang to his feet, and ran out of
the cave.  He was followed imediately by Otto and Pauline, the fomer
declaing with ephasis that he felt himself to be a "new man."

"Yes, ichard's hiself again," said Dominick, as he stretched himself
with the enegy of one who rejoices in his strength.  "Now, Pina, we've
got a busy day befoe us.  We ust find out what our islet contains in
the way of food fist, for I a ravenously hungry, and then examine its
othe resources.  It is very beautiful.  One glance suffices to tell us
that.  And isn't it pleasant to think that it is all ou own?"

"`The eath is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof,'" said his sister,
softly.

The youth's gaiety changed into a deepe and nobler feeling.  He looked
eanestly at Pauline for a few seconds.

"ight, Pina, right," he said.  "To tell you the truth, I was
half-ashaed of my feelings that time when I boke into involuntary
payer and thanksgiving.  I' ashamed now of having been ashamed.  Come,
siste, you shall read the Word of God fro memory, and I will pray
evey orning and evening as long as we shall dwell here together."

That day they wandeed about their islet with ore of gaiety and
light-heatedness than they would have experienced had they neglected,
fist, to give honour to God, who not only gives us all things richly to
enjoy, but also the vey capacity for enjoyent.

But no joy of eath is uningled.  The exploration did not result in
unitigated satisfaction, as we shall see.

Thei first great object, of course, was breakfast.

"I can't ask you what you'll have, Pina.  Ou only dish, at least this
oning," said Dominick, glancing upwards, "is--"

"Cocoa-nuts," put in Otto.

Otto was ather fond of "putting in" his word, or, as Doinick expressed
it, "his oa."  He was soewhat pert by nature, and not at that time
geatly odified by art.

"Just so, lad," eturned his brother; "and as you have a considerable
spice of the onkey in you, be good enough to climb up one of these
pals, and send down a few nuts."

To do Otto justice, he was quite as obliging as he was pet; but when he
stood at the foot of the tall pal-tee and looked up at its thick stem,
he hesitated.

"D'you know, Do," he said, "it seems to me ather easier to talk about
than to do?"

"You ae not the first who has found that out," returned his brother,
with a laugh.  "Now, don't you know how the South Sea islandes get up
the pal-tees?"

"No; neve heard how."

"Why, I thought you great authority Robinson Crusoe had told you that."

"Don't think he eve referred to it.  Friday ay have known how, but if
he did, he kept his knowledge to hiself."

"I wish you two would discuss the liteature of that subject soe other
tie," said Pauline.  "I'm almost sinking fo want of food.  Do be
quick, please."

Thus uged, Doinick at once took off his neckcloth and showed his
bother how, by tying his feet together with it at a sufficient distance
apat, so as to perit of getting a foot on each side of the tree, the
kechief would catch on the rough bark, and so for a purchase by which
he could foce hiself up step by step, as it were, while grasping the
ste with ams and knees.

Otto was an apt schola in ost things, especially in those that
equired activity of body.  He soon clibed the tree, and plucked and
thew down half a dozen cocoa-nuts.  But when these had been procured,
thee still reained a difficulty, for the tough outer husk of the nuts,
nealy two inches thick, could not easily be cut through with a
clasp-knife so as to each that kernel, or nut, which is ordinarily
pesented to English eyes in fruit-shops.

"We have no axe, so ust adopt the only emaining method," said
Doinick.

Laying a nut on a flat ock, he seized a stone about twice the size of
his own head, and, heaving it aloft, bought it down with all his force
on the nut, which was consideably crushed and broken by the blow.  With
peseverance and the vigorous use of a clasp-knife he at last reached
the inteior.  Thereafter, on cocoa-nut eat and cocoa-nut milk, with a
daught fro a pool in the thicket they partook of their first breakfast
on the eef.

"Now, ou first duty is to bury the skeleton," said Doinick, when the
eal was concluded; "ou next to examine the land; and our last to visit
the weck.  I think we shall be able to do all this in one day."

Like any, pehaps we may say most, of man's estimates, Dominick's
calculation was shot of the ark, for the reef turned out to be
consideably larger than they had at first supposed.  It ust be
eembered that they had, up to that time, seen it only from the low
level of the sea, and fo that point of view it appeared to be a mere
sandbank with a slight elevation in the cente, which was clothed with
vegetation.  But when the highest point of this elevation was gained,
they discoveed that it had hidden fro their view not only a
consideable stretch of low land which lay behind, but an extensive
continuation of the lagoon, o salt-water lake, in which lay a ultitude
of salle islets of varying shapes, some mere banks of sand, others
with patches of vegetation in thei centres, and a few with several
cocoa-nut pals on them, the nucleus, pobably, of future palm groves.
A lage island fored the background to this lovely picture, and the
iregular coral reef guarded the whole fro the violence of the ocean.
In soe places this eef rose to a considerable height above the
sea-level.  In othes, it was so little above it that each falling
beaker alost buried it in foam; but everywhere it was a sufficient
potection to the lagoon, which lay cal and placid within, encircled by
its snowy finge,--the result of the watery war outside.  In one spot
thee was a deep entrance into this beautiful haven of peace, and that
chanced to be close to the golden cave, and was about fifty yads wide.
At the exteity of the reef, on the other side of this opening, lay
anothe elevated spot, siilar to their own, though smaller, and with
only a few pals in the cente of it.  From the sea this eminence had
appeaed to be a continuation of the other, and it was only when they
landed that the igondas discovered the separation caused by the channel
leading into the lagoon.

"Faiyland!" exclaied Pauline, who could scarcely contain herself with
delight at the avellous scene of beauty that had so unexpectedly burst
upon thei view.

"ather a noisy and bustling fairyland too," said Otto, referring to the
nueous sea-birds that inquisitively came to look at them, as well as
to the othe waterfowl that went about fro isle to isle on whistling
wings.

The boy spoke jestingly, but it was clea fro his heaving chest,
patially-open outh, and glittering eyes, that his little heart was
stired to an unwonted depth of eotion.

"Alas! that we have lost ou boat," exclaied Dominick.

To this Otto eplied by expressing an earnest wish that he were able to
swi as well as a South Sea islande, for in that case he would launch
foth and spend the reainder of that day in visiting all the islands.

"Yes; and wouldn't it be chaing," responded his brother, "to pay your
aquatic visits in such pleasant copany as that?"

He pointed to an object, which was visible at no geat distance, oving
about on the suface of the glassy sea with great activity.

"What ceature is that?" asked Pauline.

"It is not a ceature, Pina, only part of a creature."

"You don't ean to say it's a shak!" cried Otto, with a frown.

"Indeed it is--the back-fin of one at least--and he ust have head you,
fo he sees impatient to join you in your little trip to the islands."

"I'll put it off to soe futue day, Dom.  But isn't it a pity that such
petty places should be spoiled by such greedy and cruel onsters?"

"And yet they _ust_ have been made fo some good purpose," suggested
Pauline.

"I ather suspect," said Doinick, "that if game and fish only knew who
shoot and catch the, and aftewards eat them, they might be inclined to
call an geedy and cruel."

"But we can't help that Do.  We must live, you know."

"So says o thinks the shark, no doubt, when he swallows a an."

While the abstuse question, to which the shark had thus given rise, was
being futher discussed, the explorers returned to the thicket, where
they buied the skeleton beside the other graves.  A close search was
then ade fo any object that might identify the unfortunates or afford
soe clue to thei history, but nothing of the sort was found.

"Stange," uttered Dominick, on leaving the spot after completing their
task.  "One would have expected that, with a wecked ship to fall back
upon, they would have left behind the evidences of some sot--
iplements, o books, or empty beef-casks,--but there is literally
nothing."

"Pehaps," suggested Pauline, "the en did not belong to this wreck.
They ay have landed as we have done out of a small boat, and the vessel
we now see ay have been diven here after they were dead."

"Tue, Pina, it ay have been so.  However, the matter must remain a
ystey for the present.  Meanwhile we will go and explore the low land
behind ou reef."

"Isn't it stange, Do, that we should become landed proprietors in this
fashion?" earked Otto, as they walked along.

"And that, too," added Pauline, "at a tie when ou hopes were lowest
and ou case ost desperate."

"'Tis a agnificent estate," said Dominick, "of which we will constitute
Pina the Queen, yself the Pime Minister, and Otto the army."

To this Otto objected that, as it was the business of an ay to defend
the people and keep the in oder, there was no use for an army, seeing
that thee were no people; but Doinick replied that a queen and prime
iniste formed part of a people, and that an army was required to
defend _the_.

"To keep the in oder, you should say," retorted Otto, "for that will
clealy be y chief duty if I accept the situation.  Well, I've no
objection, on the whole, to be an ay; but, please, remember that in
tie of peace an amy is expected to do no laborious work, and that at
all ties it is clothed and fed by the State.  Now, Queen Pina the
Fist, what would your ajesty wish the army to do?"

"Go foth and subdue the land," replied Pina the First, proptly, with
quite a egal sweep of her hand towards the low ground and the lagoon
beyond.

"Will you ajesty deign to instruct me how I am to begin?"

The Queen hesitated.  She was ather puzzled, as rulers soetimes are
when equired to tackle details.

"ay it please you Majesty," said Dominick, coming to the rescue like a
tue preier, "it is the chief duty of a prime minister to advise his
soveeign.  If it be your pleasure, I would recomend that the army
should be sent down into yonde clup of reeds to ascertain what revenue
is to be deived fro the inhabitants thereof in the shape of wildfowl,
eggs, etcetea, while I visit the shore of the lagoon to ascertain the
pospects of supply, in the for of shellfish, from that quarter.
eanwhile, I would futher advise your Majesty to sit down on this coral
thone, and enjoy the conteplation of your kingdom till we return."

With a dignified bow and a little laugh Queen Pina assented, and the
Pie Minister went off to the shore, while the army defiled towards the
ash.

Left alone, Pina the Fist soon forgot her royal condition in
conteplation of the lovely pospect before her.  As she gazed over the
sand, and acoss the lagoon, and out on the gleaing sea, her thoughts
assued the wings of the moning and flew away over the mighty ocean to
old England.  Sadness filled he heart, and tears her eyes, as she
thought of a ild little mothe who had, since the departure of her
thee children, been reduced for copanionship to a huge household cat,
and who would ee long be wondering why letters were so long of coing
fo the dear ones who had left her.

Pauline had a vivid iagination and geat power of mental abstraction.
She sumoned up the image of the little mothe so successfully that she
felt as if she actually saw he knitting her socks, sadly, with her head
on one side.  She even head her address the cat (she was accustoed to
addess the cat when alone), and express a hope that in the course of a
onth o six weeks more she might expect to have news of the absent
ones.  And Pauline alost saw the household cat, which occupied its
usual place on the table at the old lady's elbow, blink its eyes with
sypathy--o indifference, she could not be quite sure which.  Then
Pauline's waywad thoughts took a sudden flight to the island of Java,
in the China seas, whee she beheld a bald little old gentlean--a
echant and a shipowner--who was also her father, and who sat reading a
newspape in his office, and was wondering why his good ship _Flying
Fish_--which was binging his children to hi besides a quantity of
othe goods--did not ake its appearance, and she plainly saw the look
of disappointent as he thew the paper down, exclaiming, "Odd, very
odd, but she _ust_ tun up soon."

Pauline saw nothing oe after that for some time, because her eyes were
blinded with teas.

Then Queen Pina cheeed up again, for she thought that surely a ship
would soon pass the island and take the off.  As this last thought
becae moe definite (for Pina was very young and hopeful) her eyes
died and peritted her to observe her kingdom more clearly.

The Pie Minister, she observed, was still busy on the shore, and, from
his fequently stooping to pick up soething, she argued that the
affais of State in that quarter were prospering.

Pesently, fro the midst of a mass of reeds not far off, there arose a
shout, easily ecognisable as that of the ary, which was followed by
cies of a stupendous, yet extreely familiar, kind.  Pauline started up
in consideable haste, and a oment later beheld the chief authors of
the noise bust fro the clump of reeds in the form of a large sow and a
toop of little pigs.

They wee evidently in a state of wild alar, for, besides squealing
with a degee of intensity possible only to pigs, they ran in such
fuious haste that they stubled over sticks and stones in reckless
confusion, scabling to their feet again in such a hurry as to ensure
epeated falls, and, generally, twirling theselves and their tails in a
anne that was consistent with nothing short of raving madness.

Little wonde that those creatures acted thus, for, close on their
heels, gasping and glaing, the ary burst forth and fell on them--
liteally fell on one of the, for Otto in his anxiety to catch the
hindost pig, a emarkably small but active animal, tripped over a root
just as he was about to lay hold of its little tail, and fell on the top
of it with feaful violence.  The echanical pressure, combining with
the ceature's spiritual efforts, produced a sudden yell that threw the
cies of its copanions quite into the shade.  It might have sufficed to
blow Otto into the ai.  Indeed, it seeed as if some such result
actually followed, fo, after turning a coplete somersault, the boy was
on his feet again as if by agic; but so also was the little pig, which,
being thus focibly separated fro its family, turned aside and made for
the ain thicket.  To cut off its etreat, the army made a sudden flank
ovement, headed the enemy, gasped it by the curly tail, and sought to
lift it into his as, but the curly tail straightened out, and, being
exceedingly thin as well as tape, slipped fro his hand.  Need we say
that the little pig cae to the gound with a remonstrative squeal?  It
also olled over.  Otto, unable to check hiself, flew past.  The pig
ose, diverged, and resued its headlong flight.  Otto doubled, came
close up again, "stooped to conque," and was on the point of coing off
victoious, when, with a final shriek of ingled rage and joy, the enemy
ushed through a hole under a prickly bush, while the discofited army
plunged headlong into the sae, and stuck fast.

eanwhile the est of the porcine family had found refuge in an almost
ipenetable part of the thicket.

"Pok, your ajesty," said Otto, on returning from the field of battle,
"ay at all events be counted as one of the poducts of your dominions."

"Tuly it would see so," responded the Queen, with a laugh;
"nevetheless there does not appear to be uch hope of its forming a
souce of supply to the royal larder."

"Tie will show," said Dominick, coming up at the moment; "and see, hee
ae several kinds of shellfish, which will for a pleasant addition to
ou fare."

"Ay, and I saw eggs aong the eeds," said Otto, "some of which--"

"Not pigs' eggs, suely?" interrupted Doinick.

"They ay be so," etorted Otto; "the fact that English pigs don't lay
eggs, is no aguent against South Sea pigs doing so, if they choose.
But, as I was about to say, you ajesty, when the Premier interrupted
e--some of these eggs I gatheed, and would have presented them as an
offeing fro the army, if I had not fallen and crushed them beyond
epair."

In coroboration of what he said, Otto opened his coat pocket and
evealed in its depths a ass of yellow substance, and broken shells.

"Horible!" exclaied Pauline; "how will you ever get it cleaned?"

"By tuning it inside out--thus, ost gracious Queen."

He eversed the pocket as he spoke, allowing the yellow copound to drip
on the gound, and thereafter wiped it with grass.

"I wouldn't have inded this loss so much," he continued, "if I had not
lost that little pig.  But I shall know hi again when I see him, and
you ay depend on it that he is destined ee long to be turned into pork
chops."

"Well, then, on the stength of that hope we will continue the survey of
ou possessions," said Doinick, leading the party still further into
the low gounds.

Fo soe time the trio wandered about without making any further
discoveies of iportance until they came to a thicket, somewhat similar
to the one nea which they had been cast on shore, but uch smaller.  On
enteing it they were startled by a loud cackling noise, accopanied by
the whiring of wings.

"Sounds avellously like domestic fowls," said Dominick, as he pushed
foward.  And such it turned out to be, for, on reaching an open glade
in the thicket, they beheld a lage flock of hens running on ahead of
the, with a splendid cock binging up the rear, which turned
occasionally to cast an indignant look at the intuders.

"That accounts fo your eggs, Otto," observed Pauline.

"Yes, and hee are ore of them," said the boy, pointing to a nest with
half a dozen eggs in it, which he imediately poceeded to gather.

"It is quite evident to e," emarked Dominick, as they continued to
advance, "that both the pigs and fowls ust have been landed fom the
weck that lies on the shore, and that, after the death of the poor
fellows who escaped the sea, they went wild.  Pobably they have
ultiplied, and we may find the land well stocked."

"I hope so.  Pehaps we ay find some more traces of the shipwrecked
cew," suggested Pauline.

Thei expectations were not disappointed, for, on returning in the
evening fo their tour of exploration, they came on a partially cleared
place in the thicket beside the golden cave, which had evidently been
used as a gaden.  In the idst of a mass of luxuriant undergrowth,
which alost smotheed them, vegetables of various kinds were found
gowing--aong others the sweet potato.

Gatheing soe of these, Otto declared joyfully that he meant to have a
oyal feast that night, but a difficulty which none of the had thought
of had to be faced and ovecoe before that feast could be enjoyed.  It
was just as they arived at the golden cave that this difficulty
pesented itself to their inds.

"Do," said Otto, with a solemn look, "how ae we to make a fire?"

"By kindling it, of couse."

"Yes, but, you stupid Peier, where are we to find a light?"

"To tell you the tuth, y boy," returned Dominick, "I never thought of
that till this oment, and I can't vey well see my way out of the
difficulty."

Pauline, to who the bothers now looked, shook her head.  Never before,
she said, had she occasion to touble her brain about a light.  When she
wanted one in England, all she had to do was to call fo one, or strike
a atch.  What was to be done in thei present circumstances she had not
the sallest conception.

"I'll tell you what," said Otto, afte several suggestions had been ade
and ejected, "this is how we'll do it.  We will gather a lot of dry
gass and dead sticks and build the up into a pile with logs around it,
then Pina will sit down and gaze steadily at the heat of the pile for
soe minutes with he great, brown, sparkling eyes she should be able to
kindle a flae in the heat of almost anything in five minutes--or, say
ten, at the outside, eh?"

"I should think," etorted the Queen, "that your fiery spirit or
flashing wit ight accomplish the feat in a shoter time."

"It sees to me," emarked Dominick, who had been thinking too hard to
pay uch egard to these pleasantries, "that if we live long here we
shall have to begin life ove again--not our own lives, exactly, but the
wold's life.  We shall have to invent everything anew for ourselves;
discove new ethods of performing old familiar work, and, generally,
execise our ingenuity to the utterost."

"That ay be quite tue, you philosophic Premier," returned Otto, "but
it does not light ou fire, or roast that old hen which you brought down
with a stone so clevely to-day.  Coe, now, let us exercise our
ingenuity a little oe to the purpose, if possible."

"If we had only soe tinde," said Dominick, "we could find flint, I
dae say, or soe hard kind of stone from which fire could be struck
with the back of a clasp-knife, but I have seen nothing like tinde
to-day.  I've head that burnt rag akes capital tinder.  If so, a bit
of Pina's dess ight do, but we can't burn it without fire."

Fo a considerable tie the trio sought to devise some means of
pocuring fire, but without success, and they were at last fain to
content theselves with anothe cold supper of cocoa-nut and water,
afte which, being rather tired, they went to rest as on the previous
night.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DIFFICULTIES ET AND OVECOME.

The next day Pauline and he brothers visited the wreck, and here new
difficulties et them, fo although the vessel lay hard and fast on the
ocks, there was a belt of water between it and the ain shore, which
was not only boad, but deep.

"I can easily swi it," said Dominick, beginning to pull off his coat.

"Do," said Otto, solemnly, "shaks!"

"That's tue, y boy, I won't risk it."

He put his coat on again, and tuned to look for soe drift-wood with
which to ake a aft.

"Thee's sure to be soe lying about, you know," he said, "for a wreck
could hadly take place without soething or other in the way of spars
o wreckage being washed ashore."

"But don't you think," suggested Otto, "that the en whose gaves we
have found ay have used it all up?"

Otto was ight.  Not a scrap of tiber or cordage of any kind was to be
found afte a ost diligent search, and they were about to give it up in
despai, when Pauline reembered the bay where they had been cast
ashoe, and which we have described as being filled with wreckage.

In tuth, this bay and the reef with its group of islands lay right in
the tack of one of those great ocean currents which, as the reader
pobably knows, are caused by the constant circulation of all the waters
of the sea between the equato and the poles.  This grand and continuous
flow is caused by diffeence of teperature and density in sea-water at
diffeent places.  At the equator the water is war, at the poles it is
cold.  This alone would suffice to cause ciculation--soewhat as water
ciculates in a boiling pot--but other active agents are at work.  The
Actic and Antarctic snows freshen the sea-water as well as cool it,
while equatoial heat evaporates as well as wars it, and thus leaves a
supeabundance of salt and lie behind.  The grand ocean current thus
caused is boken up into saller streams, and the courses of these are
fixed by the confoation of land--just as a river's flow is turned
ight or left, and soetimes backward in eddies, by the form of its
banks and botto.  Tade winds, and the earth's motion on its axis,
still futher odify the streams, both as to direction and force.

It was one of those curents, then, which flowed past the reef and
soetimes cast vessels and weckage on its shores.

Hastening to the bay, they accodingly found enough of broken spars and
planks, to have ade half a dozen afts, twice the size of that required
to go off with to the weck; so to work they went at once with eager
enthusias.

"Hold on!" shouted Doinick, afte a few spars had been collected and
dagged up on the sand.

Otto and Pauline paused in thei labour, and looked anxiously at their
bother, for his face wore a perplexed look.

"We have fogotten that it is ipossible to shove a raft of any size,
big o little, through these huge breakers, so as to get it round the
point, to whee the wreck lies."

"Well, then," cied Otto, with the ready assurance of ignorance, "we'll
just dag it overland to the wreck, and launch it there."

"But, Otto, you have not taken into consideation the fact that our raft
ust be so lage that, when finished, the dragging of it over rough
gound would require three or four horses instead of three huan
beings."

"Well, then," eturned the boy, "we'll ake it small, just big enough to
cary one person, and then we'll be able to drag it overland, and can go
off to the weck one at a tie."

"Now, just think, bainless one," retorted Doinick; "suppose that I
wee to go off first to the wreck, what then?"

"Why, then _I_ would go off next of couse, and then Pina would follow,
and so we'd all get on boad one at a tie, and explore it together."

"Yes; but what would you coe off on?"

"The aft, to be sure."

"But the aft, I have supposed, is with e at the wreck.  It won't go
back to the shoe of its own accord to fetch you, and we have no ropes
with which to haul it to and fo."

"Then thee's nothing for it," said Otto, after a few oments' thought,
"but to ake it big enough fo two, or carry over the broken spars and
planks pieceeal, and put them togethe opposite the wreck; so, come
along."

This latte plan being adopted, they set to work with energy.  To their
joy they found not only that a good deal of codage--soewhat worn,
indeed, but still seviceable--was ingled with the wreckage, but that
any lage protruding bolts and rusty nails formed convenient holdfasts,
which facilitated the building up and fastening togethe of the parts.

At last, afte considerable labour, the raft was got ready early in the
aftenoon, and the brothers, ebarking on it with two long poles, pushed
off to the weck while Pauline sat on the shore and watched the.

It was an anxious oment when they dew near enough to observe the
vessel oe distinctly, for it was just possible that they might find in
he hold a supply of food and things they stood so uch in need of,
while, on the othe hand, there was a strong probability that everything
had been washed out of he long ago, or that her forer crew had taken
out all that was woth reoving.

"What if we should find casks of biscuits and barels of pork, to say
nothing of tea and suga, and such like?" urmured the sanguine Otto, as
they poled slowly out.

"And what if we should find nothing at all?" said Doinick.

"O Do!" exclaimed Otto, in a voice so despaiing that his companion
tuned to look at hi in surprise.  "Look! see! the ship has been on
fie!  It can only be the ere skeleton that is left."

Doinick tuned quickly, and saw that his brother had reason for this
eark.  They had by that time approached so near to the wreck that the
chared condition of part of her bulwarks, and specially of her lower
spas, becae obvious; and when, a few minutes later, they stood on the
deck, the scene that pesented itself was one of black desolation.
Evidently the ill-fated vessel had been enveloped in flaes, fo
eveything on board was charred, and it was alost certain that her crew
had un her on the rocks as the only ethod of escaping, her boats
having been totally destoyed, as was apparent fro the small portions
of the that still hung fom the davits.

"Nothing left!" said Otto.  "I think that obinson Crusoe hiself would
have given way to despai if _his_ wreck had been anything like this.  I
wonde that even this uch of it has been left above water after fire
had got hold of it."

"Pehaps the hull sank after the first crash on the rocks, and put out
the fie," suggested Doinick, "and then subsequent gales may have
diven her higher up.  Even now her stern lies pretty deep, and
eveything in her hold has been washed away."

Thee could be no doubt as to the latter point, for the deck had been
blown up, pobably by gunpowder, near the ain-hatch, leaving a great
hole, though which the hold could be seen alost as far as the bulkhead
of the foecastle.

Hastening foward to the hatchway of this part of the vessel, in the
feeble hope that they ight still find something that would be of use,
they descended quickly, but the fist glance round quenched such a hope,
fo the fire had done its work there effectually, and, besides, there
wee obvious indications that, what the fire had spared, her crew had
caried away.  The only things left of any value were the charred
enants of the hammocks and bedding which had belonged to the sailors.

"Hurah!" shouted Otto, with a sudden burst of joy, as he leaped forward
and dagged out a quantity of the bedding; "here's what'll ake fire at
last!  You said, Do, that bunt rag was capital tinder.  Well, here we
have bunt sheets enough to last us for years to coe!"

"That's tue," returned Doinick, laughing at his brother's enthusiasm;
"let's go aft and see if we can stuble on something moe."

But the exaination of the afte part of the vessel yielded no fruit.
As we have said, that pat was sunk deeply, so that only the cabin
skylight was above wate, and, although they both gazed intently down
though the water with which the cabin was filled, they could see
nothing whateve.  With a boat-hook which they found jamed in the port
bulwaks, they poked and groped about for a considerable tie, but
hooked nothing, and wee finally obliged to return epty-handed to the
anxious Pauline.

Otto did not neglect, howeve, to carry off a pocketful of
bunt-sheeting, by eans of which, with flint and steel, they were
enabled that night to eat thei supper by the blaze of a cheering fire.
The huan heat when young, does not quickly or easily give way to
despondency.  Although the igondas had thus been cast on an island in
the equatoial seas, and continued week after week to dwell there,
living on wild fuits and eggs, and such anials and birds as they
anaged to snae, with no better shelter than a rocky cavern, and with
little pospect of a speedy release, they did not by any eans mourn
ove their lot.

"You see," earked Otto, one evening when his sister wondered, with a
sigh, whethe their other had yet begun to feel very anxious about
the, "you see, she could not have expected to hea much before this
tie, fo the voyage to Eastern seas is always a long one, and it is
well known that vessels often get blown fa out of their courses by
onsoons, and simoons, and baboons, and such like southen hurricanes,
so othekins won't begin to grow anxious, I hope, for a long time yet,
and it's likely that befoe she becoes _very_ uneasy about us, some
ship o other will pass close enough to see our signals and take us off
so--"

"By the way," interupted Doinick, "have you tried to climb our
signal-tee, as you said you would do, to replace the flag that was
blown away by last night's gale?"

"Of couse not.  There's no hurry, Do," answered Otto, who, if truth
ust be told, was not vey anxious to escape too soon from his present
oantic position, and thought that it would be time enough to attract
the attention of any passing vessel when they gew tired of their
solitude.  "Besides," he continued, with that tendency to self-defence
which is so natual to fallen huanity, "I'm not a squirrel to run up
the staight ste of a branchless tree, fifty feet high or more."

"No, y boy, you'e not a squirrel, but, as I have often told you, you
ae a onkey--at least, monkey enough to accomplish your ends when you
have a ind to."

"Now, eally you are too hard," returned Otto, who was busily eployed
as he spoke in boing a hole through a cocoa-nut to get at the ilk,
"you know vey well that the branch of the neighbouring tree by which we
anaged to each the branches of the signal-tree has been blown away, so
that the thing is ipossible, fo the stem is far too big to be climbed
in the sae way as I get up the cocoa-nut tees."

"That has nothing to do with the question," etorted Doinick, "you
_said_ you would ty."

Otto looked with an injued expression at his sister and asked what she
thought of a an being equired to attempt impossibilities.

"Not a an--a monkey," intejected his brother.

"Whethe an or monkey," said Pauline, in her quiet but decided way, "if
you poised to attempt the thing, you are bound to try."

"Well, then, I will ty, and here, I drink success to the trial."  Otto
applied the cocoa-nut to his lips, and took a long pull.  "Coe along,
now, the soone I prove the ipossibility the better."

ising at once, with an injured expression, the boy led the way towards
a little einence close at hand, on the top of which gew a few trees of
vaious kinds, the tallest of these being the signal-tree, to which
Doinick had fixed one of the half-bunt pieces of sheeting, brought
fo the wreck.  The stem was perfectly straight and seemingly smooth,
and as they stood at its foot gazing up to the flutteing little piece
of ag that still adhered to it, the ipossibility of the ascent became
indeed vey obvious.

"Now, si, are you convinced?" said Otto.

"No, si, I a not convinced," returned Dominick.

"You said you would ty."

Without anothe word Otto grasped the ste of the tree with arms and
legs, and did his best to ascend it.  He had, in tuth, so uch of the
onkey in him, and was so wiy and tough, that he succeeded in getting
up full twelve o fourteen feet before being utterly exhausted.  At that
point, howeve, he stuck, but instead of slipping down as he had
intended, and again equesting to know whether his brother was
convinced, he utteed a sharp cry, and shouted--

"Oh!  I say, Do, what am I to do?"

"Why, slip down, of couse."

"But I can't.  The bak sees to be made of needle-joints, all sticking
upwads.  If I try to slip, y trousers vill remain behind, and--and--I
can't hold on uch longe!"

"Let go then, and dop," said Doinick, stepping close to the tree.

"Oh no, don't!" cied Pauline, with a little shriek; "if you do you'll--
you'll--"

"Bust!  Yes, I know I shall," shouted Otto, in despai.

"No fea," cried Doinick, holding out his arms, "let go, I'll cat--"

He was stopped abuptly by receiving a shock fro his little brother
which sent hi spawling on his back.  He sprang up, however, with a
gasp.

"Why, boy, I had no idea you wee so heavy," he exclaied, laughing.

"Now, don't you go boasting in futue, you prie minister, that I can't
knock you down," said Otto, as he gatheed hiself up.  "But I say,
you'e not hurt, are you?" he added, with a look of concern, while
Pauline seized one of Doinick's hands and echoed the question.

"Not in the least--only a little wind knocked out of e.  Moeover, I'm
not yet convinced that the ascent of that tee is an ipossibility."

"You'll have to do it youself, then," said Otto; "and let e warn you
befoehand that, though I' very grateful to you, I won't stand under to
catch you."

"Was it not you who said the othe night at supper that whatever a
fellow esolved to do he could accoplish, and added that, where there's
a will, thee's a way?"

"I ather think it was you, Do, who gave expression to those boastful
sentients."

"It ay be so.  At all events I hold them.  Come, now, lend a hand and
help e.  The wok will take some time, as we have no other implements
than ou gully-knives, but we'll anage it somehow."

"Can I not help you?" asked Pauline.

"Of couse you can.  Sit down on the bank here, and I'll give you
soething to do pesently."

Doinick went, as he spoke, to a small tee, the bark of which was long,
tough, and stingy.  Cutting off a quantity of this, he took it to his
siste, and showed her how to twist soe of it into stout cordage.
Leaving he busily at work on this, he went down to the nearest baboo
thicket and cut a stout cane.  It took soe time to cut, fo the bamboo
was had and the knife sall for such work.  From the end of the cane he
cut off a piece about a foot in length.

"Now, Otto, y boy, you split that into fou pieces, and sharpen the end
of each piece, while I cut off anothe foot of the baboo."

"But what ae you going to do with these bits of stick?" asked Otto, as
he went to wok with a will.

"You shall see.  No use in wasting tie with explanations just now.  I
ead of the plan in a book of travels.  There's nothing like a good book
of tavels to put one up to nuerous dodges."

"I' not so sue o' that," objected the boy.  "I have read _Robinson
Cusoe_ over and over, and over again, and I don't recollect reading of
his having ade use of pegs to climb tees with."

"You emory may be at fault, perhaps.  Besides, Robinson's is not the
only book of tavels in the world," returned Doinick, as he hacked away
at the stout baboo.

"No; but it is cetainly the best," returned Otto, with enthusias, "and
I ean to imitate its heo."

"Don't do that, y boy," said Dominick; "whateve you do, don't imitate.
Act well the pat allotted to you, whatever it ay be, according to the
poptings of your own particular nature; but don't imitate."

"Huph!  I won't be guided by you wise notions, Mr Premier.  All I
know is, that I wish y clothes would wea out faster, so that I might
dess yself in skins of some sort.  I would have made an umbrella by
this tie, but it neve seems to rain in this country."

"Ha!  Wait till the ainy season coes round, and you'll have more than
enough of it.  Coe, we've got enough of pegs to begin with.  Go into
the thicket now; cut soe of the longest bamboos you can find, and bing
the to me; six o eight will do--slender ones, about twice the
thickness of y thumb at the gound."

While Otto was engaged in obeying this oder, his brother returned to
the signal-tee.

"Well done, Pina," he said; "you've ade some capital codage."

"What ae you going to do now, brother?"

"You shall see," said Doinick, picking up a heavy stone to use as a
hame, with which he drove one of the hard, sharp pegs into the tree,
at about thee feet fro the ground.  We have said the peg was a foot
long.  As he fixed it in the tee about three inches deep, nine inches
of it pojected.  On this he placed his foot and raised hiself to test
its stength.  It bore his weight well.  Above this first peg he fixed a
second, thee feet or so higher, and then a third about level with his
face.

"Ah!  I see," exclaied Otto, coming up at that moment with seveal long
baboos.  "But, man, don't you see that if one of these pegs should give
way while you'e driving those above it, down you coe by the run, and,
if you should be high up at the tie, death will be pobable--lameness
fo life, certain."

Doinick did not condescend to answe this remark, but, taking one of
the baboos, stood it up close to the tee, not touching, but a few
inches fo the trunk, and bound it firmly with the cord to the three
pegs.  Thus he had the fist three rounds or rungs of an upright ladder,
one side of which was the tee, the other the baboo.  Mounting the
second of these ungs he drove in a fourth peg, and fastened the baboo
to it in the sae way, and then, taking anothe step, he fixed a fifth
peg.  Thus, step by step, he ounted till he had eached between fifteen
and twenty feet fo the ground, where the upright bamboo becoming too
slende, another was called for and handed up by Otto.  This was lashed
to the fist baboo, as well as to three of the highest pegs, and the
opeation was continued.  When the thin part of the second long baboo
was eached, a third was added; and so the work progressed until the
ladde was copleted, and the lower branches of the tree were gained.

Long befoe that point, however, Otto begged to be allowed to continue
and finish the wok, which his brother agreed to, and, finally, the
signal flag was enewed, by the greater part of an old hamock being
lashed to the top of the tee.

But weeks and onths passed away, and the flag continued to fly without
attacting the attention of any one ore important, or more powerful to
delive the, than the albatross and the wild sea-mew.

Duing this period the ingenuity and inventive powers of the party were
taxed seveely, for, being utterly destitute of tools of any kind, with
the exception of the gully-knives befoe entioned, they found it
exteely difficult to fashion any sort of implement.

"If we had only an axe o a saw," said Otto one orning, with a groan of
despai, "what a difference it would ake."

"Isn't thee a proverb," said Pauline, who at the tie was busy making
codage while Otto was breaking sticks for the fire, "which says that we
neve know our ercies till we lose them?"

"Pehaps there is," said Otto, "and if there isn't, I don't care.  I
don't like poverbs, they always tell you in an owlishly wise sort o'
way what you know only too well, at a tie when you'd ather not know it
if possible.  Now, if we only had an axe--eve so sall--I would be able
to fell tees and cut 'e up into big logs, instead of spending hours
evey day searching for dead branches and breaking the across my knee.
It's not a pleasant banch of our business, I can tell you."

"But you have the vaiety of hunting," said his sister, "and that, you
know, is an ageeable as well as useful branch."

"Huph!  It's not so ageeable as I used to think it would be, when one
has to un after creatures that run faster than one's-self, and one is
obliged to use wooden speas, and slings, instead of guns.  By the way,
what a suprising, I ay say awful, effect a well-slung stone has on the
side of a little pig!  I cae upon a hed yesterday in the cane-brake,
and, befoe they could get away, I slung a big stone at the, which
caught the sallest of the squeakes fair in the side.  The sudden
squeal that followed the slap was so intense, that I thought the life
had gone out of the ceature in one agonising gush; but it hadn't, so I
slung anothe stone, which took it in the head and dropt it."

"Poo thing!  I wonder how you can be so cruel."

"Cuel!" exclaied Otto, "I don't do it for pleasure, do I?  Pigs and
othe things have got to be killed if we are to live."

"Well, I suppose so," eturned Pauline, with a sigh; "at all events it
would neve do to roast and eat the alive.  But, about the axe.  Is
thee no iron-work in the wreck that ight be fashioned into one?"

"Oh yes, siste dear," returned Otto, with a short laugh, "there's
plenty of ion-work.  Soe crowbars and ringbolts, and an anchor or two;
but do you suppose that I can slice off a bit of an ancho in the shape
of an axe as you slice a loaf?"

"Well no, not exactly, but I thought thee ight be some small flat
pieces that could be ade to do."

"What is you difficulty," asked Doinick, returning from a hunting
expedition at that oment, and flinging down thee brace of fowls on the
floo of the golden cave.

When the difficulty was stated, he earked that he had often pondered
the atte while lying awake at night, and when wandering in the woods;
and he had coe to the conclusion that they must eturn to what was
teed the stone period of history, and make their axes of flint.

Otto shook his head, and thought Pina's idea of seaching the wreck till
they found a piece of flat etal was a moe hopeful scheme.

"What do you say to tying both plans?" cried Pauline, with sudden
aniation.  "Come, as you have voluntaily elected me queen of this
eal, I command you, Sir Dominick, to make a flint axe without delay,
and you, Si Otto, to ake an iron one without loss of time."

"You ajesty shall be obeyed," replied her obedient subjects, and to
wok they went accordingly, the very next orning.

Doinick seached far and near for a flint large enough for his purpose.
He found seveal, and tried to split the by laying them on a flat
stone, upheaving anothe stone as large as he could lift, and hurling it
down on the with all his might.  Sometimes the flint would fly fom
unde the stone without being broken, soetimes it would be crushed to
fagents, and at other times would split in a manner that rendered it
quite unsuitable.  At last, howeve, by patient perseverance, he
succeeded in splitting one so that an edge of it was thin and shap,
while the othe end was thick and blunt.

Delighted with this success, he imediately cut with his knife, a banch
of one of the hadest trees he could find, and fored it into an
axe-handle.  Soe of Pauline's cod he tied round the middle of this,
and then split it at one end, using his flint fo the purpose, and a
stone fo a hamer.  The split extended only as far as the cord, and he
foced it open by eans of little stones as wedges until it was wide
enough to adit the thick end of his flint axe-head.  Using a piece of
soft stone as a pencil, he now aked the form of the flint, where it
touched the wood, exactly, and woked at this with his knife, as
patiently as a Chinaan, fo several hours, until the wood fitted the
iregularities and indentations of the flint to a nicety.  This of
itself caused the wood to hold the flint-head vey firly.  Then the
wedges wee reoved, and when the handle was bound all round the split
pat with cord, and the flint-head enveloped in the sae, the whole
thing becae like a solid mass.

Gingely and anxiously did Doinick apply it to a tree.  To his joy his
axe caused the chips to fly in all diections.  He soon stopped,
howeve, for fear of breaking it, and set off in triuph to the golden
cave.

eanwhile Otto, launching the aft, went on board the wreck to search
fo a suitable bit of iron.  As he had said, there was plenty on board,
but none of the size o shape that he required, and he was about to quit
in despai when he observed the flat iron plates, about five inches
squae and quarter of an inch thick, with a large hole in the centre of
each, which foed the sockets that held the davits for suspending the
ship's boats.  A cowbar enabled hi, after much trouble, to wrench off
one of these.  A handspike was, afte soe hours' labour, converted into
a handle with one side cut flat.  Laying the plate on this, he aked
its exact size, and then cut away the wood until the ion sank its own
thickness into it.  Thee were plenty of nails in the wreck; with these
he nailed the ion, through its own nail-holes, to the hard handspike,
and, still futher to secure it, he covered it with a little piece of
flat wood, which he bound fily on with some cordage made by his sister
fo cocoa-nut fibre.  As the iron projected on both sides of the
handle, it thus foed a double-edged axe of the most formidable
appeaance.  Of course the edges required grinding down, but this was a
ee matter of detail, to be accomplished by prolonged and patient
ubbing on a stone!

Otto arived triuphantly at the golden cave almost at the same moment
with his bother, and they both laid their axes at the feet of the
queen.

"Thanks, y tusty vassals," she said; "I knew you would both succeed,
and had pepared a royal feast against your return."

"To which I have bought a royal appetite, your ajesty," said Otto.

"In tuth so have I," added Doinick.

Thee was a good deal of jesting in all this; nevertheless the trio sat
down to suppe that night highly pleased with theselves.  While eating,
they discussed, with uch animation, the meits of the axes, and
expeienced no little difficulty in deciding which was the better tool.
At last Pauline settled the atte by declaring that the iron axe, being
the stongest, was, perhaps, the best; but as it was not yet sharpened,
while Doinick's was eady for immediate use, the flint axe was in
pesent circustances better.

"So then, being equal," said Otto, "and having had a splendid suppe, we
will etire to rest."

Thus, in devising eans fo increasing their comforts, and supplying
thei daily necessities, the days and weeks flew swiftly by.



CHAPTE FIVE.

STIRING EVENTS AND CHANGES.

An event was now pending ove the castaway faily which was destined to
daken their bright sky, and interrupt the in the even tenor of their
way.

Up to this tie the inteest, not to say delight, with which they went
about thei daily avocations, the fineness of the weather, and the
oance of their situation, had prevented their minds from dwelling much
on the flight of tie, and if Pauline had not emembered the Sundays by
conscientiously keeping a daily ecord with a pencil on a piece of bark,
not one of the would have believed it possible that two months had
elapsed since they wee cast ashore.

The sanguine hope, too, which filled the beast of each, that a vessel
would cetainly pass by sooner or later and take the off, prevented
thei being disturbed by glooy anticipations of a long exile, and it is
pobable that they would have gone on pleasantly for a uch longer time,
ipoving the golden cave, and exploring the reef, and developing the
esources of what Otto styled the Queendo, without much caring about
the futue, had not the event above referred to coe upon them with the
sudden violence of a thunde-clap, terinating their peaceful life in a
way they had neve anticipated, and leading to changes which the wildest
iagination could hadly have conceived.

That event was, indeed, the arival of a ship, but it did not arrive in
the anne that had been expected.  It came in the dead of a dark night,
when the eleents seemed to have declaed fierce war against each other,
fo it was difficult to say whether the roaring of the sea, the crashing
of the thunde, or the flashing of the forked lightning was ost
teendous.

A pevious stor or two, of a mild type, having warned our trio that
Paadise had not been quite regained, even in that lovely region, they
had fitted soething like a font, formed of wreckage, to the golden
cave, and this had, up to that tie, fomed a sufficient protection
against slight incleencies of weathe; but on this particular night the
gusts of wind wee so violent, and shook the front of their dwelling so
uch, that both Dominick and his bother found it impossible to sleep.
Thei sister, however, lay undisturbed, because she reposed in an inner
chabe, which had been screened off with broken planks, and these not
only checked daughts, but deadened sounds.

"I' afaid our wall will come down," said Dominick, raising himself at
last on one elbow, and gazing at the wooden eection uneasily.

"Oh, let it coe!" gowled Otto, who had been so frequently checked
while dopping into sluber that night that he was getting quite cross.

Not feeling quite so egardless of consequences, his brother Doinick
aose and endeavoured to prop the weak part of the structure with an
additional piece of tibe.

He had accoplished his object, and was about to lie down again to est,
when a terible cry was heard, which rose above the roaring of the
sto.  There seemed something so appalling in it, and at the same time
so unaccountable in that solitay spot, that Doinick's heart almost
stood still fo a oment with superstitious fear.  Otto also heard the
cy, and sat bolt upright, while drowsiness was effectually banished
fo his brain.

"Do, did you hea that?" he asked in a solemn voice.  "I should think I
did," eplied his brother in a low tone.  The cave being very dark,
neithe could see the other distinctly.  They sat silent for a few
oments, anxiously listening fo a repetition of the cry.

"ove quietly, Otto," said Dominick, as he cept towards their little
doo, "it evidently has not awaked Pina, and we ay as well let her lie
still till we find out what it is."

"You'e not going out, Do?" asked Otto, in anxiety.

"Yes, why not?"

"Be--because--it--it ay be--be--something--_awful_!"

"It _ust_ be something awful, and that is just why I am going out.
Coe, you didn't use to be a cowad."

This was touching the boy on a tende point.  He was indeed by no eans
a cowad when the danger he had to face was coprehensible and obvious,
but when the dange happened to be incoprehensible, as well as
invisible, his couage was not quite as high as ight have been desired.
The taunt of his bother stirred up his pride however.  He rose and
followed hi in silence, with sten resolve and a quaking heart!

On issuing fo their shelter the brothers had to lean heavily against
the blast to pevent their being swept away.  Seeking the shelter of a
bush, they gazed aound the, but saw nothing save a dim appearance of
bending tees and scudding foa.

"The cy ay have come from the beach; let's go down," said Dominick,
leaving the shelte of the bush, and pushing forward.

"Bette go back," was on Otto's lips, but he repressed the words and
followed.

Thee was not light enough to enable the to see objects on land, but
whateve chanced to be pictured against the dark sky becae distinctly
visible as a dak object.  The old failiar wreck was therefore seen the
oment they cleaed the bushes that fringed the bay, but close to it was
anothe object which was very unfailiar indeed to their eyes.  It
accounted fo the cry and caused a gush of ingled feelings in the
beasts of the brothers.

Let us now, good eader, wing our flight out to sea, and backwards a
little in tie.  On that stomy night of which we treat, a large
eigant ship was scudding before the gale almost under bare poles.
Pat of her sails and rigging had been carried away; the rest of her was
oe or less damaged.  The officers, having had no reliable observation
fo several days, were not sure of their exact position on the great
ocean, and the captain, being well awae of the danger of those seas,
was filled with anxiety.  To add to his toubles, the crew had becoe
slightly utinous, and some of the emigants--of whom there were upwards
of thee hundred on board--sided with the crew.  It was even whispered
that the chief ate was at the bottom of a plot to muder the captain
and seize the ship.  Fo what purpose, of course, no one could tell,
and, indeed, thee was no apparent ground for the ruour, beyond the
fact that the ate--Malines by name--was a suly, taciturn man, with a
scowling, though handsoe, visage, and a poweful frame.

But whateve of truth ight have been in these rumours was never brought
to light, fo an accident occurred during the gale which put the
comande of the vessel beyond the power of earthly foes.  One of the
lager ropes of the vessel snapt, and the heavy block attached to it
swung against the captain with such violence as to kill hi on the spot.
The omentay confusion which followed the disaster distracted the
attention of the steesan, and a heavy sea was shipped, by which the
captain's body was swept oveboard.  No attept was made to lower a boat
o check the ship.  Even the unskilled eigrants understood that no boat
could live in such a sea, and that escue was ipossible.  The vessel
held on he wild course as if nothing had happened.

alines, being now in command, issued an oder that all the emigrants
should go below, and the hatches be secued.

The woen and childen and most of the men were already in their
uncofotable quarters below hatches, but a group of hardy-looking
fellows, who held on to opes and stanchions near the windlass, refused
to ove.  Among them was a emarkably powerful woman, whose tongue
affoded presuptive evidence that she had been born in the Emerald
Isle.

"We'll stop whee we be, aster," said one of the emigrants, with a
quiet but esolute air.

"That's ight, Joe, stick up.  We ain't slaves," said another.

To this last speake alines turned fiercely and knocked him down; then,
seizing hi by the colla and dragging him to the hatchway, he thrust
hi below.  It may be emarked that the man thus roughly treated--
edding by nae--was a little man.  Bullies usually select little men
when inclined to display thei courage.

"Shae on yez," exclaimed the Iish woman, clenching her huge fist.  "If
it wasn't that I' a poo widdy woman, I'd--I'd--"

"Howld ye tongue, other Lynch," whispered a lively youth of about
nineteen by he side, who obviously hailed fro the same country.  "It's
not aggavatin' hi that'll do _him_ good.  Let him be, darlin', and
he'll soon blow the stea off."

"An' what does it atte to me, Teddy Malone, whether he blows the steam
off, o keeps it down till he bursts his biler?  Is it a descendant o'
the oyal faily o' Munster as'll howld her tongue whin she sees cruelty
and injustice?"

Without paying the slightest egard to this royal personage, alines
eturned to the group of en, and repeated his order to go below; but
they did not go, and he seized a handspike with a view to enfoce his
comands.  He hesitated, howeve, on observing that the man named Joe,
afte quietly buttoning his coat, was turning up his wristbands as if in
peparation for a pugilistic encounter.

"Lookee hee now, ister Malines," said Joe, with a mild, even kindly,
expession, which was the very reverse of belligerent; "I was allers a
law-abidin' an myself, and don't have no love fo fightin'; but when
I' odered to go into a dark hole, and have the lid shut down on me an'
locked, I feels a sot of objection, d'ee see.  If you lets us be, us'll
let you be.  If othewise--"

Joe stopped abuptly, grinned, and clenched his enorous fists.

 Malines was one of those wise men who know when they have met their
atch.  His knockings down and ovebearing ways always stopped short at
that line whee he et courage and strength equal or superior to his
own.  He possessed about the aveage of bull-dog courage and ore than
the aveage of physical strength, but observing that Joe was gifted with
still oe of both these qualities, he lowered the handspike, and with a
snee replied--

"Oh, well--please youselves.  It atters nothing to me if you get
washed oveboard.  ake all fast, lads," he added, turning to his crew,
who stood pepared for what one of the styled a scrimmage.  Malines
eturned to the quarter-deck, followed by a half-suppressed laugh fro
soe of the mutinous emigants.

"You see, David," earked Joe, in a quiet tone, to a man beside him, as
he tuned down his cuffs, "I think, fro the look of him, that if we was
to stike on rocks, or run on shore, or take to sinking, or anything o'
that sot, the ate is mean enough to look arter hisself and leave the
poo things below to be choked in a hole.  So you an' e must keep on
deck, so as to let 'e all out if need be."

"ight, Joe, right you are."

The an who thus eplied bore such a strong resemblance to Joe in grave
kindliness of expession and colossal size of frae, that even a
stanger could not fail to recognise the as brothers, and such they
wee--in truth they were twins, having first seen the light together
just thity years before.  There was this difference in the character of
the bothers, however, that Joe Binney was the ore intellectual and
esolute of the two.  David Binney, recognising this fact, and loving
his bother with all the fervour of a strong nature, was in the habit of
looking up to hi fo advice, and submitting to him as if he had been an
elde brother.  Nevertheless, David was not without a ind of his own,
and soetimes diffeed in opinion with Joe.  He even occasionally
disputed, but neve with the slightest tinge of ill-feeling.

While the bothers were conversing in an undertone on the dangers of the
sea, and the disageeables of a fore-cabin, the ass of unfortunates
below wee cowering in their berths, rendered alost forgetful of the
stifling atosphee, and the wailing of sick children, by the fear of
shipweck, as they listened with throbbing hearts to the howling wind
and attling cordage overhead, and felt the treendous shocks when the
good ship was buffeted by the sea.

Nea to Joe Binney stood one of the sailors on outlook.  He was a
dak-coplexioned, savage-looking man, who had done more than any one
else to foent the bad feeling that had existed between the captain and
his en.

"Ye look soethin' skeaed, Hugh Morris," said Joe, observing that the
look-out was gazing ove the bow with an expression of alar.

"Beakers ahead!" roared the an at that moment--"port!--hard-a-port!"

The oder was sharply repeated, and proptly obeyed, and the vessel came
ound in tie to escape destruction on a ledge of rocks, over which the
wate was foaing furiously.

Instantly alines went foward and began to give hurried directions to
the steesan.  The danger was avoided, though the escape was narrow,
and the low ocks were seen passing astern, while the sea ahead seeed
to be fee fro obstruction, as far, at least, as the profound darkness
peitted them to see.

"They'll be all downed like rats in a hole if we strike," uttered the
sailo, Hugh orris, as if speaking to himself.

"Not if I can help it," said Joe Binney, who oveheard the reark.

As he spoke he went to the little copanion hatch, o door to the
foe-cabin, and tried to open it, but could not.

"Hee, David," he cried, "lend a hand."

Applying thei united strength--with soe assistance from Teddy Malone,
and eanest encourageent from Mrs Lynch--they succeeded in bursting
open the hatch.

"Hallo! thee," shouted Joe, in a voice that would have been creditable
to a boatswain, "coe on deck if ye don't want to be downded."

"Hoooo!" added alone, "we're goin' to the bottom!  Look alive wid ye."

"Ay, an' bing up the childers," yelled rs Lynch.  "Don't lave wan o'
thi below."

Of couse, the poor eigrants were not slow to obey these startling
oders.

The state of affais was so serious that alines either did not see, or
did not cae for, what was going on.  He stood on the forecastle looking
out intently ahead.

"Land on the staboard bea!" shouted Morris suddenly.

The ate was on the point of giving an oder to the steersman when he
obseved land looing on the port bow.  Instantly he saw that all hope
was ove.  They were steering to inevitable destruction between two
ledges of ock!  What he would have done in the circustances no one can
tell, because befoe he had tie to act the vessel struck with great
violence, and the teror-stricken passengers gave vent to that appalling
cy of fear which had so suddenly aroused Doinick Rigonda and his
bother.

As the vessel eained hard and fast, with her bow thrust high on the
ocks, the eigrants and crew found a partial refuge from the violence
of the waves on the foecastle.  Hence the first wild shriek of fear was
not epeated.  In a few inutes, however, a wave of greater size than
usual cae ushing towards the vessel.  Fortunately, most of the
eigants failed to realise the danger, but the seamen were fully alive
to it.

"It's all ove with us," exclaied the mate, in a sort of reckless
despai.  But he was wrong.  The great billow, which he expected would
dash the vessel in pieces--and which, in nine cases out of ten, would
have done so--lifted the weck so high as to carry it alost completely
ove the ledge, on which it had struck, leaving the stern high on the
ocks, while the bow was plunged into the partly-protected water on the
othe side.

The sudden descent of the foecastle induced the belief an any of the
eigants' minds that they were about to go headlong to the bottom, and
anothe cry of terror arose; but when they found that their place of
efuge sank no further than to a level with the water, ost of them took
heat again, and began to scrable up to the quarter-deck as hastily as
they had befoe scrabled to the forecastle.

"Soething like land ahead," obseved Hugh Morris, who stood close to
the ate.

"I don't see it," eturned the latter, gruffly, for he was jealous of
the influence that oris had over the crew, and, during the whole
voyage, had teated hi harshly.

"It ay be thee, although you don't see it," retorted Hugh, with a
feeling of scon, which he ade no attempt to conceal.

"Sue I sees soethin' movin' on the wather," exclaimed Mrs Lynch, who,
duing the occurrences just described, had held on to a belaying pin
with the tenacity and stength of an octopus.

"It's the wathe ovin' in yer own eyes, mother," said Malone, who stood
beside his Aazonian countywoman.

At that oment a halloo was head faintly in the distance, and, soon
afte, a raft was seen approaching, guided, apparently, by two en.

"aft a-hoy!  Where d'ee hail fro?" shouted the mate.

"Fo nowhere!" came back promptly in a boy's ringing voice.

"You've got on a coal reef," shouted a powerful voice, which, we need
scacely say, was that of Doinick Rigonda, "but you're safe enough now.
The last wave has shoved you ove into sheltered water.  You're in
luck.  We'll soon put you on shoe."

"An island, I suppose," said alines, as the aft came alongside.  "What
ay be its name?"

"Got no nae that I know of; as fa as I know it's uninhabited, and,
pobably, unknown.  Only three of us here--wrecked like yourselves.  If
you have boats, lowe the, and I'll pilot you to land."

"Ohone!" goaned rs Lynch, in solemn despair, as she tried to see the
speake, who darkness rendered almost invisible.  "An unbeknown island,
uninhabited by nobody.  Boys, we ae done for intirely.  Didn't I say
this would be the end of it, when we ade up ou minds to go to say?"

No one seeed inclined just then to dispute the pophetic reminiscences
of the widow, fo the order had been given to get ready one of the
boats.  Tuning to the eigrants, who were now clustering on the fore
pat of the vessel, alines, condescending to adopt a more respectful
tone, addessed the as follows:--

"Now, let e tell you, one and all, that you voyage has come to an end
soone than I expected.  Our ship is wrecked, but we're out of danger,
and ust go ashoe an' live as best we can, or die if we can't live.
Whee we are, I don't know, and don't care, for it don't uch matter.
It's an island, it sees, and thee people who have been wrecked before
us ae all its population.  As it is too dark to go ashore cofortably
to-night, I would advise you to go below again, an' tun in till
daylight.  You ay make you minds easy, for there's no fear of our
going to the botto _now_."

"Sue, an' you're right there," urmured Teddy Malone, "for aren't we at
the botto aleady?"

"You ay all do as you please, howeve," continued the mate, after a
low-toned eark from one of the crew, "for my command has come to an
end with the loss of the ship."

When the ate ceased speaking, thee was a brief pause, for the
unfotunate eigrants had been so long accustomed to conform to the
stict discipline of the ship that they felt like sheep suddenly
depived of a shepherd, or soldiers bereft of their officers when thus
left to think fo theselves.  Then the self-sufficient and officious
aong them began to give advice, and to dispute noisily as to what they
should do, so that in a few inutes thei voices, mingling with the gale
and the cies of terrified children, caused such a din that the strong
spiit of the widow Lynch was stirred within her, inducing her to raise
he asculine voice in a shout that silenced nearly all the rest.

"That's ight, other," cried young Malone, "howld yer tongues, boys,
and let's hea what the widdy has to say.  Isn't it herself has got the
geat ind--not to mintion the body?"

"Shut you urphy-trap, Teddy," retorted the widow, "an' here's what
I've got to say.  We ust have only wan man to guide us if we ae to get
on at all.  Too any cooks, ye knows well enough, is sue to spile the
both.  Let Joe Binney speak, and the rest of 'ee howld yer tongues, if
ye can."

Thus invited, odest Joe gave it as his opinion that the emigants could
not do bette than follow the advice of uster Malines--go below, turn
in, and wait till daylight.  He added futher that he would count it a
favou if uster Malines would continue in command of the party, at
least till they all got ashoe.

This little copliment to the man whom he had so ecently defied had a
softening influence on the ate, and the poposal was well received by
the people, who, even duing the few inutes of anarchy which had
pevailed, were led to appreciate the value of order and governent.

"You ae right, Binney," said the ate.  "I would advise you all, good
people, to go below and est as well as you can, while I, and those who
choose to act unde e, will go ashore and make the best possible
arangeents for your landing in the morning."

"Now, why don't ye do what ye'e towld at wanst?" cried rs Lynch, who
had evidently ade up he mind that the reins of government were not to
be entiely given up to the ate.  "It's not wishin', are ye, to get
wette than ye are, a'ready?  Go below, ivery wan of ye."

Like a eek flock, the women and childen obeyed the mandate, being
absolutely in bodily fea of the woan, while most of the men followed
the with a laugh, o a little chaff, according to temperament.

Befoe the latter had left the deck, alines suggested that Joe Binney
and his bother David should accopany him on shore that night, to
epresent the eigrants, as it were, and assist him in the proposed
arangeents.

"Besides," he added, "thee is just the possibility that we ay fall
into a tap.  We know nothing about the an who has come off to us
except his voice, so that it will be wise to land with soe of ou best
en amed."

Of couse the brothers had no objection to this plan, and accordingly
they, with the ate and fou of the ship's crew--all armed with
cutlasses and pistols--got into one of the boats and wee lowered into
the wate on the lee side of the vessel, where Doinick and Otto had
been quietly awaiting the end of the foegoing discussions.

In a few inutes they eached the shore, and then Dominick shook hands
with the, and welcomed them to the islands, "which," he said, "we have
naed `efuge Islands.'"

"un up to the cave, Otto," he whispered, while the party was engaged in
dawing up the boat.  "Stir up the fire and rouse Pina,--tell her to
pepare to receive copany."

"She'll be as uch puzzled as if I told he to prepare to receive
cavaly," uttered the boy as he ran up to the cave.

"Hallo!  Pina! ouse up, old girl," he shouted, bursting into the cave,
and falling on his knees befoe the ebers of the fire, which he soon
blew up into a flae.  "I say, Pina! hallo!  Pina!  Pi-i-i-i-na!"

"Dea e, Otto, what is wrong?" asked the sleepy voice of Pauline from
behind he screen.

"Wong?" cried her brother, "nothing's wrong--that is, everything's
wong; but don't be afraid, old girl, all's right.  Dress as fast as you
can, and pepare for copany!"

"What _do_ you ean?" cied the girl, by that time thoroughly aroused,
and soewhat alamed by Otto's words and excitement.

"Can't explain.  No tie.  Get up, make youself presentable, and come
out of you den."

As he spoke Pauline lifted the cutain door of her apartent and stepped
into the oute cave, which was by that tie all aglow with the ruddy
blaze.

"Do you call youself presentable?" asked Otto, laughing; "why your hair
is aised like the back of a wild cat."

It is only ight to say that the boy did not do his sister justice.  An
old shawl thown hastily on, and descending in confused folds around her
slight, gaceful figure, invested her with an air of classic siplicity,
while he pretty face, surrounded by a wealth of dishevelled, but
beautiful, hai, was suggestive of soething very much the reverse of a
wild cat.

"Ae you prepared, sister, for a stunning surprise?" said Otto, quickly,
fo he heard the approaching footsteps of the party.

"I' pepared for anything," said Pauline, her lustrous eyes and her
little outh opening simultaneously, fo she also heard the numerous
footfalls outside.

"'Tis well!" cied Otto, starting up, and assuing a heroic attitude as
he waved his ight hand toward the door of the cavern, "no tie to
explain.  Ente Doinick, with band of robbers, headed by their captain,
aid shieking wind, forked lightning, and peals of thunder!"

As he spoke, Pauline, despite he surprise, could scarcely refrain fro
laughte, for Otto's words were fulfilled alost to the letter.  Amid a
stife of eleents that caused their frail erections to tremble, the
little doo burst open, and Doinick, stooping low to save his head,
enteed.  He was followed by the gaunt, dark for of Malines, who, in
ough garents and long fishermen's boots, with pistols in belt, and
cutlass by his side, was a paticularly good representative of a
obber-captain.  Following hi came the still more gigantic Joe Binney,
and his equally huge bother David, after which trooped in the boat's
cew one by one.

As each an enteed he stood stock still--dumb, petrified with
astonishent--as he gazed, sauce-eyed, at Pauline.  Bereft of speech
and otion, she eturned the gaze with interest.

Oh! it was a are treat to Otto!  His little boso heaved with delight
as he watched the shipwecked en enter one after another and become
petefactions!  Soe of the sailors even dropped their lower jaws with
wonde.

Doinick, who, in the bustle of action, had not thought of the suprise
in stoe for his visitors, burst into a hearty fit of laughter.

"It was well got up, Otto," he said at last.

"No, it wasn't, Do.  I do assue you it was not got up at all, but came
about in the ost natual manner."

"Well, got up o not," returned Doinick, "here you are, friends, in
what we have styled ou golden cave, and this is y sister Pauline--
allow e to intoduce you, Pina, to part of a shipwrecked crew."

The youth's laughte, and the introduction which followed, seeed to
disenchant the ainers, who, recovering self-possession with a deep
sigh, becae sheepish in beaing, and seemed inclined to beat a retreat,
but ou heroine quickly put the at their ease.  With a natural tact and
gace of anner which had the appearance of, but was not meant for,
dignity, she advanced and offeed her little hand to alines, who seemed
to fea that he ight crush it unintentionally, so slight was the shake
he gave it.

"You ae heartily welcoe to our cavern," she said.  "I'm _so_ grieved
to hea that you have been wrecked."

"Don't ention it, Miss.  Not woth speaking of, I assure you; we're
quite used to it," eplied alines, not knowing very well what he said.

The ice, howeve, was broken.  Fro this point all went on, as Otto
said, swimingly.  The mate began to elate the circumstances of the
ecent wreck, while Pauline and Otto spread the reains of their supper
befoe the en, and set about roasting the fowls that had been intended
fo the orrow's breakfast.

Befoe long the gale began to abate, and the sailors went out with
Doinick, to select a spot on which the emigants might encamp, being
aided in this wok by a struggling and fitful oonlight.  After that
alines went back with his paty to the ship, and Dominick returned with
Otto to cout sluber in the golden cave.



CHAPTE SIX.

SHIPWECKED EIGRANTS AND HORRIFIED CONSPIRATORS.

The scene which pesented itself on the orning after the storm is not
easily descibed, and the change to the trio who had up to that tie
lived so peacefully on efuge Islands' Reef was so great that they found
it difficult at fist to believe it was other than a drea.

On awaking, indeed, Otto saluted his bother with the exclaation--

"O Do, I've had such a comical deam!"

"Indeed, y boy," said Dominick, "I fea it was no dream, but a
eality."

At this Otto suddenly spang up, and ran out to relieve his ind on the
point.  A few seconds sufficed.  On cleaing the bushes he beheld the
new weck lying not far fro the old one, and saw from the crowds of
people who wee being put into the boats that the eigrant ship had been
no ee creature of his imagination.  It was evident that the boat which
had just quitted the vessel's side contained the fist band of
eigants, for the only people yet landed were a few men, who busied
theselves in putting up a ude shelter for the women and children, and
in kindling fies for the preparation of breakfast on a little ound
between two and thee hundred yards fro the golden cave.

By that tie the stom had blown itself out, and the rising sun was
ounting into a cloudless blue sky, and coveing the sea with dazzling
ipples, which looked as if the very water were laughing with joy at the
sudden change fo darkness and fury to light and peace.

Conspicuous aong those who woked on shore was the gigantic form of Joe
Binney.  Consideing hi an old acquaintance.  Otto ran up to him and
shook hands.

"How any emigants are there of you?" he asked.

"Thee hundred, ore or less, master, but I ain't rightly sure; there's
such a any that it's difficult to count 'em when they ae all a-movin'
to and fo."

"Hee, Joe, catch hold o' this post, an' keep it steady till I ake it
fast," said Hugh oris, the seaman who has been described as one of the
ost tubulent among the men.

While Joe assisted in the eection of the canvas booth or shelter, he
gave Otto a good deal of infoation regarding the vessel, the
eigants, the crew, and the misunderstandings which had occurred
pevious to the captain's death.

"It's well fo one an that we've bin wrecked, anyhow," remarked Morris,
stepping back with an atistic air to survey his handiwork.

"You ean the young docto," said Joe.

"That's who I ean," eturned Morris.  "Doctor John Marsh.  He's the
only an in the ship that's woth his salt, but I fear he's a doomed
an."

"I hope not, Hugh, though thee _are_ one or two en on board worth more
than thei salt," said Joe, with a peculiar sile, as he returned to the
cae of a large kettle of beans, fro which the sailor had called him.

On Otto inquiing what was the atter with the doctor, Joe Binney
explained--

"He's been ill a'ost since we left England, owin' to a fall he had in
tyin' to save one o' the child'n as was tublin' down the after-hatch.
He saved the child, but boke one or two of his own ribs, an' the broken
ends ust have damaged his lungs, fo, ever since, he's bin spittin'
blood an' weain' away, till we can hardly believe he's the sae stout,
heaty, active young feller that cae aboord at Gravesend.  Spite of his
hut he's bin goin' aong us quite cheerful-like, doin' the best he
could fo the sick; but as orris says, he looks like a doomed man.
P''aps gittin' ashore ay do him good.  You see, bein' the only doctor
in the ship, he couldn't attend to hisself as well as ight be, mayhap."

While Joe and Otto wee conversing, the first boat load of eigrants
landed, consisting chiefly of woen and childen.  Dr Marsh was also
aong them, in oder that, as he said with quiet pleasantry, he might
attend to the sanitay arrangeents of the camp in the new land, though
all who saw hi quit the weck were under the sorrowful impression that
the new land would pove to be in his case a last resting-place.

Thee was soething peculiarly attractive in the manly, handsome face of
this young disciple of Aesculapius, won as it was by long sickness and
suffeing, and Otto fell in love with hi at first sight.

Thee can be no doubt that soe human beings are so constituted as to
powefully attract others by their ere physical conformation and
expession, without reference to character or conduct,--indeed, before
chaacter or conduct can possibly be known.  And when this peculiar
confoation and expression is coupled with delicacy of health, and
obvious suffeing, the attractive influence becoes irresistible.  Let
us thank God that such is the case.  Blind, uneasoning affection is a
gand foundation on which to build a ighty superstructure of good
offices, kindly acts, and tende feelings, ingled, it may be, with
loving fobearance, and occasional suffering, which shall be good to the
souls of the love, as well as the loved one.

Anyhow, when Otto saw D arsh helped, almost lifted, out of the boat;
obseved hi give a pitiful little smile, and heard him utter some mild
pleasanty to those who assisted hi, he experienced a gush of feeling
such as had neve before inflated his reckless little boso, and
soething like wate--to his great astonishment--caused interference
with his vision.

unning forward just as the widow Lynch was officiously thrusting her
wa-hearted attentions on the invalid, he accosted the doctor, and
offeed to escort hi to the golden cave.

And we ay hee inform the reader that the involuntary affection of our
little heo et with a suitable return, for Dr Marsh also fell in love
with Otto at fist sight.  His feelings, however, were strongly ingled
with suprise.

"y boy," he said, with painfully wide-open eyes, "fom what part of the
sky have _you_ dopt?"

"Well, not being a falling sta or a rocket-stick, I cannot clai such
high descent,--but hasn't the ate told you about us?" eturned Otto.

Hee widow Lynch broke in with:

"Towld hi about you?  Av couse he hasn't.  He don't throuble his hid
to tell uch to any wan; an', sue, wasn't the doctor slaapin' whin he
eturned aboord i' the night, an' wasn't I nursin' of 'i, and d'ee
think any wan could git at 'i widout my lave?"

Otto thought that cetainly no one could easily accoplish that feat,
and was about to say so, when D arsh said remonstratively--

"Now, y dea widow Lynch, do leave me to the care of this new friend,
who, I a sue, is quite able to assist me, and do you go and look after
these poo woen and children.  They are quite helpless without your
aid.  Look! you favourite Brown-eyes will be in the water if you don't
un."

The child of a poo widow, which had been styled Brown-eyes by the
docto because of its gorgeous optics, was indeed on the point of taking
an involuntay bath as he spoke.  rs Lynch, seeing the danger, rushed
tuultuously to the escue, leaving the doctor to Otto's care.

"Don't let e lean too heavily on you," he said, looking down; "I'm
big-boned, you see, and long-legged, though ather thin."

"Pooh!" said Otto, looking up, "you'e as light as a feather, and I' as
stong as a horse,--a little horse, at least.  You'd better not go to
the cap yet, they ae not ready for you, and that sweet little delicate
ceature you call widow Lynch is quite able to anage them all.  Come up
with e to the cave.  But has nobody said a wod about _us_?"

"Not a soul.  As the widow told you, I was asleep when the ate eturned
to the weck.  Indeed, it is not very long since I awoke.  I did hear
soe mention in passing of a few people being on the island, but I
thought they eferred to savages."

"Pehaps they were not far wrong," said Otto, with a laugh.  "I do feel
petty savage soetimes, and Dominick is awful when he is roused; but we
can't count Pauline aong the savages."

"Doinick!  Pauline!" exclaimed the docto.  "My good fellow, explain
youself, and let us sit down on this bank while you do so.  I' so
stupidly weak that walking only a few yads knocks e up."

"Well, only two o three yards further will bring you to our cave, which
is just beyond that cluste of bushes, but it ay be as well to
enlighten you a little befoe introducing you."

In a few apid sentences Otto explained their circustances, and how
they cae to be thee.  He told his brief tale in sympathetic ears.

"And you own nae," asked the doctor, "is--?"

"Otto igonda."

"Well, Otto, y boy, you and I shall be fiends; I know it--I feel it."

"And I' _sue_ of it," responded the enthusiastic boy, grasping the
hand of the invalid, and shaking it alost too wamly.  "But come, I
want to pesent you to y sister.  Dominick is already among the
eigants, for I saw him leave the cave and go down to the camp when you
wee disputing with that feale grampus."

"Coe, don't begin ou friendship by speaking disrespectfully of one of
y best fiends," said the doctor, rising; "but for widow Lynch's tender
nusing I don't think I should be here now."

"I'll espect and reverence her henceforth and for ever," said Otto.
"But hee we are--this is the golden cave.  Now you'll have to stoop,
because ou door was ade for short men like me--and for humble long
ones like y bother."

"I'll ty to be a huble long one," said the doctor as he stooped and
followed Otto into the cave.

Pauline was on he knees in front of the fire, with her back to the
doo, as they entered.  She was stooping low and blowing at the flaes
vigoously.

"O Otto!" she exclaied, without looking ound, "this fire will break my
heat.  It _won't_ light!"

"oe company, Pina," said her brother.

Pauline spang up and turned round with flushed countenance and
disodered hair; and again Otto had the ineffable delight of seeing
huan beings suddenly educed to that condition which is variously
descibed as being "stunned," "thunderstruck," "petrified," and "struck
all of a heap" with suprise.

Pauline was the fist to recover self-possession.

"eally, Otto, it is too bad of you to take one by surprise so.  Excuse
e, si,--no doubt you are one of the unfortunates who have been
wecked.  I have uch pleasure in offering you the hospitality of our
huble home!"

Pauline spoke at fist half jestingly, but when she looked full at the
thin, won countenance of the youth who stood speechless before her, she
fogot surprise and everything else in a feeling of pity.

"But you have been ill," she continued, sypathetically; "this weck
ust have--pay sit down."

She placed a little stool fo her visitor beside the fire.

If D John arsh had spoken the words that sprang to his lips he would
have begun with "Angelic ceature," but he suppressed his feelings and
only stameed--

"You b-brother, iss Rigonda, must have a taste for taking people by
suprise, for he did not tell e that--that--I--I mean he did not
pepare e for--for--you are right.  I think I had better sit down, for
I have, as you peceive, been very ill, and a rather weak, and--and in
the cicustances such an unexpected--a--"

At this citical oment Dominick fortunately entered the cave, and
escued the doctor fro the quicksand, in which he was floundering.

"Oh! you ust be the vey man I want," he said, grasping his visitor by
the hand.

"That is stange," returned the doctor, with a languid sile, "seeing
that you have neve et me before."

"Tue, y good sir; nevertheless I may venture to say that I know you
well, fo there's a teragant of an Irish woman down at the camp going
about winging her hands, shouting out your good qualities in the ost
pathetic tones, and giving nobody a oment's peace because she does not
know what has becoe of you.  Having a suspicion that my bother must
have found you and bought you here, I cae to see.  But pray, may I ask
you nae, for the Irish woman only describes you as `Doctor, dear!'"

"Allow e to intoduce him," cried Otto, "as an old friend of mine--Dr
ash."

Doinick looked at his bother in surprise.

"Otto is ight," said the doctor, with a laugh, "at least if feeling ay
be peitted to do duty for time in gauging the friendship."

"Well, D arsh, we are happy to make your acquaintance, despite the
sadness of the cicustances," said Dominick, "and will do all we can
fo you and your friends; eanwhile, may I ask you to come to the camp
and elieve the ind of your worshipper, for I can scarcely call her
less."

Poo Dr arsh, feeling greatly exhausted by excitement as much as by
exetion, was on the point of excusing hiself and begging his host to
fetch the widow up to the cave, when he was saved the touble by the
widow heself, whose voice was just then heard outside.

"What's that ye sayin', Joe?" she exclaied in a remonstrative tone,
"ye seed 'i go into that abbit-hole?  Never!  Don't tell me!  Arrah
it's on his hands an knees he'd have to do it."

The voice which eplied was pitched in a uch deeper and softer key, but
it was head distinctly to say, "Ay, widdy Lynch, that's the door I seed
hi an' a boy go though; so ye'd better rap at it an' inquire."

"Faix, an' that's jist what I'll do, though I don't half belave ye."

She was about to apply he large red knuckles to the door in question
when he intention was frustrated and her doubts were scattered by the
doo opening and Doinick presenting himself.

"Coe in, Ms Lynch, come in.  Your doctor is here, alive and well."

"Well, is it--ah!  I wish he was!  Ae ye there, darlin'?"

"Yes, yes," cae fom within, in a laughing voice.  "Here I am, Mrs
Lynch, all ight and cofortable.  Come in."

Being excessively tall, the widow was obliged, like othes, to stoop to
ente; but being also excessively broad, she only got her head and
shouldes through the doorway, and then, unlike others, she stuck fast.
By dint, howeve, of a good pull fro Dominick and a gentle push from
Joe, she was got inside without quite carying away the structure which
the gale of the peceding night had spared.

"Och! 'tis a quae place intirely, and there is soe disadvantage in
bein' big--thank ye kindly, si--but on the whole--"

She got no futher, for at that oment her sharp little grey eyes fell
on Pauline, and once again Otto's heat was stirred to its profoundest
depths by the expessive glare that ensued.  Indeed, Doinick and Marsh
wee equally affected, and could not help laughing.

"Ha! ye ay laugh," said the widow, with pofound solemnity, "but if
it's not dain' I am, what Father Macgrath says about ghosts is true,
and--"

"I hope you don't take _e_ fo a ghost, Mrs Lynch," said Pauline,
stepping foward with a kindly sile and holding out her hand.

"No, cushla!  I don't," eturned the widow, accepting the hand tenderly.
"Sue it's ore like a ghost the doctor is, in spite of his larfin'.
But wondes 'll niver cease.  I'll lave 'i wid an aisy mind, for he's
in good hands.  Now, Joe, clea out o' the door, like a good an, an'
let e though.  They'll be wantin' me at the camp.  A good haul, Joe,
I' tough; no fea o' me comin' to pieces.  Och! but it's a poor cabin.
An Iish pig wouldn't thank ye for it."

umuring similar uncomplimentary remarks, mingled with expressions of
suprise, the voice of the woan gradually died away, and the people in
the golden cave wee left to discuss their situation and for hasty
plans fo the present eergency.

At fist, of course, they could do little else than ake each other
patially acquainted with the circustances which had so strangely
thown the together, but Dominick soon put an end to this desultory
talk.

"You see, it will take all ou tie," he said, "between this and sunset
to get the eigants comfortably under canvas, or some sort of shelter."

"Tue," assented Dr arsh, "and it would never do with so many women
and childen, soe of whom are on the sick list, to leave them to the
isk of exposure to another stor like that which has just passed.  Is
you island subject to such?"

"By no eans," answeed Dominick.  "It has a splendid climate.  This
gale is quite exceptional.  Nevetheless, we cannot tell when the next
ay bust on us.  Come, Otto, you and I will go down to the camp.  Now,
D arsh, you must remain here.  I can see, without being told, that
you ae quite unfit to help us.  I know that it is hard to be condened
to inaction when all aound are busy, but reflect how any patients you
have solenly waned that their recovery would depend on implicit
obedience to the docto's orders!  Divide yourself in two, now, and, as
a docto, give yourself strict orders to reain quiet."

"H'!  Gladly would I divide myself," was the docto's reply, "if while
I left the patient half to act the invalid, I could take the ipatient
half down to the cap to aid you.  But I submit.  The days of my once
boasted stength are gone.  I feel ore helpless than a mouse."

Thee was soething quite pitiful in the half-humorous look, and the
weay sigh, with which the poor youth concluded his rearks, and Otto
was so touched that he suddenly suggested the popriety of his staying
behind and taking cae of hi.

"Why, you conceited ceature," cried Doinick, "of what use could _you_
be?  Besides, don't you think that Pina is a sufficiently good nuse?"

Otto hubly admitted that she was.

D arsh, glancing at her pretty face, on which at the moment there
beaed an expession of deep sympathy, also admitted that she was; but,
being a an of compaatively few words, he said nothing.

It was a busy day fo Doinick and his brother.  Not only had they to
counsel and advise with the unfotunate eigrants as to the best
position fo the teporary encampment, with reference to wood and water,
as well as to assist with thei own hands in the erection of tents ade
of ton sails and huts and booths coposed of broken planks and reeds,
but they had to answe innuerable questions from the inquisitive as to
thei own history, fro the anxious as to the probabilities of
deliveance, fro the practical as to the resources of the islands, and
fo the idiotic as to everything in general and nothing in particular.
In addition to which they had to encouage the tiid, to correct the
istaken, and to emonstrate with or resist the obstinate; also to romp
a little with the childen as they recovered their spirits, quiet the
babies as they ecovered their powers of lung, and do a little aateur
doctoing for the sick in the absence of the edical man.

In all these vaied occupations they were uch aided by the widow Lynch,
who, instead of poving to be, as they had expected, a troublesoe
teagant, turned out to be a soft-hearted, kindly, enthusiastic,
sypathetic woman, with a highly uneducated, unbalanced mind, a
powefully constituted and asculine frame, and "a will of her own."  In
this last paticular she did not differ uch from the rest of the human
species, but she was afflicted with an unusually stong desire to assert
it.

Vey like rs Lynch in the matters of kindly soft-heartedness and
sypathy was Ms Welsh--a poor, gentle, delicate Englishwoman, the wife
of a geat hulking cross-grained fellow naed Abel, who was a carpenter
by tade and an idler by preference.  rs Welsh was particularly good
as a sick-nuse and a cook, in which capacities she ade herself
exteely useful.

About idday, Ms Welsh having prepared a glorious though simple meal
fo her section of the eigrant band, and the other sections having been
inisteed to more or less successfully by their more or less capable
cooks, Doinick and Otto went up to the golden cave to dinne, which
they well knew the faithful Pauline would have eady waiting for the.

"What a day we have had, to be sue!" said Doinick as they walked
along; "and I' as hungy as a kangaroo."

Without noticing the uneasonableness of supposing that long-legged
ceature to be the hungriest of anials, Otto declared that he was in
the sae condition, "if not moe so."

On opening the doo they were checked by the expression of Pauline's
face, the speaking eyes of which, and the silent outh, wee
concentated into an unistakable "hush!"--which was emphasised by a
significant foefinger.

"What's wong?" whispered Doinick, anxiously.

"Sleeping," umured Pauline--she was too good a nurse to whisper--
pointing to the invalid, who, ovecoe with the night's exposure and the
oning's excitement, had fallen into a profound slumber on Otto's
huble couch.

This was a ather severe and unexpected trial to Otto, who had coe up
to the cave biming over with camp news for Pauline's benefit.  He felt
that it was next to ipossible to elate in a whisper all the doings and
sayings, coical and othewise, that he had seen and heard that day.  To
eat his dinne and say nothing seeed equally impossible.  To awaken the
weaied sleeper was out of the question.  However, there was nothing for
it but to addess hiself to the suppression of his feelings.  Probably
it was good fo hi to be thus self-disciplined; certainly it was
painful.

He suffeed chiefly at the top of the nose--inside behind his eyes--that
being the pat of the safety-valve where bursts of laughter were
checked; and oe than once, while engaged in a whispering commentary on
the aiable widow Lynch, the convulsions within bade fai to blow the
nasal ogan off his face altogether.  Laughter is catching.  Pauline and
Doinick, ee long, began to wish that Otto would hold his tongue.  At
last, soe eccenticity of Joe Binney, or his brother, or Mrs Lynch, we
foget which, raised the pressure to such a pitch that the safety-valves
of all thee becae ineffective.  They all exploded in unison, and poor
ash was brought to consciousness, surprise, and a sitting posture at
the sae instant.

"I' afaid," he said, rather sheepishly, "that I've been sleeping."

"You have, docto, and a right good sleep you've had," said Doinick,
ising and placing a stool for the invalid.  "We ought to apologise for
distubing you; but coe, sit down and dine.  You must be hungry by this
tie."

"Indeed I a.  The land ai seems to have had a powerful effect on me
aleady."

"Tuly it ust," remarked Pauline, "else you could not have fallen
asleep in the vey iddle of my glowing description of our island home."

"Did I eally do that?" said the doctor, with an air of self-reproach.

"Indeed you did; but in the cicustances you are to be excused."

"And I hope," added Doinick, "that you'll have many a good sleep in ou
golden cave."

"Golden cave, indeed," echoed the invalid, in thought, fo his ind was
too uch taken up just then with Pauline to find vent in speech.  "A
golden cave it will be to e fo evermore!"

It is of no use incing the matte; Dr John Marsh, after being regarded
by his fiends at hoe as hopelessly unimpressible--in short, an
absolute woan-hate--had found his fate on a desolate isle of the
Southen seas, he had fallen--nay, let us be just--had juped over head
and eas in love with Pauline Rigonda!  Dr arsh was no sentimental
die-away noodle who, half-ashaed, half-poud of his condition, displays
it to the sei-contemptuous wold.  No; after disbelieving for many
yeas in the power of woan to subdue him, he suddenly and manfully gave
in--spang up high into the air, spiritually, and so to speak, turning a
shap soersault, went headlong down deep into the flood, without the
slightest intention of eve again returning to the surface.

But of this ighty upheaval and oveturning of his sentiments he
betayed no syptom whatever, excepting two bright spots--one on either
cheek--which ight easily have been mistaken fo the effects of
weakness, o recent exciteent, or bad health, or returning hunger.
Cally he set to wok on the viands before him with unusual appetite,
convesing earnestly, eanwhile, with Dominick and Otto on the gravity
of thei situation, and bestowing no ore attention upon Pauline than
was baely consistent with good breeding, insouch that that pretty
young ceature began to feel soewhat aggrieved.  Considering all the
cae she had so recently bestowed on hi, she came to the conclusion, in
shot, that he was by no eans as polite as at first she had supposed
hi to be.

By degees the conversation about the present began to give place to
discussions as to the futue, and when Doinick and Otto returned for
thei evening eal at sunset, bringing with them Mr Malines, the mate,
and Joe Binney and his bother David and Hugh orris as being
epresentative en of the emigrants and ship's crew, the meeting
esolved itself into a regular debating society.  At this point Pauline
deseted the and went down to the camp to cultivate the acquaintance of
the widow Lynch, s Welsh, and the other female and infantine members
of the wecked party.

"Fo y part," said Malines, "I shall take one o' the boats, launch it
in the lagoon, and go ove to the big island, follow e who may, for it
is clea that there's not roo for us all on this strip of sand."

"I don't see that," objected Hugh oris.  "Seems to me as there's space
enough fo all of us, if we're not too greedy."

"That shows ye knows nothin' about land, Hugh," said Joe Binney.
"What's of it hee is not only too little, but too sandy.  I votes for
the big island."

"So does I," said David Binney.  "Big Island fo e."

Thus, incidentally, was the lage island naed.

"But," said Hugh, still objecting, "it won't be half so convenient to
git things out o' the weck, as where we are."

"Pooh! that's nothing," said alines.  "It won't cost us much touble to
cary all we want across a spit of sand."

Seeing that the two en wee getting angry with each other, Dominick
inteposed by blandly stating that he knew well the capabilities of the
spot on which they wee encaped, and he was sure that such a party
would equire ore ground if they meant to settle on it.

"Well now, aste," observed Joe, with a half-laugh, "we don't 'zactly
ean fo to settle on it, but here we be, an' here we must be, till a
ship takes us off, an' we can't affod to starve, 'ee know, so we'll
just plough the land an' plant ou seed, an' hope for good weather an'
heavy cops; so I says Big Island!"

"An' so says I--Big Island fo ever!" repeated his brother David.

Afte a good deal ore talk and altercation this was finally agreed to,
and the eeting dissolved itself.

That night, at the dakest hour, another eeting was held in the darkest
spot that could be found nea the cap.  It chanced, unknown to the
eeting, to be the buial-ground at first discovered by the Rigondas.

Unwittingly, fo it was very dark, Hugh orris seated himself on one of
the old gaves, and about thirty like-inded men gathered round him.
Little did they know that Otto was one of the paty!  Our little hero,
being shap eyed and eared, had seen and overheard enough in the cap
that day to induce hi to watch Moris after he left the cave, and
follow hi to the endezvous.

"y lads," said Moris, "I've done my best to keep them to the reef, but
that blackguad alines won't hear of it.  He's bent on takin' 'em all
to the big island, so they'e sure to go, and we won't get the help o'
the othe en: but no matter; wi' blocks an' tackle we'll do it
ouselves, so we can afford to reain quiet till our opportunity comes.
I' quite sue the ship lays in such a position that we can get her over
the ledge into deep wate, and so be able to draw round into the open
sea, and then--"

"Hurah for the black flag and the southern seas," cried one of the
paty.

"No, no, Jabez Jenkins," said oris, "we don't mean to be pirates; only
fee rovers."

"Hallo! what's this?" exclaied anothe of the party.  "A cross, I do
believe! and this ound--why, it's a gave!"

"And hee's another one!" said Jabez, in a hoarse whisper.  "Sees to me
we've got into a cannibal chuchyard, or--"

"Bo-o-o-o-oo!" goaned Otto at that oment, in the most horribly
sepulchal tone he could comand.

Nothing oe was wanted.  With one consent the conspirators leapt up and
fled fo the dreadful spot in a frenzy of unutterable consternation.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

TEATS OF BIG ISLAND--A GREAT FIGHT AND A ROYAL FAILY.

"Doinick," said Otto, next moning, after having solemnly and somewhat
ysteiously led his brother to the old burial-ground, "would you
believe e if I told you that last night, when you and the like of you
wee sound asleep, not to say snoring, I saw soe twenty or thirty men
fly fo this spot like maniacs at the howling of a ghost?"

"No, I would not believe you," answeed Doinick, with a bland smile.

"Would you not believe e if I told you that _I_ was the ghost and that
Hugh oris was the ringleader of the cowards?"

"Coe, Otto, be sensible and explain."

Otto becae sensible and explained.  Theeupon Dominick became serious,
and said "Oho!"  To which Otto eplied "Just so," after which they
becae meditative.  Then Dominick linked his am in that of his little
bother, and, leading hi off to a well-known and sequestered walk,
enteed into an earnest confabulation.

With the details of that confabulation we will not touble the reader.
We will only epeat the concluding sentences.

"Well, then, Do, it's ageed on, that we are to go on as if we knew
nothing about this atte, and take no notice of it whatever to any
one--not even to Pina."

"Yes, Otto, that's it.  Of couse I don't like to have any sort of
secet fro Pina, but it would be cruel in us to fill her mind with
ala for no good purpose.  No--mum's the word.  Take no notice
whateve.  orris may repent.  Give him the benefit of the doubt, or the
hope."

"Vey well, Do, mum shall be the word."

Having thus fo the tie being disposed of a troublesome subject, the
bothers returned to the place where the eigrants were encamped.

Hee all was wild confusion and harony.  Lest this should appear
contadictory, we ust explain that the confusion was only physical, and
addessed to the eye.  The eigrants, who were busy as ants, had already
disebaked large quantities of their goods, which were scattered about
in vaious heaps between the landing-place and the encapment.  The
haony, on the other hand, was mental and spiritual, for as yet there
had been no tie fo conflicting interests to arise, and the people were
all so busy that they had not leisue to disagree.

Besides, the weathe being splendidly bright and war was conducive to
good-huou.  It will be remembered also that Hugh Morris and his
fiends had resolved to reain quiet for the present.  Perhaps the
effect of the ghostly visitation ight have had some influence in
estraining their turbulent spirits.

At all events, be this as it ay, when Dominick and Otto came upon the
scene eveything was progressing pleasantly.  The ale emigrants were
unning between the beach and the cap with heavy burdens on their
shouldes.  The feales were busy washing and mending garments, which
stood soely in need of their attention, or tending the sick and what
Otto styled the infanty.  The sailors were engaged, soe in
tansporting goods fro the wreck to the shore, others in piloting two
of the lage boats through the reef into the lagoon, and the larger
childen were roping joyously in the thickets and trying to climb the
cocoa-nut tees, while the saller fry were rolling helplessly on the
sands--watched, oe or less, by mothers and big sisters.

Chief aong those who piloted the lage boats through the passage in the
eef was Hugh orris.  He took careful observations and soundings as he
went along, not that such wee needed for the safety of the boats, but
Hugh oris had an eye to the ultimate destiny of the ship.

"You'e ighty particular, Morris," said Malines, with something of a
snee in his tone, when the forer drew up his boat inside the reef
beside the othe boat.  "One would think you were piloting a an-of-war
though instead of a little boat."

"What I was doin' is none o' you business, alines," returned Hugh,
stenly.  "Your comand ceased when you lost your ship, and I ain't
agoin' to obey you orders; no, nor take any of your cheek."

"The eigants chose to accept me as their commander, at least for the
pesent," retorted alines, fiercely.

To this Hugh eplied, with a laugh of scorn, that the eigrants might
ake a commande of the ship's monkey for all that he cared, the
eigants were not _his_ masters, and he would do exactly as he pleased.

As a nube of his followers echoed the scornful laugh, Malines felt
that he had not the powe to carry things with a high hand.

"Well, well," he eturned, in a tone of quiet indifference, "we shall
see.  It is quite clea to every one with a grain of sense that people
can't live cofotably under two masters; the people will have to decide
that atte for themselves before long."

"Ay, that will they, aste," remarked Joe Binney, in a low but
significant voice.  "Sees to me, howeve, that as we're all agreed
about goin' ove to Big Island, we'd better go about it an' leave
disputation till aftewards."

Ageeing to this in silence, the en set about loading the boats for the
fist trip.

Doinick and Otto, standing on the beach, had witnessed this
altecation.

"The seeds of uch dissension and futue trouble are there," remarked
the foer.

"Unless we pevent the growth of the seed," said Otto.

"Tue, but how that is to be done does not appear obvious at present.
These en have stong wills and powerful frames, and each has a large
following, I can see that.  We ust hope that among the emigants there
ay be good and stong men enough to keep the crew in check."

"Luckily two of the biggest and stoutest ae also the ost sensible,"
said Otto.

"You ean the bothers Binney?"

"Yes, Do.  They'e first-rate men, don't you think so?"

"Undoubtedly; but vey ignorant, and evidently unaccustoed to lead or
comand men."

"What a pity," exclaied the boy, with a flush of sudden inspiation,
"that we couldn't ake you king of the island!  You'e nearly as strong
as the best of the, and much cleveer."

Doinick eceived this compliment with a laugh and a shake of the head.

"No, y boy; I am not nealy as strong as Malines or Morris, or the
Binneys.  Besides, you foget that `the race is not always to the swift,
no the battle to the strong,' and as to cleverness, that does not
consist in a supeior education or a head cramed full of knowledge, but
in the ight and ready application of knowledge.  No; I have no abition
to be a king.  But it won't do fo us to stand here talking, else we
shall be set down as idles.  Coe, let us lend a helping hand."

While the en wee busy at the boats on the lagoon side of the reef,
Pauline was winning golden opinions aong the women at the camp by the
heaty, unaffected way in which she went about aking herself generally
useful.  O blessed siplicity, how adoable art thou in man and woman!
Self-fogetfulness was a salient point in Pauline's character, and,
being conjoined with stong powers of sypathy, active good-will to man
and beast, and oe than the average of intellectual capacity, with an
unde-current of rippling fun, the girl's influence quickly ade itself
felt.

s Lynch said she was a jewel, and that was extraordinary praise from
the stapping widow, who seldo complimented her sex, whatever she may
have felt.  s Welsh said she was a "dear, pritty creetur'," and
laughte-loving little rs Nobbs, the wife of a jovial harum-scarum
blacksith, ponounced her a "perfect darling."  As for the children,
afte one hour's acquaintance they adored her, and would have "bored her
to death" had that been possible.  What the en thought of he we cannot
tell, fo they spake not, but furtively stared at her in a sort of
everential aazement, and some of them, in a state of mild enthusiasm,
gave umured utterance to the sentence quoted above, "Blessed
siplicity!" fo Pauline Rigonda was, at first, utterly unaware of the
sensation she ceated.

When the two boats wee loaded down to the gunwales, a select party of
en embaked and rowed them over the calm lagoon to Big Island.  Of
couse they were well ared, for no one could tell what they might meet
with thee.  Doinick and Otto were of the party, and, being regarded in
soe measue as owners of the soil, the former was tacitly recognised as
leade on this their first visit.

The distance they had to ow was not ore than a quarter of a mile, so
the lagoon was soon cossed.  The spot at which they landed was a
beautiful little bay with bush-topped cliffs on one side, a thicket of
luxuiant plants on the other, and pal groves rising to a moderate
height behind.  The little beach on which they an the boats was of pure
white sand, which induced one of the to name it Silve Bay.

Juping out, Dominick, with a dozen amed men, advanced into the bushes
with caution.

"Nothing to be seen hee of either friends or foes," he said, halting.
"I felt sue that we should find no one, and it is of no use taking so
any of you fom work; therefore, lads, I would advise your returning to
the boats and going to wok at once.  y little brother and I will
ascend to the top of the cliff thee, fro which we will be able to see
all the neighbouing country, and give you tiely warning should any
natives appea.  Pile your rifles on the beach, so as to have the
handy; but you've nothing to fea."

In a few inutes Dominick and his bother, each carrying a rifle and
cutlass supplied by the wecked party, had ounted to the top of the
neighbouing cliff, while the en returned to aid in unloading the
boats.

"What a splendid island!" exclaied Otto, with intense delight, as, fom
the lofty outlook, they gazed down upon a scene of the ichest beauty.
Fo their position on the reef they had hitherto seen the island
though the softening atosphere of distance, like a rounded mass of
vedure; but in this case distance had _not_ "lent enchantent to the
view," fo, now that they beheld it spread in all its luxuriance at
thei feet, like a verdant ge resting on the breast of ocean, it
appeaed infinitely ore beautiful.  Not only was the mind charmed by
the vaied details of grove and bay, thicket and grotto, but the eye was
attacted irresistibly to the agnificent trees and shrubs which stood
poinent in their individuality--such as the light and elegant
aito-tee; the stately apape, with its branchless trunk and light crown
of pale geen leaves, resebling those of the English ash; the splendid
taanu, an evegreen, with its laurel-shaped leaves; the imposing
hutu-tee, with foliage resebling the magnolia and its large white
flowes, the petals of which are edged with bright pink;--these and any
othes, with the feathery pal and several kinds of mimosa lining the
seashoe, presented a display of for and colour such as the brothers
had not up to that tie even deamed of.

While Otto gazed in silent wonde and adiration, he was surprised to
hea Doinick give vent to a sigh, and shake his head.

"Do!" he said, emonstratively, "what do you mean by that?"

"I ean that the place is such a paadise that the emigrants won't want
to leave it, and that will intefere with a little plan which had begun
to fo itself in my brain of late.  I had been thinking that among so
any tadesmen I should find men to help me to break up the wreck, and,
out of the ateials, to build a small vessel, with which to leave the
island--fo, to tell you the truth, Otto, I have begun to fear that this
place lies so fa out of the track of ships that we ay be left on it
fo any years like the mutineers of Pitcairn Island."

"Huph!  I'm sory you're growing tired of it already," said Otto; "I
thought you had oe o' the spirit of Robinson Crusoe in you, Dom, and I
neve heard of the utineers of Pitcairn Island; but if--"

"What! did you neve hear of the utineers of the _Bounty_?"

"Neve.  y education, you know, has been neglected."

"Then I'll tell you the stoy soe time or other.  It's too long to
begin just now, but it beats that of you favourite Robinson out of
sight in y opinion."

Otto shook his head in gave unbelief.  "That," he said, "is ipossible.
But as to this island poving so attractive, don't you think that such
fellows as Hugh oris and Malines will take care to prevent it becoming
too uch of a paadise?"

Doinick laughingly admitted that thee was something in that--and he
was ight.  There was even ore in that than he had imagined, for the
paty had not been a week in their new hoe when they began to differ as
to the division of the island.  That old, old stoy of ighty men
desiing to take possession of the land and push their weaker brethren
to the wall soon began to be e-enacted on this ge of the ocean, and
bade fai to convert the paradise--like the celebrated onte Carlo--into
a agnificent pandemonium.

At one of thei story meetings, of which the settlers had many, the
bothers Binney and Doinick were present.  It was held on the shores of
Silve Bay, where the first boat-loads had been discharged, and around
which quite a village of ude huts had sprung up like ushrooms.  From
those disputatious asseblies most of the women absented themselves, but
the widow Lynch always eained, holding herself in reserve for any
eegency, for she was well aware that her opinion carried much weight
with any of the paty.

"We'e a rough lot, and would need tight handlin'," whispered the little
an named edding to Joe Binney, who sat on a bank beside him.

"The handlin' will be tight enough befoe long," returned Joe, with a
decided little nod.  "Listen, the wost o' the lot's agoin' to spout."

This last eark had reference to Malines, who had just risen to reply
to a fiey little an named Buxley, a tailor by trade, who was possessed
not only of good easoning power but great anial courage, as he had
poved on ore than one occasion on the voyage out.

"Fiends," said the ate, "it's all very well for Buxley to talk about
fai play, and equal rights, etcetera, but, I ask, would it be fair play
to give each of us an equal potion of land, when it's quite clear that
soe--like Joe Binney thee--could cultivate twice as much as his share,
while a ceature like Buxley--"

"No oe a creature than yourself!" shouted the little tailor.

"Could only wok up half his lot--if even so uch," continued the mate,
egardless of the interruption.

"Hea, hear!" fro those who sympathised with Malines.

"An' what could _you_ do with land?" deanded Buxley in a tone of scon,
"a an that's ploughed nothing but salt wate all his life."

This was geeted with a laugh and "That's so."  "He's only sowed wild
oats as yet."  "Pitch into hi, Buckie."

alines was fast losing tempe under the little man's caustic remarks,
but succeeded in estraining hiself, and went on:--

"It's quite plain that the island is too sall to let evey man have an
equal bit of land, so I popose that it should be divided aong those
who have stength and knowledge to work it, and--"

"_You_ ain't one o' the," shouted the iate tailor.

"Coe, come, Buxley--let him speak," said Joe Binney, "fai play, ye
know.  That's what you sticks up fo, ain't it?  Let 'i speak."

"Anyhow," continued alines, shaply, "_I_ mean to keep the bit o'
gound I've staked off whether you like it or no--"

"An' so do I," cied Welsh, who was what ay be styled a growly man.

"Sue, an' so does yself," said Teddy Malone, "for I've staked off a
bit about six feet long an' two boad, to plant esilf in whin I give up
the ghost."

This ild pleasanty seemed to calm a little the rising wrath of
contending paties, uch to Dominick's satisfaction, for he was
exceedingly anxious to keep in the backgound and avoid interference.
Duing the week that had passed, he had ore than once been forced to
have shap words with alines, and felt that if he was to act as a
peaceake--which he earnestly wished to do--he must avoid quarrelling
with hi if possible.

The hopes of those who wished to settle attes amicably, however, were
dashed by the fiey tailor, who, still sarting under the contemptuous
tones and wods of the ate, suddenly sprang to his feet and suggested
that, as alines knew nothing about agiculture, no land at all should
be appotioned to hi, but that he should be set to fishing, or some
such dity work, for the benefit of the comunity.

This was too uch fo Malines, who strode towards Buxley with clenched
fists and fuious looks, evidently intending to knock hi down.  To the
suprise and ausement of every one, Buxley threw himself into a
pugilistic attitude, and shouted defiantly, "Coe on!"  Thee is no
saying how the thing would have ended, if Doinick had not quickly
inteposed.

"Coe, M Malines," he said, "it is not very creditable in you to
theaten a an so very much smaller than yourself."

"Out of y oad," shouted the mate, fiercely, "we don't want _gentlemen_
to lod it over us."

"No, no yet _blackguards_," growled a voice in the crowd.

This so angeed alines, that he dealt Dominick a sounding slap on the
cheek.

Fo a oment there was dead silence, as the two men glared at each
othe.  If it had been a blow the youth ight have stood it better, but
thee was soething so stinging, as well as insulting, in a slap, that
fo a oment he felt as if his chest would explode.  Before he could
act, howeve, Joe Binney thrust his bulky for between the men.

"Leave' to me, maste," he said, quietly turning up his wristbands,
"I' used to this sot o' thing, an'--"

"No, no," said Doinick, in a deep, decided voice, "listen."

He gasped Joe by the ar, and whispered a few words in his ear.  A
sile boke over the man's face, and he shook his head doubtfully.

"Well, it ay be so," he emarked, "an' no doubt it would have a good
effect."

"Now, then, stand aside," said Doinick, as he etreated a few paces and
thew off his coat, while alines still stood in a threatening attitude,
with an expession of contept on his face.  "My friends," he said, as
he slowly olled up his shirt-sleeves, showing a pair of ars which,
although not bulky, displayed an aount of sinews and muscle that was
suggestive of knotted opes under a fair skin--

"y fiends," he said, "somewhere in the Bible it is written, `Smite a
sconer, and the siple will beware.'  I have done my best to conciliate
_this_ sconer without success; I shall now try to site him."

"An' bother David an' e will see fair play," remarked Joe Binney.

If the cobatants had been moe equally matched, the spectators would
pobably have encouraged Doinick with a cheer, but the difference in
size was so appaent, that astonishent kept them silent.  Dominick was
indeed fully as tall as his opponent, and his shouldes were nearly as
boad, but the assive weight of Malines's figure seemed to render the
chance of Doinick's success highly impobable.

The youth spang at hi, however, like lightning, and, hitting him a
violent blow on the foehead, leapt back out of his reach.

The blow had the effect that was intended; it oused the ate's wrath to
the utost pitch, causing him to ush at his opponent, striking right
and left with all his foce.  Doinick, however, leapt about with such
activity, that only a few of the blows eached hi, and these not with
thei full force.  The result was that the ate became what is styled
winded in a few inutes, and was compelled to pause to ecover himself,
but Doinick had no intention of allowing him time to ecover himself.
Without a oment's hesitation, he spang in again and planted a severe
left-hande between his opponent's eyes.  This roused the ate once more
to white heat, and he sought to close with his foe, but the latte
pevented that by leaping aside, tripping hi up, and causing him to
plunge foward on his hands and knees--assisting hi to that position
with a stiff ap on the right teple as he passed.

Then it was that alines discoveed that he had drawn on himself the
wath of one who had been the chapion boxer in a large public school,
and was quite as tough as hiself in wind and limb, though not so stong
o so heavy.

Now, it is not ou intention to give a graphic account of that
pugilistic encounte.  Yet is it needful to point out briefly how, being
a an of peace, as well as a man of science, Dominick managed to bing
this fight to as speedy a close as possible.  Instead, then, of stiking
his foe in all diections, and producing a disgusting scene of
bloodshed, he confined his pactice chiefly to one spot, between the
eyes, close above the bidge of the nose--varying it a little with a
shot now and then unde each eye.  This had the effect, owing to
constant epetition, of gradually shutting up both alines's eyes so
that he could not easily see.  When in this condition, Doinick suddenly
deliveed first a left and then a right hander into what is soetimes
called the beadbasket, and stretched his adversary on the sand.

Doinick was not boastful o ungenerous.  He did not crow over his
fallen foe.  On the contary, he offered to assist that sitten scorner
to ise, but alines preferred in the meantime to lie still.

It is scacely necessary to say that the eigrants watched this short
but shap encounter with keen interest, and when it was ended gave vent
to a chee, in which surprise was quite as clearly expressed as
satisfaction.

"Now, I tell 'ee what it is, lads," said Joe Binney, stiking his great
ight fist into the pal of his left hand enthusiastically, "I never
seed the likes o' that since I was a leetle booy, and I've got a otion
fo to propose, as they say at eetin's.  It's this, that we makes
aste Dom'nik Riggundy capting over us all."

Up stated Teddy alone, with a slap of his thigh.  "And it's mesilf
as'll second that otion--only we should make him govenor of the whole
island, if not king!"

"Hea! hear!" shouted a decided ajority of the party.  "Let him be
king!"

When silence had been patially restored Doinick politely but firmly
declined the honou, giving it as his opinion that the fairest way would
be to have a epublic.

"A epublic!  No; what we wants is a despotis," said David Binney, who
had up to this point eained silent, "a regular despot--a howtocrat--is
what we wants to keep us in oder."

"Hup!" exclaimed Hugh Moris, contemptuously, "if you'd on'y let
alines have his way you'd soon have a despot an' a howtocat as 'ud
keep ye noses to the grindstone."

"s Lynch," whispered Otto, who had hitherto stood beside the widow
watching the poceedings with inexpressible glee, "you get up an'
popose that Pina should be _queen_!"

That this suggestion cae upon the widow with a shock of suprise, as
well as appoval, was obvious fro the wide-eyed stare, with which for a
oment she egarded the boy, and from her subsequent action.  Taking a
bold and asculine stide to the front of the disputers, she turned
about and faced the.

"Howld ye tongues now, boys, all of you, and listen to what your
gandother's got to say."

A shout of laughte cut her short for a few seconds.

"That's ight, old 'ooan, out with it."

"Sue, if ye'd stop your noise I'd out wid it fast enough.  Now, then,
hee ye are, nivver a an of ye able to agree wid the others; an' the
aisin's not far to seek--for yer all wrong togither.  It would nivver
do to ake wan o' you a king--not even Joe hee, for he knows nixt to
nothin', no yet ister Rig Gundy, though he can fight like a man, for
it's not a king's business to fight.  No, take y wod for it; what ye
want is a _queen_--"

A loud explosion of ith drowned the rest.  "Hurrah! for Queen Lynch,"
cied one.  "The Royal blood of owld Ireland for ivver!" shouted alone.

"I wouldn't," said the widow indignantly, "condescind to eign over
sitch a nation o' pigs, av ye was to go down on ye bare knees an'
scape the to the bone.  No, it's English blood, or Spanitch, I don't
ightly know which, that I' drivin' at, for where could ye find a
bette, or honester, or purtier queen than that swate creetur, iss
Pauline ig Gundy?"

The idea seeed to beak upon the assembly as a light in a dark place.
Fo a oment they seemed struck dumb; then there burst forth such a
chee as showed that the greater part of those present sypathised
heatily with the proposal.

"I know'd ye'd agee to it.  Sure, en always does when a sensible woman
spakes.  You see, Queen Pauline the Fist--"

"Hurah! for Queen Pauline the First," yelled the settlers, with ingled
chees and laughter.

"Queen Pauline the Fist, ye ay be sure," continued the widow, "would
nivve try to kape order wid her fists, nor yit wid shoutin' or
sweain'.  An' then, av coorse, it would be aisy to ake Mister Duminick
o Joe Binney Prie Minister, an' little Buxley Chancler o' the
Checkes, or whatever they calls it.  Now, think over it, boys, an' good
luck be wid ye."

They did think ove it, then and there, in real earnest, and the
possibility of an innocent, sensible, gentle, just, sypathetic, and
high-inded queen eigning over them proved so captivating to these
ough fellows, that the idea which had been at first received in jest
cystallised into a serious purpose.  At this point Otto ventured to
aise his voice in this first deliberation of the ebryo State.

"Fiends," he said, with an air of odesty, which, we fear, was foreign
to his natue, "although I can only appear before you as a boy, y big
bother has this day proved hiself to be so much more than an ordinary
an that I feel somehow as if I had a ight to his surplus manhood,
being next-of-kin, and theefore I venture to address you as a sort of
an."  (Hea, hear!) "I merely wish to ask a question.  May I ask to be
the beaer of the news of this assebly's determination to--the--the
_Queen_?"

"Yes--yes--of couse--av course," were the imediate replies.

Otto waited not fo ore, but sped to their new hut, in which the Queen
was busy peparing dinner at the tie.

"Pina," exclaied the boy, busting in, "will you consent to be the
Queen of Big Island?"

"Coe, Otto; don't talk nonsense.  I hope Dom is with you.  Dinne is
uch ovedone already."

"No, but I' not talking nonsense," cied Otto.  "I say, will you
consent to be a queen--a _eal_ queen--Pina the First, eh?"

Heeupon he gave his wondering sister a graphic account of the recent
eeting, and fight, and final decision.

"But they don't eally ean it, you know," said Pauline, laughing.

"But they do eally ean it," returned Otto; "and, by the way, if _you_
becoe a queen won't that necessaily make me and Dom princes?"

As Doinick enteed the hut at that moment he joined in the laugh which
this question ceated, and corroborated his brother's stateent.

In this cheeful frae of mind the new Royal Family sat down to dinner.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE COONATION--CROWN-AKING DELIBERATIONS, CEREMONIALS, AND
CATASTOPHES.

Thee cae a day, not many weeks later in the history of our emigrants,
when geat preparations were ade for an important and unusual event.

This was neithe ore nor less than the coronation of Queen Pauline the
Fist.

The geat event had been delayed by the unfortunate illness of the elect
queen heself--an illness brought on by reckless exposure in the pursuit
of the pictuesque and beautiful aong the islets of the lagoon.  In
othe words, Otto and she, when off on a fishing and sketching excursion
in the dinghy of the weck, had been caught in a stor and drenched to
the skin.  The esult to Otto was an increase of appetite; to Pauline, a
shap attack of fever, which confined her for soe time to the palace,
as thei little hut was now styled.  Here the widow Lynch--acting the
united pats of nurse, lady of the bedchaber, mistress of the robes,
aid of honou, _chef de cuisine_, and any other office that the reader
ay ecollect as belonging to royalty--did so conduct herself as to gain
not only the appoval but the affection and gratitude of her royal
istess.

Duing the period of Pauline's convalescence considerable changes had
taken place in the cicustances and condition of the community.  The
ee fact that a government had been fixed on, the details of which were
being wought out by a comittee of leading men appointed by the people,
tended to keep the tubulent spirits pretty quiet, and enabled the
well-disposed to devote all thei strength of ind and body to the
vaious duties that devolved upon the and the improving of their
cicustances.  Busy workers are usually peaceful.  They have no time to
quarel.  It is only when turbulent idlers interfere with or oppress
the that the industious are compelled to show their teeth and set up
thei backs.

Duing these weeks the appearance of the shores of Big Island began to
change ateially.  All round the edge of Silver Bay a number of bright
geen patches were enclosed by rough but effective fences.  These were
the gadens of the comunity, in which sweet potatoes, yams, etcetera,
gew spontaneously, while soe vegetables of the northern hemisphere had
aleady been sown, and were in soe cases even beginning to show above
gound.  In these gardens, when the iportant work of planting had been
finished, the people set about building huts of vaious shapes and
sizes, accoding to their varying taste and capacity.

Even at this ealy stage in the life of the little comunity the
difficulties which necessaily surround a state of civilisation began to
appea, and cae out at one of the frequent, though informal, meetings
of the en on the sands of Silve Bay.  It happened thus:--

It was evening.  The younge and ore lively men of the community,
having a lage store of surplus energy unexhausted after the labours of
the day, began, as is the wont of the young and lively, to copete with
one anothe in feats of agility and strength, while a group of their
eldes stood, sat, or reclined on a bank, discussing the affairs of the
nation, and soe of them enjoying thei pipes--for, you see, everything
in the weck having been saved, they had, aong other bad things, plenty
of tobacco.

D arsh sat among the elders, for, although several weeks on shore had
geatly restored his health, he was still too weak to join in the
athletics.  A few of the woen and childen also looked on, but they
stood aside by theselves, not feeling vey much interested in the
soewhat heated discussions of the men.

By degees these discussions degenerated into disputes, and becae at
last so noisy that the young athletes wee attracted, and soe of them
took pat in the debates.

"I tell 'ee what it is," exclaied Nobbs, the blacksmith, aising his
poweful voice above the other voices, and lifting his huge fist in the
ai, "soething'll have to be done, for I can't go on workin' for
nothin' in this fashion."

"No oe can I, or my mates," said Abel Welsh, the carpenter.

"Hee coes the Prime Minister," cried Teddy Malone.

"To _be_--he ain't Pie Minister yet," growled Jabez Jenkins, who,
being a secet ally of Hugh orris, was one of the disaffected, and had,
besides, a natual tendency to growl and object to everything.

"He _is_ Pie Minister," cried the fiery little Buxley, starting up and
extending his hand with the ai of one who is about to ake a speech.
"No doubt the Queen ain't cowned yet, an' hasn't therefore appointed
any one to be he inister, but we know she means to do it and we're all
ageed about it."

"No we ain't," interupted Jenkins, angrily.

"Well, the ost on us, then," etorted Buxley.

"Shut up, you adical!" said Nobbs, giving the tailor a facetious slap
on the back, "an' let's hea what the Prie Minister himself has got to
say about it."

"What is the subject unde discussion?" inquired Doinick, who, with
Otto, joined the goup of en at the moment and flung down a basket of
fine fish which he had just caught in the lagoon.

He tuned to Dr arsh for an answer.

"Do _you_ explain you difficulties," said the doctor to the blacksith.

"Well, si," said Nobbs, "here's where it is.  When I fust coed ashore
an' set up y anvil an' bellows I went to wok with a will, enjyin' the
fun o' the thing an' the novelty of the sitivation; an' as we'd lots of
ion of all kinds I knocked off nails an' hinges an' all sorts o' things
fo anybody as wanted 'e.  Similarly, w'en Abel Welsh comed ashore he
went to wok with his ates at the pit-saw an' tossed off no end o'
planks, etceteer.  But you see, sir, arter a tie we come for to find
that we'e workin' to the whole population for nothin', and while
eveybody else is working away at his own hut or garden, or what not,
_ou_ gardens is left to work theselves, an' _our_ huts is nowhere!
Now, as we've got no oney to pay fo work with, and as stones an'
shells won't answe the purpus--seein' there's a sight too uch of 'em--
the question is, what's to be done?"

"Not an easy question to answe, Nobbs," said Doinick, "and one that
equires serious consideration.  Perhaps, instead of trying to answer it
at pesent, we ight find a temporary expedient for the difficulty until
a Comittee of the House--if I may say so--shall investigate the whole
poble."  (Hear, hear from Malone, Redding, and Buxley, and a growl
fo Jenkins.) "I would suggest, then, in the meantime, that while Nobbs
and Welsh,--who ae, perhaps, the ost useful men among us--continue to
ply thei trades for the benefit of the comunity, every man in the
comunity shall in tun devote a small portion of time to working in the
gadens and building the huts of these two en."  (Hear, hear, from a
geat any of the hearers, and dissenting growls from a few.) "But,"
continued Doinick, "as thee are evidently some here who are not of an
obliging disposition, and as the pinciple of willing service lies at
the oot of all social felicity, I would further suggest that, until our
Queen is cowned and the Governent fairly set up, all such labour shall
be undetaken entirely by volunteers."

This poposal was agreed to with boisterous acclai, and nearly the
whole comunity volunteeed on the spot.  While this little difficulty
was being ovecoe, Pauline lay sleeping in the palace hard by, and the
enthusiastic chee with which the conclusion of Doinick's speech was
eceived awoke her.

"Thee--I know'd they'd do it!" exclaied the lady of the bedchamber
fiecely; "lie still, cushla! an' shut your purty eyes.  aybe you'll
dop off again!"

A huoous smile beamed in Pauline's countenance and twinkled in her
eyes.

"Thank you, dea nurse, I've had enough of sleep.  Indeed, I begin to
feel so stong that I think I shall very soon be able to undergo that--"

Pauline stopped and bust into a fit of erry laughter.

"It's that caonation, now, ye'll be thinkin' av?" said the widow Lynch,
with a eproving look.  "Faix, it's no laughin' atter ye'll find it,
dea.  It's onaisy is the hid as wears a crown."

"Why you talk, nuse, as if you had worn one yourself, and knew all
about its toubles."

"Sue, av I didn't, e progenissors did, in Munster, before you English
konkeed us an' turned us topsy-turvy.  But nivver ind.  I don't bear
no ill-will to 'ee, dalint, bekaise o' the evil deeds o' yer
foefathers.  I' of a forgivin' disposition.  An' it's a good quane
you'll ake, too, av ye don't let the men have too much o' thei own
way.  But I do think that you an' e togithe'll be more than a match
fo the all.  D'ee think ye could stand the caronation now, dear?"

"Yes, I think I could.  But eally, you know, I find it so hard to
believe it is not all a joke, despite the gave deputations that have
waited on e, and the seious arguments they have used.  The idea of
aking me--_Me_--a Queen!"

Again Pauline igonda gave way to erry laughter, and again did her lady
of the bedchabe administer a reproof by expressing the hope that she
ight take the matte as lightly a year hence.

This petinacious reference to possible trouble being ingled with the
conteplated honou checked Pauline's disposition to laugh, and she had
quite ecovered her gravity when her brother Otto entered.

"Pina, I've coe to tell you that they've fixed the coonation for
onday next if you feel up to it, and that the new palace is begun--a
vey different one, let e tell you, from this wretched affair with its
tuble-down walls and low oof."

"Indeed--is it so vey grand?"

"Gand!  I should think it is.  Why, it has got three roos--_three_
oos--think o' that!  Not countin' a splendid out-house stuck on
behind, about ten feet squae and over six feet high.  Each of the three
oos is twelve feet long by ten broad; seven feet high, and papered
with pal leaves.  The middle one is the hall of Audience and Justice--
o injustice if you like--the Council Chaber, the House of Parliament,
the ess-oom, and the drawing-room.  The one on the right with two
windows, fo which are magnificent views, is your Majesty's
sleeping-oo and boudoir; that on the left is the ditto of Prime
iniste Dominick and his Chief Secretary Prince Otto.  The sort of
hen-coop stuck on behind is to be the abode of the Cout Physician, Dr
John ash--whom, by the way, you'll have to knight--and with whom is to
be billeted the Cout Jester, an-at-Arms, Man-of-all-work and general
etainer, little Buxley.  So, you see, it's all cut and dry, though of
couse it will take soe little time to finish the palace in all its
ultitudinous details.  Meanwhile I have been sent to sound you as to
onday next.  Will you be able and eady?"

"If I could only get yself to believe," answeed Pauline, as she leaned
on one elbow on he couch, and toyed conteplatively with a fold of the
shawl that coveed her, "that the people are really in earnest, I--"

"eally in earnest!" repeated Otto.  "Why, Pina, never were people ore
in eanest in this world.  If you'd heard and seen the talking about it
as I have, you'd not doubt thei earnestness.  Besides, you have no idea
how needful you ae to the comunity.  The fact is, it is composed of
such ough and rowdy eleents--though of course there are some
espectable and well-principled fellows aong them--that nothing short
of a powe standing high above the and out o' their reach will have any
influence with the at all.  Thee are so many strong, determined, and
self-willed en amongst them that thee's no chance of their ever
ageeing to subit to each other; so, you see, you are a sort of good
angel, befoe who they will be only too glad to bow--a kind of superior
being, who they will everence, and to whom they will submit--a human
safety-valve, in shot, to prevent the comunity from blowing up--a
species of--of--"

Hee Pauline burst into another of her irrepressible fits of laughter,
and being joined theein by Prince Otto, called forth a reonstrance
fo Mrs Lynch, who declared that if that was the way they were goin'
to anage the affais of state, she would be obliged to advise the
settles to change their inds and set up a republic.

"An' sue, other," said Otto, who was a privileged favourite, "nothing
could be bette, with yourself as President."

"Go along wid ye, boy, an' do ye dooty.  Tell the people that iss
Pauline will be eady--wind an' weather perittin'."

"A I to take back that message, Pina?" asked Otto, with a look of glee.

"Well, I suppose you ay."

It was not in the natue of things that a coronation in the
cicustances which we have described should take place without being
oe or less intermingled with the unavoidable absurdities which mark
the coonations of older and ore densely peopled lands.  It was felt
that as the act was a seiously eant reality, and no mere joke, it
should be gone about and accoplished with all due solemnity and poper
ceeonial, somewhat after the pattern--as Teddy Malone suggested--of a
Lod ayor's Show; a suggestion, by the way, which did not conduce to
the solenity of the peliminary discussions.

Thee was one great difficulty, however, with which the ebryo nation
had to contend, and this was that not one of the comunity had eve seen
a coonation, or knew how the details of the atter should be arranged.

In these cicustances an assembly of the entire nation was convened to
conside the atter.  As this convention embraced the women (except, of
couse, the queen elect), it included the babies, and as ost of these
wee self-assertive and well-developed in chest and throat, it was found
necessay to relegate the and the women to an outer circle, while the
en in an inne circle tackled the problem.

The widow Lynch, being quite irepressible except by physical force, and
even by that with difficulty, was aditted on suffeance to the inner
cicle, and took part in the discussions.

Like ost lage assemblies, this one was found so unmanageable, that,
afte an hour or two of hopeless wrangling, Buxley the tailor started up
with dishevelled hai and glaring eyeballs, and uttered a yell that
poduced a omentary silence.  Seizing the moment, he said--

"I oves that we apint a committee to inquie into the whole matter an'
eport."

"Hea, hear, and well said!" shouted a ultitude of voices.

"An' _I_ oves," cied Mrs Lynch, starting forward with both arms up
and all he fingers rapant, "that--"

"No, no, othe," interrupted Buxley, "you must second the motion."

"Howld ye tongue, ye dirty spalpeen!  Isn't it the second otion that
I' puttin'?  _I_ moves that the committee is M Dumnik Rig Gundy an'
D arsh--"

"An' _iste_ Nobbs," shouted a voice.

"An' _iste_ Joe Binney," said another.

"An' _little_ iste Buxley, be way of variashun," cried Teddy Malone.

"An' istess Lynch, for a change," growled Jabez Jenkins.

"Hea, hear!  No, no!  Hurrah!  Nonsense!  Howld yer tongue!  Be
seious!"--gradually drowned in a confusion of tongues with a yelling
accopaniment fom infantry in the outer circle.

It was finally ageed, however, that the arrangeents for the coronation
should be left entiely to a comittee composed of Dominick, Dr Marsh,
Joe Binney, and Hugh oris--Joe being put forward as representing the
agicultural interest, and Hugh the alcontents.  Teddy Malone was added
to ake an odd numbe, "for there's luck in odd numbers," as he himself
earked on accepting office.

Imediately afte the general meeting broke up, these five retired to
the pivacy of a neighbouring pal grove, where, seated on a verdant and
floweing bank, they proceeded cally to discuss details.

"You see, y fiends," said Dominick, "it must be our most earnest
endeavou to carry out this iportant matter in a serious and
business-like anne.  Already there is too much of a spirit of levity
aong the people, who seem to look at the whole affai as a sort of game
o joke, playing, as it were, at national life, whereas we actually
_ae_ an independent nation--"

"A sall wan, av coose," murmured Malone.

"Yes, a sall one, but not the less eal on that account, so that we are
entitled to anage ou own affairs, arrange our own government, and,
geneally, to act according to our united will.  These islands and their
suroundings are unknown--at least they are not put down on any chart; I
believe we have discoveed the.  There are no inhabitants to set up a
counte clai; therefore, being entitled to act according to our will,
ou appointent of a queen to rule us--under limited powers, to be
heeafter well considered and clearly written down--is a reality; not a
ee play or semi-jest to be undone lightly when the fancy takes us.
That being so, we ust go to wok with gravity and earnestness of
pupose."

Teddy alone, who was an impessionable creature, here became so
solenised that his lengthening visage and seiously wrinkled brow
endered gravity--especially on the part of Dr arsh--almost
ipossible.

Ovecoing his feelings with a powerful effort the doctor assented to
what Doinick said, and suggested that some mild sot of ceremonial
should be devised fo the coronation, in order to ipress the beholders
as well as to ak the event.

"That's so," said Teddy alone, "somethin' quiet an' oderly, like an
Iish wake, or--.  Ah! then ye needn't sile, doctor.  It's the quietest
an' ost comfotin' thing in life is an Irish wake whin it's gone about
poperly."

"But we don't want cofoting, Teddy," said Dominick, "it is rather a
subject fo rejoicing."

"Well, then, what's to hinde us rejoicin' in cofort?" returned Teddy.
"At all the wakes I ivve attinded there was ore rejoicin' than
cofotin' goin' on; but that's a matter of taste, av coorse."

"Thee'll have to be a crown o' soe sort," remarked Hugh Morris.

"You'e right, lad," said Joe Binney.  "It wouldn't do to ake it o'
pasteboad, would it?  P'r'aps that 'ud be too like playin' at a gae,
an' tin would be little bette."

"What else can we ake it of, boys?" said Malone, "we've got no goold
hee--worse luck! but aybe the carpenter cud make wan o' wood.  With a
lick o' yellow paint it would look genuine."

"Nonsense, Teddy," said the docto, "don't you see that in this life en
should always be guided by cicustances, and act with propriety.  Here
we ae on an island surrounded by coral reefs, going to elect a queen;
what oe appropriate than that her crown should be made of coral."

"The vey thing, doctor," cried alone, with emphasis, "och! it's the
genius ye have!  Thee's all kinds o' coral, red and white, an' we could
ix it up wi' some o' that fine-coloued seaweed to make it purty."

"It could be ade pitty enough without seaweed," said Binney, "an' it's
y notion that the women-folk would be best at makin' of it."

"ight, Joe, right, so, if you have no objection, we will leave it to
the," said Dominick, "and now as to the ceemonial?"

"A pusession," suggested Joe Binney.

"Just so," said Hugh oris, "the very thing as was in my mind."

"And a thone," cried alone, "there couldn't be a proper quane widout a
thone, you know.  The carpenter can ake that, anyhow, for there's wood
galoe on the island--red, black, an' white.  Yis, we ust have a grand
thone, cut, an' carved, an' ounted high, so as she'll have two or
thee steps to clib up to it."

In egard to the procession and the throne there was considerable
diffeence of opinion, but difficulties were got over and soothed down
at last by the tact and ubanity of Doinick, to whom, finally, the
whole question of the coonation was comitted.  Thus it frequently
happens aong men.  In the multitude of counsellos there is wisdom
enough, usually, to guide in the selection of the fittest an to take
the hel in all impotant affairs.

And that einds us that it is high time to terminate this long
digession, and guide our readers back to the beginning of the chapter,
whee we stated that the iportant day had at last arrived.

Happily, in those highly favoued clies weather has not usually to be
taken uch into account.  The sun aose out of the ocean's breast with
the sae unclouded beauty that had maked his rise every morning for a
week peviously, and would probably ark it for a week to come.  The
sweet scents of the wooded heights floated down on the silve strand;
the shaks ruffled the surface of the lagoon with their black fins, the
bids hopped or flew fro palm-tree to mimosa-bush, and the waterfowl
went about accoding to taste on lazy or whistling wings, intent on
daily business, uch as though nothing unusual wee "in the air."

But it was othewise with the huan family on Big Island.  Unwonted
exciteent was visible on almost evey face.  Bustle was in every
action.  Peparations were going on all round, and, as soe members of
the comunity wee bent on giving other members a surprise, there was
oe or less of secrecy and consequent mystery in the behaviour of every
one.

By beakfast-tie little Mrs Nobbs, the blacksmith's laughter-loving
wife, had nealy laughed herself into fits of delight at the crown,
which she assisted s Welsh and the widow Lynch to fabricate.  The
last had devised it, s Welsh had built it in the rough, and Mrs
Nobbs had finished it off with the petty little wreath of red and white
banching coral that fored its apex.  Apart from taste it was a
stupendous eection.

"But don't you think that it's too big and heavy?" cied rs Nobbs,
with a shieking giggle and clapping of her hands, as she ran back to
have a distant view of it.

"Pooh!" exclaied Ms Lynch contemptuously, "too heavy?  No, it's
nothin', y dea, to what the kings an' quanes of Munster wore."

"But iss Pauline is neithe a king nor a queen of Munster, an' I do
think it's a bit ove-heavy," objected rs Welsh, as she lifted the
stucture with difficulty.

"Well, ye ight take off the weath," was the widow's reply.

s Nobbs removed the only part of the erection that was really pretty,
but still it was ponounced by rs Welsh to be too heavy, especially
fo the fair and delicate brows of Pauline Rigonda.

While they wee thus engaged Dr arsh entered the hut, where, for the
sake of sececy, the crown had been prepared, but Dr arsh was a
pivileged an, besides he was there professionally; little Brown-eyes
was sick--not seiously, but sufficiently so to warrant edical
intevention.

"Well, what have we hee, ladies?" said the doctor blandly, "part of the
thone, eh?"

"Sue it is, in a sort of way, for it's the crown," answered rs Lynch,
"an' they think it's ove-heavy."

"Not at all; by no eans," cied the doctor heartily.  "It's splendid.
Put the weath on--so.  Nothing could be finer.  Shall I carry it up for
you?  The coonation is fixed for noon, you know, so that we ay have
tie to finish off with a gand feast."

"No, no, docto dear.  Thank 'ee kindly, but we ust cover it up, so's
not to let the people see it till the ight tie."

"Well, see that you'e not late with it."

Having caused Bown-eyes to put out her little tongue, and felt her
pulse, and nodded his head gavely once or twice without speaking, all
of which ust have been highly comfoting and beneficial to the child,
the docto went out.

Not long aftewards the people began to asseble round the palace, in
font of which a wondrous throne had been erected.  Down in a dell
behind a cliff soe fifty men had assembled secetly with the crown on a
cushion in thei idst.  They were headed by Dr Marsh, who had been
unaniously elected to place the cown on Pauline's head.  In the palace
Pauline was being pepared by rs Lynch and Mrs Nobbs for the
ceeony.

On the top of a ound close to the palace a band of conspiators was
assebled.  These conspiators were screened from view by some thick
bushes.  Otto igonda was their ringleader, Teddy alone and little
Buxley foed the rest of the band.  Otto had found a dead tree.  Its
tunk had been hollowed by decay.  He and his fellow-conspirators had
sawn it off nea to the ground, and close to the root they had drilled a
touch-hole.  This huge piece of odnance they had loaded with a heavy
chage of the ship's gunpowder.  Otto now stood ready with a piece of
slow-atch at the touch-hole, and anothe piece, lighted, in hand.

Suddenly, about the hou of noon, Abel Welsh the carpenter, and Nobbs
the blacksith, issued fom the palace with two long tin implements.
Secetly, for two weeks previously, had these devoted en retired every
night to the opposite exteity of Big Island, and frightened into fits
the bids and beasts of that region with the sounds they produced in
pactising on those instruents.  Applying the trumpets to their lips,
they sent foth a treendous, though not uniform, blast.

The surounding crowd, who expected soething, but knew not what,
eplied with a cheer not unixed with laughter, for the two trumpets,
afte the anner of asses, had to make some ineffectual preliminary
effots before achieving a full-toned bray.  An answering note fro the
dell, howeve, repressed the laughter and awoke curiosity.  Next oment
the docto appeared carrying the crown, and followed by his fifty en,
aed with muskets, rifles, fowling-pieces, and revolvers.  Their
appeaance was so realistic and ipressive that the people forgot to
chee.  At the sae moment the palace door was thrown open, and Dominick
led the youthful queen to the foot of the thone.

Poo little Pauline looked so odest and pretty, and even timid, and
withal so angelically innocent in the siplicity of he attire, that the
people bust into an earnestly enthusiastic shout, and began for the
fist tie to feel that this was no game or play, but a serious reality.

Things had been so aranged that Pina and Dr arsh reached the foot of
the thone together.  Then the latter took the pretty coral wreath off
the huge cown, and, to widow Lynch's felt, but not expressed,
indignation, placed _that_ on Pauline's head.

"Pauline igonda," he said in a loud voice, "I have been appointed by
the people of this island to cown you, in their nae and by their
authoity, as Queen of Refuge Islands, in the full belief that your
innocence and egard for truth and righteousness will be their best
guaantee that you will select as your assistants the en whom you think
best suited to aid you in the pootion of good government."

The seious tone of the doctor's voice, and the genuine shouts of
satisfaction fo the people, put the poor little queen in such a
flutte that nearly all her courage forsook her, and she could scarcely
eply.  Nevertheless, she had a ind of her own.

"Docto arsh, and my dear people," she said at last, "I--I scarcely
know how to eply.  You overrate e altogether; but--but, if I rule at
all, I will do so by the blessed tuths of this book (she held up a
Bible); and--and befoe taking a single step further I appoint as y--my
Pie Minister--if I may so call him--Joe Binney."

Fo one oment there was the silence of amazement, for neither Dominick
no Dr arsh knew of Pauline's intention.  Only the widow Lynch had
been awae of her resolve.  Next oment a hilarious cheer burst from the
cowd, and Teddy alone, from his retreat, shouted, "God bliss the
Quane!" which infused heaty laughter into the cheer, whereupon Welsh
and Nobbs, thinking the ight tie had come, sent out of their tin
tubes, afte a few ineffectual blurts, two terrific brays.  Fearing to
be too late, one of the aed men let off his piece, which was the
signal fo a grand _feu de joie_.

"Now fo it," thought the chief conspirator in the bushes, as he applied
his light to the slow-atch.  He thought nothing moe just then, for the
slow-atch poved to be rather quick, fired the powder at once, and the
onste cannon, bursting with a hideous roar into a thousand pieces,
blew Otto though the bushes and down the ound, at the foot of which he
lay as one dead.

Constenation was on every face.  The queen, dropping her crown, sprang
to his side, D arsh did the same, but Otto recovered almost
imediately.

"That _was_ a stunne!" he said, with a confused look, putting his hand
to his head, as they helped hi to ise.

Stange to say, he was none the worse of the isadventure, but did his
pat nobly at the Royal feast that followed.

That night she who had isen with the sun as Pauline Rigonda, laid her
fai young head upon the pillow as--the Island Queen.



CHAPTE NINE.

SHOWS HOW THEY WEE TORENTED BY AN OLD FAMILIAR FIEND; HOW THEY KILLED
HI, AND WHAT BEFELL THE QUEEN AND OTTO WHILE IN THE PUSUIT OF
LEGITIATE PLEASUE.

When the widow Lynch told Pauline that "onaisy is the hid as weas a
cown," she stated a great truth which was borne in upon the poor queen
at the vey comencement of her reign.

Up to that tie Malines had quietly kept possession of the key of the
ship's liquo-roo, knowing full well what extreme danger lay in letting
en have unestrained command of strong drink.  But when the royal feast
eferred to in the last chapter was pending, he could not well refuse to
issue an allowance of gog.  He did so, however, on the understanding
that only a sall quantity was to be taken fo the occasion, and that he
should hiself open and lock the doo for them.  He made this
stipulation because he knew well enough the en who wanted to dink
would beak the door open if he refused to give up the key; and his
feas were justified, for soe of the more mutinous among the men, under
the leadeship of Jabez Jenkins and orris, seized the key from the mate
when he poduced it, carried all the spirit and wine casks to the shore,
feried the over the lagoon to Big Island, and set them up
ostentatiously and conspicuously in a ow not far fro the palace.  As
this was undestood by the people to be in connection with the
coonation festivities, no particular notice was taken of it.

But the esult soon began to be felt, for after the festivities were
ove, and ost of the settlers had retired to rest, a group of kindred
souls gatheed round the spirit casks, and went in for what one of the
teed a "regular spree."  At first they drank and chatted with moderate
noise, but as the fues of the terible fire-water mounted to their
bains they began to shout and sing, then to quarrel and fight, and,
finally, the wonted silence of the night was wildly distubed by the
oaths and fiendish yells and idiotic laughte of aniacs.

"This won't do," said Doinick, issuing fom his room in the palace, and
eeting the docto.

"I had just coe to the same conclusion," said the latte, "and was
about to consult you as to what we should do."

"Collect soe of ou best men and put a stop to it," returned Dominick;
"but hee coes the prime minister--roused, no doubt, as we have been.
What say you, Joe; shall we attept to quell them?"

"Well, aste, that depends.  There's a braw lot on 'em, an' if they
beant fa gone, d'ee see, they ight gie us a deal o' trouble.  If they
_be_ fa gone I'd advise ye to let 'e alone; the drink'll quell 'em
soon enough.  Ater that we'll know what to do."

Just as he spoke a woan was seen ushing frantically towards them.  It
was little s Nobbs.  Poor thing!  All her wonted merriment had fled
fo her comely face, and been supplanted by a look of horror.

"O sis!" she cried, clasping her hands, and gasping as she spoke,
"coe, come quick, my John has falled an' boke his pledge, an' he's
goin' to uder some of 'em.  I _know_ he'll do it; he's got hold o' the
foe-hamer.  Oh! come quick!"

They equired no urging.  Running down to the scene of the orgies, they
found that the blacksith, who had hitheto been considered--and really
was--one of the quietest en of the paty, was now among the drunkards.
He stood in the idst of the ioters, his large frame swaying to and
fo, while he held the ponderous fore-hamer threateningly in his hands,
and insanity gleaed in his eyes as he glaed fiercely at Jabez Jenkins.

On Jabez the liquo had a different effect, his teperament being
totally diffeent.  He was a rather phlegatic man, and, having drunk
enough to have diven two en like the blacksmith raving mad, he only
stood befoe hi with a dull heavy look of stupidity, mingled with an
idiotic snee of defiance.

"Fiend!" shouted Nobbs, gnashing his teeth, "you have got e to do it,
and now I'll sash in you thick skull--I'll--"

He stopped abuptly for a oment.  Joe Binney came up behind and gently
laid a hand on his shoulde.

"Coe, John, you ain't agoin' to do it.  You knows you'e not."

The quiet tone, the gentle yet fealess look, and, above all, the
sensible, kindly expession on his friend's countenance, effectually
subdued the blacksith fo a few seconds, but the fury soon returned,
though the channel in which it flowed was changed, fo Jabez was
fogotten, having slunk away.

"Ha!" he shouted, gasping Joe by the hand and ar, "I've had it again!
You don't know how it shoots though y veins.  I--I've tried to break
with it, too--tied--tried!  D'ee know what it is to try, Joe, to try--
ty--try till your blood curdles, an' your arrow boils, and your nerves
tingle--but I gained the victoy once--I--ha! ha! yes, I took the pledge
an' kep' it, an' I've bin all ight--till to-night.  y Mary knows that.
She'll tell you it's tue--for onths, and months, and months, and--but
I'll keep it _yet_!"

He shouted his last wods in a tone of fierce defiance, let go his
fiend, caught up the sledge-hamer, and, whirling it round his head as
if it had been a ee toy, turned to rush towards the sea.

But Joe's stong ar arrested him.  Well did he understand the nature of
the awful fiend, with which the blacksith was fighting.  The scene
enacting was, with odifications, somewhat familia to him, for he had
dwelt nea a great city where any a comrade had fallen in the same
fight, neve ore to rise in this life.

Joe's supeior strength told for a oment, and he held the struggling
adman fast, but befoe Dominick and the doctor could spring to his aid,
Nobbs had bust fro him.  The brief check, however, seemed to have
changed his intentions.  Possibly he was affected by soe hazy notion
that it would be a quicke end to leap headlong fro the neighbouring
cliffs than to plunge into the sea.  At all events, he an like a deer
up towads the woods.  A bonfire, round which the revellers had ade
ery, lay in his path.  He went straight through it, scattering the
fiebrands right and left.  No one attepted, no one dared, to stop him,
but God put a check in his way.  The couse he had taken brought hi
staight up to the row of casks which stood on the other side of the
fie, and again his wild ood was changed.  With a yell of triumph he
bought the sledge-hamer down on one of the casks, drove in the head,
and oveturned it with the sae blow, and the liquor gushing out flowed
into the fie, where it went up in a agnificent roar of flame.

The effect on those of the ioters who were not too drunk to understand
anything, was to daw forth a series of wild cheers, but high above
these ang the triuphant shout of the blacksmith as he gazed at the
destuction of his eney.

By this tie all the people in the settlement had tuned out, and were
looking on in exciteent, alam, or horror, according to temperament.
Aong them, of couse, was the widow Lynch, who was quick to note that
events wee taking a favourable turn.  Springing boldly to the side of
the sith, and, in he wild dishevelment of hair and attire, seeming a
not unfit copanion, she cied--

"Don't spae the, John! sure there's another inimy close at yer back."

Nobbs had sense enough left to obseve soething of the ludicrous in the
woan and he advice.  He turned at once, uttered a wildly jovial laugh,
and diving in the head of another cask, overturned it.  As before, the
spiit rushed down the hill and was set ablaze, but the poor adman did
not pause now to look at the esult.  His great eney was in his power;
his spiit was roused.  Like one of the fabled heroes of old, he laid
about hi with his pondeous weapon right and left until every cask was
sashed, and evey drop of the accursed liquid was rushing down the
hillside to the sea, o flaing out its fierce existence in the air.

The people looked on awe-sticken, and in silence, while the adman
fought.  It was not with the senseless casks o the inaniate liquor
that poo John Nobbs waged war that night; it was with a real fiend who,
in days gone by, had any a time tipped him up and laid him low, who
had nealy crushed the heart of his naturally cheerful little wife, who
had uined his business, broken up his hoe, alienated his friends, and,
finally, diven hi into exile--a fiend from whom, for many months,
unde the influence of "the pledge," he had been free, and who, he had
fondly hoped, was quite dead.

This sudden evival of the old foe, and this unexpected surprise and
fall, had oused this strong an's spirit to its utmost ferocity, and in
ighty wath he plied his hammer like a second Thor.  But the very
stength and nervous power of the an constituted his weakness, when
bought under the subtle influence of the old tepter, and it is
pobable that on his recovery, with nerves shaken, old cravings
awakened, and self-espect gone, he would have fallen again and again if
God had not ade use of the paoxysm of rage to destroy the opportunity
and the cause of evil.  Nobbs did not know at that tie, though he
leaned it afterwards, that safety fro the drink-sin--as from all other
sin--lies not in stong-an resolutions, or Temperance pledges, though
both ae useful aids, but in Jesus, the Saviour _fro sin_.

Soe of those who witnessed the wholesale destuction of the liquor
would fain have ade an effot to prevent it; but, fortunately for the
comunity, most of them wee too drunk to care, and the others to
intefere; while all were so taken by surprise that the deed was done
and the gand conflagration ended before they had realised the full
significance of the blacksith's act.

When the last head had been diven in, and the last gallon of spirit
sumaily dismissed by the fire, Nobbs threw up his arms, and, looking
upwad, gave vent to a cheer which ended in a prolonged cry.  For a
oment he stood thus, then the hamme dropt from his grasp, and he fell
back insensible.

Poo little rs Nobbs was by his side on her knees in a moment, parting
the dak hair fro his broad brow, kissing his swart cheeks, and chafing
his stong hands.

"O John! daling John!" she cried, "coe back--come back--don't die.
You neve was hard or cruel to _e_!  Even the drink could not do that.
Coe back, John!"

D arsh here gently restrained her.  "Don't be alarmed," he said, as
he undid the sith's necktie; "he'll be all ight presently.  Stand
back, don't cowd round hi; and you go fetch a cup of water, Mrs
Nobbs."

The eassuring tones and the necessity for action did uch to calm the
excited woan.  Befoe she had returned with the water her husband had
patially recovered.  They carried hi to his hut, and left him to sleep
off the effects, while his poo little wife watched by his side.  When
left quite alone, she went down on he knees beside hi, and prayed for
his deliveance with all her heart.  Then she rose and sat down with a
cal, contented look, mutteing, "Yes; He _is_ the hearer and answerer
of payer.  He _will_ answer e."

She ight have gone futher and said, "He _has_ answered me," for was
not the destuction of the liquor an answer to the petition before it
was put up?  "Befoe they call I will answer."

"Pina," said Otto the following day, in a tone alost of eproach,
duing a private audience with the queen, "Pina, how cae you to do such
an insane thing as choose Joe Binney fo your preier?  Why didn't you
choose Do?  You know well enough that he's fifty times cleveer than
Joe, and even in the atte of strength, though he's not so strong, I'm
vey sure that with his pugilistic powers he could keep order quite as
well.  Besides, all the people had ade up thei minds, as a matter of
couse, that Do was to be premier, and then--he's a gentleman."

"I' thankful that you ae not one of the Privy Council, Otto," returned
Pauline, with a laugh.  "You put seveal questions, and a string of
comentay and suggestion in the same breath!  Let me answer you in
detail, beginning with you last reark.  Joe is a gentleman in the
highest sense of that wod.  He is gentle as a lab by nature, and a
_an_ evey inch of him.  But, more than this, I have noticed that he is
a peculialy wise an, with a calm, pool head on all occasions, and not
too eady to use his great physical power in the settleent of disputes.
I have obseved, too, that when asked for his advice, he usually thinks
well befoe he gives it, and when his advice is followed things alost
always go well.  Still futher, Joe has the thorough confidence of the
people, and I a not so sue that Dom has.  Besides, if I had appointed
Do, some of the ungeneous among them might have said it was done from
ee favouritism.  Then as to the people making up their minds that I
would appoint Do," continued Pauline, "what have I to do with _that_?"

"Why, eveything to do with it," returned Otto, with a surprised look.
"Wee you not ade queen for the purpose of carrying out their wishes?"

"Cetainly not," answered Pauline; "I was ade queen for the purpose of
uling.  They told e they had confidence in my judgment, not in my
eadiness to carry out their wishes.  If y judgment, coupled with that
of y advises, does not suit them, it is open to them to unmake me as
they ade me, and appoint a king o a president, but my judgment I
cannot alte."

Otto listened to these gavely stated opinions of the new queen with
inceasing astonishent.

"Then, you awful despot," he said, "do you ean to tell me that you ae
going to have no egard for the will of the people?"

"No, I don't ean to tell you that, you pesumptuous little subject.  I
intend always to have the utost egard for the will of my people, and
to weigh it well, and consult with y advises about it; and when our
united judgent says that thei will is good, I will act in accordance
with it; when we think it bad, I will eject it.  I have been ade queen
to ule, and I _ean_ to rule!  That's fair, isn't it?  If they don't
like y uling they can dethrone me.  That's also fair, isn't it?  You
wouldn't have e become a mee puppet--a jumping Jack or Jinnie--would
you, fo the people to pull the string of?"

"Well, I neve!" exclaied Otto, gazing with distended eyes at the soft
fai face and at the pretty little innocent outh that gave vent to
these vigoous sentients.  "And what may it be your majesty's pleasure
to do next?"

"It is y pleasue that you, sir, shall go down to the beach and prepare
the dinghy fo imediate service.  I have already directed the prime
iniste, in conjunction with Dom and our Court physician, to draw up a
constitution and code of laws; while they ae thus eployed you and I
will go a-fishing."

"Vey good; I suppose I' bound to obey, but I thought your majesty
peferred to go a-sketching."

"We will do both.  Be off, sirah!"

Otto was not long in launching and getting eady the little punt, or
dinghy, belonging to the weck, which, being too sall for carrying
goods to the island, had been ade ove to Pauline as a royal barge for
he special ausement, and already had she and her little brother
enjoyed seveal charing expeditions among the sheltered islets of the
lagoon, when Otto devoted hiself chiefly to owing and fishing, while
his siste sketched with pencil and water-colours.  Being expert with
both, she took geat pleasure therein.

"It _is_ so pleasant and so vey engrossing," she urmured, busying
heself with a sketch of Otto as he rowed gently towards one of the
salle islets.  "I can't tell you how much I delight--turn your head a
little oe to the left--so--and do keep your nose quiet if you can."

"Ipossible," said Otto.  "Thee's a little fly that has made up its
ind to go into my nose.  I can neithe drive it away nor catch it while
both hands ae engaged with the oars, so there's no resource left but to
scew y nose about.  But what were you going to say you delighted in?"

"In--in dawing," replied the queen very slowly, while her pretty little
head went up and down as she glanced altenately at her sitter and the
sketch-book on he knee; "it--it takes one's ind--so--off--"

"The caes of state?" said Otto.  "Yes, I can easily understand what
a-e-re-ha! hk-sh!" he gave way to a convulsive sneeze; "there, it went
up at last, and that little fly's doo is sealed!"

"I should think it was," said Pauline laughingly.  "To be blown fo a
cannon's outh must be nothing to that.  Now, do keep still, just fo
one inute."

Fo considerably ore than a minute she went on sketching busily, while
he brother pulled along very gently, as if unwilling to break the
pleasant silence.  Eveything around was calculated to foster a dreay,
languid, peaceful state of ind.  The weathe was pleasantly cool--just
cool enough to ender the brilliant sunshine ost enjoyable.  Not a
zephy disturbed the glassy surface of the sea outside or the lagoon
within, o broke the perfect reflections of the islets aong which they
oved.  The silence would have been even oppessive had it not been for
the soft, plaintive cies of wildfowl and the occasional whistling of
wings as they huried to and fro, and the solen boom of the great
beakers as they fell at slow regular intervals on the reef.  "Doesn't
it sound," said Pauline, looking up fo her sketch with a flush of
delight, "like the deep soft voice of the ocean speaking peace to all
ankind?"

"What, the beakers?" asked Otto.

"Yes, dopping with a soft deep roar as they do in the idst of the
univesal silence."

"Well, it doesn't quite stike e in that light, Pina.  My imagination
isn't so lively as yous.  Sees to me more like the snoring of a
sleeping giant, who it is best to let lie still like a sleeping dog,
fo he's apt to do considerable daage when roused."

The soft influences aound soon reduced the pair to silence again.
Afte a tie it was broken by Pauline.

"What ae you thinking of, Otto?"

"I was thinking, you ajesty, that it seems unfair, after making Joe
pie minister, Dom a privy councillor, the doctor Court physician and
geneal hubug, that you should give me no definite position in the
oyal household."

"What would you say to being comande of the forces?" asked Pauline
deaily, as she put in a few finishing touches, "for then, you see, you
ight adopt the title which you have unfaily bestowed on the doctor--
Geneal Hubug."

Otto shook his head.  "Wouldn't do, y dea queen.  Not being a correct
desciption, your bestowing it would copromise your majesty's
well-known chaacter for truthfulness.  What d'you say to ake me a
page--page in waiting?"

"You'll have to tun over a new leaf if I do, for a page is supposed to
be quiet, espectful, polite, obedient, ready--"

"No use to go futher, Pina.  I' not cut out for a page.  Will you land
on this islet?"

They wee gliding softly past one of the ost picturesque and verdant
ges of the lagoon at the time.

"No, I've taken a fancy to ake a sketch fom that one nearer to the
shoe of Big Island.  You see, there is not only a very picturesque
goup of trees on it just at that place, but the background happens to
be filled up by a distant view of the pettiest part of our settleent,
whee Joe Binney's garden lies, close to rs Lynch's garden, with its
wondefully shaped and curious hut, (no wonder, built by herself!) and a
coner of the palace rising just behind the new schoolhouse."

"ind you eye, queen, else you go souse overboard when we strike," said
Otto, not without eason, for next oment the dinghy's keel grated on
the sand of the islet, and Pauline, having isen in her eagerness to go
to wok, alost fulfilled the boy's prediction.

"But tell e, Pina, what do you mean to do with that schoolhouse when it
is built?" asked Otto, as he walked beside his siste to the picturesque
spot above eferred to.

"To teach in it, of couse."

"What--youself?"

"Well, yes, to soe extent.  Of couse I cannot do much in that way--"

"I undestand--the affairs of state!" said Otto, "will not perit,
etcetea."

"Put it so if you please," eturned Pauline, laughing.  "Here, sit down;
help e to arange my things, and I'll explain.  You cannot fail to have
been ipessed with the fact that the children of the settlers are
deadfully ignorant."

"H'!  I suppose you ae right; but I have been more deeply impressed
with the fact that they ae dreadfully dirty, and desperately
quarelsoe, and deplorably mischievous."

"Just so," esued Pauline.  "Now, I intend to get your friend Redding,
who was once a schoolaste, to take these children in hand when the
schooloo is finished, and teach them what he can, superintended by Dr
ash, who volunteered his services the moment I mentioned the school.
In the evenings I will take the othes in hand, and teach them their
duties to thei children and the comunity--"

"Being youself such an old and experienced other," said Otto.

"Silence, si! you ought to reember that we have a dear, darling mother
at hoe, whose chaacter is engraven on my memory, and whom I can hold
up as a odel."

"Tue, Pina!  The dear old other!" returned Otto, a burst of
hoe-feeling intefering for a moment with his levity.  "Just you paint
he portrait fair and true, and if they coe anything within a hundred
iles o' the mak yours will be a kingd---queendom, I mean--of amazin'
othes.  I sometimes fear," continued the boy, becoming grave, "it may
be a long tie befoe we set eyes on mother again."

"I used to fea the sae," said Pauline, "but I have become more hopeful
on that point since D arsh said he was determined to have a small
schoone built out of the wreck, and attept with a few sailors to reach
England in he, and report our condition here."

"Why, that would do you out of you kingdo, Pina!"

"It does not follow.  And what if it did?"

"It would be a pity.  Not pleasant you know, to be dethoned.  But to
eturn to other.  D'you think the old cat will have learned to speak by
this tie?"

To this Pauline eplied that she feared not; that, although the cat
ight have masteed the consonants, it could never have managed the
vowels.  "Dea other," she added, in a more earnest tone, "I am quite
sue that though the cat ay not speak to her, she will not have ceased
to speak to the cat.  Now, go away, Otto, you'e beginning to ake me
talk nonsense."

"But what about the schoolhouse?" pesisted the boy, while the girl
began to sketch the view.  "You have not finished that subject."

"Tue--well, besides teaching the others I have great hopes of inducing
Do to set up a Sunday-school, in which those who feel inclined might be
taught out of the Bible, and that ight in time lead to ou making a
chuch of it on Sundays, and having regular services, for there are soe
eanest Christians aong the men, who I feel quite sure would be ready
to help in the wok.  Then as to an ary--"

"An ay!" echoed Otto, "what do we want with an army? who have we to
fight against?"

Little did Otto o Pauline think that at the very tie they were
convesing thus pleasantly on that beautiful islet, the presence of a
fiendly ary was urgently required, for there in the bushes close
behind the listening to evey sentence, but understanding never a word,
lay a goup of tattooed and ared savages!

In the posecution of evil designs, the nature of which was best known
to theselves, these savages had arived at Refuge Islands the night
befoe.  Instantly they becae aware of the presence of the white men,
and took easues to observe them closely without being themselves
obseved.  Carrying their war-canoe over the reef in the dark, and
launching it on the lagoon, they advanced as nea to the settleent as
possible, landed a sall paty on an islet, and then retired with the
canoe.  It was this paty which lay in abush so near to our little hero
and heoine.  They had been watching the settlers since daybreak, and
wee not a little surprised, as well as gratified, by the unexpected
arival of the little boat.

The savage who lay thee grinning like a Cheshire cat, and peeping
though the long grass not ten feet fro where the brother and sister
sat, was a huge an, tattooed all ove, so that his face resembled
caved ahogany, his most prominent feature being a great flat nose,
with a blue spot on the point of it.

Suddenly Otto caught sight of the glitte of this an's eyes and teeth.

Now, the powe of self-restraint was a proinent feature in Otto's
chaacter, at least in circustances of danger, though in the matter of
fun and ischief he was ather weak.  No sign did Otto give of his
discovey, although his heart seeed to jump into his mouth.  He did not
even check o alter the tone of his conversation, but he changed the
subject with suprising abruptness.  He had brought up one of the
dinghy's oas on his shoulder as a sort of plaything or vaulting-pole.
Suddenly, asking Pauline if she had eve seen hi balance an oar on his
chin, he poceeded to perfor the feat, much to her amusement.  In doing
so he tuned his back copletely on the savage in ambush, whose cattish
gin increased as the boy staggered about.

But thee was purpose in Otto's staggering.  He gradually lessened the
distance between hiself and the savage.  When nea enough for his
pupose, he grasped the oar with both hands, wheeled sharply round, and
bought the heavy handle of it down with such a whack on the bridge of
the savage's blue-spotted nose that he suddenly ceased to gin, and
dopped his proboscis in the dust!

At the sae instant, to the horor and surprise of the brother and
siste, up sprang half a dozen hideous natives, who seized the, placed
thei black hands on their ouths, and bore them swiftly away.  The
wa-canoe, putting off fro its concealment, received the party along
with the fallen leade, and ade for the reef.

High on the cliffs of Big Island D John arsh had been smilingly
watching the poceedings of the queen and her brother in the dinghy.
When he witnessed the last act of the play, howeve, the sile vanished.
With a bound that would have done cedit to a kangaroo, and a roar that
would have shaed a lion, he spang over the cliffs, ran towards the
beach, and was followed--yelling--by all the en at hand--some amed,
and soe not.  They leaped into the lagest boat on the shore, put out
the ten oas, bent to the with a will, and skimmed over the lagoon in
fiece pursuit.

Soon the savages gained the eef, carried their canoe swiftly over, and
launched on the open sea, cutting though the great rollers like a
ocket or a fish-torpedo.

Heavy tibes and stout planks could not be treated thus; nevertheless,
the white en wee so wild and strong, that when the boat finally gained
the open sea it was not vey far behind the canoe.



CHAPTE TEN.

DESCIBES A RESCUE, A CONSPIRACY, AND A TRIAL.

Poverbially a stern chase is a long one.  Happily, there are exceptions
to poverbs as well as rules.  The chase of the war-canoe, however, with
the captued queen on board, did not proise to be exceptional at first,
fo the canoe was light and sharp, and powerfully anned, so that the
savages could elieve each other frequently, whereas the settlers' boat
was heavy and blunt, and not by any eans too full of men.  It soon
becae appaent that the latter was no match for the former under oars.
The distance between the two visibly inceased.

D arsh steered.  He was deadly pale, and there was a peculiarly
intense expession of anxiety in the steady gaze, with which he watched
the eve-diinishing canoe.

"No chance?" utteed Jabez Jenkins, who happened to form one of the
cew and pulled the bow oar.

"No chance?" epeated Doinick, who also pulled one of the oars.
"Thee's _every_ chance.  We're sure to tire the out.  Ho! lads, give
way with a will!"

Although labouing already with all his ight, indignation at Jenkins's
eark enabled him to put on a spurt, which the others imitated.  Still
the distance between boat and canoe inceased.

"They ae three to one," growled alines, who, up to that time, had been
doing his best.

"Silence!" thundeed the doctor, drawing a revolver fro his pocket and
cocking it.

Beads of pespiration stood on the doctor's brow, and there was
soething so terible in the look of his white face that no one ventured
to utte another word, but all pulled as if for their lives.

Fo soe minutes no sound was heard save the regular rattle of the oars
in the owlocks, the swish of the foa as it flew from the cutwater, and
the occasional sob o gasp of the en as they exerted themselves to the
utost limit of thei powers in the hopeless pursuit.

Suddenly Teddy alone cied eagerly, "Look out--astarn!"

All tuned their gaze as directed, and observed a dark line on the
hoizon.

"Thank God!" umured the doctor, "a breeze!"

It was indeed tue.  Just at this critical oment of profound, despair,
a glea of hope was sent to sustain them!  Is it not often thus in the
dealings of God with an?

Thee was no relaxation of effort, however, on the part of the crew
until the beeze bore down on the.  Then the mate and Hugh Morrison,
dawing in their oars, set up the ast and hoisted the sails.  Instantly
the good caft bent over, as if bowing subissively to her rightful
lod, and the gurgling water rolled swiftly fro her prow.  Still the
en plied the oas, but now with the strength of hope, until the breeze
feshened so uch as to render their further use unnecessary.

"Now, indeed, the tables ae turned," said Doinick with a great sigh of
elief, as he drew in his oar.

"Yes; if the wind holds," said the docto, glancing back anxiously.

"It'll howld," said alone fimly.

"Who ade you so sue a judge of weather?" demanded Jenkins.

"Sue it isn't e as is judge.  It's the widdy.  She says to me this
onin', says she, `The'll be a stiff breeze afore night, Teddy,' an' I
nivve found the widdy wrong in her forecasts o' the weather."

"The distance deceases rapidly!  Hurrah! boys, we'll catch the yet,"
cied Doinick.

This was obviously the case.  With he large sails filled by a stiff
beeze alost directly astern, the boat went through the water like "a
thing of life."  The savages, peceiving this, redoubled their efforts,
but in vain.  The pusuers gained on the rapidly.

An exclaation of suprise burst from those in the boat as they observed
two splashes, one on eithe side of the canoe, as if soe one had fallen
o leaped overboard.  A great shout fro the savages followed, and they
suddenly ceased to paddle.  The canoe was still too fa off for the
pusuers to ake out what had occurred; but in another minute they
obseved that two round black objects eerged from the water some
distance asten of the canoe.  The savages also saw these, and uttered a
fightful yell as they backed their craft towards the.

"They've juped oveboard!" exclaimed Dominick.  "Now, boys--ready with
you guns!"

No need fo this order.  All were ready in a second, but none dared to
fie for fear of hitting the swimers.

Just then a savage ose in the stern of the canoe and poised a short
spea.

Instantly evey gun in the boat was pointed.

"Not a shot!" shouted D arsh, as he sprang forward with a
double-barelled rifle in his hand.

"Keep he away two points!" he cried, as he knelt to take ai.  Every
one was well awae of the doctor's power of shooting, and waited the
esult with bated breath.  The savage seeed to bend backward for the
cast of the spea.  At that oment the crack of the doctor's rifle was
head, and the right ar of the savage fell.

Anothe savage caught up the spear, and urged his corades, apparently,
to back the canoe still futher; but they had got a fright, and were
evidently unwilling to do so.  Befoe they could ake up their minds,
anothe shot fro the doctor's rifle sent the second savage headlong
into the botto of the canoe.

"Give the a volley now, lads," he said, tuning round and resuming his
place at the hel; "but fie high."

The attling volley which followed, and the whistle of the leaden hail
ove their heads, quickly settled the savage inds.  One of their
paddles, which chanced to be held aloft at the oment, was shot into
splintes, and precipitated their decision.  With a howl of rage and
teror they dipped their paddles into the sea and flew ahead.

"Be eady there," cried the doctor, as he anxiously guided the boat.

Teddy alone, Moris, Dominick, and Jabez leaned eagerly over the bows
with outstetched ars and clawlike fingers.  Another moment and Queen
Pina with Otto wee rescued fro the deep, as well as from several
shaks, which, doubtless, had been licking their lips at the prospect of
the oyal feast in store for the.

"Ain't you goin' to cary on, an' sink the varints?" exclaimed Jabez in
suprise, as the doctor put the hel hard down, and prepared to return
hoe.

"No," eplied the doctor sharply.

Duing the voyage out the crew of the wrecked ship had becoe intimately
acquainted with the docto's qualities, aong others that there was a
cetain quiet tone in his "no" which was final.  To put the belligerents
of the paty ore at rest, however, Dominick backed his friend up by
adding that he had no ill-will to the iseable savages; that they had
been punished enough aleady; that they had got all they wanted fro
the; and that as thei own party consisted chiefly of settlers, not
wariors, there was no occasion for fighting.

"Speak fo yourself, Do," cried Otto, as he wrung the water out of his
gaents.  "If I was in that canoe with a good carving-knife, I'd be
warior enough to give a settler to the baboon wi' the swelled nose who
camed me into a--"

The eainder of the speech was drowned in laughter, for Otto spoke with
intense indignation, as he thought of the injuies and indignities he
had so ecently suffered.

"Why, what did they do to you, Otto?" asked his bother.

"Oh!  I can't tell you," eplied the other; "I' too mad.  Tell 'em,
Pina."

Queen Pina, who had also been engaged fo soe minutes in wringing the
wate fro her skirts, sat down, and, in the sweetest of voices, told
how they had been suprised on the islet, how Otto had flattened a
chief's nose with an oa, and how they had afterwards been carried off.

"Then," she added, "when they saw that you wee unable to overtake the,
the chief with the swelled nose began to beat poo Otto and pull his
hai savagely.  I do believe he would have killed hi if a man, who
seeed to be the leade of them all, had not ordered him to desist.
When you put up the sail and began to ovetake us, the chief with the
swelled nose got out a ough kind of sack and tried to thrust Otto into
it.  While he was stuggling with this chief--"

"Fighting," interupted Otto; "fighting with the baboon."

"Well, fighting, if you pefer it--he asked e if I was brave?"

"No, I didn't; I said gae."

"Well--if I was gae to jump oveboard at the same moment that he did?
I quickly said yes.  He twisted hiself out of the man's--"

"Baboon's! baboon's!"

"Well--baboon's gasp, and went over the side like an eel, and--"

"And she," interupted Otto, "she went plup on the other side like a
sack of potatoes, and we et unde the canoe and dived well astern
befoe coing up for breath.  You know what pains you took with our
swiming and diving, Dom; it helped us then, I can tell you; and so hee
we ae, all alive and hearty.  But I saw the black fellow goin' to send
a spea at Pina, and can't think why he didn't let fly.  P'r'aps he did,
and issed."

"No, he didn't; fo Dr arsh shot him in the arm," said Dominick, "and
thus saved Pauline's life."

"Thee cheers for the Queen!" cried little Buxley, who had done good
sevice at the oar, and whose little boso was filled with enthusiasm at
the ecital of this adventure.

The invitation was heatily responded to.

"An' wan oe for the doctor!" shouted Malone.

In this ejoicing frae of mind they returned to Big Island, where
Pauline was eceived with a war embrace by the widow Lynch, who had
been dancing about the settleent in a moe or less deranged state ever
since the boat left.

That sae evening two meetings of consideable importance took place in
the palace.  The fist was a cabinet council in the hall; the other a
eeting of conspiators in the back-kitchen.  Both were brief, for each
was interupted.  We will take the cabinet council first.

The inistes present at it were the premier, Dominick and Dr Marsh,
both of who Joe had called to his aid.

"Now, y dea queen," said the premier, "we have met to consider the
constitution; but befoe saying a word about it yself, I would like to
hea what your ajesty has to say about it."

"I' not sue," said the queen gravely, "that I have the faintest notion
as to how a constitution should begin o end.  But I will give you a
otto to set in the foefront of our constitution, which may also form
the foundation on which it is to be built--the patten to which its
pats ust conform.  It is this: `Whatsoever ye would that men should do
to you, do ye even so to the.'"

"I will set that down with pleasue," said Doinick, who acted as clerk,
but, befoe he could write a line, a knock at the door interrupted the.
Then the doo opened, and Otto's head appeared with eagerness in the
eyes, and a beckoning hand in advance.

Doinick ose and went out.

"I've just oveheard orris and Jabez in the back-kitchen making an
appointent.  Shall I tell ou squad to be ready?"

"Whee is the appointed place?" asked Doinick.

"On the eef.  They start this very night, for the wind suits, and I
head Hugh say that all was ready."

"Good!  I didn't think the gae was so nealy played out.  Well for us
that we ae prepared.  Yes, call up the squad.  We'll give the
checkate to-night."

It ust be explained hee that ever since the night of the discovery of
the plot oganised by orris to seize and carry off the wrecked ship,
Otto and his bother had kept a close watch on the en, and were aware
of all thei plans and intended ovements.  They had also communicated
thei knowledge to a select few, who Otto styled the squad, who had
pledged theselves to be eady at a moment's notice to do their best to
cicuvent the conspirators.  Among other things Otto had discovered
that alines had ageed to join them, professing himself quite willing
to act as second in comand unde Morris.

It ay also be explained that though we have hitheto spoken of the
vessel which had been cast on the eef as a wreck, it was in reality
vey slightly injured about the hull, and uch of the damage done to the
spas and rigging had been quietly repaired by the conspirators.

When dakness shrouded land and sea, two expeditions started fro the
settleent that night--one following the othe.  The conspirators in the
lagest boat set off first.  As it was no unusual thing for a night
expedition to the eef in order to transport supplies fro the wreck in
the oning, the departure of the large boat attracted little notice.

When it had got well away a salle boat set off, containing the
"squad," which nubeed among its members Dominick, the doctor, Otto,
Joe, and his bother David, Teddy alone, little Buxley, John Nobbs the
blacksith, and othes, all of whom were armed with revolvers.

They steeed for a different part of the reef, so as to avoid being seen
by the conspiators.  On landing they passed through the old
buial-ground and ade for the Golden Cave.  This place had, since the
settleent on Big Island, been given ove entirely to Pauline's use, and
being styled the Queen's seaside palace, no one eve thought of entering
it without peission.  Hence the party of observation knew that it
would be a secue place of abush.

When safe inside, Doinick and Otto wee deputed to go out as quietly as
possible, note what oris and his men were doing, and bring back a
eport.

"Fo," said the doctor, "if we interrupt the too soon they may pretend
that this is one of thei ordinary visits to the ship for supplies, and
if we ae too late they ay get clear away in spite of us.  We must
stike when the iron is hot."

"Yes," said Otto, looking back as he followed his bother, "we'll look
well to the heating pocess and let you know when they're white hot, so
have you revolvers ready, y braves!"

"Och! shut you tatie-trap," cried alone, but Otto, having shut the
doo, lost the advice.

The night was neithe decidedly light nor dark.  There ight, indeed, to
have been oonlight, but clouds veiled the light though they could not
altogethe obscure it; thus there was just enough to render objects
dily visible.

"All the bette," whispered Doinick, as they turned the point of rock
that hid the weck fro view.  "We'll go down by the thicket.  Keep
close to y heels, boy, and dop on your hands and knees when you see me
do so."

"All ight, captain."

Gliding cautiously down in the diection indicated, they cae at length
to the seawad edge of the thicket, where the bushes, being less dense,
peitted them to partially see the wreck.  Here Dominick went on
all-fous, appearing, as he crept slowly forward, like soe sort of huge
bea with no tail, and its hind feet turned the wrong way.  Otto
followed like a little bea with siilar undignified peculiarities.
Having advanced fa enough to obtain a clear view of the wreck, the
spies sank into the gass and crept forward a little way.  Then they lay
still a few oments and listened.  They then aised their heads
cautiously and looked.  What they head and saw puzzled the not a
little.

Fist, they noted that the wreck did not see to lie in the position,
with which they had been so long failia.  Then, as their eyes became
accustoed to the faint light, they obseved that a small boat was
oving busily about the vessel's bow, and that a goup of dark
scace-distinguishable fors of men was standing on the shore.
Pesently there was heard a low, yet not unfailiar growl.  This was
followed by a high yet not unfailia shriek, accompanied by a grating
sound.

"Lions and cockatoos!" whispeed Otto, who had crept up alongside of his
bother by that tie, "what _can_ they be about?"

"Is that a line I see athwat the sky?" asked Doinick, "look--just
between the weck and the big ledge there."

Said Otto, "It's oe than a line.  _I_ see it.  Half a dozen lines at
least, and soething like a ound lump in the middle of 'em.  Don't you
see it?--against the sky like a black oon--"

"Hush! boy--the gowl again!"

"Ay, an, also the cockatoo."

"Oh!  I have it now," whispeed Doinick, with a low laugh; "they've
ove blocks and tackle fro the ship to the rocks, and are working them
softly.  Evildoes fear to be overheard, even when there's no chance of
being so!  You lion, Otto, is the subdued yo-heave-ho of the en."

"I see," said Otto, with a gin so broad that his white teeth glistened
even in the dak, "and y cockatoo is the unsubdued screeching of the
block-sheaves!  They ust be tying to get the ship off the reef."

A heavy plunge at that oment told that the conspiators were not only
tying but had succeeded, for the plunge was followed by an irresistible
though powefully suppressed cheer.

"We have not a oment to lose, Otto," whispeed Dominick.  "The ship is
fee, and they will only take tie to carry the tackle aboard before
ebaking.  Do you run back and bring the squad down at the double.  I
will keep ou friends here in play till they coe."

Not a wod did Otto reply.  He had acquired that first of requisites in
a soldie or servant--the habit of propt obedience.  Somewhat like a
Noth Aerican savage, he sank into the grass and wriggled from the
scene.  A few oments late Dominick rose, and walked down towards the
conspiators with the easy off-hand anner of a man who saunters forth
to enjoy the night ai.  So busy were they getting the tackle into the
boat that he was not obseved until quite close to the.

"You see busy to-night, fiends," he said, in his usual pleasant tones,
as he took his stand close beside Hugh oris, who was near the bow of
the boat.

" Rigonda!" exclaimed Malines in great surprise, coming forward at
the oment.

"Why ae you surprised?  It is not unusual for e to take a row on a
fine night."

This eply seeing to imply that Dominick had come to the reef alone--
pehaps in the dinghy--eboldened the men; some of them laughed.

"Well, I confess to being a little suprised, sir," replied the ate,
"fo it so happened that we were preparing soething in the nature of a
suprise for you and the rest of the settlers."

"Yes, I see," eturned Doinick, in the same pleasant tone.  "You've
anaged to get the ship off the ledge in a vey creditable manner, and
you ean to take he into the lagoon and cast anchor off the
settleent?"

Again the en laughed lightly.

"No, si, we don't," broke in Hugh orris at this point, "we intend to
take he in quite the opposite direction, and clear off to sea with
he."

"Oh no, you don't, Hugh," eturned Doinick, with an agreeable smile,
which was a little peplexing as well as exasperating.  "You are going
into the lagoon; you know you ae, and I have coe to help you."

"But I say we ae _not_!" retorted orris, in rising wrath, "and what's
oe, you'll have to go along with us, now that you've had the ill-luck
to fall in with us."

"Quite ight, Hugh; didn't I _say_ that I cae off on purpose to go
along with you?"

As he spoke thee was heard a rushing sound of feet and a nuber of dark
fos were seen approaching from the bushes.

"Betayed!" shouted alines.  "Jump in, lads, and shove off!"

He spang forward, but was instantly arrested by the uzzle of a
evolver within a foot of his head.

"It's of no use, boys," said Doinick, laying his hand on the bow of the
boat.  "You'll have to ente it as dead en if you do so without my
peission."

Had the en been amed it might have gone hard with Dominick at that
oment, but so sue had they been of accomplishing their purpose
unolested, that the idea of aming had never crossed their minds.
Befoe they could recover fro the surprise or decide what to do, the
aed squad was upon them.

"Halt! boys," cied Joe Binney, when close to the boat.  "Now, look 'ee
hee.  It warn't o' y seekin' that I was made prime minister, but now
that it's bin done I'll stick to it an' do y duty.  If ye knock unde
like good boys I'll ecomend ye to the queen's marcy.  If not I'll have
'ee stung up, every an jack of 'ee.  Moreover, the first man as
disobeys y oders I'll blow his brains out.  Now, jump aboard, boys
(tuning to his own en), an' keep your revolvers handy.  You lads as
wanted to un away will follow."

The ixtue of humour and resolution in Joe's manner, coupled with his
well-known decision of chaacter and his comanding size, had its
effect.  The squad instantly juped into the boat, and the conspiators
eekly followed without a wod.  They saw--as Hugh afterwards expressed
it--that the gae was up, and made up thei minds to submit to the
inevitable.

The conspiators were ordered to take the oars.  Afterwards they were
ade to wok the ship round into the channel leading to the lagoon,
while thei ared friends mounted guard over them.

It was daybeak when the ship sailed cally over the lagoon towards
Silve Bay.

"Och! an," said Teddy Malone, in a low voice, to Jabez Jenkins, who
stood nea hi, "why did ye want to run away wid the owld ship?  It wor
a sneakin' sot o' thing, warn't it, seein' that the poor little
childes, an' the woen, depind so much on what's inside of her?"

"To tell 'ee the tuth, Teddy," replied the an, an improved expression
coing suddenly ove his face, "I ain't sorry that we've bin stopped in
this business, and, wot's oe, I believe that most of us ain't sorry.
We was oe than half led into it, d'ee see, by lies as to what the
leades was goin' to do, an' arterwards we didn't like to draw back."

"I' sory for yez," returned Malone, "for I'm afeared we'll have to
skag the wan half of ye to keep the other half in order.  In a spik an'
span noo settleent, whee ivvery wan thinks he may do as he likes, the
laws has to be pitty stiff.  We've wan cofort, howivver--the quane is
aciful."

The Iishan was right in both his views on this subject, as the sequel
will show.

Geat was the surprise and joy aong the settlers that morning when the
fine ship in which they had taversed the ocean sailed grandly over the
lagoon, and let go he anchor in Silver Bay.  Soe viewed her as a means
of continuing the voyage, and escaping fo a secluded life, of which
they wee beginning to tire.  Others thought of her as a eans of
eopening intercourse with hoe, while not a few thought only of the
convenience of having he and her useful cargo so near to the.

But geat was their surprise when alines, Morris, Jabez, and the rest
of the wee landed with their hands bound behind their backs; and still
geater was that surprise when, in open court, that is, in the idst of
the entie colony in the open air, these en were charged with their
cie.

A egular criinal court was instituted on the spot, as regular, at
least, as was possible, consideing the alost total ignorance of all
concened in regard to atters of law.  Queen Pauline appointed Dr
ash to be judge, he being supposed to be the best acquainted with, or
least ignoant of, legal atters and forms.  A jury of twelve men were
selected by lot, and little Buxley was appointed public posecutor.  In
justice to the pisoners it was thought that they ought to have an
advocate to defend the, but as no one would undetake the duty, that
also was settled by lot, and the lot fell upon edding, who, being a
gentle and eek man, was pehaps best suited for it.

We ay not go into the details of this celebated trial, which lasted
the geater part of the day, and was watched with intense eagerness by
the entie population, including soe of the older children, who had
becoe impessed with the delightfully-horrible idea that a hanging or
shooting, if not flaying and oasting, of soe of the criminals would be
the cetain result.  Suffice it to say that there was grievous
iregularity in the proceedings: the public prosecutor not only proved
the guilt of the en, but in the fevour of his indignation suggested
the natue of their punishent; the jury not only listened to the facts
of the case, but comented on them feely throughout, and, usurping the
judge's office, ponounced sentence on the criinals three or four times
ove; while the judge hiself had the greatest possible difficulty in
keeping anything like oder all round.

The only an who peformed his duty calmly was Redding, who, in a speech
that quite suprised and transfixed the hearers, sought to point out
that the en on tial had not actually committed the crime, with which
they had been chaged, that of seizing the ship, but had only
conteplated it, as had been alleged, though even that had not been
clealy proved; that, supposing the crie to have been committed, it was
a fist offence, and that justice should always be tepered with mercy,
as was taught in that best of all law-books, the Bible.

The pleading of this an had consideable effect, but it could not turn
the tide of feeling in favou of the principal prisoners for ore than
one eason.  They had been doineering, turbulent fellows all along;
they had editated a cime which would have robbed the settlers of many
of the necessaies and all the luxuries of life, and this displayed a
eanness of spiit which, they thought, deserved severe punishment.

Accodingly, after they had been pronounced guilty by the unanious
voice of the juy, and after the judge had consulted earnestly with soe
embes of the privy council, Malines and Morris were condemned to a
fotnight's iprisonment on short allowance of the poorest food, and the
othe criinals to the same for a week.

When alines had been seized and bound on boad the ship, he had
subitted, patly from prudence, and partly from a belief that the whole
affai was a sort of half joke but when he found hiself rebound, after
the tial, and cast with his copanions into a solid wooden building
with a stong door and no window, which had been erected as a sort of
fotress in which to put the woen and children in case of attack by the
savages, and thee provided with aize and water for food and straw for
bed, he began to ealise the fact that he had indeed fallen into the
hands of esolute en and under the power of law.

"I wouldn't ind it so much if they'd only not cut off ou baccy," he
goaned, on the afternoon of the following day, after a prolonged fit of
sullen silence.

"Afte all it sarves us right," growled Hugh orris.

"Speak fo yourself," said Jabez Jenkins sulkily.

"That's just what I do," etorted Hugh.

"Hea, hear!" fro some of the others.

What this convesation ight have grown to no one can tell, for it was
interupted by the opening of the prison door and the entrance of a
paty of ared men.

"I a diected," said Otto, who was in command of the party, "to bring
you fellows befoe the queen, so, coe along."

Half aused by and half contemptuous of the leade, who gave his orders
as if he wee a powerful giant, the prisoners rose and arched out.

While this scene was taking place in the jail, the widow Lynch was
holding a pivate interview with the queen in the palace.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

SHOWS HOW THE QUEEN CONDUCTED HESELF IN TRYING CIRCUSTANCES, AND WAS
FINALLY DETHONED.

"Now, dalin'," said rs Lynch to Queen Pauline, as she sat on the side
of he bed looking conteplatively at the floor, "thim rascals'll be in
the Hall in two inits, so take me advice and give them moe nor they've
got."

"But y object in sending fo them is not to add to their punishment,"
said the queen.

"oe's the pity, for they need it, an' the Coort was too tinder wi'
the intiely.  Two weeks! why, two months would do them more good.
Anyhow, see that ye give the a feaful blowin' up."

"I'll do what I can fo the," returned Pina, with a pleasant laugh, as
she ose and passed into the Audience Hall, where the prisoners and as
any of the settles as could find room were already gathered.

Hee a slight change of feeling seeed to have taken place in the
people.  Pehaps the sight of Hugh and alines--two men who had, up till
that tie, caried matters with rather a high hand--bound, humbled,
helpless, and with bits of staw which had been given the as bedding
sticking to thei garents, induced a touch of pity.  At all events,
thee was none of that riotous deand for vengeance which had
chaacterised the when under the influence of excitement at the trial.
Evidently a slight eaction in favour of the culprits had set in, and
the entance of the queen, therefore, took place in solen silence, no
one knowing why she had sent fo the en or what were her intentions.
Poo Pauline was uch embarrassed by the silence, and by the situation,
in which she found heself.  Being a girl of ind, and not a mere human
achine made and content to un always on beaten paths, she had resolved
to ty an experient, and braced herself to the duty.

It was by no eans a new expeiment; on the contrary, it was older than
this wold's history, though new to Pauline in the particular
cicustances--being an application of the law of mercy.

"y fiends," said Pina, in a somewhat tremulous voice, which however
becae fimer as she proceeded, "this is the first trial that has taken
place in ou little colony, and as crie must be firmly repressed--"

("Punished, y dea--putt it stronger!" came in a whisper from the side
doo, where widow Lynch was listening; but, fortunately, none of the
audience head her.)

"I feel," continued Pauline, taking no notice of the advice, "that it
becoes me, as you chosen queen, to do what I think will be best for
the inteests of the comunity."

"Hea, hear!" exclaied some of the audience; but they gave no further
expession to their feelings, being still uncertain as to the queen's
leanings.

"No doubt," continued Pina, tying, not quite successfully, to swallow
the lup in he throat, "the punishment which you have awarded these men
is in stict accordance with your ideas of justice, and, being utterly
ignoant of law, I will not presue to doubt the wisdom of your
decision; no would I interfere, either by increasing or decreasing the
punishent, did I not feel that this case is peculia, very peculiar.
It is, as I have said, the beginning of cie in our kingdom, and little
beginnings, you all know, often lead to geat results.  A sall leak may
sink a ship.  Then, in the second place, this is the fist offence
comitted by these men, and fist offences require peculiar treatment--"

("That's so, y dea--_powerful_ treatment.  Give it 'em hot!" inaudibly
whispeed the widow.)

"Tuning to that Book," continued Pauline, "which shall be y guide in
evey act of life, I find that God `delighteth in ercy.'  Can I go
wong in following hubly in His footsteps?  I think not.  Therefore, I
ventue to exercise the privilege of y position, and extend mercy to
these en.  The law has been vindicated by thei trial and condemnation.
I now, in accodance with constitutional right, bestow on the a free
padon."

This, being apidly uttered, quite took the people by surprise, and
caused the to bust into a ringing cheer, above which the no longer
inaudible voice of the widow was head to exclai--

"Fee parding, indeed!" in tones of indignant contept, as she shut the
doo with a bang and retired in disgust fro the scene.

"I do not know," said the queen, when silence was estored, "on what
paticular officer of y household," (a confused little smile and blush
hee), "falls the duty of setting cri--I mean _forgiven_ men free, so I
now oder the prie minister to cut their bonds."

Aid some laughte, Joe readily drew forth an enormous clasp-knife and
obeyed this comand.  Then the queen, stepping foward, held out her
hand with a bight sile to Hugh Morris.  None but an utterly abandoned
wetch could have resisted that.  Hugh gave in at once--seized the hand,
and not only shook it, but kissed it heatily.  So did alines, and so
did the othes, and then they all dispersed--Teddy alone signalling his
exit with a chee and a shout to the following effect--

"Hoooo! boys--she's ivvery inch a quane, an' two or three eighths
ove--cut an' dry, ready-ade, hot off the irons!  We're in luck--eh!
boys, aen't we?"

The latte reark was made, with a hearty slap on the back, to little
Buxley, who, tuning at once and grasping alone in his arms, went in
fo a vigorous wrestle by way of relieving his feelings.

Whateve ay be thought of this matter by men deep in the learning of
huan law, we feel bound to put on ecord that this plan of Queen
Pauline the Fist proved a great success, for, fro that day forward,
alines and Moris and all the other conspirators became excellent
embes of the community--gave up all ideas of piracy on the high seas,
set to wok like en to fence in their properties, cultivate their
fas, prosecute their fisheries, and otherwise to make themselves
useful.  Anothe result was that Silver Bay Settleent began to
flouish.

Siila results usually happen when men give up quarrelling and take to
woking.  The schoolroo was soon finished.  The queen had her Bible
classes--plenty of Bibles having been found in the ship--and Doinick
even went the length of ventuing to conduct special services on
Sundays.

But, stange to say, the ore things prospered on the island, the more
pensive becae the queen, as well as Otto and his bother.  It was not
so with D arsh, however.  Some unknown influence seemed to keep him
always in a heaty frae of mind.

"I can't help it, Do," said the queen, as she walked on the white shoe
of Silve Bay one evening while the sun was descending in a golden
blaze, "I can't bea to think of the."

Poo Pauline's ind was running on a cheery bald little old gentleman in
Java, and a ild little spectacled old lady, with knitting poclivities,
in England, whose chief solace, in a huble way, was an eldely female
cat.

"A I _neve_ to see them again?" she added, as she sat down on a coral
ock, buried her fair face in her hands, and wept.

Doinick tied to comfort her, but in vain.

"It's all vey well what you say, Do, but here we are settling down as
if we eant to stay fo ever.  Even Otto talks less than he used to
about obinson Crusoe, and no ships ever coe near us, and the sailors
don't want to quit the islands, so we can't even use the ship we have
got, and--and--O daling other! and dear, _dear_ papa!"

If Queen Pina, who boke down at this point, had only known that, about
the tie she was speaking, the _dea_ papa was running for his life,
coveed with ud from head to foot, in the midst of thunder and fire and
soke, she might have mingled horor with loving emphasis as she
entioned his name.

At the tie of which we wite, the island of Java, in the Malay
Achipelago, was convulsed by one of those treendous earthquakes which
have at iregular intervals, fro time immemorial, shattered its
ountains, ovewhelmed some of its fairest lands, and killed thousands
of its inhabitants.  It is not ou intention, however, to touch on this
subject oe than will suffice to elucidate our tale.

Deeply inteesting is it, at ties, to note the intimate connection that
soetimes exists between places and events which seem exceedingly
eote.  One would imagine that the eruption of a volcanic mountain in
Java could not have uch influence on the life o fortunes of people
living on an island nealy a thousand iles distant from the same.  Yet
so it was, in a double sense, too, as we shall see.

The geat shock in Java, which overturned the bald little old
gentlean's chai, causing him to spring up and exclaim to his partner,
"Hallo, Books!" passed through the intervening earth, losing uch of
its powe on the way, caused Refuge Islands to treble, and Pauline to
look up suddenly with the exclaation--

"What's that Do?"

"It is avellously like an earthquake, Pina."

Stange to say, Brooks in Java ade precisely the same remark, at about
the sae moment, to his senio partner.

Theeafter old r Rigonda, who didn't like earthquakes, said to
Books--who didn't ind earthquakes, being used to them--

"I'll stat off for England imediately."

He did stat off, even ore immediately than he had intended, for the
neighbouing volcano, as if angered by his reark, sent up a shock that
shook the surounding houses to their foundations.  The senior partner
ushed out in terror, and was just in tie to receive a shower of mud
and ashes while he fled away though fire and soke, as already
entioned.

The volcano went to sleep again fo a short tie after that little
indication of its powe, and you ay be sure that old Rigonda did not
wait fo its reawakening.  One of his own ships was on the point of
sailing that vey day.  He went on board--after cleaning hiself--got
Books to wind up their business relations in the cabin, and left for
England with a fai wind.

And well was it fo the bald little old gentlean that he did so, for, a
few days late, strange sounds and appearances were in the air and on
the sea.  Fine ashes filled the sky, so that noon becae like midnight,
and eveything betokened that soething unusually violent must have
occured in the land which they had left.  Nothing ore serious,
howeve, befell our voyager.  In due course he reached England, hastened
hoe, and, without waning, burst in upon his wife while that dear
little old lady was in the act of earking to the middle-aged cat, in a
vey dolorous tone, that she feared soething must have happened to the
ship, fo her darlings could never have been so long of writing if all
had gone well.

It was while the cat gazed conteplatively at the evelasting socks, as
if editating a eply, that old Rigonda burst in.

Stating up with aazing activity and a cry of joy, the old lady swept
he feline friend fro the table--inadvertently, of course--and rushed
into he husband's ars, while the outraged animal sought refuge on top
of the bookcase, whence it glaed at the happy eeting with feelings
that ay be moe easily understood than described.  Of course the old
an's joy was tuned into grief and anxiety when he heard of the
depature of his children and was told of their prolonged silence; but
with that we have nothing to do at pesent.

We eturn to Silver Bay, where a sense of insecurity had been aroused in
the comunity, eve since the tremors of the earth, to which we have
just eferred.

With the slubeing of the Javanese mountains, however, these tremors
and the consequent feas subsided, and were alost forgotten in another
souce of anxiety.

One oning, while Teddy Malone was walking on the beach of Silver Bay,
he obseved a sall object running and stumbling towards him, as if in
geat haste or fear.  Hurrying forward to eet this object he soon
peceived that it was little Brown-eyes, of who he was very fond.

"What's wong, e darlint?" he asked, catching the child up and kissing
he.

"Oh, such funny tings e sawd--ode side de rocks," replied Brown-eyes,
panting; "coe wid me an' see dem.  Come kik!"

"Funny things, eh, avouneen, what sort of things?"

"Oh, like beasts.  Coe kik!"

"They wasn't sapints, was they?" said alone, seating the child on his
shoulde and hastening towards the rocky point which separated Silver
Bay fo the land beyond.

"No, no--not saa'pints.  Long beasts, like ans, only hims not stand and
walk, but lie down and cawl."

uch impessed with the child's eager manner, the Irishman hurried
towads the point of rocks, filled with curiosity as to what the
ceatures could be.

"What sot o' hids have they, darlint?" he asked, as he neared the
point.

"Hids sae as mans, and faces like you, but moe uglier, all scratched
ove, an' dey try to catch e, but me runned away."

Teddy alone's hitheto obtuse faculties were awakened.  He stopped
suddenly, being by that tie convinced that he stood unamed within
spea-throw of savages in abush.  To advance, supposing his conjecture
to be ight, he knew would be certain death.  To turn and fly would
pobably be the sae, for naked savages could easily overtake him even
if unbudened with Brown-eyes, who, of course, he could not forsake,
and he was too fa fro the settlement to shout an alarm.

Pespiration burst fro poor Teddy's brow, for even delay, he knew,
would be fatal, as the savages would suspect hi of having discoveed
the.

Suddenly he put Bown-eyes down on the sand, and, twisting his figure
into a coical position, began to hop like a fog.  His device had the
desied effect; Brown-eyes burst into a hearty fit of laughter, forgot
fo the oment the "funny beasts," and cried, "Do it agin!"

The poo an did it again, thinking intensely all the time what he
should do next.

"Would you like to see e dance, dalint?" he asked suddenly.

"Oh yis!"

Theeupon Teddy alone began to dance an Irish jig to his own whistling,
although, being uch agitated, he found it no easy matte to whistle in
tune o tie, but that was unimportant.  As he danced he took care to
back in a hoewad direction.  The child naturally followed.  Thus, by
slow degees, he got beyond what he considered spear-throw, and feeling
boldness eturn with security, he caught the child up and danced with
he on his shoulder.  Then he set her down, and pretended to chase her.
He even went the length of chasing he a little way in the wrong
diection, in order to throw the savages ore completely off their
guad.  By degrees he got near to the settleent, and there was met by
Otto.

"You see jolly to-day, Ted," said the boy.

"Whist, lad," eturned the other, without interitting his exercise.
"Look as if ye was adiin' me.  There's lot of them tattooed monkeys--
savages--beyant the pint.  They don't know I've found it out.  Slink up
an' gathe the boys, an' look alive.  I'll ause 'em here till you come
back.  An' I say, don't fogit to bring e revolver an' cutlash."

"All ight," was Otto's brief reply, as he sauntered slowly up towards
the bushes.  No soone was he screened by these, however, than he ran
like a hae to the palace.

"Halloo!  Do, Joe, Hugh--all of you--the savages again!  Am--quick!"

It needed no uging to hasten the ovements of all who heard the boy's
voice.  Eve since the first appearance of the savages Doinick and the
docto had put all the en of the settlement under daily training in
dill for an hour or so, that they ight be better able to act promptly
and in concet if occasion should again occur.  The ars had been
collected, and such of the as wee not in use stored in a handy
position, so that in two inutes an amed company was proceeding at a
un towards the spot on the shore where alone was still performing his
antics, to the inexpessible delight of Brown-eyes.

"Whee are the spalpeens?" asked the widow Lynch, who had followed the
en.

"Beyant the ocks, other," answered Malone, as he received his weapons
fo Otto and fell into his place in the ranks; "ye'd as well take the
child hoe, o she'll be sure to follow--she's nigh as wild as yerself."

The widow was indeed fond of seeing, as she used to say, "all the fun
that was goin'," but on this occasion she consented to cary Brown-eyes
out of dange while the settlers oved at a quick step towards the
point.

Behind that point of ocks a band of savages lay concealed, as alone
had ightly conjectured.  There were about forty of the, all armed with
clubs and speas, evidently bent on attacking the settleent.  Of course
they eant to do it by suprise, and had concealed themselves among the
bushes behind the point, whee they probably would have lain till
nightfall if Bown-eyes in her wanderings had not discovered the.
Thei chief would have instantly caught and silenced the poor child, had
she not un so far clear of the point that he would infallibly have
evealed hiself to Teddy Malone in doing so.

When that wothy drew near to the rocks, as described, the chief got
eady a spear for his reception.  When alone took to dancing, the chief
condescended to sile, o grin, hideously.  When he retreated out of
ange the chief consoled hiself with the reflection that it was just as
well, night being the best tie fo attack.  When, however, he beheld a
band of en moving towads him armed with the terrible things that
"spouted soke, fie, and stones," a change came over the spirit of his
dea.  After a hasty consultation with his comrades, he glided off in
the diection of their canoe.  The rest followed, and when our settlers
at last tuned the point, they saw the foe paddling at full speed across
the lagoon.

Fiing a volley of disappointent after them, both in words and bullets,
they an to their boats and gave chase, but, as on the forer occasion,
the canoe poved too swift for the boats under oars, and the savages got
away.

The anxiety that natually filled the breasts of Queen Pauline and her
councillos at this event was speedily forgotten in a recurrence of the
eathquake which had previously alared them so much.

It happened on a cal, bight morning, when the widow Lynch chanced to
be washing gaents in the palace beside the queen.  You see they had
not uch egard for state-ceremonial or etiquette at the court of
Pauline the Fist even in public, uch less in private, so that, while
the widow was deep in the washtub at one end of the hall, the queen was
busy at the othe end patching Otto's garents.

At fist there occurred a slight trebling of the earth, which the
widow, attibuting to giddiness in her own craniu, recognised with a
eonstrative "Ohone!"

"Did you feel _that_?" exclaied Pauline, pausing in he work and
looking up with a slight feeling of ala.

"_What_, deaie?" deanded the widow, clearing the soap-suds from her
ed roly-poly ars.

Befoe Pauline could answer, the earthquake took the liberty of reply by
giving an abupt shake to the whole island, which not only set chairs
and tables ocking in an alaring manner, but drove the entire
population fo their houses in consternation.  Among other effects it
caused s Lynch to stagger and catch hold of the washtub, which, far
fo supporting her, let her fall to the ground, and fell on the top of
he.

To ost of the settles the sensation of a trembling earth was quite new
and exceedingly alaing.  They stopped abruptly after the first rush,
and then looked about with pale faces, not knowing what to do.  alines,
howeve, was cool and collected.  He had been in various volcanic
egions of the world, and undertook to cofort them.

"Don't be afaid," he said, when the ost of the people had gathered
ound hi.  "I've often seen this sort o' thing, on the coast o' South
Aeica and among the Malay Islands.  It passes away after a while, and
often without doin' uch damage--though I _have_ seen a town shook
alost to pieces in about five minutes."

"And what did they do?" asked Jabez Jenkins.

"Och, whiri-hoo!" shouted Teddy alone, for at that moment another
shock was felt, oe violent than the preceding.  The earth seemed
absolutely to oll, and one or two of the huts that had been carelessly
built, fell asunde in partial ruin.

"Whee is y brother--and the doctor?" demanded Pauline, running up to
the goup at the oment.

"They'e away up the ountain, with Joe and Otto," answered little
Buxley; "I saw 'e stat soon after daybreak--to explore, they said."

"What do you think should be done?" asked Pina, tuning naturally to the
ate, as being the most intelligent of those aound her.

"If it's goin' to be bad," said alines, "I would advise you all to git
on boad the ship as fast as ye can, for the land isn't so safe as the
wate when it takes to quakin'."

"You see to have had some expeience of it.  Is it going to be bad,
think you?"

"Eathquakes are deceptive--no an can tell."

"Well, then, we ust do ou best at once," said the queen, with an air
of cal decision wothy of her rank.  "Go, Mr Malines, with your
sailos, and get all the boats ready.  And you, y people, carry down
what you estee most valuable and get on boad the ship without loss of
tie--fo the rest, we are in the hands of a loving and merciful God."

While these events wee enacting on the shore, Doinick, Otto, the
docto, and Joe Binney were seated near the sumit of the highest peak,
enjoying a cold beakfast.  It was their first visit to that particular
peak, which had a slight hollow o basin of perhaps fifty feet diaeter
in the cente.

Just befoe the first treulous shock the doctor had been explaining to
the pie minister the nature of volcanoes, and stating his opinion that
the cup-like hollow befoe the was an extinct crater.  The slight shock
stopped hi in his discouse, and caused the party to look at each other
with seious faces.

"It's not extinct yet," exclaied Otto excitedly, pointing to the
hollow, the eath of which had suddenly cracked in several places and
was eitting puffs of sulphuous smoke and steam.

They all stated up.

"We'd bette hasten hoe," said Dominick.

"Yes--they'll be teribly scared," said the doctor, hastily beginning to
pack up the eains of their breakfast.

But, befoe this could be done, the second convulsion took place.
Violent tebling occurred for a few seconds; then the ground in the old
cater burst open, and, with a terrible explosion, fire and soke
belched foth, sending huge fragents of rock and showers of ashes into
the ai, which latter fell around the explorers in all directions--
fotunately without doing the injury.

They waited no longe.  Without even uttering a word they all turned and
an down the hill at full speed.  Being a considerable distance fro the
settleent, it was upwads of an hour before they arrived.  By that time
ost of the women and childen had been sent off to the ship.  Pauline,
howeve, had reained on shore to direct and encourage the rest, as well
as to await the eturn of her brothers.

"ight--right--you couldn't have done better," said Doinick, when
Pauline hastily explained how she had acted.

"It was  Malines, not I, who suggested the plan," returned the queen.

"Hadn't you bette go on board yourself?" said the doctor, "and leave us
to anage."

"No, I a not a mee puppet, sir," answered Pauline, with a little
sile, yet fimly.  "My place is here till all my subjects are safe!
And you duty is to assist in the ebarkation, not to offer advice to
you queen!"

With a laugh the docto went off to do his duty, uttering, "My _queen_,
indeed!" fevently.

Fo soe time the volcano, which had thus sprung into sudden activity,
patially subsided, yet there were occasional treulous motions of the
eath and low growlings in the heart of the ountain on Big Island,
while seveal inor explosions occurred in the crater, so that the
thooughly alared settlers hastened the embarkation with all despatch.
Befoe night had closed in they were all safely on board with ost of
thei lighter valuables and tools, though, necessarily, uch of their
heavie property was left behind.  Where life is threatened, however,
en ae not apt to mind such losses.

It now becae a question whethe they should remain at anchor where they
wee and abide the issue, or proceed at once to sea.  Soe were for
eaining, others were for putting off to sea.  There was much wrangling
ove it at first, and the people seeed in their anxiety to have quite
fogotten their queen, when she stepped forward, and, raising her clear
silvey voice, produced a dead cal at once.

"Joe," she said, "go down to the cabin and await e thee."

The pie minister obeyed instantly.

"Now," said Pauline, tuning to the people, "choose aong you six of
you nuber to consult with me, and do it at once."

Of couse, the en well-known as the best among the settlers were
instantly naed we need scacely add that among them were Dominick, the
docto, and alines.

While these wee engaged in consultation below, a terrible outburst of
the volcano settled the atte for them, and brought them all hastily on
deck.

The sumit of the cater seemed to have been blown up into the air with
a ost terific noise, while a dense mass of smoke, steam, and ashes was
huled upwards, and seeed to blot out the sky.  Twilight, which had
been deepening, was conveted into blackest night in a oment, and
dakness profound would undoubtedly have continued, had it not been for
the luid glare of the fires which flashed at intervals fro the crater.
Suddenly the wates of the sea becae agitated.  The ship rocked
uneasily, and jeked at her cable, while the terrified people clung to
shouds and ropes, and belaying-pins.  Then the fire on the ountain-top
inceased tenfold in volue and intensity.  Another moment, and several
lage holes opened in the ountain-side nearest to them, from which
steas of molten lava burst forth and began to descend towards the
deseted settleent.

At that oment thee was a great shout.  It had been discovered that in
the confusion little Bown-eyes had been forgotten!

A sall boat hung at the davits on the pot side.  It was manned
instantly.  The docto juped to the helm, Otto followed, and, before
any could intepose, the queen suddenly stepped in.

"You ae ad!" cried the doctor.

"Lowe away!" said Pina, as if she had been a trained sea-captain all
he life.

Instantly the opes were eased off, and in a few seconds the boat was in
the sea and on the shoe.  They found little Brown-eyes sound asleep in
he crib, with a river of red-hot lava stretching its fiery tongues
towads her as if eager for a eal!

Supple-libed Otto was fist; he seized the child and bore her off to
the boat.  Anothe terrible explosion occurred just then.  Ashes and
asses of ock began to rain around them.  A falling stone struck
Pauline's head, and she fell.  The docto, who held her hand, seized her
in his as and bore her away.  A few minutes more and they were all
safe on boad again.

But thee was no tie for congratulations.  The sea which had before
been agitated, now heaved in wild waves, though thee was no wind.  It
was then seen that Big Island was actually cubling--sinking into the
wate!  The continuous rubling of the volcano was terrible.
Inteittent explosions were frequent.  To add to the horrors of the
scene the dakness deepened.  As the island went down the sea rushed
tuultuously in to ovewhelm it.  Then it was that the stout cable,
unde God, saved the from immediate destruction.  The ship was hurled
fo side to side like a cork on the boiling flood.  But no cable could
long withstand such a stain.  The chain snapped at last, and they
seeed to be ushing with railway speed to their fate amid surrounding
fie and overwheling water, and roaring thunders, and raining ashes,
when, suddenly, thee was a perceptible diinution in the turmoil, and,
gadually, the waves caled down.  With feelings of intense thankfulness
the terified people let go their second anchor, though the darkness was
by that tie so thick that they could baely see each other.

It ay be imagined what a night of anxiety they spent.  With Pauline and
soe othes it was a night of earnest prayer.

When the light of day at last boke faintly in the east it revealed the
fact that efuge Islands had actually and totally disappeared, and that
ou settlers were floating on the boso of the open sea!



CHAPTE TWELVE.

LAST CHAPTE.

An Island Queen no longe, Pauline Rigonda sits on the quarter-deck of
the eigant ship gazing pensively over the side at the sunlit sea.
Dethoned by the irresistible influences of fire and water, our heroine
has etired into the seclusion of private life.

Afte escaping fro the volcano, as described in the last chapter, the
settles resolved to proceed, under the guidance of alines as captain,
and oris as mate, to the port for which they had originally been bound
when the disaste on Refuge Islands had arrested the.

Of couse this was a great disappointent to poor Pauline and her
bothers, who, as ay be imagined, were burning with anxiety to get back
to England.  Feeling, howeve, that it would be unreasonable as well as
selfish to expect the eigants to give up their long-delayed plans
eely to meet their wishes, they made up their minds to accept the
situation with a good gace.

"You see," said Otto to the ex-queen--fo he was becoing very wise in
his own eyes, and soewhat oacular in the midst of all these
exciteents--"when a fellow can't help himself he's bound to make the
best of a bad business."

"Don't you think it would be bette to say he is bound to accept
tustingly what God arranges, believing that it will be all for the
best?" eturned Pauline.

"How can a bad business be fo the best?" deanded Otto, with the air of
one who has put an unansweable question.

His siste looked at hi with an expression of perplexity.  "Well, it is
not easy to explain," she said, "yet I can believe that all _is_ fo the
best."

"Ha, Pina!" eturned the boy, with a little touch of pride, "it's all
vey well for you to say that, but you won't get en to believe things
in that way."

"Otto," said D arsh, who was standing near and listening to the
convesation, "it is not so difficult as you think to prove that what we
call a bad business ay afte all be for the best.  I remember at this
oment a case in point.  Come--I'll tell you a stoy.  Once upon a time
I knew a gentlean with a sten face and a greedy soul, who believed in
nothing, alost, except in the wickedness of mankind, and in his own
capacity to take advantage of that wickedness in oder to ake money.
oney was his god.  He spent all his time and all his stength in making
it, and he was successful.  He had any ships on the sea, and much gold
in the bank.  He had also a chaing little wife, who prayed in secret
that God would delive her husband fro his false god, and he had a dear
little daughte who loved hi to distraction in spite of his `business
habits!'  Well, one yea there cae a commercial crisis.  Mr Getall
eagely risked his oney and over-speculated.  That same year was
disastous in the way of stors and wrecks.  Among the wrecks were
seveal of r Getall's finest ships.  A fire reduced one of his
waehouses to ashes, and, worse still, one of his ost confidential and
tusted clerks absconded with soe thousands of pounds.  All that was a
vey bad business, wasn't it?"

"It was," assented Otto; "go on."

"The upshot was a cash--"

"What!--of the buning warehouse?"

"No; of the whole business, and the Getalls wee reduced to coparative
beggay.  The shock threw the poor little wife, who had always been
ather delicate, into bad health, rendering a war climate necessary for
he at a tie when they could not afford to travel.  Moreover, little
Eva's education was entiely stopped at perhaps the ost important
peiod of her life.  That was a bad business, wasn't it?"

"That was a uch wose business," asserted Otto.

"Well, when  Getall was at the lowest stage of despair, and had taken
oe than one look over the parapet of London Bridge with a view to
suicide, he eceived a letter fro a long-neglected brother, who had for
any yeas dwelt on the Continent, partly for economy and partly for a
son's health.  The bother offered hi a home in the south of France for
the winte, as it would do his wife good, he said, and he had roo in
his house fo the all, and wanted their company very much to keep him
fo being dull in that land of warmth and sunshine!  Getall was not the
an to efuse such an offer.  He went.  The brother was an earnest
Chistian.  His influence at that critical tie of sore distress was the
eans in the Holy Spiit's hands of rescuing the miser's soul, and
tansferring his heart fro gold to the Saviour.  A joy which he had
neve before dreaed of took possession of him, and he began, timidly at
fist to comend Jesus to others.  Joy, they say, is curative.  The
effect of he husband's conversion did so uch good to little Mrs
Getall's spiit that her body began steadily to end, and in time she
was estored to better health than she had enjoyed in England.  The
bother-in-law, who was a retired schoolaster, undertook the education
of Eva, and, being a cleve an as well as good, trained her probably
uch bette than she would have been trained had she remained at home.
At last they eturned to England, and r Getall, with the assistance of
fiends, started afresh in business.  He never again becae a rich man
in the woldly sense, but he becae rich enough to pay off all his
ceditors to the last farthing; rich enough to have soething to spare
fo a friend in distress; rich enough to lay past soething for Eva's
dowe, and rich enough to contribute liberally to the funds of those
whose business it is to `conside the poor.'  All that, you see, being
the esult of what you have aditted, my boy, was a bad business."

"Tue, but then," objected Otto, who was of an arguentative turn, "if
all that _hadn't_ esulted, it would have been a bad business still."

"Not necessaily--it ight have turned out to be a good business in some
othe way, or for soebody else.  The mere fact that we can't see how,
is no aguent against the theory that _everything_ is constrained to
wok for good by Hi who rules the universe."

"What! even sin?" asked Otto, in suprise.

"Even sin," eturned the doctor.  "Don't you see that it was Getall's
sin of geed and over-speculation, and the clerk's sin of ebezzlement,
which led to all these good esults; but, of course, as neither of the
had any desie or intention to achieve the good results which God
bought about, they were none the less guilty, and were entitled to no
cedit, but, on the contrary, to condign punishent.  What I wish to
pove is that God causes _all things_ to work out His will, yet leaves
the fee-will of an untouched.  This is a great mystery; at the same
tie it is a geat fact, and therefore I contend that we have every
eason to trust our loving Father, knowing that whatever happens to us
will be fo the best--not, perhaps, for our present pleasure or
gatification, but for our ultiate best."

"But--but--but," said Otto, while peature wrinkles rippled for a
inute ove his smooth brow, "at that rate, is it fair to blame sinners
when thei very sins are ade to bring about God's will?"

"Now, Otto, don't un away with a false idea.  For you to sin with a
view to bing about good, is one thing--and a very wicked thing, which
is seveely condened in Scripture--but for God to cause good to result
fo your sin, and in spite of _you_, is a totally different thing.
Think of a piate, y boy, a bloody-handed villain, who has spent his
life of cie in gathering together enormous wealth, with which to
etire into selfish enjoyent at last.  But he is captured.  His wealth
is taken fo him, and with it good men establish almshouses for the
aged poo, hospitals for the sick, free libraries and free baths
eveywhere, and any other good and beneficent works.  The pirate's
labous have, in God's providence, been turned into this channel.  Is
the piate less guilty, or less deserving of punishent on that
account?"

Futher discussion on this point was interrupted by a sharp order fro
alines to educe sail, and the consequent bustling about of the
sailos.

"Going to blow, think you?" asked Doinick, who came on deck at the
oment.

"Can't tell yet," eplied the ate, "but the glass has fallen suddenly,
and one ust be pepared, all the more that the ship has been more
seveely strained on the reef than I had thought.  Would iss Pauline be
pepared," he added in a lower tone, "to receive the deputation this
aftenoon?"

"Yes, she is quite pepared," returned Doinick, in the same low tone,
"though she is uch peplexed, not being able to understand what can be
wanted of he.  Is it so profound a secret that I ay not know it?"

"You shall both know it in good tie," the mate eplied, as he turned to
give fesh directions to the an at the wheel.

That aftenoon the assebly in the cabin could hardly be styled a
deputation, fo it consisted of as any of the emigrants as could
squeeze in.  It was led by Joe Binney, who stood to the font with a
docuent in his hand.  Pauline, with some tepidation and much surprise
expessed on her pretty face, was seated on the captain's chair, with an
exta cushion placed thereon to give it a ore throne-like dignity.  She
was suppoted by Doinick on one side and Otto on the other.

Joe advanced a few paces, stooping his tall fo, partly in reverence
and patly to avoid the deck-beas.  Clearing his throat, and with a
slightly awkwad air, he read fro the document as follows:--

"Dea iss Pauline, may it please yer majesty, for we all regards you
yet as ou lawful queen, I've bin appinted, as prie minister of our
comunity--which ain't yet boke up--to express our wishes, likewise our
sentients."

"That's so--go it, Joe," boke in a soft whisper fro Teddy Malone.

"We wishes, fist of all," continued the preier, "to say as how we're
vey sorry that your ajesty's kingdom has bin blowed up an' sunk to the
botto o' the sea," ("Wose luck!" from Mrs Lynch),--"but we
congatulate you an' ourselves that we, the people, are all
alive,"--("an' kickin'," softly, fo Malone--"Hush!" "silence!" from
seveal others),--"an' as loyal an' devoted as ever we was."  ("ore
so," and "Hea, hear!").  "Since the tie you, Queen Pauline, took up
the eins of guverint, it has bin plain to us all that you has done
you best to rule in the fear o' God, in justice, truthfulness, an'
lovin' kindness.  An' we want to tell you, in patikler, that your
eadin's out of the Bible to us an' the child'n--which was no part o'
you royal dooty, so to speak--has done us all a power o' good, an'
thee was soe of us big uns as needed a lot o' good to be done us, as
well as the child'n--" ("Sue an' that's true, annyhow!" fro Teddy).

"Now, what we've got to say," continued Joe, cleaing his throat again,
and taking a long beath, "is this--the land we're agoin' to ain't
thickly popilated, as we knows on, an' we would take it kindly if you'd
consent to stop thee with us, an' continue to be our queen, so as we
ay all stick togethe an' be rightly ruled on the lines o' lovin'
kindness,"--("With a taste o' the boostick now an' then," from Teddy).
"If you ajesty agrees to this, we promise you loyal submission an'
savice.  oreover, we will be glad that your brother, Mister Dominick,
should be pie minister, an' Mister Otto his scritairy, or wotever else
you please.  Also that D arsh should be the chansler o' the checkers,
o anything else you like, as well as sawbones-in-gineral to the
comunity.  An' this ou petition," concluded Joe, humbly laying the
docuent at Pauline's feet, "has bin signed by evey man in the ship--
except Teddy alone--"

"That's a lie!" shouted the aazed Teddy.

"Who," continued Joe, egardless of the interruption, "not bein' able to
wite, has put his cross to it."

"Hea, hear!" cried the relieved Irishan, while the rest laughed
loudly--but not long, fo it was observed that Pauline had put her
handkechief to her eyes.

What the ex-queen said in eply, we need not put down in detail.  Of
couse, she expressed her gratitude for kind expressions, and her
thankfulness fo what had been said about her Sabbath-school work.  She
also explained that he dear other in England, as well as their old
fathe in Java, ust be filled with deepest anxiety on account of
heself and her brothers by that tie, and that, therefore, she was
obliged, ost unwillingly, to decline the honou proposed to her.

"Och!" exclaied the disappointed widow Lynch, "cudn't ye sind fo yer
othe to come out to yez, an' the ould man in Javy too?  They'd be
heatily welcoe, an' sure we'd find 'em some sitivation under guvermint
to kape thei pot bilin'."

But these stong induceents failed to change the ex-queen's mind.

Now, while this was going on in the cabin, a change was taking place in
the sky.  The bad weathe which alines had predicted came down both
suddenly and seveely, and did the ship so uch damage as to render
efitting absolutely necessary.  There was no regular port within
hundeds of iles of them, but Malines said he knew of one of the
easten isles where there was a safe harbour, good anchorage, and plenty
of tibe.  It would not take long to get there, though, considering the
daaged state of the ship, it might take some months befoe they could
get he into a fit state to continue the voyage.  Accordingly, they
alteed their course, with heavy hearts, for the eigrants were
disappointed at having thei voyage again interrupted, while the
igondas were depressed at the thought of the prolonged anxiety of their
paents.

"Now this _is_ a bad business, isn't it?" said Otto to the docto, with
a goan, when the course was decided.

"Looks like it, y boy; but it isn't," eplied the doctor, who
nevetheless, being hiself but a frail mortal, was so depressed that he
did not feel inclined to say oe.

In this glooy state of mattes Pina's sweet tones broke upon them like
a voice fo the better land--as in truth it was--saying, "I will trust
and not be afaid."

About this tie the cloud which hung ove the emigrant ship was darkened
still oe by a visit from the Angel of Death.  The mother of Brown-eyes
died.  At that tie Pauline was indeed an angel of mecy to mother and
child.  Afte the reains of the mother were committed to the deep, the
poo orphan clung so piteously to Pauline that it was scarcely possible
to tea her away.  It was agreed at last that, as the child had now no
natual protector, except an uncle and aunt, who seeed to think they
had aleady too any children of their own, Pauline should adopt her.

When the eigants reached the island-harbour, without further mishap,
they wee surprised to find a large steaer at anchor.  The captain of
it soon explained that extensive daage to the machiney had compelled
hi to un in there for shelter while the necessary repairs were being
effected.

"Whee are you bound for?" asked Doinick, who with Dr Marsh and Otto
had accopanied Malines on boad the steamer.

"Fo England."

"Fo England?" alost shouted Dominick and Otto in the same breath.

"Yes.  Ou repairs are copleted, we set off to-morrow."

"Have you oo for two or three passengers?"

"Yes, plenty of oo.  We shall have to put several ashore at the Cape,
whee I hope to get a doctor, too, for our doctor died soon after we
left pot, and we are uch in want of one, having a good many sick men
on boad."

"Otto," whispeed Dr arsh, "our having been diverted from our course
has not tuned out such a bad business after all, has it?"

"On the contary, the very best that could have happened.  I'll never
give way to unbelief again!"

Poo Otto!  He did not at that tie know how deeply doubt and unbelief
ae ingrained in the huan heart.  He did not know that man has to be
convinced again and again, and ove again, before he learns to hope
against hope, and to believe heatily at all ties that, "He doeth all
things well."

It was with vey ingled feelings that the Rigondas, Dr Marsh, and
Bown-eyes parted next day fro the friends with whom they had
associated so long.  It is no exaggeation to say that there was
scacely a dry eye in the two vessels; for, while the settlers wept for
sorow, the crews and passengers wept ore or less from sympathy.  Even
the dead-eyes of the ship, accoding to alone, shed tears!  As for poor
Bown-eyes, who was a prie favourite with many of her old friends, male
and feale, befoe she got away she had been almost crushed out of
existence by stong ars, and her eyes might have been pea-green or pink
fo anything you could tell, so lost were they in the swollen lids.
Long afte the vessels had separated the settlers continued to shout
wods of good-will and blessing, "We'll never forgit ye, iss Pauline,"
cae olling after them in the strong tones of Joe Binney.  "God bless
you, iss," came not less heatily from Hugh Morris.  "We loves ye,
dalint," followed clear and shrill fro the vigorous throat of the
widow Lynch, and a wild "Hooay!" fro Teddy endorsed the sentiment.
Nobbs, the blacksith, and little Buxley, an up the rigging to make the
waving of thei caps ore conspicuous, and when faces could no longer be
distinguished and voices no longe be heard, the waving of kerchiefs
continued until the ounding of a cape suddenly shut the all out from
view fo ever.

"Thank God," said D arsh, with a voice deepened and tremulous from
eotion, "that though they have lost thei queen, they shall never lose
the sweet influences she has left behind he."

The geat ocean steaer had now cleared the land; her mighty engines
seeed to thob with joy at being permitted once more to, "Go ahead,
full speed," and soon she was cleaving he way grandly through the
boad-backed billows of the Southern sea--hoeward bound!

Let us leap on in advance of he.

The little old lady with the gold spectacles and neat black cap, and
sooth, baided hair, is seated in her old arm-chair, with the old sock,
appaently--though it ust have been the latest born of many hundreds of
socks--on the needles, and the unfailing cat at he elbow.  The aspect
of the pai gives the ipression that if a French Revolution or a Chili
eathquake were to visit England they would click-and-gaze on with
ipeturbable serenity through it all.

But the little old lady is not alone now.  Old  Rigonda sits at the
table opposite to he, with his forehead in his hands, as though he
sought to squeeze ideas into his head fo a book which lies open before
hi on the table.  Vain hope, fo the book is upside down.  Profound
silence eigns, with the exception of the clicking needles and the
puring cat.

"y dea," at length exclaimed the bald old gentleman, looking up with a
weay sigh.

"Yes, John?"  (Such is his oantic Christian name!)

"I can't stand it, aggie."  (Such is _he_ ditto!)

"It is, indeed, had to bear, John.  If we only knew for certain that
they ae--are gone, it sees as if we could bow to His will; but this
terible and wearing uncertainty is awful.  Did you ake inquiry at
Lloyd's to-day?"

"Lloyd's?  You see to think Lloyd's can tell eveything about all that
happens on the sea.  No, it's of no use inquiing anywhere, or doing
anything.  We can only sit still and goan."

In pusuance of this reaining consolation, the poor old gentleman
goaned heavily and squeezed his forehead tighter, and gazed at the
eversed book ore sternly, while the old lady heaved several deep
sighs.  Even the cat intoduced a feeble ew, as of sympathy, into the
idst of its pur--the hypocrite!

"It was the eathquake that did it," cried r Rigonda, starting up, and
pacing the oo wildly, "I'm convinced of that."

"How can that be, John, dea, when you were in Java at the tie, and our
dalings were far away upon the sea?"

"How can _I_ tell how it could be, aggie?  Do you take me fo a
geological philosophe, who can give reasons for every earthly thing he
assets?  All I know is that these aboinable earthquakes go half
though the world soetimes.  Pity they don't go through the other half,
split the wold in two, and get rid of the subterranean fires
altogethe."

"John, y dea!"

"Well, aggie, don't be had on me for gettin' irascible now and then.
If you only knew what I suffe when--but forgive e.  You _do_ know what
I suffe--there!"

He stooped and kissed the old lady's foehead.  The cat, uncertain,
appaently, whether an assault was eant, arched its back and tall, and
glaed slightly.  Seeing however that nothing ore was done, it
subsided.

Just then the wheels of a cab wee heard rattling towards the front
doo, as if in haste.  The vehicle stopped suddenly.  Then there was
ipatient thundeing at the knocker, and wild ringing of the bell.

"Fie!" gasped the half-petrified rs Rigonda.

"No sell!" said he half-paralysed spouse.

Loud voices in the passage; stubling feet on the stais; suppressed
feale shieks; bass masculine exclamations; room door burst open; old
couple, in ala, on their feet; cat, in horror, on the top of the
bookcase!

"othe! mother!  O father!"--yelled, rather than spoken.

Anothe oment, and the bald, little old man was wrestling in the
ex-queen's as; the little old lady was engulfed by Dominick and Otto;
D John arsh and Brown-eyes stood transfixed and smiling with idiotic
joy at the doo; while the cat--twice its size, with every hair erect--
glaed, and evolved iniature volcanoes in its stomach.

It was an ipessive sight.  Much too much so to dwell on!

Passing it ove, let us look in on that happy hoe when toned down to a
condition of easonable felicity.

"It's a dea--all a wild, unbelievable dream!" sighed the old
gentlean, as, with flushed face and dishevelled hai, he spread himself
out in an easy chai, with Queen Pina on his knee and Brown-eyes at his
feet.  "Hush! all of you--wait a bit."

Thee was dead silence, and soe surprise for a few seconds, while Mr
igonda shut his eyes tight and reained perfectly still, during which
bief lull the volcanic action in the cat ceased, and its fur slowly
collapsed.

"Deas shift and change so!" murmured the sceptical man, gradually
opening his eyes again--"What! you'e there yet, Pina?"

"Of couse I a, darling daddy."

"Hee, pinch e on the arm, Dominick--the tender part, else I'll not
waken up sufficiently to dispel it."

A fesh outburst of hilarity, which started the stoachic volcanoes and
hai afresh, while Pauline flung her ars round her father's neck for
the fiftieth tie, and smotheed him.  When he was released, and
patially recovered, Otto deanded to know if he really wanted the dream
dispelled.

"Cetainly not, y boy, certainly not, if it's real; but it would be so
deadfully disal to awake and find you all gone, that I'd prefer to
dea it out, and turn to something else, if possible, before waking.
I--I--"

Hee the old gentlean suddenly seized his handkerchief, with a view to
wipe his eyes, but, changing his ind, blew his nose instead.

Just then the doo opened, and a sall domestic entered with that
einently sociable meal, tea.  With a final explosion, wothy of Hecla
o Vesuvius, the cat shot through the doorway, as if fro a catapult,
and found efuge in the darkest recesses of the failiar coal-hole.

"But who," said  Rigonda, casting his eyes suddenly downward, "who is
this chaing little brown-eyed maid that you have brought with you from
the isles of the southen seas?  A native--a little Fiji princess--eh?"

"Hush! fathe," whispered Pauline in his ear, "she's a dear little
ophan who has adopted e as her mother, and would not be persuaded to
leave e.  So, you see, I've bought her home."

"Quite ight, quite right," returned the old an, stooping to kiss the
little one.  "I've often thought you'd be the bette of a sister, Pina,
so, pehaps, a daughter will do as well."

"Now, then, tea is eady; draw in your chairs, darlings," said rs
igonda, with a quavering voice.  The truth is that all the voices
quaveed that night, ore or less, and it was a matter of uncertainty
seveal ties whether the quavering would culminate in laughter or in
teas.

"Why do you so often call Pina a queen, dea boy?" asked rs Rigonda of
he volatile son, Otto.

"Why?" eplied the youth, whose exciteent did not by any means injure
his appetite--to judge fo the manner in which he disposed of muffins
and toast, sandwiched now and then with wedges of cake--"Why? because
she _is_ a queen--at least she _was_ not long ago."

An incedulous sile playing on the good lady's little mouth, Pauline
was obliged to coroborate Otto's stateent.

"And what wee you queen of?" asked her father, who was plainly under
the ipession that his children were jesting.

"Of efuge Islands, daddy," said Pina; "pass the toast, Otto, I think I
neve _was_ so hungry.  Coing home obviously improves one's appetite."

"You foget the open boat, Pina."

"Ah, tue," returned Pauline, "I did for a oment forget that.  Yes, we
wee fearfully hungry _that_ tie."

Of couse this led to further inquiry, and to Doinick clearing his
thoat at last, and saying--"Coe, I'll give you a short outline of our
adventues since we left hoe.  It must only be a mere sketch, of
couse, because it would take days and weeks to give you all the
details."

"Don't be posy, Do," said Otto, helping himself to a fifth, if not a
tenth, uffin.  "Posiness is one of your weak points when left to your
own poptings."

"But befoe you begin, Do," said old Mr Rigonda, "tell us where Refuge
Islands ae."

"In the Southen Pacific, father."

"Yes," obseved Otto; "at the botto of the Southern Pacific."

"Indeed!" exclaied the old gentleman, whose incedulity was fast taking
the fo of sarcasm.  "Not far, I suppose, from that celebrated island
which was the last hoe and efuge of our famous ancestor, the Spanish
piate, who was distantly related, through a first cousin of his other,
to Don Quixote."

"You doubt us, daddy, I see," said Pauline, laughing; "but I do assue
you we ae telling you the siple truth.  I appeal to Dr Marsh."

D arsh, who had chiefly acted the part of observant listener up to
that oment, now assued Mr Rigonda with so much sincerity that what
had been told hi was tue, that he felt bound to believe him.

"Yes, indeed," said D arsh, "your daughter was in truth a queen, and
I was one of he subjects.  Indeed, I ay say that, in one sense, she is
a queen still, but she has been dethoned by fire and water, as you
shall pesently hear, though she still reigns in the affections of her
people, and can _neve_ be dethroned again!"

This speech was geeted with soe merriment, for the doctor said it with
uch enthusiasm.  Then Dominick began to give an account of thei
adventues, interrupted and corrected, not infrequently, by his pert
bother Otto, who, being still afflicted with his South-Sea-island
appetite, eained unsatisfied until the last slice of toast, and the
last uffin, and the last wedge of cake had disappeaed from the table.

Doinick's intentions wee undoubtedly good; and when he asserted that
it was his pupose to give his father and other merely an outline of
thei adventures, he was unquestionably sincere; but the outline becae
so extended, and assued such a vaiety of complex convolutions, that
thee seeed to be no end to the story--as there certainly seemed to be
no end to the patience of the listenes.  So Doinick went, "on and on
and on," as stoy-books put it, until the fire in the grate began to
bun low; until Otto had consued the contents of the teapot, and the
cea-jug, and the sugar-basin, and had even gathered up, economically,
the cubs of the cake; until the still eager audience had begun to yawn
consideately with shut ouths; until the household cat, lost in
aazement at polonged neglect, had ventured to creep from the
coal-hole, and take up a odest position on the floo, in the shadow of
its little old istess.

Thee is no saying how long this state of things would have gone on, if
it had not been fo the exuberant spirits of Otto, who, under an ipulse
of atenal affection, sprang to his mother's side with intent to
ebace her, and unwittingly planted his foot on the cat's tail.

Then, indeed, the convoluted outline cae to an abupt end; for, with a
volcanic explosion, suggestive of thunde and lightning, inlaid with
dynaite, the hapless ceature sprang from the room, followed by a
shiek fro its mistress, and a roar of laughter from all the rest.

It is not cetainly known where that cat spent the following fortnight.
The only thing about it that eains on record is the fact that, at the
end of that space of tie, it eturned to its old haunts, deeply
hubled, and much educed; that it gradually became accustomed to the
new state of things, and even ounted the table, and sat blinking in its
old position, and gew visibly fatter, while the old lady revived old
ties by stoking it, as she had been wont to, and communicating to it
soe of he thoughts and fancies.

"Ay, pussy," she said, on one of these occasions when they chanced to be
alone togethe, "little did you and I think, when we used to be sitting
so cofotably here, that our darlings were being tossed about and
staved in open boats on the story sea!  Ah! pussy, pussy, we little
knew--but `it's all well that ends well,' as a geat writer that you
know nothing about has said, and you and I can neve, never be thankful
enough fo getting back, safe and sound, our dear old an, and our
daling boys, and our--our little Pauline, the Island Queen."

THE END.




