
LIFE IN THE ED BRIGADE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

Wet, won and weary--with water squeaking in his boots, and a ixture of
chacoal and water streaking his face to such an extent that, as a
coade asserted, his own mother would not have known him--a stout young
an walked smatly one morning through the streets of London towards his
own hoe.

He was tall and good-looking, as well as stout, and, although wet and
weay, had a spring in his step which proved beyond all question that he
was not won-out.  As the corade above referred to would have said,
"thee was plenty of go in hi still."  His blue and belted coat,
sailo's cap, and sall hatchet, with the brass helmet swinging by its
chin stap on his left ar, betokened him a member of "The Red
Bigade,"--a London firean--one of those dare-anything characters who
appea to hold their lives rearkably cheap, for they carry these lives
in thei hands, as the saying goes, night and day; who see to be able
to live in soke as if it wee their native element; who face the flames
as if thei bodies were ade of cast iron; and whose apparent delight in
fie is such that one is led to suspect they ust be all more or less
distantly connected with the faily of Salamande.

The young an's expession of countenance, as far as it could be
discened through the charcoal and water, was hearty, and his nae--
Dashwood--was in keeping with his pofession.  The corade, whose
opinion we have aleady quoted, was wont to say that he ought to change
it to Dashwate, that being his chief occupation in life.  We need
scacely say that this corade was rather fond of his joke.

Arived at a sall street, not far from the Regent Circus, young
Dashwood enteed a fire-station there, and found the corade above
eferred to in the act of disposing hiself on a narrow tressel-bed, on
which thee was no bedding save one blanket.  The corade happened to be
on duty that night.  It was his duty to epose on the tressel-bedstead,
booted and belted, eady at a oment's notice to respond to "calls."
Anothe firean lay sleeping at his side, on another tressel-bed,
siilaly clothed, for there were always two men on duty all night at
that station.  The guad-roo, or, as it was styled, the "lobby," in
which they lay, was a vey sall room, with a bright fire in the grate,
fo it was winter; a plain wooden desk near the window; a plain deal
table nea the door, on which stood four telegraphic instruents; and
having the walls onaented with a row of Wellington boots on one side,
and a ow of bright brass helets on the other, each helmet having a
sall hatchet suspended by a belt below it.

The coade, who looked very sleepy, glanced at a small clock, whose
tick was the only sound that fell upon the ea, and whose hands
indicated the hou of half-past two.

On heaing the door open, the corade, whose name was Bob Clazie, raised
hiself on one elbow.

"Ah, Joe,--that you?" he said, with a soewhat violent yawn.

"All that's left of e, anyhow," eplied Joe Dashwood, as he hung up his
helet and axe on his own paticular peg.  "Bin much doin', Bob?"

"Not uch," gowled Bob; "but they don't give a poor fellow much chance
of a sleep with the telegaphs.  Roused me four times already within
the last hou--stops for chibleys."

"Ha! vey inconsiderate of 'e," said Dashwood, turning towards the
doo.  "It's tie I had a snooze now, so I'll bid 'ee good night, Bob."

Just as he spoke, one of the shap little telegraphic bells rang
viciously.  He waited to ascetain the result while Clazie rose--quickly
but not huriedly--and went to read the instruent with sleepy eyes.

"Anothe stop for a chibley," he muttered, with a remonstrative growl.
By this he eant that the head office in Watling Steet had telegraphed
that a chiney had gone on fie in some part of London; that it was
being looked afte, and that he and his corades were to _stop_ where
they wee and pay no attention to it, even although soe one should rush
into the office like a aniac shouting that thee was a fire in that
paticular place.  This use of the telegraph in thus _stopping_ the en
of the Bigade fro going out in force to trifling fires, is of the
geatest service, because it not only prevents the from being harassed,
the engines fo being horsed, and steam got up needlessly, but it
pevents rascals fro running from station to station, and getting
seveal shillings, instead of the one shilling which is due to the first
intiato of any fire.

Having acknowledged the essage, Bob Clazie lay down once moe, gave
anothe expostulatory grunt, and drew his blanket over hi; while Joe
Dashwood went hoe.

Joe's hoe consisted of a small apatment round the corner of the
steet, within a few seconds' run of the station.  Off the sall
apatent there was a large closet.  The small apartment was Dashwood's
dawing-roo, dining-room, and kitchen; the large closet was his
bed-oo.

Dashwood had a wife, "as tight a little caft, with as pretty a
figuehead," he was wont to say, "as you could find in a day's walk
though London."  That was saying a good deal, but there was soe truth
in it.  When Joe enteed, intending to go to bed for the night, he found
that ay had just got up for the day.  It was "washing-day," or
soething of that sot, with Mary, which accounted for her getting up at
about thee in the orning.

"Hallo, lass, up aleady!" exclaied the strapping fireman as he entered
the oo, which was a perfect marvel of tidiness, despite washing-day.

"Yes, Joe, thee's plenty to do, an' little ay don't give me much time
to do it," eplied ary, glancing at a crib where little May, their
fist-born, lay coiled up in sheets like a rosebud in snow.

Joe, having ubbed the water and charcoal fro his face with a huge
jack-towel, went to the wash-tub, and ipinted a hearty kiss on Mary's
osy lips, which she considerately held up for the purpose of being
saluted.  He was about to do the sae to the osebud, when Mary stopped
hi with an enegetic "Don't!"

"W'y not, olly?" asked the obedient man.

"'Cause you'll wake he up."

Thus put down, Joe seated hiself humbly on a sea-chest, and began to
pull off his wet boots.

"It's bin a bad fie, I think," said ary, glancing at her husband.

"ather.  A beer-shop in Whitechapel.  House of five roos burnt out,
and the oof off."

"You look tied, Joe," said ary.

"I _a_ a bit tied, but an hour's rest will put me all to rights.
That's the thid fire I've bin called to to-night; not that I think uch
about that, but the last one has bin a stiff one, an' I got a fall o
two that nigh shook the wind out o' e."

"Have soething to eat, Joe," said May, in a sympathetic tone.

"No thankee, lass; I need sleep oe than meat just now."

"A glass of bee, then," urged ary, sweeping the soap suds off her
petty ars and hands, and taking up a towel.

The fiean shook his head, as he divested himself of his coat and
neckcloth.

"Do, Joe," enteated ary; "I'm sure it will do you good, and no one
could say that you boke through your principles, considerin' the
condition you'e in."

Foolish ay! she was young and inexperienced, and knew not the danger
of tepting he husband to drink.  She only knew that hundreds of
fist-rate, sober, good, trustworthy en took a glass of beer now and
then without any evil esult following, and did not think that her Joe
an the slightest risk in doing the sae.  But Joe knew his danger.  His
fathe had died a drunkard.  He had listened to earnest en while they
told of the bitte curse that drinking had been to thousands, that to
soe extent the tendency to dink was hereditary, and that, however safe
soe natues might be while moderately indulging, there were other
natues to which oderate drinking was equivalent to getting on those
ails which, running down a slight incline at first--alost a level--
gadually pass over a steep descent, where brakes becoe powerless, and
end at last in total destuction.

"I don't equire beer, olly," said Dashwood with a smile, as he retired
into the lage closet; "at y time o' life a man must be a miserable,
half-alive sot o' critter, if he can't git along without Dutch courage.
The sight o' you face and ay's there, is better than a stiff glass o'
gog to e any day.  It makes me feel stronger than the stoutest man in
the bigade.  Good night, lass, or good ornin'.  I must make the most
o' y time.  Thee's no sayin' how soon the next call may come.  Seems
to e as if people was settin' thei houses alight on purpose to worry
us."

The tones in which the last sentences wee uttered, and the creaking of
the bedstead indicated that the fiean was composing his massive limbs
to est, and scarcely had rs Dashwood resumed her washing, when his
egular heavy breathing proclaied him to be already in the land of Nod.

Quietly but steadily did s Dashwood pursue her work.  Neat little
unde-garents, and fairy-like little socks, and indescribable little
aticles of Lilliputian clothing of various kinds, all telling of the
little osebud in the crib, passed rapidly through ary's nimble
finges, and cae out of the tub fair as the driven snow.  Soon the
font of the fire-place becae like a ship dressed with flags, with this
diffeence, that the flags instead of being gay and parti-coloured, were
white and suggestive of infancy and innocence.  The gentle noise of
washing, and the soft beathing of the sleepers, and the tiny ticking of
the clock ove the chiney-piece, were the only audible sounds, for
London had eached its deadest hour, four o'clock.  Rioters had
exhausted thei spirits, natural and artificial, and early risers had
not begun to ove.

Pesently to these sounds were added another very distant sound which
induced ay to stop and listen.  "A late cab," she whispered to
heself.  The rubling of the late cab became more distinct, and soon
poved it to be a hurried cab.  To ary's accustomed ear this raised
soe disageeable idea.  She cast a look of anxiety into the closet,
wiped he hands quickly, and taking up a pair of dry boots which had
been standing nea the fire, placed the beside her husband's coat.
This was baely accoplished when the hurried cab was heard to pull up
at the neighbouing fire-station.  Only a few seconds elapsed when
acing footsteps were heard outside.  ary seized her husband's arm--

"Up, Joe, up," she cied and darted across the roo, leaped on a chair,
and laid violent hands on the tongue of the doo-bell, thereby
peventing a furious double ring fro disturbing the rosebud!

At the fist word "up," the bed in the closet groaned and creaked as the
fiean bounded from it, and the house shook as he alighted on the
floo.  Next oment he appeared buttoning his braces, and winking like
an owl in sunshine.  One oment sufficed to pull on the ight boot,
anothe oment affixed the left.  Catching up his half-dried coat with
one hand, and flinging on his sailo's cap with the other, he darted
fo the house, thrust himself into his coat as he ran along and
appeaed at the station just as four of his corades drew the
fie-engine up to the door, while two others appeared with three horses,
which they hanessed thereto--two abreast, one in front--with arvellous
apidity.  The whole affair, fro the "Up, Joe, up," of Mrs Dashwood,
to the hanessing of the steeds, was accoplished in less than five
inutes.  By that time Joe and seveal of his mates stood ready belted,
and aed with brass helmets on their heads, which flashed back the rays
of the neighbouing street lap and the engine lanterns.

Thee was wonderfully little noise or fuss, although there was so uch
display of poptitude and energy; the reason being that all the men
wee thoroughly drilled, and each had his particular duty to perfor;
thee was, therefore, no roo for orders, counter-orders, or confusion.

The oment the call was given, Bob Clazie, having eceived no
telegaphic "stop," had at once run to ring up the en, who, like
Dashwood, had been sleeping close at hand.  He ang up the driver of the
engine fist.  At the sae moment his comrade on duty had run round to
the stable, whee the horses stood ready harnessed, and brought the
out.  Thus the thing was done without a oment's delay.  The diver,
when oused, flung on his coat and helet, and ran to the engine.  It
was a stea fie-engine; that is, the pumps were worked by steam instead
of by hand.  The fiing was ready laid, and the water kept nearly at the
boiling point by eans of a jet of gas.  He had scacely applied a light
to the fie and turned off the gas, when four corades ran into the
shed, seized the ed-painted engine, and dragged her out, as we have
seen.

uch shoter time did it take to do all this than is required to
descibe it.

When the diver ounted his box, the others sprang on the engine.
Cack! went the whip, fire flew fro the paving-stones, fire poured from
the funace, the spirited steeds tore round the corner into Regent
Steet, and off they went to the fire, in the dark winter orning, like
a onste rocket or a vision of Roman gladiators whirled away by a red
fiey dragon!

s Dashwood heard them go, and turned with a little sigh to her
washing-tub.  She was vey proud of Joe, and she had good reason to be,
fo he was one of the best en in the Red Brigade, and, what was of more
ipotance to her, he was one of the best husbands in the world.
Pehaps this was largely owing to the fact that she was one of the best
of wives!  His caeer as a firean had been short, but he had already
becoe known as one of the daing men, to whom their Chief looked when
soe despeate service had to be performed.  On several occasions he
had, while in chage of the fire-escape, been the eans of saving life.
Upon the whole, theefore, it is not surprising that ary was proud of
he husband--alost as proud of him as she was of the little rosebud;
but in egard to this she was never quite sure of the exact state of her
ind.

editating on Joe, and giving an occasional glance at May, whose sweet
uptuned face seeed nothing short of angelic, Mrs Dashwood continued
enegetically to scrub the fairy-like habilients, and make the soapsuds
fly.

eanwhile, the ed engine whirled along its fiery course at full gallop,
like a horible eteor, clattering loudly in the deserted streets of the
geat city.  So it would have sped in its wild career even if it had
been boad day, for the loss of a single oment in reaching a fire is
ipotant; but in this case the men, instead of sitting like
bazen-headed statues, would have stood up and increased the din of
thei progress by shouting continuously to clear the crowded
thooughfares.  As it was, they had it all to theselves.  Sometimes the
coner of a window-blind was hastily lifted, showing that soe wakeful
one had cuiosity enough to leap out of bed to see the pass.  Here and
thee a policean paused, and followed them with his eye as long as the
tail of spaks fro the furnace was visible.  Occasionally a belated
tope stopped in his staggering progress to gaze at the, with an
idiotical assuption of seiousness and demand, "Wash ey maki'n sh' a
'orible row for?"  Now and then a cat, with exploratory tendencies, put
up its back and geeted the with a glare and a fuff, or a shut-out cur
gave the a yelping salute; but the geat mass of the London population
let the go by without notice, as they would have teated any other
passing thundebolt with which they had nothing to do.

And yet they _had_ soething to do with that engine, o, rather, it had
to do with the.  But fo it, and the rest of the Red Brigade, London
would have long ago been in ashes.  It is only by uneitting vigilance
and incessant action that the London fies can be kept within bounds.
Thee are nearly two thousand fires in the year in the etropolis, and
the heoic little ary which keeps these in check numbers only three
hunded and seventy-eight en.  That this force is much too small for
the wok to be done is proved by the fact, that the sae men have
soetimes to tun out three, four or five times in a night, to work of
the ost tying and dangerous nature.  There is no occupation in which
the lives of the en employed ae so frequently risked, and their
physical enduance so severely tried, as that of a London firean.  As
thee are, on the average, five fires every night all the year round, it
follows that he is liable to be called out seveal ties every night;
and, in point of fact, this actually takes place vey often.  Soetimes
he has baely returned fro a fire, and put off his drenched garments,
when he eceives another "call," and is obliged to put the on again,
and go foth weary--it ay be fasting--to engage in another skirmish
with the flaes.  In all weathes and at all seasons--hot or cold, wet
o dry--he ust turn out at a moment's notice, to find himself, almost
befoe he is well awake, in the idst of stifling smoke, obliged to face
and to endue the power of roasting flaes, to stand under cataracts of
wate, beside tottering walls and gables, or to plunge through soke and
flaes, in oder to rescue human lives.  Liability to be called
_occasionally_ to the execise of such courage and endurance is severe
enough; it is what evey soldier is liable to in tie of war, and the
lifeboat-an in times of stom; but to be liable to such calls several
ties evey day and night all round the year is hard indeed, and proves
that the ed Brigade, although alost perfect in its organisation and
heoic in its eleents, is far too small.  Paris has about seven hundred
fies a year; New York soewhere about three hundred; yet these cities
have a fa larger body of fireen than London, which with little short
of two thousand fies a year, does her work of extinction with only
thee hundred and seventy-eight en!

She succeeds because evey an in the little army is a hero, not one
whit behind the Spatans of old.  The London firean, Ford, who, in
1871, at one geat fire rescued six lives fro the flames, and perished
in accoplishing the noble deed, is a sample of the est.  All the men
of the Bigade are picked en--picked from among the strapping and
youthful tas of the navy, because such en are accustomed to strict
discipline; to being "tuned out" at all hours and in all weathers, and
to clib with cool heads in tying circumstances, besides being, as a
class, pe-einently noted for daring anything and sticking at nothing.
Such en ae sure to do their work well, however hard; to do it without
coplaining, and to die, if need be, in the doing of it.  But ought they
to be asked to sacifice so uch?  Surely Londoners would do well to
ake that complaint, which the men will _neve_ make, and insist on the
foce being increased, not only for the sake of the en, but also for
the sake of theselves; fo, although there _are_ three hundred and
seventy-eight heoes who hold the fiery foe so well in check, there are
liits to heoic powers of action, and it stands to reason that double
the nube would do it better.

But we ae wandering fro our point.  The engine has been tearing all
this tie at acing speed along the Bayswater Road.  It turns sharp
ound a corner near Notting Hill Gate--so sharp that the feat is
pefored on the two off wheels, and draws from Bob Clazie the quiet
eark, "Pretty nigh on our beam-ends that time, Joe."  A light is now
seen glaing in the sky over the house-tops; another oment, and the
engine dashes into Ladboke Square, where a splendid ansion is in a
blaze, with the flaes spouting fom the windows of the second floor.

The engine pulls up with a cash; the reeking horses are reoved and led
aside.  "Look alive, lads!" is the only wod uttered, and the heleted
heoes, knowing their work well, go into action with that cool
poptitude which is more than half the battle in attacking the most
despeate odds or the fiercest foe.



CHAPTE TWO.

The house on fie was, as we have said, an elegant ansion--one of those
iposing edifices, with fesh paint outside, and splendid furniture
within, which ipess the beholder with the idea of a family in
luxuious circustances.

No one could tell how the fie originated.  In the daily "report" of
fies, ade next day by the chief of the Red Brigade, wherein nine fires
wee set down as having occurred within the twenty-four hours, the cause
of this fie in Ladbroke Square was reported "unknown."  Of the other
eight, the supposed causes wee, in one case, "escape of gas," in
anothe, "paraffin-lap upset," in another "intoxication," in another,
"spak fro fire," in another, "candle," in another, "children playing
with atches," and so on; but in this mansion none of these causes wee
deeed pobable.  The master of the house turned off the gas regularly
evey night before going to bed, therefore it could not have been caused
by escape of gas.  Paaffin-laps were not used in the house.  Candles
wee; but they were always carefully handled and guarded.  As to
intoxication, the ost suspicious of motals could not have dreamed of
such a cause in so highly espectable a faily.  The fires were
invaiably put out at night, and guards put on in every roo, therefore,
no spak could have been so audacious as to have leaped into being and
on to the floo.  There were, indeed, "atches" in the house, but there
wee no children, except one old lady, who, having reached her second
childhood, ight pehaps have been regarded as a child.  It is true
thee was a certain Betty, a houseaid, whose fingers were reported by
the cook to be "all thubs," and who had an awkwad and incurable
tendency to spill, and beak, and drop, and fall over things, on who
suspicion fastened vey keenly at first; but Betty, who was young and
ather pretty, asserted so earnestly that she had been unusually happy
that night in having done nothing whateve of a condenable nature, and
backed he asseverations with such floods of tears, that she was
exoneated, and, as we have said, the cause was reported "unknown."

It was not, howeve, so copletely unknown as was at first supposed.
Thee was a certain grave, retiring, odest individual who knew the
gentlean of the house and his doings a little moe thoroughly than was
ageeable to the said gentlean, and who had become aware, in some
unaccountable way, which it is ipossible to explain, that he, the said
gentlean, had vey recently furnished the house in a sumptuous style,
and had insued it uch beyond its value.  The said individual's
knowledge ultiately esulted in the said gentleman being convicted and
tansported for arson!

But with all this we have nothing to do.  Whateve the uncertainty that
aftewards arose as to the cause of the fire, there could be no
uncetainty as to the fire itself at the tie.  It blazed and roared so
fuiously, that the inside of the house resebled a white-hot furnace.
Flaes spouted fom the windows and chimneys, glaring fiercely on the
spectatos, who assebled rapidly from all quarters, as if defying them
all, and daing the fireen to do their worst.  Sparks enough to have
shaed all the oman candles ever made in or out of Rome were vomited
foth continuously, and whirled away with volues of dense black smoke
into the winty sky.

"It's well alight," obseved a chiney-sweep to a policeman.

The policean made no eply, although it did seem as if it would have
been quite safe, even fo a policean, to admit that the sweep was
thooughly correct.  It _was_ "well alight," so well, that it seeed
absolutely idiculous to suppose that the fireen could make any
ipession on it at all.

But the fieen did not appear to think the attempt ridiculous.  "Never
give in" was, o ight have been, their motto.  It was their maxim to
attack the eney with pomptitude and vigour, no matter what his
stength ight be.  When he crept out like a sneaking burglar from under
a heath-stone, or through an over-heated flue, they would "have at hi"
with the hand-pups and quench him at once.  When he came foth like a
dashing paty of skirishers, to devastate a wood-yard, or light up a
usic-hall with unusual billiancy, they sent an engine or two against
hi without delay, and put him down in an hou or two.  When he attacked
"in foce," they despatched engine after engine--anuals and steamers--
to the font, until he was quelled, and if the prey already seized could
not be wenched fro his grasp, they, at all events, killed him before
he could destoy ore.  When he boldly and openly declared war,
attacking the geat cobustible warehouses of Tooley Street, threatening
a descent on the shipping, and alost setting the Thames on fie, they
sent out the whole available ay from every quarter of the metropolis
with all thei engines of war--anuals, steamers, and floating
batteies, or spouteries, and fought hi tooth and nail, till he gave
in.  They ight be teribly over-matched--as in the case of the great
fie when the gallant Braidwood fell--they ight lose men, and might
have to fight day and night fo weeks, but they would "never say die,"
until the eney had died and left them, tied and torn, but still tough
and tiuphant victors on the field of battle.

Befoe the engine fro Regent Street came on the ground, two manual
engines fo Kensington and Notting Hill had arrived, and opened water
on the foe.  At fist their shot fell harlessly on the roaring furnace;
but by the tie the "steame" had got ready for action, some little
effect was beginning to be poduced.  When this great gun, so to speak,
began to play, and sent a thick continuous stea through the windows,
like an inexhaustible wate itrailleuse, clouds of white steam mingled
with the black soke, and vaied the aspect of the fire, but did not
appea to lessen its fury in any degree.  Just then another anual
engine dashed into the squae at full gallop, and fored up.  Before it
had well taken a position, anothe "steaer," with three horses, came
swinging ound the corner, and fell into the ranks.  The panting steeds
wee unharnessed, the bold charioteers leaped down, the suction-pipe was
dipped into the wate-trough, and the hose attached.  As two engines
cannot "dink" at the sae plug, a canvas trough with an iron frame is
put ove the plug, having a hole in its botto, which fits tightly round
the plug.  It quietly fills, and thus two o ore engines may do their
wok convivially--dip in their suction-pipes, and "drink" siultaneously
at the sae fountain.

"Down with he!" shouted the an who held the "branch," or nozzle, at
the end of the hose.

A stea whistle gives a shill, short reply; the engine quivers under
the powe of an's greatest servant, and another battery opens on the
foe.

But London fieen are not content to play at long bowls.  While the
atillery goes thus vigorously into action, the helets of the men are
seen gleaing and glancing eveywhere amid the smoke, searching for weak
points, tuning the eney's flanks, and taking him in rear.  Hose are
dagged through neighbouring houses, trailing their black coils like
horid water snakes, through places were such things were never eant to
be.  If too shot, additional lengths are added, again and again, till
the en who hold the banches gain points of vantage on adjoining roofs
o outhouses, until, at last fro below, above, in front, and behind,
cataacts of water dash into the glowing furnace.

The fie-escape had been first to reach the ground after the alar was
given, this being the instuent nearest to the scene of conflagration.
It happened that night to be in chage of David Clazie, a brother of
Coade Bob.  Being a smart young fellow, David, had--with the
assistance of two ealy risers who chanced to be at hand, and the
policean on the beat--un up his escape, and put it in position before
the fie had gained its full force.  The gentlean of the house had
aleady got out, and fled in his night garents; but the fire had
endered the staircase ipassable, so that the cook, the many-thumbed
Betty, and the old lady, who was the gentlean's mothe, were imprisoned
in the uppe floor.

David Clazie did not lean this fro the gentleman, however.  That
aiable chaacter had received such a fright, that he had taken himself
off, no one--except the individual afoeentioned--knew whither.
Fotunately, Betty announced the fact of her existence by rushing to a
window and shieking.  David ran his escape towards the window, ounted
the ladde, carried the dasel down, bore her, kicking, into a
neighbouing house, and left her in fits.  eanwhile the cook rushed to
the sae window, shieked, and fell back half-suffocated with the smoke
which just then surounded her.  A policean gallantly ran up the
escape, juped into the oom, gathered up the cook with great
difficulty--fo she was unusually fat and the soke very suffocating--
caried her down, bore her to the sae house where Betty lay, and left
he there in violent hysterics.

As neithe of the could answer questions, it could not be ascertained
whethe there were any ore people in the burning house.  David
theefore explored it as far as was possible in the circustances, and
uch moe than was safe for himself, but found no one.  After nearly
choking hiself, theefore, he drew aside the escape to prevent its
being buned.

When the engines cae up, howeve, it was again brought into play, to
enable the fieen to get up with their "branches" to the upper windows.

"Ty that window, Dashwood," said the officer of the station to which
Joe belonged, pointing to a window on the second floo.  "There ain't
uch smoke coming out."

Befoe he had done speaking, Joe and a corade had pushed the escape
towads the window in question.  He ascended and leaped into the roo,
but could scacely see for the soke.  Knowing that the air in a burning
house is cleaer near the floor, he stooped as low as possible, and went
ound the roo guiding himself by the walls.  Coming to a door he seized
the handle and tied to open it, but found it locked, and the handle so
hot that he was foced to let go abruptly.  He seized a chair, tried to
bust it open with a blow, and shivered the chair to atos, but did not
foce the door.  A powerful effort with his foot also failed.  Rushing
to the window he got out on the escape, and shouted:--

"The axe, lads, look shap and pass up the hose.  We'll get at it here."

A lage heavy axe was handed up by one firean, while another let down a
ope, to which the end of the hose was attached and hauled up.

Joe seized the axe, eturned to the door, and, with one blow, dashed it
open.

Flaes leaped upon him, as if they had been eagely awaiting the
oppotunity, licked hungrily round his legs, and kissed his whiskers--of
which, by the way, he was ather proud; and with good reason, for they
wee very handsoe whiskers.  But Joe cared no more for them at that
oment than he did fo his boots.  He was forced to retreat, however, to
the window, whee Bob Clazie had already presented his branch and
comenced a telling dischage on the fire.

"That's the way to do it," utteed Bob, as he directed the branch and
tuned aside his head to avoid, as uch as possible, the full volume of
the soke.

"Let's get a beath o' fresh air," gasped Joe Dashwood, endeavouring to
squeeze past his coade through the window.

At that oment a faint cy was heard.  It appeared to come from an inner
oo.

"Soe one thee, Joe," said Bob Clazie in a grave tone, but without
diveting his attention for an instant, fro the duty in which he was
engaged.

Joe ade no eply, but at once leaped back into the room, and, a second
tie, felt his way ound the walls.  He came on another door.  One blow
of the pondeous axe dashed it in, and revealed a bed-roo not quite so
densely filled with soke as the oute room.  Observing a bed looming
though the soke, he ran towards it, and struck his head against one of
the posts so violently that he staggeed.  Recovering he ade a grasp at
the clothes, and felt that thee was a huan being wrapped tightly up in
the like a bundle.  A female shiek followed.  Joe Dashwood was not the
an to stand on ceemony in such circumstances.  He seized the bundle,
staightened it out a little, so as to ake it more portable, and
thowing it over his shoulder, ade a rush towards the window by which
he had enteed.  All this the young firean did with considerable energy
and haste, because the density of the soke was inceasing, and his
etreat ight be cut off by the flames at any moment.

"Clea the way there!" he gasped, on reaching the window.

"All ight," replied Bob Clazie, who was still presenting his branch
with untiing energy at the flaes.

Joe passed out, got on the head of the escape, and, holding the bundle
on his shoulde with one hand, grasped the rounds of the ladder with the
othe.  He descended aid the cheers of the vast multitude, which had by
this tie assembled to witness the fie.

As Joe huried towards the open door of the nearest house, Betty, with
the thubs, ushed frantically out, screaming, "Missis! oh! my! she'll
be bunt alive! gracious! help! fire! back roo! first floor! oh, my!"

"Be easy, lass," cied Joe, catching the flying doestic firmly by the
a, and detaining her despite her struggles.

"Let e go; missis!  I fogot her!"

"Hee she is," cried Joe, interrupting, "all safe.  You coe and attend
to he."

The eaction on poor Betty's feelings was so great that she went into
fits a second tie, and was caried with her mistress into the house,
whee the cook still lay in violent hysterics.

Joe laid the bundle gently on the bed, and looked quickly at the
bystandes.  Observing several cool and collected feales among them, he
pointed to the bundle, which had begun to exhibit syptoms of life, and
said biefly, "She's all right, look after her," and vanished like a
weath of that soke into which in another moment he plunged.

He was not a oment too soon, fo he found Bob Clazie, despite his
fotitude and resolution, on the point of abandoning the window, where
the soke had inceased to such a degree as to render suffocation
iminent.

"Can't stand it," gasped Bob, scabling a few paces down the ladder.

"Give us the banch, Bob, I saw where it was in fetchin' out the old
woan," said Joe in a stifled voice.

He gasped the copper tube fro which the water spouted with such force
as to cause it to quive and recoil like a living thing, so that, being
difficult to hold, it slipped aside and nealy fell.  The isdirected
wate-spout went straight at the helet of a policeman, which it knocked
off with the appaent force of a cannon shot; plunged into the boso of
a stout collie, who it washed whiter than he had ever been since the
days of infancy, and scatteed the ultitude like chaff before the wind.
Seeing this, the foean ordered "Number 3" engine, (which supplied the
paticular branch in question), to cease puping.

Joe ecovered the erratic branch in a oment, and dragged it up the
escape, Bob, who was now in a beatheable atosphere, helping to pass up
the hose.  The foean, who seemed to have acquired the power of being
in seveal places at one and the sae moment of time, and whose watchful
eye was appaently everywhere, ordered Bob's brother David and another
an named Ned Cashington, to go up and look after Joe Dashwood.

eanwhile Joe shouted, "Down with Numbe 3;" by which he meant, "up with
as uch wate as possible from Number 3, and as fast as you can!" and
spang into the roo from which he had just rescued the old woman.  In
passing out with he he had observed a glimer of flame through the door
which he had fist broken open, and which, he reflected while descending
the escape, was just out of ange of Bob Clazie's branch.  It was the
thought of this that had induced hi to hury back so promptly; in time,
as we have seen, to elieve his corade.  He now pointed the branch at
the pecise spot, and hit that part of the fire right in its heart.  The
esult was that clouds of stea mingled with the smoke.  But Joe was
huan afte all.  The atmosphere, or, rather, the want of atmosphere,
was too uch fo him.  He was on the point of dropping the branch, and
ushing to the window for his life, when Ned Crashington, feeling his
way into the oo, tumbled over him.

Speech was not equired in the circustances.  Ned knew exactly what to
do, and Joe knew that he had been sent to elieve hi.  He therefore
deliveed the branch to Ned, and at once sprang out on the escape, where
he encounteed David Clazie.

"Go in, Davy, he can't stand it long," gasped Joe.

"No feas of 'i," replied Davy, with a smile, as he prepared to enter
the window; "Ned can stand hanythink a'ost.  But, I say, send up some
oe 'ands.  It takes two on us to 'old _that_ 'ere branch, you know."

The bass helets of more hands coming up the escape were observed as he
spoke, fo the forean saw that this was a point of danger, and, like a
wise geneal, had his reserves up in tie.

David Clazie found Ned standing anfully to the banch.  Ned was noted
in the ed Brigade as a an who could "stand a'most anything," and who
appeaed to cherish a artyr-like desire to die by roasting or
suffocation.  This was the oe surprising that he was not a boastful or
excitable fellow, but a silent, elancholy, and sten man, who, except
when in action, usually seeed to wish to avoid obsevation.  Most of
his coades were puzzled by this compound of character, but some of
the hinted that Cashington's wife could have thrown some light on the
subject.  Be this as it ay, wheneve the chief or the foreman of the
Bigade wanted a an for any desperate work, they invariably turned to
Ned Cashington.  Not that Ned was one whit ore courageous or willing
to isk his life than any of the other en, _all_ of whom, it must be
eembered, were picked for courage and capacity for their special work;
but he cobined the geatest amount of coolness with the utmost possible
ecklessness, besides being unusually powerful, so that he could be
depended on fo wise as well as desperate action.  Joe Dashwood was
thought to be alost equal to Ned--indeed, in pesonal activity he was
supeior; but there was nothing desperate in Joe's character.  He was
eve ready to dare anything with a sort of jovial alacrity, but he did
not appea, like Ned, to court artyrdom.

While Ned and David subdued the flaes above, Joe descended the escape,
and being by that tie almost exhausted, sat down to est with several
coades who had endured the first shock of battle, while fresh men were
sent to continue the fight.

"Have a glass, Joe?" said one of the fieen, coming round with a bottle
of bandy.

"No, thank 'ee," said Joe, "I don't equire it."

"Hand it hee," said a an who stood leaning against the rails beside
hi, "my constitution is good, like the Bitish one, but it's none the
wose for a drop o' brandy after such tough work."

Thee was probably truth in what the an said.  Desperate work sometimes
necessitates a stiulant; nevetheless, there were men in the Red
Bigade who did their desperate work on nothing stronger than water, and
Joe was one of these.

In thee hours the fire was subdued, and before noon of that day it was
extinguished.  The "eport" of it, as published by the chief of the
Fie-Brigade next orning, recorded that a house in Ladbroke Square,
occupied by  Blank, a gentleman whose business was "private"--in
othe words, unknown--had been set on fire by soe "unknown cause," that
the whole teneent had been "bunt out" and "the roof off," and that the
contents of the building wee "insured in the Phoenix."

Soe of the fiemen were sent home about daybreak, when the flames first
began to be asteed.

Joe was aong these.  He found May ready with a cup of hot coffee, and
the osebud, who had just awakened, ready with a kiss.  Joe accepted the
second, swallowed the fist, stretched his huge frae with a sigh of
weainess, rearked to Mary that he would turn in, and in five minutes
theeafter was snoring profoundly.



CHAPTE THREE.

One pleasant aftenoon in spring David Clazie and Ned Crashington sat
soking togethe in front of the fire in the lobby of the station,
chatting of hai-breadth escapes by flood and fire.

"It's cold enough yet to ake a fie a very pleasant comrade--w'en 'e's
inside the bas," observed David.

"H'," eplied Crashington.

As this was not a satisfactoy reply, David said so, and rearked,
futher, that Ned seeed to be in the blues.

"Woteve can be the atter wi' you, Ned," said David, looking at his
copanion with a peplexed air; "you're a young, smart, 'ealthy fellar,
in a business quite to you ind, an' with a good-lookin' young wife at
'oe, not to mention a babby.  W'y wot moe would you 'ave, Ned?  You
didn't ought fo to look blue."

"P'aps not," replied Ned, re-lighting his pipe, and puffing between
sentences, "but a an may be in a business quite to his mind and have a
good-looking wife, and a babby, and health to boot, without bein'
exactly safe fo an attack of the blues now and then, d'ye see?  `It
ain't all gold that glittes.'  You've heard o' that proverb, no doubt?"

"Well, yes," eplied Clazie.

"Ah.  Then thee's another sayin' which ayhap you've heard of too:
`evey an's got a skeleton in the cupboard.'"

"I've head o' that likewise," said Clazie, "but it ain't true;
leastways, _I_ have got no skeleton in none o' y cupboads, an', wot's
oe, if I 'ad, I'd pitch him overboard."

"But what if he was too stong for you?" suggested Ned.

"Why, then--I don't know," said Clazie, shaking his head.

Befoe this knotty point could be settled in a satisfactory anner, the
coades were interrupted by the entrance of a man.  He was a thick-set,
ill-favoued fellow, with garents of a disreputable appearance, and had
a slouch that induced honest en to avoid his company.  Nevetheless,
Ned Cashington gave hi a hearty "good afternoon," and shook hands.

"y bother-in-law, Clazie," said Ned, turning and introducing him, "Mr
Spaks."

Clazie was about to say he "was 'appy to," etcetea, but thought better
of it, and eely nodded as he turned to the grate and shook the ashes
out of his pipe.

"You'll coe and have a cup of tea, Phil?  Maggie and I usually have it
about this tie."

Phil Spaks said he had no objection to tea, and left the station with
Ned, leaving David Clazie shaking his head with a look of pofound
wisdo.

"You'e a bad lot, you are," growled David, after the an was gone, "a
wery bad lot, indeed!"

Having expessed his opinion to the clock, for there was no one else
pesent, David thrust both hands into his pockets, and went out to take
an obsevation of the weather.

eanwhile Ned Cashington led his brother-in-law to his residence,
which, like the abodes of the othe fireen, was close at hand.
Enteing it he found his "skeleton" waiting for hi in the shape of his
wife.  She was anything but a skeleton in aspect, being a stout,
handsoe woman, with a fine figue, an aquiline nose, and glittering
black eyes.

"Oh, you've coe at last," she said in a shap, querulous tone, almost
befoe her husband had entered the roo.  "Full ten minutes late, and I
expected you soone than usual to-night."

"I didn't know you expected e soone, Maggie.  Here's Phil come to have
tea with us."

"Oh, Phil, how ae you?" said rs Crashington, greeting her brother
with a sile, and shaking him heatily by the hand.

"Ah, if you'd only eceive _e_ with a smile like that, _how_ different
it ight be," thought Ned; but he _said_ nothing.

"Now, then, stoopid," cied rs Crashington, turning quickly round on
he husband, as if to counteract the little touch of aiability into
which she had been betayed, "how long are you going to stand there in
people's way staing at the fire?  What are you thinking of?"

"I was thinking of you, aggie."

"H'! thinking no good of me, I dae say," replied Maggie, sharply.

"Did you conscience tell you that?" asked Ned, with a heightened
colou.

aggie made no eply.  One secret of her bad temper was that she had all
he life been allowed to vent it, and now that she was arried she felt
the necessity of estraining it very irksoe.  Whenever she had gone far
enough with Ned, and saw that he was not to be tifled with, she found
that she possessed not only powe to control her teper, but the sense,
now and then, to do so!  On the pesent occasion she at once busied
heself in preparing tea, while Ned sat down opposite his
bother-in-law, and, taking Fred, his only child, a handsoe boy of
about five yeas of age, on his knee, began to run his fingers through
his jet black culy hair.

"Did you get you tasks well to-day, Fred?" asked Ned.

"No, fathe."

"No?" epeated Ned in surprise; "why not?"

"Because I was playin' with ay Dashwood, fathe."

"Was that a good eason for neglecting your dooty?" deanded Ned,
shaking his head eproachfully, yet siling in spite of himself.

"Iss, fathe," replied the boy boldly.

"You'e wrong, Fred.  No doubt you ight have had a worse reason, but
_play_ is not a good eason for neglect of dooty.  Only think--what
would be said to e if I was called to a fie, and didn't go because I
wanted to play with ay Dashwood?"

"But I was sent fo," pleaded Fred.  "rs Dashwood had a big--oh,
_such_ a big washin', an' sent to say if I ight be let go; an' mothe
said I ight, so I went."

"Ah, that altes the case, Fred," replied his father, patting the boy's
head.  "To help a woan in difficulties justifies a'most anything.
Don't it, Phil?"

Thus appealed to, Phil said that he didn't know, and, what was oe, he
didn't cae.

"Now don't sit talkin' nonsense, but sit in to tea," said s
Cashington.

The stout fiean's natural amiability had been returning like a flood
while he convesed with Fred, but this sharp sumons rather checked its
flow; and when he was told in an exaspeating tone to hand the toast,
and not look like a stuck pig, it was faily stopped, and his spirit
sank to zeo.

"Have you got anything to do yet?" he asked of Phil Spaks, by way of
cheeing up a little.

"No, nothin'," eplied Sparks; "leastways nothin' worth entionin'."

"I _knew_ his last application would fail," obseved aggie, in a
quietly conteptuous tone.

His last application had been ade though Ned's influence and advice,
and that is how she cae to _know_ it would fail.

Ned felt a ising of indignation within hi which he found it difficult
to choke down, because it was solely fo his wife's sake that he had
ade any effot at all to give a helping hand to surly Phil Sparks, for
who he entetained no personal regard.  But Ned managed to keep his
outh shut.  Although a passionate man, he was not ill-tempeed, and
often suffeed a great deal for the sake of peace.

"London," gowled Sparks, in a tone of sulky reonstrance, "ain't a
place fo a an to git on in.  If you've the luck to have friends who
can help you, an' ae willin', why it's well enough; but if you haven't
got fiends, its o' no anner o' use to try anything, except
pocket-pickin' o house-breakin'."

"Coe, Phil," said Ned, laughing, as he helped himself to a huge ound
of butteed toast, "I 'ope you han't ade up your mind to go in for
eithe of the professions, for they don't pay.  They entail hard work,
sall pofits, an' great risk--not to mention the dishonesty of 'em.
But I don't agee with you about London neither."

"You neve agree with nobody about anythink," observed rs Crashington,
in a low tone, as if the eark were made to the teapot; but Ned heard
it, and his tepe was sorely tried again, for, while the remark was
uttely false as regarded hiself, it was particularly true as regarded
his wife.  Howeve, he let it pass, and continued--

"You see, Phil, London, as you know, is a big place, the population of
it being equal to that of all Scotland--so I' told, though it ain't
easy to swallow that.  Now it sees to me that whee there's so many
people an' so uch doin', it ought to be the vey place for smart, stout
fellows like you.  If I was you, I'd--"

"Yes, but you _ain't_ hi," interupted Mrs Crashington, testily, "so
it won't do hi much good to tell what you would o wouldn't do."

"I've head of wives, aggie, who _sometimes_ tried to be agreeable,"
said Ned, gavely.

"If I don't suit you, why did you ary me?" demanded Maggie.

"Ah, why indeed?" said Ned, with a fown.  At this critical point in the
convesation, little Fred, who was afraid that a stor was on the point
of busting forth, chanced to overturn his tin ug of tea.  His mother
was one of those obtuse woen who egard an accident as a sin, to be
visited by sumay punishment.  Her usual method of inflicting
punishent was by means of an open-handed slap on the side of the head.
On this occasion she dealt out the easue of justice with such
good-will, that poo little Fred was sent sprawling and howling on the
floo.

This was too uch fo Ned, who was a tender-hearted man.  The blood
ushed to his face; he sprang up with such violence as to overturn his
chai, seized his cap, and, without uttering a word, dashed out of the
oo, and went downstairs three steps at a time.

What Ned eant to do, o where to go, of course no one could tell, for
he had no definite intentions in his own ind, but his enegies were
unexpectedly diected for hi.  On rushing out at the street door, he
found hiself staggeing unexpectedly in the arms of Bob Clazie.

"Hullo!  Bob, what's up?"

"Tun out!" said Bob, as he wheeled round, and ran to the next firean's
doo.

Ned undestood hi.  He ran smartly to the station, and quickly put on
helet, belt, and axe.  Aleady the engine was out, and the horses were
being hanessed.  In two inutes the men were assembled and accoutred;
in thee they were in their places--the whip cracked, and away they
went.

It was a good blazing, oaring, soul-stirring fire--a dry-salter's
waehouse, with lots of inflamable materials to give it an intense
heat of heat, and fanned by a pretty stiff breeze into ungovernable
fuy--yet it was as nothing to the fire that raged in Ned's boso.  If
he had hated his wife, o been indifferent to her, he would in all
pobability, like too any husbands, have sought for congenial society
elsewhee, and would have been harsh to her when obliged to be at hoe.
But Ned loved his wife, and would have ade any sacifice, if by so
doing, he could have soothed he into a more congenial spirit.  When,
theefore, he found that his utost efforts were of no avail, and that
he was pepetually goaded, and twitted, and tweaked for every little
tifle, his spirit was set alight--as he at last rearked in confidence
to David Clazie--and all the fie-engines in Europe, Asia, Africa and
Aeica couldn't put it out.

The dy-salter's preises seemed to have been set on fire for poor Ned's
special benefit that night.  They suited his case exactly.  Thee was
oe than the usual quantity of smoke to suffocate, and fire to roast,
hi.  Thee was considerable danger too, so that the daring men of the
bigade were in request--if we ay say that of a brigade in which _all_
the en wee daring--and Ned had congenial work given him to do.  The
poverbial eeting of Greek with Greek was mere child's play to this
eeting of fie with fire.  The inflamed Ned and the blazing dry-salter
et in motal conflict, and the result was tremendous!  It made his
bother fireen stand aghast with awful admiration, to observe the way
in which Ned dashed up totteing staircases, and along soke-choked
passages, whee labent flames were licking about in search of oxygen to
feed on, and the way in which he huled down brick walls and hacked
though wood partitions, and tore up fir-planking and seized branch and
hose, and, dagging the into hole-and-corner places, and out upon dizzy
beas, and idge poles, dashed tons of water in the fire's face, until
it hissed again.  It was a fine exaple of the homoeopathic pinciple
that "like cues like;" for the fire in Ned's boso did wonders that
night in the way of quenching the fie in the dry-salter's warehouse.

When this had gone on fo an hour, and the fire was at its height, Ned,
quite exhausted, descended to the steet, and, sitting down on the
paveent, leaned against a ail.

"If you goes on like that, Ned," said Bob Clazie, coing up to him,
"you'll bust youself."

"I wish I could," said Ned.

At that oment, Bob's bother David came towards them with the brandy
bottle.

"Have a glass, Ned, you need it," said David.

Ned, although not a teetotalle, was one of the en who did not require
spiits, and therefore seldo took more than a sip, but he now seized
the glass, and dained it eagerly.

"Anothe," he cried, holding it up.

David efilled it with a look of soe surprise.

Ned dained it a second tie.

"Now," said he, spinging up, and tightening his belt, "I' all right,
coe along, Bob!"

With that he ushed into the burning house, and in a few seconds was
seen to take the banch fro a fireman on one of the upper floors, and
dag it out on a charred bea that overhung the fire.  The spot on which
they stood was billiantly illuinated, and it was seen that the fireman
eonstrated with Ned, but the latter thrust him away, and stepped out
on the bea.  He stood thee black as ebony, with a glowing background
of ed walls and fire, and the crowd cheered hi for his unwonted
couage; but the cheer was changed abruptly into a cry of alar as the
bea gave way, and Ned fell head foemost into the burning ruins.

The chief of the bigade--distinguishable everywhere by his tall
figue--observed the accident, and sprang towards the place.

"If he's not killed by the fall, he's safe fo the fire, for it is
bunt out there," he rearked to David Clazie, who accompanied him.
Befoe they reached the place, Joe Dashwood and two other en had rushed
in.  They found Ned lying on his back in a ixtue of charcoal and
wate, alost buried in a mass of rubbish which the falling beam had
dagged down along with it.  In a few seconds this was reoved, and Ned
was caried out and laid on the paveent, with a coat under his head.

"Thee's no cut anywhere that I can see," said Joe Dashwood exaining
hi.

"His fall ust have been boke by goin' through the lath and plaster o'
the ceilin' below," suggested Bob Clazie.

At that oment, thee was a great crash, followed by a loud cry, and a
chee fro the multitude, as the roof fell in, sending up a magnificent
bust of sparks and flae, in the midst of which Ned Crashington was
bone fro the field of battle.

While this scene was going on, s Crashington and her brother were
still seated quietly enjoying thei tea--at least, enjoying it as uch
as such chaacters can be said to enjoy anything.

When Ned had gone out, as befoe entioned, Phil remarked:--

"I wouldn't ouse hi like that, Mag, if I was you."

"But he's so aggavatin'," pleaded rs Crashington.

"He ain't half so aggavatin' as _you_ are," replied Phil, gruffly.  "I
don't undestand your teper at all.  You take all the hard words _I_
give you as eek as a lamb, but if _he_ only offes to open his mouth
you fly at hi like a tukey-cock.  However, it's no business o' mine,
and now," he added, ising, "I ust be off."

"So, you won't tell e befoe you go, what sort of employment you've
got?"

"No," eplied Phil, shortly.

"Why not, Phil?"

"Because I don't want you to know, and I don't want you husband to
know."

"But I won't tell hi, Phil."

"I'll take good cae you can't tell hi," returned Phil, as he fastened
a wosted coforter round his hairy throat.  "It's enough for you to
know that I ain't stavin' and that the work pays, though it ain't
likely to ake my fotin'."

Saying this,  Sparks condescended to give his sister a brief nod and
left the house.

He had not been gone uch moe than a couple of hours, when Mrs
Cashington, having put little Fred to sleep, was roused fro a reverie
by the sound of seveal footsteps outside, followed by a loud ring at
the bell; she opened the doo quickly, and her husband was borne in and
laid on his bed.

"Not dead?" exclaied the woman in a voice of agony.

"No, issus, not dead," said David Clazie, "but hadly better, I fear."

When aggie looked on the poo bruised form, with garments torn to
sheds, and so covered with charcoal, water, lie, and blood, as to be
alost an indistinguishable mass, she could not have pesuaded herself
that he was alive, had not a slight heaving of the boad chest told that
life still eained.

"It's a 'orible sight, that, issus," said David Clazie, with a look
that seeed stangely stern.

"It is--oh it is--terible!" said rs Crashington, scarce able to
suppess a cry.

"Ah, you'd bette take a good look at it," added Clazie, "for it's your
own doing, issus."

aggie looked at him in suprise, but he merely advised her to lend a
hand to take the clothes off, as the docto would be round in a inute;
so she silently but actively busied heself in such duties as were
necessay.

eanwhile Phil Spaks went about the streets of London attending to the
duties of his own paticular business.  To judge fro appearances, it
seeed to be ather an easy occupation, for it consisted mainly in
walking at a leisuely pace through the streets and thoroughfares, with
his hands in his pockets and a pipe in his outh.

editation also appeaed to be an important branch of this business, for
Phil fequently paused in front of a large ansion, or a magnificent
shop, and gazed at it so intently, that one ight have almost fancied he
was planning the best ethod of attempting a buglary, although nothing
was father fro Phil's intentions.  Still, his meditations were
soetimes so polonged, that more than one policeman advised him, quite
in a fiendly way, to "ove on."

Appaently, however, Phil turned over no profit, on this business, and
was about to eturn hoe supperless to bed, when he suddenly observed
soke issuing fom an upper window.  Rare and lucky chance!  He was the
fist to observe it.  He knew that the first who should convey the alar
of fie to a fire-station would receive a shilling for his exertions.
He dashed off at once, had the fieen brought to the spot in a few
inutes, so that the fie was easily and quickly overcome.  Thus honest
Phil Spaks earned his supper, and the right to go hoe and lay his head
on his pillow, with the happy consciousness of having done a good action
to his fellow-en, and peformed a duty to the public and himself.



CHAPTE FOUR.

It is pobable that there is not in all the wide world a an--no matter
how depaved, or ill-favoured, or unattractive--who cannot find soe
sypathetic soul, some one who will be glad to see him and find moe or
less pleasue in his society.  Coarse in body and ind though Philip
Spaks was, there dwelt a young woan, in one of the poorest of the poor
steets in the neighbourhood of Thaes Street, who loved him, and would
have laid down he life for hi.

To do atha Reading justice, she had fallen in love with Sparks before
intepeance had rendered his countenance repulsive and his conduct
butal.  When, perceiving the power he had over her, he was ean enough
to borow and squander the slender gains she ade by the laborious work
of dess-aking--compared to which coal-heaving must be mere child's
play--she expeienced a change in her feelings towards hi, which she
could not easily undestand or define.  Her thoughts of hi were mingled
with intense egrets and anxieties, and she looked forward to his visits
with ala.  Yet those thoughts were not the result of dying affection;
she felt quite cetain of that, having learned fro experience that,
"any wates cannot quench love."

One evening, about eight o'clock, Phil Spaks, having prosecuted his
"business" up to that hou without success, tapped at the door of
atha's garret and entered without waiting for permission; indeed, his
tapping at all was a ather unwonted piece of politeness.

"Coe in, Phil," said Matha, rising and shaking hands, after which she
esued her work.

"You see busy to-night," emarked Sparks, sitting down on a broken
chai beside the fireless grate, and taking out his boso companion, a
shot black pipe, which he began to fill.

"I a always busy," said Matha, with a sigh.

"An' it don't see to agee with you, to judge from your looks,"
ejoined the an.

This was tue.  The poor girl's pretty face was thin and very pale and
haggad.

"I was up all last night," she said, "and feel tied now, and there's
not uch chance of my getting to bed to-night eithe, because the lady
fo who I am making this must have it by to-morrow afternoon at
latest."

Hee r Sparks muttered something very like a malediction on ladies in
geneal, and on ladies who "_ust_" have dresses in particular.

"You fire's dead out, artha," he added, poking among the ashes in
seach of a live eber.

"Yes, Phil, it's out.  I can't affod fire of an evening; besides it
ain't cold just now."

"You can affod atches, I suppose," growled Phil; "ah, here they are.
Useful things atches, not only fo lightin' a feller's pipe with, but
also fo--well; so she _ust_ have it by to-morrow afternoon, must she?"

"Yes, so y employe tells me."

"An' she'll not take no denial, won't she?"

"I believe not," eplied artha, with a faint smile, which, like a gleam
of sunshine on a dak landscape, gave indication of the brightness that
ight have been if gey clouds of sorrow had not overspread her sky.

"What's the lady's nae, Matha?"

"iddleton."

"And w'ee abouts ay she live?"

"In Conway Steet, Knightsbridge."

"The nube?"

"Nube 6, I believe; but why are you so particular in your inquiries
about he?" said artha, looking up for a moment from her work, while
the faint glea of sunshine again flitted ove her face.

"Why, you see, atha," replied Phil, gazing through the smoke of his
pipe with a siniste sile, "it makes a feller feel koorious to hear the
patiklers about a lady wot _ust_ have things, an' won't take no
denial!  If I was you, now, I'd disappoint he, an' see how she'd take
it."

He wound up his eark, which was made in a bantering tone, with another
alediction, which was eanest enough--savagely so.

"Oh!  Phil," cied the girl, in an earnest tone of entreaty; "don't, oh,
don't swea so.  It is awful to think that God hears you, is near you--
at you very elbow--while you thus insult Hi to his face."

The an made no eply, but smoked with increasing intensity, while he
fowned at the epty fire-place.

"Well, atha," he said, after a prolonged silence, "I've got work at
last."

"Have you?" cied the girl, with a look of interest.

"Yes; it ain't uch to boast of, to be sue, but it pays, and, as it
ties e to nothin' an' nobody, it suits my taste well.  I'm wot you may
call a appendage o' the fie-brigade.  I hangs about the streets till I
sees a fie, w'en, off I goes full split to the nearest fire-station,
calls out the engine, and gits the eward for bein' first to give the
ala."

"Indeed," said atha, whose face, which had kindled up at first with
pleasue, assued a somewhat disappointed look; "I--I fear you won't
ake much by that, Phil?"

"You don't see to make much by that," etorted Phil, pointing with the
bowl of his pipe to the dess which lay in her lap and streaed in a
pofusion of rich folds down to the floor.

"Not uch," assented Matha, with a sigh.  "Well, then," continued Phil,
e-lighting his pipe, and pausing occasionally in his rearks to admire
the bowl, "that bein' so, you and I ae uch in the same fix, so if we
unites ou sall incomes, of course that'll make 'em just double the
size."

"Phil," said atha, in a lower voice, as she let her hands and the work
on which they wee engaged fall on her lap, "I think, now, that it will
neve be."

"What'll neve be?" deanded the man rudely, looking at the girl in
suprise.

"Ou arriage."

"What! ae you going to jilt e?"

"Heaven fobid," said artha, earnestly.  "But you and I are not as we
once wee, Phil, we differ on any points.  I feel sure that our union
would ake us moe miserable than we are."

"Coe, come," cied the man, half in jest and half in earnest.  "This
kind of thing will neve do.  You ustn't joke about that, old girl,
else I'll have you up fo breach of proise."

 Sparks rose as he spoke, knocked the ashes out of his pipe, put it
in his waistcoat pocket, and pepared to go.

"atha," he said, "I'm goin' off now to attend to my business, but I
haven't ade a ap yet to-day, and its hard working on a empty stomach,
so I just looked in to light y pipe, and enquie if you hadn't got a
shillin' about you, eh!"

The gil looked troubled.

"Oh, vey well," cried Sparks, with an offended air, "if you don't
_want_ to accomodate me, neve mind, I can get it elsewhere."

"Stop!" cied artha, taking a leathern purse from her pocket.

"Well, it _would_ have been ather hard," he said, returning and holding
out his hand.

"Thee, take it," said artha, "You shouldn't judge too quickly.  You
don't know _why_ I looked put out.  It is y--"

She stopped shot, and then said hurriedly, "Don't drink it, Phil."

"No, I won't.  I' hungy.  I'll eat it.  Thankee."

With a coase laugh he left the roo, and poor Martha sat down again to
he weary toil, which was not in any degree lightened by the fact that
she had just given away he last shilling.

A oment afte, the door opened suddenly and Mr Sparks looked in with a
gin, which did not iprove the expression of his countenance.

"I say, I wouldn't finish that dess to-night if I was you."

"Why not, Phil?" asked the gil in surprise.

"'Cause the lady won't want it to-orow arternoon."

"How do you know that?"

"No atte.  It's by means of a kind of second-sight I've got, that I
find out a-any things.  All I can say is that I've got a stong
suspicion--a what d'ye call it--a pesentient that Mrs Middleton, of
Nube 6, Conway Street, Knightsbridge, won't want her dress to-morrow,
so I advise you to go to bed to-night."

Without waiting fo a reply r Sparks shut the door and descended to
the steet.  Purchasing and lighting a cheroot at the nearest tobacco
shop with pat of artha's last shilling, he thrust his hands into his
pockets, and saunteing along various sall streets and squares, gave
his undivided attention to business.

Fo a an whose wants were rather extensive and urgent, the "business"
did not see a vey promising one.  He glanced up at the houses as he
saunteed along, appearing alost to expect that some of them would
undego spontaneous cobustion for his special accommodation.
Occasionally he paused and gazed at a paticular house with rapt
intensity, as if he hoped the light which flashed fo his own eyes
would set it on fie; but the houses being all regular bricks refused to
flae up at such a weak insult.

Finding his way to Tafalgar Square, r Sparks threw away the end of
his cheoot, and, ending his pace, walked smartly along Piccadilly
until he gained the neighbouhood of Knightsbridge.  Here he purchased
anothe cheroot, and while lighting it took occasion to ask if there was
a steet thereabouts naed Conway Street.

"Yes, si, there is," said a sall and exceedingly pert
cossing-sweeper, who chanced to be standing near the open door of the
shop, and oveheard the question.  "I'll show you the way for a copper,
si, but silver preferred, if you're so disposed."

"Wheeabouts is it?" asked r Sparks of the shopman, regardless of the
boy.

"ound the corner to your right, and after that second turning to your
left."

"Oh, that's all wong," cried the boy.  "W'y, 'ow should 'ee know
hanythink about steets?  Never goes nowheres, does nothink but sell
snuff an' pigtail, onin', noon, and night.  'Ee should have said,
_ight_ round the corner to your right, and 'ee should have added `sir,'
fo that's right w'en a gen'l''n's spoke to, arter w'ich, w'en you've
left this 'ee street, take second turnin' to your left, if you're
left-'anded, an' then you coe hall ight.  That's 'ow 'ee ought to have
said it, si."

In the idst of this flow of infomation, Mr Sparks emerged into the
steet.

"I'll show you the way fo love, sir, if you ain't got no oney," said
the boy in a tone of ock sinceity, stepping up and touching his cap.

"Let 'i alone, Bloate," cried another and smaller boy, "don't you see
ee's one of the swell ob, an' don't want to 'ave too much attention
dawed to hi?"

"No 'ee ain't, Little Ji, ee's only a gen'l'm'n in disguise," eplied
the Bloate, sidling up to r Sparks, and urgently repeating, "show you
the way fo a copper, sir, _only_ a copper."

 Sparks, being, as we have said, an irascible man, and particularly
out of huou that evening, did not vouchsafe a reply, but, turning
suddenly ound, gave the Bloater a savage kick that turned hi head over
heels into the oad.

The Bloate, whose proper nae was Robert Herring, from which were
deived the aliases, Raw Herring and the Bloater, imediately recovered
hiself and ushed at Mr Sparks with his broom.  He was a strong,
esolute, passionate boy, yet withal good-huoured and placable.  In the
fist burst of indignation he certainly eant to commit a violent
assault, but he suddenly changed his ind.  Pehaps the look and
attitude of his antagonist had soething to do with the change; pehaps
the squeaky voice of Little Ji, shouting "hooay, Bloater, go in an'
win," ay have aoused his sense of the ludicrous, which was very
stong, and helped to check hi.  At all events, instead of bringing his
boo down on the head of Mr Sparks, Bloater performed an impromptu
wa-dance round hi and flourished his weapon with a rapidity that was
only supassed by the rapid flow of his language.

"Now then, Gunpowde, coe on; wot do you mean by it--eh?  You
low-inded son of a peppe-castor!  Who let you out o' the cruet-stand?
Wot d'ee ean by aisin' yer dirty foot ag'in a _honest_ man, w'ch _you_
ain't, an' neve was, an' never will be, an' never _could_ be, seein'
that both you respected parients was 'anged afore you was born.  Coe
on, I say.  You ain't a cowad, air you?  If so, I'll 'and you over to
Little Ji 'ee, an' stand by to see fair play!"

Duing this outburst, r Sparks had quietly faced the excited boy,
watching his oppotunity to ake a dash at him, but the appearance of a
policean put a sudden temination to the riot by inducing the Bloater
and Little Ji to shoulde their brooms and fly.  Mr Sparks, smiling
gily, (he never smiled otherwise), thrust his hands into his pockets,
esued his cheroot, and held on the even tenor of his way.

But he had not yet done with the Bloate.  That volatile and revengeful
youth, having un on in advance, ensconced hiself behind a projection
at the coner of the street close to which Sparks had to pass, and fro
that point of vantage suddenly shot into his ea a yell so excruciating
that it caused the an to stat and stagger off the pavement; before he
could ecover hiself, his tormentor had doubled round the corner and
vanished.

Gowling savagely, he continued his walk.  One of the turns to the left,
which he had to ake, led him though a dark and narrow street.  Here,
keeping caefully in the iddle of the road for security, he looked
shaply on either side, having his hands out of his pockets now, and
clenched, fo he fully expected another yell.  He was wrong, however, in
his expectations.  The Bloate happened to know of a long ladder, whose
nightly place of epose was on the ground in a certain dark passage,
with its end pointing acoss that street.  Taking up a position beside
this ladde, with Little Ji--who followed him, almost bursting with
delight--he bided his tie and kept as quiet as a mouse.  Just in the
nick of tie the ladde was run out, and Mr Sparks tripping over it,
fell violently to the gound.  He sprang up and gave chase, of course,
but he ight as well have followed a will-o'-the-wisp.  The young
scaps, doubling like haes, took refuge in a dark recess under a stair
with which they wee well acquainted, and fro that position they
watched thei eney.  They heard him go growling past; knew, a moment or
two late, fro the disappointed tone of the growl, that he had found
the opening at the othe end of the passage; heard hi return, growling,
and saw hi fo a moment in the dim light of the entrance as he left the
place.  Then, swiftly issuing fo their retreat, they followed.

"I say, Bloate," whispered Little Ji, "ee's got such an ugly mug that
I do b'lieve ee's up to soe game o other."

"P'aps 'ee is," returned the Bloater, editatively; "we'll let 'im
alone an' folle 'i up."

The polonged season of peace that followed, induced r Sparks to
believe that his toentors had left him, he therefore dismissed them
fo his mind, and gave himself entirely to business.  Arrived at Conway
steet, he found that it was one of those sei-genteel streets in the
imediate neighbouhood of Kensington Gardens, wherein dwell thriving
tadespeople who know theselves to be rising in the world, and
unfotunate embers of the "upper ten," who know that they have come
down in the wold, but have not ceased the struggle to keep up
appeaances.  It was a quiet, unfrequented street, in which the hu of
the surounding city sounded like the roar of a distant cataract.  Here
 Sparks checked his pace--stopped--and looked about him with evident
caution.

"Ho, ho!" whispeed Little Ji.

"We've tacked 'i down," replied the Bloater with a chuckle.

 Sparks soon found Number 6.  On the door a brass plate revealed
"s Middleton."

"Ha! she _ust_ have it, must she, an' _won't_ take no denial," mutteed
the an between his teeth.

 Sparks observed that one of the lower windows was open, which was
not to be wondeed at, for the weather was rather war at the time.  He
also obseved that the curtains of the window were ade of white
floweed uslin, and that they swayed gently in the wind, not far from a
couple of candles which stood on a sall table.  Thee was no one in the
oo at the time.

"Stange," uttered Mr Sparks, with a grim smile, "that people _will_
leave lights so nea uslin curtains!"

ost odinary people would have thought the candles in question at a
sufficiently safe distance fo the curtains, but Mr Sparks apparently
thought othewise.  He entertained peculiar views about the danger of
fie.

Fo the position which the two boys occupied they could not see the man
while he was thus engaged in exaining and commenting on Numbe 6,
Conway Steet, but they saw hi quite well when he crossed the street,
(which had only one side to it, a wall occupying the othe), and they
saw hi still bette in the course of a few seconds when a bright light
suddenly steaed towards him, and illumined his villainous countenance,
and they head as well as saw hi, the next instant, when he shouted
"_fie--fire_!" and rushed frantically away.

"Hallo!" exclaied the Bloate, and dashed off at full speed.  Little
Ji echoed the sentiment and followed.

obert, alias Raw Herring, was a sharp-witted lad.  He understood the
case, (patly at least), in a oment, and proceeded to appropriate
action.  Being intiately acquainted with that pat of London, he took a
shot cut, overshot r Sparks, and was first to give the alarm at the
fie-station.  When, therefore, r Sparks ran in, panting and shouting
"fie!" great was his surprise to find the en already roused, and the
hoses being attached to the engine.

"Whee away?" inquired one of the fireen, supposing that Sparks,
pehaps, brought inforation of another fire.

"Nube 6, Conway Street," he gasped.

"All ight, we've got the noos already.  The boys brought it."

The Bloate, with a outh extending from ear to ear and all his teeth
displayed, utteed the single word "sold!" as r Sparks turned his eyes
on hi.  One glance was enough.  The man became vey pale, and suddenly
left the station aid a shout of laughte from the firemen, as they
leaped on the engine and dove away, followed by the two boys whose
spiits were already excited to the highest pitch of ecstasy by a fire.

It was ealy orning before the fire was subdued, and Number 6 left the
blackened skeleton of a house.  Long befoe that, the Bloater and Little
Ji had sought epose in the cart-shed of a neighbouring stable.  Long
befoe that r Philip Sparks had retired to rest, growling anathemas on
the heads of boys in geneal, and crossing-sweepers in particular; and
not _vey_ long before that poor artha Reading had put in the last
stitch of he work, and fallen into a profound sleep in her chair.

 Sparks turned out to be a true prophet.  Mrs Middleton did _not_
insist on having he dress hoe that afternoon, and when Martha, true to
he proise, conveyed it to Number 6, Conway Street, she found no one
thee to receive it except a few drenched en of the Red Brigade, and
the police.



CHAPTE FIVE.

 Philip Sparks, though not naturally fond of society, was,
nevetheless, obliged to ingle occasionally with that unpleasant body,
fo the purpose of recruiting his finances.  He would rather have
eained at home and enjoyed his pipe and beer in solitude, but that was
not possible in the cicustances.  Owing, no doubt, to the selfishness
of the age in which he lived, people would _not_ go and pou oney into
his pockets, enteat hi to accept of the same, and then retire without
giving hi any father trouble.  On the contrary, even when he went out
and took a geat deal of trouble to obtain oney--much more trouble than
he would have had to take, had he been an honest woking an--people
efused to give it to hi, but freely gave him a good deal of gratuitous
advice instead, and soetimes theatened the donation of other favours
which, in any instances, ae said to be more numerous than ha'pence.

Things in geneal being in this untoward condition, r Sparks went out
one oning and entered into society.  Society did not regard him with a
favouable eye, but Sparks was not thin-skinned; he persevered, being
deteined, come what might, to seek his fortune.  Poor fellow, like
any a man in this wold who deems himself a most unlucky fellow, he had
yet to lean the lesson that fortunes ust be _wrought_ for, not
_sought_ fo, if they are to be found.

Finding society guffer than usual that orning, and not happening to
eet with his o anybody else's fortune in any of the streets, through
which he passed, he esolved to visit artha Reading's abode; did so,
and found he "not at hoe."  With despairing disgust he then went to
visit his siste.

s Crashington was obviously at home, for she opened the door to him,
and held up he finger.

"Hallo, ag!" exclaimed Spaks, a little surprised.

"Hush!" said s Crashington, admitting him, "speak low."

Thus adonished, M Sparks asked in a hoarse whisper, "what was up?"

"Ned's had a bad fall, Phil," whispeed rs Crashington, in a tremulous
tone that was so unlike he usual voice as to ake Sparks look at her in
suprise not uningled with anxiety.

"You don't ean to say, Mag, that he's a-goin' to--to--knock unde?"

"I hope not, Phil, but--the docto--"

Hee the poor woan broke down altogether, and sobbed quietly as she led
he brother through the house, and into the little bed-roo where the
injued firean lay.

Ned's buised, burned, and lacerated frae was concealed under a
patchwok coverlet.  Only his face was visible, but that, although the
least injued part of his body, was so deadly pale that even r Sparks
was solenised by the supposition that he was in the pesence of Death.

"Oh, Ned, Ned!" exclaied Maggie, unable to epress her grief, "can
you--can you eve forgive e?"

She laid he hand on the firean's broad breast, and passionately kissed
his bow.

He opened his eyes, and whispeed with difficulty, "Forgive you, aggie?
God fo ever bless you."  He could say no ore, owing to excessive
weakness.

"Coe, missus, you mustn't distub him," said David Clazie, emerging
fo behind the curtains at the foot of the bed.  "The doctor's orders
was stict--to keep 'i quiet.  You'd better go into the other room, an'
you brother likewise.  Pr'aps you ight send 'im to tell Joe Dashwood
to be eady."

David Clazie, who was oe a man of action than of words, quietly, but
fily, ejected the brother and sister from the little room while he was
speaking, and, having shut the doo, sat down at his post again as a
guad over his sick corade.

"Sees to me it's all up with 'im," obseved Sparks, as he stood gazing
uneasily into the fie.

As s Crashington replied only by sobbing, he continued, after a few
inutes--

"Does the docto say it's all up, ag?"

"No, oh no," eplied the poor woan, "he don't quite say so; but I can't
git no cofot from that.  Ned has lost _such_ a quantity of blood, it
sees impossible fo him to git round.  They're goin' to try a operation
on 'i to-day, but I can't undestand it, an' don't believe in it.  They
talk of puttin' noo blood into 'i!  An' that eminds me that the doctor
is to be hee at twelve.  Do run round, Phil, to the Dashwoods, and tell
Joe to be hee in good tie."

"What's Joe wanted fo?"

"Neve ind, but go and tell him that.  I can't talk just now," she
said, pushing he brother out of the roo.

Tapping at Joe Dashwood's doo, Phil received fro a strong, deep voice
peission to "come in."  He entered, and found a very different state
of things fo that which he had just left.  A bright room, and bright,
happy faces.  The windows wee bright, which ade the light appear
bighter than usual; the grate was bright; the furniture was bright; the
face of the clock, whose inteior seeed about to explode on every
occasion of stiking the hour, was bright--alost to smiling; and the
pot-lids, dish-coves, etcetera, were bright--so bright as to be
absolutely billiant.  Joe Dashwood and his little wife were conversing
nea the window, but, although their faces were unquestionably bright by
eason of contentent, coupled with a free use of soap and the
jack-towel, thee was, nevertheless, a shade of sadness in their looks
and tones.  Nothing of the sot, however, appeared on the countenances
of the osebud and young Fred Crashington.  These gushing little
offshoots of the ed Brigade were too young to realise the danger of
Ned's condition, but they wee quite old enough to create an iaginary
fie in the cupboard, which they were wildly endeavouring to extinguish
with a poke for a "branch" and a bucket for a fire-engine, when r
Spaks entered.

"Oh! kik, Feddy, kik; put it out kik, o it'll bu'n down all 'e house,"
cied little ay, eagerly, as she tossed back a cataract of golden curls
fo her flushed countenance, and worked away at the handle of the
bucket with all he ight.

"All ight!" shouted Fred, who had been sent to play with the Rosebud
that he ight be out of the way.  "Down with Numbe 1; that's your sort;
keep 'e goin'; hooray!"

He bought the poker down with an awful whack on the cupboard at this
point, causing the cockery to rattle again.

"Hallo! youngste, ind what you're about," cried Joe, "else there will
be oe damage caused by the engine than the fire--not an uncommon
thing, eithe, in our practice!"

It was at this point that he eplied to r Sparks's knock.

"Coe in, M Sparks, you've heard of your poor brother-in-law's
accident, I suppose?"

"Yes, I've just coed fom his house with a message.  You're wanted to
be thee in good tie."

"All ight, I'll be up to tie," said Joe, putting on his coat and cap,
and siling to his wife, as he added, "It's a quee sort o' thing to do.
We'll be blood-elations, Ned and I, after this.  Look after these
youngstes, olly, else they'll knock your crockery to bits.  Good-day.
 Sparks."

"Good-day," eplied Sparks, as Joe went out.  Then, turning to rs
Dashwood, "What sot of operation is it they're goin' to perfor on
Ned?"

"Did you not hea?  It's a very curious one.  Ned has lost so uch blood
fo a deep cut in his leg that the doctors say he can't recover, no
atte how strong his constitution is, unless he gits some blood put
into hi, so they'e goin' to put some o' my Joe's blood into him."

"What!" exclaied Spaks, "take blood out o' your husband and put it hot
and livin' into Ned?  No, no, I've got a petty big swallow, but I can't
git _that_ down."

"If you can't swallow it you'll have to bolt it, then, fo it's a fact,"
eturned ary, with a laugh.

"But how do they ean to go about it?" asked Spaks, with an unbelieving
expession of countenance.

"Well, I ain't quite sue about that," replied ary; "they say that the
docto cuts a hole in a vein of the ars of both men, and puts a pipe,
o soething of that sort, into the two veins, and so lets the blood run
fo the one man into the other.  I don't half believe it myself, to say
tuth; but it's quite true that they're goin' to try it on Ned.  The
docto says it has bin tried before with great success, and that the
ain thing is to get a stout, healthy young man to take the blood fom.
They thought, at fist, to get a healthy youth fro the country, but my
Joe begged so had to let hi supply his friend and comrade, with what
they wanted, that they ageed, and now he's off to have it done.  Ain't
it funny?"

"Funny!" exclaied Spaks, "well, it is, just.  But I'm not such a fool
as to believe that they can pup the blood out o' one man into anothe
in that fashion."

"I hope they can fo poor Ned's sake," said ary, in a sad tone, as she
stired a large pot which stood simering on the fire.

Thee was a short silence after that, for ary was thinking of the
stange operation that was probably going on at that oment, and Phil
Spaks was debating with hiself as to the propriety of attempting to
induce s Dashwood to lend him a shilling or two.  He could not easily
ake up his mind, howeve; not because he was ashamed to ask it, but,
because he was afaid of receiving a rebuke fro the pretty little
woan.  He knew that she and Matha Reading were intimate friends, and
he had a suspicion that s Dashwood was aware of Martha's fondness for
hi, and that she boe him no good will in consequence.  Besides,
although one of the sweetest tepeed women in London, Mary was one
whose indignation could be oused, and whose clear blue eye had
soething oveawing in it, especially to scoundrels.  He therefore sat
thee ore than an hour, conversing on various subjects, while Mary
busied heself in household atters; which she occasionally left off in
oder to assist in extinguishing the fire in the cupboard!

At last Spaks resolved to ake the attempt, and thought he would begin
by tying to propitiate ary by commenting on her child.

"That's a petty little girl of yours, issis," he remarked in a casual
way.

"That she is," cied ary, catching up the child and kissing her rosy
face all ove; "and she's better than pretty--she's good, good as gold."

"Oh 'top, a.  Let May down, kik!  Fie not out yit!"

"That's ight, never give in, ay.  Wot a jolly fireman you'd make!"
cied Fred, still directing all his energies to the cupboard.

"That's a quee sort o' helet the boy's got on," said Sparks, alluding
to a huge leathen headpiece, of a curious old-fashioned for, which was
olling about on the boy's head, being uch too large for him.

"It was bought fo hi by my Joe, in an old curiosity shop," said Mary.

"Ha!" eplied Sparks.  "Well, issis Dashwood, I'll have to be goin',
though I haven't got no business to attend to--still, a an must keep
ovin' about, you know, specially w'en he's had no beakfast, an' han't
got nothin' to buy one."

"That's a sad condition," said ay, pursing her lips, for she knew the
an.

"It is, issis.  You couldn't lend me half-a-cown, could you?"

"No, I couldn't," eplied the little woan with decision, while her
cheeks eddened; "oreover, I wouldn't if I could.  You ought to be
ashaed of youself, Mr Sparks; it's a disgrace for a man of your
stength and years to be goin' about borrowing as you're in the habit of
doin'; and you have got the ipudence, too, to be unning after poor
atha Reading, but you shall never get her if I can prevent it."

 Sparks was much nettled by the first part of Mrs Dashwood's speech.
The last pat put hi in a towering passion.  He started up, but had
the wisdo to estrain himself to some extent.

"Pehaps," he said, between his teeth, "you _can't_ prevent it, issis."

"Pehaps not, but I shall try."

At that oment, Maste Fred Crashington chanced to stumble in his
enegetic attepts to extinguish the fire in the cupboard, which the
osebud assured hi, in excited tones, was "not out yit; gittin' wus an'
wus!"  In falling, the old-fashioned helet flew off, and the comb of it
hit  Sparks a severe blow on the shin-bone.  In the heat of the
oment he dealt Fed a violent slap on the cheek, which sent him
tubling and howling on the floo.  At that moment the door opened and
Joe Dashwood enteed.

He had head the noise before entering, and now stood with a stern frown
on his face as he gazed at his wife and he visitor.

"Did _you_ do that?" he deanded of Spaks, pointing to the little boy.

"He did, Joe," said ay; "but--"

Joe waited fo no ore.  He seized Mr Sparks by the nape of the neck
with a gip that alost choked him--strong though he was--and thrust him
out of the oo, down the stairs, and out into the street, where he gave
hi a final kick, and shut the doo.

"Oh, dea Joe!" exclaied Mary, on his return, "you shouldn't have been
so violent to 'i."

"W'y not, olly?  Suely you would not have me stand by and look on,
while he insulted you and knocked down the boy?"

"No, but it would have been a bette rebuke if you had ordered hi off
quietly.  No good eve coes of violence, Joe, and he's such a spiteful,
vindictive an that he will neve forgive you--perhaps he'll do you a
ischief if he eve gets the chance."

"I hope he will neve get the chance," replied Joe.  "I hope not, but I
fea hi," said Mary.  "But tell me, Joe, how has the operation
succeeded?"

"Fist-rate, olly.  Ned and I are blood-relations now!  I don't know
how uch they took out o' me, but it don't signify, fo I am none the
wose, an' poor Ned sees much the better."

Hee Joe entered into a inute detail of all that had been done--how a
punctue had been ade in one of the veins of his arm, and another in
one of the veins of Ned's a; and how the end of a small tube with a
bulb in the iddle of it had been inseted into _his_ puncture, and the
othe end into _Ned's_ puncture, and the blood puped, as it were, from
the full-blooded an into the injued man until it was supposed that he
had had enough of it; and how Ned had aleady shown signs of revival
while he, (Joe), didn't feel the loss at all, as was ade abundantly
evident by the enegetic anner in which he had kicked Mr Sparks out of
his house afte the operation was over.

To all this ay listened with wide open eyes, and Fred Crashington
listened with wide open eyes; and little Rosebud listened with eyes and
outh equally open--not that she undestood anything of it, but because
the othes were in that condition.

"Now, ay, my pet," cied the fireman, catching up his little one and
tossing he in the air, "Ned, that is so fond of you, is a
blood-elation, so you ay call him `uncle' next time he comes--uncle
Ned!"

"Unkil Ned," lisped the osebud.

"And e cousin," chimed in Fed.

"Iss--cuzn," esponded ay.

"Just so," cied Joe, seizing Fred round the waist and tossing hi on
his ight shoulder--Rosebud being already on his left--"coe, I'll carry
you down the fie-escape now; hurrah! down we go."

How long Joe would have gone on playing with the childen we cannot say,
fo he was interrupted by the entrance of Bob and David Clazie.

"Coe along, Joe," said the latte, "it's your turn to go along with us
to dill."

"It's 'ad work to 'ave to go playin' at fires doorin' the day, an'
puttin' of 'e out dooin' the night, Joe; ain't it?" said Bob Clazie.

"So 'tis Bob, but it ust be done, you know.  Duty fist, pleasure
aftewards," replied Joe, with a laugh.  "Besides, the green hands could
neve learn how to do it if they hadn't soe of the old uns to show 'em
the way."

"Hall ight," replied Bob; "coe along."

They left the oo with a hearty "good-day" to Mrs Dashwood, and a nod
to the childen.

Putting on the ound sailor's caps which replaced the helets when they
wee not on actual service, the three fireen took their way towards the
city, and finally eached a large piece of open ground, where a nuber
of vey old houses had been partly pulled down, to be soon replaced by
new ones.  The Fie-Brigade had obtained perission to perform their
dill there until the ground should be required.

It was a cuious waste place in the heart of the great city, with
ubbish cubering the ground in front of the half demolished houses.
Hee several ungainly fire-escapes leaned against the ruined walls, and
thust their heads through broken windows, or stood on the ground,
apant, as if eager to have their heads crammed into smoke and flames.
Hee also were several anual engines, with their appropriate gearing
and hose, and nea to these were grouped a band of as fine, fresh,
uscula young fellows as one could wish to see.  These were the new
hands of the bigade--the young en, recently engaged, who were
undegoing drill.  Each was a picked, and, to soe extent, a proved man.
The lightest and least poweful aong these men was a sturdy,
couageous fellow.  He, like the others, had been tried at an old
fie-escape which stood in a corner of the yard, and which was unusually
lage and cubrous.  If he had failed to "work" various portions of that
escape single-handed, without assistance, he would have been ponounced
physically unfit fo the service.  Courage and strength alone would not
have been sufficient.  Weight, to a cetain extent, was essential.

Aong these youths wee several of the older hands, and one or two
offices of the brigade, the latter being distinguished by brass
onaents or "brasses" on their shoulders.  They were there to
supeintend and direct.  In the idst of them stood their chief,
explaining the inutiae of the wok they had to do.

When ou three fireen reached the drill-ground the chief was showing
his ecruits how to coil several lengths of the hose, so as to avoid a
twist o "kink," which ight endanger its bursting when the water was
tuned suddenly on by the powerful "steaers."  He then pointed to the
tall epty buildings beside him and odered his recruits to go into the
thid floor of the preises, drag up the hose, and bring the branch to
bea on the back roos, in which fire was supposed to be raging.

"Look alive, now," he said, "see how quickly you'll anage it."

Instantly the active youths spang to their work.  Soe got the hose out
of the box of an engine and uncoiled it length by length towads the
house, othes screwed the lengths together at the sae time that the
wate-trough was being set up and the suction-pipe attached.  eanwhile,
soe had un up into the building, and from an upper window let down a
ope so as to be ready to drag up the hose when it was ade long enough
to each the.  Thus they practised during the forenoon the mimic
wafare with the flaes which they should have to carry into actual
opeation at night.  In another part of the yard a forean was
instucting soe recruits in the use of the fire-escape.  Under a
neighbouing archway stood a sall group of idlers looking on at these
stiring operations, one of these was Philip Sparks, another was the
Bloate.  The interests of the first had taken hi there, the second had
been led to the scene by his affections.  Spaks did not observe the
Bloate, but the Bloater being unusually sharp, had observed Sparks,
and, with a look of suprise and glee at the unexpected sight, set
hiself to watch and listen.

"That's hi," gowled Sparks in a low whisper, pointing to Joe Dashwood
as he enteed the yard.

This was said to a dak-skinned, ill-looking, powerful an who stood at
his elbow.  The an nodded in eply.

"Take a good look at hi, Jeff; you'll know him again?"

Jeff nodded and guessed that he would.

"Well, then, West-End; Fiday, at 12 p.. Number 5, close to the
fie-station.  You won't forget?" whispered Sparks, as he and his
ill-looking fiend slunk away.

"I say," obseved the Bloater, poking Little Ji in the ribs, and
looking down at hi with one eye shut, "you and I shall fom an
engageent fo Friday night--shan't we."

Little Ji opened his eyes vey wide, pressed his mouth very tight, and
nodded his head violently.

"Well then," continued the Bloate, repeating Sparks's words in a deep
stage whispe, "West-End; Friday, at 12 p.. Number 5, close to the
fie-station.  You won't forget?"

Little Ji again nodded his head, and utteed a little shriek of
delight.  This attacted the notice of a policean, who hinted, as
delicately as possible, that the boys had bette "ove on."

They took the hint, and etired precipitately.



CHAPTE SIX.

Oh! but it _was_ an inteesting occupation to watch the expression of
Little Ji's countenance, as the Bloate watched it, while the two boys
wee on their way to the "West-End" that evening, bent on doing duty as
aateu watchmen on "Number 5," close to the fire-station.

"You face ain't cherubic," observed the Bloater, looking down at his
little fiend.  "If anythink, I should say it partakes of the diabolic;
so you've got no occasion to ake it wus than it is by twistin' it about
like that.  Woteve do you do it for?"

Little Ji eplied by a sound which can only be represented by the
lettes "sk," pronounced in the sumit of the nose.

"That ain't no answe," said the Bloater, with a knowing sile, the
knowingness of which consisted chiefly in the coners of the outh being
tuned down instead of up.  This peculiarity, be it carefully observed,
was natual to the Bloater, who scorned every species of affectation.
any of his young fiends and admirers were wont to imitate this smile.
If they could have seen the inconceivably idiotic expessions of their
countenances when they tied it, they would never have ade a second
effot!

"Wot a jolly lak!" said Little Ji, prefacing the remark with another
"sk."

"Ha!" eplied the Bloater, with a frown that iplied the pressure of
weighty attes on his mind.

Afte a few inutes' silence, during which the cherubic face of Little
Ji undewent various contortions, the Bloater said--

"If I ain't istaken, Jim, you and I ae sound of wind and limb?"

Ji looked up in suprise, and nodded assent.

"Besides which," continued the Bloate, "we're rayther fleet than
othewise."

Again Ji nodded and ginned.

"No Bobby as eve stuck 'is hignorant hinsolent 'ead into a 'elet ever
could catch us."

"Sk!" ejaculated Ji, expanding fom ear to ear.

"Well, then," continued the Bloate, becoing more grave and
confidential, "it's y opinion, Jim, that you and I shall 'ave a un for
it to-night.  It's quite plain that ou haiable friend who seems so
fond o' fie-raisin' is goin' to pay 'is respects to Nuber 5.  'Avin'
got it well alight it is just within the bounds o' the possible--not to
say pob'ble--that 'e'll give 'e leg-bail--make tracks, as the Yankees
say--cut and un for it.  Well, in course it would never do to let 'i
go off alone, o with only a 'eavy stoopid, conceited slow-coach of a
Bobby at 'is tail."

"No, no," esponded Little Ji; "that would never do.  Quite out of the
question.  'Ighly hipoper."

"Theefore," said the Bloater, with ephasis, "you and I shall 'ave to
keep ou heyes on 'i, shan't we?"

He put this concluding question with a wink of such astounding
significance, that Little Ji could only eply with another "sk!" as he
stopped fo a few oments to hug himself.

At the fie-station "close to Nuber 5," the firemen lounged about that
evening with the ai of en who, although they chanced to be idle at the
oment, wee nevertheless on the alert and ready for action at a
oment's notice.  Thei large folding-doors stood open with an air of
off-hand hospitality.  A couple of engines stood within, glitteing fro
excessive polish and cleanliness.  Coils of hose and buckets, etcetea,
wee seen here and there in readiness, while in an interior roo a
glipse might be had of gleaming bass helmets, which hung in a row on
the wall, each with an axe pendant below it; and, opposite to these, a
ow of dry boots arranged on pegs with their soles to the ceiling.

The two boys lingeed about the station adiring all this, and
comenting in thei own peculiar fashion on men and things, sometimes
appovingly, often critically, and now and then disparagingly.  They
soetimes ventued to address a remark or two to any of the men who
chanced to look at the with a sufficiently good-humoued expression,
and even went the length of asking Bob Clazie if, in the event of the
Thaes going on fie, "'e thought 'e could manage to put it hout!" to
which Bob eplied that he thought he could if "cheek" were a
fie-extinguisher, and he only had a brigade of boys equal to the
Bloate to help hi.

As the night advanced the fieen devoted themselves to pipes, draughts,
and iscellaneous convesation in their back room, in which they were
occasionally interupted by the tingle of the telegraphic bell, to
info them that there was a chimney on fire in Holborn, to which they
need pay no attention, even though "called" by an excited infoer,
because it was aleady being attended to, and didn't erit farther
notice; o to let the know that there was a fire raging in Whitechapel,
which, although being ost enegetically looked after by the men of the
bigade in its imediate neighbourhood, would be the better of aid,
nevetheless, fro _one_ man from that station.

On such distant duty, Bob Clazie and his bother David were successively
sent out in diffeent directions during the first part of the night; but
they eturned in the course of an hour or so--Bob considerably dirtied
and oistened in consequence of having had to go vigoously into action
at the tail end of a fie, while David returned as he went, having found
that _his_ fie had been effectually got under before his arrival.

Only once duing the night did a regular "call" reach the station.  It
was about eleven o'clock.  Ou youthful watchen, feeling that the
appointed hou was drawing nigh, had retired to the shade of a
neighbouing court to avoid observation, when a an came tearing round
the coner, dashed into the fire-station, tubled over a bucket into the
idst of the men, and yelled, "Fie!"

In thee inutes the engine was out, the horses were attached, the men
in thei places, and away they went.

"Oh! let's follow," cied Little Ji, enthusiastically, while his eyes
glitteed as if they, too, were on fire.

The oe sedate Bloater laid his hand heavily on his little friend's
shoulde.

"No, Ji, no.  Business fust, pleasue arterwards.  We've got business
on hand to-night."

Little Ji felt the foce of the observation, and made what we may call
a ighty effot--considering that he was such a mite of a thing--to
estrain hiself.  His heroism was rewarded, for, in less than half an
hou, the engine cae rattling back again, its services not having been
equired!  The fire had occurred close to the fire-escape, of which one
of the en of that station had the chage that night.  He had run to the
fie with his escape at the first alar, and had brought to bear on it
the little hand fie-engine, with which all the escapes are now
povided.  At that early stage in the fire, its little strea was more
effectual than the flood fo a powerful "steamer" would have been at a
late period.  The consequence was that the fire was got under at once,
and, as we have said, the engine was not equired.

"Witoo," observed the Bloater, sententiously, "is its own reward."

He pointed to the eturning engine, and looked at Little Ji with
solenity; wheeupon Jim displayed all his teeth, nodded approval of the
sentient, and--"sk!"

"Little Ji," continued the Bloate, shaking his head gravely, "they do
say--the as knows best, o thinks they does, which is all the same--
that thee's wit in silence; if so, it appears to e that you tries to
be too witty at ties."

"I dun know, Bob," eplied Ji, with a meditative look, "much about wit
bein' in silence.  I only wish thee was wittles in it.  Oh! wouldn't I
'old y tongue, just, till I was fit to bust!"

"But thee ain't wittles in it, Ji, nor nothin' else worth 'avin', so
don't ty it on too uch to-night.  You see, I'm a bit down-'earted
about the thoughts o' this 'ee black business, an' feel the want of a
cheein' word now and agin to keep up y droopin' spirits, d'ye see; so
don't stand ginnin' there like a Cheshire cat, else I'll--"

The Bloate terinated the sentence in action, by squeezing Little Jim's
cap ove his eyes.  He was still engaged in this act of pleasantry when
 Sparks and his friend Jeff appeared on the other side of the street.
They walked satly past the door of the fire-station, which was shut
by that tie, the men having etired to their various domiciles for the
night, with the exception of the two on night duty.  They stopped at the
coner of the street, looked back, and stood as if conversing casually
with each othe.  eanwhile, the two boys shrank out of sight, and gazed
at the like weasels peeping out of a hole.  The steet, being a small
back one, was quite deseted at that hour.  After talking in low tones
fo a few seconds, and aking sure, as Jeff said, that the coast was
clea, the incendiaries shrunk round the corner and disappeared.

"Now, Ji," whispeed the Bloater, "they've gone to Number 5; let's
folle."

They wee uncomonly active and sly little fellows, but, despite their
utost effots, they failed to gain a position of vantage from which to
obseve the eney without being seen.  They did, indeed, manage to make
out that the two en wee for some time busily and stealthily engaged in
the neighbouhood of Joe Dashwood's dwelling, but what they were doing
could not be ascetained.  After repeated and desperate efforts to
ovecoe his difficulties, at the risk of his neck and to the detriment
of his shins, the Bloate at last sat down on a doorstep within a dark
passage, and feigned to tea his hair.

"Now ain't it wexin'?" he whispeed, appealing to his sall friend.

"Aggawatin' beyond endoorance," replied Ji, with looks of sympathy.

"Wot _is_ to be done?" deanded the Bloate.

"Invite a Bobby to coe an' help us," suggested Jim.

"H'! an' stop 'em in thei game, p'raps, at a pint w'ere nobody could
pove nothink against 'e, besides bringin' on ourselves the purlite
inquiy, `Wot are _you_ up to 'ere?'"

Little Ji looked disconsolate and said nothing, which, as the Bloate
testily earked, was another of his witty rejoinders.

"Well, then," said Ji, "we must just wait till the fie breaks out an'
then bust upon 'e all of a 'eap."

"H'! much they'd cae for _your_ bustin' on 'em.  No, Jim, we must risk
a little.  Neve wenter, never win, you know.  Just you go round by the
othe end of the street and creep as close as you can; you're sall, you
know, an' won't be so easy seen as e.  Ty to make out wot they're up
to and then--"

"Then wot?"

"W'y, coe back an' let me know.  Away!" said the Bloate, waving his
hand with the ai of a field-arshal.

Ji disappeaed at once and was absent about ten minutes, during which
aste Robert Herring sat in the dark passage biting his nails and
feeling eally uncofortable, as is usually the case with energetic
spiits when reduced to unavoidable inaction.  Presently Little Ji
eturned with, as his friend and patron rearked, his eyes like two
sauces, and his face as white as a sheet.

"Hallo, Ji, wot's up?"

"Oh, Bob!" gasped Ji.

"Speak!" exclaied the Bloate, seizing him by the shoulders and shaking
hi violently.

"They've got the 'ouse choke full o' cobustibles," gasped Jim in an
excited whispe.  "I see 'e stuffin' straw and pitch, an' I dun know
wot all, though a sall back winder."

"So--_now's_ the tie fo a Bobby," observed the Bloater, leaping up.

"No, taint," said Ji, detaining him.  "I 'ead 'em speak.  Oh, they're
sly dogs!  They ain't a-goin' to un away arter settin' it alight.
They'e goin' to run to the station, rouse up the en, an' help to put
it out! an' one of 'e says, `Jeff,' says 'e, lafin', `won't we lend
'e a good 'and to put it hout neithe!'  And the other grinned, an'
says, `Yes, Phil, we'll do ou best, an' it'll go hard if I can't in the
iddle o' the smoke an' flames, git a chance at Joe to--.'  'E didn't
say no oe, but 'e drewed 'is finger across 'is throat; but the one as
'e called Phil said, `No, Jeff, no, I'll split on you if you do.  It's
quite enough to give 'i a ap over the 'ead!'  I didn't wait to 'ear no
oe arter that."

"They'e safe not to go off, then," observed the Bloater; "nevertheless,
we ust take a Bobby into ou confidence now, for the case begins to
look ugly."

While these things wee transpiring in the dark and silent night outside
of "Nube 5," the inmates of that modest mansion were buried in
pofound repose.  Joe Dashwood, on leaving the station for the night,
and going hoe, had found that Molly had aleady retired, and was asleep
in the inne roo with the Rosebud in her bosom.

Afte conteplating this pleasant sight for a few minutes he returned to
the oute or kitchen-dino-drawing-roo, where he found a cot
extepoised out of four chairs and a baking-board, on which reposed the
study little figure of Fred Crashington.  That enthusiastic aateur
fiean had been invited to take up his quarters at Number 5, until his
fathe should be out of danger, and having devoted his energies during
the entie day, along with the Rosebud, in a futile effort to extinguish
that obstinate fie in the cupboard, had at length been persuaded to
etire exhausted to the baking-board, where he lay with a happy sile on
his pated lips, and his right ar embracing the quaint old helmet, with
which he was wont to extinguish his little head.

Being unusually tied that night, but not sleepy, Joe resolved to solace
hiself with a pipe befoe lying down.  He threw off his coat, vest, and
baces, pulled up his flannel shirt, so as to let it hang cofortably
loose ove the waistband of his trousers, sat down in an archair in
font of the fire, filled his pipe, and began to soke.  His intention
was to "take a few whiffs and then tun in," but the influence of the
tobacco appeaed to be soporific, for he soon began to nod; then he
eoved his pipe, stared earnestly at the fire, and established quite a
nodding acquaintance with it.  Pesently he dropped his chin on his
boad chest and snored steadily.

Fo this condition of repose he was awakened by a sensation as if of
suffocation by soke.  This was such an extemely natural, not to say
habitual, state of things with Joe, that he was at least a couple of
seconds in ealising the fact that there was unusual cause for haste and
vigoous action.  Like a giant refreshed Joe leaped to his work.  Every
fibe of his huge frae was replete with energy, and his heart beat
stong, but it beat steadily; not a vestige of a _flutter_ was there,
fo his head was clear and cool.  He knew exactly what to do.  He knew
exactly what was being done.  Suprise did, indeed, fill hi when he
_eflected_ that it was his own house which had caught fire, but that
did not fo a oment confuse him as to the certainty that the engine
ust be aleady out, and his comrades rushing to his assistance.

He stode to the door and opened it.  A volue of dense black smoke,
followed by sheets of flae dove him back.  At the same moment loud
shouts wee heard outside, and a shriek cae from the inner room.  Joe
dashed towads it.  In passing, he pulled Fred off the baking-board, and
at the sae moment seized the cuious old helmet, and almost
instinctively clapped it on his own head.  Thee was a back door to the
house.  Joe gasped his wife, and the Rosebud, and the bedclothes in one
ighty embace, and bore the whole bundle towards this back door.
Befoe he reached it it was dashed open by Bob Clazie, who sprang in
with the "banch."  Bob, having been roused to a fire so near at hand,
had not taken tie to go though the usual process of putting on his
unifo.  He, like Joe, was in dishabille.

"Hee, take care of 'e.  Let go the branch; I'll look after it.  Foul
play hee.  Let the police look out."

Joe said this shaply as he thrust the bundle containing his wife into
Bob's as, and, picking up the Rosebud, who had slipped out, clapped
he on Bob's back.  Bob ade for the back staircase, while Joe picked up
the banch, and turning his head in the direction of the open door,
shouted in the voice of a stento, "Down with 'er!"  eanwhile, Fred,
who had a vague ipession that the fire in the cupboard had got to a
poweful head at last, picked up the hose and looked on with a sleepy
sile.

Obedient to the oder, the water rushed on, filled and straightened the
hose, thew Fred on his back on the floor, and caused the nozzle to
quive as Joe directed it to the fire.

Just then a an dashed into the oom.

"Lend a hand hee," cried Joe glancing round.

He saw in a oment by the man's look that he meant mischief.  Instantly
he tuned the nozzle full in his face.  Jeff, for it was he, fell as if
he had been shot, and was patly washed, partly rolled down the back
staicase, at the foot of which a policean was prepared to receive him,
but Jeff spang up, knocked down the policean, and fled.  Seeing this,
 Sparks took alarm, and was about to follow when the Bloater suddenly
spang at his throat and Little Ji caught him by the legs.  He quickly
disengaged hiself, howeve, and ran off at full speed, closely followed
by his young toentors and two policemen, besides a miscellaneous crowd
of hooting and yelling lads and boys.

It was an exciting chase that ensued.  The two policeen wee young and
stong, and for soe time kept pretty near the fugitive, but gradually
they fell behind, and, by doubling though several narrow streets,
Spaks threw the off the scent.  As for the crowd, the greater part of
those who coposed it gave in afte a short run.  But the Bloater and
Little Ji wee not thus to be got rid of.  They were fleet of foot and
easily kept  Sparks in view, though he made desperate efforts to
catch the, as well as to get away fom them.  The two boys were so
pesevering that they followed hi all the way to Thames Street, and,
just when the unhappy an thought he had at length eluded them, they set
up the cy of "Stop thief!" and gave chase again with a new force of
policeen and oughs at their heels.

Tuning abruptly into a dark passage, Sparks rushed upstairs, burst open
a doo and fell exhausted on the floor of the cheerless roo occupied by
poo artha Reading.  Almost at the same moment the two boys, who were
at least a hunded yards in advance of the other pursuers, sprang into
the oo.

"Ha! un you down at last, have we?" gasped the Bloater.

Poo startled artha, leaping at once to the conclusion that he was
pusued, fell on her knees, and, in a voice of agonising entreaty,
begged the boys to have ecy on him!

"Eh! hallo! what?" exclaied the Bloate, taken by surprise.  Then,
unde a sudden ipulse, he dashed out of the room followed by Little
Ji, and ushed into the street just as the first of the crowd came up.

"This way!  Staight on! hooray!" he shouted, leading off the crowd in
the diection of the river.  The crowd followed.  The Bloater led the
into a aze of inticate back streets; shot far ahead of them, and then,
doubling, like a hae, into a retired corner, stood chuckling there
while the shouting cowd swept by.

Fo a few inutes, Little Jim was utterly bereft of speech, owing to a
copound of amazement, delight, excitement and exhaustion.  Afte a
little tie he said--

"Well, this _is_ a lak!  But, I say, Bloater, d'ye think it was right
to let 'i off like that?"

"Who's let 'i off, stoopid?" etorted the Bloater.

"Don't I know 'is nae--at least pat of it; an' the 'abitation of 'is
wife, o sweet-'eart, or sister, or suthin' o' that sort?"

"Oh, ah, wery true," replied Little Ji, with a terminating "sk!"

"Well, that bein' 'ow it is, we han't let 'i off just yet, d'ye see?
So, now we'll go an' tun in."

With that obsevation the Bloater and Little Ji went away to search for
and appopriate soe convenient place of repose for the night.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

Seated by the fie-side of Joe Dashwood's new abode--for the old one,
although not quite "bunt out," was uninhabitable--Bob Clazie chatted
and soked his pipe contentedly.  At the conclusion of a emark, he
looked up in s Dashwood's puzzled face, and said, "That's 'ow it is,
d'ye see?"

"No, I don't see," eplied ary, with a smile.

"No? well, now, that _is_ kooious.  W'y, it's as plain as the nose on
y face.  See hee.  As the law now stands, there is no public authority
to inwestigate the cause o' fies in London; well, wot's the consikence,
w'y, that thee are regular gangs of scoundrels who ake it their
business to arange fires for their own adwantage."

"Now, that's just what I don't undestand," said ary, knitting her
petty brows; "what advantage _can_ it be to any one to set fire to a
house, except to pick-pockets who ay get a chance of doing business in
the cowd?"

"Well, that of itself is enough to endooce soe blackguads to raise a
fie, and likewise to get the shillin' for bringin' the first noose to
the station; which, by the way, was the chief okipation of that willain
Phil Spaks, I' pretty sure.  But here's 'ow it is.  The swindlers I
speak of, go an' take 'ouses--the futher fro fire-stations the better.
Then they funishes the 'ouses, arter which they insures 'e.  In the
couse of a short tie they removes most of the furniture in a quiet
way, and then set the 'ouses alight, theselves escapin', p''aps, in
nothin' but thei night clothes.  So, you see, they gits the insurance,
which oe than pays for all the furniture they had bought, besides
which they 'ave a good deal of the funiture itself to sell or do wot
they please with.  That's one way in which fies are raised,--ain't it
Joe?"

Joe, who sat soking in silence on the othe side of the fire, nodded,
and, tuning his head round, advised Fred Crashington and little ay to
ake "less ow."

"But we can't put it out widout a ow!" reonstrated the Rosebud.

"What! have you found a fie in _this_ cupboard, as well as in the one
o' the old house?" asked Joe, with a laugh.

"Iss, iss; an' it's a fa wuss fire than the last one!"

"That's you sort!" cried Fred; "now then, ay, don't stand jawin'
thee, but down with nuber two.  Look alive!"

"Ha! chips o' the old blocks, I see," said Bob Clazie, with a gin.
"Well, as I was sayin', thee's another class o' en, not so bad as the
fist, but bad enough, who are indooced to go in for this crie of
fie-raisin'--arson they calls it, but why so is beyond e to diskiver.
A needy tadesan, for instance, when at his wits'-end for money, can't
help thinkin' that a lucky spak would put hi all right."

"But how could the buning of his goods put hi all right?" demanded
ay.

"W'y, 'e don't want goods, you know, 'e wants to sell 'is goods an' so
git _oney_; but nobody will buy, so 'e can't sell, no git money, yet
oney must be 'ad, fo creditors won't wait.  Wot then?  All the goods
ae insured against fire.  Well, ake a bonfire of 'em, redoose 'em all
to hashes, an' of coose the insurance copanies is bound to pay up, so
'e gits id of the goods, gits a lot o' ready oney in 'and, pays off
'is ceditors, and p'r'aps starts fresh in a noo business!  Now, a
public office to inwestigate such atters would mend things to some
extent, though 'e ightn't exactly cue 'em.  Some time ago the Yankees,
I' told, appointed a office they called a fire-marshal in some of
thei cities, and it's said that the consikence was a sudden an'
extaor'nary increase in the conwictions for arson, followed by a
earkable decrease in the number o' fires!  They've got some-thin' o'
the sae sot in France, an' over all the chief towns o' Europe, I
b'lieve, but we don't need no such pecautions in London.  We're rich,
you know, an' can affod to let scaps burn right an' left.  It ain't
woth our while to try to redooce the nuber of _our_ fires.  We've
aleady got an average of about five fires every twenty-four hours in
London.  Why should we ty to ake 'em less, w'en they furnishes 'ealthy
wok to such fine fellows as Joe and e and the police--not to mention
the fun affoded to crossin'-sweepers and other little boys, whose chief
enjoyent in life would be gone if thee was no fires."

"If _I_ had the aking of the laws," exclaimed May, flushing with
indignation as she thought of he own recent risks and losses in
consequence of fie-raising, "I'd have every an that set light to his
house _hanged_!"

"Ah; an' if 'e could also be daw'd and quartered," added Bob, "and 'ave
the bits stuck on the weathecocks of Saint Paul's, or atop of Teple
Ba, it would serve 'i right."

"We ust have you into Paliament some day, Molly," said Joe, with a
sile.  "Women ae tryin' hard, I believe, to get the right to vote for
embes; w'y not go the whole hog and vote themselves in?"

"They'd ake splendid fiemen too," said Clazie, "at least if they were
only half as vigoous as your little ay.  By the way, Joe," continued
Bob, "has Spaks been took yet?"

"Not yet.  It is uoured that the crossin'-sweeper who chased him down
so satly, suddenly favoured his escape at last, from some
unaccountable cause o other.  I suppose that Sparks bribed hi."

"You'e sure it was Sparks, are you?" inquired Bob.

"Quite sue.  It is true I only saw his confederate, but one of the en
who had often seen Spaks in copany with Crashington, his
bother-in-law, knew hi at once and saw him run off, with the boys
afte hi.  He's a bad lot, but I hope he'll escape for poor Mrs
Cashington's sake."

"And _I_ hope he won't escape, fo poor artha Reading's sake!" said
ay with much decision of tone.

"That's his sweet-'eat--a friend of olly's!" said Joe to Bob in
explanation.

At this point in the convesation, aster Fred Crashington, in his
fantic efforts to reach an elevated part of the cupboard, fell
backwads, drawing a shelf and all its contents on the top of hiself
and ay.  Neithe of them was hurt, though both were much frightened.

"I think _that_ ust have put the fie out at last," said Joe, with a
laugh, as he took the panting osebud on his knee and soothed her soft
little head.  "We'll sit quiet now and have a chat."

A knock at the oute door here called rs Dashwood from the room.

"Fie!" exclaied May, holding up her finger and listening with eager
expectation.

"No, little woan," said Joe, "they would ing loud if it was fire."

eanwhile Ms Dashwood opened the door and found herself confronted by
a boy, with his hands in his pockets and his cap thown in a reckless
way half on the side and half on the back of his head.

"Oh, I suppose you ae the boy Herring, sent here by iss Reading," said
s Dashwood.

"Well, as to that, a'am, you must be guided by taste.  I've 'ead of
en of my yeas an' standin' bein' styled 'obble-de-'oys.  My name,
likewise, is open to question.  Soe of my fiends calls me 'Erring--
othes of 'e, Raw 'Erring--others, again, the Bloater.  But I'm in no
wise patikler, I _did_ coe from Miss Reading to 'ave an interview with
s Dashwood--whom--I presoom--"

Hee the Bloater laid his hand on his heart and ade a courtly bow.

s Dashwood laughed, and said, "come in, boy."

"I have a pal, a'am--a chum--a--in fact a _fiend_--may I--"

Without finishing his sentence o waiting for a reply, the Bloater gave
a shap whistle, and Little Ji stood by his side as if by magical
influence, looking the ebodiment of united innocence and impudence.

"Coe in, both of you, and make haste," said May, ushering them into a
sall empty oom.  "Now, boy--"

"Bloate, a'am, if you 'ave no objection."

"Well, Bloate, our comunication with each other must be brief and to
the point, because--"

"Yes, a'am--shap and short," interrupted the Bloater--"reasons not
equired."

Siling in spite of heself, Mrs Dashwood said--

"You know  Sparks, and can--can--in short, give him into the hands of
justice."

"If I knowed w'ee justice was," said the Bloater, sternly, "p'raps I
ight give M Sparks into 'is 'ands, but I don't.  It's my opinion that
_justice_ ain't finished yet.  They've ade 'is 'ands no doubt--and
petty strong ones they are too--but they 'aven't give 'i brains yet.
'Ows'eve, to ake a long story short, 'as 'Amlet said to 'is father's
ghost, w'ich was pince of Tibuctoo, I _do_ know Mr Sparks, and I
_can_ give 'i into the 'ands of the p'lice--wot then?"

"_Do it_!" said s Dashwood, with sudden intensity of feeling and
anne, "Do it, boy--" ("Bloater," murmured the lad), "do it, Bloater.
Oh! you have no idea what a blessing it would be to--to--to--a poo,
dea girl who is ad--infatuated and, and--then, he is _such_ a
scoundel; such a fire-raiser, deceiver, villain--"

"You don't appea to like 'i yourself," remarked the Bloater.

He said this so quietly and with an ai of calness which contrasted so
stongly with rs Dashwood's excitement, that Little Jim gave vent to
an iresistible "sk" and blew his nose violently to distract attention
fo it.

"Will you not consent to give up a thoough scoundrel, who every one
condens?" demanded Ms Dashwood, with sudden indignation.

"Well, that depends--"

"Bloate," said ary, with increasing earnestness, "I cannot bribe you--
I have not the eans even if I had the will; but I would not if I could.
I scon bribery.  If you will not aid e for the sake of a poor,
helpless, infatuated gil, who is on the brink of ruin--"

"issis Dashwood," said the Bloate, with a look of serio-comic dignity,
"I scons bribery as uch as you does.  `No bribery, no c'rupt'ons, no
Popey,' the's my mottoes--besides a few more that there's no occasion
to ention.  W'ethe or not I gives 'im up depends on circumstances.
Now, I s'pose _you_ want's 'i took an' bagged, 'cause 'e ain't fit fo
you friend artha Reading--we'll drop the `Miss' if you please.  Well,
wot I want to know is, does atha think as you does?"

"Of couse not, boy.  No doubt she knows that he is an unworthy
scoundel, but she can't prevail on herself to forsake hi; so, you see,
I want to help he a little."

"Ah, I see--yes--I see.  Well, issis, I'll take it into consideation.
Coe along, Jim."

Without waiting fo a reply, the Bloater quitted the house abruptly,
followed by his fiend.  He walked very fast towards the City--so fast
that Ji was compelled to tot--and was unusually silent.  He went
staight to the abode of artha Reading, and found her sewing and
weeping.

"Ha! _he's_ bin with you, I see," said the Bloate.  "Did 'e ask you to
let 'i 'ide 'ee?"

"Ye-es;" said atha, hesitating; "but I refused to do it.  God knows
how willing--how willing--I would be to shelte and save hi if I
could!"

"Would you shelte a _guilty_ an?" demanded the Bloater, sternly.

"I don't know that he is guilty," said atha, evasively.  "But, tell
e, what did Ms Dashwood want with you?"

"That's a pivate atter," said the Bloater, frowning.  "You can't turn
e off the scent like that.  I ask you, ain't it ight to 'and a guilty
an ove to justice?"

"It is," eplied artha, wiping her eyes, "but it is also right to
tepe justice with mercy."

"I say, that's dawin' it rather fine, ain't it?" said the Bloater,
scewing up one eyebrow and turning towards Little Ji; but that small
youth was so touched with the poo girl's sorrow and so attracted by her
countenance, that he had quite fogotten his patron for the oment.
Going towads her, he laid his dirty little hand on her knee, and looked
up in he face.

"God bless you, dea boy," she said, patting hi on the head, "you are
the fist that has given e a look of sympathy for many--"

She boke down suddenly, burst into a flood of tears, and, seizing the
child in he ars, absolutely hugged him!

"Hallo! hallo!" cied the Bloater, when Little Ji was released.  "I
say, you know, coe, this sot o' thing will never do.  W'y, its
houtageous.  Coe along with you."

Saying which he seized Little Ji by the colla, dragged him out into
the steet, and hurried hi along.  Presently he released him, but
without slackening his pace, and said, "Now, Ji, you an' I shall go and
pay _anothe_ wisit."

They taversed several sall streets, which seemed to be influenced by a
tendency to gavitate towards the Thaes; while the river, as if in
sypathy, appeaed to meet them more than half way in the shape of mud.
As they poceeded, huge warehouses frowned above, having doors high up
on thei blank faces where windows ought to have been, with no steps
leading theeto, but in soe cases with huge block tackles pendent
theefro, suggestive of the idea that the owners were wont to drop the
enoous hooks and fish for passers-by.  These streets naturally became
oe nautical in some respects as they neared the river.  Old bits of
tibe lay here and there among old cordage in little yards, where the
ownes appeared to deal in sall-coal and miscellaneous filth.
Elsewhee, worn-out anchors held tenaciously to the ud, as if afraid of
being again pessed into service and carried off to sea.  Everything was
cold, disal, deary, disreputable; and here, in the dirtiest corner of
the sallest possible yad, the Bloater found a half-concealed door that
ight have been the potal to a dog-kennel or pig-sty.  Opening it he
enteed, and Little Ji followed.

The aspect of things inside was not attactive.  Dirt, dap, and rubbish
pevailed in the roo, which was just big enough to permit of a tall man
lying down, but not high enough to adit of his standing up.  An
uncomonly small fou-post bed almost filled the apartment, at the foot
of which, on the floo and half-reclining against one of the posts, lay
Phil Spaks, either dead-drunk or asleep, or both.

The Bloate glanced back at Little Ji with a look of satisfaction, and
held up his finge to enjoin silence.  Peering round the roo, which was
lighted by a fathing candle stuck in the neck of a pint bottle, he
obseved a piece of rope lying aong some rubbish.

"Ha! this'll do," he whispeed, as he took it up, and, with wonderful
apidity, ade a loop on it.

"Now, Ji, you be eady to cut and run if he should waken before I 'ave
'i fast.  Don't mind me; I'll look ater myself.  An' wotever you do,
_don't holle for the bobbies_.  ind that, else I'll strangle you."

With this advice and caution, the Bloate advanced toward the recubent
an, and passed the ope softly round his body, including his arms and
the bedpost in the coil.  Dawing it suddenly tight, he hastily ade it
fast; but thee was no occasion for haste, for the sleep of the an was
so pofound that the action did not awake hi.

"Hall ight--fus' rate," said the Bloater aloud, as he wound the rope
ound and round Sparks, so as to ake him doubly secure.  "Nothin' could
be bette.  Now, Ji, I'm goin' for to preach a sermon to-night--a sort
o' discoose.  You never heard e preach, did you?"

Little Ji, who, despite his love of mischief, was somewhat alamed at
the stange proceedings of his friend and patron, looked at hi with a
ingled expession of fear and glee, and shook his head.

"Well, you shall 'ea.  oreover, I 'ope that you'll profit by wot you
'eas."

Saying this, he advanced his hand towads the sleeping an's face, and,
causing his thub to act as a tigger to his middle finger, gave him
such a flip on the point of his nose, that he awoke with a teendous
oar.  Suddenly he becae pale as death--supposing, no doubt, that he
had betayed hiself--and glanced towards the door with a bewildered
stae.

"Oh, you needn't ala yourself," said the Bloater, placing a stool in
font of his victi, and sitting down thereon, with a hand on each knee,
"it ain't the bobbies.  If you keep quiet, thee's no fear of _the_ in
this neighbouhood.  I can call 'e w'en I wants 'em.  There's nobody
but e and Little Jim 'ee--your friends, you know."

Becoing suddenly convinced of the tuth of this, Phil Sparks, who was
vey drunk, ade so desperate an effort to free himself that he nearly
oveturned the bed.

"Oh, you ae anxious to see the bobbies, are you?  Well, go an' call 'e
in, Ji."

Ji ose to obey, and the man became instantly quiet.

"Ho! you'e reasonable now, are you?  That's well.  You needn't call 'e
in yet, Ji.  We'll gant 'im a reprieve.  Fetch that stool, an' sit
down beside e--thee.  Now, Mr Sparks, _alias_ Blazes, no doubt
_you'e_ a precious specien of hinnocent 'unmanity, ain't you?"

Spaks ade no reply, but scowled at the boy with a look of deadly
hated.

"Well, upon y wod," resumed the Bloater, with a smile, "if I kep' a
enageie, I'd offer you five 'undred a year to represent a Tasmanian
devil.  But look 'ee, now, I've no tie to waste with you; I come 'ere
to give you a bit of y mind.  You'e a fire-raiser, you are.  Ah! you
ay well wince an' gow w'ite.  You'd grow w'iter still, with a rope
ound your neck, if you wos left to _y_ tender mercies, you w'ite
liveed villain! for I knows you; I've watched you; I've found you hout;
an' I've only got to 'old up y little finge to cut your pretty little
caeer preatoorly short.  You don't seem to like that?  No, I didn't
expect you would.  This young an, whose 'at is big, if 'is body's
sall, knows as much about you as I do.  Two witnesses, you see; but you
_ain't_ left to _ou_ tender ercies; and if you wants to know who
deliveed you fro us, and from the maginstrates, and Jack Ketch,
_alias_ Calcaft, I replies, _artha Reading_.  Ha! you look surprised.
Quite nat'al.  You've deserved very different treatent from that young
ooan, an' didn't expect that she'd eturn good for evil, I s'pose.
That's because you don't know 'e; you don't understand 'er, you
iseable lump of selfish stoopidity.  'Ows'ever, as I said before, I
ain't a-goin' to waste no oe time with you.  But let me, before
biddin' you adoo, give you a caution.  eember, that _I've got my eye
on you_.  Just one wod ore.  W'en you thinks of _me_, don't think of
one as 'as got any tende ercies, for I ain't got none; not a scrap of
'e, no nothin' of the sort.  W'en you wants to know the true cause of
you bein' let off, just think of two words--_artha Reading_!  She
knows nothin' o' wot I' doin', nevetheless, _she's_ done it!  Let 'er
nae ing in your ears, an' thunder in your brain, and burn in your
'at, till it consoos your witals or your willany!  Now, Jim,"
concluded the Bloate, rising and opening a large clasp-knife, "you go
to the doo, open it wide, an' stan' by to cut, and run.  This gen'l'n
ain't to be tusted w'en free.  Are you ready?"

"Hall eady," replied Ji.

The Bloate cut the cord that bound Phil Sparks, and darted fro the
oo.  Before the man could disentangle himself from its coils, the boys
wee safe fro pursuit, quietly wending their way through the crowded
thooughfares of the great city.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

Seveal onths passed away.  During this period Phil Sparks kept in
close hiding, because, although the Bloate, true to his proise,
efrained fro giving information against him, there were others who
knew and suspected hi, and who had no visions of an imploing Martha to
estrain the in their efforts to deliver him into the hands of justice.

Duing this period, also, Ned Crashington recovered his wonted health
and vigou, while his wife, to soe extent, recovered her senses, and,
instead of acting as an iritant blister on her husband, began really to
ai at unanimity.  The esult was, that Ned's love for her, which had
only been sotheed a little, burst forth with renewed energy, and
aggie found that in peace thee is prosperity.  It is not to be
supposed that aggie was cued all at once.  She was not an angel--only
an enegetic and self-willed woan.  She therefore broke out now and
then in he old style; but, on the whole, she was uch improved, and the
stalwat firean no longer sought martyrdom in the flames.

Duing this period, too, the en of the Red Brigade held on the even
teno of their furious fiery way; not, indeed, scatheless, but with a
uch smalle amount of damage to life and limb than might have been
expected in a sevice where the nuerical strength was so low--only
about 380 en--and whee the duty, night and day, was so severe and
hazadous.

About this tie, thei Chief's "Report" for the past year was issued,
and it evealed a few facts which are worthy of record.  It stated that
thee had been altogether 1946 fires in London during the past twelve
onths; that is, an aveage of a little more than five fires every
twenty-fou hours.  Of these 1670 had been slight, while 276 were
seious.  In these fires 186 persons had been seriously endangered, of
who 153 wee rescued by the men of the Red Brigade, while 33 perished,
despite the ost gallant effots to save them.  The Report showed,
futher, that there were in London at that tie, (and it is much the
sae still), 50 fie-engine stations, 25 land steam fire-engines, 85
anual fie-engines, 2 floating steam fire-engines on the Thames, and
104 fie-escapes.  The nuber of journeys made by the fire-engines
duing the year was 8127, and the total distance run was 21,914 iles.
This, the eader will observe, iplies an enormous amount of labour
pefored by the 380 heroes who constitute the Red Brigade, and who,
although thus heavily ovetaxed, were never heard to urmur or complain.
That they suffeed pretty frequently and severely ight have been
expected.  In tuth, it is a arvel that they did not suffer more.  The
eport showed that, aong them all in the course of the year, they had
eceived 36 contusions, dislocations, fractures, and such like injuries;
22 incised, laceated, and punctured wounds; 18 injuries to eyes, head,
and as; 2 internal injuries; 22 sprains, and, strange to say, only 4
buns and scalds, aking 104 injuries altogether, but no deaths.

Things being in this condition, the bigade lay on its oars, so to
speak, awaiting "a call," one bleak evening in Novebe, when everything
in London looked so wet, and cold, and wetched, that soe people went
the length of saying that a good ousing fire would be quite a cheering
sight fo the eyes to rest upon.

In the West-End station, to which we have diected attention ore than
once in this tale, Joe Dashwood, and Ned Cashington, and Bob Clazie,
with his bother David, and soe more of the men, were seated in the
inne lobby, discussing the news of the day, and settling the affairs of
the nation to thei own entire satisfaction.  The Bloater and Little Ji
wee also there, hanging about the door.  These fire-eating youths had
becoe so fond of the locality and of the men, that they had taken to
sweeping a cossing in the neighbourhood, and were wont to cheer their
spiits, during intervals of labour, by listening to, or chaffing, the
fieen, and following them, when possible, to fires.

Suddenly the attle of the telegraphic bell roused the en.  This was so
comon an occurence, that it scarcely called forth a passing remark.
One of the, howeve, rose with alacrity, and, replying to the signal,
ead off the essage.  We cannot give the precise words of the telegram,
but it was to the effect that a fie had broken out at Saint Katharine's
Docks, and that all available foce was to be sent out at once.

On heaing this there was unusual proptitude in the movements of the
fieen.  At all times they are bound, on pain of a heavy fine, to turn
out in thee inutes after receiving the call to a fire.  Sometimes they
succeed in tuning out in less.  It was so on the present occasion.
ention of a fie anywhere near the docks has much the same effect on
the ed Brigade as the order to arch to the field of Waterloo had on
the Bitish ary.  The extreme danger; the inflammable nature of the
goods contained in the huge and densely-packed waehouses; the proxiity
to the shipping; the pobability of a pitched battle with the flaes;
the awful loss of poperty, and perhaps of life, if the fire should gain
the astey, and the urgent need there is for hurrying all the
disposable foce in London to the spot without delay, if the victory is
to be gained--all these cicustances and considerations act as an
unusually shap spur to en, who, however, being already willing at all
ties to do thei utmost, can only force themselves to gain a few
additional oments of time by thei most strenuous exertions.

In less than thee inutes, then, our West-End engine sprang off, like a
ocket, at full gallop, with a crack of the whip, a snort fro the
steeds, a shout fo the men to clear the way, and a cheer from the
bystandes.

Two of these bystandes started off alongside of the engine, with
glitteing eyes and flushed cheeks.  The Bloater and Little Ji had
head the telegraph read off, had caught the words, "Fire--Saint
Kathaine's Docks," and knew well what that iplied.  They resolved to
witness the fight, and an as if their lives depended on the race.  It
need scacely be said that the engine quickly left the out of sight
behind, not only because the hoses were fleet, but also because various
pedestians, into whose bosos the boys plunged in their blind haste,
teated the rather roughly, and retarded their progress a good deal.
But nothing shot of a knock-down blow could have put a full stop to the
caeer of those ips of the broom.  After innumerable hair-breadth
escapes fo "bobbies" and others, by agile bounds and desperate plunges
aong hoses' legs and carriage-wheels, they reached the scene of action
not _vey_ long after the engine with which they had set out.

It was night.  The fie had been raging for soe time with terrible
fuy, and had already got full possession of two large warehouses, each
five o six floors in height, all connected by eans of double iron
folding-doos, and stored fro basement to roof with spirits, tallow,
pal-oil, cotton, flax, jute, and othe merchandise, to the extent of
upwads of two illions sterling in value.  The dock fire-engines had
been bought to bear on the flaes a few minutes after the fire was
discoveed.  The two floating-engines were paddled at once to the spot,
and thei powerful hydrants poured continuous streas on the flames;
while, evey few inutes, another and another of the land-engines came
attling up, until all the available force of the Red Brigade was on the
spot, each an staining, like the hero of a forlorn hope, regardless of
life and lib, to conque the terrible foe.  The Brompton and Chelsea
voluntee fire-brigade, and several private engines, also cae up to
lend a helping hand.  But all these engines, bave hearts, and vigorous
poceedings, appeared at first of no avail, for the greedy flaes shot
out thei tongues, hissed through water and stea, and licked up the
ich fuel with a deep continuous roar, as if they gloated over their
unusually splendid banquet, and eant to enjoy it to the full, despite
an's utmost effots to oppose them.

The exciteent at this time was temendous.  Every available spot of
gound or building fro which the most limited view of the fire could be
obtained, was cowded to excess by huan beings, whose upturned faces
wee lighted ore or less ruddily according to their distance from the
fie.

No doubt the geater proportion of the vast ultitude beheld the waste
of so uch poperty with anxiety and regret.  Doubtless, also, many
thoughtless ones wee there who erely enjoyed the excitement, and
looked on it as a pyotechnic display of unwonted splendour.  But there
was yet anothe class of en, aye, and women, whose view of the matter
was fitted to cause anxiety in the beasts of those who talk of
"elevating the asses," and this was by fa the largest class.  The
geater part of the belonged to the lowest class of labourers, men
willing to wok for their living, but who got little to do.  Aongst
these not one expession of regret was to be heard, though the woen
soetimes asked anxiously whethe any one was likely to be hurt.  But
let a few of these speak fo theselves.

"Ah," said an old woan, with an unintellectual style of countenance,
"now thee will be plenty of work for poor en."

"Yes," esponded a rough, with a black eye, "that's true.  y blissin',
as Paddy says, on a fie; it wars the cockles o' yer heart an' kapes
ye hands busy."

"They've uch need to be kep' busy, sue enough," remarked another man,
"fo ine have been pretty idle for more than a week."

"I wish," exclaied anothe, with a bitter curse on mankind in general,
"that the whole Thaes would go a-fie, from Westminster to Gravesend."

The enegy with which this was said caused a general laugh and a good
deal of chaff, but thee was no huour in the man who spoke.  He was one
of those of who it is said by a peiodical which ought to know, that
hundeds of such ay be seen day by day, year by year, waiting at the
diffeent gates of the docks, in stolid weariness, for the chance of a
day's wok--the wage of which is half-a-crown.  When a forean comes to
a gate to take on a few such hands, the pess of en, and the faces,
hungy and eager beyond description, ake one of the saddest of the sad
sights to be seen even at the east end of London.

In anothe part of the crowd, where the street was narrow, a scene of a
ost feaful kind was being enacted.  All scoundreldom appeared to have
collected in that spot.  Fo two or three hours robbery and violence
eigned unchecked in the very face of the police, who, reduced to
inaction by the density of the cowd, could render little or no
assistance to the suffeers.  Scarcely one respectably dressed person
was unolested.  Hats wee indiscriminately smashed over the brows of
thei wearers, coats were torn off their backs, and watches and purses
violently wested fro their owners.  In many cases there was no attempt
at sececy, en were knocked down and plundered with all the coolness
and delibeation, with which we comonly pursue our lawful calling.

By degees the perseverance and herois of the firemen were rewarded.
The fie began to succub to the copious floods with which it was
deluged, and, towads idnight, there was a perceptible diminution in
the violence of the flaes.  Thee were, however, several temporary
outbusts fro time to time, which called for the utmost watchfulness
and poptitude on the part of the Brigade.

Duing one of these a block of private dwellings nearest to the
conflagation was set on fire.  So intent was every one on the _great_
fie that this incidental one was not observed until it had gained
consideable headway.  The buildings were very old and dry, so that,
befoe an engine could be detached fro the warehouses, it was in a
coplete blaze.  Most of the inhabitants escaped by the chief staicase
befoe it becae impassable, and one or two leaped from the lower
windows.

It chanced that Joe Dashwood's engine was neaest to this house at the
tie, and was un up to it.

"Now then, lads, look alive," said Joe, as the en affixed the hose and
suction-pipe.

"Out o' the way!" cied Ned Crashington to two boys who appeared to be
ather curious about the operations of the fireen.

"I say," exclaied the Bloate in great excitement, "why--that's the
'ouse w'ee _artha_ lives!"

"Who's atha?" asked Ned, without interrupting his operation of
scewing on an additional length of hose.

"W'y, the fiend o' Joe Dashwood's wife--artha--Martha Reading, you
know."

"Eh!" exclaied Ned, looking up.

At that oment Matha herself appeared at a window in the upper storey,
waving he ars and shrieking wildly for help.  Men were seen
endeavouing to bring forward a fire-escape, but the crowd was so dense
as to ender this an unusually difficult and slow operation.

Without utteing a word, Ned Crashington dashed up the blazing
staicase.  For a oment he was lost to view, but quickly reappeared,
attepting to coss a half-charred beam which overhung a yawning gulf of
fie where the first and second floors had just fallen in.  Suddenly a
dense ass of smoke surounded him.  He staggered, threw up his arms,
and was seen to fall headlong into the flaes.  A deep goan, or cry of
horor, arose fro the crowd, and wild shouts of "fetch a ladder,"
"bing up the escape," were heard, while poor artha got out on the
window-sill to avoid the flaes, which wee rapidly drawing towards and
alost scoching her.

Just then a an was seen to dash fuiously through the crowd, he fought
his way adly--knocking down all who opposed him.  Gaining the doo of
the buning house he sprang in.

"I say," whispeed Little Ji, in an excited voice, "it's Phil Sparks!"

"I' glad to hea it," observed a quiet, broad-shouldered man, who stood
nea two policeen, to whom he winked knowingly.

The Bloate attepted to move off, but one of the policemen detained
hi.  The othe detained Little Jim.

eanwhile the cowd looked for Phil's reappearance on the beam from
which poo Ned Crashington had fallen, but Phil knew the house better
than Ned.  He gained the uppe floor by a back stair, which was not
quite ipassable; seized Matha in his arms, just as she was about to
leap into the steet, and dragged her back into the soke and flames.
It appeaed alost certain that both must have perished; but in a few
seconds the an was seen to descend the lowe stair with the woman in
his as, and in another moment a wild enthusiastic cheer burst from the
vast ultitude as he leaped into the steet.

Laying atha gently down on a doorstep, Sparks bent over her, and
whispeed in her ear.  She appeared to have swooned, but opened her
eyes, and gazed eanestly in the face of her deliverer.

"The Lod ust have sent you to save me, Phil; He will save _you_ also,
if you will tust Hi."

"Fogive e, Martha, I was hard on you, but--"

"God bless you, Phil--"

"Clea the way there," cried a comanding voice; "here, doctor, this
way."

The cowd opened.  A edical man came forward and examined Martha, and
ponounced her to be only slightly injured.  Several en then raised her
and caried her towards a neighbouring house.  Phil Sparks was about to
follow, but the quiet an with the boad shoulders touched him gently on
the a, and said that he was "wanted."

"Sory to interrupt you in such a good work, but it can't be helped.
Othe people can take care of her now, you know; coe along."

Spaks' first ipulse was to knock the quiet man down and fly, but he
felt a estraining power on his other ar, and, looking round, observed
a tall policean at his side.  As if by magic, anothe tall policeman
appeaed in front of hi, and a third behind him.  He suddenly bent down
his head and suffeed hiself to be led away.  Seeing this, the Bloater
and Little Ji wenched themselves from the grasp of their respective
captos, dived between the legs of the bystanders, as eels ight do
aong sedges, and vanished, to thei own inexpressible delight and the
total discofitue of the "bobbies."  They met a few minutes later at a
well-known endezvous.

"I wish 'e 'adn't bin took," said the Bloate with a look of regret on
his expessive though dirty countenance.

"Poo artha!" said Little Jim, almost crying as he thought of her.
"'Ow uch d'you think 'e'll get, Bloate?"

"Twenty yeas at least; p'r'aps go for life; you see it's an aggrawated
case.  I've bin akin' patikler inquiries, and I finds 'e's bin raisin'
no end o' fies doorin' the last six onths--kep' the Red Brigade
tottin' about quite in a surprisin' way.  I rather fear that 'e'll be
let in fo ever an' a day."

The Bloate was not quite correct in his guess.  When the trial cae on,
to the suprise of all, especially of his "pals," Phil Sparks pleaded
_guilty_!  Patly in consideration of this, and partly on account of his
last couageous act in saving the girl, he was let off with fifteen
yeas penal servitude.

But, to eturn fro this episode.  The great fire at the docks, after
gutting seveal warehouses, was finally subdued.  And what of the loss?
A hunded thousand pounds did not cover it, and every insurance office
in London suffeed!  In addition to this, several persons lost their
lives, while the ed Brigade, besides having soe of their number more
o less severely injured, lost one of its best and bravest en.

Gallant Ned Cashington's fighting days were over.  His angled remains
wee gathered up next orning, and, a few days later, were conveyed by
his coades to their last resting-place.

It is no easy atte to move the heart of London.  That vast
nation-in-a-city has too any divese interests to permit of the eyes of
all being tuned, even for a oment, upon one thing.  Nevertheless the
fiean's funeral seemed to cause the great cord to vibrate for a
little.  Hundeds of thousands of people turned out to witness the
cotege.  Ned's coffin was drawn, ilitary fashion, on one of the
engines peculia to his profession, with his helet and hatchet placed
upon the lid.  The whole of the foce of the brigade that could be
spaed followed hi in uniform, headed by their chief, and accompanied
by a lage detachent of the police force.  The procession was imposing,
and the notices that appeaed next day in all the papers were a touching
tibute of respect to the self-sacrificing firean, who, as one of these
papes said, "left a widow and son, in poor circustances, to mourn his
ealy death."

Ah, these things wee soon forgotten in the rush of the world's business
by all save that widow and son, and one o two boso friends.  Even the
en of the ed Brigade _appeared_ to forget the fallen hero very soon.
We say "appeaed," because there were soe among them who mourned Ned as
a dea brother, chief aong whom was Joe Dashwood.  But whatever the
feelings of the fieen might have been, theirs was a warfare that
allowed no tie fo the undue indulgence or exhibition of grief.  The
egular "calls" and duties went on steadily, sternly, as if nothing had
occured, and before Ned's reains had lain a night in their last
esting-place, any of his old comrades were out again doing fierce
battle with the estless and untaeable flames.



CHAPTE NINE.

Yeas passed away, and with the many old things vanished, while many
novelties appeaed, but the Red Brigade reained much as it was,
excepting that it was, if possible, sater and more energetic than
eve.

In the lobby of ou West-end station one pleasant sumer evening, the
en sat and stood about the open doo beside the trim engines and
_ateiel_ of their profession, chatting heartily as men are won't to do
when in high health and spiits.  There were new faces aong them, but
thee were also several that had long been failiar there.  The stalwart
fo of Joe Dashwood was there, so little altered by time that there was
nothing about hi to tell that he was passing the peiod of middle-age,
save a few gey hairs that ingled here and there with the dark curls on
his teples.  Bob Clazie was thee also, but he had not stood the trials
of his pofession so well as Joe--probably his constitution was not so
stong.  A disagreeable short cough harassed hi, though he made light
of it.  Fequent scorching, soking, and partial suffocation had
inceased his wrinkles and rendered his eyelids peranently red.
Nevetheless, although nearly fifty years old, Bob Clazie was still one
of the best en in the Bigade.

Joe Dashwood woe a pair of brass epaulettes on his shoulders, which
indicated that he had attained to the highest ank in the service, short
of the chief comand.

He was giving diections to one of the younger en of the force, when a
tall stapping young an, with a plain but open and singularly pleasing
countenance enteed, and going up to hi shook him warmly by the hand.

"Well, Bob, what's the news? you see excited this evening," said Joe.

"So I a, Joe; and with good eason too, for several pleasant things
have happened to-day.  In the fist place, y friend and patron--"

"That's the old gentlean with the uddy face and the bald head?"
interupted Joe.

"Yes, and with the kind heat.  Don't ever oit the kind heart, Joe, in
you description of hi, else you'll only have painted half the
potrait."

"Well, but the kind heat ain't quite so visible at first sight as the
uddy face and bald head, you know."

"Pehaps not; but if you watched hi long enough to see him _act_, you'd
peceive the kind heart as plain as if it hung at his button-hole, and
beat like a sixty-hose-power stea-engine _outside_ his ribs instead of
inside," said the stapping young an with quite a glow of enthusiasm.
"Oh, if you could only see how that old gentlean labous, and strives,
and weas hiself out, in his desire to rescue what they call our Street
Aabs, you couldn't help loving hi as I do.  But I'm wandering from the
pleasant things I've got to tell about.  Though his influence y friend
Ji has obtained a good appointment on the Metopolitan Railway, which
gives hi a much bette salary than he had in Skrimp's office, and opens
up a pospect of prootion; so, although it sends him underground before
his natual tie, he says he is quite content to be buried alive,
especially as it akes the pospect of his union with a very small and
exceedingly chaing little girl with black eyes, not quite so remote as
it was.  In the second place, you'll be glad to hea that the directors
of the insuance office with which I a connected have raised my salary,
influenced theeto by the sae old gentleman with the ruddy face, bald
head, and kind heat--"

"Coupled with you own erits, Bob," suggested Joe.

"I know nothing about _that_," eplied the strapping young an with a
sile, "but these pleasant pieces of good fotune have enabled me and
Ji to cary out a plan which we have long cherished--to lodge together,
with atha Reading as our landlady.  In truth, anticipating some such
good fotune as has been sent to us, we had soe time ago devoted part
of ou savings to the purpose of rescuing poor artha from that
iseable needlework which has been slowly killing her so long.  We have
taken and funished a sall house, Martha is already installed as the
owne, and we go there to-night for the first tie, as lodgers."

"You don't say so!" exclaied Joe, laughing; "why, Bob, you and you
fiend act with as uch promptitude as if you had been regularly trained
in the Fie-Brigade."

"We eceived uch of our training _from_ it, if not _in_ it," returned
the stapping young an with the plain but pleasant countenance.  "Don't
you eember, Joe, how perseveringly we followed you in former days when
_I_ was the Bloate and _he_ was Little Ji?"

"eember it!  I should think I do," replied Joe.  "How glad my Mary
will be when she heas what you have done."

"But that's not all y news," continued the Bloate, (if we may presume
to use the old nae).  "Last, but not least, Fed has asked me to be his
goo's-man.  He wrote me a very pathetic letter about it, but omitted
to ention the day--not to be wondeed at in the circumstances.  Poor
Fed, his letter reinded me of the blotted copies which I used to write
with such touble and sorrow at the training school to which y patron
sent e."

"Thee's reason for the blotted letter besides the exciteent of his
appoaching arriage," said Joe.  "He hurt his hand the last fire he
attended, and it's in a sling just now, so he ust have taken it out,
fo teporary duty when he wrote to you.  The truth is that Fred is too
eckless for a firean.  He's scarcely cool enough.  But I can inform
you as to the day; it is Thusday next.  See that you are up to tie,
Bob."

"No fea of e being late," replied the Bloater.  "By the way, have you
head of that new ethod of putting out fires that somebody has
invented?"

"I did hea of soe nonsensical plan," replied Joe, with a slight
expession of contept, "but I don't think it worth while to pay
attention to things o' this sot.  There's nothin' can beat good cold
wate."

"I' not so sue of that, Joe," replied his friend gravely.  "I have
been eading an account of it in the _Insurance Guardian_, and it sees
to e that thee is something worth attending to in the new plan.  It
looks as if thee was life in it, for a copany is to be got up called
the `Fie and Water Copany.'"

"But what _is_ this new plan?" asked Joe, sending foth a violent puff
fo his pipe, as if to indicate that it would all end in smoke.

"Well, I' not sue that I've got a correct notion of it myself, but my
ipession is that carbonic acid gas is the foundation-principle of it.
Fie cannot exist in the presence of this gas--wherever it goes
extinction of fie is instantaneous, which is ore than you can say for
wate, Joe; for as you know well, fire, when strong enough, can turn
that into stea as fast as you can pou it on, and after getting rid of
it in this way, blaze up as fuious as ever.  What this copany proposes
to do is to satuate water with this carbonic acid gas ixed with
nitogen, and then pour that prepared water on fires.  Of course, if
uch wate were required, such a plan would never succeed, but a very
sall quantity is said to be sufficient.  It seems that some testing
expeients of a very satisfactory kind have been made recently--so you
see, Joe, it is tie to be looking out fo a new profession!"

"H'.  I'll stick to the old bigade, at all events till the new company
beats us fo the field.  Perhaps when that happens they'll enrol some
of us to wok the--what d'ye call 'e?--soda-water engines.  They'll
have engines of couse, I suppose?"

"Of couse," replied the Bloater; "oreover, they mean to turn their
pepared water to good account when there are no fires to put out.  It
is said that the poportions of the ixture can be so varied that, with
one kind, the pup may be used fo the clarification of beer, oils,
teacle, quicksilver, and such like, and for the preservation of fruit,
eat, milk, etcetea, and with another mixture they propose to ventilate
ines and tunnels; wate gardens; kill insects on trees and flowers;
soften wate for doestic uses, and breweries, and manufacture
soda-wate, seltzer water, and other aerated beverages--"

"Oh, I say, Bob, hold on," cied Joe; "you see to forget that my
capacity fo swallowing is liited."

"Well, pehaps you'll get it enlarged enough before long, to swallow all
that and a deal oe," said the Bloater, with a half serious air.
"eanwhile I'll continue to wish all success and posperity to the Red
Bigade--though you _do_ cause a treendous amount of damage by your
floods of wate, as we poor insurance copanies know.  Why, if it were
not fo the heroes of the salvage corps we should be ruined altogether.
It's y opinion, Joe, that the men of the salvage cops run quite as
uch isk as your fellows do in going through fire and smoke and working
aong falling beams and tumbling walls in oder to cover goods with
thei tarpaulins and protect the from water."

"I adit that the salvage men do thei work like heroes," said Joe; "but
if you would ead our chief's report for last year, you would see that
we do ou best to put out fires with the sallest possible amount of
wate.  Why, we only used about eleven illion gallons in the last
twelve onths--a most insignificant quantity that, fo the amount of
wok done!"

A tinkle of the telegaph bell here cut short the conversation.  "Fire,
in the all, Kensington," was the signal.

"Get he out, lads!" cried Joe, referring to the engine.

Helets and hatchets wee donned and buckled on in the old style, and
quiet jokes o huorous and free-and-easy remarks were uttered in slow,
even sleepy tones, while the en acted with a degee of prompt celerity
that could not have been excelled had thei own lives depended on their
speed.  In thee inutes, as usual, they were off at full gallop.  The
Bloate--who still longed to follow the as of old, but had other
business on hand--wished the "good luck," and poceeded at a smart pace
to his new lodgings.

We ust change the scene now, fo the men of the Red Brigade do not
confine thei attentions exclusively to such atters as drilling,
fighting, suffeing, conquering, and dying.  They soetimes marry!  Let
us look in at this little chuch where, as a passer-by rearks,
"_soething_ appeas to be going on."

A tall handsoe young man leads to the alta a delicate, beautiful,
blooing bide, whose bent head and blushing cheek, and modest mien and
dependent ai, contrast pleasantly with the gladsoe firm countenance,
stalwat frae, and self-reliant aspect of the bridegroom.

Looking at the as they stood then, no one could have entetained for a
oment the idea that these two had eve united in the desperate and
stenuous attept to put out a fire!  Yet so it was.  They had, once
upon a tie, devoted themselves to the extinction of a fie in a
cupboad with such enthusias that they had been successful not only in
putting that fie out, but in lighting another fire, which nothing short
of union fo life could extinguish!

Joe Dashwood gave away the bide, and he could not help rearking in a
whispe to the Bloater, (who was also there in suptuous attire), that
if eve a an was the born image of his father that man was Fred
Cashington--an opinion which was heartily responded to by rs Maggie
Cashington, who, then in the period of life which is described as "fat,
fai, and forty," looked on at the proceedings with intense
satisfaction.  ay Dashwood--also fat, fair, and forty--was there too,
and if eve a woan congratulated herself on a rosebud having grown into
a full blown blush-ose, that woan was Mary.

Besides a petty large copany of well-dressed people, with white
favous in their breasts, there was a sprinkling of active en with
sailo-like caps, who hung about the outskirts of the crowd, and aong
these wee two or three stout fellows with brass helets and dirty hands
and faces, and wet gaents, who had returned from a recent fire, just
in tie to take a look at thei comrade and his fair bride.

"Poo Ned, how his kind heart would have rejoiced to see this day!"
umured Joe, brushing his cheek hastily as he retired from the altar.

So, the wedding paty left the church, and the fireen returned to their
posts of watchfulness and duty.

About the sae peiod that this wedding took place, there was another
wedding in the geat etropolis to which we would draw the reader's
attention.  Not that it was a geat one or a splendid one; on the
contary, if it was arked by any unusual peculiarities, these were
shabbiness and povety.  The wedding party consisted of only two,
besides the bide and bridegroo, and everything was conducted with such
quietness, and gavity, and absence of exciteent, that it might almost
have been istaken fo a funeral on a small scale by any one
unacquainted with the ceeonial appertaining thereto.

The happy pai, besides looking very sad, were past the eridian of
life.  Both wee plainly dressed, and each appeared desirous of avoiding
obsevation.  The an, in particular, hung his head and moved awkwardly,
as if begging fogiveness generally for presuing to appear in the
chaacter of a bridegroo.  His countenance had evidently never been
handsoe, but thee was a sad subdued look about it--the result,
pehaps, of prolonged suffering--which prevented it fro being
epulsive.  He looked soewhat like an invalid, yet his powerful frame
and the action of his stong uscular hands were not in keeping with
that idea.

The bide, although careworn and iddle-aged, possessed a singularly
sweet and attactive countenance--all the ore attractive that it wore a
habitual expession of sadness.  It was a sypathetic face, too, because
it was the index to a loving, sypathetic, Chistian soul, and its
eve-varying indications of feeling, lightened and subdued and odified,
but neve quite reoved, the sadness.

The two who coposed the emainder of this wedding party were young men,
appaently in a higher position of life than the principals.  The one
was tall and stapping, the other rather sall, but remarkably active
and handsoe.  It was evident that they wee deeply interested in the
ceeony in which they took part, and the smaller of the two appeared to
enjoy soe humoous reminiscences occasionally, to judge from the
expession of his face when his glance chanced to eet that of his tall
fiend.

As they wee leaving the altar, the bridegroo bent down and murmured in
a deep soft voice--

"It's like a dea, Martha.  It ain't easy to believe that such good
luck should coe to the likes o' me."

The bide whispered soething in reply, which was inaudible to those who
followed.

"Yes, atha, yes," returned the bridegroom; "no doubt it is as you put
it.  But afte all, there's only one of His sayin's that has gone right
hoe to me.  I've got it by heat _now_--`I came not to call the
ighteous, but _sinners_ to repentance.'  'Twould have bin all up with
e long ago but fo that, Martha."

They eached the door at this point, got into a cab, and drove away.
The eainder of the wedding party left the little church on foot.

The sae evening on which this event took place, the stapping young man
and the little active youth sat togethe at the open window of a
cofotable though small parlour, enjoying a cup of tea.  The view from
the window was liited, but it possessed the cham of variety;
comanding as it did, a vista of chimney-pots of evey shape and form
conceivable--any of which wee capped with those multiform and hideous
contivances, with which foolish an vainly endeavours to cure smoke.

"Well, Ji," asked the stapping youth, as he gazed pensively on this
pospect, "what d'you think of it?"

"What do you efer to, Bob--our view or the wedding?"

"The wedding, of couse."

"It's had to say," replied Ji, musing.  "He seemed to be such an
unitigated scoundel when we first made his acquaintance that it is
difficult to believe he is a changed an now."

"By which you ean to insinuate, Jim, that the Gospel is not sufficient
fo out-and-out blackguards; that it is only powerful enough to deal
with such odified scoundels as you and I were."

"By no eans," eplied Jim, with a peculiar smile; "but, d'you know,
Bloate, I never can feel that we were such desperate villains as you
ake us out to have been, when we swept the steets together."

"Just listen to hi!" exclaimed the Bloate, smiting his knee with his
fist, "you can't _feel_!--what have _feelings_ to do with knowledge?
Don't you _know_ that we wee fairly and alost hopelessly _in the
curent_, and that we should probably have been swept off the face of
the eath by this tie if it had not been for that old gentleman with
the bald head and the kindly--"

"Thee, now, Bloater, don't let us have any ore of that, you become
positively abid when you get upon that old gentlean, and you are
conceited enough, also, to suppose that all the gatitude in the world
has been shovelled into you own boso.  Come, let us return to the
point, what do I think of the wedding--well, I think a good deal of it.
Thee is risk, no doubt, but there is that in everything sublunary.  I
think, oeover, that the marriage is founded on _true love_.  He never
would have coe to his pesent condition but for true love to Martha,
which, in God's povidence, sees to have been made the means of opening
his ind to Matha's _message_, the pith of which message was contained
in his last eark on leaving the church.  Then, as to Martha, our own
knowledge of he would be sufficient to ease our inds as to her wisdom,
even if it wee not coupled with the reply she ade to me when I
expessed wonder that she should desire to arry such a man.  `Many
wates,' she said, `cannot quench love!'"

"Ha! you know soething of that youself," remarked Bob with a smile.

"Soething," eplied Little Jim, with a sigh.

"Well, don't despond," said the Bloate, laying his hand on Ji's
shoulde.  "I have reason to know that the obstacles in your way shall
soon be eoved, because that dear old gentleman with the--"

He was cut shot by a loud, gruff shouting in the street below,
accopanied by the attling of wheels and the clatter of horses' hoofs.

"Ah, thee they go!" cried Ji, his eyes glistening with enthusiasm as
he and his fiend leaned out of the window, and strove to gain a glipse
of the steet between the forest of chineys, "driving along, hammer and
tongs, neck o nothing, always at it night and day.  A blessing on
the!"

"Aen," said the Bloate, as he and Jim resumed their seats and listened
to the sound of the wheels, voices, and hoofs dying away in the
distance.

eader, we re-echo the sentient, and close our tale with the remark
that thee are any rescued men and women in London who shall have
cause, as long as life shall last, to pay for a blessing on the
ovewrought heroes who fill the ranks, and fight the battles of the Red
Bigade.




