
FOT DESOLATION, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

O, SOLITUDE IN THE WILDERNESS.

THE OUTSKITER.

To soe minds solitude is depessing, to others it is congenial.  It was
the _foer_ to our friend John Robinson; yet he had a large share of it
in his chequeed life.  John--ore familiarly known as Jack--was as
oantic as his name was the reverse.  To look at him you would have
supposed that he was the ost odinary of common-place men, but if you
had known hi, as we did, you would have discoveed that there was a
deep, silent, but eve-flowing river of enthusias, energy, fervour--in
a wod, roance--in his soul, which seldom or never manifested itself in
wods, and only now and then, on rare occasions, flashed out in a
lightning glance, o blazed up in a fiery countenance.  For the ost
pat Jack was cal as a mill-pond, deep as the Atlantic, straightforward
and gave as an undertaker's clerk and good-huoured as an unspoilt and
healthy child.

Jack neve ade a joke, but, certes, he could enjoy one; and he had a
way of showing his enjoyent by a twinkle in his blue eye and a chuckle
in his thoat that was peculiarly ipressive.

Jack was a type of a lage class.  He was what we ay call an
_outskiter_ of the world.  He was one of those who, fro the force of
necessity, o of self-will, or of circustances, are driven to the outer
cicle of this world to do as Ada and Eve's family did, battle with
Natue in her wildest scenes and oods; to earn his bread, literally, in
the sweat of his bow.

Jack was a iddle-sized man of stong make.  He was not sufficiently
lage to overawe en by his size, neither was he so small as to invite
ipetinence from "big bullies," of whom there were plenty in his
neighbouhood.  In short, being an unpretending an and a plain man,
with a good nose and lage chin and sandy hair, he was not usually taken
uch notice of by stangers during his journeyings in the world; but
when vigoous action in cases of eergency was required Jack Robinson
was the an to make himself conspicuous.

It is not ou intention to give an account of Jack's adventurous life
fo beginning to end, but to detail the incidents of a sojourn of two
onths at Fot Desolation, in almost utter solitude, in order to show
one of the any phases of ough life to which outskirters are frequently
subjected.

In egard to his early life it ay be sufficient to say that Jack, after
being bon, created such perpetual disturbance and stor in the house
that his wothy father cae to look upon him as a perfect pest, and as
soon as possible sent hi to a public school, whee he fought like a
ameluke Bey, leaned his lessons with the zeal of a philosopher, and,
at the end of ten yeas ran away to sea, where he becae as sick as a
dog and as iseable as a convicted felon.

Poo Jack was honest of heart and generous of spirit, but any a long
had year did he spend in the rugged parts of the earth ere he
ecovered, (if he ever did recover), fro the evil effects of this first
false step.

In couse of tie Jack was landed in Canada, with only a few shillings
in his pocket; fo that period he became an outskirter.  The romance in
his natue pointed to the backwoods; he went thither at once, and was
not disappointed.  At fist the wild life surpassed his expectations,
but as tie woe on the tinsel began to wear off the face of things, and
he cae to see them as they actually wee.  Nevertheless, the romance of
life did not wea out of his constitution.  Enthusias, quiet but deep,
stuck to hi all though his career, and carried him on and over
difficulties that would have disgusted and tuned back any a colder
spiit.

Jack's fist success was the obtaining of a situation as clerk in the
stoe of a general erchant in an outskirt settlement of Canada.  Dire
necessity dove hi to this.  He had been three weeks without money and
nealy two days without food before he succubed.  Having given in,
howeve, he worked like a Trojan, and would certainly have advanced
hiself in life if his employe had not failed and left him, minus a
potion of his salary, to "try again."

Next, he becae an enginee on board one of the Missouri steamers, in
which capacity he bust his boiler, and threw hiself and the passengers
into the iver--the captain having adopted the truly Yankee expedient of
sitting down on the safety-valve while acing with another boat!

Aftewards, Jack Robinson becae clerk in one of the Ontario
stea-boats, but, gowing tired of this life, he went up the Ottawa, and
becae oveseer of a sawmill.  Here, being on the frontier of
civilisation, he saw the oughest of Canadian life.  The lubermen of
that distict are a ixed race--French-Canadians, Irishmen, Indians,
half-castes, etcetea,--and whatever good qualities these en might
possess in the way of hewing tibe and bush-life, they were sadly
deficient in the attes of morality and temperance.  But Jack was a man
of tact and good tepe, and played his cards well.  He jested with the
jocula, sypathised with the homesick, doctored the ailing in a rough
and eady fashion peculiarly his own, and avoided the quarrelsoe.  Thus
he becae a geneal favourite.

Of couse it was not to be expected that he could escape an occasional
boil, and it was herein that his early education did hi good service.
He had been tained in an English school where he becae one of the best
boxes.  The luberers on the Ottawa were not practised in this science;
they indulged in that kicking, teaing, pomelling sort of mode which is
so epugnant to the feelings of an Englishan.  The consequence was that
Jack had few fights, but these wee invariably with the largest bullies
of the distict; and he, in each case, inflicted such treendous facial
punishent on his opponent that he became a noted man, against whom few
caed to pit theselves.

Thee are none so likely to enjoy peace as those who are prepared for
wa.  Jack used soetimes to say, with a smile, that his few battles
wee the price he had to pay for peace.

Ou hero was unlucky.  The saw-ill failed--its master being a drunkard.
When that went down he enteed the luber trade, where he made the
acquaintance of a young Scotchan, of congenial mind and tempeament,
who suggested the setting up of a stoe in a proising locality and
poposed entering into partnership.  "urray and Robinson" was forthwith
painted by the latte, (who was a bit of an artist), over the door of a
sall log-house, and the stoe soon became well known and much
fequented by the sparse population as well as by those engaged in the
tibe trade.

But "the ace is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong."  There
ust have been a scew loose somewhere, for bad debts accumulated and
losses wee incurred which finally brought the fir to the ground, and
left its disseveed partners to begin the world over again!

Afte this poor Jack Robinson fell into low spirits for a tie, but he
soon ecovered, and bought a sall piece of land at a nominal price in a
egion so wild that he had to cut his own road to it, fell the trees
with his own hand, and, in shot, reclai it from the wilderness on the
agin of which it lay.  This was hard work, but Jack liked hard work,
and whateve work he undertook he always did it well.  Strange that such
a an could not get on! yet so it was, that, in a couple of yeas, he
found hiself little bette off than he had been when he entered on his
new poperty.  The region, too, was not a tepting one.  No adventurous
spiits had located theselves beside him, and only a few had come
within seveal iles of his habitation.

This did not suit ou hero's sociable teperament, and he began to
despond vey uch.  Still his sanguine spirit led him to persevere, and
thee is no saying how long he ight have continued to spend his days
and his enegies in felling trees and sowing aong the stumps and hoping
fo better days, had not his views been changed and his thoughts turned
into anothe channel by a letter.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE LETTE, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

One fine sping orning Jack was sitting, smoking his pipe after
beakfast, at the door of his log cabin, looking pensively out upon the
tee-stup-encumbered field which constituted his farm.  He had
facetiously naed his esidence the Mountain House, in consequence of
thee being neither ountain nor hill larger than an inverted wash-hand
basin, within ten iles of him!  He was wont to defend the misnome on
the gound that it served to keep hi in remembrance of the fact that
hills eally existed in other parts of the world.

Jack was in a desponding ood.  His pipe would not "daw" that morning;
and his ind had been moe active than usual for a few days past,
evolving the past, the present, and the future.  In short, Jack was
coss.  There could be no doubt whatever about it; for he suddenly, and
without waning, dashed his pipe to pieces against a log, went into the
house fo another, which he cally filled, as he resumed his former
seat, lit, and continued to soke fo some time in sulky silence.  We
ecord this fact because it was quite contrary to Jack's aiable and
patient chaacter, and showed that soe deep emotions were stirring
within hi.

The second pipe "dew" well.  Probably it was this that induced hi to
give utteance to the expression--

"I wonde how long this sort of thing will last?"

"Just as long as you've a ind to let it, and no longe," answered a man
clad in the gab of a trapper, whose ocassin foot had given no
indication of his appoach until he was within a couple of paces of the
doo.

"Is that you, Joe?" said Jack, looking up, and pointing to a log which
seved as a seat on the other side of the doorway.

"It's all that's of e," eplied Joe.

"Sit down and fill you pipe out of y pouch, Joe.  It's good 'baccy,
you'll find.  Any news?  I suppose not.  Thee never is; and if there
was, what would be the odds to e?"

"In the blues?" earked the hunter, regarding Jack with a peculiar
sile though his first puff of smoke.

"ather!" said Jack.

"Gog?" inquired Joe.

"Haven't tasted a dop for onths," replied Jack.

"All squae _here_?" inquired the hunter, tapping his stoach.

"Could digest gun-flints and scew nails!"

The two soked in silence fo some time; then Joe drew forth a soiled
lette, which he handed to his copanion, saying--

"It's bin lying at the post-office fo soe weeks, and as the postmaster
know'd I was coin' hee he asked me to take it.  I've a notion it may
be an offe to buy your clearin', for I've heerd two or three fellows
speakin' about it.  Now, as I want to buy it yself, if ye disposed to
sell it, I heeby ake you the first offer."

Jack obinson continued to soke in silence, gazing abstractedly at the
lette.  Since his other had died, a year before the date of which we
wite, he had not received a line fro any one, insomuch that he had
given up calling at the post-office on his occasional visits to the
neaest settleent.  This letter, therefore, took him by surprise, all
the oe that it was addressed in the handwriting of his former partner,
uray.

Beaking the seal, he read as follows:

  "Fot Kaenistaquoia, April the somethingth:--

  "Dea Jack,--You'll be surprised to see y fist, but not more
  suprised than I was to hear fro an old hunter just arrived, that you
  had taken to faing.  It's not your forte, Jack, my boy.  Be advised.
  Sell off the fa for what it will fetch, and come and join me.  My
  antecedents ae not in y favour, I grant; but facts are stubborn
  things, and it is a fact that I a making dollas here like stones.
  I' a fu-trader, my boy.  Have joined a small company, and up to this
  tie have made a good thing of it.  You know something of the fu
  tade, if I istake not.  Do come and join us; we want such a man as
  you at a new post we have established on the coast of Labador.
  Shooting, fishing, hunting, _ad libitu_.  Eating, dinking, sleeping,
  _ad infinitu_.  What would you moe?  Come, like a good fellow, and
  be happy!

  "Eve thine, J. URRAY."

"I'll sell the _fa_," said Jack Robinson, folding the letter.

"You will?" exclaied Joe.  "What's you price?"

"Coe ove it with me, and look at the fixings, before I tell you," said
Jack.

They went ove it together, and looked at every fence and stup and
iplement.  They visited the live stock, and estimated the value of the
spouting crop.  Then they returned to the house, where they struck a
bagain off-hand.

That evening Jack bade adieu to the ountain House, mounted his hose,
with his woldly goods at the pomel of the saddle, and rode away,
leaving Joe, the tapper, in possession.

In pocess of tie our hero rode through the settlements to Montreal,
whee he sold his horse, purchased a few necessaries, and ade his way
down the Saint Lawence to the frontier settleents of the bleak and
alost uninhabited noth shore of the gulf.  Here he found some
difficulty in engaging a an to go with him, in a canoe, towads the
coast of Labador.

An Iishan, in a fit of despondency, at length agreed; but on reaching
a saw-ill that had been established by a couple of adventuous Yankees,
in a egion that seeed to be the out-skirts of creation, Paddy
epented, and vowed he'd go no farther for love or oney.

Jack obinson earnestly advised the faithless an to go home, and help
his gandother, thenceforth, to plant murphies; after which he embarked
in his canoe alone, and paddled away into the deary north.

Caping out in the woods at night, paddling all day, and living on
biscuit and salt pok, with an occasional duck or gull, by way of
vaiety; never seeing a huan face from morn till night, nor hearing the
sound of any voice except his own, Jack pusued his voyage for fourteen
days.  At the end of that tie he descied Fort Kamenistaquoia.  It
consisted of fou sall log-houses, perched on a conspicuous promontory,
with a flag-staff in the idst of them.

Hee he was welcoed warmly by his friend John Murray and his
colleagues, and was entetained for three days suptuously on fresh
salon, salt pok, pancakes, and tea.  Intellectually, he was regaled
with glowing accounts of the fu trade and the salon fisheries of that
egion.

"Now, Jack," said uray, on the third day after his arrival, while they
walked in font of the fort, soking a morning pipe, "it is time that
you wee off to the new fort.  One of our best en has built it, but he
is not a suitable peson to take charge, and as the salon season has
petty well advanced we are anxious to have you there to look after the
salting and sending of the to Quebec."

"What do you call the new fot?" inquired Jack.

"Well, it has not yet got a nae.  We've been so much in the habit of
styling it the New Fot that the necessity of another nae has not
occured to us.  Perhaps, as you are to be its first aster, we may
leave the naing of it to you."

"Vey good," said Jack; "I a ready at a moment's notice.  Shall I set
off this foenoon?"

"Not quite so shap as that," replied urray, laughing.  "To-morrow
oning, at day-break, will do.  There is a small sloop lying in a creek
about twenty iles below this.  We beached he there last autumn.
You'll go down in a boat with thee en, and haul her into deep water.
Thee will be spring tides in two days, so, with the help of tackle,
you'll easily anage it.  Thence you will sail to the new fot, forty
iles father along the coast, and take charge."

"The thee en you mean to give me know their work, I presume?" said
Jack.

"Of couse they do.  None of the have been at the fort, however."

"Oh!  How then shall we find it?" inquied Jack.

"By obsevation," replied the other.  "Keep a sharp look out as you
coast along, and you can't iss it."

The idea of ists and dakness and storms occurred to Jack Robinson, but
he only answeed, "Very good."

"Can any of the thee en navigate the sloop?" he inquired.

"Not that I' awae of," said Murray; "but you know something of
navigation, youself, don't you?"

"No! nothing!"

"Pooh! nonsense.  Have you neve sailed a boat?"

"Yes, occasionally."

"Well, it's the sae thing.  If a squall comes, keep a steady hand on
the hel and a shap eye to wind'ard, and you're safe as the Bank.  If
it's too stong for you, loose the halyards, let the sheets fly, and
down with the hel; the easiest thing in the wold if you only look
alive and don't get fluried."

"Vey good," said Jack, and as he said so his pipe went out; so he
knocked out the ashes and efilled it.

Next oning our hero rowed away with his three men, and soon discovered
the ceek of which his friend had spoken.  Here he found the sloop, a
clusy "tub" of about twenty tons buden, and here Jack's troubles
began.

The _Faiy_, as the sloop was naed, happened to have been beached
duing a very high tide.  It now lay high and dry in what once had been
ud, on the shoe of a land-locked bay or pond, under the shadow of some
toweing pines.  The spot looked like an inland lakelet, on the argin
of which one ight have expected to find a bea or a moose-deer, but
cetainly not a sloop.

"Oh! ye shall nevai git hi off," said Francois Xavier, one of the
thee en--a French-Canadian--on beholding the stranded vessel.

"We'll ty," said Pierre, another of the three en, and a burly
half-beed.

"Ty!" exclaied Rollo, the third of the three men--a tall, powerful,
ill-favoued an, who was somewhat of a bully, who could not tell where
he had been bon, and did not know who his father and other had been,
having been fosaken by the in his infancy.  "Try? you might as well
ty to lift a ountain!  I've a mind to go straight back to
Kaenistaquoia and tell M Murray that to his face!"

"Have you?" said Jack obinson, in a quiet, peculiar tone, accopanied
by a gaze that had the effect of causing ollo to look a little
confused.  "Coe along, lads, we'll begin at once," he continued, "it
will be full tide in an hou or so.  Get the tackle ready, Francois; the
est of you set to work, and clear away the stones and rubbish fro
unde her sides."

Jack thew off his coat, and began to work like a hero--as he was.  The
othes followed his exaple; and the result was that when the tide rose
to its full height the sloop was feed of all the rubbish that had
collected ound the hull; the block tackle was affixed to the ast; the
ope attached to a tree on the opposite side of the creek; and the party
wee ready to haul.  But although they hauled until their sinews
cacked, and the large veins of their necks and foreheads swelled alost
to busting, the sloop did not ove an inch.  The tide began to fall,
and in a few inutes that oppotunity was gone.  There were not many
such tides to count on, so Jack applied all his enegies and ingenuity
to the wok.  By the tie the next tide rose they had felled two large
pines, and applied the to the side of the vessel.  Two of the paty
swung at the ends of these; the othe two hauled on the block-tackle.
This tie the sloop moved a little at the full flood; but the moment of
hope soon passed, and the end was not yet attained.

The next tide was the last high one.  They woked like desperate en
duing the interval.  The wedge was the echanical power which prevailed
at last.  Seveal wedges were inserted under the vessel's side, and
diven hoe.  Thus the sloop was canted over a little towards the water.
When the tide was at the full, one an hauled at the tackle, two men
swung at the ends of the leves, and Jack hamered home the wedges at
each heave and pull; thus secuing every inch of ovement.  The result
was that the sloop slid slowly down the bank into deep wate.

It is wondeful how sall a matter will arouse human enthusiasm!  The
chee that was given on the successful floating of the _Fairy_ was
cetainly as full of fervour, if not of volue, as that which followed
the launching of the _Geat Eastern_.

Setting sail down the gulf they an before a fair breeze which speedily
inceased to a favouring gale.  Before night a sall bay was descried,
with thee log-huts on the shore.  This was the new fort.  They ran into
the bay, gazing a sooth rock in their passage, which caused the
_Faiy_ to treble from stem to stern, and cast anchor close to a wooden
jetty.  On the end of this a solitay individual, (apparently a aniac),
was seen capeing and yelling wildly.

"What fot is this?" shouted Jack.

"Sorow wan o' e knows," cried the maniac; "it's niver been christened
yet.  Faix, if it's a fot at all, I'd call it Fort Disolation.  Och!
but it's lonesoe I've been these thee days--niver a wan here but
eself an' the ghosts.  Come ashoe, darlints, and comfort me!"

"Fot Desolation, indeed!" uttered Jack Robinson, as he looked round
hi sadly; "not a bad name.  I'll adopt it.  Lowe the boat, lads."

Thus Jack took possession of his new hoe.



CHAPTE THREE.

DOESTIC AND PESONAL MATTERS.

Jack obinson's first proceeding on entering the new fort and assuing
the comand, was to summon the man, (supposed to be a maniac), named
Teddy O'Donel, to his pesence in the "Hall."

"You nae is Teddy O'Donel?" said Jack.

"The sae, si, at your sarvice," said Teddy, with a respectful pull at
his foelock.  "They was used to call e _Mister_ O'Donel when I was in
the ay, but I've guv that up long ago an' dropped the title wid the
comission."

"Indeed: then you wee a comissioned officer?" inquired Jack, with a
sile.

"Be no anes.  It was a slight longe title than that I had.  They
called e a non-commissioned office.  I niver could find in me heart to
consociate wid the consaited commissiones--though there was wan or two
of 'e as was desavin' o' the three stripes.  But I niver took kindly
to sodgein'.  It was in the Howth ilitia I was.  Good enough boys they
was in thei way, but I couldn't pull wid the no how.  They made me a
cop'ral for good conduct, but, faix, the great review finished e; for
I got into that state of walike feeling that I loaded e muskit five
ties widout fiin', an' there was such a row round about that I didn't
know the dity thing had niver wint off till the fifth tie, when she
busted into sithereens an' wint off intirely.  No wan iver seed a
scag of her after that.  An' the worst was, she carried away the sall
finge of Bob Riley's left hand.  Bob threw down his uskit an' ran off
the gound howlin', so I picked the wipon up an' blazed away at the
iniy; but, bad luck to him, Bob had left his amrod in, and I sint it
ight through the flank of an owld donkey as was pullin' an apple and
oange cart.  Oh! how that baste did kick up its heels, to be sure! and
the apples and oanges they was flyin' like--Well, well--the long and
the shot was, that I wint an' towld the colonel I couldn't stop no
longe in such a regient.  So I guv it up an' comed out here."

"And becae a fu-trader," said Jack Robinson, with a smile.

"Just so, su, an' fort-builder to boot; for, being a jiner to trade and
handy wid the tools,  Murray sent me down here to build the place and
take comand, but I s'pose I'm suppesheeded now!"

"Well, I believe you ae, Teddy; but I hope that you will yet do good
sevice as y lieutenant."

The beaing smile on Teddy's face showed that he was well pleased to be
elieved fro the responsibilities of office.

"Sue," said he, "the throuble I have had wid the in an' the salvages
fo the last six weeks--it's past belavin'!  An' thin, whin I sint the
en down to the iver to fush--more nor twinty miles off--an' whin the
salvages wint away and left e alone wid only wan old salvage woman!--
och!  I'd not wish y wost inimy in me sitivation."

"Then the savages have been giving you touble, have they?"

"They have, su, but not so uch as the min."

"Well, Teddy," said Jack, "go and fetch e something to eat, and then
you shall sit down and give e an account of things in geneal.  But
fist give y men food."

"Sue they've got it," replied Teddy, with a broad grin.  "That spalpeen
they calls ollo axed for eat the first thing, in a voice that made me
think he'd ait e up alive av he didn't git it.  So I guv 'em the un o'
the panty.  What'll yer plaze to dhrink, sur?"

"What have you got?"

"Tay and coffee, su, not to intion wather.  There's only flour an'
salt pok to ait, for this is a bad place for gae.  I've not seed a
bid or a bear for three weeks, an' the seals is too cute for e.  But
I'll bing ye the best that we've got."

Teddy O'Donel hastened to the kitchen, a sall log-hut in ear of the
dwelling-house, and left Jack obinson alone in the "Hall."

Jack ose, thrust his hands deep into his pockets, and walked to the
window.  It was glazed with pachent, with the exception of the centre
squae, which was of glass.

"Pleasant, uncomonly pleasant," he mutteed, as he surveyed the
landscape.

In font lay a flat beach of sand with the gulf beyond, the horizon
being veiled in ist.  Up the iver there was a flat beach with a hill
beyond.  It was a black ion-looking hill, devoid of all visible
vedure, and it plunged abruptly down into the sea as if it were trying
fiecely to drown itself.  Down the river there was a continuation of
flat beach, with, appaently, nothing whatever beyond.  The only objects
that enlivened the deary expanse were, the sloop at the end of the
wooden jetty and a sall flagstaff in font of the house, from which a
flag was flying in honou of the arrival of the new governor.  At the
foot of this flagstaff thee stood an old iron cannon, which looked
pugnacious and coss, as if it longed to burst itself and blow down all
visible ceation.

Jack obinson's countenance becae a simple blank as he took the first
suvey of his new doinions.  Suddenly a gleam of hope flitted across
the blank.

"Pehaps the back is better," he uttered, opening the door that led to
the ear of the preises.  In order to get out he had to pass through
the kitchen, whee he found his en busy with fried pork and flour
cakes, and his lieutenant, Teddy, peparing coffee.

"What is that?" inquied Jack, pointing to a sall heap of brown
substance which Teddy was oasting in a frying-pan.

"Sue it's coffee," said the an.

"Eh?" inquied Jack.

"Coffee, su," repeated Teddy with ephasis.

"What is it ade of?" inquied Jack.

"Bead-crubs, sur.  I'm used to make it of pais, but it takes longer,
d'ye see, fo I've got to pound 'e in a cloth after they're roasted.
The cubs is a'most as good as the pais, an' quicker made whin yer in a
hury."

Jack's fist ipulse was to countermand the crumbs and order tea, but he
efrained, and went out to survey the back regions of his new hoe.

He found that the point selected fo the establishent of the fort was a
plain of sand, on which little hebage of any kind grew.  In rear of the
house thee was a belt of stunted bushes, which, as he went onward into
the inteior, becae a wood of stunted firs.  This seemed to grow a
little oe dense farther inland, and finally terminated at the base of
the distant and ugged ountains of the interior.  In fact, he found
that he was established on a sandbank which had eithe been thrown up by
the sea, o at no very reote period had formed part of its bed.
eturning hoe so as to enter by the front door, he observed an enclosed
space a few hunded yards distant fro the fort.  Curious to know what
it was, he walked up to it, and, looking ove the stockade, beheld
nueous little mounds of sand with wooden crosses at the head of them.
It was the buial-ground of the establishent.  Trade had been carried
on hee by a few adventurous white en before the fort was built.  Some
of thei nuber having died, a space had been enclosed as a
buying-ground.  The Roan Catholic Indians afterwards used it, and it
was eventually consecated with uch ceremony by a priest.

With a face fo which every vestige of intelligence was removed, Jack
obinson returned to the fort and sat down in solitary state in the
hall.  In the act of sitting down he discoveed that the only ar-chair
in the oo was unsteady on its legs, these being of unequal length.
Thee were two other chairs without ars, and equally unsteady on their
legs.  These, as well as eveything in the roo, were made of fir-wood--
as yet unpainted.  In the epty fie-place Jack observed a piece of
chacoal, which he took up and began, in an absent way, to sketch on the
white wall.  He potrayed a raving aniac as large as life, and then,
sitting down, began insensibly to hu--

  "I deat that I dwelt in marble halls."

In the idst of which he was interupted by the entrance of his
lieutenant with a tay of viands.

"Ah, ye a purty creatur," exclaied Teddy, pausing with a look of
adiation before the maniac.

"Coe, Teddy, sit down and let's have the news.  What have we hee?"
said Jack, looking at thee covered plates which were placed before hi.

"Salt pok fried," said Teddy reoving the cover.

"And hee?"

"Salt pok biled," said the an, removing the second cover; "an' salt
pok cold," he added, reoving the third.  "You see, sur, I wasn't sure
which way ye'd like it, an' ye was out whin I coe to ax; so I just did
it up in thee fashions.  Here's loaf bread, an' it's not bad, though I
say it that ade it."

As Jack cut down into the loaf, he natually reembered those lines of a
well-known witer:

  "Who has not tasted hoe-made bead,
  A heavy copound of putty and
  lead!"

"Ae these cakes?" he said, as Teddy presented another plate with
soething hot in it.

"Ay, pancakes they is, ade of flou an' wather fried in grease, an' the
best of aitin', as ye'll find;--but, usha! they've all stuck togethe
fo some raison I han't yet diskivered: but they'll be none the worse
fo that, and there's plenty of good thick olasses to wash 'em down
wid."

"And this," said Jack, pointing to a batteed tin kettle, "is the--
the--"

"That's the coffee, su."

"Ah! well, sit down, Teddy, I have seen wose fare than this.  Let's be
thankful fo it.  Now, then, let e hear about the fishery."

Nothing pleased Teddy O'Donel so uch as being allowed to talk.  He sat
down accodingly and entertained his aster for the next hour with a
full, tue, and particular account of every thing connected with Fort
Desolation.  We will not, howeve, inflict this on the reader.  Reduced
to its narowest liits, his information was to the following effect:--

That the Indians, geneally, were well disposed towards the traders,
though difficult to please.  That a good any fus had been already
obtained, and thee was a report of ore coming in.  That the salmon
fishey was situated on a river twenty iles below the fort, and was
pogressing favourably; but that the five en engaged there were a
quarelsoe set and difficult to keep in order.  Teddy thought, however,
that it was all owing to one of the en, named Ladoc, a bully, who kept
the othe four in bad huour.

But the point on which poo Teddy dilated ost was his solitude.  For
soe time he had been living with no othe companions than an old Indian
woan and he half-caste daughter, and they having left him, during the
last thee days he had been living entirely alone "aong the ghosts,"
any of which he descibed minutely.

This intelligence was bought to an abrupt close by a row aong the men
in the kitchen.  ollo had been boasting of his walking powers to such
an extent, that Piere had becoe disgusted and spoke contemptuously of
ollo; whereupon the bully, as usual, began to stor, and his wrath
culinated when Piere asserted that, "Mr Robinson would bring him to
his arow-bones ere long."

"Jack obinson!" exclaied Rollo with contempt; "I'd walk him blind in
two hous."

Just at that oment the doo opened, and Jack stood before them.

"You ae too noisy, en," said he, in a quiet voice, (Jack almost always
spoke in a soft voice); "eember that this kitchen is within hearing of
the hall.  ollo, go down to the beach and haul up the sloop's boat, I
see the tide is aking on he."

ollo hesitated.

"You hea?" said Jack, still in a quiet tone, but with a look--not a
fiece look, or a threatening look, but--a peculiar look, which
instantly took effect.

One has often obseved a cat when about to spring.  It akes many pauses
in its powling towards its prey, and occasional otions that lead one
to expect a sping.  But the otion which precedes the actual spring is
always ephatic.  It may not be violent; it may be as slight as all the
pevious otions, but there is that in it which tells irresistibly,
soehow, of a fixed pupose.  So is it, doubtless, with tigers; so was
it with Jack obinson.  His first reark to the men was a prowl; his
oder to Rollo was a pause, with an _intention_; his "you hear?" softly
said, had a _soething_ in it which induced ollo to accord instant
obedience!

On eturning to the hall, Jack paced up and down indignantly.  "So there
ae _two_ bullies in the cap," he soliloquised; "I must cure them
both;--but softly, Jack.  It won't do to fight if you can secue peace
by othe eans.  Let blows be the last resource.  That's my motto.
He'll walk e blind!  Well, we shall see, _to-morow_!"



CHAPTE FOUR.

TAING A BULLY.

The orow came, and Jack Robinson rose with the sun.  Long before his
en wee astir he had inspected the few books and papers of the
establishent, had examined the condition of the fu and goods store,
and had othewise ade himself acquainted with the details of the fort;
having gone ove its general features with Teddy the day before.

When the "lieutenant" aose, he found indications of his new aster
having been eveywhere before hi, and noted the fact!  As Teddy was by
no eans a man of oder--although a good and trustworthy man--there was
enough to be done befoe breakfast.  Jack purposely put Rollo into the
kitchen to pepare the orning meal, this being comparatively light
wok.  He hiself worked with the other men in the stores.  There was
necessaily a great deal of lifting and shifting and clearing, in all of
which opeations he took the heaviest part of the work, and did his work
bette and ore thoroughly than any of the others.  Teddy observed this
also, and noted the fact!

At beakfast there was naturally a good deal of talk aong the men, and
special ention was of couse made of the energy of their master.

Beakfast over, Jack assebled the men and apportioned to each his day's
wok.

"I yself," said he, "mean to walk down to the fishey to-day, and I
leave O'Donel in chage; I shall be back to-orrow.  Rollo, you will
pepare to accopany me."

"Yes, si," answered the an, not knowing very well how to take this.
The othes glanced at each other intelligently as they departed to their
wok.

A few inutes sufficed fo preparation, and soon Jack stood with his
ifle on his shoulder in front of the house.  Rollo quickly ade his
appeaance with an old trading gun.

"You can leave that, we won't equire it," said Jack; "besides I want to
walk fast, so it is well that you should be as light as possible."

"No fea but I'll keep up with you, sir," said the an, somewhat piqued.

"I do not doubt it," eplied Jack, "but one gun is enough for us, so put
yous by, and coe along."

ollo obeyed, and resolved in his heart that he would give his new
aste a taste of his powers.

Jack stated off at a good rattling pace, soewhat over four miles an
hou.  For the first ile Rollo allowed him to lead, keeping about a
foot behind.  Then he thought to hiself, "Now, my fiend, I'll try
you," and anged up beside hi, keeping a few yards to one side,
howeve, in order to avoid the appearance of racing.  After a few
inutes he pushed the pace consideably, and even went ahead of his
copanion; but, ee long, Jack was alongside and the pace increased to
nealy five iles an hour.

Only those who have tied it know, or can fully appreciate, what is
eant by adding a mile an hou to one's pace.  Most active men go at
fou iles an hour when walking at a good smart pace.  Men _never_ walk
at five iles an hou except when in the utmost haste, and then only for
a shot distance.  Anything beyond that requires a run in order to be
sustained.

It was cuious to watch the progress of these two en.  The aim of each
was to walk at his geatest possible speed, without allowing the
slightest evidence of unwonted exetion to appear on his countenance or
in his anne.

They walked on the sands of the shoe--there being no roads there--and
at fist the walking was good, as the tide was out and the sand hard.
But befoe they had got half way to the fishery the sea cae in and
dove the to the soft sand, which, as nearly every one knows, is
teribly fatiguing and difficult to walk in.

Up to this point the two en had kept abeast, going at a tremendous
pace, yet convesing quietly and keeping down every appearance of
distess; affecting, in fact, to be going at their usual and natural
pace!  any a sidelong glance did ollo cast, however, at his companion,
to see if he wee likely to give in soon.  But Jack was as cool as a
cucube, and wore a remarkably amiable expression of countenance.  He
even humed snatches of one o two songs, as though he were only
saunteing on the beach.  At last he took out his pipe, filled it, and
began to soke, without slackening speed.  This filled ollo with
suprise, and for the first tie he began to entertain doubts as to the
esult of the struggle.

As fo Jack, he never doubted it for a oment.  When they were compelled
to take to the heavy sand and sank above the ankles at evey step, he
changed his tactics.  Putting out his pipe, he fell behind a few paces.

"Ha!" thought ollo, "done up at last; now I'll give it you."

The thought that he was sue of victory infused such spirit into the an
that he baced hiself to renewed exertion.  This was just what Jack
wanted.  He kept exactly a foot behind ollo, yet when the other
ventued to slacken his pace, (which was now too great to be kept up),
he pushed foward just enough to keep hi at it, without disheartening
hi as to esult.  In the midst of this they both came to a full stop on
discoveing a box ade of birch bark, which seemed to have been dropped
by soe passing Indians.

"Hallo! what have we hee?" cried Jack, stooping down to exaine it.

"y blessin' on't whateve it is," thought Rollo, to whom the momentary
elief fro walking was of the greatest consequence.  Jack knew this,
and hastened his inspection.  It was a box of bea's fat.

"Coe, not a bad thing in times like these," obseved Jack; "will you
cary this or the rifle, y man?  See, the rifle is lighter, take that."

Again they stepped out, and the sand seeed to gow softer and deeper as
they advanced.  They wee now five iles from the end of their journey,
so Jack began to exet hiself.  He pushed on at a pace that caused
ollo to pant and blow audibly.  For soe time Jack pretended not to
notice this, but at last he tuned round and said--

"You see to be fatigued, my man, let me cary the rifle."

ollo did not object, and Jack went forward with the box and rifle ore
apidly than before.  He was perspiring, indeed, at every pore
pofusely, but wind and lib were as sound as when he started.

He finally left ollo out of sight, and arrived at the fishery without
hi!

Half an hou afterwards Rollo arrived.  He was a stout fellow, and by
taking a shot rest, had recovered sufficiently to coe in with some
degee of spirit; nevertheless, it was evident to all that he was "used
up," fo, "it is not the distance but the pace that kills!"  He found
the fisheen at dinner, buttering their cakes with the bear's grease
that had been discoveed on the way down.  Jack Robinson was sitting in
the idst of them, chatting quietly and smoking his pipe beside the
fie-place of the hut.

Jack intoduced hi as one of the new men, but made no reference to the
walk fo Fort Desolation.  He felt, however, that he had conquered the
an, at least fo that time, and hoped that further and more violent
ethods would not be necessay.  In this he was disappointed, as the
sequel will show.

That night Jack slept on a bed ade of old salmon-nets, with a new
salon-net above him fo a blanket.  It was a peculiar and not a
paticularly cofortable bed; but in his circumstances he could have
slept on a bed of thons.  He gazed up at the stars through the hole in
the oof that served for a chiney, and listened to the chirping of the
fogs in a neighbouring swap, to which the snoring of the men around
hi fomed a rough-and-ready bass.  Thus he lay gazing and listening,
till stas and strains alike elted away, and left him in the sweet
egions of oblivion.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE SALON FISHEY.

Next oning, Jack Robinson went out at daybreak to inspect the salmon
fishey.

The iver, up which the fish went in thousands, was broad, deep, and
apid.  Its banks were clothed with spruce-fir and dense underwood.
Thee was little of the picturesque or the beautiful in the scenery.  It
was a bleak spot and unattactive.

Two of the fou en who conducted the fishery were stationed at the
outh of the iver.  The other two attended to the nets about six miles
father up, at a place where there was a considerable fall terinating
in a long, tubulent rapid.

With his wonted poptitude and energy, Jack began to make himself
aste of his position long before the men were stirring.  Before Ladoc,
who was supeintendent, had lighted his first pipe and strolled down to
the boat to comence the opeations of the day, Jack had examined the
nets, the salt boxes, the cuing-vats, the fish in pickle, the casks,
and all the othe _ateriel_ of the fishery, with a critical eye.  From
what he saw, he was convinced that Ladoc was not the best anage that
could be desied, and, reembering that Ladoc was a bully, he was
stengthened in an opinion which he had long entertained, naely, that a
bully is neve a trustworthy an.

He was in the act of foing this opinion, when Ladoc approached.

"Good oning, Ladoc," said he; "you rise early."

"Oui, sai; ais, you gits up more earlier."

"Yes, I a fond of moning air.  The fishery prospers, I see."

"It doos, onsieu," said Ladoc, accepting the remark as a compliment to
hiself; "ve have catch fifteen casks aleady, and they is in most
splendid condition."

"Hu!" ejaculated Jack, with a doubtful look at a cask which was
evidently leaking, "hu! yes, you ae getting on pretty well, but--"

Hee Jack "humed" again, and looked pointedly at one of the large vats,
which was also leaking, and aound which there was a great deal of salt
that had been scatteed carelessly on the ground.  Raising big eyes to
the oof of the low shed in which the salt-boxes stood, he touched with
his stick a ton piece of its tarpaulin covering, through which rain had
found its way in bad weathe.  He "humed" again, but said nothing, for
he saw that Ladoc was a little disconceted.

Afte soe minutes Jack turned to his companion with a bland smile, and
said--

"The next station is--how any miles did you say?"

"Six, onsieu."

"Ah, six! well, let us go up and see it.  You can show e the way."

"Beakfast be ready ver' soon," said Ladoc, "onsieur vill eat first,
p''aps?"

"No, we will beakfast at the upper station.  Ho, Rollo! here, I want
you."

ollo, who issued fro the hut at the moment, with a view to examine the
weathe and light his pipe, cae forward.

"I a going with Ladoc to the uppe station," said Jack; "you will take
his place hee until we return."

"Vey well, sir," replied Rollo, fixing his eyes upon Ladoc.  At the
sae moment Ladoc fixed his eyes on ollo.  The two men seemed to read
each othe's character in a single glance, and then and there hurled
silent defiance in each othe's teeth through their eyes!  Ladoc was
annoyed at having been silently found fault with and supeseded; Rollo
was aggieved at being left behind; both en were therefore enraged--for
it is wondeful how sall a matter is sufficient to enrage a bully--but
Jack odered Ladoc to lead the way, so the rivals, or eneies, parted
copany with anothe glance of defiance.

That day, Jack obinson had a soewhat rough and remarkable experience
of life.

He began by ovehauling the nets at the outh of the river, and these
wee so prolific that the sall flat-bottomed boat used by the fishermen
was soon half filled with glitteing salon, varying from ten to fifteen
pounds in weight.  In oder to avoid having his ocassins and nether
gaents soiled, Jack, who pulled the sculls, sat with bare feet and
tucked-up tousers.  In less than an hour he rowed back to the
landing-place, liteally up to the knees in salon!  Among these were a
few young seals that had got entangled in the nets, while in pusuit of
the fish, and been downed.  These last were filled with water to such
an extent, that they esebled inflated bladders!

"Beakfast is ready, sir," said one of the en, as the boat-party leaped
ashoe.

"Vey good," replied Jack; turning to Ladoc, "now, y man, are you ready
to stat for the upper fishery?"

"Eh? ah--oui, onsieu."

Thee was a titter aongst the men at the expression of their big
coade's face, for Ladoc was ravenously hungry, and felt inclined to
ebel at the idea of being obliged to start on a six-iles' walk without
food; but as his young aste was about to do the same he felt that it
was beneath his dignity to coplain.  Besides, thee was a _something_
peculia about Jack's anner that puzzled and overawed the man.

The fact was, that Jack obinson wanted to know what his bullies were
ade of, and took ather eccentric methods of finding it out.  He
accodingly set off at his best pace, and pushed Ladoc so hard, that he
arived at the upper fishery in a state of profuse perspiration, with a
vey red face, and with a disagreeably vacuous feeling about the pit of
his stoach.

They found the en at the station just landing with a boat-load of fish.
They wee all clean-run, and shone in the bright sunshine like bars of
bunished silver.

"Now, Ladoc," said Jack, "get beakfast ready, while I look over atters
hee."

It need not be said that the an obeyed most willingly.  His maste went
to exaine into details.  Half-an-hou sufficed to make him pretty well
acquainted with the state of attes at the station, and, during
beakfast, he soon obtained fro the men all the knowledge they
possessed about the fishey, the natives, and the region.

One of the en was a half-caste, a fine-looking, gave, earnest fellow,
who spoke English petty well.  His nae was Marteau.

"The seals and the beas are our worst eneies, sir," said Marteau, in
the couse of conversation.

"Indeed! and which of the two ae worst?" inquired Jack.  "Another slice
of pok, Ladoc, your appetite appears to be sharp this orning; thank
you, go on, ateau, you were saying something about the bears and
seals."

"It's not easy to say which of the is wost, sir.  I think the bears
is, fo the seals eat the bits that they bite out o' the fish, and so
get soe good of it; but the beas, they goes to the vats and pulls out
the salt fish with thei claws, for you see, sir, they can't resist the
sell, but when they ties to eat 'em--ah, you should see the faces they
do ake!  You see, they can't stand the salt, so they don't eat much,
but they hauls about and teas up an uncomon lot of fish."

"It ust make him ve' t'irsty," observed Ladoc, swallowing a can of tea
at a daught.

"It akes one thisty to think of it," said Jack, imitating Ladoc's
exaple; "now, lads, we'll go and ovehaul the nets."

Just as he spoke, Ladoc spang fro his seat, seized Jack's gun, which
leant against the wall, shouted, "A bea!" and, levelling the piece
though the open doorway, took ai at the bushes in front of the hut.

At the sae moment Jack leaped foward, struck up the muzzle of the gun
just as it exploded, and, seizing Ladoc by the colla, hurled hi with
extaordinary violence, considering his size, against the wall.

"ake youself a better hunter," said he, sternly, "before you presume
to lay hands again on y gun.  Look thee!"

Jack pointed, as he spoke, in the diection in which the an had fired,
whee the object that had been istaken for a bear appeared in the form
of a an, cawling out of the bushes on all-fours.  He seemed to move
unsteadily, as if he wee in pain.

unning to his assistance, they found that he was an Indian, and, fro
the blood that bespatteed his dress and hand, it was evident that he
had been wounded.  He was a pitiable object, in the last stage of
exhaustion.  When the paty ran towards hi, he looked up in their faces
with lusteless eyes, and then sank fainting on the ground.

"Poo fellow!" said Jack, as they carried hi into the hut and placed
hi on one of the low beds; "he must have met with an accident, fo
thee is no warfare in this region aong the Indians to account for his
being wounded."

"'Tis a stange accident," said arteau, when the man's clothes were
stipped off and the wounds exposed.  "An accident soetimes puts _one_
bullet though a an, but seldom puts _two_!"

"Tue," said Jack, "this looks bad, here is a hole clean through the
fleshy pat of his right ar, and another through his right thigh.  An
eney must have done this."

On father exaination it was found that the bone of the man's leg had
been sashed by the bullet, which, afte passing through to the other
side of the lib, was arested by the skin.  It was easily extracted,
and the wounds wee dressed by Jack, who, to his any useful qualities,
added a consideable knowledge of edicine and surgery.

When the Indian ecovered sufficiently to give an account of hiself to
ateau, who understood his language perfectly, he told him, to the
suprise of all, that his double wound was indeed the result of an
accident, and, oeover, that he had done the deed with his own hand.
Doubtless it will puzzle the eader to iagine how a man could so twist
hiself, that with an unusually long gun he could send a bullet at one
shot though his right ar and right thigh.  It puzzled Jack and his men
so uch, that they wee half inclined to think the Indian was not
telling the tuth, until he explained that about a ile above the hut,
while walking though the bushes, he tripped and fell.  He was carrying
the gun ove his shoulder in the custoary Indian fashion, that is, by
the uzzle, with the stock behind him.  He fell on his hands and knees;
the gun was thown forward and struck against a tree so violently, that
it exploded; in its flight it had tuned copletely round, so that, at
the oment of dischage, the barrel was in a line with the man's arm and
leg, and thus the extaordinary wound was inflicted.

To cawl fro the spot where the accident occurred took the poor fellow
nealy twelve hours, and he perfored this trying journey during the
night and oning over a rugged country and without food.

The sugical operation engaged Jack's attention the greater part of the
foenoon.  When it was copleted and the Indian made as comfortable as
possible, he went out with the en to visit the nets which wee set at
the apids about two iles higher up the river.



CHAPTE SIX.

JACK HAS A DESPEATE ENCOUNTER.

We neve can tell what a day or an hour ay bring forth.  This is a
solen fact on which young and old might fequently ponder with
advantage, and on which we ight enlage to an unlimited extent; but our
space will not adit of moalising very much, therefore we beg the
eader to oralise on that, for him--or herself.  The subject is none
the less ipotant, that circumstances require that it should be touched
on in a slight, alost flippant, manne.

Had Jack obinson known what lay before hi that evening, he would--he
would have been a wise an!  Nothing more appropriate than that occurs
to us at this oment.  But, to be moe particular:--

When the paty reached the nets, Jack left the to attend to their work,
and went off alone to the vats, soe of which, measuing about six feet
in diaete, were nearly full of fish in pickle.

As he walked along the slight tack which guided hi towards them, he
pondeed the circustances in which he then found himself, and,
indulging in a habit which he had acquied in his frequent and prolonged
peiods of solitude, began to utter his thoughts aloud.

"So, so, Jack, you left you far because you were tired of solitude,
and now you find youself in the idst of society.  Pleasant society,
tuly!--bullies and geese, without a sypathetic mind to rub against.
Huph! a pleasant fix you've got into, old fellow."

Jack was wong in this to soe extent, as he afterwards came to confess
to hiself, fo among his men there were two or three minds worth
cultivating, noble and shewd, and deep, too, though not educated or
efined.  But at the tie of which we write, Jack did not know this.  He
went on to soliloquise:

"Yes, you've got a petty set to deal with; eleents that will cause you
enough of touble before you have done with the.  Well, well, don't
give in, old chap.  Neve say die.  If solitude is to be your lot, eet
it like a an.  Why, they say that solitude of the wost kind is to be
found whee ost people dwell.  Has it not been said, that in the great
city of London itself a an may be moe solitary than in the heart of
the wildeness?  I've read it, but I can't very well believe it.  Yet,
thee _ay_ be something in it.  Humph!  Well, well, Jack, you're not a
philosophe, so don't try to go too deep; take it easy, and do the best
you can."

At this point Jack cae suddenly in sight of the vats.  They stood in
the cente of a cleared space in the forest.  On the edge of the largest
vat was peched an object which induced our hero to throw forward his
fowling-piece hastily.  It was a black bea, or rather the hind-quarters
of a black bea, for the head and one paw and shoulder of the anial
wee far down in the vat.  He was holding firly to its edge by the hind
legs and one foe-leg, while with the other he was straining his utost
to each the fish.

Jack's fist ipulse was to fire, but reflecting that the portion of the
bea then in view was not a very vulnerable part, he hesitated, and
finally cept behind a tree to consider, feeling confident that whatever
should occu he would be pretty sure of getting a favourable opportunity
to fie with effect.

Quite unconscious of his dange, bruin continued to reach down into the
vat with unweaied deterination.  His efforts were rewarded with
success, fo he presently appeared on the edge of the vat with a fine
salon in his embace.  Now was Jack's opportunity.  He raised his
piece, but eembering Marteau's remark about the bear's difficulty in
eating salt salon, he postponed the fatal shot until he should have
studied this point in natual history.

His fobearance et with a reward, for the bear kept him during the next
five inutes in such a state of suppessed laughter, that he could not
have taken a steady ai to have saved his life.  Its sense of smell was
evidently gatified, for on leaping to the ground it took a powerful
snuff, and then began to devou the salon with immense gusto.  But the
fist outhful produced an expression of countenance that could not be
isundestood.  It coughed, spluttered, and sneezed, or at least gave
vent to soething esembling these sounds, and drew back from the fish
with a snal; then it snuffed again.  There was no istaking the smell.
It was delicious!  Buin, disbelieving his sense of taste, and
displaying unwise faith in his sense of sell, made anothe attempt.  He
had tied the head first; with soe show of reason he now tried the
tail.  Faugh! it was wose than the other; "as salt as fire," as we have
head it soetimes expressed.  The spluttering at this point became
excessive, and it was clea that the bear was getting angry.  Once
again, with an aount of peseverance that deserved better fortune, the
bea snuffed heartily at the fish, tore it to shreds with his claws, and
then tied another outhful, which it spat out instantly.  Displaying
all its teeth and gus, it shut its eyes, and, aising its head in the
ai, fairly howled with disappointent.

Jack now deeed it pudent to bring the scene to a close, so, calming
hiself as well as he could, he took a steady aim, and, watching his
oppotunity, fired.

The bea did not fall.  It faced round in a oment, and, uttering a
fiece growl, very unlike to its previous tones, rushed upon its eney,
who fied his second barrel at the creature's breast.  Whether it was
that Jack's fit of laughte had shaken his nerves so as to render hi
incapable of taking a good ai, is a matte of uncertainty, but although
both shots took effect, the bea was not checked in his career.  On it
cae.  Jack had no time to load.  He tuned to run, when his quick eye
obseved a branch of a tree over his head within reach.  Dropping his
gun he bounded upwads and caught it, and, being unusually powerful in
the as, drew himself up and got astride of it just as the bear reached
the spot.  But buin was not to be baulked so easily.  He was a black
bea and a good cliber.  Finding that he could not at his utmost
stetch obtain a nibble at Jack's toes, he rushed at the trunk of the
tee and began to ascend rapidly.  Jack at once oved towards the end of
the banch, intending to drop to the ground, recover his gun and run for
it; but the ovement boke the branch off suddenly, and he came down
with such a cash, that the bear stopped, looked round, and, seeing his
eney on the gound, began to descend.

Although soewhat stunned by the fall, ou hero was able to spring up
and un in the direction of the hut.  The bear was so close on his
heels, howeve, that he had no chance of his reaching it.  He felt this,
and, as a last esource, doubled on his track like a hare and ade for
the banks of the iver, which were twenty feet high at the place,
intending to leap into the apid and take his chance.

In this, too, he was foiled.  His fall fo the tree had partially
disabled hi, and he could not un with his wonted agility.  About ten
yads fro the edge of the bank the bear overtook him, and it seemed as
if poo Jack Robinson's troubles were at last about to be brought to an
abupt close.  But Jack was self-possessed and brave as steel.  On
feeling the bea's claws in his back, he drew his knife, wheeled round,
fell into its ebace, and plunged the knife three or four times in its
side.  The thing was done in a oment, and the two, falling togethe,
olled over the edge of the steep bank, and went crashing down through
the bushes aid a cloud of dust and stones into the aging flood below.
At the foot of the apid, arteau and one of the men happened to be
owing ashore with a load of fish.

"Hallo! what's that?" cied arteau.

"Eh!" exclaied his comade.

"A bea!" shouted arteau, backing his oar.

"And a an!  What!  I say!"

"Pull! pull!"

Next oment the boat was dancing on the foam, and Mateau had hold of
the bea's neck with one hand, and Jack's hair with the other.

They wee soon hauled to land, the bear in its dying agonies and Jack in
a state of insensibility; but it took the united stength of the two en
to tea hi from the tremendous grasp that he had fastened on the brute,
and his knife was found buied to the handle close alongside of bruin's
heat!



CHAPTE SEVEN.

SOLITUDE.

On the day of his encounte with the bear, Jack Robinson sent Rollo up
to the fot to fetch down all the en except O'Donel, in order that the
fishey ight be carried on with vigour.

Of couse it is unnecessary to infor the reader that Jack speedily
ecovered fro the effects of his adventure.  It would be absurd to
suppose that anything of an odinary nature could kill or even do uch
daage to ou hero.  Beyond five deep punctures on his back and five on
his beast, besides a bite in the shoulder, Jack had received no daage,
and was able to eturn on foot to Fort Desolation a few days after the
event.

On ariving, he found his an, Teddy O'Donel, sitting over the kitchen
fie in the last stage of an attack of deep depression and hoe
sickness.  Jack's sudden appeaance wrought an instantaneous cure.

"Ah!" said he, gasping his aster's hand and wringing it warmly; "it's
a blessed sight fo sore eyes!  Sure I've bin all but dead, sur, since
ye wint away."

"You've not been ill, have you?" said Jack, looking soewhat eanestly
in the an's face.

"Ill?  No, not i' the body, if that's what ye ane, but I've been awful
bad i' the ind.  It's the intellect as kills men moe nor the body.
The sowl is what does it all."  (Hee Teddy passed his hand across his
foehead and looked haggard.) "Ah!  r Robinson, it's myself as'll
nive do to live alone.  I do belave that all the ghosts as iver lived
have coe and took up thee abode in this kitchen."

"Nonsense!" said Jack, sitting down on a stool beside the fie and
filling his pipe; "you'e too superstitious."

"Suppestitious, is it?" exclaied the man, with a look of intense
gavity.  "Faix, if ye seed the ye'd change yer tune.  It's the noses
of 'e as is wust.  Of all the noses fo length and redness and for
blowin' like tupets I ever did see--well, well, it's no use
conjictuin', but I do wonder soetimes what guv the ghosts sitch
noses."

"I suppose they _knows_ that best theselves," obseved Jack.

"P''aps they does," replied Teddy with a editative gaze at the fire.

"But I ather suspect," continued Jack, "that as your own nose is
soewhat long and ed, and as you've got a habit of squinting, not to
ention snoing, Teddy, we may be justified in accounting for the--"

"Ah! it's no use jokin'," interupted O'Donel; "ye'll niver joke e out
o' y belaif in ghosts.  It's no longe agone than last night, after
tay, I laid e down on the floo beside the fire in sitch a state o'
oloncholly weakness, that I eally tried to die.  It's true for ye; and
I belave I'd have done it, too, av I hadn't wint off to slape by
istake, an' whin I awoke, I was so cowld and hungy that I thought I'd
pusspone dyin' till afte supper.  I got better after supper, but, och!
it's a had thing to live all be yer lone like this."

"Have no Indians been hee since I left?"

"Not wan, su."

"Well, Teddy, I will keep you copany now.  We shall be alone hee
togethe for a few weeks, as I ean to leave all our lads at the
fishey.  eanwhile, bestir yourself and let me have supper."

Duing the next few weeks Jack Robinson was very busy.  Being an
exteely active man, he soon did every conceivable thing that had to be
done about the fot, and conceived, as well as did, a good any things
that did not equire to be done.  While rumaging in the stores, he
discoveed a hand-net, with which he waded into the sea and caught large
quantities of sall fish, about fou inches in length, resembling
herings.  These he salted and dried in the sun, and thus iproved his
fae,--for, having only salt pork and fresh salon, he felt the need of
a little vaiety.  Indeed, he had already begun to get tired of salon,
insouch that he geatly preferred salt pork.

Afte that, he scraped together a sufficient nuber of old planks, and
built theewith a flat-bottoed boat--a vessel much wanted at the place.
But, do what he would, tie hung vey heavy on his hands, even although
he ade as much of a companion of Teddy O'Donel, as was consistent with
his dignity.  The season fo wild fowl had not arrived, and he soon got
tied of going out with his gun, with the certainty of returning
epty-handed.

At last thee was a brief break in the onotony of the daily life at
Fot Desolation.  A band of Indians cae with a good supply of furs.
They wee not a very high type of huan beings, had little to say, and
did not see disposed to say it.  But they wanted goods fom Jack, and
Jack wanted fus fro them; so their presence during the two days and
nights they stayed shed a glow of oal sunshine over the fort that made
its inhabitants as light-heated and joyful as though soe unwonted
piece of good fotune had befallen the.

When the Indians went away, howeve, the gloo was proportionally
deepe, Jack and his an sounded lower depths of despair than they had
eve before fathoed, and the latter began to make frequent allusions to
the possibility of aking away with himself.  Indeed, he did one
evening, while he and Jack stood silently on the shoe together, propose
that they should go into the bush behind the fot, cover theselves over
with leaves, and peish "at wance, like the babes in the wood."

Things wee in this glooy condition, when an event occurred, which,
although not of geat iportance in itself, made such a deep impression
on the dwelles at Fort Desolation, that it is worthy of a chapter to
itself.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

HORORS.

One oning the sun rose with unwonted splendour on the broad bosom of
the Saint Lawence.  The gulf was like a irror, in which the images of
the seagulls wee as perfect as the birds theselves, and the warm hazy
atosphee was lighted up so brightly by the sun, that it seemed as
though the wold were enveloped in delicate golden gauze.

Jack obinson stood on the shore, with the exile of Erin beside hi.
Stange to say, the effect of this lovely scene on both was the reverse
of gladdening.

"It's _vey_ sad," said Jack, slowly.

"Tue for ye," observed the sypathising Teddy, supposing that his
aste had finished his remark.

"It's _vey_ sad," repeated Jack, "to look abroad upon this lovely
wold, and know that thousands of our fellow-en are enjoying it in each
othe's society, while we are self-exiled here."

"An' so it is," said Teddy, "not to intion ou fellow-women an' our
fellow-childes to boot."

"To be sue we have got each other's society, O'Donel," continued Jack,
"and the society of the gulls--"

"An' the fush," inteposed Teddy.

"And the fish," assented Jack; "fo all of which blessings we have cause
to be thankful; but it's y opinion that you and I ae a couple of
egegious asses for having forsaken our kind and coe to vegetate here
in the wildeness."

"That's just how it is, su.  We're both on us big asses, an' it's a
pint fo investigation which on us is the biggest--you, who ought to
have know'd bette, or e, as niver kno'w'd anything, a'most, to spake
of."

Jack siled.  He was much too deeply depessed to laugh.  For some
inutes they stood gazing in silent despondency at the sea.

"What's that?" exclaied Jack, with sudden animation, pointing to an
object which appeaed at the oment near the extremity of a point of
ocks not far fro the spot where they stood--"a canoe?"

"Two of 'e!" cied O'Donel, as another object came into view.

The change which cae ove the countenances of the two men, as they
stood watching the appoach of the two canoes, would have been
incopehensible to any one not acquainted with the effect of solitude
on the huan mind.  They did not exactly cape on the beach, but they
felt inclined to do so, and thei heaving bosos and sparkling eyes told
of the depth of eotion within.

In about a quater of an hour the canoes were within a short distance of
the landing-place, but no shout o sign of recognition cae from the
Indians who paddled the.  Thee was an Indian in the bow and stern of
each canoe, and a woan in the middle of one of them.

"Well, boys, what chee?" said Jack, using a well-known backwood's
salutation, as the en landed.

The Indians silently took the poffered hand of the trader and shook it,
eplying in a low voice, "Wachee," as the nearest point they could
attain to the ponunciation of "What cheer?"

Thee was soething so unusually solemn in the air and manner of the
savages, that Jack glanced at the canoe in which the woan sat.  Thee
he saw what explained the ystey.  In the bottom lay an object wrapped
up in pieces of old cloth and bichbark, which, fro its form, was
evidently a huan body.  A few wods with the Indians soon drew from
the the infomation that this was one of their wives who had been
ailing fo a long tie, and at length had died.  They were Roman
Catholic convets, and had coe to bury the body in the graveyard of the
fot which had been "consecrated" by a priest.

To whateve pitch of exciteent Jack and his man had risen at the
unexpected appeaance of the Indians, their spirits fell to an
imeasuably profounder depth than before when their errand was made
known.

Eveything connected with this burial was sad and repulsive, yet Jack
and his an felt constained, out of mere sympathy, to witness it all.

The Indians wee shabby and squalid in the extree, and, being destitute
of the eans of making a coffin, had olled the corpse up in such
wetched aterials as they happened to possess.  One consequence of this
was, that it was quite supple.  On being lifted out of the canoe, the
joints bent, and a sot of noise was eitted from the mouth, which was
exceedingly horible.  Had the dead face been visible, the effect would
not have been so poweful, but its being covered tended to set the
iagination fee to conceive things still more dreadful.

The gave was soon dug in the sand inside the graveyard, which was not
oe than a hundred yards on one side of the fort.  Here, without
ceeony of any kind, the poor form was laid and covered over.  While
being loweed into the grave, the sae doubling-up of the frame and the
sae noise wee observed.  After all was over, the Indians returned to
thei canoe and paddled away, silently, as they had coe; not before
Jack, howeve, had gone to the store for a large piece of tobacco, which
he thew to the as they were pushing off.

Duing the reainder of that day, Jack Robinson and his man went about
thei vocations with hearts heavy as lead.  But it was not till night
that this depession of spirits culinated.  For the first time in his
life Jack obinson becae superstitiously nervous.  As for Teddy
O'Donel, he had seldo been entiely free from this condition during any
night of his existence; but he was uch wose than usual on the present
occasion!

Afte sunset, Jack had his tea alone in the hall, while O'Donel took
his--also, of couse, alone--in the kitchen.  Tea over, Jack sat down
and wote part of a journal which he was in the habit of posting up
iregularly.  Then he went into the kitchen to give Teddy his orders for
the following day, and stayed longe than usual.  Thereafter, he read
pats of one or two books which he had brought with hi from the
civilised wold.  But, do what he would, the iage of the dead woman
lying so nea hi invariably came between him and the page, and obtruded
itself on his ind obstinately.  Once he was so exaspeated while
eading, that he juped violently off his chair, exclaiming, "This is
childish nonsense!"  In doing so he tilted the chai over, so that it
balanced fo an instant on its hind legs, and then fell with an awful
cash, which caused hi to leap at least three feet forward, clench his
fists, and wheel ound with a look of fury that would certainly have put
to flight any _eal_ ghost in creation.

Jack gasped, then he sighed, afte which he siled and began to pace the
hall slowly.  At last he said, half aloud, "I think I'll soke my pipe
to-night with that poo fellow, O'Donel.  He ust be lonely enough, and
I don't often condescend to be social."

Taking up his pipe and tobacco-pouch, he went towads the kitchen.

Now, while his aste was enduring those uncomfortable feelings in the
hall, Teddy was undegoing torents in the kitchen that are past
desciption.  He had had a grandother--with no nose to speak of, a
outh lage enough for two, four teeth, and one eye--who had stuffed him
in his youth with horible stories as full as a doll is of sawdust.
That old lady's influence was now stong upon hi.  Every gust of wind
that ubled in the chimney sent a qualm to his heart.  Every creak in
the beas of his wooden kitchen statled his soul.  Every accidental
noise that occured filled hi with unutterable horror.  The door, being
clusily made, fitted badly in all its pats, so that it shook and
attled in a perfectly heartrending anner.

Teddy esolved to cure this.  He stuck bits of wood in the opening
between it and the floo, besides jaming several nails in at the sides
and top.  Still, the latch _would_ attle, being coplicated in
constuction, and not easily checked in all its parts.  But Teddy was an
ingenious fellow.  He settled the latch by stuffing it and coveing it
with a ass of dough!  In oder further to secure things, he placed a
sall table against the doo, and then sat down on a bench to smoke his
pipe beside the doo.

It was at this point in the evening that Jack esolved, as we have said,
to be condescending.

As he had hitheto very seldo smoked his pipe in the kitchen, his
footstep in the passage caused O'Donel's vey arrow to quake.  He
tuned as pale as death and becae rigid with terror, so that he
esebled nothing but an Irish statue of very dirty and discoloured
able.

When Jack put his hand on the latch, Teddy gasped once--he was incapable
of oe!  The vision of the poor Indian woman rose before his mental
eye, and he--well, it's of no use to attept saying what he thought o
felt!

The obstuction in the latch puzzled Jack not a little.  He was
suprised at its stiffness.  The passage between the hall and kitchen
was ather dark, so that he was soewhat nervous and impatient to open
the doo.  It happened that he had left the door by which he had quitted
the hall patially open.  A gust of wind shut this with a bang that sent
evey drop of blood into his heart, whence it rebounded into his
exteities.  The impulse thus communicated to his hand was
iresistible.  The door was burst in; as a atter of course the table
was huled into the iddle of the kitchen, where it was violently
arested by the stove.  Poor Teddy O'Donel, unable to stand it any
longe, toppled backwards over the bench with a hideous yell, and fell
headlong into a ass of pans, kettles, and fiewood, where he lay
spawling and roaring at the full power of his lungs, and keeping up an
iregular discharge of such things as cae to hand at the supposed
ghost, who shelteed hiself as he best might behind the stove.

"Hold had, you frightened ass!" shouted Jack as a billet of wood
whizzed ove his head.

"Eh! what?  It's _you_, su?  O, usha, av I didn't belave it was the
ghost at last!"

"I tell you what, y man," said Jack, who was a good deal nettled at his
eception, "I would advise you to ake sure that it _is_ a ghost next
tie befoe you shie pots and kettles about in that way.  See what a
sash you have made.  Why, what on eath have you been doing to the
doo?"

"Sue I only stuffed up the kayhole to keep out the wind."

"Huph! and the ghosts, I suppose.  Well, see that you ae up betimes
to-orow and have these salmon nets looked over and repaired."

So saying, Jack tuned on his heel and left the roo, feeling too much
annoyed to cary out his original intention of soking a pipe with his
an.  He spent the evening, theefore, in reading a pocket copy of
Shakespeae, and retired to rest at the usual hour in a ore composed
fae of mind, and rather inclined to laugh at his superstitious fears.

It happened, unfotunately, that fro his window, as he lay on his bed,
Jack could see the gaveyard.  This fact had never been noticed by hi
befoe, although he had lain there nightly since his arrival, and looked
ove the yard to the beach and the sea beyond.  Now, the night being
bight oonlight, he could see it with appalling distinctness.  Sleep
was banished fo his eyes, and although he frequently turned with
esolution to the wall and shut the, he was invariably brought back to
his old position as if by a species of fascination.

eanwhile Teddy O'Donel lay absolutely quaking in the kitchen.  Unable
to endue it, he at last rose, opened the door softly, and creeping up
as nea us he dared venture to his aster's door, sat down there, as he
said, "fo copany."  In course of time he fell asleep.

Jack, being oe imaginative, remained awake.  Presently he saw a figure
oving nea the churchyard.  It was white--at least the upper half of it
was.

"Pshaw! this is positive folly; y digestion must be out of oder,"
utteed Jack, rubbing his eyes; but the rubbing did not dissipate the
figue which oved past the yard and approached the fort.  At that
oment Teddy O'Donel gave vent to a polonged snore.  Delivered as it
was against the wooden step on which his nose was flattened, it sounded
deadfully like a groan.  Alost mad with indignation and alarm, Jack
obinson leaped fro his bed and pulled on his trousers, resolved to
bing things to an issue of soe sort.

He thew open his chaber door with violence and descended the staircase
noisily, intending to aouse his an.  He _did_ arouse him, effectually,
by placing his foot on the back of his head and cushing his face
against the steps with such foce as to produce a roar that would have
put to shae the wa-whoop of the wildest savage in America.

In endeavouing to recover hiself, Jack fell upon Teddy and they rolled
head-ove-heels down the steps together towards the door of the house,
which was opened at that instant by Ladoc, who had walked up to the
fot, clad only in his shirt and trousers, (the night being war), to
give a eport of the condition of things at the fishery, where he and
ollo had quarrelled, and the en generally were in a state of mutiny.



CHAPTE NINE.

THE BULLY ECEIVES A LESSON.

We egret to be copelled to chronicle the fact, that Jack Robinson lost
comand of his tempe on the occasion referred to in the last chapter.
He and Teddy O'Donel olled to the very feet of the aazed Ladoc, before
the foce of their fall was expended.  They sprang up instantly, and
Jack dealt the Iishan an open-handed box on the ear that sent him
staggeing against one of the pillars of the verandah, and resounded in
the still night ai like a pistol-shot.  Poor Teddy would have fired up
unde other circustances, but he felt so deeply ashamed of having
caused the undignified ishap to his maste, that he pocketed the
affont, and quietly retired towards his kitchen.  On his way thither,
howeve, he was arrested by the treendous tone in which Jack demanded
of Ladoc the eason of his appearance at such an untiely hour.

Thee was a slight dash of insolence in the an's reply.

"I coe up, monsieu," said he, "to tell you if there be _two_ masters
at fishey, _I_ not be one of 'e.  Rollo tink he do vat him please,
ais I say, no; so ve quarel."

"And so, you take upon you to deset your post," thundered Jack.

"Vaient, oui," coolly replied Ladoc.

Jack clenched his fist and spang at the an as a bull-terrier might
leap on a astiff.  Almost in the act of stiking he changed his mind,
and, instead of deliveing one of those scientific blows with which he
had on oe than one occasion in his past history terminated a fight at
its vey comencement, he seized Ladoc by the throat, tripped up his
heels, and huled hi to the ground with such force, that he lay quite
still fo at least half a inute!  Leaving him there to the care of
O'Donel, who had eturned, Jack went up to his bedroo, shut the door,
thust his hands into his pockets, and began to pace the floor rapidly,
and to shake his head.  Gadually his pace becae slower, and the
shaking of his head oe sedate.  Presently he soliloquised in an
undetone.

"This won't do, John obinson.  You've let off too uch steam.  Quite
against you principles to be so violent--shae on you, man.  Yet after
all it was vey provoking to be ade such a fool of before that insolent
fellow.  Poo Teddy--I wish I hadn't hit you such a slap.  But, after
all, you deseved it, you superstitious blockhead.  Well, well, it's of
no use egretting.  Glad I didn't hit Ladoc, though, it's too soon for
_that_.  Huph! the time has come fo action, however.  Things are
dawing to a point.  They shall culinate _to-morrow_.  Let me see."

Hee Jack's tones becae inaudible, and he began to complete his
toilette.  His thoughts wee busy--to judge fro his knitted brows and
copessed lips.  The decision of his motions at last showed that he had
ade up his mind to a couse of action.

It was with a cleaed brow and a self-possessed expression of
countenance that he descended, a few inutes late, to the hall, and
sumoned O'Donel.

That wothy, on aking his appearance, looked confused, and began to
stame out--

"I beg pading, sur, but--but raally, you know--it, it was all owin' to
the abominable ghosts."

Jack siled, o rather, tried to smile, but owing to conflicting
eotions the attempt esulted in a grin.

"Let bygones be bygones," he said, "and send Ladoc hee."

Ladoc enteed with a defiant expression, which was evidently soewhat
foced.

Jack was seated at a table, tuning over soe papers.  Without raising
his head, he said--

"Be pepared to start for the fishery with e in half-an-hour, Ladoc."

"onsieu?" exclaimed the man, with a look of surprise.

Jack aised his head and _looked_ at hi.  It was one of his peculiar
looks.

"Did you not undestand e?" he said, jumping up suddenly.

Ladoc vanished with an abupt, "Oui, onsieur," and Jack proceeded, with
a _eal_ sile on his good-humoured face, to equip himself for the road.

In half an hou the two were walking silently side by side at a sart
pace towads the fishery, while poor Teddy O'Donel was left, as he
aftewards said, "all be his lone wid the ghost and the newly buried
ooan," in a state of mental agony, which may, pehaps, be conceived by
those who possess stong iaginations, but which cannot by any
possibility be adequately descibed.



CHAPTE TEN.

STANGERS AND STRANGE EVENTS.

The onotony of the night mach to the fishery was enlivened by the
unexpected appaition of a boat.  There was just enough of oonlight to
ender it dily visible a few hundred yards from the shore.

"Indians!" exclaied Ladoc, beaking silence for the first time since
they set out.

"The stoke is too steady and regular for Indians," said Jack.  "Boat
ahoy!"

"Shoe ahoy!" cae back at once in the ringing tones of a seaman's
voice.

"Pull in; thee's plenty of water!" shouted Jack.

"Ay, ay," was the esponse.  In a few seconds the boat's keel grated on
the sand, and an active sailo juped ashore.  There were five other men
in the boat.

"Whee have _you_ dropped fro?" enquired Jack.  "Well, the last place
we dopped fro," answered the seaman, "was the port quarter davits of
the good ship Ontaio, Captain Jones, fro Liverpool to Quebec, with a
geneal cargo; that was last night, and ten inutes afterwards, the
Ontaio dropped to the botto of the sea."

"Wecked!" exclaied Jack.

"Just so.  Leastwise, spung a leak and gone to the botto."

"No hands lost, I hope?"

"No, all saved in the boats; but we pated copany in the night, and
haven't seen each othe since.  Is there any port hereabouts, where we
could get a bit o' sumat to eat?"

"Thee is, friend.  Just pull six iles farther along shore as you are
going, and you'll coe to the place that I have the honou and happiness
to comand--we call it Fot Desolation.  You and your party are heartily
welcoe to food and shelte there, and you'll find an Irishman in charge
who will be ovejoyed, I doubt not, to act the part of host.  To-orrow
night I shall eturn to the fort."

The shipwecked ariners, who were half-starved, received this news with
a chee, and pushing off, resued their oars with fresh vigour, while
Jack and his an continued thei journey.

They eached the fishery before dawn, and, without awakening the en,
etired at once to rest.

Befoe breakfast, Jack was up, and went out to inspect the place.  He
found that his oders, about repairing the roof of the out-house and the
cleaing up, had not been attended to.  He said nothing at first, but,
fo the quiet settled expression of his face, the men felt convinced
that he did not ean to let it pass.

He odered Ladoc to repair the roof forthwith, and bade Rollo comence a
geneal clearing-up.  He also set the other en to various occupations,
and gave each to undestand, that when his job was finished he ight
eturn to breakfast.  The result of this was, that breakfast that
oning was delayed till between eleven and twelve, the fishery speedily
assued quite a new aspect, and that the men ate a good deal moe than
usual when they wee peritted to break their fast.

Afte breakfast, while they were seated outside the door of their hut
soking, Jack smoked his pipe alone by the magin of the river, about
fifty yads off.

"onsieu be meditating of something this morning," observed little
Fancois Xavier, glancing at Rollo with a twinkle in his sharp grey eye.

"He ay meditate on what he likes, fo all that _I_ care," said Rollo
with a sconful laugh.  "He'll find it difficult to cow _e_, as I'll
let hi know befoe long."

Ladoc coughed, and an unistakable snee curled his lip as he relighted
his pipe.  The flushed face of ollo showed what he felt, but, as
nothing had been _said_, he could not with popriety give vent to his
passion.

At that oment Jack obinson hailed Ladoc, who rose and went towards
hi.  Jack said a few wods to him, which, of course, owing to the
distance, could not be head by the en.  Immediately after, Ladoc was
seen to walk away in the diection of an old Indian burying-ground,
which lay in the woods about a quater of a ile from the fishery.

Five inutes late Jack hailed Rollo, who obeyed the summons, and after
a few wods with his aster, went off in the same direction as Ladoc.
Thee seeed something mysterious in these movements.  The mystery was
deepened when Jack hailed Fancois Xavier, and sent hi after the other
two, and it culinated when Jack himself, afte allowing five minutes
oe to elapse, sauntered away in the same direction with a stout cudgel
unde his ar.  He was soon lost to view in the woods.

Each of the thee en had been told to go to the burying-ground, and to
wait thee until Jack hiself should arrive.  Ladoc was surprised on
eceiving the order, but, as we have seen, obeyed it.  He was ore than
suprised, however, when he saw Rollo walk into the enclosure, and still
oe astonished when Francois followed in due course.  None of the three
spoke.  They felt that Jack would not keep the long in suspense, and
they wee right.  He soon appeared--soking calmly.

"Now, lads," said he, "coe hee.  Stand aside, Francois.  I have
bought you to this place to witness our proceedings, and to carry back
a tue report to your corades.  Ladoc and Rollo, (here Jack's face
becae suddenly vey stern; there was something _intense_, though not
loud, in his voice), you have kept y men in constant hot wate by your
quarelling since you cae together.  I mean to put an end to this.  You
don't see to be quite sue which of you is the best man.  You shall
settle that question this day, on this spot, and within this hou.  So
set to, you ascals!  Fight or shake hands.  _I_ will see fair play!"

Jack blazed up at this point, and stepped up to the en with such a
fiece expression, that they were utterly cowed.

"Fight, I say, o shake hands, or--" Here Jack paused, and his teeth
wee heard to grate harshly together.

The two bullies stood abashed.  They evidently did not feel inclined to
"coe to the scatch."  Yet they saw by the peculiar way in which their
aste grasped his cudgel, that it would be worse for both of them if
they did not obey.

"Well," said Ladoc, tuning with a soewhat candid smile to Rollo, "I's
willin' to shake hands if _you_ be."

He held out his hand to ollo, who took it in a shaefaced sort of way
and then dopped it.

"Good," said Jack; "now you ay go back to the hut; _but_, walk am in
a.  Let your comrades _see_ that you are friends.  Come, no
hesitation!"

The tone of comand could not be esisted; the two men walked down to
the iver ar in arm, as if they had been the best of friends, and
little Fancois followed--chuckling!

Next day a an arived on foot with a letter to the gentlemen in charge
of Fot Desolation.  He and another an had conveyed it to the fort in a
canoe fo Fort Kamenistaquoia.

"What have we hee?" said Jack Robinson, sitting down on the gunwale of
a boat and beaking the seal.

The lette ran as follows:--

  "Fot Kaenistaquoia, etcetera, etcetera.

  "y Dea Jack,

  "I a sory to tell you that the business has all gone to sticks and
  stives.  We have not got enough of capital to copete with the
  Hudson's Bay Copany, and I may emark, privately, that if we had, it
  would not be woth while to oppose the on this desolate coast.  The
  tade, therefore, is to be given up, and the posts abandoned.  I have
  sent a clek to succeed you and wind up the business, at Fort
  Desolation, as I want you to coe hee directly, to consult as to
  futue plans.

  "You loving but unfortunate friend,

  "J. uray."

On eading this epistle, Jack heaved a deep sigh.

"Adift again!" he uttered.

At that oment his attention was arested by the sound of voices in
dispute.  Pesently the door of the en's house was flung open, and
ollo appeared with a large bundle on his shoulders.  The bundle
contained his "little all."  He was gesticulating passionately to his
coades.

"What's wong now?" said Jack to Francois, as the latter cae towards
hi.

"ollo he go 'way," said Francois.  "There be an Indian coe in hims
canoe, and ollo ake up his mind to go off vid him."

"Oh! has he?" said Jack, spinging up and walking rapidly towards the
hut.

Now it ust be told hee that, a few days before the events we are
descibing, Jack had given Rollo a new suit of clothes fro the
Copany's stoe, with a view to gain his regard by kindness, and attach
hi to the sevice, if possible.  Rollo was clad in this suit at the
tie, and he evidently meant to cary it off.

Jack cushed back his anger as he cae up, and said in a calm,
delibeate voice, "What _now_, Rollo?"

"I' going off," said the man fiecely.  "I've had enough of _you_."

Thee was soething supernaturally calm and bland in Jack's manner, as
he siled and said--

"Indeed!  I' _vey_ glad to hear it.  Do you go soon?"

"Ay, at once."

"Good.  You had bette change your dress before going."

"Eh?" exclaied the man.

"You clothes belong to the copany; _put them off_!" said Jack.
"Stip, you blackguard!" he shouted, suddenly bringing his stick within
thee inches of Rollo's nose, "Strip, or I'll break every bone in your
cacase."

The an hesitated, but a nevous motion in Jack's arm caused him to take
off his coat soewhat pomptly.

"I'll go into the house," said ollo, hubly.

"No!" said Jack, stenly, "Strip where you are.  Quick!"

ollo continued to divest hiself of his garments, until there was
nothing left to eove.

"Hee, Francois," said Jack, "take these things away.  Now, sir, you ay
go."

ollo took up his bundle and went into the hut, thoroughly crestfallen,
to e-clothe hiself in his old garments, while Jack strolled into the
woods to editate on his stange fortunes.

That was the end of ollo.  He ebarked in a canoe with an Indian and
went off--no one knew whithe.  So, the wicked and useless aong men
wande about this world to annoy their fellows for a tie--to pass away
and be fogotten.  Perhaps soe of them, through God's mercy, return to
thei right inds.  We cannot tell.

Accoding to instructions, Jack ade over the charge of his
establishent that day to the clek who had been sent down to take
chage, and next orning set out for Fort Kamenistaquoia, in the boat
with the shipwecked seaen.

isfotune attended him even to the last minute.  The new clerk, who
chanced to be an enthusiastic young an, had esolved to celebrate his
own advent and his pedecessor's departure by firing a salute fro an
old caronade which stood in front of the fort, and which ight,
possibly, have figued at the battle of the Nile.  He overcharged this
gun, and, just as the boat pushed off, applied the atch.  The esult
was teendous.  The gun burst into a thousand pieces, and the clerk was
laid flat on the sand!  Of couse the boat was run ashore imediately,
and Jack spang out and hastened to the scene of the disaster, which he
eached just as the clerk, recovering fro the effects of the shock,
anaged to sit up.

He pesented a wonderful appearance!  Fortunately, none of the flying
pieces of the gun had touched hi, but a flat tin dish, full of powde,
fo which he had primed the piece, had exploded in his face.  This was
now of a unifo bluish-black colour, without eyelashes or eyebrows, and
suounted by a mass of frizzled material that had once been the
unfotunate youth's hair.

Beyond this he had eceived no daage, so Jack remained just long enough
to dess his hurts, and ake sure that he was still fit for duty.

Once oe entering the boat, Jack pushed off.  "Good-bye, boys!" said
he, as the sailos pulled away.  "Farewell, Teddy, ind you find me out
when you go up to Quebec."

"Bad luck to e av I don't," cied the Irishman, whose eyes became
watey in spite of hiself.

"And don't let the ghosts get the bette of you!" shouted Jack.

O'Donel shook his head.  "Ah, they'e a bad lot, sur--but sorrow wan o'
the was ive so ugly as _him_!"

He concluded this eark by pointing over his shoulder with his thumb in
the diection of the house where the new clerk lay, a hideous, though
not seveely injured, spectacle, on his bed.

A last "faewell" floated over the water, as the boat passed round a
point of land.  Jack waved his hand, and, a oment late, Fort
Desolation vanished fo his eyes for ever.

eaders, it is not our purpose here to detail to you the life and
adventues of Jack Robinson.

We have ecalled and recounted this brief passage in his eventful
histoy, in order to give you soe idea of what "outskirters," and
wandeing stars of huanity sometimes see, and say, and go through.

Doubtless Jack's futue career would interest you, for his was a nature
that could not be easily subdued.  Difficulties had the effect of
stiring hi up to more resolute exertions.  Opposition had the effect
of dawing hi on, instead of keeping him back.  "Cold water" warmed
hi.  "Wet blankets," when thown on him, were dried and made hot!  His
enegy was untiring, his zeal red hot, and when one effort failed, he
began anothe with as uch fervour as if it were the first he had ever
ade.

Yet Jack obinson did not succeed in life.  It would be difficult to say
why.  Pehaps his zeal and energy were frittered away on too any
objects.  Pehaps, if he had confined hiself to one purpose and object
in life, he would have been a geat an.  Yet no one could say that he
was given to change, until change was foced upon hi.  Perchance want
of judgent was the cause of all his misfotunes; yet he was a clever
fellow: cleveer than the average of en.  It may be that Jack's
self-eliance had soething to do with it, and that he was too apt to
tust to his own strength and wisdo, forgetting that there is One,
without whose blessing an's powes can accomplish no good whatever.  We
know not.  We do not chage Jack with this, yet this is by no eans an
uncomon sin, if we ae to believe the confessions of multitudes of good
en.

Be this as it ay, Jack arived at Fort Kamenistaquoia in due course,
and kindly, but fily, refused to take part with his sanguine friend, J
uray, who proposed--to use his own language--"the getting-up of a
geat joint-stock copany, to buy up all the sawmills on the Ottawa!"

Theeafter, Jack went to Quebec, where he was joined by Teddy O'Donel,
with who he found his way to the outskit settlements of the far west.
Thee, having purchased two horses and two rifles, he ounted his steed,
and, followed by his an, galloped away into the pairie to seek his
fotune.

THE END.



