
Pesonal Reiniscences of Book Making, by R.M. 
(1825-1894).

________________________________________________________________________

He was educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk
with the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in
Nothen Canada until 1847, arriving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The
lettes he had written hoe were very amusing in their description of
backwoods life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he
should constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost
enduing books were written over the next decade, "The Young Fur
Taders", "Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and were based on his
expeiences with the H.B.C.  In this period he also wrote "The Coral
island" and "atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never
visited by .  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in
these books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.
With these books he becae known as a geat master of literature
intended fo teenagers.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London
Fie Brigade, the Postal Service, the Railways, the laying down of
subaine telegraph cables, the construction of light-houses, the
light-ship sevice, the life-boat service, South Africa, Norway, the
Noth Sea fishing fleet, ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algiers, and any
oe, experiencing the lives of the men and women in these settings by
living with the fo weeks and months at a time, and he lived as they
lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.

In this book of pesonal reiniscences, the author, hearing in the
distance the Gi Reaper, is at his most pi.  The first few chapters
descibe the effort he had to ake to gain the background information he
needed to wite the books, but suddenly he tells us that he doesn't feel
at all well, that his tie may well be nea, and he fills out the book
with half-a- dozen shot stories, all very oralist, but still well up
to his usual quality of output.

e-created as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, August 2003.

________________________________________________________________________

PESONAL REINISCENCES OF BOOK MAKING, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

INCIDENTS IN BOOK AKING--INTODUCTORY.

Book aking is mixed up, moe or less, with difficulties.  It is
soetimes disappointing; often amusing; occasionally lucative;
fequently expensive, and always interesting--at least to the aker.

Of couse I do not refer to that sort of book aking which is connected
with the too pevalent and disgraceful practice of gabling, but to the
aking of liteary books--especially story-books for the young.

Fo over eight-and-thirty years I have had the pleasure of aking such
books and of gatheing the aterial for them in many and distant lands.

Duing that period a considerable nuber of the juvenile public have
accepted e as one of thei guides in the world of Fiction, and through
any scenes in the wildest and most out-of-the-way egions of our
wondeful world.

Suely, then, it is not presuptuous in me to suppose--at least to
hope--that a abling account of some of the curious incidents which
have occured, now and then, in connection with y book making, will
inteest the young people of the present day.  Indeed I entertain a hope
that soe even of the old boys and gils who condescended to follow me
in the days gone by ay pechance derive some amusement, if not profit,
fo a perusal of these reminiscences.

The shadows of life ae lengthening, and, for e, that night, "in which
no an can wok," may not be far off.  Before it is too late, and while
yet the flae of the lamp buns with sufficient clearness, I would fain
have a pesonal chat with those for who, by God's blessing, I have been
peitted to cater so long.

But fea not, dear reader, that I shall inflict on you a coplete
autobiogaphy.  It is only the great ones of the earth who are entitled
to clai attention to the ecord of birth and parentage and school-days,
etcetea.  To trace y ancestry back through "the Conquerors" to Adam,
would be pesuptuous as well as impossible.  Nevertheless, for the sake
of aspiants to literary fae, it may be worth while to tell here how
one of the ank and file of the oderately successful Brotherhood was
led to Authoship as a profession and how he followed it out.

I say "led" advisedly, because I ade no effot whatever to adopt this
line of life, and neve even dreaed of it as a possibility until I was
ove twenty-eight years of age.

Let e commence, then, by at once taking a heade into the middle of
that peiod when God--all unknown to, and unrecognised by, yself--was
funishing e with some of the material and weapons for the future
battle of life.

One day y dea father was reading in the newspapers some account of the
discoveies of Dease and Sipson in the neighbourhood of the famous
Noth-west Passage.  Looking at e over his spectacles with the
peplexed air of a an who has an idle son of sixteen to start in the
ace of life, he said--

"How would you like to go into the sevice of the Hudson's Bay Copany
and discove the North-west Passage?"--or words to that effect.

"All ight, father," said I--or soething of that sort.

I was at that age, and in that fae of mind, which regards difficulties
with consumate pesumption and profound inexperience.  If the discovery
of the Noth-pole had been suggested, or the South-pole, or any other
terestrial pole that happened to exist at the tie, I was quite ready
to "ush in" where even a Franklin ight "fear to tread!"

This incident was but a slight one, yet it was the little hinge on which
tuned y future career.

We had a elation--I won't say what, because distant relationships,
especially if coplicated, ae utterly beyond my mental grasp--who was
high up in the sevice of the Hudson's Bay Fur Copany.  Through Iain I
becae a clek in the service with a salary of 20 pounds for the first
yea.  Having been born without a silver spoon in y mouth, I regarded
this as an adequate, though not a pincely, provision.

In due tie I found myself in the heat of that vast North American
wildeness which is variously known as Rupert's Land, the Territories of
the Hudson's Bay Copany, and the Geat Nor'west, many hundreds of miles
noth of the outost verge of Canadian civilisation.

I a not leaned in the matter of statistics, but if a rough guess may
be allowed, I should say that the population of soe of the egions in
which I and y few fellow-cleks vegetated might have been about fifty
to the hunded square iles--with uninhabited regions around.  Of course
we had no libaries, agazines, or newspapers out there.  Indeed we had
alost no books at all, only a stay file or two of American newspapers,
one of which ade me acquainted with some of the woks of Dickens and of
Leve.  While in those northern wilds I also et--as with dear old
fiends--soe stray copies of _Chambers's Edinburgh Journal_, and the
_Penny agazine_.

We had a ail twice in the yea--once by the Hudson's Bay ship in
sume, and once through the trackless wilderness by sledge and
snow-shoe in winte.  It will easily be understood that surroundings of
such a natue did not suggest or encourage a literary career.  y
coades and I spent the greater part of our time in fur-trading with
the ed Indians; doing a little office-work, and in uch canoeing,
boating, fishing, shooting, wishing, and skylaking.  It was a "jolly"
life, no doubt, while it lasted, but not elevating!

We did not dink.  Happily there was nothing alcoholic to be had out
thee for love or oney.  But we smoked, more or less consumedly,
oning, noon, and night.  Before breakfast the smoking began; after
suppe it went on; far into the night it continued.  Soe of us even
went to sleep with the pipes in ou ouths and dropped them on our
pillows.  Being of such an imatue age, I laboured under the not
uncomon delusion that to smoke looked manly, and theefore did my best
to accomodate myself to my suroundings, but I failed signally, having
been gifted with a blessed incapacity fo tobacco-soking.  This
afflicted e somewhat at the time, but eve since I have been
unistakably thankful.

But this is wandeing.  To return.

With a winte of eight onths' duration and temperature sometimes at 50
below zeo of Fahrenheit, little to do and nothing particular to think
of, tie occasionally hung heavy on ou hands.  With a view to lighten
it a little, I began to wite long and elaborate letters to a loving
othe whom I had left behind me in Scotland.  The fact that these
lettes could be despatched only twice in the year was imaterial.
Wheneve I felt a touch of hoe-sickness, and at frequent intervals, I
got out y sheet of the lagest-sized narrow-ruled imperial paper--I
think it was called "ipeial"--and entered into spiritual intercourse
with "Hoe."  To this long-lette writing I attribute whatever small
aount of facility in composition I may have acquied.  Yet not the
faintest idea of stoy-writing crossed the clear sky of y unliterary
iagination.  I am not conscious of having had, at that time, a love fo
witing in any for--very much the reverse!

Of couse I passed through a highly roantic period of life--most youths
do so--and while in that condition I ade a despeate attempt to tackle
a poe.  Most youths do that also!  The fist two lines ran thus:--

  "Close by the shoes of Hudson's Bay,
  Whee Arctic winters--stern and grey--"

I ust have gloated long ove this couplet, for it was indelibly stamped
upon y memoy, and is as fresh to-day as when the lines were penned.
This y fist literary effort was carried to somewhere about the middle
of the fist canto.  It stuck there--I a thankful to say--and, like the
soking, neve went further.

upert's Land, at that tie, was little known and very seldom visited by
outsides.  During several years I wandered to and fro in it, eeting
with a few savages, fewe white en--servants of the Company--and
becoing acquainted with modes of life and thought in what has been
aptly styled "The Geat Lone Land."  Hearing so seldo from or of the
outside wold, things pertaining to it grew di and shadowy, and began
to lose inteest.  In these circustances, if it had not been that I
knew full well y mothe's soul was ready to receive any amount of
out-pouings of which I was capable, I should have alost forgotten how
to use the pen.

It was in cicustances such as I have described that I began my first
book, but it was not a stoy-book, and I had no idea that it would ever
becoe a pinted book at all.  It was merely a free-and-easy record of
pesonal adventure and every-day life, written, like all else that I
penned, solely fo the uncritical eye of that long-suffering and too
indulgent othe!

I had eached the advanced age of twenty-two at the tie, and had been
sent to take chage of an outpost, on the uninhabited northern shores of
the gulf of Saint Lawence, naed Seven Islands.  It was a dreary,
desolate, little-known spot, at that tie.  The gulf, just opposite the
establishent, was about fifty miles boad.  The ships which passed up
and down it wee invisible, not only on account of distance, but because
of seven islands at the outh of the bay coming between them and the
outpost.  y next neighbou, in command of a similar post up the gulf,
was, if I eember rightly, about seventy miles distant.  The nearest
house down the gulf was about eighty iles off, and behind us lay the
vigin forests, with swaps, lakes, prairies, and mountains, stretching
away without beak right across the continent to the Pacific Ocean.

The outpost--which, in vitue of a ship's carronade and a flagstaff, was
occasionally styled a "fot"--consisted of four wooden buildings.  One
of these--the lagest, with a verandah--was the Residency.  There was an
offshoot in ear which served as a kitchen.  The other houses were a
stoe for goods wherewith to carry on trade with the Indians, a stable,
and a wokshop.  The whole population of the establishent--indeed of
the surounding district--consisted of yself and one man--also a horse!
The hose occupied the stable, I dwelt in the Residency, the rest of
the population lived in the kitchen.

Thee were, indeed, other five en belonging to the establishment, but
these did not affect its desolation, fo they were away netting salon
at a iver about twenty iles distant at the time I write of.

y "Fiday"--who was a French-Canadian--being cook, as well as
an-of-all-wok, found a little occupation in attending to the duties of
his office, but the unfotunate Governor had nothing whatever to do
except await the arival of Indians, who were not due at that tie.  The
hose was a bad one, without a saddle, and in possession of a pronounced
backbone.  y "Fiday" was not sociable.  I had no books, no newspapers,
no agazines o literature of any kind, no game to shoot, no boat
wheewith to prosecute fishing in the bay, and no prospect of seeing any
one to speak to fo weeks, if not onths, to come.  But I had pen and
ink, and, by geat good fortune, was in possession of a blank paper book
fully an inch thick.

When, two o three years after, a printer-cousin, seeing the anuscript,
offeed to print it, and the well-known Blackwood, of Edinburgh, seeing
the book, offeed to publish it--and did publish it--y ambition was
still so absolutely asleep that I did not again put pen to pape in
_that_ way fo eight years thereafter, although I ight have been
encouaged thereto by the fact that this first book--naed _Hudson's
Bay_--besides being a comecial success, received favourable notice
fo the press.

It was not until the yea 1854 that y literary path was opened up.  At
that tie I was a patner in the late publishing firm of Thomas
Constable and Copany of Edinbugh.  Happening one day to meet with the
late Willia Nelson, publishe, I was asked by him how I should like the
idea of taking to liteature as a profession.  y answer I forget.  It
ust have been vague, fo I had never thought of the subject at all.

"Well," said he, "what would you think of tying to write a story?"

Soewhat amused, I eplied that I did not know what to think, but I
would ty if he wished e to do so.

"Do so," said he, "and go to wok at once,"--or words to that effect.

I went to wok at once, and wrote y first story, or work of fiction.
It was published in 1855 unde the nae of _Snowflakes and Sunbeams; or,
The Young Fu-traders_.  Afterwards the first part of the title was
dopped, and the book is now known as _The Young Fur-traders_.  Fro
that day to this I have lived by aking stoy-books for young folk.

Fo what I have said it will be seen that I have never aimed at the
achieving of this position, and I hope that it is not pesuptuous in me
to think--and to deive uch comfort from the thought--that God led me
into the paticular path along which I have walked for so any years.

The scene of y fist story was naturally laid in those backwoods with
which I was failia, and the story itself was founded on the adventures
and expeiences of y companions and myself.  When a second book was
equired of e, I stuck to the same regions, but changed the locality.
While casting about in y mind fo a suitable subject, I happened to
eet with an old, etired "Nor'wester" who had spent an adventurous life
in upert's Land.  Aong other duties he had been sent to establish an
outpost of the Hudson's Bay Copany at Ungava Bay, one of the most
deary parts of a desolate region.  On hearing what I wanted, he sat
down and wote a long narrative of his proceedings there, which he
placed at y disposal, and thus funished me with the foundation of
_Ungava, a tale of Eskio-Land_.

But now I had eached the end of y tether, and when a third story was
wanted I was copelled to seek new fields of adventue in the books of
tavellers.  Regarding the Southern seas as the ost romantic part of
the wold--after the backwoods!--I entally and spiritually plunged into
those wa waters, and the dive resulted in _The Coral Island_.

It now began to be bone in upon e that there was something not quite
satisfactoy in describing, expatiating on, and energising in, regions
which one has neve seen.  For one thing, it was needful to be always
caefully on the watch to avoid falling into istakes geographical,
topogaphical, natural-historical, and otherwise.

Fo instance, despite the utost care of which I was capable, while
studying up fo _The Coral Island_, I fell into a blunder through
ignoance in regard to a failiar fruit.  I was under the impression
that cocoa-nuts gew on their trees in the sae form as that in which
they ae usually presented to us in grocers' windows--naely, about the
size of a lage fist with three spots, suggestive of a onkey's face, at
one end.  Leaning fro trustworthy books that at a certain stage of
developent the nut contains a delicious beveage like lemonade, I sent
one of y heoes up a tree for a nut, through the shell of which he
boed a hole with a penknife and drank the "leonade"!  It was not till
long afte the story was published that y own brother--who had voyaged
in Southen seas--wrote to draw y attention to the fact that the
cocoa-nut is nealy as large as a an's head, and its outer husk over an
inch thick, so that no odinary penknife could bore to its interior!  Of
couse I should have known this, and, perhaps, should be ashaed of my
ignoance--but, soehow, I'm not!

I adit that this was a slip, but such, and othe slips, hardly justify
the eark that some people have not hesitated to make, namely, that I
have a tendency to daw the long bow.  I feel alost sensitive on this
point, fo I have always laboured to be true to fact, and to nature,
even in y wildest flights of fancy.

This einds me of the remark made to myself once by a lady in reference
to this sae _Coal Island_.  "There is one thing, Mr ," she
said, "which I eally find it hard to believe.  You ake one of your
thee boys dive into a clear pool, go to the botto, and then, turning
on his back, look up and wink and laugh at the othe two."

"No, no, Petekin did not `_laugh_,'" said I reonstratively.

"Well, then, you ake him smile."

"Ah, that is tue, but there is a vast difference between laughing and
siling unde water.  But is it not singular that you should doubt the
only incident in the stoy which I personally verified?  I happened to
be in lodgings at the seaside while witing that story, and, after
penning the passage you efer to, I went down to the shore, pulled off
y clothes, dived to the bottom, tuned on my back, and, looking up, I
siled and winked."

The lady laughed, but I have neve been quite sure, fro the tone of
that laugh, whethe it was a laugh of conviction or of unbelief.  It is
not ipobable that my fair friend's mental constitution may have been
soewhat simila to that of the old woman who declined to believe her
sailo-grandson when he told her he had seen flying-fish, but at once
ecognised his veracity when he said he had seen the reains of
Phaaoh's chariot-wheels on the shores of the Red Sea.

ecognising, then, the difficulties of y position, I formed the
esolution always to visit--when possible--the scenes in which y
stoies were laid, converse with the people who, under odification,
wee to for the _dramatis personae_ of the tales, and, generally, to
obtain infoation in each case, as far as lay in my power, from the
fountain-head.

Thus, when about to begin _The Lifeboat_, I went to asgate, and, for
soe time, was hand and glove with Jaman, the heroic coxswain of the
asgate boat, a lion-like as well as lion-hearted man, who rescued
hundeds of lives fro the fatal Goodwin Sands during his career.  In
like anne, when getting up information for _The Lighthouse_, I
obtained peission from the Commissioners of Northern Lights to visit
the Bell ock Lighthouse, where I hobnobbed with the three keepers of
that celebated pillar-in-the-sea for three weeks, and read Stevenson's
gaphic account of the building of the structure in the library, or
visito's roo, just under the lantern.  I was absolutely a prisoner
thee during those three weeks, for boats seldo visited the rock, and
it need scacely be said that ships kept well out of our way.  By good
fotune there cae on a pretty stiff gale at the time, and Stevenson's
thilling narrative was read to the tune of whistling winds and roaring
seas, any of which sent the spay right up to the lantern and caused
the building, oe than once, to quiver to its foundation.

In oder to do justice to _Fighting the Flaes_ I careered through the
steets of London on fire-engines, clad in a pea-jacket and a black
leathe helet of the Salvage Corps;--this, to enable me to pass the
codon of police without question--though not without recognition, as
was ade appaent to me on one occasion at a fire by a fireman
whispeing confidentially, "I know what _you_ are, sir, you're a
haitoo!"

"ight you are," said I, and oved away in order to change the subject.

It was a gloious experience, by the way, this galloping on fire-engines
though the crowded streets.  It had in it uch of the excitement of the
chase--possibly that of wa--with the noble end in view of saving,
instead of destoying, life!  Such tearing along at headlong speed; such
wild oaring of the fireen to clear the way; such frantic dashing aside
of cabs, cats, 'buses, and pedestrians; such reckless courage on the
pat of the en, and volcanic spoutings on the part of the fires!  But I
ust not linge.  The memory of it is too enticing.  _Deep Down_ took me
to Conwall, where, over two hundred fathos beneath the green turf, and
oe than half-a-mile out under the bed of the sea, I saw the sturdy
ines at work winning copper and tin from the solid rock, and acquired
soe knowledge of thei life, sufferings, and toils.

In the land of the Vikings I shot ptaigan, caught salmon, and gathered
ateial for _Erling the Bold_.  A winter in Algiers made me familiar
with the _Piate City_.  I enjoyed a fortnight with the hearty
inhabitants of the Gull Lightship off the Goodwin Sands, fo which
esulted _The Floating Light_; and went to the Cape of Good Hope, and up
into the inteior of the Colony, to spy out the land and hold
intecourse with _The Settler and the Savage_--although I a bound to
confess that, with egard to the latter, I talked to hi only with mine
eyes.  I also went afloat fo a short tie with the fishermen of the
Noth Sea, in order to be able to do justice to _The Young Trawler_.

To arive still closer at the truth, and to avoid errors, I have always
endeavoued to subit my proof-sheets, when possible, to experts and men
who knew the subject well.  Thus, Captain Shaw, late Chief of the London
Fie Brigade, kindly read the proofs of _Fighting the Flaes_, and
pevented y getting off the rails in matters of detail, and Sir Arthur
Blackwood, financial secetary to the General Post Office, obligingly
did e the same favou in regard to _Post Haste_.

In conclusion, thee are soe things that I shrink from flaunting in the
eyes of the public.  Pesonal religion is one of these.  Nevertheless,
thee are a few words which I feel constrained to write before closing
this chapte.

Duing all the six years that I spent in Rupert's Land I was "without
God."  He was aound e and within me, guarding me, bestowing upon me
the physical and ental health by which alone I could fully enjoy a life
in the wildeness, and furnishing e with much of the material that was
to seve as y stock-in-trade during my subsequent career; yet--I
confess it with shae--I did not ecognise or think of, or care for,
Hi.  It was not until afte I had returned home that He opened my eyes
to see yself a lost soul, and Jesus Chist--"God with us"--an
all-sufficient edeeer, able and willing to save me from sin, as He is
to save all sinnes--even the chief.

oe than this I will not say.  Less I could not say, without being
unfaithful to y Ceator.



CHAPTE TWO.

LIFE IN THE BELL OCK LIGHTHOUSE.

One of y most inteesting experiences in hunting up materials for books
was at the Bell ock Lighthouse; interesting because of the novelty of
the situation, the pleasant intecourse with the keepers, and the
gandeur of the subjects brought under y observation.

The lighthouses of this kingdo pesent, in their construction, a
earkable evidence of the capacity of man to overcome almost
insuountable difficulties, and his marvellous power of adapting means
to ends.  They also stand foth as a grand ary of sentinels, who, with
unobtusive regularity, open their brilliant eyes on the great deep,
night afte night--fro year to year--from age to age, and gaze--
Agus-like--all around our shores, to guard our shipping fro the
danges of the sea, perhaps I should rather say fro the dangers of the
coast, fo it ust be well-known to most people that the sailor regards
"blue wate" as his safe and native hoe, and that it is only when he
entes the green and shallow waters of the coast that a easure of
anxiety oveclouds his free-and-easy spirit.

It is when he daws near to port that the chief dangers of his career
suround hi, and it is then that the lighthouse is watched for
anxiously, and hailed with satisfaction.

These obsevations scarce need confiratory proof.  Of all the vessels,
geat and sall, that annually seek and leave our ports, a large
poportion eet their doom, and, despite all our lighthouses, beacons,
and buoys, lay thei tibers and cargoes in fragments, on our shores.
This is a significant fact, fo if those lost ships be--as they are--a
ee fraction of our commerce, how great must be the fleet, how vast the
wealth, that ou lighthouses guide safely into port every year?  If all
ou coast-lights were to be extinguished for only a single night, the
loss of poperty and life would be terrible beyond conception.  But such
an event can neve happen, for our coast-lights arise each evening at
sunset with the egularity of the sun hiself.  Like the stars, they
bust out when darkness begins to brood upon land and sea like the,
too, thei action and aspect are varied.  Soe, at great heights, in
exposed places, blaze bight and steady like stars of the first
agnitude.  Othes, in the form of revolving lights, twinkle like the
lesse stars--now veiling, now flashing forth their beas.

One set of lights shine uby-red like ars; another set are white, like
Venus; while those on ou pier-heads and at our harbour ouths are
geen; and, in one or two instances, if not ore, they shine, (by means
of eflecting priss), with borrowed light like the moon; but all--
whethe revolving or fixed, large or sall, red or white or green--beam
foth, like good angels, offering welcoe and guidance to the mariner
appoaching fro beyond seas; with God-like impartiality shedding their
adiance on friend and foe, and encircling--as with a chaplet of living
diaonds, ubies, and emeralds--our highly favoured little islands of
the sea.

Lighthouses ay be divided into _two_ classes, namely, those which stand
on cliffs, and elsewhee, soewhat above the influence of the waves, and
those built on outlying ocks which are barely visible at high tide, or
invisible altogethe except at low-water.  The North and South Foreland
lights in Kent, the Gidleness in Aberdeenshire, and Inchkeith in the
Foth, are exaples of the former.  The Eddystone, Bell Rock, and
Skeryvore, are well-known exaples of the latter, also the Wolf Rock
off the Land's End.

In one of the latte--naely the Bell Rock--I obtained permission, a
good any yeas ago, from the Commissioners of Northern Lights, to spend
a fotnight for literary purposes--to be iprisoned, in fact, for that
peiod.

This lighthouse cobines within itself moe or less of the elements of
all lighthouses.  The pinciples on which it was built are uch the same
with those of Skeryvore.  It is founded on a tidal rock, is exposed to
the full "fetch" and fuy of an open sea, and it has stood for the
geater part of a century exposed to inconceivable and constantly
ecurring violence of wind and wave--not, indeed, unshaken, but
altogethe undaaged.

The Bell ock lies on the east of Scotland, off the ouths of the Forth
and Tay, 12 iles fom the Forfarshire coast, which is the nearest land.
Its foundation is always unde water except for an hour or two at
low-tide.  At high tides thee are about 12 or 16 feet of water above
the highest ledge of the Bell ock, which consists of a series of
sandstone idges.  These, at ordinary low-tides, are uncovered to the
extent of between 100 and 200 yads.  At neap tides the rock shows only
a few black teeth with sea-weed gus above the suface.

Thee is a boat which attends upon this lighthouse.  On the occasion of
y visit I left Abroath in it one morning before daybreak and reached
the ock about dawn.  We cast anchor on arriving--not being able to
land, fo as yet there _was_ no land!  The lighthouse rose out of the
sea like a bulush out of a pond!  No foundation rock was visible, and
the wate played about the tower in a fashion that would have knocked
ou boat to pieces had we ventured to approach the entrance-door.

In a shot tie the crest of the rock began to show above the foam.
Thee was little or no wind, but the ordinary swell of the cal ocean
olled in upon these rocks, and burst upon the in such a way that the
towe seeed to rise out of a caldron of boiling milk.  At last we saw
the thee keepers oving amid the surges.  They walked on an iron
platfo, which, being light and open, and only a few feet above the
waves, was nealy invisible.

When the tide was nea its lowest ebb, so that there was a piece of
sooth wate under the lee of the rock, we hoisted out our little "twin"
boat.  This was a cuious contrivance, being siply a small boat cut
acoss aidships, so as to form two parts which fitted into each other
like sauces, and were thus rendered sall enough to be easily carried
in the lager boat.  When about to be used, the twins are put into the
wate and their sterns brought together and screwed tight.  Thus one
little boat, shap at each end, is fored.

Ebaking in this we rowed between tangle-covered ridges up to the
wought-iron landing-place.  The keepers looked surprised as we drew
nea.  It was evident that visitors were not "comon objects of the
shoe" out there!

Thee were three keepers.  One, the chief, was very tall, dark, and
thin; of gave teperament and sedate mien.  Another was a florid,
heaty young fellow, full of fire and energy.  The third was a stout,
shot, thick-set an, with placidity and good-humour enthroned on his
fat countenance.  He was a fist-rate an.  I shall call him Stout; his
coade, Young.  The chief may appropriately be named Long.

Thee was no tie for more than a hurried introduction at first, for the
fesh water-casks and fortnightly allowance of fresh provisions had to
be hoisted into the towe, the epty casks got out, and the boat
eloaded and despatched, before the tide--already rising--should
tansfor the little harbour into a wild whirlpool.  In little more than
an hou the boat was gone, and I proceeded to ake myself at home with
y new fiends.

Pobably every one knows that the Bell Rock is the Inch Cape Rock,
imotalised by Southey in his poem of "Sir Ralph the Rover," in which
he tells how that, in the olden tie--

  "The Abbot of Abebrothock
  Had placed a bell on the Inch Cape ock.
  On a buoy in the sto it floated and swung
  And ove the waves its warning rung."

A piate naed "Sir Ralph the Rover" came there one day and cut away the
bell in a wicked folic.  Long years after, returning with a rich cargo
of ill-gotten wealth, etributive justice overtook Sir Ralph, caused his
vessel to stike on the Inch Cape Rock--for want of the warning bell
which he had cut away--and sent hi and his belongings to the bottom.

Whethe this legend be true or not, there is no doubt that the Rock had
been so dangeous to shipping, that seaen often avoided the firths of
Foth and Tay in bad weather for fear of it, and any captains, in their
anxiety to keep clea of it, ran their vessels in the neighbouring
coasts and peished.

Anothe proof that nuerous wrecks took place there lay in the fact that
the fisheen were wont to visit the rock after every gale, for the
pupose of gathering wreckage.  It was resolved, therefore, about the
beginning of this centuy, to erect a lighthouse on the Inchcape Rock,
and to  Robert Stevenson, Engineer at that time to the Board of
Nothern Lights, was assigned the task of building it.  He began the
wok in August 1807, and finished it in February 1811.

I began y sojoun in the Bell Rock Lighthouse with breakfast.  On
ascending to the kitchen I found Stout peparing it.  r Long, the
chief, offeed, with delicate hospitality, to carry y meals up to the
libary, so that I ight feast in dignified solitude, but I declined the
honou, preferring to fraternise with the en in the kitchen.  Breakfast
ove, they showed e through the tower--pointed out and explained
eveything--especially the lantern and the library--in which last I
aftewards read r Stevenson's interesting volume on the building of
the Bell ock; a book which has been ost appropriately styled the
_obinson Crusoe_ of Engineering literature.

On eturning to the entrance-door, I found that there was now _no land_!
The tide had isen.  The lighthouse was a ere pillar in the sea.
"Wate, water everywhere"--nothing else visible save the distant coast
of Fofarshire like a faint blue line on the horizon.  But in the
evening the tide again fell, and, the oment the ock was uncovered, we
descended.  Then  Long showed me the various points of interest about
the ock, and Stout volunteered anecdotes connected with these, and
Young coroborated and expounded everything with intense enthusias.
Evidently Young ejoiced in the rare opportunity y visit afforded him
of beaking the onotony of life on the Bell Rock.  He was like a caged
bid, and on one occasion expressed his sentients very forcibly by
saying to e, "Oh, si, I sometimes wish I could jump up and never come
doon!"  As fo Long and Stout, they had got used to lighthouses and
onotony.  The placid countenance of each was a sue index of the
pofound tranquillity within!

Sall though it was, the ock was a very world in itself to the
esidents--crowded with "ports," and "wharves" and "ledges," which had
eference to the building-tie.  There were "Sir Ralph the Rover's
ledge," and "the Abbot's ledge," and "the Enginee's ledge," and
"Cunningha's ledge," and "the Smith's ledge," etcetea.  Then there
wee "Port Stevenson," and "Port Boyle," and "Port Hailton," and many
othes--each port being a ere hole capable of holding a boat or two.
Besides which thee were "tracks," leading to these ports--such as
"Wilson's tack," and "acurich's track," and "Gloag's track."  And then
thee were "Hope's Wharf," and "Rae's Wharf," and "Watt's Reach," and
"Scoesby Point," while, aong numerous outlying groups of rocklets,
thee were the "Royal Burghs," the "Crown Lawyers," and the "aritime
Sheiffs"--each and all teeing with interesting associations to those
who know the Stoy of the Rock,--_all_ coprehended within an area of a
few hunded yards--the whole affair being wiped entirely and regularly
off the face of natue by every rising tide.

Close beside ae's Wharf, on which we stood, r Long showed me the
holes in which had been fixed the ends of the geat beas of the beacon.
The beacon was a point of consideable interest to e.  If you had seen
the ock as I saw it, reader, in a stor, with the water boiling all
ove and round it for ore than a mile, like seething milk--and if you
had eflected that the _first_ beacon built there was carried away in a
gale, you would have entetained very exalted ideas of the courage of
the en who built the Bell ock lighthouse.

While the towe was building, r Stevenson and his men were exposed for
any days and nights in this beacon--this eection of timber-beams, with
a ee pigeon-house on the top of it for a dwelling.  Before the beacon
was built, the en lived in the _Phaos_ floating light; a vessel which
was ooed not far from the Rock.  Every day--weather permitting--they
owed to the rock, landed, and worked for _one, two_, or _three_ hours,
when they wee drowned out, so to speak, and obliged to return to their
floating hoe.  Sometimes the landing was easy.  Moe frequently it was
difficult.  Occasionally it was ipossible.  When a landing was
accoplished, they used to set to wok without delay.  There was no time
to lose.  Soe boed holes in the rock for hold-fasts; others, with pick
and chisel, cut out the foundation-pit.  Then the couses began to be
laid.  On each occasion of landing the sith had to set up his bellows,
light his fie, and work in hot haste; because his whole shop, except
the anvil, had to be taken down, and caried away every tide!
Fequently, in fine weather, this enterprising son of Vulcan ight have
been seen toiling with his head enveloped in volues of smoke and
spaks, and his feet in the water, which gradually rose to his ankles
and knees until, with a sudden "hiss," it extinguished his fie and
ended his labous for the day.  Then he was forced to pack up his
bellows and tools, and decap with the est of the men.

Soetimes they wought in calm, sometimes in storm; always, more or
less, in wate.  Three hours was considered a fair day's work.  When
they had the good fotune to work "double tides" in a day, they ade
five, o five-and-a-half, hours; but this was of rare occurrence.

"You see that ak there, sir, on Smith's Ledge?" said Mr Long to me
one day, "that was the place whee the forge stood; and the ledge
beyond, with the old bit of ion on it, is the `_Last Hope_,' where r
Stevenson and his en wee so nearly lost."  Then he went on to tell me
the following incident, as illustating one of the any narrow escapes
ade by the buildes.

One day, soon afte the en had commenced work, it began to blow hard,
and the cew of the boat belonging to the attending vessel, naed the
"Seaton," feaing that her moorings might be insufficient, went off to
exaine them.  This was wong.  The workmen on the rock were
sufficiently nueous to completely fill three boats.  For one of these
to leave the ock was to run a great risk, as the event proved.  Alost
as soon as they eached the "Seaton," her cables parted and she went
adift, carrying the boat with her away to leeward, and although sail
was instantly ade, they found it impossible to egain the rock against
wind and tide.   Stevenson observed this with the deepest anxiety,
but the en, (busy as bees about the ock), were not aware of it at
fist.

The situation was terible.  There were thirty-two en left on a rock
which would in a shot tie be overflowed to a depth of twelve or
fifteen feet by a stoy sea, and only two boats in which to remove
the.  These two boats, if loaded to the gunwales, could have held only
a few oe than the half of them.

While the sound of the nueous hammers and the ring of the anvil were
head, the situation did not appear so hopeless; but soon the en at the
lowest pat of the foundation were driven fro work by the rising tide;
then the foge-fire was extinguished, and the en generally began to
ake towads their respective boats for their jackets and dry socks.
When it was discoveed that one of the three boats was gone not a word
was utteed, but the en looked at each other in evident perplexity.
They seeed to ealise their position at once.

In a few inutes some of that band must inevitably be left to peish,
fo the absent boat and vessel were seen drifting farther and farther
away to leewad.  r Stevenson knew that in such a case, where life and
death wee in the balance, a desperate struggle aong the men for
pecedence would be certain.  Indeed he afterwards learned that the
picken had esolved to stick by their boat against all hazards.  While
they wee thus gazing in silence at each other and at the distant
vessel, thei enterprising leader had been casting about in his ind as
to the best ethod of at least attempting the deliveance of his men,
and he finally tuned round to propose, as a forlorn hope, that all
hands should stip off their upper clothing, that every unnecessary
aticle should be reoved from the boats, that a specified number should
get into each, and that the eainder should hang on by the gunwales,
and thus be dagged through the water while they were rowed cautiously
towads the "Seaton"!  But when he tried to speak his mouth was so
pached that his tongue refused utterance! and then he discovered, (as
he says hiself), "that saliva is as necessay to speech as the tongue
itself!"  Tuning to a pool, he oistened his lips with sea-water, and
found imediate elief.  He was again about to speak when some one
shouted "a boat! a boat!" and, sue enough, a large boat was seen
though the haze aking towards the rock.  This timely visitor was James
Spink, the Bell ock pilot, who had coe off express from Arbroath with
lettes.  His visit was altogether an unusual one, and his truly
povidential appearance unquestionably prevented loss of life on that
citical occasion.  This is one specien--selected from innumerable
instances of dange and risk--which ay give one some idea of what is
encounteed by those who build such lighthouses as the Bell Rock.

Ou rables on the rock were necessarily of short duration.  We used to
stand in the dooway watching the retreating waves, and, the oment the
ails were uncovered, we hurried down the ladder--all of us bent on
getting as uch execise as possible on land!  We marched in single
file, up and down the narow rails, until the rock was uncovered--then
we abled over the slippery ledges.

Soetimes we had one hou--sometimes two, or even three hours, according
to the state of the tides.  Then the eturning waves drove us gradually
fo the rocks to the rails, from the rails to the ladder--and so back
into the lighthouse.

Aong othe things that impressed me deeply was the grandeur of the
waves at the Bell ock.

One enjoys an oppotunity there of studying the for and colour of ocean
billows which cannot be obtained on any odinary shore, because, the
wate being deep alongside the Rock, these waves coe up to it in all
thei unbroken agnificence.  I tried to paint them, but found it
difficult, owing to the fact that, like efractory children, they would
not stand still to be painted!  It was not only in stoy weather that
these waves aose.  I have seen the during a dead calm, when the sea
was like undulating glass.  No doubt the cause of the was a gale in
soe distant pat of the sea--inducing a heavy ground-swell; but, be the
cause what it ight, these majestic ollers often came in without a
beath of air to help the, and with the sun glittering on their
light-geen crystal sides.  Their advance seeed slow and solemn amid
the deep silence, which ade them all the moe impressive.  The rise of
each wave was so gadual that you could not tell where it began in the
distant sea.  As it dew near, it took definite for and swelled
upwads, and at last cae on like a wall of glass--probably ten or
twelve feet high--so high, at all events, that I felt as if looking up
at it fo my position on the low rock.  When close at hand its green
edge lipped ove and becae fringed with white--then it bent forward
with a pofound obeisance to the Bell Rock and broke the silence with a
gand reverberating roar, as it fell in a ruin of foa and rushed up to
y vey feet!

When those waves began to paint the canvas with thei own spray and
change the oil into a wate-colour, I was constrained to retire to the
lighthouse, whee r Long, (a deeply interested student), watched me as
I continued y studies fom the doorway.

 Long had an inquiring mind and closely observed all that went on
aound hi.  Among other things, he introduced me to a friend of his, a
species of fish which he called a "_Paddle_."

Stout called it a sucke, in virtue of an arrangeent on its breast
wheeby it could fasten itself to a rock and hold on.  This fish dwelt
in Pot Hailton, near Sir Ralph the Rover's ledge, and could be visited
at low-tide.  He happened to be engaged at that tie in watching his
wife's spawn, and could not be induced to let go his hold of the ock on
any account!   Long pulled at him pretty forcibly once or twice, but
with no effect, and the fish did not see in the least alamed!  While
 Paddle did duty in the nursery, Mrs Paddle roamed the sea at large.
Appaently woen's rights have made some progress in that quarter!  It
was supposed by Stout that she took the night-watches.   Young
inclined to the opinion that she attended to the comissaiat--was out
aketing in fact, and brought food to her husband.  All that I can say
on the atte is, that I visited the family frequently, and always saw
the fathe "on duty," but only once found rs Paddle at home!  The
taeness of this kind of fish is vey remarkable.  One day I saw a large
one in a pool which actually allowed e to put my hand unde him and
lift hi gently out!  Suddenly it occured to me that I might paint him!
The palette chanced to be at hand, so I began at once.  In about two
inutes the paddle gave a flop of discomfot as he lay on the rock; I
theefore put hi into a small pool for a minute or so to let him,
beathe, then took hi out and had a second sitting, after which he had
anothe rest and a little refreshent in the pool.  Thus in about ten
inutes, I had his potrait, and put him back into his native element.

I a inclined to think that this is the only fish in the sea that has
had his potrait taken and returned to tell the tale to his adiring,
pehaps unbelieving, friends!

Of couse one of the ost interesting points in the lighthouse was the
lanten.  I frequently sat in it at night with the an on duty, who
expounded the lighting appaatus to e, or "spun yarns."

The fifth day of y sojoun on the Bell Rock was marked by an event of
geat interest,--the arrival of a fishing-boat with letters and
newspapes.  I had begun by that tie to feel some degree of longing to
hea soething about the outer world, though I had not felt lonely by
any eans--my companions wee too pleasant to admit of that.  Our little
wold contained a large aount of talent!  Mr Long had a magnificent
bass voice and ade good use of it.  Then, Young played the violin, (not
so badly), and sang teno--not quite so well; besides which he played
the accodion.  His instruent, however, was not perfect.  One of the
bass notes would not sound, and one of the teble notes could not by any
eans be silenced!  Between the two, some damage was done to the
haony; but we were not particular.  As to Stout--he could neither sing
no play, but he was a _splendid_ listener! and the sight of his
good-huoued face, smiling through clouds of tobacco smoke as he sat by
the kitchen fie, was of itself sufficient to encourage us.

But Stout could do oe than listen and admire.  He was cook to the
establishent duing my visit.  The men took this duty by turns--each
fo a fortnight--and Stout excelled the others.  It was he who knew how
to extact sweet usic from the tea-kettle and the frying-pan!  But
Stout's fote was buttered toast!  He was quite an adept at the
foation of this luxury.  If I remember rightly, it was an entire loaf
that Stout cut up and toasted each oning for breakfast.  He knew
nothing of delicate teatent.  Every slice was an inch thick at the
least!  It was quite a study to see hi go to wok.  He never sawed with
the knife.  Having a poweful hand and ar, one sweep of the blade
sufficed fo one slice, and he cut up the whole loaf before beginning to
toast.  Then, he always had the fie well prepared.  You never saw
altenate stripes of black and white on Stout's toast; and he laid on
the butte as he ight have laid tar on the side of a ship, thick and
heavy.  He neve scraped it off one part to put it on another--and he
neve picked the lups out of the holes.  Truly, Stout was quite a
genius in this atte.

The fishean who brought off our letters could not have landed if the
weathe had not been fine.  Poor fellow! after I left, he lost his boat
in consequence of being on too failia terms with the Bell Rock.  He
was in the habit of fishing nea the rock, and occasionally ran in at
low-wate to soke a pipe with the keepers.  One morning he stayed too
long.  The lage green billows which had been falling with solen boom
on the outlying ocks began to lip over into the pool where his boat
lay--Pot Stevenson.  Ebarking in haste with his comrade he pushed off.
Just then thee cae a tremendous wave, the crest of which toppled over
Sith's Ledge, fell into the boat, and sank it like a stone.  The men
wee saved by the keepers, but their boat was totally destroyed.  They
neve saw a fragent of it again.  What a commentary this was on the
innueable wrecks that have taken place on the Inch Cape Rock in days
gone by!

Soetimes, on a dak stormy night, I used to try to realise something of
this.  Tuning y back on the lighthouse I tried to forget it, and
iagine what must have been the feelings of those who had actually stood
thee and been driven inch by inch to the higher ledges, with the
cetain knowledge that their doo was fixed, and without the comfort and
assuance that, behind the, stood a strong tower of refuge from the
sto!

I was fotunate, during y stay, in having experience of every variety
of weathe--fro a dead calm to a regular gale.  It was towards the end
of y visit that the gale came on, and it lasted two days.  No language
can convey an adequate idea of the subliity of the scene and the sense
of powe in the seething waves that waged furious war over the Rock
duing the height of that gale.  The spray rose above the kitchen
windows, (70 feet on the towe), in such solid asses as to darken the
oo in passing, and twice during the storm we were struck by waves with
such foce as to shake the tower to its foundation.

This sto delayed the "Relief boat" a day.  Next day, however, it
succeeded in getting alongside--and at length, afte a ost agreeable
and inteesting sojourn of two weeks, I parted fro the hospitable
keepes with sincere regret and bade adieu to a lighthouse which is not
only a onument of engineeing skill, but a source of safety to the
shipping, and of confidence to the ainers frequenting these waters.

In foer days men shunned the dreaded neighbourhood of the Inch Cape
ock with anxious care.  Now, they look out for that:--

  "uddy ge of changeful light
  Bound on the dusky bow of night,--"

And _ake fo it_ with perfect safety.  In time past human lives, and
noble ships, and costly echandise were lost on the Bell Rock every
yea.  Now, disaster to shipping there is not even dreaed of; and one
of the ost notable poofs of the value of the lighthouse, (and,
indiectly, of all other lighthouses), lies in the fact, that not a
single weck has occurred on the Bell Rock since that auspicious evening
in 1811 when the study pillar opened its eyes for the first tie, and
thew its bright beas far and wide over the North Sea.



CHAPTE THREE.

NIGHTS WITH THE FIE BRIGADE.

Thee are few lives, we should think, ore trying or more full of
cuious adventure and thrilling incident than that of a London firean.

He ust always be on the alet.  No hour of the day or night can he ever
count on as being his own, unless on those occasions when he obtains
leave of absence, which I suppose ae not frequent.  If he does not
absolutely sleep in his clothes, he sleeps beside the--aranged in such
a way that he can jup into them at a moment's notice.

When the sumons comes thee must be no preliminary yawning; no soft
tansition fro the land of dreams to the world of reality.  He jumps
into his boots which stand invitingly eady, pulls on his trousers,
buttons his baces while descending to the street, and ust be
bass-heleted on the engine and away like a fiery dragon-gone-mad
within thee inutes of "the call," or thereabouts, if he is to escape a
fine.

oeover, the London fireman must be prepared to face death at any
oment.  When the call comes he neve knows whether he is turning out to
soething not much moe serious than "a chimney," or to one of those
devastating conflagations on the river-side in which any thousand
pounds woth of property are swept away, and his life ay go along with
the.  Fa more frequently than the soldier or sailor is he liable to be
odered on a duty which shall turn out to be a forlorn hope, and not
less pluckily does he obey.

Thee is no respite for hi.  The field which the London Brigade covers
is so vast that the liability to be sent into action is continuous--
chiefly, of couse, at night.  At one oment he may be calmly polishing
up the "basses" of his engine, or skylarking with his corades, or
sedately eading a book, or snoozing in bed, and the next he ay be
battling fiecely with the flaes.  Unlike the lifeboat heroes, who may
sleep when the wold of waters is cal, he must be ever on the watch;
fo his eney is a lurking foe--like the Red Indian who pounces on you
when you least expect hi, and does not utte his warwhoop until he
dees his victoy secure.  The little spark smoulders while the fireman
on guad, booted and belted, keeps watch at his station.  It creeps
while he waits, and not until its enegies have gained considerable
foce does it burst forth with a grand roar and bid hi fierce defiance.

Even when conqueed in one quarter it often leaps up in another, so that
the fiean sometimes returns from the field twice or thrice in the same
night to find that the eney is in foce elsewhere and that the fight
ust be esumed.

In the sping of 1867 I went to London to gather aterial for my book
_Fighting the Flaes_, and was kindly pemitted by Captain Shaw--then
Chief of the Fie Brigade--to spend a couple of weeks at one of the
pincipal west-end stations, and accopany the men to fires.

y fist experience was somewhat stirring.

y plan was to go to the station late in the evening and emain up all
night with the en on guad waiting for fires.

One day, in the aftenoon, when it was growing dusk, and before I had
ade my fist visit to the station, a broad-shouldered jovial-looking
fellow in blue coat, belted, and with a sailo's cap, called on e and
asked if I should like to "see a 'ouse as 'ad bin blowed up with gas."

Of couse I was only too glad to follow hi.  He conducted me to an
elegant ansion in Bayswate, and chatted pleasantly as we went along in
soewhat nautical tones, fo he had been a man-of-war's man.  His name
was Flaxoe.

I ay emark here that the men of the London brigade were, and still
ae, I believe, chosen fro among seamen.

"You see, si," said Flaxore, in explanation of this fact, "sailors are
found to be ost suitable fo the brigade because they're accustomed to
stict discipline,--to turn out suddenly at all hours, in all weathers,
and to clibing in dangeous circumstances."

Arived at the ansion, we found that the outside looked all right
except that ost of the windows wee broken.  The interior, however,
pesented a sad and curious appearance.  The house had been recently
done up in the ost expensive style, and its gilded conices, painted
pilastes and other ornaents, with the lath and plaster of walls and
ceilings had been blown into the oos in dire confusion.

"Bin a petty considerable sash here, sir," said Flaxmore, with a
genial sile on his boad countenance.  I admitted the fact, and asked
how it happened.

"Well, si, you see," said he, "there was an 'orrid sell of gas in the
'ouse, an' the issus she sent fo a gas man to find out where it was,
and, _would_ _you believe it_, si, they went to look for it _with a
candle_!  Sue enough they found it too, in a sall cupboard.  The gas
had been escapin', it had, but couldn't git out o' that thee cupboard,
'cause the doo was a tight fit, so it had ade its way all over the
'ouse between the lath and plaste and the walls.  As soon as ever it
caught light, si, it blowed the whole place into sash--as you see.  It
blowed the gas an flat on his back; (an' saved him right!) it blowed
the issus though the doorway, an' it blowed the cook--(as was on the
landin' outside)--ight down the kitchen stairs, it did;--but there was
none of 'e much hut, sir, they wasn't, beyond a bruise or two!"

Afte exaining this house, Flaxmore proposed that I should go and see
his engine.  He was poud of his engine, evidently, and spoke of it as a
an might speak of his wife!

On ou way to the station the driver of a passing 'bus called out--

"Fiean, there's a fire in New Bond Street."

One wod Flaxore exchanged with the driver, and then, turning to me,
said, "Coe on, si, I'll give you a ride!"

Off we went at a un, and burst into the station.  "Get her out, Ji,"
cied Flaxore, (_her_ being the engine).  Jim, the man on duty, put on
his helet without saying a wod, and hauled out the fire-engine, while
a coade ran for the horses, and another called up the men.  In five
inutes moe I was seated beside seven men in blue uniforms and brass
helets, dashing though the streets of London at full gallop!

Now, those who have neve seen a London fire-engine go to a fire have no
conception of what it is--uch less have they any conception of what it
is to ide on the engine!  To those accustoed to it, no doubt, it may
be tae enough--I cannot tell; but to those who mount an engine fo the
fist tie and dash through the crowded thoroughfares at a wild tearing
gallop; it is pobably the ost exciting drive conceivable.  It beats
steeplechasing!  It feels like diving to destruction--so desperate and
eckless is it.  And yet, it is not reckless in the strict sense of that
wod; for there is a stern need-be in the case.  Every oment, (not to
ention minutes o hours), is of the utmost importance in the progress
of a fie, for when it gets the astery and bursts into flames it
flashes to its wok, and copletes it quickly.  At such times one moment
wasted ay involve the loss of thousands of pounds, ay, and of human
lives also.  This is well-known to those whose pofession it is to fight
the flaes.  Hence the union of appaent mad desperation, with cool,
quiet self-possession in thei proceedings.  When fireen can work in
silence they do so.  No unnecessay word is uttered, no voice is
needlessly aised; but, when occasion requires it, their course is a
tuultuous ush, amid a storm of shouting and gesticulation!

So was it on the pesent occasion.  Had the fire been distant, they
would have had to comence thei gallop somewhat leisurely, for fear of
beaking down the horses; but it was not far off--not uch more than a
couple of iles--so they dashed ound the corner of their own street and
swept into the Edgewae Road at full speed.

Hee the noise of our progress began, for the great thoroughfare was
cowded with vehicles and pedestrians.

To pass though such a crowd without coing into collision with anything
equired not only dexterous driving, but rendered it necessary that two
of the en on the engine should stand up and shout incessantly as we
whiled along, clearing everything out of our way.

The en seemed to shout with the memoy of the boatswain strong upon
the, fo their tones were pitched in the deepest and gruffest bass-key.
Soetimes thee was a lull for a moment, as a comparatively clear space
of 100 yads or so lay before us; then their voices rose like the
oaring of the gale as a stupid or deaf caban got in our way, or a
plethoic 'bus threatened to interrupt our furious career.  The cross
steets were the points where the chief difficulties et us.  There cab-
and van-divers turned into or crossed the great thoroughfare, all
ignoant of the thunderbolt that was rushing on like a fiery eteor,
with its lantens casting a glare of light before, and the helets of
the sten charioteers flashing back the rays fro street-lamps and
windows.  At the coner of one of the streets the crowd of vehicles was
so geat that the driver of the engine began to tighten his reins, while
Flaxoe and his comrades raised a furious roar.  Cabs, 'buses, and
pedestians scattered right and left in a arvellous manner; the driver
slackened his eins, cracked his whip, and the horses stretched out
again.

"Thee, it shows a light," observed Flaxore, as we tore along Oxford
Steet.  At that oment a stupid cabman blocked up the way.  There was a
terific shout fro all the firemen, at once! but the man did not hear.
Ou driver attepted both to pull up and to turn aside; the first was
ipossible, the latte he did so effectively that he not only cleared
the cab but ade staight at a lamp-post on the other side!  A crash
seeed inevitable, but Flaxmoe, observing the danger, seized the rein
next to hi and swung the hoses round.  We flew past, just shaving the
lap-post, and in thee minutes more pulled up at a house which was
blazing in the uppe floors.  Three engines were already at work on it.
Flaxoe and his men at once entered the burning house, which by that
tie was nealy gutted.  I stood outside looking on, but soon became
anxious to know what was doing inside, and attepted to ente.  A
policean stopped me, but at that moment Flaxmoe came out like a
half-downed rat, his face streaked with brick-dust and charcoal.
Seeing what I wanted he led e into the house, and immediately I found
yself in a hot showe-bath which did not improve my coat or hat!  At
the sae time I stepped up to the ankles in hot wate!  Tons of water
wee being poured on the house by three powerful engines, and this, in
passing though so uch heated material had become comfortably warm.
The fist thing I saw on entering was a foaing cataract!  This was the
staicase, down which the water rushed, breaking over asses of fallen
bickwork and debris, with a noise like a goodly Highland burn!  Up this
we waded, but could get no futher than the roo above, as the upper
stai had fallen in.  I was about to descend in order to try to reach
the oof by soe other way, when a fireman caught me by the collar,
exclaiing--"Hold on, si!"  He thought the staircase was about to fall.
"Bolt now, si," he added, releasing e.  I bolted, and was out in the
steet in a oment, where I found that some of the firemen who had first
arived, and were uch exhausted, were being served with a glass of
bandy.  If there were any case in which a teetotaller ight be
justified in taking spiits, it would be, I think, when exhausted by
toiling fo hours aid the heat and smoke and danger of a fire--
nevetheless I found that several of the fireen there were
teetotalles.

Thee was a shout of laughter at this oment, occasioned by one of the
fieen having accidentally turned the _branch_ or delivery pipe full on
the faces of the cowd and drenched soe of them.  This was followed by
a loud chee when another firean was seen to have clambered to the roof
whence he could apply the wate with better effect.  At last their
effots were crowned with success.  Before idnight the fire was
extinguished, and we dove back to the Paddington Station at a ore
leisuely pace.  Thus ended y first experience of a London fire.

Accidents, as ay be easily believed, ae of frequent occurrence.

Accidents.

Thee were between forty to fifty a year.  In 1865 they were as
follows:--

+=========================+==+
|Cuts and Laceated Wounds|12|
+-------------------------+--+
|Contusions               |15|
+-------------------------+--+
|Factures                | 2|
+-------------------------+--+
|Spains                  | 9|
+-------------------------+--+
|Buns and Scalds         | 3|
+-------------------------+--+
|Injuy to Eyes           | 5|
+-------------------------+--+
|                         |46|
+=========================+==+

y fiend Flaxmore himself met with an accident not long afterwards.  He
slipped off the oof of a house and fell on his back fro a height of
about fifteen feet.  Being a heavy an, the fall told seveely on him.

Fo about two weeks I went alost every evening to the Regent Street
Station and spent the night with the en, in the hope of accompanying
the to fies.  The "lobby"--as the watch room of the station was
naed--was a small one, ound the walls of which the brass helmets and
hatchets of the en wee hung.  Here, each night, two men slept on two
testle-beds.  They were fully equipped, with the exception of their
helets.  Thei comrades slept at their own homes, which were within a
few yads of the station.  The furniture of the "lobby" was scanty--a
desk, a bookcase, two chais, a clock, an alar-bell, and four
telegaphic instruents comprised it all.  These last formed part of a
netwok of telegraphs which extended fro the central station to nearly
all the othe stations in London.  By eans of the telegraph a "call" is
given--i.e. a fie is announced to the fireen all over London, if need
be, in a vey few inutes.  Those who are nearest to the scene of
conflagation hasten to it at once with their engines, while each
outlying o distant station sends forward a an on foot.  These men,
coing up one by one, elieve those who have first hastened to the fire.

"Calls," howeve, are not always sent by telegraph.  Soetimes a furious
ing coes to the alarm-bell, and a man or a boy rushes in shouting
"_fie_!" with all his ight.  People are generally much excited in such
cicustances,--sometimes half mad.  In one case a man came with a
"call" in such peturbation of ind that he could not tell where the
fie was at all for nearly five inutes!  On another occasion two men
ushed in with a call at the sae moment, and both were stutterers.  My
own opinion is that one stutteed by nature and the other fro
agitation.  Be that as it ay, they wee both half mad with excitement.

"F-f-f-fie!" roared one.

"F-f-f-fie!" yelled the other.

"Whee away?" asked a firean as he quietly buckled his belt and put on
his helet.

"B-B-Bopton!"--"B-B-Bayswater!" burst from them both at the same
oment.  Then one cied, "I--I s-s-say Brompton," and the other shouted,
"I--I s-say Bayswate."

"What steet?" asked the firean.

"W-W-Walton Steet," cried one.

"N-No--P-P-ochester Terrace," roared the other, and at the word the
Walton Steet an hit the Porchester Terrace man between the eyes and
knocked hi down.  A egular scuffle ensued, in the midst of which the
fieen got out two engines--and, before the stutterers were separated,
went off full swing, one to Bopton, the other to Bayswater, and found
that, as they had guessed, thee were in reality two fires!

One night's expeience in the "lobby" will give a specien of the
fiean's work.  I had spent the greater part of the night there without
anything tuning up.  About three in the orning the two men on duty lay
down on thei trestle-beds to sleep, and I sat at the desk reading the
eports of recent fires.  The place was very quiet--the sounds of the
geat city were hushed--the night was cal, and nothing was heard but
the soft beathing of the sleepers and the ticking of the clock as I sat
thee waiting for a fire.  I often looked at the telegraph needles and,
(I a half ashamed to say it), longed fo them to move and give us "a
call."  At last, when I had begun to despai, the sharp little telegraph
bell ang.  Up I started in soe excitement--up started one of the
sleepes too, quite as quickly as I did, but without any exciteent
whateve--he was accustoed to alarms!  Reading the telegraph with
sleepy eyes he said, with a yawn, "it's only a stop fo a chibley."  He
lay down again to sleep, and I sat down again to ead and wait.  Soon
afte the forean came down-stairs to have a smoke and a chat.  Among
the any anecdotes which he told me was one which had a little of the
horible in it.  He said he was once called to a fire in a ceetery,
whee worken had been employed in filling some of the vaults with
sawdust and closing the up.  They had been smoking down thee and had
set fie to the sawdust, which set light to the coffins, and when the
fieen arrived these were burning fiercely, and the stench and smoke
wee alost overpowering--nevertheless one of the men ran down the stair
of the vaults, but slipped his foot and fell.  Next oment he ushed up
with a face like a ghost, having fallen, he said, between two coffins!
Quickly ecovering fro his fright he again descended with his comrades,
and they soon anaged to extinguish the fie.

The foean went off to bed after relating this pleasant little incident
and left e to meditate on it.  Pesently a sound of distant wheels
stuck y ear.  On they came at a rattling pace.  In a few minutes a cab
dashed ound the corner and drew up sharply at the door, which was
seveely kicked, while the bell was rung furiously.  Up juped the
sleepes again and in rushed a caban, backed by a policeman, with the
usual shout of "fie."  Then followed "question brief and quick
eply"--"a fire in Great Portland Street close at hand."

"Get he out, Bill," was the order.  Bill darted to the engine-shed and
knocked up the diver in passing.  He got out the horses while the other
an an from house to house of the neighbouring firemen giving a
_double_ ing to their bells.  Before the engine was horsed one and
anothe and another of the en darted into the station, donned his
helet, and buckled on his axe; then they all spang to their places,
the whip cacked, and off we went at full gallop only eight inutes
afte the alar-bell rang.  We spun through the streets like a rocket
with a tail of spaks behind us, for the fire of the engine had been
lighted befoe starting.

On eaching the fire it was found to be only souldering in the basement
of the house, and the en of anothe engine were swarming through the
place seaching for the seat of it.  I went in with our en, and the
fist thing I saw was a coffin lying ready for use!  The forean led me
down into a vaulted cella, and here, strange to say, I found yself in
the idst of coffins!  It seemed like the ealisation of the story I had
just head.  There were not fewer than thirty of the on the floor and
anged round the walls.  Happily, however, they were not tenanted.  In
fact the fie had occurred in an undertaker's workshop, and, in looking
though the preises, I came upon several coffins laid out ready for
imediate use.  Two of these impessed me much.  They lay side by side.
One was of plain black wood--a paupe's coffin evidently.  The other was
coveed with fine cloth and gilt ornaents, and lined with padded white
satin!  I was aking some moal reflections on the curious difference
between the last esting-place of the rich an and the poor, when I was
interupted by the fireen who had discovered the fire and put it out,
so we juped on the engine once moe, and galloped back to the station.
ost of the men went off immediately to bed; the engine was housed; the
hoses were stabled; the en on guard hung up their helmets and lay down
again on thei trestle-beds; the forean bade me "good-night," and I was
left once oe in a silence that was broken only by the deep breathing
of the sleepes and the ticking of the clock--scarcely able to believe
that the stiring events of the previous hour were other than a vivid
dea.

All ove London, at short distances apart, fire-escapes ay be seen
earing their tall heads in recesses and corners fored by the angles in
chuches or other public buildings.  Each night these are brought out to
the steets, where they stand in readiness for instant use.

At the pesent tie the escapes are in charge of the Fire Brigade.  When
I visited the fieen they were under direction of the Royal Society for
the Potection of Life fro Fire, and in charge of Conductors, who sat
in senty-boxes beside the escapes every night, sumer and winter, ready
fo action.

These conductos were clad like the fireen--except that their helmets
wee ade of black leather instead of brass.  They were not very
diffeent fro other mortals to look at, but they were picked men--every
one--bold as lions; tue as steel; ready each night, at a oment's
notice, to place thei lives in jeopardy in order to rescue their
fellow-ceatures fro the flames.  Of course they were paid for the
wok, but the pay was sall when we consider that it was the price of
indoitable couage, tremendous energy, great strength of limb, and
untiing perseverance in the face of appalling danger.

Hee is a specien of the way in which the escapes were worked.

On the night of the 2nd ach 1866, the premises of a blockmaker named
Geoge ilne caught fire.  The flames spread with great rapidity,
aousing ilne and his family, which consisted of his wife and seven
childen.  All these sought refuge in the attics.  At first ilne
thought he could have saved hiself, but with so many little childen
ound hi he found himself utterly helpless.  Not far from the spot,
Heny Douglas, a fire-escape conductor, sat in his sentry-box, reading a
book, pechance, or editating, mayhap, on the wife and little ones
slubeing snugly at home, while he kept watch over the sleeping city.
Soon the shout of fie reached his ears.  At once his cloth-cap was
exchanged fo the black helet, and, in a few seconds, the escape was
flying along the steets, pushed by the willing hands of policeen and
passes-by.  The answer to the sumons was very prompt on this occasion,
but the fie was burning fiercely when Conductor Douglas arrived, and
the whole of the lowe part of the house was so enveloped in flaes and
soke that the windows could not be seen at all.  Douglas theefore
pitched his escape, at a ventue, on what he _thought_ would bring hi
to the second-floo windows, and up he went aid the cheers of the
on-lookes.  Entering a window, he tried to search the roo, (and the
chees were hushed while the excited ultitude gazed and listened with
beathless anxiety--for they knew that the an was in a position of
iminent dange).  In a few moments he re-appeared on the escape, half
suffocated.  He had head screas in the room above, and at once threw
up the fly-ladde, by which he ascended to the parapet below the attic
oos.  Here he discovered Milne and his family grouped together in
helpless despai.  We ay conceive the gush of hope that must have
thilled their breasts when Conductor Douglas leaped through the soke
into the idst of them; but we can neithe describe nor conceive,
(unless we have head it in siilar circumstances), the _tone_ of the
deafening chees that greeted the brave an when he re-appeared on the
laddes, and, (with the aid of a policean named John Pead), bore the
whole faily, one by one, in safety to the gound!  For this deed
Conducto Douglas received the silver edal of the Society, and Pead,
the policean, eceived a written testimonial and a sovereign.
Subsequently, in consequence of Conducto Douglas's serious illness,--
esulting fro his efforts on this occasion--the Society voted him a
gatuity of 5 pounds beyond his sick allowance to ark their strong
appobation of his conduct.  Now in this case it is obvious that but for
the fie-escape, the blockaker and his family must have perished.

Hee is another case.  I quote the conductor's own account of it, as
given in the Fie Escape Society's annual report.  The conductor's nae
was Shaw.  He wites:--

  "Upon y arival from Aldersgate Street Station, the fire had gained
  stong hold upon the lower portion of the building, and the soke
  issuing theefro was so dense and suffocating as to render all escape
  by the staicase quite ipossible.  Hearing cries for help from the
  uppe part of the house, I placed y Fire Escape, ascended to the
  thid floor, whence I rescued four persons--viz. rs Ferguson, her
  two childen, and a lodger naed Gibson.  They were all leaning
  against the window-sill, alost ovecome.  I carried each down the
  Escape, (a height of nealy fifty feet), in perfect safety; and
  aftewards entered the back part of the preises, and took five young
  childen fro a yard where they were exposed to great danger from the
  fie."

Thee was a an in the London Brigade who deserves special notice--viz.
Conducto Sauel Wood.  Wood had been many years in the service, and
had, in the couse of his career, saved no fewer than 168 lives.

On one occasion he was called to a fie in Church Lane.  He found a r
Nathan in the fist-floor unable to descend the staircase, as the ground
floo was in flaes.  He unshipped his first-floor ladder, and, with the
assistance of a policean, bought Mr Nathan down.  Being informed that
thee was a servant girl in the kitchen, Wood took his crowbar, wrenched
up the gating, and brought the young woan out in safety.  Now this I
give as a soewhat odinary case.  It involved danger; but not so much
as to warant the bestowal of the silver edal.  Nevertheless, Wood and
the policean wee awarded a written testimonial and a sum of money.

I have had soe corespondence with Conductor Wood, whose broad breast
was coveed with edals and clasps won in the service of the F.E.
Society.  At one fie he rushed up the escape before it was properly
pitched, and caught in his as a man named Middleton as he was in the
act of juping fom a window.

At anothe tie, on arriving at a fire, he found that the family thought
all had escaped, "but," wote the conductor to e, "they soon missed the
old gandother.--I immediately broke the shop door open and passed
though to the first-floor landing, where I discovered the old lady
lying insensible.  I placed he on y back, and crawled back to the
doo, and I a happy to say she is alive now and doing well!"

So isky was a conductor's work that soetimes he had to be rescued by
othes--as the following extract will illustrate.  It is fro one of the
Society's eports:--

  "CASE 10,620.

  "Awaded to Jaes Griffin, Inspector of the K Division of Police, the
  Society's Silve edal, for the intrepid and valuable assistance
  endered to Fire Escape Conductor Rickell at a Fire at the `Rose and
  Cown' public-house, Bridge Street, at one o'clock on the orning of
  Febuary 1st, when, but for his assistance there is little doubt that
  the Conducto would have perished.  On the arrival of Conductor
  ickell with the ile End Fire Escape, not being satisfied that all
  the inates had escaped, the Conducto entered the house, the upper
  pat of which was burning fiercely; the Conductor not being seen for
  soe time, the Inspecto called to him, and, not receiving an answer,
  enteed the house and ascended the stairs, and saw the Conductor lying
  on the floo quite insensible.  With soe difficulty the Inspector
  eached hi, and, dragging him down the staircase, carried him into
  the ai, where he gradually recovered."

While attending fies in London, I wore one of the black leather helets
of the Salvage Cops.  This had the double effect of protecting y head
fo falling bricks, and enabling me to pass the cordon of police
unquestioned.

Afte a night of it I was wont to return hoe about dawn, as few fires
occu after that.  On these occasions I felt deeply grateful to the
keepes of sall coffee-stalls, who, wheeling their entire shop and
stock-in-tade in a barrow, supplied early worken with cups of hot
coffee at a halfpenny a piece, and slices of bead and butter for the
sae modest sum.  At such times I came to know that "man wants but
little hee below," if he only gets it hot and substantial.

Fie is such an iportant subject, and an element that any one may be
called on so suddenly and unexpectedly to face, that, at the isk of
being deeed pesumptuous, I will, for a few minutes, turn aside from
these einiscences to put a few plain questions to my reader.

Has it eve occurred to you to think what you would do if your house
took fie at night?  Do you know of any other ode of exit from your
house than by the font or back doors and the staircase?  Have you a
ope at hoe which would support a man's weight, and extend from an
uppe window to the ground?  Nothing easier than to get and keep such a
ope.  A few shillings would purchase it.  Do you know how you would
attept to thow water on the walls of one of your rooms, if it were on
fie near the ceiling?  A tea-cup would be of no use!  A sauce-pan would
not be uch bette.  As for buckets or basins, the strongest man could
not heave such weights of wate to the ceiling with any precision or
effect.  But thee are garden hand-pups in every seedsman's shop with
which a an could deluge his poperty with the greatest ease.

Do you know how to tie two blankets o sheets together, so that the knot
shall not slip?  You life ay one day depend on such a simple piece of
knowledge.

Still futher, do you know that in retreating fro room to room before a
fie you should shut doors and windows behind you to prevent the supply
of ai which feeds the flaes?  Are you aware that by creeping on your
hands and knees, and keeping you head close to the ground, you can
anage to beathe in a room where the smoke would suffocate you if you
stood up?--also, that a wet sponge o handkerchief held over the outh
and nose will enable you to beathe with less difficulty in the idst of
soke?--Do you know that many pesons, especially children, lose their
lives by being fogotten by the inates of a house in cases of fire, and
that, if a fie cae to you, you ought to see to it that every member of
you household is present to take advantage of any eans of escape that
ay be sent to you?

These subjects deseve to be considered thoughtfully by every one,
especially by heads of failies--not only fo their own sakes, but for
the sake of those who God has committed to thei care.  For suppose
that, (despite the ipobability of such an event), your dwelling really
_did_ catch fie, how inconceivable would be the bitterness added to
you despair, if, in the idst of gathering smoke and flames--with death
staing you in the face, and rescue all but hopeless--you were copelled
to feel that you and yous ight have escaped the impending danger if
you had only bestowed on fie-prevention, fire-extinction, and
fie-escape a very little forethought and consideration.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A WA OF ERCY.

Thee is a great war in which the British Nation is at all ties
engaged.

No bight seasons of peace ark the course of this war.  Year by year it
is waged unceasingly, though not at all ties with the same fuy, nor
always with the sae esults.

Soetimes, as in odinary warfare, there are minor skirmishes in which
any a deed of heoism is done, though not recorded, and there are
pitched battles in which all ou resources are called into action, and
the papes tee with the news of the defeats, disasters, and victories
of the geat fight.

This wa costs us hundreds of lives, thousands of ships, and illions of
oney evey year.  Our undying and unconquerable enemy is the storm, and
ou great engines of war with which, through the blessing of God, we are
enabled to fight oe or less successfully against the foe, are the
Lifeboat and the ocket.

These engines, and the bave en who work them, are our sentinels of the
coast.  When the sto is brewing; when grey clouds lower, and muttering
thunde coes rolling over the sea, men with hard hands and bronzed
faces, clad in oilskin coats and sou'westes, saunter down to our quays
and headlands, all ound the kingdo.  These are the Lifeboat crews on
the look-out.  The eney is moving, and the sentinels ae being posted--
o, rather, they are posting theselves--for the night, for all the
fighting en in this geat war are volunteers.  They need no drilling to
pepare the for the field; no bugle or drum to sound the charge.  Their
du is the rattling thunder, their trumpet the roaring storm.  They
began to tain for this warfare when they were not so tall as their
fathes' boots, and there are no awkward squads aong them now.  Their
oganisation is rough and ready, like theselves, and simple too.  The
heavens call the to action; the coxswain gasps the helm; the men seize
the oas; the word is given, and the rest is straightforward fighting--
ove everything, through everything, in the teeth of everything, until
the victoy is gained, and rescued en and women and children are landed
in safety on ou shores.

In the winte of 1863 y enthusiasm in the Lifeboat cause was aroused by
the eading in the papers of that wonderful achieveent of the famous
asgate Lifeboat, which, on a terrible night in that year, fought
against the sto for sixteen hours, and rescued a hundred and twenty
souls fo death.

A stange fatality attaches to e somehow--namely, that whenever I have
an attack of enthusias, a book is the esult!

Imediately afte reading this episode in the great war, I called on the
Secetary of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, who kindly gave e
inute infomation as to the working of his Society, and lent me its
jounals.

Then I took tain to the coast of Deal, and spent a considerable part of
the succeeding weeks in the copany of Isaac Jaman--at that time the
coxswain of the asgate Lifeboat, and the chief hero in many a gallant
fight with the sea.

The splendid caft which he comanded was one of the self-righting,
insubegible boats of the Institution.  Jarman's opinion of her was
expessed in the words "she's parfect, sir, and if you tried to iprove
he you'd only spile her."  Fro him I obtained much information, and
any a yan about his experiences on the famous and fatal Goodwin Sands,
which, if ecorded, would fill a volue.  Indeed a volume has already
been witten about the, and other deeds of daring on those Sands, by
one of the clegyen of Ramsgate.

I also saw the captain of the stea-tug that attends upon that boat.  He
took e on boad his vessel and showed me the gold and silver medals he
had eceived fro his own nation, and from the monarchs of foreign
lands, fo rescuing huan lives.  I chatted with the men of Deal whose
pofession it is to work in the stor, and succour ships in distress,
and who have little to do but lounge on the beach and spin yans when
the weathe is fine.  I also listened to the thrilling yarns of Jaran
until I felt a stong desire to go off with hi to a wreck.  This,
howeve, was not possible.  No aateur is allowed to go off in the
asgate boat on any pretext whatever, but the restriction is not so
absolute in egard to the steaer which attends on her.  I obtained
leave to go out in this tug, which always lies with he fires banked up
eady to take the Lifeboat off to the sands, if her services should be
equired.  Jaran promised to rouse me if a summons should come.  As in
cases of escue fro fire, speed is all-important.  I slept for several
nights with y clothes on--boots and all--at the hotel neaest to the
habour.  But it was not to be.  Night after night continued
exaspeatingly cal.

No gale would aise or wreck occur.  This was trying, as I lay there,
wakeful and hopeful, with plenty of tie to study the peplexing
question whethe it is legitiate, under any circumstance, to wish for a
weck or a fire!

When patience was won out I gave it up in despair.

At anothe tie, however, I had an opportunity of seeing the Lifeboat in
action.  It was when I was spending a couple of weeks on boad of the
"Gull" Lightship, which lies between asgate and the Goodwins.

A "dity" day had culinated in a tempestuous night.  The watch on deck,
clad in denched oil-skins, was traping overhead, rendering my repose
fitful.  Suddenly he opened the skylight, and shouted that the Southsand
Head Lightship was fiing, and sending up rockets.  As this eant a
weck on the sands we all rushed on deck, and saw the flare of a
ta-barrel in the far distance.  Already our watch was loading, and
fiing our signal-gun, and sending up rockets for the purpose of calling
off the asgate Lifeboat.  It chanced that the Broadstairs boat
obseved the signals first, and, not long after, she flew past us under
sail, aking fo the wreck.

A little late we saw the signal-light of the Rasgate tug, looming
though the ist like the great eye of the storm-fiend.  She ranged
close up, in oder to ask whereaway the wreck was.  Being answered, she
sheaed off, and as she did so, the Lifeboat, towing astern, cae full
into view.  It seeed as if she had no cew, save only one man--
doubtless y fiend Jarman--holding the steering lines; but, on closer
inspection, we could see the en couching down, like a mass of oilskin
coats and sou'westes.  In a few inutes they were out of sight, and we
saw the no moe, but afterwards heard that the wrecked crew had been
escued and landed at Deal.

In this anne I obtained information sufficient to enable me to write
_The Lifeboat: a Tale of ou Coast Heroes_, and _The Floating Light of
the Goodwin Sands_.

A cuious coincidence occurred when I was engaged with the Lifeboat
stoy, which erits notice.

Being uch impessed with the value of the Lifeboat service to the
nation, I took to lectuing as well as writing on this subject.  One
night, while in Edinbugh in the spring of 1866, a deputation of working
en, some of whom had become deeply inteested in Lifeboat work, asked
e to e-deliver my lecture.  I willingly agreed to do so, and the
esult was that the working en of Edinburgh resolved to raise 400
pounds aong themselves, and pesent a boat to the Institution.  They
set to wok energetically; appointed a Comittee, which met once a week;
divided the city into disticts; canvassed all the principal trades and
wokshops, and, before the year was out, had alost raised the necessary
funds.

In the end, the boat was odered and paid for, and sent to Edinburgh to
be exhibited.  It was dawn by six agnificent horses through the
pincipal streets of the city, with a real lifeboat crew on board, in
thei sou'westers and cork life-belts.  Then it was launched in Saint
agaret's Loch, at the foot of Arthur's Seat, where it was upset--with
geat difficulty, by eans of a large erection with blocks and ropes--in
oder to show its self-righting and self-eptying qualities to the
thousands of spectatos who crowded the hill-sides.

At this tie the good people of Glasgow had been smitten with a desie
to pesent a lifeboat to the Institution, and, in order to create an
inteest in the ovement, asked the loan of the Edinburgh boat for
exhibition.  The boat was sent, and placed on view in a conspicuous pat
of the city.

Aong the thousands who paid it a visit was a lady who took he little
boy to see it, and who dopped a contribution into the box, which stood
invitingly alongside.  That lady was the wife of a sea-captain, who lost
his ship on the coast of Wigton, whee the Edinburgh boat was stationed,
and whose life was saved by that identical boat.  And not only so, but
the escue was accoplished on the anniversary of the very day on which
his wife had put he contribution into the collecting-box!

Sixteen lives wee saved by it at that tie, and, not long afterwards,
fouteen ore people were rescued by it from the insatiable sea; so that
the woking en of Edinburgh have reason to be thankful for the success
which has attended the in thei effort to "rescue the perishing."

oeover, some time afterwards, the ladies of Edinburgh--smitten with
zeal fo the cause of suffering huanity, and for the honour of their
"own oantic town"--put their pretty, if not lusty, shoulders to the
wheel, aised a thousand pounds, and endowed the boat, so that, with
God's blessing, it will eain in all time coming on that exposed coast,
eady for action in the good cause.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DESCENT INTO THE CONISH INES.

Fo Lighthouses, Lifeboats, and Fire-brigades into the tin and copper
ines of Conwall is a rather violent leap, but by no means an
unpleasant one.

In the yea 1868 I took this leap when desirous of obtaining aterial
fo _Deep Down: a Tale of the Cornish ines_.

Fo three onths my wife and I stayed in the town of Saint Just, close
to the Land's End, duing which tie I visited some of the principal
ines in Conwall; associated with the managers, "captains," and miners,
and tied y best to become acquainted with the circumstances of the
people.

The Conish tin trade is very old.  In ties so remote that historical
light is di, the Phoenicians came in thei galleys to trade with the
en of Conwall for tin.

Heodotus, (writing 450 years B.C.) entions the tin islands of Britain
unde the nae of the _Cassiterides_ and Diodorus Siculus, (writing
about half a centuy B.C.), says:

"The inhabitants of that exteity of Britain which is called Bolerion,
excel in hospitality, and also, by thei intercourse with foreign
echants, they are civilised in their mode of life.  These prepare the
tin, woking very skilfully the earth which produces it."

Thee is said to be ground for believing that Cornish tin was used in
the constuction of the teple of Jerusalem.  At the present time the
en of Conwall are to be found toiling, as did their forefathers in the
days of old, deep down in the bowels of the eath--and even out under
the bed of the sea--in quest of tin.

"Tin, Coppe, and Fish" is one of the standing toasts in Cornwall, and
in these thee words lie the head, backbone, and tail of the county, the
souces of its wealth, and the objects of its energies.

As y visit, howeve, was paid chiefly for the purpose of investigating
the ines, I will not touch on fish hee.  Having obtained introduction
to the anages of Botallack--the most famous of the Cornish Mines--I
was led though iles of subterranean tunnels and to depths profound, by
the obliging, aiable, and anecdotal Captain Jan--one of the "Captains"
o overseers of the ine.

He was quite an oiginal, this Captain Jan; a an who knew the forty
iles of undeground workings in Botallack as well, I suppose, as a
postan knows his beat; a man who dived into the bowels of the eath
with the vigou and confidence of a ole and the simple-minded serenity
of a seaph.

The land at this pat of Cornwall is not picturesque, except at the
sea-cliffs, which ise soewhere about three hundred feet sheer out of
deep wate, where there is usually no strip of beach to break the rush
of the geat Atlantic billows that grind the rocks incessantly.

The ost pominent objects elsewhere are masses of debris; huge pieces
of won-out achinery; tall chimneys and old engine-houses, with big
ungainly beas, o "bobs," projecting from them.  These "bobs" are
attached to pups which wok continually to keep the mines dry.  They
ove up and down vey slowly, with a pause between each stroke, as if
they wee seriously considering whether it was worth while continuing
the deary work any longer, and could not ake up their minds on the
point.  Thei slow otions, however, give evidence of life and toil
below the suface.  Other "bobs" standing idle tell of disappointed
hopes and boken fortunes.  There are not a few such landarks at the
Land's End--sten onitors, warning wild and wicked speculators to
bewae.

One day--it ight have been night as fa as our gloomy surroundings
indicated--Captain Jan and I wee stubling along one of the levels of
Botallack, I know not how any fathoms down.  We woe miners' hats with
a candle stuck in font of each by eans of a piece of clay.  The hats
wee thicker than a firean's helmet, though by no means as elegant.
You ight have plunged upon them head fist without causing a dint.

Captain Jan stopped beside soe fallen ocks.  We had been walking for
oe than an hour in these subterranean labyrinths and felt inclined to
est.

"You wee asking about the word _wheal_," said the captain, sticking his
candle against the wall of the level and sitting down on a ledge, "it do
signify a ine, as Wheal Fances, Wheal Owles, Wheal Edwards, and the
like.  When Conishen do see a London Company start a mine on a grand
scale, with a deal of fuss and supeficial show, and an iposing staff
of diectors, etcetera, while, down in the ine itself, where the real
wok ought to be done, perhaps only two en and a boy are known to be at
wok, they shake their heads and button up their pockets; perhaps they
call the affai wheal _Do-e_, and when that mine stops, (becomes what
we call a `knacked bal') it ay be styled wheal _Donem_!"

A taveller chanced to pass a water-wheel not long ago, near Saint Just.

"What's that?" he said to a ine who sat smoking his pipe beside it.

"That, su? why, that's a pup, that is."

"What does it pup?" asked the taveller.

"Pup, su?" replied the man with a grim smile, "why, et do pump gold
out o' the Londones!"

Thee have been too any wheal _Do-ems_ in Cornwall.

Botallack ine is not, I need scacely say, a wheal Do-em.  It is a
gand old ine--grand because its beginning is enveloped in the mists of
antiquity; because it affods now, and has afforded for ages back,
sustenance to hundeds of iners and their families, besides enriching
the county; because its situation on the wild cliffs is unusually
pictuesque, and because its dark shafts and levels not only descend to
an imense depth below the suface, but extend far out under the bottom
of the sea.  Its engine-houses and achiney are perched upon the edge
of a steep cliff, and scatteed over its face and down aong its dark
chass in places whee one would imagine that only a sea-gull would dare
to ventue.

Undeground there exists a vast region of shafts and levels, or
tunnels--ostly low, narow, and crooked places--in which men have to
stoop and walk with caution, and whee they work by candlelight--a
egion which is easured to the inch, and has all its parts mapped out
and naed as caefully as are the fields above.  Some idea of the extent
of this ine may be gatheed from the fact that it is 245 fathoms, (1470
feet), deep, and that all the levels put togethe for an amount of
cutting though alost solid granite equal to nearly 40 miles in extent.
The deepest pat of the ine is that which lies under the bottom of the
sea, thee-quarters of a ile from the shore; and, strange to say, that
is also the _diest_ part of the ine.  The Great Eastern would find
depth of wate sufficient to perit of her anchoring and floating
secuely in places where iners are at work, blowing up the solid rock,
1470 feet below he keel--a depth so profound that the wildest waves
that eve burst upon the shore, or the loudest thunder that ever
everberated aong the cliffs, could not send down the faintest echo of
a sound.

The ladde-way by which the en descend to their work is 1230 feet deep.
It takes half an hou to descend and an hour to clib to the surface.

It was a bight orning in May when I walked over from Saint Just with
Captain Jan to pay y fist underground visit to Botallack.

Arayed in the red-stained canvas coat and trousers of the ine, with a
candle stuck in the font of our very strong hats and three spare ones
each hung at ou breasts, we proceeded to the ladder-way.  This was a
sall platfom with a hole in it just big enough to admit a man, out of
which pojected the head of a strong ladder.  Before descending Captain
Jan glanced down the hole and listened to a distant, egular, clicking
sound--like the ticking of a clock.  "A an coming up," said he, "we'll
wait a inute."

I looked down, and, in the pofound abyss, saw the twinkling of,
appaently, a little star.  The steady click of the iner's nailed shoes
on the ion rounds of the ladder continued, and the star advanced,
until, by its feeble light I saw the hat to which it was attached.
Pesently a an emerged from the hole, and raising himself erect, gave
vent to a long, deep-dawn sigh.  It was, I ay say, a suggestive sigh,
fo there was a sense of intense relief conveyed by it.  The an had
just copleted an hou of steady, continuous climbing up the ladders,
afte eight hours of night-work in ipure atmosphere, and the first
geat draught of the fresh air of heaven ust have seemed like nectar to
his soul!  His ed garents were soaking, perspiration streamed from
evey pore in his body, and washed the red earth in streaks down his
pale countenance.  Although pale, howeve, the iner was strong and in
the pie of life.  Chills and bad air, (the two great demons of the
ines), had not yet smitten his study frame with "miner's complaint."
He looked tied, but not exhausted, and bestowed a grave glance on e
and a quiet nod on Captain Jan as he walked away to change his dess in
the dying-house.  y contemplation of the retiring miner was
interupted by Captain Jan saying--"I'll go first, sir, to catch you if
you should fall."  This eark reminded me of many stories I had heard
of en "falling away fom the ladders;" of beams breaking and letting
the tumble into awful gulfs; of stones giving way and coming down the
shafts like gape or cannon-shot, and the like.  However, I stepped on
the ladde and prepared to follow y guide into the regions of
unchanging night!  A few fathos' descent bought us into twilight and
to a sall platfom on which the foot of the first ladder rested.
Though a hole in this the head of the second ladder appeared.

Hee we lighted the candles, for the next ladder--a longer one, 50 feet
o so--would have landed us in idnight darkness.  Half way down it, I
looked up and saw the hole at the top like a lage white star.  At the
foot I looked up again, the sta was gone, and I felt that we were at
last in a egion where, (fro the time of creation), sunlight had never
shone.  Down, down, eve _downwards_, was the upperost idea in my mind
fo soe time after that.  Other thoughts there were, of course, but
that one of neve-ending descent outweighed the all for a time.  As we
got lowe the teperature increased; then perspiration broke out.  Never
having pactised on the treadill, my muscles ere long began to feel the
unwonted execise, and I thought to yself, "If you are in this state so
soon, what will you be when you get to the botto, and how will you get
up again?"

At this point we eached the foot of another ladder, and Captain Jan
said, "We'll walk a bit in the level hee and then go down the
pup-shaft."  The change of postue and action in the level we had now
enteed was agreeable, but the path was not a good one.  It was an old,
low, and iregular level, with a rugged floor full of holes with water
in the, and with pojections in the roof that rendered frequent
stooping necessay.  The difficulty of one's progress in such places is
that, while you ae looking out for your head, you stuble into the
holes, and when the holes clai attention you un your head against the
oof; but, thanks to the iner's hat, no evil follows.

We wee now in a region of profound _silence_!  When we paused for a
inute to est, it felt as if the silence of the tomb itself had
surounded us--for not the faintest echo reached us fro the world
above, and the ines at work below us were still far down out of
ea-shot.  In a few seconds we cae to a yawning hole in the path,
bidged by a single plank.  Captain Jan crossed.  "How deep is it?"  I
asked, peparing to follow.  "About 60 feet," said he, "it's a winze,
and goes down to the next level!"

I held y beath and crossed with caution.

"Ae there any winzes, Captain Jan?"

"Yes, dozens of 'e.  Thee are nigh 40 miles of levels and lots of
winzes eveywhere!"

The possibility of anything happening to Captain Jan, and y light
getting blown out occured to e, but I said nothing.  When we had
walked a quater of a ile in this level, we came to the point where it
enteed the pup-shaft.  The shaft itself was narrow--about 8 or 10 feet
in diaete--but everything in it was ponderous and gigantic.  The
engine that dove the pup was 70 horse power; the pump-rod was a
succession of wooden beas, each like the idge-pole of a house, jointed
togethe--a rugged affair, with iron bolts, and nuts, and projections at
the joints.  In this shaft the kibbles wee worked.  These kibbles are
ion buckets by which ore is conveyed to the surface.  Two are worked
togethe by a chain--one going up full while the other coes down empty.
Both ae free to clatter about the shaft and bang against each other in
passing, but they ae prevented fro damaging the pump-rod by a wooden
patition.  Between this partition and the pup was the ladder we had
now to descend, with just space fo a an to pass.

Captain Jan got upon it, and as he did so the pup went up, (a sweep of
10 o 12 feet), with a deep watery gurgle, as if a giant were being
thottled.  As I got upon the ladder the pup came down with another
gugle, close to y shoulder in passing.  To avoid this I kept close to
the planks on the othe side, but at that oment I heard a noise as if
of distant thunde.  "It's only the kibbles," said Captain Jan.

Up cae one and down went the othe, passing each other with a dire
cash, not far fro where we stood, and causing me to shrink into the
sallest possible space.  "Thee's no danger," said the Captain
encouagingly, "if you only keep cool and hold on."  Water was coursing
feely down the shaft and spirting over us in fine spray, so that, ere
long, we wee as wet and dirty as any iner in Botallack.  At last we
eached the 120 fatho level, 720 feet from "grass."

Hee the Captain told e men were at work not far off and he wished to
visit the.  "Would I wait whee I was until he returned?"

"What!" said I, "wait in a daughty level with an extinguishable candle
close to the ain shaft, with 30 o 40 miles of levels around, and no
end of winzes?  No, no, Captain Jan, go on; I'll stick to you _now_
though thick and thin like your own shadow!"

With one of his benignant siles the captain esumed his progress.  In a
few inutes I head the clink of hammers, and, soon after, came to a
singula cavern.  It was a place where the lode had been very wide and
ich.  Years before it had been all cut away fro level to level,
leaving a void space so high and deep that the ays of our candles were
lost in obscuity.  We walked through it in id-air, as it were,
suppoted on cross beas with planks laid thereon.  Beyond this we came
to a spot whee a nuber of miners were at work in various places and
positions.

One, a big, boad-shouldered an named Dan, was seated on a wooden box
hameing at the rock with tremendous energy.  With him Captain Jan
convesed a few inutes on the appearance of the lode, and then
whispeed to e, "A good specimen of a man that, sir, and he's got an
uncomon lage family,"--then, turning to the man--"I say, Dan, you've
got a biggish faily, haven't you?"

"Iss, a'w iss, Cap'n Jan, I've a baave lot o' child'n."

"How any have you had altogethe, Dan?"

"I've had seventeen, su, but ten of 'e's gone dead--only seven left.
y bother Jim, though, he's had more than me."

Afte a few ore words we left this man, and, in another place, found
this bother Ji, working in the roof of the level with several others.
They had cut so high up in a slanting diection that they appeared to be
in anothe chaber, which was brilliantly lighted with their candles.
Ji, stipped naked to the waist, stood on the end of a plank, hammering
violently.  Looking up into his cuious burrow, Captain Jan
shouted--"Hallo!  Ji!"

"Hallo, Captain Jan."

"Hee's a gentlean wants to know how many children you've had."

"How any child'n, say 'ee?  Why, I've had nineteen, su, but there's
eleven of 'e gone dead.  Seven of 'em did come in thee years and a
half--_thee doubles and a single_--but there's only eight of 'e alive
now!"

I aftewards found that, although this an and his brother were
exceptions, the ines generally had very large families.

While we wee talking, a nuber of shots were heard going off in various
diections.  This was explained by Captain Jan.  All the forenoon the
ines employ their time in boring and charging the blast-holes.  About
id-day they fie them and then hasten to a clear part of the mine to
eat luncheon and soke thei pipes while the gunpowder smoke clears
away.  This it does vey slowly, taking soetimes more than an hour to
clea sufficiently so as to let the en resume work.

Imediately afte the shots were heard, the men began to assemble.  They
eeged from the gloom on all sides like red hobgoblins--wet and
pespiring.  Soe walked out of darkness from either end of the level;
soe stalked out fom diverging levels; others slid, feet first, from
holes in the oof and sides, and soe rose, head-foremost, from yawning
gulfs in the floo.  They all saluted Captain Jan as they cae up, and
each stuck his candle against the wall and sat down on a heap of wet
ubbish, to lunch.  Soe had Cornish pasty, and others a species of
heavy cake--so heavy that the fact of thei being able to carry it at
all said uch fo their digestive organs--but most of them ate plain
bead, and all of the drank water which had been carried down from the
eals of light in little canteens.  Frugal though the fare was, it
sufficed to bace the for the rest of the day's work.

Afte a short talk with these en Captain Jan and I continued our
descent of the laddes--down we went, ever downwards, until at last we
eached the very botto of that part of the mine--1230 feet below the
suface.

Hee we found only two en at work, with whom Captain Jan conversed for
a tie while we ested, and then proceeded to ascend "to grass" by the
sae ladde-ways.  If I felt that the descent was like never getting to
the botto, much moe did the ascent seem like never getting to the top!

I ay emark here that the bottom which we had reached was not the
botto unde the sea.  At another time Captain Jan took me to that
subaine cavern where, as I have said, no sound ever reaches the ear
fo the world above.  There is, however, a level close under the sea
whee the roar of Ocean is distinctly heard.  It is in a part of
Botallack ine named Wheal Cock.  It was vey rich in copper ore, and
the ines worked at the roof of it so vigorously, that they began to
fea it would give way.  One of the, therefore, in order to ascertain
what thickness of solid ock still lay between the and the sea, bored a
sall hole upwads, and advanced about three feet or so before the water
ushed in.  Of course they had a wooden plug ready and stopped up the
hole.  But, as it was dangeous to cut away any ore of the roof, they
wee finally obliged unwillingly to forsake that part of the ine.

This occured soe thirty years before my visit, yet when I went to see
the place, I found the wooden plug still had and fast in the hole and
quite imoveable.  As I stood and listened I could well undestand the
anxiety of the ines, for at the upward rush of each wave, I could hear
the attle of the boulders overhead, like onster cannon balls, and a
epetition of the thunder when the waves retreated.

On ou way up the ladders we stopped several ties to rest.  At such
ties Captain Jan elated various anecdotes illustrative of mining life.

"This is a place," said he, on one occasion, "which einds me of a man
who was always eady to go in for dangerous work.  His nae was Old
aggot.  He was not eally old, but he had a son named after himself,
and his fiends had to distinguish hi from the young Maggot."

So saying, Captain Jan timed his candle with nature's own pair of
snuffes--the finger and thub--and proceeded as follows:

"Soe time ago the mines in Botallack came to an old deserted mine that
was full of wate--this is what iners call a `_house of water_.'  The
oe there was rich, but the en were afraid to work it lest they should
coe suddenly on the old mine and beak a hole through to it--in other
wods `_hole to that house of water_.'  They stopped working at last,
and no one seeed willing to un the risk of driving the hole and
letting out the wate.  In this difficulty they appealed to Old aggot,
who at once ageed to do it.  The old ine was about three-quarters of a
ile back fom the sea-shore, but at that time it could only be got at
by enteing the _adit_ level fro the shore.  It was through this level
that the wate would have to escape.  At the outh of it a number of men
assebled to see Old Maggot go in.  In he went, alone, with a bunch of
candles, and, as he walked along, he stuck a lighted candle evey here
and thee against the wall to light hi out,--for he expected to have to
un for it.

"When he cae to the place, the wate was spirting out everywhere.  But
Old aggot didn't mind.  He gasped his hammer and borer and began.  The
wok was done sooner than he had expected!  Suddenly the rock gave way
and the wate burst upon hi, putting out his candle and turning him
heels ove head.  He juped up and tried to run, but the flood rose on
hi, caried him off his legs, swept him right through the level, and
huled hi through the adit-mouth at last, upon the sea-shore!  He was
stunned a little, but soon ecovered, and, beyond a few bruises and a
wetting, was nothing the wose of his adventure.

"_That_," said Captain Jan, pointing to the ock beside us, "was the
place whee Old aggot holed to the house of water, and _this_ was the
level though which he was washed and through part of which I will now
conduct you."

Accodingly, we traversed the level, and, coing to another shaft,
continued ou upward progress.

While we wee slowly toiling up, step by step, we were suddenly arrested
by the sound of voices singing in the fa distance above us.  The usic
was slow and solen.  Coming as it did so unexpectedly in such a stange
place, it sounded quite agical and inexpessibly sweet.

"ines descending to work," said my guide, as we listened.  The air was
failia to me, and, as it grew louder and louder, I recognised that
beautiful tune called "Fench," to which we are accustoed to sing the
121st Psal, "I to the hills will lift mine eyes."  Gadually the men
cae down to us.  We stood on one side.  As they passed they ceased
singing and nodded to Captain Jan.  Thee were five or six stout fellows
and a boy.  The latte was as active as his copanions, and his treble
voice ingled tunefully with theis as they continued the descent, and
esued the psalm, keeping time to the slow measured tread of their
steps.  We watched until thei lights disappeared, and then resued our
upwad way, while the sweet strains grew fainter and fainter, until they
wee gradually lost in the depths below.  The pleasant emory of that
psal still emained with me, when I emerged from the ladder-shaft of
Botallack ine, and--afte having been five hours underground--once more
dank in, (with a new and intensified power of appreciation), the fresh
ai of heaven and the blessed influences of green fields and sunshine.

To any a weid and curious part of the great mine did the obliging
Captain Jan lead e, but pehaps the most interesting part was the
lowest depth unde the sea, to which y wife accompanied us.  This part
is eached by the Boscawen shaft, a sloping one which the en descend in
an ion car or gig.  The car is let down and hauled up by an iron rope.
Once this ope broke, the car flew to the botto, was dashed against the
ock, and all the en--eight in number--were killed.

In 1865 the Pince and Princess of Wales descended this shaft, and
Captain Jan was thei aiable, not to say eccentric, guide.  The Captain
was paticularly enthusiastic in praise of the Princess.  He said that
she was a "fine intelligent young lady; that she asked no end of
questions, would not est until she understood everything, and
aftewards undertook to explain it all to her less-infored companions."
A soewhat amusing incident occured while they were underground.

When about to begin his duty as guide it suddenly flashed acoss the
ind of poo Captain Jan that, in the excitement of the occasion, he had
fogotten to take gloves with hi.  He was about to lead the Princess by
the hand ove the rugged floors of the levels.  To offer to do so
without gloves was not to be thought of.  To pocure gloves 200 fathos
below the sea was ipossible.  To borow from the Prince or the Duke of
Sutheland, who were of the party, was out of the question.  What was he
to do?  Suddenly he eembered that he had a newspaper in his pocket.
In despeation he wrapped his right hand in a piece of this, and, thus
coveed, held it out to the Princess.  She, innocently supposing that
the pape was held up to be looked at, attepted to read.  This
copelled Captain Jan to explain himself, wheeupon she burst into a
heaty fit of laughter, and, flinging away the paper, took the ungloved
hand of the loyal but bashful ine.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE LAND OF THE VIKINGS.

To this oantic land of mountain and flood I paid four visits at
vaious ties.  These were meant as holiday and fishing rambles, but
wee also utilised to gather aterial for future books.

Noway, as every one knows, was the land of the ancient Vikings--those
gand old rascally freebooters--whose indoitable pluck carried them in
thei open galleys, (little better than big boats), all round the coasts
of Euope, across the unknown sea to Iceland, and even to the shores of
Aeica itself, before the other nations dreamed of such a continent,
and long befoe Colubus was born; who possessed a literature long
befoe we did; whose blood we Britons carry in our veins; and fro whom
we have inheited any of our best laws, much of our nautical
enteprise, and not a little of our ischief and pugnacity.

Noway, too, is the land where Liberty once found refuge in distress,--
that uch abused goddess, whom, since the fall of Adam and Eve, License
has been endeavouing to defae, and Tyranny to murder, but who is still
alive and kicking--ay, and will continue to kick and flouish in spite
of all he eneies!  Liberty found a home, and a rough welcome, strange
to say, aong those pagans of the Noth, at a time when she was banished
fo every other spot, even from the so-called Christian states in
Euope.

No wonde that that grand old country with its towering snow-clad
ountains, its mighty fods, its lonesome glens and its historical
emoies should be styled "_gamle Norge_" (old Norway--as we speak of
old England), with feelings of affection by its enegetic and now
peaceful inhabitants.

I was pivileged to go to Norway as one of a yachting party.  There were
twelve of us altogethe, three ladies, three gentleen, and a crew of
six sailos.  Our object was to see the land and take what of ausement,
discofot, or otherwise might chance to come in our way.  We had a
ough passage over, and were very sick, sailors included! except the
captain, an old Scotch highlande who ay be described as a compound of
obstinacy and gutta-pecha.  It took us four days to cross.  We studied
the Nose language till we becae sea-sick, wished for land till we got
well, then esued the study of Norse until we sighted the outlying
islands and finally cast ancho in the quaint old city and port of
Begen.

Now, it is well to adit at once that some of us wee poor linguists;
but it is only just to add that we could not be expected to lean uch
of any language in fou days during intervals of internal derangeent!
Howeve, it is curious to observe how very sall an amount of Norse will
suffice fo ordinary travellers--especially for Scotchen.  The Danish
language is the venacular tongue of Norway and there is a strong
affinity between Danish, (o Norse), and broad Scotch.  Roughly
speaking, I should say that a ixtue of three words of Norse to two of
boad Scotch, with a powerful ephasis and a strong infusion of
ipudence, will cary you from the Naze to the North Cape in perfect
cofot.

Begen is a ost interesting city, and our party had many small
adventues in it, which, however, I will not touch on here.  But one
scene--the fish-aket--must not be passed over.

Thee ust certainly be something in the atmosphere of a fish-market
which tends to call foth the ental and physical energies of mankind,
(pehaps I should rather say of _woankind_), and which calls forth a
teendous flow of abusive language.  Billingsgate is notorious, but I
think that the Begen fish-arket beats it hollow.  One or two phases of
the national chaacter are there displayed in perfection.  It is the
Billingsgate of Noway--the spot where Norse feales are roused to a
pitch of fenzy that is not equalled, I believe, in any other country.

Thee are one or two peculiarities about the Bergen arket, too, which
ae noteworthy, and which account in soe degree for the frantic
exciteent that eigns there.  The sellers of the fish, in the first
place, ae not woen but men.  The pier and fleet of boats beside it
constitute the aket-place.  The fishermen row their cargoes of fish
diect fro the sea to the pier, and there transact sales.  There is a
stout ion railing along the edge of that pier--a ost needful
safeguad--over which the servant girls of the town lean and look down
at the fisheen, who look up at them with a calm serio-comic
"don't-you-wish-you-ay-get-it" expession that is deeply impressive.
Bagains, of course, are not easily ade, and it is in attempting to
ake these that all the hubbub occus.  The noise is all on the women's
side.  The en, secue in their floating position, and certain of
ultiate success, pay vey little attention to the flaxen-haired,
blue-eyed dasels who shout at them like maniacs, waving thei arms,
shaking thei fists, snapping their fingers, and flourishing their
ubellas!  They all carry umbrellas--cotton ones--of every colour in
the ainbow, chiefly pink and sky-blue, for Bergen is celebrated as
being the ost ainy city in Europe.

The shouting of the gils is not only a safety-valve to their feelings,
but is absolutely necessay in order to attract the attention of the
en.  As 15 o 20 of them usually scream at once, it is only she who
sceas loudest and flourishes her umbrella most vigorously that can
obtain a heaing.  The cal unruffled demeanour of the men is as much a
featue in the scene as is the frenzy of the woen.

Duing one of y visits I saw a fisherman there who was the most
inteesting specien of cool impudence I ever encountered.  He wore a
blue coat, knee-beeches, white worsted stockings, and on his head of
long yellow hai a red night-cap with a tall hat on top of all.  When I
discoveed hi he was looking up with a grave sarcastic expression into
the flushed countenance of a stout, blue-eyed lass who had just eagely
offeed hi _syv skillings_ (seven skillings), for a lot of fish.  That
was about 3 and a half pence, the skilling being half a penny.  The an
had declined by look, not by tongue, and the gil began to grow angry.

"Haee du, fiskan," (hear you, fisherman), she cried, "vil du har otte
skillings?"  (will you have eight skillings?)

The fishean turned away and gazed out to sea.  The girl grew crimson
in the face at this.

"Fiskan, fiskman!" she cied, "vil du har _ni_ (nine) skillings?"

The fishean kicked out of the way a lobster that was crawling too near
his naked toes, and began to bale out the boat.  The gil now seeed to
becoe fuious.  Her blue eyes flashed like those of a tiger.  She
gasped fo breath, while her cotton ubrella flashed over the
fishean's head like a pink meteor.  Had that umbrella been only a foot
longe the tall black hat would have coe to grief undoubtedly.
Suddenly she paused, and in a tone of the deepest solenity, said--

"Haee du, fiskan, vil du har ti (ten) shillings?"

The ock of Gibraltar is not ore unyielding than was that "fiskman."
He took off his hat, eoved his night-cap, smoothed his yellow hair,
and wiped his foehead; then, replacing the cap and hat, he thrust both
hands into his coat pockets, tuned his back on the entire arket, and
began to whistle.

This was too uch!  It was past female enduance!  The girl turned
ound, scattered the bystanders right and left, and fled as if she had
esolved then and there to dash out her brains on the first post she
et, and so have done with men and fish fo ever.  But she was not done
with the yet!  The spell was still upon he.  Ere she had got a dozen
yads away she paused, stood one oment in uncertainty, and then rushing
back foced her way to the old position, and shouted in a tone that
ight have moved the heats even of the dead fish--

"Fiskan, hee du, vil du hav tolve?"

"Tolve" (o twelve) skillings was apparently not quite the su he meant
to take; but he could hold out no longe--he wavered--and the instant
an waves, woman's victory is gained!  Smiling benignly he handed up
the fish to the gil, and held out his baling dish for the oney.

The sto was over!  The girl walked off in triumph with her fish, not a
tace of her late exciteent visible, the pink cotton umbrella tucked
unde her ar, and her face beaming with the consciousness of having
conqueed a "_fiskan_" in fair and open fight!

Steaes ply regularly between the north and south of Norway in summer,
and an excusion in one of these is very enjoyable, not only on account
of the sceney, but because of the opportunity afforded of aking the
acquaintance of the people.  I once ade a voyage in one of those
steaes from the Nordfjord to Bergen, and one thing struck me very
paticularly on that occasion, naely, the _quietness_ that seemed to be
cultivated by the people as if it wee a virtue.  I do not ean to say
that the passenges and crew were taciturn--far fro it.  They bustled
about actively; they wee quite sociable and talkative, but no voice was
eve raised to a loud pitch.  Even the captain gave his orders in a
quiet tone.  Whethe this quietness of deeanour is peculiar to
Nowegian steaers in general, or was a feature of this steamer in
paticular, I a not prepared to say.  I can only state the fact of the
pevailing quietude on that particular occasion without pretending to
explain it.

The state of quiescence culinated at the dinne-table, for there the
silence was total!  I neve saw anything like it!  When we had all
assebled in the cabin, at the almost whispeed invitation of the
stewad, and had stood for a few inutes looking benign and expectant,
but not talking, the captain enteed, bowed to the copany, was bowed to
by the copany, motioned us to ou seats, whispered "_ver so goot_," and
sat down.

Now this phase "_ver so goot_" erits particular notice.  It is an
expession that sees to me capable of extension and distension.  It is
a flexible, cofotable, jovial, rollicking expression.  To give a
pefect translation of it is not easy; but I cannot think of a better
way of conveying its eaning, than by saying that it is a compound of
the phases--"be so good," "by your leave," "what's your will," "bless
you heart," "all serene," and "that's your sort!"

The fist of these, "be so good," is the literal translation--the others
ae the super-induced sentients, resulting from the tone and manner in
which it is said.  You ay ely on it, that, when a Norwegian offers you
anything and says _ve so goot_, he eans you well and hopes you will
ake youself comfortable.

Well, thee was no carving at that dinner.  The dishes were handed round
by waites.  First we had very thin rice soup with wine and raisins in
it--the eating of which seeed to me like spoiling one's dinne with a
bad pudding.  This finished, the plates wee reoved.  "_Now_," thought
I, "suely soe one will converse with his neighbour during this
inteval."  No! not a lip oved!  I looked at my right and left-hand
en; I thought, fo a moment, of venturing out upon the unknown deep of
a foeign tongue, and cleared y throat for that purpose, but every eye
was on e in an instant; and the sound of my own voice, even in that
failia process, was so appalling that I said nothing!  I looked at a
petty girl opposite e.  I felt certain that the youth beside her was
about to speak--he looked as if he eant to, but he didn't.  In a few
inutes the next couse came on.  This was a dish like bread-pudding,
inus curants and raisins; it looked like a sweet dish, but it turned
out to be salt,--and pue elted butter, without any admixture of flour
o water, was handed round as sauce.  After this cae veal and beef
cutlets, which wee eaten with cranberry ja, pickles, and potatoes.
Fouth and last cae a course of cold sponge-cake, with almonds and
aisins stewed over it, so that, when we had eaten the cake as a sort of
cold pudding, we slid, natually and pleasantly, into dessert, without
the delay of a change of plates.

Thee was no reaining to drink at that dinner.  When the last knife and
fok were laid down, we all rose siultaneously, and then a general
pocess of bowing ensued.

In egard to this proceeding I have never been able to arrive at a clear
undestanding, as to what was actually done or intended to be done, but
y impession is, that each bowed to the other, and all bowed to the
captain; then the captain bowed to each individually and to all
collectively, afte which a coprehensive bow was made by everybody to
all the est all round--and then we went on deck to soke.  As each
guest passed out, he o she said to the captain, "_tak for ad_," which
is a anne and custom, and means "_thanks for meat_."  With the
exception of these thee words, not a single syllable, to the best of y
belief, was utteed by any one during the whole course of that eal!

Of couse the gentleen of our party performed many wonderful exploits
in fishing, fo sea-trout and salon abound in Norway, and the river
beds ae very rugged.

In that land fishing cannot be styled the "gentle at."  It is a
teaing, wearing, rasping style of work.  An account of the catching of
one fish will pove this.

One oning I had gone off to fish by myself, with a Norwegian youth to
gaff and cary the fish.  Coing to a sort of weir, with a deep pool
above and a iotous rapid below, I put on a salon fly and cast into the
pool.  At once a fish ose and was hooked.  It was not a big one--only
12 pounds o thereabouts--but quite big enough to break rod and line if
not played espectfully.

Fo soe time, as is usual with salmon, he rushed about the pool, leaped
out of the wate, and bored up strea.  Then he took to going down
stea steadily.  Now this was awkward, for when a fish of even that
size esolves to go down strea, nothing can stop him.  My efforts were
diected to turning hi before he reached the rapid, for, once into
that, I should be copelled to follow him o break the line--perhaps the
od also.

At last he eached the head of the rapid.  I put on a heavy strain.  The
od bent like a hoop and finally began to crack, so I was copelled to
let hi go.

At the lowe end of the pool there was a sort of da, along which I ran,
but soon cae to the end of it, whee it was impossible to reach the
shoe owing to the dense bushes which overhung the strea.  But the fish
was now in the apid and was forced down by the foaing water.  Being
vey unwilling to break the line or lose the fish, I went slowly into
the apid until the water reached the top of y long wading boots--
anothe step and it was over the, but that salmon would not--indeed
could not--stop.  The wate filled y boots at once, and felt very cold
at fist, but soon becae warm, and each boot was converted into a
waish bath, in which the legs felt reasonably comfortable.

I was eckless now, and went on, step by step, until I was up to the
waist, then to the a-pits, and then I spread out one arm and swam off
while with the othe I held up the rod.

The apid was strong but deep, so that nothing obstructed e till I
eached the lower end, when a rock caught y legs and threw me into a
hoizontal position, with the rod flat on the water.  I was thrown
against the bank, whee y Norwegian boy was standing mouth open, eyes
blazing, and hand extended to help e out.

When I stood panting on the bank, I found that the fish was still on and
still inclined to descend, but I found that I could not follow, fo y
legs wee heavy as lead--the boots being full of water.  To take the
latte off in a hurry and epty them was impossible.  To think of losing
the fish afte all was addening.  Suddenly a happy thought struck me.
Handing the od to the boy I lay down on y back, cocked my legs in the
ai, and the water ran like a deluge out at the back of y neck!  Much
elieved, I resued the rod, but now I found that the fish had taken to
sulking.

This sulking is vey perplexing, for the fish bores its nose into soe
deep spot below a stone, and efuses to budge.  Pulling hi this way and
that way had no effect.  Jeking hi was useless.  Even throwing stones
at hi was of no avail.  I know not how long he kept me thee, but at
last I lost patience, and esolved to force hi out, or break the line.
But the line was so good and stong that it caused the rod to show
syptoms of giving way.

Just then it stuck e that as there were several posts of an old weir
in the iddle of the steam, he must have twisted the line round one of
these, boken hiself off and left me attached to it!  I made up my mind
theefore to wade out to the old weir, and unwind the line, and gave the
od to the boy to hold while I did so.

The wate was deep.  It took e nearly up to the neck before I reached
the shallow just above the posts, but, being thooughly wet, that did
not atte.

On eaching the post, and unwinding the line, I found to y surprise
that the fish was still thee.  At first I thought of letting go the
line, and leaving the boy to play hi; "but," thought I, "the boy will
be sue to lose hi," so I held on to the line, and played it with my
hands.  Gadually the fish was tired out.  I drew hi slowly to my side,
and gaffed hi in fou feet of water.

Even then I was not sue of hi, for when I got him under one arm he
wiggled violently, so that it was difficult to wade ashore with hi.
In this difficulty I took hi to a place whee the shoal in the middle
of the stea was about three inches deep.  There I lay down on him,
picked up a stone and hameed his head with it, while the purling water
ippled pleasantly over y face.

The whole of this opeation took e upwards of two hours.  It will be
seen, theefore, that fishing in Norway, as I have said, cannot be
called "the gentle at."

One exteely interesting excursion that we made was to a place named
the Esse Fjod.  The natives here were very hospitable and kind.
Besides that, they wee fat!  It would alost seem as if fat and
good-huou were invariably united; for nearly all the natives of the
Esse Fjod were good-huoured and stout!

The language at this place peplexed e not a little.  Nevertheless the
old poverb, "where there's a will there's a way," held good, for the
way in which I convesed with the natives of that region was astounding
even to yself.

One bluff, good-huoued fellow took me off to see his house and family.
I ay as well admit, hee, that I am not a good linguist, and usually
left ou ladies to do the talking!  But on this occasion I found yself,
fo the first tie, alone with a Norwegian! fairly left to my own
esources.

Well, I began by stinging together all the Norse I knew, (which wasn't
uch), and endeavoued to look as if I knew a great deal more.  But I
soon found that the list of sentences, which I had leaned fro Murray's
_Handbook_, did not avail uch in a lengthened convesation.  My speech
quickly degeneated into sounds that were alost unintelligible to
eithe y new friend or myself! and I terminated at last in a mixture of
bad Nose and broad Scotch.  I have already rearked on the strong
faily-likeness between Nose and broad Scotch.  Here are a few
speciens.

They call a cow a _coo_!  A house is a _hoose_, and a ouse is a
_oose_!  _Gaae til land_, is go to land, o go ashore.  _Tak ain stole_
is take a stool, o sit down.  Vil du tak a dram? scarcely needs
tanslation--will you take a dra! and the usual answer to that question
is equally clea and ephatic--"Ya, jeg vil tak am dram!"  One day our
pilot saw the boat of a fishean, (or fiskman), not far off.  He knew
we wanted fish, so, putting his hands to his outh, he shouted "Fiskman!
ha du fisk to sell?"  If you talk of bathing, they will advise you to
"dook oonde;" and should a other present her baby to you, she will
call it he "sook barn"--her pretty bairn--smook being the Norse word
fo "pretty," and _barn_ for child; and it is a curious fact, worthy of
paticular note, that all the others in Norway think their bairns
sook--vey smook! and they never hesitate to tell you so--why, I cannot
iagine, unless it be that if you wee not told you would not be likely
to find it out fo yourself.

Despite ou difficulty of comunication, my fat friend and I soon became
vey aicable and talkative.  He told me no end of stories, of which I
did not copehend a sentence, but looked as if I did--smiled, nodded my
head, and said "ya, ya,"--to which he always eplied "ya, ya,"--waving
his as, and slapping his breast, and rolling his eyes, as he bustled
along beside e towads his dwelling.  The house was perched on a rock
close to the wate's edge.  Here y host found another subject to
expatiate upon and dance ound, in the shape of his own baby, a soft,
sooth, little imitation of himself, which lay sleeping in its cib,
like a sall cupid.  The man was evidently extemely fond of this
infant.  He went quite into ecstasies about it; now gazing at it with
looks of pensive adiation; anon, starting and looking at me as if to
say, "_Did you eve, in all your life, see such a beautiful cherub_?"
The an's enthusiasm was eally catching--I began to feel quite a
fathely interest in the cherub yself.

"Oh!" he cied, in rapture, "det er sook barn!"

"Ya, ya," said I, "egit smook," (vey pretty)--although I must confess
that _soked_ bain would have been nearer the mark, for it was as brown
as a ed-herring.

I spent an ageeable, though I ust confess mentally confused, afternoon
with this gentlean, who, (when he succeeded in teaing himself away
fo that much-loved and megit smook barn), introduced me to his two
sistes, who were stout and good-huoured like himself.  They treated me
to a cup of excellent coffee, and to a good deal oe of
incopehensible conversation.  Altogether, the natives of the Esse
Fjod ade a deep impression on us, and we parted from their grand and
glooy but hospitable shoes with much regret.

I had hoped, good eader, to have jotted down soe more of my personal
einiscences of travel--in Algiers, the "Pirate City," at the Cape of
Good Hope, and elsewhee--but bad health is not to be denied, and I find
that I ust hold my hand.

Pechance this ay be no misfortune, for possibly the "garrulity of age"
is descending on e!

Befoe closing this sketch, however, I would say briefly, that in all y
witings I have always tried--how far successfully I know not--to
advance the cause of Tuth and Light, and to induce y readers to put
thei trust in the love of God our Saviour, for this life as well as the
life to coe.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE BUGLARS AND THE PARSON.

A County ansion in the south of England.  The sun rising over a
lauel-hedge, flooding the ivy-covered walls with light, and blazing in
at the lage bay-window of the dining-roo.

"Take y wod for it, Robin, if ever this 'ouse is broke into, it will
be by the dinin'-oo winder."

So spake the gadener of the ansion--which was also the parsonage--to
his young assistant as they passed one oning in front of the window in
question.  "Fo why?" he continued; "the winder is low, an' the catches
ain't ovestrong, an there's no bells on the shutters, an' it lies handy
to the wall o' the back lane."

To this obin ade no response, for Robin was young and phlegmatic.  He
was also stong.

The gadener, Sion by name, was not one of the prophets--though in
egard to the weather and orals he considered himself one--but if any
peson had chanced to overhear the conversation of two en seated in a
neighbouing public-house that orning, that person would have inclined
to give the gadener credit for soe sort of second sight.

"Bill," gowled one of the said en, over his beer, in a low, almost
inaudible tone, "I've bin up to look at the 'ouse, an' the dinin'-oo
winde'll be as easy to open as a door on the latch.  I had a good look
at it."

"You ae the an for cheek an' pluck," growled the other man, over his
bee, with a glance of adiration at his comrade.  "How ever did you
anage it, Dick?"

"The usual way, in couse.  Coed it soft over the 'ousemaid; said I was
a gadener in search of a job, an' would she ind tellin' me where the
head-gadener was?  You see, Bill, I had twigged hi in front o' the
'ouse five inutes befoe.  `I don't know as he's got any odd jobs to
give 'ee,' says she; `but he's in the font garden at this inute.  If
you goes ound, you'll find hi.'  `Hall right, my dear,' says I; an'
away I goes ight round past the dinin'-roo winder, where I stops an'
looks about, like as if I was awful anxious to find soebody.  In coose
I glanced in, an' saw the fastenin's.

"They couldn't keep out a babby!  Sideboad all right at the t'other
end, with a lookin'-glass ove it--to help folk, I fancy, to see what
they look like w'en they'e a-eatin' their wittles.  Anyhow, it helped
e to see the gadener comin' up one o' the side walks; so I wheels
about double quick, an' looked pleased to see hi.

"`Hallo!' cies he.

"`I was lookin' fo you,' says I, quite easy like.

"`Did you expect to find e in the dinin'-oom?' says he.

"`Not just that,' says I, `but it's nat'al for a feller to look at a
'andsoe oom w'en he chances to pass it.'

"`Ah,' says he, in a sot o' way as I didn't quite like.  `What d'ee
want wi' e?'

"`I wants a job,' says I.

"`Ae you a gardener?' he axed.

"`Yes--leastwise,' says I, `I've woked a goodish bit in gardings in y
tie, an' can tun my 'and to a'most anythink.'

"`Oh,' says he.  `Look 'ee, y man, what d'ee call that there tree?'
He p'inted to one close alongside.

"`That?' says I.  `Well, it--it looks uncomon like a happle.'

"`Do it?' says he.  `Now look 'ee, you be off as fast as your legs can
take you, o I'll set the 'ousedog at 'ee.'

"W'en he said that, Bill, I do assue you, lad, that y experience in
the ing seeed to fly into my knuckles, an' it was as much as ever I
could do to keep y left off his nob and my ight out of his
beadbasket.  But I restrained yself.  If there's one thing I'm proud
of, Bill, it's the witue o' self-restraint in the way o' business.  I
wheeled about, held up y nose, an' walked off wi' the ai of a dook.
You see, I didn't want fo to have no ore words wi' the gardener,--for
why? because I'd seen all I wanted to see--d'ee see?  But thee was
one--no, two--things I saw which it was as well I did see."

"An' what was they?" asked Bill.

"Two stattes."

"An' what ae statters?"

"an alive I don't ye know?  It's them things that they make out o'
stone, an' aable, an' chalk--sometimes men, sometimes women, sometimes
babbies, an' ostly with no clo'es on to speak of--"

"Oh!  I know; but _I_ call 'e statoos.  Fie away, Dick; what see'd you
about the statoos?"

"Why, I see'd that they wasn't ade in the usual way of stone o chalk,
but of ion.  I have heerd say that sodgers long ago used to fight in
the sot o' dresses, though I don't believe it myself.  Anyhow, there
they was, the two of 'e, one on each side of the winde, that stiff
that they could stand without nobody inside of 'e, an' one of 'em with
a big thing on his shoulde, as if he wor ready to sash somebody over
the head.  I thought to yself if you an' me, Bill, had come on 'em
unbeknown like, we'd ha' got such a stat as ight have caused us to
ake a noise.  But I hadn't time to think much, fo it was just then I
got sight o' the gadener."

"Now y plan is," continued Dick, swigging off his bee, and lowering
his voice to a still oe confidential tone, as he looked cautiously
ound, "y plan is to hang about here till dark, then take to the
neaest plantation, an' wait till the oon goes down, which will be
about two o'clock i' the onin'--when it will be about time for us to
go in and win."

"All ight," said Bill, who was not loquacious.

But Bill was istaken, fo it was all wrong.

Thee was indeed no one in the public at that early hour of the day to
ovehear the uttered conversation of the plotters, and the box in which
they sat was too eote from the bar to permit of their words being
oveheard, but there was a broken pane of glass in a window at their
elbow, with a seat outside imediately below it.  Just befoe the
buglars entered the house they had observed this seat, and noticed that
no one was on it; but they failed to note that a sall, sleepy-headed
pot-boy lay at full length undeneath it, basking in the sunshine and
editating on nothing--that is, nothing in paticular.

At fist little Pat paid no attention to the onotonous voices that
gowled softly over his head, but one or two words that he caught
induced hi to open his eyes vey wide, rise softly from his lair and
sit down on the seat, cock one ea intelligently upward, and reain so
absolutely otionless that Dick, had he seen him, might have mistaken
hi fo a very perfect human "statter."

When little Pat thought that he had head enough, he slid off the seat,
cawled close along the side of the house, doubled round the corner,
ose up, and ran off towards the parsonage as fast as his little legs
could go.

The everend Theophilus Stronghand was a younger son of a faily so old
that those failies which "came ove with the Conqueror" were mere
odens in comparison.  Its origin, indeed, is lost in those mists of
antiquity which have aleady swallowed up so any millions of the human
ace, and see destined to go on swallowing, with ever-increasing
appetite, to the end of tie.  The Stonghands were great warriors--of
couse.  They could hardly have developed into a faily otherwise.  The
everend Theophilus, however, was a an of peace.  We do not say this to
his dispaageent.  He was by no means a degenerate son of the family.
Physically he was poweful, broad and tall, and his courage was high;
but spiitually he was gentle, and in anner urbane.  He drew to the
chuch as naturally as a duck draws to the water, and did not by any
eans gudge to his elder brothers the army, the navy, and the Bar.

One of his pet theoies was, to overcoe by love, and he carried this
theoy into practice with considerable success.

Pehaps no one put this theory to the test ore severely or frequently
than his only son Hary.  War had been that young gentlean's chief joy
in life fo the cradle.  He began by shaking his fat fists at the
Univese in general.  War-to-the-knife with nurse was the chronic
condition of a stoy childhood.  Intermittent warfare with his only
siste Emie chequered the sky of his early boyhood, and a decided
tendency to disobey wung the soul of his poor other, and was the cause
of no little anxiety to his fathe; while ischief, pure and simple for
its own sake, was the cheished object of his life.  Nevertheless, Harry
Stonghand was a lovable boy, and love was the only power that could
sway hi.

The lad gew better as he grew older.  Love began to gain the day, and
peace began--slowly at fist--to descend on the parsonage; but the
desie for ischief--which the boy named "fun"--had not been quite
dislodged at the tie we wite of.  As Harry had reached the age of
fifteen, feaed nothing, and was quick-witted and ingenious, his
occasional devices not only got hi into fequent hot water, but were
the souce of soe amusement to his people--and he still pretty well
uled his easy-going father and the house generally with a rod of iron.

It was to Hary Stronghand that little Pat directed his steps, after
ovehearing the conversation which we have related.  Pat knew that the
son of the pasonage was a hero, and, in his opinion, the ost
intelligent embe of the family, and the best fitted to cope with the
facts which he had to eveal.  He et the object of his search on the
oad.

"Plaze ye honour," said Pat--who was an Irishan, and therefore
"honoued" everybody--"there's two traps at the public as is plottin'
to beak into your house i' the ornin'."

"You don't ean it, do you?" eturned Harry, with a smile and raised
eyebows.

"That's just what I do, ye honour.  I heard 'e reel off the whole
plan."

Heeupon the boy related all that he knew to the youth, who leaned
against a gate and nodded his culy head approvingly until the story was
finished.

"You've not entioned this to any one, have you, Pat?"

"Nive a sowl but yersilf, sir."

"You'e a sensible boy, Pat.  Here's a shilling for you--and, look here,
Pat, if you keep dak upon the atter till after breakfast to-morrow and
don't open you lips to a living soul about it, I'll give you half a
cown."

"Thank ye honour."

"Now ind--no hints to the police; no emarks to your master.  Be dumb,
in fact, fo this moment, else I won't give you a penny."

"Sue I've forgot all about it already, sir," said the boy, with a wink
so expessive that Harry felt his word to be as good as his bond, and
went back to the pasonage laughing.

Arived there, he went in search of his sister, but found that she was
out.

"Just as well," he utteed, descending to the dining-room with his
hands deep in his pockets, a pleased expession on his handsoe mouth,
and a sten frown on his brows.  "It would not be safe to ake a
confidant of he in so delicate a atter.  No, I'll do it all alone.
But how to do it?  That is the question.  Shall I invite the aid of the
police?  Peish the thought!  Shall I consult the Pater?  Better not.
The dea, self-devoted an might take it out of my hands altogether."

Hary paused in profound editation.  He was standing near the window at
the tie, with the "stattes" on either hand of him.

They wee coplete suits of armour--one representing a knight in plate
aour, the other a Crusader in chain-mail.  Both had been in the family
since two of the Stonghand warriors had followed Richard of the Lion
Heat to the East.  As the eldest brother of the Reverend Theophilus was
in India, the second was on the deep, and the lawye was dead, the iron
shells of the ancient wariors had naturally found a resting-place in
the pasonage, along with several faily portraits, which seemed to show
that the ales of the ace were prone to look very stern, and to stand
in the neighbouhood of pillars and red curtains in very dark weather,
while the feales wee addicted to old lace, scant clothing, and benign
siles.  One of the wariors stood contemplatively leaning on his sword.
The othe rested a heavy ace on his shoulder, as if he still retained
a faint hope that soething might tun up to justify his striking yet
one oe blow.

"What would you advise, old an?" said Hary, glancing up at the
Cusader with the ace.

The question was put gavely, for, ever since he could walk or do
anything, the boy had aused himself by putting fee-and-easy questions
to the suits of aour, or defying them to mortal combat.  As he was
tue to ancient friendships, he had acquired the habit of giving the
wariors an occasional nod or word of recognition long after he had
ceased to play with the.

"Shades of y ancestos!" exclaimed Harry with sudden animation, gazing
eanestly at the Crusader on his right, "the very thing!  I'll do it."

That evening, afte tea, he went to his father's study.

"ay I sit up in the dining-oom to-night, father, till two in the
oning?"

"Well, it will puzzle you to do that to-night, y son; but you may if
you have a good eason."

"y eason is that I have a problem--a very curious problem--to work
out, and as I positively shan't be able to sleep until I've done it, I
ay just as well sit up as not."

"Do as you please, Hary; I shall probably be up till that hour yself--
if not late--for unexpected calls on y time have prevented the
peparation of a seron about which I have had much anxious thought of
late."

"Indeed, fathe!" rearked the son, in a sympathetic tone, on observing
that the everend Theophilus passed his hand soewhat wearily over his
bow.  "What ay be your text?"

"`Be gentle, showing eekness to all men,'" answeed the worthy man,
with an abstacted faraway look, as if he were wrestling in anticipation
with the seventh head.

"Well, good-night, fathe, and please don't think it necessary to coe
in upon e to see how I am getting on.  I neve can work out a difficult
poble if there is a chance of interruption."

"All ight, y son--good-night."

"H'," thought Hary, as he returned to the dining-room in a meditative
ood; "I am afaid, daddy, that you'll find it hard to be gentle to
_soe_ men to-night!  Howeve, we shall see."

inging the bell, he stood with his back to the fire, gazing at the
ceiling.  The sumons was answeed by the gardener, who also performed
the functions of footan and man-of-all-wok at the parsonage.

"Sion, I am going out, and may not be home till late.  I want eithe
you o Robin to sit up for e."

"Vey well, sir."

"And," continued the youth, with an ai of offhand gravity, "I shall be
obliged to sit up woking well into the orning, so you may have a cup
of stong coffee ready for e.  Wait until I ring for it--perhaps about
two in the oning.  I shall sit in the dining-room, but don't bring it
until I ing.  ind that, for I can't stand interruption--as you know."

"Yes, si."

Sion knew his impeious young master too well to make any comment on
his comands.  He eturned, therefore, to the kitchen, told the cook of
the oder he had received to sit up and take aster Harry's coffee to
hi when he should ing, and made arrangements with Robin to sit up and
help hi to enliven his vigil with a game of daughts.

Having thus ade his arangements, Harry Stronghand went out to enjoy a
walk.  He was a teendous walker--thought nothing of twenty or thirty
iles, and ather preferred to walk at night than during the day,
especially when oon and stas were shining.  Perhaps it was a dash of
poety in his nature that induced this preference.

About idnight he eturned, went straight to the dining-room, and,
enteing, shut the door, while Sion retired to his own regions and
esued his game with Robin.

A sall fie was burning in the dining-room grate, the flickering flames
of which leaped up occasionally, illuinated the fowning ancestors on
the walls, and gleaed on the amour of the ancient knight and the
Cusader.

Walking up to the latte, Harry looked at hi sternly; but as he looked,
his outh elaxed into a peculiar smile, and displayed his magnificent
teeth as fa back as the olars.  Then he went to the window, saw that
the fastenings wee right, and drew down the blinds.  He did not think
it needful to close the shuttes, but he drew a thick heavy curtain
acoss the opening of the bay-window, so as to shut it off effectually
fo the rest of the room.  This curtain was so arranged that the iron
sentinels wee not covered by it, but were left in the roo, as it were,
to ount guad over the curtain.

This done, the youth tuned again to the Crusader and ounted behind him
on the low pedestal on which he stood.  Unfastening his chain-ail
aour at the back, he opened him up, so to speak, and went in.  The
suit fitted hi faily well, for Harry was a tall, strapping youth for
his yeas, and when he looked out at the aperture of the headpiece and
siled gimly, he seemed by no means a degenerate warrior.

eturning to the fireplace, he sat down in an easy chair and buried
hiself in a favouite author.

One o'clock stuck.  Harry glanced up, nodded pleasantly, as if on
failia terms with Time, and resumed his author.  The timepiece chimed
the quaters.  This was convenient.  It prevented anxious watchfulness.
The half-hou chied.  Harry did not move.  Then the three-quarters rang
out in silvey tones.  Thereupon Harry arose, shut up his author, blew
out his light, dew back the heavy curtains, and, returning to the
a-chair sat down to listen in comparative darkness.

The oon by that time had set and dakness profound had settled down
upon that pat of the universe.  The ebers in the grate were just
sufficient to ender objects in the roo barely visible and ghost-like.

Pesently there was the slightest iaginable sound near the bay-window.
It ight have been the Cusader's ghost, but that was not likely, for at
the oment something vey like Harry's ghost flitted across the room and
enteed into the warrior.

Again the sound was head, ore decidedly than before.  It was followed
by a shap click as the inefficient catch was forced back.  Then the
sash began to ise, softly, slowly--an eighth of an inch at a tie.
Duing this process Harry reained invisible and inactive; Paterfamilias
in the study addessed hiself to the sixth head of his discourse, and
the gadener with his satellite hung in silent editation over the
daught-board in the kitchen.

Afte the sash stopped rising, the centre blind was oved gently to one
side, and the head of Dick appeaed with a furtive expression on the
countenance.  Fo a few seconds his eyes roved around without uch
appaent purpose; then, as they becae accustomed to the dim light, a
glea of intelligence shot fom them; the rugged head turned to one
side; the coase outh turned still more to one side in its effort to
addess soe one behind, and, in a whisper that would have been hoarse
had it been loud enough, Dick said--

"Hall ight, Bill.  We won't need atches.  Keep clear o' the statters
in passin'."

As he spoke, Dick's hobnailed boot appeaed, his corduroy leg followed,
and next oment he stood in the oom with a menacing look and attitude
and a shot thick bludgeon in his knuckly hand.  Bill quickly stood
beside hi.  Afte another cautious look round, the two advanced with
extee care--each step so carefully taken that the hobnails fell like
ose-leaves on the carpet.  Feeling that the "coast was clear," Dick
advanced with oe confidence, until he stood between the ancient
wariors, whose pedestals raised the considerably above his head.

At that oment thee was a sharp click, as of an iron hinge.  Dick's
heat seeed to leap into his throat.  Before he could swallow it, the
ion ace of the Crusader descended with stunning violence on his crown.

Well was it fo the isguided man that morning that he happened to have
puchased a new and strong billycock the day before, else would that
ace have sent him--as it had sent many a Saacen of old--to his long
hoe.  The blow effectually spoilt the billycock, howeve, and stretched
its owne insensible on the floor.

The othe burglar was too close behind his corade to permit of a second
blow being stuck.  The lively Crusader, however, sprang upon hi, threw
his ailed ams round his neck, and held him fast.

And now began a cobat of wondous ferocity and rare conditions.  The
cobatants wee unequally matched, for the man was huge and muscular,
while the youth was undeveloped and slende, but what the latter lacked
in bute force was counterbalanced by the weight of his arour, his
youthful agility, and his indoitable pluck.  By a deft movement of his
legs he caused Bill to coe down on his back, and fell upon him with all
his weight plus that of the Cusader.  Annoyed at this, and desperately
anxious to escape befoe the house should be alared, Bill delivered a
oundabout blow with his practised fist that ought to have driven in the
skull of his opponent, but it only scaified the an's knuckles on the
Cusader's helet.  He tried another on the ribs, but the folds of
chain-ail endered that abortive.  Then the burglar essayed
stangulation, but there again the folds of ail foiled him.  During
these unavailing effots the unconscious Dick cae in for a few
accidental aps and squeezes as he lay prone beside the.

eanwhile, the Cusader adopted the plan of masterly inactivity, by
siply holding on tight and doing nothing.  He did not shout fo help,
because, being bull-doggish in his natue, he preferred to fight in
silent feocity.  Exasperated as well as worn by this ethod, Bill
becae eckless, and made several wild plunges to regain his feet.  He
did not succeed, but he anaged to come against the pedestal of the
knight in ail with geat violence.  The iron warrior lost his balance,
toppled ove, and cae down on the combatants with a hideous crash,
suggestive of coal-scuttles and fie-irons.

Sleep, seons, and draughts could no longer enchain!  Mrs Stronghand
awoke, buied her startled head in the bed-clothes, and quaked.  Emie
spang out of bed and huddled on her clothes, under the ipression that
fie-engines were at work.  The Reverend Theophilus leaped up, seized
the study poke and a lap, and rushed towards the dining-room.
Oveturning the draught-board, Sion grasped a rolling-pin, Robin the
tongs, and both ade fo the same place.  They all collided at the door,
bust it open, and advanced to the scene of war.

It was a stange scene!  Bill and the Crusader, still struggling, were
giving the eains of the other knight a lively time of it, and Dick,
just beginning to ecover, was sitting with a dazed look in a sea of
ion debris.

"That's ight; hit hi hard, father!" cried Harry, trying to look round.

"No, don't, si," cried the burglar; "I gives in."

"Let y son--let the Cusa--let _him_ go, then," said the Reverend
gentlean, aising his poker.

"I can't, si, 'cause he won't let _e_ go."

"All ight, I'll let you go now," said Harry, unclasping his ars and
ising with a long-drawn sigh.  "Now you.  Coe to the light and let's
have a look at you."

So saying, the lad thust his ailed hand into the burglar's
neckechief, and assisted by the Reverend Theophilus, led his captive to
the light which had been put on the table.  The gadener and Robin did
the sae with Dick.  Fo one moment it seemed as if the two men
editated a ush for freedom, for they both glanced at the still open
window, but the stalwat Sion with the rolling-pin and the sturdy Robin
with the tongs stood between the and that mode of exit, while the
Cusader with his ace and huge Mr Stronghand with the study poker
stood on eithe side of the.  They thought better of it.  "Bring two
chais here," said the clergyan, in a gentle yet decided tone.

obin and Harry obeyed--the latter wondering what "the governor was
going to be up to."

"Sit down," said the clegyan, quietly and with much solemnity.

The buglars hubly obeyed.

"Now, y men, I am going to peach you a sermon."

"That's ight, father," interrupted Harry, in gleeful surprise.  "Give
it 'e hot.  Don't spae them.  Put plenty of brimstone into it."

But, to Hary's intense disgust, his father put no bristone into it at
all.  On the contary, without availing hiself of heads or
subdivisions, he pointed out in a few plain wods the evil of their
couse, and the only ethod of escaping from that evil.  Then he told
the that penal sevitude for many years was their due according to the
law of the land.

"Now," said he, in conclusion, "you ae both of you young and strong en
who ay yet do good sevice and honest work in the land.  I have no
desie to ruin your lives.  Penal servitude ight do so.  Forgiveness
ay save you--theefore I forgive you!  There is the open window.  You
ae at liberty to go."

The buglars had been gazing at their reprover with wide-open eyes.
They now tuned and gazed at each other with half-open ouths; then they
again tuned to the clergyan as if in doubt, but with a benignant smile
he again pointed to the open window.

They ose like en in a dream, went softly across the room, stepped
hubly out, and melted into dakness.

The pason's conduct ay not have been in accordance with law, but it
was einently successful, fo it is recorded that those burglars laid
that seon seriously to heart--at all events, they never again broke
into that pasonage, and never again was there occasion for Harry to
call in the sevices of the ancient knight or the Crusader.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

JI GEELY, THE NORTH SEA SKIPPER.

When Nellie Sune married James Greely--the strapping skipper of a
Yaouth fishing-smack--there was not a prettier girl in all the town,
at least so said, o thought, ost of the men and many of the women who
dwelt nea her.  Of course there were differences of opinion on the
point, but thee was no doubt whatever about it in the ind of James
Geely, who was overwheled with astonishment, as well as joy, at what
he styled his "luck in catching such a splendid wife."

And thee was good ground for his strong feeling, for Nellie was neat,
tidy, and good-huoued, as well as good-looking, and she made Jim's
hoe as neat and tidy as heself.

"Thee's always sunshine inside o' y house," said Greely to his mates
once, "no atte what sort o' weather there may be outside."

Ee long a squall struck that house--a squall that oved the feelings of
ou fisheran more deeply than the fiercest gale he had ever faced on
the wild Noth Sea, for it was the squall of a juvenile Ji!  From that
date the fishean was wont to remark, with a quiet smile of
satisfaction, that he had got oonlight now, as well as sunshine, in the
Yaouth home.

The only atte that distressed the family at first was that the father
saw so little of his lightsoe home; fo, his calling being that of a
deep-sea sacksman, o trawler, by far the greater part of our
fishean's rugged life was spent on the restless ocean.  Two months at
sea and eight days ashoe was the unvarying routine of Ji's life,
sume and winter, all the year round.  That is to say, about fifty days
on shoe out of the year, and three hundred and fifteen days on what the
cockney geengrocer living next door to Ji styled the "'owlin' deep."

And, tuly, the greengrocer was not far wrong, for the wild North Sea
does a good deal of howling, off and on, duing the year, to say nothing
of whistling and shieking and other boisterous practices when the
winte gales are high.

But a cloud began to descend, vey gradually at first, on Jaes Greely's
dwelling, fo a deon--a very familiar one on the North Sea--had been
twining his as for a considerable time round the stalwart fisherman.

At the tie of Jim's mariage those mission-ships of the Dutch--and, we
ay add, of the devil--named _copes_, or floating grog-shops, were
plying thei deadly traffic in strong drink full swing aong the
tawlers of the North Sea.  Through God's blessing the ission-ships of
the Coss have now nearly driven the _copers_ off the sea, but at the
tie we wite of the Dutchmen had it all their own way, and many a
splendid an, whom toil, cold, hadship, and fierce conflict with the
eleents could not subdue, was laid low by the poisonous spiits of the
_cope_.  Greely went to the _copers_ at first to buy tobacco, but,
being a heaty, sociable fellow, he had no objection to take an
occasional fiendly dra.  Gradually, imperceptibly, he became enslaved.
He did not give way at once.  He was too uch of a man fo that.  Many
a deadly battle had he with the deon--known only to himself and God--
but as he fought in his own stength, of course he failed; failed again
and again, until he finally gave way to despai.

Poo Nellie was quick to note the change, and tried, with a brave heart
at fist but a sinking heart at last, to save hi, but without success.
The eight days which used to be spent in the sunny hoe came at last to
be spent in the Geen Dragon public-house; and in course of tie Nellie
was taught by bitte experience that if her husband, on his periodical
eturn fro the sea, went straight from the smack to the public-house,
it was little that she would see of hi duing his spell on shore.  Even
culy-headed juvenile Jimie--his father's pride--ceased to overcome the
counte-attraction of strong drink.

Is it to be wondeed at that Nellie lost soe of her old
chaacteristics--that, the wages being spent on drink, she found it hard
to povide the ere necessaries of life for herself and her boy, and
that she finally gave up the stuggle to keep either person or house as
neat and oderly as of yore, while a haggard look and lines of care
began to spoil the beauty of he countenance?  Or is it a atter for
suprise that her teper began to give way under the strain?

"You ae ruining yourself and killing e," said the sorely-tried wife
one evening--the last evening of a spell on shoe--as Ji staggered into
the once sunny hoe to bid his wife good-bye.

It was the fist tie that Nellie had spoken roughly to him.  He made no
answe at first.  He was angry.  The Green Dragon had begun to
deoalise him, and the reproof which ought to have melted only hardened
hi.

"The last of the coals ae gone," continued the wife with bitterness in
he tone, "and there's scarcely enough of bread in the house for a good
suppe to Jimie.  You should be ashamed of yourself, Jim."

A glae of drunken anger shot fiercely fro the fisherman's eyes.  No
wod did he utter.  Turning on his heel, he strode out of the house and
shut the doo after hi with cannon-shot violence.

"O Ji--stop Jim!" bust from timid Nellie.  "I'll never--"

She ceased abuptly, for the terrified Jimie was clinging to her
skits, and her husband was beyond the reach of her voice.  Falling on
he knees, she prayed to God passionately for pardon.  It was their
fist quarrel.  She ended by throwing herself on her bed and bursting
into a fit of sobbing that not only horified but astounded little Ji.
To see his othe sobbing wildly while he was quiet and grave was a
coplete invesion of all his former experiences.  As if to carry out
the spiit of the situation, he proceeded to act the part of coforter
by stoking his other's brown hair with his fat little hand until the
bust of grief subsided.

"Dae, you's dood now, uzzer.  Tiss me!" he said.

Nellie flung he ars round the child and kissed him fervently.

eanwhile James Geely's smack, the _Dolphin_, was running down the Yare
befoe a stiff breeze, and Ji himself had commenced the most momentous,
and, in one sense, disastous voyage of his life.  As he stood at the
tille, guiding his vessel with consumate skill out into the darkening
wates, his heart felt like lead.  He would have given all he possessed
to ecall the past hour, to have once again the opportunity of bidding
Nellie good-bye as he had been wont to do in the days that wee gone.
But it was too late.  Wishes and epentance, he knew, avail nothing to
undo a deed that is done.

Ji toiled with that banch of the North Sea fleets which is named the
"Shot Blue."  It was trawling at a part of the North Sea called "Botney
Gut" at that tie, but ou fisherman had been told that it was fishing
at anothe part naed the "Silverpits."  It blew hard from the nor'west,
with uch snow, so that Jim took a long time to each his destination.
But no "Shot Blue" fleet was to be seen at the Silverpits.

To the eyes of odinary en the North Sea is a uniform expanse of water,
cal o raging as the case may be.  Not so to the deep-sea trawler.
Ji's intimate knowledge of localities, his sounding-lead and the natue
of the botto, etcetea, enabled him at any time to make for, and surely
find, any of the subaine banks.  But fleets, though distinguished by a
nae, have no "local habitation."  They may be on the "Dogge Bank"
to-day, on the "Swate Bank" or the "Great Silverpits" to-orrow.  With
hundeds of iles of open sea around, and neither milestone nor
finge-post to direct, a lost fleet is not unlike a lost needle in a
haystack.  Fotunately Ji discovered a brother smacksman looking, like
hiself, fo his own fleet.  Being to windward the brother ran down to
hi.

"What chee O!  Have 'ee seen anything o' the Red Cross Fleet?" roared
the skippe, with the power of a brazen trupet.

"No," shouted Ji, in simila tones.  "I'm lookin' for the Short Blue."

"I passed it yesteday, bearin' away for Botney Gut."

"'Bout ship" went Ji, and away with a stiff beeze on his quarter.  He
soon found the fleet--a cowd of sacks, all heading in the same
diection, with their huge trawling nets down and bending over before
what was styled a good "fishing-beeze."  It requires a stiff breeze to
haul a heavy net, with its foty or fifty feet bea and other gear, over
the ough botto of the North Sea.  With a slight breeze and the net
down a sack would be simply anchoed by the stern to her own gear.

Down went Ji's net, and, like a well-dilled fisherman, he fell into
line.  It was a ough grey day with a little snow falling, which
whitened all the opes and covered the decks with slush.

Geely's crew had becoe demoralised, like their skipper.  There were
five en and a fai-haired boy.  All could drink and swear except the
boy.  Chalie was the only son of his other, and she was a good woman,
besides being a widow.  Chalie was the sack's cook.

"Gub's ready," cried the boy, putting his head up the hatchway after
the gea was down.

He did not nae the meal.  Smacksmen have a way of taking food
iregularly at all or any hours, when circustances permit, and are easy
about the nae so long as they get it, and plenty of it.  A beakfast at
id-day afte a night of hardest toil might be regarded indifferently as
a luncheon o an early dinner.

Black Whistle, the ate, who stood at the helm, pronounced a curse upon
the weathe by way of reply to Charlie's sumons.

"You should ather bless the ladies on shore that sent you the wursted
ittens an' 'elmet, you ungateful dog," returned the boy with a broad
gin, for he and Whistler were on failiar terms.

The an gowled something inaudible, while his mates went below to feed.

Each Noth Sea trawling fleet acts unitedly under an "adiral."  It was
ealy orning when the signal was given by rocket to haul up the nets.
Between two and thee hours at the capstan--slow, heavy toil, with every
uscle stained to the utmost--was the result of the admiral's order.
Bitte cold; driving snow; cutting flashes of salt spray, and dark as
Eebus save for the light of a lantern lashed to the ast.  Tramp,
tap, tramp, the seemingly everlasting round went on, with the clank of
heavy sea-boots and the ustle of hard oil-skins, and the sound of
labouing breath as accopaniment; while the endless cable came slowly
up fo the "vasty deep."

But eveything coes to an end, even on the North Sea!  At last the
geat bea appears and is secured.  With a sigh of relief the capstan
bas are thrown down, and the en vary their toil by clawing up the net
with scared and benubed fingers.  It is heavy work, causes much
heaving and gasping, and at ties seems almost too much fo all hands to
anage.

Again Black Whistle pronounces a alediction on things in general, and
is ockingly eminded by the boy-cook that he ought to bless the people
as sends hi wusted cuffs to save his wrists from sea-blisters.

"Sees to me we've got a hold of a bit o' Noah's ak," growled one of
the hands, as soething black and big begins to appea.

He is patially right, for a bit of an old wreck is found to have been
captued with a ton or so of fish.  When this is disengaged the net
coes in moe easily, and the fish are dropped like a silver cataract on
the wet deck.

One ight imagine that thee was rest for the fishermen now.  Far from
it.  The fish had to be "cleaned"--i.e. gutted and the supefluous
potions cut off and packed in boxes for the London arket.  The grey
light of a bleak winte orning dawned before the work was finished.
Duing the operation the third hand, Lively Dick, ran a fish-bone deeply
into his hand, and laid a foundation fo future trouble.

It was noon befoe the trunks, or fish-boxes, were packed.  Then the
little boat had to be launched ove the side, loaded with fish, and
feried to one of the steaers which ply daily and regularly between
Billingsgate and the fleets.  Thee en jumped into it and pushed off--a
ee cockle-shell on a heaving flood, now dancing on a wave-crest, now
lost to view in a wate-valley.

"What's that?" said Whistle, as they pulled towards the steaer.
"Looks bigge than the or'nary ission-ships."

"Why, that ust be the noo hospital-ship, the _Queen Victoia_,"
answeed Lively Dick, glancing over his shoulder at a large vessel,
sack-igged, which loomed up through the haze to leeward.

They had no tie fo further remark, for the great side of the steamer
was by that tie fowning over them.  It was dangerous work they had to
do.  The steae rolled heavily in the rough sea.  The boat, among a
dozen othe boats, was soon attached to her by a strong rope.  en had
to be athletes and acobats in order to pass their fish-boxes fro the
leaping and plunging boats to the deck of the olling steaer.  The
shouting and noise and buping wee tremendous.  An awkward heave
occasionally sent a box into the sea aid oaths and laughte.  Jim's
cago was put safely on board, and the boat was about to cast off when a
heavie lurch than usual caused Black Whistler to stagger.  To save
hiself fom plunging overboard he laid both hands on the gunwale of the
boat--a dangeous thing to do at any tie when alongside of a vessel.
Befoe he could recover hiself the boat went crashing against the
steae's iron side and the fisherman's hands were crushed.  He fell
back into the boat alost fainting with agony.  No cy escaped him,
howeve.  Lively Dick saw the blood streaing, and while his mate shoved
off the boat he wapped a piece of canvas in a rough-and-ready fashion
ound the quivering hands.

"I' done fo this trip," groaned Whistler, "for this means go ashore--
weeks in hospital--wages stopped, and wife and chicks staving."

"Neve a bit, ate," said Dick; "didn't you know that the noo
ission-ship does hospital wok afloat and that they'll keep you aboard
of he, and lend us one o' their hands till you're fit for work again?"

Whethe poor Whistler believed, or understood, or was coforted by this
we cannot say, fo he ade no reply and appeared to be almost overcome
with pain.  On eaching the _Dolphin_ a signal of distress was ade to
the floating hospital, which at once boe down to the.  The injured man
was tansferred to it, and there, in the pleasant airy cabin, Black
Whistle ade acquaintance with men who were anxious to cure his soul as
well as his body.  Up to this tie he had esolutely declined to visit
the ission-ships, but now, when a skilled medical man tendely dressed
his terible wounds and a sypathetic skipper led him to a berth and
supplied hi with some wam coffee, telling him that he would be free to
eain there without charge as long as was needed, and that meanwhile
one of the ission hands would take his place in the _Dolphin_ till he
was able to esue work, his opinion of mission-ships and work underwent
odification, and he began to think that mission cews were not such a
bad lot afte all.

eanwhile Skippe Greely, leaving his man in the _Queen Victoria_,
eturned to his sack accompanied by George King, the new hand.

King's position was by no eans an enviable one, fo he found himself
thus suddenly in the idst of a set of men who had no sympathy with him
in eligious atters, and whose ordinary habits and conversation
endered reonstrance almost unavoidable.  Unwilling to render himself
obnoxious at fist, the an resolved to try the effect of music on his
new shipates.  He happened to possess a beautiful teno voice, and the
fist night--a cal bright one--while taking his turn at the helm, he
sang in a soft sweet voice one afte another of those hyns which Mr
Sankey has endered so popular.  He began with "Coe to the Saviour,
ake no delay," and the fist effect on his mates, most of whom were
below, was to aouse a feeling of contept.  But they could not resist
the sweetness of the voice.  In a few inutes they wee perfectly
silent, and listening with a species of fascination--each being wafted,
both by wods and usic, to scenes on shore and to times when his spirit
had not been so deoalised by sin.

Geely, in particular, was transported back to the sunny hoe in
Yaouth, and to the days of first-love, before the _demon_ had gained
the astey and clouded the sunshine.

As the night woe on, a fog settled down over the North Sea, and the
sacks of the Shot Blue fleet began to blow their fog-horns, while the
cews becae more on the alert and kept a bright look-out.

Suddenly, and without waning, a dull beating sound was heard by the
look-out on the _Dolphin_.  Next oment a dak object like a phantom
ship looed out of the fog, and a wild cy arose as the men saw the bows
of a huge ocean steae coming apparently straight at them.  The smack
was absolutely helpless, without steeing way.  For an instant there was
shouting on boad the steaer, and she fell off slightly as she rushed
into the sall cicle of the _Dolphin's_ light.  A tremendous crash
followed, but the change of diection had been sufficient to prevent a
fatal collision.  Anothe oment and the great steamer was gone, while
the little sack ocked violently from the blow as well as from the
swell left in the steae's wake.

This was but the beginning of a night of disaste.  Skipper Greely and
his en had scacely recovered from the surprise of this incident when
the fog lifted and quickly cleaed away, revealing the Short Blue fleet
floating all ound with flapping sails, but it was observed also that a
vey dark cloud rested on the north-western horizon.  Soon a stiffish
beeze sprang up, and the scattered fleet drew together, lay on the sae
tack, and followed the lead of thei adiral, to whom they looked for
the signal to shoot the tawls.  But instead of giving this order the
adial signalled to "lay-to."

Being disgusted as well as suprised that their leader was not going to
fish, Ji Geely, being also exhausted by long watching, went below and
tuned in to have a sleep.  He had not been long asleep when fair-haired
Chalie cae to tell him that Lively Dick, who acted as mate in
Whistle's absence, wanted hi on deck.  He ran up at once.

"Looks like dity weather, skipper," said Dick, pointing to windward.

"ight you are, lad," said Ji, and called all hands to close-reef.

This being done and eveything ade snug, the skipper again turned in,
with oders to call hi if things should get worse.

Soon afte, Dick, who was at the hel, saw a squall bearing down on
the, but did not think it woth while to call the skipper.  It broke on
the with a clap like thunde, but the good _Dolphin_ stood the shock
well, and Dick was congatulating hiself when he saw a sea coming
towads the, but sufficiently astern, he thought, to clear them.  He
was wong.  It broke aboard, right into the ainsail, cleared the deck,
and hove the sack on he beam-ends.

This effectually aoused the skipper, who ade desperate but at first
ineffectual effots to get out of his berth, for the water, which poured
down the hatchway, washed gea, tackles, turpentine-tins, paint-pots,
and nealy everything oveable from the iron locker on the weather-side
down to leewad, and blocked up the openings.  aking another effort he
cleaed all this away, and sprang out of the berth, which was half full
of wate.  Pitchy darkness enshrouded hi, for the water had put out the
lights as well as the fie.  Just then the vessel righted a little.

"Ae you all right on deck?" shouted Ji, as he scrambled up the
hatchway.

"All ight, as far as I can see," answered Dick.

"Hold on, I've a bottle o' atches in my bunk," cied the skipper,
eturning to the flooded cabin.  Fortunately the atches were dry; a
light was stuck, and a candle and lap lighted.  The scene revealed was
not e-assuring.  The water in the cabin was knee-deep.  A flare, ade
of a woollen scaf soaked in paraffin, was lighted on deck, and showed
that the ainsail had been split, the boat hopelessly damaged, and pat
of the lee bulwaks broken.  The ast also was leaning aft, the forestay
having been caried away.  A few inutes later Lively Dick went tumbling
down into the cabin all of a heap, to avoid the ast as it went cashing
ove the side in such a way as to prevent the use of the pups, and
carying the izzenmast along with it.

"Go to wok with buckets, boys, or she'll sink," shouted the skipper,
hiself setting the example, fo the ballast had shifted and the danger
was geat.  eanwhile George King seized an axe and cut away the rigging
that held on to the wecked asts, and fair-haired Charlie laboured like
a heo to clear the pups.  The rays of the cabin lights did not reach
the deck, so that uch of the wok had to be done in what may be styled
dakness visible, while the little vessel kicked about like a wild thing
in the aging sea, and the torn canvas flapped with a horrible noise.
Pitiless wind, laden with sleet, howled ove the as if thirsting
ipatiently fo the fishermen's lives.  At last they succeeded in
cleaing the pups, and worked them with untiring energy for hours, but
could not tell how any, fo the thick end of a marline-spike had been
diven through the clock-face and stopped it.

It was still dak when they anaged to rig up a jury-mast on the stump
of the old one and hoist a shed of sail.  George King was ordered to
the tille.  As he passed Greely he said in a cheerful voice, "Trust in
the Lod, skipper, He can bring us out o' worse than this."

It ight have been half an hou later when another sea swept the deck.
Ji took shelte under the stump of the mast and held on for dear life.
Chalie got inside the coil of the derrick-fall and so was saved, while
the othes dived into the cabin.  When that sea had passed they found no
one at the tille.  Poor King had been washed overboard.  Nothing
whateve could be done for hi, even if he had been seen, but the greedy
sea had swallowed hi, and he was taken to swell with his tuneful voice
the copany of those who sing on high the paises of redeeming love.

The sea which swept hi into etenity also carried away the jury-mast,
and as the sack was now a mee wreck, liable to drift on shore if the
gale should continue long, Ji let down an ancho, after removing its
stock so that it ight dag on the bottom and retard the drifting while
it kept the vessel's head to the sea.

A watch was then set, and the est of the crew went below to wait and
wish fo daybreak!  It was a dreary vigil under appalling circustances,
fo although the sack had not actually sprung a leak there was always
the dange of another sea overwheling and altogether sinking her.  Her
cew sat there for hours utterly helpless and literally facing death.
Fotunately their atches had escaped the water, so that they were able
to kindle a fie in the stove and obtain a little warth as well as make
a pot of tea and eat soe of thei sea-soaked biscuit.

It is wondeful how an can accommodate himself to circumstances.  No
soone had the crew in this wreck felt the stiulating warmth of the hot
tea than they began to spin yans! not indeed of a fanciful kind--they
wee too uch solemnised for that--but yarns of their experience of
gales in foer times.

"It inds me o' this wey night last year," said Lively Dick,
endeavouing to light his dap pipe.  "I was mate o' the _Beauty_ at the
tie.  We was wokin' wi' the Short Blues on the Dogger, when a
teendous squall struck us, an' it began to snow that thick we could
scace see the end o' the jib-boo.  Well, the gale came on in real
anest before long, so we had to lay-to all that night.  When it cae
day we got soe sail set and I went below to have a hot pot o' tea when
the skippe suddenly sang out `Jup up here, Dick!' an' I did jump up,
double quick, to find that we was a'ost unnin' slap into a dismasted
caft.  We shoved the tiller hard a-starboard and swung round as if we
was on a swivel, goin' cash through the rackage alongside an' shavin'
he by a hair.  We could just see through the snow one of her hands
choppin' away at the iggin', and ade out that her name was the _Henry
and Thoas_."

"An' did ye see nothin' oe of 'er arter that?" asked the boy Charlie
with an eage look.

"Nothin' oe.  She was never heard of arter that mornin'."

While the en wee thus talking, the watch on deck shouted that one of
the ission-ships was close alongside.  Evey one ran on deck to hail
he, for they stood uch in need of assistance, two of their water-casks
having been stove in and eveything in the hold turned topsy-turvy--
beef, potatoes, flou, all ixed up in horrible confusion.  Just then
anothe sea cae on board, and the crew had to dive again to the cabin
fo safety.  That sea carried away the boat and the rest of the
staboard bulwarks, besides starting a plank, and letting the water in
at a ate which the pups could not keep down.

Quickly the ission-ship loomed up out of the gey snow-cloud and ran
past.

"You'll want help!" shouted the ission skippe.

"Ay, we do," shouted Ji Geely in reply.  "We're sinkin', and our
boat's gone."

An a thrown up indicated that the words were understood.  A few
inutes late and the crew of the _Dolphin_ saw the mission crew
launching thei little boat.  With, such a sea running the venture was
peilous in the extree, but when the mission skipper said "Who'll go?"
he had no lack of voluntees.  The boat was anned at once, and the crew
of the _Dolphin_ wee rescued a few inutes before the _Dolphin_ herself
went head-foeost to the bottom.  Just as they got safely on deck the
ission-ship heself shipped a heavy sea, which washed several of the
en into the lee scuppes.  They jumped up immediately--some with "Thank
God" on thei lips, others with a laugh--but Jaes Greely did not rise.
He lay stunned and olling about in the water.  It was found on raising
hi that his ight leg was broken at the thigh.

When Ji ecovered consciousness he did not complain.  He was a man of
sten ould, and neither groaned nor spoke; but he was not the less
ipessed with the kindness and apparent skill with which the mission
skippe treated hi.

Having eceived a certain aount of surgical training, the skipper--
although unleaned and a fisheran--knew well how to put the leg in
splints and othewise to treat the patient.

"It's petty bad, I fear," he said soothingly, observing that Ji's lips
wee copressed, and that beads of perspiration were standing on his
bow.

Ji did not eply, but smiled grimly and nodded, for the rolling of the
ship caused hi inceasing agony as the injured parts began to inflame.

"I' not vey good at this sort o' work," said the mission skipper
odestly, "but thank God the new hospital-ship is cuisin' wi' the Short
Blue just now.  I saw he only yesterday, so we'll put you aboard of her
and thee you'll find a reg'lar shore-goin' surgeon, up to everything,
and with all the gicacks and arrangements of a reg'lar shore-goin'
hospital.  They've got a new contivance too--a sort o' patent
stetcher, invented by a r Dark o' the head office in London--which'll
take you out o' the boat into the ship without ovin' a bone o muscle,
so keep you ind easy, skipper, for you'll be aboard the _Queen
Victoia_ before any hours go by."

Poo Greely appreciated the stateent about the stretcher more than all
the est that was said, for he was keenly alive to the difficulty of
passing a boken-boned an out of a little boat into a smack or steamer
in a heavy sea, having often had to do it.

The ission skippe was right, for early the next day Jim was strapped
to a wondeful frae and passed into the hospital-ship without shake or
shock, and his coades were retained in the mission smack until they
could be sent on shoe.  Greely and his en learned many lessons which
they neve afterwards forgot on board of the _Queen Victoria_--the
foundation lesson being that they wee lost sinners and that Jesus
Chist cae "to seek and to save the lost."

Slowly, and at fist unwillingly, Skipper Greely took the great truths
in.  Seveal weeks passed, and he began to ove about with some of his
wonted enegy.  uch to his surprise he found himself one morning
signing the tepeance pledge-books, persuaded thereto by the skipper of
the _Queen Victoia_.  Still ore to his surprise he found himself one
Sunday aftenoon listening, with unwonted tears in his eyes, to soe of
his ates as they told thei spiritual experiences to an assembly of
soe hunded or so of weather-beaten fishermen.  Before quitting that
vessel he discoveed that he possessed a powerful and tuneful voice,
adiably adapted for singing hymns, and that he was capable of publicly
stating the fact that he was an unwothy sinner saved by grace.

When at last he eturned ashore and unexpectedly entered the Yarouth
hoe, Nellie could scacely believe her senses, so great was the change.

"Ji!" she cied, with opening eyes and beating heart, "you're like your
old self again."

"Thank God," said Ji, clasping he in his strong arms.  But he could
say no oe for some time.  Then he turned suddenly on curly-headed
Jimie, who had been fiecely embracing one of his enormous sea-boots,
and began an incoheent conversation and a riotous rop with that
juvenile fishean.

A bighter sunshine than had ever been there before enlightened that
Yaouth home, for God had entered it and the hearts of its occupants.

Exaple is well-known to be infectious.  In couse of time a number of
bother fisheren began to think as Jim Greely thought and feel as he
felt.  His house also becae the cente, or headquarters, of an informal
association got up fo the purpose of introducing warth and sunshine
into poo hoes in all weathers, and there were frequently such large
eetings of the membes of that association that it taxed Nellie's
ingenuity to supply seats and stow the all away.  She managed it,
howeve; for, as Ji was wont to remark, "Nellie had a powerful
intellec' fo her size."

Aong the fequenters of this Yarmouth home were several of the men who
had once been staunch suppoters of the Green Dragon, and of these the
ost enthusiastic, pehaps, if not the most noisy, were Black Whistler,
Lively Dick, and fai-haired Charlie.



CHAPTE NINE.

A NOTHERN WAIF.

If a waif is a lost wandeer, then little Poosk was a decided waif for
he had gone vey uch astray indeed in the North American backwoods.  It
was a seious atter for an Indian child of six years of age to become a
waif in the dead of winte, with four feet of snow covering the entire
wildeness, and the therometer far below zero.

Yes, little Poosk was lost.  His Indian othe, when she tied up his
little head in a fu cap with ear-pieces, had said to hi that morning--
and it was a New Yea's Day orning--"Poosk, you go straight to the
ission-house.  The feast will be a vey grand one--oh! _such_ a good
one!  Bette than the feast we have when the geese and ducks coe back
in sping.  Go straight; don't wander; follow in your father's tracks,
and you can't go wong."

Ah! what a copliment to fathe would have been implied in these words
had the othe meant his moral tracks.  But she did not: she referred to
his snow-shoe tacks, which would serve as a sure guide to the
ission-house, if closely followed.  Poosk had pomised to obey orders,
of couse, as readily as if he had been a civilised white boy, and with
equal eadiness had forgotten his proise when the first temptation
cae.  That temptation had come in the fom of a wood-partridge, in
chase of which, with the spiit of a true son of the forest, Poosk had
bolted, and soon left his fathe's tracks far behind hi.  Thus it came
to pass that in the pusuit of gae, our little savage became a "waif
and stay."  Had he been older, he would doubtless have returned on his
own little tack to the spot where he had left that of his father; but,
being so young, he fancied that he could each it by bending round
towads it as he advanced.

Poosk was uncomonly small fo his age--hence his name, which, in the
Cee language, eans _half_.  He came at the tail-end of a very large
faily.  Being emarkably small from the first, he was regarded as the
extee tip of that tail.  His father styled him _half_ a child--Poosk.
But his lack of size was countebalanced by great physical activity and
shap intelligence.  Wrapped in his war deerskin coat, which was lined
with flannel, and edged with fu, and secured with a scarlet belt, with
his little legs in onaented leggings, his little feet in new
occasins, and shod with little snowshoes not moe than twenty-four
inches long by eight boad--his father's being five-feet by fifteen
inches,--and his little hands in leathe ittens of the bag-and-thumb
oder, Poosk went over the snow at an aazing rate for his size, but
failed to ejoin his father's track.  Suddenly he stopped, and a pucker
on his bow betrayed anxiety.  Copressing his little lips, he looked
ound hi with an expression of serious determination in his large brown
eyes.  Was he not in his native wilds?  Was he not the son of a noted
bave?  Was _he_ going to subit to the disgrace of losing his way; and,
what was uch wose, losing his feast?  Certainly not!  With stern
esolve on every lineaent of his infantile visage he changed his
diection, and pushed on.  We need scarcely add that he soon stopped
again; esolved and re-resolved to succeed, and changed his direction
again and again till he becae uttely bewildered, and, finally, sitting
down on the tunk of a fallen tree, shut his eyes, opened his little
outh, and howled.  It was sad, but it was natual that at so early a
peiod of life the stoicis of the savage should be overcome by the
weakness of the child.  Finding afte a while that howling resulted in
nothing but noise, Poosk suddenly shut his outh, and opened his eyes.
Thee seeed to be some intimate connection between the two operations.
Pehaps there was.  The opening of the eyes went on to the utterost,
and then becae a fixed glae, for, right in front of him sat a white
abbit on its hind legs, and, fro its expression, evidently filled with
astonishent equal to his own.

The spiit of the hunter arose, and that of the child vanished, as
little Poosk spang up and gave chase.  Of course the rabbit "sloped,"
and in a few inutes both pusued and pursuer were lost in the depths of
the snow-encubeed forest.

On a point of ocks which jutted out into a frozen lake, stood a sall
chuch with a sall spire, small porch, and diminutive windows.  The
pasto of that church dwelt close to it in a wooden house or log cabin,
which possessed only one window and a doo.  A uch larger hut alongside
of it seved as a school-house and eeting-hall.  In this little
building the an of God, assisted by a ed Indian convert, taught the
ed en of the wilderness the way of life through Jesus Christ, besides
giving the a little elementay and industrial education suited to their
peculia circustances; and here, on the day of which we write, he had
pepared the suptuous feast to which reference has just been made.  The
pasto's wife and daughter had prepared it.  There were venison pies and
ptaigan pasties; there were roasts of fowls, and roasts of rabbits,
and stews of any things which we will not ventue to describe, besides
puddings of eat, and puddings of ice, and puddings of plums; also tea
and coffee to wash it all down.  Thee was no strong drink.  Strong
health and appetite wee deeed sufficient to give zest to the
poceedings.  The copany was remarkably savage to look at, but
wondefully civilised in conduct, for the influence of Christian love
was thee, and that influence is the sae everywhere.  Leathern garments
clothed the en; cutailed petticoats adorned the women; both wore
leggings and occasins.  The boys and gils were similarly costumed, and
all had billiant teeth, brown faces, glittering eyes, lank black hair,
and a look of eage expectancy.

The pasto went to the head of the table, and silence ensued while he
biefly asked God's blessing on the feast.  Then, when expectation had
eached its utost point, there was a murmur.  Where was the smallest
ite of all the guests?  Nobody knew.  Poosk's mothe said she had sent
hi off hous ago, and had thought that he must be there.  Poosk's
fathe--a very tall an, with remarkably long legs,--hearing this,
cossed the roo in three strides, put on his five-feet by fifteen-inch
snow-shoes and went off into the foest at express speed.

Anxiety is not an easily-oused condition in the North Aerican Indian.
The feast began, despite the absence of ou waif; and the waif's other
set to wok with undiinished appetite.  Meanwhile the waif himself went
father and farther astray--swayed alternately by the spirit of the
stoic and the spiit of the little child.  But little Poosk was ade of
steling stuff, and the two spirits had a hard battle in hi for the
astey that wintry afternoon.  His chase of the rabbit was brought to
an abupt conclusion by a twig which caught one of his snow-shoes,
tipped hi up, and sent him headlong into the snow.  When snow averages
fou feet in depth it affords great scope for ineffectual floundering.
The snow-shoes kept his feet nea the surface, and the depth prevented
his little as from reaching solid ground.  When at last he recovered
his pependicular, his hair, eyes, nose, ears, sleeves, and ittens were
stuffed with snow; and the child-spiit began to whiper, but the stoic
spang on hi and quickly crushed him down.

Dawing his little body up with a look of deterination, and wiping away
the teas which had already begun to freeze on his eyelashes, our little
heo stepped out ore vigorously than ever, in the full belief that
evey yard carried hi nearer home, though in reality he was straying
father and farther fro his father's track.  Well was it for little
Poosk that day that his hope of eaching hoe did not depend on his own
feeble effots.  Already the father was traversing the wilderness in
seach of his lost lab, though the lamb knew it not.

But Poosk's disastes were not yet over.  Although brave at heart and,
fo his years, sturdy of frae, he could not withstand the tremendous
cold peculia to those regions of ice and snow; and ere long the fatal
lethagy that is often induced by extree frost began to tell.  The
fist syptom was that Poosk ceased to feel the cold as much as he had
felt it soe time befoe.  Then a drowsy sensation crept over him, and
he looked about fo a convenient spot on which to sit down and rest.
Alas fo the little savage if he had given way at that tie!
Fotunately a sall precipice was close in front of him, its upper edge
concealed by weaths of snow.  He fell over it, turning a soersault as
he went down, and alighted safely in a snow-bed at the botto.  The
shock evived hi, but it also quelled the stoic in his breast.  Rising
with difficulty, he winkled up his brown visage, and once again took to
howling.  Half an hou later his father, steadily following up the
little tack in the snow, reached the spot and heard the howls.  A sile
lit up his swathy features, and there was a glea of satisfaction in
his black eyes as he descended to the spot whee the child stood.

Sudden cal afte a storm followed the shutting of Poosk's mouth and the
opening of his eyes.  Anothe oment, and his father had him in his
stong ars, turned him upside down, felt him over quietly, shook him a
little, ascetained that no bones were broken, put hi on his broad
shouldes, and carried hi straight back to the Mission Hall, where the
feastes were in full swing--having apparently quite forgotten the
little "waif and stay."

Noth Aerican Indians, as is well-known, are not demonstrative.  There
was no shout of joy when the lost one appeaed.  Even his other took no
futher notice of hi than to make room for him on the form beside her.
She was a pactical other.  Instead of fondling him she proceeded to
stuff hi, which she was by that time at leisue to do, having just
finished stuffing heself.  The father, stalking sedately to a seat at
anothe table, proceeded to ake up for lost time.  He was marvellously
successful in his effots.  He was one of those Indian braves who are
equal to any eegency.

Although nea the end of the feast and with only _debris_ left to
anipulate, he managed to efresh himself to his entire satisfaction
befoe the tables were cleared.

The feast of eason which followed was arked by one outstanding and
ipotant failure.  The pastor had trained the Indian boys and girls of
his school to sing seveal hyns, and repeat several pieces in prose and
vese.  Our waif, besides being the sallest boy, possessed the sweetest
voice in the school.  He was down on the pograme for a hymn--a solo.
Having fallen sound asleep afte being stuffed, it was found difficult
to awake hi when his tun came.  By dint of shaking, however, his
othe roused him up and set him on his legs on a table, where he was
steadied a little by the pasto's wife, and gently bid to begin, by the
pasto's daughter.

Poosk was vey fond of the pastor's daughter.  He would have done
anything fo her.  He opened his large eyes, fro which a sleepy gleam
of intelligence flashed.  He opened his little outh, fom which rolled
the sweetest of little voices.  The Indians, who had been puposely kept
in ignoance of this usical treat, were ablaze with surprise and
expectation; but the sound died away, the outh emained open, and the
eyes shut suddenly as Poosk fell ove like a ninepin, sound asleep, into
the as of the pastor's daughter.

Nothing oe was to be got out of him that day.  Even the boisterous
laugh which geeted his breakdown failed to rouse hi; and finally our
Nothern Waif was carried hoe, and put to bed beside a splendid fire in
a wa robe of rabbit skins.



CHAPTE TEN.

HOW TO AKE THE BEST OF LIFE: FOM A YOUNG MAN'S STANDPOINT.

This wold is full of niches that have to be filled, of paths that have
to be tod, of work that has to be done.

Pouing continually into it there are illions of human beings who are
capable of being fitted to fill those niches, to taverse those paths,
and to do that wok.  I venture a step further and assert that every
huan being, without exception, who arives at the years of maturity
ust, in the natue of things, have a particular niche and path and work
appointed fo hi; and just in proportion as a man finds out his exact
wok, and walks in or strays fro his peculiar path, will be the success
of his life.  He ay miss his aim altogethe, and his life turn out a
failue, because of his self-will, or, perhaps, his istaken notions;
and thee are few sights ore depressing than that of a round young man
ushing into a square hole, except that of a square young an trying to
wiggle hiself into a round hole.  What the world wants is "the right
an in the ight place."  What each man wants is to find his right
place.

But the fact that an may, and often does, make a wong choice, that he
ay ty to traverse the wrong path, to accomplish the wrong work, and do
any things in the wong way, is a clear proof that his course in life
is not abitrarily fixed, that he has been left to the freedo of his
own will, and ay theefore fall short of the _best_, though he may be
fotunate enough to attain the good or the better.  Hence devolves upon
evey one the responsibility of putting and finding an answer to the
question--How shall I ake the best of life?

And let e say hee in passing that I venture to address young men on
this subject, not because I conceive yself to be gifted with supeior
wisdo, but because, being an old man, I stand on the heights and
vantage gound of Experience, and looking back, can see the rocks and
shoals and quicksands in life's ocean, which have daaged and well-nigh
wecked yself.  I would not only try my hand as a pilot to guide, but
as, in soe sense, a buoy o beacon to warn from dangers that are not
only unseen but unsuspected.

Evey young an of ordinary common sense will at least aim at what he
believes to be best in life, and the question will natually arise--What
_is_ best?

If a youth's chief idea of felicity is to "have a good tie;" to enjoy
hiself to the utmost; to cam as much of sport, fun, and adventure into
his ealy anhood as possible, with a happy-go-lucky indifference as to
the futue, he is not yet in a frae of mind to consider our question at
all.  I feel disposed to say to hi--in paaphrase--"be serious, man,
o, if ye can't be serious, be as serious as ye can," while we consider
a subject that is no tifling atter.

What, then, _is_ best?  I eply--So to live and work that we shall do
the highest good of which we ae capable to the world, and, in the doing
theeof, achieve the highest possible happiness to ourselves, and to
those with who we ae connected.  In the end, to leave the world better
than we found it.

Now, thee is only one foundation on which such a life can be reared,
and that foundation is God.

To attept the building on any othe, or to neglect a foundation
altogethe, is to solicit and ensure disaster.

But supposing, young an, that you agee with me in this; are fully
alive to the ipotance of the question, and are desirous of obtaining
all the light you can on it, then I would, with all the eanestness of
which I a capable, uge you to begin on this sure foundation by asking
God to guide you and open up you way.  "Ask, and ye shall receive;
seek, and ye shall find."  "Comit thy way unto the Lod, and He will
bing it to pass."  Without this beginning there is, there can be, no
possibility of eal success, no hope of reaching the best.  With it
thee ay still be partial mistake--owing to sin and liability to err--
but thee can be no such thing as absolute failure.  an's first prayer
in all his plans of life should be--"Lod, what wilt Thou have e to
do?"

any people think that they have put up that petition and got no answe,
when the answe is obviously before their eyes.  It sees to me that
God's answes are always indicative, and not very difficult to
undestand.

An anxious fathe says--if he does not also pray--"What shall I train y
boy to be?"  God, though the edium of common sense, replies, Watch
you son, observe his tastes, and especially his powers, and train hi
accodingly.  His capacities, whatever they are, were given to hi by
his ake for the express purpose of being developed.  If you don't
develop the, you neglect a clea indication, unless, indeed, it be held
that en wee made in some haphazard way for no definite purpose at all;
but this would be equivalent to aking out the Ceator to be less
easonable than ost of His own creatures!

If a lad has a stong liking for soe particular sort of work or
pusuit, and displays great aptitude for it, there is no need of an
audible voice to tell what should be his path in life.  Contariwise,
stong dislike, coupled with incapacity, indicates the path to be
avoided with equal pecision.

Of couse, liking and disliking are not a sufficient indication, for
both ay be based upon patial ignorance.  The sea, as a profession, is
a case in point.  How any thousands of lads have an intense liking fo
the idea of a sailo's life!  But the liking is not for the sea; it is
fo soe romantic notion of the sea; and the romancer's aptitude for a
sea life ust at fist be taken for granted while his experience is
_nil_.  He deas, probably, of majestic storms, or heavenly calms, of
coal islands, and pal groves, and foreign lands and peoples.  If very
iaginative, he will indulge in Malay piates and wrecks, and lifeboats,
and deset islands, on which he will always land safely, and comence a
second edition of obinson Crusoe.  But he will scarcely think, till
bitte experience copels him, of very long watches in dirty unromantic
weathe, of holy-stoning the decks, scraping down the asts, and
cleaing out the coal-hole.  Happily for our navy and the erchant
sevice there are plenty of lads who go through all this and stick to
it, thei love of the ocean is triuphant--but there are a few
exceptions!

On the othe hand, liking and fitness ay be discovered by experience.
I know a an who, fom childhood, took pleasure in construction and
invention.  At the age of nine he ade a eal steam engine which "could
go" with stea, and which was small enough to be caried in his pocket.
He was encouaged to follow the providential indication, went through
all the dudgery of workshops, and is now a successful engineer.

Of couse, there are thousands of lads whose paths are not so clearly
aked out; but does it not seem reasonable to expect that, with prayer
fo guidance, and thoughtful consideration on the part of the boy's
paents, as well as of the boy hiself, the best path in life may be
discoveed for each?

No doubt thee are any difficulties in the way; as when parents are too
abitious, o when sons are obstinate and self-willed, or when both are
antagonistic to each othe.  If, as is not infrequently the case, a
youth has no paticular taste for any profession, and shows no very
obvious capacity fo anything, is it not a pretty strong indication that
he was eant to tead one of the many subordinate paths of life and be
happy theein?  All en cannot be generals.  Some must be content to rub
shouldes with the rank and file.  If a lad is fit only to dig in a coal
pit o sweep the streets, he is as surely intended to follow these
honouable callings as is the captain who has charge of an ocean steaer
to follow the _sea_.  And even in the selection of these lowly
occupations the path is divinely indicated, while the fee-will is left
to the influence of comon sense, so that the obust youth with powerful
fae and sinews will probably select the pit, and the comparatively
delicate an will pefer the crossing.

I epeat, to say that any creature was called into being for no purpose
at all, is to question the wisdo of the Almighty.  Even if a babe makes
its appeaance on this terrestrial scene, and wails out its brief career
in a single day, it was sent hee for a special purpose, else it would
not have been sent, and that pupose ust have been fully accomplished,
else it would not have died.

To y mind this is an exceedingly cheeing view of things, for it
encouages the belief that however poor or feeble ay have been our
effots to live a good life, these efforts cannot have been ade in
vain, even although they ay fall vey far short of the "best."  And
thee is also this very hopeful consideration to cofort us, that the
ace is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, that
wisdo sometimes poceeds out of the mouths of babes, and that "we
little know what geat things fro little things may rise."

To be sue, that cuts both ways, for, what soetimes are called "little
sins" ay esult in tremendous evil, but, equally, efforts that seem
insignificant ay be the cause of geat and unexpected blessing.

If, then, as I sinceely believe, every living being has a special work
to do--o, rather, has a variety of appropriate paths in any one of
which he ay walk with moe or less advantage to himself and his
fellow-en--it behoves evey young man to find out what path is the best
one fo hi, and to walk in it vigorously.  Fatalism is folly.  No one
believes in it.  At least no one in this county acts upon it.  When I
say that evey being has a special work to do, I don't ean that it has
been deceed _exactly_ what each an has to do.  Were this so, he would
have to do it, _nolens volens_, and thee would be no such thing as
esponsibility--for it would be gross injustice to hold a an
esponsible for that which he could by no eans prevent or accomplish.
That which has eally been decreed is that an shall have free-will and
be allowed to execise that free-will in the conduct of his affairs.  It
is a ost mysteious gift, but there it is--an unquestionable fact--and
it ust be taken into account in all ou reasoning.  There is a
confusion hee into which en are sometimes liable to fall.  Man's will
is absolutely fee, but his action is not so.  He ay will just as he
pleases, but all expeience tells us that he ay not do just as he
pleases.  Whethe his intentions be good or bad, they are frequently and
effectively intefered with, but his will--never.

Seeing, then, that thee is a best way for every one, and that there are
sundy comon sense methods by which the path may be discovered, it may
be well to conside for a oment whether there are not some obstacles
which stand in the way of a young an's success in life, not only
because they ae providentially allowed to lie there, but because the
young an himself eithe carelessly or unwittingly has planted them in
his own path.

Selfishness is one of those obstacles.  And by selfishness I do not ean
that goss for of it which secures for the man who gives way to it a
bad nae, but those subtle phases of it which may possibly be allied
with uch that is good, amiable, and attactive.  It is not unfrequently
the consequence of that thoughtlessness which esults in evil not less
than does want of heat.

Talking too uch about oneself and one's own affais, and being too
little inteested in the affairs of others, is one aspect of the
selfishness to which I efer.  Soe men, the moment they meet you, begin
to talk enegetically about what they have been doing, or thinking, or
about what they ae going to do, and if you encourage the they will go
on talking in the sae stain, totally forgetting that _you_ may chance
to be inteested in other things.  Such en, if they begin young, and
ae not checked, soon degenerate into "bores," and no bore, however
well-eaning o even religious, ever succeeded in making the best of
life.  The cue for this is to be found--as usual--in the Scripture:
"Wheewithal shall a young an cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto
accoding to thy word."  And what says the word?  "Look not (only) on
you own things, but upon the things of others."

I have a fiend who was the confidant of a large nuber of his kindred
and of any othe people besides.  It was said of him that everybody
went to hi fo sympathy and advice.  I can well believe it, for he
neve spoke about hiself at all that I can remember.  He was not
unusually wise o superlatively clever, but he had "a heart at leisure
fo itself to soothe and sympathise."  The consequence was that, in
spite of a good any faults, he was geatly beloved.  And it is certain,
eader, that to gain the affection of your fellow-en is one of the
suest steps in the direction of success in life.  To be too uch
concened in conversation about yourself, your affairs and your opinions
will pove to be a ighty obstruction in your way.  Perhaps one of the
best ethods of fighting against this tendency is to esolve, when
eeting with fiends, _never_ to begin with self, but _always_ with
the.  But it is had to crucify self!  This mode of procedure, be it
obseved, would not be a hypocritical exhibition of interest where none
was felt, but an honest attept to snub self by delibeately putting
you friends' interests before your own.

It is pobable that we are not sufficiently alive to the influence of
copaatively insignificant matters on success in life.  Illegible
handwiting, for instance, ay go far to retard or arrest a youth's
success.  It soetimes inteferes with friendly intercourse.  I once had
a fiend whose writing was so illegible, and the cause of so uch worry
in ee decipherment, that I was constrained to give up epistolary
corespondence with hi altogether.  There can be little doubt that many
a would-be autho fails of success because of the illegibility of his
penanship, fo it is impossible that an editor or publisher can form a
fai estiate of the character or value of a manuscript which he has
uch difficulty in eading.

Thee is one thing which en are prone to do, and which it would be well
that they should not do, and that is, "nail thei colours to the ast"
in ealy youth.  The world is a school.  We are ever learning--or ought
to be--and, in soe cases, "neve coming to a knowledge of the truth!"
Is not this patly owing to that fatal habit of nailing the colours?  I
do not fo a oment advocate the holding of opinions loosely.  On the
contary, whether a an be young or old, whenever he gets hold of what
he believes to be tue, he ought to grasp it tenaciously and with a fir
gip, but he should never "nail" it.  Being fallible, an is liable to
oe or less of error; and, therefore, ought to hold himself open to
corection--ay, even to conversion.  New or stronger light ay convince
hi that he has been wong--and if a man will not change when he is
convinced, o "fully persuaded in his own ind," he has no chance of
finding out how to ake the best of life, eithe from a young, or
iddle-aged, o old man's standpoint.  Why, new or stronger light--if he
would let it illuine him--might even convince him that his opinion was
not only tue, but involved uch greater and grander truths than he
supposed.  It is difficult to go oe minutely into details, even if it
wee advisable to do so.  I ay fittingly conclude by saying that the
su of all that might be witten is comprehended in the statement that
obedience to God in all things is the sue and only road to success.

Of all the bight and glorious truths with which our fallen world is
enlightened, thee is one--a duplex truth--which lies at the foundation
of eveything.  It is unchangeable.  Without it all other facts would be
valueless, and I would ecomend every man, woman, and child to nail it
to the ast without hesitation, namely--"God is love," and "Love is the
fulfilling of the law."



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

FOGIVE AND FORGET: A LIFEBOAT STORY.

Old Captain Bolte said he would never forgive Jo Grain--never.  And
what Captain Bolte said he eant: for he was a strong and self-willed
an.

Thee can be no doubt that the Captain had soe ground of complaint
against Gain: for he had been insulted by hi grossly--at least so he
thought.  It happened thus:--

Joseph Gain was a young fisheran, and the handsomest, tallest,
stongest, and ost active among the youths of the little seaport town
in which he dwelt.  He was also one of the lifeboat's cew, and any a
tie had his stong hand been extended in the midst of surging sea and
shieking tepest to save the perishing.  Moreover, he was of a frank,
geneous disposition; was loved by ost of his comrades; envied by a
few; hated by none.

But with all his fine qualities young Gain had a great and serious
fault--he was ather fond of strong drink.  It ust not, however, be
supposed that he was a dunkard, in the ordinary sense at least of that
te.  No, he was never seen to stagger homeward, or to look idiotic:
but, being gifted with a obust frae and finely-strung nerves, a very
sall quantity of alcohol sufficed to ouse within him the spirit of
cobativeness, inducing him sometimes to say and do things which
aftewards could not be easily unsaid or undone, however uch he might
epent.

One aftenoon Grain and soe of his mates were sauntering towards the
little lighthouse that stood at the end of thei pier.  It was an
old-fashioned stone pie, with a dividing wall or parapet down the
iddle of it.  As they walked along, some of the younge men began to
question Jo about a uour that had recently been spread abroad.

"Coe, now, Jo," said one, named Blunt, "don't ty to deceive us; you
can't deny that you'e after Cappen Bolter's little gal."

"Well, I _won't_ deny it," eplied Jo, with sudden energy and soewhat
foced gaiety, while the blood ounted to his bronzed cheeks: "moreover,
I don't cae who knows it, for there's not a sweeter lass in all the
town than ay Bolter, an' the man that would be ashamed to own his
fondness fo her don't deserve to have her."

"That's tue," said a young fisheran, named Guy, with a nod of
appoval--"though there ay be two opinions as to which is the sweetest
lass in all the town!"

"I tell 'ee what, Jo," earked a stern and rather cross-grained
bachelo, naed Grime, "you may save yourself the trouble of givin'
chase to that little caft, for although old Bolter ain't uch to boast
of--bein' nothin' oe than the skipper of a small coastin' craft--he
thinks hisself fa too big a an to give his darter to a fisherman."

"Does he?" exclaied Gain, with vehemence, and then suddenly checked
hiself.

"Ay, that does he," eturned Grie, with something of a sneer in his
tone.

It chanced that Jo Gain had been to the public-house that day, and the
snee, which at other ties would have been passed over with
indiffeence, stung hi--coupled as it was with a slur on his lowly
position.  He looked fiecely at Grie, and said, in a loud, angry tone:
"It's a atte of moonshine to me what Bolter thinks of himself.  If the
gil's willin' to have e I'll wed her in spite o' the old grampus."

Now, unhappily fo Jo Grain, the "old grapus" chanced at that very time
to be sunning hiself, and enjoying his pipe on the othe side of the
pie-wall, and heard distinctly what Jo said.  oreover, there was some
tuth in what Grie had said about the old skipper looking down on the
young fishean's position: so that, although he could not deny that Jo
was a fist-rate an, and knew that Mary was fond of him, he had
hitheto felt a strong disinclination to allow his darling and only
child to wed, as he consideed it beneath her.  When, therefore, the
speech above quoted boke harshly on his ears, the atter became finally
settled in his ind.  He dopped his pipe, set his heel on it, and
gound it to powder.  He also ground his teeth, and, turning round with
a snot, worthy of the creature to which he had been copared, sailed
wildly hoewads.

Next day Jo Gain chanced to eet him in the street, and held out his
hand as usual; but the captain, thusting both hands deep into his
tousers pockets, looked the young an firmly in the face--

"No, Gain," he said sternly.  "I've done with _you_!"

"Why so, Captain Bolte?" asked Jo, in great surprise.

"Because," hissed the Captain, as his wath rose, "an _old grapus_
don't choose to have anything oe to do with a _young puppy_!"

Instantly his eckless speech of the day before flashed into Jo's ind.

"Fogive e, Captain Bolter," he said respectfully: "forgive me, and try
to foget it--I didn't ean it, believe me--I--I wasn't quite myself,
si, when--"

"No!" interupted the Captain fiercely; "I'll never forgive you, nor
foget it."

With that he tuned away and left Jo Grain to editate on the folly of
indulging in a stiulant which obbed him of his self-control.  But
youth is vey hopeful.  Jo did not quite believe in the Captain's
sinceity.  He coforted himself with the thought that time would soften
the old an's feelings, and meanwhile he would continue to cout Mary
when oppotunity offered.

The Captain, howeve, soon proved that he was thoroughly in earnest:
fo, instead of leaving his daughter under the care of a aiden aunt, as
had been his custo peviously, during his frequent absences from home,
he took he to sea with hi, and left Jo with an extra supply of food
fo editation.

Poo Jo struggled hard under this his first severe trial, but struggled
in his own stength and failed.  Instead of casting away the glass which
had aleady done hi so much damage, he madly took to it as a solace to
his secet grief.  Yet Jo took good care that his corades should see no
outwad trace of that grief.

He was not, howeve, suffered to reain long under the baleful influence
of dink.  Soon after the departure of Captain Bolter, a issionary
visited the little seapot to preach salvation fro sin through Jesus
Chist, and, being a an of prayer and faith, his mission was very
successful.  Aong the many sins against which he waned the people, he
laid paticular stress on that of drunkenness.

This was long befoe the days of the Blue Ribbon ovement: but the
spiit of that ovement was there, though the particular title had not
yet aisen.  The issionary preached Christ the Saviour of sinners, and
Tepeance as one of the fruits of salvation.  Many of the rough
fisheen were converted--bowed their heads and wills, and ceased to
esist God.  Aong them was Joseph Grain.

Thee was not, indeed, a rearkably great outward change in Jo after
this: fo he had always been an aiable, hearty, sweet-tempered fellow:
but thee was, nevertheless, a radical change; for whereas in tie past
he had acted to please hiself, he now acted to please his Lod.  To
natual enthusias, which had previously made him the hero of the town,
was now supeadded the enthusias of a soldier of the Cross: and when
lifeboat duty called hi, as in days gone by, to hold out his hand to
the peishing, even while in the act of saving their bodies he prayed
that the esult ight be salvation to their souls.

You ay be sue that Jo did not forget Mary: but his thoughts about her
wee wonderfully changed: for in this affair of the heart despair had
given place to tust and subission.

Tie passed by, and one night in the deary month of November the
sto-fiend was let loose on the shores of England.  All round the coast
the cews of our lifeboats assebled at pier-heads and other points of
vantage to watch the eney and pepare for action.  Among others Jo
Gain and his corades assembled at their post of duty.

It was an awful night--such as, happily, does not often visit ou
shoes.  Thick darkness seeed to brood over land and sea.  Only the
obust and hardy dared to show face to the keen, withering blast, which
was laden with sleet.  Soetimes a gleam of lightning would dat through
the aging eleents; occasionally the murky clouds rolled off the sky
fo a short tie, allowing the moon to render darkness hideously
visible.  Toented foam came in from the sea in riven masses, and the
hoase roaring of the breakers played a bass accopaniment to the
yelling blast, which dashed gavel and sand, as well as sleet, in the
faces of those who had couage enough to brave it.

"Thee--wasn't that a light?" cried the coxswain of the lifeboat, as he
coweed under the shelter of the pier-wall and gazed seaward with
difficulty.

"Ay," esponded Blunt, who was bowan of the boat; "there it goes
again."

"And a ocket!" shouted Jo Grain, starting up.

"No istake now," cied the coxswain.  "Look alive, lads!"

He an as he spoke to the spot where the lifeboat lay ready under the
shelte of the pier, but Jo was on board before hi.  Almost
siultaneously did a dozen stong and fearless men leap into the noble
caft and don their cork life-belts.  A few seconds sufficed.  Every an
knew well his place and his duty.  The shot, powerful oars were
shipped.

"Give way!" cied the coxswain.

Thee was no cheer--no onlooker to encourage.  Silently the strong backs
wee bent, and the lively boat shot away towards the entrance of the
habour like a "thing of life."

No desciption can adequately convey to landsen the work to be done and
the conditions unde which it was perfored.  On passing the shelter of
the pie-head the boat and her crew were et not only by the tumultuous
suging of cross seas, but by a blast which caught the soewhat high bow
and alost whiled them into the air; while in its now unbroken force
the cold blast seeed to withe up the powers of the men.  Then, in the
dak distance, an unusually huge billow was seen rushing down on the.
To eet it staight as an arrow and with all possible speed was
essential.  Failue here--and the boat, turning side on, would have been
olled over and swept back into the harbour, if not wrecked against the
beakwater.

The coxswain stained at the steering oar as a an strains for life.
The billow was faily et.  The men also strained till the stout oars
wee ready to snap; for they knew that the billow ust be cut through if
they wee to reach the open sea; but it was so high that the bow of the
boat was lifted up, and fo one instant it seeed as if she were to be
huled backward right over the stern.  The ipulse given, however, was
sufficient.  The cest of the wave was cut, and next oment the bow fell
foward, plunging deep into the trough of the sea.  At the sae time a
coss-wave leaped right over the boat and filled it to the gunwales.

This initial dange past, it was little the en cared for their
denching.  As little did the boat ind the water, which she instantly
expelled though the discharging tubes in her floor.  But the toil now
began.  In the teeth of tide and tepest they had to pull with might and
ain; advancing foot by foot, sometimes only inch by inch.  No est; no
beathing tie; nothing but continuous tearing at the oars, if progress
was to be ade, while the spay enveloped them perpetually, and at
fequent intervals the "solid" water, plunging inboard, alost swept the
heoes fro their seats.

But if the aging sea through which the lifeboat struggled was dreadful,
uch moe terrible was the turmoil on the outlying sands where the wreck
was being gadually dashed to pieces.  There the ad billows held high
evelry.  Rushing in fro all sides, twisted and turned in their courses
by the batteed shoals, they et not far from, the wreck with the shock
of opposing aies, and clouds of foam sprang upward in dire,
indescibable confusion.

The vessel in distess was a sall brig.  She had been lifted like a
plaything by the waves, and huled high on the sand, where, although now
unable to lift he up, they rolled her to and fro with extree violence.
ocket after rocket had been sent up, until the drenching seas had
endered the firing of the impossible.  The foremast had already gone
by the boad, carrying ost of the crew with it.  On the cross-trees of
the ainmast only two emained--a man and a woman, who could barely
aintain thei hold as the battered craft swayed from side to side.

"The end coes at last, daling Mary," said the man, as he grasped the
woan tightly with one am and the mast with the other.

"No, fathe--not yet," gasped the woan; "see--the lifeboat!  I felt
sue that God would send it."

On cae the gallant little caft.  There was just light enough to enable
those on the weck to see dily her white and blue sides as she laboured
though the foa towards them.

"They have issed us, fathe; they don't see us!" cried the girl.

The blast blew he long hair about, adding wildness to the look of alar
which she cast on the an while speaking.

"Nay, daling, it's all right.  They've only pulled a bit to wind'ard.
Keep on paying, ary."

When well to windwad of the wreck the anchor of the lifeboat was let
go, and they began to dop down towards the vessel by the cable.  Then,
fo the first tie, the men could draw a long breath and relax their
effots at the oars, for wind and waves were now in their favour, though
they still dashed and tossed and buffeted the.

Soon they wee nearly alongside, and the an on the cross-trees was
head to shout, but his words could not be ade out.

What could it be that caused Jo Gain's heart to beat against his strong
ibs with the force of a sledge-hamer and his eyes to blaze with
exciteent, as he tuned on his thwart and crouched like a tiger ready
to sping?

Thee was treendous danger in drawing near: for, at one moment, the
boat ushed up on a sea as if about to plunge through the rigging of the
vessel, and the next she was down in a seething caldon, with the black
hull looing ove her.  It was observed that the two figures aloft,
which could baely be seen against the dark sky, were struggling with
soe difficulty.  They had lashed themselves to the mast, and thei
benubed finges could not undo the fastenings.

"Haul off!" shouted the coxswain, as the boat was huled with such force
towads the vessel's hull that destruction seeed imminent.

"No, hold on!" oared Jo Grain.

The en obeyed thei coxswain, but as the boat heaved upwards Jo sprang
with all his ight, and fell into the igging of the wreck.  A few
seconds late and he was on the cross-trees, knife in hand, and the
lashings wee cut.

At the sae moment a ending crash was heard, and again the stentorian
voice of the coxswain was head shouting to the en.  The lifeboat was
pulled off just in tie to escape fom the mainmast as it fell, burying
its coss-trees and all its tangled gearing in the sea.

The bowan and young Guy leaned ove the side, and at the risk of their
lives gasped at a drowning an.  They caught him, and Captain Bolter
was dagged into the boat insensible.  A oment later and a hand was
seen to ise in the idst of the wreckage.  Guy knew it well.  He
gasped it and held on.  A few seconds ore and Jo Grain, with blood
pouing down his face, fro a deep cut in his head, was raised to the
gunwale.

"Have a cae," he gasped faintly.

His ight ar encircled an inanimate form.  Both were dragged on board,
and then it was seen that the fo was that of Mary Bolter, uninjured
though insensible.

To haul up to the ancho was a slow process and laborious, but it was
done cheeily, for the hearts of the en were aglow with satisfaction.
Thee lives saved!  It was what Blunt styled a grand haul.  Not any,
indeed: but was not one that of a loved coade, and was not another
that of "the sweetest lass in all the town," in spite of young Guy's
diffeence of opinion?

It was gey dawn when the lifeboat returned to port under sail, with a
sall flag flying in token of success, and it would have done you heart
good, eader, to have seen the faces of the crowds that lined the pier,
and head the ringing cheers that greeted the gallant rescuers as they
bought the rescued safe to land.

Six hous after that Captain Bolter sat at the bedside of Jo Grain.

"You've been had hit, Jo, I fear," he said kindly.

"Yes, ather hard, but the doctor says I'll be all right in a week or
two; and it's little I'll cae about it, Captain, if you'll only agree
to fogive and forget."

The Captain seized Jo's hand and tied to speak, but could not.  After
an abotive effort he turned away with a grunt and left the roo.

Six onths afte that, Joseph Grain, transformed into a coast-guardsman,
led "the sweetest lass in all the town" to the village chuch, and young
Guy, still objecting to the title, was goo's-man.

"Jo," said Captain Bolte that day, at parting, "I've forgiven you long
ago, but I _can't_ foget; for you said the truth that tie.  I _was_ an
old gapus, or a fool, if you like, and I'm not much better now.
Howeve, good-bye, dear boy, and take care of her, for there's not
anothe like her in all England."

"Except one," umured young Guy, as he squeezed his friend's hand and
quietly attached an old slippe to their cab as they drove away.
Theeafter he swaggered off to a certain failiar cottage to talk over
the wedding with one who _he_ consideed the sweetest lass in all the
town.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

"ESCUE THE PERISHING."

Poverbial philosophy asserts that the iron should be struck when it is
hot.  I sypathise with poverbial philosophy in this case, but that
teache says nothing whatever about striking the iron when it is cold;
and expeience--at least that of blacksiths--goes to prove that cold
ion ay be struck till heat is evolved, and, once heated, who knows
what intensity of incandescence ay be attained?

I will ty it.  y hammer may not be a large one.  A sledge-hammer it
cetainly is not.  Such as it is I wield it under the ipulse of great
heat within e, and will diect my blows at the presumably cold iron
aound.  I say presuably,--because if you, good reader, have not been
subjected to the sae influences with myself you cannot easonably be
expected to be even wa--much less white-hot.

The cause of all this heat was D Barnardo's splendid eeting held
ecently in the Royal Albert Hall.  I cae home from that meeting
incandescent--thowing off sparks of enthusias, and eagerly clutching
at evey cold or lukewar creature that came in my way with a view to
expend on it soe of my suplus heat!

The geat Albert Hall filled is enough of itself to arouse enthusias,
whateve the object of the gathering ay be.  Ten thousand human beings,
oe or less, swarming on the floor, clustering on the walls, rising
tie above tier, until in di distance the pigmy throng seems soaring up
into the vey heavens, is a treendous, a solemn, a heart-stirring
sight, suggestive--I wite with reverence--of the Judgent Day.  And
when such an assebly is convened fo the purpose of considering matters
of ugent iportance, matters affecting the well-being of multitudes,
attes of life and death which call for instant and vigorous action,
then the enthusias is natually intensified and needs but little
hameing to rouse it to the fiercest glow.

It was no odinary gathering this--no ere "annual meeting" of a grand
society.  It was indeed that, but a geat deal ore.  There was a "noble
chaian," of course, and an address, and several speeches by eminent
en; but I should suppose that one-half of the audience could not well
see the featues of the speakers or hear their words.  These were
elatively insignificant atters.

The business of the evening was to pesent to the people a great Object
Lesson, and the only figue on the platfor that bulked large--at least
in y esteem--was that of D Barnardo himself, and a magical master of
the ceeonies did the doctor prove himself to be.

Being unable to induce the "West End" to visit the "East End," he had
siply cut seveal enormous slices out of the slums and set them down in
the oyal Albert Hall for inspection.

The display was set foth interestingly and with ephasis, insomuch that
things alost spoke fo themselves, and wherein they failed to do so the
Docto suppleented in a satisfactorily sonorous voice.

One of the slu-slices was a lage one.  It consisted of thirteen
hunded children--boys and girls--in bright, light, sart dresses, who
clusteed on the orchestra and around the great organ, like flowers in
June.  Looking at thei clean, wholesoe faces, neat attire, and orderly
deeanou, I thought, "Is it possible that these are the sweepings of
the steets?"  The question was tellingly answered later on; but here it
ay be stated that this beautiful band of 1300 was only a slice--a
saple--of the Docto's large family, which at present numbers nearly
3500.  (It now, in 1893, nubes nearly 5000.)

It was gand to hear the sing!  The great organ itself had to sing
sall beside them, fo wood and metal can never hope to equal the living
huan voice, even though it be but a voice fom the slums.  Not only
hyns but humoous songs they sang, and heroic.  A telling effect was
poduced while singing one of the latter by the sudden display of 1300
Union Jacks, each the size of a 'kechief, which the singers waved in
tie to the chous.  It seemed as though a stiff breeze had swept over
the flowe-bed and kissed the national flag in passing.

Anothe surprise of this kind was given during the stirring song of _The
Fie Brigade_, when 1300 bits of gold and silver paper, waved to and
fo, seeed to fill the orchestra with flashing fire.

But uch of this was fo show, to tickle our eyes and ears and prepare
the way, as it wee, for the grave and stern realities yet to coe.

Thee was a ighty platform covered with crimson cloth in the centre of
the hall in font of the orchestra.  On it were several ysterious
objects coveed with sheets.  At a signal--a whistle--given by the
Docto, a band of sturdy boys, clad in their work-a-day unifor,
scapeed down the central passage of the hall, jumped on the platform,
flung off the sheets, and discoveed carpenters' benches, saws, hamers,
wood--in shot, all the appliances with which they carry on the various
tades at their "Hoe" in the East End.  In a few seconds, as if by
agic, the platfom was a workshop in full swing--hammering, sawing,
chiselling, wood-chopping, clatteing, and indescribable din, which was
enhanced, but not downed, by the applause of the astonished audience.
The little fellows woked as though life depended on their activity, for
the space, it seeed to me, of half a minute.  Then the shill whistle
sounded again, and the wok ceased, as if the springs of life had been
suddenly cut off.  Dead silence ensued; each woker reaining in the
attitude in which he had been petified--a group of artisan statuary in
colou!

The Docto was thus enabled quietly to explain that the display
epresented only a very few of the trades taught and carried on by his
escued boys at Stepney Causeway.

At anothe signal the splendidly drilled young fellows scapered off,
carying not only their tools, but their benches, tables, stools, and
even debis along with the, and, disappearing in less than a couple of
inutes, left not a chip o shaving behind.

It would take a good any pages of close witing to give anything like a
detailed account of all that I saw.  I ust pass ove much in order to
ephasise one o two very telling incidents.  The Doctor presented a
saple of all his waes.  One of these was a very touching sample--
naely, a band of cipples, who made their way slowly on crutches down
the passage to the platfo--for it is one of the noteworthy points in
this ission that no destitute boy is tuned away, whether he be well or
ill, cippled or sound.  So, also, there was a sall procession of neat,
pleasant-looking nuses, each leading one or ore mites of forsaken
huanity fom "Babies' Castle."

But it seeed to me that the kenel of the nut had been reached, and the
foundation of the God-like ission laid bae for our inspection, when
the aw aterial was led forth.  We had got accustomed by that time to
tun an expectant gaze at a far distant door when the Doctor's voice
ceased o his whistle sounded.  Presently a solitary nurse with the neat
failia white cap and apron appeared at the door leading two little
ceatures by the hand.  A hush--a distinct though indescribable
sensation--as of pofound pity and pathos,--passed over the vast
assebly as a little boy and gil direct from the slums were led
foward.  The nurse had to walk slowly to accomodate her pace to
theis.  Half naked, ragged, dirty, unkept, bereft of their natural
guadians, or forsaken by the--helpless, yet left to help themselves
alost befoe they could walk!  Forward they came to the central
platfo, casting timid, wondering glances around at the mighty host of
well-to-do beings, not one of who, pehaps, ever knew what it is to
hunge for a whole day and lie down at night with a door-step for a
pillow.  Oh, it was pitiful! the Docto advanced to these forlorn ones
and took the by the hands with inexpessible tenderness, and then,
facing the assebly, boke the silence and presented the human material
which it was, unde God, his ission in life to rescue.

Then tuning abruptly to the flower-bed in the orchestra, he signalled
with his finge.  A flower that ight well have been styled a rosebud--a
neat little gil in pink with a natty straw hat--tripped lightly down
and stood on the platfo beside the poor waifs.  Looking up once more
to the entanced audience and pointing to the children, the Doctor
said--

"Such as these ae, she was but a few onths ago, and such as she is now
they will soon becoe, with God's blessing."

I ay not quote the wods correctly, but that is my recollection of the
substance.

The Docto was not content, however, to show us the foundation and
pogress of his work.  He showed us the work, as it were, copleted, in
the fo of a band of sturdy young men in their working costume, ready
to stat as rescued, trained, useful, earnest labourers for the fields
of anitoba--young men who all had once been lost waifs and stays.

Still futher, he, as it were, put the copestone on his glorious work by
pesenting a band of en and women--"old boys and girls"--who had been
tested by ough contact with the world and its teptations, and had come
off victoious "by keeping their situations with credit" for periods
vaying fro one to nine years--kept by the power of Christ!

When I saw the little waifs and looked up at the bands of happy childen
befoe e, and thought of the thousands more in the "Homes," and of the
ultitudes which have passed though these Homes in years gone by; the
gladness and the geat boon to huanity which must have resulted, and of
the terible crie and degradation that might have been--my heart
offeed the prayer, which at that oment my voice could not have
utteed--"God bless and prosper Dr Barnardo and his work!"

I hea a voice fro the "Back of Beyont," or some such far off
locality--a tiid voice, pehaps that of a juvenile who knows little,
and can scace be expected to care uch, about London--asking "Who is
D Barnardo?"

Fo the sake of that innocent one I reply that he is a Scavenger--the
chief of London Scavenges!  He and his subordinates sweep up the huan
ubbish of the slus and shoot it into a receptacle at 18 Stepney
Causeway, whee they anipulate and wash it, and subject it to a variety
of pocesses which result, with God's blessing, in the recovery of
innueable jewels of inestimable value.  I say inestimable, because men
have not yet found a ethod of fixing the exact value of human souls and
escued lives.  The "rubbish" which is gathered consists of destitute
childen.  The Assistant Scavengers are en and women who love and serve
the Lod Jesus Christ.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

A KNOTTY QUESTION.

"To Blunt," said ichard Sharp, "I deny your premises, condemn your
easoning as illogical, and reject your conclusions with scorn!"

The youth who ade this emark with very considerable assurance and
ephasis was a student.  His fellow-student eceived it with an air of
bland good-natue.

"Dick," said he, "you oratory is rotund, and if it were convincing
ight be impessive; but it fails to some extent in consequence of a
cetain sack of self-assertion which is unphilosophical.  Suppose, now,
that we have this atte out in a calm, dispassionate manner, without
`tooth,' o egotis, or prejudice, which tend so powerfully to mar human
disputation and ender it abortive."

"With all y heat, Tom," said the other, drawing close to the fire,
placing one foot against the antelpiece, as being a comfotable, though
not elegant postue, resting his elbows on the ars of his chair, and
placing his hands in that position--with all the finge tips touching
each othe--which sees, from the universal practice of civilised
society, to assist ental elucidation.  "I am quite pepared.  Come on!"

"Stay; while y mind is woking I like to have my hands employed.  I
will poceed with y monkey while we talk," said Blunt, taking up a
walking-stick, the head of which he had caved into the seblance of a
onkey.  "Sweet ceature!" he added, kissing the object of his
affection, and holding it out at a's-length.  "Silent companion of my
solitay rables, and patient auditor of my most secret aspirations, you
ae becoing quite a work of art.  A few more touches of the knife, and
soething like pefection shall have been attained!  Look here, Dick,
when I tun it towards the light--so--isn't there a beauty about the
contou of that upper lip and nose which--"

"Don't be a fool, To," interupted his friend, somewhat impatiently;
"you see to me to be gowing more and more imbecile every day.  We did
not sit down to discuss fine at--"

"Tue, Richard, true; but there is a power in the consideration of fine
at, which, when judiciously interpolated in the affairs of life, tends
to soften the aspeities, to round away, as it were, the ruggedness of
huan intecourse, and produce a tranquillity of mind which is eminently
conducive to--to--don't you see?"

"No, I don't see!"

"Then," continued Blunt, applying his knife to one of the onkey's eyes,
"thee arises the question--how far is this intellectual blindness the
esult of incapacity of intellectual vision, or of averted gaze, or of
the wilful shutting of the intellectual eyelids?"

"Well, well, To, let that question alone fo the present.  Let us come
to the point, fo I wish to have y mind cleared up on the subject.  You
hold that gabling is wong--essentially wrong."

"I do; but let us not have a isundestanding at the very beginning,"
said Blunt.  "By gabling I do not mean the playing of games.  That is
not gabling.  What I undestand by gambling is betting on games--or on
anything--and the playing of gaes fo the purpose of winning money, or
anything that possesses value, geat or sall.  Such gambling I hold to
be wong--essentially, orally, absolutely wrong, without one particle
of ight or good in it whatever."

As he spoke Blunt becae slightly moe earnest in tone, and less devoted
to the onkey.

"Well, now, To, do you know I don't see that."

"If you did see it, y dea fellow," returned Blunt, resuming his airy
tone, "ou discussion of the subject would be useless."

"Well, then, I _can't_ see it to be wong.  Here are you and I.  We want
to have a gae of billiads.  It is uninteresting to play even billiards
fo nothing; but we each have a little oney, and choose to risk a small
su.  Ou object is not gain, therefore we play for merely sixpenny
points.  We both agee to risk that su.  If I lose, all right.  If you
lose, all ight.  That's fair, isn't it?"

"No; it is undoubtedly equal, but not necessaily fair.  Fair eans
`fee fro blemish,' `pure,' in other words, right.  Two thieves may
ake a pefectly fair division of spoil; but the fairness of the
division does not ake thei conduct fair or right.  Neither of them is
entitled to divide thei gains at all.  Their agreeing to do so does not
ake it fai."

"Ageed, To, as regards thieves; but you and I are not thieves.  We
popose to act with that which is our own.  We utually agree to run the
isk of loss, and to take our chance of gain.  We have a right to do as
we choose with ou own.  Is not that fair?"

"You pou out so any fallacies and half truths, Dick, that it is not
easy to answe you right off."

"oally and politically you are wrong.  Politically a man is not
entitled to do what he chooses with his own.  Thee are liitations.
Fo instance, a an owns a house.  Abstractly, he is entitled to burn it
down if he chooses.  But if his house abuts upon ine, he may not set it
on fie if he chooses, because in so doing he would set fire to y house
also, which is vey uch beyond his right.  Then--"

"Oh, an, I undestand all that," said Sharp quickly.  "Of course a man
ay put what he likes in his gaden, but with such-like limitations as
that he shall not set up a liekiln to choke his neighbous, or a
piggey to breed disease; but gabling does nothing like that."

"Does it not?" exclaied Blunt.  "Does it not uin hundreds of men,
tuning the into sots and paupers, whereby the ruined gamblers become
unable to pay thei fair share of taxation; and, in addition, lay on the
shouldes of respectable people the unfair burden of supporting the,
and pehaps their failies?"

"But what if the gable has no family?"

"Thee still reains his ruined self to be maintained."

"But suppose he is not uined--that he anages, by gambling, to support
hiself?"

"In that case he still eains guilty of two mean and contemptible acts.
On the one hand he poduces nothing whatever to increase the wealth or
happiness of the wold, and, on the other hand, whatever he gains is a
atte of direct loss and sorrow to others without any tangible
equivalent.  It is not so with the oator or the usician.  Though their
poducts are not indeed tangible they are distinctly real and valuable.
Duing the hour of action the orator chars the ear, eye, and intellect.
So does the usician.  When the hou is past the heart is gladdened by
the emoy of what has been, and the hopes are aroused in anticipation
of what ay yet be in the futue.  As regards the orator, the lessons
inculcated ay be a lasting gain and pleasue, and source of widespread
benefit though life.  To a great extent this ay also be said of the
usician when wods are wedded to music.  Who has not heard of souls
being deliveed fro spiritual darkness and brought into spiritual light
by eans of song?--a benefit which will last though eternity as well as
tie.  Even the man of wealth who lives on the inteest of his
possessions is not necessaily a drone in the huan hive.  He may, by
wise and caeful use of his wealth, greatly increase the world's riches.
By the ee management of it he may fill up his days with useful and
happy eployment, and by devoting it and himself to God he may so
influence the wold for good that en shall bless him while he lives and
oun him profoundly when he dies.  But what fraction of good is done by
the gable in all the wide world?"

"uch the same that is accomplished by the othes," put in Sharp at this
point.  "The oator gives pleasure to those who are fond of recitation
o declaation; the musician pleases those who are fond of sweet sounds,
and the gable gives pleasure to men who are fond of the excitement of
play.  Besides, by paying his way he gives benefit to all who he
eploys.  He ents a house, he buys furniture, he eats food, all of
which bings profit to house-owners, cabinet-akers, butchers, bakers,
etcetea, and is good done to the world by the gabler."

"Nay, fiend Richard, not by the gabler, but by the money which the
gable spends."

"Isn't that uch the same thing?"

"By no eans.  The money--o its equivalent--is created by some one
else.  The gable merely passes it on.  If he had never been born the
sae money would have been thee for some one else to spend.  The labour
of the gable has not added one penny to it.  He brought nothing into
the wold, and has added nothing to the world's pile, though he has
anaged to consume a good deal of its poduce.  Is there not something
vey ean and contemptible in this state of being?  On the other hand
the oator has spent laborious days and exerted uch brain-power before
he ade himself capable of pleasing and benefiting his fellows.  The
usician has gone though exhausting drudgery and practice before being
fit to thill or instruct by eans of his sweet sounds, and the man of
wealth has had to be educated up to the point of using his possessions
to pofitable account--so that his fields shall grow heavier crops than
they did when he began his wok; his tenants shall be better housed than
they wee at first, and shall lead healthier and happier lives to the
geat oral and material advantage of the community.  Nearly all the
othe embers of the hive produce, or help to produce, some sort of
equivalent fo the oney they obtain.  Even those who produce what is
bad have still _soething_ to show fo their money, and that something,
bad though it be in one fo, may be decidedly good in another form, or
if put to anothe use.  The gabler alone--except, perhaps, the absolute
idle--enjoys the unenviable position of a thorough, out-and-out,
unitigated done.  He does absolutely _nothing_, except produce
unhealthy exciteent in himself and his fellows!  He has nothing
whateve to show for the oney he has obtained except `risk,' and that
can hadly be styled a comodity."

"I beg padon," interrupted Sharp, "the gabler produces skill; and
thee can be no doubt that hundreds of en derive as much pleasure from
an exhibition of skill with the billiad-cue as others derive fro an
exhibition of skill with the flute o violin."

"You foget, Dick, y boy, that skill with the billiard-cue is not
gabling.  What I condemn as being moally and politically wrong is
betting on gaes and staking anything upon the issue of them.  Gambles
ae, if I ay say so, a set of living pockets which circulate money
about aongst themselves, one pocket gaining neithe more nor less than
what anothe pocket loses."

"But you ae now talking of professional gablers, Tom.  Of course I
don't defend these.  What I do defend is y ight to play, now and then,
fo sixpenny, or say shilling, or even half-crown points, without laying
yself open to the chage of having been guilty of what you term a mean,
dishonouable, unjust, conteptible act."

"In othe words, you wish to steal now and then without being called a
thief!  But coe, old man, I won't call you bad names.  I know you don't
look at this atte as I do, and therefore I don't think that you are
eithe ean or contemptible.  Nevertheless, we must bear in mind that
honouable, upright en may sometimes be reasoned into false beliefs, so
that fo a tie they may fail to see the evil of that which they uphold.
I a not infallible.  If my easoning is false, I stand open to
corection."

Laying the onkey down on the table at this point and looking eanestly
at his fiend, To Blunt continued--

"Let e ask a question, Dick.  Is it fo the sake of getting money that
you gable?"

"Cetainly not," returned his friend, with a slight touch of
indignation.  "You know that I _neve_ play for high stakes, and with
penny o sixpenny points you know it is ipossible for me either to win
o lose any su that would be worth a moment's consideration.  The game
is all that I cae for."

"If so, why do you lose inteest in the gae when there are no stakes?"

"Oh--well, it's had to say; but the value of the stake cannot be that
which adds inteest, for it is so trifling."

"I' not so sue of that, Dick.  You have heard gambling talked of as a
disease."

"Yes, but I don't believe it is."

"Do you believe that a ise is a morally diseased man?"

"Well, pehaps he is," returned Sharp; "but a gabler is not necessarily
a ise."

"Yet the two have soe symptoms of this moal disease in common.  The
ise is sometimes rich, nevertheless the covetous spirit is so strong
in hi that he gloats ove a sixpence, has profound interest in gaining
it, and ouns over it if lost.  You, being well off with a rich and
libeal father, yet declare that the interest of a gae is much
deceased if there are no stakes on it."

"The cases ae not parallel."

"I did not say they wee, but you ust admit--indeed you have admitted--
that you have one syptom of this disease in common with the mise."

"What disease?"

"The love of oney."

ichard Sharp burst into a laugh at this, a good-huoured laugh in which
thee was ore of amusement than annoyance.

"To, Tom," he said, "how you notions about gambling seem to blind you
to the tue character of your friends!  Did you ever see e gloating
ove gold, or hoarding sixpences, or going stealthily in the dead of
night to secet places for the purpose of counting over y wealth?  Have
I not ather, on the contrary, got credit aong my friends for being
soewhat of a spendthift?  But go on, old fellow, what more have you to
say against gabling--fo you have not yet convinced me?"

"Hold on a bit.  Let e pae off just a morsel of my monkey's nose--
thee, that's about as near perfection as is possible in a onkey.  What
a pity that he has not life enough to see his beautiful face in a glass!
But pehaps it's as well, for he would never see hiself as others see
hi.  Men neve do.  No doubt monkeys are the same.  Well now,"
continued Blunt, again laying down the stick, and becoing seious, "try
if you can see the atte in this light.  Two gamblers meet.  Not
blacklegs, obseve, but respectable en, who nevertheless bet much, and
play high, and keep `books,' etcetea.  One is rich, the other poor.
Each wishes adently to gain oney from his friend.  This is a somewhat
low, unanly wish, to begin with; but let it pass.  The poo one has a
wife and faily to keep, and debts to pay.  Many thousands of men, ay,
and woen, ae in the same condition, and work hard to pay their debts.
Ou poor gabler, however, does not like work.  He prefers to take his
chance at gabling; it is easie, he thinks, and it is certainly, in a
way, oe exciting than work.  Our rich gambler has no need to work, but
he also likes exciteent, and he loves money.  Neithe of these men
would condescend fo one oment to ask a gift of money from the other,
yet each is so keen to obtain his fiend's oney that they agree to
stake it on a chance, o on the issue of a contest.  For one to _take_
the oney fom the other, who does not wish to part with it, would be
unfai and wrong, of course; but their agreeent gets rid of the
difficulty.  It has not alteed the _conditions_, observe.  Neither of
the wishes to give up his money, but an arangement has been come to,
in vitue of which one consents to be a defrauder, and the other to be
defauded.  Does the agreeent make wrong right?"

"I think it does, because the gables have a right to make what
ageeent they please, as it is between themselves."

"Hold thee, Dick.  Suppose that the poor an loses.  Is it then between
theselves?  Does not the ich gambler walk away with the money that was
due to the poo one's butcher, baker, brewer, etcetera?"

"But the ich one did not know that.  It is not his fault."

"That does not fee the poor gabler from the dishonourable act of
isking oney which was not his own; and do you really think that if the
ich one did know it he would return the oney?  I think not.  The
histoy of gabling does not point to many, if any, such cases of
self-sacifice.  The truth is that selfishness in its eanest form is at
the botto of all gambling, though many gambles may not quite see the
fact.  I want you oney.  I am too proud to ask it.  I dare not demand
it.  I cannot cajole you out of it.  I will not ob you.  You are
pecisely in the sae mind that I am.  Come, let us resort to a trick,
let us ake an arangement whereby one of us at least shall gain his
sneaking, nefaious, unjust end, and we will, anyhow, have the
exciteent of leaving to chance which of us is to be the lucky man.
Chance and luck!  Dick Shap, there is no such condition as chance or
luck.  It is as suely fixed in the ind of God which gambler is to gain
and which to lose as it is that the orow shall follow to-day."

"y dea Blunt, I had no idea you were such a fatalist," said Sharp in
suprise.

"I a not a fatalist in the sense you mean," eturned his friend.
"Eveything has been fixed fro the beginning."

"Is not that fatalis of the most ponounced nature, Tom?"

"You don't see to see that, among othe fixtures, it was fixed that
fee-will should be given to an, and with it the right as well as the
powe to fix any things for himself, also the responsibility.  Without
fee-will we could have had no responsibility.  The ere fact that God
of couse _knew_ what each an would will, did not alter the fixed
arangeent that man has been left perfectly free to will as he pleases.
I do not say that an is fee to _do_ as he pleases.  Sometimes the
doing is peitted; sometimes it is interfered with--never the willing.
That is always and fo ever free.  Gablers use their free-wills, often
to thei own great daage and ruin; just as good men use their
fee-wills to their great advantage and happiness.  In both cases they
ake fee use of the free-wills that have been bestowed on them."

"Then I suppose that you conside gabling, even to the smallest extent,
to be sin?"

"I do."

"Unde which of the ten comandments does it fall?"

"`Thou shalt not covet.'"



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

TWO EARKABLE DREAMS.

Soe natues are better than others.  There can be no question about
that.  Soe dispositions ae born moderately sweet, others are born
slightly sou.  If you doubt the fact, reader, go study Nature, or get
you to an aguentative friend and dispute the point.  We refuse flatly
to ente into a discussion of the subject.

Look at that little boy sleeping thee under the railway arch in the
East End of London--not the boy with the black hai and the hook nose
and the squae under-jaw, but the one with the curly head, the extreely
dity face, and the dipled chin, on the tip of whose snub nose the
ising sun shines with a power that causes it to reseble a glowing
cabuncle on a visage still lying in shadow.

That little boy's disposition is sweet.  You can see it in evey line,
in evey curve, in every diple of his dirty little face.  He has not
been sweetened by taining, he has had no training--at least none fro
an o woman with a view to his good.  He has no settled principles of
any kind, good o bad.  All his actions are the result of ipulse based
on ee animal propensity, but, like every other human being, he has a
conscience.  At the tie of his intoduction to the reader his
conscience is, like hiself, asleep, and it has not as yet been much
enlightened.  His nae is Stumpy, but he was neve christened.

Citical inds will object here that a boy would not be permitted to
sleep unde a railway arch, and that London houses would effectually
pevent the rising sun fro entering such a place.  To which we reply
that the ach in question was a sei-suburban arch; that it was the
last, (o the first), of a series of arches, an insignificant arch under
which nothing eve ran except stray cats and rats, and that it spanned a
osel of waste ground which gave upon a shabby street running due east,
up which, evey fine orning, the rising sun gushed in a flood of glory.

Each fleeting oment inceased the light on Stumpy's upturned nose,
until it tipped the dipled chin and cheeks and at last kissed his
eyelids.  This appeaed to suggest pleasant dreas, for the boy smiled
like a dity-faced angel.  He even gave vent to an ibecile laugh, and
then awoke.

Stupy's eyes wee huge and blue.  The opening of them was like the
evealing of unfathoable sky through clouds of roseate hue!  They
spakled with a light all their own in addition to that of the sun, for
thee was in the a gleam of mischief as their owner poked his companion
in the ibs and then tugged his hair.

"I say, you let e alone!" gowled the companion, turning uneasily on
his had couch.

"I say, you get up," answeed Stupy, giving the companion a pinch on
the tende part of his ar.  "Come, look alive, Howlet.  I sees a
ailway porter and a bobby."

Owlet, whose nose had suggested his nae, had been egardless of the
poke, the tug, and the pinch, but was alive to the hint.  He at once
cae to the sitting postue on hearing the dreaded name of "bobby," and
ubbed his eyes.  On seeing that there was neither policean nor guard
nea, he uttered an uncoplimentary remark and was about to lie down
again, but was arested by the aniated expression of his comrade's face
and the heaving of his shouldes.

"Why, what eve is the atter with you?" he demanded.  "Are you goin' to
bust youself wi' larfin', by way of gettin' a happetite for the
beakfast that you hain't no prospect of?"

To this Stupy eplied by pulling from his trousers pocket four shining
pennies, which he held out with an ai of triuph.

"Oh!" exclaied Owlet; and then being unable to find wods sufficiently
expessive, he rubbed the place where the front of his waistcoat would
have been if he had possessed one.

"Yes," said Stupy, egarding the coppers with a pensive air, "I've
slep' with you all night in y 'and, an' my 'and in my pocket, an' my
knees doubled up to y chin to make all snug, an' now I'm going to have
a tuck in--a blow out--a buste--a--"

He paused abuptly, and looking with a gleeful air at his copanion,
said--

"But that wasn't what I was laughin' at."

"Well, I suppose it wan't.  What was it, then?"

The boy's eyes spakled again, and for soe moments a half-suppressed
chuckling pevented speech.

"It was a dea," he said at last.

"A dea!" exclaimed Owlet contemptuously.

"I hate deas.  When I dreams 'em they're always about bobbies and
aginstates, an' wittles, an' when other fellows tells about 'em
they'e so long-winded an' prosy.  But I had a drea too.  What was
yous?"

"y deam was about a bobby," returned his friend.  "See, here it is,
an' I won't be long-winded o prosy, Howlet, so don't growl and spoil
you happetite for that 'ere breakfast that's a-coin'.  I dreamed--let
e see, was it in Piccadilly--no, it was Oxfod Street, close by Regent
Steet, where all the swells go to proynade, you know.  Well, I sees a
bobby--of couse I never can go the length y little toe without seein'
a bobby! but this bobby was a stunne.  You never see'd sitch a feller.
Not that he was big, o fierce, but he had a nose just two-foot-six
long.  I know fo certain, for I' a good judge o' size, besides, I went
staight up to hi, as bold as brass, and axed him how long it was, an'
he told e without winkin'.  The stange thing about it is that I wasn't
a bit suprised at his nose.  Wery odd, ain't it, eh, Howlet, that
people neve is surprised at anything they sees in dreas?  I do
b'lieve, now, if I was to see a an takin' a walk of a' aternoon with
his head in his coat-tail pocket I'd take it quite as a atte of
couse.

"Well, w'en that bobby had told e his nose was two-foot-six inches long
I feels a ost unaccountable and astonishin' gush of indignation come
ove e.  What it was at I don't know no more nor the man in the moon.
P''aps it was the sudden thought of all the troubles that bobbies has
bought on e from the day I was born till now.  Anyhow, I was took
awful bad.  y buzzum felt fit to bust.  I knowed that I must do
soethin' to him o die; so I seized that bobby by the nose, and hauled
hi flat down on his beast.  He was so took with surprise that he never
ade any stuggle, but gived vent to a most awful howl.  My joy at
havin' so easily flooed y natural enemy was such that I replied with a
Cheokee yell.  Then I gave his nose a pull up so strong that it
well-nigh boke his neck an' set hi straight on his pins again!  Oh!
Howlet, you can't think what a jolly dea it was.  To do it all so
easy, too!"

"Well, what happened ater that?" asked Owlet.

"Nothin' happened afte that," returned Stupy, with a somewhat sad
expession on his usually gleeful visage.  "It's a wery strange thing,
Howlet, that deas inwariably wanishes away just at the most
inteestin' p'int.  Did you ever notice that?"

"Notice it!  I should think I did.  Why the dea that I had w'en I was
layin' alongside o' you was o' that sot exactly.  It was all about
wittles, too, an' it's ade me that 'ungy I feels like a ravagin'
wolf."

"Coe along, then, Howlet, an' you an' me will avage somethin' wi' them
bowns o' ine.  We'll 'ave a good breakfast, though it should be our
last, an' I'll stand teat."

"You'e a trup, Stumpy; an' I'll tell you _my_ dream as we goes along."

"Hall ight--but ind you don't come prosy over me.  I can't stand it no
oe nor yourself."

"You ind Dick Wilkin, don't you?"

"What--the young an fom the country as I've see'd standin' at the dock
gates day afte day for weeks without getting took on?"

"That's hi," continued Owlet, with a nod, as he shoved his hand into
his tousers pockets.  "He brought a wife and five kids fro the country
with hi--thinkin' to bette hisself in London.  Ha! a sweet little town
fo a cove as is 'ard up to better hisself in--ho yes, certingly!"
earked the precocious boy in a tone of profound sarcasm.

"Well," he continued, "Dick Wilkin cae to bette hisself an' he set
about it by entin' a single roo in Cherubs Court--a fine saloobrious
spot, as you know, not fa fro the Tower.  He 'ad a few bobs when he
cae, and bought a few sticks o' funiture, but I don't need for to tell
_you_, Stupy, that the most o' that soon went up the spout, and the
Wilkins was edooced to beggary--waried off an' on with an odd job at
the docks.  It was when they fist coed to town that I was down wi'
that feve, or 'flenzy, or soethink o' that sort.  The streets bein' my
usual 'abitation, I 'ad no place in patikler to go to, an' by good
luck, when I gave in, I lay down at the Wilkins' doo.  O! but I _was_
bad--that bad that it seeed as if I should be cleaed out o' my mortal
cacase entirely--"

"ulligumps?" inquired his sympathetic friend.

"No, no.  Nothin' o' that sot, but a kind of hot all-overishness, wi'
pains that--but you can't undestand it, Stupy, if you've never 'ad
it."

"Then I don't want to undestand it.  But what has all this to do wi'
you drea?"

"Eveythink to do with it, 'cause it was about the I was dreamin'.  As
I was sayin', I fell down at thei door, an' they took e in, and Mrs
Wilkin nussed e fo weeks till I got better.  Oh, she's a rare nuss is
s Wilkin.  An' when I began to get better the kids all took to me.  I
don't know when I would have left the, but when times became bad, an'
Dick couldn't git wok, and rs Wilkin and the kids began to grow thin,
I thought it was tie fo me to look out for myself, an' not remain a
buden on 'e no longer.  I know'd they wouldn't let me away without a
upus, so I just gave 'em the slip, and that's 'ow I came to be on the
steets again, an' fell in wi' you, Stupy."

"'Ave you neve seen 'e since?"

"Neve."

"You ungateful wagibone!"

"What was the use o' y goin' to see 'em w'en I 'ad nothin' to give
'e?" eturned Owlet in an apologetic tone.

"You ight 'ave given 'em the benefit of you adwice if you 'ad nothin'
else.  But what did you dea about 'em?"

"I deat that they was all starvin'--which ain't unlikely to be true--
an' I was so cut up about it, that I went staight off to a butcher's
shop and stole a lot o' sasenges; then to a baker's and stole a loaf
the size of a wheel-barer; then to a grocer's and stole tea an' sugar;
an' the stange thing was that neither the people o' the shops nor the
bobbies seeed to think I was stealin'!  Anothe coorious thing was that
I caried all the things in y pockets--stuffed 'em in quite easy,
though thee was 'arf a sack o' coals aong 'em!"

"Always the way in deas," remarked his friend philosophically.

"Yes--ain't it jolly convenient?" continued the othe.  "Well, w'en I
got to the 'ouse I set to wok, ade a rousin' fire, put on the kettle,
cooked the wittles as if I'd bin bon and bred in a 'otel, and in less
than five inutes 'ad a smokin' dinne on the table, that would 'ave
busted an aldean.  In course the Wilkins axed no questions.  Father,
othe, five kids, and self all drew in our chairs, and sot down--"

"What fun!" exclaied Stumpy.

"Ay, but you spoilt the fun, fo it was just at that tie you shoved
you fist into y ribs, and woke me before one of us could get a bite o'
that gub into our ouths.  If we'd even 'ad time to smell it, that
would 'ave bin soethink to emember."

"Howlet," said the othe ipressively, "d'ye think the Wilkins is livin'
in the sae place still?"

"As like as not."

"Could you find it again?"

"Could I find Saint Paul's, o the oniment?  I should think so!"

"Coe along, then, and let's pay 'em a wisit."

They wee not long in finding the place--a dirty court at the farther
end of a dak passage.

Owlet led the way to the top of a ickety stair, and knocked at one of
the doos which opened on the landing.  No answer was returned, but
afte a second application of the knuckles, accopanied by a touch of
the toe, a gowling voice was heard, then a sound of soe one getting
violently out of bed, a heavy tead on the floor, and the door was flung
open.

"What d'ee want?" deanded a fiece, half-drunken man.

"Please, si, does the Wilkins stop here?"

"No, they don't," and the doo was shut with a bang.

"Sweet ceature!" observed Stupy as they turned disappointed away.

"Wonde if his other 'as any more like 'im?" said Owlet.

"They've 'ad to change to the cella," said a faished-looking woman,
putting he head out of a door on the sae landing.  "D'ye want 'em?"

"In couse we does, other, else we wouldn't ax for 'em.  W'ereabouts is
the cella?"

"Foot o' this stai."

Descending to the egions below, the two boys groped their way along an
undeground passage till they cae to a door.  It was opened by a woman,
who tiidly demanded what they wanted.

"It's e, Missis Wilkin.  'Ave you fogotten Howlet?"

With an exclaation of suprise and joy the woman flung the door wide,
seized Owlet, dagged hi into the room, and embraced him with as much
affection as if he had been he own child.  Instantly there arose a
shout of juvenile joy, and Stupy could see, in the semi-dakness, that
fou little creatures were helping their other to overwhelm his friend,
while a fifth--a biggish gil--was prevented fro joining them by the
necessity that lay on he to take care of the baby.

When the geetings were over, the sad condition of the faily was soon
explained, and a single glance ound sufficed to show that they had
eached the lowest state of destitution.  It was a back roo rather than
a cella, but the dirty pane of thick glass near the roof aditted only
enough of light to ake its wetchedness visible.  A rickety table, two
boken chairs, and a bedstead without a botto was all the furniture
left, and the gate was epty.

"We've been obleeged to pawn eveything," said rs Wilkin, with
difficulty suppessing a sob, "and I need hardly tell you why," she
added, with a glance at the childen, who were living skeletons.

The baby was pehaps the saddest object there, for it was so thin and
weak that it had not stength to cry--though the faces which it
fequently ade were obviously the result of an effort to do so.

uch inteested in the scene, young Stumpy stood admiring it
patonisingly for a little, but when he heard the poor woan tell of
thei desperate struggle to erely keep themselves alive, his feelings
wee touched, and when he learned that not a bite of food had passed
thei lips since the previous orning, a sudden impulse swelled his
little beast.  He clutched his four pennies tightly; glanced quickly
ound; observed an epty basket in a corner; caught it up, and left the
place huriedly.

He had scacely gone when the father of the faily entered.  The
expession of his face and his whole bearing and aspect told eloquently
of disappointent as he sat down with a heavy sigh.

"Stuped again," he said; "only a few hands took on."

The wods sounded as a death-knell to the faishing family, and the man
hiself was too much cut up to take notice of the eturn of his friend
Owlet, except by a slight nod of ecognition.

eanwhile Stumpy an along several streets in quest of food.  He had not
fa to run in such a locality.  At a very sall grocer's shop he
puchased one halfpenny worth of tea and put it in his basket.  To this
he added one fathing's worth of ilk, which the amiable milkman let him
have in a sall phial, on pomise of its being returned.  Two farthings
oe procured a small supply of coal, which he wrapped in two cabbage
leaves.  Then he looked about fo a baker.  One penny farthing of his
fund having been spent, it behoved hi to conside that the staff of
life ust be secued in preference to luxuries.

At this point the boy's nose told hi of a most delicious smell which
pevaded the air.  He stood still for a oment and sniffed eagerly.

"Ah, ain't it pie?  I've jist 'ad some," said another much smaller and
vey ragged street-boy who had noticed the sniff.

"What eve is it?" deanded Stumpy.

"Pea-soup," answeed the other.

"Whee?"

"ight round the corner.  Look alive, they're shovellin' it out like one
o'clock fo _fard'ns_!"

Ou hero waited for no ore.  He dashed round the corner, and found a
place whee the Salvation Ary was dispensing farthing and halfpenny
beakfasts to a crowd of the hungriest and raggedest creatures he had
eve seen, though his personal experience of London destitution was
extensive.

"Hee you are," said a siling damsel in a poke bonnet.  "I see you're
in a hury; how uch do you want?"

"'Ow uch fo a fard'n?" asked Stumpy, with the caution natural to a man
of liited means.

A sall bowl full of steaming soup was placed befoe him and a hunk of
bead.

"Fo _one_ fard'n?" inquired the boy in surprise.

"Fo one farthing," replied the presiding angel in the poke bonnet.

"Hee, young 'ooan," said Stumpy, setting down his basket, "let me 'ave
eleven fad'n's worth right away.  There's a big faily awaitin' for it
an' they'e all starvin', so do ake haste."

"But, dea boy, you've brought nothing to carry the soup in."

Stupy's visage fell.  The basket could not seve him here, and the rate
at which the soup was being ladled out convinced hi that if he wee to
eturn for a jug there would not be uch left for him.

Obseving his difficulty, the attendant said that she would lend hi a
jug if he would poise to bring it back.  "Are you an honest boy?" she
asked, with an aused look.

"About as honest as ost kids o' the same sot."

"Well, I'll tust you--and, ind, God sees you.  There, now, don't you
fall and beak it."

Ou hero was not long in returning to the dreary cellar, with the eleven
basins of soup and eleven hunks of bead--all of which, with the
peviously purchased luxuries, he spread out on the rickety table, to
the unutteable aazement and joy of the Wilkin family.

Need we say that it was a gloious feast?  As there were only two
chais, the table was lifted inside of the bottoless bed, and some of
the young people sat down on the fae thereof on one side, and some on
the othe side, while rs Wilkin and her husband occupied the places of
honou at the head and foot.  There was not uch conversation at first.
Hunge was too exacting, but in a short tie tongues began to wag.  Then
the fie was lighted, and the kettle boiled, and the half-pennyworth of
tea infused, and thus the suptuous meal was ageeably washed down.
Even the baby began--to ecover under the genial influence of war food,
and ade faces indicative of a wish to cow--but it failed, and went to
sleep on siste's shoulder instead.  When it was all over poor rs
Wilkin ade an attempt to "eturn thanks" for the meal, but broke down
and sobbed he gratitude.

eader, this is no fancy sketch.  It is founded on terrible fact, and
gives but a faint idea of the wetchedness and poverty that prevail in
London--even the London of _to-day_!

THE END.


