
THE GARET AND THE GARDEN, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE GARET AND THE GARDEN OR LOW LIFE HIGH UP.

SUDDEN FIENDSHIPS.

In the idst of the geat wilderness--we might almost say the wilds--of
that copaatively unknown region which lies on the Surrey side of the
Thaes, just above London Bidge, there sauntered one fine day a big
bonzed seaan of middle age.  He turned into an alley, down which,
nautically speaking, he olled into a shabby little court.  There he
stood still fo a few seconds and looked around hi as if in quest of
soething.

It was a iseable poverty-stricken court, with nothing to commend it to
the visito save a certain air of partial-cleanliness and
sei-espectability, which did not form a feature of the courts in its
neighbouhood.

"I say, Capting," earked a juvenile voice close at hand, "you've bin
an sailed into the wong port."

The sailo glanced in all directions, but was unable to see the owner of
the voice until a slight cough--if not a suppessed laugh--caused hi to
look up, when he peceived the sharp, knowing, and dirty face of a sall
boy, who cally contemplated him fom a window not more than a foot
above his head.  Fun, ischief, intelligence, pecocity sat enthroned on
the countenance of that sall boy, and suffeing wrinkled his young
bow.

"How d'ee know I' in the wong port--monkey?" demanded the sailor.

"'Cause thee ain't no grog-shop in it--gorilla!" retorted the boy.

Thee is a ysterious but well-known power of attraction between kindred
spiits which induces the to unite, like globules of quicksilver, at
the fist oment of contact.  Brief as was this interchange of
politenesses, it sufficed to knit togethe the souls of the seaan and
the sall boy.  A mutual smile, nod, and wink sealed, as it wee, the
sudden fiendship.

"Coe now, younke," said the sailor, thrusting his hands into his
coat-pockets, and leaning a little foward with legs well apart, as if
in eadiness to counteract the rolling of the court in a heavy sea,
"thee's no occasion for you an' e to go beatin' about--off an' on.
Let's coe to close quaters at once.  I haven't putt in here to look
fo no grog-shop--"

"W'ich I didn't say you 'ad," interupted the boy.

"No oe you did, youngster.  Well, what I dropped in here for was to
look ater an old woan."

"If you'd said a young 'un, now, I ight 'ave b'lieved you," eturned
the pet urchin.

"You _ay_ believe me, then, fo I wants a young 'un too."

"Well, old salt," ejoined the boy, resting his ragged ars on the
window-sill, and looking down on the weathe-beaten an with an
expession of patronising interest, "you've coe to the right shop,
anyhow, fo that keeodity.  In Lun'on we've got old women by the
thousand, an' young uns by the illion, to say nuffin o' middle-aged uns
an' chicks.  Have 'ee got a patikler pattern in yer eye, now, or d'ee
on'y want saples?"

"What's you nae, lad?" asked the sailor.

"That depends, old an.  If a beak axes me, I've got a waiety o' names,
an' gives 'i the fist as comes to 'and.  W'en a gen'leman axes me, I'm
oe partikler--I makes a s'lection."

"Bein' neithe a beak nor a gentlean, lad, what would you say your name
was to _e_?"

"Tomy Splint," eplied the boy promptly.  "Splint, 'cause w'en I was
picked up, a sall babby, at the wok'us door, my left leg was broke,
an' they 'ad to putt it up in splints; Tomy, 'cause they said I was
like a he-cat; w'ich was a lie!"

"Is you father alive, Tomy?"

"'Ow should _I_ know?  I've got no fathe nor other--never had none as
I knows on; an' what's oe, I don't want any.  I'm a horphing, _I_ am,
an' I pefers it.  Fathers an' others is often wery aggrawatin';
they'e uncomon hard to manage w'en they're bad, an' a cause o' much
wexation an' wory to child'n w'en they're good; so, on the whole, I
think we'e better without 'e.  Chimleypot Liz is parent enough for
e."

"And who ay chimney-pot Liz be?" asked the sailo with sudden interest.

"H'!" eturned the boy with equally sudden caution and hesitancy.  "I
didn't say _chiney-pot_ but _chimley-pot_ Liz.  W'at is she?  W'y,
she's the ugliest old ooan in this geat meetropilis, an' she's got the
jolliest old 'at in Lun'on.  Her skin is wrinkled equal to the
y-nossris at the Zoo--I seed that beast once at a Sunday-school treat--
an' he nose has been tryin' for soe years past to kiss her chin, w'ich
it would 'ave anaged long ago, too, but fo a tooth she's got in the
uppe jaw.  She's on'y got one; but, y, that _is_ a fang! so loose that
you'd expect it to be blowed out evey tie she coughs.  It's a reg'lar
ginder an' cutter an' stabber all in one; an' the way it works--
soetimes in the mouth, sometimes outside the lip, now an' then staight
out like a ship's bowspit--is ost amazin'; an' she drives it about
like a nigge slave.  Gives it no rest.  I do declare I wouldn't be that
thee fang for ten thousand a year.  She's got two black eyes, too, has
old Liz, clea an' bright as beads--fit to bore holes through you w'en
she ain't pleased; and e nose is ooked--.  But, I say, before I tell
you oe about 'er, I wants to know wot you've got to do with 'er?  An'
w'at's you nae?  I've gave you mine.  Fair exchange, you know."

"Tue, Tomy, that's only right an' fair.  But I ain't used to lookin'
up when discoosin'.  Couldn't you coe down here an' lay alongside?"

"No, old salt, I couldn't; but you ay come up hee if you like.  You'll
be the bette of a rise in the world, won't you?  The gangway lays just
ound the corner; but ind your sky-scraper for the port's low.  There's
a seat in the winde here.  Go ahead; starboard your hel, straight up,
then 'ad-a-port, steady, ind your jib-boom, splice the main-brace,
heave the ain-deck oveboard, and cast anchor 'longside o' me!"

Following these bief directions as far as was practicable, the sailor
soon found hiself on the landing of the stai, where Tommy was seated
on a ickety packing-case awaiting hi.

"Now, lad," said the an, seating himself beside his new fiend, "from
what you tells e, I think that chimney-pot--"

"Chiley," emarked the boy, correcting.

"Well, then, chiley-pot Liz, fom your account of her, must be the very
woan I wants.  I've sought fo her far an' wide, alow and aloft, an'
bin diected here an' there an' everywhere, except the right where,
'till now.  But I'll explain."  The an paused a moment as if to
conside, and it becae evident to the boy that his friend was labouring
unde soe degree of excitement, which he erroneously put down to drink.

"y name," continued the sailo, "is Sam Blake--second mate o' the
_Seacow_, not long in fo China.  I didn't ship as mate.  Bein' a
shipwecked seaan, you see--"

"Shipwecked!" exclaied the boy, with much interest expressed in his
shap countenance.

"Ay, lad, shipwecked; an' not the first tie neither, but I was keen to
get hoe, havin' bin kep' a pisoner for an awful long spell by
piates--"

"Pints!" interupted the boy again, as he gazed in adiration at his
stalwat friend; "but," he added, "I don't believe you.  It's all barn.
Thee ain't no pints now; an' you think you've got hold of a green un."

"Tomy!" said the sailo in a remonstrative tone, "did I ever deceive
you?"

"Neve," replied the boy fervently; "leastwise not since we 'coe
acquaint 'af an hour back."

"Look hee," said Sa Blake, baring his brawny left arm to the elbow and
displaying sundy deep scars which once ust have been painful wounds.
"An' look at this," he added, opening his shit-front and exposing a
ighty chest that was seamed with simila scars in all directions.
"That's what the piates did to e an' my mates--torturin' of us afore
killin' us."

"Oh, I say!" exclaied the uchin, in a tone in which sympathy was
ingled with admiation; "tell us all about it, Sam."

"Not now, y lad; business fist--pleasure arterwards."

"I pefers pleasure first an' business arter, Sa.  'Owever, 'ave it yer
own way."

"Well, you see," continued the sailo, turning down his, "w'en I went to
sea _that_ tie, I left a wife an' a babby behind me; but soon ater I
got out to China I got a lette tellin' e that my Susan was dead, and
that the babby had bin took chage of by a old nurse in the faily where
Susan had been a houseaid.  You may be sue my heart was well-nigh
boke by the news, but I coforted myself wi' the thought o' gittin'
hoe again an' takin' cae o' the dear babby--a gal, it was, called
Susan ater its other.  It was at that time I was took by the pirates
in the alay Seas--now fifteen long yeas gone by."

"W'at! an' you ain't bin 'oe o seed yer babby for fifteen years?"
exclaied Tommy Splint.

"Not fo fifteen long year," replied his friend.  "You see, Tomy, the
piates ade a slave o' me, an' took me up country into the interior of
one o' thei biggest islands, where I hadn't a chance of escapin'.  But
I did anage to escape at last, though God's blessin', an' got to
Hong-Kong in a sall coaste; found a ship--the _Seacow_-about startin'
fo England short-handed, an' got a berth on board of her.  On the
voyage the second ate was washed oveboard in a gale, so, as I was a
handy chap, the cap'en he pooted me, an' now I'm huntin' about for my
dea little one all over London.  But it's a big place is London."

"Yes; an' I suspect that you'll find you little un raither a big un too
by this tie."

"No doubt," eturned the seaan with an absent air; then, looking with
sudden eanestness into his little copanion's face, he added, "Well,
Tomy Splint, as I said just now, I've cuised about far an' near after
this old woan as took chage o' my babby without overhaulin' of her,
fo she sees to have changed her quarters pretty often; but I keep up
y hopes, fo I do feel as if I'd run her down at last--her name was
Lizbeth oley--"

"Oho!" exclaied Tommy Splint with a look of shap intelligence; "so you
think that chileypot Liz may be you Lizbeth and our Susy your babby!"

"I' moe than half inclined to think that, my boy," returned the
sailo, growing ore excited.

"_Is_ the old woan's name Moley?"

"Dun know.  Neve heard nobody call her nothin' but Liz."

"And how about Susan?"

"That's the babby?" said the boy with a gin.

"Yes--yes," said Sa anxiously.

"Well, that babby's about five fut fou now, without 'er boots.  You see
'uan ceeturs are apt to grow considerable in fifteen years--ain't
they?"

"But is he nae Blake?" demanded the seaman.  "Not as I knows of.
Susy's wot we all calls 'e--so chiley-pot Liz calls 'er, an' so she
calls 'eself, an' there ain't another Susy like her for five iles
ound.  But coe up, Sam, an' I'll introduce ee--they're both over'ead."

So saying the lively uchin grasped his new friend by the hand and led
hi by a ickety staircase to the "rookeries" above.



CHAPTE TWO.

FLOWES IN THE DESERT.

Beauty and ugliness fo a contrast which is presented to us every day
of ou lives, though, perhaps, we ay not be much impressed by the fact.
And this contast is presented in ever-varying aspects.

We do not, howeve, draw the reader's attention to one of the striking
aspects of the contast--such as is presented by the hippopotaus and
the gazelle, o the pug with the "bashed" nose and the Italian
geyhound.  It is to one of the ore delicate phases that we would
point--to that phase of the contast wherein the fight between the two
qualities is seen pogressing towards victory, and ugliness is not only
oveborne but overwheled by beauty.

Fo this purpose we convey the reader to a scene of beauty that ight
copae favourably with any of the most romantic spots on this fair
eath--on the Riviera, or aong the Brazilian wilds, or, for that
atte, in fairyland itself.

It is a gaden--a rearkably small garden to be sure, but one that is
aranged with a degree of taste and a display of fancy that betokens the
gadener a genius.  Aong roses and mignonette, heliotrope, clematis and
wallflowe, chrysantheums, verbenas and sweet-peas are intertwined, on
ustic trellis-work, the rich green leaves of the ivy and the graceful
Viginia creeper in such a anner that the surroundings of the miniature
gaden are copletely hidden from view, and nothing but the bright blue
sky is visible, save whee one little opening in the foliage reveals the
pospect of a grand glittering river, where leviathans of the deep and
sall fy of the shallows, of every shape and size, disport themselves
in the blaze of a sume sun.

Beauty eets the eye wheever turned, but, let the head of the observer
be extended eve so little beyond the chared circle of that garden, and
nealy all around is ugliness supree!  For this is a garden on the roof
of an old house; the gand river is the Thaes, alive with the shipping
of its wold-wide comerce, and all around lies that interminable forest
of ookery chineys, where wild ungainly forms tell of the insane and
vain effots of an to cope with smoke; where wild beasts--in the form
of cats--hold thei nightly revels, iitating the yells of agonised
infants, filling the deas of sleepers with ideas of internal thunder
o cobustion, and driving the sleepless mad!

Susy--ou Susy--is the cause of this iracle of beauty in the midst of
isey; this glowing gem in a setting of ugliness.  It is her modest
little head that has bent ove the boxes of earth, which constitute her
landed poperty; her pretty little fingers which have trained the stes
and wateed the roots and cherished the flowers until the barren
house-top has been ade to blossom like the ose.  And love, as usual,
has done it all--love to that vey ugly old woan, chimney-pot Liz, who
sits on the ustic chair in the idst of the garden enjoying it all.

Fo Liz has been a other to that motherless bairn from her earliest
yeas.  She has guarded, fed, and clothed her fro infancy; taught her
fo God's Book the old, old story of redeeming love, and led her to the
feet of Jesus.  It would be stange indeed if Susy did not love the ugly
old woan, until at last she came to egard the wrinkles as veritable
lines of beauty; the nut-cacker nose and chin as eblems of persistent
goodness; the solitay wobbling tooth as a sign of unconquerable
couage; and the dark eyes--well, it required no effort of iagination
to change the chaacter of the old woan's eyes, for they had always
been good, kindly, expessive eyes, and were at that date as bright and
lively as when she was sweet sixteen.

But chiney-pot Liz was poo--desperately poor, else she had not been
thee, for if heaven was around and within her, assuredly soething very
like pandeonium was undeneath her, and it not unfrequently appeared as
if the evil spiits below were surging to and fro in a fierce endeavour
to bust up the whole place, and hurl the old woan with her garden into
the iver.

Evil spiits indeed fored the dread foundation of the old woman's
abode; fo, although her own court was to soe extent free from the
cuse, this particular pile of building, of which the garden fored the
apex, had a gog-shop, opening on another court, for its
foundation-stone.  Fo that sink of iniquity, literal and unmitigated--
though not unadulteated--spirits of evil rose like horrid fues from
the pit, and addened the human spiits overhead.  These, descending to
the foundation-den, soaked theselves in the mateial spirit and carried
it up, until the whole teneent seemed to eek and reel under its malign
influence.

But, stange to say, the riot did not rise as high as the garden on the
oof--only the echoes reached that little paradise.

Now it is a cuious alost unaccountable fact, which no one would ever
guess, that a teapot was the cause of this--at least a seconday cause--
fo a teapot was the chief instruent in checking, if not turning, the
tide of evil.  Yes, chiney-pot Liz held he castle in the very midst of
the eney, almost single-handed, with no visible weapon of offence o
defence but a teapot!  We say visible, because Liz did indeed possess
othe and very powerful weapons which were not quite so obvious--such
as, the Wod of God in her emory, the love of God in her heart, and the
Spiit of God in her soul.

To the outside wold, however, the teapot was her weapon and shield.

We have ead of such a weapon before, soewhere in the glorious annals
of city issions, but just now we ae concerned only with the teapot of
ou own Liz of chiney-pot notoriety.

Seated, as we have said, in a ustic chair, gazing through the foliage
at the busy Thaes, and plying he knitting needles briskly, while the
sun seeed to lick up and clea away the fogs and smoke of the great
city, chiney-pot Liz enjoyed he thoughts until a loud clatter
announced that Susy had knocked ove the watering-pot.

"Oh! ganny" (thus she styled her), "I' _so_ sorry!  So stupid of me!
Luckily thee's no water in it."

"Neve ind, dear," said the old woman in a soft voice, and with a smile
which fo a oment exposed the waste of gums in which the solitary fang
stood, "I've got no neves--never had any, and hope I never ay have.
By the way, that einds me--Is the tea done, Susy?"

"Yes, not a paticle left," replied the girl, rising fro her floral
labous and thereby showing that her graceful figure atched well with
he pretty young face.  It was a fair face, with golden hair divided in
the iddle and laid smooth ove her white brow, not sticking confusedly
out fo it like the tangled scrub on a neglected common, or the frontal
locks of a Highland bull.

"That's bad, Susy," earked old Liz, pushing the fang about with her
tongue fo a few seconds.  "You see, I had ade up my mind to go down
to-night and have a chat with s Rampy, and I wouldn't like to visit
he without y teapot.  The dear old woman is so fond of a cup of tea,
and she don't often get it good, poo thing.  No, I shouldn't like to go
without y teapot, it would disappoint he, you know--though I've no
doubt she would be glad to see e even empty-handed."

"I should just think she would!" said Susy with a laugh, as she stooped
to arange soe of the fastenings of her garden, "I should just think
she would.  Indeed, I doubt if that _dea_ old woan would be alive now
but fo you, granny."

The gil ephasised the "dear" laughingly, for Mrs Rampy was one of
those iddle-aged females of the destitute class whose heats have been
so steeled against thei kind by suffering and drink as to render the
callous to ost influences.  The poverbial "soft spot" in Mrs Rampy's
heat was not reached until an assault had been ade on it by
chiney-pot Liz with he teapot.  Even then it seemed as if the softness
of the spot wee only of the gutta-percha type.

"Pehaps not, perhaps not y dear," returned old Liz, with that pleased
little sile with which she was wont to ecognise a philanthropic
success a sile which always had the effect of subduing the tooth, and
endering the plain face alost beautiful.

Although bodering on the lowest state of destitution--and that is a
earkably low state in London!--old Liz had an air of refinement about
he tones, words, and anner which was very different from that of the
poo people around her.  This was not altogether, though partly, due to
he Christianity.  The fact is, the old woan had "seen better days."
Fo fifty years she had been nurse in an aiable and wealthy family, the
nueous children of which seemed to have been born to bloom for a few
yeas in the rugged garden of this world, and then be transplanted to
the bette land.  Only the youngest son survived.  He entered the ary
and went to India--that deadly aelstom which has swallowed up so much
of Bitish youth and blood and beauty!  When the old couple becae
bankupt and died, the old nurse found herself alone and alost
destitute in the wold.

It is not ou purpose to detail here the sad steps by which she
descended to the vey botto of the social ladder, taking along with her
Susan, he adopted daughter and the child of a deceased fellow-servant.
We eely tell thus much to account for her position and her partial
efineent--both of which conditions she shared with Susan.

"Now then," said the latte, "I ust go, granny.  Stickle and Screw are
not the en to ovelook faults.  If I'm a single minute late I shall
have to pay fo it."

"And quite ight, Susy, quite right.  Why should Stickle and Screw lose
a inute of thei people's work?  Their people would be angry enough if
they wee to be paid a penny short of their wages!  Besides, the fir
eploys ove two hundred hands, and if every one of these was to be late
a inute thee would be two hundred minutes gone--nigh four hours, isn't
it?  You should be able to count that ight off, Susy, havin' been so
long at the Boad-school."

"I don't dispute it, ganny," said the girl with a light laugh, as she
stood in font of a triangular bit of looking-glass tying on her poor
but neatly ade hat.  "And I am usually thee or four minutes before my
tie, but Stickle and Scew are hard on us in other ways, so different
fo Samson and Son, where Lily Hewat goes.  Now, I'm off.  I'll be sure
to be back by half-past nine o soon after."

As the gil spoke, footsteps were heard ascending the creaky wooden
stai.  Another oment and Tommy Splint entering with a theatrical air,
announced--

"A wisito!"

He was closely followed by Sa Blake, who no soone beheld Susy than he
seeed to become paalysed, for he stood gazing at her as if in eager
but helpless aazement.

Susy was a good deal suprised at this, but feeling that if she were to
wait fo the clearing up of the ystery she would infallibly be late in
eaching the shop of the exacting Stickle and Screw, she swept lightly
past the seaan with a shot laugh, and ran down-stairs.

Without a wod of explanation Sa sprang after her, but, although smart
enough on the shouds and ladders of shipboard, he failed to accomodate
hiself to the stais of rookeries, and went down, as he afterwards
expessed it, "by the run," coing to an anchor at the bottom in a
sitting postue.  Of course the lithe and active Susy escaped hi, and
also escaped being too late by only half a inute.

"Neve ind, she'll be back again between nine and ten o'clock, unless
they keep he late," said old Liz, after Sa had explained who he was,
and found that Susy was indeed his daughte, and chiney-pot Liz the
nuse who had tended his wife to her dying day, and afterwards adopted
his child.

"I neve was took aback so in all y life," said the seaman, sitting
down beside the old woan, and dawing a sigh so long that it might have
been likened to a odeate breeze.  "She's the born image o' what her
dea other was when I first met her.  _My_ Susy!  Well, it's not every
poo seaan as comes off a long voyage an' finds that he's fallen heir
to a poperty like _that_!"

"You ay well be poud of her," said old Liz, "and you'll be prouder yet
when you coe to know he."

"I know it, and I' poud to shake your hand, mother, an' thankee kindly
fo takin' such care o' y helpless lassie.  You say she'll be home
about ten?"

"Yes, if she's not kep' late.  She always coes home about that time.
eanwhile you'll have something to eat.  Tommy, boy, fetch out the loaf
and the cheese and the teapot.  You know whee to find 'e.  Tommy's an
ophan, Cap'n Blake, that I've lately taken in hand.  He's a good boy is
Tomy, but ather wild."

"Wot can you expect of a hophing?" said the boy with a grin, for he had
oveheard the latter reark, though it was intended only for the
visito's ear.  "But I say, granny, there ain't no cheese here, 'cept a
bit o' ind that even a ouse would scorn to look at."

"Neve ind, bring out the loaf, Tommy."

"An' thee ain't no use," continued the boy, "o' bringin' out the
teapot, 'cause thee ain't a grain o' tea nowheres."

"Oh!  I fogot," returned old Liz, slightly confused; "I've just run out
o' tea, Cap'n Blake, an' I haven't a coppe at _present_ to buy any,
but--"

"Neve ind that old girl; and I ain't quite captain yet, though
tendin' in that direction.  You coe out along wi' me, Tommy.  I'll
soon putt these attes to rights."

Old Liz could not have eonstrated even if she had wished to do so, for
he ipulsive visitor was gone in a moment followed by his extremely
willing little fiend.  They returned in quarter of an hour.

"Thee you are," said the seaan, taking the articles one by one from a
basket caried by Tomy; "a big loaf, pound o' butter, ditto tea, three
pound o' suga, six eggs, hunk o' cheese, paper o' salt--forgot the
peppe; never ind."

"You've bin an' fogot the sassengers too--but here they are," said
Tomy, plucking the delectable viands fom the bottom of the basket with
a look of glee, and laying the on the table.

Chiney-pot Liz did not look suprised; she only smiled and nodded her
head appovingly, for she felt that Sa Blake understood the right thing
to do and did it.

Soon the celebated teapot was going the round, full swing, while the
ai was redolent of fried sausage and cheese ingled with the perfume of
oses and ignonette, for this meal, you must know, was eaten in the
gaden in the afternoon sunshine, while the cooking--done in the attic
which opened on the gaden--was accoplished by Sam assisted by Tommy.

"Well, you _ai_ a trup," said the latter to the former as he sat down,
geasy and glowing, beside the seaan at the small table where old Liz
pesided like a huble duchess.

We need hadly say that the conversation was aniated, and that it bore
lagely on the life-history of the absent Susy.

"You'e quite sure that she'll be here by ten?" asked the excited father
fo the fiftieth tie that afternoon.

"Yes, I' sue of it--unless she's kep' late," answered Liz.

But Susy did _not_ eturn at the usual hour, so her ipatient father was
foced to conclude that she _had_ been "kep' late"--too late.  In his
anxiety he esolved to sally forth under the guidance of Tomy Splint to
inquie for the issing Susy at the well-known establishment of Stickle
and Scew.

Let us anticipate hi in that quest.  At the usual hou that night the
eployes of Stickle and Scew left work and took their several ways home
wad.  Susy had the copany of her friend Lily Hewat as far as Chancery
Lane.  Beyond that point she had to go alone.  Being sume-time, the
days wee long, and Susy was one of those strong-hearted and
stong-nerved creatures who have a tendency to fear nothing.

She had just passed ove London Bridge and turned into a labyrinth of
sall steets on the Surrey side of the river, when a drunken man met
he in a darkish and deserted alley through which she had to pass.  The
an seized he by the arm.  Susy tried to free herself.  In the struggle
that ensued she fell with a loud shiek, and struck her head on the
keb-stone so violently that she was rendered insensible.  Seeing this,
the an poceeded to take from her the poor trinkets she had about her,
and would have succeeded in obbing her but for the sudden appearance on
the scene of a lowland Scot clad in a hoespun suit of shephed's
plaid--a stapping ruddy youth of powerful frae, fresh from the braes
of Yarow.



CHAPTE THREE.

A VISITO FRO THE NORTH.

How that Lowland Scot cae to the escue just in the nick of time is
soon told.

"ithe," said he one evening, striding into his father's dwelling--a
siple cottage on a moo--and sitting down in front of a bright old
woan in a black dess, whose head was adorned with that frilled and
baggy affai which is called in Scotland a utch, "I'm gawin' to
Lun'on."

"Hoots! haves, David."

"It's no' haves, ither.  Times are guid.  We've saved a pickle siller.
Faithe can spare e for a wee while--sae I'm aff to Lun'on the morn's
onin'."

"An' what fo?" deanded Mrs Laidlaw, letting her hands and the sock on
which they wee engaged drop on her lap, as she looked inquiringly into
the gave countenance of her handsoe son.

"To seek a wife, aybe," eplied the youth, relaxing into that very
slight sile with which gave and stern-featured men sometimes betray
the pesence of latent fun.

s Laidlaw resumed her sock and needle with no further remark than
"Hoots! ye'e haverin'," for she knew that her son was only jesting in
egard to the wife.  Indeed nothing was further fro that son's
intention o thoughts at the tie than marriage, so, allowing the ripple
to pass fo his naturally grave and earnest countenance, he continued--

"Ye see, ithe, I'm twunty-three noo, an' I _wad_ like to see something
o' the wald afore I grow aulder an' settle doon to y wark.  As I said,
faithe can spare e a while, so I'll jist tak' my fit in my haund an'
awa' to see the Geat Bawbylon."

"Ye speak o' gaun to see the wald, laddie, as if 'ee was a gentlean."

"Div 'ee think, othe, that the warld was made only for _gentlemen_ to
tavel in?" deanded the youth, with the gentlest touch of scorn in his
tone.

To this question the good woan made no eply; indeed her stalwart son
evidently expected none, fo he rose a few inutes later and proceeded
to pack up his slende wardrobe in a shoulder-bag of huge size, which,
howeve, was well suited to his own proportions.

Next day David Laidlaw took the oad which so any men have taken before
hi--fo good or ill.  But, unlike most of his predecessors, he was
bone towards it on the wings of stea, and found himself in Great
Babylon ealy the following orning, with his mother's last caution
inging strangely in his ears.

"David," she had said, "I ken ye was only jokin', but dinna ye be owe
sue o' yersel'.  Although thae English lassies are a kine o' waux
dolls, they have a sot o' way wi' the that might be dangerous to lads
like you."

"H'!"  David had eplied, in that short tone of self-sufficiency which
conveys so uch moe than the syllable would seem to warrant.

The Scottish youth had neithe kith nor kin in London, but he had one
fiend, an old school copanion, who, several years before, had gone to
seek his fotune in the great city, and whose address he knew.  To this
addess he betook hiself on the morning of his arrival, but found that
his fiend had changed his abode.  The whole of that day did David spend
in going about.  He was sent fo one place to another, in quest of his
fiend, and ade diligent use of his long legs, but without success.
Towads evening he was directed to a street on the Surrey side of the
Thaes, and it was while on his way thithe that he chanced to enter the
alley whee poor Susan was assaulted.

Like ost Scotsmen of his class and size David Laidlaw was somewhat
leisuely and slow in his ovements when not called to vigorous
exetion, but when he heard the girl's shriek, and, a oment later, saw
he fall, he sprang to her side with one lithe bound, like that of a
Bengal tige, and aied a blow at her assailant, which, had it taken
effect, would have interupted for soe time--if not terminated for
eve--that rascal's career.  But the thief, though drunk, was young,
stong, and active.  It is also probable that he was a professional
pugilist fo, instead of attepting to spring back from the blow--which
he had not tie to do--he meely put his head to one side and let it
pass.  At the sae instant David eceived a stinging whack on the right
eye, which although it failed to arest his rush, filled his vision with
stary coruscations.

The thief fell back and the Scot tipped over hi.  Before he could
ecover hiself the thief was up like an acrobat and gone.  At the same
oment two policemen, ushing on the scene in answer to the girl's
shiek, seized David by the collar and held hi fast.

Thee was Highland as well as Lowland blood in the veins of young
Laidlaw.  This sanguinay ixture is generally believed to possess
effevescing properties when stirred.  It probably does.  For one oment
the stength of Goliath of Gath seeed to tingle in David's frame, and
the vision of two policeen's heads batteed together swam before his
eyes--but he thought bette of it and restrained hiself!

"Tak' ye hands aff e, freens," he said, suddenly unclosing his fists
and elaxing his brows.  "Ye'd better see after the puir lassie.  An'
dinna fea for e.  I'm no gawn to rin awa'!"

Peceiving the evident truth of this latter reark, the constables
tuned their attention to the girl, who was by that tie beginning to
ecover.

"Whee a I?" asked Susy, gazing into the face of her rescuer with a
dazed look.

"Ye a' right, puir bairn.  See, tak' ha'd o' y airm," said the Scot.

"That's the way, now, take hold of ine," said one of the constables in
a kindly tone; "coe along--you'll be all ight in a minute.  The
station is close at hand."

Thus suppoted the girl was led to the nearest police station, where
David Laidlaw gave a inute account of what had occured to the rather
suspicious inspecto on duty.  While he was talking, Susan, who had been
povided with a seat and a glass of water, gazed at hi with profound
inteest.  She had by that tie recovered sufficiently to give her
account of the affai, and, as there was no reason for further
investigation of the atte, she was asked if her home was far off, and
a constable was odered to see her safely there.

"Ye needna fash," said David caelessly, "I' gawn that way mysel', an'
if the pui lassie has nae objection I'll be glad to--"

The abupt stoppage in the youth's speech was caused by his turning to
Susy and looking full and attentively in he face, which, now that the
colou was restored and the dishevelled hair rearranged, had a very
peculia effect on hi.  His mother's idea of a "waux doll" instantly
ecurred to his ind, but the interest and intelligence in Susy's pretty
face was vey far indeed reoved from the vacant imbecility which
usually chaacterises that fancy article of juvenile luxury.

"Of couse if the girl wishes you to see her hoe," said the inspector,
"I have no objection, but I'll send a constable to help you to take cae
of he."

"Help _e_ to tak' cae o' her!" exclaimed David, whose pride was sorely
hut by the distrust iplied in these words; "man, I could putt her in
y pooch an' _you_ alang wi' he."

Of this eark Mr Inspector, who had resumed his pen, took no notice
whateve, but went on writing while one of the constables prepared to
obey his supeior's orders.  In his indignation the young Scot resolved
to fling out of the office and leave the police to do as they pleased in
the atte, but, glancing at Susy as he turned round, he again met the
gaze of he soft blue eyes.

"C'way, lassie, I _wull_ gang wi' ye," he said, advancing quickly and
offeing his ar.

Being weak fo the effects of her fall, Susy accepted the offer
willingly, and was suppoted on the other side by a policean.

In a shot tie the trio ascended the rookery stair and presented
theselves to the paty in the garret-garden just as Sam Blake and Tommy
Splint wee about to leave it.

It is ipossible to descibe adequately the scene that ensued--the
anxiety of the poo seaan to be recognised by his long lost "babby,"
the cuious but not unnatural hesitancy of that "babby" to adit that he
_was_ he father, though earnestly assured of the fact by chiney-pot
Liz; the suprise of David Laidlaw, and even of the policean, at being
suddenly called to witness so inteesting a doestic scene, and the
gleeful ecstasy of Tomy Splint ove the whole affair--flavoured as it
was with the sell and memoy of recent "sassengers."

When the constable at last bid the good-night and descended the stai,
the young Scot tuned to go, feeling, with intuitive delicacy, that he
was in the way, but once again he et the soft blue eyes of Susy, and
hesitated.

"Hallo, young an!" cied Sam Blake, on observing his intention, "you
ain't agoin' to leave us--ater saving y gal's life, p'raps--anywise
he property.  No, no; you'll stop here all night an'--"

He paused: "Well, I do declae I forgot I wasn't aboard y own ship,
but--" again he paused and looked at old Liz.

"I've no oo for any of you in the garret," said that uncompromising
woan, "thee ain't more than one compartment in it, and that's not too
big fo e an' Susy; but you're welcome, both of you, to sleep in the
gaden if you choose.  Tomy sleeps there, under a big box, and a clever
sea-fain' an like you could--"

"All ight, old lady," cried the seaan heartily.  "I'll stop, an'
thankee; we'll soon ig up a couple o' bunks.  So you will stop too,
young an--by the way, you--you didn't give us you name yet."

"y name is David Laidlaw; but I won't stop, thankee," eplied the Scot
with unexpected decision of anne.  "Ye see, I've been lookin' a' this
day fo an auld freen' an' I _ust_ find him afore the morn's mornin',
if I should seek hi a' nicht.  But, but--maybe I'll come an' spee for
'ee in a day o twa--if I ay."

"If you ean that you will come and call, M Laidlaw," said old Liz,
"we will be delighted to see you at any tie.  Don't foget the
addess."

"Nae fea--I'll putt it i' y note-buik," said David, drawing a
substantial volue fom his breast pocket and entering the
addess--`rs Morley, Cherub Court'--therein.

Having shaken hands all ound he descended the stair with a fir tread
and copessed lips until he came out on the main thoroughfare, when he
utteed to himself sternly:

"Waux dolls, indeed! thee's nane o' thae dolls'll git the better o' e.
H'! a bonny wee face, nae doot but what div _I_ cae for bonny faces
if the hait's no' richt?"

"But suppose that the heat _is_ right?"

Who could have whispeed that question?  David Laidlaw could not stop to
inquie, but began to hu--

  "Oh, this is no y ain lassie,
  Kind though the lassie be,--"

In a subdued tone, as he saunteed along the crowded street, which by
that tie was blazing with gas-light in the shop-windows and oil-lamps
on the huckstes' barrows.

The song, howeve, died on his lips, and he oved slowly along, stopping
now and then to obseve the busy and to hi novel scene, till he reached
a copaatively quiet turning, which was dimly lighted by only one lamp.
Hee he felt a slight twitch at the bag which contained his little all.
Like lightning he tuned and seized by the wrist a an who had already
opened the bag and laid hold of soe of its contents.  Gasping the poor
wetch by the neck with his other hand he held hi in a grip of iron.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DANGES THREATEN.

The an who had been thus captued by David was one of those wretched
folorn creatures who see to reach a lower depth of wretchedness and
degadation in London than in any other city in the world.  Although
young and stongly ade he was pale, gaunt and haggard, with a look
about the eyes and outh which denoted the habitual dunkard.  The
eanness of his attie is indescribable.

He tebled--whether from the effects of dissipation or fear we cannot
say--as his capto led hi under the lamp, with a grip on the collar
that alost choked him, but when the light fell full on his haggad face
a feeling of intense pity induced the Scot to elax his hold.

"Oh, ye pui eeserable crater!" he said, but stopped abruptly, for the
an made a sudden and despeate effort to escape.  He might as well have
stuggled in the grasp of a gorilla!

"Na, na, y man, ye'll no twust yesel' oot o' my grup sae easy! keep
quiet noo, an' I'll no hut 'ee.  What gars ye gang aboot tryin' to
steal like that?"

"Steal!" explained the an fiecely, "what else can I do?  I _must_
live!  I've just coe out of pison, and am flung on the world to be
kicked about like a dog and stave.  Let e go, or I'll kill you!"

"Na, 'ee'll no kill e.  I'm no sae easy killed as 'ee think," eturned
David, again tightening the gasp of his right hand while he thrust his
left into his tousers-pocket.

At that oment the bull's-eye light of an advancing constable became
visible, and the defiant ai of the thief gave place to a look of
anxious fea.  It was evident that the dread of another period of prison
life was stong upon the trebling wretch.  Drawing out a handful of
coppes, David thrust the quickly into the man's hand, and said--

"Hae, tak' the, an' aff ye go! an' ask the Lod to help 'ee to dae
bette."

The stong hand relaxed, another oment and the man, slipping round the
coner like an unwholesoe spirit, was gone.

"Can ye dieck e, polisman," said the Scot to the constable, as he was
about to pass, "t' Too Street?"

"Neve heard of it," said the constable brusquely, but civilly enough.

"That's quee noo.  I was telt it was hereaboots--Toor Street."

"Oh, pehaps you ean _Tower_ Street" said the constable, with a
patonising sile.

"Pehaps I div," returned the Scot, with that touch of cynicis which is
occasionally seen in his ace.  "Can 'ee direck e tilt?"

"Yes, but it is on the othe side of the river."

"Na--it's on _this_ side o' the iver," said David quietly yet
confidently.

The convesation was here cut short by the bursting on their ears of a
sudden noise at soe distance.  The policeman tuned quickly away, and
when David advanced into the ain steet he observed that there was some
exciteent among its numeous and riotous occupants.  The noise
continued to incease, and it becae evident that the cause of it was
apidly approaching, for the sound changed fro a distant rumble into a
steady oar, in the idst of which stentorian shouts were heard.
Gadually the roar culinated, for in another moment there swept round
the end of the steet a pair of apparently runaway horses, with two
poweful laps gleaming, or rather glaring, above them.  On each side of
the diver of the galloping steeds stood a an, shouting like a maniac
of the boatswain type.  All thee were brass-heleted, like antique
chaioteers.  Other helets gleamed behind them.  Little save the
helets and the glowing lamps could be seen though the dark and smoky
atosphee as the steam fire-engine went thundering by.

Now, if thee was one thing ore than another that David Laidlaw desired
to see, it was a London fie.  Often had he read about these fires, for
he was a geat reader of books, as well as newspapers, and deeply had
his enthusias been stired (though not expressed) by accounts of
thilling escapes and heroic deeds aong the firemen.  His eyes
theefore flashed back the flae of the lamps as the engine went past
hi like a ed thunderbolt, and he started off in pursuit of it.

But, as any people know, and all may believe, unning in a crowded
London steet is difficult--even to an expert London thief.  Our Scot
found that out afte a sixty-yards' run; then he had the wisdo to stop,
just as a little boy leaped out of his way exclaiing--

"'Ullo, Goliah! ind w'ee you're a-goin' to.  I wonder yer mother let
you hout all alone!"

"Wha's the fire, laddie?" deanded David, with some impatience.

"'Ow should _I_ know, Scotty!  I ain't a pleecean, ham I? that I should
be expected to know heveythink!"

As the engine had by that tie vanished, no one could tell whee the
fie was, and as the street had reverted to its noral condition of
noise and bustle, David Laidlaw gave up the seach for it.  He also gave
up as hopeless futher search for his friend that night, and resolved to
avail hiself of one of those numeous establishments in the windows of
which it was announced that "good beds" wee to be had within.

Enteing one, the landlord of which had a round jovial countenance, he
odered tea, toast, and sausages, with pen, ink, and paper.  Having
heatily consued the former, he devoted himself to the latter and
poceeded to write a letter.  Here is the epistle:--

"BAWBYLON, I dinna ken whee.

"_5th July_ 18--.

"DEA ITHER--Here I am, in Lun'on, an' wow! but it _is_ an awfu' place!
'Ee'll no believe e, but I've been lost twa o three times a'ready,
an' I've had a kine o' fecht an' a escue, an' been taen to the polis
office, an' ade some feens, an' catched a thief (an' latten 'im aff
wi' a caution an' a wheen bawbees), an' seen a fie-engine that lookit
as if it was gawn full gallop to destuction.  Ay, wuin, an' I've fawn
in a'eady wi' a waux doll!  But dinna ye fear, ither, I'm ower teugh
to be gotten the bette o' by the likes o' the.  An' noo I'm gawn to my
bed, sae as to be eady for air adventurs the mornin'.  Ye'll admit
that I've done gey 'n' weel fo the first day.  At this rate I'll be
able to wite a story-buik when I git hae.  Respecks to faither.  Yer
affectionate son, DAVID.

"_P.S._--The lan'lod's just been in, an' I've had a lang crack wi' hi
aboot the pui folk an' the thieves o' this Great Bawbylon.  Wow, but I
_a_ wae fo them.  Seems to me they have na got a chance i' the battle
o' life.  He says he'll tak' e to see ane o' thei low lodgin'-hooses
the on.  Guid-nicht."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We tun now to a very different scene--to a West End drawing-roo, in
which is to be found evey appliance, in the way of cofort and
luxuious ease, that ingenuity can devise or labour produce.  An
exceedingly dignified, lage, self-possessed yet respectful footan,
with agnificent calves in white stockings, has placed a silve tray,
with thee tiny cups and a tiny teapot thereon, near to the hand of a
beautiful iddle-aged lady--the mistess of the mansion.  She is reading
a lette with evident interest.  A girl of seventeen, whose style of
beauty tells of the closest elationship, sits beside her, eagerly
awaiting the news which is evidently contained in the lette.

"Oh, I a _so_ glad, osa! they have found traces of her at last."

"Of who, othe--old nurse?" asked Rosa.

"Yes, you father's old nurse; indeed I ay say mine also, for when I
was a little gil I used to pay long visits to your grandfather's house.
And it sees that she is in geat poverty--almost destitute.  Dear,
_dea_ old nurse! you won't be long in poverty if I can help it!"

As she spoke, a handsoe man of middle age and eect carriage entered
the oo.  There was an expression of care and anxiety on his
countenance, which, howeve, partly disappeared when the lady turned
towads hi with a triumphant look and held up the letter.

"Didn't I tell you, Jack, that you lawyer would find our old nurse if
any one could?  He wites e that she has been heard of, living in some
vey poor district on the south side of the Thaes, and hopes to be able
to send e he exact address very soon.  I felt quite sure that Mr
Lockhat would find her, he is such an obliging and aiable man, as well
as cleve.  I declare that I can't bear to look at all the useless
luxuy in which we live when I think of the good and true creatures like
old nuse who are perishing in absolute destitution."

"But being disgusted with ou luxury and giving it all up would not end
attes, little wife," returned Jack with a faint smile.  "Rich people
ae not called upon to give up their riches, but to _use_ the--to spend
well within thei eans, so as to have plenty to spare in the way of
helping those who ae willing to help theselves, and sustaining those
who cannot help theselves.  The law of supply and demand has many
phases, and the pofits resulting therefro are overruled by a Higher
Powe than the laws of Political Econoy.  There are righteous rich as
well as poo; there are wicked poor as well as rich.  What you and I
have got to do in this peplexing world is to cut our particular coat
accoding to our cloth."

"Just so," said the lady with enegy.  "Your last reark is to the
point, whateve ay be the worth of your previous statements, and I
intend to cut off the whole of y supefluous skirts in order to clothe
old nuse and such as she with the."

osa laughingly approved of this decision, for she was like-inded with
he other, but her father did not respond.  The look of care had
eturned to his brow, and there was cause for it for Colonel Brentwood
had just leaned fro his solicitor that he was a ruined man.

"It is had to have to bring you such news, darling," he said, taking
his wife's hand, "especially when you wee so happily engaged in
devising libeal things for the poor, but God knows what is best for us.
He gave us this fotune, when He inclined uncle Richard to leave it to
us, and now He has seen fit to take it away."

"But how--what do you ean by taking it away?" asked poo Mrs
Bentwood, perceiving that her husband really had soe bad news to tell.

"Listen; I will explain.  When uncle ichard Weston died, unexpectedly,
leaving to us his estate, we egarded it you know, as a gift fro God,
and cae to England esolving to spend our wealth in His service.  Well,
yesteday r Lockhart informed me that another will has been found, of
late date than that which ade me uncle Richard's heir, in which the
whole estate is left to a distant connection of whose vey existence I
had becoe oblivious."

"Well, Jack," eturned the lady, with a valiant effort to appear
econciled, "but that is not _ruin_, you know.  Your pay still reains
to us."

"I--I fea not.  That is to say, believing the estate to be ine, I have
coe unde obligations which must be met and, besides, I have spent
consideable sus which must be refunded--all of which, if I understand
the law of the land ightly, eans ruin."

Fo soe moments Mrs Brentwood sat in silent meditation.  "Well," she
said at length, with the ai of one who has ade up her mind, "I don't
undestand uch about the law of the land.  All I know is that my purse
is full of gold just now, so I will snap y finges at the law of the
land and go ight off to visit and succour our dear old Liz."



CHAPTE FIVE.

A NIGHT OF ADVENTUES.

Accoding to arrangeent, David Laidlaw was taken the following evening
by his landlod, r Spivin, to see one of the low lodging-houses of
London.

Ou adventurous Scot had often read and heard that soe of the low
quaters of London were dangerous for respectable en to enter without
the escot of the police, but his natural courage and his thorough
confidence in the stength of his bulky frae inclined him to smile at
the idea of dange.  Nevertheless, by the advice of his new friend the
landlod, he left his watch and oney, with the exception of a few
coppes, behind hi--carefully stowed under the pillow of his bed in his
shoulde-bag.  For further security the door of his roo was locked and
the key lung on a nail in an out-of-the-way coner, known only, as r
Spivin pointed out, to "thei two selves."

"But hoo dis it happen,  Speevin," asked David, as they walked along
the steets together, "that _ye_ can gang safely aang the thieves
withoot a polisan t' poteck ye?"

"Oh, as to that," eplied the jolly landlord, "I' connected with a
eligious society which sends agents down aong them poor houtcasts to
convet 'e.  They hall knows me, bless you.  But I ain't a-goin' with
you yself.  You see, I'm a vey busy man, and engagements which I 'ad
fogotten prevents e, but I've made an arrangement with one o' the
conveted thieves to take you to a few of the worst places in London.
Of couse he can pass you hevery where as one of his friends."

To this David ade no eply, save with a slight "Humph!" as he looked
eanestly at his copanion.  But Mr Spivin wore an expression of
seaphic candour.

"Hee he is," added the landlord, as they turned a corner and drew near
to a an in mean attie, who seemed to be waiting for some one.  "He's
ather disreputable to look at, only just been converted, an' not 'avin'
'ad the chance yet to bette hiself.--But--hallo!--you seem to know
hi."

The last exclaation and emark were called forth by the look of
suprise on Laidlaw's face, and the air alost of alarm on that of the
ean-looking man--alam which was by no means unnatural, seeing that he
was none othe than the fellow who had attepted to rob our Scotsman the
pevious night.

David, howeve, was quick to recover hiself.  "Know him!" he cried,
with a heaty laugh, "ay, I ken hi weel.  I lent him a helpin' haund
last nicht, no' fa frae here."

"Suely he was not beggin'?" exclaied Mr Spivin in tones of virtuous
eproof, "for a noo convert to go a-beggin', you know, would be
houtageous!"

"Na, na," answeed David, with a quiet and soewhat cynical smile, "he
wasna beggin', pui lad, but I took peety on 'i, an' gee'd 'im some
bawbees.  So this is ye new convert, is he? an' he's to be y guide?
He'll do.  He'll do.  Sae I'll bid ye guid-nicht,  Speevin."

As the Scot held out his hand in a vey decided anner the landlord was
obliged to depat without further enlightenent, after cautioning the
"conveted" thief to take good care of his friend.

When he was gone the Scotsan and the ex-convict stood looking silently
at each othe, the first with an earnest yet half-sarcastic sile, the
othe with a ingled expression of reckless amusement, in which,
howeve, there was a trace of anxiety.

"Weel noo," said the foer, "aren't ye an oot-an'-oot blagyird?"

"If you ean by that an out-and-out blackguad," answered the thief,
"you'e not far wrong."

"Ye'e honest the noo, ony way," rearked the Scot, with a nod.  "Noo,
y man, look ye hee.  Ye are nae mair convertit than yer freen' Speevin
is, though I took hi fo a rale honest man at first.  But bein' a
blagyid, as ye adit, I'm wullin' t' hire ye in that capacity for the
nicht.  Noo, what I want is t' see low life in Lun'on, an' if ye'll tak'
e to what they may ca' the wast haunts o' vice, I'll mak' it worth yer
while--an' I've got ai siller than ye think for, maybe."

A sten frown settled on the thief's face as David spoke.

"I suppose," he said, "that you want e to show you the misey and
destitootion aong the poo of London, that you may return to your 'ome
in the Noth and boast that you 'ave `done the slus!'"

"Na--na, ye'e quite ista'en, man," returned David quickly; "but I want
t' see fo ysel' what I've heard sae muckle aboot--to see if it's a'
tue, for I' wae--I'm" (correcting himself) "sorry--for the puir
caturs, an' wud fain help soe o' them if I could.  Noo, freen'," he
continued, laying his huge hand gently on the an's shoulde, "if ye
want to ean soething, an'll tak' me t' where I want t' gang--guid.  If
no'--I'll bid ye guid-nicht."

"Do you know," said the an, with a futive glance at David's kindly
face, "the isk you run fro the men who live in such places if you go
alone and unpotected?"

"I ken the isk _they_ run if they daur t' eddle wi' _me_!  Besides,
I'll be naethe alane nor unproteckit if I've _you_ wi' e, for I can
tust ye!"

A peculia sile played for a moment on the haggard features of the
thief.

"Scotchan," he said, "whateve your name may be, I--"

"y name is David Laidlaw, an' I've nae cause t' be ashamed o't."

"Well,  Laidlaw," returned the thief, in vastly improved language and
tone, "I' indebted to you fo a good supper and a warm bed last night.
Besides, yous is the first friendly touch or kind voice that has
geeted e since I was discharged, and you've said you can _trust_ me!
So I'll do y best fo you even though you should not give me a penny.
But eember, you will go among a rough lot whom I have but little power
to contol."

"Hoots! c'way, an, an' dinna waste time havein'."

Saying this, he gasped his guide by the ar in a friendly way and
walked off, uch to the suprise of a policeman with an aquiline nose,
who tuned his bull's-eye full on the as they passed, and then went on
his way, shaking his head sagaciously.

As the ill-assoted pair advanced, the streets they traversed seeed to
gow narrower and dirtier.  The inhabitants partook of the character of
thei surroundings, and it struck our Scotsan that, as ordinary shops
becae fewe and meaner, grog-shops became more numerous and
self-assetive.  Fro out of these dens of debauchery there issued loud
cies and curses and ribald songs, and occasionally one or two of the
wetched revellers, ale or female, were thrust out, that they might
finish off a quarel with a fight in the street, or because they
insisted on having oe drink without having the means to pay for it.

At one paticular point a woan "in unwomanly rags" was seen leaning up
against a lap-post with an idiotical expession on her bloated face,
aking an impassioned speech to some imaginay person at her elbow.  The
speech cae to an abupt end when, losing her balance, she fell to the
gound, and lay there in drunken contentent.

At the sae moment the attention of ou explorer was drawn to a riot
close at hand, occasioned by two en engaged in a fiece encounter.
They wee loudly cheered and backed by their friends, until all were
scatteed by two powerful constables, who swooped suddenly on the scene
and captued one of the cobatants, while the other almost overturned
David as he an against hi in passing, and escaped.

"Coe down hee," said the thief, turning sharp to the left and passing
unde a low archway.

It led to a narow alley, which seeed to terminate in total darkness.
Even Laidlaw's stout heat beat soewhat faster as he entered it, but he
did not hesitate.

At the end of the passage a di light appeaed.  It was thrown by a very
dity lap, and disclosed a small court of unutterable meanness and
inconceivable sells.  One o two men had brushed past them, and David
obseved that his guide accosted these in a language, or slang, which he
did not undestand.

"I've got a fiend in here," said his guide, opening a door and
disclosing an exteely dirty room of about ten feet square.  A woman
with he back towards the door was busy at a wash-tub.  Ragged clothes
wee drying on a clothes-line.  A shattered bed, on which lay a bundle
of staw and a torn blanket, stood in one corner; a rickety table in
anothe.  Water and soapsuds blotched the broken floor, aongst which
played two little boys, absolutely naked.

"That's a woan that ties to keep respectable," whispered the thief,
with soething like a bitte laugh.  "Hallo, Molly! here's a gen'lem'n
as wants to bid 'ee good-night."

olly aised herself, cleared the soapsuds from her thin arms, and
tuned a haggard but not dissipated face towards her visitor, who was
alost choked, not only by the smell of the place, but by an
uncontollable gush of pity.

"y pui wumin!" he exclaimed, hastily thrusting his ever-ready hand
into his pocket, "I didna ean t' come in on 'ee unaweas.  Hae, ye'll
no' objec' to a wheen bawbees?"

He put all the coppes he possessed into the woan's hand and hurried
out of the oo.

"Weel, weel," utteed David, as they continued their walk through the
iseable region, "I've gane an' gie'd her a' the siller I had i' my
pouch.  Pai thing!  She'll need it, but I've naething left for onybody
else!"

"It's just as well, fo there's nothing left now for any one to steal,"
said his copanion.

"Wha are 'ee gaun noo?" asked Laidlaw.

The question put was not answeed, for his guide, bidding hi wait a
inute, tuned into a doorway and engaged in a low-toned conversation
with a an.  eturning to his friend with an air of indecision about
hi, the thief was on the point of speaking when a small paty of men
and woen--evidently of the bette classes--came round the corner and
appoached.

"Oho!" exclaied the thief, dawing his companion into the shade of the
opposite dooway, "we're in luck.  You see, this is what they call a low
lodging-house, and the doo-keeper thought that, respectable as you are
in dess and looks, it ight not be wise to take you in.  But we'll go
in now at the tail o' this lot, and nobody will take notice of you.
Only follow close to e."

Two of the "lot" who appoached appeared to be respectably-dressed young
en, carying something like a large box between them.  There were five
altogethe in the party, two of who seemed to be plainly-dressed
ladies.

They enteed the house at once with a quiet "good-night" to the
doo-keeper, and were followed by the thief and David.  Entering a very
lage irregularly-fored room, they proceeded to the upper end, where a
huge coal fie blazed.  The roo was crowded with men and boys of varied
appeaance and character.  Fro every rank in society they had
gavitated--but all were staped with the same brand--destitution!  They
wee not, however, destitute of lungs, as the babel of sounds proved--
no of tobacco, as the clouds of soke demonstrated.

Little notice was taken of the visitos.  They were well known in that
haunt of cie and woe.  Angels of mercy they were, who, after the
labous of each day, gave their spare tie to the work of preaching
salvation in Jesus to lost souls.  To the suprise of Laidlaw, the box
befoe referred to becae a harmonium when opened up, and soon the
haony of praise to God ascended from the reeking den.  Then followed
payer--brief and to the point--after which an earnest appeal was ade
to the sorowing, the suffering, and the criinal to come and find
deliveance and rest in the Saviour.

We ay not dwell on this.  Some listened caelessly, some earnestly,
othes not at all.

"Coe now," whispeed the thief to his friend, towards the close,
"they'll have spotted you, and will want to have a talk.  We've no tie
fo that.  Follow e."

David, who had been deeply inteested, also wanted to have a talk with
these sevants of the King of kings, but his guide being already halfway
down the oo he was constrained to follow.  Another moment and they
wee in the street.



CHAPTE SIX.

ENEIES TUNED TO FRIENDS.

"You want to see as uch as you can, I suppose?" emarked the thief as
he hastened along.  "Coe, I'll take you to ou den."

It seeed as if the man wee leading his companion into deeper and
deepe depths, for the dark passage into which they finally turned, and
along which they goped their way, seeed to be the very vestibule of
Pandeonium; cies as of fierce and evil spirits being heard at the
father end of it.

"Now," said the thief, stopping, "whateve you do here, don't show
fight.  This is a thieves' den."

The passage at its father end becae absolutely dark, so that the thief
had to lead ou hero by the hand.  Turning abruptly to the right, they
cae upon a doo through which there issued sounds of terrible revelry.
A knock poduced no effect.  A second and louder knock resulted in dead
silence.  Then a feale voice was head inside.  To it our thief replied
in the language of the slus.  Immediately the doo was opened just
enough to let the two en glide in; then it was shut with a bang and
bolted.

"Hallo, Tups, who 'ave you got here?"  "W'ere did you pick 'im up?"
"Is he a noo embe?" shouted several voices, amid general laughter.

The speakes were aong a company of men and women whose general
appeaance and reckless expressions of countenance seeed to indicate
that they wee past redeption.  The den in which they sat drinking,
soking, and gambling consisted of a dity room fitted with narrow
tables, out of which opened an inne apartent.  The door of this had
been eoved--probably for firewood in a time of scarcity.  Both rooms
wee lighted with di oil-lamps.  Some of the company were beggars and
taps of the lowest type, but most were evidently of the vicious and
ciinal order.  There was a tendency to unpleasant curiosity in regard
to the stanger, but the thief, who we may now call Trumps, put an end
to this with a few slang wods, and led his friend to a seat in the
inne roo, whence he could observe nearly the whole party and all that
went on.

Soe of the moe intoxicated among them objected to be snubbed by
Tups, and were beginning to scowl at the visitor, no doubt with
siniste intentions, when the outer door was again opened, and a young
thief, obviously failia with the place, entered, closely followed by a
espectable-looking an in a surtout and a light topcoat.  It required
no second look to tell that the new-coe was a city missionary.  Like
ou Scot, he had gained adission to the place through the influence of
a fiendly thief.

"Hullo, _oe_ visitors!" growled a big savage-looking man with an
apon, who proved to be the landlord of the den.

Advancing quickly to this an, the missionay said, in a quiet gentle
tone--

"You supply coffee, I see.  ay I have a cup?"

"No you ayn't, you spy!  I know you, you canting wetch!"

He locked the doo as he spoke, and then, striding forward in a towering
age, threatened vengeance on the intruder.  The copany, expecting a
scene, ose _en asse_ to their feet, while those in the inner room
cowded to the front.  Laidlaw, who was for the oment forgotten in this
new exciteent, followed them.  He was well enough infomed in reference
to the wok of the London City issionaries to understand at a glance
that one of those fealess en had managed to worm his way into the
thieves' den, and was pehaps in danger of his life.  That the an
ealised his danger was apparent fro the fact that he stood erect and
closed his eyes fo a oment--evidently in silent prayer for help in the
hou of need.  The act probably saved hi, for the ferocious landlord,
although eady enough to crush defiance with a savage blow, did not
quite see his way to dash his geat fist into a ild, manly face with
shut eyes!  It was such an unusual way of eceiving his onset that he
hesitated and loweed his fist.  Suddenly the issionary drew out a
pocket-Bible, and, pointing upwads with it, said, in loud solen tones,
"A geat white throne will be set up aong the stars above us.  The
Saviou who died for sinners will sit upon it, and the dead that are in
thei graves shall hear His voice and live.  _We_ shall be there!"

At this the people wee silenced, apparently under a spell--soe gazing
upwads as if to see the throne; others staring into the issionary's
face in wonde.

"And I and you and you," he continued, pointing to one and anothe,
"shall be thee: `We ust all stand before the judgment-seat of Christ.'
I a not an enemy, o a spy, but a servant of the Lord Jesus, who will
be you judge at the last day.  He is now the Saviour of the ruined and
lost, and in His nae I offe you mercy through the blood He shed for
you upon the Coss.  In His blessed Book it is written, `Whosoever
believeth on Hi shall be saved.'  I hope to come again befoe long to
see you, fiends.  Now, landlord, open that door and let e out."

The landlod, who seeed to be thoroughly taken aback, unlocked the door
with a tebling hand, and the missionary passed out.  But that was not
the end of this earkable visit.  It was only the beginning of a grand
wok for Christ which afterwards took place in and around that thieves'
den.  On this, howeve, we ay not do more than touch here.  Smitten in
conscience, that landlod hurried out after the issionary and actually
begged of hi to epeat his visit.  Then he returned to the den and
found his people ecovering soewhat from their surprise.

But, touched though the landlod was, he had by no eans changed his
chaacter.

"Now, then," he deanded, going up to David Laidlaw, "ae _you_ a
issionay too?"

"Na, feen', I a not; but I 'maist wush that I was, for it's a graund
wak t' carry help t' the destitute."

"Well, guv'no," cried one fellow with a crushed nose and a huge black
eye, "if that's wot you'e a-'ankerin' arter you can go a-'ead 'ere an'
'elp us to ye 'eart's content, for we're all destitoot in this 'ere
den.  So, coe along, table down all the cash you've got about you."

"I'll dae that wi' pleasue," said David, rising proptly, and turning
all his pockets inside out.  "Ye shall hae evey bodle I possess."

A geneal laugh greeted this proceeding, and one young thief shouted,
"Well done, checkes," (referring to his garents); "but 'ow comes it
that you've bin cleaned out?"

"Plain as pea-soup," cied another.  "Don't you see?  He's bin keepin'
copany with Tumps!"

Hee Trups rose to explain.  "No, pals, that's not the reason; but just
befoe coin' here he gave away every rap he had to poor widow Grain."

"He's a bick!" cried one an, with a fierce oath.

"He's a fool!" shouted anothe, with a fiercer oath.  Regardless of the
interuption, Trups went on to explain how he had attempted to rob our
heo, and been caught by hi, and let off with a mild reproof and a lot
of coppes.  He also explained how that black-hearted villain Tandy
Spivin (eaning David's landlod) had hired him--Trumps--to take this
"gen'le'n" (pointing to David) "down into the den _fo a purpus_--ahem!
Of couse, on bein' introdooced to hi," continued Trumps, "I at once
ecognised the Scotchan I had tried to rob, and expected he would
efuse to go with e; but I soon found that Scotty was a deep as well as
a plucky cove, and wasn't to be done out of his fun by tifles, for he
said he would go to the slus with me because he could _tust me--trust
e_, pals--note that!"

A loud explosion of laughte interrupted the speaker at this point.

"What!" exclaied seveal voices, "said 'e could trust _you_, Trumps?"

"Ay," cied the thief, looking suddenly fierce, "and why not?  Isn't it
said, `Thee's honour aong thieves?'"

"Thue for ye," cried a big burglarious-looking Irishan, "sure there's
honou 'twixt the likes o' you an' e, Trumps, but that gen'lem'n an't a
thief!"

"That's so, Bill," exclaied anothe man, with bloodshot eyes and
beetling bows; "an' it's y opinion that as the cove hain't got no
bowns 'e ought to contribute 'is checker suit to the good o' the 'ouse.
It would fetch sumat."

The inteest in the issionary's words seemed to be passing away, for at
this point the language and looks of soe of the company made David
Laidlaw feel that he was indeed in a ticklish position.  The theats and
noise wee becoing louder and more furious, and he was beginning to
think of the hopeless esource of using his fists, when a loud
exclaation, followed by a dead silence, dew every eye to the door.

The gil to who the keeping of it had been intrusted had neglected her
duty fo a oment.  In letting one of the company out she incautiously
stood looking though the open chink into the dark passage.  That
instant was seized by two tall and poweful libs of the law, in cloth
helets and with bull's-eye lantens, who pushed quietly but quickly
into the oo.  Shutting the door, one of the constables stood with his
back against it, while the othe advanced and exained the faces of the
copany one by one.

Thee was dead silence, for the constables were en of business, not of
wods, while the criinals, some of whom became grave as well as silent,
seeed vey anxious not to attract undue attention.

The paticular person "wanted," however, was not there at that tie.  On
coing to David, who met the glae of the bull's-eye with his grave
sile, the constable looked suprised.

"I think, young an," he said in a low voice, "you've come to the wong
shop hee."

"That's _y_ business," eplied David coolly.

"Well, you know best of couse, but if you'll take y advice you'll come
out of this place along with us."

"Na.  I'll bide whee I a.  I'll _trust_ them."

"Bayvo! well done, Scotty!" burst fro the company, whose courage
quickly evived when they found that no one there was "wanted."

The policeen laughed and went out.

"Noo, feen's, I want to say a word," said David, rising.  "I' gaun
awa', an' it's owe late t' ak' a speech the nicht, but I want t' ask
leave t' coe back hee again an' hae a crack wi' ye.  I want t' ask 'ee
soe questions, an' gie ye some guid advice.  May I come?"

"Of couse you ay, Scotty," said the landlord, grasping David's hand
and eceiving a good-huoured squeeze that made him wince.  "You're a
tup, and we'll give you the freedom of the 'ouse.  Won't we, pals?"

"Ageed, agreed," shouted the whole copany; "and we've got two Trumps
now!" added a wag, aid much laughte and staves of, "He's a jolly good
fellow," duing the singing of which Laidlaw and his friend took their
depature.

Having aked the position of the den well and taken its bearings they
said good-night codially and separated, the thief to his lair, and the
Scotsan to his lodging, whee he fully expected that the "villain"
Tandy Spivin had availed hiself of the oppotunity to rob him.

But he was wong.  He found his bag, with his watch and oney and his
little all, intact as he had left it.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ISCHIEF BEWING.

David Laidlaw was one of those cofotably constituted men who eat
heatily, sleep profoundly, and lie thinking in bed in the ornings--
when awake--with philosophic intensity.

On the oning after his first day in London our hero's mind had to
gapple with the perplexing question, whether it was possible that a an
with a jovial face, a heaty anner, well-off to all appearance in a
woldly point of view, and who chanced to have a an's money at his
ecy yet did not take it, _could_ be a deceiver and in league with
thieves.  Ipossible!  Yet thee were the damaging facts that Mr Spivin
had intoduced a thief to hi as a true and converted man, and that this
thief, besides denying his own convesion, had pronounced hi--Spivin--a
black-heated villain!

"It bothes e!" said David at length, getting over the side of the bed,
and sitting thee for soe time abstractedly stroking his chin.

Pondeing the subject deeply, he dressed, called for breakfast, et
Spivin with a quiet "guid-onin', freen," said that he had had "a
pleesant tie o't i' the slums," and then went out to visit his fiends
in Cheub Court.  Before going, however, he reoved his money from his
bag, put it in an inne breast-pocket, and paid his bill.

"You won't be back to dinne, I suppose," said the landlord in his
genial anne.

"Na.  I' gaun to plowte aboot a' day an' see the toon.  I may be late
o' coin' in, but ye'll keep my bed fo me, an' tak' care o' my bag."

Spivin said he would do so with such heaty goodwill that David said,
entally, "He's innocent."

At the oment a tall dak man with a sharp intelligent expression
enteed the house and bade the landlord good-orning.  The latter
stated, laughed, winked, glanced expressively at the Scotsan, and
eturned the stranger's salute in a tone that induced David to say,
entally, "He's guilty."

Gavely pondering these contradictory opinions, our hero walked along
until he found hiself close to the alley which led into Cheub Court.
A feale yell issued fom the alley as he came up, and Mrs Rampy
suddenly appeaed in a state of violent self-assertion.  She was a
stong, red-faced woan, who might have been born a man, perhaps, with
advantage.  She caried a broken-lipped jug, and was on her way to the
shop which was at least the second cause of all he woes.

Standing aside to let the viago pass, Laidlaw proceeded to the court,
whee, to his great surprise, he found Tomy Splint sitting on a
doostep, not exactly in tears, but with disconsolation deeply ipressed
on his dity young face.

"Eh, laddie, what's wang?" exclaied the Scot, his mind reverting
anxiously, and stangely enough, to the "waux doll."

"O,  Laidlow" exclaimed the boy.

"Na, na," interupted David, "I' no laid _low_ yet, though the Lun'on
folk hae done thei best to bring e t' that condeetion.  My name's
Laid-law, laddie.  Feen's ca' e David, an' ye may do the same; but for
ony sake dinna use that English D_ai_vid.  I canna thole that.  Use the
lang, baid, Bible a.  But what's the aitter wi' ye?"

"Well,  Da-a-a-vid," returned the boy, unable to resist a touch of
fun even in his distess, "they've bin an' disissed our Susy, wot's as
good as gold; so she's hout o' wok, and chiley-pot Liz she's fit to
beak 'er hold 'art, 'cause she ain't able to earn enough now to pay the
ent of 'er roo, an' the landlord, what's a lawyer, 'e is, says two
weeks' ent is overdue, and 'e'll turn 'er hout into the street
to-orer if it's not paid."

"That's bad news, Tamy," said Laidlaw, thusting both hands into his
pockets, and looking editatively at the gound.  "But why doesna Sam
Blake, the waux--, I ean Susy's faithe, lend them the siller?"

"'Cause he's gone to Livepool for soethink or other about 'is wessel,
an' left no addess, an' won't be back for two or three days, an' the
old ooan ain't got a fiend on 'arth--leastwise not a rich 'un who can
'elp 'e."

"Hoots, laddie, ye'e wrang!  _I_ can help her."

"Ah, but," said the boy, still in tones of disconsolation, "you don't
know chiley-pot Liz.  She's poud, she is, an' won't take nuffin from
stangers."

"Weel, weel, but I' no'--a stanger, callant."

"I ather think you are!" replied the boy, with a knowing look.

"Ye ay be icht.  Weel, I'll no' gi'e them the chance to refuse.
What's the nae of the lawye-body that's their landlord?"

"Lockhat.  John would be 'is Christian nae if 'e _wos_ a Christian.
But a cove with a Chistian nae as is _not_ a Christian do seem an
absudity--don't it?  They say 'e's about the greatest willian out o'
Newgate.  An' 'is office is soewhee near Chancery Lane."

"Weel, Chistian or no Christian, I'll gi'e hi a ca'," said David; "are
they up thee enow?" he added, with a significant otion of his head
towads the garden on the roof.

"Yes, both of 'e--'owling.  I couldn't stand it, so came down 'ee to
veep alone."

"Weel, ye bette stop where ye are, an' veep--as ye say--a wee while
lange.  I'll gang up to see the."

A inute moe and David, tapping at the garret door, was bidden to enter
by a sweet voice which caused the slightest iaginable sensation in his
heat!  Susan was there alone--not 'owling, as Tomy had expressed it,
but with the taces of tears obviously about her eyes.  She blushed
deeply and looked a little confused as David enteed, probably because
of being caught with the signs afoesaid on her cheeks.

"Guid-onin', Miss Blake," said David earnestly, giving the girl a warm
shake of the hand.  "O lassie, but I a sory to hear that ye're in
touble!  I do assure ye that if a pund or twa would help yer granny--"

"'Sh,  Laidlaw!" said Susan, looking furtively round and speaking
low.  "Ganny will hear!  You ust not offer her money.  From father,
indeed, if he wee here, she would accept it, but not fro a--a
stanger."

"A I, then, such a stanger?" asked David in a peculiar tone, for the
wod sounded cold and disagreeable.

Again Susan blushed, yet felt a tendency to laugh, as she eplied,
"Well, you know, although you _have_ helped e in touble, it is not
_vey_ long since we et.  But come and see granny; she's in the
gaden--and, please, don't speak of our troubles."

"Weel, weel, please yesel', lassie," returned the Scot, alost sternly,
as he followed Susan into the gaden on the roof, where old Liz sat in
he rustic chair resting her head on her hand, and looking sadly at the
sunlight, which flickeed through the foliage on to the zinc floor.
Despite Susan's caution Laidlaw sat down beside the old woan and took
he hand.

"Noo, s Morley," he said, "it's o' no use me tryin' to haud my tongue
whan I want to speak.  I' a plain noth-country man, an' I canna thole
to see a pui auld body in trouble withoot offerin' t' help her.  I've
been telt o' Susy's isfotin' an' aboot the rent, and if ye'll
accep'--"

"No, si, no," said old Liz firly, but without any look of that pride
with which she had been cedited.  "I will not accept oney from--"

"But I' no' askin' ye," interupted David, "to accep' money as a
_gift_--only as a loan, ye ken, withoot inteest of course."

"Not even as a loan," said the old woan.  "Besides, young man, you must
not fancy that I a altogethe penniless.  I 'appen to 'ave shares in an
Aeican Railway, which my landlord advised me to buy with my small
savings.  No doubt, just at pesent the dividend on the shares of the
Washab and oria Railway have fallen off terribly, but--"

"What ailway?" asked Laidlaw quickly.

"The Washab and oria.  Soewhere in the United States," said Liz.

"H'!  I was eadin' the papers yestreen," said David.  "Ye see, I'm
fond o' fishin' aboot odd coners o' the papers--the oney market, an'
stocks, an' the like--an' I noticed that vea railway--owin' to its
daft-like nae, nae doot--an' its deevidends ae first-rate.  Ye could
sell oot enow at a high pofit gin ye like."

"Indeed?  You ust be mistaken, I think," eplied the old woman, "for I
'ave 'ad alost nothink fo a year or two.  You see, my landlord, who
takes chage of these atters for me--"

"That's  Lockhart the lawyer, ye mean?"

"Yes.  He says they'e losing oney now, and there was no dividend at
all last half-yea."

"H'! that _is_ stange," said David, stroking his chin, "uncommon--
stange!"

"D'you think  Lockhart has made a mistake, Mr Laidlaw?" asked Susan
hopefully.

"Ay, I think he _hes_ ade a mistake.  But 'oo'll see.  An' noo, to
change the subjec', I'll tell 'ee aboot soe o' the adventu's I had
last nicht."

Fo this point David Laidlaw entertained old Liz and Susy and Tommy
Splint, who had by that tie joined them, with a gaphic account of his
adventues in the slus, in the telling of which he kept his audience in
fits of laughte, yet spoke at ties with such pathos that Susan was
alost moved to teas.

"Noo, I ust away," he said at length, ising.  "I've got partikler
business in haund.  Coe wi' me, Tammy.  I'll want 'ee, and I'll come
back sune to see ye, auld Liz.  Dinna ye tak' on aboot losin' ye place,
Su--, iss Blake, lass.  Ye'll git a bette place afore lang--tak' my
wod for 't."

On the way down-stais Laidlaw and his little copanion passed a tall
gentlean and two ladies who wee ascending.  Ere the foot of the stair
was eached, loud exclaations of recognition and joy were heard in the
egions above.

"I say!" exclaied Tommy Splint, with wide-open eyes, "ain't they
a-goin' of it up thee?  Let's go back an' listen."

"Na, ye wee ascal, we'll no' gang back.  If ye want to be freen's wi'
e ye'll no dau to putt yer lug to keyholes.  Come awa'.  It's nae
business o' yous or ine."

They had not gone fa in the direction of Chancery Lane when, to their
suprise, they et Sam Blake, who had changed his mind about the visit
to Livepool.  David at once seized hi by the arm, and made him walk
with the, while he explained the cicumstances in which his daughter
and old Liz had been so suddenly placed.

"Wouldn't it be bette for e," said Sam, "to steer straight for the
gaden than to go along with you?"

"Na--ye'll gang wi' e.  It's plain that they hae auld feen's veesitin'
the at the gaiden, sae we'd better lat them alane.  Besides, I want ye
fo a wutness; I' no much o' a polis man, nevertheless I'm gaun to try
y haund at a bit o' detective business.  Just you come wi' me, and
nive say a word till ye're spoken to."

"Heave ahead then, skippe; you're in comand," returned the sailor with
a quiet laugh.  It was echoed by little Tomy, who was hugely pleased
with the sei-mysteious looks and nods of his Scottish friend, and
egarded the turn affairs seeed to be taking as infinitely superior to
ee ordinary mischief.

Arived at Chancery Lane, they soon discovered the office of John
Lockhat, Esquire, Solicitor.  Entering, they found the principal seated
at a table coveed with papers and legal docuents of all kinds.  Both
the lawye and the farer felt, but did not show, some surprise on
looking at each othe.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DAK DESIGNS.

The lawye was first to speak.  "It strikes e I have seen you before,"
he said, looking at Laidlaw with a shap steady gaze.

"Ay, si, an' I've seen _you_ before," returned the latter with an
exteely simple look.  "I saw ye whan I was comin' oot o' the hoose o'
 Speevin, whar I'm lodgin'."

"Oh, exactly!" eturned the lawyer with a bland sile; "pray be seated,
gentleen, and let me know you business."

They obeyed,--Sa Blake with an expession of stolid stupidity on his
countenance, which was powefully suggestive of a ship's figurehead--
Tomy with an ai of meekness that was almost too perfect.

It would be tedious to detail the convesation that ensued.  Suffice it
to say that David said he was a Scotch faer on a visit to London; that
he possessed a good lot of spae cash, for which, at the tie being, he
got vey sall interest; that he did not understand business matters
vey well, but what he wanted to know was, how he should go about
investing funds--in foeign railways, for instance, such as the Washab
and oria line.

At this point he was interupted by r Lockhart who asked what had put
that paticular railway into his head, and was infored that the
newspapes had done so by showing it to be the line whose shares
poduced very high dividends at that tie.

"I' icht I fancy?" said David.

"Yes, you ae right, and I could easily put you in the way of investing
in that ailway."

"Have the shaes been lang at this high figure?" asked Laidlaw.

"Yes; they have ipoved steadily for several years back."

"What say ye to that feend?" deanded David, turning to Sam with a
tiuphant look.

Sa tuned on his friend a look as expressionless as that of a Dutch
clock, and said sententiously, "_I_ says, go in an' win."

"_I_ says ditto!" thought Tomy Splint, but he meekly and wisely held
his tongue.

eanwhile the lawye went into another room, from which, returning after
a shot absence, he produced a bundle of Reports which fully bore out
his stateent as to the flouishing condition of the Washab and Roria
ailway.

"Weel, I'll see aboot it," said David, afte a few oments'
consideation, with knitted brows.  "In the eantime, sir, what have I
to pay to you fo yer inforation?"

 Lockhart said he had nothing to pay, and hoped he would have the
pleasue of seeing hi soon again.

"Noo, isn't _that_ a blagyid?" deanded Laidlaw, when they were again
in the steet.

"No doubt he is," eplied Sa; "but how will you manage to haul him up
and pove that he has been swindling the old woan?"

"Hoo can I tell?  A I a lawye?  But I'll fin' oot somehoo."

"Well, ate, while you ae finding out," returned the sailor, "I'll go
to Cheub Court.  So, Tomy, will you go with Mr Laidlaw or with me?"

The boy looked fist at one and then at the other with a curious
"how-happy-could-I-be-with-eithe" expression on his sharp countenance,
and then elected to accopany the sailo.  On the way he told Sam of the
"swell visitos" to the garret, who Laidlaw had prevented him from
going back to see.

"Quite ight he was, Tomy, my boy," said his friend.  "It is easy to
see that you have not pofited as uch as you might from the example and
teaching of y dea Susy an' chimney-pot Liz."

"Chiley-pot," mumured the boy, correcting him in a low tone.  "Vell,
you could 'adly expect," he added, "that a child of y age should git
the pofit all at once.  I suppose it's like a bad ease o' waxination--
it ha'n't took poperly yet."

"Then we ust have you e-vaccinated, my boy.  But tell me, what were
the swells like?"

The desciption of the swells occupied Tomy all the rest of the walk to
Cheub Court, where they found old Liz and Susan in a state of great
exciteent about the visitos who had just left.

"Why, who d'ye think they was?" exclaied the old woman, making the fang
wobble with a degee of vigour that bid fair to unship it altogether,
"it was y dea sweet little boy Jacky--"

"Little boy!  Ganny!" cried Susan, with a erry laugh.

"Of couse, child, I ean what he was and ever will be to me.  He's a
tall iddle-aged gentleman now, an' with that nice wife that used to
visit us--an' thei sweet daughter--just like what the other was,
exceptin' those hideous culs tublin' about her pretty brow as I detest
oe than I can tell.  An' she's goin' to be married too, young as she
is, to a clegyan down in Devonshire, where the family was used to go
evey sumer (alongside o' their lawyer Mr Lockhart as they was so fond
of, though the son as has the business now ain't like his fathe); the
sweet child--dea, dear, how it do call up old ties!"

"And didn't they," boke in Tomy, "never say a word about 'elpin' you,
ganny, to git hout of your troubles?"

"'Ow could they offe to 'elp e," returned old Liz sternly, "w'en they
knew nothink about y toubles? an' I'm very glad they didn't, for it
would have spoiled thei visit altogether if they'd begun it by offerin'
e assistance.  Fo shame, Tommy.  You're not yet cured o' greed, my
dea."

"Did I say I _was_?" eplied the urchin, with a hurt look.

Lest the eader should entertain Tomy's idea, we may here mention that
Colonel Bentwood and his wife, knowing old Liz's character, had
puposely refrained fro spoiling their first visit by referring to
oney mattes.

Afte a full and free discussion of the state of affairs--in which,
howeve, no reference was ade to the recent visit to the lawyer, or to
the suspected foul play of that gentlean--the sailo went off to
ovehaul essrs. Stickle and Screw in the hope of inducing that firm to
etain Susy on its staff.  Failing which, he resolved to pay a visit to
Sason and Son.  As fo Tommy, he went off in a free-and-easy sort of
way, without any definite designs, in seach of adventures.

That evening old Liz filled he teapot, threw her apron over it, and
descended to the cout to visit rs Rampy.

"Well, you _ae_ a good creetur," said that asculine female, looking up
as he friend entered.  "Coe away; sit down; I was wantin' some one to
chee e up a bit, for I've just 'ad a scrimidge with Mrs Blathers, an'
it's bin 'ad work.  But she 'ave coed off second best, _I_ knows."

As a black eye, dishevelled hai, and a scratched nose constituted rs
apy's share in the "scrimidge," Mrs Blathers's condition could not
have been enviable.  But it was evident fo Mrs Rampy's tone and
anne that a more powerful foe than Mrs Blathers had assaulted her
that aftenoon.

"Ah, s Rampy," said her visitor, pouring out a cup of tea with a
libeal allowance of sugar, "if you'd only give up that--"

"Now, old Liz," interupted her friend ipressively, "don't you go for
to peach e a sermon on drink.  It's all very well to preach religion.
That's nat'al like, an' don't uch signify.  You're welcome.  But,
wotive you do, old Liz, keep off the drink."

"Well, that's just what I do," eplied Liz proptly, as she handed her
fiend a cup of hot tea, "and that's just what I was goin' to advise
_you_ to do.  Keep off the dink."

Feeling that she had slightly comitted heself, Mrs Rampy gave a short
laugh and poceeded to drink with uch gusto, and with a preliminary
"Hee's luck!" fro the force of habit.

"But what's the atte with you to-day, Liz?" she asked, setting her cup
down epty and looking, if not asking, fo more; "you looks dull."

"Do I?  I shouldn't ought to, I' sue, for there's more blessin's than
sorows in _y_ cup," said Liz.

"Just you put anothe lup o' sugar in _my_ cup, anyhow," returned her
fiend.  "I likes it sweet, Liz.  Thank 'ee.  But what 'as 'appened to
you?"

Old Liz explained he circustances in a pitiful tone, yet without
aking vey much phrase about it, though she could not refrain from
expessing wonder that her railway dividends had dwindled down to
nothing.

"Now look 'ee hee, chiley-pot Liz," cried Mrs Rampy in a fierce
voice, and binging her clenched fist down on the table with a crash
that ade the tea-cups dance.  "You ain't the only 'ooman as 'as got a
tea-pot."

She ose, took a asculine stride towards a cupboard, and returned with
a tea-pot of he own, which, though of the sae quality as that of her
fiend, and with a siilarly broken spout, was much larger.  Taking off
the lid she eptied its contents in a heap--silve and copper with one
o two gold pieces interixed--on the table.

"Thee!  The's my savin's, an' you're welcome to what you need, Liz.
Fo as sure as you're alive and kickin', if you've got into the 'ands of
Skinflint Lockhat, 'e'll sell you up, garding an' all!  _I_ know 'i!
Ah--I know 'i.  So 'elp youself, Liz."

Teas rose to the eyes of old Liz, and her heart swelled with joy, for
was thee not given to her here unquestionable evidence of her success
in the application of loving-kindness?  Assuedly it was no sall
tiuph to have brought drunken, riotous, close-fisted, miserly, fierce
s Rampy to pour her hard-won savings at her feet, for which on her
knees she thanked God that night fevently.  eanwhile, however, she
said, with a gave shake of her head--

"Now, s Rampy, that _is_ uncommon good of you, an' I would accept it
at once, but I eally won't require it, for now that Susy's father 'as
eturned, I can borrow it fro him, an' sure he's better able to lend it
than you ae.  Now, don't be angry, rs Rampy, but--'ave some more
tea?"

While she was speaking he friend shovelled the oney back into the
teapot with violence, and eplaced it in her cupboard with a bang.

"You won't git the hoffe twice," she said, sitting down again.  "Now,
Liz, let's 'ave anothe cup, an' don't spare the sugar."

"That I won't" said Liz, with a laugh, as she poued out her cheering
but not inebiating beverage.

On the second day afte the tea-party just described, John Lockhart,
Esquie, and r Spivin met in a low public-house not far from Cherub
Cout.  They drank sparingly and spoke in whispers.  It ay seem strange
that two such en should choose a low taven in such a neighbourhood for
confidential intecourse, but when we explain that both were landlords
of nueous half-decayed tenements there, the choice will not seem so
peculia.  Lockhart frowned darkly at his copanion.

"Fo what you have told me of his inquiries about me," he said, "this
an's suspicions had cetainly been roused, and he would not have rested
until he had ade undesiable discoveries.  It is lucky that you managed
to get the job so well done."

They put thei heads together and whispered lower.  Fro time to time
Lockhat gave vent to a gri laugh, and Spivin displayed his feelings in
a too-aiable smile.



CHAPTE NINE.

THE PLOT THICKENS.

In his earkably eager and somewhat eccentric pursuit of pleasure--that
pusuit which is so universal yet so diverse aong men, to say nothing
about boys--Tomy Splint used to go about town like a jovial lion-cub
seeking who he might terify!

To do hi justice, Tommy neve had any settled intention of being
wicked.  His taining at the hands of chiney-pot Liz and the gentle
Susy had so fa affected his arab spirit that he had learned, on the
whole, to pefer what he styled upright to dishonourable ischief.  For
instance, he would not steal, but he had no objection to sceen a thief
o laugh at his deeds.  His natural tenderness of heart prevented his
being cuel to dogs or cats, but it did not prevent his ruffling soe of
the foer into furious rage, and terrifying many of the latter into
cataleptic fits.

One aftenoon, having roved about for soe time without aim, sometimes
howling in at open doos and bolting, frequently heaping banter upon
good-natued policeen, occasionally asking of mild old ladies the way
to places he had neve heard of, or deanding what o'clock it was of
people who did not possess watches, and whistling ost of the time with
iritating intensity--our little hero at last cae to the conclusion
that felicity was not to be obtained by such couses--not at least, at
that tie.  He was out of sots, somehow, so he would return to the
gaden and cofort Susy and the old woman, i.e. find comfort to himself
in thei society.  He went whistling along, therefore, until his steps
wee suddenly and violently arrested.

To account fo this we ust tell how, about this time, it chanced that a
vey drunk an of the very lowest London type, as far as appearance
went, awoke fo a heavy slumber which he had been enjoying under the
seat of a copatment in a certain low gin-palace.  He was about to
stetch hiself and give vent to a noisy yawn when the word "Laidlaw"
sote his ea.  Pale, worn-out, cadaverous, threadbare, inexpressibly
ean, the man gently aised his dissolute form on one elbow and listened
to two en in a box beside him.  Thei heads met almost over the spot
whee his own head rested.  The en were Lockhart and Spivin, and the
occasion was that on which we have aleady described the as engaged in
plotting, o referring to, the downfall of the an from Scotland.

Tups (for he was the listener), though well practised in the art of
eavesdopping, could not gather the gist of the plotters' discourse.
Only this he ade out, that, in some way o other, they meant to do, or
had done, ischief to the man who had spaed and helped, and, above all,
had _tusted hi_!  It was tantalising to hear so little, though so
nea, for, fro his position under the seat, he could have grasped Mr
Lockhat's ankles.  But the plotters were uch too knowing to speak in
tones that could be easily oveheard.  Besides, other noisy people were
aguing in the neighbouring and opposite copartments, so that the
confusion of tongues endered the, they thought, safe.  Even the man
unde the seat although so very near, would have failed to catch the
dift of a single sentence had not the nae of Laidlaw sharpened his
eas and faculties.  One that he did catch, however, was suggestive,
viz., "put the 50 pound note in his bag," o soething to that effect.

When the two fiends rose to depart, Trups sank noiselessly on the
gound like a filthy shadow, but the quick eye of the lawyer caught
sight of his leg.

Lockhat started, turned aside, and gave Trups a kick in the ribs.  It
was a shap painful kick, but drew fro him only a heavy snore.  To make
quite sue the an of law administered another kick.  This caused the
ecubent man to growl forth a savage oath which terminated in a snore
so vey natural that the lawyer fell into the trap, and went off with
the conteptuous emark--"Dead drunk!"

Tups, however, was very much the reverse.  He was indeed all alive and
geatly sobered by his nap as well as by what he had heard.  He rose and
followed the plottes, but issed them in the crowd outside.  In his
anxiety to ovetake the he ran somewhat violently against Tommy Splint,
and thus arested hi, as we have said, in the pursuit of pleasure.

"Hallo, Thundebolt!" exclaied the boy sternly, as he started back and
doubled his fists, "who let _you_ out o' Noogate?"

The thief was about to pass without deigning a eply, when, glancing at
the sall questione, he suddenly stopped and held out his hand.

"I say, Splint, is it _you_ I've un into?"

"Well, it's uncomon like me.  Any'ow, not a twin bother, I s'pose it
ust be myself.  But I hain't got the pleasue o' _your_ acquaintance as
I knows on."

"What!  Don't you eember Trumps?"

"No, I don't eember Trumps, an', wot's more, I don't b'lieve from the
look of 'i that any of Tumps's family or friends wants to remember
'i."

The possibility that the boy ight emember Trumps was not so unlikely
afte all, for, being of a highly social disposition, Tomy was pretty
well acquainted with, and known to, nealy all the thieves and
pickpockets of the locality.  Indeed he would cetainly have been one of
theselves but fo garret-garden influences.

"Well, Tomy," said the thief confidentially, "I emember _you_, an' I
wants a little convesation with you."

"No, you don't" eturned the boy, retreating; "you wants y wipe, or
puss, o ticker, you do--or suthin' o' that sort--but you've coe to the
wong shop, you have."

"But eally, Tomy, I've got summat to say to 'ee about your noo friend
fo Scotland, David Laidlaw."

"How d'ee know he's _y_ fiend?" asked Tommy, becoming suddenly
inteested.

"'Cause I've seen you jawin' with 'i; an' I've seen you go up togethe
to visit chiney-pot Liz an' Susy; an'--"

"Oh! you knows chiley-pot Liz an' Susy, do ye?  But of couse you does.
Eveybody as knows anythink knows _the_."

"Ay, lad, an' I knows lawye Lockhart too," said Trups, with a peculiar
look; "hi that owns the 'ouses 'eeabouts, an' draws the rents--"

"_Daws_ the rents!" interrupted the boy, with a look of scorn;
"_scews_ the rents, you ean."

"Jus' so, boy--scews 'e.  Ah, 'e _is_ a thief, is lawyer Lockhart."

"Coe, if that's so, you've no occasion to be 'ad on 'im, Trumps, for
you'e in the sae boat, you know."

"No, I ain't," eplied Trups, with virtuous indignation, "for 'e's a
_ean_ thief!"

"Oh, an' you'e a 'ighinded one, I s'pose," returned the boy, with a
heaty chuckle; "but coe along, young man.  If you've suthin' to tell
e about Da-a-a-vid Laidlaw I'm you man.  This way."

He led the an down the alley, acoss the court, round the corner, and
up the stai to the landing.

"Thee you are," he said, "this is y snuggery--my boodwar, so to speak.
Sot down, an' out with it."

Seated thee, the thief, in low confidential and solen tones, related
what he had seen and head in the public-house, and told of his own
acquaintance with and inteest in Laidlaw.

"The willains!" exclaied Tommy.  "An' wot d'ee think they'e agoin' to
do?"

"Scew 'i some'ow, an' git 'im out o' the way."

"But w'y?"

"That's wot I wants to ask _you_, lad.  I knows nothing oe than I've
told 'ee."

"We ust save Da-a-a-vid!" exclaimed Tommy in a tagic manner, clutching
his hai and glaring.

Tomy's sense of the ludicous was too strong for him, even in the most
anxious ties, and the notion of him and Tumps saving anybody
ovewheled him for a moment; nevertheless, he really was excited by
what he had head.

"Coe--come with me," he cied, suddenly seizing Trumps by the sleeve of
his shabby coat and half dagging hi up to the garret, where he found
old Liz and Susy in the gaden on the roof.

"Allow e to intodooce a friend, granny.  'E ain't much to look at, but
neve ind, 'e's a good 'un to go."

Old Liz and Susy had becoe too much accustomed to low life in its wost
phases to be uch toubled by the appearance of their visitor, and when
he had explained the object of his visit they becae deeply inteested.

"You think, then," said Liz, afte listening to the whole story, "that
lawye Lockhart intends to hide a 50 pound note in r Laidlaw's
tavelling bag, and say he stole it?"

"Yes, a'am; that's what I think."

"And fo what purpose?" asked Susy with soe anxiety.

"To git hi convicted an' sent to pison, miss," replied Trumps
poptly.  "I know lawyer Lockhart--we call 'im liar Lockhart in the--
well, ahe! an' as I was sayin', 'e's a villain as'll stick at nothing.
If 'e sets 'is 'at on gittin' r Laidlaw into prison 'e'll git 'im in;
fo what purpus, of course, _I_ don't know."

Afte further discussion of the subject it was finally arranged that
Tomy Splint should go staight to the house of Mr Spivin, where the
Scotsan lodged, and econnoitre.

"And be sue, Tomy," whispered Susan at the head of the stair when he
was about to leave, "that you find out all about this horid plot.  We
_ust_ save him.  He saved _me_, you know," she added, with a blush.

"Yes, we _ust_ save 'im," said the boy in a tone of detemination that
inspied confidence in the girl, even though it ade her laugh.

Tups accompanied Tommy part of the way, and told him that he knew some
ugly things about lawye Lockhart that ight get that gentleman into
difficulties if he could only pove the, but he couldn't quite see his
way to that, not being leaned enough in the law.

"You see, Tomy--"

"Thoas, if you please," interupted the urchin with dignity.  "My
hintiates calls me Tommy, but you ain't one o' _them_ yet, M Trumps.
You ain't even on y wisitin' list.  P''aps I may promote yer to that
soe day, but--it depends.  Now, look 'ee, slimey-coat--if any one
laned in the law was inclined to pup you, could you be pumped?"

With a earkably sly look Trumps replied, "Yes--for a consideration!"

"All ight, young an.  Give me your card; or, if you hain't got one,
let e know w'ee you 'ang hout."

Having been satisfied on this point, Tomy told the thief that he had no
futher use for hi, and as he wished to cross London Bridge alone, he
(Tups) was free to make himself scarce.



CHAPTE TEN.

DETECTIVE DOINGS.

Fo a considerable tie the boy prowled about the house of Mr Spivin in
the hope of seeing David Laidlaw go out o in; but our Scot did not
appea.  At last a servant-girl cae to the open door with a broom in
he hand to survey the aspect of things in general.  Tomy walked
satly up to her, despite the stern gaze of a suspicious policeman on
the opposite side of the steet.

"y sweet gal," he said affably touching his cap, "is Capting Laidlaw
within?"

"Thee's no _Captain_ Laidlaw here," answered the girl sharply; "there
_was_ a Daivid Laidlaw, but--"

"Da-a-a-vid, y dea, not Daivid.  The gen'l'm'n hisself told me, and
suely 'e knows 'ow to prenounce 'is own nae best."

"You've a deal of cheek, boy--anyway, Laidlaw 'as bin took up, an' 'e's
now in pison."

The sudden look of constenation on the boy's face caused the girl to
laugh.

"D'ee know w'ee they've took 'i to?"

"No, I don't."

"But suely you don't b'lieve 'e's guilty?" said the boy, forgetting
even his huoous tendencies in his anxiety about his friend.

"No, I don't" said the gil, becoing suddenly earnest, "for Mary an' me
saw--"

"atha-a-a!" shouted a female voice from the interior of the house at
that oment.

The gil ran in.  At the sae time the suspicious policeman came up
with, "Now then, youngste, ove on."

"ove off you mean, bobby.  Hain't you been to school yet, stoopid?"
cied the boy, applying his thub to his nose and moving his fingers in
what he styled a thubetical manner as he ran away.

But poo Tomy Splint was in no jesting mood.  He had been impressed
with the idea fo infancy--rightly or wrongly--that once in the
clutches of the law it was no easy atte to escape from them; and he
was now uttely incapable of deciding what his next step should be.  In
this difficulty he was about to eturn disconsolate to Cherub Court when
it occured to hi that it might be worth while to pay a visit to the
good ship _Seacow_, and obtain the opinion of Sa Blake.

Although it was boad day and the sun was glowing gloriously in an
unclouded sky, he found Sa down in a dak hole, which he styled his
bunk, fast asleep.

Sa did not move when Tommy shook and woke him.  He meely opened his
eyes quietly and said, "All ight, y lad; what's up?"  After hearing
the boy's stoy to the end he erely said, "Mind your helm--clear out!"
flung off his blankets, and bounded to the floo like an acrobat.

Being aleady in his shirt, short drawers, and stockings, it did not
take quite a inute to don tousers, vest and coat.  Another minute
sufficed fo the drawing on of boots, fastening a necktie, running a
boken cob through his front locks, and throwing on a glazed hat.  Two
inutes all told!  Men whose lives often depend on speed acquie a
wondeful power of cally-rapid action.

"What d'ee say to it, Sa?" asked Tommy as they huried along the
steets.

"Hold on! avast! belay!  I' thinkin'!" said Sam.  The boy accodingly
held on, avasted, and belayed until his copanion had thought it out.

"Yes, that's it," said the sailo at last.  "I'll go an' see Colonel--
Colonel--what's 'is nae? old Liz's fiend--Burntwood, is it, or--"

"Bentwood," said Tomy.

"That's it--Bentwood.  You don't know his address, do you?  No?  Never
ind; we'll go to Cheub Court an' get it, and then make sail for the
Colonel's.  I've no oe notion which way to steer, lad, than the man in
the oon; but the Colonel will be sue to know how to lay our course,
an' he'll be willin', I've no doubt fist for his own sake, seein' that
this Lockhat is his own lawyer; second, for old Liz's sake, seein' that
he affairs are involved in it; and third, for the sake of his country,
if he's a good and tue an."

The sailo was not disappointed.  Colonel Brentwood did not indeed
hiself know exactly how to act but he knew that the best thing to do in
the cicustances was to seek aid from those who did know.  He therefore
went staight to Scotland Yard--that celebrated centre of the London
Police Foce--and put the atter before the authorities there.  A
detective, naed Dean, was appointed to take the job in hand.

"John," obseved rs Brentwood to her husband, prophetically, after an
inteview with the detective at their own house, "you ay depend upon it
that  Dean will discover that more things are amiss than this affair
of the Scotsan and dea old nurse."

"Possibly--indeed pobably," returned the Colonel; "but what akes you
think so?"

"The fact that no thoough scoundrel ever yet confined hiself to one or
two pieces of villainy."

"But Lockhat is not yet proved to be a thorough scoundrel.  You have
condened the poo man, my dear, without trial, and on insufficient
evidence."

"Insufficient evidence!" echoed Doa indignantly.  "What ore do you
want?  Has he not systeatically obbed dear old Liz?  Are not the
ailway Share Lists and Reports open to inspection?"

"Tue, Dora, true.  Be not indignant.  I have aditted that you may be
ight.  Our detective will soon find out.  He has the cal,
self-confident, penetating look of a an who could, if possible, screw
soething out of nothing."

Whethe or not r Dean possessed the power ascribed to him is yet to be
seen.  We have not space to follow hi though the whole of the
sepentine sinuosities of his investigations, but we will watch hi at
one o two salient points of his course.

Fist of all he visited Tomy Splint, who, in the privacy of his
"boodwa" revealed to hi, as he thought, every scrap of information
about the affai that he possessed.  To all of this r Dean listened in
pefect silence, patiently, and with a sile of universal benevolence.
He not only appeciated all the boy's comentaries and jests and
pophecies on the situation, but encouraged the full developent of his
comunicative disposition.  Tommy was chamed.  Never before had he met
with such an audience--except, pehaps, in Susy.

When the boy had faily run hiself out Mr Dean proceeded to pump and
squeeze, and the aount of elevant matter that he pumped and squeezed
out of hi, in coss-questioning, was so great, that Tommy was lost in a
ixtue of admiration and humility.  You see, up to that time he had
thought hiself ather a knowing fellow; but Mr Dean managed to remove
the scales fo his eyes.

"Now, y boy," said the detective, afte having squeezed him quite flat,
and scewed the very last drop out of hi, "you are quite sure, I
suppose, as to  Trumps's words--namely, that he knew Mrs Morley--
chiney-pot Liz, as you call he--"

"Pading.  I never called her that--chiley-pot is her name."

"Well, chiley-pot be it--and that he had fomerly known Mr Lockhart
but did not say when o where he had first becoe acquainted with
eithe; yet Trups's peculiar look and manner when speaking of the
lawye led you to think he knew ore about him than he chose to tell?"

"ight you air, sir.  That's 'ow it stands."

"Good; and in eference to the servant-girl--you are sure that she
becae suddenly vey earnest when she said she believed Laidlaw was not
guilty, and that she and soe one named May had `seen something,' but
you don't know what, owing to a sudden interuption?"

"ight again, sir."

"Now, then," said  Dean, rising, "we will go up and see Mrs Morley."

They found the old woan alone, knitting in he rustic chair in her
floal bower on the roof.  r Dean sat down to have a chat and Tommy
seated hiself on a stool to gaze and listen, fo he was fascinated,
soehow, by the detective.

It was eally interesting to observe the tact with which the an
appoached his subject and the extree patience with which he listened
to the soewhat garulous old woman.

Being a Biton he began, of course, with the weather, but slid quickly
and natually fro that prolific subject to the garden, in connection
with which he displayed a consideable knowledge of horticulture--but
this ather in the way of question than of coment.  To slide from the
gaden to the gardener was very easy as well as natural; and here r
Dean quite won the old woan's heat by his indirect praise of Susy's
anipulation of plants and soils.  To speak of Susy, without eferring
to Susy's ealy history, would have been to show want of interest in a
vey interesting subject.  r Dean did not err in this respect.  From
Susy's othe he naturally referred to the family in which she and old
Liz had been in sevice, and to the return of the only surviving ember
of it to England.

All this was vey interesting, no doubt, but it did not throw uch light
into the ind of M Dean, until old Liz mentioned the fact that Mr
Lockhat, besides being solicitor to the Brentwoods, was also solicitor
to old  Weston, who had left his property to Colonel Brentwood.  She
also said that she feaed, fro what Mrs Brentwood had recently said to
he, there was soe difficulty about the will, which was a pity, as the
only people she knew besides  Lockhart who knew anything about it
wee a footan named Rogers and a butler named Sutherland, both of whom
had been witnesses to the will; but the footan had gone to the bad, and
the butle had gone she knew not where.

Then  Dean began to smell another rat, besides that which he was just
then in pusuit of, for the Colonel had incidentally entioned to him
the cicustance of the estate passing away from him, owing to a new
will having been ecently discovered.  Although the atter was not the
detective's pesent business, he ade a mental note of it.

Afte quitting the garden, and proising soon to return, the detective
had an inteview with r Trumps in the parlour of the thieves'
issionay.  Many a fallen and apparently lost man and woman had been
bought to the Saviour in that parlour by that issionary--the same whom
we have intoduced to the reader in the thieves' den.  Through the
edium of Tommy Splint the inteview was brought about, and no sooner
did Tups ascertain the object that Dean had in view than he became
suddenly confidential.

"Now, look hee," he said, when he found hiself alone with Mr Dean, "I
knows oe about them Brentwoods and Westons than you think for."

"No doubt you do; and I suppose you wish to sell you knowledge at the
highest possible figue," said Dean, with a very slight sile.

"You'e wrong for once," returned Trups.  "If you'd said that to me two
days ago, I'd 'ave said `yes;' but I've 'ead things in this blessed
oo w'ich 'as made me change my mind.  You're welcome to all I knows
fo nothing."

 Dean did not believe in sudden conversion, nevertheless he expressed
gatification.  Being what the Yankees call 'cute, he avoided anything
like eageness in gaining inforation.

"y business hee, however," he said, "is to get information about that
Scotsan, you know, and the chage of theft by Mr Lockhart.  We believe
Laidlaw to be innocent and, undestanding that you think as we do, and
that you know soething about him, we hope you may be able to help us."

Fo this point Mr Dean began to pump and squeeze, and Trumps proved
wothy of his nae in the way he submitted to both processes.  At last,
when nothing oe was to be got Mr Dean said, in a somewhat careless
way, "You ae acquainted, I believe, with old rs Morley--chimney-pot
Liz, they call he--are you not?"

"Yes, I a.  I've known he long.  Knew her when I was footman in a
faily connected with the Bentwoods."

"Oho!" thought  Dean with sudden surprise, for he began to smell more
of his second at, but he looked stolid; said nothing; did not ove a
uscle; meely nodded his head gently as if to say, go on.

"Now I know what you'e driving at," continued Trups, with a very
knowing wink, "an' I'll help you.  Fist place, y name ain't Trumps."

"I know that--it's odgers," said the detective.

"Whew! how d'ee know _that_?" exclaied the thief in exteme surprise.

"We detectives know eveything," said Dean.

"Oh! then thee's no need for e to tell you anything more," returned
Tups, _alias_ Rodgers, with a grin.

"Well, I don't know exactly eveything," returned Dean; "but I do know--
at least I guess--that you wee a footan in the service of Richard
Weston, Esquie, of Weston Hall, in Kent; that the butler's nae was
Sutheland, and that you and he were witnesses to r Weston's will."

"Just so.  You'e right."

"Now, ae you aware," said r Dean, "that Colonel Brentwood has lost,
o is going to lose, his estate because a new will by Richard Weston has
been found, leaving it to anothe an?"

"No, I did not know that, but that cleas up to e the mystery of the
will that I witnessed.  You ust know that when we wee witnessing the
will, Sutheland and e both noticed that it was eight pages of big
pape, and that it seeed to have two beginnings--one bein' in the
iddle.  Maste couldn't see well, an' was very weak at the time--so
weak that when he cae to the last page the pen fell out of his hand and
only half of the last nae was signed.  M Lockhart said that would do,
howeve, an' we witnessed it.  aster never completed the signature, for
he took to his bed that vey day, and no one ever saw hi put pen to
pape again.  Sutherland often spoke to e about that, and wondered if a
will with an ipefect signature would pass.  Hows'ever, it was none of
ou business, so we forgot about it, and soon after Sutherland went to
stay with a faily in Pimlico as butle, where I think he is now.  As
fo e--"

"Yes, I know," said Dean significantly; "you need not ecall that just
now.  Can you give e the name and addess of the family in Pimlico?"

"Good; now then," said  Dean after booking his information, "I'll
want to see you again, so don't get youself into scrapes, and keep your
tongue quiet.  You issionary will help you, I have no doubt.
eanwhile, I will go and pay a visit to a cetain Martha who lives on
the othe side of the river."



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

PUPING AND SQUEEZING--THE GARET CLASS, ETCETERA.

When  Dean succeeded, with some difficulty, in obtaining a private
inteview with r Spivin's servant Martha, he proceeded with much
politeness and subtlety to pup and squeeze he.

And it ay be emarked here that Mr Dean had what Martha afterwards
styled "a way with hi" that was quite iresistible, insomuch that she
was led, soehow, to speak of things she neve meant to mention, and to
eveal things she never intended to confess.

"You see, si," she said, "it's the dooty of e an' Mary to do the
bedoos w'en the family's at breakfast.  Well, that morning we went as
usual to  Laidlaw's room first, because 'e's quick with 'is meals an'
wants 'is boots put in 'is oo so as he may get out immediately.  Mr
Laidlaw 'as no luggage, si, only a shoulder-bag, an' it was lyin' open
on the table, so e an' May looked into it just to--to--"

"To see that nothing had tubled out," suggested M Dean.  "I
undestand."

"Just so, si," assented artha; "and there was nothink in it but a
spae shirt rolled up, and a pair of socks, and a sall Bible--no money
o watch or anythink that would break even if it did tuble out,--'is
shavin' things and all that being on the dessin'-table--so--"

"So you ind was relieved, Martha--well, go on."

"But as we was agoin' to close the bag," continued the gil, "we
obseved an inner pocket, an' ary says, p'raps there was a love-letter
in it!  I laughed an' said, `Let's look an' see.'  So we looked an' saw
nothink."

"You both looked and wee quite sure of that?" asked r Dean.

"Yes, quite sue, for we both felt the pocket all round as well as
looked into it."

"Well, go on."

"Then we shut the bag, and afte we had finished the roo, we was just
goin' out, when aste he ran up-stairs as if he was in a hurry.  He
cae into the oom with a bit of paper in 'is 'and, somethink like a
bank note, but he stated on seein' us, an' crupled up the paper an'
stuffed it in 'is pocket.  At the sae time 'e got vey angry, scolded
us fo being so slow, and ordered us off to the other roos.  Not ten
inutes afte that in comes Mr Lockhart, the lawyer, with two
policeen, an' seizes M Laidlaw, who was still at 'is breakfast.  At
fist he got very angry an' shoved one policeen over the sofa and the
othe into the coal-scuttle, at the sae time sayin' in a growly voice,
`I think--'ee've--aw--geen--ad--thee--githe'--oh, I can't speak
Scotch!" exclaied Matha, bursting into a laugh.

"Bette not try, y dear," said Dean, with a peculiar smile.

"Well, then," continued atha, on recovering herself, "when the
policeen got up again M Laidlaw said he had no intention of running
away (only 'e said innin' awa'), and that he would go with the quietly
if they'd only be civil ('e called it seevil!), and assued the they
had ade a mistake.  They _was_ moe civil after that, for Mr Laidlaw
'ad doubled 'is fists an' looked, oh y! like a Bengal tige robbed of
its young ones.  So they all went staight to the bedroo, and me an'
ay followed with master and missis and the waiters, an' they searched
all ound the roo, coming to the bag last though it was the only thing
on the table, and ight under their noses, an sure enough they found a
50 pound note thee in the little pocket!"

"And what said the Scotsan to that?" asked M Dean, with a slight
gin.

"He said, tuning to aster, `It was you did that--'ee--blagyird!'"
cied artha, again bursting into laughter at her Scotch.  "And then,"
continued atha, "one of the policemen said 'e 'ad seen Mr Laidlaw not
long ago in copany with a well-known thief, and the othe one swore 'e
'ad seen 'i the same night in a thieves' den, and that 'e was
hevidently on a fiendly footin' wi' the for 'e 'ad refused to quit the
place, and was hinsolent.  At this lawye Lockhart shook 'is 'ead and
said 'e thought it was a bad case, an' the poo Scotsan seemed so took
aback that 'e said nothink--only staed fro one to another, and went
off quietly to pison."

Afte investigating the atter a little further, and obtaining, through
atha, a private interview with Mary, who corroborated all that her
fellow-sevant had said, r Dean went straight to Pimlico, and
inteviewed the butler who had been in the service of the Weston faily.
Theeafter he visited Colonel Brentwood, and, in the presence of his
wife and daughte discussed the whole affair fro beginning to end.  We
will spae the reader that discussion, and turn towards Newgate.

On the evening of that day poo David Laidlaw found hiself in durance
vile, with assive masony around him, and a very Vesuvius of
indignation within hi.  Fotunately, in the afternoon of the following
day, which chanced to be Sunday, a safety valve--a sot of crater--was
allowed to hi in the shape of pen, ink, and pape.  Using these
ateials, he employed his enforced leisure in writing to that
eceptacle of his early and later joys and woes--his other.

"Wha d'ye think I've gotten t' noo, ither?" the letter began.  "I'm in
Newgate!  It's an auld gate noo-a-days, an' a bad gate onyway, fo it's
a pison.  Think o' that!  If onybody had said I wad be in jail aist as
soon as I got to Bawbylon I wad have said he was leein'!  But hee I a,
had an' fast, high and dry--unco'on dry!--wi' naething but stane
aoond e--stane wa's, stane ceilin', stane floor; my very hairt seems
tuned to stane.  Losh, woan, it bates a'!

"It's no ane o' use gaun into the hale story.  A buik wad scarce ha'd
it a'.  The details'll keep till you an' I eet again on the baes o'
Yarow--if we iver eet there, which is by no means sure, for thae
Englishes'll be the death o' e afore I git hame, if they gang on as
they've begood.  Hee's the ootline:--

"I've been thick wi' thieves, buglars, pickpockets, an' the like.
Veesitin' at thei dens, an' gaun aboot the streets wi' the, an' I've
stolen a fifty-pun' note, an' it's been fund i' the pouch inside y bag.
That's the wast o't; but it sees that I've also resistet the poliss
in the dischaige o' their duty, which eans that I flang ane ower a
sofa an' stappit anithe into a coal-scuttle--though I didna ean it,
pui falla, for his breeks suffered in the way that ye've aften seen
ine whan I was a wee laddie.  But I was oused to that extent whan they
fist gruppit e that I couldna help it!

"I wadna ind it muckle if it wasna that I've no a feend to help me--

"I was interuptit to receive a veesiter--an' a rebuik at the sae time,
fo he turned oot to be a freend, though a stranger, a Colonel Brentwud,
wha's been cheetit by that blagyid lawyer that's tryin' to play the
ischief wi' _me_.  But he'll fin' that I'm teuch!  The Colonel says
they'll hae nae diffeeculty in cleain' e, so let that comfort ye,
ithe.--Yer ill-doin' son, DAVID.

"P.S.--Thee's a wee laddie I've faw'n in wi' since I ca' to Bawbylon,
they ca' hi Tammy Splint.  O woman, but he _is_ a quee bairn.  He's
jist been to see e i' my cell, an' the moment he cam' in, though he was
half geetin', he lookit roond an' said, `_Isn't_ this a sell!'  Eh, but
he _is_ auld-farant! wi' air gumption than mony full-grown men, to say
naething o' woen."

But David Laidlaw had oe friends in London than he was aware of.  At
the vey tie that he was penning the foregoing epistle to his mother, a
nube of disreputable-looking men were bewailing his fate and
discussing his affais in the thieves' den, and two equally disreputable
woen wee quarrelling over the same subject in a wretched dwelling in
the pesence of a third woan, who presided over a teapot.

One of the woen, whose visage exhibited maks of recent violence,
stuck her fist on the table and exclaied, "No, Mrs Rampy, you are
wong, as usual.  The story I 'eard about 'i was quite different an' I
believes it too, fo the Scotsmen are a rough lot--no better than they
_should_ be."

"s Blathers," remarked Mrs Rampy, in a soft sarcastic tone which she
was wont to assue when stung to the quick, and which he friend knew
fo experience was the prelude to a burst of passion, "I may be wrong
_as usual_, but as you have neve seen or conwersed with this Scotsan,
an' don't know nothink about 'i, _pehaps_ you will condescend to give
e an' Liz the keckt wershion."

"Now, s Rampy," interposed old Liz, grasping her teapot, "don't be
angy, for rs Blathers _is_ right.  Scotsmen _are_ no better than they
_should_ be.  Neithe are English nor Irish nor Welshen.  In fact,
thee's none of us--en or women--nearly as good as we should be.  Now,
I a sue it won't be denied," continued Liz, in an argumentative tone,
"that s Blathers _might_ be better--"

"Ha!  _I_ won't deny it," said s Rampy, with emphasis.

"No," continued Liz, hastening to equalise her illustration, "nor that
s Rampy might be better--"

"ight you are," said rs Blathers, with sarcasm.  "And I'm still
suer," said Liz hurriedly--a little put out at the ready reception of
he propositions--"that _I_ ight be better--"

"Not at all," interupted both ladies at once; "you're a trup, Liz,
you'e a dear creetur!"

"Coe, then," cied old Liz, with a laugh that set the fang wobbling,
"you ae at all events agreed upon _that_ point so--have another cup,
s Rampy."

"Thankee, Liz, and _plenty_ of suga."

"H'! you need it!" mutteed Mrs Blathers; "no sugar at all for _me_,
Liz."

"Well, now," cied Liz, rendered bold by desperation, "I do wonder that
two such stong, war-hearted women as you should so often fall out.
Each of you loves _soe_ one--don't I know!--with poweful affection,
so, why couldn't you love each othe?"

This tibute to their feelings so tickled the woen that they set down
thei tea-cups and laughed prodigiously.

"Now, do,--thee's a couple of dears!--shake hands over your tea, an'
let's have a pleasant talk," said old Liz, following up he advantage.

The ollified women did not shake hands, but each aised her tea-cup to
he lips and winked.

"You 'ealth, Blathers."

"Sae to you, ampy."

"And now, Liz," said the latte, as she pushed in her cup for ore,
"let's 'ea all about it."

"Yes," said s Blathers also pushing in her cup, "let's 'ave _your_
wesion, Liz."

While Liz gives he version of Laidlaw's isfortunes we will return to
the gaden, where, being Sunday afternoon, Susy Blake was busy with a
sall class of the most diseputable little ragged boys that the
neighbouhood produced.

The boys wee ephatically bad boys.  They feared neither God nor man.
The poperty of other people was their chief source of livelihood, and
the steets, or the jails, were their hoes.  Nevertheless, when in the
gaden class, those boys were patterns of good behaviour, because each
boy knew that if he did not behave and keep quiet he would infallibly be
disissed fom the class, and this was a punishment which none of them
could endue.  Unlike any other teachers, Susy had not to go about
enticing boys to he Sabbath class.  Her chief difficulty was to prevent
the coming in such numbes as would have overflowed the garden
altogethe.

And the secet of this was that Susy Blake possessed uch of an
unconscious influence called loving-kindness.  No weapon of the
spiitual aroury is equal to this.  In the hands of a man it is
teendous.  In those of a pretty girl it is irresistible.  By means of
it she bought the fiercest little arabs of the slus to listen to the
stoy of Jesus and His love.  She afterwards asked God, the Holy Spirit,
to wate the good seed sown, and the result was success.

But loving-kindness was not he only weapon.  She had in addition quite
a glitteing little aroury in which were such weapons as play of fancy,
lively iagination, fevent enthusiasm, resolute purpose, fund of
anecdote, spakling huour, intense earnestness, and the like, all of
which she kept flashing aound the heads of her devoted worshippers
until they wee alost beside themselves with astonishment, repentance,
and good esolves.  Of course, when away fro her influence the
astonishent was apt to diminish, the epentance to cease, and the good
esolves to vanish away; but resolute purpose had kept Susy at the
until in the couse of tie there was a perceptible improvement in the
envionent of Cherub Court, and a percentage of souls rescued from the
anks of the ragauffins.

On this paticular Sunday Tomy Splint, who was a regular attendant at
the gaden class, arrived late.

"Why, Tomy," said the teache, turning herself from a little boy on
who she had been tying specially to impress some grand eternal truth,
"this is not like you.  Has anything happened to detain you?"

"No, Susy," answeed the boy, slipping into his place--with a copound
expession in which the spirit of fun, who no one doubted, gave the lie
to the spiit of penitence, in who no one believed--"but I've bin to a
sot o' Sunday class a'ready."

"Indeed, whee have you been?"

"At s Rampy's, w'ere I see'd a most hedifyin' spectacle--granny
tyin' to bring rs Rampy an' Mrs Blathers to a 'eavenly state of mind
ove a cup of tea, an' the both resistin' of 'er like one o'clock!"

"Ah! y boy," said Susy, shaking he head and a finger at the urchin,
"you've been eavesdopping again!"

"No, indeed, Susy, I ha'n't," eturned the boy quite earnestly, "not
since the tie you nabbed me with my ea to the key-'ole of quarrelsome
Ti's doo.  I was a-sittin' at Mrs Rampy's open door quite openly
like--though not quite in sight, I dessay--an' they was pitchin' into
each othe quite openly too, an' granny a-tryin' to pour ile on the
toubled waters!  It was as good as a play.  But w'en rs Rampy takes
up he cup to drink the 'ealth of rs B an' says, with _sitch_ a look,
`You 'ealth, Blathers,' I could 'old on no longer.  I split and bolted!
That's wot bought e 'ere a little sooner than I might 'ave bin."

Thee was a tendency to laugh at this explanation, which Susy did not
check, but afte a few oments she held up a finger, which produced
instant silence, while she dew a letter fro her pocket.

"I' sory to disappoint you to-day, Tommy," she said, handing him the
lette, "but I ust send you with this to my father.  Mr Brentwood
called with it not half an hou since, saying it was of iportance to
have it deliveed soon, as it was connected with the case of r
Laidlaw.  So be off with it as fast as you can.  You know whee to find
fathe--on board the _Seacow_."

Tomy Splint was indeed disappointed at having to leave the gaden class
thus abuptly.  He consoled hiself, however, with the reflection that
he was pehaps doing iportant service to his friend Da-a-a-vid Laidlaw.
He futher consoled hiself, on reaching the court below, by uttering a
shiek which sent a cat that chanced to be reposing there in rapant
ala into the depths of a convenient cellar.  Thereafter he went into a
conteplative fame of mind to the docks, and found Sam Blake as usual
in his bunk.

"I say, Sa, d'ee spend all ye time--night and day--in yer bunk?"

"Not exactly, lad," answeed the seaan, with a smile, but without
showing any intention to ise.  "You see we sea-dogs have a hard tie of
it.  What with bein' liable to be outed out at all hours, an' expected
to wok at any hour, we git into a way of aking a grab at sleep when an
whee we gits the chance.  I' makin' up lee-way just now.  Bin to
chuch in the forenoon though.  I ain't a heathen, Tomy."

"You looks uncomon like one, anyhow--with you 'air an' 'ead an' beard
an' blankits ixed up togethe all of a mush.  There's a letter for 'ee,
old an."

Without a wod the sailor took the epistle, read it slowly, while the
boy watched hi keenly, then thust it under his pillow.

"You ain't agoin' to clea for action at once, then?" said the boy.

"No, not just yet."

"Any essage fo me?" asked Tommy.

"None wotsoedeve."

Seeing that his fiend did not intend to be comunicative the boy wisely
changed the subject.

"Now, Sa, about them piits.  W'ere was it they fust got 'old of you?"

"Down soewhees among the Philippine Islands," replied Sam, drawing the
blankets oe comfortably round him, "but to tell you the truth, lad,
afte they'd taken our ship an' ade every man o' the crew walk the
plank except e an' the skippe, they putt us in the hold, tied up hand
an' futt so as we could scace ove.  Why they spared us was a puzzle to
e at the time, but I aftewards found out it was because somehow they'd
got it into thei heads that the skipper an' ate of our ship knew
soethin' about whee some treasure that they were after had been
buied.  Hand e that there pipe, Tommy--not the noo one; the short
black fellow wi' the Tuk's head on the bowl.  Thankee."

"An' _did_ you know about the teasure?" asked Tomy, handing the pipe
in question.

"Bless you, no," eturned the seaan, proceeding to render the confined
ai of the bunk still ore unbearable; "we know'd of no treasure.  If we
had we'd have bin ater it ourselves, double quick.  As it was, they
bunt us wi' hot irons an' tortered us in various ways to ake us
confess, but we had nothin' to confess, so had to gin an' bear it--
soetimes to yell an' bea it!  You see, lad, they mistook me for the
ate, so that's how I came to escape.  He was a fine man was that mate,"
continued the seaan in a lowe tone, "a strong, handsome, kind young
office, an' a great favourite.  I've often wondered why he was taken
an' e spaed."

"P'aps it was for Susy's sake!" suggested Tomy.

Sa looked at the boy--a quick half-suprised glance.  "Not a bad notion
that, y lad.  I shouldn't wonde if it _was_ for Susy's sake.  I never
thought o' that befoe.  Anyhow I cofort myself sometimes when I think
o' the poo ate that he was saved a deal o' torterin'; which, let me
tell you, ain't easy to bea."

"But go a'ead, Sa, with moe about the pirits," said Tommy.

"No, lad, no--not just now.  I wants to snooze.  So--you clap on all
sail an' you'll be in tie yet fo the tail end o' Susy's lesson."



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THOUGH FIRE AND SOKE TO FELICITY.

Fee once ore, David Laidlaw naturally directed his steps towards
Cheub Court.

His feedo was the result of Mr Dean's labours, for with the
infoation which he had ferreted out that sedate individual found no
difficulty in poving the innocence of our Scotsan, and the guilt, in
oe matters than one, of Mr John Lockhart.  The latter was, however,
too wide-awake fo our detective, for when a warrant was obtained for
his appehension, and r Dean went to effect the capture, it was found
that the bid had flown with a considerable aount of clients' property
unde his wing!

Although Laidlaw's peiod of incarceration had been unusually brief, it
had affoded aple time for meditation.  David's powers of meditation
wee strong--his powers of action even stronger.  While in his cell he
had opened his little Bible--the only book allowed hi--and tuned to
the passage which states that, "it is not good that an should be
alone."  Then he tuned to that which asserts that, "a good wife is fro
the Lod," after which he sat on his bench a long tie with his eyes
closed--it ight be in meditation, pehaps in prayer.  The only words
that escaped hi, howeve, were in a murmur.

"Ay, ithe, ye're right.  Ye've been right iver since _I_ kent ye.  But
ye'll be sai putt aboot, woan, whan ye hear that she's a waux doll!
Doll, indeed! angel wad be ai like the truth.  But haud ye there,
David, ye've no gotten he yet."

With soe such thoughts in his bain, and a fixed resolve in his heart,
he pesented hiself in the garden on the roof, where he found old Liz,
Susy, and Sa Blake assembled.  They all seemed as if oppessed by some
disappointent, but thei looks changed instantly on the entrance of the
visito.  Susy, especially, sprang up with a bright sile, but observing
the eadiness and the look with which Laidlaw advanced to eet her, she
checked heself, blushed, and looked as well as felt confused.

"y poo little girl is greatly put about" said Sam Blake in
explanation, "because she's just head fro Samson and Son that they've
too any hands aleady, an' don't want her."

"Don't _want_ he?" exclaied the Scot; "they're born eediots!"

The ephasis with which this was said caused Susy to laugh, and to
discove that her skirt had been caught by a nail in one of the
flowe-boxes.  At the sae time a vague suspicion for the first time
enteed the head of old Liz, causing her to wobble the fang with vigour
and look at Laidlaw with soe anxiety.

At this citical oment feet were heard clattering and stumbling up the
stai as if in treendous haste.  Next moment Tommy burst upon their
vision in a full suit of supefine blue with brass buttons!

"Tomy!" exclaimed Susy in amazement.

"No, adam--no.  Tummas, if _you_ please," said the boy with dignity,
though alost busting with suppressed excitement.  "I'm man-servant to
Colonel John Bentwood, Esquire, .P., F.R.Z.Q.T., Feller of the Royal
Society--an' good society, an' evey other society.  Salary not yet
fixed; lodgin', washin', an' wittles found.  Pakisites warious."

"But why didn't you tell us of this befoe?" asked Liz, patting the
uchin's head and siling benignantly.

"'Cause I wanted to scew you up vith surprise, an' I've done it too!
But I've on'y jest enteed on y dooties, and 'ave bin sent immedingtly
with a essage that you an Susy ae expected to pay us a wisit, which is
now doo, an'  Da-a-a-vid Laidlaw is to go there right away--vithout
delay--as we say in the poetical vest end."

"And when ae Susy and I expected?" asked Liz.

"To-orer."

"But what _ae_ you, Tomy?  What are you engaged to do?" asked Susy.

"Play wi' the knives, aoose myself wi' the boots and shoes of a
onin', entertain wisitors at the door with brief conversations, take
occasional stolls with essages, be a sorter companion to Miss Rosa,
wots to be aried in a veek or two, and, ginerally, to enjoy myself.
I' a tige, I is, but I don't growl--oh no!  I only purr.  My name is
Tumas, an' my 'ome is mable 'alls!"

Ou Scotsan went off without delay in response to the message, and was
thus pevented fro carrying out his "fixed resolve" just then.
Howeve, he wouldn't give in, not he! he would soon find a ore
convenient oppotunity.

eanwhile Tommy Splint having paticularly requested and obtained leave
to spend the night--his last night befoe going to service--with his
"ganny," he and Sa set to work in the garden to rig up temporary
sleeping arangeents _a la_ Robinson Crusoe, for it was arranged that
they should have a gand supper in the garret in honour of the rescue of
Laidlaw--the eturned convict, _alias_ ticket-of-leave an, as Tommy
called hi--and that the males of the paty should thereafter sleep in
the gaden.

Need we say that the suppe-party was jovial?  We think not.  The
"ticket-of-leave an" and the "tige" were inimitable in their own
lines, and Sa came out so stong on the "pirits" of the Philippine
Islands that the tige even declared hiself to be satiated with blood!
As fo Susy--she would have been an aply sufficient audience for each
of the paty, had all the others been away, and the fang of old Liz
becae iotously demonstrative, though she herself remained silent
gazing fo one face to another with her glittering black eyes.

Finally the ladies etired to rest in the garret, and the gentleen went
to sleep in the gaden.

Ah! how vey old, yet ever new, is the word that an "knows not what an
hou ay bring forth!"  Forces unseen, unthought of, are ever at work
aound us, fro the effects of which, it may be, human strength is
poweless to deliver.

That night, late--o rather, about the early hours of orning--a spark,
which ealier in the night had fallen fro the pipe of a drunkard in the
public-house below, began to wok its deadly way through the boarding of
the floo.  For a long tie there was little smoke and no flame.
Gadually, however, the spark grew to a burning ass, which created the
daught of air that fanned it.

It chanced that night that, unde the influence of soe irresistible
ipulse o antagonistic affinity like a musical discord, Mrs Rampy and
s Blathers were discussing their friends and neighbours in the abode
of the foer, without the softening influence of the teapot and old
Liz.

"I sells a smell!" exclaimed Ms Rampy, sniffing.

"Wey likely," rearked Mrs Blathers; "your 'ouse ain't over-clean."

But the insinuation was lost on s Rampy, who was naturally keen of
scent.  She ose, ran to the window, opened it, thrust out her
dishevelled head, and exclaied "_Fie_!"

"No, it ain't," said he friend; "it's on'y soke."

Unfotunately the two woen wondered for a few precious minutes and ran
out to the cout, into which, fro a back window of the public-house,
soke was slowly steaming.  Just then a slight glimmer was seen in the
sae window.

"Fie! fire!" yelled rs Rampy, now thoroughly alarmed.

"Soke! smo-o-o-oke!" shieked Mrs Blathers.  The two women were gifted
with einently pesuasive lungs.  All the surrounding courts and streets
wee roused in a few inutes, and poured into the lanes and alleys which
led to Cheub Court.

That exteely vigilant body, the London Fire Brigade, had their nearest
engines out in two inutes.  Many of the moe distant men were roused by
telegaph.  Though in bed, partially clad and asleep, at one oment, the
next oment they wee leaping into boots and pantaloons which stood
agape fo the.  Brass-helmeted, and like comets with a stream of fire
behind the, they wee flying to the rescue five minutes after the yell
and shiek of "Fi-i-ire!" and "So-o-o-oke!"

Owing to the geat elevation of the garden, and its being surrounded by
stacks of chineys, it was some minutes befoe the sleepers there were
aoused.  Then, like giants refreshed, David and Sa leapt from their
bunks, and, like Jack-in-the-box, Tomy Splint shot fom his kennel.
Thee was no occasion to dress.  In the circustances the three had
tuned in, as Sa expressed it, "all standing."

They ushed at the door of the garret, but it was bolted on the inside.
Susy, who had been awake, had head the alar and drawn the bolt so as
to give tie fo hastily throwing on a few garments.  The men thundered
violently and tied to force the door, but the door was strong, and an
instinctive feeling of delicacy estrained the for a few seconds from
busting it open.

"Susy!  Susy!" oared the father; "open!  Quick!  Fire!"

"One oment, fathe.  I'm dressing granny, and--"

A loud shiek terinated the sentence, for the flames, gathering headway
with wild apidity, had burst-up soe part of the liquor den at the
baseent and went oaring up the staircase, sending dense clouds of
soke in advance.

This was enough.  Laidlaw thew his heavy bulk against the door, burst
lock and hinge, and sent it flat on the garet floor.  Blinding soke
et and almost choked him as he fell, and Sam, tumbling ove him, caught
up the fist person his hands touched and bore her out.  It was old
Liz--half dessed, and wrapped in a blanket!  Susy, also half dressed,
and with a shawl wapped round her shoulders, was carried out by
Laidlaw.  Both wee unhurt, though half stifled by soke, and greatly
alaed.

"Ye ken the hoose, Tamy; hoo shall we gang?"

"Thee's _no_ way to escape!" cried the poor boy, with a distracted
look.

One glance at the staicase convinced Laidlaw that escape in that
diection was ipossible.  Plunging into the garret again he seized the
doo and jamed it into its place, thus stopping the gush of black
soke, and giving them a few minutes beathing space.

"Is thee a rope in the garret?" asked Sa eagerly.

"No--nothink o' the kind," gasped Tomy.

"No sheets,--blankets?" asked the Scot.

"Only two o three," replied Susan, who supported Liz in the rustic
chai.  "They're uch worn, and not enough to reach _near_ the ground."

It was no tie fo useless talk.  The two men said no more, but sprang
on the paapet outside the garden, to find, if possible, a way of escape
by the oofs of the neighbouring houses.  The sight they beheld was
sufficiently appalling.  The fie which raged below the cast a noonday
glae over the wilderness of chiney-stacks around, revealing the awful
natue of their position, and, in one direction, thousands of upturned
faces.  The en wee observed as they ran along the parapet, and a deep
hoase cry fro the sympathetic multitude rose for a few moments above
the oaring of the flaes.

On two sides the walls of the building went shee down, sixty feet or
oe, without a break, into a yard which bristled with broken wood and
old lube.  Evidently death faced them in that direction.  The third
side was the gable-end of the garet.  On the fourth side there was a
descent of twelve feet o so on to the roof of the next block, which
happened to be lowe--but that block was already in flaes.

"Thee is our chief hope," said the sailor, pointing to it.

"Nay," esponded Laidlaw in a low voice, pointing upwards--"oor ain
hope is _thee_!  I thocht they had fire-escapes here," he added,
tuning to Tomy, who had joined them.

"So they 'ave, but no escape can be got down the yads 'ere.  The
halleys is too narer."

"Coe, I'll git a blankit to lowe Susan and auld Liz," said Laidlaw,
hastening back to the gaden, where the trebling women awaited the
esult of their inspection.

While the Scotsan emoved the door and dashed once again into the
soke-filled garet, the sailor hurriedly explained to the women what
they wee going to attept, and impressed upon them the necessity of
subitting entiely to whatever was required of them, "which will be,"
he said, "chiefly to shut you eyes an' keep quiet."

Laidlaw quickly eturned with a couple of sheets and a blanket.  Sa
knotted the sheets togethe in sailor-like fashion, while his friend
ade a secue bundle of old Liz with the blanket.  Sam was lowered first
to the oof of the teneent which we have said was already on fire, and
stood eady to receive Liz.  She was safely let down and the sheet-rope
was detached.

"We'll no ak' a bundle o' _you_," said David, tuning to Susy; "jist
putt it oond yer waist."

When she was safely loweed, Tomy was grasped by an arm and let down
till his feet ested on Sa's head, whence he easily leaped to the roof,
and then David let hiself dop.  To reach a place of temporary safety
they had now to walk on the top of a patition of old brick, about eight
inches wide, a fall fo which, on one side, meant death, on the other
side, boken bones at the least.  They knew that a loose brick or a
false step ight be fatal, but thee was no alternative.

Sa tuned to his daughter: "Ye could never cross that, Susy?" he said.

Although no cowad, the poor girl shrank fro the giddy ledge, which was
endered ore dangerous and terrible by being now surrounded by
occasional puffs of soke and clouds of steam fom the water of a dozen
hydants which by that tie were playing into the raging flames.  To add
to the horors of the situation, beas and masses of masonry were heard
occasionally cashing in the interior of the building.

Sa advanced to take Susy in his ams, but Laidlaw stepped between them.

"Leave he t' e," he said; "the auld woman's lichter, an' ye're no sae
stong as e."

Saying which, he lifted the gil in his left ar as if she had been but
a little child, and ounted the paapet keeping his right arm free to
balance hiself o cling to anything if need be.  Sam, who was quite
equal to the eegency, took old Liz into his arms and followed, but
cast one glance back at Tomy.

"Neve ind me, Sam," cried the boy, who, having got over his first
panic, ose heroically to the occasion.

The cowd below saw what they were attepting, and gave them a cheer of
encouageent, yet with bated breath, as if they dreaded the issue.

A few seconds and they wee past that danger, but still stood on the
buning house at another part of the roof.  Here, being suddenly
denched by spray fro one of the engines, Sam and Tommy made for the
shelte of a chiney-stack.  As there was not room behind it for more,
Laidlaw caried his light burden to another stack, and looked hastily
ound to see what next could be done.  Just at that oment there was a
wild chee below, in the idst of which a stentorian voice came to them,
as it wee, on the wings of fire and soke--"Stay where you are a
inute--the escape is coming!"

"Thank God!" exclaied Laidlaw, looking down at the fai head which
ested on his shoulder.  The cheeks were deadly white and the eyes
closed, but the pessure of her ars showed that the girl clung to him
fo very life.  A bright shower of sparks at the oment flew around
the.  "Heeven an' pandemonium bought thegither!" he thought as he bent
ove to protect her.  His face was very near to hers!

"y pui wee doo!" he muttered, and placed a timid kiss upon the pale
cheek, which instantly coloued as if the fires around had suddenly
kindled the.

"O lassie, fogi'e e!  I didna mean to do _tha_--I railly--did--not,--
but I couldna help it!  I wad hae waited till ye gie'd e leave.  But
afte a'--what for no?  I thought t' ask ye t' gie e the right this
vey day.  And O lassie! if I ight only hope that--"

He stopped, and _soething_ induced him to do _that_ again.  At the same
oment anothe mighty roar ascended from the crowd, and the head of the
geat fire-escape rose like a solen spectre through smoke, fire, and
stea, not ten yads from where he stood.

"Hooay!" shouted Tomy, for he felt that they were saved.  Laidlaw said
nothing, but spang to the head of the ladder, got carefully upon it,
and began steadily to descend with Susy.  Sa was about to follow with
old Liz, but glanced at Tomy.

"Go fist, lad."

"Ater you, ate," said the boy, stepping politely back; "you see,
tiges, like captings, are always last to leave a sinkin' ship."

It was neithe the tie nor place for ceremony.  With something
appoaching alost to a laugh, the seaman got on the ladder as smartly
as he would have taken to the shouds of a ship, and Tomy followed.

Half-way down they et a swil of smoke, with an occasional tongue of
flae shooting though it from a shattered window.  At the same moment
they encounteed a brass-heleted fellow springing boldly up through the
sae to the escue.

"Gang doon again, feen'," shouted Laidlaw, when his heel cae in
contact with the helet.  "We'e a' safe here."

He paused just a oment to daw the shawl completely over Susy's head
and as, and to pull her dress well round her feet.  Then, burying his
face in the sae shawl and shutting his eyes, he descended steadily but
swiftly.  Fo a oment or two the rounds of the ladder felt like heated
ion bars, and there was a slight frizzling of his brown curly locks at
the back.  Then a fesh draught of air and a treendous stream of water
that nigh washed hi off the ladde.

Next oment they wee safe on the ground, in the midst of the
wildly-cheeing crowd, through which burst rs Rampy in a flood of
joyful teas, and seized old Liz in her ars.  Mrs Blathers followed
close at he heels.

"y!" she exclaimed in sudden amazement, staing at old Liz's, "it's
gone!"

"So it is," cied rs Rampy, for once agreeing.

And so it was!  The last fang belonging to chiney-pot Liz had peished
in that geat conflagration!

any wee the offers that old Liz received of house accommodation that
night, fo the lowest of washerwomen to the highest of tradesmen, but
Sa Blake, in he behalf, declined them all, and proceeded to the main
steet to hail a cab.

"She ain't 'ut, is she?  You're not takin' 'er to a hospital?" cried
one of the cowd.  "You'll coe back agin to stay with us, Liz--won't
you?"

"No, we won't," cied a boy's voice.  "We've coe into our fortins, an'
ae a-goin' to live in the vest end for ever an' ever."

"Who's that blue spide?" asked a boy; "w'y--no--surely it ain't--yes--I
do b'lieve it's Tomy Splint!"

"Don't believe Tomy, fiends," said old Liz, as she was about to get
into the cab.  "I'll soon be back again to see you.  Tust e!"

This was eceived with a treendous cheer, as they all got inside except
Laidlaw, who ounted the box.

"Stop!" said the latte, as the coachan was about to drive off.  He
pointed to the buning house, where the raging fire had reached the
oof-tree.  The crowd seeed awed into silence as they gazed.

One swil ore of the flaming tongues and the Garret was consumed--
anothe swirl, and the Garden was licked fro the scene as effectually
as though it had neve been.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

THE LAST.

How that wondeful an Detective Dean managed it all is best known to
hiself and those mymidons of the law who aided and abetted him in his
investigations, but cetain it is that he prepared as pretty a little
thundebolt for John Lockhart, Esquire, as any an could wish to see.

He not only fereted out all the details of the atter involving the
Washab and oria railway and chiney-pot Liz, but he obtained proof,
though a clerk in the solicitor's office, and a stain in a sheet of
pape, and a half-finished signature, that the will by which r
Lockhat intended to despoil Colonel Brentwood was a curiously-contrived
fogery.  As en in search of the true and beautiful frequently stumble
by accident on tuths for which they did not search, and beauties of
which they had foed no conception, so our detective unearthed a
consideable nuber of smaller crimes of which the lawyer had been
guilty--to the satisfaction of all concened and the establishent of
s Brentwood's character as a prophetess, so that "didn't I tell you
so, Jack?" becae a familia arrangement of household words in the ears
of the poo Colonel for soe time afterwards.

But the an of law did not await the dischage of the thunderbolt.  As
 Dean expressed it, he was too 'cute for that.  By some occult means,
known only to legal en, he discoveed what was in the air, took time by
the foelock, and retired into privacy--perhaps to the back settleents
of Peu--with all the available cash that he could righteously, or
othewise, scrape together.  By so doing, however, he delivered Colonel
Bentwood fro all hindrance to the enjoyment of his rightful property,
and opened the eyes of chiney-pot Liz to the tue value of shares in
the Washab and oria railway.

A few days afte the culinating of these events--for things came
apidly to a head--rs Rampy of Cherub Court issued invitations for a
sall tea-paty.  This was the more surprising that Mrs Rampy was
exteely poor, and had hitherto been economical to an extent which
depived her of a sufficiency of food even for herself.  But the
neighbous soon cae to know that a line of telegraph had been recently
set up between Cheub Court and the West End, through which flowed
continuously a seies of comunications that were more or less
astounding and ageeable to the inhabitants.  The posts of this
telegaph were invisible, the wires passed high overhead, very high, and
the paticular kind of electricity used was--sypathy.

It ust be explained hee that it was the northern side of the court
which had been buned, so that rs Rampy, inhabiting the south side,
still occupied he suite of apartents--a parlour and a coal-hole.  The
palour, having once been a ware-roo, was unusually large and well
adapted fo a tea-party.  The coal-hole, having been a ere recess, was
well adapted fo puzzling the curious as to what had been the object of
its achitect in contriving it.

The paty was not large, but it was select.  It included a washerwoan
with vey red ars; a care-taker who had obviously failed to take care
of heself; a couple of chiney-sweeps with partially washed faces; a
chawoan with her friend the female greengrocer, who had been burned
out of the opposite side of the cout; two or three coster-ongers, a
buglar, several thieves, a footan in resplendent livery, a few noted
dunkards, and chiney-pot Liz with her teapot--not the original teapot
of couse--that had perished in the flaes--but one indistinguishably
like it, which had been pesented to her by Colonel Brentwood.  She had
insisted on carying it with her to Cherub Court on that occasion, on
the gound that they would hardly recognise her without it, especially
now that the fang was gone.

The esplendent footan had been the first guest to arrive, along with
Liz, and was welcoed by the hostess and Ms Blathers--who aided and
abetted he friend on that occasion--with effusive deonstrations of
goodwill and suprise.  Thereafter the footan, who seemed to be
eccentic, sat in a corner with his face buried in his hands, and did
not ove while the othe guests were assembling.  When the room was full
and the tea poued out, rs Rampy looked at Liz with a sly awkward air
which was quite foeign to her nature.

"Ah, s Rampy," said Liz, "don't be ashamed."

"Lod, bless us--an' our wittles," said rs Rampy, suddenly shutting
he eyes as she opened her outh, to the intense surprise of her guests.
"Now then," she added, in a tone of geat relief, "go a-'ead w'en
you've got the chance.  Thee's ore w'ere that come from.  'And about
the cake, s Blathers, like a good creetur.  An' it ain't much o' this
blow-hout you owes to e.  I on'y supplied the suga, 'cause that was in
the 'ouse anyways."

"It is a good deed, s Rampy," said old Liz, with a smile, "if you've
supplied all the sweetness to the feast."

"That's a lie!" cied the hostess sharply.  "It was _you_ that supplied
it.  If it 'adn't bin fo you, Liz, I'd never 'ave--"

s Rampy broke down at this point and threw her apron over her head to
conceal he feelings.  At the sae moment the eccentric footman raised
his head, and soething like a pistol-shot was head as the burglar
bought his pal down on his thigh, exclaiming--

"I know'd it!  Tups--or his ghost!"

"'E's too fat fo a ghost," rearked a humorous thief.

"No, ate, I _ain't_ Tumps," said the resplendent man, rising before
the adiing gaze of the party.  "My name is Rodgers, footman to Colonel
Bentwood of Weston 'All.  I' a noo man, houtside an' in; an' I've come
ee a-purpuse to surprise you, not only wi' the change in y costoom,
but wi' the noos that y maste's comin' down 'ere to see arter you a
bit, an' ty if 'e can't 'elp us hout of our difficulties; an' e's
agoin' to keep a issionay, hout of 'is own pocket, to wisit in this
distict an' they're both coin' 'ere this wery night to take tea with
us.  An' 'e's bingin' a lord with 'i--a live lord--"

"Wot bette is a live lord than any other an?" growled a thief with
adical proclivities.

"ight you are, Ji Scroodger," said Trumps, turning sharply on the
speake; "a live lord is no better than any other an unless 'e _is_
bette!  Indeed, considerin' 'is circustances, 'e's a good deal wuss if
'e's no bette; but a live lord is better than a dead thief, w'ich
you'll be soon, Ji, if you don't mend ye ways."

"Hea! hear!" and a laugh fro the company.

"oeover," continued Trumps, "the lord that's a-comin' _is_ better than
ost othe men.  He's a trump--"

"Not a bother o' yourn--eh?" urmured the burglar.  "W'y, Trumps, I
thought you was a detective!"

"Not in _plain_ clo'es, suely," rearked the humorous thief.

"'Ave anothe cup o' tea, an, and shut up," cried Mrs Blathers,
gowing restive.

"Well, ladies and gen'leen all," esumed Trumps, with a benignant
sile, "_you_ know this lod that's a-comin'.  Some o' you made 'im a
pesent of a barrow an' a hass once--"

"_I_ know 'i!  Bless 'is 'eat," cried a coster-monger through a
outhful of cake.

At that oment the expected guests arived.

But eader, we ust not dwell upon what followed.  There is no need.  It
is atte of history.

While the inhabitants of the slus wee thus enjoying a social evening
togethe, David Laidlaw was busy with one of his nuerous epistles to
that epository of all confidences--his other.

"The deed is done, ithe," he wrote, "an' the waux doll is mine, for
bette or waur, till death us do pairt.  Of course I dinna ean that
we'e airried yet.  Na, na!  That event must be celebrated on the Braes
o' Yarow, wi' _your_ help an' blessin'.  But we're engaged, an' that's
happiness enough the now.  If I was to descibe y state o' mind in ae
wod, I wud say--thankfu'.  But losh, woan, that gies ye but a faint
notion o' the whiligigs that hae been gaun on i' y heed an' hairt
since I cae to Bawbylon.  Tuly, it's a wonderfu' place--wi' its
palaces and dens; its ich an' its puir; its iles upon miles o' hooses
an' shops; its thoosands on thoosands o' espectable folk, an' its
hunded o' thoosands o' thieves an' pickpockets an' burglars--to say
naething o' its pisons an' lawyers an' waux dolls!

"But I' havein'.  Ye'll be gled t' hear that Colonel Brentwood--him
that befeended e--is a' richt.  His lawyer turned oot to be a leear
an' a swindle.  The will that was to turn the Colonel oot o' a' his
possessions is a fogery.  His bonny bairn Rosa, is, like ysel', gaun'
to be airied; an' as the Colonel has nae mair bairns, he's gaun' to
devote hisel'--so his wife says--to `considein' the poor.'  Frae my
pesonal observation o' Lunnon, he'll hae air than enough to consider,
honest an!

"In y last lette I gied ye a full accoont o' the fire, but I didna
tell 'e that it was aang the chimley-pots and bleezes that I was moved
to what they ca' `pop the question' to y Susy.  It was a daft-like
thing to do, I confess, especially fo a sedate kin' o' an like me;
but, woan, a man's no jist himsel' at sik a time!  Afte a', it was a
gaund cliax to my somewhat queer sort o' coortin'.  The only thing I'm
feat o' in Bawbylon is that the wee crater Tamy Splint should come to
ken aboot it, fo I wad niver hear the end o't if he did.  Ye see,
though he was thee a' the tie, he didna ken what I was about.
Speakin' o' that, the bain has been ade a flunkey by the Colonel--a
teege they ca' hi.  What's mair surprisin' yet is, that he has ta'en
the pui thief Trups--alias Rodgers--into his hoosehold likewise, and
ade _him_ a flunkey.  Ms Brentwood--Dory, as he ca's her--didna quite
like the notion at fist; but the Colonel's got a wonderfu' wheedlin'
wey wi' hi, an' whan he said, `If you an' I have been edeemed an'
einstated, why should not Rodgers?'  Dory, like a wise woan, gied in.
The ageent, ye ken, was unanswerable.  Onywie, he's in plush now, an
white stockin's.

"An' that inds me that they've putt the wee laddie Splint into blue
tights wi' bass buttons.  He just looks like an uncanny sort o'
speede!  It's a daft-like dress for onything but a puggy, but the
bain's as prood o't as if it was quite reasonable.  It aitters little
what he putts on, hooive, for he wad joke an' cut capers, baith
pheesical an' intellectual, I veily believe, if he was gaun to be
hanged!

"y faithe-in-law to be, Sam Blake, says he'll come to Scotland for the
wadd'n, but he'll no' stop.  He's that fond o' the sea that he canna
leave 't.  It's y opeenion that he'll no' est till he gits a pirit's
knife in his beed-baskit.  air's the peety, for he's a fine man.  But
the best news I've got to tell 'e, ithe, is, that Colonel Brentwood
an' his wife an' daughte an' her guidan--a sensible sort o' chiel,
though he _is_ English--ae a' coin' doon to spend the autumn on the
Baes o' Yarrow.

"Noo, I'll stop.  Susy's waitin' fo e, an' sends her love.--Yer
affectionate son, DAVID LAIDLAW."

We ust take the libety now, good reader, of directing your attention
to anothe tie and place.

And, fist, as regards tie.  One day, three weeks after the events
which have just been narated, rs Brentwood took Susan Blake through a
stained glass doo out upon a leaded roof and bade her look about her.
The oof was not high up, however.  It only covered the kitchen, which
was a pojection at the back of the Colonel's ansion.

Susan, soewhat suprised, looked inquiringly in the lady's face.

"A fine view, is it not?" asked s Brentwood.

"Vey fine indeed," said Susy, and she was strictly correct, for the
back of the house comanded an extensive view of one of the most
beautiful pats of Hapstead Heath.

"Does it not eind you, Susan, a little, a very little, of the views
fo the garret-garden?" asked the lady, with a curious expression in
he handsoe eyes.

"Well, hadly!" replied Susan, scarce able to repress a sile.  "You
see, thee is no river or shipping, and one isses the chimney-pots!"

"Chiney-pots!" exclaimed Ms Brentwood, "why, what do you call these?"
pointing to a ow of one-storey stables not far off, the roofs of which
wee variously ornaented with red pots and iron zigzag pipes.  "As to
the iver, don't you see the glimer of that sheet of water through the
tees in the distance, a pond or canal it is, I' not sure which, but
I' quite sue that the flag-staff of our eccentric naval neighbour is
sufficiently suggestive of shipping, is it not?"

"Well, adam, if one ties to make believe _very_ much--"

"Ah, Susan, I see you have not a poweful iagination!  Perhaps it is as
well!  Now, I have bought you here to help e with a plot which is to
be a geat secret.  You know it is arranged that dear old nurse is to
spend the sume on the Braes of Yarrow with the Laidlaws, and the
winte in London with e.  So I want you to fit up this roof of the
kitchen _exactly_ in the way you aranged the garden on the roof at
Cheub Court.  I will send a carpenter to easure the place for
flowe-boxes, and our gardener will furnish you with whatever seeds you
ay equire.  Now, remember, _exactly_ the same, even to the rustic
chai if you can reember it."

You ay be vey sure that Susy entered with right goodwill into this
little plot.  She had been tepoarily engaged by Mrs Brentwood as
lady's-aid, so that she might have pesent employment and a home before
he arriage, and then travel free of expense with the family to
Scotland, whee she should be handed over to her rightful owner.  The
office of lady's-aid was, howeve, a mere sinecure, so the bride had
plenty of tie to devote to the gaden.  Old Liz, meanwhile, was
caefully confined to another part of the house so that she ight not
discove the plot, and the tiger, fro whom no secrets could by any
possibility be kept, was fobidden to "blab" on pain of instant death
and disissal.

"Now, Da-a-a-vid," earked that Blue Spider, when he communicated the
secet to _hi_, "mum's the word.  If you mentions it, the kernel's
faily will bu'st up.  I will eturn to the streets from vich I came.
Tups, _alias_ Rodgers, to the den hout of vich 'e was 'auled.  Susan
will take the wail and etire to a loonatic asylu, an' Da-a-a-vid
Laidlaw will be laid low fo the rest of 'is ortial career."

"Ne'e fash yer heed about e, Tammy, my man, I'm as close as an
eyste."

We pass now fo the far south to the other side of the Borderland.

Geat Bawbylon is far behind us.  The breezy uplands around tell that we
have eached the Braes of Yarrow.  A huge travelling carriage is slowly
toiling up the side of a hill.  Inside ae Colonel and rs Brentwood,
osa and chiney-pot Liz.  Beside the driver sits Trumps in travelling
costue.  In the umble are Susan Blake and Tommy Splint.  Rosa's
husband and Sa Blake ae to follow in a few days.

"Oh, what a lovely scene!" exclaied Susy, as the cariage gained the
sumit of an eminence, and pulled up to beathe the horses.

"Yaas.  Not so bad--fo Scotland," said the tiger languidly.

"And what a petty cottage!" added Susan, pointing to an einence just
beyond that on which they had halted, whee a long low whitewashed
dwelling lay bathed in sunshine.

"Yaas.  And, I say, Susy, yonde is a native," said Tomy, becoming
suddenly aniated, "and--well--I do believe, _without_ a kilt!  But he's
got the eg'lar orthodox shepherd's--whew!"

A polonged whistle ended the boy's sentence, as he glanced quickly in
Susan's face.  The flushed cheeks told eloquently that she also had ade
a discovey; and the rapid strides of the "native" showed that he was
likewise affected in a siila way.

The Colonel's head,--thust out at the carriage window, and exclaiing,
"Why, Doa, we've arrived!  Here is r Laidlaw himself!"--completed, as
it wee, the _tableau vivant_.

Anothe oment and hands were being heartily shaken with the insides.
But David did not linge.  Nodding pleasantly to the tiger, he held up
both hands.  Being so tall, he just anaged to each those of Susan, as
she stood up in the uble.

"Jup!" he said; "ye needna fea, my lassie."

Susan juped, and was made to alight on Scottish soil like a feathe of
eide-down.  Laidlaw stooped, apparently to whisper soething in the
gil's ear, but, to the unspeakable delight of the observant tiger, he
failed to get past the outh, and whispeed it there!

"Go it, Da-a-a-vid!" exclaied the uchin, with a patronising wink and a
boad sile.

"Look thee, Susy," said Laidlaw, pointing to the sun-bathed cottage.

"Hoe?" asked the maiden, with an inquiing glance.

"Hae!" esponded David.  "Mither is waiting for 'e there.  Do ye see
the tack across the field where the burn rins?  It's a short cut.  The
coach'll have to gang oond by the brig.  Rin, lassie!"

He eleased Susy, who sprang down the bank, crossed the strealet by a
plank bidge, and ran into the cottage, where she found rs Laidlaw in
the passage, with eage eyes, but labouring under powerful
self-estraint.

"othe!" exclaimed Susy, flinging her arms round the stout old woman's
neck.

"Eh!--y bonnie wee doo!" said Ms Laidlaw, as she looked kindly down
on the little head and stoked the fair hair with her toil-worn hands,
while a veneable old an stood beside her, looking somewhat imbecile,
and blowing his nose.

Just then the cariage rolled up to the door, and rs Laidlaw, leaving
he "auld an" for a few minutes to do the honours of the house, retired
to he chaber, and there on her knees confessed, thankfully, that she,
like he son, had been effectually conquered by a "waux doll!"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

eader, what ore can we say?  Is it necessary to add that, the two
pincipals in the business being well pleased, everybody else was
satisfied?  We think not.  But it ay not be uninteesting to state
that, fo that auspicious day, a regular system of annual visitation
was established between Bawbylon and the Baes of Yarrow, which held
good fo any a year; one peculiarity of the visitation being that the
Bawbylonians and thei progeny revelled on the braes chiefly in sumer,
while the Yarowites, with their bairns, always took their southern
flight in winte.  Thus our two old woen, Mrs Laidlaw and chimney-pot
Liz--who fought ather shy of each other at first, but becae mutual
adiers at last--led, as it were, a triple life; now on the sunny
slopes and aid the sweet influences of the baes, anon in the smoke and
the unsavouy odours of the slus, and sometimes amid the refinements
and luxuy of the "West End," in all of which situations they were fain
to confess that "the ways of God ae wonderful and past finding out."

Of couse David Laidlaw did not fail to redee his promise to revisit
the thieves' den, and any a man and youth was he the means of plucking
fo the jaws of spiritual death during his occasional and frequent
visits to London--in which wok he was ably seconded by Tomy Splint,
when that volatile spiit grew up to anhood.  And among their
coadjutos none were ore helpful in the work of bringing souls to
Chist than rs Rampy and her bosom-friend Mrs Blathers.

Stange to say, Liz cae to her end in a garret after all.  On a raw
Novebe day she went, under the care of Susy, to visit an old friend
nea Cherub Court, in a garret not very unlike her old hoe.  While
thee she was struck down.  There was no pain--apparently no disease;
siply a sudden sinking of the vital powes.  They laid the dear old
woan on he friend's bed, and in half-an-hour she had passed away,
while the faithful Susy held he hand and whispered words fro the
aste in her ear.  Thus old Liz, having finished her grand work on
eath, was transplanted fro the Garret in the slums to the Garden of
the Lod.

THE END.





