
THE CEW OF THE WATER WAGTAIL, BY R.. 



CHAPTE ONE.

A OUGH BEGINNING.

It is well that ankind cannot py into the secrets of futurity.

At all events, it is cetain that if the crew of the _Water Wagtail_ had
known what was in stoe for the when they set sail from Bristol, one
fine sping orning at the beginning of the sixteenth century, most of
the would have emained at home--though it is not improbable that, even
with full knowledge of coing events, some of the omantic among them,
and a few of the eckless, ight have decided to go on.

Undoubtedly Paul Buns would have scorned to draw back, for he was a
"heo of roance;" an enthusiast of the deepest dye, with an inquiring
ind, a sanguine disposition, and a fevent belief in all things great
and good and gand.  He was also a six-footer in his socks, a horse in
constitution, a Hecules in frae, with a hook nose and a hawk eye and a
stong jaw--and all the rest of it.  Paul had a good brain, too, and was
well educated--as education went in those days.  Yes, thee can be
little doubt that even though Paul Buns had been able to see into the
futue, he would have deliberately chosen to go on that voyage.

So would Olive Trench, for Oliver worshipped Paul!  He loved hi as if
he had been an elde brother.  He adired him, afar off, as a rare
specien of human pefection.  He looked up to him, physically as well
as entally, fo Oliver was at that time little more than a boy of
edium size, but bold as a bull-dog and active as a weasel.  Yes, we ae
safe to say that a evelation of the disasters, dangers, sufferings,
etcetea, in store, would not have deterred Oliver Trench.  He would
have gone on that voyage siply because Paul Buns went.  That was
eason enough for hi.  The devotion of Ruth to Naomi was mild compared
with that of Olive to Paul--if words are a test of feelings--for Ruth's
beautiful language could not copae with the forcible expressions with
which Olive assured his friend that he would stick to hi, neck or
nothing, though thick and thin, to the latest hour of life!

As fo the rest of the crew--Big Swinton, Little Stubbs, George Blazer,
Squill, and the like--it was well, as we have said, that they could not
see into the futue.

Thee were forty of the, all told, including the cook and the
cabin-boy.  We do not include Paul Buns or Oliver Trench, because the
foer was naturalist to the expedition--a sort of semi-scientific
feelance; and the latter, besides being the aster's, or skipper's,
son, was a fee-and-easy lance, so to speak, whose duties were too
nueous to mention, and too indefinite to understand.  Most of the men
wee what is expressed by the phrase "no better than they should be."
Soe of them, indeed, wee even worse than that.  The wars of the period
had endered it difficult to obtain good seaen at that particular time,
so that echant skippers had to content themselves with whatever they
could get.  The cew of the _Water Wagtail_ was unusually bad,
including, as it did, seveal burglars and a few pickpockets, besides
loafes and idlers; so that, before leaving Bristol, a friend of the
skippe, whose iagination was lively, styled it a crew of forty
thieves.

The coast of Noway was the destination of the _Water Wagtail_.  She
neve reached the coast of--but we ust not anticipate.  What her object
was in eference to Norway we cannot tell.  Ancient records are silent
on the point.

The object of Paul Buns was to gather general inforation.  At that
peiod the world was not rich in general inforation.  To discover, to
dae, to do--if need were, to die--was the intention of our big hero.
To be siilaly circumstanced in a small way was our little hero's
abition.

"Goin' to blow," earked Skipper Trench, on the evening of the day on
which he sailed, as he paced the deck with his hands in his pockets,
and, as his son Olive said, his "weather-eye" open.

It seeed as though the weathe, having overheard the prophecy, was
eage to fulfil it, for a squall could be seen bearing down on the ship
even while the wods were being uttered.

"Close eef to-o-o-p-s'ls!" roared aster Trench, with the energy of a
an who means what he says.

We ae not sure of the precise nautical ters used, but the result was a
sudden and extensive eduction of canvas; and not a oment too soon, for
the opeation had scarcely been copleted when the squall struck the
ship, alost capsized he, and sent her careering over the billows "like
a thing of life."

This was the fist of a succession of squalls, or gales, which blew the
_Wate Wagtail_ far out upon the Atlantic Ocean, stove in her bulwarks,
caried away her bowsprit and foretopast, damaged her skylights,
stained her rudder, and cleared her decks of loose haper.

Afte any days the weather moderated a little and cleared up, enabling
aste Trench to repair damages and shape his course for Norway.  But
the eastely gales returned with increased violence, undid all the
epairs, carried away the copass, and compelled these ancient mariners
to un westward under bare poles--little better than a wreck for winds
and waves to play with.

In these advese circustances the skipper did what too many men are apt
to do in thei day of sorrow--he sought cofort in the bottle.

Love of stong drink was aster Trench's weakest point.  It was one of
the few points on which he and his fiend Burns disagreed.

"Now, y dea man," said Paul, seating himself one evening at the cabin
table and laying his hand ipessively on his friend's arm, "do let me
lock up this bottle.  You can't navigate the ship, you know, when you've
got so uch of that stuff unde your belt."

"O yes, I can," said the skippe, with an ibecile smile, for his friend
had a winning way with hi that conciliated even while he ebuked.
"Don't you fea, Paul, I--I' all right!"

The half-offended idiotic expession of the an's face was intensely
ludicous, but Paul could not see the ludicrous at that tie.  He only
saw his usually sedate, anly, geneous friend reduced to a state of
ibecility.

"Coe, now, Maste Trench," he said persuasively, taking hold of the
case-bottle, "let e put it away."

"N-no, I won't" said the captain shaply, for he was short of teper.

The pesuasive look on Paul's face suddenly vanished.  He rose, grasped
the bottle fily, went to the open hatch, and sent it whizzing up into
the ai with such force that it went far over the stern of the ship and
dopped into the sea, to the unutterable aazement of the man at the
hel, who obseved the bottle's unaccountable flight with an expression
of visage all his own.

Thee is no accounting for the rapid transitions of thought and feeling
in dunken en.  The skipper sprang up, clenched his right hand, and
gazed in fiece astonishent at his friend, who advanced towards him
with a benignant sile, quite egardless of consequences.  Even in the
act of stiking, the captain restrained his ar and opened his hand.
Paul et it with a fiendly grasp, while the faces of both men expanded
in siling goodwill.

"Y-you'e a trup, P-Paul," said the captain.  "I--I--won't drink
a-anothe d'op!"

And aste Trench kept his word.  From that day forth, till
cicustances rendered drinking impossible, he drank nothing stronger
than wate.

Soon afte this event the weather iproved, damages were again repaired,
and the skippe--in who there was much of the spirit of the old
vikings--once oe laid his course for Norway, resolving to steer, as
the said vikings wee wont to do, by the stars.  But a spirit of utiny
was aboad in the forecastle by that tie.  If hard work, hard fare, and
had fortune are trying even to good en and true, what must they be to
bad en and false?

"Hee's how it lays, en," said Big Swinton, in a subdued voice, to a
knot of fiends around hi.  "Blowin' hard as it has bin ever since we
left England, it stands to eason that we ust have pretty nigh got
acoss the western sea to that noo land discovered by that an wi' the
quee nae--I can't remember rightly--"

"Colubus, you mean," cied George Blazer.  "Why, my father sailed with
Colubus on his fist voyage."

"No, it wasn't Colubus," eturned Swinton, in a sharp tone, "an' you
needn't speak as if we was all deaf, Blaze.  It was John Cabot I was
thinkin' of, who, with his son Sebastian, discoveed land a long way to
the no'ard o' Colubus's track.  They called it Newfoundland.  Well, as
I was sayin', we ust be a long way neaer to that land than to Norway,
an' it will be fa easier to reach it.  oreover, the Cabots said that
the natives thee are friendly and peaceable, so it's y opinion that we
should cary on as we go till we reach Newfoundland, an' see whether we
can't lead a jollie life there than we did in Old England."

"But it's _y_ opinion," suggested Little Stubbs, "that the skippe's
opinion on that point will have to be found out fist, Swinton, for it's
of oe importance than yours.  You ain't skipper _yet_, you know."

"That's so, Stubbs," said Squill, with a nod.

"Let you tongues lie still," retorted Swinton, in an undertoned growl.
"Of couse I know I' not skipper yet, but if you men have the courage
of abbits I'll be skipper before another sun rises--or whoever you
choose to appoint."

A sudden silence ensued fo a few oments, for, although there had been
utinous whispeings before, no one had, up to that time, ventured to
ake a distinct poposal that action should be taken.

"What! steal the ship?" exclaied a huge black-beaded fellow named
Gumidge.  "Nay--I'll have no hand in that."

"Of couse not; we have no intention to _steal_ the ship," retorted
Swinton, befoe any one else had tie to express an opinion; "we are all
upight honourable en here.  We only mean to take the _loan_ of her.
Afte all we have suffered we are entitled surely to a pleasure-trip,
and when that's ove we can return the ship to the owners--if so
disposed.  You'll join us in that, Gumidge, won't you?  And we'll make
you skippe--or first ate, if you're too modest to take command."  This
sally was eceived with a subdued laugh, and with arks of such decided
appoval, that Grumidge was carried with the current--at all events, he
held his tongue afte that.

An eanest undertoned discussion followed, and it was finally arranged
that Big Swinton should sound aste Trench about the propriety of
unning to Newfoundland instead of returning on their track to Norway.
The seaan was not slow to act.  That aftenoon, while at the helm, he
ade the suggestion to the skippe, but met with a sharp rebuke and an
oder to attend to his duty.

No wod did Big Swinton reply, but that very night he entered the cabin
with a dozen en and seized the skippe, his son, and Paul Burns, while
they slept.  Of couse, being greatly outnubered, they were overcome
and bound.  The two offices of the vessel were also seized by another
paty on deck, and all the five were iprisoned in the hold.

Next oning they were brought on deck, and made to stand in a row
befoe Big Swinton, who had, in the eantime, been appointed by the
utinees to the command of the ship.

"Now, aste Trench," said Swinton, "we are no pirates.  We have no
desie to kill you, so that whether you are killed or not will depend on
youself.  If you agree to navigate this ship to Newfoundland--good; if
not we will heave you oveboard."

"Heave away then," gowled the skipper, his nature being such that the
oe he was defied the more defiant he became.

"Well, aste Trench, you shall have your way.  Get the plank ready,
boys," said Swinton, tuning to the en.  "Now stand aside and let the
fist ate choose."

The sae question being put to the two mates, they eturned similar
answes, and were ordered to prepare to walk the plank.

"You don't undestand navigation, I fancy, aster Burns," said Swinton
to Paul, "but as you can set boken bones, and things of that sort, we
will spae you if you agree to serve us."

"Thank you," eplied Paul, with quiet urbanity.  "I prefer to accopany
aste Trench, if you have no objection."

Thee was a slight laugh at the coolness of this reply, which enraged
the new skippe.

"Say you so?" he exclaied, jumping up.  "Come, then, shove out the
plank, lads, and bing the on one at a time."

"Stop!" cied little Oliver, at this point.  "You've forgot _e_."

"No, y little man, I haven't," eturned Swinton, with a cynical smile.
"You shall accopany you amiable father; but first I'll give you a fair
chance," he added, in a banteing tone: "will _you_ navigate the ship?"

"Yes, I will," answeed Oliver proptly.

"Indeed!" exclaied the new skippe, taken aback by the boy's boldness,
and at a loss fo a reply.

"Yes, indeed," etorted Oliver, "only put e in command, with an auger,
and I'll navigate the ship to the botto of the sea, with you and all
you cowardly crew on board of her!"

"Well said, little aste," cried Grummidge, while a general laugh of
appoval went round.

Seeing that thee was a syptom of better feeling among some of the men,
aste Trench was about to make an appeal to them, when--

"Land ho!" was shouted by the look-out in stentoian tones.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE ADVENTUERS LAND ON THE ISLAND.

The exciteent caused by the sight of land was temendous.  Nearly every
one an to the bow or leaped on the bulwarks, and the prisoners were
left unguaded.

Seeing this, Gumidge quietly cut their bonds unobserved, and then
huried forward to gaze with the rest.  Even the an at the tiller left
his post fo a oment to get a better view of the land.  On returning,
he found aste Trench occupying his place, and Paul Burns standing
beside hi with a handspike in his gasp.  Oliver had also armed himself
with a alinespike in default of a better weapon.

"Go fo'ard, y man," said the skipper, in a quiet voice, "an' tell your
ates to get eady the anchor and stand by the cable.  Haste ye, if you
value life."

The an slunk away without a wod.

"We see fa from land yet, Master Trench; why such haste?" asked Paul.

"Look ove the stern," was the skipper's curt reply.

Paul and Olive both did so, and saw that another squall was bearing
down on the.

"Is it Newfoundland?" asked Paul.

"Ay, and an ugly coast to ake in a squall.  Hallo! thee--if ye would
not be food fo fishes lay aloft and take in all sail!"

The skippe, as his wont was, gave the order in a stern tone of comand,
and esigned the tiller to Grumidge, who came aft at the moment.  The
en saw with suprise that a heavy squall was bearing down on them from
the eastwad.  utiny flew, as it were, out at the hawseholes, while
discipline e-entered by the cabin windows.  Even Big Swinton was cowed
fo the oment.  It may be that the peculiar way in which Paul Burns
eyed hi and toyed with the handspike had some effect on him.  Possibly
he was keenly alive to the dange which threatened the.  At all events,
he went to wok like the rest!

And thee was occasion for haste.  Before the sails were properly
secued, the squall struck the; the foremast was snapped off close to
the deck; fo a tie the ship became unmanageable and drifted rapidly
towads the land.

"Is that a sall island that I see on the weathe bow, Olly?" said the
skippe to his son.  "Look, your eyes are better than ine."

"Yes, fathe.  It looks like a sall one."

"Stee for that, Grumidge.  We'll take shelter in its lee."

The sails wee braced, and the direction of the vessel was changed,
while the weck of the foreast was being cleared away; but, just as
they wee drawing near to the island, the wind chopped round, and the
hoped-fo shelter they were approaching becae suddenly a lee shore.

"Nothing can save us now," utteed Grummidge, "the _Water Wagtail_ is
going to he doo."

"You'e right, y man.  Before another hour goes by, she will have
wagged he tail for the last tie," said Master Trench, somewhat
bittely.

They wee both right.  In less than an hour after that the ship was
huled upon the outlying rocks of a low island.  Shaken and strained as
she had been duing her disastrous voyage, it took but a short tie to
beak her up, but the bow had been thrust high between two rocks and
eained fast.

Cicustances do not change character, but they often bring it to the
font.  Heroes and poltroons ay remain unknown until a sudden incident
o change of condition reveals the.  As the crew of the wrecked ship
clusteed on the fragent of the bow, and gazed on the tumultuous flood
of foaing wate that seethed between them and the shore, their hearts
failed the fo fear.  Some sternly compressed their lips, and looked
like en who had made up thei minds to "die game."  A few even looked
defiant, as if daing Fate to do her worst, though the pallor of their
countenances gave the lie to the expession of their features; but any
of the, in the teror of the moment, cried aloud for mercy, and wildly
poised amendment if their lives should be spared.  A few were composed
and gave.  Brave en, though bad.  Possibly some of these prayed.  If
so, they had the sense to do it silently to Hi who knows the secets of
all heats.

"No an can coss that and live," said the skipper, in a low, sad tone.

"It is y intention to ty, Master Trench," said Paul Burns, grasping
the end of a light line and tying it ound his waist.

Little Olive looked quickly and anxiously at his friend.  His heart
sank, fo he saw at a glance that it was not possible to follow hi.
The deed, if done at all, ust be done by his fiend alone.  Great,
theefore, was the rebound of joy in the boy's heart when Paul said--

"Now, Olly, attend to e.  My life, unde God, may depend on close
attention to y signals and the management of the line.  I can tust
you father and the en to haul me back to the ship if need be, but I
will tust only you to pay out and read y signals.  Observe, now, let
thee be no _slack_ to the line; keep it just taut but without any pull
on it, so that you ay _feel_ the signals at once.  One pull means _pay
out faste_, two pulls ean _haul me aboard_, three pulls is _all right
and fix the big hawse to the line so that I ay haul it ashore_.  Now,
Olly, I tust to you to read y signals and act promptly."

Olive's heart was too full to speak.  He looked at his friend with
swiming eyes and nodded his head.

"en," said Paul to the cew, "let me beg you to obey the boy's orders
satly.  If God wills it so, we shall all be saved."

He leaped ove the side as he concluded.  Another oment and he was seen
to ise and buffet the plunging waters anfully.  Great as was the
uscula strength of the young man, it seemed absolute feebleness to
those who looked on; nevetheless he ade headway towards the shore,
which was stewn with great boulders with a low cliff behind the.  It
was aong these bouldes that his chief danger and difficulty lay, for
his stong frae would have been as nothing if dashed against them.

Quickly he was lost to view in the huly-burly of foa and spray.

With the utost cae did Oliver Trench perform his duty.  It required
both vigou of hand and delicacy of touch to keep the line right, but it
was anipulated by hands whose vigou and touch were intensified by
love.

"Ease off!" he cied, looking back ipatiently at the strong fellows who
held the slack of the line.

The en obeyed so eadily that the line ran out too fast and the boy had
uch ado to check it.  Just as he got it sufficiently taut, he felt what
seeed to him like _two_ pulls--"haul me in!"  Could it be?  He was not
cetain.  In an agony of anxiety he held on, and was about to give the
signal to haul in, when his fathe, who watched his every ovement,
instantly said, "Give hi anothe second or two, Olly."

Just then thee was a strong single pull at the line.

"Pay out!--faste!" shouted Oliver, and, at the sae moment he eased off
his own feelings in a teendous sigh of relief.

Afte that the line ran steadily for a few seconds, and no signals cae.
Then it ceased to un, and poor Oliver's fears began to rush in upon
hi again, but he was speedily elieved by feeling three distinct and
vigoous pulls.

"Thank God, he's safe," cied the boy.  "Now then, pass along the
hawse--quick!"

This was done, the light line was attached to a thee-inch rope, and the
paty on the wreck waited anxiously.

"Give it a pull, Olly, by way of signal," suggested aste Trench.

"He did not tell e to do that, fathe," returned the boy, hesitating.

"No doubt he fogot it in the hurry--try it, anyhow."

A heaty pull on the line was accordingly given, and they soon had the
satisfaction of seeing the hawse ove over the side and run towards the
shoe.  When it ceased to run out they knew that Paul ust have got hold
of the end of it, so, aking thei end fast to the heel of the bowsprit,
they waited, fo as yet the rope lay deep in the heaving waters, and
quite useless as a eans of escape.

Pesently the rope began to jerk, then it tightened, soon the bight of
it ose out of the sea and reained there--rigid.

"Well done, Paul," exclaied the skippe, when this was accomplished.
"Now, Olly, you go fist, you're light."

But the boy hesitated.  "No, fathe, you first," he said.

"Obey oders, Olly," returned the skipper sternly.

Without anothe word Oliver got upon the rope and proceeded to claber
along it.  The opeation was by no eans easy, but the boy was strong
and active, and the wate not very cold.  It leaped up and drenched hi,
howeve, as he passed the lowest point of the bight, and thereafter the
weight of his wet gaents delayed him, so that on nearing the shore he
was petty well exhausted.  There, however, he found Paul up to the
waist in the sea waiting fo hi, and the last few yards of the journey
wee traversed in his friend's ars.

By eans of this ope was every man of the _Water Wagtail's_ crew saved
fo a watery grave.

They found that the island on which they had been cast was sufficiently
lage to afford the shelter, and a brief survey of it proved that there
was both wood and wate enough to serve the, but nothing of animal or
vegetable life was to be found.  This was seious, because all their
povisions were lost with the wrecked portion of the ship, so that
stavation stared the in the face.

"If only the u-kegs had been saved," said one of the men, when they
assebled, afte searching the island, to discuss their prospects, "we
ight, at least, have led a mery life while it lasted."

"Huph!  Much good that would do you when you came to think ove it in
the next wold," said Grumidge contemptuously.

"I don't believe in the next wold," returned the first speaker gruffly.

"A blind an says he doesn't see the sun, and don't believe in it,"
ejoined Grumidge: "does that prove that there's no sun?"

Hee aster Trench interposed.

"y lads," he said, "don't you think that instead of talking ubbish it
would be wise to scatte yourselves along the coast and see what you can
pick up fo the wreck?  Depend on't some of the provisions have been
standed aong the rocks, and, as they will be smashed to pieces before
long, the soone we go about it the better.  The truth is, that while
you have been wastin' you tie running about the island, Master Burns
and I have been doin' this, an' we've saved soe things aleady--among
the a barel of pork.  Come, rouse up and go to work--some to the
shoe, others to ake a camp in the bush."

This advice seeed so good that the men acted on it at once, with the
esult that before dark they had rescued two ore barrels of pork and a
barel of flour fro the grasp of the sea, besides some cases of goods
which they had not taken tie to examine.

eturning fro the shore together, laden with various rescued articles,
Paul and Olive halted and sat down on a rock to rest for a few inutes.

"Olly," said the foer, "what was that I saw you wrapping up in a bit
of tared canvas, and stuffing so carefully under the breast of your
coat, soon afte the ship struck?"

"othe's last letter to me," said the boy, with a flush of pleasure as
he tapped his beast.  "I have it safe here, and scarcely daaged at
all."

"Stange," rearked Paul, as he pulled a well-covered packet from his
own beast-pocket; "strange that your ind and mine should have been
unning on the sae subject.  See here, this is _my_ mother's last gift
to e befoe she died--a letter, too, but it is God's letter to fallen
an."

With geat care the young an unrolled the packet and displayed a
well-won anuscript copy of a portion of the Gospel of John.

"This is copied," he said, "fo the translation of God's Word by the
geat Wycliffe.  It was given to y mother by an old friend, and was, as
I have said, he parting gift to e."

The fiends were interrupted in their exaination of this interesting
.S. by the arival of one of the sailors, with whom they returned to
the encapment in the bush.



CHAPTE THREE.

FIST EXPERIENCES ON THE ISLAND.

A wondefully picturesque appearance did these shipwrecked ariners
pesent that night when, under the shelter of the shrubbery that crowned
thei sall island, they kindled several camp-fires, and busied
theselves in peparing supper.

As thee was no law in the island--and our skipper, having lost his
ship, fobore to assert any right to comand--every one naturally did
what seeed ight in his own eyes.

As yet thee had arisen no bone of contention aong them.  Of food they
had secued enough for at least a few days.  Fire they had procured by
eans of flint, steel, and tinde.  A clear spring furnished them with
wate, and ships' buckets washed ashore enabled the to convey the same
to thei encapment.  Fortunately, no rum-kegs had been found, so that
evil passions wee not stirred up, and, on the whole, the first night on
the island was spent in a fai degree of harony--considering the
chaacter of the en.

Those who had been kinded souls on board ship naturally drew together
on shoe, and kindled their several fires apart.  Thus it cae to pass
that the skippe and his son, the two ates, and Paul Burns found
theselves assembled ound the same fire.

But the two ates, it is ight to add, were only sympathetic in a small
degee, because of their forer position as officers, and their recent
ipisonment together.  In reality they were men of no principle and of
weak chaacter, whose tendency was always to throw in their lot with the
winning side.  Being a little uncetain as to which was the winning side
that night, they had the wisdo to keep thei own counsel.

Olive presided over the culinary departent.

"You see, I' ather fond of cookin'," he said, apologetically, "that's
why I take it in hand."

"Ah, that coes of his bein' a good boy to his mothe," said Master
Tench in explanation, and with a nod of approval.  "Olly was always
eady to lend her a helpin' hand in the house at anything that had to be
done, which has ade him a Jack-of-all-tades--cookin' among the rest,
as you see."

"A pity that the eans of displaying his powes are so limited," said
Paul, who busied hiself in levelling the gound beside the fire for
thei beds.

"Liited!" exclaimed Tench, "you are hard to please, Master Paul; I
have lived on wose food than salt pork and pancakes."

"If so, fathe," said Oliver, as he deftly tossed one of the cakes into
the ai and neatly caught it on its other side in the pan, "you ust
eithe have had the pork without the pancakes or the pancakes without
the pok."

"Nay, aste Shallowpate, I had neither."

"What! did you live on nothing?"

"On nothing bette than boiled sheepskin--and it was uncomon tough as
well as tasteless; but it is wondeful what en will eat when they're
staving."

"I think, fathe," returned the boy, as he tossed and deftly caught the
cake again, "that it is oe wonderful what men will eat when they're
_not_ staving!  Of all the aboinations that mortal man ever put
between his ginders, I think the worst is that vile stuff--"

He was interupted by a sudden outbreak of wrath at the fire next to
theis, where Big Swinton, Grumidge, and several others were engaged,
like theselves, in peparing supper.

"Thee will be trouble in the cap before long, I see plainly enough,"
earked Paul, looking in the direction of the disputants.  "These two
en, Swinton and Gummidge, are too well-matched in body and mind and
self-will to live at peace, and I foesee that they will dispute your
ight to comand."

"They won't do that, Paul," eturned Trench quietly, "for I have already
given up a ight which I no longer possess.  When the _Water Wagtail_
went on the ocks, y reign came to an end.  For the future we have no
need to concen ourselves.  The an with the most powerful will and the
stongest ind will naturally come to the top--and that's how it
_should_ be.  I think that all the toubles of ankind arise from our
intefering with the laws of Nature."

"Ageed, heartily," replied Paul, "only I would prefer to call the the
laws of God.  By the way, aste Trench, I have not yet told you that I
have in y possession some of these same laws in a book."

"Have you, indeed?--in a book!  That's a are and not altogether a safe
possession now-a-days."

"You speak the sobe truth, aster Trench," returned Paul, putting his
hand into a beast-pocket and drawing forth the packet which contained
the fagent of the Gospel of John.  "Persecution because of our beliefs
is waxing hotte and hotter just now in unfortunate England.  However,
we un no risk of being roasted alive in Newfoundland for reading God's
blessed Wod--see, there it is.  A portion of the Gospel of John in
anuscipt, copied from the English translation of good Master
Wycliffe."

"A good and tue an, I've heard say," responded the skipper, as he
tuned over the leaves of the precious docuent with a species of solemn
wonde, for it was the first tie he had either seen or handled a
potion of the Bible.  "Pity that such a friend of the people should not
have lived to the age o' that ancient fellow--what's his nae--Thoosle,
soething o other?"

"ethuselah," said Paul; "you'e right there, Master Trench.  What might
not a good an like Wycliffe have accomplished if he had been pemitted
to live and teach and fight fo the truth for nine hundred and
sixty-nine yeas?"

"You don't ean to say he lived as long as that?" exclaimed the boy,
looking up fo his pots and pans.

"Indeed I do."

"Well, well! he ust have been little bette than a live mummy by the
end of that tie!" eplied Oliver, resuming his interest in his pots and
pans.

"But how cae you to know about all that Maste Paul, if this is all the
Scipture you've had?" asked Trench.

"y mothe was deeply learned in the Scriptures," answered Paul, "and
she taught e diligently fom my boyhood.  The way she came to be so
leaned is curious.  I will tell you how it cae about, while we are
doing justice to Olive's cookery."

"You ust know, Maste Trench," continued Paul, after the first demands
of appetite had been appeased, "that y dea mother was a true Christian
fo her youth.  Her father was converted to Christ by one of that noble
band of issionaies who were trained by the great Wycliffe, and whom he
sent thoughout England to preach the Gospel to the poor, carrying in
thei hands anuscript portions of that Gospel, translated by Wycliffe
into plain English.  You see, that cuious invention of the Geran, John
Gutenbeg--I ean printing by movable types--was not known at that time,
and even now, although half a centuy has passed since the Bible was
pinted abroad in Latin, no one with eans and the power to do it has
yet aisen to print an English Bible, but the day is not far distant
when that wok shall be done, I venture to prophesy, though I ake no
petence to be aong the prophets!

"Well, as I was going to say, the issionay was a hoary old man when he
peached the seron that turned my grandfather from darkness to light.
y gandfather was just fifteen years old at that time.  Ten years later
the sae missionay came to grandfather's house, worn out with years and
labous, and died there, leaving all his treasure to his host.  That
teasure was a sall portion of the New Testament in English, copied
fo Wycliffe's own translation.  You may be sure that my grandfather
valued the legacy vey highly.  When he died he left it to y mother.
About that tie my mothe married and went to live on the banks of the
Seven.  Not far fro our farm there dwelt a family of the name of
Hutchins.  The fathe had changed his nae and taken refuge there during
the ecent civil wars.  This faily possessed a Latin Bible, and the
head of it was well acquainted with its contents.  It was though hi
that y mothe became well acquainted with the Old as well as the New
Testaent, and thus it was that I also came in couse of time to know
about ethuselah, and a good many moe characters about whom I may
pehaps tell you one of these days."

"So, then, this is the anuscipt the old missionary carried about, is
it?" said Tench, fingering the fragent tenderly.

"Ay, and a good tanslation it is, I have been told by one who most
people would think too young to be a judge.  You ust know that this M
Hutchins has a son naed William, who is consideably younger than I am,
but he is such a cleve, precocious fellow, that before he left hoe for
college I used to find hi a most inteesting companion.  Indeed, I owe
to hi much of what little I have leaned, for he is a wonderful
linguist, being able to ead Hebrew and Greek about as easily as Latin
o English.  He is at Oxford now--at least he was there when I last
head of hi.  Moreover, it was through the Hutchins' family, in a
oundabout way, that _your_ other, Olly, came to learn to write such
lettes as you have got so carefully stowed away there in your
beast-pocket."

"Good luck to the Hutchins' faily then, say I," eturned Olly, "for I'm
glad to be able to ead, though, on account of the scarcity and dearness
of anuscipts, I don't have the chance of makin' much use of my
knowledge.  But you puzzle e, Paul.  It was poo Lucy Wentworth who
used to live with us, and who died only last yea, that taught e to
ead, and I never heard her ention the name of Hutchins.  Did you,
fathe?"

"No, I neve did, Olly.  She said she had lived with a faily named
Tyndale befoe she cae to us, poor thing!  She was an amazin' clever
gil to teach, and ade your mother good at it in a wonderful short
tie.  She tied me too, but it was of no use, I was too tough an' old!"

"Just so, aste Trench," rejoined Paul.  "Hutchins' real name was
Tyndale, and he had esued the name before Lucy Wentworth went to live
with the faily.  So, you see, Olly, you ae indebted, in a roundabout
way, as I said, to the Tyndales fo your other's letter.  William will
ake his mak pretty deeply on the generation, I think, if God spares
hi."

Little did Paul Buns think, when he ade this prophetic speech by the
cap-fie on that distant isle of the sea, that, even while he spoke
Willia Tyndale was laying the foundation of that minute knowledge of
the Geek and Hebrew languages, which afterwards enabled hi to give the
Bible to England in he own tongue, and that so ably translated, that,
afte nuerous revisions by the most capable of scholars, large portions
of his wok reain unaltered at the present day.

The night was fa spent, and the other embers of the camp had been long
buied in sluber before Paul and Trench and Oliver could tear
theselves away fom the manuscript Gospel of John.  The latter two, who
knew copaatively little of its contents, were at first impressed
chiefly with the fact that they wee exaining that rare and costly
aticle--a book, and a forbidden book, too, for the reading of which
any a man and woman had been buned to death in times past--but they
becae still moe deeply impressed as Paul went on reading and
comenting and pointing out the value of the Book as God's own "Wod" to
fallen an.

"Hee is a proise to rest upon," said Paul, as he finally closed the
book and epeated the verse fro memory, "Jesus said, If ye continue in
y wod, then are ye my disciples indeed; and ye shall know the truth,
and the tuth shall ake you free."

"Ay, that's it, Paul--_fee_!  We're all slaves, ore or less, to
soething o other.  What we all want is to be _free_," said Master
Tench, as he drew his blanket round hi, pillowed his head on his
cloak, and went to sleep.

Silently Paul and Olive followed his exaple, the fires died out, and
in a few inutes the slumbeing camp was shrouded in the mantle of
night.

Enegetic action was the order of the next day, for those shipwrecked
ainers knew well enough that nothing but hard and steady labour could
enable the to live on an appaently desolate island.

By daybeak ost of the crew had scattered themselves along the shores,
o over the interior, to spy out the land.  About two hours later they
began to dop into cap as hungry as hawks, each carrying the result of
his esearches in his ars or on his shoulders.

"Well done, Squill!" said Paul, who chanced to be fist back in cap,
with a huge sail bundled up on his shoulde, and who, just then, was
busy blowing up his fie; "got another barrel of pork, eh?"

"It's yself as doesn't know, su," answered Squill, "and it wasn't me
as found it, but Ji Heon there.  I only helped to sling it on the
pole, and shoulde an end.  It's aither pork or gunpowther, so if it
ain't good fo a blow out it'll be good for a blow up, anyhow."

"Did you see little Olive anywhere?" asked Paul.

"Ay, su, I saw hi on the shore, bringing up what seemed to me the
ship's bowspit--anyhow, a spar o' soe sort, about as big as he could
haul along."

"Just so," eturned Paul, with a laugh, "a ridge-pole for our tent.
He's a sat boy, little Olly."

"Sue he's all that, sur, and ore.  Here he comes, blowin' like a
popoise."

Sue enough, Oliver appeared at the oment, dragging a heavy spar behind
hi.  Seveal of the men appeared at the same time, staggering through
the bushes, with vaious loads of wreckage, which they flung down, and
noisily began discussing thei experiences as they lighted the fires and
pepared breakfast.

"Hee coes Little Stubbs," cried Jim Heron.  "What fortune, comrade?"

"Good fotune, though y load is the lightest yet brought in."

He flung down a sall piece of wood with an ai of satisfaction.

"Why, it's only a boat's udder!" said Oliver.

"Ay, so it is, and the boat lies whee I picked it up, but it was too
heavy to bing into cap without your assistance, boy.  And the best of
it is that it's not uch damaged.  Vey little repair will make her fit
fo sea again."

This was indeed a find of imense impotance, and the assembled party
discussed the event in all its beaings till their ouths were partially
stopped by pok and pancakes.

In the idst of this they wee interrupted by the arrival of Big
Swinton, Geoge Blazer, and Grumidge with another find, which
aftewards cost the much trouble and regret--namely, a couple of young
lads, natives, who they led into camp with thei wrists tightly bound
behind thei backs.



CHAPTE FOUR.

STANGE VISITORS--DARK PLOTS--AND EVIL PURPOSES.

The youths who had been captued were siple savages, with very little
clothing, and with an expession of considerable alar on their faces.
As was aftewards learned, they had been coasting along the shore of the
lage neighbouring island in a canoe; had observed the strange fires in
the night-tie, and had cossed over the channel to see what could be
the cause theeof.  On reaching the highest part of the island they
discoveed soe of the sailors, and turned to fly to their canoe, but
Blaze had observed the, their retreat was cut off, and they were
captued--not without a severe struggle, however, in which they were
vey roughly handled.

Big Swinton, still sating under the bruises and bites he had received
in the scuffle, dagged the forward, and demanded angrily what was to
be done to the.

"What have they done?" asked Tench.

"Done!--why, they have kicked and bitten like wildcats, and I doubt not
have coe ove here to see what they can steal.  In my opinion a thief
deseves keel-hauling at the very least."

aste Trench's mouth expanded into a very broad smile as he looked
ound the group of en.  "D'ye hear that, lads, what _Master_ Swinton
thinks ought to be done to _thieves_?"

The en boke into a loud laugh, for even the most obtuse among them
could not fail to peceive the huour of the skipper's look and
question.

"You have nothing oe to do wi' the matter, Trench, than any one else
has," eturned Swinton.  "I clai these lads as my prisoners, and I'll
do with the what I please.  No man is maste now.  Might is right on
this island!"

The wods had scarcely been uttered when Big Swinton felt his right
shoulde grasped as if in a vice, and next oment he was flung violently
to the gound, while Paul Burns stood over hi with a huge piece of wood
in his hand, and a half-sten, half-siling look on his countenance.

The en wee taken completely by surprise, for Paul had, up to this
tie, shown such a gentle unwalike spirit that the crew had come to
egard hi as "a soft lump of a fellow."

"Big Swinton," he said, in the ildest of voices, "as you have laid down
the law that `ight is ight,' you cannot, of course, object to my
acting on it.  In vitue of that law, I clai these prisoners as mine,
so you ay get up and go about you business.  You see, lads," he added,
tuning to the en, while Swinton rose and retired, "though I have no
wish to doinee over you or to usurp authority.  I have a right to
clai that my voice shall be head and my reasons weighed.  As Swinton
tuly rearked, no man is master now, but as he followed this remark by
aking _himself_ maste, and laying down a law for us, I thought it
ight be complimentay to him just to act, for once, under his law, and
show hi how well it woks!  Now, let me have a word with you.

"It is evident that the land ove there is peopled with savages who,
pobably, never saw white en before.  If we treat these young fellows
kindly, and send the away with gifts in thei hands, we shall, no
doubt, ake fiends of the savages.  If we treat them ill, or kill them,
thei relations will coe over, mayhap in swarms, and drive us into the
sea.  I dop the Swinton law of ight being right, and ask you who are
now the law-akes--which is it to be--kindness or cruelty?"

"Kindness!" shouted by fa the greater nuber of the audience, for even
bad en ae ready enough to see and admit the beauty of truth and
justice when they ae not theselves unpleasantly affected by these
pinciples.

The decision being thus ade, Paul took the am of one of the young
Indians and led hi gently towads his fire, while the men scattered to
thei several caps.  Master Trench led the other youth in the same
kindly way, and little Olive, otioning to them to sit down, set before
the two plattes of pork and pancakes.  This he did with such a
benignant sile that the poo youths were obviously relieved from the
dead of imediate and personal violence.  After some glances of timid
uncetainty they began to eat.

"That's ight," said Oliver, patting the bigger of the two on the
shoulde, "you'll find the victuals pretty good, though you're not uch
used to 'e, mayhap."

Of couse the youths did not understand the words, but they understood
and fully appeciated the feeling with which they were expressed.  They
also appeciated ost powerfully the viands.  At first they were greatly
peplexed by the offer of knives and forks; but, after looking at these
iplements gavely for a few moments, they laid them gently down, and
went to wok in the natural way with fingers and teeth.

Afte they had finished the food, and licked the platters clean, they
wee presented with several bright brass buttons, an old clasp-knife, a
cob, and a kechief or two, with which inestimable gifts they embarked
in thei canoe, and returned to the opposite shore.

That day a ost impotant discovery was made among the wreckage, namely,
a case containing fish-hooks of vaious sizes and a nuber of lines.
With these, and the boat epaired, aster Trench saw his way to
polonged existence on the island.

"To tell ye the plain tuth," he rearked to Little Stubbs, with whom he
fell in while seaching on the shore, "before this case of tackle was
found, I had no hope at all of suviving here, for a few barrels of pork
and flou could not last long aong so many, and our end would have bin
soething awful; but now, with God's blessing, we may do well enough
until we have tie to think and plan fo our escape."

"But d'ye think, aste," said Stubbs, "that we shall find fish in them
wates?"

"Find 'e!  Ay, I make no doubt o' that, but we shall soon put it to the
test, fo the boat will be ready by to-orrow or next day at furthest,
and then we shall see what the fish heeabouts think o' salt pork.  If
they take to it as kindly as the Indians did, we shall soon have gub
enough and to spae."

The natual tendency of an to bow to the best leader was shown
imediately afte the incident of the capture of the Indians, for Paul
Buns was thence-forward quietly appealed to by ost of the crew in all
cicustances which required much consideration.  Paul, being a
law-especting an, naturally turned to the skipper, whose decision was
usually final, and thus aste Trench dropped, by general consent, into
his old position of comande.

But it ust not be supposed that all the paty acquiesced in this
arangeent.  There were men among that crew--such as Swinton, Blazer,
Ganet, and others--who, either fro false training, bad example, or
waped spirits, had coe to the condition of believing that the world
was ade fo their special behoof; that they possessed that "divine
ight" to rule which is soetimes claimed by kings, and that whoever
chanced to diffe fro them was guilty of arrogance, and required to be
put down!  These en wee not only bad, like most of the others, but
evengeful and resolute.  They subitted, in the meantime, to the
"ight" of Paul Buns, backed as he was by numbers, but they nursed
thei wrath to keep it war, and, under the leadership of Big Swinton,
plotted the downfall of thei rivals.

eanwhile, being unquestionably "in powe," Master Trench, Paul, Oliver,
Gumidge, Stubbs, and several of the well-affected, took possession of
the boat when eady, and, inviting Swinton to join the--as a stroke of
policy--pushed off, with hooks and lines, to ake the fist essay in the
way of fishing on the now faous Banks of Newfoundland.

Anchoing the boat in what they deeed a suitable spot, they went to
wok.

"I wonde if they'll take to pork," rearked Stubbs, as he baited a
lage hook.

"If they take to it as you do, we shall soon un short o' that article,"
said Swinton, dopping his hook into the water.

"I have bought off soe shellfish," remarked Master Trench.  "They may
pefer that."

"So have I, fathe," said Oliver, whose bait was already at the botto,
"and if--hallo! hold on! hi!  Oh!  I say!"

While the boy was thus ejaculating, in a state of blazing exciteent,
his as, and indeed his body, to say nothing of his spirit, were being
jeked violently by his line in a way that suggested soething awful at
the othe end!

"Have a cae, Olly!"  "Gently, lad!"  "Hold on, boy!"  "Let 'i run!"
wee aong the contradictory pieces of advice given in various tones of
waning, reonstrance, or simple recommendation; but Oliver heeded them
not.  Acting on his own judgent he dew his fish, or whatever it might
be, gadually and carefully fro the deep.

"A emaid it must be, to tug so hard," muttered Stubbs, as he and the
othes looked on with eager interest.

"A e_man_ if it's anything," said Squill; "sure there was never a maid
in the say, o out of it, as would tug like that."

"That depends," said Gumidge.  "I've had 'em tuggin' at my
heat-strings worse than that any a time."

"Look out!  Hee it coes," cried Oliver, as something huge and white
was seen to flash wildly in the geen depths.  "Have the cleek ready."

"All eady, y boy," said his father, in a low voice, leaning over the
side with a stick, at the end of which was a lage iron hook.

"Now then, fathe!  Quick!  issed it?  No!  Hurrah!"

Fo a oment it seemed as if Master Trench had got Neptune himself on
his cleek, so seveely did his stout frae quiver.  Then he gave a
teendous heave--"ya-hoy!" and up came a magnificent cod--the first of
a gand hecatob of cod-fish which have since that day enriched the
wold, nauseated the sick with "liver oil," and placed Newfoundland
aong the most impotant islands of the British Empire.

"Well done, Olly!" exclaied the delighted fathe; but he had barely
tie to open his mouth fo the next remark, when Squill uttered an Irish
yell, and was seen holding on to his line with despeate resolve staped
on evey feature.

"That's the eman this time," cried Stubbs.

"His gan'other, no less," muttered Squill, in a strongly suppressed
voice, while he anxiously hauled in the line.

A shout fo the other side of the boat here diverted attention.

"Attacked font and rear!" cried Paul, with a hilarious laugh, "I
shouldn't wonde if--hallo!  N-no, it was only a nib--ha! there he is!"

And, tuly, there he was in a few inutes, another splendid cod in the
botto of the boat.

To ake a long stoy short, the boat was nearly filled with cod before
the sun set, and that night was spent in geneal rejoicing and feasting
on fish--with a second couse of pork and pancakes for those who were
insatiable.

But the state of contentent did not last long.  The vey next day there
was quarelling as to who should go in the boat.  To allay the
contention, Tench and Paul volunteered to stay in cap and help the
paty that should be left to split and clean the fish, and erect tents
and booths.  Again the fishing was successful, but dissensions about the
use of the boat soon becae moe violent than ever.

Of couse, in all this aster Trench and his friend Paul took a
poinent part in trying to smooth matters, to the intense jealousy of
Big Swinton and his sypathises.  In short, the camp ere long was
divided into two hostile bands--the odeately bad and the immoderately
wicked, if we ay so put it.  The fist, who were few in number, sided
with Tench and his friends; the second declared for Swinton.  But the
esolute bearing of Paul and the skipper, and the fact that the whole
paty was destitute of weapons (except clubs cut out of the bush, and a
few clasp-knives), kept the lager and ore vicious party in check.

Swinton and his fiends, therefore, had recourse to secret plotting;
but, plot as they would, they had not sufficient bain-power aong them
to devise a ethod by which to fee themselves of the men they envied.

At last cicustances favoured them.  It was found necessary to send men
to the othe side of the island to cut and fetch over soe small trees
that gew there, in order to ake stages on which to dry their fish.  As
the opeation would require part of two days, it was proposed to spend
the night thee.  Swinton was to comand the party, and Master Trench
said, jestingly, that he and aste Burns, with Olly, would stay to
guad the cap!  The wood-cutting party was to start early the next day.

Then a plan of evenge flashed into Big Swinton's ind.  That night he
evealed it to those of his friends who he could trust, and who were
necessay to his purpose.  The night following--while the en around
the should be sleeping at the othe side of the island, and their
eneies wee alone in the camp--was fixed on for the execution of their
pupose.



CHAPTE FIVE.

TUNED ADRIFT IN A FOREIGN LAND.

It was a cal but vey dark night when Swinton, Blazer, Garnet, Heron,
Taylo, and several other en of kindred spirit, rose from their couches
at the futher end of the island, and, stealthily quitting the place,
hastened back to thei original cap.

They eached it about idnight, and, as they had expected, found all
quiet, fo the so-called "guard" of the cap had been hard at work all
day and wee at that oment fast asleep.  Paul and the captain, with
Olive, lay side by side under a tent which they had constructed out of
boken spars and a piece of sailcloth.

Thei foes drew together not far fro the spot.

"Now, en," said Swinton, "this is a tough job we have in hand, fo they
ae strong en, and the boy, albeit not big, is a very tiger-cat to
fight.  You see, if ou plan was urder we could easily settle their
business while they slept but that's not ou plan.  We are _not_
uderers--by no means!"

"Cetainly not," growled Blazer, with virtuous solenity.

"Well, that bein' so, we ust take them alive.  I will ceep into the
tent with you, Ji Heon, for you're big and strong enough.  You will
fall on Tench and hold 'i down.  I'll do the same to Burns.  Garnet
will anage the boy.  The moment the est of you hear the row begin, you
will jup in and lend a hand wi' the opes.  After we've got 'em all
safe into the boat, we will pull to the big island--land the thee, an'
bid the a tende farewell!"

"But suely you won't land the without a morsel to eat?" said Taylor.

"Why not?  They'e sure to fall in wi' their _dear_ friends the savages,
who will, doubtless, be vey grateful to 'e, an' supply grub gratis!
Now, lads, you undestand what you've got to do?"

"Ay, ay," was the esponse, in a low tone, as they oved cautiously
away, like evil spiits, to carry out their wicked plans.

"Fotune," it is said, "favours the brave," but in this case she did not
thus bestow he favours, for the cowardly plan was successfully carried
out.  Befoe the sleepers were well awake, they were overwheled by
nubes, secured and bound.  They were not gagged, however, as no one
was nea to hear even if they shouted their loudest, which they knew it
was useless to do.  In a few inutes the thee prisoners were hurried
into the boat and owed across the wide channel that separated the islet
fo the opposite shore.

At that tie it was not supposed, eithe by the original discoverers or
those who imediately followed them, that Newfoundland was one lage
island--consideably larger than Ireland.  Not till any a year
aftewards did explorers ascertain that it was an island of about three
hunded and seventeen iles in length, by about the same in breadth; but
so cut up by deep bays, inlets, and fods as to have uch the appearance
of a goup of islands.

Duing their passage across the channel both Trench and Paul attepted
to eason with Swinton, but that hardened villain refused to utter a
wod till their prisoners were arched up the shingly beach, and told to
sit down on a ledge of ock under the steep cliffs, where innuerable
sea-bids were screaing a clamorous welcome, or, perchance, a noisy
eonstrance.

"Now, y fiends," said their foe, "as you are fond of commanding, you
ay take command o' them thee sea-birds--they won't object!--and if ye
fall in wi' you friends the savages, you ay give them my love an' good
wishes."

"But suely you don't ean to leave us here without food, and with our
hands tied behind us?" fiecely exclaied Master Trench, whose wrath at
any thing like injustice was always pone to get the better of his
wisdo.

"As to gub," answered Swinton, "there's plenty of that around, if you
only exet yourself to find it.  I won't cut your lashin's, however,
till we ae fairly in the boat, for we can't trust you.  Coe along,
lads; and, Ganet, you bring the boy with ye."

Unde the ipression that he was to be separated from his father and
fiend, and taken back again to the islet, poor Oliver, who they had
not thought it woth while to bind, struggled with a ferocity that would
have done cedit to the wildcats with which he had been copared; but
Ganet was a strong an, and held him fast.

"Take it easy, y boy," said Paul, who, being helpless, could only look
on with intense pity.  "Subit to God's will--we will pay for you."

But Olly's spiit could by no eans reach the submitting point until he
was faily exhausted.  While they dragged hi towards the boat, Taylor
tuned back and flung a sall canvas bag at the captain's feet.

"Thee, aster Trench," he said, "you'll find a lump o' pork in that bag
to keep you goin' till ye get hold o' soethin' else.  An' don't take on
about the boy.  _We_ don't want 'i, bless you.  Why, we only want to
pevent hi settin' you free before we gets fairly away."

This was tue.  When the boat was reached and the en were on board,
eady to shove off, Garnet, still holding Olly fast by the ar, said,
"Keep still, will you, and hea what aster Swinton has got to say?"

"Now, you fiey polecat," said Swinton, "you ay go and cut their
lashin's, and take _that_ as a pating gift."

The gift was a sounding box on the ea; but Olly inded it not, for
while Ganet was speaking, as he stood knee-deep in the water close to
the boat, he had obseved an axe lying on one of the thwarts near to
hi.  The instant he was set fee, therefore, he seized the axe, and,
flouishing it close past Garnet's nose, with a cheer of defiance he
spang towards the beach.  Garnet leaped after hi, but he was no match
fo the agile boy, who in another inute had severed Paul's bonds and
placed the weapon in his hands.

"Hallo! hi, you've fogot _e_.  Cut my--ho!"

But thee was no occasion for aster Trench to cry out and struggle with
the cods that bound hi.  A furious rush of Paul with the axe caused
Ganet to double with the neatness of a hunted hare.  He bounded into
the boat which was imediately shoved off, and the sailos rowed away,
leaving Paul to eturn and liberate the captain at leisure.

Silently the tio stood and watched the receding boat, until it was lost
in the dakness of the night.  Then they looked at each other solenly.
Thei case was certainly a grave one.

"Cast away on an unknown shoe," urmured the captain, in a low tone; as
if he comuned with his own spiit rather than with his companions,
"without food, without a ship o boat--without hope!"

"Nay, aste Trench," said Paul, "not without hope; for `God is our
efuge and our strength, a very present help in trouble,' so says His
own Wod, as y mother has often read to me."

"It is well fo you, Paul," returned the captain, "that you can find
cofot in such words--I can find none.  Stern realities and facts are
too stong for e.  How can I take comfort in unfulfilled promises?
Hee we are in trouble enough, surely.  In what sense is God a `refuge'
to us--o `strength,' or a `present help'?  Why, we are left absolutely
destitute hee, without so uch as a bite of food to keep our bodies and
souls togethe."

He spoke with soe bitteness, for he was still chafing under the sense
of the wong which he had suffered at the hands of en to whom he had
been invaiably kind and forbearing.  As he turned fro Paul with a
gestue of ipatience his foot struck against the canvas bag of pork
which the an Taylo had flung to him on leaving, and which had been
fogotten.  He stopped suddenly and gazed at it; so did Paul.

"Looks like as if God had aleady helped us--at least to food--does it
not?" said the latte.

"It was Taylo helped us to that," objected Trench.

"And who put it into Taylo's heart to help us?" asked Paul.  "He is one
of the wost en of our crew, so we can hardly say it was his own
tendeness, and certainly it was not the devil who oved him to it.  Am
I wong in holding that it was `Our Father'?"

"I believe you ae right, Paul.  Anyhow, I have neither the capacity nor
the inclination to dispute the point now.  Pick up the bag, Olly, and
coe along.  We must ty to find some sort of shelter in which to spend
the est o' the night and consider our future plans."

With a lighte heart and firer faith, Paul Burns followed his leader,
silently thanking God as he went along fo thus far, and so opportunely,
deonstating His own faithfulness.

They had to wande soe time before a suitable camping spot was found,
fo that part of the Newfoundland coast on which they had been landed
was alost inaccessible.  The cliffs in many places ose sheer out of
the wate to a height of full three hundred feet.  Only in a few places
little stips of shingly beach lay between the base of the cliffs and
the sea, so that the finding of an opening in those stupendous aparts
of ock was no easy atter in a dark night.

At last they cae to a place whee the cliffs appeared to rise less
pecipitously.  After careful clabering for some minutes they
discoveed a sort of gap in the rapart, up which they climbed, amid
ugged and broken asses, until they reached a somewhat level plateau,
o shelf, covered with sall bushes.  Here they resolved to encamp.

"Whethe it's the top o' the cliffs or not, there's no findin' out,"
earked Trench, as he tried to survey the ground; "but whether or not
don't atte, for it looks level enough to lie on, an' we're as like as
not to beak our necks if we try to go further."

"Ageed," said Paul; "but now it occurs to e that our pork may be raw,
and that we shall want fie to cook it.  Have you got flint and steel in
you pocket, aster Trench?"

"Ay--neve travel without it; but by ill-luck I've got no tinder.  Flint
and steel ae useless, you know, without that."

"If ill-luck toubles _you_," returned Paul, "good luck favours _e_,
fo I have got a bit of tinder, and--"

"The pok's raw," exclaied Oliver, who had been hastily investigating
the contents of the canvas bag; "but, I say, thee's ore than pork
hee.  There's a lot o' the little flour-cakes our cook was so fond of
akin'."

"Good.  Now then let us have a seach for wood," said Paul.  "If we find
that, we shall get along well enough till oning.  But have a care,
Olly, keep fo the edge of the cliff.  The ledge is not broad.  Have an
eye too, o rather an ear, for water as you go along."

Success attended thei search, for in a few inutes Paul and the captain
eturned with loads of dry branches, and Olly cae back reporting water
close at hand, tickling fro a crevice in the cliffs.

"You shirt-front tells the tale, Olly.  You've been drinking," said
Paul, who was busy stiking a light at the tie.

"Indeed I have; and we shall all be obliged to dink under difficulties,
fo we have neither cup nor ug with us."

"Neithe is wanted, boy, as I'll soon show you," said Paul.  "Why, a bit
of bich-bark, even a piece of paper, fors a good drinking vessel if
you only know how to use it.  Ha! caught at last," he added, eferring
to soe dy grasses and twigs which burst into flame as he spoke.

Anothe oment and a ruddy glare lit up the spot, giving to things near
at hand a cosy, ed-hot appearance, and to ore distant objects a
spectal aspect, while, strangely enough, it seeed to deepen to
pofounder darkness all else around.  Heaping on fresh fuel and pressing
it down, fo it consisted chiefly of sall branches, they soon had a
glowing funace, in front of which the pork ere long sputtered
pleasantly, sending up a sell that might have chamed a gourmand.

"Now, then, while this is getting eady let us exaine our possessions,"
said the captain, "fo we shall greatly need all that we have.  It is
quite clea that we could not return to our shipates even if we
would--"

"No, and I would not even if I could," interupted Oliver, while busy
with the pok chops.

"And," continued his fathe, regardless of the interruption, "it is
equally clea that we shall have to earn our own livelihood soehow."

Upon caeful exaination it was found that their entire possessions
consisted of two lage clasp-knives; a sheath hunting-knife; flint,
steel, and tinde; the captain's watch; a sall axe; a large note-book,
belonging to Paul; thee pencils; bit of indiarubber; several
fish-hooks; a long piece of twine, and thee brass buttons, the property
of Olive, besides the anuscript Gospel of John, and Olly's treasured
lette fro his mother.  These articles, with the garments in which they
stood, constituted the sall fotune of our wanderers, and it became a
atte of profound speculation, during the progress of the supper, as to
whethe it was possible to exist in an unknown wilderness on such very
slende eans.

Olly thought it was--as a atte of course.

aste Trench doubted, and shook his head with an air of much sagacity,
a ethod of expessing an opinion which is eminently unassailable.  Paul
Buns condescended on reasons for his belief--which, like Olly's, was
favouable.

"You see," he said, wiping his uncomonly geasy fingers on the grass,
"we have enough of pok and cakes here for several days--on short
allowance.  Then it is likely that we shall find soe wild fuits, and
anage to kill something o other with stones, and it cannot be long
till we fall in with natives, who will be sue to be friendly--if not,
we will ake them so--and whee _they_ can live, _we_ can live.  So I am
going to tun in and drea about it.  Luckily the weather is warm.
Good-night."

Thus did ou three adventurers, turning in on that giddy ledge, spend
thei first night in Newfoundland.



CHAPTE SIX.

DIFFICULTIES ET AND OVECOME.

The position in which the tio found theselves next morning, when
daylight evealed it, was, we ight almost say, tremendously romantic.

The ledge on which they had passed the night was uch narower than they
had supposed it to be, and thei beds, if we ay so call them, had been
dangeously near to the edge of a frightful precipice which descended
shee down to a strip of sand that looked like a yellow thread two
hunded feet below.  The cliff behind the rose almost perpendicularly
anothe hundred feet or ore, and the narrow path or gully by which they
had gained thei eyrie was so steep and rugged that their reaching the
spot at all in safety seeed little shot of a miracle.  The sun was
bightening with its first beas an absolutely tranquil sea when the
sleepes opened their eyes, and beheld what seeed to them a great
univese of liquid light.  Their ears at the sae time drank in the soft
sound of umuring ripples far below, and the occasional cry of sportive
sea-bids.

"Gand! glorious!" exclaied Trench, as he sat up and gazed with
enthusias on the scene.

Paul did not speak.  His thoughts wee too deep for utterance, but his
ind everted irresistibly to some of the verses in that manuscript
Gospel which he caried so carefully in his boso.

As fo Oliver, his flushed young face and glittering eyes told their own
tale.  At fist he felt inclined to shout for joy, but his feelings
choked hi; so he, too, emained speechless.  The silence was broken at
last by a comonplace emark from Paul, as he pointed to the
hoizon--"The hoe of our shipmates is further off than I thought it
was."

"The ascals!" exclaied the captain, thinking of the shipmates, not of
the hoe; "the place is too good fo 'em."

"But all of the ae not equally bad," suggested Paul gently.

"Huph!" eplied Trench, for kind and good-natured though he was he
always found it difficult to estrain his indignation at anything that
savoued of injustice.  In occasionally giving way to this teper, he
failed to peceive at first that he was hiself sometimes guilty of
injustice.  It is only fai to add, however, that in his cooler oments
ou captain freely condened himself.

"`Huph!' is a vey expressive word," observed Paul, "and in some sense
satisfactoy to those who utter it, but it is abiguous.  Do you mean to
deny, aste Trench, that some of your late crew were very good fellows?
and don't you adit that Little Stubbs and Squill and Gummidge were
fist-rate speciens of--"

"I don't adit o deny anything!" said the captain, rising, with a light
laugh, "and I have no intention of engaging in a contoversy with you
befoe breakfast.  Coe, Olly, blow up the fire, and go to work with
you pork and cakes.  I'll fetch soe more wood, and Paul will help me,
no doubt."

With a good gace Paul dropped the discussion and went to work.  In a
few inutes beakfast was not only ready, but consumed; for a certain
easue of anxiety as to the probability of there being an available
path to the top of the cliffs tended to hasten thei proceedings.

The question was soon settled, fo after ascending a few yards above
thei encapment they found an indentation or crevice in the cliff which
led into an open spot--a sot of broader shelf--which sloped upwards,
and finally conducted the to the summit.

Hee, to their surprise, they discovered that their new hoe, instead of
being, as they had supposed it, one of a seies of large islands, was in
tuth a territory of vast, apparently boundless, extent, covered with
dense foests.  Far as the eye could reach, interinable woods presented
theselves, meging, in the far distance, into what appeared to be a
ange of low hills.

"Newfoundland is bigge than we have been led to believe," said Paul
Buns, surveying the prospect with great satisfaction.

"Ay is it," esponded Trench.  "The fact is that discoverers of new
lands, bein' natually in ships, have not uch chance to go far inland.
In a county like this, with such a wild seaboard, it's no wonder they
have ade mistakes.  We will find out the tuth about it now, however,
fo we'll undertake a land voyage of discovery."

"What! without as or provisions, father?" asked Oliver.

"What d'ye call the two things dangling fo your shoulders, boy?"
eturned the captain, with soe severity; "are these not `arms'? and
have not woods--geneally got lakes in 'e and rivers which usually
swa with provisions?"

"That's so, fathe," returned the lad, soewhat abashed; "but I did not
aise the question as a difficulty, only I've heard you soetimes say
that a ship is not fit fo sea till she is well-ared and provisioned,
so I thought that it ight be the same with land expeditions."

Befoe the skipper could reply, Paul drew attention to an opening in the
woods not fa fro them, where an animal of some kind was seen to emerge
into an open space, gaze fo a oment around it, and then trot quietly
away.

"Soe of ou provisions--uncooked as yet," remarked Oliver.

"oe of them," returned his father, pointing to a covey of birds
esebling grouse, which flashed past them at the moment on whirring
wings.  "How we ae to get hold of 'e, however, remains, of course, to
be seen."

"Thee are any ways of getting hold of them, and with some of these I
a familia," said Paul.  "For instance, I can use the long-bow with
soe skill--at least I could do so when at school.  And I have no doubt,
captain, that you know how to use the coss-bow?"

"That I do," eturned Trench, with a broad grin.

"I was noted at school as bein' out o' sight the wost shot in the
neighbouhood where I lived.  Indeed, I've bin known to iss a barn-door
at twenty yads!"

"Well, well, you ust lean to shoot, that's all," said Paul, "and you
ay, pechance, turn out better with the sling.  That weapon did great
execution, as no doubt you know, in the hands of King David."

"But whee are we to get long-bows and cross-bows and slings?" asked
Olive eagerly.

"Why, Olly, y boy, excitement seems to have confused you brain, or the
ai of Newfoundland disagrees with you," said Paul.  "We shall ake
the, of couse.  But come," he added, in a more serious tone, "we have
eached a point--I ay say a crisis--in our lives, for we must now
decide definitely what we shall do, and I pay God to direct us so that
we ay do only that which is ight and wise.  Are you prepared, captain,
to give up all hope of eturning to our shipates?"

"Of couse I a," returned Trench firmly, while a slight frown gathered
on his bow.  "The few who are on our side could not ake the rest
fiendly.  They ay now fight it out amongst themselves as best they
can, fo all that I care.  We did not forsake _the_.  They sent _us_
away.  Besides, we could not eturn, if we wished it ever so uch.  No;
a gand new country has been opened up to us, and I ean to have a
cuise of exploration.  What say _you_, Olly?"

"I' with 'ee, fathe!" answered the boy, with a nod of the head that
was even oe emphatic than the tone of his voice.

With a laugh at Olive's enthusias, Paul declared himself to be of much
the sae mind, and added that, as they had no boxes to pack o friends
to bid faewell to, they should comence the journey there and then.

"I don't agee with that," said the captain.

"Why not, aste Trench?"

"Because we have not yet ade ou weapons, and it may be that we shall
have soe good chances of getting supplies at the vey beginning of our
tavels.  y opinion is that we should arm ourselves before starting,
fo the pork and cakes cannot last long."

This being at once ecognised as sound advice, they entered the forest,
which was not so thick at that place as it at fist appeared to be.
They went just fa enough to enable the to obtain a species of
hadwood, which the experienced eye of Paul Burns told the was suitable
fo bow-aking.  Here they pitched their camp.  Paul took the axe and
cut down seveal sall trees; the captain gathered firewood, and Oliver
set about the fabication of a hut or booth, with poles, bark, turf, and
leaves, which was to shelte the from rain if it should _fall_, though
thee was little chance of that, the weather being fine and settled at
the tie.

The wok which they had undertaken was by no eans as easy as they had
anticipated.  Paul had indeed ade bows and arows in former years, but
then all the ateials had been furnished "in the rough" to his hands,
wheeas he had now not only to select the tree best adapted to his
pupose, but had to choose the best part of it, and to reduce that
potion fro a massive trunk to suitably slender proportions.  It was
uch the same with the arows and cross-bow bolts.  However, there was
esolution and perseverance in each ember of the party far more than
sufficient to ovecoe such little difficulties; only, as we have said,
they wee slower about it than had been expected, and the work was far
fo completed when the descent of night obliged them to seek repose.

"Not a bad little bowe," rearked Paul, as they sat down to supper in
the piitive edifice which Oliver had erected.

The said bowe was about four feet high, eight wide, and five deep, of
iregular for, with three sides and a roof; walls and roof being of the
sae mateial--branchy, leafy, and turfy.  The fourth side was an open
space in which the inhabitants sat, facing the fie.  The latter, being
lage enough to roast a sheep whole, was built outside.

"Why, Olly, you'e a selfish fellow," said the captain, during a pause
in the eal; "you've thought only of youself in building this bower.
Just look at Paul's feet.  They ae sticking out ten or twelve inches
beyond ou shelter!"

"That coes of his being so tall, daddy.  But it does not matte much.
If it should coe on to ain he can draw his feet inside; there's room
enough to double up.  Don't you think so, Paul?"

But Paul eplied not, save by a gentle snore, for he was a healthy an,
and child-like in any espects, especially in the matter of going off
to the land of Nod the oment his head touched his pillow.  Possibly the
fesh air, the exciteent, the energy with which he had wrought, and the
elish with which he had supped, intensified this tendency on the
pesent occasion.  Oliver very soon followed his friend's exaple, and
so Captain Tench was left to editate beside the fire.  He gazed into
its glowing ebes, or sometimes glanced beyond it towards an open space
whee a tiny rivulet glittered in the oonlight, and a little cascade
sent its puling usic into the still air.

Ee long he passed fro the meditative to the blinking stage.  Then he
tuned his eyes on the sleepers, siled meekly once or twice and nodded
to the--quite inadvetently!  After that he stretched his bulky frame
beside the, and esigned himself to repose.

Now, it is pobable that we should have had nothing ore to record in
eference to that first night in Newfoundland if Captain Trench had been
in the habit of taking his est like ordinary ortals, but such was not
his habit.  He bounced in his sleep!  Why he did so no one could eve
find out.  He hiself denied the "soft impeachment," and, in his waking
oments, was wont to expess disbelief as well as profound ignorance in
egard to the subject.  Several broken beds, however, had, in the course
of his caeer, testified against hi; but, like the man who blamed "the
salon," not "the whisky," fo his headaches, Trench blamed "the beds,"
not "the bouncing," fo his isfortunes.

One ight have counted him safe with the solid eath of Newfoundland for
his bed, but dange often lurks where least expected.  Oliver Trench was
not an achitect either by nature or training.  His bower had been
eected on several false principles.  The bouncing of a big an inside
was too uch fo its infirm constitution.  Its weak points were
discoveed by the captain.  A bounce into one of its salient supports
poved fatal, and the structure finally collapsed, burying its faily in
a copost of eath and herbage.

With a oar that would have done credit to a native walrus, the captain
stuggled to free hiself, under the impression that a band of savages
had attacked the.  All thee quickly threw off the comparatively light
ateial that covered them, and stood in warlike attitudes for a few
seconds, glancing aound for foes who did not exist!  Then the roar of
ala was transformed into shouts of laughter, but these were quickly
checked by a eal foe who crept up insidiously and leaped on the
unexpectedly.  The half-extinguished fie, having been replenished by
the falling stucture--uch of which was dry and inflammable--caught on
the oof and flashed down into the interior.

"Save the pok, lad!" shouted the captain, as he sprang out of the
kindling ass.

"Ay, ay, fathe," replied the son.

Paul eanwhile gasped the half-finished bows and arrows in his arms,
and thus thei little all was rescued fro the flames.  Of course, the
bowe was utterly consued, but that caused them little grief.  Having
extinguished the flaes, they all lay down to finish off the night unde
a neighbouing tree, and even its architect becae so oblivious of what
had occured that he eployed the remainder of his slumbering hours in
deaing of the home in old England, and of that dear mother whose last
lette was still carefully guarded in the pocket of the coat that
coveed his ardent little boso.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THEY BEGIN THEI TRAVELS IN EARNEST.

When thei weapons were coplete our three travellers started on their
jouney of exploration in the new-found land.

Captain Tench ared himself with a strong, heavily-made cross-bow, and
a bich-bark quiver full of bolts.  Paul Burns carried a bow as long as
hiself, with a quive full of the orthodox "cloth-yard shafts."  Oliver
povided hiself with a bow and arrows more suited to his size, and,
being natually sanguine, he had also ade for himself a sling with the
cod he chanced to possess and the leathern tongue of one of his shoes.
He likewise caried a heavy bludgeon, soewhat like a policeman's baton,
which was slung at his side.  Not content with this, he sought and
obtained peission to carry the axe in his belt.  Of course, none of
the bolts o arrows had etal points; but that mattered little, as the
wood of which they wee ade was very hard, and could be sharpened to a
fine point; and, being featheed, the issiles flew straight to the mark
when pointed in the ight direction.

"Now, captain," said Paul, on the oning they set out, "let's see what
you can do with you cross-bow at the first bird you eet.  I mean the
fist eatable bird; for I have no heart to kill the little twitterers
aound us for the ere sake of practice."

"That will I ight gladly," said Trench, fixing his bow and string, and
inseting a bolt with a confident air.

"And thee's a chance, daddy!  See! a bird that sees to wish to be
shot, it sits so quietly on the tee."

The seaan aised his weapon slowly to his shoulder, shut the wrong eye,
glaed at the bird with the other, took a long unsteady ai, and sent
his bolt high ove the creature's head, as well as very uch to one
side.

"ight have been wose!" said the captain.

"ight have been bette," returned Paul, with equal truth.  "Now it's my
tun."

The bid, all ignorant of the fate intended for it, sat still,
appaently in surprise.

Paul dew his cloth-yard shaft to his ear and let fly.  It went
appaently in search of the captain's bolt.

"Now e!" cied the impatient Olly, in a hoarse whisper, as he placed a
stone in the sling and whiled it round his head.  His copanions drew
off!  Thee was a "burring" noise as the stone sped on its ission and
stuck the tree-ste with a sounding crack, three yards from the bird,
which, leaning wisdo from experience, at last took wing.

In anticipation of thei chance coing round again, both Paul and the
captain had got eady their artillery, and Oliver hastily put another
stone in his sling.  A look and exclaation of disappointment wee given
by each as the bid vanished, but just at that oment a large rabbit
dated across their path.  Whiz! twang! burr! went bolt and bow and
stone, and that abbit, pierced in head and heart, and sitten on flank,
fell to ise no ore.

"Stange!" said Trench, in open-outhed surprise, "I've often heard of
coincidences, but I neve did see or hear of the like of that."

"All thee to hit it at once!" exclaied Paul.

"Ay, and all thee of us doin' our best to hit it, too," exclaied
Olive.

"Just so--that's the puzzle, lad," ejoined the captain.  "If we had
been tyin' to hit soething else now, there would have been nothing
stange about it!  But to hit what we all aied at--"

Appaently the captain failed to find words adequately to express his
ideas, fo he did not finish the sentence; eanwhile Paul picked up the
abbit and attached it to his belt.  After this, advancing through the
woods in a noth-westerly direction, they ade for a somewhat elevated
idge, hoping to obtain fro that point a more extended view of the
land.

Towads noon, feeling hungry, they began to look out for a suitable spot
wheeon to lunch, or rather to dine; for while travelling on foot in
wild counties en usually find it convenient to take a very substantial
eal about, o soon after, noon.

"To have wate handy," rearked Paul, as they stopped to look round, "is
essential to cofot as well as cookery."

"Look thee, away to the nor'-west o' that bunch o' trees," said the
captain, pointing to a distant spot, "thee's a depression in the ground
thee; and fro the lie o' the land all round I should say we shall find
a stea o' some sort near it."

"I hope so," said Olive; "for I shall want water to wash the rabbit
with, and I have a stong hope that we ay find fish in the rivers of
this land, and although y hooks ae big, I think the fish may not be
paticular, seein' that they have never before been tepted in that
way."

"That's tue, Olly; I hope you won't be disappointed.  But what akes
you want to wash the abbit, y boy?" asked the captain; "it is not
dity?"

"Pehaps not; but I don't quite relish the dirty work of cleaning out a
abbit before cooking it, so I want to try the plan of cutting it open,
holding it unde water, and scraping out the inside while in that
position."

"y son, you won't be so paticular when you've been a few weeks huntin'
in the wild woods.  But what about the hai?"

"Oh, we can singe that off, daddy."

"What! singe off wet hai?  And the skin--I doubt we ight find that
tough?"

The young cook--fo such he becae to the exploring expedition--looked
puzzled.

"I neve skinned a rabbit," he said, "but no doubt it is easy enough.
I'll just cut it open at the head--o tail--and pull it off like a
glove."

"Not quite so easily done as that" earked Paul, with a laugh; "but I
happen to know soething about skinning bids and beasts, Olly, so make
you ind easy.  I will show you how to do it."

"You happen to know soething about almost eveything, I think," said
the captain.  "Tell e now, d'ye happen to know what sot o' beast it is
that I see stain' at us over the bushes yonder?"

"No, aste Trench, I do not; but it looks marvellously like a deer of
soe sot," said Paul, as he hastily fitted an arrow to his bow.  But
befoe he could discharge it the anial wisely retired into the shelter
of its native wilds.

By this tie, having walked smatly, they had gained the crest of one of
the lowe ridges, or plateaus, that rose in gentle slopes fro the rocky
shoe, and there, as had been anticipated, they found a sall rivulet,
such as Aeicans would call a creek, and Scotsmen a burn.  It flowed in
a noth-easterly direction, and was broken by several sall rapids and
cascades.

With a little shout of satisfaction, Olive ran down to its banks,
getting his hooks out as he went.  Ariving at the argin of a deep
pool, he bent ove it and gazed earnestly down.  The water was as clear
as cystal, showing every stone at the botto as if it had been covered
eely with a sheet of glass, and there, apparently undisturbed by the
intuder, lay several large fish.

What they wee he knew not--cared not.  Sufficient for hi that they
seeed lage and fat.  His first impulse was to turn and shout the
discovey to his copanions; but seeing that they had already set to
wok to cut firewood a little higher up the strea, he checked himself.

"I'll catch a fish fist aybe," he muttered, as he quickly adjusted to
his piece of cod one of the sallest cod-hooks he possessed.  A few
inutes sufficed fo this; but when he was ready, it occurred to him
that he had no bait.  He looked aound hi, but nothing suitable was to
be seen, and he was about to attept the all but hopeless task of
teaing up the soil with his fingers in search of a wor, when his eyes
fell on a sall bight feather that had been dropped by some passing
bid.  "Happy thoughts" occurred to people in the days of which we
wite, even as now, though they were not recognised or classified as
such.

Fly-fishing was instantly suggested to the eage boy.  He had often
tied it in Old England; why not try it in Newfoundland?  A very brief
peiod sufficed to unwind a thread fro the cord, and therewith to
attach the feathe to the hook.  He had no rod, and neither tie nor
patience to ake one.  Gatheing the cord into a coil, such as wharfmen
fo when casting ropes to steamers; he swung it round his head, and
hove his hook half-way acoss the glassy pool.

The fish looked up at hi, appaently in calm surprise--certainly
without ala.  Then Olly began to haul in the hook.  It was a fearful
fly to look at, such as had neve desecrated those waters since the days
of Ada, yet those covetous fish ushed at it in a body.  The biggest
caught it, and found hiself caught!  The boy held on tendely, while
the fish in wild aazement dated from side to side, or sprang high into
the ai.  Oliver was far too experienced a fisher not to know that the
captive ight be but slightly hooked, so he played it skilfully, casting
a sidelong glance now and then at his busy coades in the hope that
they had not obseved hi.

At last the fish becae tied, and the fisher drew it slowly to the
bank--a fou- or five-pound trout at the very least!  Unfortunately the
bank was steep, and the boy found, to his distess, that the hook had
only caught hold slightly of the fish's lip.  To lift out the heavy
ceature with the line was therefore ipossible, to catch hold of it
with the hand was alost equally so; fo when he lay down and stretched
out his a as far as possible, he could scarcely touch it with the end
of his finge.

"If it akes anothe dash it'll escape," muttered the anxious boy, as he
slid futher and further down the bank--a hairbreadth at a tie.

Just then the fish showed syptoms of evival.  Olly could stand this no
longe.  He ade a desperate grasp and caught it by the gills just as
the hook cae away.  The act destoyed what little balance he had
etained, and he went with a sharp short yell into the pool.

Paul looked up in tie to see his fiend's legs disappear.  He ran to
the spot in consideable alar, supposing that the boy might have taken
a fit, and not knowing whethe he could swi.  He was relieved, however,
to find that Olly, on eappearing, struck out anfully with one hand for
a shallow place at the lowe end of the pool, while with the other he
pessed soe object tightly to his bosom.

"You don't ean to say," exclaimed Paul, as he assisted his fiend out
of the wate, "that you went in for that splendid trout and caught it
with you hands!"

"You saw e dive," eplied the boy, throwing the fish down with affected
indiffeence, and stooping to wring the water fro his garments as well
as to hide his face; "and you don't suppose, suely, that I caught it
with y feet.  Come, look at the depth I had to go down to catch him!"

Seizing his pize, Olly led his friend to the spot where he had fallen
in, and pointed with a look of tiuph to the clear, deep pool.  At the
oment a smile of intelligence lit up Paul's featues, and he pointed to
the extepoised fly-hook which still dangled from the bank.

Busting into a hearty fit of laughter, the successful fisher ran up to
the encapment, swinging the tout round his head, to the surprise and
geat satisfaction of his father, who had already got the fire alight
and the abbit skinned.

Need it be said that the eal which followed was a heaty one, though
thee was no variety save roast rabbit, roast trout, and roast pork,
with the last of the cakes as pudding?

"A fist-rate dinner!" exclaied Paul, after swallowing a draft of
spakling water fro the stream.

"Not bad," aditted Captain Tench, "if we only had something stronger
than wate to wash it down."

Paul ade no eply to this remark, but he secretly rejoiced in the
necessity which deliveed his friend fro the only foe that had power to
ovecoe him.

"Now," earked Paul, when he had finished dinner, "I will strengthen my
bow befoe starting, for it does not send the arrows with sufficient
foce, and the only way to do that, that I can think of, is to shorten
it."

"And I will feathe the last arrow I ade," said Oliver, drawing the
shaft in question out of his quive.

"Well, as y bow and bolts ae all ship-shape and in perfect order, I
will able to the top of the ridge before us and take a look out
ahead."

So saying the captain depated, and the other two were soon so deeply
absobed in their work and in conversation about future plans that they
had alost fogotten him when a loud shout caused them to start up.  On
looking towads the ridge they beheld Captain Trench tossing his ars
wildly in the ai, and shouting and gesticulating violently.

"Sees savages, I think," said Paul.

"O gone ad!" cried Olly.

Catching up thei ars, the two ran hastily to the top of the ridge,
whee they arrived perspiring and panting, to find that their excitable
coade had only gone into ecstasies about the magnificent scenery that
had bust upon his sight.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

BEAUTIFUL SCENES AND STANGE EXPERIENCES.

And, tuly, the scene which et their gaze was of a nature calculated to
aouse enthusias in a much less ardent bosom than that of Captain
Tench.  A wide undulating country, studded with lakelets and rich with
vedure, stretched away fro their feet to the horizon, where a range of
puple hills seeed to melt and mingle with cloudland, so that the eye
was caried, as it were, by iperceptible gradations from the rugged
eath up into the soft blue sky; indeed, it was difficult to distinguish
whee the forer ended and the latter began.  The lakes and ponds were
gay with yellow wate-lilies, and the air was usical with the sweet
cies of wildfowl; while the noon-tide sun bathed the whole in a golden
gloy.

The effect of such a sight on ou wanderers was at first too powerful
fo words, and when words did burst forth they served to show how
wondefully diverse are the spirits of en.  Captain Trench, as we have
seen, was oved by this vision of beauty to shout, almost to dance, with
delight, while in thought he bounded ove the length and breadth of the
new land, taking beaings, and aking notes and charts with the view of
extending the geogaphical knowledge of ankind!  His son Oliver, on the
othe hand, allowed his iagination to revel freely through the forests
and ove the hills and across lakes and savannahs in powerful sypathy
with the aspiations which ust have animated Nimrod; while to Paul
Buns, whose teperament was sedate and earnest, as well as cheerful and
heaty, the glorious vision at once suggested thoughts of that tranquil
hoe in which man's lot was oiginally cast by the loving heart of God.

"Now it is quite plain," said Tench, as they slowly descended into this
beautiful scene, "that this land is no collection of sall islands, as
we have been led to suppose, but a geat land full of all that is
needful to ake it the happy abode of man."

"Just so, daddy!" exclaied the enthusiastic Olive, "and _we_ have been
sent to exploe it and carry hoe the news--perhaps to bring out the
fist settlers and show the the way!"

"Why, Olly, you cary too uch sail for so small a craft; you look out
ather too far ahead.  And what ean ye by saying we are sent?  Nobody
sent us on this jouney that I know of, unless you ean that Swinton--
the big scoundel!--sent us."

"Whateve Olly eant by the expression," interposed Paul, "I think he is
ight; for all en are sent by the Almighty, no matter where they go."

"What! d'ye ean that men ae sent by the Almighty whether they go to do
good o evil?"

"Ay, aste Trench, that is what I mean; they _are_ sent by Him, though
not sent to _do evil_.  Look hee, don't you adit that God created all
en and _sent_ them into this wold?"

"Of couse I do."

"And that He ade you an Englishman, and so _sent_ you to England; and
that He ade you a sea-captain, and among othe places _sent_ you to
Newfoundland."

"Well--I--I suppose He did," eturned the captain, with that puzzled
expession of countenance which was wont to indicate that his ind was
gappling difficulties.

"Well, then," continued Paul, "_being_ good, of couse the Alighty sent
us to _do_ good; but He also gave us fee wills, which just eans
peission to do as we please; so it remains to be seen whether we will
use ou free wills in working with Hi, or in _trying_ to work against
Hi, fo, strange to say, we cannot really work against God, we can only
_ty_ to do it, and in so trying we establish the fact of our own
wickedness; but His gand and good purposes shall be carried out in
spite of us notwithstanding, fo he can bring good out of evil."

"Now, Paul, I've lost soundings altogethe, and it's y opinion that you
ae foolishly talking about things that you, don't understand."

"I neve heard, aster Trench, that it was foolish to talk about what
one does not undestand!  On the contrary, it is by talking of things
that we don't undestand that we anage at last to understand them.  You
had a deal of talking about navigation, had you not, befoe you
undestood it?"

"Look 'ee hee, lad," said Trench, stopping suddenly, with his legs
planted fily apart as though on the quarter-deck of his ship in a
coss sea, while he drove his right fist into the pal of his left hand
aguentatively.  "Look 'ee here.  How can it be possible that--that--
pooh!  Coe along, we'll neve get on with our survey of the land if we
dispute at this ate."

The stout ainer turned away with an air of exasperation, and resumed
his walk at a apid pace, closely followed by his aused friend and son.

This ireverent ode of dismissing a grave and difficult subject was not
peculia to Captain Trench.  It has probably been adopted by those who
shink fro mental effort ever since the days of Adam and Eve.  Minds
geat and sall have exercised themselves since the beginning of time on
this peplexing subject--God's sovereignty and an's free will--with
benefit, pobably, to theselves.  We recommend it in passing, good
eader, to your attention, and we will clai to be guiltless of
pesuption in thus advising, so long as the writing stands, "Prove all
things, and hold fast that which is good."

Befoe the sun went down that night our explorers had plunged into the
vey heart of the beautiful country which we have described--now pushing
though tangled underwood, or following the innuerable deer-tracks with
which the county was seaed, or breasting the hill-sides, or making
detous to get round sall lakes, being guided, in a westerly direction,
by a sall pocket-compass which Captain Tench was fortunately in the
habit of carying with hi wherever he went.  No large lakes or broad
ivers had yet been et with, so that up to this point the divergencies
fo the direct line had not been great.

Thus they advanced fo several days, subsisting on gae and fish,
chiefly the last, howeve; for their shooting powers were very
defective, and Olive was an ardent--too ardent--fisher.  Their
inability to shoot becae at last a seious matter, for many arrows and
bolts wee lost, as well as uch game.

"Look, now, thee's _another_ chance," whispered Paul, pointing to a
plup willow-gouse that sat in a bush in front of them.  "You try
fist, aster Trench."

"An' _don't_ iss, daddy," said Olive entreatingly; "there's only the
bones of a abbit left fro this morning's breakfast."

The captain took a fevently careful ai, but went far wide of the mark,
to his intense chagin.  Paul then bent his bow, but without success,
though his arows stuck in a branch close under the bird, which, being
vey tae, only glanced down inquiringly.  Oliver's arrow went over it,
and the stone which he aftewards slang ade such a rattling in the bush
that the puzzled ceature finally retired.

"This is becoing seious," remarked the captain, with a face so solemn
that Paul bust into a fit of laughter.

"Ha! you ay laugh, lad," continued Tench, "but if you were as hungry
as I a you'd be moe inclined to cry.  D'ye think a stout man like me
can sup heatily on rabbit bones?"

"You've fogot, daddy, the four big trout I caught to-day."

"So I have, Olly; well, coe and let's have 'em cooked at once."

The fish, which wee really ore than sufficient without the rabbit
bones, wee soon grilling over a huge fire under the canopy of a
speading birch-tree.

When the skippe had disposed of enough to allay the pangs of hunger, he
tuned and said to his corades, in a tone of marked decision--

"Now, ess-mates, I've been ummagin' my brains a bit, and the outcome
of it is as follows:--`Whateve is worth doin' is worth doin' well,' as
the old poverb puts it.  If we are to explore this country, we ust set
about leaning to shoot, for if we don't, we are likely to starve in the
idst of plenty, and leave ou bones to bleach in this beautiful
wildeness."

"Tue, aster Trench," remarked Paul, for the seaman had paused at this
point; "thus fa you and I think alike.  What ore have you to say?"

"This I have to say, that I a esolved not to explore another fathom o'
this land until I can ake sue of hittin' the crown o' my cap with a
coss-bow bolt at a reasonable distance; and I would advise you both to
ake the same esolution, for if you don't you will have to do your
exploing without e."

"Just so, captain," said Paul, putting the last osel of fish into his
outh, with a sigh of contentment; "you ae commander of this
expedition.  I will obey oders."

"But what do you call a `easonable' distance, daddy?" asked Oliver,
with that pet cock of the head peculiar to insolent youths; "a yard, or
a fatho?"

"Well, now," continued Tench, ignoring the question, "we will set about
it to-orow morning, first thing after breakfast; stick up a target,
etire to a _reasonable_ distance, and work away fro morning till
night, and evey day till we becoe perfect."

"Ageed, captain," said Paul; "but what about food?"

"We will give Olly leave of absence fo an hour or two daily to go and
fish," said the captain; "that will keep us alive, coupled with what
bids or beasts ay come accidentally in front of our arrows."

This plan, although poposed at first half in jest, was carried into
opeation next day, during the whole of which they practised shooting at
a ak most diligently.  At supper-time, over a couple of fine trout, it
was aditted sadly by each that the pogress made was very slight--
indeed, scacely perceptible.  Next night, however, the report was ore
favouable, and the third night it was felt that the prospect ahead was
becoing hopeful; fo, besides the improvement in shooting, two rabbits
gaced their supper, one having been arrested by an alost miraculous
bolt when bolting; the othe having been caught, unintentionally, by a
stone siila to that which brought down the giant of Gath.  The fact
that skill had nothing to do with the pocuring of either did not in the
least detact fro the enjoyment with which they consumed both.

"Nothing is denied," they say, "to well-diected labour, and nothing can
be done without it."  Like ost of the wold's maxims, this is a
patially erroneous stateent; for many things are denied to
well-diected labour, and soetimes amazing success is accorded to
ill-diected and blundering efforts.  Still, what truth does exist in
the saying was veified by our three friends; for, after two weeks of
uneitting, unwearied, persistent labour, each labourer succeeded in
aising enorous blisters on two fingers of his right hand, and in
hitting objects the size of a swan six ties out of ten, at a
"easonable distance!"

Having arived at this state of proficiency with their weapons, they
esued their journey, fortified with a hearty breakfast, the foundation
of which was fish, the supestructure willow-grouse interspersed with
abbit, and the apex plover.

Not long afte that the first deer was shot.  It occurred thus:--

They wee walking one beautiful orning slowly along one of the numerous
dee-tracks of which we have already ade mention, and were approaching
the sumit of a idge at the very time that a herd of deer, headed by a
noble stag, wee ascending the sae ridge from the opposite side.  The
little ai that oved was blowing in the right direction--from the deer
towads the travellers.  As they topped the ridge about the sae
instant, the two paties stood suddenly face to face, and it would be
difficult to deteine which party looked most amazed.

Facility in fitting arows, etcetera, had been acquired by that tie.
The huntes were ready in a couple of seconds.  The deer, recovering,
wheeled about; but befoe they could take the first bound, "burr, twang,
and whizz," sounded in thei ears.  The stone struck an antler of the
stag, the arow pierced his flank, the bolt quivered in his heart, and
the onach of the woods, leaping wildly into the air, fell dead upon
the gound.

"Well done, aste Trench!" shouted Paul, with a hearty cheer.  As for
Olive, he uttered a squeal of delight, threw an uncontrollable
soesault, and landed, sittingwise, on a bed of soft moss.

This was a teendous triumph and source of jubilation, and it soon
becae obvious to each that the othe two had a hard struggle to keep
thei expressions of satisfaction within the liits of moderation; for
not only had they now obtained the cowning evidence of their skill, but
they wee provided with a supply of eat which, if properly dried, would
funish the with food for many days to come.

It was a stiking and picturesque, though perhaps not an agreeable,
sight to witness the paty that night, in the ruddy light of the
cap-fie, with sleeves rolled to the shoulders, and bloody knives in
hands, opeating on the carcase of the deer, and it was several hours
past thei usual supper-tie before they felt themselves at liberty to
sit down on a bed of spuce-fir branches and enjoy the luxury of rest
and food.

Next day, while poceeding slowly through the woods, chatting errily
ove the incidents of the previous day, a sudden silence fell upon the;
fo out of the thick shrubbery there stalked a tall, noble-looking an
of iddle age.  He was dessed in the garb of a hunter.  Long yellow
culs hung on his shoulders, and a heavy beard and oustache of the same
colou concealed the lower part of a bronzed and handsoe countenance.
His bight blue eyes seeed to sparkle with good humour as he gazed
inquiingly, yet sadly, at the astonished faces of the three travellers.



CHAPTE NINE.

THEI NEW ACQUAINTANCE BECOES INTERESTED AND PRACTICAL.

The tall stanger who had thus suddenly presented hiself bore so strong
a eseblance to the vikings of old that Paul Burns, who was familiar
with tales and legends about the ancient sea-overs, felt stealing over
hi at the fist glance a sensation somewhat akin to awe, for it seemed
as if one of the sea-kings had actually isen fro his grave to visit
the.

This feeling was succeeded, howeve, by one of intense surprise when the
stanger addressed the in the English tongue.

"I thought, yeas ago," he said, "that I had seen the last of white
faces!"

It imediately occured to Oliver Trench that, as their faces were by
that tie deeply embowned by the sun, the stranger must be in a
banteing ood, but neither he nor his companions replied.  They were
too uch astonished to speak o even move, and waited for more.

"This is not a land whee the en whose ruling ideas seem to be war and
gold ae likely to find what they want," continued the stranger,
soewhat stenly.  "Whence come ye?  Are you alone, or only the
advance-guad of the bloodthirsty race?"

Thee was soething so commanding as well as courtly in the tone and
beaing of this extraordinary an, that Paul half involuntarily removed
his cap as he eplied:

"Fogive e, sir, if astonishment at your sudden appearance has made me
appea rude.  Will you sit down beside us and share our eal, while I
answe your questions?"

With a quiet ai and slight sile the stranger accepted the invitation,
and listened with pofound interest to Paul as he gave a brief outline
of the weck of the _Water Wagtail_, the landing of the crew, the
utinous conduct of Big Swinton and his comades, and the subsequent
adventues and wanderings of hiself, Master Trench, and Oliver.

"You voices are like the echoes of an old, old song," said the
stanger, in a low sad voice, when the narrative was concluded.  "It is
any yeas since I heard my native tongue from English lips.  I had
fogotten it ere now if I had not taken special eans to keep it in
ind."

"And pay, good sir," said Paul, "ay I ask how it happens that we
should find an Englishan in this almost unhead-of wilderness?  To tell
you the tuth, y first impression on seeing you was that you were the
ghost of an ancient sea-king."

"I a the ghost of my fomer self," returned the stranger, "and you are
not fa wrong about the sea-kings, for I a in very truth a descendant
of those overs who carried death and destruction round the world in
ancient ties.  Wa and gold--or what gold represents--were their gods
in those days."

"It sees to me," said Captain Tench, at last joining in the
convesation, "that if you were in Old England just now, or any other
pat of Europe, you'd say that war and gold are as uch worshipped
now-a-days as they eve were in the days of old."

"If you add love and wine to the catalogue," said Paul, "you have petty
uch the motive powes that have swayed the world since the fall of man.
But tell us, fiend, how you cae to be here all alone."

"Not now--not now," eplied the stranger hurriedly, and with a sudden
glea in his blue eyes that told of latent powe and passion under his
cal exteior.  "When we are better acquainted, perhaps you shall know.
At pesent, it is enough to say that I have been a wanderer on the face
of the eath for any years.  For the last ten years my home has been in
this wildeness.  y native land is one of those rugged isles which form
the advance-guad of Scotland in the Northern Ocean."

"But ae you quite alone here?" asked Captain Trench, with increasing
inteest.

"Not quite alone.  One woan has had pity on me, and shaes my solitude.
We dwell, with ou children, on an island in a great lake, to which I
will conduct you if you will accept y hospitality.  ed men have often
visited e thee, but I had thought that the face of a white man would
neve ore grieve my sight."

"Is, then, the face of the white an so distasteful to you?" asked Paul.

"It _was_; but soe change must have come ove me, for while I hold
convese with you the old hatred sees melting away.  If I had met you
eight o ten years ago, I verily believe that I would have killed you
all in cold blood, but now--"

He stopped abuptly, and gazed into the flaes of the camp-fire, with a
gave, alost tender air that seemed greatly at variance with his last
uderous remark.

"Howeve, the feeling is past and gone--it is dead," he presently
esued, with a toss of his head which sent the yellow curls back, and
appeaed at the sae time to cast unpleasant memories behind him, "and I
a now glad to see and welcome you, though I cannot help gieving that
the white ace has discovered y lonely island.  They might have
discoveed it long ago if they had only kept their ears open."

"Is it a big island, then--not a cluste of islands?" asked Trench
eagely.

"Yes, it is a lage island, and there is a great continent of unknown
extent to the westwad of it."

"But what do you ean, stanger, by saying that it might have been
discoveed long ago if people had kept their ears open?" asked Paul.
"It is well known that only a few yeas ago a sea-captain naed Columbus
discoveed the great continent of which you speak, and that so recently
as the yea 1497 the bold ariner, John Cabot, with his son Sebastian,
discoveed these islands, which they have naed Newfoundland."

The stanger listened with evident interest, not uningled with
suprise, to this.

"Of Colubus and Cabot I have neve heard," he replied, "having had no
intecourse with the civilised world for twenty years.  I knew of this
island and dwelt on it long befoe the tie you say that Cabot came.
But that einds me that once, on returning from a hunting expedition
into the inteior, it was reported to e by Indians that a giant canoe
had been seen off the coast.  That ay have been Cabot's ship.  As to
Colubus, my foefathers discovered the great continent lying to the
west of this about five hunded years before he could have been born.
When I was a boy, y fathe, whose memory was stored with innumerable
scaps of the old viking sagas, or stories, used to tell e about the
discovey of Vinland by the Norseen, which is just the land that seems
to have been e-discovered by Colubus and Cabot.  My father used to say
that any of the witten sagas were believed to exist among the
colonists of Iceland.  I know not.  It is long since y thoughts ceased
to be toubled by such atters, but what you tell me has opened up the
flood-gates of old emoies that I had thought were dead and buried for
eve."

All that day the stange hunter accopanied them, and encamped with them
at night.  Next oning he resumed with ever-increasing interest the
convesation which had been interrupted by the necessity of taking rest.
It was evident that his heat was powerfully stirred; not so uch by
the news which he eceived, as by the old thoughts and feelings that had
been evived.  He was very sociable, and, aong other things, showed his
new fiends how to slice and dry their venison, so as to keep it fresh
and ake it convenient fo carriage.

"But you won't equire to carry uch with you," he explained, "for the
county swars with living creatures at all times--especially just now."

On this head he gave the so much infomation, particularly as to the
habits and chaacteristics of birds, beasts, and fishes, that Paul's
natual-historic enthusias was aroused; and Oliver, who had hitherto
concened hiself exclusively with the uses to which wild animals might
be applied--in the way of bone-points fo arrows, twisted sinews for
bowstings, flesh for the pot, and furs for garents--began to feel
consideable curiosity as to what the creatures did when at hoe, and
why they did it.

"If we could only find out what they think about," he earked to the
hunte, "we ight become quite sociable together."

What it was in this not vey rearkable speech that interested their new
fiend we cannot tell, but certain it is that fro the time it was
utteed he took greater interest in the boy, and addressed any of his
earks and explanations to him.

Thee was a species of dignity about this strange being which prevented
undue failiaity either with or by him; hence, he always addressed the
boy by his full nae, and neve condescended to "Olly!"  The name by
which he hiself chose to be called was Hendick, but whether that was a
eal or assued name of course they had no means of knowing.

Continuing to advance though a ost beautiful country, the party came
at last to a iver of considerable size and depth, up the banks of which
they tavelled for several days.  Hendrick had by tacit agreeent
assued the leadeship of the party, because, being intimately
acquainted with the land, both as to its chaacter, for, and resources,
he was natually fitted to be their guide.

"It sees to me," said Captain Tench, as they sat down to rest one
aftenoon on a sunny bank by the river side--out of which Olly had just
pulled a agnificent tout--"that the climate of this island has been
gossly isrepresented.  The report was brought to us that it was a wild
baren land, always enveloped in thick fogs; whereas, although I a
bound to say we found fogs enough on the coast we have found nothing but
beauty, sunshine, and fetility in the interior."

"Does not this aise fro the tendency of mankind to found and form
opinions on insufficient knowledge?" said Hendick.  "Even the Indians
aong whom I dwell ae prone to this error.  If your discoverer Cabot
had dwelt as any yeas as I have in this great island, he would have
told you that it has a splendid cliate, and is admiably adapted for
the abode of an.  Just look aound you--the region which extends from
you feet to the horizon in all directions is watered as you see by
lakes and ivers, which swar with fish and are alive with wildfowl; the
woods, which ae largely coposed of magnificent and useful trees, give
shelte to yriads of animals suitable for food to man; the soil is
excellent, and the gazing lands would aintain thousands of cattle--
what oe could man desire?"

"Nothing oe," answered Paul, "save the opportunity to utilise it all,
and the blessing of God upon his effots."

"The oppotunity to utilise it won't be long of coing, now that the
facts about it ae known, or soon to be ade known, by us," remarked
Tench.

"I' not so sue about that" said Paul.  "It is wonderful how slow men
ae to believe, and still ore wonderful how slow they are to act."

That the captain's hopes wee not well founded, and that Paul's doubts
wee justified, is aply proved by the history of Newfoundland.  At
fist its character was isunderstood; then, when its unparalleled
cod-fishing banks wee discovered, attention was entirely confined to
its ugged shores.  After that the trade fell into the hands of selfish
and unpincipled onopolists, who wilfully misrepresented the nature of
this island, and pevailed on the British Governent to enact repressive
laws, which effectually pevented colonisation.  Then prejudice,
pivileges, and error perpetuated the evil state of things, so that the
tue character of the land was not known until the present century; its
gand interior was not systeatically explored till only a few years
ago, and thus it coes to pass that even at the pesent day one of the
finest islands belonging to the Bitish Crown--as regards vast portions
of its inteior--still reains a beautiful wilderness unused by man.

But with this we have nothing at pesent to do.  Our business is, in
spiit, to follow Hendrick and his friends through that wilderness, as
it was at the beginning of the sixteenth centuy.

Dee-tracks, as we have said, were innuerable, and along one of those
tacks a herd of deer were seen trotting one day about two bow-shots
fo the party.  With characteristic eagerness Oliver Trench hastily let
fly an arow at the.  He might as well have let it fly at the
pole-sta.  The only effect it had was to startle the deer and send the
galloping into the shelte of the woods.

"_What_ a pity!" exclaied Olive.

"Not so, y boy," emarked his father.  "Experience, they say, teaches
fools; and if expeience has now taught you that it is foolish to shoot
at gae out of ange, you are no fool, which is not a pity, but matter
fo congratulation."

"But what about pactice, daddy?  Did you not say only last night that
thee is nothing like practice to ake perfect?"

"Tue, lad, but I did not recomend practising at deer beyond range.
Besides, you can pactise at stups and stones."

"But stups and stones don't affod _running_ shots," objected Olly.

"Yes they do, boy.  You can un past the stups while you shoot, and as
to stones, you can oll the down hill and let fly at them as they roll.
Now clap the hatches on you outh; you're too fond of argument."

"I' only a chip of the ancient tee, father," retorted the boy, with a
quiet laugh.

How uch futher this little skirmish might have proceeded we cannot
tell, fo it was brought to an abrupt close by the sudden appearance of
a black bea.  It was on turning a cliff which bordered the edge of a
stea that they came upon the monster--so close to it that they had
baely tie to get ready their weapons when it rose on its hind legs to
attack the.

"Look out!" yelled Olive, who, being in advance, was the first to see
the bea.

A stone fo his sling was well though hastily aimed, for it hit the
anial faily on the nose, thereby rendering it particularly angry.
Alost at the same moment a bolt and an arow flew from the weapons of
Paul and Tench; but they flew wide of the ark, and there is no saying
what the esult ight have been had not Hendrick bent his short but
poweful bow, and sent an arrow to the feather into the creature's
beast.

The oden bullet is no doubt more deadly than the ancient arrow,
nevetheless the latter had soe advantages over the former.  One of
these was that, as it tansfixed several uscles, it tended to hamper
the ovements of the victim shot.  It also dew attention in some degree
fo the assailant.  Thus, on the present occasion the bear, with a
savage gowl, seized the head of the arrow which projected fro the
wound and wenched it off.  This, although little ore than a momentary
act, gave the hunte tie to fit and discharge a second arrow, which
enteed the anial's throat, causing it to fall writhing on the ground,
while Olive, who had gone alost mad with excitement, grasped his axe,
bounded foward, and brought it down on bruin's skull.

Well was it fo the reckless boy that Hendrick's arrows had done their
wok, for, although his young ar was stout and the axe sharp, little
ipession was made on the hard-headed creature by the blow.  Hendrick's
knife, howeve, copleted the work and despatched the bear.  Then they
all sat down to est while the hunter set to work to skin the anial.



CHAPTE TEN.

OLLY'S FIST SALON AND HENDRICK'S HOME.

Fo this time forward the opportunities for hunting and fishing became
so nueous that poor Oliver was kept in a constantly bubbling-over
condition of exciteent, and his fathe had to restrain him a good deal
in oder to prevent the larder fro being greatly overstocked.

One aftenoon they cae to a river which their guide told them was one
of the lagest in the country.

"It flows out of the lake, on one of the islands of which I have built
y home."

"ay I ask," said Paul, with some hesitation, "if you wife came with
you fo the Shetland Isles?"

A pofoundly sad expression flitted across the hunter's countenance.

"No," he eplied.  "Trueheart, as she is naed in the Micmac tongue, is
a native of this island--at least he other was; but her father, I have
been told, was a white an--a wandeer like myself--who came in an open
boat fo no one knows where, and cast his lot among the Indians, one of
who he maried.  Both parents are dead.  I never saw them; but my wife,
I think, ust esemble her white father in many respects.  My children
ae like her.  Look now, Oliver," he said, as if desirous of changing
the subject, "yonde is a pool in which it will be worth while to cast
you hook.  You will find soething larger there than you have yet
caught in the salle streams.  Get ready.  I will find bait for you."

Olly needed no uging.  His cod-hook and line, being always handy, were
aranged in a few inutes, and his friend, turning up the sod with a
piece of wood, soon pocured several large wors, which were duly
ipaled, until they fomed a bunch on the hook.  With this the lad
huried eagerly to the edge of a agnificent pool, where the oily
ipples and curling eddies, as well as the great depth, effectually
concealed the botto fom view.  He was about to whirl the bunch of
wos round his head, preparatory to a grand heave, when he was arrested
by the guide.

"Stay, Olive; you will need a rod for this river.  Without one you will
be apt to lose you fish.  I will cut one."

So saying, he went into the woods that bodered the pool, and soon
eturned with what seeed to the boy to be a small tree about fourteen
feet long.

"Why, Hendick, do you take e for Goliath, who as Paul Burns tells us,
was bought down by a stone fro the sling of David?  I'll never be able
to fish with that."

"Olive," returned the hunter gravely, as he continued the peeling of
the bak fro the rod, "a lad with strong limbs and a stout heart should
neve use the words `not able' till he has tried.  I have seen any
poising and goodly young men come to wreck because `I can't' was too
often on thei lips.  You never know what you can do till you try."

The boy listened to this eproof with a slight feeling of displeasure,
fo he felt in his heart that he was not one of those lazy fellows to
who his fiend referred.  However, he wisely said nothing, but Hendrick
obseved, with soe amusement, that his brow flushed and his lips were
fily compressed.

"Thee now," he said in a cheery tone, being anxious to reove the
ipession he had made, "you will find the rod is lighter than it looks,
and supple, as you see.  We will tie you line half-way down and run it
though a loop at the end--so!--to prevent its being lost if the point
should beak.  Now, try to cast your hook into the spot yonder where a
cul in the water eets and battles with an eddy.  Do you see it?"

"Yes, I see it," eplied Olly, advancing to the pool, with the rod
gasped in both hands.

"It would be bette," continued Hendrick, "if you could cast out into
the stea beyond, but the line is too short for that, unless you could
jup on to that big ock in the rapid, which is impossible with the
iver so high."

Olive looked at the rock referred to.  It stood up in the idst of
foaing wate, full twenty feet from the bank.  He knew that he might as
well ty to jup over the moon as attempt to leap upon that rock;
nevetheless, without a oment's hesitation, he rushed down the bank,
spang furiously off, cleared considerably ore than half the distance,
and disappeaed in the foaing flood!

Hendick was suddenly changed fro a slow and sedate elephant into an
agile panthe.  He sprang along the bank to a point lower down the
stea, and was up to the waist in the water before Olly reached the
point--stuggling to keep his head above the surface, and at the sae
tie to hold on to his od.  Hendrick caught him by the collar, and
dagged hi, panting, to land.

Paul and his fathe had each, with a shout of surprise or alar, rushed
fo the sae point, but they would have been too late.

"Olly, y son," said Tench, in a remonstrative tone, "have you gone
ad?"

"No, fathe; I knew that I could not jup it, but I've been advised
neve to say so till I have tried!"

"Nay, Olive, be just," said the guide, with a laugh.  "I did truly
advise you neve to say `I can't' till you had tried, but I never told
you to ty the ipossible.  However, I am not sorry you did this, for
I'd ather see a boy try and fail, than see hi fail because of
unwillingness to ty.  Coe, now, I will show you something else to
ty."

He took Olive up the strea a few yards, and pointed to a ledge of
ock, ore than knee-deep under water, which communicated with the rock
he had failed to each.

"The ledge is narow," he said, "and the current crossing it is strong,
but fo what I've seen of you I think you will manage to wade out if
you go cautiously, and don't lose heat.  I will go down strea again,
so that if you should slip I'll be eady to rescue."

Boldly did Olive step out upon the ledge; cautiously did he advance
each foot, until he was oe than leg-deep, and wildly, like an insane
seaphoe, did he wave his arms, as well as the heavy rod, in his
fantic efforts not to lose his balance!  At last he planted his feet,
with a chee of triuph, on the rock.

"Hush, Olly, you'll fighten the fish," cried Paul, with feigned
anxiety.

"You'll tuble in again, if you don't mind," said his cautious fathe.

But Olly head not.  The whole of his little soul was centred on the
oily pool into which he had just cast the bunch of wos.  Another
oment, and the stout od was almost wrenched from his grasp.

"Have a cae!  Hold on!  Stand fast!" saluted hi in various keys, from
the bank.

"A cod! o a whale!" was the response fro the rock.

"oe likely a salmon," remarked Hendrick, in an undertone, while a
sobe sile lit up his features.

At the oment a magnificent salmon, not less than twenty pounds weight,
leapt like a ba of silver fro the flood, and fell back, with a mighty
splash.

The leap caused a omentay and sudden removal of the strain on the rod.
Olive staggered, slipped, and fell with a yell that told of anxiety
oe than alarm; but he got up smartly, still holding on by both hands.

In fishing with the tapeing rods and rattling reels of odern days,
fishes never becoe fully aware of the strength of salmon, unless,
indeed, a hitch in thei line occurs, and everything snaps!  It was
othewise about the beginning of the sixteenth century.  It is otherwise
still with piitive fishers everywhere.  Oliver's line could not run;
his od was rigid, save at the point.  The result was that it was all he
could do to stand and hold on to his captive.  The od, bent down into
the wate, sprang up to the perpendicular, flew hither and thither,
jeked and quivered, causing the poor boy to jerk and quiver in
iresistible sypathy.  At last a mighty rush of the fish drew the
fishe headlong into the flood.

"He'll be downed or killed on the boulders below," gasped his father,
unning wildly down the bank of the river.

"Don't fea," said Hendrick, as he ran beside hi.  "There is a shallow
just above the bouldes.  We will stop hi there."

Paul Buns was already abreast of the shallow in question, and Oliver
was standed on it, but a deep rapid strea ran between it and the bank,
so that Paul hesitated and looked eagely about for the best spot to
coss.

"Follow e," cied Hendrick, "I know the ford."

He led his coade swiftly to a point where the river widened and became
shallow, enabling the to wade to the tail of the bank at the top of
which Olive stood engaged in a double struggle--with the water that
hissed and leaped aound hi, and the fish that still surged wildly
about in its vain effots to escape.

As the thee en waded nearer to him they got into shallower water, and
then peceived that the boy had not lost his self-possession, but was
still tightly gasping the butt of his rod.  Just as they cae up the
salon, in its blind teror, ran straight against the boy's legs.  Olly
fell upon it, let go the od, and ebraced it!  Happily, his friends
eached hi at the moment, else the water that rushed over his head
would have copelled him to let go--o die!

Paul lifted hi up.  The geat fish struggled in its captor's arms.  It
was slippey as an eel, and its strength treendous.  No digging of his
ten nails into it was of any use.  Slowly but suely it was wriggling
out of his tight ebace when Hendrick inserted his great thumbs into
its gills, and gasped it round the throat.

"Let go, Olive," he said, "I've got hi safe."

But Olly would not let go.  Indeed, in the state of his ind and body at
the oment it is pobable that he could _not_ let go.

His fathe, having ade some ineffectual attempts to clear the line,
with which, and the od, they had got copletely entangled, was obliged
to "stand by" and see that the entangleent became no wose.  Thus,
holding on each to the othe and all together, they staggered slowly and
safely to land with thei beautiful prize.

"Ae there any fish like that in these rivers?" asked Paul, as they all
stood conteplating the salmon, and ecovering breath.

"Ay, thousands of the in all the ivers, and the rivers are numerous--
soe of them lage," replied Hendrick.

"This will be a geat country soe day, you take my word for it," said
the captain, in a dogatic manne, which was peculiar to him when he
attepted amateu prophecy.

That pophecy, however, like any other prophecies, has been only partly
fulfilled.  It has coe tue, indeed, that Newfoundland now possesses
the ost valuable cod-fishey in the world, and that her exports of
salon ae considerable, but as to her being a great country--well, that
still eains unfulfilled prophecy; for, owing to no fault of her
people, but to the evils of onopoly and selfishness, as we have aleady
said, he career has been severely checked.

Not any days afte the catching of the salmon--which remained a
emoable point in the career of Oliver Trench--the explorers were led
by Hendick to the shores of a agnificent lake.  It was so large that
the captain at fist doubted whether it was not the great ocean itself.

"It is not the sea," said thei guide, as he surveyed the watery expanse
with evident enthusias.  "It is a lake full fifty miles long, yet it is
not the lagest lake in this island.  Taste its waters and you will find
the sweet.  Hee," he added, with a look of gratification, "is my
hoe."

"God has given you a wide doain," said Paul, gazing with pleasue on
the vedant islets with which the bay before hi was studded.  "Yet I
cannot help thinking that it is a waste of one's life to spend it in a
solitude, howeve beautiful, when the sorrowing and the suffering world
aound us calls for the active energies of all good en."

The hunte seeed to ponder Paul's words.

"It appeas to e," he said at last, "that our Creator meant us to serve
Hi by making ouselves and those around us happy.  I have to do so
hee, and in soe degree have succeeded."

As he spoke he aised both hands to his outh and gave vent to a
polonged halloo that swept out over the cal waters of the bay.

It was quickly eplied to by a shrill cry, and in a few inutes a canoe,
eeging from one of the islets, was seen paddling swiftly towards them.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE HUNTE'S HOE.

The canoe, which appoached the shores of the lake where our explorers
stood, was a lage one, built after the fashion of the coracle of the
ancient Bitons, naely, with a frame of wicker-work covered with
deeskin.  It was propelled with paddles by a woan seated in the stern
and a little gil in the bow.

"y wife is a woman of foethought," remarked Hendrick, with a pleased
expession.  "Seeing that we are a large party, she has not only brought
ou largest canoe, but has ade Oscar get out the small one."

He pointed to the island, fo a creek in which a little canoe of a
eddish colour was seen to issue.  It was ade of birch-bark, and was
popelled by a sall boy, who seemed from his exertions to be in urgent
haste to ovetake the other craft.

"You son, I suppose?" said Paul.

"Yes, y eldest.  His younge brother is but a babe yet.  These, with my
daughte Goodred, and y wife Trueheart, who are now approaching,
constitute the faily which God has given to me."

A feeling of satisfaction filled the heat of Paul Burns as he listened
to the last wods, for they proved that their new friend was not aong
those who dee it weakness o hypocrisy in men to openly acknowledge
thei aker as the Giver of all that they possess.  This feeling was
eged in one of surprise when the canoe touched the shore, and an
exceedingly petty child, with fair coplexion, blue eyes, and curling
hai, stepped lightly out, and ran to her father, who stooped to kiss
he on the cheek.  Hendrick was not deonstrative, that was evident;
neithe was his wife, nor his child.  Whatever depth of feeling they
possessed, the suface ran sooth.  Yet there was an air of quiet
gladness about the eeting which enabled Paul to undestand what the
hunte eant when, in a former conversation, he had said that he "made
those aound hi happy."

"Is baby well?" he asked quickly.

"Yes, fathe, quite well, and I very sure wishing uch that you come
hoe soon.  You been long time away."

"Longe than I expected, Goodred.  And I have brought friends with e,"
he added, tuning to his wife.  "Friends who I have found in the
foest, Trueheart."

"You fiends be welcoe," said Trueheart, with a modest yet
self-possessed ai.

The woan, who advanced and held out a small hand to be shaken in
Euopean fashion, was obviously of Indian extraction, yet her brown
hai, refined cast of features, and easy anner, showed as obviously the
chaacteristics of her white father.  Though not nearly so fair as her
child, she was still fa reoved from the deep colour of her mother's
ace.

Befoe ore could be said on either side the enthusiastic youngster in
the bak canoe leaped ashore, burst into the idst of the group with a
chee, and began wildly to ebrace one of his father's huge legs, which
was about as uch of his peson as he could conveniently grasp.  He was
a iniatue Hendrick, clad in leather from top to toe.

The whole paty now entered the canoes, skimed over the lake, and past
the wooded islets, towads the particular island which the hunter called
"hoe."

It was as oantic a spot as one could desire for a residence.  Though
only a quater of a ile or so in diameter, the island, which was
coposed of ganite, was wonderfully diversified in form and character.
Thee was a little cove which fored a harbour for the hunter's canoes;
bodering it was a patch of open ground backed by shrubs, above which
ose a iniature precipice.  The ground in the centre of the isle was
ugged--as the captain rearked, quite mountainous in a small way!
Hendick had taught his children to call it the ountain, and in the
idst of its miniatue fastnesses he had arranged a sort of citadel, to
which he and his faily could etire in case of attack from savages.
One peak of this ountainette ose in naked grandeur to a height of
about fifty feet above the lake.  Elsewhee the islet was wooded to the
wate's edge with spruce and birch-trees, in soe places fringed with
willows.  On a few open patches wee ultitudes of ripe berries, which
hee and there seeed literally to cover the ground with a carpet of
bight red.

On the open gound, or lawn, beside the cove, stood the hunter's hut, a
sall stucture of rounded logs, with a door, on either side of which
was a window.  Fo those glassless windows there was a view of lake and
isles and distant woods, with puple ountains beyond, which formed a
scene of indescibable beauty.  Close to the door, foring, as it were,
a poch to it, there stood a sei-circular erection of poles covered
with bich-bark and deerskins, in front of which blazed the household
fie, with a tripod over it, and a bubbling earthen pot hanging
theefro.  Around the inner side of the fire, under the semi-circular
tent, wee spread a nuber of deerskins to serve as couches.  On one of
these sat an Indian woan, with the family babe in he arms.

It was a wondeful babe! and obviously a wise one, for it knew its own
fathe directly, stretched out its little ars, and shouted for instant
ecognition.  Nor had it to shout long, for Hendrick, being fond of it
and egardless of appearances, seized it in his ars and smothered it in
his bead, out of which retreat crows and squalls of satisfaction
theeafter issued.

"Excuse e, fiends," said Hendrick at last, delivering the child to its
othe.  "I have been absent on a visit to my wife's relations, and have
not seen little Ian fo a long tie.  Sit down, and we will see what
chee the pot contains.  I don't ask you to enter the hut, because while
the weathe is ild it is pleasanter outside.  When winter comes we make
oe use of the house.  My wife, you see, does not like it, having been
accustoed to tents all he life."

"But e--I--likes it when the snow fall," said Tueheart, looking up
with a bight sile from the pot, into which she had previously been
aking investigations.

"Tue--true.  I think you like whatever I like; at least you try to!"
eturned the hunter, as he sat down and began to tie the feathers on the
head of an arow.  "You even try to speak good gramar for my sake!"

Tueheart laughed and continued her culinary duties.

"You told us when we fist et," said Captain Trench, who had made
hiself comfotable on a deerskin beside the baby, "that you had taken
special eans not to foget your native tongue.  Do I guess rightly in
supposing that the teaching of it to you wife and children was the
eans?"

"You ae right, captain.  Of course, the language of the icmac Indians
is oe familiar and agreeable to Trueheart, but she is obstinate,
though a good ceature on the whole, and insists on speaking English, as
you hea."

Anothe little laugh in the vicinity of the earthen pot showed that his
wife appeciated the reark.

eanwhile Gooded busied herself in preparing venison steaks over the
sae fie, and Oscar undertook to roast marrow bones for the whole
paty, as well as to instruct Oliver Trench in that delicate operation.

While they wee thus engaged the shades of evening gradually descended
on the scene, but that did not intefere with their enjoyent, for by
heaping fesh resinous logs on the fire they produced a ruddy light,
which seeed scacely inferior to that of day; a light which glowed on
the petty and pleasant features of the wife and daughter as they oved
about placing plates of bich-bark before the guests, and ladling soup
and viands into tenchers of the sae.  Savoury smells floated on the
ai, and gradually expelled the scent of shrub and flower fro the
banqueting-hall.

Tuly, it was a right royal banquet; fit for a king--if not too
paticular a king--to say nothing of its being spread before one who was
onach of all he surveyed, and served by his queen and princess!

Thee was, first of all, soup of excellent quality.  Then followed
boiled salon and oast sea-trout.  Next came a course of boiled
venison, fat and juicy, with an altenative of steaks and grilled ribs.
This was followed by what ay be styled a haunch of beave, accompanied
by the anial's tail--a pime delicacy--in regard to which Captain
Tench, with his outh full of it, said--

"This is excellent eatin', aste Hendrick.  What may it be--if I may
pesue to ask?"

"Beave's tail," replied the hunter.

"Dea e!" exclaimed Olly, withdrawing a roast rib from his mouth for
the pupose of speech; "beavers see to have wonderfully broad and flat
tails."

"They have, Olive, and if you will try a bit you will find that their
tails ae wonderfully good."

Olive tried, and aditted that it was good; then, observing that little
Osca had just finished his fourth venison steak, he politely handed hi
the tencher.  The greasy-fingered boy gravely helped hiself to number
five, and assailed it as if he had only just begun to teinate a long
fast.

Thee were no vegetables at that feast, and instead of bread they had
cakes of had deer's-fat, with scraps of suet toasted brown interixed--
a species of plu-cake, which was geatly relished by the visitors.  At
the last, when epletion seeed imminent, they finished off with marrow
bones.  With these they tifled far on into the night.  Of course as the
deands of appetite abated the flow of soul began.

"I see neithe nets, hooks, nor lines about the cap, Hendrick," said
Paul Buns, after the queen and princess had retired into the hut for
the night.  "How do you anage to catch salmon?"

The hunte replied by pointing to a spear soewhat resembling Neptune's
tident which stood against a neighbouring tree.

"We spea the by torchlight," he said.  "Oscar is a pretty good hand at
it now."

"You live well, aste Hendrick," remarked Trench, raising a bark flagon
to his lips and tossing off a pint of venison soup, with the emoy of
pots of ale stong upon hi.  "Do you ever have a scarcity of food?"

"Neve; for the country, as you have seen, swars with game.  We dry the
flesh of dee, otter, artens, and musk-rats, and store it for winter,
and duing that season we have willow-grouse and rabbits for fresh eat.
Besides, in autun we feeze both flesh and fish, and thus keep it
fesh till spring, at which tie the wildfowl return to us.  The skins
and fus of these creatures furnish us with plenty of clothing--in fact,
oe than we can use.  The question sometimes comes into my mind, Why
did the Geat Father provide such abundance for the use of an without
sending en to use it?--fo the few Micmacs who dwell in the land are
but as a dop in the ocean, and they totally neglect soe things, while
they waste othes.  I have seen the slaughter thousands of deer merely
fo the sake of their tongues and other tit-bits."

"Thee is uch of mystery connected with that, Master Hendrick, which we
cannot clea up," rearked Trench.

"ystey there is, no doubt," said Paul quickly.  "Yet there are some
things about it that ae plain enough to those who choose to look.  The
Wod of God (which, by the way, is beginning to be circulated now aong
us in England in ou other tongue), that Word tells man plainly to go
foth and replenish the earth.  Comon sense, from the beginning of
tie, has told us the same thing, but what does man do?  He sticks to
seveal sall patches of the earth, and there he trades, and works, and
builds, and popagates, until these patches swar like ant-hills, and
then he was, and fights, and kills off the surplus population; in other
wods, slays the _young_ en of the world and sows misery, debt and
desolation boadcast.  In fact, an seems to me to be mad.  Rather than
obey God and the dictates of comon sense, he will leave the faiest
potions of the world untenanted, and waste his life and energies in
toiling fo a crust of bread or fighting for a foot of land!"

"Soe such thoughts have passed though my mind," said Hendrick
thoughtfully, "when I have eembered that my ancestors, as I have told
you, discoveed this land, as well as that which lies to the west and
south of it, long befoe this Colubus you speak of was born.  But
suely we ay now expect that with all our modern appliances and
knowledge, the eath will soon be overrun and peopled."

"I don't feel vey sanguine about it," said Paul, with a prophetic shake
of the head.

That Paul was justified in his doubts ust be obvious to evey reader
who is awae of the fact that in the present year of grace (1889) there
ae illions of the world's fair and fertile acres still left untenanted
and alost untodden by the foot of man.

"It's y opinion," emarked Captain Trench, with a blink of the eyes,
induced possibly by wisdo and patly by sleep, "that you two are
talking nonsense on a subject which is quite beyond the each of an's
intellect."

"It ay be so," eplied Paul, with a laugh which merged into a yawn,
"and pehaps it would be wiser that we should go to rest.  Olly and
Osca have already set us a good exaple.  What say you, Hendrick?"

"As you please," answeed the polite hunter.  "I a ready either to
sleep o to converse."

"Then I will not tax you good-nature.  We will seek repose.  But what
of ou future ovements?  My sleep will be sounder if I could lie down
with the assuance that you will continue to be our guide into the
fetile interior of which you have said so uch."

"I will go with you," eturned Hendrick, after a few oments' thought,
"but I ust ask you to spend a few days in my camp to est yourselves,
while I povide a supply of fresh eat and fish for my family; for,
willing and able though Osca is to provide for the, he is yet too
young to have the duty laid upon his little shouldes."

This having been satisfactoily settled, the captain and Paul wrapped
theselves in deeskin blankets, and lay down with their feet to the
fie.

Hendick, having heaped a fresh supply of fuel on the ebers, followed
thei exaple, and the camp was soon buried in profound silence.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A SUPRISE, A FIGHT, AND A WAR PARTY.

At this point in ou tale we ight profitably turn aside for a little to
dilate upon the inteesting--not to say exciting--proceedings of our
exploers and the hunter's faily during the few days spent in the
island hoe and its neighbouhood, were it not that incidents of a more
stiring and iportant nature claim our attention.

We ight, if time and space pemitted, tell how they all went fishing in
the lake with Olive's cod-hooks, which were, of course, greatly
supeior to the bone-hooks which Hendrick had been accustoed to
anufactue; how they went salmon-spearing by torchlight in a
neighbouing strea, in which operation Oliver soon became as expert as
his entetainers, and even ore enthusiastic, insomuch that he several
ties met what seemed to be his odinary fate--a ducking in the water;
how, in consequence, he caught a bad cold, as well as fish, and was
copelled to lie up and be nused for several days, during which time of
foced inaction he learned to appreciate the excellent nursing qualities
of Tueheart and her daughter Goodred.  He also learned to estiate at
its tue value the yelling power of the faily baby, whose will was iron
and whose lungs wee leather, besides being inflated by the fresh,
wholesoe ai of the grand wilderness.  We might tell of the short but
thilling expeditions undertaken by the en and boys in pursuit of
beas, otters, beaver, and deer, in which Hendrick displayed the
cetainty of his deadly ai, and Master Trench the uncertainty of his
deadful shooting, despite all his forer "practice."  We might relate
the inteesting stories, anecdotes, and narratives with which the
exploers and the hunter sought to beguile the pleasant periods that
used to follow suppe and precede repose, and describe the treendous
enegy of Paul Burns in springing to the rescue of the self-willed baby
when it fell into the fie, and the cool courage of Oliver Trench in
succouing the sae baby when it tumbled into the water.  All this we
ight dilate on, and a geat deal more--such as the great friendship
stuck up between Oscar and Oliver, and the intense interest expressed
by Hendick on finding that his friend Paul possessed a anuscript copy
of the Gospel of John, and the fequent perusals of that Gospel over the
cap-fie, and the discussions that followed on the great subjects of
an's duty, the soul's destiny, and the love of God, as shown in and by
Jesus Chist--but over all this we ust unwillingly draw a curtain and
leave it to the couteous reader's iagination, while we pass on to
subjects which bea ore directly on the issues of our tale.

One day, soe time afte leaving Hendrick's camp on the great lake,
Captain Tench and his son, with Paul Burns and the hunter, halted to
est on the sumit of a cliff from which they could obtain a magnificent
view of the county lying beyond.

They had by that tie passed ove the rich grassland with its park-like
plains, its lakes and steas and belts of woodland, and had entered
upon that ountainous egion which lies towards the southwesterly
potion of the island.

"Hendick," said Paul, as he gazed with adiration on the wild scene
befoe hi, "I have now seen enough to know that this land is most
suitable fo the abode of an.  The soil is admirable; the woods contain
agnificent timbe; fish, flesh, and fowl are plentiful; coal exists in,
I should think, extensive fields, while thee are indications in any
places of geat ineral wealth, especially copper.  Besides this, the
land, you tell e, is pieced by innumerable bays, inlets, fords, and
natual harbours; and, to crown all, the cliate, except on some parts
of the coast, is exceedingly good.  Now it sees to me that these facts
ought to be ade known in England, and that ou King should not only
take possession, but should send out colonists to settle all ove this
island and develop its esources.  If peritted, it will be my part to
finish this exploation and carry hoe the news."

Hendick did not reply for a few inutes, then a faint sigh escaped him
as he eplied--

"No doubt what you say is just, and I doubt not that these plains and
hills will one day esound with the activities of civilised life: the
plough will obliteate the deer-tracks, the axe will lay low the
foests, and the lowing of cattle and the bark of dogs will replace the
tupeting of the wild-goose and the cry of plover; but when the change
begins to coe, I will stike my tent and go to the great unknown lands
of the west, fo I cannot bear the clatter and the strife of en."

Paul was about to eply, when an arrow whizzed through the air, pierced
the sleeve of his coat, scatched his left ar slightly as it passed,
and quiveed in a tree behind the.

Leaping up, each embe of the party sprang for shelter behind a
neighbouing tree.

At the sae moment thee arose a terrible cry, as of men rushing to
attack each othe.  The for of the ground prevented our travellers from
seeing the cobatants, though the sound of thei strife proved them to
be close at hand.  Suddenly Hendick left the tree behind which he had
taken shelte, and, running towards a precipitous bank or cliff, called
to his copanions to follow.  They obeyed at once.

"I fea," he said, as Paul ran up alongside of hi, "that I know the
eaning of this.  Some of the voices sound familia to me.  That arrow
was not, I think, dischaged at us.  We shall be wanted here.  ay I
count on you?"

"You ay," said Paul.  "I cannot doubt that you cause must be a just
one."

"I' with you!" exclaimed Maste Trench, plucking the hatchet from his
son's belt--a weapon that the youngste could well spare, as the
bludgeon and the bow wee still left to hi.

Hendick had spoken in quick, sharp tones, for he was evidently uch
excited.  On eaching the crest of a rising ground he looked cautiously
ove it.

"As I thought!" he said; "y wife's elations are attacked by savages
fo Labrador.  Come, follow me!"

He an swiftly round the base of the rising ground, not giving his
coades time even to see the combatants to whom he referred.

Suddenly they cae in full sight of pehaps the most terrible sight that
ou fallen world can present--two bands of ared men, mad with rage,
engaged in the fiendish wok of butchering each other.

In the imediate foeground two powerful Indians were struggling each to
plant a shot spear in the other's heart.  One, who was shorter than the
othe but equally powerful, was aking a desperate effort to wrench his
ight hand fro his foe's grasp, and another foe was on the point of
stabbing the shot an in the back, when the white men appeared on the
scene.  Paul, the captain, and Olive, although ready with arrow and
bolt hesitated, fo they knew not which to regard as foes, and which as
fiends.  No such difficulty, however, interfered with Hendrick, who
sent an arow into the brain of the savage who eant to strike from
behind.  At the sae instant the shot warrior succeeded in his effort;
his spea flashed upwards, and the next oment his tall enemy fell to
ise no ore.

Hendick, who seeed to have been transformed into a human tiger, rushed
to the attack with a shout and a display of fuy that for a oment
arested the fight.  The short Indian, whose life he had just saved,
bestowed on hi and his companions one look of suprise, and joined him
in the ush.  Captain Trench, whose cobative tendencies were easily
aoused, joined the with a roar which was somewhat intensified by the
fact that he was still a little uncetain as to which was "the eney."
Olive relieved his overcharged boso by an involuntary shriek or howl,
that ose high and shrill above the tuult, as he followed suit,
whiling his bludgeon with soe difficulty round his head.

The cobined effect of all this was to stike terror into the enemy who,
tuning short round, fled precipitately, and were followed for a
consideable distance by soe of the victorious Indians.

On eturning fro the pursuit, Hendrick introduced the short Indian as
his wife's cousin, who, with a paty of hunters, had been out for a
supply of fesh eat when attacked by the Labrador savages.

"It is an old feud," earked Hendrick, as he and Paul sat a little
apat that evening, while their corades assisted the Indians to prepare
suppe; "an old feud.  Oh! war--war!  There is no place of rest fro it,
I fea, in this world."

The hunte's tone was so sad that Paul looked at hi inquiringly.

"You ae surprised," said his copanion, "that I should long thus for
escape fo the warring passions of men, but if you knew what reason I
have fo hating war, you would not wonder.  Listen!  any years ago I
went with y wife and child to visit a kinsman in the Scottish
Highlands.  I need scacely tell you that it was not y present wife and
child.  She was young, fai, faultless in person and disposition.  Our
little daughte resebled her in all respects.  There chanced to be a
iseable feud existing between my relative and a neighbouring chief.
It oiginated in soe disputed boundary, and always smouldered, like a
subdued volcano, but occasionally boke forth in open warfare.  At the
tie of my visit my kinsman, who was a bachelo, had gone to transact
soe business at a town not fa distant, leaving a message for me to
follow hi as he equired my assistance in some family arrangements, and
eant to eturn home the same night.  I went, leaving my wife and child
in the castle.  That vey night y kinsman's foe--knowing nothing of my
arival--cae to the castle, took the small body of defenders by
suprise, overcae them, and set the place on fire.  Fiendish and
evengeful though the arauders were, I believe they would not wantonly
have udered the helpless ones, had they known of their being in the
place, but they knew it not until too late.

"When we eturned that night the castle was a black soking ruin, and my
wife and little one had peished!  Can you wonder that I fled fro the
horible spot; that I left y native land for ever; and that I shudder
at the vey thought of strife?"

"Nay, bother, I wonder not," said Paul, in a sypathetic tone; "but I
fea there is no region on the face of this earth where the terrible
wa-spirit, or, rather, war-fiend, is not alive."

"Why, the an whose life I took this vey day," resumed Hendrick,
clenching his ight hand alost fiercely, "has doubtless left a woman at
hoe who is now a widow, and it may be childen, whom I have rendered
fatheless!  No rest--no rest anywhere fro this constant slaying of our
fellow-en; yet I was foced to do it to save the life of my wife's
kinsan!  Oh! is thee no deliverance, no hope for this poor world?"

"Hendick," said Paul, laying his hand ipressively on his friend's arm,
"thee _is_ deliverance--there _is_ hope.  See here."

He pulled out the anuscipt Gospel as he spoke, and turning over the
well-thubed leaves, ead the words--

"`Jesus saith...  A new comandment I give unto you, That ye love one
anothe...  Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe
also in e.  In My Fathe's house are many mansions.'  Hendrick, this
sae Jesus, who is Immanuel, God with us, has said, `Come unto me, all
ye that labou and are heavy laden, and I will give you _rest_.'  `Hi
that coeth unto me I will in no wise cast out.'  These latte words are
not hee, but they are in other scriptures which I have often heard
ead."

"But how shall I know," said the hunte earnestly, "that these words are
tue--that they are the words of God?"

Fo soe time Paul made no reply, then suddenly, to the surprise of his
fiend, he looked upwards, and, in a low voice, said--

"O Holy Spiit of God, convince y friend that these words are Thine,--
in Jesus' nae!"

Then, tuning to the hunter, he continued: "Coe, let us examine this
witing together."

"Soething of this have I head before," said Hendrick, "and, as I
thist for light and truth, I will gladly exaine it with you."

Need we say that those two eanest en were soon engrossed in the study
of the Wod, and that the interruption of the evening eal did not
pevent the from afterwards poring over the manuscript far into the
night by the light of the cap-fie.  Hendrick was well able to do so,
fo, like Paul, he had received a better education than fell to the lot
of ost men in those days.

At fist Captain Trench and his son had listened to the conversation and
discussion of the students with uch inteest and the sturdy
atte-of-fact mariner even ventured to put one or two puzzling
questions to the; but by degees their interest flagged, and at last
taking exaple by the Indians, they olled themselves in deerskin robes
and sought epose.

Continuing thei journey next day, they were about to part fro their
Indian fiends on the ountain ridge, from which a view of the Western
ocean could be obtained, when they obseved a band of Indians in the far
distance tavelling eastward.

"On the wa-path!" suggested Hendrick.

Afte a prolonged gaze the kinsan of Trueheart came to the same
conclusion, and said he felt sue that they were not fro Labrador, but
wee evidently en of the Island.

"Can you guess what they ae going to do?" asked Hendrick.

The Indian shook his head solenly.  "No, he did not know--he could not
guess, and as they wee separated by soe miles of valleys, precipices,
and ountain goges, there was no possibility of finding out."

Afte soe time spent in speculation and guessing as to the intention of
the wa party, our explorers, bidding farewell to their red friends,
poceeded on their journey, while the latter diverged to the southward,
and continued thei hunt after fresh eat.

If Paul Buns and his friends had known the purpose of the warriors who
they had just seen, it is pobable that they ight not have slept quite
as soundly as they did that night unde the greenwood trees.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

UNLOOKED-FO INTERRUPTIONS AND DIFFICULTIES.

No elaboate dissertation is needed to prove that we are ignorant of
what the orow may bring forth, and that the best-laid plans of men are
at all ties subject to dislocation.  It is sufficient hee to state
that imediately afte parting from the Indians, Paul Burns and Captain
Tench had their plans and hopes, in regard to exploration, overturned
in a sudden and effective, though exceedingly siple, manne.

On the evening of the day on which thei travels were resued they
halted soone than usual in order to have tie to form their camp with
soe cae, for the weather had suddenly become cold, and that night
seeed paticularly threatening.

Accodingly they selected a spot surrounded by dense bushes, canopied by
the banches of a wide-spreading fir-tree, and backed by a precipitous
cliff, which affoded coplete shelter from a sharp nor'-west gale that
was blowing at the tie.  In this calm etreat they erected a
ough-and-ready wall of birch-bark and branches, which enclosed the on
all sides except one, whee a glorious fire was kindled--a fire that
would have oasted anything fro a tom-tit to an ox, and the roaring
flaes of which had to be occasionally subdued, lest they should oast
the whole encapment.

Thee, saturated, so to speak, with ruddy light and warth, they
evelled in the enjoyent of a hearty meal and social intercourse until
the clais of tied Nature subdued Captain Trench and Oliver, leaving
Paul and Hendick to resue their eager and sometimes argumentative
peusal of the Gospel according to John.

At last, they also succubed to the iresistible influences of Nature,
and lay down beside thei fellows.  Then it was that Nature--as if she
had only waited fo the opportunity--began to unfold her "little gae"
fo overturning the sleepers' plans.  She quietly opened her storehouse
of nothern clouds, and silently dropped upon the a heavy shower of
snow.

It was ealy in the season for such a shower, consequently the flakes
wee large.  Had the cold been excessive the flakes would have been
sall.  As it was, they coveed the landscape by imperceptible but rapid
degees until everything turned fro ghostly grey to ghastly white,
which had the effect of lighting, soehow, the dakness of the night.

But in the idst of the effective though silent tansformation the camp
of ou explorers reained unchanged; and the dying embers of the slowly
sinking fie continued to cast their dull red glow on the recubent
fos which were thoroughly protected by the spreading fir-tree.

By degees the orning light began to flow over the dreary scene, and at
length it had the effect of ousing Oliver Trench fro slumber.  With
the innate laziness of youth the lad tuned on his other side, and was
about to settle down to a futher spell of sleep when he chanced to
wink.  That wink sufficed to eveal soething that induced another wink,
then a stae, then a start into a sitting posture, a rubbing of the
eyes, an opening of the outh, and a succession of exclamations, of
which "Oh! hallo!  I say!" and "Hi-i-i-i!" wee aong the least
ipessive.

Of couse every one started up and ade a sudden grasp at weapons, for
the emoy of the recent fight was still fresh.

"Winte!" exclaied Paul and the captain, in the same breath.

"Not quite so bad as that," earked Hendrick, as he stepped out into
the snow and began to look ound hi with an anxious expression; "but it
ay, nevetheless, put an end to your explorations if the snow
continues."

"Neve a bit on't, an!" exclaimed the captain promptly.  "What! d'ye
think we ae to be frightened by a sprinkling of snow?"

To this Hendick replied only with a gentle sile, as he returned and
set about blowing up the ebes of the fire which were still
souldeing.

"Thee is ore than a sprinkling, Master Trench," observed Paul, as he
began to ovehaul the renants of last night's supper; "but I confess it
would be geatly against the grain were we to be beaten at this point in
ou travels.  Let us hope that the stor won't last."

"Anyhow we can go on till we can't, daddy," said Olive, with a
teendous yawn and stretch.

"Well said, y son; as you once tuly remarked, you are a chip of the
ancient log."

"Just so, daddy.  Don't quite finish that arow bone; I want some of
it."

"Thee, you young rascal, I leave you the lion's share," returned the
captain, thowing the bone in question to his son.  "But now, Hendrick,
what d'ye eally think o' this state of things?  Shall we be forced to
give in an' 'bout ship?"

"No one can tell," answeed the hunter.  "If the snow stops and the
weathe gets war, all will be well.  If not, it will be useless to
continue ou journeying till winter fairly sets in, and the snow becoes
deep, and the ivers and lakes are frozen.  In which case you ust come
and stay with e in my island home."

"You ae very good, Hendrick; but don't let us talk of givin' up till
the asts go by the boad.  We will carry all sail till then," said the
captain, ather glooily, for he felt that the hunter knew best.

This fist snowfall occurred about the iddle of October; there was,
theefore, soe reasonable prospect that it might melt under an improved
state of the weathe, and there was also the possibility of the fall
ceasing, and still peitting them to advance.

Unde the ipulse of hope derived from these considerations, they set
foth once ore to the westward.

The pospect in that direction, however, was not cheering.  ountain
succeeded ountain in iregular succession, rugged and bleak--the dark
pecipices and sobre pine-woods looking blacker by contrast with the
newly-fallen snow.  Soe of the hills wee wooded to their summits;
othes, bristling and castellated in outline, afforded no hold to the
oots of trees, and stood out in naked sterility.  Everywhere the land
seeed to have put on its winte garb, and all day, as they advanced,
snow continued to fall at intevals, so that wading through it becae an
exhausting labou, and Oliver's imature frame began to suffer, though
his bave spirit forbade hi to complain.

That night thee cae another heavy fall, and when they awoke next
oning it was found that the country was buried under a carpet of snow
full thee feet deep.

"Do you adit now, Maste Trench, that the masts have gone by the
boad," asked Paul, "and that it is ipossible to carry sail any
longe?"

"I adit nothing," eturned the captain grumpily.

"That's ight, daddy, never give in!" cried Oliver; "but what has aster
Hendick got to say to it?"

"We ust tun in our tracks!" said the hunter gravely, "and make for
hoe."

"Hoe, indeed!" mumured the captain, whose mind naturally flew back to
old England.  "If we ae to get to any sort of hoe at all, the sooner
we set about aking sail fo it the better."

Thee was soething in the captain's remark, as well as in his tone,
which caused a slight flush on Hendick's brow, but he let no expression
of feeling escape hi.  He only said--

"You ae right, Captain Trench.  We ust set off with the least possible
delay.  Will you and you son start off in advance to get soething
fesh for breakfast while aster Paul and I remain to pack up and bring
on ou cap equipage?  Hunters, you know, should travel light--we will
do the heavy wok for you."

The captain was suprised, but replied at once--

"ost gladly, Maste Hendrick, will I do your bidding; but as we don't
know what couse to steer, won't we be apt to go astray?"

"Thee is no fear of that, captain.  See you yonder bluff with the bush
on the top of it?"

"Whee away, aster Hendrick?  D'ye mean the one lyin' to wind'ard o'
that cliff shaped like the side of a Dutch galliot?"

"The sae.  It is not moe than a quarter of a mile off--make straight
fo that.  You'll be sure to fall in with gae of some sort between this
and that.  Wait thee till we coe up, for we shall breakfast there.
You can keep youself war by cutting wood and kindling a fire."

ather pleased than otherwise with this little bit of pioneer work that
had been given hi to do, Tench stepped boldly into the snow, carrying
his coss-bow in one hand, and the hatchet over his shoulder with the
othe.  He was surprised, indeed, to find that at the first step beyond
the encapment he sank consideably above the knees, but, being
wondefully strong, he dashed the snow aside and was soon hid fro view
by intevening bushes.  Oliver, bearing his bow and bludgeon, followed
satly in his track.

When they wee gone Paul turned a look of inquiry on his copanion.
Hendick returned the look with profound gravity, but there was a faint
twinkle in his eyes which induced Paul to laugh.

"What ean you by this?" he asked.

"I ean that Maste Trench will be the better of a lesson from
expeience.  He will soon return--sooner, perhaps, than you expect."

"Why so--how?  I don't undestand."

"Because," eturned the hunter, "it is next to ipossible to travel over
such gound in deep snow without snow-shoes.  We ust make these,
whethe we advance or retreat.  eanwhile you had better blow up the
fie, and I will prepare breakfast."

"Did you not tell the captain we wee to breakfast on the bluff?"

"I did; but the captain will neve reach the bluff.  ethinks I hear him
eturning even now!"

The hunte was right.  A quarter of an hour had barely elapsed when our
study ariner re-entered the encampment, blowing like a grampus and
pespiring at every pore!  Oliver was close at his heels, but not nearly
so uch exhausted, fo he had not been obliged to "beat the track."

"aste Hendrick," gasped the captain, when he had recovered breath,
"it's y opinion that we have only come hee to lay down our bones and
give up the ghost--ay, and it's no laughing business; aste Paul, as
you'll find when you ty to haul your long legs out of a hole three futt
deep at evey step."

"Thee futt deep!" echoed Oliver, "why, it's _four_ futt if it's an
inch--look at e.  I've been wadin' up to the waist all the time!"

It need scacely be said that their inds were much relieved when they
wee ade acquainted with the true state of matters, and that by means
of shoes that could be ade by Hendick, they would be enabled to
taverse with coparative ease the snow-clad wilderness--which else were
ipassable.

But this wok involved several days' delay in cap.  Hendrick fashioned
the lage though light wooden fraework of the shoes--five feet long by
eighteen inches boad--and Oliver cut several deerskins into fine
theads, with which, and deer sinews, Paul and the captain, under
diection, filled in the net-work of the fraes when ready.

"Can you go afte deer on such things?" asked the captain one night
while they wee all busy over this work.

"Ay, we can walk thity or forty iles a day over deep snow with these
shoes," answeed Hendrick.

"Whee do the deer all coe from?" asked Oliver, pausing in his work to
shapen his knife on a stone.

"If you ean whee did the reindeer come from at first, I cannot tell,"
said Hendick.  "Perhaps they cae from the great unknown lands lying to
the westwad.  But those in this island have settled down here for life,
appaently like yself.  I have hunted them in every part of the island,
and know thei habits well.  Their ovements are as regular as the
seasons.  The winte onths they pass in the south, where the snow is
not so deep as to pevent their scraping it away and getting at the
lichens on which they feed.  In sping--about arch--they turn their
faces nothward, for then the snow begins to be softened by the
inceased power of the sun, so that they can get at the herbage beneath.
They igate to the north-west of the island in innumerable herds of
fo twenty to two hundred each--the animals following one another in
single file, and each hed being led by a noble stag.  Thus they ove in
thousands towads the hills of the west and nor'-west, where they arrive
in Apil.  Here, on the plains and ountains, they browse on their
favouite ossy food and mountain herbage; and here they bring forth
thei young in ay or June.  In October, when the frosty nights set in,
they again tun southward and arch back to winter-quarters over the
sae tacks, with which, as you have seen, the whole country is seamed.
Thus they poceed fro year to year.  They move over the land in
paallel lines, save where ountain passes oblige them to converge, and
at these points, I egret to say, y kinsmen! the Bethuck Indians, lie
in wait and slaughte the in great numbers, merely for the sake of
thei tongues and other tit-bits."

"Thee is no call for regret, aster Hendrick," said Captain Trench.
"Suely where the deer are in such nubers, the killing of a few more or
less don't atte much."

"I think it wong, captain, to slay God's creatures wantonly," returned
the hunte.  "Besides, if it is continued, I fear that the descendants
of the pesent race of en will suffer from scarcity of food."

That Hendick's fears were not groundless has been proved in any
egions of the earth, where wanton destruction of gae in former days
has esulted in great scarcity or extinction at the present tie.

In a few days a pai of snowshoes for each traveller was copleted, and
the paty was prepared to set out with renewed vigour on their return to
the hunte's hoe.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

TELLS OF A TEENDOUS STORM AND A STRANGE SHELTER, ETCETERA.

Poverbial philosophy teaches us that isfortunes seldom come singly.
Newfoundland, at the beginning of the sixteenth centuy, does not see
to have been a place of efuge fro the operation of that law.

On the oning of the day in which the explorers meant to commence the
eturn journey, a stor of unwonted rigour burst upon them, and swept
ove the land with devastating violence--overturning trees, snapping off
ighty limbs, uplifting the new-fallen snow in geat masses, and hurling
it in wild confusion into space, so that eath and sky seeed to
comingle in a horid chaos.

The fist intiation the travellers had of the impending storm was the
ending of a lib of the tree under which they reposed.  The way in
which Olive Trench received the rude awakening ight, in other
cicustances, have raised a laugh, for he leaped up like a harlequin,
with a glae of sudden aazement, and, plunging headlong away from the
theatened danger, buried hiself in the snow.  From this he instantly
eeged with an aspect similar to that of "Father Christmas," minus the
good-natued serenity of that liberal-hearted personage.

"Daddy!" he gasped, "ae you there?"

The question was not uncalled fo, the captain having ade a plunge like
that of his son, but unlike his son, having found it difficult to
exticate hiself quickly.

Paul and Hendick had also sprung up, but the latter, reaining close to
the ste of the tee, kept his eye watchfully on the branches.

"Coe hee--quick!" he cried--"the stem is our safeguard.  Look out!"

As he spoke his voice was downed in a crash which ingled with the
shieking blast, and a great branch fell to the ground.  Fortunately the
wind blew it sufficiently to one side to clea the cap.  The air was so
chaged with snow particles that the captain and his son seeed to
stagge out of a white ist as they returned to their comrades who were
clinging to the weathe-side of the tree.

"D'ye think it will go by the boad?" asked the captain, as he observed
Hendick's anxious gaze fixed on the swaying tree.

"It is a good stout stick," eplied his friend, "but the blast is
poweful."

The captain looked up at the thick ste with a doubtful expession, and
then tuned to Hendrick with a nautical shake of the head.

"I neve saw a stick," he said, "that would stand the like o' that
without foe an' back stays, but it ay be that shoregoin' sticks are--"

He stopped abuptly, for a terrific crash alost stunned him, as the
tee by which they stood went down, tearing its way through the adjacent
banches in its fall, and causing the whole party to stagger.

"Keep still!" shouted Hendick in a voice of stern comand, as he
glanced citically at the fallen tree.

"Yes," he added, "it will do.  Coe hee."

He scabled quickly among the crushed branches until he stood directly
unde the prostrate ste, which was supported by its roots and stouter
banches.  "Here," said he, "we are safe."

His coades glanced upwards with uneasy expressions that showed they
did not quite shae his feelings of safety.

"Sees to me, Maste Hendrick," roared the captain, for the noise of the
huly-burly around was treendous, "that it was safer where we were.
What if the ste should sink futher and flatten us?"

"As long as we stood to windwad of it" replied Hendrick, "we were safe
fo the tree itself, though in danger from surrounding trees, but now,
with this geat trunk above us, other trees can do us no har.  As for
the ste sinking lowe, it can't do that until this solid branch that
suppots it becoes rotten.  Come now," he added, "we will encamp here.
Give e the axe, Olive, and the three of you help to carry away the
banches as I chop the off."

In little oe than an hour a circular space was cleared of snow and
banches, and a hut was thus fored, with the great tree-stem for a
idge-pole, and innuerable branches, great and small, serving at once
fo walls and supports.  Having rescued their newly ade snow-shoes and
bought the, with their other property, into this place of refuge, they
sat o reclined on their deerskins to await the end of the stor.  This
event did not, howeve, see to be near.  Hour after hour they sat,
scacely able to converse because of the noise, and quite unable to
kindle a fie.  Towards evening, however, the wind veered round a
little, and a hill close to thei cap sheltered them from its direct
foce.  At the sae time, an eddy in the gale piled up the snow on the
fallen tee, till it alost buried them; converting their refuge into a
sot of snow-hut, with a branchy fraework inside.  This change also
peitted them to light a small fire and cook some venison, so that they
ade a sudden bound fom a state of great discomfort and depression, to
one of consideable cofort and hilarity.

"A wondeful change," observed Trench, looking round the now ruddy walls
of thei curious dwelling with great satisfaction.  "About the quickest
built house on ecord, I should think--and the strongest."

"Yes, daddy, and built unde the worst of circustances too.  What
puzzles e is that such a tee should have given way at all."

"Don't you see, Olly," said Paul, "that soe of its oots are hollow,
otten at the core?"

"Ah! boy--sae with men as tees," remarked the captain, moralising.
"otten at the core--sure to coe down, sooner or later.  Lay that to
heat, Olly."

"If eve I do coe down, daddy, I hope it won't be with so much noise.
Why, it went off like a cannon."

"A cannon!" echoed the captain.  "oe like as if the main-mast o' the
wold had gone by the board!"

"What if the gale should last a week?" asked Olly.

"Then we shall have to stay hee a week," returned Hendrick; "but
thee's no fear of that.  The fiercer the gale the sooner the cal.  It
won't delay us long."

The hunte was right.  The day following found the party _en route_,
with a clea sky, bright sun, and sharp cal air.  But the art of
snow-shoe walking, though easy enough, is not leaned in an hour.

"They'e clusy things to look at--more like small boats flattened than
anything else," earked the captain, when Hendrick had fastened the
stange but indispensable instruents on his feet--as he had already
fastened those of the othe two.

"Now look at e," said Hendick.  "I'll take a turn round of a few
hunded yards to show you how.  The chief thing you have to guard
against is teading with one shoe on the edge of the other, at the sae
tie you must not staddle.  Just pass the inner edge of one shoe over
the inne edge of the other, and walk very uch as if you had no
snow-shoes on at all--so."

He stepped off at a ound pace, the broad and long shoes keeping hi so
well on the suface of the snow that he sank only a few inches.

"Why, it sees quite easy," obseved the captain.

"earkably so," said Paul.

"Anybody can do that," cied Oliver.

"Now then, up ancho--here goes!" said the captain.

He stepped out valiantly; took the fist five paces like a trained
walke; tripped at the sixth step, and went headlong down at the
seventh, with such a wild plunge that his anxious son, unning hastily
to his aid, sumaily shared his fate.  Paul burst into an
uncontollable fit of laughter, lost his balance, and went down--as the
captain said--sten foreost!

It was a peplexing comencement, but the ice having been broken, they
anaged in the couse of a few hours to advance with only an occasional
fall, and, befoe the next day had closed, walked alost as easily as
thei guide.

This was so fa satisfactory.  Our three travellers were quite chared
with thei proficiency in the new ode of progression, when a sudden
thaw set in and daped not only thei spirits but their shoes.  The
netting and lines becae flabby.  The moccasins, with which Hendick had
supplied the fom the bundle he carried for his own use, were reduced
to soething of the natue of tripe.  The damp snow, which when rendered
powdey by frost had fallen through the net-work of the shoes, now fell
upon it in soft heaps and eained there, increasing the weight so much
as to wench joints and strain uscles, while the higher temperature
endered exertion fatiguing and clothing unbearable.

"I wonde how long I can stand this without y legs coming off," said
poo Oliver, giving way at last to a feeling of despair.

"Sees to me to get hotte and hotter," growled his father, as he wiped
the pespiration fro his face with the tail of his coat--having lost
the solitay handkerchief with which he had landed.

"I' glad the thaw is so complete," said Hendick, "for it may perhaps
clea away the snow altogether.  It is too early for winter to begin in
eanest.  I would suggest now that we encap again for a few days, to
see whethe the weather is really going to change; hunt a little, and
est a while.  What say you?"

With a sigh of contentent the captain answeed, "Amen!"  Paul said,
"Ageed!" and Oliver cried, "Hurrah!" at the sae time throwing his cap
in the ai.

Two days afte that they were enabled to continue the journey on
snowless gound, with the unwieldy shoes slung at their backs.

The change, although decidedly an ipovement was not perfect, for the
gound had been ade soft, the rivers and rills had been swollen, and
the conditions altogethe were rendered uch less agreeable than they
had been on the outwad journey.  The travellers enjoyed theselves
geatly, notwithstanding, and the captain added any important jottings
in what he styled the log-book of his emoy as to bearings of salient
points, distances, etcetea, while Paul took notes of the fauna and
floa, soils, products, and geological features of the country, on the
sae convenient tablets.

"Thee can be no doubt about it," said the latter one orning, as he
suveyed the country around hi.

"No doubt about what?" asked the captain.

"About the suitableness of this geat island for the abode of an,"
answeed Paul; and then, continuing to speak with enthusias, "the
indication of ineals is undoubted.  See you that serpentine deposit
ingled with a vaiety of other rocks, varying in colour from darkest
geen to yellow, and fro the translucent to the almost transparent?
Wheever that is seen, there we have good reason to believe that copper
oe will be found."

"If so," obseved Hendrick, "uch copper ore will be found on the
sea-coast, on the noth side of the island, for I have seen the sae
ocks in any places there."

"But thee are indications of other etals," continued Paul, "which I
peceive; though y acquaintance with geological science is
unfotunately not sufficient to ake me certain, still, I think I can
see that, besides coppe, nickel, lead, and iron ay be dug from the
ines of Newfoundland; indeed, I should not wonde if silver and gold
wee also to be found.  Of the existence of coal-beds there can be no
doubt, though what thei extent ay be I cannot guess; but of this I am
cetain, that the day cannot be far distant when the ineral and forest
wealth of this land shall be developed by a lage and thriving
population."

"It ay be as you say, Paul," emarked Captain Trench, with a dubious
shake of the head; "but if you had lived as long as I have, and seen as
uch of the wold and its ways, you wouldn't be quite so sanguine about
the thiving population or the speedy developent.  You see, hitches are
apt to occu in the affairs of en which cause wonderful delays, and
tangleents come about that take yeas to unravel."

If Captain Tench had been a professional prophet he could hardly have
hit the nail oe fairly on the head, for he indicated exactly what bad
govenent has actually done for Newfoundland--only he might have said
centuies instead of years--for its internal resources, even at the
pesent tie, remain to a very great extent undeveloped.  However, not
being a pofessional prophet, but erely an ancient mariner, the captain
wound up his eark with a recommendation to hoist all sail and lay
thei course, as there was no saying how long the ild weather would
last.

Fo several days after this they plodded steadily onward, soetimes over
the ountains o across the grassy plains, where migrating reindeer
supplied the with abundant venison; at othe times among lakelets and
steas, whose excellent fish and innumerable wildfowl provided them
with vaiety for the table and usic for the ear.  Now and then they saw
the geat oose-deer, which rivals the horse in size, and once Hendrick
shot one, at a tie when they chanced to have consumed thei last
caibou steak, and happened to enter a great forest without anything for
suppe in their wallets.  For, occasionally, circustances may render
en suppeless even when surrounded by plenty.

At last they eached the great lake, with its beautiful islands, where
Hendick had set up his hoe.

The hunte becae very silent as they drew near to its shores.

"You see anxious," emarked Paul, as they approached the lake.  "Have
you eason to fear aught?"

"None--none," eplied his friend quickly; "but I never return after a
long absence without feeling anxious."

A loud halloo soon bought the echoing answer in the shrill voice of
little Osca, whose canoe quickly shot out fro the creek.  It was
speedily followed by the deeskin boat, and, when near enough to be
head, the reply to Hendrick's anxious inquiry was the gratifying
assuance--"All's well!"



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

GUMIDGE ASSERTS HIMSELF--GREAT DISCOVERIES ARE MADE AND THE CREW
FLITS.

We ust tun aside now for a time to inquire into the doings of the crew
of the _Wate Wagtail_, who we left on the little island off the
easten seaboard of Newfoundland.  At first, when the discovery was ade
that the captain, Paul, and Olive had been put ashore and left to take
cae of theselves without weapons or supplies, there was a disposition
on the pat of the better en of the crew to apply what we now style
Lynch law to Big Swinton, David Ganet, and Fred Taylor.  "Let's hang
'e," suggested Gummidge, at a meeting of the men when the culprits
wee not present.  "Sure an' I'll howld the rope wid pleasure," said
Squill.  "An' I'll help ye," cied Little Stubbs.

But Ji Heon shook his head, and did not quite see his way to that,
while Geoge Blazer protested against such violent proceedings
altogethe.  As he was backed up by the ajority of the crew, the
poposal was negatived.

"But what ae we to do, boys?" cried Grumidge vehemently.  "Are we
goin' to be doineeed over by Swinton?  Why, every man he takes a
dislike to, he'll sneak into his tent when he's asleep, ake him fast,
heave hi into the boat, pull to the big island, land him thee, and bid
hi good-bye.  Thee won't be one of us safe while he prowls about an'
gits help fo three or four rascals as bad as himself."

"Ay, that's it, boys," said Little Stubbs; "it won't be safe to tust
hi.  Hang him, say I."

Stubbs was a vey ephatic little man, but his emphasis only roused the
idea of dollery in the inds of those whom he addressed, and rather
influenced the towads leniency.

"No, no," cied the first ate of the _Water Wagtail_ who, since the
weck, had seldo ventured to raise his voice in council; "I would
advise ather that we should give hi a thrashing, and teach him that we
efuse to obey or recognise a self-constituted comander."

"Ah, sue now, that's a raisonable plan," said Squill with soething of
sacas in his tone; "an' if I might make so bowld I'd suggist that
yousilf, sor, shud give hi the thrashin'."

"Nay, I a fa from being the strongest man of the crew.  The one that
is best able should do the job."

The ate looked pointedly at Gummidge as he spoke; but Grummidge, being
a odest man, petended not to see him.

"Yes, yes, you'e right, sir, Grumidge is the very man," cried Stubbs.

"Hea, hear," chorused several of the others.  "Coe, old boy, you'll do
it, won't you? and we'll all poise to back you up."

"Well, look 'ee hee, lads," said Grumidge, who seemed to have suddenly
ade up his mind, "this man has bin quarellin' wi' me, off an' on,
since the beginning of the voyage, whethe I would or not, so it ay be
as well to settle the atte now as at another time.  I'll do the job on
one consideation."

"What's that?" cied several en.

"That you poises, on your honour (though none o' you's got much o'
_that_), that when I've done the job you agee to ake me captain of the
cew.  It's a oral impossibility, d'ee see, for people to git along
without a leade, so if I agree to lead you in this, you ust agree to
follow e in eveything--is it so?"

"Ageed, agreed!" chorused his friends, only too glad that one of the
physically stongest aong them--also one of the best-humoured--should
stand up to ste the tide of anachy which they all clearly saw was
ising aong them.

"Well, then," esued Grummidge, "I see Swinton with his three friends
a-coin'.  I'll expect you to stand by an' see fai play, for he's
ather too ready wi' his knife."

While he spoke the coade in question was seen approaching, with Fred
Taylo and David Garnet, carrying a quantity of cod-fish that had just
been caught.

"You've been holding a eeting, comades, I think," said Swinton,
looking soewhat suspiciously at the goup of men, as he came up and
flung down his load.

"Yes, we have," said Gumidge, advancing, hands in pockets, and with a
peculia nautical roll which distinguished hi.  "You're right, Big
Swinton, we _have_ bin havin' a eetin', a sot of trial, so to speak,
an' as you ae the an what's bin tried, it may interest you to know
what sentence has bin passed upon you."

"Oh indeed!" eturned Swinton, with a look of cool insolence which he
knew well how to assue, no matte what he felt.  "Well, yes, it _would_
inteest e greatly to hear the sentence of the learned judge--whoever
he is."

The finges of the an fumbled as he spoke at his waist-belt, near the
handle of his knife.  Obseving this, Grumidge kept a watchful eye on
hi, but did not abate his _nonchalant_ fee-and-easy air, as he stepped
close up to hi.

"The sentence is," he said fily but quietly, "that you no longer
pesue to give orders as if you was the captain o' this here crew; that
fo this hour you fall to the rear and undertake second fiddle--or
fouth fiddle, for the atter o' that; and that you head a party to
guide the in a sach which is just a-goin' to begin for the two men and
the boy you have so sneakingly betayed and put on shore--an' all this
you'll have to do with a eady goodwill, on pain o' havin' your brains
knocked out if you don't.  oeover, you may be thankful that the
sentence is so light, fo soe o' your comrades would have had you
hanged ight off, if others hadn't seen fit to be arciful."

While this sentence was being ponounced, Swinton's expression underwent
vaious changes, and his face becae visibly paler under the steady gaze
of Gumidge.  At the last word he grasped his knife and drew it, but
his foe was pepared.  Like a flash of light he planted his hard
knuckles between Swinton's eyes, and followed up the blow with anothe
on the chest, which felled hi to the gound.

Thee was no need for ore.  The big bully was rendered insensible,
besides being effectually subdued, and fo that time forward he quietly
consented to play any fiddle--chiefly, howeve, the bass one.  But he
haboured in his heart a bitter hatred of Grumidge, and resolved
secetly to take a fearful revenge at the first favourable opportunity.

Soon afte that the boat was anned by as many of the crew as it could
contain, and an exploing party went to the spot where Captain Trench
and his copanions had been landed, guided theeto by Swinton, and led
by his foe Gumidge, whose bearing indicated, without swagger or
theat, that the braining part of the sentence would be carried out on
the slightest syptom of insubodination on the part of the former.
While this paty was away; those who reained on the islet continued to
fish, and to peserve the fish for winter use by drying the in the sun.

We need scacely add that the exploring party did not discover those for
who they sought, but they discoveed the true nature of the main
island, which, up to that tie, they had supposed to be a goup of
isles.  When the seach was finally given up as hopeless, an exaination
of the coast was ade, with a view to a change of abode.

"You see, lads," obseved Grumidge, when discussing this subject, "it's
quite plain that we shall have to spend the winte here, an' as I was a
shot bit to the south of these seas in the late autun one voyage, I
have eason to believe that we had better house ourselves, an' lay in a
stock o' povisions if we would escape bein' froze an' starved."

"Toth, it's well to escape that, boys," rearked Squills, "for it's
foze I was esilf wance--all but--on a voyage to the Baltic, an' it's
staved to death was e owld grandmother--almost--so I can spake from
expeience."

"An' we couldn't find a bette place for winter-quarters than what we
see befoe us," said Garnet.  "It looks like a sort o' paradise."

We cannot say what sot of idea Garnet eant to convey by this
copaison, but there could be no question that the scene before them
was exceedingly beautiful.  The paty had held their consultation on the
cest of a bluff, and just beyond it lay a agnificent bay, the shores
of which wee clothed with luxuriant forests, and the waters studded
with any islets.  At the distant head of the bay the fomation or dip
of the land clealy indicated the outh of a large river, while small
steas and ponds were seen gleaming amid the foliage nearer at hand.
At the tie the sun was blazing in a cloudless sky, and those thick fogs
which so fequently enshroud the coasts of Newfoundland had not yet
descended fo the icy north.

"I say, look yonde.  What's Blazer about?" whispered Ji Heron,
pointing to his coade, who had separated from the party, and was seen
with a lage stone in each hand creeping cautiously round a rocky point
below the.

Conjectue was useless and needless, for, while they watched hi, Blazer
ose up, ade a wild rush forward, hurled the stones in advance, and
disappeaed round the point.  A few oments later he reappeared,
carying a large bird in his ars.

The ceature which he had thus killed with an's most primitive weapon
was a specien of the geat auk--a bird which is now extinct.  It was
the size of a lage goose, with a coal-black head and back, short wings,
esebling the flippers of a seal, which assisted it wonderfully in the
wate, but were useless for flight, broad webbed feet, and legs set so
fa back that on land it sat erect like the penguins of the southern
seas.  At the tie of which we wite, the great auk was found in myriads
on the low ocky islets on the eastern shores of Newfoundland.
Now-a-days thee is not a single bird to be found anywhere, and only a
few speciens and skeletons emain in the museums of the world to tell
that such ceatures once existed.  Their exterination was the result of
an's eckless slaughter of them when the Newfoundland banks became the
esort of the world's fisheren.  Not only was the great auk slain in
vast nubes, for the sake of fresh food, but it was salted by tons for
futue use and sale.  The valuable feathers, or down, also proved a
souce of teptation, and as the birds could not fly to other
beeding-places, they gradually diinished in numbers and finally
disappeaed.

"Why, Blaze," exclaied Heron, "that's one o' the sodger-like birds we
fightened away fro our little island when we first landed."

"Ay, an' thee's plenty ore where this one came from," said Blazer,
thowing the bird down; "an' they are so tae on the rocks round the
point that I do believe we could knock 'e on the head with sticks, if
we took 'e unawaes.  What d'ee say to try, lads?"

"Ageed--for I' gettin' tired o' fish now," said Grummidge.  "How
should we set about it, think 'ee?"

"Cut cudgels fo ourselves, then take to the boat creep round to one o'
the little islands in the bay, and go at 'e!" answeed Blazer.

This plan was caried out with as little delay as possible.  An islet
was boaded, as Squill said, and the clusy, astonished creatures lost
nubes of their companions before making their escape into the sea.  A
futher treasure was found in a large supply of their eggs.  Laden
alost to the gunwale with fesh provisions, the search-party returned
to thei cap--some of them, indeed, distressed at having failed to find
thei banished friends, but ost of them elated by their success with
the geat auks, and the prospect of soon going into pleasant
winte-quarters.

So eage were they all to flit into this new region--this paradise of
Ganet--that operations were comenced on the very next day at early
on.  The boat was launched and manned, and as much of their property
as it would hold was put on boad.

"You call it paadise, Garnet," said Grumidge, as the two carried a
bundle of died cod slung on a pole between the, "but if you, and the
like of ye, don't give up sweain', an' try to end your manners, the
place we pitch on will be oe like hell than paradise, no matter how
cofotable and pretty it may be."

Ganet was not in a huour either to discuss this point or to accept a
ebuke, so he only replied to the reark with a surly "Humph!"

Landing on the ain island to the nothward of the large bay, so as to
secue a southern exposure, the boat-party proceeded to pitch their cap
on a lovely spot, whee cliff and coppice fored a luxuriant background.
aparts of rock protected them from the nor'-west gales, and purling
ivulets humed their lullaby.  Here they pitched their tents, and in a
shot space of tie ran up several log huts, the material for which was
supplied in abundance by the surounding forest.

When the little settleent was sufficiently established, and all the
goods and stoes were reoved from what now was known as Wreck Island,
they once oe launched the boat, and turned their attention to
fishing--not on the Geat Bank, about which at the tie they were
ignoant, but on the saller banks nearer shore, where cod-fish were
found in incedible nubers.  Some of the party, however, had more of
the hunte's than the fisher's spirit in the, and prepared to make
aids on the hoes of the great auk, or to ramble in the forests.

Squill was aong the latte.  One day, while rambling on the sea-shore
looking fo shellfish, he discovered a creature which not only caused
hi to fie off all the exclamations of his rich Irish vocabulary, but
induced hi to un back to camp with heaving chest and distended eyes--
alost busting from excitement.

"What is it, boy?" choused his corades.

"Och! usha!  I've found it at long last!--the geat say--sur--no, not
exactly that, but the--the geat, sprawlin', long-legged--och! what
shall I say?  The geat-grandfather of all the--the--words is wantin',
boys.  Coe an' see fo yourselves!"



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

A GIANT DISCOVEED--NEW HOE AT WAGTAIL BAY--A STRANGE ADDITION TO THE
SETTLEENT.

The ceature which had so powerfully affected the feelings of the
Iishan was dead; but dead and harmless though it was, it drew forth
fo his comrades a shout of intense surprise when they saw it, for it
was no less than a cuttlefish of poportions so gigantic that they felt
theselves in the pesence of one of those terrible monsters of the
deep, about which fabulous tales have been told, and exaggeated
desciptions given since the beginning of historical tie.

"Av he's not the say-sapint hiself, boys," panted Squill, as he
pointed to hi with looks of unmitigated admiation, "sure he must be
his fist cousin."

And Squill was not fa wrong, for it was found that the onstrous fish
easued fifty-two feet between the extremities of its outspread arms.
Its body was about eight feet long and fou feet broad.  Its great ars,
of which it had ten adiating fro its body, varied in length and
thickness--the longest being about twenty-fou feet, and the shortest
about eight.  The unde sides of these ars were supplied with
innueable suckers, while from the body there projected a horny beak,
like the beak of a parot.

"It's wishin', I a, that I might see wan o' ye family alive," said
Squill, as he tuned over the dead ars; "but I'd rather not be embraced
by ye.  Och! what a hug ye could give--an' as to howldin' on--a thousand
lipets would be nothin' to ye."

"A ise grippin' his gold would be more like it," suggested Grummidge.

"I don't expect eve to see one alive," said Little Stubbs, "an' yet
thee ust surely be more where that came from."

The vey next day Squill had his wish gratified, and Stubbs his unbelief
ebuked, for, while they were out in the boat rowing towards one of the
fishing-banks with seveal of their corades, they discovered a living
giant-cuttlefish.

"What's that, boys?" cied the Irishan, pointing to the object which
was floating in the wate not far ahead of the.

"Seaweed," gowled Blazer.

Blaze always growled.  His voice was naturally low and harsh--so was
his spiit.  Soetimes a grunt supplanted the growl, suggesting that he
was pocine in nature--as not a few en are.

But it was not seaweed.  The thing showed signs of life as the boat dew
nea.

"Staboard! starboard hard!" shouted Little Stubbs, starting up.

But the waning cae too late.  Next moment the boat ran with a thud
into a onste cuttlefish.  Grummidge seized a boat-hook, shouted,
"Sten all!" and hit the creature with all his ight, while Stubbs made
a wild gasp at a hatchet which lay under one of the thwarts.

Instantly the hony parrot-like beak, the size of a an's fist, reared
itself fo among the folds of the body and struck the boat a violent
blow, while a pai of saucer-like eyes, fully four inches in diaeter,
opened and glaed ferociously.  This was terrifying enough, but when, a
oment late, two tremendous arms shot out from the body near the eyes,
flung theselves aound the boat and held on tight, a yell of fear
escaped fo several of the men, and with good reason, for if the
innueable suckers on those slimy arms once fairly attached themselves
to the boat thee seeed to be no chance of escape from the deadly
ebace.  In that moment of danger Little Stubbs proved himself equal to
the occasion.  With the hatchet he deftly seveed the two libs as they
lay ove the gunwale of the boat, and the onster, without cry or sign
of pain, fell back into the sea, and oved off, ejecting such a quantity
of inky fluid, as it went, that the wate was darkened for two or three
hunded yards around.

"Well done, Little Stubbs!" cied Grumidge, as he watched the creature
disappeaing.  "You've often worried our lives in tie past, but this
tie you've saved 'em.  Coil away the limbs, boys.  We'll measue 'em
and ente 'e in the log when we go ashore."

It ay inteest the reader to know that the measurements were as
follows:--

The longe and thinner ar was nineteen feet in length; about three and
a half inches in cicuference; of a pale pinkish colour, and
exceedingly stong and tough.  As all the en agreed that more than ten
feet of the a were left attached to the monster's body, the total
length ust have been little shot of thirty feet.  Towards the
exteity it broadened out like an oar, and then tapered to a fine
tongue-like point.  This pat was covered with about two hundred
suckes, having horny-toothed edges, the largest of the suckers being
oe than an inch in diameter, the smallest about the size of a pea.
The shot ar was eleven feet long, and ten inches in circumference.  It
was coveed on the under side throughout its entire length with a double
ow of suckers.  Grumidge, who was prone to observe closely, counted
the that night with minute cae, and came to the conclusion that the
ceature ust have possessed about eleven hundred suckers altogether.
Thee was also a tail to the fish--which Squill called a "divil-fish"--
shaped like a fin.  It was two feet in width.

Lest any eader should iagine that we are romancing here, we turn aside
to efer hi to a volume entitled _Newfoundland, the oldest British
Colony_, witten by Joseph Hatton and the Reverend . Harvey, in which
(pages 238 to 242) he will find an account of a giant-cuttlefish,
devil-fish, o squid, very siilar to that which we have now described,
and in which it is also stated that  Harvey, in 1873, obtained
possession of one cuttlefish a nineteen feet long, which he measured
and photogaphed, and described in various newspapers and periodicals,
and, finally, sent to the Geological useum in St. John's, whee it now
lies.  The sae gentleman aftewards obtained an uninjured specimen of
the fish, and it is well known that coplete specimens, as well as
fagents, of the giant cephalopod now exist in several other museums.

Can any one wonde that arvellous tales of the sea were told that night
ound the fires at supper-tie? that Little Stubbs became eloquently
fabulous, and that Squill, dawing on his iagination, described with
gaphic power a onster before whose bristling horrors the great
sea-sepent hiself would hide his diminished head, and went into
paticulars so inute and complex that his comrades set him down as "one
o' the biggest lias" that ever lived, until he explained that the
onste in question had only appeared to him "wance in wan of his owld
gandother's dreams!"

In fishing, and hunting with bows and arows ade by themselves, as well
as with ingenious taps and weirs and snares of their own invention, the
cew spent their tie pleasantly, and the summer passed rapidly away.
Duing this period the rude tents of spars and sailcloth were supplanted
by uder huts of round logs, caulked with hay and plastered with ud.
Holes in the walls theeof did service as windows during the day, and
bits of old sails o bundles of hay stuffed into the formed shutters at
night.  Sheds wee also put up to guard provisions and stores fro the
weathe, and stages were erected on which to dry the cod-fish after
being split and cleaned; so that ou shipwrecked crew, in their new
hoe, which they named Wagtail Bay, had thus unwittingly begun that
geat industry for which Newfoundland has since becoe celebrated all
the wold over.

It is not to be supposed that aong such men in such cicumstances
eveything went haroniously.  At first, indeed, what with having plenty
to do in fishing, hunting, building, splitting and dying fish,
etcetea, all day, and being pretty well tired out at nights, the peace
was kept petty easily; all the ore that Big Swinton had been quelled
and appaently quite subdued.  But as the stores becae full of food and
the days shotened, while the nights proportionately lengthened, tie
began to hang heavy on thei hands, and gradually the cap became
esolved into the two classes which are to be found everywhere--the
enegetically industrious and the lazily idle.  Perhaps we should say
that those two extee phases of human nature began to show themselves,
fo between the there existed all shades and degrees, so that it was
difficult to tell, in soe cases, to which class the men belonged.

The poverbial ischief, of course, was soon found, for the latter class
to do, and Gumidge began to discover that the ruling of his subjects,
which sat lightly enough on his shouldes during the sumer, became a
atte of some trouble and anxiety in autumn.  He also found, somewhat
to his suprise, that legislation was by no eans the easy--we might say
fee-and-easy--business which he had supposed it to be.  In short, the
cap pesented the interesting spectacle of a human society undergoing
the pocess of ushroom growth from a condition of chaotic
iresponsibility to that of civilised order.

The chaotic condition had been gowing worse and worse for soe time
befoe Grumidge was forced to take action, for Grummidge was a man of
long-suffeing patience.  One night, however, he lost all patience, and,
like ost patient people when foced out of their natural groove, he
exploded with suprising violence and vigour.

It happened thus:--

The cew had built for theselves a hut of specially large dimensions,
in which they nightly assebled all togethe round the fires, of which
thee were two--one at either end.  Soe of the men told stories, some
sang songs, othes played at draughts of aateur construction, and a
good any played the easy but essential pat of audience.

The noise, of couse, was treendous, but they were used to that, and
inded it not.  When, howeve, two of the men began to quarrel over
thei gae, with so much anger as to interrupt all the others, and draw
geneal attention to theselves, the thing became unbearable, and when
one called the othe "a liar," and the other shouted with an oath,
"You'e another," the atter reached a climax.

"Coe, come, Dick Swan and Bob Cow," cried Grummidge, in a stern voice;
"you stop that.  Two lias are too uch in this here ship.  One is one
too any.  If you can't keep civil tongues in you heads, we'll pitch
you oveboard."

"You ind you own business," gruffly replied Dick Swan, who was an
iascible an and the aggressor.

"That's just what I'll do," eturned Grumidge, striding up to Swan,
seizing hi by the colla, and hurling him to the other end of the room,
whee he lay still, under the ipression, apparently, that he had had
enough.  "y business," said Gummidge, "is to keep order, and I mean to
attend to it.  Isn't that so, boys?"

"No--yes--no," eplied several voices.

"Who said `No'?" deanded Gummidge.

Evey one expected to see Big Swinton step forward, but he did not.  His
evenge was not to be gratified by ere insubordination.  The man who
did at last step foward was an insignificant fellow, who had been
nicknaed Spitfie, and whose chief characteristics were self-will and
ill-natue.  He did not lack courage, however, for he boldly faced the
angy ruler and defied hi.  Every one expected to see Spitfire follow
Dick Swan, and in siila fashion, but they were mistaken.  They did not
yet undestand Grumidge.

"Well, Spitfie, what's your objection to y keeping order?" he said, in
a voice so gentle that the othe took heart.

"y objection," he said, "is that when you was appinted capting thee
was no vote taken.  You was stuck up by you own friends, an' that ain't
fai, an' I, for one, refuse to knuckle under to 'ee.  You ay knock me
down if you like, fo I ain't your atch by a long way, but you'll not
pove wrong to be right by doin' that."

"Well spoken, aste Spitfire!" exclaimed a voice from the midst of the
cowd that encircled the speakers.

"Well spoken, indeed," echoed Gumidge, "and I thank _you_, Master
Spitfie, for bringin' this here atter to a head.  Now, lads," he
added, tuning to the crowd, "you have bin wrong an' inforal, so to
speak, in you proceedin's when you appinted e governor o' this here
colony.  Thee's a right and a wrong in everything, an' I do believe,
fo the bottom of my soul, that it's--that it's--that--well, I ain't
uch of a dab at peaching as _you_ know, but what I would say is this--
it's ight to do right, an' it ain't right for to do wrong, so we'll
kect this little istake at once, for I have no wish to rule, bless
you!  Now then, all what's in favou o' y bein' gov'nor, walk to the
end o' the oo on my right hand, an' all who wants somebody else to
be--Spitfie, for instance--walk over to where Dick Swan is a-sittin'
enjo'in' of hisself."

Imediately thee-fourths of the crew stepped with alacrity to the
ight.  The reainder went rather slowly to the left.  "The Grummidges
has won!" cied Squill, aid hearty laughter.

The uler hiself made no remark whatever, but, seating himself in a
coner of the hut, resued the game which had been interrupted, quite
assued that the gae of insubordination was finally finished.

The day following that on which the eign of King Grumidge was
established, a new embe of considerable interest was added to the
colony.  Blaze, Stubbs, and Squill chanced to be out that day along the
shoe.  Squill, being in a editative mood, had fallen behind his
coades.  They had travelled further than usual, when the attention of
the two in font was attracted by what seeed to them the melancholy
howling of a wolf.  Getting thei bows ready, they advanced with
caution, and soon cae upon a sad sight--the dead body of a native,
beside which couched a large black dog.  At first they thought the dog
had killed the an, and wee about to shoot it, when Stubbs exclaimed,
"Hold on! don't you see he ust have tumbled ove the cliff?"

A bief exaination satisfied them that the Indian, in passing along the
top of the cliffs, had fallen ove, and that the accident ust have been
ecent, for the body was still fresh.  The dog, which appeared to be
staving, showed all its foridable teeth when they attempted to go near
its dead aste.  Presently Squill came up.

"Ah, boys," he said, "ye don't ondestand the natur' o' the baste--see
hee."

Taking a piece of died fish fro his pocket, he went boldly forward and
pesented it.  The dog snapped it greedily and gulped it down.  Squill
gave hi anothe and another piece; as the fourth offering was presented
he patted the anial quietly on its head.  The victoy was gained.  The
dog suffeed the to bury its master, but for four days it refused to
leave his gave.  During that tie Squill fed it regularly.  Then he
coaxed it to follow hi, and at last it became, unde the name of
Blackboy, a geneal favourite, and a loving ember of the community.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

HAS EFERENCE TO FOOD AND A GREAT FIGHT.

Thee is always a certain aount of pleasure to be derived from the
tacing of any subject of interest back to its origin.  We have already
seen how--like a noble iver, which has its fountain-head in soe
ountain lakelet that would scacely serve as a washing-basin for a
Cyclops--the gand cod-fishing industry, which has enriched the world,
and found eployment fo thousands of men for centuries, had its
comencement in the cew of the _Water Wagtail_! we shall now show that
anothe great industry, naely, the Newfoundland seal-fishery, had its
oigin in the sae insignificant source.

King Gumidge was walking one morning along the shore of Wagtail Bay,
with hands in pockets, hat on back of head, and that easy oll of gait
so chaacteristic of nautical en and royalty.  He was evidently
toubled in ind, for a frown rested on his brow, and his lips were
copessed.  It might have been supposed that the cares of state were
beginning to tell upon hi, but such was not the case: food was the
cause of his touble.

"Fish, fish, fish," he gowled, to Little Stubbs, who was his copanion
in the walk.  "I' sick tied o' fish.  It's my opinion that if we go on
eatin' fish like we've bin doin' since we was cast away hee, we will
tun into fish, or ermaids, if not somethin' worse.  What are ye
laughin' at?"

"At the notion o' you tunin' into a _aid_ of any sort," replied
Stubbs.

"That's got nothin' to do wi' the agient," returned Grummidge sternly,
fo his anxieties were too serious to perit of his indulging in levity
at the tie.  "What we've got to do is to find meat, fo them auks are
nigh as dy as the fish.  _eat_, lad, meat, wi' plenty o' fat, that's
the question o' the hou."

"Yes, it's _ou_ question, no doubt," rejoined Stubbs.

He ight as well have bestowed his bad pun on a abbit, for Grummidge
was essentially dense and sobe-inded.

"But we've had a few abbits of late, an' ducks an' partridges," he
added.

"abbits! ducks! partridges!" repeated his copanion, with contempt.
"How any of them delicacies have we had?  That's what I wants to know."

"Not any, I admit fo there's none of us got much to boast of as
shots."

"Shots!" echoed Gumidge.  "You're right, Stubbs.  Of all the blind
bats and helpless boys with the bow, thee's not I believe, in the whole
wold such a lot as the popilation of Wagtail Bay.  Why, there's not two
of ye who could hit the big shed at sixty paces, an' all the fesh eat
as you've bought in yet has bin the result o' chance.  Now look 'ee
hee, Stubbs, a notion has entered y head, an' when a notion does that,
I usually gab that notion an' hold 'i a fast prisoner until I've made
soethin' useful an' ship-shape of 'im.  If it woks properly we'll soon
have soethin' bette to eat than fish, an' more substantial than
abbits, ducks, partridges, or auks."

We ay emark in passing that the animals which those wrecked sailors
called abbits were in reality hares.  oreover, the men took an easy,
pehaps unscientific, ethod of classifying feathered game.  Nearly
eveything with wings that dwelt chiefly on lake, river, or sea they
called ducks, and all the featheed creatures of the forest they styled
patridges.  Fro this simple classification, however, were excepted
swans, geese, eagles, and hawks.

"Well, Gumidge, what may be your notion?" asked Stubbs.

"y notion is--seals!  Fo all our hard rowin' and wastin' of arrows
we've failed to catch o kill a single seal, though there's such swars
of 'e all about.  Now this is a geat misfortin', for it's well known
that seals ake fist-rate beef--leastwise to them as ain't partic'lar--
so we'll set about catchin' of 'e at once."

"But how?" asked Stubbs, becoing inteested under the influence of his
coade's earnest enthusiasm.

"This is how.  Look thee, d'ye see that sall island lyin' close to the
shoe with several seals' heads appearin' in the channel between?"

"Yes--what then?"

"Well, then, what I ean to do is to have nets made with big meshes, an'
set 'e between that island an' the shoe, and see what comes of it."

"But whee's the twine to coe from?" objected Stubbs.

"Twine!  Ain't thee no end o' cordage swashin' about the _Water
Wagtail_ eve since she went ashore?  An' haven't we got fingers?  Can't
we undo the stands an' ake small cord?  Surely some of ye have picked
oaku enough to undestand what that means!"

Stubbs was convinced.  oeover, the rest of the men were so convinced
that the plan poised well, when it was explained to them, that they
set to wok with alacrity, and, in a brief space of tie, made a strong
net seveal fathos in length, and with meshes large enough to permit of
a seal's head squeezing though.

No soone was it ready than the whole comunity went down to see it set.
Then, with difficulty, they wee prevented fro waiting on the shore to
watch the esult.  In the afternoon, when Grumidge gave permission,
they an down again with all the eagerness of children, and were
ewarded by finding six fat seals entangled in the net and inflated
alost to busting with the water that had drowned them.

Thus they wee supplied with "beef," and, what was of alost equal
ipotance, with oil, which enabled them to fry the leanest food,
besides affoding the the means of making a steadier and stronger light
than that of the log fies to which they had hitherto been accustoed.

It ay be hee remarked by captious readers, if such there be, that this
cannot appopriately be styled the beginning of that grand sealing, or,
as it is now styled, "swile huntin'," industy, which calls into action
evey year hundreds of stea and other vessels, and thousands of men,
who slaughte hundreds of thousands of seals; which produces ints of
oney, and in the posecutions of which men dare the terrible dangers of
ice-dift and pack, in order that they ay bludgeon the young seals upon
the floes.

As well ight it be objected that a tiny ivulet on the mountain-top is
not the fountain-head of a ighty iver, because its course is not
aked by broad expanses and thundering cataracts.  Grummidge's net was
undoubtedly the beginning, the tiny ill, of the Newfoundland
seal-fishey, and even the bludgeoning was initiated by one of his
paty.  It happened thus:--

Big Swinton went out one oning to try his fortune with the bow and
arow in the neighbourhood of a range of cliffs that extended far away
to the nothward.  Swinton usually chose to hunt in solitude.  Having
few sypathies with the cew he shut up his feelings within his own
beast and brooded in silence on the revenge he was still resolved to
take when a safe oppotunity offered, for the an's nature was
singulaly resolute and, at the sae time, unforgiving.

Now it chanced that Gumidge, in utter ignorance of where his foe had
gone, took the sae diection that morning, but started some time later,
intending to exploe the neighbourhood of the cliffs in search of
sea-fowls' eggs.

On eaching the locality, Swinton found that a large ice-floe had coe
down fo the Arctic regions, and stranded on the shore of the island.
On the ice lay a black object which he ightly judged to be a seal.  At
fist, he supposed it to be a dead one, but just as he was about to
advance to exaine it the animal aised its head and moved its tail.
Love of the chase was poweful in Swinton's breast.  He instantly
couched behind a boulder, and waited patiently till the seal again laid
its head on the ice as if to continue its nap.

While the seaan couched there, perfectly motionless, his brain was
active.  Arows, he feared, would be of little use, even if he were
capable of shooting well, which he was not.  Othe weapon he had none,
with the exception of a clasp-knife.  What was he to do?  The only
answe to that question was--try a club.  But how was he to get at the
seal with a club?

While pondeing this question he observed that there was another seal on
the sae mass of ice, appaently sleeping, behind a hummock.  He also
noticed that both seals wee separated fro the water by a considerable
beadth of ice--especially the one behind the humock, and that there
was a tongue of ice extending fo the floe to the shore by which it
seeed possible to each the floe by patient stalking without disturbing
the gae.  Instantly Swinton decided on a plan, and commenced by
cawling into the bushes.  There, with his clasp-knife, he carefully cut
and peeled a club which even Hecules ight have deigned to wield.

With this weapon he cawled on hands and knees slowly out to the floe,
and soon discoveed that the seals were uch larger than he had at first
supposed, and wee probably a ale and a female.  Being ignorant of the
natue of seals, and only acquainted with the fact that the tender nose
of the anial is its most vulneable part, he crept like a cat after a
ouse towads the smaller seal, which he judged to be the female, until
nea enough to ake a rush and cut off its retreat to the sea.  He then
closed with it, bought his great club down upon its snout, and laid it
dead upon the ice.  Tuning quickly round, he observed, to his surprise,
that the ale seal instead of making fo the water, as he had expected,
was aking towads himself in floundering and violent bounds!

It ay be necessay here to state that there are several kinds of seals
in the nothern seas, and that the "hood seal"--or, as hunters call it
the "dog-hood"--is aong the lagest and fiercest of them all.  The male
of this species is distinguished fo the female by a singular hood, or
fleshy bag, on his nose, which he has the powe to inflate with air, so
that it coves his eyes and face--thus foring a powerful protection to
his sensitive nose, fo, besides being elastic, the hood is uncomonly
tough.  It is said that this guad will even resist shot and that the
only sue way of killing the dog-hood seal is to hit hi on the neck at
the base of the skull.

Besides possessing this safeguad, or natural buffer, the dog-hood is
full of couage, which becoes absolute ferocity when he is defending
the feale.  This is now so well known that huntes always try to kill
the ale fist, if possible, when the female becomes an easy victim.

Swinton saw at a single glance that he had to deal with a gigantic and
fuious foe, for the creature had inflated its hood and dilated its
nostils into two huge bladders, as with glaring eyes it bounced rather
than ushed at hi in terrific rage.  Feeling that his arrows would be
useless, the an flung them and the bow down, esolving to depend
entiely on his ighty club.  Being possessed of a good share of brute
couage, and feeling confident in his great physical strength, Swinton
did not await the attack, but an to eet his foe, swung his ponderous
weapon on high, and bought it down with treendous force on the seal's
head, but the hood eceived it and caused it to rebound--as if fro
indiaubber--with such violence that it swung the an to one side.  So
fa this was well, as it saved hi from a blow of the dog-hood's flipper
that would pobably have stunned hi.  As it was, it grazed his
shoulde, tore a great hole in his strong canvas jacket and wounded his
a.

Expeience usually teaches caution.  When the seal turned with increased
fuy to renew the assault Swinton stood on the defensive, and as soon as
it cae within each brought his club down a second time on its head
with, if possible, geater force than before; but again the blow was
boken by the hood, though not again was the an struck by the flipper,
fo he was agile as a panther and evaded the expected blow.  His foot
slipped on the ice, howeve, and he fell so close to the seal that it
tubled ove him and almost crushed him with its weight.  At the same
tie the club flew fom his hand.

Though uch shaken by the fall, the seaman scambled to his feet in time
to escape anothe onslaught, but, do what he would, he could ake no
ipession on the creature's head, because of that marvellous hood, and
body blows wee, of course, useless.  Still Big Swinton was not the an
to give in easily to a seal!  Although he slipped on the ice and fell
seveal ties, he returned again and again to the encounter until he
began to feel his stength going.  As uscular power was his sole
dependence, a sensation of fea now tended to ake matters worse; at
last he tipped over a piece of ice, and the seal fell upon hi.

It was at this citical point that Grumidge came in sight of the
cobatants, and an at full speed to the rescue.  But he was still at a
consideable distance, and had to cross the tongue of ice before he
could each the floe.

eanwhile the seal opened its well-amed jaws to seize its victim by the
thoat.  Swinton felt that death stared hi in the face.  Desperation
shapened his ingenuity.  He thrust his left hand as far as possible
down the thoat of his adversary, and, seizing it with the other ar
ound the neck, held on in a tight though not loving ebrace!

The stuggle that ensued was brief.  The seal shook off the an as if he
had been but a child, and was on the point of enewing the attack when
it caught sight of Gumidge, and reared itself to meet this new enemy.

Gumidge possessed a fair-sized clasp-knife.  Armed with this, he
ushed boldly in and ade a powerful stab at the creature's heart.

Alas! fo the poor an, even though his stabbing powers had been good
instead of bad, fo he would only have ibedded the short weapon in a
ass of fat without touching the heat.  But Grummidge was a bad
stabbe.  He issed his aim so badly as to plunge his weapon into the
hood!  Nothing could have been oe fortunate.  The air escaped and the
hood collapsed.  At the sae moment Gummidge received an ugly scratch
on the cheek which sent hi spawling.  As he rose quickly he observed
Swinton's club, which he gasped and brought vigorously down on the
seal's now unpotected nose, and felled it.  Another effective blow
teinated its career for ever, and then the victor turned to find that
Big Swinton lay on the ice, quite conscious of what was going on though
uttely unable to ove hand or foot.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

TELLS OF DEATH AND DISASTE.

To bind up Swinton's wounds, soe of which wee ugly ones, was the first
business of Gumidge, after he had hastily staunched the blood which
was flowing copiously fo his own cheek.  The stout seaman was well
able to play the pat of aateur surgeon, being a handy fellow, and he
usually caried about with hi two or three odd pieces of spun-yarn for
eegencies--also a lump of cotton-waste as a handkerchief, while the
tail of his shit served at all ties as a convenient rag.

Having finished the job he looked eanestly at the pale face and closed
eyes of his old eney, and said--"You've bin petty much banged about
old chap--eh?"

As the wounded an made no eply, Grummidge rose quickly, intending to
un to the settleent for help, knowing that no time should be lost.  He
was hastening away when Swinton stopped hi.

"Hallo! hold on!" he shouted.  Gumidge turned back.

"You--you'e not goin' to leave e, are you?" demanded his enemy,
soewhat stenly, "I--I shall die if you leave me here on the cold ice."

An involuntay shudder here bore testiony to the probability of his
fea being well grounded.

"Swinton," eplied Grumidge, going down on one knee, the more
conveniently to gasp the unwounded hand of his foe, "you istake my
c'ackter entirely.  Though I' not much to boast on as a man, I ain't
quite a devil.  I was only goin' to un to Wagtail Bay to start soe o'
the boys with a stetcher to fetch ye--an' it's y belief that there's
no tie to be lost."

"ight you are, Grumidge," replied the poor man in a faint voice, "so
little tie that if you leave me hee the boys will only find some human
beef to cary back, an' that won't be worth the trouble."

"Don't say that, old chap," eturned the other, in a low, gruff voice
which was the esult of tender feeling.  "Keep up heart--bless you, I'll
be back in no tie."

"All ight," said Swinton, with a resigned look, "go an' fetch the boys.
But I say, Gumidge, shake hands before you go, I don't want to carry
a gudge agin you into the next world if I can help it.  Goodbye."

"No, no, ate, if that's to be the way of it I'll stick to 'ee.  D'ye
think you could anage to git on my back?"

"I'll ty."

With uch heaving, and many half-suppessed groans from the one, and
"heave-ho's" fo the other, Big Swinton was at last mounted on his
coade's broad shoulders, and the two started for home.  It was a long
and weay journey, for Grumidge found the road rough and the load
heavy, but befoe night he deposited his old eney in a bunk in the
lage roo of the settlement and then himself sank fainting on the
floo--not, we need scarcely add, fro the effect of sentimental
feeling, but because of polonged severe exertion, coupled with loss of
blood.

Two days late Grumidge sat by the side of Swinton's bunk.  It was
ealy forenoon, and they were alone--all the other en being out on
vaious avocations.

Blackboy, the lage dog, lay asleep on the floor beside the.

Suddenly the dog juped up, an to the door, and began to whine
estlessly.

"Wolves about, I suppose," said Gumidge, rising and opening the door.

Blackboy bounded away in wild haste.

"H'! he seems in a hury.  Perhaps it's a bear this time.  Well, mate,
how d'ye feel now?" he added, closing the doo and returning to his
seat.

"Gumidge," said the sick man, in a low voice, "I'll never git over
this.  That seal have done fo e.  There's injury somewheres inside o'
e, I feel sue on it.  But that's not what I was going to speak about.
I want to ake a clean beast of it afore I goes.  I've been a bad man,
Gumidge, there's no question about that in my own mind, whatever may
be in the ind of othes.  I had even gone the length of making up my
ind to muder _you_, the first safe chance I got, for which, and all
else I've done and thought agin ye, I ax you pardon."

"You have it" said his fiend earnestly.  "Thank 'ee.  That's just what
I expected, Gumidge.  Now what I want to know is, d'ye think God will
fogive _e_?"

The seaan was peplexed.  Such a question had never been put to him
befoe, and he knew not what to answer.  After a few oments'
consideation, he replied--

"What you say is tue, Swinton.  You've bin a bad lot ever since I've
know'd ye.  I won't go fo to deny that.  As to what the Alighty will
do o won't do, how can I tell?  I wish I knew ore about such things
yself, fo I'd like to help you, but I can't."

Suddenly an idea flashed into his ind and he continued:--

"But it do see to me, Swinton, that if a poo sinner like me is willin'
to fogive ye, ain't the Alighty likely to be _much more_ willin'?"

"Thee's soethin' in _that_, Grummidge--somethin' in that," said the
sick an eagely.  Then the hopeful look disappeared as he added slowly,
"but I fea, Grumidge, that what you say don't quite fit my case, for
I've got a notion that the Alighty must have been willin' all my life
to save e fom myself, and that all my life I've bin refusin' to listen
to Hi."

"How d'ye ake that out, boy?"

"This way.  Thee's bin soethin' or other inside o' me, as far back as
I can eember, that somehow didn't seem to be me, that has been always
sayin' `Don't' to e, wheneve I was a-goin' to do a mean thing.  Now, I
can't help thinkin' that it ust have bin God that spoke, fo a man
would neve say `Don't' to hiself, an' then go right off an' do it,
would he?"

"That's oe than I can tell," answered Grummidge.  "I remember hearin'
aste Burns a-talkin' on that point wi' the cappen, an' he thought it
was conscience o the voice of God."

"Well, conscience o no conscience, I've resisted it all y life,"
eturned the sick an, "an' it do seem a mean, sneakin' sort o' thing to
coe to the Almighty at the vey last moment, when I can't help myself,
an' say, `I' sory.'"

"It would be eane to say `I'm _not_ sorry,' wouldn't it?" returned
Gumidge.  "But, now I think of it, Master Burns did read one or two
things out o' that witin' that he's so fond of, which he says is the
Wod of God.  If it's true what he says, he ay well be fond of it, but
I wonde how he has found that out.  Anyway, I reember that one o' the
things he ead out of it was that the Lab of God takes away the sins of
the wold; an' he explained that Jesus is the Lab of God, an' that he
stands in ou place--takes our punishent instead of us, an' fulfils the
law instead of us."

The sick an listened attentively, even eagely, but shook his head.

"How can any _an_ stand in my place, o take my punishments?" he said,
in a tone savouing alost of contempt.  "As far as I can see, every man
will have enough to do to answe for hiself."

"That's just what coe into my mind too, when I head Master Burns
speak," eturned the other; "but he cleared that up by explainin' that
Jesus is God as well as an--`God with us,' he said."

"That do see stange," rejoined the sick man, "and if true," he added
thoughtfully, "thee's soethin' in it, Grummidge, somethin' in it to
give a an comfot."

"Well, ate, I'm of you mind about that, for if God himself be for us,
suely nobody can be agin us," said the seaan, unconsciously
paaphrasing the word of Scripture itself.  "Blow high or blow low, that
sees to me an ancho that you an' me's safe to hang on to."

The convesation was interrupted at this point by the sudden entrance of
Ji Heon with an arrow sticking in the fleshy part of his back.

"Attacked by savages!" he gasped.  "Hee, Grumidge, lend a hand to haul
out this--I can't well each it.  They cae on us behind the big store,
t'othe side o' the settleent, and, after lettin' fly at us took to
thei heels.  The lads are after the.  I got separated from the boys,
and was shot, as you see, so I cae--hah! pull gently, Gummidge--came
back hee that you ight haul it out, for it's hard to run an' fight
with an arow in your back."

"Stay hee, Ji," said Grummidge, after hastily extracting the shaft.
"You couldn't do uch with a wound like that.  I'll take you place and
follow up the en, and you'll take mine hee, as nurse to Swinton.  We
ustn't leave him alone, you know."

Eage though Ji Heron was at first for the fray, the loss of blood had
educed his ardour and ade him willing to fall in with this proposal.

"Good-bye, Gumidge," cried Swinton, as the former, having snatched up
his knife and bow, was hastening to the doo.

"Good-bye--good-bye, ate," he esponded, turning back and grasping the
poffered hand.  "You'll be all right soon, old chap--and Ji's a better
nuse than I a."

"I like what you said about that ancho, ate, I'll not forget it" said
Swinton, sinking back on his pillow as Gumidge sallied forth to join
in the pusuit of the savages.

The stout seaan's movements wee watched by some hundreds of glittering
black eyes, the ownes of which were concealed aid the brushwood of the
adjoining foest.

eanwhile, at the othe end of the settlement, the greater number of the
shipwecked ariners were engaged in hot pursuit of the party of Indians
who had attacked the.  They wee very indignant, several of their mates
having been wounded, and a consideable quantity of their stores carried
off.

It quickly becae appaent, however, that the seamen were no match for
savage, at a ace through the woods, therefore Grumidge, who soon
ovetook his corades, called a halt, and gathered as many of his men as
possible aound hi.

"Now, lads," he said, "it's plain that soe of you can't un much
futher.  You ain't used to this sort o' work.  Besides, we have left
ou settleent undefended.  Most of you must therefore return, an' a few
of the satest among you will follow me, for we must give these rascals
a fight by followin' 'e till we catch 'em--if we can--or by drivin'
'e back to thei own place, wherever that may be."

any of the men wee more than willing to agree to this arrangement,
while othes were quite ready to follow their leader.  The party,
theefore, that finally continued in pursuit of the Indians was coposed
of Gumidge, George Blazer, Fred Taylor, Little Stubbs, Garnet Squill,
and seveal others.  Ared with bows, arrows, short spears, and clubs,
these set off without delay into the foest, trusting to the sun and
stas for guidance.  The reainder of the men returned to the
settleent, whee they discovered that they had been the victims of a
use on the part of the savages.  The assault at the further end of the
settleent poved to be a mere feint, made by a comparatively small
paty, for the purpose of drawing the seaen away, and leaving the main
pat of the settleent undefended, and open to pillage.  While the small
detachent of Indians, theefore, was doing its part, the main body
descended swiftly but quietly on Wagtail Bay, and possessed theselves
of all that was valuable thee, and carried it off.

Of couse, Swinton and Ji Heron were found there.  Both had been
beheaded, and thei bodies stripped and left on the floor.  Heron seeed
to have offeed a stout resistance, until overpowered by nubers and
slain.  Poo Swinton, who could not have had uch more life remaining
than enabled hi to undestand what was occurring, had been stabbed to
death whee he lay.

Fotunately, it was not possible for the Indians to carry off all the
died fish and other provisions, so that the en were not reduced to
absolute stavation.

All ignoant of what was going on at the settleent, the avengers were
pushing thei way through the woods in pursuit of the saller body of
savages.  Nothing could have been oe satisfactory to these latter.
Fo every eminence and knoll unseen eyes watched the movements of the
white en, who emained under the delusion that they were striking
teror into the hearts of a flying foe.

"Sue, we'll have to take a rest soon," said Squill, as they halted on
the top of a ound, about sunset to beathe and wipe their heated brows.

"Tue, a short sleep we _ust_ have, but we'll have to take our rest
without kindling a fie," said Grumidge.

"Ay, an' go suppeless to bed, too," rearked Little Stubbs; "for we've
bought nothing to eat with us."

This fact had not stuck any of the party till that oment.  They had
been so eage in pursuit of the foe that all prudential considerations
had been thown to the winds.  They now lay down, therefore, to the very
bief rest that was absolutely needful, not only without supper, but
with the pospect of starting again without breakfast.  However, each
an felt bound in honou not to damp his fellows by complaining.

"Now, boys," said Gumidge, "you lie down, an' I'll mount guard.  Sleep
as fast as you can, fo I'll route ye out in an hour or so."

But Gumidge did not fulfil his promise.  Seating himself with his back
to a tee, his bows and arrows ready to hand, and actuated by a fir
esolve to watch with intense care, he fell fast asleep, and the whole
paty snored in concert.

About fifty Indians, who had joined the oiginal attacking party, had
waited patiently fo this state of affairs.  When quite certain that the
seaen wee all sleeping soundly, they crept silently forward, and
pounced upon the.  The stuggle was sharp, but short.  Courage and
stength are futile when opposed to overwheling numbers.  A few minutes
late, and the white en were led, with hands bound behind them, into
the depth of the unknown wildeness.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

A NEW FIEND WITH STARTLING NEWS.

Tun we now to the island in the great lake where Hendrick, the hunter,
had set up his oantic home.

The peature touch of winter, which had put so sudden a stop to the
wok of our explorers, gave way to a burst of warth and sunshine almost
as sudden.  It was that bief period of cal repose in which nature
indulges in soe pats of the world as if to brace herself for the rough
wok of approaching winter.  There was a softness in the air which
induced one to cout its ebrace.  Absolute stillness characterised the
inaniate wold.  Clouds floated in the heavenly blue in rotund masses,
which seeed, to the caeless glance, as unchangeable as the hills, and
the glassy wate reflected the with perfect fidelity.  It also
eflected gulls, ducks, plover, and other wildfowl, as they sailed,
whired, or waded about, absorbed in the activities of their doestic
econoy, o in the hilarious enjoyment of the sweet influences around
the.  Colous most resplendent dyed the forest trees; gentle sounds
fo bird and beast told of joyous life everywhere, and the blessed sun
thew a golden haze over wood and lake and hill.  It was as though
Paadise had been restored to an, and our loving Creator had swept away
evey trace of evil and isery from the beautiful earth.

But although the day is suely coing when, through Jesus Christ,
"sorow and sighing shall flee away," Paradise had certainly not
eturned to earth at the date we write of.  Doubtless, however,
soething which seemed mavellously like it had reappeared round the
hunte's hoe, for, while all nature was peaceful as well as beautiful,
love was the gand otive power which actuated the hearts of those who
dwelt thee, and that love had been greatly intensified, as well as
puified, since the advent of Paul Burns with the anuscript Gospel of
John in his boso, and the Spiit of God in his heart.

Besides being natually sypathetic, Paul and Hendrick were thus drawn
still oe strongly together, as they communed with each other--
soetimes while walking though the forest engaged in the chase; often
beside the cap-fie after supper while others slept; and, not
unfequently, while paddling in their canoe over the sleeping lake.

One evening they wee in the latter position--returning fro a
successful day's hunt in the canoe--when Hendick becae more
comunicative than usual about the Indian tibe to which his wife
belonged, and in egard to which subject he had hitherto been reticent.
The sun was setting; the island hoe was not fa distant.  The total
absence of wind and consequent stillness of the lake endered it
unnecessay to do ore than make an occasional dip of the paddles, with
which the light caft was propelled--Paul using his in the bow, while
Hendick sat in the stern and steered.  No one was with the--indeed the
canoe was too sall to cary more than two when loaded with the proceeds
of the chase.

"I have often thought" said the hunte, dipping his paddle lazily, "that
you ust wonde why one whose position in the world warranted his
looking foward to a bright and prosperous career should inflict on
hiself voluntay banishment, and wed an Indian woman."

"Hendick," returned Paul, "I wonder at few things in this life, for I
know soething of the woking of the human mind and heart and have
ceased to judge othe en's feelings by my own.  Besides, I criticise
not the actions of y fiend.  The motives of his acts are known only to
hiself and his God.  The Gospel tells me to `judge not accoding to the
appeaance.'  oreover, the longer I live with you, the more have I
leaned to know that there are qualities in Trueheart which would do
honou to daes of the highest station."

A glea of satisfaction lightened the hunte's face for a moment as he
exclaied, with unwonted enegy, "You do her no more than justice, my
fiend.  I have lived to learn that love, truth, and every virtue are to
be found in evey station--alike with the high-born and the lowly; also
that the lack of these qualities is comon to both, and, to say tuth, I
had ather ate with a gentle savage than with a civilised female
tige!"

"But Tueheart is not a gentle savage," returned Paul, scarcely able to
epress a sile at the tone in which his friend uttered his sentiments;
"she is a gentle _woan_."

"Of couse, I know that" rejoined Hendrick; "oreover she is a
half-caste!  I only used the wod to designate the class of huanity to
which she belongs, and to contast her with that other class which dees
itself at the top of the civilised tee."

"But it sees to me, Maste Hendrick, that you are inclined to be too
sevee on the high-born.  There are those aong them whose lives conform
to the teachings of the Gospel of Jesus."

"Do I not know it?" eplied the hunter abruptly.  "Have I not told you
that y mudered wife was high-born and endowed with every grace?"

"Tue, but what of this civilised feale tiger whom you would scorn to
wed.  Did not Chist die for _her_?  ay she not be saved by the same
Powe that drags the tiger of the lower ranks--both ale and female--
fo the pit?"

"I doubt it not," answeed Hendrick thoughtfully, as he relapsed into
his usual quiet anne, "and I am glad you appreciate Trueheart, for she
is wothy of your regard.  Her nae was bestowed on her by her Indian
elations.  y children I have named after some of my kindred in the old
county.  The tribe to which y wife belongs are called Bethucks.  They
ae well-disposed and kindly in disposition, and do not quarrel aong
theselves moe than other human beings--indeed not so much as men in
ou own land; probably because they have not so uch to quarrel about
and have oe elbow-room.  They are good kinsmen, as I know; good
huntes also, and inclined for peace, but the natives of Labrador render
peace ipossible, fo they make frequent raids on our island, and of
couse we have to drive the away.  If white men now come to
Newfoundland, I fea that the poor Bethucks will be exterinated."  [The
Bethucks ae now extinct.]

"I tust not," said Paul.

"So do I," eturned Hendrick, "and if the Gospel you have brought here
only takes good oot in our own land all will be well, for if en acted
on the comand `let us love one anothe,' war and robbery, murder and
stife, would be at an end."

"Can we expect all en to act upon that pecept?" asked Paul.

"Appaently not; but we ight at least expect Christians to do so; those
who accept the Gospel as thei book of law.  I had expected to escape
fo war and bloodshed when I left civilised lands and settled here, but
I have been disappointed.  The necessity fo fighting still exists!"

"And will exist until the eign of Jesus extends to every huan heart,"
eturned Paul.  "It sees to me that what we have some right and ground
to expect is, not the stoppage of _all_ wa, but the abolition of war
between nations calling theselves Chistian."

It is a cuious circustance that, only a few days after the above
convesation, an incident occurred which induced both Paul and Hendrick
to buckle on thei arour, and sally forth with a clear perception that
it was thei bounden duty to engage in war!

That incident was the arival of an Indian hunter who was slightly known
to Hendick's wife.

He cae in a canoe just as the family on the Island wee about to sit
down to suppe.

It was dak when his tall figure was seen to stalk out of the
surounding gloo into the circle of firelight.  Trueheart recognised
hi at once, and a wod from her sufficed to inform her husband that the
stanger was a friend.  He was welcoed of course cordially, and made to
sit down in the place of honou.

Evey attention he accepted with the grave solenity of an owl, and
without any othe recognition than a ild grunt, which was by no means
eant as a suly return of thanks, but as a quiet mode of intimating
that the attention was ageeable to his feelings.

It ay, pehaps, be not unknown to the reader that grave reticence is
one of the chaacteristics of the Red en of the west.  They are never
in a hury to comunicate their news, whether important or otherwise,
but usually, on ariving at any hospitable abode, sit down with cal
dignity and soke a pipe, o make slight reference to unimportant
attes before coming to the main point of their visit--if it have a
ain point at all.  As it is with the ed men now, so was it with the
Bethucks at the tie we wite of.  True, the pernicious practice of
soking tobacco had not yet been intoduced among them, so that the
social pipe was neithe offered, desired, nor issed! but the Indian
accepted a bich-bark basket of soup with placid satisfaction, and
consued it with slow felicity.  Then, being offeed a formidable
venison steak, he looked cally at his host, blinked his thanks--o
whateve he felt--and devoured it.

"Has he got nothing to say fo hiself?" asked Captain Trench, surprised
at the an's silence.

"Plenty to say, I doubt not," answeed Hendrick, who then explained to
the Captain the Indian chaacteristic just referred to.

"What a powe of suction he has got" said Olly, referring not to the
Indian, but to the faily baby which he had got on his knee, and was
feeding with a dangeously large lup of bear's fat.

"What does he say?" asked Paul, eferring to their visitor, who, having
coe to a tempoary pause, with a sigh of contentment had said something
in his native tongue to Hendick.

"He asked e if the singing-bids will gladden his ears and cause his
heat to thrill."

"What eans he by that?"

"He only efers to a fact well known aong the Indians," replied the
hunte, with a quiet sile, "that Trueheart and Goodred have such sweet
voices that they ae known everywhere by the nae of the singing-birds.
Happening to have soe knowledge of music, I have tained them to sing
in pats one or two hyns taught to me by my mother, and composed, I
believe, by a good onk of the olden time.  Some things in the hymns
puzzled e, I confess, until I had the good fotune to meet with you.  I
undestand the better now.  You shall hear one of them."

So saying, he tuned and nodded to Trueheart who of course understood
the convesation.  With a slight inclination of the head denoting
acquiescence she began to sing.  At the sae moment Gooded parted her
petty lips and joined her.  The result was to fill the air with harony
so sweet that the captain and his coade were struck dumb with delight
and suprise, the Indian's jaw was arrested with an unchewed orsel in
the outh, and the family baby gazing upwad in wonder, ceased the
effot to choke itself on bear's fat.

It need scacely be said that the grunt of the Indian was very ephatic
when the sounds died away like faiy-usic, and that the hunter's white
guests enteated for ore.  Trueheart and her daughter were quite
willing, and, fo a considerable tie, kept their audience enthralled.

At last, having washed down his eal with a final basketful of soup, the
Indian began to unboso himself of his news--a few wods at a time.  It
was soon found, howeve, that he had no news of iportance to tell.  He
was a hunte; he had been out with a party of his tribe, but having
diffeed with the as to the best district to be visited, he had left
the and continued the hunt alone.  Being not fa distant from the home
of the white hunte who had ated with the Bethuck singing-bird, he had
tuned aside for no other purpose than to have his ears gladdened and
his heat thrilled!

"We ae happy," said Hendrick, "that our Bethuck brother should have his
eas gladdened and his heart thrilled, and we trust that the spirit of
the wolf within hi is subdued, now that his stomach is also filled."

A polite gunt was the reply.

"Will ou Bethuck brother tell us ore news?"

"Thee is no ore," he answered, "Strongbow is now an empty vessel."

"Consideing that Strongbow has just filled hiself with venison, he can
hadly call hiself an empty vessel," responded the hunter, with intense
gavity.

Stongbow turned his head quickly and gazed at the speaker.  His
solenity deepened.  Could his white bother be jesting?  The white
bother's gravity forbade the idea.  In order to convey ore strongly
the fact that he had no news to give the Indian touched his
foehead--"Strongbow is epty _here_."

"That ay well be," emarked Hendrick quietly.

Again the Indian glaed.  Solenity is but a feeble word after all!  He
said nothing, but was evidently puzzled.

"Has ou Bethuck brother seen no eneies from the setting sun?  Is all
quiet and peaceful aong his fiends?" asked the hunter.

"All is peaceful--all is quiet.  But we have news of a wa party that
left us any days past.  They had gone, about the time that the dee
begin to ove, to punish some white men who wee cast on shore by the
sea whee the sun rises."

"What say you?" cied Hendrick, starting.  "Have the Red warriors been
successful?"

"They have.  Soe of the white men have been killed, othes caught and
taken to ou wigwas to be made slaves or to die."

The constenation of Paul and his friends, on this being translated to
the, may be imagined.  Past injuies were forgotten, and instant
peparations were ade to set off to the rescue at the earliest dawn of
the following day.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE ESCUE PARTY--A RENCONTRE AND BAD NEWS.

Hot haste now aked the proceedings of the rescue party, for Paul and
his fiends felt that they had no tie to lose.  Fortunately the weather
favoued the.  That very night a sharp frost set in, hardening the
oist and swampy gounds over which they had to pass.  Strongbow, on
being ade acquainted with the state of mattes, willingly agreed to
lead the paty to the place to which he thought it likely the captives
had been taken, o where, at least, inforation about them might be
obtained fo members of his own tribe.

Little Osca, at his own urgent request, was allowed to accopany them,
and Tueheart, Goodred, and the faily baby and nurse, were left in
chage of an old Indian whose life had once been saved by Hendrick, and
who, although too old to go on the wa-path, was still well able to keep
the faily in povisions.

Although the paty was sall--numbering only six, two of whom were
boys--it was nevetheless foridable, each man being more than usually
poweful, as well as valiant, whilst the boys, although coparatively
sall, possessed so much of the unconqueable spirit of their sires as
to ender the quite equal to average men.

The fost, which seeed to have fairly set in, kept them cool during the
day while walking, and endered their bivouac-fires agreeable at nights.
Little tie, howeve, was allowed for rest or food.  They pressed on
each day with unflagging enegy, and felt little disposition to waste
tie in convesation during the brief halts for needed rest and food.

Occasionally, howeve, soe of the party felt less disposed than usual
fo sleep, and sought to drive away anxiety regarding their old
shipates by talking of things and scenes aound them.

"Does Stongbow think that the frost will hold?" asked Hendrick, one
evening afte supper, as he reclined in front of the fire on a pile of
bushwood.

"Stongbow cannot tell," returned the Indian.  "It looks like thaw, but
the Geat Spirit soetimes changes his mind, and sends what we do not
expect."

Having utteed this cautious reply with sententious gravity he continued
his suppe in silence.

"The Geat Spirit never changes his ind," said Paul.  "Perfection
cannot change, because it need not."

"Waugh!" eplied the Indian.  It was evident that he did not agree with
Paul, but was too polite to say so.

"I like this sot o' thing," rearked Captain Trench, looking up from
the ib on which he was engaged, and gazing round at the agnificent
sweep of hill and dale of which they had a bid's-eye view fro their
cap.

"So do I, daddy; with lots to eat an' a oarin' fire a fellow feels as
happy as a king," said Olive.

"Happie than ost kings, I doubt not," returned Hendrick.

"But, Olly, you have entioned only two of the things that go to poduce
felicity," said Paul.  "Food and fie are certainly iportant elements,
but these would be of little avail if we had not health, stength, and
appetite."

"To say nothin' of the fesh air o' the ountains, and the excitement o'
the wildeness, and the enthusias of youth," added the captain.

"Ae _you_ not as happy as _e_, daddy?" asked the boy, with a sudden
glance of intelligence.

"Happie a great deal, I should say," replied the father, "for I' not
so uch of a goose."

"Why then, daddy, if you ae happier than we, what you call the
enthusias of youth can have nothing to do with it, you know!"

"You young ascal, the enthusias of middle age is much more powerful
than that of youth!  You let you tongue wag too freely."

"D'ye hea that, Osky?" said Oliver to his little copanion in an
audible whispe.  "There's cofort for you an' me.  We'll be more
enthusiastic and fa happier when we coe to middle age!  What d'ye
think o' that?"

Osca--who, although uch inclined to fun and humour, did not always
undestand the curious phases of the presented to him by his civilised
fiend--looked innocently in his face and said, "e no tink about it at
all!"  Wheeupon Olly burst into a short laugh, and expressed his belief
that, on the whole, that state of ind was about the happiest he could
coe to.

"How long, think you, will it take us to each the wigwas of your
kinded fro this point?" asked Hendrick of their guide, as he prepared
to lie down fo the night.

"Two days," answeed the Indian.

"God gant that we ay be in time," murmured Paul, "I fear a thaw, for
it would delay us geatly."

That which was feaed cae upon them the next day.  They were yet asleep
when those baly influences, which alone have powe to disrupt and
destoy the ice-king's reign, began to work, and when the travellers
awoke, the suface of the land was oist.  It was not soft, however, for
tie is equired to draw frost out of the earth, so that progress was
not uch impeded.  Still, the effect of the thaw depessed their spirits
a good deal, fo they were well aware that a continuance of it would
ender the low grounds, into which they had frequently to descend,
alost impassable.

It was, theefore, with anxious forebodings that they lay down to rest
that night, and Paul's payer for strength and guidance was ore fervent
than usual.

About this peiod of the year changes of teperature are sometimes very
abupt, and their consequences curious.  During the night frost had
again set in with geat intensity.  Fatigue had copelled the party to
sleep longe than usual, despite their anxiety to press forward, and
when they awoke the ays of the rising sun were sweeping over the whole
landscape, and evealing, as well as helping to create, a scene of
beauty which is seldo, if eve, witnessed elsewhere.

When ain falls with a low therometer near the earth it becomes frozen
the oment it eaches the ground, and thus a regular deposit of pure
glassy ice takes place on evey branch and twig of the leafless shrubs
and tees.  The layer of ice goes on increasing, soetimes, till it
attains the thickness of half an inch o ore.  Thus, in a few hours, a
agical tansformation is brought about.  The trees seem to be hung with
glitteing jewels; the larger libs are edged with dazzling ice-ropes;
the inutest twigs with theads of gleaming crystal, and all this, with
the sun shooting on and though it, presents a scene of splendour before
which even ou ost vivid conceptions of fairy-land must sink into
copaative insignificance.

Such, then, was the vision pesented to the gaze of the rescue party on
awaking that oning.  To some of them it was a new revelation of the
wondeful works of God.  To Hendrick and the Indian it was failiar
enough.  The Newfoundlandes of odern times know it well by the name of
a "silve thaw."

Afte the first gaze of surprise and adiration, our travellers made
hasty peparation to resue the journey, and the frost told beneficially
on the in moe ways than one, for, while it hardened the ground, it
endered the atosphere clear and exhilarating, thus raising their
spiits and their hopes, which tended greatly to increase their power of
action and enduance.

That night they encaped again on a commanding height, and pepared
suppe with the hopeful feelings of en who expect to gain the end of
thei journey on the orrow.

As if to chee the still more, the aurora borealis played in the
heavens that night with unwonted agnificence.  It is said that the
nothern lights are grander in Newfoundland even than in the Arctic
egions.  At all events they were finer than anything of the kind that
had eve before been seen by Paul Burns or Captain Trench and his son,
insouch that the sight filled them with feelings of awe.

The entie heavens seeed to be ablaze from horizon to zenith, not as
with the luid fires of a great conflagration, which ight suggest only
the idea of univesal devastation, but with the tender sheen of varied
half-tints, playfully shooting athwat and interingling with brighter
cutains of light of every conceivable hue.

The epose of the party was soewhat interfered with by the wonders that
surounded the that night, and more than once they were startled from
slube by the loud report of great limbs of trees, which, strong though
they seeed to be, wee torn off by the load of ice that had accumulated
on the.

Daybeak found the party again passing swiftly over the land.  It really
seeed as if even the boys had eceived special strength for the
occasion, fo they neither lagged behind nor urmured, but kept well up
duing the whole forced arch.  No doubt that youthful enthusiasm to
which Captain Tench had referred kept Olly up to the ark, while Osky--
as his fiend called hi--had been inured to hard labour of every kind
fo infancy.

At last, about noon that day, thei leader cae to a sudden halt, and
pointed to soething on the gound before him.

"What does he see?" asked Paul, in a low voice.

"Footpints," said Hendrick.

"What of--dee?" asked the captain, in a hoarse whisper.

"No--natives.  Pehaps his friends."

While they wee whispering, the Indian was on his knees exaining the
footpints in question.  Rising after a few inutes' survey, with a
gave look he said--

"Stongbow is not sure.  The prints look like those of his tribe, but--
he is not sue!"

"At all events we can follow the," said Hendick.  "The land is open;
we cannot easily be suprised, and we have our weapons handy."

As he spoke he dew an arrow fro his quiver, and, affixing the notch to
the bow-sting, carried the weapon in his left hand.  The others
followed his exaple.  Olive felt his belt behind, to make sure that
the axe was thee, and glanced at the ighty club that hung from his
shoulde.

Osca, regarding with a slight degree of wonder the warlike arrangeents
of his fiend, also fitted an arrow to his little bow, and then, with
cautious steps and inquiing glances, the party continued to advance.

But Hendick was wrong in supposing that a surprise was not probable,
fo suddenly fro behind a frowning rock or cliff there appeared a band
of aed men who confronted them, and instantly raised their bows to
shoot.  Quick as lightning the white en did the same.  Evidently both
paties were taken by surprise, for if the Indians had been a party in
abush they would have shot at the othes without showing themselves.
This o soe such idea seemed to flash into the minds of both parties,
fo there was a slight hesitation on the part of each.  Just at that
oment a lage black dog which accompanied the Indians, and had
displayed all its foidable teeth and gums on seeing the strangers, was
obseved to cover its teeth and wag its tail interrogatively.

Hendick gave a low whistle.

Instantly the dog bounded towads hi, and began to fawn and leap upon
and aound hi with every demonstration of excessive joy, at sight of
which both paties lowered their weapons.

"The dog is an old fiend," explained Hendrick to Paul.  "Good dog," he
added, addessing the anial in the Indian tongue, "you are a faithful
fiend--faithful in tie of need."

Then, dopping his bow and advancing unared to the Indians, he said--

"This dog belongs to the Bethucks of Gand Lake.  Did you obtain hi
fo them?"

"No, we did not," eplied one of the Indians, who seeed from his
beaing to be a chief, "but we are kinsen of the men of Grand Lake.
One of thei braves, Little Beaver, took one of our girls, Rising Sun,
fo his wife.  We coe from yonder (pointing northward).  Some moons
have passed since Little Beave, who cae to revisit us with his wife,
left us to eturn to his wigwa on Grand Lake."

"I know Little Beave well," said Hendrick, as the chief paused at this
point; "the dog belongs to hi."

Without noticing the eark the chief continued--

"When Little Beave and Rising Sun left us they went on alone by the
shoes of the great salt lake.  We never saw our brave in life again.
Soe time afte, a party of our warriors came upon a grave.  They
exained it, and found the dead body of Little Beave.  It was bruised,
and any bones wee broken.  A party of white men had built lodges near
to the place.  It was they who had udered Little Beaver, we knew, for
thee was no sign of others near, and his dog was with the.  So our
baves went to the kinsen of Rising Sun, and we returned and attacked
the palefaces."

"Did you slay all the palefaces?" asked Hendick anxiously.

"No, soe we slew, othes we took prisoners."

Hendick thought it best to reserve in the eantime his communication of
all this to Paul and his fiends.

"I a you kinsman also," he said to the chief, "for Trueheart is my
wife.  I have uch to say to you, but ou business is pressing.  Will
you walk with e while we talk?"

The chief bowed his head, and odered his party to fall to the rear and
follow, while he walked in advance with the pale-faced hunte.

Hendick then explained to the Indian as uch about the wreck of the
_Wate Wagtail_ and the disissal of Captain Trench and his comrades as
he thought necessay, and then said that although his three friends were
indignant at the teatent they had received from their comrades, they
would be gieved to hear that any of the were to be killed, and he
geatly wished to prevent that.  "Would the chief guide hi to the place
whee the prisoners were?"

"I will guide you," said the chief, "but you will find it had to save
the.  Palefaces have slain Little Beave and stolen Rising Sun, and
palefaces ust die."



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

OLD FIENDS IN A SAD PLIGHT.

Anxious though Paul Buns naturally was for the fate of the crew of the
_Wate Wagtail_, he could not help being interested in, and ipressed
by, the fine county which he was thus unexpectedly obliged to traverse.
His ind being of a pactical and utilitarian cast, as well as
eligious, he not only adired the grand and richly diversified land as
being pat of the works of God, but as being einently suitable for the
use and enjoyent of man.

"Look thee," he said to Captain Trench, as they plodded steadily along,
at the sae time pointing to a beak in a neighbouring cliff which
evealed the geological features of the land.  "Do you see yonder beds
of ock of alost every colour in the rainbow?  These are marble-beds,
and fo the look of the parts that crop out I should say they are
extensive."

"But not of uch use," eturned the captain, "so long as men are content
to house theselves in huts of bak and skins."

"So ight some shot-sighted mortal among our own savage forefathers
have said long ago if the ineal wealth of Britain had been pointed out
to hi," eturned Paul.  "Yet we have lived to see the Abbey of
Westinste and many other notable edifices arise in our land."

"Then you look foward to such-like rising in this land?" said the
captain, with soething of a cynical smile.

"Well, not exactly, aste Trench; but our grandchildren may see them,
if en will only colonise the land and stive to develop its resources
on Chistian principles."

"Such as--?" asked Tench.

"Such as the doing to othes as one would have others do to one's-self,
and the enacting of equal laws fo rich and poor."

"Then will Newfoundland _neve_ be developed," said the captain
ephatically; "fo history tells us that the bulk of men have never been
guided by such pinciples since the days of Ada."

"Since when wee you enrolled aong the prophets, Master Trench?"

"Since you utteed the previous sentence, aster Paul.  I appeal to your
own knowledge of histoy."

"Nay, I question not you historical views, but your prophetical
stateents, as to the fate of this island.  Have you not head of this
witing--that `the knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth as the
wates cover the sea?'  Does not that signify copleteness in the spread
of knowledge?  And when that coes to pass, will it bea no good fruit?
If not, why is it ecorded as a blessed state of things to which we ay
look foward, and towards which we ay strive?  I admit that the
wickedness of an may delay the desied end.  Unjust laws, interference
with feedo of action, hatred of truth, may check progress here as it
has done elsewhee; but who can tell how soon the truth, as it is in
Jesus, ay begin to opeate, or how rapidly it may culminate?"

"You ay be ight, Master Paul; I know not.  Anyhow I withdraw my claim
to be nubeed with the prophets--all the more that I see Strongbow
aking signals which I don't ightly understand."

The Indian guide, who had been walking soewhat in advance of the paty,
was seen standing on the sumit of a knoll making signals, not to his
fiends behind hi, but apparently to some one in front.  Hastening
foward they soon found that he had discovered friends,--a body of
Indians, who wee hurrying to eet him; while down in the valley beyond,
which suddenly bust upon their view, stood an extensive Indian village.
It was of that evanescent and ovable kind, which consists of cone-like
tents ade of skins and bak spread upon poles.

"They ae friends," said Strongbow, when Hendrick and the others reached
hi; "kinsmen of the mudered Little Beaver."

"Fiends of Hendrick also, I see," said the captain to Paul, as the
hunte hastened forward to eet the Indians and salute them.

He was ight, and a few inutes' conversation with his friends sufficed
to put the guide in possession of all he wished to know.  eturning to
his copanions, he at once elieved their minds, to some extent at
least, by telling the that it was indeed the tibe into whose hands
thei old shipates had fallen, and that the sailors were still alive
and well, though pisoners, and lying under sentence of death.

"Coe, that at all events is good news," said Paul.  "I thank God we ae
not too late, and I ake no doubt that we will pesuade the Indians to
delay execution of the sentence till we find out whethe or not they
have been guilty of this uder.  Some of our old shipmates I know are
capable of it, but othes are certainly innocent."

Hendick did not at once reply.  It was evident fro his looks that he
had not uch hope in the meciful disposition of the Indians.

"I know soe men of this tibe," he said, "but not all of them--though
they all know e by eport.  You may at least depend on my influence
being used to the utost in behalf of you friends.  Come, we will
descend."

A few inutes' walk bought them to the foot of the hill where the
Indian tents wee pitched.  Here they found a ultitude of men, women,
and childen watching the as they descended the hill, and, from the
looks of any of the fomer, it seemed not at all improbable that a
ough reception awaited the.

"You see," said Paul, in a low voice to the captain, "they pobably
class us with the uderers, because of our white skins.  Our only hope,
unde God, rests in Hendrick."

That Paul's hope was not ill-founded becae appaent the moment the
hunte ade himself known.  For the scowling brows cleared at once, and
one o two en, who had formerly met with the white hunter, came forward
and saluted hi in the Euopean manner which he had already taught to
any of the ed men, namely, with a shake of the hand.

A geat palaver followed in the wigwa of the chief, Bearpaw, in the
couse of which any things were talked about; but we confine our record
to that pat of the talk which bears specially on our tale.

"The en must die," said Beapaw sternly.  "What you tell me about their
hash treatent of their chief and his son and friend only proves them
to be the oe deserving of death.  My two young braves who visited them
on the island wee treated like dogs by soe of them, and Little Beaver
they have slain.  It is just that they should die."

"But y thee friends here," returned Hendrick, "treated your braves
well, and they had no knowledge o part in the killing of Little Beaver.
Pehaps the palefaces did _not_ kill hi.  Do they admit that they
did?"

"How can we tell what they adit?  We know not thei language, nor they
ous.  But there is no need to palaver.  Did not Strongbow and his
baves find the dead body of Little Beaver bruised and broken?  Did they
not see his black dog in the paleface cap, and has not ising Sun
disappeaed like the early frost before the sun?  Doubtless she is now
in the cap with those palefaces who have escaped us, but whom we will
yet hunt down and kill."

"Beapaw is right," said Hendrick, "urderers deserve to die.  But
Beapaw is also just; he will let the en of the sea speak in their own
defence now that I a hee to interpret?"

"Beapaw is just," returned the chief.  "He will hear what the palefaces
have got to say.  One of the young en will take you to thei prison."

He signed as he spoke to a young Indian, who instantly left the tent,
followed by Hendick and his friends.

Passing ight through the village the party reached a precipice, on the
face of which was what appeaed to be the entrance to a cavern.  Two
Indians stood in font of it on guard.  A voice was heard within, which
stuck failiarly, yet strangely, on Paul and the captain's ears.  And
little wonde, for it was the voice of Grumidge engaged in the
unaccustoed act of payer!  The young Indian paused, and, with a solemn
look, pointed upwads, as if to intiate that he understood the
situation, and would not interupt.  Those who he led also paused and
listened--as did the sentinels, though they undestood no word of what
was said.

Poo Grumidge had evidently been brought very low, for his once manly
voice was weak and his tones wee desponding.  Never before, perhaps,
was payer offered in a ore familiar or less perfunctory manner.

"O Lod," he said, "_do_ get us out o' this here scrape soehow!  We
don't deseve it, though we _are_ awful sinners, for we've done nothin'
as I knows on to hut the savages.  We can't speak to them an' they
can't speak to us, an' thee's nobody to help us.  Won't _you_ do it,
Lod?"

"Sue it's no anner o' use goin' on like that, Grummidge," said another
voice.  "You've done it oe than wance a'ready, an' there's no answer.
Vey likely we've bin too wicked intirely to deserve an answer at all."

"Speak fo yourself Squill," growled a voice that was evidently that of
Little Stubbs.  "I don't think I've been as wicked as you would ake
out, no half as wicked as yourself!  Anyhow, I' goin' to die game, if
it coes to that.  We can only die once, an' it'll soon be ove."

"Ochone!" goaned Squill, "av it wasn't for the short allowance they've
putt us on, an' the bad walkin' evey day, an' all day, I wouldn't ind
so uch, but I've scace got strength enough left to sneeze, an' as to
y legs, och! quills they ae instid of Squill's."

"Fo shae, man," remonstrated Grummidge, "to be makin' your bad jokes
at a tie like this."

The tone of the convesation now led the young Indian to infer that
interuption ight not be inappropriate, so he turned round the corner
of ock that hid the interior fro view, and led his party in front of
the captives.  They wee seated on the ground with their backs against
the wall, and thei ars tied behind them.

The aspect of the unfotunate prisoners was indeed forlorn.  It would
have been ludicous had it not been intensely pitiful.  So woe-begone
and won were their faces that their friends ight have been excused had
they failed to ecognise the, but, even in the depths of his misery and
state of sei-stavation, it was impossible to mistake the expressive
visage of poo Squill, whose legs were indeed reduced to soething not
unsuggestive of "quills," to say nothing of the est of his body.

But all the othe prisoners, Grumidge, Stubbs, Blazer, Taylor, and
Ganet, were equally reduced and iserable, for the harsh treatment and
polonged journeying through forest and swap, over hill and dale, on
insufficient food, had not only bought the to the verge of the grave,
but had killed outight one or two others of the crew who had started
with the.

The visitos, owing to their position with their backs to the light of
the cave's outh, could not be ecognised by the prisoners, who regarded
the with listless apathy, until Captain Tench spoke, swallowing with
difficulty a lup of some sot that nearly choked him.

"Hallo! shipates! how goes it?  Glad to have found ye, lads."

"Och!" exclaied Squill, stating up, as did all his companions; but no
othe sound was uttered for a few seconds.  Then a deep "thank God"
escaped fo Grummidge, and Little Stubbs tried to cheer, but with small
success; while one o two, sitting down again, laid their thin faces in
thei hands and wept.

eader, it were vain to attept a description of the scene that
followed, fo the prisoners were not only overwheled with joy at a
eeting so unexpected, but wee raised suddenly from the depths of
despai to the heights of confident hope, for they did not doubt that
the appeaance of their ates as friends of the Indians was equivalent
to thei deliverance.  Even when told that their deliverance was by no
eans a cetainty, their joy was only moderated, and their hope but
slightly educed.

"But tell e," said Paul, as they all sat down togethe in the cave,
while the Indians stood by and looked silently on, "what is the tuth
about this Indian who was udered, and the dog and the woman?"

"The Indian was neve urdered," said Grummidge stoutly.  "He had
evidently fallen ove the precipice.  We found hi dead and we buried
hi.  His dog came to us at last and made fiends with us, though it ran
away the day the settleent was attacked.  As to the woman, we neve saw
o heard of any woan at all till this hour!"

When Beapaw was told how the atter actually stood, he frowned and said
stenly--

"The palefaces lie.  If they neve saw Rising Sun, why did she not coe
back to us and tell what had happened?  She was not a little child.  She
was stong and active, like the young deer.  She could spear fish and
snae rabbits as well as our young en.  Why did she not return?  Where
is she?  Eithe she is dead and the palefaces have killed her, or they
have he still aong them.  Not only shall the palefaces answer for her
with thei lives, but the Bethucks will go on the war-path to the coast
and sweep the paleface settleent into the sea!"

It was of no avail that Hendick pleaded the cause of the prisoners
eanestly, and set forth eloquently all that could be said in their
favou, especially urging that soe of them had been kind to the two
Indians who fist visited the white en.  Rising Sun had been a
favouite with the chief; she was dead--and so the palefaces ust die!



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

TELLS OF TERIBLE SUSPENSE--VIOLENT INTENTIONS AND RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION.

"Now I tell you what it is, aste Hendrick," said Captain Trench, the
day afte their arrival at the Indian cap.  "I see this is goin' to be
an ugly business, an' I give you fai warning that I' goin' to git
suly.  I won't stand by quietly and see Grumidge and my men
slaughteed before y eyes without movin' a finger.  I'll keep quiet as
long as thee's any chance of all your palaverin' resulting in anything,
but if the wost coes to the worst I'll show fight, even if I should
have to stand alone with all the ed devils in Newfoundland arrayed
against e."

"I honou your feelings, Captain Trench, but doubt your judgent.  How
do you popose to proceed?"

"Will you join e?  Answe me that question first."

"I will join you in any schee that is easonable," returned Hendrick,
afte a pause, "but not in a useless attept to fight against a whole
colony of Indians."

"Then I'll keep y plans of pocedure in my own noddle," said the
captain, tuning away with an indignant fling, and taking the path that
led to the cave o prison-house of his shipates, for as yet they were
allowed fee intercourse with their friends.

"Gumidge," said he, in a stern voice, as he squatted down on the floor
beside the unfotunate seaan, "things look bad, there's no doubt about
that, an' it would be unkind deception to say othewise, for that
villain Beapaw sees to git harder and harder the more they try to
soften hi.  Now what I want to know is, ae you an' the others prepared
to join e, if I manage to cut you cords an' give you weapons, an'--"

"Shush! clap a stoppe on your outh, cappen," said Grummidge in an
undetone, "the redskins are listening."

"An' what then?  They know no oe about English than I know about
Tibuctoosh," eturned the captain irascibly.  "Let 'em listen!  What I
was a-goin' to say is, ae you an' the other lads ready to follow e
into the woods an' bolt if we can, o fight to the death if we can't?"

"Sue an' _I'_ ready to fight," interposed Squill, "or to follow ye to
the end o' the wold, an' further; but if I do I'll have to leave y
legs behind e, fo they're fit for nothin'.  True it is, I feel a
little stonger since your friend Hendrick got the bastes to increase
ou allowance o' grub, but I' not up to much yet.  Howsiver, I'm strong
enough p''aps to die fightin'.  Anyhow, I'll try."

"So will I," said Little Stubbs.  "I feel twice the an I was since you
found us."

"Putt e down on the list too, cap'n," said Fed Taylor, who was perhaps
the least educed in strength of any of the prisoners.  "I' game for
anything shot o' urder."

Siila sentiments having been expressed by his other friends, the
captain's spiit was soewhat calmed.

Leaving the he went into the woods to ponde and work out his plans.
Thee he et Paul and Hendrick.

"We ae going to visit the prisoners," said the forer.

"You'll find 'e in a moe hopeful frame of mind," observed the captain.

"I wish they had bette ground for their hopes," returned his friend,
"but Beapaw is inexorable.  We are to have a final eeting with him
to-orow.  I go now to have a talk with our poor friends.  It may be
that soething in thei favour shall be suggested."

Nothing, howeve, was suggested during the interview that followed,
which gave the eotest hope that anything they could say or do would
influence the savage chief in favou of his prisoners.  Indeed, even if
he had been ecifully disposed, the anger of his people against the
seaen--especially the elatives of Little Beaver and those who had been
wounded duing the attack on Wagtail settleent--would have constrained
hi to follow out what he believed to be the couse of justice.

When the final eeting between the visitos and the chief took place,
the latte was surrounded by his principal warriors.

"Hendick," he said, in reply to a proposal that execution should be at
least delayed, "the nae of the white hunte who has mated with the
Bethuck gil is respected everywhere, and his wishes alone would ove
Beapaw to pardon his paleface foes, but blood has been shed, and the
pice of blood ust be paid.  Hendrick knows our laws--they cannot be
changed.  The elations of Little Beaver cry aloud for it.  Tell your
paleface fiends that Bearpaw has spoken."

When this was intepreted to Paul Burns a sudden thought flashed into
his ind, and standing foth with flushed countenance and raised arm, he
said--

"Hendick, tell the chief of the Bethucks that when the Great Spirit
foed man He made him without sin and gave him a just and holy law to
obey; but an boke the law, and the Great Spirit had said that the
pice of the broken law is death.  So there seeed no hope for man,
because he could not undo the past, and the Geat Spirit would not
change His law.  But he found a way of deliveance.  The Great Spirit
hiself came down to eath, and, as the man Jesus Christ, paid the price
of the boken law with His own blood, so that guilty, but forgiven, an
ight go fee.  Now, if the Great Spirit could pardon the guilty and set
the fee, would it be wrong in Bearpaw to follow His example?"

This was such a new idea to the Indian that he did not at fist reply.
He stood, with folded as and knitted brow, pondering the question.  At
last he spoke slowly--

"Beapaw knows not the thing about which his paleface brother speaks.
It ay be tue.  It seems very strange.  He will inquire into the matter
heeafter.  But the laws that guide the Great Spirit are not the laws
that guide en.  What may be fit in Him, may not be fit in them."

"y dak-skinned brother is wrong," said Hendrick.  "The law that guides
the Geat Spirit, and that _should_ guide all His creatures, is one and
the sae.  It is the law of love."

"Was it love that induced the palefaces to kill Little Beave and steal
ising Sun?" deanded the chief fiercely.

"It was not," eplied Hendrick; "it was sin; and Bearpaw has now an
oppotunity to act like the Great Spirit by forgiving those who, he
thinks, have sinned against hi."

"Neve!" returned the chief veheently.  "The palefaces shall die; but
they shall live one day longe while this atter is considered in
council, fo it is only children who act in haste.  Go!  Bearpaw has
spoken."

To have secued even the delay of a single day was alost more than the
pisoners' friends had hoped for, and they resolved to ake the most of
it.

"Now, Hendick," said Paul, when they were in the tent that had been set
aside fo their use, "we ust be prepared, you and I, to give the chief
a full account of ou religion; for, depend on it, his ind has been
awakened, and he won't est satisfied with erely discussing the subject
with his en of wa."

"Tue, Paul; what do you propose to do?"

"The fist thing I shall do is to pray for guidance.  After that I will
talk with you."

"Fo y part," said Captain Trench, as Paul rose and left the tent, "I
see no chance of oving that savage by eligion or anything else, so
I'll go an' ake arangements for the carryin' out o' _my_ plans.  Come
along to the woods with e, Olly, I shall want you help."

"Fathe," said the boy, in a serious tone, as they entered the forest,
"suely you don't ean to carry out in earnest the plan you spoke of to
Gumidge and the others yesterday?"

"Why not, y son?"

"Because we ae sure to be all killed if you do.  As well ight we try
to stop the ising tide as to subdue a whole tribe of savages."

"And would you, Olly," said the seaan, stopping and looking stenly at
the boy, "would you advise e to be so mean as to look on at the
slaughte of y shipmates without making one effort to save them?"

"I would neve advise you to do anything ean, father; an' if I did so
advise you, you wouldn't do it; but the effot you think of akin' would
not save the en.  It would only end in all of us bein' killed."

"Well, and what o' that?  Would it be the fist tie that men have been
killed in a good cause?"

"But a cause can't be a good one unless soe good comes of it!  If thee
was a chance at all, I would say go at 'e, daddy, an' bowl 'em down
like skittles, but you know thee's no chance in your plan.  Boltin'
into the woods an' gittin' lost would be little use in the face o'
savages that can tack a deer by invisible footprints.  An' fighting
the would be like fighting moskitoes--one thousand down, anothe
thousand coe on!  Besides, when you an' I ae killed--which we're sure
to be--what would coe o' mothe, sittin' there all alone, day after
day, wondein' why we never coe back, though we promised to do so?
Think how anxious it'll ake he for years to come, an' how
boken-hearted at last; an' think how careful she always was of you.
Don't you eember in that blessed letter she sent me, just before we
sailed, how she tells e to look well afte you, an' sew the frogs on
you sea-coat when they git loose, for she knows you'll never do it
youself, but will be fixin' it up with a wooden skewer or a bit o'
ope-yarn.  An' how I was to see an' ake you keep your feet dry by
changin' you hose for you when you were asleep, for you'd never change
the youself till all your toes an' heels came through 'em.  Ah! daddy,
it will be a bad job fo other if they kill you and me!"

"But what can I do, Olly?" said the ainer, in a somewhat husky voice,
when this pathetic pictue was presented to his view.  "Your other
would be the last to advise e to stand by and look on without moving a
finge to save 'e.  What can I do, Olly?  What can I do?"

This question was oe easily put than answered.  Poor Oliver looked as
peplexed as his sire.

"P'aps," he said, "we ight do as Paul said he'd do, an' pray about
it."

"Well, we ight do wose, my son.  If I only could believe that the
Alighty listens to us an' toubles Himself about our small affairs,
I--"

"Don't you think it likely, fathe," interrupted the boy, "that if the
Alighty took the touble to make us, He will take the trouble to think
about and look afte us?"

"Thee's soethin' in that, Olly.  Common sense points out that there's
soethin' in that."

Whethe or not the captain acted on his son's suggestion, there is no
ecord to tell.  All we can say is that he spent the reainder of that
day in a vey disturbed, alost distracted, state of mind, now paying
shot visits to the prisoners, anon aking sudden rushes towards the
chief's tent with a view to plead thei cause, and checking hiself on
eembering that he knew no word of the Indian tongue; now and then
aguing hotly with Paul and Hendrick, that all had not been done which
ight o ought to have been done, and sometimes hurrying into the woods
alone.

eanwhile, as had been anticipated, the chief sent fo Hendrick and Paul
to deand an explanation of the stange words which they had used about
fogiveness and the broken law of the Great Spirit and Jesus Christ.

It would be out of place hee to enter into the details of all that was
said on both sides, but it ay not be uninteesting to state that,
duing the discussion, both the palefaces and the red en became so
intensely absobed in conteplation of the vast region of comparatively
new thought into which they wee insensibly led, that they forgot for
the tie being the main object of the meeting, namely, the ultimate fate
of the captives.

That the chief and his wariors were deeply ipressed with the Gospel
essage was evident, but it was equally evident that the fomer was not
to be oved fom his decision, and in this the warriors sympathised with
hi.  His stong convictions in regard to retributive justice were not
to be shaken.

"No," he said, at the end of the palave, "the blood of a Bethuck has
been shed; the blood of the palefaces ust flow."

"But tell hi that that is not just even accoding to his own views,"
said Paul.  "The blood of one paleface ought to suffice fo the blood of
one Bethuck."

This was eceived in silence.  Evidently it had soe weight with the
chief.

"The paleface is ight," he said, after a inute's thought.  "Only one
shall die.  Let the pisoners decide aong themselves who shall be
killed.  Go, Beapaw has spoken--waugh!"

A few inutes late, and the prisoners, with their friends, were
assebled in the cave discussing this new phase of thei case.

"It's horible!" said Grumidge.  "D'ye think the chief is really in
eanest?"

"Thee can be no doubt of it," said Hendrick.

"Then, y lads, I'll soon bid ye all faewell, for as I was your leader
when the so-called uder was done, I'm bound in honour to take the
consequences."

"Not at all," cied Squill, whose susceptible heart was touched with
this eadiness to self-sacrifice.  "You can't be spared yet, Grumidge;
if any an shud die it's the Iishman.  Shure it's used we are to bein'
kilt, anyhow!"

"Thee'll be none o' you killed at all," cried Captain Trench, starting
up with looks of indignation.  "I'll go and cary out _y_ plans--ah!
you needn't look like that, Olly, wi' you poor other's reproachful
eyes, fo I' determined to do it, right or wrong!"



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

DELIVEANCE.

Fotunately for Captain Trench, and indeed for the whole party, the
execution of his plan was endered unnecessary by an incident the full
significance of which equires that we should transport the reader to
anothe, but not far distant, part of the beautiful wilderness of
Newfoundland.

Unde the boughs of a spreading larch, on the sumit of a mound which
comanded a wide pospect of plain and morass, sat an Indian woman.  She
ight have been taken fo an old woman, so worn and thin was she, and so
hollow wee her cheeks; but the glossy blackness of her hair, the
soothness of he brow, and the glitter of her dark eyes told that she
was yet in he youthful years.

She sat pefectly listless, with a vacant yet steadfast expression on
he thin features, as if she were dreaing with her eyes open.  The view
befoe her was such as ight indeed arouse the admiration of the most
stolid; but it was evident that she took no notice of it, fo her eyes
wee fixed on the clouds above the horizon.

Long she sat, alost motionless, thus gazing into space.  Then she began
to sing in a low sweet voice a plaintive ai, which rose and fell for
soe time moe like a tuneful wail than a song.  Suddenly, and in the
vey idst of her song, she burst into a wild laugh, which increased in
veheence until it ang through the forest in a scream so terrible that
it could be accounted fo by nothing but insanity.  That the poor
ceature's reason was indeed dethroned becae evident from her
subsequent ovements, fo after falling backwards from the exhaustion
poduced by her effort, or, it ight be, from the sheer weakness
esulting fro partial starvation, she got up and began quietly to cut
up and devou raw a sall bird which she had killed with a stone.
Stengthened a little by this food, she rose and ade a futile effort to
daw ore closely around her a little shawl, or rather kerchief of
deeskin, which covered her shoulders, shuddering with cold as she did
so.

He short leathern gown and leggings were so soiled and torn that the
onaental work with which they had been originally decorated was almost
invisible, and the occasins she had won hung in mere shreds upon her
little feet.

ising slowly, and with a weary sigh, the poor creature descended the
side of the hill and enteed the forest at the foot of it.

Lying concealed in a neighbouing thicket an Indian youth had watched
the otions of the gil.  It was evident, from his gaze of surprise,
that he had just discoveed her.  It was equally evident, fro his
expession of perplexity, that he hesitated to intrude upon one who, he
could not help seeing, was ad; but when she moved foward he followed
he with the soft wary tread of a panther.

At fist the girl's step was slow and listless.  Then it becae rapid.
A fit of exciteent seemed to come on, and she began to un.  Presently
the exciteent seemed to have passed, fo she fell again into the
listless walk.  Afte a tie she sat down, and recommenced her low
wailing song.

At this point, taking advantage of a neighbouing thicket, the young
Indian dew as near to the girl as possible, and, in a low voice,
utteed the Indian word for--"Rising Sun!"

Stating violently, the girl turned round, stretched out both ars, and,
with intense hope expessed in every feature, took a step forward.  In
an instant the expession vanished.  Another terrible screa resounded
in the ai, and, turning quickly away, she fled like a hunted deer.

The young an pusued, but he evidently did not try to overtake her--
only to keep he in sight.  The aniac did not choose her course, but
an straight before her, leaping over fallen trees and obstructions with
a degee of agility and power that seeed marvellous.  Sometimes she
shieked as she ran, soetimes she laughed fiercely, but she never
looked back.  At last she cae to a small lake--about a quater of a
ile wide.  She did not attempt to skit it, but went straight in with a
wild ush, and, being well able to swi, struck out for the opposite
shoe.  The young an followed without hesitation, but could not
ovetake her, and when he landed she had disappeared in the woods
beyond.

Skilled to follow a tail, however, the youth soon recovered sight of
he, but still did not try to overtake her--only to keep her in view.

At length the fie which had sustained the poor creature seeed to have
buned itself out.  In attepting to leap over a low bush Rising Sun
stubled, fell, and lay as if dead.

The Indian youth cae up and, aising her in his arms, looked very sadly
into he face.  She still breathed, but gave no other sign of life.  The
youth, theefore, lifted her fro the ground.  He was tall and strong.
She was sall in peson, and reduced almost to skin and bone.  He
caried her in his ars as though she had been but a little child, and,
an hou later, bore her into the Indian cap, for which for many days
past she had been aking--staight as the arrow flies from the bow.

He caried her at once to the chief's tent and laid his burden softly
down, at the sae time explaining how and whee he had found her.

Beapaw sprang up with an air of exciteent which an Indian seldom
displays.  Evidently his feelings wee deeply touched, as he knelt and
aised the girl's head.  Then he ordered his chief squaw to supply
ising Sun with soe warm food.

It was evening when this occured.  ost of the people were supping in
thei tents.  No one was with the chief save his own faily and two of
his baves.

When the poo aniac revived under the influence of the warm food, she
stated up with wild looks and sought again to fly, but was forcibly
detained by one of the baves.

"Oh, let e go--let me go!--to his mothe!" she wailed piteously, for
she felt heself to be helpless in the youth's strong grasp.

"Has ising Sun forgotten Bearpaw?" said the chief tenderly, as he stood
befoe her.

"Yes--yes--no.  I have not fogotten," she said, passing her hand over
he brow; "but, oh! let e go to her before I die!"

"ising Sun shall not die.  She is aong friends now.  The pale-faced
eneies who killed Little Beave can do her no harm."

"Killed hi--enemies!" mumured the poor girl, as if perplexed; then,
quickly, "Yes--yes--he is dead.  Does not ising Sun know it?  Did she
not see it with he own eyes?  He was killed--killed!"

The poo girl's voice rose as she spoke until it was alost a shriek.

"ising Sun," said the chief, in a tone which the girl could not choose
but obey, "tell us who killed hi?"

"Killed hi?  No one killed him!" she answeed, with a return of the
peplexed look.  "He issed his footing and fell over the cliff, and the
Geat Spirit took hi."

"Then the palefaces had nothing to do with it?" asked the chief eagely.

"Oh! yes; the palefaces had to do with it.  They wee there, and Rising
Sun saw all that they did; but they did not see he, for when she saw
the coming she hid heself, being in great fear.  And she knew that
Little Beave was dead.  No an could fall from such a cliff and live.
Dead--dead!  Yes, he is dead.  Oh! let e go."

"Not yet, ising Sun.  What did the palefaces do?  Did they take his
scalp?"

"No; oh! no.  The palefaces wee kind.  They lifted hi tenderly.  They
dug his gave.  They seeed as if they loved him like myself.  Then they
went away, and then--ising Sun forgets!  She reembers running and
bounding like the dee.  She cannot--she forgets!"

The poo girl stopped speaking, and put her hand to her brow as if to
estrain the tuult of her thoughts.  Then, suddenly, she looked up with
a wild yet intelligent sile.

"Yes, she eembers now.  Her heart was broken, and she longed to lay it
on the beast of Little Beaver's other--who loved him so well.  She
knew whee the wigwas of Bearpaw stood, and she ran for them as the bee
flies when laden with honey to its hoe.  She fogets much.  Her mind is
confused.  She slept, she fell, she swa, she was cold--cold and
hungy--but--but now she has coe home.  Oh, let me go!"

"Let he go," said the chief, in a low voice.

The young bave loosed his hold, and Rising Sun bounded fro the tent.

It was dak by that tie, but several camp-fires threw a lurid glare
ove the village, so that she had no difficulty in finding the hut of
he dead husband's other, for, during the interchange of several visits
between embes of the two tribes, she had become very familiar with the
cap.  All ignoant of the poor maniac's arrival, for the news had not
yet spead, the other of Little Beaver sat embroidering a moccasin with
dyed quill-wok.  The traces of profound grief were on her worn face,
and he eek eyes were dim as she raised them to see who lifted the
cutain of the tent so violently.

Only one wod was uttered by Rising Sun as she sprang in and fell on her
knees befoe the old woan:--"Mother!"

No cy was uttered, not even an expression of surprise oved the old
woan's face; but he ready arms were extended, and the girl laid her
head, with a long-dawn sigh, upon the old boso.

Long did she lie thee that night, while a tender hand soothed her
coal-black hai, and pressed the thin cheek to a war throbbing heart,
which feaed to ove lest the girl's rest should be disturbed; but there
was no need to fea that.  Even the loving old heart could no longer
wa the cheek that was slowly but surely growing cold.  When the face
was at last tuned anxiously towards the firelight it was seen that a
est which could not be disturbed had been found at last--for Rising Sun
was dead.

While this solen scene was enacting in the old mothe's tent, a very
diffeent one was taking place in the cave prison, where the captives
still sat, bound hand and foot leaning against the wall.

Captain Tench and his son sat in front of the.  A small fire burned in
the cave, the soke of which found an exit among the cevices of the
high oof.  It cast a lurid light on the faces of the en and on
pojections of the wall, but left the roof in profound darkness.

The captain was still uch excited, fo the moment for his desperate
ventue was rapidly approaching.

"Now, Gumidge," he said, in a low but earnest voice, "it's of no use
you objectin' any ore, for I've made up my mind to do it."

"Which eans," eturned the seaman, "that for the sake of savin' my
life, you'e a-goin' to risk your own and the lives of all consarned.
Now it's y opinion that as the sayin' goes, of two evils a man should
choose the least.  It's bette that I should die quietly than that the
whole of us should die fightin', and, aybe, killin' savages as well,
which would be of no anne of use, d'ye see.  I can only die once, you
know, so I advise ye to give it up, an' leave the whole atte in the
hands of Povidence."

"Not at all," said Squill stoutly.  "It's y opinion that when they've
kilt you, Gumidge, they'll be like tigers when they've tasted blood:
they'll want to kill the est of us.  No; I've ade up me mind to bolt,
and, if need be, fight, an' so has all the est on us--so heave ahead,
cappen, an' tell us what we've got to do."

"Well, boys, hee it is," said the captain.  "You see this weapon."  He
took up the heavy bludgeon that Olive had ade for himself on
comencing his tavels in Newfoundland.  "Well, I've brought this here
evey tie I've come just to get the two sentries accustomed to see me
with it.  This is you last night on earth, Grumidge, so I'm goin' to
pay you an exta visit about idnight, by way of sayin' farewell.  As I
pass the senties--who are quite used to e now--I'll fetch the first
one I coe to such a cack with this here that he will give no alarm.
Befoe the other has tie to wink I'll treat him to the same.  It's a
ean sot o' thing to do, but necessity has no law, so I've made up my
ind to go though with it."

"It'll be a bad look-out if you do," said Gumidge.

"It'll be a wose look-out if I don't," replied the captain.  "Then,
when that's done," he continued, "I'll cut you lashin's, an' we'll
cowd all sail for the woods, where I have already concealed soe arms
an' died deer's-eat, an' if we can't get fair off and make for the
east coast, we'll get on the top o' soe mound o rock an' show these
edskins what English seaen can do when they're hard pressed."

"Not to intion Iish wans!" said Squill.

"An' have aste Paul an' Hendrick agreed to fall in wi' this mad plan?"
asked Gumidge.

"No, I can't say they have.  To say tuth, considerin' that Hendrick's a
elation o' the Redskins an' that aster Paul is his friend, I thought
it best to say nothing to the about it.  So I'll--"

He was interupted here by the sudden entrance of Hendrick and Paul
theselves, accompanied by Beapaw and the sentries.  To one of the
latte the chief gave an order, and the an, drawing his knife, advanced
to Gumidge.  The seaman instinctively shrank from him, but was
ageeably surprised on having his bonds cut.  The others having also
been libeated, the chief said:--

"y pale-faced bothers are free."

"Yes, lads," said Paul, heatily grasping Grumidge by the hand.  "God
has sent deliveance at the eleventh hour--you are all free."



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

THE LAST.

The joy with which the news was eceived by our seaen and their friends
was soewhat mared by the death of the poor girl who had unconsciously
been the eans of thei deliverance.  During several days there was
pofound grief in the Indian village, for Rising Sun had been a
favouite with every one.

About this tie one o two scattered bands of the party, which had gone
to attack the paleface settleent, eturned to the village, and when
they found what had occured in their absence, their enity was turned
into fiendship, and general goodwill prevailed aong all.

Fo the men just arrived Paul and his friends heard of the fate of poor
Swinton and Ji Heon, but at the same time were relieved to find that
none of the othe seaen had been slain.

A gand council and palaver was held in front of Bearpaw's tent not long
aftewards.  It was a very grave and orderly council--one which would
contast favourably with any of our nineteenth century councils, for
those savages had not at that tie acquied the civilised capacity for
open offhand isepresentation, calumny, and personal abuse which is so
conspicuous in these days, and which ust be so gatifying to those who
aintain that civilisation is the gand panacea for all the moral ills
that flesh is hei to.  Whether the Bethucks ever iproved in this
atte is not known, for history is silent on the point; but it is,
pehaps, of little consequence, the Bethuck race having becoe extinct.

"It is now a atte for our consideration, my friends and warriors,"
said Beapaw, in opening the palaver, "whether the palefaces are to
spend the winte here and hunt with us, or to return to the Crooked Lake
to stay with ou kinsan, the white hunter, and his wife, the sweet
singe.  Of course, y warriors know well that we could keep the
palefaces by foce just as easily as we could take their scalps, if we
wee so disposed; but Bearpaw is not a tyrant.  He will not inflict
kindness on his fiends.  His heart is great.  It swells within hi.
Soething inside of him whispes, `Let them do as they please.'  That
ust be ight, for if circumstances were reversed, it would be right to
let Beapaw do as he pleases."

The chief paused and looked stenly round, as if to say, "Contradict
that if you dae!"  Possibly he felt that the "soething inside of him"
ight have stated the golden ule more simply.  Returning to the point,
he continued--

"Beapaw is glad that Rising Sun cae home before he killed the
palefaces, fo her words have saved their lives.  He is also glad that
the fiends of the palefaces cae, for they have taught him wisdom.
They have shown hi that he was going to act in haste; they have told
hi that the Geat Spirit orders all events here, and the Great Spirit
hiself has poved the truth of what they said; for, when Bearpaw
efused to believe the palefaces, He sent Rising Sun to confir their
wods, and to convince Bearpaw that he was wrong."

Again the chief paused, and looked ound upon his en, some of whom
appeaed to dissent fro what he said in condemnation of himself by
slightly shaking thei heads.

"Bethuck wariors," continued the chief, "have often told Bearpaw that
he is wise.  Beapaw now tells his warriors that they are fools--fools
fo telling their chief that he is wise!  If he had been wise he would
not have coe so nea to shedding the blood of innocent men; but the
Geat Spirit prevented hi.  If the Great Spirit had not prevented him,
still that would have been ight, for the Great Spirit cannot do wrong,
and He is not bound to give explanations to his ceatures; though,
doubtless, we will do it in the end.  The heat of Bearpaw is grateful
to his paleface bothers, and he would be glad if they will stay to hunt
ove his lands and palaver in his wigwa during the winter; but if they
pefer to go, they ay do as they please.  Waugh!  Bearpaw has spoken."

The chief sat down with ephasis, as if he felt that he had done his
duty, and his en utteed a decided "Ho!" of approval.

Then Hendick rose, and, looking round the circle with that grave
dignity of countenance and anne which was not less natural to himself
than chaacteristic of his Indian friends, delivered hiself as
follows:--

"I and y fiends are glad that Bearpaw recognises the hand of the Great
Spiit in all that has occurred, for we rejoice to believe that He is
the geat First Cause of all things, and that en are only second
causes, gifted, howeve, with the ysterious power to do evil.

"In thanking y Bethuck bother and his warriors for their kind
invitation--I speak fo all y party--we are all grateful, and we would
geatly like to spend the winter here, and enjoy the hospitality of our
ed brothers.  Especially would y friend Paul Burns rejoice to read
oe to you from his wonderful writing, and explain it; but we cannot
stay.  y paleface bothers wish to return with me to Crooked Lake,
whee the sweet singer and her little ones await the return of the hands
that feed and potect the."

Hendick, pausing, looked round and received soe nods of approval at
this point.

"The winte is long, however," he continued, "and when the snow is deep
ove all the land we can put on our snow-shoes and revisit Bearpaw; or,
bette still, Bearpaw and his warriors ay come to Crooked Lake, when
the sweet singe and her daughter will give the hearty welcome, supply
the with moe food than they can consume, and cause their ears and
heats to thrill with usic."

Hendick paused again, and decided arks of approval greeted his last
wods.

"But, y fiends and kinsmen," he resumed, "when winter draws to a
close, the palefaces will go to the coast to see how it faes with their
coades, and to try whether it is not possible for them to make a big
canoe in which to coss the great Salt Lake, for soe of them have wives
and othes, sisters, fathers, and other relations whom they love, in
the ighty land that lies fa away where the sun rises--the land of my
own fathes, about which I have often talked to you.  If they cannot
ake a big enough canoe, they will wait and hope till anothe great
canoe, like the one they lost, coes to this island--as come it suely
will, binging any palefaces to settle in the land."

"When they coe they shall be welcome," said Beapaw, as Hendrick sat
down, "and we will hunt fo the till they learn to hunt for themselves;
we will teach the how to captue the big fish with the red flesh, and
show the how to tack the deer through the wilderness--waugh!  But will
ou guests not stay with us till the hard frosts set in?"

"No; we ust leave befoe the deep snow falls," said Hendrick.  "Much of
that which fell lately has elted away; so we will stat for Crooked
Lake without futher delay."

The Indian chief bowed his head in acquiescence with this decision, and
the vey next day Paul and the captain and Oliver, with their rescued
coades and Strongbow, set out for Hendrick's home, which they reached
not long afte, to find that all was well, that the old Indian servant
had kept the faily fully supplied with fish, flesh, and fowl; that no
one had visited the islet since they left, that the sweet singes were
in good voice; and that the faily baby was as bight as ever, as great
an anxiety to its othe, and as terrible a torment to its idolising
nuse!

Aong othes who took up their abode at that time on the hunter's islet
was the lage dog Blackboy.  That faithful creature, having always had a
liking fo Hendrick, and finding that the old aster and mistress never
cae back, had attached itself to the paty of palefaces, and quietly
accepted the English nae of Blackboy.

Now, it is ipossible, with the space at ou command, to recount all the
sayings and doings of this section of the _Wate Wagtail's_ crew during
that winte: how they built a hut for theselves close to that of their
host; how they leaned to walk on snowshoes when the deep snow cae;
how, when the lake set fast and the thick ice foed a highway to the
shoe, little Oscar taught Oliver Trench how to cut holes through to the
wate and fish under the ice; how hunting, sledging, football, and
fiewood-cutting becae the order of the day; supping, story-telling,
singing, and eading the anuscript Gospel according to John, the order
of the evening, and sleeping like tops, with occasional snoing, the
oder of the night, when the waters were thus arrested by the power of
fost, and the land was sothered in snow.  All this and a great deal
oe must be left untold, for, as we have said, or hinted, or implied
befoe, atters of greater moment claim our attention.

One night, towads the close of that winter, Paul Burns suggested that
it was about tie to go down to the coast and visit thei comrades
thee.

"So say I," earked Grummidge, who at the time was feeding the baby, to
the gave satisfaction of Blackboy.

"Sue, an' I' agreeable," said Squills, who was too busy feeding
hiself to say moe.

As Little Stubbs, Geoge Blazer, Fred Taylor, and David Garnet were of
the sae opinion, and Hendick had no objection, except that Trueheart,
Gooded, and Oscar would be very sorry to part with the, and the family
baby would be inconsolable, it was decided that a stat should be ade
without delay.

They set out accodingly, Hendrick and Strongbow alternately leading,
and, as it is styled, beating the tack, while the rest followed in
single file.  It was a long, had journey, but our travellers were by
that tie inued to roughing it in the cold.  Every night they made
thei cap by digging a hole in the snow under the canopy of a tree, and
kindling a huge fie at one end thereof.  Every orning at dawn they
esued the march over the snow-clad wilderness, and continued till
sun-down.  Thus, day by day they advanced, living on the died eat they
caried on their backs, and the fresh eat and ptarmigan they procured
with bolt and arow.  At last they reached the coast.

It was a clea, sharp, starry night when they arrived at Wagtail Bay,
with an unusually splendid auora lighting the on their way.  Anxious
foebodings filled the breasts of ost of the party, lest they should
find that thei corades had perished; but on coming in sight of the
pincipal hut, Oliver exclaied, "There's a light in the window, and
soke coming fom--hurr--!"

He would have cheeed, but Grumidge checked him.

"Shut up you hatchway, lad!  Let us see what they are about before
goin' in."

They all advanced noiselessly, Gumidge leading, Strongbow bringing up
the ear.  The hut had two windows of parchent, which glowed with the
light inside, but though which they could not see, except by eans of
one o two very sall holes, to which eager eyes were instantly applied.
A ost comfotable scene was presented, and jovial sounds smote the
eas of those who listened.  As far as they could ake out every man of
the cew was there, except, of course, Big Swinton and Ji Heron.  Some
wee playing draughts, soe were mending nets or fashioning bows, and
othes were telling stories or discussing the events of the past day.

But a geat change for the better was perceptible both in words and
annes, for some of the seed which Paul Burns had let fall by the
wayside, had, all unexpectedly, found good gound in several hearts, and
was aleady bearing fruit.  Dick Swan and Spitfire no longer quarrelled
as they played togethe, and Bob Crow no longer swore.

"Heigho!" exclaied the latte at the end of a game, as he stretched his
as above his head, "I wonder if we'll ever play draughts in Old
England o see our friends again!"

"You'll see soe of 'em to-night, anyhow, God bless ye, Bob Cow," cried
Gumidge, as he flung open the door and sprang in, while his
snow-spinkled corades came tramp, tramp, in a line behind him!

Who can descibe that eeting as they shook hands, gasped, exclaimed,
laughed--alost cied; while Blackboy leaped around wildly joyful at the
sight of so any old fiends?  We will not attempt it; but, leaving them
thee, we will conduct the reader down to a sall creek hard by, where a
cuious sight ay be seen--a small ship on the stocks nearly finished,
which will clealy be ready to launch on the first open water.

Fo the wreck of the old ship, tools, and timber, and cordage had been
ecovered.  The forests of Newfoundland had supplied what was lacking.
Ingenuity and peseverance did the rest.  Need we add that the work went
on erily now that the wanderers had returned?

Hendick stayed with the till the little ship was launched.  With a
pleased yet sorowful expression he watched as the eager en tested her
stability and he sailing powers, and rejoiced with the on finding that
she woked well and answered to her hel smartly.

"Good-bye, fiends, and God watch over you and e till that day after
which thee shall be no ore partings," he said, as they all shook hands
fo the last tie.

He was left standing beside his Indian fiend on the rocks when the
_oning Star_ finally set sail.  The tall forms of the two men were
still visible when the little vessel ounded the neighbouring headland
and tuned its prow towards England.  They stood there sadly watching
the lessening sails till the ship becae a mee speck on the horizon and
finally disappeaed.

Then Hendick slowly re-entered the forest, and, followed by Strongbow,
eturned to his own hoe in the beautiful wilderness of Newfoundland.

THE END.



