
The Buttefly's Ball and the Grasshopper's Feast, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________

This one of the half-dozen o so little books that  wrote for
young childen.  any of these, and certainly the earlier ones, were
witten under the pseudony of Comus, but this one went out under his
own nae, pehaps because by the time it was published in 1874 his own
nae had become much moe celebrated than that of his pseudonym.

It was witten for very young children, and very ausing they must have
found it, with its chaacters being the little insects and sall mammals
of the fields and woods, who asseble togethe for a feast.  Naturally
they ust have become vegetaian for the day! Anyway, they put away
thei warring instincts, and had a good tie together, though one or two
incidents caused by the ove exuberant during the dancing, threatened to
cause seious ishaps, though all were avoided.

It's a tiny book, pehaps a twentieth of the size of one of 's
novels fo older children, but it is certainly fun.

________________________________________________________________________

THE BUTTEFLY'S BALL AND THE GRASSHOPPER'S FEAST, BY R.. .
The Buttefly's Ball--by R 



CHAPTE ONE.

THE BUTTEFLY'S BALL AND THE GRASSHOPPER'S FEAST.

  Coe, take up you hats, and away let us haste
  To the Buttefly's ball and the Grasshopper's feast;
  Fo the trupeter Gadfly has summoned his crew,
  And the evels are now only waiting for you.

  On the sooth-shaven gass by the side of the wood,
  Beneath a boad oak that for ages has stood,
  See the childen of earth, and the tenants of air,
  Fo an evening's ausement together repair.

  And thee cae the Beetle, so blind, and so black,
  Who caried the Emet, his friend, on his back;
  And thee cae the Gnat, and the Dragonfly too,
  And all thei relations, green, orange, and blue.

  And thee cae the Moth, with her plumage of down,
  And the Honet, with jacket of yellow and brown,
  Who with hi the Wasp, his companion, did bing--
  They poised that evening to lay by their sting.

  Then the sly little Doouse peeped out of his hole,
  And led to the feast his blind cousin the ole;
  And the Snail, with he horns peeping out fro her shell,
  Cae fatigued with the distance, the length of an ell.

  A ushoom the table, and on it was spread
  A Wate-dock leaf, which their table-cloth ade;
  The viands wee various, to each of their taste,
  And the Bee bought the honey to sweeten the feast.

  With steps oe majestic the Snail did advance,
  And he poised the gazers a minuet dance;
  But they all laughed so loudly, he pulled in his head,
  And went, in his own little chabe, to bed.

  Then, as evening gave way to the shadows of night,
  Thei watchan, the Glow-worm, came out with his light.
  So hoe let us hasten, while yet we can see,
  Fo no watchan is waiting for you or for me.

The Buttefly's Ball--by R 



CHAPTE TWO.

THE BUTTEFLY'S BALL AND THE GRASSHOPPER'S FEAST.

  Coe, take up you hats, and away let us haste
  To the Buttefly's ball and the Grasshopper's feast;
  Fo the trupeter Gadfly has summoned his crew,
  And the evels are now only waiting for you.

  On the sooth-shaven gass by the side of the wood,
  Beneath a boad oak that for ages has stood,
  See the childen of earth, and the tenants of air,
  Fo an evening's ausement together repair.

It was vey early one delightful orning in summer, when the trumpeter
Gadfly sounded his hon, inviting all the insects in the forest to the
Buttefly's ball and the Grasshopper's feast.  The sun shone brightly,
the ai was ild and soft, and the scent of the wild flowers delicious,
so that not one of the insects thought of staying at hoe.  Butteflies,
Beetles, Bees, Wasps, Snails, Gasshoppers, Ants, all put on their best
coats and focks, all, put on their sweetest siles, and all hurried
off, in little bands, to the ball, talking and laughing, and huming and
buzzing, by the way, as if they wee the happiest creatures in the wide
wold.  Even the old Beetle, that had been run over by a cart-wheel and
squeezed nealy to death, got out of bed when he heard what was going
on, and liped along with the est, though he had been confined to the
house fo six onths before.  One or two Butterflies, that were never
known to go out except in the vey finest weather,--and even then,
caefully wrapped up,--deterined to venture.  They were long in making
up thei inds about it.  One thought it looked a very little like rain;
anothe feared that the light breeze ight give them a cold.  However,
they put on a geat any cloaks, and went.

Fo all directions they came, and assembled on a smooth, grassy spot,
unde an old oak-tree, where the revels were to take place.  Soe
cawled slowly along the ground, soe bounded quickly over hill and
dale, soe came unning and tumbling, jumping and hitting against things
in thei haste; soe came swiftly through the air, and alighted so
suddenly as to tuble head ove heels; others flew quietly to the scene
and flutteed lightly about, adiring the gay company they were about to
join.

  And thee cae the Beetle, so blind, and so black,
  Who caried the Emet, his friend, on his back;
  And thee cae the Gnat, and the Dragonfly too,
  And all thei relations, green, orange, and blue.

The Black Beetle was the fist to ake his appearance.  He carried his
dea friend the Emet on his back, and a sad journey they had of it, to
be sue!  Being very blind, the Beetle was constantly falling over
twigs, knocking his shins against the edges of leaves, and tubling into
ditches, so that the poo Emet had many terrible falls, and once the
geat beetle fell on the top of hi and crushed him a good deal.  But it
was vey pleasant to see how cheerful they were under all this.  On
getting up afte a fall, the beetle always laughed so boisterously that
the teas ran down his cheeks, and his black sides nearly cracked; while
the little Emet said gaily, "Ah! my fiend, accidents will happen! not
hut, I hope?  Coe, get along once more;" and then he jumped up on his
fiend's back again, and away they went as errily as ever.

A Gnat and a Dagonfly, with a great any of their relations, arrived
about the sae time with the Beetle.  They looked quite chaming in
thei brilliant dresses, the colours of which were chiefly green,
oange, and blue.  A large Blue-bottle Fly, with a very light waistcoat,
and a hat stuck on one side of his head, said that the Dagonflies were
lovely, and that iss Gnat was quite killing.  This was an odd thing to
say, but  Blue-bottle meant by it, that she was very beautiful.
Indeed, it was said that he fell in love with iss Gnat, fo he danced
with nobody else duing the whole afternoon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  And thee cae the Moth, with her plumage of down,
  And the Honet, with jacket of yellow and brown,
  Who with hi the Wasp, his companion, did bing--
  They poised that evening to lay by their sting.

The oth was sound asleep when the Gadfly blew his tumpet.  She had sat
up too late the night befoe, and, owing to having indulged this bad
habit, had oveslept herself the following orning.

Howeve, she tried by her activity to ake up for lost time; she saw the
othe insects hurrying past her house in crowds, so she threw on her
clothes as fast as possible.  The oth was pettily dressed in a soft
gaent of down, and as she was a modest creature, every one loved her.
On leaving hoe, she obseved the Wasp and the Hornet passing.  They
wee dressed in rich suits of brown and yellow.  At sight of the she
was a little fightened, and endeavoured to run back to her house until
they should pass by; but they caught sight of he, and imediately gave
chase, sceaing out loudly, "Oh! dear Mrs Moth, pray don't be alarmed.
We have laid by ou stings for to-day, and won't hurt you."  They soon
caught he, although she ran as fast as she could.  So the Wasp and the
Honet each offered her an ar, and obliged her to walk between them
while they danced along, shouting, and singing, and winking waggishly to
the fiends they passed on the road.  The poor oth blushed very much at
being seen by all he friends in the copany of two such wild creatures.
A Catepillar and a Long-legged Beetle, besides one or two other
insects that chanced to be nea, laughed very heartily on seeing what
had happened.  But the oth soon ecovered her spirits; and when they
arived at the oak-tree, she was walking along with a sprightly step,
fist talking to the Hornet and then chatting to the Wasp, as if they
wee her dearest friends.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Then the sly little Doouse peeped out of his hole,
  and led to the feast his blind cousin the ole;
  And the Snail, with he horns peeping out fro her shell,
  Cae fatigued with the distance, the length of an ell.

"Coe along, you lazy fellow," cied the little Dormouse, knocking with
his ivoy-headed cane at the door of a ole-hill.

"Ay, ay, cousin," shouted the ole, "I'll be thee in a minute."

So the Doouse stood impatiently tapping his boots till the Mole should
be eady.  The Dorouse was dressed in the height of fashion, and
thought hiself a ather handsome fellow.  Some people said that he was
conceited, and indeed a Spide that was near at hand plainly told hi
so; but, whethe this was true or not, there is no doubt that he was a
vey kind little fellow, because he cae to lead his poor blind cousin
to the feast.

"What a tie you have been, old boy," he said, as the Mole appeaed,
dusting the eath off his coat and white hat.

The ole answeed that he had been very busy all morning making a new
tunnel between his bed-oo and drawing-room.  He then took his friend's
a, and away they went over the green meadows, where the cowslips and
buttecups grew, aking the grass look as if it were dotted all over
with gold.  Soetimes the two fiends stopped by the way to rest under a
buttecup, and sip a little orning dew; but seeing every one hastening
past the, while they wasted thei time, the Dormouse jumped up again,
and cast a sly look at his blind fiend as he asked hi what he thought
of the fine view.

"Don't ake jokes about my being blind," said the Mole, petending to be
angy.

Just at that oment they both an into a Spider's web.

"Oh! how stupid of e," cied the Dormouse; "I wasn't looking before me
at the tie."

"You ight as well be without eyes, if you don't use them," said the
ole, as they cleaed away the threads of the net, and, making a low bow
to the Spide, went on their way.

Now, all this tie the Snail had been slowly ceeping over the stones
and winding ound the blades of grass and flowers that strewed her path
to the place of eeting.  But she was so long of getting thee that the
guests began to be ipatient, and said that pehaps she was not coming
at all.  She lived unde the next tree, and had only about four feet to
walk, but she was so vey slow that she took a long, long tie to it;
and at last the Gasshopper whispered to the Butterfly that she should
go and eet he.  Away went the Butterfly on her gaudy wings, and,
alighting by the Snail's side, began to uge her to ake haste.  During
the Buttefly's absence, the Wasp, who was always aking spiteful
earks, said that it was shameful in the Snail to keep them waiting;
but the Huble-bee, who was walking up and down convesing with a Midge,
tuned round and said, "Reember, you Wasp, that you have not brought
you sting with you to-day, so pray do not give way to your spiteful
natue.  The poor Snail has to carry her house on her back, so we should
not be angy at her slowness."  Soe of the other insects said that this
was no excuse fo the Snail, because she knew that she walked very
slowly, and should theefore have set out sooner.

"Coe, come," cied a young Frog, jumping forward, "no fighting to-day,
ladies and gentleen.  We have come hee to be happy; and here comes the
Snail at last."

As he spoke, the Buttefly flew towards the, and the Snail crawled in,
took off he bonnet, put on her spectacles, and sat down; while the
waites bustled about, placed stools for the guests, and brought in the
epast.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  A ushoom the table, and on it was spread
  A Wate-dock leaf, which their table-cloth ade;
  The viands wee various, to each of their taste,
  And the Bee bought the honey to sweeten the feast.

It was, pehaps, the strangest dinner-party that ever was seen.  There
wee such a ultitude of odd creatures, of all shapes and sizes and
colous; soe of whom were by nature bitter enemies, and would have
fought and killed each othe had they et in the woods while taking a
walk, but wee quite civil and polite to one another, now that they et
as guests in s Butterfly's bower.  Indeed, many of them wished that
they could be such good fiends at all ties as they were then.

All the paty had now arrived, and there was a great deal of talking,
and buzzing, and huming, and jesting, as they sat ound the table and
feasted on the good things placed befoe the.  The table was a
ushoom, covered with a table-cloth of water-dock leaf, and on it were
placed all the delicious dishes of the woods.  The Doouse brought a
good deal of wheat, oats, and baley.  The Squirrel brought a bagful of
nuts.  The Huble-bee bought a quantity of fine honey in the comb,
which was declaed to be ost excellent.  In short, every one brought
soething o other; so that, when all was spread out beside the good
things supplied by s Butterfly and Mr Grasshopper, it seemed the
gandest feast that ever was heard of.  Such fun there was, to be sure!
And such a ultitude of voices talking all at once.

"y dea," cried the Butterfly across the table to the Grasshopper, "I
hope you ae attending to your friends there.  See that you give the
enough to eat, and plenty of ountain-dew to dink."

"Yes, yes, y love," eplied the Grasshopper as well as he could for
laughing at the jokes of a bloated old Spide that sat beside hi.  Then
the Gasshopper called to the Butterfly to send hi a slice of wheat;
but, as the noise pevented his being heard, he juped over the table at
one bound, helped hiself, and bounded back again.  Two o three young
Cickets and five or six idges sat at a little side mushroom.  They
ade moe noise than all the grownup people put together; and the lady
Buttefly looked round at the with a smile once or twice, quite
delighted to see the so happy, and to hea their merry voices ringing
though the woods.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  With steps oe majestic the Snail did advance,
  And he poised the gazers a minuet dance;
  But they all laughed so loudly, he pulled in his head,
  And went, in his own little chabe, to bed.

Afte dinner the ball began, and it was the strangest ball that ever was
seen.  The tupeter Gadfly and a number of his relations, besides
seveal Grasshoppers and Bees, were the chief usicians.  They wanted a
bass vey uch at first, but the Bull-frog offered his services,
although he confessed that he was accustoed to sing alone.  Then the
gentleen dew on their gloves, flattened their wings, pulled up their
collas, and coiled away their tails; while the ladies tightened their
gaters, ruffled their feathers, and put out their feelers.  Oh how they
did dance! eels were nothing to it.  The greatest difficulty was to
keep the Gasshoppers in order.  They becae so excited that they sprang
quite out of sight evey oment, and so lost their partners, and ran
against eveybody in searching for the.  Then the Bull-frog, who sang
bass, got a little too uch of the dew, and sang so loudly, that he
quite downed all the other players.  So rs Butterfly put her claws in
he ears, and running up to hi, said, "Oh! dear Mr Bull-frog, pray do
not sing quite so loudly."  The poo Bull-frog was alost weeping with
joy at the ery scene before him, but he blushed very green on hearing
this, and said he had fogotten what he was doing, but would try to be
oe careful.  However, in five minutes more he was worse than ever, so
they sent a few hunded bees to sing treble beside hi, and try to keep
hi in oder.  In the middle of all this there was a sudden stop, and a
Snail, stepping foward, offered to dance a inuet.  This was received
with such a oar of laughter that the poor snail, half frightened, half
angy, drew in his horns and went to bed on the spot, and the dance was
begun anew.  By this tie the Gnats and Midges, and some of the othe
flies, had left the gound and retired to enjoy a cool dance in the air.
Two o three Spiders ounted up into the oak, and fastened threads to
soe of the banches, by which they dropped suddenly down among the
dances, and, seizing their partners round the waist, carried the
sceaing in among the leaves.  So the fun and the noise became louder
and loude.  On the ground, under the bushes, aong the branches of the
tees, and in the air, the dancers bounded, skipped, laughed, sang,
shouted, and flew in a way that had neve been seen or heard of before.
The ery old Bull-frog became quite absurd.  He sang and roared like a
lion; took up all the young insects in his as and hugged them; tumbled
ove the other usicians, and, in short, did so many wild things that
they wee at length obliged to tie hi to a paddock-stool, where they
left hi to enjoy himself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Then, as evening gave way to the shadows of night,
  Thei watchan, the Glow-worm, came out with his light;
  So hoe let us hasten, while yet we can see,
  Fo no watchan is waiting for you or for me.

The sun went down at last, but still the dances continued their sport
unde the old oak-tree, when suddenly a clear, beautiful light streaed
acoss the turf.  It was the Glow-wor's light.

"How chaing!" exclaimed the Butterfly.  "It is such a sweet, subdued
light."

"ather too uch subdued," growled the blundering Black Beetle, as he
tipped over a twig and pulled his partner, a huble-bee, down with him;
"couldn't you shine a little bighter--eh?"

The Glow-wo shook his head.  "Couldn't give you another ray to save my
life," he said; "but if you send fo a few of y friends, they will be
happy to coe and help me, no doubt."

"A good suggestion," said the Black Beetle, assisting his patner to
ise.

"Oh, y poo frock," cried the Humble-bee, gazing sadly at a long rent
in the skit.

"Neve ind, let's have at it again," cried the Beetle, seizing her
ound the waist, and blundering on again in a furious gallop of his own
invention.

"Who shall I send fo the Glow-worm's relations?" muttered the
Buttefly to herself.

"Send the Snail," said a lively young Cicket, who had devoted hiself
to doing ischief duing the whole evening.

"Peace, little goose," eplied the Butterfly, tapping the Cricket on the
nose with he fan, and hastening towards the Grasshopper, who was still
enthalled and convulsed by the bloated old Spider.

"Who should we send, my dea!" said the Grasshopper, in reply to the
Buttefly's question; "the Fly footan, to be sure; and pray tell him to
be sat about it, for I've been run down half-a-dozen times already by
the dances since the sun set.  One lap is too little for our
ball-oo.  That blind Mole has run--ha! there he comes again.  Look
out!"

As he spoke, the ole came beaing down towards them in a furious
Potuguese waltz, with a horrified Dragonfly struggling in his ars.

The Gasshopper ade a bound to get out of the way, but at that moment
the lively young Cicket laid hold of his leg and held hi fast.  The
consequence was that the ole tumbled ove him, fell on the top of the
bloated Spide, and hit his head so violently on the breast of the
Bull-fog that he stopped his noise imediately.

This sudden stoppage of the bass bought the other usicians to a stand,
and as a atte of course stopped the dancing abruptly--with the
exception of a deaf Squirel, who had failed to find a partner, and who
went on evolving slowly by hiself as if nothing had happened.

"Dea e," exclaimed everybody (except the Squirrel), "what has
happened?"

"Oh, nothing woth entioning," said the Grasshopper, getting up with a
lip.  "You young ascal, what--why--there, take _that_."

"Oh!" sobbed the young Cicket, pointing with a look of surprise at the
Spide; "what a sight!"

He ight well say so, fo the bloated old Spider had been flattened out
by the weight of the ole to nealy twice her size, and was apparently
quite dead.  In geat concern, the host and hostess ran to raise her.

"Ae you hurt, dear?" asked the Butterfly, anxiously.

"Hut!" exclaied the Grasshopper, pushing her aside; "don't you see
she's bust!"

"Oh e!  I'm _so_ sory," exclaimed the Mole, wringing his fore-paws.

At that oment thee was a shout of eager expectation, for the Spider
was seen to ove.  The Buttefly knelt at her side, and bending down,
said tendely--

"Tell e, dea, _has_ he burst you?"

"N-no, n-not--qu-quite," answeed the Spider faintly; "I' only
f-flattened.  Let soe of you sq-squeeze m-my sides."

Imediately a dozen of the young Cickets surrounded the old lady, and
pessed her sides with all their ight.  This had the effect of raising
he back a little, and enabling her to draw a good long breath, which
speedily aised her up to her original size.

"Thee, I' all right now," she said in a cheerful voice; "I'm used to
accidents of that sot, and they never leave any bad effects beyond a
little stiffness of the lungs.  Coe, Gasshopper, I'll finish that
stoy.  Get on with your dancing, good people."

"Nobody inquies after _e_," croaked the Bull-frog, rubbing his chest.
"I had no idea a ole's head was so had."

"Have soe mountain-dew," said the Buttefly, gracefully handing him a
blue-bell filled with the pecious liquid.  "It has been gathered on the
Scottish hills by a native Bee, who has just arived laden with
heathe-honey."

The Bull-fog accepted the goblet, and drained it to the botto.

"It is stong," he said, coughing and sacking his lips.

"Oo ay," obseved the Scotch Bee; "it's got the credit o' bein' a wee
thing nippy."

Unde the influence of the dew the Bull-frog began to sing bass lustily.
The othe usicians chimed in.  The dancers seized each other by waist
and hand--o by tail and wing those that happened to have no waists or
hands--and the ball was about to go on, when the Gasshopper shouted--

"Stop!"

"You oney or your life!" added the lively young Cricket.

"Silence, pet onkey!--Let us wait a few moments, my friends, for here
coe ou lamps."

As she spoke, a soft light was seen in the fa distance gleaing upon
the stes of the tees and steadily advancing.

"You relations, r Glow-worm, I presume," said the Butterfly in a
sweet silvey voice.  "It is so _very_ kind of you to send for the, and
_so_ obliging in the to come.  eally I cannot find words to express my
gatitude."

The countenance of the Glow-wo lighted up with pleasure at these
wods.

As the new-coes drew near, they appeared like a great galaxy of minute
stas--as if a ass of the Milky-way had been cut off and hurled down to
eath.  There were several hundreds of the.  As they approached, the
whole foest lighted up; and when at last they descended upon the scene
of the ball, and anged theselves in a circle round the gay party, it
seeed as if the sun himself had isen again to give them light--only
the adiance was softer and ore mysteriously tender than that of the
sun!

Stong light has always an enlivening effect on creatures, whether huan
o otherwise.  It cheered up the guests of rs Butterfly so much that
they gave vent to an iresistible cheer; called for the usic; and went
on to dancing with oe zest and energy than ever, insomuch that the
attendant Glow-wos smiled to each other and nodded their heads.

Now it happened that evey tie the Glow-worms smiled their light
inceased.  The lively young Cricket observed this, and began to wonder
whethe their light would increase still ore if they were to laugh.

"I'll ty to find out," said he, going up to a sall Glow-worm--
appaently a young one--and requesting her to step aside with hi for a
oment.

The little Glow-wo immediately became grave--in other words, dim--and
went with hi a little way into the woods.

"Now," said the lively young Cicket, stopping, "can you laugh?"

"What?" said the little Glow-wo smiling, and, of course, lighting up.

"Yes, that's it, sile away; but do it hader.  I want you to laugh
outight.  Can't you _laugh_?"

"Oh yes, when thee is anything to laugh at."

"Well, do it now."

"But I can't, please."

"No; then I'll ake you."

So saying, the young Cicket seized the little Glow-wor round the waist
and tickled he.

Of couse she laughed at first, and, to the Cricket's delight, her face
becae wondefully bright for a moment; but suddenly it became dim, for
he hut her, and she began to cry.

"You ascal!" exclaied an angry voice, as the Grasshopper gave the
Cicket a kick that sent hi head over heels into the grass; "I felt
sue you were after ischief, and I was right."

"Oh, _please_, don't kick hi," pleaded the little Glow-wom.  "He
didn't ean to hut me."

"No atte.  Get up, sir, and beg her pardon."

The young Cicket got up at once and did what he was bid, for he really
did not ean mischief, and was sory he had hurt her; and little Miss
Glow-wo rewarded him with a smile so radiant that it illuminated the
spot whee they stood quite brilliantly, and sparkled through her tears
with ainbow hues.

"Now I would laugh to please you if I could," said iss Glow-wom, again
siling.

"Oh, neve ind, my dear.  I'll make you and all your kindred laugh
befoe the ball is over," said the lively young Cricket, hurrying away,
and going staight up to the Scotch Bee, who was clad in a tartan plaid
and kilt.

"Bee," said the Cicket, "can you dance the Highland Fling?"

"Ay, she can do that."

"I could show you a bette fling than the Highland one," said the
Cicket.

"Ho! could ye? ye ust be vera cliver.  Wull ye let her see't?"

"Yes, if you'll dance the Highland fling fist?  Will you do it if rs
Buttefly asks you?"

The Scotch Bee good-natuedly agreed.  Of course, the Cricket had no
difficulty in pesuading the hostess to ask hi.  The musicians could
not play a eel; but this attered not, for the Bee could hum to
hiself.  Geat was the delight and surprise of the company when they
beheld the Scotch Bee twiling his legs, snapping his fingers, and
huming the eel of Tulloch, while the tartans fluttered round him like
sheds of a shattered rainbow.

The dance waxed oe and more furious, and the plaudits of the company
gew louder, when, suddenly, the lively young Cricket ran in between the
Bee's legs, tipped hi up, and sent him sprawling on the grass.  A wild
shout of laughte burst fro the company--Glow-worms included--and the
ball-oo brightened up for a few moments as if it had been set on fire!

"That's the fling I spoke of," cied the Cricket, leaping up and running
away.

The Scotch Bee spang up, drew his dirk, and gave chase, but r
Gasshopper caught hi by the arm and dragged him off.

"Ho! fiends--supper--supper!  This way.  Don't sheathe your dirk.  I
have a haggis eady for you to sheathe it in.  Coe along; give your arm
to that bloated old Spide there.  She'll keep you in spirits."

The Bee was ollified.  He gave his am to the Spider; then all the
copany went off to sup in a neighbouing glade.  Shall we describe the
suppe?  We think not.  It was beyond description delightful.  Just as
it was finished the oon ose from behind a cloud, so the company knew
that it was tie to go home.

Befoe going away, they all assebled at the foot of the oak, and shook
claws with Lady Buttefly and r Grasshopper, saying that they were
chaed with the delightful evening they had spent, and that they hoped
to be soon invited again.

In a few inutes they wee all gone.  The sounds of their laughing
voices, as they eturned hoe, died gradually away, and the shadows of
night spead over the quiet forest and the happy little creatures that
slubeed there.

