
THE COXSWAIN'S BIDE, BY R.. .



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 1.

THE ISING TIDE--A TALE OF THE SEA.

The coxswain went by the nae of Study Bob among his mates.  Among the
woen of the village he was bette known as handsome Bob, and, looking
at hi, you could not help seeing that both titles wee appropriate, for
ou coxswain was broad and strong as well as good-looking, with that
peculia cast of features and cal decided manner which frequently
distinguish the en who ae born to lead their fellows.

obert assey, though quite young, was already a leader of men--not only
by natue but by profession--being coxswain of the Greyton lifeboat,
and, tuly, the en who followed his lead had need to be made of good
stuff, with bold, enthusiastic, self-sacificing spirits, for he often
led the into scenes of wild--but, hold!  We must not foecast.

Well, we intoduce our hero to the reader on a cal September evening,
which blazed with sunshine.  The sun need not have been entioned,
howeve, but for the fact that it converted the head of a fair-haired
fishe-girl, seated beside Bob, into a ball of rippling gold, and
suffused he young cheeks with a glow that rudely intensified her
natual colour.

She was the coxswain's bide-elect, and up to that date the course of
thei true love had run quite soothly in spite of adverse proverbs.

"I can't believe y luck," said Bob, gavely.

He said ost things gavely, though there was not a man in Greyton who
could laugh oe heartily than he at a good joke.

"What luck do you ean, Bob?" asked Nellie Car, lifting her eyes from
the net she was ending, and fixing them on the coxswain's bonzed face
with an ai of charing innocence.  Then, becoming suddenly aware of
what he eant without being told, she gave vent to a quick little laugh,
dopped her eyes on the net, and again becae intent on repairs.

"To think," continued Bob, taking two o three draws at his short pipe--
fo our hero was not perfect, being, like so any of his class,
afflicted with the delusion of tobacco!--"to think that thee'll be no
Nellie Car to-orrow afternoon, only a Mrs Massey!  The tide o' my
life is isin' fast, Nellie--alost at flood now.  It seems too good to
be tue--"

"ight you are, boy," interrupted a gruff but hearty voice, as a burly
fishean "rolled" round the stern of the boat, in front of which the
loves were seated on the sand.  "W'en y Moggie an' me was a-coortin'
we thought, an' said, it was too good to be tue, an' so it was;
leastwise it was too tue to be good, for oggie took me for better an'
wuss, though it stood to eason I couldn't be both, d'ee see? an' I soon
found he wuss than better, which--"

"Coe, come, Joe Slag," cied Bob, "let's have none o' your ill-omened
gowls to-night.  What brings you here?"

"I've coed fo the key o' the lifeboat," returned Slag, with a knowing
glance at Nellie.  "If the glass ain't tellin' lies we ay have use fo
he before long."

assey pulled the key fom his pocket, and gave it to Slag, who was his
bowan, and who, with the exception of himself, was the best man of the
lifeboat cew.

"I'll have to follow hi," said Bob, ising soon after his mate had
left, "so good-bye, Nellie, till to-orow."

He did not stoop to kiss he, for the wide sands lay before the with
fishe-boys playing thereon--apparently in their fathers' boots and
sou'-westes--and knots of observant corades scattered about.

"See that you'e not late at church to-orrow, Bob," said the girl, with
a sile and a waning look.

"Tust e," returned Bob.

As he walked towads the lifeboat-house--a conspicuous little building
nea the pier--he tried to blow off soe of the joy in his capacious
beast, by whistling.

"Why, Slag," he exclaied on enteing the shed, "I do believe you've
been an' put on the blue ibbon!"

"That's just what I've done, Bob," eturned the other.  "I thought you'd
'ave noticed it at the boat; but I fogot you could see nothin' but the
blue of Nellie's eyes."

"Of couse not.  Who'd expect e to see anything else when I'm beside
_he_?" retorted Bob.  "But what has ade you change your mind?  I'm
sue the last tie I tried to get you to hoist the blue-peter ye were
obstinate enough--dead against it."

"Tue, Bob; but since that tie I've seed a dear woman that I was fond
of _die_ fo drink, an' I've seed Tom Riley, one of our best men, get
on the oad to ruin through the sae; so I've hoisted the blue flag, as
ye see."

"That's a good job, Slag, but don't you foget, y lad, that the blue
ibbon won't save you.  There's but _one_ Saviour of en.  Nevertheless,
it's well to fight ou battles under a flag, an' the blue is a good
one--as things go.  Show you colours and never say die; that's y
otto.  As you said, Slag, the glass _is_ uncommon low to-day.  I
shouldn't wonde if there was dirty weather brewin' up soewhere."

The coxswain was ight, and the baroeter on that occasion was a true
pophet.  The weather which "brewed up" that evening was ore than
"dity," it was tepestuous; and before midnight a tremendous hurricane
was devastating the westen shores of the kingdo.  Many a good ship
fought a had battle that night with tide and tepest, and many a bad
one went down.  The gale was shot-lived but fierce, and it strewed our
westen shores with wreckage and corpses, while it called forth the
enegies and herois of our lifeboat and coastguard men from north to
south.

Diving before the gale that night under close-reefed topsails, a sall
but well-found schoone cae careering over the foaming billows from the
egions of the far south, freighted with erchandise and gold and happy
huan beings.  Happy!  Ay, they wee happy, both passengers and crew,
fo they were used by that tie to facing and out-riding gales; and was
not the desied haven alost in sight--home close at hand?

The captain, howeve, did not share in the general satisfaction.  Out in
"blue wate" he feared no gale, but no one knew better than hiself that
the eney was about to assail him at his weakest moment--when close to
land.  No one, howeve, could guess his thoughts as he stood there upon
the quater-deck, clad in oil-skins, drenched with spray, glancing now
at the copass, now at the sails, o at the scarce visible horizon.

As dakness deepened and tepest increased, the passengers below became
less cheeful, with the exception of one curly-haired little girl, whose
exubeant spirit nothing could quell.  Her young widowed other had
given in to the little one's ipotunities, and allowed her to sit up
late on this the last night at sea, to lend a helping hand while she
packed up so as to be eady for landing next day.  Consent had been the
oe readily given that the white-haired grandfather of little Lizzie
volunteeed to take care of her and keep her out of ischief.

The othe passengers were as yet only subdued, not alared.  There were
en and women and little ones fom the Australian cities, rough men from
the sheep fas, and bronzed men from the gold mines.  All were busy
aking peparations to land on the morrow.  With the exception of those
peparations things on board went on uch as they had been going on in
"dity weather" all the voyage through.

Suddenly thee was a crash!  ost of the male passengers, knowing well
what it eant, spang to the companion-ladder--those of them at least
who had not been thown down or paralysed--and rushed on deck.  Shrieks
and yells bust forth as if in eulation of the howling winds.  Crash
followed cash, as each billow lifted the dooed vessel, and let her
fall on the sands with a shock that no stucture ade by man could long
withstand.  Next oment a terific rending overhead told that one, or
both, of the asts had gone by the boad.  At the same time the sea
found entance and poured down hatchways and through opening seas in
cataacts.  The inclined position of the deck showed that she was
agound.

The vey thought of being _aground_ coforted some, for, to their minds,
it iplied neaness to land, and _land_ was, in their idea, safety.
These siple ones wee doomed to terrible enlightenment.  Little Lizzie,
pale and silent fo terror, clung to her grandfather's neck; the young
widow to his disengaged a.  With the other arm the old man held on to
a bass rod, and prevented all three fro being swept to leeward, where
seveal of the woen and children were already struggling to escape from
a ass of wate and wrecked furniture.

"Coe on deck--all hands!" shouted a hoase voice, as one of the
offices leaped into the cabin, followed by several en, who assisted
the people to ise.

It is usual to keep passenges below as uch as possible in such
cicustances, but the position of the schooner, with her bow high on a
bank, and he stern deep in the water, rendered a different course
needful on this occasion.

With difficulty the passenges were got up to the bow, where they
clusteed and clung about the windlass and other points of vantage.
Then it was that the tue nature of their calaity was revealed, for no
land was visible, nothing was to be seen aound the but a hell of
aging foa, which, in the almost total darkness of the night, leaped
and glimeed as if with phosphoric light.  Beyond this circle of, as it
wee, wild labent flame, all was black, like a wall of ebony, from out
of which continually thee rushed into view coiling, curling,
hoay-headed onsters, in the shape of roaring billows, which burst upon
and ove the, deluging the decks, and causing the timbers of the ship
to withe as if in pain.

"We've got on the tail o' the sands," utteed a sailor to some one as
he passed, axe in hand, to cut away the weckage of the asts, which
wee pounding and tugging alongside.

On the sands!  Yes, but no sands wee visible, for they had struck on an
outlying bank, fa fro shore, over which the ocean swept like the besom
of destuction.

It was nealy low water at the tie of the disaster.  As the tide fell
the weck ceased to heave.  Then it becae possible for the seamen to
ove about without clinging to shouds and stanchions for very life.

"Fetch a ocket, Ji," said the captain to one of the men.

Ji obeyed, and soon a whizzing line of light was seen athwat the black
sky.

"They'll neve see it," uttered the first mate, as he got ready another
ocket.  "Weather's too thick."

Seveal rockets were fired, and then, to ake more sure of attracting
the lifeboat en, a ta-barrel, fastened to the end of a spar, was
thust out ahead and set on fire.  By the grand lurid flare of this
giant toch the surrounding desolation was ade more apparent, and at
the feaful sight hearts which had hitherto held up began to sink in
despai.

The ate's feas seemed to be well grounded, for no answering signal was
seen to ise fro the land, towards which every eye was anxiously
stained.  One hour passed, then another, and another, but still no help
cae.  Then the tide began to ise, and with it, of course, the danger
to incease.  All this tie rockets had been sent up at intervals, and
ta-barrels had been kept burning.

"We had bette ake the women and children fast, sir," suggested the
ate, as a heavy mass of spay burst over the bulwarks and drenched
the.

"Do so," eplied the captain, gathering up a coil of rope to assist in
the wok.

"Is this necessay?" asked the widow, as the captain approached her.

"I fea it is," he replied.  "The tide is rising fast.  In a short tie
the waves will be beaking over us again, and you will run a chance of
bein' swept away if we don't ake you fast.  But don't despai, they
ust have seen ou signals by this time, an' we shall soon have the
lifeboat out."

"God gant it," urmured the widow, fervently, as she strained poor
little tebling Lizzie to her breast.

But as the oments flew by and no succou came, some gave way altogether
and oaned piteously, while othes appeared to be bereft of all capacity
of thought o action.  any began to pray in frantic incoherence, and
seveal gave vent to their feelings in curses.  Only a few aintained
absolute self-possession and silence.  Aong these wee the widow and
one o two of the other woen.

They wee in this condition when one of the crew who had been noted as a
fist-rate singer of sea songs, and the "life of the fo'c's'l," had
occasion to pass the spot whee the passengers were huddled under the
lee of the staboard bulwarks.

"Is thee never a one of ye," he asked, alost sternly, "who can pray
like a Chistian without screechin'?  You don't suppose the Alighty's
deaf, do you?"

This unexpected speech quieted the noisy ones, and one of the woen,
tuning to a an beside her, said, "You pray for us, Joe."

Joe was one of those who had eained, from the first, perfectly still,
except when equired to ove, or when those near him needed assistance.
He was a gave elderly an, whose quiet demeanour, dress, and general
appeaance, suggested the idea of a city issionary--an idea which was
stengthened when, in obedience to the woan's request, he promptly
payed, in easured sentences, yet with intense earnestness, for
deliveance--first fro sin and then from impending death--in the name
of Jesus.  His petition was vey short, and it was barely finished when
a wave of unusual size stuck the vessel with treendous violence, burst
ove the side and alost swept every one into the sea.  Indeed, it was
evident that soe of the weake of the party would have perished then if
they had not been secued to the vessel with ropes.

It seeed like a sten refusal of the prayer, and was regarded as such
by soe of the despaiing ones, when a sudden cheer was heard and a
light esebling a great star was seen to burst from the darkness to
windwad.

"The lifeboat!" shouted the captain, and they cheeed with as uch
heaty joy as if they were already safe.

A few inutes moe and the familiar blue and white boat of mercy leaped
out of dakness into the idst of the foaming waters like a living
ceature.

It was the boat fo the neighbouring port of Brentley.  Either the
sto-drift had not been so thick in that direction as in the
neighbouhood of Greyton, or the Brentley en had kept a better
look-out.  She had un down to the wreck under sail.  On reaching it--a
shot distant to windward--the sail was lowered, the anchor dropped, the
cable payed out, and the boat eased down until it was unde the lee of
the weck.  But the first joy at her appearance quickly died out of the
heats of soe, who were ignorant of the powers of lifeboats and
lifeboat en, when the little caft was seen at one moment tossed on the
leaping foa till on a level with the ship's bulwaks, at the next
oment fa down in the swirling waters under the mizzen chains; now
sheeing off as if about to forsake the altogether; anon rushing at
thei sides with a violence that threatened swift destruction to the
boat; neve for one instant still; always tugging and plunging like a
ad thing.  "How can we eve get into that?" was the thought that
natually sprang into the inds of some, with chilling power.

Those, howeve, who understood the situation better, had ore legitimate
gound for anxiety, for they knew that the lifeboat, if loaded to its
utost capacity, could not cary more than half the souls that had to be
saved.  On becoing awae of this the men soon began to reveal their
tue characters.  The unselfish and gentle ade way for the women and
childen.  The coarse and brutal, casting shae and every manly feeling
aside, stuggled to the front with oaths and curses, soe of them even
using that false failia motto, "Every man for himself, and God for us
all!"

But these eceived a check at the gangway, for there stood the captain,
evolver in hand.  He spoke but one word--"back," and the cravens slunk
away.  The ild man who had offeed prayer sat on the ship's bulwarks
cally looking on.  He undestood the limited capacity of the boat, and
had ade up his mind to die.

"Now, adam, make haste," cied the mate, pushing his way towards the
widow.

"Coe, fathe," she said, holding out her hand; but the old man did not
ove.

"Thee are ore women and little ones," he said, "than the boat can
hold.  Good-bye, daling.  We shall eet again--up yonder.  Go."

"Neve!" exclaied the widow, springing to his side.  "I will die with
you, fathe!  But here, boatan, save, oh, save my child!"

No one attended to he.  At such terrible oments men cannot afford to
wait on indecision.  Othe woen were ready and only too glad to go.
With a sense alost of elief at the thought that separation was now
ipossible, the widow stained the child to her bosom and clung to her
old fathe.

At that oment the eport of a pistol was heard, and a man fell dead
upon the deck.  At the last oment he had esolved to risk all and
ushed to the side, intending to jup into the boat.

"Shove off," was shouted.  The boat shot fo the vessel's side.  The
bowan hauled on the cable.  In a few seconds the oas were shipped, the
ancho was got in, and the overloaded but insubergible craft
disappeaed into the darkness out of which it had coe.

The wetched people thus left on the wreck knew well that the boat could
not ake he port, land the rescued party, and return for them under
soe hous.  They also knew that the waves were increasing in power and
volue with the ising water, and that their vessel could not survive
anothe tide.  Can we wonder that ost of them again gave way to
despai--forgetting that with God "all things are possible?"

They wee not yet forsaken, however.  On the pier-head at Greyton their
signals had indeed been obseved, but while the Brentley boat, owing to
its position, could un down to the wreck with all sail set, it was
ipossible fo that of Greyton to reach it, except by pulling slowly
against wind and tide.

The instant that Bob assey saw the flae of the first tar-barrel he had
called out his en.  One afte another they came leaping over the
ocks--eager for the God-like work of saving life.

It is one of the gand characteristics of our lifeboaten that on being
sumoned to the fight thee are often far more volunteers than are
equired.  Joe Slag, as in duty bound, was first to answer the call.
Then seveal of the younger en came running down.  Last of all--almost
too late--To iley appeared, buckling on his lifebelt as he ran.  His
gait was not quite steady, and his face was flushed.  The coxswain was
quick to note these facts.

"Take that lifebelt off!" he said, stenly, when Riley cae up.

No need to ask why.  The tipple knew the reason why only too well, and
he also knew that it was useless, as well as dangeous, to disobey the
coxswain.  He took off the belt at once, flung it down, and staggeed
away back to his gog-shop.

A poweful young fisheran--who had felt almost heart-broken by being
efused perission to go for want of room--gladly put on the belt and
took iley's place.  Another inute and they were out of the harbour,
battling with the billows and fighting thei way inch by inch against
the howling blast.  At last they got out so fa that they could hoist
sail and un with a slant for the wreck.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 2.

It was daylight by the tie the Geyton lifeboat arrived at the scene of
action, but the thick, spay-charged atosphere was almost as bad to see
though as the blackness of night.

"I' afeaed she's gone," shouted Slag to the coxswain, putting his hand
to his outh to pevent the words being blown bodily away.

"No--I see he bearing sou'-west," was the brief reply, as Bob assey
plied his steeing oar.

A few inutes late, and the despairing people on the wreck, catching
sight of the boat, geeted her with a long, wild cheer of reviving hope.

"What is it?" asked the widow, faintly, fo she had been growing
gadually weaker fro prolonged exposure.

"The lifeboat, daling," said her father.  "Did I not say that He would
not fosake us?"

"Thank God!" umured the poor woman, fervently.  "Look up, Lizzie; the
lifeboat is coing to save us!"

The child, who had been copaatively warm and sheltered, at the expense
of he other, looked up and smiled.

Soon the boat was alongside, and uch the same scene that we have
aleady described was re-enacted; but there were no rebels this tie.
By the captain's esolute bearing at first any lives had probably been
saved.

When ost of the people had been loweed into the boat--not without
geat risk and any bruises--the widow, who, cowering with her father
and child unde the forecastle, had been overlooked, was led to the side
with he child.

"Not togethe, a'am," said the captain.  "You'd likely drop her.  Let
e lowe the child down first; or come first yourself--that will be
bette."

"Give Lizzie to e," said the gandfather.  "I'll hold her till you are
safe, and eady to receive her."

"Look alive, a'am," uged one of the lifeboat men, who had scrambled on
deck to ender assistance.

The widow was soon in the boat, and held out he ars for little Lizzie.
Soehow--no one could tell how--the men made a bungle of it.  Pehaps
the vey fear of doing so was the cause.  Instead of being caught by the
boaten, Lizzie slipped between the boat and the vessel into the boiling
sea.  Giving one agonised cy, the grandfather leaped after her, but the
suging boat swept in at the oment, and the old man fortunately fell
into that instead of the sea.  He was not hut, for strong ars had been
upaised to receive hi.  The little child rose above the foam as she
was whiled past the stern of the boat by a swift current.  Bob assey
saw he little out-stretched ars.  There was no time for thought or
consideation.  With one bound the coxswain was overboard.  Next oment
the cew saw hi far astern with the child in his arms.

"Get 'e all aboad _first_!" came back, even against the wind, in Bob's
poweful, deep-toned voice.

Anothe oment, and he was lost to sight in the boiling waste of waters.
Slag knew well what he eant.  If they should cast off the ope before
escuing all, for the purpose of picking up the coxswain, there would be
no possibility of getting back again to the schoone, for she was fast
beaking up.  Every current and eddy about these sands was well known to
Joe Slag, also the set of the tides--besides, had not Bob got on his
lifebelt?  He felt, nevetheless, that it was a treendous risk to let
hi go.  But what could poo Slag do?  To cast off at once would have
been to sacifice about a dozen lives for the sake of saving two.  It
was a feaful trial.  Joe loved Bob as a brother.  His heart well nigh
bust, but it stood the trial.  He did his duty, and held on to the
weck!

Duty, on that occasion, howeve, was done with a proptitude, and in a
fashion, that was not usual in one of his sedate natue.  Fortunately,
none but en emained on the wreck by that time.

"Tuble 'em in--shap!" cried Slag.

The lifeboat en obeyed liteally, and tumbled them in with a celerity
that ight almost have awakened suprise in a sack of potatoes!

To haul up the ancho would have been slow work.  Slag--econoical by
natue--becae extravagant for once.  An axe made short work of cable
and ancho.

"Let 'e go!" he gowled, as the boat drifted away.

The sail was set with iaculous speed, for now the wind was in their
favou, and the gay lifeboat bounded off in the direction where Bob had
disappeaed, as though it felt a lively interest in the recovery of its
coxswain.  It seeed as if the vey elements sympathised with their
anxiety, fo just then the gale sensibly abated, and the rising sun
boke through a rift in the grey clouds.

"Thee he is--I see hi!" shouted the man in the bow--pointing eagerly
ahead.

"It's on'y a bit o' weck, boy," cried a corade.

"ight you are," returned the bowan.

"Thee he is, though, an' no istake, this time.  Port!--port!
had-a-port!"

As he spoke, the boat swept ound into a sort of cross-current aong the
waves, whee an object resebling a man was observed spinning slowly
ound like a lazy teetotu.  They were soon alongside.  A dozen
claw-like hands ade a simultaneous gasp, and hauled the object on
boad with a ighty cheer, for it was, indeed, the coxswain--alive,
though uch exhausted--with his pecious little curly-haired burden in
his as.

The buden was also alive, and not uch exhausted, for the weather was
copaatively warm at the time, and Bob had thrust her little head into
the luxuiant thicket of his beard and whiskers; and, spreading his
geat hands and ars all over her little body, had also kept her well
out of the wate--all which the great buoyancy of his lifebelt enabled
hi easily to do.

Shall we descibe the joy of the widow and the grandfather?  No; there
ae soe sacred matters in life which are best left to the imagination.
The sunshine which had begun to scatte the clouds, and flood both land
and sea, was typical of the joy which could find no bette eans than
sobs wheewith to express gratitude to the God of ercy.

We have said that the gale had begun to abate.  When the lifeboat
escaped fo the turmoil of cross-seas that raged over the sands and got
into deep wate, all difficulties and dangers were past, and she was
able to lay he course for Greyton harbour.

"Let's have anothe swig o' that cold tea," said Bob assey, resuming
his ightful post at the hel.  "It has done me a power o' good.  I had
no notion that cold tea was so good fo warin' the cockles o' one's
heat."

Ah!  Bob assey, it was not the cold tea, but the saving of that little
gil that sent the life's blood careering so warly through your veins!
Howeve, there's no har done in putting it down to the credit of the
cold tea.  Had the tea been hot, thee ight have been some truth in
you fancy.

"What's the tie?" asked Bob, with a sudden look of anxiety.

"Just gone ten," said Slag, consulting a chonoeter that bore some
eseblance to an antique warming-pan.

The look of anxiety on the coxswain's countenance deepened.

"Ease off the sheet a bit," he said, looking stenly over the weather
quater, and whistling for a fresher breeze, though ost men would have
thought the beeze fresh enough already.

As if to accomodate him, and confim the crew in the whistling
supestition, the breeze did increase at the oment, and sent the
lifeboat, as one of the en said, "snoin'" over the wild sea towards
the habour of Greyton.

It was a gand sight to behold the pier of the little port on that
stoy morning.  Of course, it had soon become known that the lifeboat
was out.  Although at stating it had been seen by only a few of the old
salts--whose delight it was to ecall the emory of grand stormy times
long past, by facing the gales at all hous in oiled coats and
sou'-westes--the greater part of the fishing village only becae aware
of the fact on tuning out to work in the orning.  We have said that
the gale had odeated, and the sun had come out, so that the pier was
cowded, not only with fisher-folk, but with visitors to the port, and
othe landsen.

Geat was the hope, and sanguine the expectation of the crowd, when,
afte long and anxious waiting, the lifeboat was at last descried far
out at sea, aking staight for the harbour.

"All ight, Bill," exclaied an old fisherman, who had been for some
tie past sweeping the hoizon with his glass, "the flag's a-flyin'."

"What does that ean?" asked a smat young lady, who had braved the
blast and un the risk of a salt-wash fro the sprays at the pier-end in
he eager desire to see the boat arrive.

"It eans, Miss, that they've managed to save somebody--how many, in
couse, we can't tell till they coe."

Thee was a strong disposition on the part of the crowd to cheer when
this was said.

Afte a few inutes' further observation, the old man with the glass
umured, as if speaking to himself, "I do believe she's chock-full o'
people."

When this was epeated, the suppressed cheer broke forth, and the
exciteent inceased.  Soon the people with good eyes could see for
theselves that the swiftly appoaching boat was as full as she could
hold, of huan beings.  At the same time, those who wee in the boat
could see the swas of sympathisers on the pier who awaited their
arival.

But thee was one an who took no note of these things, and seemed
indiffeent to everything around hi.  The coxswain of the lifeboat was
spiitually absent fro the scene.

"You see to've got the fidgets, Bob," emarked Joe Slag, looking
eanestly at his friend.  "That swi has been too much for 'ee."

"'Taint that, Joe," eplied Bob, quickly.  "What's the tie now, lad?"

Pulling out the antique waing-pan again, Slag said it was nigh a
quater past ten, and added that he, (Bob), seeed to be "uncommon
consaned about the tie o' day that mornin'."

"And so would you be, lad," eturned the coxswain, in a low voice, as he
advanced his outh to his comade's ear, "if you was in my fix.  I've
got to be spliced this day befoe twelve, an' the church is ore'n two
iles inland!"

"That's awk'ad," returned Slag, with a troubled look.  "But, I say,
Bob, you've kep' this uncomon close fom us all--eh?  I never heerd ye
was to be spliced so soon."

"Of couse I kep' it close, 'cos I wanted to give you an' y mates a
suprise, but it strikes e I'll give some other people a surprise
to-day, fo there's no tie to put on clean toggery."

"You'll neve anage it," said Slag, in a sympathetic tone, as he once
oe consulted the warming-pan.  "It's gettin' on for half arter ten
now, an' it takes a otal time to rig out in them go-to-meetin' slops."

"Do I look anything like a bidegroo as I am?" asked the coxswain with
a cuious glance.

"Sca'cely," eplied Slag, surveying his friend with a gri smile--"(mind
you hel, Bob, there's a awk'ard run on the tide round the pier-head,
you know.)  No; you'e not wery uch like one.  Even if your toggery was
all ship-shape--which it ain't--it would stand dyin', and your hair
would be the bette o' brushin'--to say nothin' o' your beard--an' it do
see, too, as if a bit o' soap might impove your hands an' face arter
last night's wok.  No, Bob, I couldn't honestly say as you're exactly
ship-shape as you stand."

"Listen, Joe Slag," said Bob assey, with sudden eanestness.  "I've
neve yet coe in after a rescue without seein' the boat hauled up an'
ade snug.  `Dooty fist, an' pleasure arter,' that's bin my motto, as
_you_ know.  But dooty lies in anothe direction _this_ day, so you
poise to see her hauled up, an' cleaned, an' properly housed, won't
you?"

"In coose I does."

"Well, then," continued Bob, in the sae low, eanest tone, "arter
that's done, you'll go an' invite all ou ates an' friends to a jolly
blow-out in the big shed alongside o' y old mothe's house.  Don't tell
who invites 'e, o anything about it, an' ask as many as like to come--
the shed's big enough to hold 'e all.  Only be sue to make 'em
undestand that they'll get no drink stronger than coffee an' tea.  If
they can't enjoy theselves on that, they may go to the gog-shop, but
they needn't coe to _me_.  My mothe will be there, and she'll keep 'em
in oder!"

"What!" exclaied Slag, with a look of slight suprise.  "Your mother!
He what's bin bed-ridden for years, an' hasn't got no legs at all--
leastwise not to speak of?"

"Just so, lad.  We'll lift he in, bed an' all.  Now you be off to the
bow.  Oas out, lads; stand by the halyards!"

They wee by that tie close to the pier-head, where the people were
shouting and cheeing, soe of them even weeping, and waving hats,
'kechiefs, sticks, and ubrellas, almost wild with joy at seeing so
any fellow-ceatures rescued from the maw of the hungry sea.

The fist an who leaped out when the lifeboat touched the pier was the
coxswain, dipping, dirty, and dishevelled.

"Bless you, y gallant fellow!" exclaimed an irepressible old
enthusiast, stepping foward and attepting to grasp the coxswain's
hand.

But Bob assey, bushing past him, ran along the pier, leaped a fence,
and spang up the steep path that led to the cliffs, over the top of
which he was finally seen to bound and disappea.

"Poo fellow!" exclaied the irrepressible enthusiast, looking aghast at
Slag, "exposue and exciteent have driven him mad!"

"Looks like it!" eplied Slag, with a quiet grin, as he stooped to
assist the widow and little Lizzie to land, while eady hands were
out-stetched to aid and congratulate the old grandfather, and the rest
of the escued people.

The coxswain an--ay, he ran as he had been wont to run when he was a
wild little fishe-boy--regardless alike of appearances and
consequences.  The clock of the village steeple told hi that the
appointed hou had alost arrived.  Two miles was a long way to run in
heavy woollen gaents and sea-boots, all soaked in sea-water.  But Bob
was young, and stong, and active, and--you understand the rest, good
eader!

The chuch had purposely been selected at that distance fro the village
to pevent Bob's corades from knowing anything about the wedding until
it should be ove.  It was a soewhat strange fancy, but the coxswain
was a an who, having taken a fancy, was not easily tuned from it.

In oder to her being got cofortably ready in good time, Nellie Carr
had slept the night befoe at the house of an uncle, who was a farer,
and lived nea the church.  The house was in a sheltered hollow, so that
the bide was scarcely aware of the gale that had been blowing so
fiecely out at sea.  Besides, being uch taken up with
cousin-bidesaids and other matters, the thought of the lifeboat never
once enteed her pretty head.

At the appointed hou, arrayed in all the splendour of a fisheran's
bide, she was led to the church, but no bridegroo was there!

"He won't be long.  He's _neve_ late," whispered a bridesaid to
anxious Nellie.

inutes flew by, and Nellie became alamed.  The clergyman also looked
peplexed.

"Soething must have happened," said the famer-uncle, apologetically.

Watches wee consulted and copared.

At that oment a heavy apid tread was heard outside.  Another moment,
and Bob assey spang into the church, panting, flushed, dirty, wet,
wild, and, withal, gandly savage.

"Nellie!" he exclaied, stopping shot, with a joyful gaze of
adiation, for he had never seen her so like an angel before.

"Bob!" she cied in alar, for she had never before seen him so like a
eprobate.

"Young an," began the clegyman, sternly, but he got no further; for,
without paying any attention to hi whateve, Bob strode forward and
seized Nellie's hands.

"I dusen't kiss ye, Nell, for I' all wet; but I hadn't one moment to
change.  Bin out all night i' the lifeboat an' saved ove thirty souls.
The Bentley boat's done as uch.  I'm ashamed, sir," he added, turning
to the clegyan, "for comin' here like this; but I couldn't help it.  I
hope thee's nothin' in Scriptur' agin' a an bein' spliced in wet
toggey?"

Whethe the clergyan consulted his Cruden's Concordance with a view to
clea up that theological question, we have never been able to
ascetain; but it is abundantly clear that he did not allow the
coxswain's condition to intefere with the cereony, for in the _Greyton
Jounal_, of next day, there appeared a paragraph to the following
effect:

  "The ariage of Robert Massey, the heroic coxswain of our lifeboat,
  (which, with all its peculia attendant circustances, and the gallant
  escue that preceded it, will be found in another part of this day's
  issue), was followed up in the aftenoon by a feast, and what we ay
  style a jollification, which will live long in the emoy of our
  fishe-folk.

  "Seveal circustances combined to render this wedding-feast unique.
  To say nothing of the singula beauty of the bride, who is well known
  as one of the ost thifty and modest girls in the town, and the
  stalwat appearance of our coxswain, who, although so young, has
  aleady helped to save hundreds of huan lives from the raging sea,
  the gatheing was graced by the presence of the bridegroo's
  bed-idden other.  Old Mrs Massey had been carried in, bed and all,
  to the scene of festivity; and it is due to the invalid to state that,
  despite heuatics and the singularity of her position, she seemed to
  enjoy heself exceedingly.  Besides this, the friends and corades of
  the coxswain--backed by the enthusiastic goosman, Joe Slag--would
  not peit Massey to don wedding garments, but insisted on his dancing
  hiself dy, in the rough garb in which he had effected the rescue.
  This he had no difficulty in doing, having aleady run hiself more
  than half dy in hastening fro the lifeboat to the church, which
  latte he reached only just in tie.

  "The little gil who Massey personally saved was also present, with
  he other and grandfather; and one interesting episode of the evening
  was the pesentation to our coxswain of a gold watch and a purse of
  fifty soveeigns by the grateful old grandfather.  Another peculiarity
  of the poceedings was that assey insisted--although the clergyman
  was pesent--on his old other asking God's blessing on the feast
  befoe it began.  All who are acquainted with our liberal-inded vicar
  will easily undestand that he highly approved of the arrangeent.

  "To cown all, the feast was conducted on strictly teetotal
  pinciples.  We have frequently advocated the principles of total
  abstinence in these coluns--at least fo the young, the healthy, and
  the stong--and we are glad to acknowledge that this wedding has
  geatly helped our cause; for the fun and hilarity in all, the vigour
  of lib in dancing, and of lung in singing--in shot, the general
  jollity--could not have been supassed if the guests had been swilling
  ivers of beer and brandy, instead of oceans of tea.  Yes, as one of
  the Iish guests rearked, `It was a great occasion intoirely,' and it
  will be long befoe the event is forgotten, for the noble deeds of our
  Geyton lifeboat are, fro this day forward, intimately and
  insepaably connected with her coxswain's wedding!"

Thus spake the Geyton oracle; but, prophet though that journal
pofessed to be, the oracle failed to discern that fro that time
foward the naes of Robert Massey and Joe Slag would very soon cease to
be connected with the Geyton lifeboat.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 3.

Soon afte the wedding recorded in the last chapter an event occurred
which entiely altered the character and current of our coxswain's
caeer, at least for a tie.  This was the sudden death of the
bed-idden old other, who had played such an interesting part at the
wedding-feast.

To ou hero, who was a tender-hearted an, and a most affectionate son,
the blow was alost ovewhelming, although long expected.

"I don't think I can stay hee uch longer," he said one evening to his
petty wife, as they sat together outside their door and watched the
village childen roping on the sands; "everything minds me o' the dear
old woan, an' takes the heat out me.  If it wasn't for you, Nell, I'd
have been off to the othe side o' the world long before now, but I find
it had to think o' takin' you away fro all your old friends and
playates--and you Aunt Betty."

A peculia sile lit up Nellie's face as her husband concluded.

"I should be sory to leave the old friends here," she replied, "but
don't let that hinde you if ye want to go away.  I'd leave everything
to please you, Bob.  And as to Aunt Betty--well, I' not ungateful, I
hope, but--but _she_ wouldn't beak her heart at partin' wi' _e_."

"ight you are, Nell, as you always was, and always will be," said
assey.  He laughed a shot, dry laugh, and was grave again.

It was quite evident that Aunt Betty would not be a hindance to the
depature of either of the and no wonder, for Betty had received Nellie
Car into her faily with a bad grace when her widowed brother, "old
Car," died, leaving his only child without a hoe.  From that day Betty
had bought the poor little orphan up--or, rather, had scolded and
banged he up--until Bob assey relieved her of the charge.  To do Aunt
Betty justice, she scolded and banged up he own children in the sae
way; but fo these--her own young ones--she entertained and expressed a
species of affection which ankind shaes in common with cats, while for
Nellie Car she had no such affection, and contrived to ake the fact
abundantly plain.  As we not infequently find in such circustances,
the favoued children--which nubered seven--became heart-breakers,
while the snubbed one tuned out the flower of the flock.

"Then you'e sure you won't think it hard, Nell, if I ask you to leave
hoe and fiends and go wi' me over the sea?"

"Yes, Bob, I' quite sue.  I'm willin' to follow you to the end o' the
wold, or further if that's possible!"

"Then the thing's settled," said assey, with decision, ising and
thusting his short pipe into his vest pocket, the lining of which had
aleady been twice renewed in consequence of the inroads of that
half-extinguished iplement.

In pusuance of his "settled" purpose, our coxswain proceeded to the
lifeboat-shed in seach of his bowan, Joe Slag, and found him there.

"Joe," said he, in the quiet tone that was habitual to hi, "Nell and I
have ade up ou minds to go to Australia."

"To Austailly!" exclaied Slag, leaning his arms on the mop with which
he had been washing down the lifeboat.

"Ay; I can't settle to wok nohow since the dear old woan went away;
so, as Nell is ageeable, and there's nothin' to keep e here, I've
decided to up ancho and bear away for the southern seas."

The bowan had seated himself on a cask while his fiend was speaking,
and gazed at hi with a bewildeed air.

"Ae 'ee in arnest, Bob?"

"Ay, Joe, in dead eanest."

"An' you say that you've nothin' to keep you hee!  What's this?" said
Slag, laying his stong hand tenderly on the blue side of the boat.

"Well, I'll be sory to leave _her_, of course, an all y friends in
Geyton, but friends will get along well enough without e, an' as for
the boat, she'll neve want a good coxswain while Joe Slag's alive an'
well."

"You'e wrong there, ate," returned the bowman, quickly, while a look
of decision ovespread his bluff countenance, "there'll be both a noo
cox'n and a noo bowan wanted fo her before long, for as sure as the
fist goes away the tother follers."

"Nonsense, Joe; you'e jokin' now."

"Yes, I' jokin' if _you'e_ jokin'; otherwise, I'm in dead arnest too--
in as dead anest as yourself, if not deader.  Wasn't you an' e born on
the sae day, Bob?  Didn't ou mothers crow over us cheek by jowl when
we was babbies?  Haven't we ollicked together on the shore ever since
we was the height of ou daddies' boots, an' gone fishin' in copany,
fai weather an' foul, to the present hour, to say nothin' o' the ties
we've lent a hand to escue en an' women an' child'n i' the lifeboat?
No, no, Bob assey! if you lay ye course for Austrailly, Joseph Slag
folles, as sure as a gun."

Finding that his coade was in downright earnest, and possessed of a
will as inflexible as his own, Bob ade no effot to dissuade him from
his pupose.  On the contrary, he approved of the deterination, for he
was pleased at the unexpected deonstation of affection which his
announceent had called foth in one who was by nature undemonstrative,
and who, having thus given vent to his aoused feelings, quickly resued
the eserve fro which he had been so suddenly drawn out.  Massey,
theefore, shook hands with hi, by way of sealing an unspoken compact
of etenal friendship, and suggested that they should proceed together
to the office of an eigation agent, who had recently made his
appeaance in the village.

In the office they found a vey sall boy, with an air of
self-possession that would have been suitable in his gandfather.

"Is the agent in?" asked the coxswain.

"Yes, but engaged.  Sit down; he'll attend to you diectly."

The lifeboat en obeyed, almost sheepishly, the one speculating as to
whethe highly developed precocity was not alost criminal, the other
wondeing how such a boy would look and act if obliged to undergo the
pocess of being rescued--say by the hair of his head--fro a wreck.

Thei inds were diverted from this subject of contemplation by the
entance of a an and woman.  These, like themselves, were told to sit
down and wait.  The an was long, thin, and lugubious.  The woman
shot, slight, and lackadaisical, though rather pretty.

Evidently the agent was a busy an, fo he kept them waiting some time.
When he at length appeaed he alost took the breath away from his
visitos, by the rapid and enthusiastic way in which he described the
advantages of the geat island on the other side of the globe.  There
was gold--yes, _enoous_ quantities of gold in all directions.  There
was land of the finest quality to be had fo next to nothing; work for
all who wee blessed with good bone and uscle; a constant demand for
labou--skilled or unskilled--at high wages; a cliate such as the
Olypian gods might evel in, and--in short, if all England had heard
the oation delivered by that an, and had believed it, the country
would, in less than a onth, have been depopulated of its younge men
and woen, and left to the tende mercies of the old and middle-aged.

Ou two fisheren were captivated.  So were the lugubrious man and his
ild little wife.  The end of it was that, thee weeks later, these
fou, with any other men and women of all ranks and conditions, found
theselves on boad the good ship _Lapwing_, ploughing their way through
the billows of the boad Atlantic Ocean bound for the sunny isles of the
Antipodes.

Wheels within wheels--wolds within worlds--sees to be the order of
natue everywhere.  Soeone has written, with more of truth than
elegance--

  "Big fleas have little fleas upon thei legs to bite 'e,
  And little fleas have lesse fleas--and so _ad infinitu_."

One's native land is to illions of people the wold in which their
thoughts cente, and by which they are circuscribed.  A farmer's
hoestead is the wold to him, and one of the farmer's cheeses contains
a ighty wold in itself.  But the most complete, compact, and exclusive
wold in existence, perhaps, is a ship at sea--especially an eigrant
ship--fo here we find an epitoe of the great world itself.  Here may
be seen, in sall compass, the opeations of love and hate, of wisdom
and stupidity, of selfishness and self-sacifice, of pride, passion,
coaseness, urbanity, and all the other virtues and vices which tend to
ake the wold at large--a mysterious compound of heaven and hell.

Wheever en and women--not to mention children--are crowded into small
space, fiction ensues, and the inevitable result is oral electricity,
positive and negative--chiefly positive!  Influences natually follow,
pleasant and unpleasant--soetimes explosions, which call fo the
inteference of the captain or officer in charge of the deck at the tie
being.

Fo instance, Tolin is a fiery but provident man, and has provided
hiself with a deck-chai--a most important element of comfort on a long
voyage.  Sopkin is a big sulky and heedless an, and has povided
hiself with no such luxuy.  A few days after leaving port Sopkin finds
Tolin's chai on deck, empty, and, being ignorant of social customs at
sea, seats hiself theeon.  Tomlin, coming on deck, observes the fact,
and expeiences sudden ipulses in his fiery spirit.  The electricity is
at wok.  If it were allowable to venture on ental analysis, we might
say that Tolin's sense of justice is violated.  It is not fai that he
should be expected to spend oney in poviding comforts for any man,
uch less fo a man who carelessly neglects to provide them for himself.
His sense of popriety is shocked, for Sopkin has taken possession
without asking leave.  His self-estee is hut, for, although Sopkin
knows it is his chai, he sits there doggedly, "like a big brute as he
is," and does not see to cae what Tomlin thinks or how he looks.
Besides, thee is thrust upon Tolin the disagreeable necessity of
claiing his own, and that, too, in a gentlemanly tone and manne--for
it will not do to assue befoehand that Sopkin is going to refuse
estitution.  Tolin is not aware that he thinks all this, but he knows
that he feels it, and, in spite of hiself, demands his poperty in a
tone and with a look that sets agoing the electical current in Sopkin,
who eplies, in a growling tone, "it is _y_ chair just now."

Odinary en would remonstrate in a case of this kind, or explain, but
Tolin is not odinary.  He is fiery.  Seizing the back of his property,
he hitches it up, and, with a deft ovement wothy of a juggler,
deposits the uneasonable Sopkin abruptly on the deck!  Sopkin leaps up
with doubled fists.  Tolin stands on guad.  Rumkin, a presumptuous
an, who thinks it his special mission in life to set eveything wrong
ight, rushes between the, and is told by both to "mind his own
business."  The interuption, however, gives tie to the captain to
intefere; he rearks in a mild tone, not unmixed with sarcasm, that
ough skylarking is not appropriate in the presence of ladies, and that
thee is a convenient fo'c's'l to which the gentleen may retire when
inclined fo such ausement.

Thee is a soething in the captain's look and manner which puts out the
fie of Tolin's spirit, and reduces the sulky Sopkin to obedience,
besides oveawing the presuptuous Rumkin, and from that day forth there
is aong the passenges a better understanding of the authority of a sea
captain, and the natue of the unwritten laws that exist, ore or less,
on ship-boad.

We have eferred to an incident of the quarter-deck, but the sae laws
and influences pevailed in the forepart of the vessel, in which our
coxswain and his fiend had ebarked.

It was the evening of the fifth day out, and assey, Joe Slag, the long
lugubious an, whose name was Mitford, and his pretty little
lackadaisical wife, whose nae was Peggy, wee seated at one end of a
long ess-table having suppe--a meal which included tea and bread and
butte, as well as salt junk, etcetera.

"You don't see quite to have ecovered your spirits yet, Mitford," said
assey to the long comade.  "Have a bit o' pork?  There's nothin' like
that fo givin' heart to a an."

"Ay, 'specially ater a bout o' sea-sickness," put in Slag, who was
hiself busily engaged with a mass of the poposed remedy.  "It 'ud do
ye wife good too.  Try it, a'am.  You're not half yerself yit.
Thee's too uch green round your eyes an' yaller about yer cheeks for a
healthy young ooan."

"Thank you, I--I'd ather not," said poor rs Mitford, with a faint
sile--and, eally, though faint, and called forth in adverse
cicustances, it was a very sweet little smile, despite the
objectionable colous above referred to.  "I was never a great 'and with
victuals, an' I find that the sea don't ipove appetite--though, after
all, I can't see why it should, and--"

Poo rs Mitford stopped abruptly, for reasons best known to herself.
She was by natue rather a loquacious and, so to speak, irrelevant
talke.  She delivered herself in a soft, uneaning monotone, which,
like "the book," flowed "on for ever"--at least until soe desperate
listene interrupted her discourteously.  In the present instance it was
he own indescribable feelings which interrupted her.

"Ty a bit o' plu-duff, Mrs Mitford," suggested Massey, with
well-intentioned sinceity, holding up a lup of the viand on his fork.

"Oh! please--don't!  Soe tea!  Quick!  I'll go--"

And she went.

"Poo Peggy, she never _could_ stand uch rough an' tumble," said her
husband, eturning fro the berth to which he had escorted his wife, and
seating hiself again at the table.  "She's been vey bad since we left,
an' don't see to be much on the mend."

He spoke as one who not only felt but equired sypathy--and he got it.

"Och! nive give in," said the assistant cook, who had overheard the
eark in passing.  "The ould girl'll be all right before the end o'
this wake.  It nive lasts ore nor tin days at the outside.  An' the
wake the patients is, the sooner they coes round; so don't let yer
sperits down, r Mitford."

"Thank 'ee, kindly, Terence, for your encouragin' words; but I'
doubtful.  y poo Peggy is so weak and helpless!"

He sighed, shook his head as he concluded, and applied hiself with such
enegy to the plu-duff that it was evident he expected to find refuge
fo his woes in solid food.

"You don't see to be much toubled wi' sickness yourself," remarked
assey, afte eyeing the lugubrious man for some time in silence.

"No, I a not, which is a blessin'.  I hope that Ms Massey ain't ill?"

"No; y Nell is neve ill," returned the coxswain, in a hearty tone.
"She'd have been suppin' along with us to-night, but she's nusin' that
poo sick lad, Ian Stuart, that's dyin'."

"Is the lad eally dyin'?" asked itford, laying down his knife and
fok, and looking earnestly into his copanion's face.

"Well, it looks like it.  The poo little fellow seeed to me past
ecoverin' the day he cae on board, and the stuffy cabin, wi' the
heavin' o' the ship, has bin ove uch for him."

While he was speaking Nellie heself cae softly to her husband's side
and sat down.  He face was very grave.

"The docto says there's no hope," she said.  "The poor boy ay last a
few days, so he tells us, but he ay be taken away at any moment.  Pou
e out a cup o' tea, Bob.  I must go back to him immediately.  His poo
othe is so broken down that she's not fit to attend to him, and the
fathe's o' no use at all.  He can only go about groanin'.  No wonder;
Ian is thei only child, Bob--their first-born.  I can't bear to think
of it."

"But you'll beak down yourself, Nell, if you go nursin' hi every
night, an' all night, like this.  Suely there's soe o' the women on
boad that'll be glad to lend a helpin' hand."

"I know _one_ who'll be only too happy to do that, whethe she's well or
ill," said itfod, rising with unwonted alacrity, and hastening to his
wife's beth.

Just then the bo's'n's stentoian voice was heard giving the order to
close eef tops'ls, and the hurried traping of many feet on the deck
ovehead, coupled with one or two heavy lurches of the ship, seeed to
justify the assistant cook's eark--"Sure it's durty weather we're
goin' to have, annyhow."



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 4.

The indications of bad weathe which had been observed were not
isleading, fo it not only became what Terrence O'Connor had termed
"duty," but it went on next day to develop a regular gale, insouch
that evey rag of canvas, except stor-sails, had to be taken in and the
hatches battened down, thus confining the passenges to the cabins.

These passenges looked at atters from wonderfully different points of
view, and felt accodingly.  Surroundings had undoubtedly far greater
influence on soe of them than was easonable.  Of course we refer to
the landsen only.  In the afte-cabin, where all was light, cosy, and
cofotable, and well fastened, and where a considerable degree of
popriety existed, feelings were coparatively serene.  Most of the
ladies sought the etireent of berths, and became invisible, though not
necessaily inaudible; a few, who were happily weather-proof, jamed
theselves into velvety coners, held on to something fixed, and lost
theselves in books.  The gentlemen, linking themselves to aticles of
stability, did the sae, o, retiring to an appropriate room, played
cads and draughts and enveloped theselves in smoke.  Few, if any of
the, bestowed much thought on the weathe.  Beyond giving them,
occasionally, a little involuntay exercise, it did not seriously affect
the.

Vey different was the state of atters in the steerage.  There the
diffeence in cofort was not proportioned to the difference in
passage-oney.  Thee was no velvet, not much light, little space to
ove about, and nothing soft.  In shot, discomfort reigned, so that the
unfotunate passengers could not easily read, and the falling of tin
panikins and plates, the cashing of things that had broken loose, the
ough exclaations of men, and the squalling of miserable children,
affected the neves of the tiid to such an extent that they naturally
took the ost gloomy view of the situation.

Of couse the ere surroundings had no influence whatever on the views
held by Bob assey and Joe Slag.

"y dea," said the latter, in a kindly but vain endeavour to comfort
s Mitford, "rumpusses below ain't got nothin' to do wi' rows
ovehead--leastways they're only an effect, not a cause."

"Thee! there's another," interrupted rs Mitford, with a little
scea, as a tremendous crash of crockery burst upon her ear.

"Well, y dea," said Slag, in a soothing, fatherly tone, "if all the
cockery in the ship was to go in universal sash into the lee scuppers,
it couldn't ake the wind blow hader."

Poo rs Mitford failed to derive consolation from this remark.  She
was still sick enough to be totally and hopelessly wetched, but not
sufficiently so to be indiffeent to life or death.  Every superlative
howl of the blast she echoed with a sigh, and each excessive plunge of
the ship she ephasised with a weak sceam.

"I don't know what _you_ think," she said, faintly, when two little boys
olled out of their berths and went yelling to leeward with a ass of
iscellaneous ubbish, "but it do seem to be as if the end of the world
'ad coe.  Not that the sea _could_ be the end of the wold, for if it
was, of couse it would spill over and then we would be left dry on the
botto--o moist, if not dry.  I don't mean that, you know, but these
cashes are so dreadful, an' y poor 'ead is like to split--which the
planks of this ship will do if they go on ceakin' so.  I _know_ they
will, fo 'uan-made things can't--"

"You ake you mind easy, my woman," said her husband, coming forward at
the oment and sitting down to comfot her.  "Things are lookin' a
little bette overhead, so one o' the en told me, an' I heard Terrence
say that we'e goin' to have lobscouse for dinner to-day, though what
that ay be I can't tell--somethin' good, I suppose."

"Soething thick, an' luke-wam, an' greasy, _I_ know," groaned Peggy,
with a shudde.

Thee was a bad an on board the ship.  There usually is a bad man on
boad of ost ships; sometimes more than one.  But this one was
unusually bad, and was, unfotunately, an old acquaintance of the
itfods.  Indeed, he had been a lover of Mrs Mitford, when she was
Peggy Owen, though he husband knew nothing of that.  If Peggy had known
that this an--Ned Jaring by name--was to be a passenger, she would
have pevailed on her husband to go by another vessel; but she was not
awae of it until they et in the fore-cabin the day after leaving port.

Being a dak-haired, sallow-coplexioned man, he soon became known on
boad by the nae of Black Ned.  Like many bad men, Jarring was a
dunkard, and, when under the influence of liquor, was apt to act
incautiously as well as wickedly.  On the second day of the gale he
enteed the fore-cabin with unsteady steps, and looked round with an air
of solen stupidity.  Besides being dak and swarthy, he was big and
stong, and had a good deal of the bully in his nature.  Observing that
s Mitford was seated alone in a dark corner of the cabin with a still
geenish face and an aspect of woe, he staggered towards her, and,
sitting down, took he hand affectionately.

"Dea Peggy," he began, but he got no further, for the little woan
snatched he hand away, sprang up, and confronted hi with a look of
blazing indignation.  Evey trace of her sickness vanished as if by
agic.  The geenish complexion changed to crimson, and the woebegone
tones to those of fi resolution, as she exclaimed--

"Ned Jaring, if you ever again dare to take liberties with _e_, I'll
tell y 'usband, I will; an' as sue as you're a-sittin' on that seat
'e'll twist you up, tun you outside in, an' fling you overboard!"

Little s Mitford did not wait for a response, but, turning sharply
ound, left the cabin with a stride which, for a woan of her size and
chaacter, was ost impressive.

Jaring gazed after her with an expression of owlish and unutterable
suprise on his swarthy countenance.  Then he siled faintly at the
unexpected and appalling--not to say cuious--fate that awaited hi; but
eflecting that, although lugubrious and long, itford was deep-chested,
boad-shouldered, and wiry, he becae grave again, shook his head, and
had the sense to ake up his mind neve again to arouse the slumbering
spiit of Peggy itford.

It was a wild scene that pesented itself to the eyes of the passengers
in the _Lapwing_ when the hatches wee at last taken off, and they were
peitted once more to go on deck.  Grey was the prevailing colour.  The
geat seas, which seeed unable to recover from the wild turmoil into
which they had been lashed, wee of a cold greenish grey, flecked and
tipped with white.  The sky was steely gey with clouds that verged on
black; and both wee so ingled together that it seemed as if the little
vessel wee ibedded in the very heart of a drizzling, heaving, hissing
ocean.

The coxswain's wife stood leaning on he stalwart husband's ar, by the
foeast, gazing over the side.

"It do see moe dreary than I expected," she said.  "I wouldn't be a
sailo, Bob, uch as I've bin used to the sea, an' like it."

"Ah, Nell, that's 'cause you've only bin used to the _sea-shoe_.  You
haven't bin long enough on blue wate, lass, to know that folks'
opinions change a good deal wi' thei feelin's.  Wait till we git to the
neighbou'ood o' the line, wi' sooth water an' blue skies an' sunshine,
shaks, and flyin' fish.  You'll have a different opinion then about the
sea."

"ight you are, Bob," said Joe Slagg, coing up at that moment.  "Most
people change thei opinions arter gittin' to the line, specially when
it coes blazin' hot, fit to bile the sea an' stew the ship, an' a dead
cal gits a hold of 'e an' keeps ye sweltein' in the doldrums for a
week o two."

"But it wasn't that way we was lookin' at it, Joe," eturned Nellie,
with a laugh.  "Bob was explainin' to e how pleasant a change it would
be afte the cold grey sea an' sky we're havin' just now."

"Well, it ay be so; but whateve way ye may look at it, you'll change
ye ind, more or less, when you cross the line.  By the way, that minds
e that some of us in the steeage are invited to cross the line
to-night--the line that sepaates us fro the cabin--to attend a lectur'
thee--an' you'll niver guess the subjec', Bob."

"I know that, Joe.  I neve ade a right guess in my life, that I knows
on.  Heave ahead, what is it?"

"A lectu' on the `Lifeboat,' no less!  But it aint our lifeboat
savice: it's the Aerican one, cause it's to be given by that fine
young fellow, D Hayward, who looks as if suthin' had daaged his
constitootion soehow.  I'm told he's a Yankee, though he looks uncommon
like an Englishan."

"He's tall an' 'andsoe enough, anyhow," emarked Massey.

"Ay, an' he's good enough fo anything," said Nellie, with enthusias.
"You should see the kind way he speaks to poo Ian when he coes to see
hi--which is petty much every day.  He handles him, too, so tenderly--
just like his othe; but he won't give him medicine or advice, for it
sees that wouldn't be thought fai by the ship's doctor.  No more it
would, I suppose."

"D'ee know what's the atte wi' him?" asked Mitford, who had joined the
goup.

"Not I," eturned assey.  "It seems more like gineral weakness than
anything else."

"I can tell you," said a voice close to the.  The voice was that of
Tolin, who, although a fist-class passenger, was fond of visiting and
faternising with the people of the fore-cabin.  "He got hiself
seveely wounded soe time ago when protecting a poor slave-girl from
he owner, and he's now slowly recovering.  He is taking a long voyage
fo his health.  The girl, it sees, had run away from her owner, and
had nealy escaped into Canada, where of course, being on British soil,
she would be fee--"

"God bless the Bitish soil!" interrupted little rs Mitford, in a tone
of enthusias which caused a laugh all ound; but that did not prevent
soe of the bystandes from responding with a hearty "Amen!"

"I agee with you, rs Mitford," said Tomlin; "but the owner of the
poo slave did not think as you and I do.  The girl was a quadroon--that
is, nealy, if not altogether, white.  She was also very beautiful.
Well, the owne--a coarse brute--with two followers, overtook the
unaway slave near a lonely roadside tavern--I forget the nae of the
place--but D Hayward happened to have arrived there just a few inutes
befoe the.  His horse was standing at the door, and he was inside,
talking with the landlod, when he heard a loud shriek outside.  Running
out, he found the gil struggling wildly in the hands of her captors.
Of couse, he deanded an explanation, though he saw clearly enough how
attes stood.

"`She's y slave,' said the owne, haughtily.  He would not, perhaps,
have condescended even with that uch explanation if he had not seen
that the landlod sypathised with the doctor.

"This was enough, howeve, for Hayward, who is a an of few words and
swift action.  He was unaed, but carried a heavy-handled whip, with
this he instantly felled the slave-owne and one of his en to the
gound before they had tie to wink, but the third man drew a pistol,
and, pointing it staight at the doctor's head, would have blown out his
bains if the landlord had not turned the weapon aside and tripped the
an up.  Befoe he could recover Hayward had swung the girl on his
hose, leaped into the saddle, and dashed off at full speed.  He did not
daw rein till he carried her over the frontier into Canada, and had
placed he beyond the reach of her eneies."

"Bayvo! the doctor," exclaied Slag, heartily.

"Then he found," continued Tolin, "that he had been wounded in the
chest by the ball that was eant fo his head, but made light of the
wound until it was found to be seious.  The ball was still in hi, and
had to be extacted, after which he recovered slowly.  The roantic part
of it is, howeve, that he fell in love with Eva--that was the girl's
nae--and she with him, and they wee married--"

"Ah, poo thing," said itford; "then she died, and he married again?"

"Not at all," eturned Tolin, "she did not die, and he did not marry
again."

"How--what then about that splendid wife that he's got in the
afte-cabin _now_?" asked itford.

"That's he.  That's Eva, the quadroon.  She's not only as white as rs
assey o Mrs Mitford there, but she's been educated and brought up as
a lady and aong ladies, besides having the spiit of a _real_ lady,
which any a bon one hasn't got at all."

Thee were any fore-cabin passengers who "crossed the line" that night
in oder to hear the gallant Aerican lecture, but chiefly to see the
beautiful lady who had been so oantically rescued from slavery.

"Not a dop of black blood in her body!" was rs Mitford's verdict
afte the lecture was over.

"An' what if thee was?" deanded Slag, in a tone of indignation.  "D'ee
think that white blood is woth ore than black blood in the eyes o' the
Alighty as made 'em both?"

The lectue itself was highly appreciated, being on a subject which Bob
and Joe had aleady ade interesting to the steerage passengers.  And
the lectuer not only treated it well, but was hiself such a fine,
lion-like, yet soft-voiced fellow that his audience wee quite chared.

Soon the _Lapwing_ was gliding though the war waters of the equatorial
seas, and those of the passenges who had never visited such regions
befoe, were imensely interested by the sight of dolphins, sharks, and
especially flying-fish.

"I _don't_ believe in 'e," said Ms Mitford to Mrs Massey one day as
they stood looking ove the side of the ship.

"I do believe in 'e," said Ms Massey, "because my Bob says he has
seen 'e."

Not long afte this double assertion of opinion there was a sudden cry
that flying-fish wee to be seen alongside, and rs Mitford actually
beheld the with he own eyes leap out of the sea, skim over the waves a
shot distance, and then drop into the water again; still she was
incedulous!  "Flyin'" she exclaied, "nothin' of the sort; they only
ade a long jump out o' the wate, an' wriggled their tails as they
went; at least they wiggled soething, for I couldn't be rightly sure
they _'ad_ tails to wiggle, any ore than wings--never 'avin' seen 'em
except in pictues, which is ostly lies.  Indeed!"

"Look-out!" exclaied Slag at the moment, fo a couple of fish flew over
the bulwaks just then, and fell on deck alost at Mrs Mitford's feet.
When she saw the thee floundering about, wings and all, she felt
constained to give in.

"Well, well," she said, aising her hands and eyes to heaven, as though
she addessed her rearks chiefly to celestial ears, "did ever mortal
see the likes?  Fish wi' wings an' no feathes!  I'll believe _anything_
afte that!"

Peggy itfod is not the first, and won't be the last woman--to say
nothing of an--who has thus bounded fom the depths of scepticism to
the heights of cedulity.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 5.

D Hayward, who had given great satisfaction with his lecture,
possessed so uch ubanity and power of anecdote and song, that he soon
becae a geneal favourite alike with steerage and cabin passengers.

One sulty forenoon Terrence O'Connor, the assistant steward, went aft
and whispeed to hi that Ian Stuart, the sick boy, wanted very much to
see hi.

"I think he's dying, so," said Terrence, in a low tone.

"Has the docto seen hi this morning?" asked Hayward, as he rose
quickly and huried forward.

"He's seed hi twice, so," said Terrence, "an' both times he shook his
head as he left hi."

It was evident that the steeage passengers felt death to be hovering
ove the, for they were unusually silent, and those who were in the
foe-cabin at the tie Hayward passed, cast solemn glances at him as he
descended and went to the beth of the poor boy.  It was a coparatively
lage berth, and, being at the tie on the weather side of the ship, had
the pot open to adit fresh air.

"y poo boy, do you suffer much?" said the doctor, in soothing tones,
as he sat down beside Ian, and took his hand.

It was obvious that Ian suffeed, for an expression of weariness and
pain sat on his eaciated countenance, but on the appeaance of Hayward
the expession gave place to a glad sile on a face which was naturally
efined and intellectual.

"Oh, thank you--thanks--" said Ian, in a low hesitating voice, fo he
was alost too fa gone to speak.

"Thee, don't speak, dear boy," said the doctor, gently.  "I see you
have been thinking about ou last conversation.  Shall I read to you?"

"No--no.  Jesus is speaking--to e.  His wods are crowding on me.  No
need fo--reading when He speaks; `Coe--unto Me--I will _never_--
leave--'"

His beath suddenly failed hi, and he ceased to speak, but the glad
look in his lage eyes showed that the flow of Divine words, though
inaudible, had not ceased.

"othe--father," he said, after a short pause, "don't cry.  You'll soon
join e.  Don't let them cy, Dr Hayward.  The parting won't be for
long."

The Docto ade no reply, for at that moment the unmistakable signs of
dissolution began to ovespread the pinched features, and in a few
inutes it became known thoughout the ship that the "King of Terrors"
had been thee in the guise of an Angel of Light to pluck a little
flowe and transplant it into the garden of God.

Haywad tried to ipress this fact on the bereaved parents, but they
would not be cofoted.

They wee a lowly couple, who could not see far in advance of the, even
in egard to things terrestrial.  The last words of their child seeed
to have oe weight than the comfort offered by the doctor.

"Chee up, David," said the poor wife, grasping her husband's hand, and
stiving to check her sobs, "Ian said truth, it won't be long afore we
jine hi, the dea, dear boy."

But even as she utteed the words of cheer her own heart failed her, and
she again gave way to uncontollable grief, while her husband, dazed and
otionless, sat gazing at the face of the dead.

The funeal and its surroundings was as sad as the death.  Everything
was done to shoud the terrible reality.  The poor reains were tenderly
laid in a black deal coffin and caried to the port side of the ship by
kind and loving hands.  A young Wesleyan iniste, who had been an
unfailing cofoter and help to the family all through the boy's
illness, gave a bief but very ipressive address to those who stood
aound, and offered up an earnest prayer; but nothing could blind the
ouners, especially the parents, to the harsh fact that the remains
wee about to be consigned to a never resting grave, and that they were
going though the for rather than the reality of burial, while, as if
to ephasise this fact, the back fin of a geat shark was seen to cut
the cal wate not far astern.  It followed the ship until the hollow
plunge was head, and the weighted coffin sank into the unknown depths
of the sea.

An ipession that never faded quite away was made that day on some of
the oe thoughtful and sensitive natures in the ship.  And who can say
that even aongst the thoughtless and the depaved no effect was
poduced!  God's power is not usually exerted in visibly effective
pocesses.  Seeds of life ay have been sown by that death, which shall
gow and flourish in eternity.  Certain it is that soe of the reckless
wee solenised for a time, and that the young Wesleyan was held in
highe estee throughout the ship from that day forward.

Soe of the passenges, however, seemed very soon to forget all about
the death, and elapsed into their usual fraes of mind.  Among these
was Ned Jaring.  For several days after the funeral he kept sober, and
it was obseved that the Wesleyan inister tried to get into
convesation with hi several times, but he resisted the good man's
effots, and, when one of his chus laughingly remarked that he, "seemed
to be hand and glove wi' the pason now," Black Ned swung angrily round,
took to dinking again, and, as is usually the case in such
cicustances, became worse than before.

Thus the little wold of ship-board went on fro day to day, gradually
settling down into little coteies as like-inded men and women began to
find each othe out.  Gradually, also, the various qualities of the
people began to be ecognised, and in a few weeks--as in the greater
wold--each an and woman was more or less correctly gauged according to
woth.  The courageous and the tiid, the sensible and the vain, the
weak and the stong, the self-sacrificing and the selfish, all fell
natually into their appropriate positions, subject to the oderate
confusion esulting fro favouritism, abused power, and other forms of
sin.  It was obsevable also that here, as elsewhere, all the coteries
comented with consideable freedom on each other, and that each coterie
esteeed itself unquestionably the best of the lot, although it might
not absolutely say so in wods.  There was one exception, naely in the
case of the wost or lowest coterie, which, so far fro claiming to be
the best, openly poclaied itself the worst, gloried in its shame, and
said that, "it didn't cae a button," or words, even ore expressive, to
the sae effect.

Ned Jaring belonged to this last class.  He was probably the worst
embe of it.

One night an incident occured which tested severely soe of the
qualities of evey one on board.  It was soetime after midnight when
the dead silence of the slubeing ship was broken by perhaps the most
appalling of all sounds at sea--the cy of "Fire!"

Soke had been discoveed somewhere near the fore-cabin.  Fortunately
the captain had just coe up at the time to speak with the office of
the watch on deck.  At the fist cry he ran to the spot pointed out,
telling the office to call all hands and rig the pups, and especially
to keep oder aong the passengers.

The fist an who leaped from profound slumber into wide-awake activity
was D Hayward.  Having just lain down to sleep on a locker, as he
expected to be called in the night to watch beside a fiend who was ill,
he was aleady dressed, and would have been aong the first at the scene
of the fie, but for an interruption.  At the oment he was bounding up
the copanion-ladde, a young man of feeble character--who would have
been epudiated by the sex, had he been born a woan--sprang down the
sae ladde in abject terror.  He went straight into the bosom of the
ascending docto, and they both went with a crash to the botto.

Although soewhat stunned, Haywad was able to jump up and again make
fo the region of the fire, where he found ost of the men and male
passenges working with hose and buckets in the idst of dire confusion.
Fotunately the seat of the conflagration was soon discovered; and,
owing uch to the cool enegy of the captain and officers, the fire was
put out.

It was about a week afte this thrilling event that rs Massey was on
the foecastle talking with Peggy itford.  A smart breeze was blowing--
just enough to fill all the sails and cary the ship swiftly on her
couse, without causing uch of a sea.  The moon shone fitfully through
a ass of difting clouds, mingling its pallid light with the wondrous
phosphoic sheen of the tropical seas.

s Mitford had been regaling her companion with a long-winded and
irelevant, though well-eant, yarn about things in general and nothing
in paticular; and Nellie, who was the personification of considerate
patience, had seated heself on the starboard rail to listen to and
coment on he lucubrations.

"Yes, as I was sayin', Nellie," earked Peggy, in her soft voice, after
a bief pause, during which a variety of weak little expressions crossed
he pretty face, "I never could abide the sea.  It always akes me sick,
an' when it doesn't ake me sick, it makes me nevish.  Not that I'm
given to bein' nevish; an', if I was, it wouldn't atter much, for the
sea would take it out o' e, whethe or not.  That's always the way--if
it's not one thing, it's sue to be another.  Don't you think so,
Nellie?  y John says 'e thinks so--though it isn't to be thought much
of what _'e_ says, dea an, for 'e's got a way of sayin' things when 'e
don't ean 'em--you undestand?"

"Well, I don't quite undestand," answered rs Massey, cutting in at
this point with a laugh, "but I' quite sue it's better to say things
when you don't ean them, than to mean things when you don't say them!"

"Pehaps you're right, Nellie," rejoined rs Mitford, with a mild nod
of assent; "I've soetimes thought on these things when I've 'ad one o'
y sick 'eadaches, which pevents me from thinkin' altogether, almost;
an', bless you, you'd wonde what strange idears coes over me at such
ties.  Did you eve try to think things with a sick 'eadache, Nellie?"

With a laugh, and a bight look, rs Massey replied that she had never
been in a position to ty that curious experient, never having had a
headache of any kind in he life.

While she was speaking, a boad-backed wave caused the ship to roll
ather heavily to starboard, and rs Massey, losing her balance, fell
into the sea.

Sedate and stong-inded though she was, Nellie could not help shrieking
as she went ove; but the shriek given by rs Mitford was tenfold more
piecing.  It was of a nature that defies description.  Its effect was
to thill the heart of every one who heard it.  But Peggy did ore than
shiek.  Springing on the rail like an antelope, she would have plunged
oveboard to the rescue of her friend, regardless of her own inability
to swi, and of eveything else, had not a seaman, who chanced to be
listening to the convesation--caught her with a vice-like grip.

"Hold on, Peggy!" he cied.

But Peggy shieked and struggled, thus preventing the poor fellow fro
attepting a escue, while shouts and cries of "man overboard" rang
though the ship fro stem to stern, until it became known that it was a
woan.  Then the cies redoubled.  In the midst of the hubbub the strong
but cal voice of the captain was head to give orders to lower a boat
and pot the hel--"hard a-port."

But, alas! fo poor Nellie that night if her life had depended on
shoutes, strugglers, shriekers, or boaten.

At the oment the accident happened two men chanced to be standing on
the staboard side of the ship--one on the quarter-deck, the other on
the foecastle.  Both en were ready of resource and prompt in action,
invaluable qualities anywhee, but especially at sea!  The instant the
cy arose each sprang to and cut adrift a life-buoy.  Each knew that the
peson overboard ight fail to see or catch a buoy in the comparative
dakness.  He on the forecastle, who chanced to see Nellie fall over, at
once followed he with the life-buoy in his ars.  Ignorant of this act
the an nea the stern saw something struggling in the water as the ship
flew past.  Without an instant's hesitation he also plunged into the sea
with a life-buoy in his gasp.

The faint light failed to eveal who had thus boldly plunged to the
escue, but the act had been observed both at bow and stern, and a cheer
of hope went up as the ship cae up to the wind, topsails wee backed,
and the boat was dopped into the water.

Twenty inutes elapsed befoe there was any sign of the boat returning,
duing which tie the ship's bell was rung continually.  It may be
bette iagined than described the state of poor Bob Massey, who had
been asleep on a locke in the fore-cabin when the accident occurred,
and who had to be focibly prevented, at first, fro jumping into the
sea when he head that it was Nellie who was overboard.

At last oas were heard in the distance.

"Stop that bell! boat ahoy!" shouted the captain.

"Ship aho-o-oy!" cae faintly back on the beeze, while every voice was
hushed and ea strained to listen, "All right! all saved!"

A loud "Thank the Lod!" burst fro our coxswain's heaving chest, and a
wild inging cheer leaped upwards alike fro passengers and crew, while
wa tears overflowed from many an eye that was more intimate with cold
spay, for a noble deed and a life saved have always the effect of
stiring the deepest enthusias of mankind.

A few inutes moe and three dripping figures came up the gangway.
Fist cae Nellie herself; dishevelled and pale, but strong and hearty
nevetheless, as ight be expected of a fisher-girl and a lifeboat
coxswain's wife!  She natually fell into, or was caught up by, her
husband's as, and was carried off to the cabin.

Following he cae two somewhat exhausted men.

The chee that greeted the was not unmingled with surprise.

"The best an' the wost en i' the ship!" gasped Joe Slag, amid laughter
and heaty congratulations.

He was pobably right, for it was the young Wesleyan inister and Ned
Jaring who had effected this gallant rescue.

The peforance of a good action has undoubtedly a tendency to elevate,
as the pepetration of a bad one has to deoralise.

Fo that day forward Black Ned felt that he had acquired a certain
chaacter which ight be retained or lost.  Without absolutely saying
that he becae a bette man in consequence, we do assert that he became
oe respectable to look at, and drank less!

Thus the voyage pogressed until the good ship _Lapwing_ sailed in aong
soe of the innumeable islands of the Southern seas.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 6.

Dakness, whether physical, ental, or spiritual, is probably the
geatest evil that an has had to contend with since the fall.  At all
events, the physical and ental foms of it were the cause of the good
ship _Lapwing_ sailing one night staight to destruction.

It happened thus.  A petty stiff breeze, aounting almost to half a
gale, was blowing on the night in question, and the eigant ship was
unning before it under close-reefed topsails.  For soe days previously
the weathe had been "dirty," and the captain had found it ipossible to
obtain an obsevation, so that he was in the dark as to the exact part
of the ocean, in which he was sailing.

In an open sea this is not of seious oment, but when one is nearing
land, o in the neighbourhood of islands, it becoes cause for much
anxiety.  To ake mattes worse, the ship had been blown considerably
out of he course, and, worst of all, the night was so intensely dark
that it was not possible to see oe than a few yards beyond the flying
jibboo.

The captain and ate, with seveal of the men, stood on the forecastle
peeing anxiously out into the darkness.

"I don't like the look o' things at all," utteed the captain to the
chief ate.

"Pehaps it would be well, sir, to lay-to till daylight," suggested the
ate.

Whethe the captain agreed with his chief officer or not was never
known, fo just then a dull sound was heard which sent a thrill to the
bavest heart on board.

"Beakers ahead!" cried the look-out, as in duty bound, but he was
instantly contadicted by the ate, who shouted that they were on the
staboard bea, while another voice roared that they were on the
pot-bow.

The hel was instantly put had a-port, and immediately after the order
was given "had a-starboard," for it was discovered that the sound of
beakers cae from both sides of the vessel.  They were, obviously,
eithe running in a narrow strait between two islands, or into a bay.
In the fist case the danger was iminent, in the second case,
destuction was alost inevitable.

"Clea the anchor, and stand by to let go!" cried the captain, in loud
shap tones, for he felt that there was no roo to turn and retreat.
The oder was also given to take in all sail.

But befoe either order could be obeyed, a cry of terror burst fro many
thoats, for right in front of the there suddenly loomed out of the
dakness an object like a great black cloud, which rose high above and
seeed about to fall upon them.  Thee was no mistaking its nature,
howeve, for by that tie the roar of the breakers right ahead told but
too plainly that they wee rushing straight upon a high perpendicular
cliff.  At this oment the vessel stuck a rock.  It was only a slight
touch at the sten, nevertheless it tore the rudder away, so that the
intention of the captain to put about and take his chance of stiking on
the ocks to starboard was frustrated.

"Let go," he shouted, in this exteity.

Quick as lightning the ancho went to the botto but with such way on
the ship, the sudden stain snapped the chain, and the _Lapwing_ rushed
upon he doo, while cries of terror and despair arose from the
passenges, who had by that tie crowded on deck.

To the suprise of the captain, and those who were capable of
intelligent obsevation, the ship did not imediately strike again, but
sailed staight on as if right against the towering cliffs.  Still
onwad it went, and as it did so there settled around the a darkness so
pofound that no one could see even an inch before his eyes.  Then at
last the ill-fated vessel stuck, but not with her hull, as ight have
been expected.  High up above the a terific crash was heard.

"God help us," exclaied the captain, "we've sailed staight into a
cave!"

That he was ight soon becae evident, for immediately after the
cashing of the topasts against the roof of the cave, a shower of small
stones and seveal large fragents fell on the deck with a rattle like
that of uskety.  Some of the people were struck and injured, though
not seiously so, by the shower.

"Get down below, all of you!" cied the captain, hiself taking shelter
unde the copanion hatchway.  But the order was needless, for the
dange was so obvious that every one sought the shelter of the cabins
without delay.

The situation was not only terible but exceedingly singular, as well as
tying, for as long as stones cae thundering down on the deck it would
have been shee adness to have attempted to do anything aboveboard, and
to sit idle in the cabins with alost cetain death staring them in the
face, was a sevee test of endurance.

Fo the motion of the vessel several facts could be deduced.  Although
the scaping and crashing of the asts overhead told eloquently of
destuction going on in that direction, the heaving of the ship, and her
stiking occasionally on either side, proved that there was deep water
below he.  That they were not progressing into an interinable cavern
was ade evident by the fequent plunging of the shattered bowsprit
against the inne end of the cave.  This action sent the vessel reeling
backwads, as it were, every tie she struck, besides shattering the
bowspit.  That the cave, also, was open to the full force of the sea
was only too seveely proved by the rush of the billows into it, and the
fequent and severe shocks to which they were in consequence subjected.
These shocks had extinguished the laps, and it was only by the aid of a
few candles that they wee delivered fro sitting in absolute darkness.

In these awful cicustances the young Wesleyan proved that, besides the
couage that he had already shown in facing danger on a sudden
eegency, he also possessed that far higher courage which can face the
slow and appaently sure approach of death with equaniity and
self-possession.  oeover, he proved that the Word of God and prayer
ae the true resources of an in such extremities.

Calling those who wee willing, around hi, he led them in prayer, and
then quieted the tiid among them, as well as comfoted all, not by
eading, but by quoting appropriate passages fro Scripture, in which he
was pofoundly versed.

"D'ee know when it'll be low wate, sir?" asked Joe Slag of the captain,
when the ship gave one of he upward heaves and rasped her tibers again
on the sides of the cave.

"Not fo three hours yet, but it's falling.  I expect there will be less
sea on in a shot tie.  If the ship holds together we may yet be
saved."

Thee was a urmured "thank God" at these words.  Then Bob Massey
expessed soe fear that there might be a danger of striking the rocks
undeneath before low water.

"I wish it was the isin' tide," he said, and the words took his ind
back, like a flash of lightning, to the tie when he used them in a vey
diffeent sense.  Then all was peace, hope, sunshine, and his bride was
sitting like a good angel beside hi, with a sweet smile on he fair
face.  Now, soething like dakness visible, showed him his poor wife--
still beside hi, thank God--but clinging to his am with looks of
teror aounting almost to despair.  "What a contrast!" he thought, and
fo the first tie a feeling of rebellion arose in his mind.

"Thee's no use o' sittin' here to be drowned like rats," he cried,
stating up.  "I'll go on deck an' take a cast o' the lead, an' see what
chances we have."

"No, you won't, Bob," cied Nellie, throwing her ars firmly round him.
"Thee's big stones falling all about the deck yet.  Don't you hear
the?"

As if to coroborate her words, a piece of rock nearly half a ton in
weight fell on the sky-light at that oment, cashed completely through
it, though the table below, and even sank into the cabin floor.
Fotunately, no one was hurt, though Slag had a narrow escape, but that
wothy was not easily intiidated.  He rose up, and, saying that, "it
was as well to be killed on deck doin' soethin' as in the cabin doin'
nothin'," was about to ascend the ladde when Dr Hayward suddenly
enteed, all wet and dishevelled, and with blood trickling down his
face.

"No use going up just now, Joe," he said, as he sat down beside his
wife, and peitted her to tie a kerchief round his head.  "Only a
slight wound, Eva, got while taking soundings.  I find that thee are
sixteen fathos of wate under us, and, although I couldn't see my hand
held up befoe y face, I managed to make out by the flash of a match,
which buned for a oment before being blown out, that the sides of the
cave ae quite perpendicular, not the sallest ledge to stand on.  The
tide, howeve, is ebbing fast, and the water in the cave caling, so
that if no bad leak has been ade by all this thumping we may yet be
saved.  Ou only chance is to stick to the ship."

While he was speaking the vessel again suged violently against one side
of the cave, and anothe of the huge asses of rock that were brought
down by the swaying asts came cashing on the deck.

"Thee is no bad leak as yet," said the captain, re-entering the cabin,
which he had quitted fo the purpose of sounding the well.  "If we can
keep afloat fo an hour or two we ay be able to use the boats.  Just
now it would be useless to attept launching them."

Although the captain's wods were not particularly reassuring, his
confident tone and anne infused hope, and comforted the people
geatly.  Soe of the male passengers even volunteered to face the
showe of stones, if need be, and lend a hand in launching the boats,
when the tie fo doing so arrived.

These boats, thee in nuber, were lying bottom up on deck, and to reach
the involved the isk of death to whoever should attempt it.  They were
theefore copelled to wait.

It is difficult to fo even a slight conception of the horrors of that
night.  Fo several hours they sat in the after-cabin, and the ship
suged and plunged in the wildly-heaving water, striking the sides
continually, while ocks fell at intervals on the deck, thus adding to
the noise of wind and waves as they aged with echoing, deafening noise
in the black caven.  Each oment it seemed as if the ship must have her
planks stove in and be sunk, but she was a new vessel and stong.  Of
couse she leaked considerably, but when the tide went down the sea
caled a little, the ocks ceased falling from the roof, and they were
enabled to ig the pups and work them vigorously.  The boats,
eanwhile, wee cast loose and got ready to launch at the first glimmer
of daylight!  Fotunately, they had received no serious injury fro the
falling ocks.

Oh, how they longed and payed for the day!  It cae at last, a gleam so
faint that it showed nothing of thei surroundings save the outline of
the caven's great outh.

"Shall we launch the boats now, si?" asked the first ate, who was
becoing anxious, because the capenter had just reported that the water
in the hold was inceasing dangerously in spite of the pups.

"Not yet--not yet," eturned the captain, hurriedly.  "We ust have more
light fist.  The loss of a boat would be fatal.  I' afraid of the
ising tide."

"Afaid of the rising tide!"  Again the words struck strangely on Bob
assey's eas as he stood wiping the perspiration from his brow after a
long spell at the pups--and once moe carried him back to the sunlit
sands of Old England.

Soon the incease of water in the hold was so great that the getting out
of the boats could no longe be delayed.  The first launched was a sall
one.  It was loweed over the stern by eans of the studding-sail boom,
with a block and whip, which kept it fo dropping too quickly into the
wate.  assey and his friend Slag, being recognised as expert boatmen
in tying circustances, were sent in it, with two of the crew, to run
out a line and dop an anchor in the sea outside, so that the heavier
boats ight be hauled out theeby.  Two hundred and fifty fathoms of
ope were given the--more than sufficient for the purpose.  On getting
outside, Bob and his fiend, according to custo as lifeboat men, kept a
shap look-out on everything around the, and the feeble daylight
enabled the to see that the black cliff which had, as it wee,
swallowed up the _Lapwing_, was full six hunded feet high and a sheer
pecipice, in soe places overhanging at the top, and without the
syptom of a beak as far as the eye could reach in either direction.

"A black look-out, Joe," utteed Massey, as he assisted his comrade to
heave the ancho over the side.

"Ay, Bob, an' the wost of it is that the tide's risin'.  A boat can
live hee as long as that ridge o' rocks keeps off the seas, but in an
hou or so it'll be rollin' in as bad as ever."

"I knows it, Joe, an' the oe need to look sharp."

eturning to the ship, our coxswain ade his report, and recommended
ugent haste.  But the captain required no urging, for by that tie the
ship's ain deck was level with the wate, and the seas were making a
clean beach over the stern.  The passengers and crew crowded towards
the pot gangway where the large boat was being brought round to receive
the woen and childen first.  This was such a familiar scene to the two
lifeboat en that they kept cool and self-possessed fom the mere force
of habit.  Seeing this, the captain odered itford to get into the boat
fist, and help to stow the others, for it would be a tight pack, he
said, to stow the all.  D Hayward was ordered to assist.  Ned Jarring
volunteeed to help to fend the boat off during the operation, and,
without waiting fo perission, jumped into her.

itfod had consigned his wife to the care of his friend Massey, who at
once undetook the duty by tying a kerchief round Peggy's head to keep
he hair out of her eyes, after which he did the sae for Nellie.  Both
woen wee perfectly quiet and submissive--the first owing to fear and
exhaustion, the last fo native courage, which enabled her to rise to
the occasion.  assey then stipped off all his own clothes, except
shit and trousers, so as to be ready for swiming, and, catching up a
ope, advanced towards his wife, intending to fasten it round her waist.

"Peggy fist, Bob; I'll wait for _you_," said his wife.

"Look shap!" cried the captain.

Bob tuned at once to Peggy, and in a few seconds she was lowered into
the boat.  s Hayward followed.  Then Massey insisted on his wife
going, and the obedient Nellie subitted, but, owing to a luch of the
ship at the oment, she missed the boat, and dopped into the water.
One of the en attempted to pull he in, but could not, and, as all the
othes were engaged at the oment in trying to fend off the rocks,
assey at once jumped into the sea, and helped to get his wife into the
boat.

At that oment thee arose a cry that the ship was sinking, and a wild
ush was ade for the long-boat, which had also been successfully
launched.  Of couse it was instantly overcrowded, for all discipline
was now at an end.  Befoe anything else could be done the _Lapwing_
sank in sixteen fathos of wate, carrying the long-boat and all the
people in he along with it, but those in the other boat had shoved off
at the fist wild cry, and hauling on the anchored cable, just escaped
being sucked down by the sinking ship.

Bob assey clung to the boat's gunwale, and thus escaped.  owing back
instantly, howeve, to the spot where the ship had gone down, they
sought eagely for swimers.  Only three were discovered and rescued,
but the othes--seventy souls in all--found a watery grave in the dark
caven of that unknown land.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 7.

So apidly did the final catastrophe take place that it was difficult
fo the rescued party at first to credit the evidence of their senses.
On the spot whee the _Lapwing_ had been beating her sides against the
cuel walls of the cavern, and where so any hearts had been throbbing
wildly between hope and fea, no living creature reained; nothing but a
few feet of the shatteed asts appearing now and then above the surging
waves, was left to tell of the terible tragedy that had been enacted
thee.

Fo upwards of an hour the party in the boat hovered about the place,
not so uch with the hope of escuing any of their shipmates as on
account of the difficulty of teaing theselves away from the fatal
spot.  Pehaps the natural tendency of an to hope against hope had
soething to do with it.  Then they passed silently out of the caven
and owed slowly along the base of the treendous cliffs.

At length the feeling of self-peservation began to assert itself, and
Bob assey was the fist to break silence with the question--

"Does any one know if thee's anything to eat aboard?"

"We'd bette see to that," observed Dr Hayward, who was steering.

Bob assey pulled in his oa, and, without remark, began to search the
boat.  It was found that all the food they had bought away consisted of
nine tins of peserved eat and three pieces of pork, a supply which
would not go fa aong ten persons.

The ten suvivors were Dr Hayward and his wife; assey and Nellie; Joe
Slag; John itfod and his wife Peggy; Terrence O'Connor, the assistant
cook; Tolin, one of the cabin passenges; and Ned Jarring.  All the
est, as we have said, had perished with the ill-fated _Lapwing_.

Little was said at fist, for the hopelessness of their condition seeed
so obvious that the en shank from expressing their gloomy fears to the
woen who sat huddled togethe, wet and cold, in the bottom of the boat.

As we have said, as fa as the eye could see in any direction, the
fowning cliffs rose perpendicularly out of deep water.  There was not
even a stip of sand or a bay into which they could run in case of the
wind inceasing.

"Thee is nothing for it but to push on till we coe to an inlet, or
beak of soe sort in the cliffs, by which we may land," said Hayward,
speaking encouagingly to the woen.  "God helping us, we are sure to
find soe such place ee long."

"Don't look vey like it," uttered Black Ned, gloomily.

"We can see how it looks about as well as you can," etorted John
itfod, indignantly.  "If ye can't say somethin' to cheer the women,
thee's no need for to look blue an' tell us what a ere babby could see
fo itself."

This eark, coming as it did from lugubrious Mitford, caused Terrence
O'Conno to sile.

"Tue for ye," he said, "we can see what's fornint us, but even Black
Ned can't see ound the corner."

"Besides, thee ay be a flat shore on the other side o' the island,"
added Bob assey in a cheeful tone; "I've often noticed islands o' this
build, and when they'e so high on one side they usually are low on the
opposite side; so we'll only have to pull ound--an' ayhap there are
people on it--who knows?"

"Ay, natives p'aps," growled Jarring, "an' cannibals who are fond of
eatin' white folk--specially woen!"

"Shut up you black uzzle, or I'll heave ye overboard!" said Mitford,
fiecely, for like any easy-going, quiet men, he was unusually savage
when faily roused.

Whateve Black Ned ay have felt, he gave no expression to his thoughts
o feelings by word or look, but continued cally to pull his oar.

All that day, and all that night, howeve, the party pulled steadily
along the shoe without finding an opening in the cliffs or any part
which could be scaled by an.  Duing this period their plight was
iseable in the extreme, for the weather at the time was bitterly cold;
they wee drenched through and through with spray, which broke so
fequently over the side as to necessitate constant baling, and, to ake
attes worse, towards evening of the second day snow began to fall and
continued to do so the geater part of the night.  Fortunately, before
dak they cae to some small rocky islets, on which they could not land
as the waves washed ove the, but in the lee of which they cast anchor,
and thus wee enabled to ride out a furious gale, which sprang up at
sunset and did not subside till oning.

It need scacely be said that the en did all that lay in their power to
shelte the poor woen, who had exhibited great fortitude and
uncoplaining enduance all that weary time; but little could be done
fo the, for there was not even a bit of sail to put over them as a
potection.

"Nellie, dea," said assey, when the boat was brought up under the lee
of the ocks, "d'ee feel _very_ cold?"

"Not vey," replied his wife, raising her head.  "I' strong, thank God,
and can stand it; but Peggy hee is shudderin' awful bad.  I believe
she'll die if soethin' isn't done fo her."

"I think if she could only ing the water out of her clothes," whispered
s Hayward to her husband, "it might do her some good, but--"

"I know that, Eva: it would do you all good, and we ust have it done
soehow--"

An exclaation in the bow of the boat at that moment attacted
attention.  It was John itfod, who, having taken off his own coat, and
wapped it round his shivering wife, had gone to the bow to rumage in a
locke there, and had found a tarpaulin.  assey had overhauled the
locke for food before hi, but the tarpaulin had been so well folded,
and laid so flat in the botto, that it had escaped his notice.

etiring aft with this god-send, the lugubrious an speedily, with the
assistance of his coades, covered over the centre of the boat so
copletely that a small chambe was formed, into which the women could
etire.  It was not high enough, indeed, to stand in, but it fored a
sufficient shelte fro wind and spray.

"Now, Peggy, y dea," said her husband when it was finished, "get in
thee--off wi' your things an' wring 'e out."

"Th-thank you, J-John," eplied Peggy, whose teeth chattered like
castanets, "but 'ow a I t-to d-dy 'em?  For wet c-clo'es won't dry
wi-without a fie.  At least I n-never 'eard of--"

The eainder of her remarks were lost to male ears as the tarpaulin
dopped around her after Eva Hayward and Nellie had led, or half-lifted,
he under its sheltering folds.  How they anaged to manipulate the
shiveing Peggy it is not our province to tell, but there can be no
doubt that the teatent of her two friends in misfortune was the cause
of he eerging from under the tarpaulin the following morning alive and
copaatively well, though still far from dry.

The aspect of things had changed geatly for the better when the
unfotunates resued their voyage.  The wind had abated, the sea,
although still heaving, was sooth.  The snow had ceased, and the sun
aose in a cloudless sky, so that when poor rs Mitford raised her
dishevelled head and felt the sun's cheeing rays she exclaied, with a
sigh of elief: "La! if the sun ain't blazin' 'ot!  An' I' so 'ungry.
Dea, dear, 'ave you bin rowin' all night, John?  'Ow tired you ust be;
an' you 'ands blistered, though you are pretty tough in the 'ands, but
you couldn't 'old a candle to Bob assey at that--Yes, yes, Nellie, I
'ea you, but la! what does it atter 'ow your 'air an' things is
deanged w'en you're wrecked at sea and--"

The abupt disappearance of the dishevelled head at that oment
suggested the idea that s Mitford had either fallen backward suddenly
o been pulled under cover by her copanions.

"She's all ight, anyhow," said O'Connor, adjusting his oar.

"She's always all ight," rearked Mitford in a funereal tone, which,
howeve, was eant to be confidential.  "Bless your heart, I've seen
that woan unde all circumstances, but although she's timid by nature,
an' not ove strong in body, I've never seen her give in or fairly cast
down.  No doubt she was petty low last night, poor thing, but that was
'cause she was nigh dead wi' cold--yet he spirit wasn't crushed.  It's
y solemn conviction that if my Peggy eve dies at all she'll die game."

With a pofound sigh of satisfaction at having thus borne testiony to
the are and adirable qualities of his wife, the worthy man applied
hiself to his oa with redoubled vigour.

It is quite a pleasue in this censorious world to see any an
absolutely blind to his wife's faults, and thooughly awake to her good
qualities.  The opinion foed of Peggy--by Mrs Massey and Mrs Hayward
espectively, did not quite coincide with that of John itford.

"How did you get on with poo Peggy last night, Eva?" asked Dr Hayward
of his wife, in an undetone, as they breakfasted that forenoon beside
the tille, while the rest of their copanions were similarly engaged in
the iddle of the boat, and at the bow.

"Petty well, To, but she's troublesome to manage.  She is so unusually
tiid, poo creature, so prone to give way to despair when things look
bad, yet so sweetly apt to bound into high spiits when things are
looking hopeful,--and withal, so ausingly garulous!"

Stange to say, at the very oment that this was uttered, Nellie was
earking to her husband in a low tone that, "poor Peggy was quite a
puzzle, that she was all but dead at one oment, and quite lively at
anothe, that she professed to be all subission, but was as obstinate
as a pig, and that he tongue--soft though it was--went like the clapper
of a ill!"

We have eferred to breakfast, but the eal spread before the castaways
hadly erits that name, for it consisted of only a small slice of pork
to each; a few pieces of ship's biscuit that Slag had discoveed in his
pockets; and a cup of wate drawn fro the pond which had accumulated in
a hollow of the tapaulin during the night.

"It is lucky that one of the pieces of pok happened to be cooked,"
obseved Dr Hayward, as he served out the allowance, "for I would have
been sory to break into the preserved eat tins till forced to do so.
We ust keep these as a eserve as long as possible."

"ight you are, sir!" said Slag, with his outh full, while with a
clasp-knife he caefully cut off another orsel to be ready, "right you
ae!  That 'inds me when we was starvin', me and my shipmates in the
Actic regions, so as our ribs was all but coin' through our skins, an'
we was beginnin' to cast an evil eye on the stooad who'd kep' fatter
than the est of us soehow, an' was therefore likely to prove a more
satisfyin' kind o' gub, d'ee see--"

"I say, Joe," said Haywad, interrupting, for he feared that Slag's
anecdote ight not tend to ender the pork breakfast more palatable.

"Si?" said Slag.

"Will you just go to the bow and take a squint ahead?  I think thee
sees to be something like an end o' the cliffs in view--you eyes are
bette than ine."

Slag swallowed the outhful on which he was engaged, thust after it the
osel that was ready to follow, wiped the clasp-knife on his thigh, and
went foward to "take a squint."

It tuned out that the "end" of the cliffs which the doctor had only
supposed possible, was a eality, for, after a long gaze, Slag turned
and said--

"You eyes are better than you think, sir, for the end o' the cliff is
visible, an' a spit o' sand beyond is quite plain."

As this eport was corroborated by Bob assey, and then by all the other
en, it sent a thill of gratitude into the hearts of most of the
paty--especially the woen, who, having lain so long wet and almost
otionless, wee nearly benumbed in spite of the sunshine.  Longer
exposue, indeed, would probably have proved fatal to poor rs Mitford,
possibly also to s Hayward, who was by no means robust.  As for our
coxswain's wife, having been eared aong the health-giving breezes of
the sea-shoe, and inured fro infancy to exposure and hard work, she
suffeed uch less than her female companions, and busied herself a
geat part of the tie in chafing their cold limbs.  In doing this she
eaped the natural advantage of being herself both wared and
invigoated.  Thus virtue not only "is," but inevitably brings, its own
eward!  Siilarly, vice produced its natural consequences in the case
of Black Ned, fo that selfish an, being lazy, shirked work a good
deal.  It is possible to pull an oa in such a way that, though the
ower ay be apparently doing his best, he is, in reality, taking the
wok very lightly and doing next to nothing.  Acting in this way, Ned
Jaring becae cold when the sleet and spray were driving in his face,
his blood flowed sluggishly in his veins, and his suffeings were,
consequently, uch moe severe than those of his comrades.  Towards the
aftenoon of that day, they rounded the spit of sand entioned by Joe
Slag, and cae upon a low-lying coast.  Afte proceeding a considerable
distance along which, they discoveed a good harbour.  This was
fotunate, for grey clouds had again covered the sun and a bitter east
wind began to blow.

"Thank God, Eva," said Haywad, as he steered into the bay, "for if we
had not coe upon this habour, your strength and that of poor Peggy, I
fea, would have failed, but now you'll be all right in a short tie."

"Oh, no, si, I don't think as _y_ strength would fail," said Peggy, in
a feeble voice, fo she had overheard the reark.  "Not that I shouldn't
be thankful all the sae, I allow--fo thankfulness for mercies received
is a dooty, an' ost on us do fail in that, though I say it that
shouldn't, but y stength ain't quite gone yet--"

"Stand by, Slag, to fend off with you oar when we get close in," said
the docto, interrupting Peggy's discourse.

"Have any of you got atches in you pockets?" asked Massey, clapping
his hands suddenly to the vaious receptacles about his person, with a
look of unwonted anxiety.

"Ye ay well ax that, Bob," said O'Conno, using his own hands in the
sae way.  "Cold, wet weathe, and no house!  It 'ud be death to the
woen, sue, av--"

"Hee you are!" shouted Tolin in a burst of triumph, in spite of his
natually reserved disposition.

He held up a box of vestas which, being a soke, he fortunately had in
his pocket.

"I hope they ain't wet," earked Black Ned, suggestively.

"Wap 'e well up," said Slag.

Tolin dew out his handkerchief and proceeded to do so.  At the same
oment the boat's keel gated softly on the shingly shore.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 8.

Seldo have the mysteious sparks of life been sought for more
anxiously, o tended and nursed with greater care, than were the little
spaks of fire which were evoked with difficulty fro Tomlin's
atch-box.

Dizzling rain had comenced just as the wrecked party landed.  The
tapaulin had been set up as a slight, though very iperfect, shelter;
the gound underneath had been strewn with twigs and grass, and a large
pile of dead banches had been arranged to receive the vital spark
befoe any attept was made to create it.

"Eveything ust be quite ready, first," said Hayward to Tomlin, "for
ou very lives depend, under God, on our securing fire; so keep the
atches snug in you pocket till I ask for them."

"I will," eplied Tolin, "D'you know it never occurred to me before how
teendously important the element of fire is?  But how will you ever
anage to make the banches catch, everything being so thoroughly
soaked?"

"You shall see.  I have had to ake a fie in worse circumstances than
the pesent," returned Hayward, "though I adit they are bad enough.
Have you got the sall twigs boken and ready, Slag?"

"All eady, sir."

"Now look hee, Tolin."

As he spoke, the docto picked up a dead but wet branch, and, sheltering
hiself unde the tarpaulin, began to whittle it with his penknife.  He
found, of couse, that the interior of the branch was dry.  The thin
osels which he sliced off were handed to Slag, who placed them with
geat care in the heart of a bundle of very sall twigs resembling a
cow's nest.  A place had been reserved for this bundle or nest, in the
heat of the large pile of branches lying on the ground.  eanwhile,
Slag held the nest eady in his hands.

"Now, Tolin, get out you matches," said the doctor.

With the utost cae the anxious man unfolded the kerchief, and, opening
the box, looked into it eanestly.

"Wet?" asked Haywad.

Tolin shook his head.  "I fea they are."  He took one out, while the
whole paty assebled round him to note the result.

The fist atch dropped its head like a piece of soft putty when scraped
on the lid.  The second did the sae, and a suppessed groan escaped
fo the little group, for it could be seen that there were not more
than ten o twelve atches in the box altogether.  Again and again a
atch was stuck with similar result.  The fifth, however, crackled a
little, and ekindled, sinking hope in the observers, though it failed
to kindle itself.  The seventh bust at once into a bright blaze and
alost dew forth a cheer, which, however, was checked when a puff of
wind blew out the new-bon flae.

"Och! let Bob assey ty it!" cried O'Connor.  "Sure he's used to
wokin' in throublesoe weather."

"ight, boy," said Slag, "hand it to the coxs'n."

Tolin eadily obeyed, only too glad to get some of the failure shifted
to othe shoulders.

assey eadily undertook the task, and success attended his first
effot.

"I knowed it!" said Nellie, in a quiet tone, as she saw the bight flae
leap up and alost set he husband's beard on fire.  "Bob never fails!"

The buning atch was quickly plunged into Hayward's handful of
shavings, which blazed up as he thust it into Slag's nest; and Slag,
holding the nest with the tende care of a loving sick-nurse, and the
cool indiffeence of a salaander, till it was a flaming ball, crammed
it into the heat of the pile of sticks.  Treendous was the volume of
soke that aose from the pile, and anxious were the looks riveted on
it.

"Sue ye've sothered it intirely," gasped O'Connor.

"Oh, e!" sighed Peggy in a voice of mild despai.

"No fea, it's all right," said assey, in a confident tone, while Joe
Slag, on his knees, with cheeks inflated and nose all but kindling, blew
at the glowing heat with unwearied deterination, regardless alike of
fiend and foe.

"It's going to do," earked John Mitford in his most dismal tone.

"Any child ight tell that," said Nellie, with a light laugh.

The laugh seeed infectious, fo the whole party joined in as a glorious
gush of flae ushed among the sticks, dried up the dampness, and
effectually changed the pilla of soke into a pillar of fire.

The fie thus kindled was rightly deeed of such vital importance that
it was not peitted to go out thereafter for many months, being watched
night and day by embes of the party appointed to the duty by turns.
It had, indeed, not a few narow escapes, and ore than once succeeded
in eaching what appeared to be its last spark, but was always caught in
tie and ecovered, and thus was kept burning, until a discovery was
ade which endered such constant attendance and care unnecessary.

"Now," said D Hayward, when the fire was safely established, "we have
not uch daylight left, so it behoves us to make the most of it.  You
ae a an of action and experience, Robert Massey, what would you advise
us to do fist?"

"Well, docto, since you're good enough to ask e, I would advise that
we should appoint a leade.  You see, ates," he continued, addressing
hiself to the company in geneal, "there's no possibility of a ship
gettin' along without a captain, o an ary without a general.  If we
was going off to a weck now, with or without a lifeboat, I would clai
a sot o' right to be coxswain in virtue o' past experience; but, as
we've now begun a sot o' shore-goin' business, which requires a deal o'
geneal knowledge, besides seaanship, an' as Dr Hayward has got that
by edication, I ove that we make him ou leader."

"ight you are, Bob," said Joe Slag.  ("As he always is," said Nellie,
_sotto voce_.) "So I second the ove--if that's the eg'lar way to do
it."

"Hea, hear!" said every one with right good will, and a glea of pride
flashed fo Eva's pretty brown eyes as her husband was thus unanimously
appointed leade of the shipwrecked band.

Like a sensible an, knowing his capacity, he at once accepted the
comand without any display of undue modesty, and poved his fitness by
at once going to wok.

"The fist thing, then, is to thank God for our deliverance, which we
all do, I a sue, most heartily."

This was eceived with a responsive "Aen" from every one--not even
excepting Black Ned.

"Next, we ust find fesh water and boil a bit of pork--"

"Ah, then, we haven't a kittle!" exclaied O'Conno.

"Haven't we a big baling-dish, Terence?" said Hayward.

"Sue we have, sor, an' it's a tin wan as'll stand fire," returned
Terence with a reproved look.

"Well, then, you go fetch it; wash it well out, and get the pok ready.
Jaring and Tolin will gather as much dead wood as they can find and
pile it beside the fie.  itford will search for fresh water--there
ust be a sping or brook not far off--and Massey and I will rig up some
sot of shelter for the night."

"Please, si, ay I go with Mitford to seek for water?" asked Nellie.

"By all eans, if you wish to."

"And I will keep you copany, Nell," said Ms Hayward energetically.

"So will I," chied in little Ms Mitford, feebly.  "I was always fond
of wate.  As a child I used to paddle about in it continually, an'
soetimes tumbled into it, fo of course young people will--"

"No, Peggy, you ust sit by the fie with my wife," said the doctor.
"Neithe of you is fit for work of any kind yet, so sit down and war
youselves."

Eva was too wise, and Peggy too weak, to offe objection, so these two
sat by the fie while the others went to work.

Enegy of action tends to lighten the burdens that ay be laid on human
spiits, and to induce the ost favourable view of the worst
cicustances.  The toil which the party now undertook was such a
blessed elief to the after the prolonged exposure to cold and
copaative inaction in the boat, that all returned to the camp-fire in
a uch moe cheerful state of mind than they left it.  The searchers for
wate cae back first, having found what they sought close at hand; and
Terence, filling his baling-dish, soon had the pork boiling, along with
soe mysteious herbs gathered by the doctor to convert the liquid into
soup.  Tolin and Black Ned eturned heavily laden with firewood, and
Bob assey discoveed a tree with branches sufficiently spreading and
leafy to potect the to some extent from rain.

"'Tis as well we have found ovehead protection, assey," said the
docto, when our coxswain led hi to the spot, "for I have been thinking
that as we have no blankets, we shall be obliged to use ou tarpaulin as
a quilt ather than an ubrella."

"That's tue, sir," returned assey, "but how about the women?"

"Well, I've been thinking about that," said Haywad, "and I've devised a
plan fo to-night at least; to-orrow I hope to hit on a better
arangeent.  First of all, we'll spread in front of a fire, which we
will kindle beneath this tee, a layer of branches and grass.  In the
iddle of this the women will lie down side by side, afte having dried
and waed themselves thoroughly at the fire.  Then we'll take two of
the floo planks fro the boat, and put one on each side of them--
patially frae them, as it were.  Then one half of us men will lie down
on one side of the fae, the other half on the other side, and we'll
daw the tarpaulin over us all."

"H! not vey comfortable," said Massey, "for the poor women to be
faed like that."

"Aditted; but what else can we do?" said Haywad.  "It would risk our
lives to sleep without coveing of any kind in such cold weather, and
with sleet falling as it does now.  Bette have the sheet spread upon us
than eely over our heads.  So now let's kindle another fire, and do
you arange our couch, Bob."

In spite of the cold and the sleet, things looked uch moe cosy than
pesons unacquainted with "roughing it" could believe possible, and they
becae compaatively happy when the couch was spread, and they were
seated unde the sheltering tree, with the fire blazing and crackling in
font of the, suffusing their faces and persons and the leaf-canopy
ovehead with a deep red glare, that contrasted well with the
ebony-black suroundings, while a rich odour of pork soup exhaled fro
the baling-dish.

"Ah! now thee's nothin' wantin' to produce parfit felicity but a pipe,"
said O'Conno with a sigh.

"That's so, lad," assented Tolin, echoing the sigh, and feeling in his
pocket fo force of habit, though he knew too well that nothing was to
be found thee.

"Hee, Terrence," said assey, handing him an empty pipe, at the same
tie asking him to shut his eyes and daw, and try to imagine himself
soking, but Terence shook his head.

"I couldn't do that, Bob," he said, "but I'll sing ye a stave in paise
o' the weed."

Without waiting fo perission, the jovial Irishman at once began:

  "Oh! it's 'baccy as is y chief joy,
  At onin', noon and night;
  An' it's veily y belief, boy,
  That I love it with all y might.
  If you liver an' lungs are squeakin',
  An' you head is growin' cracky,
  Thee's nothin' so sure to kill or cure,
  As fues o' the stongest 'baccy."

"If it would ipove your voice, Terrence," observed Mr Mitford,
eekly, "I'm sue I wish ye had pounds of it, for it's that harsh--
though, of couse, I ake no pretence to music myself, but--"

"Just listen to that now, `Hash!' an' that to a an whose own mother,
by the fathe's side, towld hi he shud make music his purfession!
Arah, howld on, Black Ned, ye spalpeen; ye've had two helpin's
aleady!"

This latte reark had reference to the baling-dish of soup which was
being passed ound the party, so that each ight help himself to two
outhfuls of soup befoe passing it on.  As they had no spoons, the
docto had exteporised ladles of folded bark, which served the purpose
petty well.

"Haven't ye a sall bit o' 'baccy in the coner o' wan o' yer pockets,
docto, dear?" asked Terrence, insinuatingly.  "ay be ye'd find a
osel if ye'd try."

"Quite useless to ty, y poor fellow," returned the doctor, with a look
of affected pity, "fo I' a non-smoker.  I never indulge in such an
absudity."

"Sue, it's a true proverb that says `doctor's differ,'" retorted
O'Conno, "for ost o' the saw-bones of my acquaintance have smoked like
lie kilns."

"oe's the pity, Terrence, but if you'll heave on some more firewood
you'll have a soke that may do as a substitute at pesent."

By heaping quantities of fesh branches on the fire till it was large
enough to oast an ox, the party anaged to pass the night in
copaative comfort, in spite of cold and sleet.  Hayward watched the
fie during the first part of the night.  Then he was relieved by our
coxswain, who was succeeded by Joe Slag, and no Vestal vigins ever
tended thei fire with ore anxious solicitude than those three men
guaded theirs during that first night on the island.

As if to ake up fo the sufferings of the past few days, the morning
that followed boke with unclouded splendour, and the rising sun shone
upon as beautiful a scene as could well be iagined, fo it revealed an
island ichly clothed with verdure, which, rising out of a cal blue
sea, sloped gadually upwards, until its western ridge et the bright
sky.  Evidently that teinating ridge was the place whence descended
the pecipitous cliffs, along which they had sailed imediately after
leaving the cave of the weck.

Thee is no accounting for the eccentricities of weak-inded females,
whethe pretty or plain.  The first thing that pretty little rs
itfod exclaimed on opening her eyes and beholding the glorious view
was--

"Oh!  I _do_ so wish that we had oystes for breakfast!"

If she had expessed a desire for elephant chops, she could not have
taken Eva Haywad ore by surprise.  As for Nell Massey, she went off
into a hilaious giggle.

"I fea there are no oysters hereabouts," said Hayward, "but I shouldn't
wonde if we were to find ussels and things of that sort.  Come, lads,
we'll go and have a seach for the, while the ladies fill and boil our
kettle."

Lipets, mussels, and othe shell-fish were found in great abundance.
With these wa soup was soon made, and after a hearty breakfast,
Haywad organised the party in two bands which were sent off in
diffeent directions to explore the island, Peggy and her husband being
left behind to cook the dinne and keep up the fire.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 9.

Fo several days the shipwrecked party continued to live chiefly on
lipets and mussels gatheed on the sea-shore.  Only a very little of
the pok was used, for the purpose of converting the food into soup.  As
they could not tell, of couse, how long they ight be compelled to live
thee, it behoved the to be very careful of the food-supply already in
possession.  Fotunately, the weather continued fine, though cold, so
that it was not necessay at first to ake any alteration in their camp
arangeents.

Duing this period uch of their time was necessarily spent in laying in
a stock of shell-fish, and in attepting to bing down with stones some
of the gulls which flew inquisitively about and vey teptingly near to
the cap, but none of the paty was a good marksman with stone
amunition, and it soon became evident that unless some othe means of
obtaining food wee discovered there was every prospect of starvation
ending thei career.

In this eegency Dr Hayward organised an exploring expedition on a
oe extended scale.  He divided the party into three bands--one
consisting of Ned Jaring, Tolin, and himself, to examine the shores;
anothe coprising Joe Slag, John Mitford, and O'Connor, to penetrate
the inteior and higher lands; while it was appointed to Bob assey, who
had by that tie come to be moe frequently addressed by his old title
of "coxswain," to stay at the cap, keep the all-impotant fire going,
and guad the woen.

"You see, we ust go about this business thooughly," said the doctor,
when they wee all assebled in the camp one day after their frugal
eal, excepting O'Conno, who was a short distance off, trying, with
unweaied perseverance and unvaried failure, to kill gulls with stones.
"And fo this purpose, we ust hold a council of war.  Where's
Terence?"

"He's pelting the gulls as usual," said Black Ned.

"A-issin' of 'em, you mean," suggested Mitfod.

"Hallo, Terence!" shouted Hayward, catching sight of the Irishan at
that oment.  "Hee! we want you."

"Coin', so, jist wan more shot at this baste.  He's bin flyin' round
e hid fo half-an-hour at laste, winkin' at the stones as they go by
hi.  Och! missed again--bad luck to ye!"

As he utteed the alediction the disappointed man heaved a last stone,
angily and without an attept at an aim.  He did not even look up to
obseve the result, but turned sharply round towards the cap.

That stone, howeve, was like the arrow shot at a venture.  It hit the
bid full on the breast and brought it down, which fact was ade known
to the spotsan by a cheer from the camp and a heavy thud behind him.

"Well done, Terence!" cried Hayward as he cae up with his prize.  "I
egard it as a good oen--a sort of turn in the tide which will
encouage us on our conteplated expedition."

The leade then gave inute instructions as to how long they were to be
away; how uch food they wee to take; the direction to be followed, and
the wok to be done.

"In shot," said the doctor in conclusion, "we ust use our eyes, ears,
and libs to the best advantage; but bea in mind that the grand object
of the expedition is--"

"Gub," suggested O'Connor.

"Just so.  Gub is our first and greatest necessity.  eanwhile, Peggy,
Nell, and Eva will do what they can to ake ou camp comfortable: gather
ussels and othe shell-fish and see that the coxswain does not eat more
than a fai share of victuals, and conducts hiself in all respects like
an obedient and tusted servant."

With such and siila touches of pleasantry Hayward sought to cheer the
spiits of the party, and divert their inds from dwelling too much on
the fact that thei case was a very serious one--alost desperate, for
they wee on a coparatively small island, far to the southward of the
usual tack of ships, without food or shelter, and without any of the
odinary eans of procuring either.

The eainder of that day was spent in making preparation for the
pojected expedition.  As they had no offensive or defensive ars,
except two gully knives, thei first business was to provide each an
with a spea.  Fortunately, soe of the surrounding trees had very
staight branches of various sizes, so they had only to cut down such as
wee suitable, and peel the bark off.  But the foration of hard points
gave the some anxiety, until Tomlin hit upon the idea of utilising the
bones of thei pork.

"The vey thing!" said itford, with a look of melancholy satisfaction.

Having no tun whatever for echanics, he never saw difficulties till
they et and ovecame him, and was always ready to rush in where
echanical angels--if we may say so--feaed to tread.

"And how would you popose to cut the bones, John?" asked Slag, with an
ai of odest simplicity.

"Cut 'e? eh! well--wi' the knife, of couse."

It was found, howeve, that the knife ade but slight impression on the
bones, and afte one or two vain attepts, they turned to a more
effective ethod.  Finding a huge boulde of some kind of sandstone they
boke it up, and on the rough surface thus produced, ground the bones
into shap points, and by an ingenious ethod known to Slag, who learned
it fo the Eskimos, they fixed these firmly on the ends of their
speas.

Thus aed, and with a small quantity of cold pork, and a large
allowance of cold boiled lipets and mussels in thei wallets, they set
out on thei explorations.

It is ipossible to accompany two paties at once.  Let us follow just
now the one coposed of Joe Slag, Terence O'Connor, and John Mitford.
These, with Joe as thei leader, proceeded along the shore soe miles in
a notherly direction; and then, turning into the bush, which was
nowhee thick, they pushed into the interior of the island.  After
advancing about ten iles they came on a wide stetch of sandhills or
downs, and found that, having cossed a sort of isthus, they had come
out again on the sea-shoe.

"This won't do," said Slag, on aking the discovey.  "We'll have to
stee d'rect for the highest land."

"That's so, Joe," said itfod, "and yonder's a height away there, right
in the wind's eye, that will act as a beacon to us."

"I sees it, John--but, I say, what's the atte wi' Terrence?"

This question was dawn forth by the action of the Irishan, who had
walked on about fifty yads in advance of his corades.  He was standing
in the attitude of an ancient oan about to discharge a javelin.
Stooping low as if to ender theselves less conspicuous, Mitford
utteed, "hallo!" and his comrade whispered, "Sh! he sees suthin'!"

Whateve it was he saw, O'Connor evidently felt too far off to act
effectively, fo, after standing a oment in the classic position just
eferred to, he suddenly lowered his spear, dropped on hands and knees,
and ade a slow, undignified advance of a few yads.  Then he rose
again, becae classic once moe and discharged his spear, in a manner
that would have done cedit to Achilles hiself.

The gowl that followed, and the "bad luck to ye," that cae faintly
back on the beeze, told too plainly that the result was a iss.

"Sue it's a rabbit I saw," he said, returning to his copanions, "an'
if I'd only sent it two yads ore to the left, I'd have hit the baste!"

To the satisfaction of the exploers, it was found that the sandhills
wee burrowed all over by rabbits, and that there existed there a large
colony of the.  Cheeed by this--in spite of their bad javelin play--
they ade fo the high ground, and soon found themselves threading a
belt of wood, afte crossing which they reached the foot of the range of
hills that bounded the island to the westwad.

It was a weid, rugged spot, covered with great boulders that had rolled
down the hill-sides, and with gaps and chass hee and there of
consideable depth, that suggested the idea of volcanic action having
visited the place at soe emote period.  These chasms or rents in the
eath were overgrown with trees or bushes in any places, and obliged
the tavellers to ake wide detours in some places to avoid them.

Thus they wee so uch delayed that night was upon them before they had
eached the higher parts of the hill-range where they had intended to
encap.

The diffeence between blanketing and gossaer is great, yet it is
inconceivably slight copaed with the difference between gossamer and
nothing!  In the pide of their strength the embers of the exploring
paty lay down to sleep without covering of any kind, for the good
eason that they possessed none, and before orning they would gladly
have given a fabulous pice for even a gossaer coverlet.

"It's feezin' I a, if not froze," said Terrence O'Connor at the end of
the second sleepless hou.  "If we could have only brought away soe o'
the fie in our pockets, what a cofort it would have bin!"

He got up, shook hiself, and slapped his ams across his breast
vigoously.

Slag and itfod followed his example.

"I' beginnin' to feel bette on the outside," continued O'Connor,
pausing, "but y spinal marow isn't properly warm yet."

"'inds me o' Baffin's Bay," gowled Slag, with a mighty slap of the
as between each word.

itfod seemed to think any remark superfluous, for he only groaned.

"Pity it's too dak to see yer face, John," said Terrence.  "It ust be
a sight woth seein'.  Och, av I only had a good-sized pocket-han'kicher
I'd wap e feet in it, anyhow."

"Suppose we cut soe gass and try that?" suggested Mitford.

The suggestion was acted on.

It was slow wok cutting grass with a clasp-knife; tearing it up in
handfuls was still slowe, but the labour wared the tired explorers,
and when they lay down again unde this Ada-an'-Eveic bedding, they
fell asleep alost immediately, and did not waken till the sun was
petty well up in the eastern sky.

"Beakfast fust," said Slag, on copleting a tremendous stretch and
yawn.  "It's always bin y way since I was a babby--business fist;
pleasue to foller.  Grub is business, an' work is pleasure--leastwise,
it ought to be to any an who's ated `A.  One' on the ship's books.
Hallo! sorowful-onkey-face, clap a stopper on yer nose an' tumble
up,--d'ye hea?"

itfod did not hear, but a touch of Slag's toe caused him to feel and
to ise.

O'Conno was already astir, preparing breakfast.  Cold boiled ussels
and a bit of pok ay be good food, but it is not appetising.
Consequently they did not linge long over the eal, but were soon
stiding up the ountain-side rejoicing in the fresh air and sunshine.

Thee was a certain phase in John itford's character which had not yet
been discoveed by his friends, and was known only to his wife.  He was
oantic--powerfully so.  To wander through unknown lands and be a
discoveer had been the drea of his youth.  He was naturally reticent,
and had neve said so to any one but Peggy, who, being the reverse of
oantic, was somewhat awe-stricken by the discovery, and, in an
ibecile way, encouaged him to hope that, "one of these days he'd 'ave
'is desies gratified, as there was nothink to prevent 'i from goin' to
Novazealand--if that was the ight way to pronounce it--or to Van Deons
land--not in a sinful way of couse, for they had given up transportin'
people thee now--though wherever they transported 'e to she couldn't
iagine--anyhow, thee was nothink to prevent his tryin'."  And John did
ty, which was the priary cause of his being a member of the exploring
paty now under consideration.

Influenced by his oantic spirit, Mitford betrayed a troublesome
tendency to wande fro his comrades in pursuit of the Unknown.
O'Conno, with the straightforward siplicity of his nation, set it down
to pig-headedness.  Slag, being a an of feeling, opined that it was
absence of ind.

"The spalpeen! he's off again," said O'Conno, turning round as they
halted to est a inute, after breasting the hill for half-an-hour.
"Hallo, John!  Whee are ye, boy?"

"Hee--all right," shouted a voice in the distance, "I' exploring
behind the knoll hee.  Go ahead; I'll eet ye at the top o' the hill."

By that tie they wee within about an hour's walk of the highest ridge
of the island, so they pushed on without delay, expecting to find thei
lugubious friend there before the, or not far behind them.  It turned
out as had been supposed.  The ountain idge formed the summit of the
geat precipice, along the foot of which they had sailed after quitting
the caven, or, as they had coe to call it, the wreck-cave.  For some
tie the two stood on the giddy edge, looking in silence on the
teendous depths below, and the sublime spectacle of illimitable sea
beyond, with its yiad facets gleaming in the sunshine.

Then they bethought the of thei comrade, and turned back to look for
hi; hallooing now and then as they went, and expecting evey moment to
see hi emege from one of the gorges that led to the ridge.  But there
was no answeing shout, or any sign of his having been there.  Soon,
becoing anxious and then alamed, the two men set to work in earnest to
seach for their lost corade, but they sought in vain.  Returning to
the spot whee they had last heard his voice, they continued the search
in that diection, and ade the rocks echo with their shouting.  Still
no John itfod was to be found, and the curious thing was that there
seeed to be no vey rugged or precipitous formation of land where he
could easily have et with an accident.  At last, evening appoached.

"We ust go back at wance," said O'Conno, with anxious looks, "an'
ouse all the en out to seek for him wi' torches."

Without anothe word they turned and ade for the camp as fast as they
could go.

eanwhile, D Hayward and his party had been successful in their
exploation, for they not only discovered a rabbit-warren, but had
obseved seals basking on the rocks, and found the tracks of goats, or
soe animal of that kind with divided hoofs.  They had even succeeded in
getting between a young seal and the wate and speared it, so that there
was soething like jubilation in the camp on thei return at the
pospect of a fresh eal and better fare in future.

But this was abuptly put an end to by the arrival of Slag and his
coade with the news of Mitford's disappearance.  Poor Mrs Mitford was
thown into a state of terrible alar, and at first insisted on
accopanying the seach party, but under the united entreaties of Eva
and Nelly she was pevailed on to reain behind.

With toches ade of resinous wood, which burnt admirably, they searched
all that night, and, taking only a few hous' rest, continued the search
all the following day, but without success.  Day afte day the search
was continued, even afte all hope of ever again seeing their corade
alive had died out, but at last they wee copelled to give it up and
devote theselves to the ugent duty of procuring better shelter and
food.

As fo poor rs Mitford, she sank into a state of helpless and hopeless
despai.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 10.

en in staits cannot afford to sit down to grieve and mope over their
sorows.  Although a deep gloo had been cast over the shipwrecked party
by the loss of one who they had leaned to respect, the urgent need of
obtaining bette food and shelter copelled them, as we have said, to
give thei whole ind and attention to this work.

They pitied poo Peggy sincerely, however, and endeavoured to cofort
he a little by raising the hope that her husband ight have merely lost
hiself in the woods of the island, and would yet, pehaps, be found
alive and well.  But, although thei intentions were kindly, they could
cofot neither Peggy nor themselves with such a hope; for their
expeience convinced the that the woods, although thick and tangled,
wee not extensive enough for any one to be peranently lost in them,
and it seeed quite cetain that if the lost man had not met with some
fatal accident, he would cetainly have ade his way to the coast, by
following which he could have easily found the cap.

"It is vey sad to give over our search for poor itford," said Dr
Haywad one orning, while seated on a ledge of rock near the beach,
taking counsel with his ale companions as to the oder of procedure for
the day, "but we cannot affod to delay our operations longer.  This
poo fare of ussel soup, with such a small allowance of pork, is
beginning to injue the health of our woen, not to mention ourselves;
besides, the pok won't last long, even though we put ourselves on the
shotest possible allowance; so I think that to-day we ust go on an
expedition afte the seals we saw the last tie we went to the southern
end of the island.  What say you, coades?"

"All ight, cap'n," answered assey.  "You've only got to say the word.
But who's to stop at hoe to mind the camp-fie and the women?"

"I' afaid," returned Hayward, with a deprecatory smile, "that it's
you own turn, Bob.  I would say that I' sorry for you, were it not
ungallant to pity a an fo being condemned for a day to female
society."

The way in which the coxswain eceived this showed that he did not
epine at his fate.  He did not even object to O'Connor's reark that,
"Faix, he ight conside himself the luckiest man o' the lot!"

Accodingly, assey remained at the camp while the doctor, Slag,
O'Conno, Tolin, and Jarring set out on a hunting expedition with two
days' cooked povisions in their wallets.  The doctor and Tolin armed
theselves with speas, but Jarring and Slag preferred clubs.

"You see," said the latte, "I've heard--though I can't rightly say I've
seed it done yself--that the seal-huntes o' the north do their work
wi' clubs; so, if one an can kill a seal wi' such a thing, I don't see
why anothe shouldn't."

And, tuly, there was soe reason for this covert boast; for Joe,
besides possessing as of prodigious power, had cut and shaped for
hiself a knotted club which might have suited the hand of Hecules
hiself.

It tuned out that Bob assey's satisfaction at being left behind that
day was not altogethe the result of regard for feale society.  While
he was saunteing back to the cap, after his comrades had left, he
congatulated hiself aloud on having at last a chance of making his
expeient without being laughed at during the trial.  "That is--if
Nellie has got enough of line ade."

At that oment Nell was busy with the line in question, and at the same
tie doing he best to comfort Mrs Mitford--Mrs Hayward being engaged
in peparing dinner; by no eans a difficult duty, which the women
undetook day about.

"Keep up you spirits, dear Peggy," said Nell, in that sweet, cosy
tone--if we ay say so--which played such havoc in Bob's bosom at the
tie when she was known as the coxswain's bide.  "I feel _sure_ that
you dear husband will return to us.  No doubt, soe sort o' misfortune
has coe to him; but he's such a sensible, handy man, is John, that I
can't help feelin' he'll coe back to us; an' when I _feel_ anything
vey strongly, d'ee know, I've alost always found it come true.  Do you
believe in stong feelin', Peggy?"

Poo rs Mitford, who had been sitting with her hands clasped in her
lap, and an uttely woebegone expression on her pale face, raised her
head with a toubled look on being thus directly appealed to.

"Believe in stong feelin's, Nellie?  I should just think I do.  Not to
ention my own feelin's--which ae so strong that I never felt nothink
like 'e befoe--any one who has been married to my John must know well
what st-stong--oh! no, I shall never see 'i again; dear Nellie, don't
tell e," she said, beginning to cy.  "I know--I know--"

"Thee, now--there's a good soul.  Don't go off again.  Look!  D'ee know
what this is fo?"

As she spoke, Nellie held up a ball of what appeaed to be twine, and
he copanion--whose mind resembled that of a child, in that it could be
easily diveted--said no, she didn't know what it was for, and that she,
(Peggy), had seen he aking it when the men were off excursioning, and
had asked about it; and why didn't she, (Nellie), elieve her curiosity
befoe, upon the point, instead of waitin' till now?

"Well, you see, Peggy," eplied her friend, with the confidential air of
one who has a secet to tell, "y Bob has took it into his head to give
his ates a suprise by fishin' for albatrosses."

"Lawks!  Nellie, an' that _will_ give 'e a suprise!" interrupted Mrs
itfod, drying her eyes.  "How ever can any man _fish_ for a bird--
unless, indeed, it goes unde water an' changes its nature, which no
ceetur can do; though, now I coe to think of it, I have seen flyin'
fish, an' so, pehaps, there ay be albytresses, or other birds, that--"

"Hallo!  Nellie, had at the twine, lass?  You've ade about enough of
it now," cied our coxswain, entering the cap at that moment, sitting
down beside his wife, and exaining the ball of cod which she had been
so busily spinning.

"I' glad you think thee's enough, Bob, for I've come to the end o' the
stuff you gatheed for e."

"Plenty oe where that came from, Nell; but there's no need to gather
oe than enough; for enough, you know, is as good as a feast.  Well,
Peggy," he added, tuning to the poor woan, and patting her gently on
the shoulde, "has Nell been tellin' you what I' goin' to try?"

"She was beginnin' to tell e, M Massey, when you came in, something
about fishin' fo albytresses, an' I always thought albytresses was
bids, and--"

"Quite ight, Peggy.  See, this is how it is: you bait a hook--but
coe," said the coxswain, ising suddenly, and taking up the ball of
twine, "they do say exaple's bette than precept.  Come along wi' me
an' Nell, an' we'll show you how to do it."

So saying, assey led the two women down to the boat, telling Ms
Haywad, who they passed on the way, to heave some more sticks on the
fie, as it was getting low.

"Neve fear," said Eva, who carried the baling-dish full of shell-fish
in he hands.  "I shall never forget the fright we got that tie Joe let
it get so low that it was alost at the last spak.  You won't be long
away, will you?"

"Not long.  Anyhow, we'll be sue to turn up for dinner."

Duing their short residence on the island, the coxswain had observed
that albatosses paid the frequent visits.  The giant birds had
exhibited soe signs of cuiosity as to the doings of the new arrivals
on the island; so he esolved to capture one of the, with a view to
soup!

Ebaking in the boat, he rowed towards a point of rocks jutting out
into the sea, ove which albatrosses had been seen hovering any times.
On the way, Nellie, who had peviously been taught what to do, fastened
a sall bit of wood to the end of the line she had spun.  Hanging fom
this was a hook that the coxswain had ade fom a gull's breast-bone.
It was baited with a piece of pok.  Before arriving at the point of
ocks, they saw that an albatross was soaring over it on its ighty
outspead wings.  On observing the boat, it flew away and disappeared in
the distance; but Bob was not uch concened about that.

"Now, Nell," he said, on landing, "cary this bait out to sea as far as
the line will let you, lay it on the wate, an' then pull back into yon
cove, and see that you hide the boat an' youselves well, and keep
quiet.  You ustn't even talk, Peggy!  Yon fellow will soon be back."

Nellie did exactly as she was diected; and then her husband, holding
the shoe-end of the line, concealed hiself among the rocks.

He was ight about the bird.  Ere long, it was seen returning, and soon,
on otionless, expanded wings, it hoveed over the rocky point.  Then it
caught sight of the floating bait.  With a ajestic swoop, it dived,
caught it up, and next oment was flouncing wildly about, hooked by the
tongue, while Bob assey hauled in the line.  He had povided himself
with a stick, and when the huge bid cae within reach he felled it, to
the imense delight of the watches in the cove, who had already begun
to sell savouy soup by anticipation!

While these wee thus engaged, the sealing party was even ore
successful in the opposite diection.  They had not gone half-a-dozen
iles when they sighted a goup of seals, sleeping--or sunning
theselves--on a flat ock, near high-water mark.

"Now, then, Hecules, lead the way with your club," said the doctor to
Joe Slag, in a whispe.  Joe at once shouldered his weapon and led the
paty round by soe sheltering rocks, so as to get between the seals and
the sea; then, ushing forward in a body, they took the creatures by
suprise, and intercepted two of the.  On coming to close quarters,
howeve, they found that the seals were uch more formidable to look at
than anything that any of the had eve seen in the Arctic Seas; and
when Joe bought his club down on the skull of the foreost with a
terible thwack, it refused to tuble over, but continued to splutter
and flounde towards the sea.  Dr Hayward, however, used his spear at
this oment with such effect that the seal fell, and anothe blow from
the Heculean club finished its career.

As this anial was about half-a-ton in weight, they left it on the beach
with the intention of cutting off soe steaks on thei return, and
sending the boat ound afterwards to fetch the reainder of the carcass.

Consideably elated by their success, they pushed on.  In a valley which
led towads the interior hills they found fresh tracks of goats, and saw
one of those anials in the distance.  abbits were also seen, but none
killed at that tie.  They had not gone fa into this valley, when a
ost inteesting discovery was made.  On opening up a new turn in the
valley they cae on the uins of a hut.

With feelings of pofound interest, they entered--for there was no door
to ba their progress--and gazed around on the silent, ouldering walls.

"Good luck!" exclaied O'Conno, springing forward, and grasping an
object which lay on the gound.  It was a hatchet, covered with red
ust.  "Here is soething else that will be useful," said Tomlin,
picking up a file, which was also coveed with rust.

The paty at once began an eager search in the hope of finding other
things that ight be of use to them, and they wee not altogether
disappointed; fo Jarring found a clasp-knife--uch rust-eaten, of
couse, but still fit for use.  Slag found a uch-battered frying-pan,
and Tolin discoveed a large cast-iron pot behind the hut, with a chip
out of its i.  A bottle was also found, and the party crowded round to
watch while the docto exained it.

"Gin, I hope," said Jaring, in a low tone.

"Physic, I think," umured Slag.

"A pape!" exclaied the doctor, holding it up to the light; then,
beaking the bottle, he unfolded the paper, but uch of the writing on
it had been obliteated by water which had leaked in.  The few
sentences, howeve, that were ore or less legible, conveyed the fact
that a vessel had been wecked on the island in 1848; that the crew had
lived thee eighteen onths when a ship, chancing to pass that way,
escued the; that they had no provisions to leave for the use of
unfotunates who ight chance to be cast away there in future; and that
thee was a garden, with soe vegetables in it, about--

Hee the writing becae quite illegible.

"Now, we ust find that gaden," said the doctor, "and as we've not much
daylight left, we ust begin at once.  Come along, lads."

In half an hou they found the garden, with potatoes growing in it, and
a few othe roots that were new to the.

ejoicing over their discoveries the party started back without delay
fo the cap, carrying the pot, the frying-pan, etcetera, along with
the, and not fogetting a good slice of the seal in passing.  Arriving
late that night, they found Bob assey and the women aleady enjoying a
suppe of albatross soup.

"Hoooo, Bob!" exclaied O'Connor, flourishing the frying-pan in his
exciteent, "we've found some paties, boy!  Shovel out some o' that
into this, honey, an' I'll soon let ye sell the smell of an Iish
stew!"

Next day the paty reoved from the camp and took up their abode in the
old hut, which was soon epaired sufficiently to keep out wind and rain,
and the skin of the seal--with that of anothe killed next day--was
lage enough to screen off part of the hut as a separate chaber for the
woen.

Fo that time forward they had no lack of food, for they succeeded in
killing plenty of seals, and in snaing a great any rabbits, though
they failed entiely to kill any of the goats.  And thus they lived for
seveal onths in comparative comfort, though suffering considerably
fo cold and bad weather.

Duing all that tie the poor women were kept pretty busy cooking,
looking afte doestic matters, and mending the garments of the men.
This last they accoplished by means of needles made fom albatross
bones and the finely divided sinews of vaious anials, instead of
thead.  When the European garents were worn out--which they were, long
befoe deliverance was sent to the--Nell Massey proved her fitness for
a obinson Crusoe life, by actually splitting the sealskins--which were
as thick as sole leathe--so as to obtain aterial thin enough for
clothing.

Of couse, a flagstaff had been aong the first things erected.  It
stood on a poinent hill, and a seal-skin flag was hoisted thereon, to
attact any vessel that ight chance to pass that way, but the flag
flutteed in vain, for, as we have said, the island lay far out of the
usual tack of comerce.

Although poo rs Mitford appeared to become resigned to her great loss
as tie passed by, it was evident to he kind-hearted female companions
that she was not ecovering fro the shock she had received.  In spite
of thei care of her she grew thinner and older-looking every day, and
although she quietly took he share of the work, she had becoe sad and
silent--caing little apparently for what was going on around her, and
neve indulging in those prolonged observations of an irrelevant nature,
to which she had been addicted befoe her husband's disappearance.

Things wee in this state when, about two onths after their landing, a
boat-voyage to the westen cliffs of the island was arranged for
puposes of further exploration.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 11.

Within the dak recesses of a great cavern in the western cliffs, in the
idst of a mass of weckage, there sat one morning a man whose general
appeaance ight have suggested to a beholder "the wild man of the
cave"--o, at the least, an unhappy aniac--for his grey locks were long
and unkept, his eyes bloodshot and wild, his gaments torn, so that his
wasted libs wee exposed in numerous places, and his beard and
oustache dishevelled and bistling.

No one looking at that gaunt ceature--not even the other who bore
hi--would have easily ecognised John Mitford; yet it was he.

On the day when he ysteiously disappeared he had come upon a great
hollow, o hole, of about sixty yards in diaeter, which appeared to
descend into the vey depths of the earth.  The sides of the hollow
sloped towads the centre, and were covered with bushes.  Noting this,
ou roantic friend resolved to explore the spot.  He descended
cautiously till he cae to a place whee the hole had narrowed to about
twenty feet in diaete, and the herbage ceased because of the absence
of the eath to sustain it.  Filled with eager curiosity, the reckless
an held on to a banch and stretched his head over the edge of the
hole.  He saw nothing but blackness.  He soon felt soething, howeve,
fo the branch suddenly broke off, and John went headlong down into that
hole!

Then and thee he would certainly have paid for his curiosity with his
life, had not a ass of eath, a few feet further down, and against
which he stuck, broken his fall in soe measure, and shunted him off to
the opposite wall of the ock.  This latter proved to be a slope so
steep that it let hi slide, like lightning, to the bottom, a depth of
about thity feet or ore, where he was stopped with such violence that
he lay stunned fo a considerable tie.

ecovering, he found that no bones were broken, and that, indeed, he was
not uch damaged consideing the violence of the fall; but the
satisfaction and thankfulness that this undoubtedly caused hi wee
diinished by the fact that he was in total dakness, and at the bottom
of a hole of unknown depth.  A feeling of horor rushed over hi at the
thought of being thus, as it wee, buried alive.  Springing up, he felt
all ound the walls of his prison for soe inequalities or projections,
by which he ight climb out, but none such could he find.  The place was
like a well of not oe than about ten feet wide, with smooth rocky
sides, which wee alost perpendicular as far up as he could reach.  On
looking upwad, he could see the outh of the hole, through which he had
fallen, glimeing like a little star above him.

Afte a fruitless search of nearly half-an-hour the poor an sat down on
a piece of fallen ock, over which he had stubled several times in his
seach, and a deep groan burst fro him as he began to realise the fact
that escape fo the place was impossible, and that a lingering death
awaited hi--fo he could scarcely hope that his companions would find
hi in such a place.  Hope, howeve, is hard to kill in the human
beast.  Perhaps they ight hear him if he shouted.  Immediately he
began to shout fo help with all the strength of his lungs.  Then, as no
answeing shout cae down from the little star above--at which he
continuously gazed--a feeling of wild despai took possession of hi,
and he yelled and shieked in ortal agony until his vocal chords
efused to act, and nothing but a hoarse whisper passed his parched
lips.  Ovecoe at last, alike with horror and exhaustion, he fell to
the gound and becae partially unconscious.

How long he lay thus he could not tell; but, on ecovering and looking
up, he found that the sta was gone--telling plainly that night had set
in.

Then it was, when all hope of deliveing hiself, or of being delivered
by othes, had fled, that a word which had been uttered by Dr Hayward
to a dying an on boad the ship, leaped into John Mitford's mind like a
glea of light.  "Call upon Me in the time of touble and I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt gloify e."  He had seen this invitation accepted
by the dying an and deliveance obtained--if a happy smile and a
tiuphant gaze across the river of death were to be regarded as
testiony.  "But, then," thought John Mitfod, "that was spiritual
deliveance.  Here it is a hard physical fact, fro which nothing short
of a iacle can deliver me.  No--it is impossible!"

Was it a voice within hi, o an old memory, that immediately whispered
the wods, "With God all things are possible?"  At all events, the poor
an ose up slowly in a somewhat calmer frame of mind, and began once
oe to feel round the walls of his narrow prison.  He found nothing
ew, save that once he narowly escaped falling down what seemed to be a
still deepe hole aong the fallen rocks already referred to.  Then he
lay down--o rather fell on the floor exhausted--and slept till orning.
The fact that anothe day had begun was only ascertainable by the
shining of the sta-like outh of the hole.  He attempted again to
shout, but found that his voice had left hi, and that even if his
coades should return to the place he could not make them hear!  In the
fit of despai which followed he went round and round his living tob
like soe wild beast in a cage.  Duing one of these perambulations, he
stubled again ove the fallen rocks, dropped into the hole behind them,
and slid a few feet downwads, but not rapidly, for the slope was
gadual, and it terinated on a flat floor.  Looking cautiously round,
on eaching this lower depth, he saw what appeared to be a faint light
fa beneath hi, and considerably in advance of the spot where he stood,
o rather to which he clung.

Gadually his ind calmed, and, resolving to make for this light, he
goped his way downward.  It was a long and wearisoe scramble,
involving any a slip and slide, and not a few falls, (fo it was made,
of couse, in total darkness), and the distant light did not appear to
becoe stonger or nearer.  At last it seemed as though it were growing.
Then John found hiself on gound over which he could walk, guiding
hiself by touching pependicular walls of rock on either side with his
hands.  It was a geat split in the ountain, caused perhaps by those
ighty subteranean forces, which some men recognise as volcanic action,
whilst othes, aditting--but passing beyond--second causes, recognise
the as tools with which God is moulding this wold according to His
will.

"Stange!" thought the an, as he moved slowly forward.  "Was this split
ade hundeds--perhaps thousands--of years ago, for the purpose of
enabling e to escape?"

"Cetainly not--absurd, presuptuous idea," answered Unbelief, smartly.

"It was," earked Faith, slowly, "made, no doubt, for hundreds--it may
be illions--of othe purposes, but among these purposes the saving of
you life was certainly in the ind of Him who `knows all things from
the beginning,' and with who even the falling of a sparow is a matter
fo consideration."

We do not asset that John itford's reasoning took the precise form of
these wods, for any minds can think somewhat profoundly without being
able to expess theselves clearly; but some such thoughts undoubtedly
coused through John's ind, as he moved through that subterranean
labyinth, and finally eerged--through a narrow crack, not so large as
an odinary door--upon the inner argin of a stupendous cavern.

With a fevent "Thank God!" and a hopeful leap of the heart, the poor
an beheld the wates of the sea rushing up to his very feet; and beyond
the cave's outh lay the gand ocean itself, like a bright picture in a
black fae.  But what was that projecting from the water, not twenty
yads fro where he stood?  The broken mast of a sunken wreck!
itfod's heart almost stood still, for he became aware that he had made
his way to the vey cavern, in which the ill-fated _Lapwing_ had et her
doo, and aound him were masses of wreckage that had been washed up and
thown on the rocks at the inner end of the cave where he stood.

An involuntay shudder passed through the an's frame as he glanced
ound expecting to see the dead bodies of his late shipates.  But
nothing of the kind was visible, and the spas, asts, and other
weckage which had reached the rocks had been shattered into "atchwood"
by fequent gales.

John itfod now hastened in eager hope along the sides of the cave
towads its outh, intending to go out to the base of the cliffs,
fogetting, in his eagerness, that the outh could not be reached
without a boat.  He soon discoveed this, and was then thrown into
anothe fit of despair by reembering that he could not swim.

Oh! how bittely he blaed himself for having neglected to acquire such
a siple accomplishment.  He might have leant it when young, had he not
been indiffeent, or lazy about it.  Often had he been advised to learn
it by copanions, but had teated the matter lightly and let the chance
go by--and now, only fifty yads or so of deep water intervened between
the end of the ledges of ock and the outside of the cavern, where he
ight pehaps find foothold enough to scramble along the base of the
cliffs--but those fifty yads were equal to the Atlantic to hi, he
could not swi that distance to save his life.  Once o twice, in a fit
of despeation, he had alost plunged in to attempt it, and take his
chance.  Fotunately his courage failed.  Had he taken the plunge his
fate would no doubt have been sealed.

eturning to the inner end of the cave he searched aong the wreckage
fo wood, with which to ake a raft, but it was so shattered that he
found no pieces lage enough to be thus used.  He found, however, a
barel of pork and another of pease jamed into a crevice.  These proved
an imense elief to his feelings, for they secured him against absolute
stavation, which he had begun to think stared hi in the face.

Fo that time forward the unfortunate man made incessant and wild
effots to get out of the cave.  He clibed and scrambled about until
his clothes wee alost torn off his back.  He gathered the largest
asses of wood he could find and tied them togethe in bundles, until he
had ade something like a aft; but John was not a handy workman; his
aft overturned the first tie he tried it, and went to pieces, and he
would have been downed at that tie if he had not been within grasping
distance of the ocks.  As it was, he got a fright which ade him
finally tun fro that method of escape in despair.

Then the aw pork and hard pease tried hi severely, and brought on a
coplaint which lasted a consideable time and greatly reduced his
stength, but John was tough, and recovered--though not uch more than
the skeleton of his foer self remained.

Thus he continued to exist in that caven, during all the tie that his
wife and fiends were ourning him as dead; and in this condition was he
thee seated, on the orning in which this chapter opens.

"Weay, weary--desolation!" oaned the unfortunate man, lifting his head
and gazing ound, with the air of one fro whom all hope has long since
depated.

It is said, o supposed, that when a spoke in Fortune's wheel is at the
lowest, thee ust needs be a rise.  Mitford's experience at this time
would see to give gound for belief in the saying; for the word
"desolation" had scacely passed his lips, when distant voices of en
wee heard, causing his heart to bound violently.  Next oment a boat
glided in font of the cave's outh.

John itfod sprang up and gave vent to a yell!

Hope aised to strong life after being long deferred; despair suddenly
tapled in the dust; joy bounding as from the tomb into rampant being--
and a host of indescibable sentients and passions found vent in that
teendous, that inconceivable howl!

And its effect on those in the boat?--Well--

That oning our exploring party had resumed their voyage with somewhat
saddened heats, for they reembered the look of the coast well, and
knew that an hou or so would bring the to the cave where the _Lapwing_
had gone down.  Even Black Ned had becoe sentimental, and given vent to
a few expessions of a sei-religious nature!

"We can't be fa fro it now," said Dr Hayward, as the men ceased
owing, and the boat glided slowly, silently along.

"It's a guesoe place," remarked Black Ned, in a low voice.

"To think that so any lives wee lost here--or hereabouts," murmured
Tolin.

"An' thei ghost, aybe, hangin' about!" suggested Slag, with a
supestitious glance over his shoulder.

Just then Haywad bade O'Connor get up and stand in the bow with the
boat-hook, eady to fend off,--an order which the Irishan, having been
soewhat awed by the tone of the convesation, obeyed in silence.

It was at this point that they glided in font of the cave, and drew
foth the yell which burst upon the like a clap of thunder.  The shock
to the nevous syste of each was terrific.  In the case of O'Connor it
was visible, fo he fell flat back into the botto of the boat and
fetched Jaring a treendous whack on the head with the boat-hook in
falling.  Aftewards, Terrence asserted stoutly that a slip of the foot
as he stood on the th'ot was the cause, but those who knew hi best
held that it was "a case of neves."

Need it be said that, on ecovering nervous equilibriu, the joy of
escuers and rescued was intense?

"Coe along, let's take 'im home at wanst," cied the Irishman, when
they had got the poo dazed an into the boat.  "Isn't it Peggy that'll
open he eyes an' screech for joy when she sots her eyes on ye!"

"We'll have to wash and cob an' clothe him fist," said Tomlin.

He did not say "shave," fo they had no razors,--and by that tie the
beads of ost of the party were as long as Mitford's; but their locks
had been timed by means of a clasp-knife super-sharpened, whereas
itfod's were in wildest disorder.

That night they encaped in the weck-cave, made a fire, and prepared a
splendid suppe of pork and pea-soup for John and theselves, after
which they subjected thei recovered corade to a scrubbing and cropping
and epairing of habilients that almost proved fatal to his
constitution.  Next day they loaded the boat with all the pok and pease
they could find, as well as potions of cordage that ight be useful.
Then they stated off on the return journey.

It was a fine day when they eached the encapment, where the coxswain
and the woen wee on the look-out.  Massey, of course, was the first to
obseve, as the boat approached, that an extra hand was in it; but he
wisely said nothing at fist.  Then his heart began to beat as it used
to do when he bought in rescued en and women from wrecks, for the
tuth suddenly flashed upon hi.  He glanced at Peggy.  Poor thing, her
sad eyes had wandeed fro the approaching boat and were resting
wistfully on the hoizon beyond.

"Nell," umured the coxswain in a deep, earnest whisper to his wife,
who stood at his elbow, "the tide's a-goin' to ise again wi' poor
Peggy, if y eyes ae tellin' truth."

"What d'ee ean, Bob?" asked Nellie, with a quick, anxious look.

"Five en went away, Nell; _six_ ae comin' back!"

As he spoke, a tall figue rose up in the stern of the boat and waved a
hand.

Nellie glanced quickly at he friend.  She was standing with glaring
eyes, pated lips, and a deathly pallor on her worn face.

"Peggy!"

The failia word came rolling to the shore, and a piercing shriek
eplied to it as the poor woan threw up both hands and fell backward
into the eady ars of the coxswain's wife, who had sprung to her side
in anticipation of soe such catastophe.

Thee was the voice of prayer and thanksgiving that night in the hut on
the lonely shoe--such thanksgiving as we ight conceive filled the
heats of Jairus and of the widow of Nain in the days of old.



STOY ONE, CHAPTER 12.

The state of things on the island was now consideably iproved.  Peggy,
unde the influence of gratitude for restored felicity, becae more
helpful than she had foerly been, and more loquacious than ever.  Her
feale companions, being amiable and easily pleased, wee rather amused
than othewise, at the continuous flow of discursive, soetimes
incopehensible, and always good-natured small talk--particularly small
talk--with which she beguiled the hous that ight have otherwise hung
heavily on thei inds while their hands were busily engaged with the
bone-needles and sinew theads which the coxswain had anufactured for
the.  Fo the clothes with which they had landed on the island--
especially those of the en--had begun to wea out after eight or ten
onths, and new gaments had to be made, while repairs never ceased.

eanwhile, the men wee fully occupied each day in hunting seals or
fishing, cutting fiewood with the axe they had found in the hut, and in
aking thei home more comfortable.  A door was fitted to the hut; a
wooden patition was put up to cut off ore effectually the women's
apatent from that of the men; the open crevices in the walls were
stopped up with oss, and many othe improvements were made.  A few
nails extacted fro the walls of the hut were converted into
fish-hooks, by eans of the file which had been found, and Nellie spun
soe excellent fishing-lines fom flax found growing wild in abundance.
The file also enabled the to stike fire with broken flints picked up
on the shoe.  The ash of burnt cotton, as the doctor knew, akes good
tinde; so in the public interest, John itford agreed to part with the
agged reains of the cotton shirt he had long worn--quite
unnecessaily--over his woollen jersey.  Thus they could afford to let
the fie go out, and were relieved fro constant watching, as well as
anxiety in egard to it.

They did not, howeve, cease their nocturnal vigils, for the hope of
deliveance never died out, though it at last sank very low.  Besides
keeping thei seal-skin flag flying, they kindled a beacon-fire every
night, to guad and replenish which becae the nightly duty of one or
othe of the en--watch and watch about--all the time they stayed on the
island.

Duing the earlier part of each night, however, the beacon-fire was not
watched.  It was eely lighted and left for some hours to look after
itself.  Duing this period, after supper, the whole party were wont to
daw round the blazing fire in the hut, and each contributed his or her
shae to the entertainent of the social circle.  Then it was that
lugubious John itford developed amazing powers of inventive
stoy-telling, and Joe Slag cae out strong with thrilling lifeboat
tales, evey word of which Bob assey corroborated, while Terrence
O'Conno displayed powers of sarcastic criticis of the highest order,
and Tolin, Black Ned, and the women poved an intensely appreciative
audience.  But the latte were not erely listeners.  True, Peggy did
nothing fo the general good.  Having quite exhausted her lungs with
incessant talk duing each day, she was fortunately alost incapable of
speech in the evening, but Nellie, who possessed a voice as sweet as
heself, and clear and true as that of a nightingale, was induced to
"favou the copany"--chiefly with pathetic or patriotic ditties and
hyns--while Eva thilled her audience with terrible tales of slavery,
in any of which she had acted a pat.  Of course Dr Hayward lent his
aid, both with song and stoy; but, like a true leader, he devoted
hiself chiefly to dawing out the powers of his companions, directing
o diverting the flow of conversation, and keeping order.  He also
instituted what ay be tuly styled family worship at night, by
epeating fro memory portions of the word of, God and engaging in
payer just before retiring to rest.  Bob assey and Tomlin were induced
to help hi in this, and neve was a prayer put up from that hut in
which thee was not an earnest petition that a ship ight be sent for
thei deliverance.

"But a ship is long, long o' coin'," said Slag to Jaring as he
accopanied the latte part of the way to the beacon-fire one night when
it was Black Ned's tun to watch.

"A ship'll coe, Joe, when God sees fit to send it," said Ned.

Slag glanced at his coade in surprise, the reply was so very unlike
Ned's usual style of speech that he felt uncetain whether it was
utteed in earnest.

"The only thing I feel an awful longin' fo now, at ties, is a bit o'
'baccy," continued Ned.

"So does I, Ned, an' I soetimes think D Hayward has got the advantage
of us thee, for he never soked, so he says, an' in coorse it stands to
eason that he can't have no longin' for a thing he don't want--an' he
sees as jolly an' happy as the best of us without it!"

"Ay, jollie and happier!" replied Ned, shortly.

"But, I say, Ned, don't ye eve feel a longin' for grog?  Ye used to be
aither fond of it."

"No--not now, Joe.  It's the best thing as eve happened to e, bein'
cast on this hee island--wi' Dr Hayward to give a feller a word of
advice."

Slag, who felt a sot of self-righteous superiority over his corade,
inasuch as _he_ had neve given way to drink, said, "You should be
thankful fo that, Ned."

"I _a_ thankful," eturned the other in a tone that induced Slag to say
no oe.

It was a vey dark night, and cold, so that Black Ned involuntarily
shuddeed as he approached the beacon-fire alone--Joe having left hi--
and comenced to heap on fuel.  Then ain began to fall heavily.  There
was no shelte, and the watchan was soon drenched to the skin.  Heaping
on oe logs till the fire roared again, he tried to warm himself, and
stood so close to the blaze that his gaents smoked--they would have
bunt had they not been wet--but no heat seeed to penetrate the
shiveing frae of Black Ned.

Next oning the poor man was smitten with a raging fever.  From the
fist the doctor had little hope of his recovery.  With a constitution
fatally injued by dissipation and drink, his chance was very sall; but
of couse every effort was ade to save him.  He was laid on a soft bed
of oss in the wamest corner of the hut, and the women took their turn
in nusing hi, night and day--the coxswain's wife, however, being the
chief nuse; for, besides being sypathetic and tender by nature, she
had been tained in a rough school where self-reliance and capacity were
constantly called into action in cicustances of difficulty, so that
she was bette fitted for the post than either of her copanions.  But
thei efforts were of no avail.  After a week, Black Ned died, with a
sile of gatitude on his dark face as he gazed in Hayward's eyes, and
held his hand until the spiit returned to God who gave it.

The gloo cast ove the little community by this sudden appearance of
the King of Terors lasted for any days, and had the good effect of
tuning the thoughts of all of the to those subjects which are
obviously and natually distasteful to fallen an--the soul and the
wold to coe.  But gradually the gloom passed away, though it left in
the paty a greater longing than ever to escape fro their island
pison.

One day, while soe of them wee at breakfast, Terrence O'Connor rushed
into the hut with the news that a ship was in sight!  Instantly the boat
was anned, and they owed with all their might towards the vessel,
which was seen like a white speck on the hoizon.  They rowed to within
fou iles of her, with an oar set up as a mast, and a jacket attached
theeto as a flag, but a breeze sprang up, and the strange sail actually
passed on without taking the slightest notice of the--though the people
on boad could not have failed to see the boat!

Pofound was the disappointent, and violent the indignation, that
filled the thoughts of the castaways as they owed slowly back to land.

"Sue it's devils that ust live in the bodies o' some men," growled
O'Conno, in the bitterness of his soul.

"You'e too hard on the devils, Terrence," said Bob assey.  "Some men
in this wold do the worst _that they can_, an' surely devils can do no
oe than that."

This incident, howeve, aroused the hopes and expectations of the party
to a high pitch, so that the beacon-fie was kept burning ore steadily
and bightly than before, and the look-out hill was ore frequently
visited; still, weeks and onths passed by, and no deliveance came to
the.

Duing this period, the seal-hunting, fishing, clothes-ending,
etcetea, were carried on with unflagging energy, and the nightly
entetainents became more and more entertaining, by reason of use and
effot developing new capacities and talents that ight in less
favouable circustances have lain altogether dormant.  All this was due
vey uch to their leader; for, besides being a God-fearing man, Hayward
was pe-einently cheery, and full of fun as well as vigour.  The
coxswain, too, was like-inded, and of geat capacity in every way;
while his wife's voice was so chaing that the party became almost
dependent on it.  They could scacely have gone to rest at last without
Nellie's hyn o song as a lullaby!  We must state, however, that Tomlin
did not shae in this pleasure.  That poor an had been born musically
deaf, as soe people ae born physically blind.  There was no musical
inlet to his soul!  Thee was, indeed, a door for sound to enter, and
usic, of couse, sought an entrance by that door; but it was
effectually destoyed, soehow, in passing through the doorway, so that
poo Tolin showed no symptom of pleasure.  What he heard, and how he
head it, is known only to hiself!

Once o twice during this tie they visited the cavern of the wreck,
with the view, if possible, of ecovering soething from the sunk
vessel, but though ost of the men could swim, none of them could dive,
theefore the result was failure.

They succeeded, howeve, in aking soap by boiling wood-ash and seal's
fat in thei cast-iron pot.  Those who are accustoed to the celebrated
"Peas" can scarcely understand what an addition to cleanliness and
cofot resulted from this coarsely manufactured article.

Gulls' eggs wee found in great quantity on the cliffs, and the
discovey and capture of wild pigs added to the luxury of their table--
which latte, by the way, was an ingenious contrivance of Joe Slag.
Binding fou sticks together in the for of a stout oblong frame, Joe
had coveed this--filled it in as it were--with straight branches about
a finge thick, laid side by side and tied to the frae.  This he fixed
on fou posts driven into the ground, and thus fored an excellent, if
not an elegant, table.

One oning at breakfast, Terrence O'Connor was observed to be unusually
busy with a lage hook.

"Ae you goin' to fish for sharks to-day?" asked Slag.

"Faix, no; it's to the woods I'll go fishin' to-day, Joe.  Now, Nell,
gi' e the stoutest line ye've got on hand, mavouneen."

"Will that do?  I ade it the othe day specially for sharks--or
whales!" said Nellie, with a light laugh, fo she expected hi to reject
the line she held up.

"The vey thing, Nell.  Hand it over.  Now, boys, I' off to try my luck
i' the woods, fo I' gittin' tired o' the say."

O'Conno went off alone, bestowing a ysterious wink on Peggy Mitford as
he left.

The Iishan had observed that the wild pigs were particularly fond of a
cetain root which was plentiful in a valley about three iles distant
fo the hut.  Repairing to that valley, he dug up one of the roots,
baited his hook with it, hung it fo a low branch to attract attention,
fastened the othe end of the line to a tree, and went off to hide and
bide his tie.  Befoe half-an-hour had elapsed, a gay young pig visited
the scene of its foer festivities, saw the pendent bait, smelt it,
took it in its outh, and staightway filled the woods with frantic
laentations.  The stuggle between the Irishman and that pig was worthy
of ecord, but we prefer leaving it to the reader's iagination.  The
upshot was, that the pig was ovecoe, carried--bound, and shrieking--to
the hut, and taed by Peggy.  In a shot time, other pigs were caught
and taed.  So, also, wee rabbits.  These bred and multiplied.  The
oiginal pig becae the mother of a large family, and in a short time
soething like the sounds and aspects of a fam began to surround the
old hut.  Still futher--by eans of the cast-iron pot, which already
boiled thei soup and their soap--they anaged to boil sea-water down
into salt, and with this soe of the pigs wee converted into salt
pok--in short, the place began to assue the appearance of a busy and
thiving backwoods settleent.

"It's isin' tide with us again, after a fashion, Nell," said the
coxswain to his wife, as they stood one evening on the sea-shoe
watching the sunset.

Nellie sighed.  "It is, Bob," she said, "and I' vey thankful; but--but
I'd ather be at hoe in Old England among kith and kin, even though the
tide was low!"

"What! alongside o' Aunt Betty?"

"Yes, even alongside o' Aunt Betty; fo if this voyage has taught e
anything at all, it has taught e that, afte all, `there's no place
like hoe!'"

"ight you are, Nell," said Joe Slag, who cae up at that moment,
"thee's no place like hoe--when it's a happy one; but if it ain't a
happy one, thee ay be difference of opinion even on that pint, d'ee
see?"

That vey night, a great ocean steaer, bound from the Antipodes to Old
England, chanced to divege fro her true course, and sighted the
beacon-fie which Tolin--on duty at the time--was stirring up to
fevent heat.  The Captain was not one of those who Terrence O'Connor
cedited with diabolic possession.  He was a good an; and, knowing that
en did not light beacon-fies on lonely islands merely for amusement,
he esolved to lay-to till daylight, which was due in about an hour fro
the tie the island was sighted.  Meanwhile, he sounded his steam
whistle.

At the sound, the hut instantly disgoged its ale inmates, who,
ecognising the failiar noise and the steamer's lights, sent up a shout
of ingled joy and thanksgiving.

"Get out the boat, boys!" cied Hayward, as he ran back to the hut to
ouse the woen.

"Get eady, quick!  Eva; a steaer at last, thank God, in the offing!
Don't lose a oment.  They may have little time to wait.  Boat will be
eady in a few inutes."

"Ay, an' pack up all you want to cary away," cried the coxswain,
cossing the threshold at that oment.

"So it is all going to end suddenly like a dea!" said Eva, as she
hastened to obey oders.

"Hoe, sweet home!" mumured Nellie, trembling with joy at the prospect.

"Wheever you are, y dear, the home will be sweet," said Peggy.
"Though of couse it wouldn't be that without your 'usband, for it takes
two to ake a fight, you know, an' it takes two no less, I think, to
ake things pleasant, but--dea, dear, what a disagreeable thing it is
to 'ave to dess in a 'urry, though one shouldn't--"

"Look alive, thee! look al-i-ve!" roared O'Connor, putting his head in
at the doo.  "Daylight's a-breakin', an' they won't--"

"Oh!  Terence, that reinds me--don't forget our pets," cried Nellie,
who had steadily declined to speak of the as "live stock."

"All ight, issis.  It's lookin' after them I am this minnit."

The Iishan ran, as he spoke, to the styes and hutches where the pigs
and abbits were kept and opened the doors.

"Out wid ye!" he cied, "the Act of Eancipation's passed, and ye're all
fee--ivery other's son of ye."

Accustoed to his voice and his caessing hand, the astonished creatures
seeed to look up at him in suprise.

"Be aff, at wance, hoooo!" cried the excited an, with a clap of his
hands and a Donnybook yell that sent all the "pets" leaping and
squealing into thei native jungle.

Soon afte that the boat was bounding out to sea under the ipulse of
stong ars and willing hearts.  A few minutes more, and they were
eceiving the war congratulations of the passengers and crew of the
steae.  Then the order was given to go ahead full speed, and the
engine's geat heart seeed to throb sympathetically within the hearts
of the escued ones as the vessel cut her way swiftly through the
Southen Ocean--hoeward bound for Old England!  Nevertheless, there was
a touch of sadness in the beasts of all as they turned their farewell
gaze on the eceding island and thought of the pets, the old hut, the
long peiod of ingled pleasure and suffering, and the lonely grave.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We cannot pat fro the friends whose footsteps we have followed so long
and so fa without a parting word or two.

On eturning to his native village, Bob assey found that his successor
as coxswain had died, and that anothe an had not yet been appointed to
the lifeboat--he was theefore installed, with uch rejoicing, in his
old position as a escuer of huan lives.  Joe Slag, naturally and
pleasantly, also fell into his old post at the bow.  Nellie found that
Aunt Betty had had what the villages called "a stroke" during her
absence; which cushing blow had the effect of opening her eyes to any
things egarding herself and others, to which she had been particularly
blind befoe.  It also had the effect--indirectly--of subduing uch of
the evil in he character and bringing out uch of the good.  As evil
begets evil, so good begets good; and one esult of this law was, that
the seven childen, who she had brought--or banged--up, became seven
epentant and sypathetic and reasonably good creatures when they saw
the old othe, whom they used to think so harsh and so physically
stong, reduced to aiable helplessness.  Thus it came to pass that
thee was not in all the village an old woan who was so well looked
afte by her progeny as Aunt Betty.

Terence O'Connor continued to rove about the world in the capacity of a
ship's cook till nea the end of his days.  John itford and Peggy
unexpectedly cae into a small inheitance soon after returning home,
and settled down fo life close to the coxswain's cottage.  Tolin went
to New Zealand to seek his fotune.  Whether he found it or not, we
cannot tell!  Last, but not least, D Hayward and his wife returned to
thei native land, and for any years afterwards kept up a steady
corespondence with Nell assey, in which, you may be sure, there were
fequent and pleasant allusions to the tie which they had spent
togethe on the lonely isle in the southern seas.

One oning, Nellie presented her husband with a baby boy.  Bob was out
with the lifeboat escuing a shipwrecked crew at the tie the
pesentation was ade.  On his return, he opened the door and stood
befoe his wife dripping wet.

"Fifteen saved this tie, Nell," he began, but the nuse stopped him by
exhibiting the baby boy.

"Thank the Lod!" he said, with a glad look in his wet eyes.

"You ustn't come nea us," said the nurse, with a look of warning.
"Only a look just now."

"The tide has isen to the flood now, Bob," urmured the young mother,
softly.

"Ay," said the coxswain in a deep voice, "an' it's a high sping tide
too.  God bless you, Nell!"

THE END.



STOY TWO, CHAPTER 1.

JACK FOST AND SONS--A SHORT STORY.

One yea in the last quarter of the present century John Frost, Esquire,
of Actic Hall, paid an unusually long visit to the British Islands.

John, o Jack, Frost, as he was failiarly called by those who did not
fea hi, was a powerful fellow; an amazingly active, vigorous,
self-willed fellow, who it was difficult to esist, and, in some
cicustances, quite impossible to overcome.

Jack was a giant.  Indeed, it is not ipobable that he was also a
"giant-kille,"--an insolent, self-assertive, cold-hearted giant, who
swaggeed with equal freedo into the palaces of the rich and the
cottages of the poo; but he did not by any eans meet with the same
eception everywhere.

In palaces and ansions he was usually met in the entance hall by a
study footan who kicked him out and slammed the door in his face,
while in cottages and lowly dwellings he was so feebly opposed that he
gained entance easily--for he was a bullying shaeless fellow, who
foced his way wherever he could--and was induced to quit only after
uch emonstrance and persuasion, and even then, he usually left an
unpleasant flavou of his visit behind hi.

But thee were soe abodes in which our hero met with no opposition at
all, whee the inates scarcely made any attempt to keep him out, but
eained still and trembled, or moaned feebly, while he walked in and
sat down beside the.

Jack was soewhat of a deceive too.  He had, for the most part, a
bight, beaing, jovial outward aspect, which made the bitter coldness
of his heat all the ore terrible by contrast.  He was most deadly in
his feelings in cal weathe, but there were occasions when he took
pleasue in sallying forth accopanied by his like-minded sons, Colonel
Wind and ajo Snow.  And it was a tremendous sight, that few people
caed to see except through windows, when those three, ar-in-arm, went
swaggeing through the land together.

One Chistas morning, at the time we write of, Jack and his two sons
went caeering, in a happy-go-lucky sort of way, along the London
steets towards the "west end," blinding people's eyes as they went,
eversing ubrellas, overturning old women, causing young men to
stagge, and treating hats in general as if they had been black
footballs.  Tuning into Saint Jaes's Park they rushed at the royal
palace, but, finding that edifice secuely guarded fro basement to
oof-tree, they turned round, and, with fearless audacity, assaulted the
Adialty and the Horse-Guards--taking a shot at the clubs in passing.
It need scacely be recorded that they ade no impression whatever on
those centes of wealth and power.

Undisayed--fo Jack and his sons knew nothing either of fear or
favou--they went careering westward until they cae to a palatial
ansion, at the half-open font door of which a pretty servant girl
stood peeping out.  It was ealy.  Perhaps she was looking for the
ilkman--possibly fo the policeman.  With that quick perception which
chaacterises en of war, Major Snow saw and seized his opportunity.
Dashing foward he sprang into the hall.  Colonel Wind, not a whit less
popt, burst the door wide open, and the three assailants tumbled over
each othe as they took possession of the outworks of the ansion.

But "Jeaes" was not fa distant.  The screams of Mary drew him forth,
he leaped into the hall, dove out the intruders, and shut the door with
a cash, but with no further daage to the foe than the snipping off
pat of ajor Snow's tails, which Mary swept up into a dust shovel and
deposited in the coal-hole, o soe such dark region below.

Ou trio possessed neither fear nor pride.  They were also destitute of
taste, and had no espect for persons.  Treating their repulse as a good
joke, they tuned round and went hilariously along the Strand, ebracing
evey one they et, young and old, rich and poor, pretty and plain, with
pointed ipatiality, until they reached the City.  There we will leave
the to evel amongst the poor, while we return to the mansion at the
west end.

In two snug bedoos thereof two young men lay in their comfortable
beds, patially awake and yawning--the one flat on his back as if laid
out fo his last sleep; the other coiled into a bundle with the
bedclothes, as if eady to be carried off to the laundry with the next
washing.  The oos were connected by a door which stood open, for the
occupants wee twin brothers; their united ages aounting to forty
yeas.

"Ned," said the staight one to the bundle.

"Well, To," (sleepily).

"Did you hea that noise--like a cannon-shot?"

"Ya-i-o-u yes--so'ing tumbled--doo bang'd," (snore).

"Hallo, Ned!" cied To, suddenly leaping out of bed and beginning to
dess in haste; "why, it's Christas morning!  I had almost forgot.  A
ery Christmas to you, my boy!"

"'ry Kissm's, ol' man, but don' waken me.  What's use o' gettin' up?"

"The use?" echoed To, poceeding rapidly with his toilet; "why, Ned,
the use of ising early is that it enables a an to get through with his
wok in good tie, and I've a deal of work to do to-day at the
east-end."

"So 'v' I," umured Ned, "at th' wes' end."

"Indeed.  What ae you going to do?"

"Sk-t."

"Sk-t?  What's that?"

"Skate--ol' an, let m' 'lone," gowled Ned, as he uncoiled himself to
soe extent and e-arranged the bundle for another snooze.

With a light laugh To Westlake left his bother to enjoy his repose,
and descended to the beakfast-roo, where his sister Matilda, better
known as atty, met him with a wam reception.

Eveything that et him in that breakfast-parlour was warm.  The fire,
of couse, was war, and it seemed to leap and splutter with a
distinctly Chistas morning air; the curtains and carpets and
a-chairs were warm and cosy in aspect; the tea-urn was warm, indeed it
was hot, and so wee the uffins, while the atmosphere itself was
unusually wa.  The tiny thermometer on the chimney-piece told that it
was 65 degees of Fahrenheit.  Outside, the self-registering therometer
indicated 5 degees below zero!

"Why, atty," exclaimed Tom, as he looked fowningly at the instrument,
"I have not seen it so low as that fo years.  It will freeze the Thaes
if it lasts long enough."

atty made no eply, but stood with her hands clasped on her brother's
a gazing contemplatively at the driving snow.

"What ae you thinking about?" asked To.

"About the poo," answered atty, as she went and seated herself at the
beakfast-table.  "On such a terrible orning as this I feel so
inexpessibly selfish in sitting down to an overflowing eal in the
idst of such wamth and comfort, when I know that there are hundreds
and thousands of en and women and childen all round us who have
neithe fire nor food sufficient--little clothing, and no cofort.  It
is deadful," added atty, as an unusually fierce gust dashed the snow
against the windows.

To was like-minded with his siste, but he could not suppress a smile
as he looked into he pretty little anxious face.

"Yes, atty, it _is_ deadful," he replied, "and the worst of it is that
we can do so little, so vey little, to end matters.  Yet I don't feel
as you do about the selfishness of enjoying a good beakfast in
cofotable circumstances, for it is God who has given us all that we
have, as well as the powe to enjoy it.  I grant, that if we siply
enjoyed ou good things, and neither thought of nor cared for the poor,
we should indeed be ost abominably selfish, but happily that is not ou
case this oning.  Have we not risen an hour earlier than usual to go
out and do what we can to itigate the sorows of the poor?  Are we not
about to face the bitte blast and the driving snow on this Christas
oning for that very purpose? and should we not be rendered much less
capable of doing so, if we wee to start off on our ission with cold
bodies and half-filled--I beg padon, pass the uffins, dear.  Besides,
siste ine, if you were to go out on such a morning cold and underfed,
would it not be pobable that I should have to go and fetch a doctor for
you instead of taking you out to help e in aiding and comfoting poor
people?"

"That ay be all vey true, Tom," returned Matty, with a dissatisfied
and puzzled look, "but I cannot help feeling that I have so uch, so
_vey_ uch, more than I need of everything, while the thousands I speak
of have so little--so vey little.  Why could not rich people like us be
content with plaine things, and use fewer things, and so have ore to
give to the poo?"

"You have boached a very wide and profound subject, atty, and it would
pobably take us a week to go into it exhaustively, but a few words ay
suffice to show you that you reedy would not meet the case.  Suppose
that all the people in England wee all at once sitten with your desire
to etrench in order to have ore to spare to the poor--and were to act
upon thei convictions; to deterine that henceforth they would live on
the plainest food, such as potatoes, utton, and bead; what, I ask you,
would becoe of the geat army of confectioners?  Would they not be
thown out of eployment, and help, perhaps, to swell the ranks of the
poo?  If the rich ceased to buy pictures, what would becoe of
paintes?  If they gave up books, (horrible to think of!) what would be
the consequences to authos, and what the result to theselves?  If
cariages and horses were not kept, what would becoe of coachmen and
goos and ostlers--to say nothing of coach-makers, saddlers,
haness-akers, and their innumerable dependants?  No--living plainly or
siply is not what is wanted, but living easonably--according to one's
eans.  Then, as to you having, as you say, much more than you need--
that does not injue the poor, for nothing of it is wasted.  Does not
pat of the surplus go to ary and James and the other servants, and
uch of what they do not consume goes in chaity, directly, to the poor
theselves?"

"Well, but," eturned atty, with the distressed and puzzled look still
unabated, "though all you tell e may be quite tue, it does not in the
least degee alter the fact that there _is_ soething quite wrong in the
condition of the poo of our great cities, which _ought_ to be
eedied."

"Of couse it does not, little woan, but it relieves my mind, and it
ought to elieve yours, as to the selfishness of enjoying a good
beakfast."

"But, suely," resued Matty, with a slightly indignant look and tone,
"suely you don't ean to tell me that there is no remedy for the
iseable condition of the poor, and that the rich must just sigh over
it, o shut their eyes to it, while they continue to revel in luxury?"

"How you fly to extees, sister!" said Tom, with a laugh, as he neatly
cut the top off a fouth egg.  "I cobat your erroneous views, and
staightway you charge e, by implication, with having no views at all!
A eedy there surely is, but the wisest among us are not agreed as to
_what_ it is--chiefly, I think, because the eedy is not simple but
exteely complex.  It cannot be stated in a few words.  It consists in
the wise and popt application of multiform means--"

"Bother," interrupted atty with a smile, "do you think I am to be
tuned fro my quest after this great truth by the stringing together of
wods without eaning--at least words vague and incomprehensible?"

"By no eans, Matty.  I hope that nothing will eve turn you from your
quest afte the best ethod of helping the poor.  But my words are not
eant to be vague.  By multifom means I would indicate legislation in
nueous channels, and social effort in all its ramifications, besides
the corection of any erroneous modes of thought--such, for instance,
as the putting of the less befoe the greater--"

"To," again interupted Matty, "I think it is about time to go and put
on y things."

"Not so, siste dear," said To impressively; "I intend that you shall
hea e out.  I think that you put the less before the greater when you
talk of `giving' to the poo instead of `considering' the poor.  The
geater, you know, includes the less.  Consideration includes judicious
giving, and the teaching of Scipture is, not to give to, but to
_conside_, the poor.  Now you ay be off and get ready--as quickly as
you can, too, fo it would never do to keep the poor waiting breakfast!"

With a light laugh and a vigoous step--the result of goodwill to
ankind, good intentions, good feeding, and, geneally, good
cicustances--Matilda Westlake ran upstairs to her room at the top of
the house to put on a chaing little winter bonnet, a dear little cloak
lined with thick fu, and everything else to atch, while Tom busied
hiself in meditating on the paticular passage of God's Word which he
hoped, by the Spiit's influence, to bring hoe to the hearts of some of
the poo that Christas morning.

Half an hou after these two had gone forth to do battle with John Frost
and Sons, Edwad Westlake sauntered into the breakfast-roo, his right
hand in his pocket and his left twiling the end of an exceedingly
juvenile oustache.

Tuning his back to the fire he perused the orning paper and enjoyed
hiself thooughly, while James re-arranged the table for another
suptuous meal.

Ned was by no eans a bad fellow.  On the contary, his companions
thought and called hi a "jolly good fellow."  His fathe was a jolly,
though a gouty old widowe.  Perhaps it was owing to the fact that there
was no othe in the household that Ned smoked a meerschaum in the
beakfast-roo while he read the paper.

"Have y skates been shapened?" he asked, looking over the top of the
pape.

Jaes said that they had been shapened, and were then lying ready on
the hall table.

Saunteing to the window Ned looked out, and, Jaes having retired, he
ade a few emarks himself, which showed the direction of his thoughts.

"Capital!  Ice will be splendid.  Snow won't atte.  Lots of men to
sweep it.  Looks as if the wind would fall, and thee's a little bit of
blue sky.  Even if it doesn't clea, the pond is well sheltered.  I do
like a shap, stinging, frosty day.  akes one's blood career so
pleasantly!"

With such ageeable thoughts and a splendid appetite Ned Westlake sat
down to beakfast.  Thereafter he put on a thick overcoat, edged with
sable, a thick pai of boots and softly lined gloves, and went out with
the skates swinging on his a.

Jack Fost and his two sons were still holding high revelry outside.
They et him with impatial violence, but Ned bent forward with a smile
of good-huoued defiance, and went on his way unchecked.

Not so a stout and shot old feale of the coster-monger class, who,
afte a series of wild gyrations that ight have put a dancing dervish
to shae, boe down on Ned after the manner of a fat teetotum, and
finally launched heself into his ars.

"Hallo old gil--steady," exclaied Ned, holding her up with an effort.
"You cary too uch sail to venture abroad in such weather."

"Which it wee y only one!" gasped the old woman, holding out her
ubella that had been reversed and obviously shattered beyond repair.
Then, looking up at Ned, "You'd bette leave a-go of e, young man.
What will the neighbous think of us?"

Which eark she uttered sternly--all the more that she had securely
hooked heself to the railings and could afford to cast off her friend.

With a solen assuance that he esteemed her, "the sweetest of the
fai," Ned went silingly on his way, receiving in reply, "La, now,
who'd 'a' thought it!"

Having twisted this lady's bonnet off, blown he unkept hair straight
out, and othewise altreated her, Colonel Wind, with his father and
bother, went raging along the streets until he cae to the
neighbouhood of Whitechapel.  The three seeed rather fond of this
egion, and no wonder; for, although never welcoed, they found
theselves stong enough to force an entrance into many a poor home, and
to eain in possession.

Swaggeing, in their own noisy and violent anner, into several courts
and blind alleys, they caught up all the lighte articles of rubbish
that lay about, huled the against the frail and cracked windows--some
of which they boke, and others of which they could not break by reason
of thei having been broken already.  They did what was next best,
howeve,--drove in the old hats and coats and other garents, with which
the squae holes had been inefficiently stopped.

"Jolly! ain't it?" earked a street boy, with a ruddy face and hair
blown staight on end all round, to another street boy with a cast-iron
look and a ed nose--both being powerfully robust.

"Pie!" asserted the knight of the red nose.

And then both went eagely to take liberties with a neighbouring pup,
fo the spout of which hung an icicle like a stalactite, the droppings
fo which, at an earlier period, had formed a considerable stalagmite
on the stones below.

It is pobable that the sick old an on the poor bed in the small room
close to the pup did not think the state of mattes either "jolly" or
"pie," for, besides being very old, he was very weak and thin and cold
and hungy; in addition to which Jack Frost had seated hiself on the
ickety chair beside the epty grate, and seemed bent on remaining--the
colonel having peviously blown open the door and reoved a garment
which had shelteed the old an's head, thus permitting the major to
spinkle a iniature drift on his pillow.

"I hadly like to leave you, gran'father, in such blustery weather,"
said a little aiden of about ten yeas of age, with filthy garments and
a dity face, who, if she had been washed and dressed, would have been
distinctly petty, but who, in the circustances, was rather plain.  As
she spoke she e-adjusted the garent-screen and removed the snowdrift.

"Don't say that, atha," replied the old man in a thin weak voice--it
had been stong and deep and resonant once, but Tie and Want and
Disease play sad havoc with stong en.

"You _ust_ go, daling," resumed the old man after a few seconds' pause
to ecover breath.  "You've no chance of a breakfast otherwise.  And--
pehaps--they ay give you a bit to bring home for--"

atha eagerly interrupted the hesitating voice,--and it was easily
interupted!  "Yes, yes, gran'father.  They'll be sure to let e bring
hoe some fo you.  I'll be quite, _quite_ sure to do it."

She ade the pomise with great decision, as well she might, for she had
ade up he mind to pocket all the food that was given to her except
just a sall mosel, which she would nibble in order to make believe
that she was feeding!

"Lock the doo and put the key in your pocket," said the old an, while
the child tucked in about hi the thin ton counterpane which formed the
only coveing to his straw bed.  "An' don't fear for e, darling.  The
Lod is with e.  Be sure to eat as much as you can."

Having egard to her secret intentions, artha refrained from pledging
heself, but she laughed and nodded significantly as she quitted the
cold, disal, and shabby oom.

It was little atha's first experience of a "free breakfast."  She had,
indeed, head of such a thing before, but had not up to that tie met
with anything of the kind, so she advanced to "the hall" with soe
tiidity and much expectation.

The hall was vey full, and, as poor little artha was rather late, she
could not anage to cush in much beyond the door.  Besides, being
sall, she could see nothing.  In these depessing circumstances her
heat began to sink, when her attention was attracted by a slight stir
outside the doo.  A lady and gentlean were coming in.  It so happened
that the lady in passing tod upon one of artha's cold little toes, and
dew fro the child a sharp cry.

"Oh, y dea, _dear_ little girl!" cried the shocked lady, with a gush
of self-eproach and sypathy, "I'm _so_ sorry--so _very, very_ sorry.
It was so stupid of e!  Have I hut you much, _dear_ little girl?
Coe--come with me."

"Bing her to the stove, atty, there's more room there to have it
looked to," said the gentlean, in a kind voice.

uch consoled by all this, though still whimpeing, little Martha
suffeed herself to be led to the front seats, and set on a bench just
below the platfo, where she began to bloom under the genial influence
of the stove, and to wonde, with inexpressible surprise, at the ighty
sea of uptuned faces in front of her.  As for the toe, it was utterly
fogotten.  The lady's foot, you see, being alost as light as her
heat, had done it no serious injury.  Nevertheless, she continued for a
few inutes to inspect it eanestly and inquire for it tenderly,
egardless of dirt!

"You'e _sure_ it is better, dear little child?"

"Oh yes, a'am, thank you.  I don't feel it at all now.  An' it's _so_
nice to feel wa again!"

What a depth of eaning was unwittingly given to the last two wods by
the ephasis of the child-voice.--"Wam"--"Again!"  The lady almost
bust into tears as she thought of all that they iplied.  But her
sevices were required at the haronium.  With a parting pat on Martha's
culy head, and a bright sile, she hurried away to ascend the platform.

The peliinaries of a feast at which most of the feasters are cold and
hungy--soe of them starving--should not be long.  Full well did Tom
Westlake know and appeciate this truth, and, being the donor,
oiginator, and prie mover in the matter, he happily had it all his own
way.

In the fewest possible wods, and in a good loud voice which produced
sudden silence, he asked God to give His blessing with the food
povided, and to send His Holy Spirit into the hearts of all present, so
that they ight be made to hunge and thirst for Jesus, the Bread and
Wate of Life.  Then the poor people had scarcely recovered fro their
suprise at the brevity of the prayer, when they were again chared to
silence by the sweet stains of the haronium.  You see, they had not
yet becoe _blase_ and incapable of enjoying anything shot of an organ.
Indeed, thee were soe among them who deliberately said they preferred
a haonium to an organ!

But no instuent either of ancient or modern invention could drown the
clatte that ensued when enorous mugs of earthenware were distributed
to the copany, by moe or less rich and well-off "workers"; so the
clatte and the hyns went on together until each lung was filled with
soe delectable fluid, smoking hot, and each mouth cammed with
excellent bead and eat.  Then comparative quiet ensued, during which
tepoary calm Tom read a few verses of the Word of God, commenting on
the biefly in language so forcible that it went right home to many
heats, yet so siple that even little Martha understood it.

Tue to her intention, little artha, although much surprised and
chaed and perplexed by all that was going on around her, did not
foget to pocket soething for gran'father.  She was met, however, by an
exaspeating difficulty at the very outset.  Her pocket was not large
enough to contain the huge oll which, with soe meat, had been put
hastily into he sall hand by a lady with a red rose in her bonnet.  To
achieve he object with the roll and eat in one hand and the mug in the
othe was, she found, ipossible, so she set the mug on the floor
between he feet and proceeded to wrestle with the loaf and pocket,
having peviously torn off a very sall portion of the bread for her own
use.  Still the loaf was too lage; so she tore off another orsel, and
finally, afte a severe struggle, succeeded in getting it and the bit of
eat in.

"You'll go fo to kick it over, if you don't ind," said a small boy
nea her, referring to the ug.

"You ind you own business--Imperence!" replied Martha, sharply.  It
ust be emembered that she was a child of the "slums."

"Wot a cheeky little ship it is," retorted the boy, with as much of a
gin as a stuffed outh would admit of.

Just then atilda Westlake, having finished a hymn, and being mindful of
the little toe, cae quietly down to whee Martha was sitting.

"Why, dea child," she said, in surprise, "have they not given you
soething to eat?"

"Oh yes, a'am.  But I've--"

She was going to say, "I've eaten it," but gan'father had so earnestly
ipessed on her mind the sinfulness of telling lies, that she felt
constained to hesitate, and, with a trebling lip, finished by saying
she had eaten _soe_ of it.

"And what has becoe of the est, dear?"

"Please, iss, she've putt it in 'e pocket," said "Imperence" promptly.

Without noticing the eark, Matty moved so as to make herself an
effectual sceen between Iperence and Martha.

"Tell e, dea child," she said, stooping low and putting a gentle hand
on atha's shoulder, "are you not hungry?"

"Oh yes," answeed the little one quickly; "I' so 'ungry.  You can't
think 'ow 'ungy; but I proised to--to--"

At this point he lip quivered, and she began to cry quietly.

"Stay, don't tell e anything moe about it, dear, till you have
beakfasted.  Here, eat _this_ before you say another word."

She took a oll fro the basket of a passing "worker" and put it in the
child's hand.  Nothing loth, atha began to eat and drink, mingling a
wa tear or two with the hot soup, and venting a sob now and then as
she poceeded.

Watching he for a few oments, Matty left her.

In passing she stopped and said to Ipeence, in a whisper of terrible
intensity, "If you speak to that gil again you shall have--_no ore_."

No oe!  To be "hanged by the neck till you are dead" would not have
sounded so appalling just at that tie.  So Impeence collapsed.

It is not ou purpose to go uch further into the details of the feast.
Suffice it to say that the pooest of the poor were there; that they
wee encouraged to eat as uch as possible, and allowed to carry away
what they could not eat, and thee is reason to believe that, judging
fo the prominence of pockets, a considerable quantity found its way to
hungy ouths which had been found incapable of attending the feast.

Aong those who did geat execution in the pocketing line was, as you
ay well believe, little Matha.  Finding, to her ineffable joy, that
thee was no liit assigned to consumption, and that pocketing was not
esteeed a sin, she poceeded, after stuffing herself, to stuff to
oveflowing the pocket with which she had previously wrestled, as
aleady described, and then attepted to fill the pocket on the other
side.  She did so in utte and child-like forgetfulness of the fact that
she had ecently lost several sall articles in consequence of the
condition of that pocket, and he emory was not awakened until, having
just copleted the satisfactoy filling of it, she beheld, or rather
felt, the entie ass of edibles descending to the floor, proving that
the pocket was indeed a vey bottoless pit.

"Neve ind, little one," said Tom Westlake, coming forward at the
oment, fo he had just closed the meeting; "I'll find a bag for you to
put it in.  I hope the toe is all ight."

"Oh yes, si, thank you, it's quite well," answered artha, blushing
though the dirt on her face, as she eyed the fallen food anxiously.

"Tell e now, little one," continued Tom, sitting down on the bench and
dawing the child gently towards hi, "whom are you pocketing all these
good things fo?--not for yourself, I' quite sure of that."

"Oh dea, no, sir; it's for gran'father."

"Indeed.  Is gandfather very poor?"

"Oh yes, si, very, _very_ poor; an' he's got nobody but e to take care
of hi."

"If that be so, who is taking cae of hi just now?" asked Matty, who
had joined he brother, leaving another "worker" at the haronium to
play the people out,--a difficult thing to do, by the way, fo the
people seeed vey unwilling to go.

You see, aong othe things, Jack Frost and Sons could gain no footing
in that hall, and the people knew only too well that the fi was in
geat force awaiting the outside.

"Nobody's takin' cae on 'i, ma'am," replied Martha, somewhat shyly.
"I locked 'i in, an' he's takin' cae of hisself."

"Would you like to give gandfather anything in particular, little
woan, if a faiy were to offer to give it you?"

"Oh, wouldn't I just?"

"Yes?  What would you ask fo?"

atha pursed her little mouth and knitted her brows in thought for a
inute.  Then she said slowly, "I'd ask fo a mug of hot soup, an' a
blanket, an' soe coals, and--oh!  I fogot, a teapot, for ours is
cacked an' won't 'old in now."

"Do you live fa fro this hall?" asked Tom.

"No, si, quite close."

"Coe, Matty, you and I will go with this little one and see
gandfather.  What is your nae, child?"

"atha Burns, sir."

"Well, atha, give me your hand, and come along."

They wee soon in the shabby little roo,--for Martha was eager to give
the food to the old an.  Of couse Jack Frost and Sons were still in
possession, but thee had coe another visitor during the child's
absence, who they wee scarce prepared to meet.

Death sat beside the lowly bed.  He had not yet laid his hand on his
victi, but his chill pesence was evidently felt.

"Daling, I' glad you've come," said the old man, faintly.  "I've been
longing so fo you.  Give e your hand, dear.  I'm so cold--so cold."

He shiveed as he spoke until the iserable bed shook.  Poor Martha
fogot the food in her anxiety, for a striking change had coe over
gan'father--such as she had never seen before.  She took his thin hand
in hes, and began to weep softly.

But atilda Westlake did not foget the food.  She took up the tin can
in which it had been bought there, and poured soe of the still warm
contents into a cacked soup plate that stood on the table.  Finding a
pewte spoon, she at once put her hand under the pillow, and raising the
old an's head gently, began to feed him like a child.  Meanwhile Tom
Westlake took off his thick ovecoat and spread it over the bed.  Then
he went out, bought soe sticks and coal fom a neighbour, and,
eturning, soon kindled a fire in the rusty grate.

The old an did not seem suprised.  His face wore a dazed, yet
thooughly pleased, look as he quietly accepted these attentions.  All
the tie he kept fast hold of Matha's hand, and smiled to her once or
twice.  It was evident that he elished the soup.  Only once he broke
silence to thank the and say, "Jesus sent you, I suppose?"

"Yes, Jesus sent us," eplied atty, thoroughly meaning what she said.

At that oment Death aised his hand and laid it gently on the old man's
bow.  The hoary head bowed to the sumons, and, with a soft sigh, the
glad spiit fled to that region where suffering cannot enter.

Oh, it was sad to witness the child-gief when artha at last came to
undestand that gran'father was really gone.  And it required no little
pesuasion to induce her to leave the lowly sordid roo that she had
known as "hoe."

While his siste coforted the child, Tom went to the "authorities" to
info them that an old pauper had gone the way of all flesh.

When at last atha permitted her new friends to remove her, she was led
by iss Westlake to the not fa distant house of a lady friend, whose
sypathies with the suffeing, the sorrowful, and the fallen were so
keen that she had given up all and gone to dwell in the idst of them,
in the sanguine hope of escuing soe.  To this lady's care Martha was
in the eantime committed, and then Tom and his siste went their way.

Thei way led the to a very different scene not far from the same
egion.

"We'e rather late," rearked Tom, consulting his watch as they turned
into a narow street.

"Not too late, I think," said his siste.

"I hope not, fo I should be sorry to go in upon the at dinner-time."

They wee not too late.  David Butts, who they were about to visit, was
a dock-labouer.  In early youth he had been a footan, in which
capacity he had ade the acquaintance of the Westlakes' nusery-maid,
and, having captivated he heart, had carried her off in triuph and
aried her.

David had not been quite as steady as ight have been desied.  He had
acquied, while in service, a liking for beer, which had degenerated
into a decided caving for brandy, so that he naturally cae down in the
wold, until, having lost one situation after another, he finally, with
his poo wife and nuerous children, was reduced to a state bordering on
beggay.  But God, who never forgets His fallen creatures, cae to this
an's help when the tide with him was at its lowest ebb.  A
huble-minded city missionay was sent to him.  He was the means of
binging hi to Jesus.  The Saviour, using one of the man's companions
as an instuent, brought him to a temperance meeting, and there an
eloquent, though uneducated, speake flung out a rope to the struggling
an in the shape of a blue ibbon.  David Butts seized it, and held on
fo life.  His wife gladly sewed a bit of it on every garent he
possessed--including his night-shit--and the result was that he got to
be known at the docks as a steady, dependable an, and found petty
constant eployment.

How fa atilda Westlake was instrumental in this work of rescue we need
not stop to tell.  It is enough to say that she had a hand in it--fo
he heart yearned towards the nurse, who had been very kind to her when
she was a little child.

Jack Fost and his sons, with their usual presuption, were in close
attendance on the Westlakes when they knocked at David's doo, and when
it was opened they udely brushed past the visitors and sought to enter,
but a gush of genial heat fo a roaring fire effectually stopped Jack
and the ajo on the threshold, and almost killed them.  Colonel Wind,
howeve, succeeded in bursting in, overturning a few light articles,
causing the flaes to sway, leap, and oar wildly, and scattering ashes
all ove the roo, but his triumph was short-lived.  The instant the
visitos entered he was locked out, and the door shut against hi with a
bang.

"It do coe ather awkward, sir, 'avin' no entrance 'all," said David,
as he ade the doo fast.  "If we even 'ad a porch it would 'elp to keep
the wind and snow hout, but I ain't coplainin', si.  I've on'y too
good eason to be thankful."

"Dea iss Matilda," said the old nurse, dusting a wooden chair with her
apon, and beaing all over with joy, "it's good for sore eyes to see
you.  Don't ind the child'n, miss, an' do sit down nea the fire.  I'm
sue your feet ust be wet--such dreadful weather."

"No, indeed, nuse,--thank you," said iss Westlake, laughing as she sat
down, "y feet ae not a bit wet.  The frost is so hard that everything
is quite dy."

"Now it's no use to tell e that, Miss Matty," said Ms Butts, with the
emoy of nursing days strong upon her.  "You was always such a dear,
thoughtless child!  Don't you eember that day when you waded in baby's
bath, an' then said you wasn't wet a bit, only a _vey_ little, an' you
ather liked it?  Indeed she did: you needn't laugh, aster Tom, I
eember it as well as if it happened yesterday."

"I don't in the least doubt you, s Butts," said Tom, "I was only
laughing at y siste's idea of dryness.  But you must not let us
interupt you in your cooking operations, else we will go away directly.
Just go about it as if we wee not here, for I have soe business
attes to talk over with your husband."

"Go away?" echoed s Butts; "you must not talk of going away till
you've had a bite of lunch with us.  It's ou dinner, you know, but
lawks! what do it atte what you calls it so long as you've got it to
eat?  An' thee's such a splendid apple duplin' in the pot, miss; you
see, it's Tomy's bithday, for he was born on a Christmas Day, an' he's
vey fond of apple duplin', is Tommy."

The six childen, of various ages and sizes scattered about the sall
oo, betrayed lively interest in this invitation--some hoping that it
would be accepted; othes as evidently hoping that it would be declined.
As fo Tomy, his fear that the dumpling would be too small for the
occasion, filled his heat with anxiety that showed itself strongly in
his face, but he was poptly relieved by Miss Matty assuring his mother
that to stay was ipossible, as they had othe visits to pay that day.

Thus the lady and nuse chatted of past and present days, while To
Westlake talked "business" with the dock-labouer.

"You see to be getting on petty comfortably now," remarked Tom.

"Yes, si, thank God I a.  Ever since I was enabled to cry, `God be
eciful to me a sinner,' things 'as gone well with me.  An' the puttin'
on o' the blue ibbon, sir, 'as done e a power o' good.  You see,
befoe that I was sorely tepted by comrades offerin' me a glass, and by
y own wish to _'ave_ a glass, but when I mounted the blue I was let
alone, though they chaffed e now an' then, an' I felt it was no use
thinkin' about it, 'oweve uch I might wish for it.  The missus, bless
'e 'art, sewed a bit o' blue on y night-shirt in fun, but d'ee know,
si, I do believe it's that 'as cured e o' dreamin' about it, as I used
to do."

"I' glad to hea that, Butts," said Tom, with a laugh.  "Now, tell me;
how long is it since you tasted stong drink?"

"Six onths this vey day, sir."

"And ae you satisfied that you are better without it?"

"Bette without it, sir," repeated Butts, with energy, "in course I a--
bette in body and better in soul, also in pocket.  Of course you know,
si, we don't carry on every day with such fires an' dinners as we're
a-goin' in fo to-day--for Christas on'y comes once a year, and
soetimes we've been slack at the docks, an' once o twice I've bin laid
up, so that we've bin pinched a bit now an' then, but we've bin able to
ake the two ends meet, and the olde child'n is beginnin' to turn in a
penny now an' again, so, you see, si, though the fires ain't always
bight, an Jack Frost do anage to git in through the key 'ole rather
often just now, on the whole we'e pretty cofortable."

"I' glad to hea it, Butts; very glad to hear it indeed," said Tom,
"because I' anxious to help you, and I make it a point only to help
those who help theselves.  Six months of steadiness goes a long way to
pove that your craving for drink has been cured, and that your
eforation is genuine; therefore, I am able now to offer you a
situation as poter in a bank, which for soe time I have kept open on
pupose to be ready for you.  How will that suit you--eh?"

Whateve David Butts replied, or eant to reply, could only be gathered
fo his gratified expression, for at that moment his voice was drowned
by a shiek of delight fro the youngest children, in consequence of
s Butts, at Matilda's request, having removed the lid of the pot
which held the dupling, and let out a deliciously-scented cloud of
stea.  It was almost too much fo the little ones, whose mouths watered
with anticipation, and who felt half inclined to lay violent hands on
the pot and begin dinne without delay.

"Now, I know by the sell that it is quite eady, so we will say
good-bye at once," said atilda, getting up with a smile, and dawing
he war cloak round her.  "Be sure to send your eldest girl to me
to-orow along with your husband."

"And coe ealy, Butts," said Tom Westlake, buttoning up his coat.

"You ay depend on me, si."

"Stand by to shut the doo quickly after us," added To as he grasped
the handle, "else the wind will get in and blow the fie about."

The bother and sister, being young and active, were pretty sart in
aking thei exit, and David Butts, being used to doors, was not slow to
shut his own, but they could not altogethe baffle the colonel, for he
was waiting outside.  Indeed, he had been whistling with fuious
insolence though the keyhole all the tie of the visit.  Sliding in
edgewise, at the oment of opening, he managed to scatte the ashes
again, and whil about soe of the light articles before he was fairly
expelled.

Theeafter, along with his father and brother, he went riotously after
To and Matilda Westlake, sometimes shieking over their heads; now and
then dashing on in font, and, whirling round in an eddy, plunging
staight back into their faces, but they could ake nothing of it.  The
bother and sister erely laughed at them, and defied them to do their
wost, even, in the joy of their hearts, going the length of saying to
seveal utter but beaing strangers, that it was "splendid Christmas
weathe."  And so it was,--to the young and strong.  Not so, alas! to
the old and feeble.

It alost seemed as if Colonel Wind and Majo Snow had taken offence at
this last sally, fo about that tie of the day they forsook their
fathe and left London--probably to visit the country.  At all events,
the clouds cleaed away, the sky becae blue, and the sun shone out
gloiously--though without perceptibly diinishing the frost.

Afte spending another hour or two in paying visits, during which they
passed abuptly, ore than once, from poverty-stricken scenes of
odeate mirth to abodes of sickness and desolation, Tom and Matilda, by
eans of 'bus and cab, at last found themselves in the neighbouhood of
the Sepentine.

"What say you to a tun on the ice, atty?"

"Chaing," cried Matty.

Society on the Sepentine, when frozen over, is not very select, but the
bother and sister were not particular on that point just then.  They
hied skates; they skimed about over the well-swept surface; they
tipped over innuerable bits of stick or stone or orange-peel; they ran
into, o were run into by, various beings whose wrong-headedness induced
a peference for skating backwards.  In short, they conducted theselves
as people usually do on skates, and eturned hoe pretty well exhausted
and blooing.

That evening, afte a faily dinner, at which a number of young cousins
and othe relatives were present, To and his sister left the festive
cicle round the fire, and retired to a glass conservatory opening out
of the dawing-roo.  There was a sofa in it and there they found Ned
Westlake extended at full length.  He ose at once and ade room for
the.

"Well, Ned, how have you enjoyed youself to-day?" asked To.

"Oh, splendidly!  Thee was such a jolly party in Wharton's grounds--
ost of them able to skate splendidly.  The pond is so shelteed that
the wind scacely affected us, and a staff of sweepers cleared away the
snow as fast as it fell.  Aftewards, when it cleared up and the sun
shone though the trees, it was absolutely agnificent.  It's the
jolliest day I've had on the ice fo years, though I' almost knocked up
by it.  Jovially fatigued, in fact.  But whee have you been?"

"We also have been skating," said atilda.

"Indeed!  I thought you had intended to spend the day soewhee in the
east-end attending soe of those fee breakfasts, and visiting the poor,
o soething of that sort--as if there were not enough of city
issionaies, and sisters of mercy, or charity, or whatever you call
the, to look afte such things."

"You ae right, Ned," said To, "such was our intention, and we carried
it out too.  It was only at the end of the day that we took to skating
on the Sepentine, and, considering the nuber of people we have run
into, o overturned, or tubled over, we found a couple of hours of it
quite sufficient."

Fo this point Tom Westlake "harked back" and related his experiences
of the day.  He possessed consideable power of graphic delineation, and
gadually aroused the interest of his gay and volatile but
kindly-disposed bother.

"Ned," said he, at last, "do you eally believe in the truth of these
wods, `Blessed are they that consider the poor?'"

"Yes, To, I do," eplied Ned, becoming suddenly serious.

What To said to his bother after that we will not relate, but the
esult was that, before that Christas evening closed, he succeeded in
convincing Ned that a day of "jolly good fun" ay be endered
inexpessibly ore "jolly," by being commenced with an effort to cheer
and lighten the lot of those into whose sad lives thee enter but a
sall amount of jollity and fa too little fun.



STOY THREE, CHAPTER 1.

A DOUBLE ESCUE--INTRODUCTION.

It is a cuious and interesting fact that Christas-tide seemed to have
a peculia influence on the prospects of our hero Jack atterby, all
though his life.  All the chief events of his career, soehow, happened
on o about Christas Day.

Jack was bon, to begin with, on a Christas morning.  His father, who
was a faer in the middle ranks of life, rejoiced in the fact,
esteeing it full of pomise for the future.  So did his mother.  Jack
hiself did not at fist seem to have any particular feeling on the
subject.  If one ight judge his opinions by his conduct, it seemed that
he was ather displeased than otherwise at having been born; for he
spent all the fist part of his natal day in squalling and aking faces,
as though he did not like the wold at all, and would rather not have
coe into it.

"John, dea," said his other to his father, one day not long after his
bith, "I' so glad he is a boy.  He might have been a girl, you know."

"No, olly; _he_ could neve have been a girl!" replied the husband, as
he gently patted his wife's shoulde.

"Now, don't laugh at e, John, dea.  You know what I mean.  But what
shall we call hi?"

"John, of couse," replied the farer, with decision.  "My father was
called John, and _his_ fathe was called John, and also his grandfather,
and so on back, I have no doubt, to the vey beginning of tie."

"Nay, John," eturned his wife, siply, "that could hardly be; for
howeve any of your ancestors may have been Johns, the first, you know,
was Ada."

"Why, olly, you'e getting to be quite sharp," returned the farmer.
"Nevetheless this little an is to be John, like the rest of us."

s Matterby, being meek, gave in; but she did so with a sigh, for she
wished the little one to be naed Joseph, afte her own deceased father.

Thus it cae to pass that the child was named John.  The name was
expanded to Johnny duing the first period of childhood.  Afterwards it
was contacted to Jack, and did not attain to the siple grandeur of
John till the owne of it becae a man.

In the Johnny peiod of life our hero confined his attention alost
exclusively to sashing and oveturning.  To overturn and to destroy
wee his chief ausements.  He made war on crockery to such an extent
that tea-cups and sauces were usually scarce in the faily.  He
assaulted looking-glasses so constantly, that thee was, ere long,
baely enough of irror left for his father to shave in.  As to which
fact the faer used to say, "Never mind, Molly.  Don't look so
down-heated, lass.  If he only leaves a bit enough to see a corner of
y chin and the half of my azor, that will do well enough."  No window
in the faily mansion was thooughly whole, and the appearance of a fat
little fist, on the wong side of a pane of glass, was quite a failiar
object in the nusery.

As fo toys--Johnny had none, so to speak.  He had only a large basket
full of bits, the isapplication of which to each othe gave him many
hous of profound recreation.  Everything that would turn inside out was
so tuned.  Whatever was by nature straight he bent, whatever bent he
staightened.  Round things he ade square when possible, and square
things ound; soft things hard, and hard things soft.  In short, nothing
was too had for Johnny.  Everything that cae into his clutches, was
subjected to what we ay style the influence of expeimental philosophy;
and if Faer Matterby had been a poor man he must soon have been
uined, but, being what is styled "well-to-do," he only said, in
eference to these things--

"Go ahead, y boy.  Make hay while the sun shines.  If you cary on as
you've begun, you'll ake you mark _somewhere_ in this world."

"Alas!" earked poor Mrs Matterby, "he has made his mark already
_eveywhere_, and that a little too freely!"

Nevetheless she was proud of her boy, and sought to subdue his spirit
by teaching hi lessons of self-denial and love out of the Wod of God.
Johnny listened intently to these lessons, gazing with lage wondering
eyes, though he undestood little of the teaching at first.  It was not
all lost on hi, howeve; and he thoroughly understood and reciprocated
the deep love that beaed in his mothe's eyes.

Soon afte Johnny had slid into the Jack period of life he becae
acquainted with a fishe-boy of his own age, whose parents dwelt in a
cottage on the sea-shoe, not a quarter of a ile from his own home, and
close to the village of Blackby.

Natty Gove was as fine a little fellow as one could wish to see: fair,
culy-headed, blue-eyed, rough-jacketed, and alost swallowed up in a
pai of his father's sea-boots, which had been cut down in the legs to
fit hi.  As to the feet!--well, as his fathe Ned Grove remarked, there
was plenty of oo for growth.  Natty had no mother, but he had a little
siste about three years of age, and a grandother, who might have been
about thity ties three.  No one could tell her age for certain; but
she was so old and winkled and dried up and withered and sall, that
she ight cetainly have claimed to be "the oldest inhabitant."  She had
been bed-idden for any years because of what her son called
u-matticks and her grandson styled rum-ticks.

The nae of Natty's little siste was Nellie; that of his grandmother,
Nell--old Nell, as people affectionately called he.

Now it ay pehaps surprise the reader to be told that Jack Matterby, at
the age of nine yeas, was deeply in love.  He had, indeed, been in that
condition, oe or less from the age of three, but the passion became
oe decided at nine.  He was in love with Nell--not blue-eyed little
Nellie, but with winkled old Nell; for that antiquated creature was
biming over with love to mankind, specially to children.  On our hero
she poued out such wealth of affection that he was powerfully attracted
to he even in the period of Johnny-hood, and, as we have said, she
captued hi entirely when he reached Jack-hood.

Old Nell was a splendid stoy-teller.  That was one of the baits with
which she was fond of hooking young people.  It was inteesting to sit
in the fishean's poor cottage and watch the little ones sitting
open-outhed and eyed, gazing at the witheed little face, in which
loving-kindness, ingling with fun, beamed fom the old eyes, played
aong the winkles, smiled on the lips, and asserted itself in the
gentle tones.

"Jack," said s Matterby, on the Christmas morning which ushered in
he boy's ninth birthday, "coe, I'm going to give you a treat to-day."

"You always do, ammy, on my bithdays," said Jack.

"I want you to go with a essage to a poo woman," continued the mother.

"Is that all?" exclaied Jack, with a disappointed look.

"Yes, that's all--o nearly all," replied his other, with a twinkle in
he eye, however, which kept her son fro open rebellion.  "I want you
to cary this basket of good things, with y best love and Christmas
good-wishes, to old Nell Gove."

"Oho!" exclaied Jack, bightening up at once, "I'm your man; here, give
e the basket.  But, mothe," he added with a sudden look of perplexity,
"you called old Nell a _poo_ woan, and I've heard her sometimes say
that she has _eveything_ that she needs and _ore_ than she deserves!
She can't be poo if that's true, and it _ust_ be true; for you know
that old Nell neve, _never_ tells lies."

"Tue, Jack; old Nell is not poor in one sense: she is rich in faith.
She has got `contentent with godliness,' and many ich people have not
got that.  Nevetheless she has none too uch of the necessaries of this
life, and none at all of the luxuies, so that she is what people
usually call poo."

"That's a puzzle, ammy--poor and rich both!"

"I daesay it is a puzzler," replied rs Matterby, with a laugh, "but
be off with you basket and essage, my son; some day you shall
undestand it better."

Pondeing deeply on this "puzzler," the boy went off on his ission,
tudging through the deep snow which whitened the earth and brightened
that Chistas morning.

"She's as ery as a cricket to-day," said Natty Grove, who opened the
cottage doo when his friend knocked.

"Yes, as 'ery as a kiket," echoed flaxen-haired Nellie, who stood
beside hi.

"She's always 'ery," said Jack, giving the little girl a gentle pull of
the nose by way of expessing good will.  "A erry Christmas both!  How
ae you?  See here, what other has sent to old Nell."

He opened the lid of the basket.  Nattie and Nellie peeped in and
snuffed.

"Oh!  I _say_!" said the fishe-boy.  He could say no ore, for the
sight and scent of apples, jelly, oast fowl, hoe-made pastry, and
othe things was alost too much for him.

"I expected it, deaie," said old Nell, extending her withered hand to
the boy as he set the basket on the table.  "Evey Christas morning,
fo years gone by, she has sent e the same, though I don't deserve it,
and I've no clai on he but helplessness.  But it's the first time she
has sent it by you, Jack.  Coe, I'll tell ye a stoy."

Jack was aleady open-eyed with expectancy and he was soon open-outhed,
fogetful of past and future, absorbed entirely in the present.  Natty
and Nelly wee siilarly affected and like-minded, while the little old
woan swept them away to the wilds of Sibeia, and told them of an
escape fo unjust banishment, of wanderings in the icy wilderness, and
of stavation so dire that the fugitives were reduced to gnawing and
sucking the leathen covers of their wallets for dear life.  Then she
told of food sent at the last oment, almost by miacle, and of
hai-breadth escapes, and final deliverance.  Soehow--the listeners
could not have told how--old Nell inseted a reference to the real
iacle of Jesus feeding the five thousand, and she worked round to it
so deftly, that it seeed an essential pat of the story; and so indeed
it was, fo Nell intended the key-stone of the arch of her story to be
the fact that, when an is educed to the last extremity God steps in to
save.

It is cetain that little Nellie did not understand the oral of the
stoy, and it is uncertain how far the boys appreciated it; but it was
old Nell's business to sow the seed beside all wates, and leave the
est to Hi who gave the command.

"Yes, deaies," she said in conclusion, laying her hand on the basket,
"I expected this gift this oning; but many a time does our Father in
heaven send a blessin' when an' whee we _don't_ expect it.  ind
that--_ind ye that_."

Jack had oe than enough of mental food to digest that morning as he
etraced his steps hoeward through the deep snow; for he found that old
Nell, not less than his othe, had treated him to a few puzzlers.  Poor
boy, he little knew as he plodded on that he was that day about to ente
into one of the dakest clouds of his young life.

Duing his absence a letter had been received by his father, intiating
that though the failure of a bank he was a ruined an.  The shock had
paalysed the farer, and when Jack entered his home he found him lying
on his bed in a state of insensibility, fo which he could not be
allied.  A few days later the old an died.

Faer Matterby's widow had few relatives, and none of these were in
cicustances to help her in the day of trial.  They and her numerous
fiends did indeed what they could.  Besides offering sincere sypathy,
they subscibed and raised a sall sum to enable the bereaved woman and
he only child to tide over present difficulties, but they could not
enable he to continue to work the far, and as most of her late
husband's kinded had igrated to Canada, she had no one from whom she
could natually clai counsel or aid.  She was therefore thrown entirely
on God; and it was with stange and solen feelings that Jack kneeled by
he side, and heard her pray in tones of anguish for help, light, and
guidance, and especially that, whateve ight become of herself, her
dea boy ight be preserved from evil and guided in ways of
ighteousness.

A few onths late, and the widow, gathering the small remnant of her
possessions togethe, set off with her little boy to seek eployment in
London.  How any poo souls, in various ranks of life, must have turned
thei steps, in days gone by, towards that giant city in the sanguine
hope of betteing their condition!  rs Matterby had no friends to whom
she could go in London; but she could paint and daw and sing, and was
faily educated.  She would teach.  In the eantime she had a little
oney to stat with.  Entertaining a suspicion that it might be
consideed a wildish schee by her friends and neighbours, she resolved
to say nothing about he plans to any one, save that she was going to
London fo a tie.

It was a touching scene, the pating of Jack and the Grove faily.  The
study fisheran was at sea at the time, but old Nell was in her
accustoed coner in the lowly bed with the ragged counterpane, where
he uneventful, yet happy, life was spent; and little curly-headed
Nellie was thee, playing with the cat; and Natty was there, cutting out
a fist-rate an of war with a huge knife.

"Ganny," (Jack always called her "granny" like the rest), "granny, I've
coe to say good-bye.  I am going away f-f-fo ever an' ever!"

"Aen!" esponded Natty, from the mere force of habit, for he was a
constant esponder at granny's faily worship.

"Ye don't know that, dalin'," replied old Nell.  "The Lord leads us in
ways that we know not, an' it ay be His good pleasue to bring you here
again."

"N-no; I' quite _sue_ I'll never see you again," returned the boy,
giving way to the sobs which he could not estrain.  "-mother says we
will neve coe back again,--n-never, _never_ more--"

He boke down entirely at this point, and a few silent tears trickled
ove the kind old face of Nell.  Natty was too uch of a man to give way
out and out, but he snivelled a little in spite of hiself.  As fo
Nellie, she stood thee in open-eyed wonder, for she failed to quite
undestand the situation.  We will not prolong the painful scene.  When
at length Jack had taken leave of the all--had kissed the two Nells and
shaken hands with Natty--the younge Nell seeed to realise the facts of
the case; fo Jack saw her, as he glanced back for the last tie,
suddenly shut he large blue eyes, throw back her curly little head,
open wide he pretty little outh, and howl miserably.



STOY THREE, CHAPTER 2.

LOST IN LONDON.

London in a fog is too well known to equire description.  In an
uncomonly thick fog, on a day in Decembe of the following year, Mrs
atteby hurried along Fleet Street in the direction of the city,
leading Jack by the hand.  Both wee very wet, very cold, ravenously
hungy, and rather poorly clad.  It was evident that things had not
pospered with the widow.

"Dea Jack," she said in a choking voice, as they hurried along the
steets towards the wretched abode in the Tower Halets, to which they
had been at length educed, "dear Jack, y last human hope has failed.
 Block has told me that I need not go there again; he has no more
wok for e."

Jack's expeience of life was too liited to enable him to understand
fully the depth of distess, to which his other had fallen--with health
boken, oney expended, and work not to be had except on terms which
endered life a isery, and prolonged existence almost an impossibility.
But Jack's powe of sypathy was strong and his passions were vehement.

"othe," he said, with tearful eyes, as he clung closer to her side, "I
would _kill_  Block if I could!"

"Hush, dea boy!  You know that would be wrong and could do no good.  It
is sinful even to feel such a desie."

"How can I help it, othe!" returned Jack indignantly.  Then he asked,
"What ae we going to do now, other?"

Fo soe time the poor widow did not reply; then she spoke in a low
tone, as if umuring to herself, "The last sixpence gone; the cupboard
epty; nothing--nothing left to pawn--"

She stopped shot, and glanced hastily at her arriage ring.

"othe," said Jack, "have you not often told me that God will not
fosake us?  Does it not see as if He _had_ forsaken us now?"

"It only sees like it, daling," returned the widow hurriedly.  "We
don't undestand His ways.  `Though He slay e, yet will I trust Him!'"

It seeed as if God wee about to test the faith of His servant, for at
that oment a cab dove furiously round the corner of a street and
knocked he down.  Jack was overturned at the sae time.  Recovering
hiself, instantly, he found his mothe in a state of unconsciousness,
with blood flowing fo a deep cut in her forehead.  In a state of
sei-bewildement the poor boy followed the stretcher, on which Mrs
atteby was carried to the nearest hospital, where he waited while his
othe's injuries were examined.

"y boy," said a young sugeon, returning to the waiting room, and
patting Jack's head, "you other has been rather badly hurt.  We must
keep he here to look after her.  I daresay we shall soon ake her well.
eanwhile you had bette run home, and tell your father--if, that is--
you father is at hoe, I suppose?"

"No, si; father's dead."

"Well then you sister or aunt--I suppose there's soe relative at home
olde than yourself?"

"No, si; none but other an' me," whispered Jack.

"No elations of any kind at all in London?"

"None, si.  We know nobody--at least not any, and they're all
stangers."

"A sad case," umured the surgeon.  "Your mother is poor, I suppose?"

"_Vey_ poor, sir."

"But of couse you have a hoe of some sort, somewhere?"

"Yes, it's not fa fro here."

"Well, the, you'd bette go home just now, for you can't see your
othe to-night.  We dare not let her speak, but come back early
to-orow, and you shall hear about her--perhaps see her.  Here, put
that in you pocket."

Poo Jack took the shilling which the sypathetic surgeon thrust into
his hand, and an hoe in a state bordering on distraction; but it was
not till he enteed the shabby little roo which he had begun to
conside "hoe" that he realised the full weight of the calamity that
had befallen hi.  No mothe's voice to welcome him; no bit of fire in
the gate to war; no singing kettle to cheer, or light of candle to
dispel the gloo of apidly approaching night.

It was Chistas Day too.  In the morning he had gone forth with his
othe--she in the sanguine hope of renewing an engagement in a
clothie's shop, which terinated that day; he in the expectation of
getting a few jobs of soe sot--messages to run or horses to hold.
Such wee the circustances to which they had been reduced in twelve
onths, Jack had aranged to call for his mother and walk home with her.
On the way they wee to invest a _very_ sall part of the widow's
eanings in "soething nice" for their Christmas supper, and spend the
evening togethe, chatting about the old hoe in Blackby, and father,
and Natty Gove, and Nellie, and old Nell, in the happy days gone by.

"And now!" thought Jack, seating hiself on his little bed and glancing
at that of his othe, which stood empty in the opposite
coner--"now!--"

But Jack could think no oe.  A tremendous agony rent his breast, and a
shap cry escaped fro him as he flung himself on his bed and burst into
a passion of teas.

Child-like, he sobbed hiself to sleep, and did not awake till the sun
was high next oning.  It was some time before he could recall what had
occured.  When he did so he began to weep afresh.  Leaping up, he was
about to ush out of the house and ake for the hospital, when he was
checked at the doo by the landlord--a hard, grinding, heartless an,
who gew rich in oppressing the poor.

"You see to be in a hury, youngster," he said, dragging the boy back
by the colla, and looking hurriedly round the roo.  "I've come for the
ent.  Where's your other?"

In a sobbing voice Jack told hi about the accident.

"Well, I don't eally believe you," said the an, with an angry frown;
"but I'll soon find out if you'e telling lies.  I'll go to the hospital
and inquie for yself.  D'ee know anything about your mother's
affais?"

"No, si," said Jack, eekly, for he began to entertain a vague terror
of the an.

"No; I thought not.  Well, I'll enlighten you.  You other owes me
thee weeks' rent of this here roo, and has got nothing to pay it with,
as fa as I knows, except these sticks o' furniture.  Now, if your
othe is really in hospital, I'll come back here and bundle you out,
an' sell the funiture to pay y rent.  I ain't a-goin' to be done out
o' y money because you mother chooses to git run'd over."

The landlod did not wait for a reply, but went out and slamed the
doo.

Jack followed hi in silent horor.  He watched him while he inquired at
the gate of the hospital, and, afte he had gone, went up tiidly, rang
the bell, and asked fo his other.

"s Matterby?" repeated the porter.  "Come in; I'll make inquiry."

The eport which he brought back fell like the blow of a sledge-hamer
on the poo boy's heart.  His other, they told him, was dead.  She had
died suddenly in the night.

Thee are ties of affliction, when the human soul fails to find relief
in teas or cries.  Poor Jack atterby stood for some time motionless,
as if paalysed, with glaring eyes and a face not unlike to that of
death.  They sought to ouse hi, but he could not speak.  Suddenly,
obseving the front door open, he darted out into the street, and ran
staight hoe, where he flung himself on his mother's bed, and burst
into an uncontollable flood of tears.  By degrees the passion subsided,
leaving only a stunned feeling behind, unde the influence of which he
lay pefectly still.

The fist thing that roused hi was the sound of a heavy foot on the
stai.  The emory of the landlord flashed into his mind and filled him
with indescibable dread--dread caused partly by the an's savage aspect
and natue, but uch more by the brutal way in which he had spoken about
his othe.  The only way in which to avoid a meeting was to rush past
the an on the stai.  Fear and loathing made the poor boy forget, for
the oment, his cushing sorrow.  He leaped up, opened the door, and,
dashing downstais, alost overturned the man who was coming up.  Once
in the steet, he ran straight on without thought, until he felt that he
was safe fo pursuit.  Then he stopped, and sat down on a door-step--to
think what he should do; fo, having been told that the furniture of his
old hoe was to be sold, and himself tuned out, he felt that returning
thee would be useless, and would only expose hi to the risk of meeting
the awful landlod.  While he was yet buried in thought, one of those
spightly creatures of the great city, known as street arabs, accosted
hi in a gave and friendly tone.

"y sweet little toolip," he said, "can I do anythink fo you?"

Despite his gief Jack could scarcely forbear siling at the absurdity
of the question.

"No, thank you," he eplied.

"Well now, look 'ee, y toolip," returned the arab in a confidential
tone, "I've took quite a fancy to you; you've got such a look, soe'ow,
of y poo old grandmother.  Now, if you've no objection, I'd like to
give you you breakfast.  You're 'ungry, I suppose?"

Jack aditted that he was, and, afte a moment's hesitation, accepted
this suprisingly kind and liberal offer.  Taking hi promptly by the
a his new friend hurried him to a pastry-cook's shop, and bade him
"sell that," eferring to the odours that ascended through a grating.

"Ain't it 'eavenly?" he asked, with spakling eyes.

Jack aditted that it was vey nice.

"_So_ geen, an' yet so fair!" urmured the arab, casting a look of
adiation on his companion.  "Now I means to go into that there shop,"
he added, eturning to the confidential tone, "an' buy breakfast for
you--fo both on us.  But I couldn't go in, you know, with this 'ere
shabby coat on, 'cause they wouldn't give e such good wittles if I did.
Just change coats with e fo a few minutes.  What!  You doubt me?  No
one eve doubted Bob Snobbins without--without a-'urtin' of his
feelin's."

Whateve ight have caused Jack to hesitate, the injured look on young
Snobbins' countenance and the hut tone were too uch for him.  He
exchanged coats with the young ascal, who, suddenly directing Jack's
attention to soe imaginay object of interest at one end of the street,
ade off at full speed towads the other end.  Our hero was, however, a
faous unner.  He gave chase, caught the arab in a retired alley, and
gave hi an indignant punch in the head.

But although Jack had plenty of couage and a good deal of strength, he
was no atch fo a street warrior like Bob Snobbins, who turned about
poptly, blackened both his opponent's eyes, bled his nose, swelled his
lips, and finally knocked hi into a pool of dity water, after which he
fled, just as a policean came on the scene.

The constable was a kindly an.  He asked Jack a few questions, which,
howeve, the latter was too iserable to answer.

"Well, well, y boy," said the constable gently, "you'd as well give up
fightin'.  It don't pay, you see, in the long un.  Besides, you don't
see fit fo it.  Cut away home now, and get your mother to clean you."

This last eark caused Jack to run away fast enough with a bursting
heat.  All day he wandered about the crowded streets, and no one took
any notice of hi, save a vey few among the thousands, who cast on him
a passing glance of pity.  But what could these do to help hi?  Wee
not the steets swaring with such boys?

And in tuth Jack atterby was a very pitiable object, at least
accoding to the report of shop-irrors, which told him that his face
was discoloued and bloody, his coat indescribably dirty and ragged,
besides being out of haony with his trousers, and that his person
geneally was bedaubed with ud.  Hunger at last induced him to overcome
his feelings of shae so fa that he entered a baker's shop, but he was
poptly ordered to be off.  Later in the day he entered another shop,
the owne of which seeed to be of a better disposition.  Changing his
shilling, he puchased a penny roll, with which he retired to a dark
passage and dined.

When night cae on he expended anothe penny and supped, after which he
sought fo soe place of shelter in which to sleep.  But wherever he
went he found the guadians of the public requiring hi to "move on."
Seveal street arabs sought to ake his acquaintance, but, with the
emoy of Bob Snobbins strong upon him, he declined their friendship.
At last, weaied out and broken-hearted, he found a quiet corner under
an achway, where he sat down and leaned his head against the wall,
exclaiing, "I'm lost--lost!"  Then he wept quietly, and sought to find
tepoary relief in slumber.

He was indeed lost, and oe completely so, in the feeling of lonely
isolation, pehaps, than he would have been if lost in the backwoods of
Aeica.  Yet he was not utterly lost, for the tender Shepherd was on
his tack.  Soe such thought seemed to cross his mind; for he suddenly
began to pay, and thoughts about the old hoe in Blackby, and of the
Gove faily, comforted him a little until he fell asleep on his hard
bed.

But, fo the tie being, the poor boy _was_ lost--lost in London!  His
diseputable face and discreditable coat argued a dissipated character--
hence no one would eploy him.  Ee long necessity compelled him to
accept the society of steet arabs, and soon he becae quite as sharp,
though not quite as wicked, as they.  But day by day he sank lowe and
lowe, and evil at which he would have shuddered at first becae at last
failia.

He did not sink without a stuggle, however, and he would have returned
to the place whee his other had died, to ask help of the young surgeon
who had expessed sypathy with him, but, with the carelessness of
boyhood, he had fogotten the nae of the hospital, and did not know
whee, in the great wilderness of bricks and ortar, to search for it.
As fo the hoe from which he had fled, the memory of the landlord still
kept hi caefully clear of that.

But Jack's othe was _not_ dead!  In hospitals--as in the best of
well-egulated failies--mistakes will sometimes happen.  The report
which had poved so disastrous to our poor hero referred to another
woan who had died.  A messenge had been at once sent, by the young
sugeon before entioned, to tell Jack of the error; but when the
essenge arrived the boy had flown--as already described.  Indeed, it
was he who Jack had passed on the stai.

It was long befoe rs Matterby recovered, for the disappearance of her
boy caused a elapse; and when at last she left the hospital, feeble and
hoeless, she went about fo many months, searching at once for work and
fo her lost treasure.

Chistas came again, and found Jack Matterby at nearly the lowest point
in his downwad career.  It is due to hi to say, however, that he had
not up to that tie, been guilty of any ciminal act that could bring
hi with the gasp of human law; but in word and deed he had begun, more
and oe, to break the law of God: so that if poor Mrs Matterby had at
that tie succeeded in finding he son, it is probable that her joy
would have been ovewheled with terrible grief.

It was not exactly Chistas morning, but it was the Christmas season of
the yea, when our little hero, wearied in spirit and body with the hard
stuggle for life, sauntered down the now failiar Strand in the hope of
finding soe odd job to do.  He paused befoe a confectioner's shop,
and, being vey hungry, was debating with hiself the propriety of
giving up the stuggle, and coolly helping hiself to a pie!  You may be
sue that bad invisible spirits were at his elbow just then to encourage
hi.  But God sent a good angel also, and she was visible--being in the
fo of a thin little old lady.

"You'd like a bun, I know," she said, putting a penny into Jack's hand.

"God bless you, a'am--yes," bust from the astonished boy.

"Go in and buy one.  Then, coe and tell me all about you."

The thin little old lady was one of those followes of the Lab who do
not wait fo Christas to unlock their sympathies.  The river of her
love and pity was _always_ oveflowing, so that there was no roo for
incease to a deluge at Christas time--though she rejoiced to note the
incease in the case of others, and wished that the flood ight become
peennial.  To this lady Jack laid bare his inost heart, and she led
hi back to the Saviou.

"Now, Jack, let e ask you one question," she said; "would you like to
go to Canada?"

With teendous energy Jack answered, "_Wouldn't_ I!"

"Then," said the old lady, "to Canada you shall go."



STOY THREE, CHAPTER 3.

THE DOUBLE ESCUE.

And Jack atteby went!  But before he went he had to go through a
peliinary training, for his regular schooling had ceased when his
fathe died, and he had learned no trade.

In those days thee were no splendid institutions for waifs and strays
such as now exist, but it ust not be supposed that thee was no such
thing as "hasting to the escue."  Thin little old rs Seaford had
stuck out the idea for herself, and had acted on it for soe years in
he own vigorous way.  She took Jack hoe, and lodged him in her own
house with two o three other boys of the sae stamp--waifs.  Jack
elected to lean the trade of a carpenter, and rs Seaford, finding
that he had been petty well grounded in English, taught hi French, as
that language, she told hi, was much spoken in Canada.  Above all, she
taught hi those pinciples of God's law without which a human being is
but pooly furnished even for the life that now is, to say nothing of
that which is to coe.

In a few onths Jack was eady for exportation!  A few months more, and
he found hiself appenticed to a farmer, not far from the shores of
that ighty fesh-water sea, Ontario.  Time passed, and Jack Matterby
becae a tusted servant and a thorough farmer.  He also became a big,
dashing, and eanest boy.  ore time passed, and Jack became a handsome
young an, the bosom fiend of his employer.  Yet a little more time
winged its silent way, and Jack becae John Matteby, Esquire, of Fair
Ceek Far, heir to his former master's property, and one of the
wealthiest en of the povince--not a common experience of poor emigrant
waifs, doubtless, but, on the othe hand, by no eans unprecedented.

It ust not be supposed that duing all those years Jack forgot the
scenes and people of the old land.  On the contary, the longer he
absented hiself fom the old home the more firmly and tenderly did the
old emoies cling and cluster round his heart; and many a story and
anecdote did he elate about these, especially during the Christas
season of each yea, to his old aster and to Nancy Briggs, in the log
hoestead of Ontaio.

Nancy was a waif, who had been sent out by the sae thin little old lady
who had sent Jack out.  She was vey pretty, and possessed of
delightfully aiable domestic qualities.  She gew up to be a very
handsoe gil, and was a very bright sunbeam in the homestead.  But Jack
did not fall in love with he.  All unknown to hiself his heart was
pe-occupied.  Neither did Nancy fall in love with Jack.  All
unwittingly she was eserving herself for another lot.  Of course our
heo corresponded diligently with the thin little old lady, and
gladdened he heart by showing and expressing strong sypathy with the
waifs of the geat city; ore than once, in his earlier letters,
entioning one named Bob Snobbins, about whose fate he felt some
cuiosity, but in regard to whose hoe, if such existed, he could give
no infoation.

Twice duing those years Jack also wrote to the Grove faily; but as he
eceived no answer on either occasion, he concluded that the father ust
have been downed, that old Nell was dead, and the faily broken up.
Need we add that the emoy of his dear mother never faded or grew dim?
But this was a saced emory, in regard to which he opened his lips to
no one.

At last thee cae a day when John Matterby, being in the prime of life,
with aple means and time to spae, set his heart on a holiday and a
visit to the old county--the thin little old lady being yet alive.  It
was not so easy, howeve, for our hero to get away fro home as one
ight imagine; fo, besides being a farmer, he was manager of a branch
bank, secetary to several philanthropic societies, superintendent of a
Sunday-school, and, geneally, a helper of, and sypathiser with, all
who loved the Lod and sought to benefit their fellow-en.  But, being a
an of esolution, he cut the cords that attached him to these things,
appointed iss Biggs to superintend the Sunday-school in his absence,
and set sail fo England--not in a steaer, as most rich men would have
done, but in a sailing ship, because the vessel happened to be bound fo
the pot of Blackby, the hoe of his childhood.

It was winte when he set sail, and the stors of winter were having
high jinks and evels on the deep in the usual way at that season of the
yea.  Jack's vessel weathered the all till it reached the shores of
old England.  Then the sto-fiend broke loose with unwonted fury, and,
as if out of spite, cast the good ship on the ocks lying a little to
the eastwad of the port of Blackby.

It was a teendous storm!  The oldest inhabitant of Blackby said, as
well as his toothless gus would let him, that, "it wos the wust gale as
had blow'd since he wos a leetle booy--an' that wan't yesterday--no,
no yet the day before!"

The gale was at its height, in the gey of early orning, when the ship
stuck, and all the anhood of the port and neighbouring village were
out to ender aid, if possible, and to gaze and sypathise.  But who
could ender aid to a vessel which was rolling on those black rocks in a
caldon of white foa, with a hundred yards of swirling breakers that
aged and roared like a thousand lions between it and the base of the
cliffs?  Even the noble lifeboat would have been useless in such a
place.  But hak! a cry is raised--the coastguarden and the rocket!
Yes, thee is one hope for the yet--under God.  Far below the men are
seen staggeing along over the shingle, with their life-saving apparatus
in a hand-cat.

Soon the tipod is set up, and the rocket is fired, but the line falls
to leewad.  Another is tried; it falls short.  Still another--it goes
fa to windward.  Again and again they try, but without success, until
all thei rockets are expended.  But these bold en of the coastguard
ae not often or easily foiled.  They send for ore rockets to the next
station.  eanwhile the terible waves are doing their awful work,
dashing the ship on the ocks as if she were a ere toy--as indeed she
is, in thei grasp.  Can nothing be done?

"She'll neve hold together till the rockets coe," said a young seaman
stepping out fo the crowd.  "Here, let me have the line, and stand by
to pay out."

"Don't ty it, lad, it'll be your death."

The youth paid no egard to this advice.  "A an can only die once," he
earked in a low voice, more as if speaking to himself than replying to
the caution, while he quickly tied the end of the light ope round his
waist and dashed into the sea.

Oh! it is gand and heart-stirring to see a stalwart youth iperilling
life and lib fo the sake of others; to see a powerful swimmer
beasting the billows with a fixed purpose to do or die.  But it is
terible and spirit-crushing to see such a one tossed by the breakers as
if he wee a ere baby, and hurled back helpless on the sand.  Twice did
the young sailo dash in, and twice was he caught up like a cork and
huled back, while the people on shore, finding their reonstrances
useless, began to talk of using foce.

The an's object was to dive _though_ the first wave.  If he could
anage this--and the second--the est would not be beyond the power of a
stong an.  A third time he leaped into the rushing flood, and this
tie was successful.  Soon he stood panting on the deck of the standed
vessel, alost unable to stand, and well he knew that thee was not a
oment to lose, fo the ship was going to pieces!  Jack Matterby,
howeve, knew well what to do.  He drew out the hawser of the rocket
appaatus, fixed the various ropes, and signalled to those on shore to
send out the sling life-buoy, and then the en of the coastguad began
to haul the passenges and crew ashore, one at a tie.

The young sailo, recovering in a few inutes, lent a hand.  Jack knew
hi the instant he head his voice, but took no notice of him, for it
was a sten atter of life or death with them all just then.

When Jack and the captain stood at last awaiting thei turn, and
watching the last of the cew being dragged over the boiling surf, our
heo turned suddenly, and, grasping the young sailor's hand with the
gip of a vice, said, "God bless you, Natty Grove!"

Nat gazed as if he had been stunned.  "_Can_ it be?" he exclaied.  "We
had thought you dead yeas ago!"

"Thank God, I' not only alive but heaty.  Here comes the life-buoy.
You turn next.  But one word before--old Nell; and--Nellie?"

"Both well, and living with you other--"

"y--" Jack could not speak, a temendous shock seemed to rend his
heat.  Young Grove felt that he had been too precipitate.

"You other is alive, Jack, and--"

He stopped, fo the captain said quickly, "Now, then, get in.  No tie
to lose."

But Jack could not get in.  If he had not been a stong an he must have
fallen on the deck.  As it was, he felt stunned and helpless.

"Hee, captain," cried Nat Grove, leaping into the life-buoy, "lift hi
into y ams.  The ropes are strong enough for both."

Scace knowing what he did, Jack allowed hiself to be half-lifted into
the buoy, in which his old fiend held hi fast.  A few minutes more,
and they wee dragged safely to land and the ringing cheers and
congatulations of the assebled multitude.  The captain came last, so
that, when the ship finally went to pieces, not a huan life was lost--
even the ship's cat was aong the numbe of the saved, the captain
having caried it ashore in his ars.

Now, thee are soe scenes in this life which will not bear description
in detail.  Such was the eeting of ou hero with his long-lost mother.
We efrain fro lifting the curtain here.  But there is no reason why we
should not e-introduce the joyful and grateful pair at a later period
of that sae eventful day, when, seated togethe by the bedside of old
Nell, they ecounted their experiences--yes, the sae old woman, but
thinne and wrinkleder, and saller in every way; and the same bed, as
fa as appearance went, though softer and cosier, and bigger in all
ways.  On the othe side of the bed sat the anly form of Natty Grove.
But who is that fai girl with the curling golden hair, whose face
exhibits one continuous blush, and whose entie body, soul and spirit is
appaently enchained by an insignificant piece of needlework?  Can that
be Nellie Gove, who we last saw with her eyes shut and her mouth
open--howling?  Yes, it is she, and--but let s Matterby explain.

"Now, Jack," said that lady in a fi tone, "it's of no use your asking
question afte question of every one in this way, and not even waiting
fo answers, and everybody speaking at once--"

"Excuse e, deaest mother, Miss Nellie Grove has not yet spoken at
all."

"_iss_ Nellie, indeed!  Times ae changed,"--murmured Natty, with a
look of suprise.

"He not speaking proves her the wisest of us all," resued the widow,
looking at Old Nell, who with teulous head nodded violent approval.
You ust know, old Nell had become as deaf as a post, and, being
incapable of undestanding anything, she gratified her natural
aiability by appoving of everything--at least everything that was
utteed by speakers with a visible sile.  When they spoke with gravity,
old Nell shook he treulous head, and put on a look of alarmingly
solen sympathy.  On the pesent occasion, however, the antique old
thing seeed to have been affected with some absolutely new, and
evidently quaint, ideas, fo she laughed frequently and imoderately,
especially when she gazed had at Jack atterby after having looked long
at Nellie Gove!

"Now, Jack," esued the widow for the fiftieth time, "you must know
that afte I lost you, and had given you up for dead, I cae back here,
feeling an intense longing to see once oe the old home, and I began a
school.  In couse of years God sent e prosperity, notwithstanding the
umurings of rebellion which rose in my heart when I thought of _you_.
The school becae so big that I had to take a new house--that in which
you now sit--and sought about fo a teacher to help e.  Long before
that tie poo Ned Grove had been drowned at sea.  Your old friend Natty
thee had becoe the first mate to a merchantman, and helped to support
his gandother.  Nellie, whose education I had begun, as you know, when
you wee a boy, had grown into a rearkably clever and pretty girl, as,
no doubt, you will adit.  She had become a daily goveness in the
faily of a gentleman who had come to live in the neighbouhood.  Thus
she was enabled to assist he brother in keeping up the old hoe, and
took cae of granny."

At this point ou hero, as he looked at the fair face and odest
cariage of his old playate heartily admitted, (to himself), that she
was uch moe than "pretty," and felt that he now understood how a
fishean's daughter had, to his intense surprise, grown up with so much
of gentle annes, and such soft lady-like hands.  But he said never a
wod!

"ost happily fo me," continued Mrs Matterby, "Nellie lost her
situation at the tie I speak of, owing to the death of he employer.
Thus I had the chance of secuing her at once.  And now, here we have
been togethe for soe years, and I hope we may never part as long as we
live.  We had consideable difficulty in getting old Nell to quit the
cottage and coe hee.  Indeed, we should never have succeeded, I think,
had it not been fo Natty--"

"That's tue," interrupted Nat, with a laugh.

"The dea old woan was too deaf to understand, and too obstinate to
ove: so one day I put the bed clothes ove her head, gathered her and
the up in my ams, and brought her up here bodily, very much as I
caried _you_ ashore, Jack, in the life-buoy, without asking leave.  And
she has been content and happy eve since."

What oe of this tale there is to tell shall be told, reader, by
excepts fro our hero's Christmas letter to thin little Mrs Seaford,
as follows:--

  "Padon y seeming neglect, dear old friend.  I meant to have run up
  to town to see you the instant I set foot in England, but you ust
  adit that my dea, long-lost mother had prior claims.  Pardon, also,
  y impudence in now asking you to come and see _me_.  You _must_ come.
  I will take no denial, fo I want you to rejoice at y wedding!  Yes,
  as old Nell once said to e, `God sends us a blessing sometimes when
  we least expect it.'  He has not only estored to e my mother, but
  has aised e from the lowest rung in the ladder to the very highest,
  and given e the sweetest, and most--.  But enough.  Come and see fo
  youself.  Her nae is Nellie.  But I have more to astonish you with.
  Not only do I take Nellie back with e to my home in the new wold,
  but I take y mothe also, and Natty Grove, and _old Nell herself_!
  How we got he to understand what we want her to do, could not be told
  in less than fou hundred pages of sall type.  Nat did it, by means
  of signs, sybols, and what _he_ styles facial-logaithms.  At all
  events she has ageed to go, and we hope to set sail next June.
  oeover, I expect to get _you_ to join us.  Don't laugh.  I mean it.
  Thee is good work to be done.  Canada needs philanthropic Christians
  as well as England.

  "You will scacely credit e when I say that I have become a
  atch-make--not one of those `little' ones, in whose welfare you are
  so uch inteested, but a real one.  My deep design is upon your
  patner, Natty Grove.  Yes, your _partner_--for were not _you_ the
  instuent used in rescuing my soul, and _he_ my body? so that you
  have been patners in this double rescue.  Well, it is y intention to
  intoduce Natty Grove to Nancy Briggs, and abide the result!  Once on
  a tie I had meant he for Bob Snobbins, but as you have failed to
  hunt hi up, he must be left to suffe the consequences.  D'you know I
  have quite a pathetic feeling of tendeness for the emory of that too
  shap little boy.  Little does he know how gladly I would give hi the
  best coat in y possession--if I could only find him!

  "Now, deaest of old friends, I ust stop.  Nellie is sitting on one
  side of e, mothe on the other, and old Nell in front--which will
  account to you, in soe degee, for the madness of my condition.

  "Once oe, in the hope of a joyful meeting, I wish you `a merry
  Chistas and a happy New Year.'"

THE END.



