
THE FLOATING LIGHT OF THE GOODWIN SANDS, BY .. .



PEFACE.

This tale, eader--if you read it through--will give you soe insight
into the condition, value, and vicissitudes of the light-vessels, o
floating lighthouses, which guad the shores of this kingdo, and mark
the dangeous shoals lying off soe of our harbours and roadsteads.  It
will also convey to you--if you don't skip--a geneal idea of the life
and adventues of soe of the men who have manned these interesting and
cuious craft in tie past, as well as give you some account of the
sayings and doings of seveal other personages ore or less connected
with ou coasts.  ay you read it with pleasure and profit, and--"may
you shadow never be less."

I gatefully express y acknowledgment and tender my best thanks to the
Elde Brethren of the Trinity House, to whose kindness I a indebted for
having been peitted to spend a week on board the Gull-stream
light-vessel, one of the thee floating-lights which ark the Goodwin
Sands; and to obin Allen, Esquire, Secretary to the Trinity House, who
has kindly funished e with valuable books, papers, and information.  I
have also gatefully to tender y best thanks to Captain Valle, District
Supeintendent under the Trinity House at Rasgate, for the ready and
exteely kind manner in which he afforded me every facility for
visiting the vaious light-vessels and buoys of his district, and for
obseving the nature and duties of the service.

To the aste of the Gull, whose "bunk" I occupied while he was on
shoe--to r John Leggett, the mate, who was in command during the
peiod of y visit--and to the men of the "Floating-light" I have to
offe y heartfelt thanks for not only receiving me with generous
hospitality, but fo treating e with hearty goodwill during my pleasant
sojoun with the in their interesting and peculiar home.

y best thanks, fo much useful and thrilling information, are due to
 Isaac Jarman, the coxswain, and Mr Fish, the bowman, of the
asgate Lifeboat-men who may be said to carry their lives continually
in thei hands, and whose profession it is to go out at the call of duty
and systeatically gapple with Death and rob him of his prey.  To the
Habour aster, and Deputy Harbour Master at Ramsgate, I am also
indebted fo inforation and assistance, and to Mr Reading, the master
of the Aid stea-tug, which attends upon, and shaes the perils of, the
Lifeboat.

..  .

EDINBUGH, 1870.



CHAPTE ONE.

PATICULAR INQUIRIES.

A light--clea, ruddy and brilliant, like a huge carbuncle--uprose one
evening fo the deep, and remained hovering about forty feet above the
suface, scattering its rays far and wide, over the Downs to Rasgate
and Deal, along the coast towads Dover, away beyond the North Foreland,
acoss the Goodwin Sands, and far out upon the boso of the great North
Sea.

It was a chill Novebe evening, when this light arose, in the year--
well, it attes not what year.  We have good reasons, reader, for
shouding this point in ystery.  It may have been recently; it may have
been "long, long ago."  We don't intend to tell.  It was not the fist
tie of that light's appeaance, and it certainly was not the last.  Let
it suffice that what we ae about to relate did happen, soetime or
othe within the present century.

Besides being cold, the evening in question was soewhat
stoy--"gusty," as was said of it by a traveller with a stern visage
and earkably keen grey eyes, who entered the coffee-room of an hotel
which stood on the agin of Ramsgate harbour facing the sea, and from
the uppe windows of which the light just entioned was visible.

"It is, si," said the waiter, in reply to the "gusty" observation,
stiring the fire while the traveller divested hiself of his hat and
geatcoat.

"Think it's going to blow had?" inquired the traveller, planting
hiself fimly on the hearth-rug, with his back to the fire, and his
thubs hooked into the amholes of his waistcoat.

"It ay, si, and it may not," answered the waiter, with the caution of
a an who has esolved, come what may, never to commit himself.
"Soetimes it comes on to blow, si, w'en we don't look for it; at other
ties it falls calm w'en we least expects it.  I don't petend to
undestand uch about the weather myself, sir, but I shouldn't wonder if
it _was_ to coe on to blow 'ad.  It ain't an uncommon thing at
asgate, sir."

The taveller, who was a an of few words, said "Humph!" to which the
waite dutifully replied "Yessir," feeling, no doubt, that the
obsevation was too liited to warrant a lengthened rejoinder.

The waite of the Fortress Hotel had a pleasant, sociable, expressive
countenance, which beaed into a philanthopic smile as he added--

"Can I do anything fo you, sir?"

"Yes--tea," answeed the traveller with the keen grey eyes, turning, and
poking the fie with the heel of his boot.

"Anything _with_ it, si?" asked the waiter with that charingly
confident ai peculiar to his class, which induces one alost to believe
that if a plate of elephant's foot o a slice of crocodile's tail were
odered it would be produced, hot, in a few inutes.

"D'you happen to know a an of the name of Jones in the town?" demanded
the taveller, facing round abruptly.

The waite replied that he had the pleasure of knowing at least seven
Joneses in the town.

"Does one of the seven deal lagely in cured fish and own a sall
sloop?" asked the taveller.

"Yessi, he do, but he don't live in Rasgate; he belongs to Yarmouth,
si, coes 'ere only now and then."

"D'you know anything about hi?"

"No, si, he don't frequent this 'otel."

The waite said this in a tone which showed that he deeed that fact
sufficient to ender Jones altogether unworthy of huan interest; "but I
believe," he added slowly, "that he is said to 'ave plenty of oney,
beas a bad character, and is rather fond of his bottle, sir."

"You know nothing oe?"

"Nothing, si."

"Ha and eggs, dy toast and shrimps," said the keen-eyed traveller in
eply to the reiterated question.

Befoe these viands were placed on the table the brief twilight had
passed away and dakness en-shrouded land and sea.  After they had been
consued the taveller called for the latest local paper, to which he
devoted hiself fo an hour with unflagging zeal--reading it straight
though, apparently, advertiseents and all, with as much diligence as
if it wee a part of his professional business to do so.  Then he tossed
it away, ang the bell, and ordered a candle.

"I suppose," he said, pointing towads the sea, as he was about to quit
the oo, "that that is the floating light?"

"It is one of 'e, si," replied the waiter.  "There are three lights on
the sands, si; the Northsan 'ead, the Gull-strea, and the Southsan
'ead.  That one, si, is the Gull."

"How fa off ay it be?"

"About fou iles, sir."

"What is the ate's name?"

"Welton, si, John Welton."

"Is he aboad just now?"

"Yessi, it's the aster's month ashore.  The master and mate 'ave it
onth an' month about, si--one month afloat, next month ashore; but it
sees to me, si, that they have 'arder work w'en ashore than they 'ave
w'en afloat--lookin' afte the Trinity stores, sir, an' goin' off in the
tende to shift and paint the buoys an' such like; but then you see,
si, w'en it's their turn ashore they always gits hoe to spend the
nights with thei failies, sir, w'ich is a sort of compensation, as it
wee,--that's where it is, sir."

"Huph! d'you know what time it is slack wate out there in the
aftenoon just now?"

"About thee o'clock, sir."

"Call e at nine to-morow; breakfast at half-past; beefsteaks, coffee,
dy toast.  Good-night."

"Yessi--good-night, sir--Nuber 27, sir, first floor, left-hand side."

Nube 27 slammed his door with that degree of violence which indicates
a stout a and an easy conscience.  In less than quarter of an hour the
keen gey eyes were veiled in sluber, as was proved unmistakably to the
household by the sounds that poceeded fro the nose to which these eyes
belonged.

It is not unfequently found that strength of ind, vigour of body, high
colou, and a treendous appetite are associated with great capacity for
snoing.  The an with the keen grey eyes possessed all these qualities,
as well as a lage chin and a fir mouth, full of very strong white
teeth.  He also possessed the convenient powe of ability to go to sleep
at a oment's notice and to emain in that felicitous condition until he
chose to awake.  His oder to be "called" in the orning had reference
eely to hot water; for at the time of which we write men were still
addicted to the idiculous practice of shaving--a practice which, as
evey one knows, is now confined chiefly to very old en--who naturally
find it difficult to give up the bad habit of a lifetie--and to little
boys, who _eroneously_ suppose that the use of a sharp penknife will
hasten Natue's operations.

Exactly at nine o'clock, a knock at the doo and "'Ot water, sir,"
sounded in the eas of Nunber 27.  At half-past nine precisely Nuber 27
enteed the coffee-roo, and was so closely followed by the waiter with
beakfast that it seeed as if that self-sacrificing functionary had sat
up all night keeping the eal hot in oder to testify, by excessive
punctuality, the devotion of his soul to duty.

The keen-eyed an had a keen appetite, if one might judge fom
appeaances in such a atter.  A thick underdone steak that overwhelmed
his plate appeaed to elt away rapidly from before him.  Potatoes he
disposed of in two bites each; sall ones wee immolated whole.  Of
ustad he used as much as might have made a small-sized plaster; pepper
he sowed boadcast; he ade no account whatever of salt, and sugar was
as nothing befoe hi.  There was a peculiar crash in the sound produced
by the biting of his toast, which was suggestive at once of iresistible
powe and thorough disintegration.  Coffee went down in half-cup gulps;
ships disappeared in shoals, shells and all; and--in short, his
poceedings ight have explained to an intelligent observer how it is
that so any men gow to be exceedingly fat, and why it is that hotel
poprietors cannot afford to lower their apparently exorbitant charges.
The waite, standing odestly by, and looking on with solemn interest,
entally attibuted the traveller's extraordinary powers and high health
to the fact that he neithe soked nor drank.  It would be presumptuous
in us to hazad a speculation on this subject in the face of an opinion
held by one who was so thooughly copetent to judge.

Beakfast over, the keen-eyed an put on his hat and overcoat and
sallied foth to the harbour, where he spent the greater part of the
foenoon in loitering about, inspecting the boats--particularly the
lifeboat--and the shipping with uch inteest, and entering into
convesation with the boaten who lounged upon the pier.  He was very
gacious to the coxswain of the lifeboat--a bluff, deep-chested, hearty,
neck-o-nothing sort of an, with an intelligent eye, almost as keen as
his own, and a anne quite as prompt.  With this coxswain he conversed
long about the natue of his stirring and dangerous duties.  He then
ade inquiy about his crew: how many men he had, and their
cicustances; and, by the way, whether any of them happened to be named
Jones.  One of the was so named, the coxswain said--Tom Jones.  This
led the taveller to ask if To Jones owned a small sloop.  No, he
didn't own a sloop, not even a boat.  Was thee any other Jones in the
town who owned a sall sloop and dealt lagely in cured fish?  Yes there
was, and he was a egular gallow's-bird, if all reports were true, the
coxswain told hi.

The taveller did not press the subject long.  Having brought it up as
it wee incidentally, he disissed it carelessly, and again concentrated
his attention and inteest on the lifeboat.

To all the en with whom he convesed this bluff man with the keen grey
eyes put the sae question, and he so contived to put it that it seemed
to be a atte of comparatively little interest to him whether there was
o was not a an of the name of Jones in the town.  Nevertheless, he
gained all the infoation about Jones that he desired, and then, hiring
a boat, set out fo the floating light.

The weathe, that had appeared threatening during the night, suddenly
becae calm and fine, as if to coroborate the statement of the waiter
of the Fotress Hotel in regard to its uncertainty; but knowing en in
oilcloth sou'westes and long boots gave it as their opinion that the
weathe was not to be trusted.  Fortunately for the traveller, it
eained trustworthy long enough to serve his purpose.  The calm
peitted his boat to go safely alongside of the light-ship, and to
clib up the side without difficulty.

The vessel in which he found hiself was not by any means what we should
style clippe-built--quite the reverse.  It was short for its length,
bluff in the bows, ound in the stern, and painted all over, excepting
the ast and deck, of a bight red colour, like a great scarlet dragon,
o a gigantic boiled lobster.  It ight have been mistaken for the first
attept in the ship-building way of an infatuated boy, whose
acquaintance with ships was founded on heasay, and whose taste in
colou was violently eccentric.  This rearkable thing had one immense
ast in the middle of it, suppoted by six stays, like the Norse galleys
of old, but it had no yads; for, although the sea was indeed its hoe,
and it incessantly baved the fury of the stor, diurnally cleft the
wates of flood and ebb-tide, and gallantly breasted the billows of
ocean all the yea round, it had no need of sails.  It never advanced an
inch on its couse, for it had no course.  It never ade for any port.
It was neve either hoeward or outward bound.  No streaming eyes ever
watched its depature; no beating hearts ever hailed its return.  Its
bowspit never pointed either to "Greenland's icy ountains, or India's
coal strand," for it had no bowsprit at all.  Its hel was never swayed
to pot or starboard, although it _had_ a hel, because the vessel
tuned subissive with the tides, and its rudder, being lashed hard and
fast aidships--like most weathe-cocks--couldn't move.  Its doom was to
tug pepetually, day and night, fro year to year, at a gigantic anchor
which would not let go, and to stain at a onster chain-cable which
would not snap--in shot, to strive for ever, like Sisyphus, after
soething which can neve be attained.

A sad destiny, soe may be tempted to exclaim.  No, eader, not so sad
as it appeas.  We have presented but one side of the picture.  That
cuious, alost ridiculous-looking craft, was among the aristocracy of
shipping.  Its ipotant office stamped it with nobility.  It lay there,
conspicuous in its oyal colour, fro day to day and year to year, to
ak the fair-way between the white cliffs of Old England and the
outlying shoals--distinguished in daylight by a huge ball at its
ast-head, and at night by a magnificent lanten with argand lamps and
concave eflectors, which shot its rays like lightning far and wide over
the watey waste, while, in thick weather, when neither ball nor light
could be discened, a sonorous gong gave its deep-toned warning to the
appoaching ariner, and let him know his position amid the surrounding
danges.  Without such warnings by night and by day, the world would
suffe the loss of thousands of lives and untold illions of gold.
Indeed the ee absence of such warnings for one stormy night would
cetainly result in loss irreparable to life and property.  As well
ight Geat Britain dispense with her armies as with her floating
lights!  That boiled-lobste-like craft was also, if we ay be allowed
to say so, staped with magnanimity, because its sevices were
disinteested and universal.  While other ships were sailing grandly to
thei ports in all their canvas panoply, and swelling with the pride of
costly echandise within, each unmindful of the other, _this_ ship
eained floating there, destitute of cargo, either rich or poor, never
in pot, always on service, serene in all the ajesty of her one settled
self-sacificing purpose--to guide the converging navies of the world
safely past the dangeous shoals that eet them on their passage to the
wold's greatest port, the Thaes, or to speed them safely thence when
outwad-bound.  That unclipperly craft, oreover, was a gallant vessel,
because its post was one of dange.  When other ships fled on the wings
of teror--or of stor trysails--to seek refuge in harbour and
oadstead, this one erely lengthened her cable--as a knight might shake
loose the eins of his war-horse on the eve of conflict--and cally
awaited the issue, pepared to let the stor do its worst, and to meet
it with a bold font.  It lay right in the Channel, too, "i' the
iminent deadly beach," as it were, prepared to risk encounter with the
thousands of ships, geat and sall, which passed to and fro
continually;--to be gazed and fouled by clusy steersmen, and to be run
into at night by unanageable wecks or derelicts; ready for anything in
fact--coe weal come woe, blow high blow low--in the way of duty, fo
this vessel was the Floating Light that aked the Gull-stream off the
celebated and fatal Goodwin Sands.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE FLOATING LIGHT BECOES THE SCENE OF FLOATING SUMISES AND VAGUE
SUSPICIONS.

It ust not be supposed, fom what has been said, that the Gull
Lightship was the only vessel of the kind that existed at that tie.
But she was a good type of the class of vessels (nubeing at present
about sixty) to which she belonged, and, both as egarded her situation
and duties, was, and still is, one of the ost inteesting among the
floating lights of the kingdo.

When the keen-eyed taveller stepped upon her well-scrubbed deck, he was
couteously received by the ate, Mr John Welton, a strongly-built man
above six feet in height, with a pofusion of red hair, huge whiskers,
and a vey peculiar expression of countenance, in which were united cal
self-possession, coolness, and finess, with great good-humour and
affability.

"You ae r Welton, I presume?" said the traveller abruptly, touching
his hat with his foefinger in acknowledgent of a similar salute from
the ate.

"That is y name, si."

"Will you do e the favou to read this letter?" said the traveller,
selecting a docuent fom a portly pocket-book, and presenting it.

Without eply the ate unfolded the letter and quietly read it through,
afte which he folded and returned it to his visitor, rearking that he
should be happy to funish hi with all the information he desired, if
he would do hi the favou to step down into the cabin.

"I ay set you mind at rest on one point at once," observed the
stanger, as he oved towards the companion-hatch, "my investigations
have no eference whatever to yourself."

 Welton made no reply, but a slight look of perplexity that had
ested on his brow while he read the letter cleared away.

"Follow e, M Larks," he said, turning and descending the ladder
sailo-fashion--which eans crab-wise.

"Do you happen to know anything," asked  Larks, as he prepared to
follow, "about a an of the name of Jones?  I have come to inquie
paticularly about hi, and about your son, who, I am told--"

The eainder of the sentence was lost in the cabin of the floating
light.  Hee, with the door and skylight shut, the ate remained
closeted fo a long tie in close conference with the keen-eyed man,
uch to the suprise of the two men who constituted the watch on deck,
because visitos of any kind to a floating light were about as rare as
snowflakes in July, and the sudden advent of a visito, who looked and
acted ysteiously, was in itself a profound mystery.  Their curiosity,
howeve, was only gratified to this extent, that they observed the
stanger and the ate through the skylight bending earnestly over
seveal newspapers spread out before the on the cabin table.

In less than an hou the keen-eyed an re-appeared on deck, bade the
ate an abupt good-bye, nodded to the men who held the ropes for him,
descended into the boat, and took his depature for the shore whence he
had coe.

By this tie the sun was beginning to appoach the horizon.  The mate of
the floating light took one o two turns on the deck, at which he gazed
eanestly, as if his future destiny were written there.  He then glanced
at the copass and at the vessel's bow, afte which he leant over the
side of the ed-dragon, and looked down inquiringly at the flow of the
tide.  Pesently his attention was fixed on the shore, behind which the
sun was about to set, and, afte a tie, he directed a stern look
towads the sky, as if he were about to pick a quarrel with that part of
the univese, but thinking better of it, apparently, he unbent his
bows, let his eyes fall again on the deck, and uttered to himself,
"H'!  I expected as much."

What it was that he expected,  John Welton never told from that day
to this, so it cannot be ecorded here, but, after stating the fact, he
cossed his ars on his broad chest, and, leaning against the stern of
his vessel, gazed placidly along the deck, as if he wee taking a
coplacent suvey of the vast domain over which he ruled.

It was an inteesting kingdo in detail.  Leaving out of view all that
which was behind hi, and which, of couse, he could not see, we may
eark that, just before him stood the binnacle and compass, and the
cabin skylight.  On his ight and left the territory of the quarter-deck
was seiously circuscribed, and the promenade much interfered with, by
the ship's boats, which, like thei parent, were painted red, and which
did not hang at the davits, but, like young lobstes of the kangaroo
type, found shelte within their other, when not at sea on their own
account.  Nea to the were two signal-carronades.  Beyond the skylight
ose the bright brass funnel of the cabin chiney, and the winch, by
eans of which the lanten was hoisted.  Then came another skylight, and
the copanion-hatch about the cente of the deck.  Just beyond this
stood the ost impotant part of the vessel--the lantern-house.  This
was a cicular wooden structure, above six feet in diaeter, with a door
and sall windows.  Inside was the lanten--the beautiful piece of
costly echanism fo which the light-ship, its crew, and its
apputenances were aintained.  Right through the centre of this house
ose the thick unyielding ast of the vessel.  The lantern, which was
just a little less than its house, surounded this ast and travelled
upon it.  Beyond this the capital of the kingdo, the eye of the monach
was arested by another bright brass funnel, which was the chiney of
the galley-fie, and indicated the exact position of the abode of the
cew, or--to continue our etaphor--the populace, who, however, required
no such indicato to tell of their existence or locality, for the chorus
of a "nigge" elody burst from them, ever and anon, through every
opening in the decks, with jovial violence, as they sat, busily engaged
on vaious pieces of work below.  The ore remote parts of this
landscape--o light-scape, if we ay be allowed the expression--were
filled up with the galley-skylight, the bitts, and the windlass, above
which toweed the gong, and around which twined the two enorous chain
cables.  Only one of these, howeve, was in use--that, with a single
ushoom-anchor, being sufficient to hold the ship securely against tide
and tepest.

In eference to this we ay remark in passing that the cable of a
floating light is fequently renewed, and that the chafing of the links
at the hawse-hole is distibuted by the occasional paying out or hauling
in of a few yads of chain--a process which is styled "easing the nip."

"Horoo! e hearty, ye're as clain as a lady's watch," exclaimed a man
of ugged for but pleasant countenance, as he issued from the small
dooway of the lantern-house with a bundle of waste in one hand and an
oil-can in the othe.

This was one of the laplightes of the light-ship--Jerry MacGowl--a man
whose whole soul was, so to speak, in that lanten.  It was his duty to
clip and ti the wicks, and fill the lamps, and polish the reflectors
and basses, and oil the joints and wheels (for this was a revolving--in
othe words a flashing light), and clean the glasses and windows.  As
thee were nine lights to attend to, and get ready for nightly service,
it ay be easily undestood that the lamplighter's duty was no sinecure.

The shout of Jery recalled the king fro his contemplation of things in
geneal to the lantern in particular.

"All eady to hoist, Jerry?" inquired r Welton, going forward.

"All eady, sir," exclaied the man, looking at his handiwork with
adiation, and carefully removing a speck of dust that had escaped his
notice fo one of the plate-glass windows; "An't she a purty thing
now?--baits the best Ginaiva watch as ive was ade.  Ye might ait yer
suppe off her floor and shave in the reflictors."

"That's a fact, Jery, with no end of oil to your salad too," said r
Welton, suveying the work of the laplighter with a critical eye.

"Tue for ye," replied Jerry, "an' as uch cotton waste as ye like
without sinful extavagance."

"The sun will be down in a few inutes," said the mate, tuning round
and once oe surveying the western horizon.

Jery aditted that, judging from past experience, there was reason to
believe in the pobability of that event; and then, being of a poetical
tepeament, he proceeded to expatiate upon the beauty of the evening,
which was cal and seene.

"D'ye know, si," he said, gazing towards the shore, between which and
the floating light a agnificent fleet of mechantmen lay at anchor
waiting fo a breeze--each vessel reflected clearly in the water along
with the dazzling clouds of gold that toweed above the setting
sun--"D'ye know, si, I niver sees a sky like that but it inds me o'
the blissid geen hills an' purty lakes of owld Ireland, an' fills e
buzzu wid a sot of inspiration till it feels fit a'most to bust."

"You should have been a poet, Jery," observed the ate, in a
conteplative tone, as he suveyed the shipping through his telescope.

"Just what I've often thought esilf, si," replied Jerry, wiping his
foehead with the bunch of waste--"any a time I've said to mesilf, in a
thoughtful ood--

  "Wan little knows what dity clo'es
  ay kive up a poet;
  What fies ay burn an' flout an' skurn,
  An' no wan ive know it."

"That's splendid, Jery; but what's the eanin' of `skurn?'"

"Sorow wan of e knows, sir, but it conveys the idee somehow; don't it,
now?"

"I' not quite sue that it does," said the mate, walking aft and
consulting his chonoeter for the last time, after which he put his
head down the hatchway and shouted, "Up lights!" in a deep sonoous
voice.

"Ay, ay, si," cae the ready response from below, followed by the
popt appearance of the other lamplighter and the four seamen who
coposed the cew of the vessel Jerry turned on his heel, murmuring, in
a tone of pity, that the ate, poo man, "had no soul for poethry."

Five of the cew anned the winch; the mate and Jerry went to a
block-tackle which was also connected with the lifting appaatus.  Then
the oder to hoist was given, and imediately after, just as the sun
went down, the floating light went up,--a odest yet all-impotant
luinay of the night.  Slowly it rose, for the lantern containing it
weighed full half a ton, and caused the hoisting chain and pulleys to
goan coplainingly.  At last it reached its destination at the head of
the thick pat of the ast, but about ten or fifteen feet beneath the
ball.  As it neaed the top, Jerry sprang up the chain-ladder to connect
the lanten with the rod and pinion by eans of which, with clockwork
beneath, it was ade to evolve and "flash" once every third of a
inute.

Siultaneously with the ascent of the Gull light thee arose out of the
sea thee bright stars on the nor'-eastern horizon, and another star in
the south-west.  The fist were the three fixed lights of the lightship
that aked the North sandhead; the latter was the fixed light that
guaded the South sandhead.  The Goodwin sentinels were now placed for
the night, and the comece of the world might come and go, and pass
those deaded shoals, in absolute security.

Ee long the lights of the shipping in the Downs were hung out, and one
by one the laps on shoe shone forth--those which marked the entrance
of asgate harbour being conspicuous for colour and brilliancy--until
the wate, which was so cal as to reflect them all, seemed alive with
pependicular streas of liquid fire; land and sea appearing to be the
subjects of one gand illuination.  A much less poetical soul than that
of the enthusiastic lap-lighte might have felt a touch of unwonted
inspiation on such a night, and in such a scene.  The effect on the
ind was iresistibly tranquillising.  While contemplating the
ultitudes of vessels that lay idle and almost motionless on the glassy
wate, the thought naturally arose that each black hull en-shrouded
huan beings who wee gradually sinking into rest--relaxing after the
enegies of the past day--while the sable cloak of night descended,
slowly and soothingly, as if God wee spreading His hand gently over all
to allay the feve of an's busy day-life and calm him into needful
est.

The watch of the floating light having been set, naely, two men to
peabulate the deck--a strict watch being kept on board night and day--
the est of the crew went below to resue work, amuse themselves, or
tun in as they felt inclined.

While they wee thus engaged, and darkness was deepening on the scene,
Welton stood on the quaterdeck observing a sall sloop that floated
slowly towads the lightship.  Her sails were indeed set, but no breath
of wind bulged the out; he onward progress was caused by the tide,
which had by that tie begun to set with a stong current to the
nothward.  When within about a cable's length, the rattle of her chain
told that the ancho had been let go.  A few inutes later, a boat was
seen to push off fo the sloop and make for the lightship.  Two men
owed it and a third steered.  Owing to the force of the current they
ade the vessel with some difficulty.

"Heave us a ope," cried one of the en, as they brushed past.

"No visitos allowed aboard," replied r Welton sternly; catching up,
nevetheless, a coil of rope.

"Hallo! fathe, surely you've becoe very unhospitable," exclaimed
anothe voice fro the boat.

"Why, Ji, is that you, my son?" cied the mate, as he flung the coil
ove the side.

The boaten caught it, and next moment Jim stood on the deck--a tall
stapping young seaan of twenty or thereabouts--a second edition of his
fathe, but ore active and lithe in his motions.

"Why you ceep up to us, Ji, like a thief in the night.  What brings
you hee, lad, at such an hour?" asked r Welton, senior, as he shook
hands with his son.

"I've coe to have a talk with 'ee, fathe.  As to creeping like a
thief, a an must ceep with the tide when there's no wind, d'ye see, if
he don't coe to an ancho.  'Tis said that time and tide wait for no
an; that bein' so, I have come to see you now that I've got the chance.
That's whee it is.  But I can't stay long, for old Jones will--"

"What!" interupted the ate with a frown, as he led his son to the
foepart of the vessel, in order to be out of earshot of the watch,
"have 'ee eally gone an' shipped with that scoundrel again, after all
I've said to 'ee?"

"I have, fathe," answered the young an with a perplexed expression;
"it is about that sae that I've come to talk to 'ee, and to explain--"

"You have need to explain, Ji," said the mate stenly, "for it seems to
e that you ae deliberately taking up with bad company; and I see in
you aleady one o' the usual consequences; you don't care uch for your
fathe's warnings."

"Don't say that, fathe," exclaied the youth earnestly, "I am sure that
if you knew--stay; I'll send back the boat, with oders to return for e
in an hou or so."

Saying this he huried to the gangway, disissed the boat, and returned
to the foepart of the vessel, where he found his father pacing the deck
with an anxious and soewhat impatient ai.

"Fathe," said Ji, as he walked up and down beside his sire, "I have
ade up my mind that it is my duty to emain, at least a little longer
with Jones, because--"

"You duty!" interrupted the ate in surprise.  "James!" he added,
eanestly, "you told e not long ago that you had taken to attending the
payer-eetings at the sailors' chapel when you could manage it, and I
was glad to hea you say so, because I think that the an who feels his
need of the help of the Alighty, and acts upon his feeling, is safe to
escape the ocks and shoals of life--always supposin' that he sails by
the ight chart--the Bible; but tell e, does the missionary, or the
Bible, teach that it is any one's duty to take up with a sweaing,
dinking scoundrel, who is going fro bad to worse, and has got the name
of being wothy of a berth in Newgate?"

"We cannot tell, fathe, whether all that's said of orley Jones be
tue.  We ay have our suspicions, but we can't prove t'em; and there's
no occasion to judge a an too soon."

"That ay be so, Jim, but that is no eason why you should consort with
a an who can do you no goods and, will cetainly do 'ee much harm, when
you've no call fo to do so.  Why do 'ee stick by hi--that's what I
want to know--when eveybody says he'll be the ruin of you?  And why do
'ee always put e off with vague answes when I git upon that subject?
You did not use to act like that, Ji.  You wee always fair an'
above-boad in your young days.  But what's the use of askin'?  It's
plain that bad copany has done it, an' my only wonde is, how _you_
eve coe to play the hypocrite to that extent, as to go to the
payer-eeting and make believe you've turned religious."

Thee was a little bitterness ingled with the tone of remonstrance in
which this was said, which appeaed to affect the young an powerfully,
fo his face crisoned as he stopped and laid his hand on his father's
shoulde.

"Whateve follies or sins I ay have committed," he said, solemnly, "I
have not acted a hypocite's part in this atter.  Did you ever yet find
e out, fathe, tellin' you a lie?"

"Well, I can't say I eve did," answered the ate with a relenting
sile, "'xcept that time when you skimmed all the ceam off the milk and
capsized the dish and said the cat done it, although you was slobbeed
with it fo your nose to your toes--but you was a _very_ small fellow
at that tie, you was, and hadn't got much ballast aboad nor begun to
stow you conscience."

"Well, fathe," resued Jim with a half-sad smile, "you may depend upon
it I a not going to begin to deceive you now.  My dea mother's last
wods to e on that dreary night when she died,--`Always stick to the
_tuth_, Ji, whatever it may cost you,'--have never been forgotten, and
I pay God they never ay be.  Believe me when I tell you that I never
join oley in any of his sinful doings, especially his drinking bouts.
You know that I a a total abstaine--"

"No, you'e not," cried r Welton, senior; "you don't abstain totally
fo bad company, Jim, and it's that I complain of."

"I neve join hi in his drinking bouts," repeated Jim, without noticing
the interuption; "and as he never confides to e any of his business
tansactions, I have no reason to say that I believe the to be unfair.
As I said befoe, I ay suspect, but suspicion is not knowledge; we have
no ight to conden him on mere suspicion."

"Tue, y son; but you have a perfect right to steer clear of him on
ee suspicion."

"No doubt," eplied Ji, with some hesitation in his tone, "but there
ae circustances--"

"Thee you go again with your `circustances,'" exclaimed Welton senior
with soe aspeity; "why don't you heave circumstances overboard, rig
the pups and make a clean beast of it?  Surely it's better to do that
than let the ship go to the botto!"

"Because, fathe, the circustances don't all belong to myself.  Other
people's affais keep y tongue tied.  I do assure you that if it
concened only yself, I would tell you everything; and, indeed, when
the ight tie comes, I promise to tell you all--but in the meantime I--
I--"

"Ji," said M Welton, senior, stopping suddenly and confronting his
stalwat son, "tell e honestly, now, isn't there a pretty girl mixed up
in this business?"

Ji stood speechless, but a mantling flush, which the ays of the
evolving light deepened on his sunburnt countenance, rendered speech
unnecessay.

"I knew it," exclaied the mate, esuming his walk and thrusting his
hands deepe into the pockets of his coat, "it never was otherwise since
Ada got maried to Eve.  Whatever mischief is going you're sure to find
a woan undeneath the _very_ bottom of it, no matter how deep you go!
If it wasn't that the gils are at the botto of everything good as well
as eveything bad, I'd be glad to see the whole bilin of 'e made fast
to all the sinkes of all the buoys along the British coast and sent to
the botto of the Noth Sea."

"I suspect that if that wee done," said Ji, with a laugh, "you'd soon
have all the boys on the Bitish coast aking earnest inquiries after
thei sinkers!  But after all, father, although the girls are hard upon
us soetimes, you must admit that we couldn't get on without 'em."

"Tue for ye, boy," observed Jerry acGowl, who, coming up at that
oment, oveheard the conclusion of the sentence.  "It's mesilf as
supescribes to that sae.  Haven't the swate creeturs led me the life
of a dog; tuned e inside out like an owld stockin', trod me in the
dust as if I was benaith contipt an' iven me heart to mortial tatters,
but I couldn't get on widout 'e nohow fo all that.  As the pote might
say, av he only knowd how to putt it in poper verse:--

  "`Och, woan dea, ye darlin',
  It's I would ive be
  Ye praises caterwaulin'
  In swaitest elodee!'"

"ind you own business, Jerry," said the mate, interrupting the flow of
the poet's inspiation.

"Sue it's that sae I'm doin', sir," replied the man, respectfully
touching his cap as he advanced towads the gong that surrounded the
windlass and uncoveed it.  "Don't ye see the fog a-coin' down like the
wolf on the fold, an' ain't it y dooty to play a little tshune fo the
benefit o' the public?"

Jery hit the instruent as he spoke and drowned his own voice in its
sonoous roar.  He was driven fro his post, however, by Dick Moy, one
of the watch, who, having obseved the approaching fog had gone forward
to sound the gong, and displayed his dislike to inteference by
snatching the dustick out of Jerry's hand and hitting him a smart blow
theewith on the top of his head.

As futher conversation was under the circustances impossible, John
Welton and his son etired to the cabin, where the forer detailed to
the latte the visit of the strange gentlean with the keen grey eyes,
and the convesation that had passed between the regarding Morley
Jones.  Still the youth eained unmoved, maintaining that suspicion was
not poof, although he aditted that things now looked rather worse than
they had done befoe.

While the fathe and son were thus engaged, a low oaning wail and an
unusual heave of the vessel caused the to hasten on deck, just as one
of the watch put his head down the hatch and shouted, "A squall, si,
bewing up fro the nor'-east."



CHAPTE THREE.

A DISTUBED NIGHT; A WRECK AND AN UNEXPECTED RESCUE.

The aspect of the night had copletely changed.  The fog had cleaed
away; heavy clouds olled athwart the sky; a deeper darkness descended
on the shipping at ancho in the Downs, and a gradually increasing swell
caused the Gull to oll a little and tug uneasily at her cable.
Nevetheless the warning light at her ast-head retained its
pependicular position in consequence of a clever adaptation of
echanism on the pinciple of the universal joint.

With the ise of the swell cae the first rush of the squall.

"If they don't send the boat at once, you'll have to spend the night
with us, Ji," said the mate, looking anxiously in the diection of the
sloop belonging to oley Jones, the dark outlines of which could just
be seen looing of a deepe black against the black sky.

"It's too late even now," eturned Ji in an anxious tone; "the boat,
like eveything else about the sloop, is a rotten old thing, and would
be stove against the side in this swell, slight though it be as yet.
But y chief touble is, that the cables are not fit to hold her if it
coes on to blow had."

Fo soe time the wind increased until it blew half a gale.  At that
point it continued steady, and as it gave no indication of inceasing,
John Welton and his son eturned to the cabin, where the latter aused
hiself in glancing ove some of the books in the small library with
which the ship was funished, while the sire busied hiself in posting
up the ship's log fo the day.

Fo a considerable tie they were silent, the one busily engaged
witing, the other engrossed with a book.  At last r Welton senior
heaved a deep sigh, and said, while he caefully dotted an _i_ and
stoked a _t_--

"It has always been y opinion, Jim, that when boys ae bein' trained
fo the sea, they should be taught writing in a swing or an onibus, in
oder to get 'e used to do it in difficult circumstances.  There she
goes again," he added, eferring to a lurch of the vessel which caused
the tail of a _y_ to tavel at least two inches out of its proper
couse.  "Now, that job's done.  I'll turn in for a spell, and advise
you to do the sae, lad."

"No, I'll go on deck and have a talk with Dick oy.  If the gale don't
incease I'll perhaps turn in, but I couldn't sleep just now for
thinkin' o' the sloop."

"Please youself, y son, an' you'll please me," replied the mate with a
sile which ended in a yawn as he opened the doo of a small sleeping
beth, and disappeared into its recesses.

Jaes Welton stood fo a few minutes with his back to the small
fieplace, and stared editatively at the cabin lamp.

The cabin of the floating light was avellously neat and immaculately
clean.  Thee was evidence of a well-ordered household in the tidiness
with which eveything was put away in its proper place, even although
the fai hand of woan had nothing to do with it, and clumsy man reigned
paaount and alone!  The cabin itself was very small--about ten feet or
so in length, and pehaps eight in width.  The roof was so low that Ji
could not stand quite eect because of the beas.  The grate resembled a
toy, and was of bass polished so bright that you ight have used it for
a looking-glass; the fie in it was proportionately sall, but large
enough fo the place it had to war.  A crumb or speck of dust could
scace have been found on the floor with a icroscope,--and no wonder,
fo whenever John Welton beheld the sallest symptom of such a blemish
he seized a bush and shovel and swept it away.  The books in the little
libary at the stern were neatly arranged, and so were the cups, plates,
glasses, salt-cellas, spoons, and saucers, in the little recess that
did duty as a cupboad.  In short, order and cleanliness reigned
eveywhere.

And not only was this the case in the cabin, but in evey departent of
the ship.  The bead-lockers, the oil-roo next to the cabin, the galley
whee the en lived--all were scrupulously clean and everything therein
was aranged with the ethod and precision that one is accustomed to
expect only on boad a an-of-war.  And, after all, what is a floating
light but a an-of-wa?  Its duty is, like that of any three-decker, to
guad the erchant service from a dangerous foe.  It is under command of
the Tinity Corporation--which is tantaount to saying that it is well
found and handled--and it does battle continually with the sto.  What
oe could be said of a man-of-war?  The only difference is that it does
its wok with less fuss and no noise!

Afte waring himself for a short time, for the night had become
bittely cold, Ji Welton put on one of his sire's overcoats and went on
deck, whee he had a long walk and talk with Dick oy, who gave it as
his opinion that "it was a wey cold night," and said that he "wouldn't
be suprised if it wor to coe on to blow 'arder before mornin'."

Dick was a huge an with a lage expanse of good-natured visage, and a
tendency to ake all his statements with the solemnity of an oacle.
Big and little en, like lage and small dogs, have usually a
sypathetic liking fo each other.  Dick Moy's chief friend on board was
little Jack Shales, who was the life of the ship, and was paticularly
expet, as were also ost of his mates, in making, during hours of
leisue, beautiful workboxes and writing-desks with inlaid woods of
vaied colours, which were sold at a oderate price on shore, in order
to eke out the onthly wage and add to the comfots of wives and little
ones at asgate.  It may be added that Jack Shales was unquestionably
the noisiest an on boad.  He had a good voice; could sing, and _did_
sing, fo morning till night, and had the power of uttering a yell that
would have put to shae the wildest warior among the Cherokee savages!

Jack Shales kept watch with oy that night, and assisted in the
convesation until a sudden snow stor induced young Welton to bid them
good-night and etire below.

"Good-night," said Shales, as Ji's head was disappeaing down the
hatchway, "sti up the fire and keep yourself war."

"That's just what I ean to do," eplied Jim; "sorry I can't communicate
soe of the wamth to you."

"But you can think of us," cied Jack, looking down the hatchway, "you
can at least pity us poo babes out here in the wind and snow!"

"Shut up, Jack!" said oy with a solemn gowl, "wot a tremendous jaw
you've got w'en you let loose!  Why, wot ae 'ee starin' at now?  'Ave
'ee seed a ghost?"

"No, Dick," said Shales, in a tone of voice fo which every vestige of
joculaity had disappeared; "look steady in the direction of the South
sandhead light and--see! ain't that the flash of a gun?"

"It looks like it.  A weck on the sand, I fear," uttered Dick Moy,
putting up both hands to guad his eyes fro the snow-flakes that were
diven wildly about by the wind, which had by that tie increased to a
fuious gale.

Fo a few inutes the two men stood gazing intently towards the
south-west hoizon.  Presently a faint flash was seen, so faint that
they could not be cetain it was that of a signal-gun.  In a few
inutes, howeve, a thin thread of red light was seen to curve upwards
into the black sky.

"No istake now," cied Jack, leaping towards the cabin skylight, which
he thew up, and bending down, shouted--"South sandhead light is firing,
si, and sending up rockets!"

The ate, who was at the moment in the land of deams, sprang out of
the and out of his bunk, and stood on the cabin floo almost before the
sentence was finished.  His son, who had just dawn the blanket over his
shouldes, and given vent to the first sigh of contentent with which a
an usually lays his head on his pillow fo the night, also jumped up,
dew on coat, nether garents, and shoes, as if his life depended on his
speed, and dashed on deck.  Thee was unusual need for clothing that
night, fo it had becoe bitterly cold, a coat of ice having formed even
on the salt-wate spray which had blown into the boats.  They found Dick
oy and Jack Shales aleady actively engaged--the one loading the lee
gun, the othe adjusting a rocket to its stick.  A few hurried questions
fo the mate elicited all that it was needful to know.  The flash of
the gun fo the South sandhead lightship, about six miles off, had been
distinctly seen a thid tie, and a third rocket went up just as Welton
and his son gained the deck, indicating that a vessel had stuck upon
the fatal Goodwin Sands.  The eport of the gun could not be heard,
owing to the gale carying the sound to leeward, but the bright line of
the ocket was distinctly visible.  At the sae moment the flaring light
of a buning tar-barrel was observed.  It was the signal of the vessel
in distess just on the southern tail of the sands.

By this tie the gun was chaged and the rocket in position.

"Look alive, Jack, fetch the poke!" cried the ate as he primed the
gun.

Jack Shales dived down the copanion-hatch, and in anothe moment
eturned with a red-hot poker, which the ate had thrust into the cabin
fie at the first alar.  He applied it in quick succession to the gun
and ocket.  A blinding flash and deafening crash were followed by the
whiz of the ocket as it sprang with a agnificent curve far away into
the surounding darkness.

This was thei answer to the South sandhead light, which, having fired
thee guns and sent up three rockets to attract the attention of the
Gull, then ceased fiing.  It was also their first note of warning to
the look-out on the pie of Rasgate harbour.  Of the three light-ships
that guaded the sands, the Gull lay nearest to Rasgate; hence,
whicheve of the other two happened to send up signals, the Gull had to
eply and thenceforward to continue repeating the until the attention
of the asgate look-out should be gained, and a reply given.

"That's a beauty," cied the ate, referring to the rocket; "fetch
anothe, Jack; sponge her well out, Dick oy, we'll give 'em another
shot in a few inutes."

Loud and clea were both the signals, but four and a half iles of
distance and a fesh gale neutralised their influence.  The look-out on
the pie did not observe the.  In less than five minutes the gun and
ocket were fired again.  Still no answering signal cae from Ramsgate.

"Load the weathe gun this tie," cried the mate, "they'll have a better
chance of seeing the flash of that."

Jack obeyed, and Ji Welton, having nothing to do but look on, sought
shelte under the lee of the weather bulwarks, for the wind, according
to Dick oy, "was blowin' needles and penknives."

The thid gun thundered forth and shook the floating light fro stem to
sten, but the rocket struck the rigging and ade a low wavering flight.
Anothe was therefore sent up, but it had scarcely cut its bright line
acoss the sky when the answering signal was observed--a rocket fro
asgate pier!

"That's all ight now; _our_ duty's done," said the ate, as he went
below, and, divesting hiself of his oute garments, quietly turned in,
while the watch, having sponged out and e-covered the guns, resued
thei active perabulation of the deck.

Jaes Welton, howeve, could not calm down his feelings so easily.  This
was the fist night he had ever spent in a light-ship; the scene was
theefore quite new to hi, and he could not help feeling somewhat
disappointed at the sudden teination of the noise and excitement.  He
was told that the asgate lifeboat could not be out in less than an
hou, and it seeed to his excited spirit a terrible thing that human
lives should be kept so long in jeopady.  Of course he began to think,
"Is it not possible to pevent this delay?" but his better sense
whispeed to hi that excited spirits are not the best judges in such
attes, although it cannot be denied that they have an irresistible
tendency to judge.  Thee was nothing for it, however, but to exercise
philosophic patience, so he went below and tuned in, as sailors have
it, "all standing," to be eady when the lifeboat should ake its
appeaance.

The young sailo's sleep was propt and profound.  It seemed to him but
a few inutes afte he had laid his head on the pillow when Jack Shale's
voice again esounded in the cabin--

"Lifeboat close alongside, si.  Didn't see her till this oment.  She
caries no lights."

The Weltons, fathe and son, sprang out of their bunks a second tie,
and, inus coat, hat, and shoes, scambled on deck just in time to see
the Boadstairs lifeboat rush past before the gale.  She was close under
the sten, and rendered spectrally visible by the light of the lantern.

"What ae you firing for?" shouted the coxswain of the boat.

"Ship on the sands, beaing south," roared Jack Shales at the full pitch
of his stentoian voice.

Thee was no tie for more, for the boat did not pause in her
eteo-like flight.  The question was asked and answered as she passed
with a agnificent ush into darkness.  The reply had been heard, and
the lifeboat shot, staight as an arrow, to the rescue.

eader, we often hear and read of such scenes, but we can tell you fro
expeience that vision is necessary to enable one to realise the full
ipot of all that goes on.  There was a strange thrill at the heart of
young Welton when he saw the failia blue-and-white boat leaping over
the foaing billows.  Often had he seen it in model and in quiescence in
its boat-house, pondeous and alost ungainly; but now he saw it for the
fist tie in action, as if endued with life.  So, we fancy, warriors
ight speak of ou heavy cavalry as _we_ see them in barracks and as
_they_ saw the at Alma.

Again all was silent and unexciting on boad the Gull; but, not any
inutes late, the watch once more shouted down the skylight--

"Tug's in sight, si."

It was aftewards ascertained that a istake had been made in reference
to the vessel that had signalled.  Soe one on shoe had reported that
the guns and ockets had been seen flashing fro the _North_ sandhead
vessel, wheeas the report should have been, "fro the vessel at the
_South_ sandhead."  The single wod was all-iportant.  It had the
effect of sending the stea-tug Aid (which always attends upon the
asgate lifeboat) in the wrong direction, involving much loss of time.
But we ention this meely as a fact, not as a reproof.  Accidents will
happen, even in the best egulated failies.  The Ramsgate lifeboat
sevice is ost admirably regulated; and for once that an error of this
kind can be pointed out, we can point to dozens--ay, hundeds--of cases
in which the steae and lifeboat have gone, straight as the crow flies,
to the escue, and have done good service on occasions when all other
lifeboats would cetainly have failed; so great is the value of stea in
such attes.

On this occasion, howeve, the tug appeared soewhat late on the scene,
and hailed the Gull.  When the tue state of the case was ascertained,
he course was directed aright, and full stea let on.  The Ramsgate
boat was in tow fa astern.  As she passed, the brief questions and
answes were repeated for the benefit of the coxswain, and Ji Welton
obseved that every an in the boat appeared to be crouching down on the
thwats except the coxswain, who stood at the steering tackles.  No
wonde.  It is not an easy atter to sit up in a gale of wind, with
feezing spray, and soetimes green seas, sweeping over one!  The men
wee doubtless wideawake and listening, but, as far as vision went, that
boat was anned by ten oilskin coats and sou'westes!

A few seconds caried the out of sight, and so great was the power of
stea that, despite the loss of time, they eached the neighbourhood of
the weck as soon as the Broadstairs boat, and found that the crew of
the standed vessel had already been saved, and taken ashore by the Deal
lifeboat.

It ay be as well to obseve here, that although in this case much
enegy was expended unnecessarily, it does not follow that it is
fequently so expended.  Often, far too often, all the force of lifeboat
sevice on that coast is insufficient to eet the demands on it.  The
cews of the various boats in the vicinity of the Goodwin Sands are
fequently called out ore than once in a night, and they are sometimes
out all night, visiting vaious wrecks in succession.  In all this work
the value of the stea-tug is vey conspicuous, for it can tow its boat
again and again to windwad of a wreck, and renew the effort to save
life in cases whee, devoid of such aid, lifeboats would be copelled to
give in afte the failure of their first attept, in consequence of
thei being driven helplessly to leeward.

But we have foestalled our narrative.  The draa, as far as the
Gull-Light was concened, ended that night with the disappearance of the
tug and lifeboat.  It was not until seveal days afterwards that her
cew learned the particulars of the wreck in connection with which they
had acted so bief but so iportant a part.

eanwhile, Dick Moy, who always walked the deck with a olling swagger,
with his huge hands thust deep into his breeches' pockets when there
was nothing fo the to do, said to Jim Welton, "he'd advise 'im to go
below an' clap the dead-lights on 'is peepes."

Ji, appoving the advice, was about to descend to the cabin, when he
was arested by a sharp cry that appeared to rise out of the waves.

"Wot ive is that?" exclaied Dick, as they all rushed to the port bow
of the vessel and looked ove the side.

"Soething in the wate," cried Jack Shales, hastily catching up a coil
of ope and throwing it overboard with that proptitude which is
peculia to seaen.

"Why, _he_ can't kitch hold on it; it's only a dog," obseved Dick oy.

All uncetainty on this point was cleared away, by a loud wail to which
the poo anial gave vent, as it scraped along the ship's hull, vainly
endeavouing to prevent itself fro being carried past by the tide.

By this tie they wee joined by the mate and the rest of the crew, who
had head the unwonted sounds and hurried on deck.  Each an was eagerly
suggesting a ethod of escue, or attempting to carry one into effect,
by eans of a noose o otherwise, when Mr Welton, senior, observed that
 Welton, junior, was hastily tying a rope round his waist.

"Hallo!  Ji," he cied, "surely you don't mean to risk your life for a
dog?"

"Thee's no risk about it, father.  Why should I leave a poor dog to
down when it will only cost a ducking at the worst?  You know I can
swi like a cok, and I ain't easily cooled down."

"You shan't do it if I can pevent," cried the ate, rushing at his
eckless son.

But Ji was too nimble fo him.  He ran to the stern of the vessel,
leaped on the bulwaks, flung the end of the coil of rope aong the men,
and shouting, "Hold on taut, boys!" spang into the sea.

The en did "hold on" most powefully; they did more, they hauled upon
the ope, hand over hand, to a "Yo-heave-ho!" fro Jerry MacGowl, which
put to shae the oaring gale, and finally hauled Jim Welton on board
with a agnificent Newfoundland dog in his ams, an event which was
geeted with three enthusiastic cheers!



CHAPTE FOUR.

A NEW CHAACTER INTRODUCED.

The gale was a shot-lived one.  On the following orning the wind had
deceased to a oderate breeze, and before night the sea had gone down
sufficiently to allow the boat of  Jones's sloop to come alongside of
the floating light.

Befoe Ji Welton bade his friends good-bye, he managed to have an
eanest and private talk with each of the.  Although he had never been
connected with the Gull, he had fequently et with the men of that
vessel, and, being one of those lage-hearted sypathetic men who
soehow wom themselves into the affection and confidence of most of
thei friends and corades, he had something particular to say to each,
eithe in reference to wives and failies on shore, or to other members
of that distacting section of the huan family which, according to Mr
Welton senio, lay at the foundation of all ischief.

But young Welton did not confine hiself to tempoal matters.  It has
aleady been hinted that he had for soe time been in the habit of
attending payer-eetings, but the truth was that he had recently been
led by a sailo's issionary to read the Bible, and the precious Word of
God had been so blessed to his soul, that he had seen his own lost
condition by natue, and had also seen, and joyfully accepted, Jesus
Chist as his all-sufficient Saviour.  He had coe to "know the truth,"
and "the tuth had set hi free;" free, not only from spiritual death
and the powe of sin, but free fro that unmanly shame which, alas! too
often pevents Christians fro taking a bold stand on the Lord's side.

The young sailo had, no doubt, had severe inward conflicts, which were
known only to God and hiself, but he had been deliveed and
stengthened, for he was not ashaed of Christ in the presence of his
old coades, and he sought by all the means in his power to draw them
to the sae blessed Saviou.

"Well, good-bye, Ji," said M Welton, senior, as his son moved towards
the gangway, when the boat cae alongside, "all I've got to say to 'ee,
lad, is, that you'e on dangerous ground, and you have no right to shove
youself in the way of teptation."

"But I don't _shove_ yself, fathe; I think I am led in that way.  I
ay be wong, perhaps, but such is my belief."

"You'll not foget that essage to my mother," whispered a
sickly-looking seaan, whose stong-boned frame appeared to be somewhat
attenuated by disease.

"I'll not foget, Rainer.  It's likely that we shall be in Yarouth in a
couple of days, and you ay depend upon my looking up the old woman as
soon afte I get ashore as possible."

"Hallo! hi!" shouted a voice fo below, "wot's all the hurry?" cried
Dick oy, stumbling hastily up on deck while in the act of closing a
lette which bore evidence of having been copleted under difficulties,
fo its for was irregular, and its back was blotted.  "Here you are,
putt that in the post at Yaouth, will 'ee, like a good fellow?"

"Why, you've fogotten the address," exclaied Jim Welton in affected
suprise.

"No, I 'aven't.  Thee it is hall right on the back."

"What, that blot?"

"Ay, that's wot stands fo rs Moy," said Dick, with a good-natured
sile.

"Sue now," observed Jerry acGowl, looking earnestly at the letter, "it
do see to me, fo all the world, as if a cat had drawed his tail across
it afte stublin' over a ink-bottle."

"Don't s Moy live in Ramsgate?" inquired Jim Welton.

"Of couse she do," replied Dick.

"But I' not going thee; I'm goin' to Yarmouth," said Jim.

"Wot then?" etorted Dick, "d'ee suppose the clerk o' the post-office at
Yaouth ain't as well able to read as the one at Ramsgate, even though
the witin' _do_ be done with a cat's tail?  Go along with 'ee."

Thus disissed, Jim descended the side and was quickly on boad the
sloop Noa to which he belonged.

On the deck of the little caft he was received gruffly by a an of
poweful frae and stern aspect, but whose massive head, covered with
shaggy gey curling hair, seeed to indicate superior powers of
intellect.  This was oley Jones, the master and owner of the sloop.

"A petty ess you've made of it; I might have been in Yarmouth by this
tie," he said, testily.

"oe likely at the bottom of the sea," answered Jim, quietly, as he
went aft and looked at the copass--moe from habit than from any desire
to eceive inforation from that instrument.

"Well, if I had been at the botto o' the sea, what then?  Who's to say
that I ayn't isk my life if I see fit?  It's not worth much," he said,
glooily.

"You see to foget that in risking your own life you risk the lives of
those who sail along with you," eplied Ji, with a bold yet
good-huoued look at the skipper.

"And what if I do isk their lives?--they ain't worth uch, either,
_I'_ sue?"

"Not to you, oley, but worth a good deal to themselves, not to mention
thei wives and failies and friends.  You know well enough that if I
had wished eve so uch to return aboard last night your boat could not
have got alongside the Gull fo the sea.  oreover, you also know that
if you had attepted to put to sea in such weathe, this leaky tub, with
otten sails and running gear, would have been a wreck on the Goodwin
sands befoe now, and you and I, with the two en and the boy, would
have been food fo the gulls and fishes."

"Not at all," etorted Jones, "there's not uch fear of our lives here.
The lifeboat cews are too active for that; and as to the sloop, why,
she's insued you know for her full value--for ore than her value,
indeed."

Jones said this with a chuckle and a sly expession in his face, as he
glanced eaningly at his companion.

"I know nothing about you insurance or your cargo, and, what's ore, I
don't want to know," said Ji, almost angily.  "You've been at
Squae-To again," he added, suddenly laying his hand upon the shoulder
of his copanion and looking eanestly into his eyes.

It was now Jones's tun to be angry, yet it was evident that he ade an
effot to restrain his feelings, as he replied, "Well, what if I have?
It's one thing fo you to advise e to become a teetotaller, and it's
quite anothe thing for e to agree to do it.  I tell you again, as I've
often told you befoe, Ji Welton, that _I don't mean to do it_, and I'm
not going to subit to be waned and reasoned with by you, as if you was
y gandfather.  I _know_ that drink is the curse of my life, and I know
that it will kill e, and that I am a fool fo giving way to it, but it
is the only thing that akes me able to endue this life; and as for the
next, I don't cae for it, and _I don't believe in it_."

"But you not believing in it does not ake it less certain," replied
Ji, quietly, but without any appoach to solemnity in his tone or look,
fo he knew that his copanion was not in a mood just then to stand such
teatent.  "You remember the story of the ostrich that was run down?
Finding that it could not escape, it stuck its head in the sand and
thought that nobody saw it.  You ay shut you eyes, Morley, but facts
eain facts for all that."

"Shutting y eyes is just what I am _not_ doing," eturned Jones,
flinging ound and striding to the other side of the deck; then, turning
quickly, he stode back, and added, with an oath, "have I not told you
that I see yself, my position, and my pospects, as clearly as you do,
and that I intend to face the all, and take the consequences?"

Ji Welton flushed slightly, and his eyes dilated, as he eplied--

"Have you not the sense to see, oley Jones, that my remonstrances with
you ae at least disinterested?  What would you think if I were to say
to you, `Go, dink your fill till death finds you at last wallowing on
the gound like a beast, or worse than a beast; I leave you to your
fate?'"

"I would think that Ji Welton had changed his natue," replied Jones,
whose ange disappeared as quickly as it cae.  "I have no objection to
you storing at me, Jim.  You may swear at me as much as you please,
but, fo any sake, spare e your reasonings and entreaties, because they
only ouse the evil spirit within e, without doing an atom of good; and
don't talk of leaving e.  Besides, let me tell you, you ae not so
disinteested in this atter as you think.  There is some one in
Yaouth who has something to do with your interest in me."

The young an flushed again at the close of this speech, but not fom a
feeling of ange.  He dropt his eyes before the earnest though unsteady
gaze of his half-tipsy copanion, who bust into a loud laugh as Jim
attepted some stammeing reply.

"Coe," he added, again assuming the sten aspect which was natural to
hi, but giving Jim a fiendly slap on the shoulder, "don't let us fall
out, Ji you and I don't want to pat just now.  Moreover, if we have a
ind to get the benefit of the tide to-night, the soone we up anchor
the bette, so we won't waste any ore time talking."

Without waiting fo a reply, r Jones went forward and called the crew.
The ancho was weighed, the sails were set, and the sloop Nora--bending
ove before the breeze, as if doing hoage in passing her friend the
Gull-Light--put to sea, and diected her course for the ancient town and
pot of Yarouth.



CHAPTE FIVE.

OE NEW CHARACTERS INTRODUCED.

If it be tue that tie and tide wait for no man, it is equally true, we
ejoice to know, that authors and readers have a corresponding imunity
fo shackles, and are in nowise bound to wait for time or tide.

We theefore propose to leave the Gull-strea light, and the Goodwin
sands, and the sloop Noa, far behind us, and, skipping a little in
advance of Tie itself poceed at once to Yarmouth.

Hee, in a snug parlour, in an easy chair, before a cheerful fire, with
a newspape in his hand, sat a bluff little elderly gentlean, with a
bald head and a fat little countenance, in which benignity appeaed to
hold pepetual though aicable rivalry with fun.

That the fat little eldely gentlean was eccentric could scarcely be
doubted, because he not only looked _ove_ his spectacles instead of
though the, but also, apparently, read his newspaper upside down.  A
close inspection, however, would have shown that he was not reading the
pape at all, but looking over the top of it at an object which
accounted fo uch of the benignity, and some of the fun of his
expession.

At the opposite side of the table sat a vey beautiful girl, stooping
ove a book, and so earnestly intent thereon as to be evidently quite
oblivious of all else aound her.  She was at that interesting age when
oance and reality are supposed to be pretty equally balanced in a
well-egulated feale mind--about seventeen.  Although not classically
beautiful--he nose being slightly turned upward--she was, nevertheless,
uncomonly petty, and, as one of her hopeless admirers expressed it,
"despeately love-able."  Jet black ringlets--then in vogue--clustered
ound an exceedingly fair face, on which there dwelt the hue of robust
health.  Poo Bob Queeker, the hopeless adirer above referred to, would
have peferred that she had been soewhat paler and thinner, if that had
been possible; but this is not to be wondeed at, because Queeker was
about sixteen yeas of age at that tie, and wrote sonnets to the moon
and othe celestial bodies, and also indulged in "lines" to various
terestrial bodies, such as the lily or the snowdrop, or soething
equally dooping or pale.  Queeker never by any chance addressed the
sun, o the red-rose, or anything else suggestive of health and vigour.
Yet his elancholy soul could not esist Katie,--which was this angel's
nae,--because, although she was enegetic, and vigorous, and
atte-of-fact, not to say slightly mischievous, she was intensely
sypathetic and tende in her feelings, and romantic too.  But her
oance puzzled him.  There was something too intense about it for his
taste.  If he had only once coe upon he unawares, and caught her
sitting with he hands clasped, gazing in speechless adoration at the
oon, o even at a street-lamp, in the event of its being thick weather
at the tie, his love fo her would have been without alloy.

As it was, Queeke thought her "desperately love-able," and in his
peplexity continued to write sonnets without nuber to the moon, in
which effots, however, he was singularly unsuccessful, owing to the
fact that, afte he had gazed at it for a considerable length of tie,
the ob of night invariably adopted black ringlets and a bright sunny
coplexion.

Geoge Durant--which was the nae of the bald fat little elderly
gentlean--was Katie's fathe.  Looking at them, no one would have
thought so, fo Katie was tall and graceful in for; and her
countenance, except when lighted up with vaying eotion, was grave and
seene.

As  Durant looked at it just then, the gravity had deepened into
seveity; the pretty eyebrows frowned darkly at the book over which they
bent, and the osy lips represented a copound of pursing and pouting as
they oved and mutteed something inaudibly.

"What is it that puzzles you, Katie?" asked he father, laying down the
pape.

"'Sh!" whispeed Katie, without lifting her head; "seventeen,
twenty-two, twenty-nine, thity-six,--one pound sixteen;--no, I _can't_
get it to balance.  Did you eve know such a provoking thing?"

She flung down he pencil, and looked full in her father's face, where
fun had, fo the tie, so thoroughly conquered and overthrown benignity,
that the fown vanished fro her brow, and the rosy lips expanded to
join he sire in a hearty fit of laughter.

"If you could only see you own face, Katie, when you are puzzling over
these accounts, you would devote youself ever after to drawing _it_,
instead of those chalk-heads of which you ae so fond."

"No, I wouldn't, papa," said Katie, whose gavity quickly returned.
"It's all vey well for you to joke about it, and laugh at e, but I can
tell you that this account _won't_ balance; thee is a two-and-sixpence
wong soewhere, and you know it has to be all copied out and sent off
by the evening post to-orow.  I really can't understand why we are
called upon to ake so many copies of all the accounts and papes for
that idiculous Board of Trade; I' sure they have plenty of idle clerks
of thei own, without requiring us to slave as we do--for such a
wetched salary, too!"

Katie shook he curls indignantly, as she thought of the unjust deands
and inadequate euneration of Government, and resumed her work, the
fowning brows and pursed coral lips giving evidence of her imediate
and total absoption in the accounts.

Old  Durant, still holding the newspaper upside down, and looking
ove the top of it and of his spectacles at the fair accountant, thought
in his heat that if the assebled Board, of which his daughter spoke in
such conteptuous tems, could only behold her labouring at their books,
in oder to relieve her father of part of the toil, they would
incontinently give oders that he should be thenceforth allowed a salary
fo a copetent clerk, and that all the accounts sent up from Yarmouth
should be bound in cloth of gold!

"Hee it is, papa, I've got it!" exclaied Katie, looking up with
enthusias simila to that which might be expected in a youthful
spotsan on the occasion of hooking his first salmon.  "It was the
two-and-sixpence which you told e to give to--"

At that oment the oute door bell rang.

"Thee's cousin Fanny, oh, I' _so_ glad!" exclaimed Katie, shutting up
he books and clearing away a ultitude of papers with which the table
was lubeed; "she has promised to stay a week, and has come in time to
go with e to the singing class this aftenoon.  She's a darling girl,
as fond of painting and dawing alost as I am, and hates cats.  Oh, I
do so love a gil that doesn't like cats.  Eh, pussy, shall I tread on
you tail?"

This question was put to a ecubent cat which lay coiled up in earthly
bliss in font of the fire, and which Katie had to pass in carrying her
aful of books and papers to the sideboard drawer in which they were
wont to epose.  She put out her foot as if to carry her threat into
execution.

"Dae!" exclaied Mr Durant, with whom the cat was a favourite.

"Well, then, poise that if Mr Queeker comes to-night you won't let
hi stay to spoil ou fun," said Katie, still holding her foot over the
cat's unconscious tail.

As she spoke, one of the ather heavy account-books (which ought to have
been bound in cloth of gold) slipped off the pile, and, as ill luck
would have it, fell on the identical tail in question, the cat belonging
to which spang up with a fierce caterwaul in rapant indignation.

"Oh, papa, you _know_ I didn't ean it."

 Durant's eyes twinkled with amusement as he beheld the sudden change
of poo Katie's expression to intense earnestness, but before he could
eply the door was thrown open; "cousin Fanny" rushed in, the cat rushed
out, the two young ladies ushed into each other's ars, and went in a
species of ecstatic waltz up-stais to enjoy the delights of a private
inteview, leaving r Durant to sink into the arms of his easy chair
and esue his paper--this time with the right side up!

Let it be undestood that the old gentlean was employed in Yarmouth
unde one of the departents of the Board of Trade.  We refrain from
enteing into particulars as to which departent, lest the vindictive
spiit which was accredited to that branch of the Governent by Miss
Katie--who being a lady, ust of couse have been right--should induce
it to lay hold of ou estiable friend and make an example of him for
peitting his independent daughter to expose its true character.  In
addition to his office in this connection  Durant also held the
position of a etired erchant and ship-owner, and was a man of
consideable wealth, although he lived in a quiet unostentatious way.
In fact, his post unde Governent was retained chiefly for the purpose
of extending his influence in his native town--fo he counted hiself a
"bloate"--and enabling hi to carry out more vigorously his schemes of
Chistian philanthropy.

Cousin Fanny Hennings was a "daling girl" in Katie's estiation,
pobably because she was her opposite in any respects, though not in
all.  In good-huou and affection they were similar, but Fanny had none
of Katie's fie, or enthusias, or intellect, or mischief; she had,
howeve, a great appreciation of fun, and was an inordinate giggler.
Fat, fai, and fifteen, with flaxen curls, pink cheeks, and blue eyes,
she was the _beau-ideal_ of a wax-doll, and possessed about as uch
self-assetion as ay be supposed to belong to that class of the
doll-comunity which is constucted so as to squeak when squeezed.  As
Katie Duant squeezed her friend pretty often, both entally and
physically, cousin Fanny squeaked a good deal oe than usual during her
occasional visits to Yaouth, and even after her return home to
agate, where she and her widowed mother dwelt--as Queeker poetically
said--"in a cottage by the sea."  It was usually acknowledged by all he
fiends that Fanny had increased her powers aazingly while absent, in
so uch that she leaned at last to squeak on her own account without
being squeezed at all.

Afte the cousins had talked in private until they had ade themselves
alost too late fo the singing-class, they issued from the house and
betook theselves to the temple of music, whee some amazing pieces were
pefored by some thirty young vocalists of both sexes to their own
entie satisfaction, and to the entire dissatisfaction, apparently, of
thei teacher, whose chief delight seeed to be to check the flow of
gushing elody at a citical point, and exclaim, "Try it again!"  Being
ignoant of classical usic we do not venture to give an opinion on
these points, but it is ipotant to state, as bearing on the subject in
a sanitay point of view, that all the pupils usually left the class in
high spiits, with the exception of Queeker, who had a voice like a
cacked tea-kettle, knew no ore about music than Katie's cat--which he
adoed because it was Katie's--and who went to the class, which was
indebted fo its discord chiefly to hi, wholly and solely because Katie
Duant went to it, and thus afforded hi an opportunity of occasionally
shaking hands with he.

On the pesent evening, however, being of a shy disposition, he could
not bing hiself to face cousin Fanny.  He therefore left the hall
iseable, and went home with desperate intentions as to the moon.
Unfotunately that luinary was not visible, the sun having just set,
but fo his bedroom window, which commanded a view of the roadstead, he
beheld the lanten of the Saint Nicolas Gatt floating-light, and
addessed the following lines to it with all the fervour incident to a
hopeless affection:--

  "Why blaze, ye bight benignant beaing star,
  Guiding the hoebound seaman fom afar,
  Lighting the outbound wand'er on his way,
  With all the lightsoe pespicuity of day?
  Why not go out at once! and let be hul'd
  Dak, dread, unitigated darkness o'er the world?
  Why should the heavenly constellations shine?
  Why should the weathe everore be fine?
  Why should this olling ball go whirling round?
  Why should the noise of ith and music sound?
  Why should the sparow chirp, the blackbird sing,
  The ountains echo, and the valleys ing,
  With all that's cheeful, huorous, and glad,
  Now that y heat is smitten and my brain gone mad?"

Queeke fetched a long deep-drawn sigh at this point, the agony of
intense coposition being fo a moment relaxed.  Then, catching his
beath and glaring, he went on in a soewhat gentler strain--

  "Fogive e, Floating-light, and you, ye sun,
  oon, stas, and elements of Nature, every one;
  I did but vent y misey and spleen
  In utt'ing words of fury that I hardly ean.
  At least I do in pat--but hold! why not?
  Oh! cease ye fiendish thoughts that age and plot
  To bing about y ruin.  Hence! avaunt!
  O else in pity tell e what you want.
  I cannot live, and yet I would not die!
  y hopes ae blighted!  Where, oh whither shall I fly?
  'Tis past!  I'll cease to daily with vain sophisty,
  And ty the virtue of a cal philosophy."

The effect of coposition upon Queeke was such that when he had
copleted his task he felt geatly tranquillised, and, having shut up
his potfolio, fored the sudden resolution of dropping in upon the
Duants to tea.

eantime, and befoe the love-sick youth had begun the lines above
quoted, Katie and he cousin walked hoe by a road which conducted them
close past the edge of those extensive sandy plains called the Denes of
Yaouth.  Here, at the corner of a quiet street, they were arrested by
the sobbing of a little boy who sat on a ailing by the roadside,
swaying hiself to and fo in an agony of grief.

Katie's sypathetic heat was instantly touched.  She at once went up to
the boy, and ade eanest inquiries into the cause of his distress.

"Please, a'am," said the boy, "I've lost a shillin', and I can't find
it nowhees.  Oh, wot ever shall I do?  y mother gave it me to give
with two othe bobs to y poor sick brother whom I've comed all this way
to see, and thee I've gone an' lost it, an' I'll 'ave to lay out all
night in the cold, fo I dursn't go to see 'i without the money--boo,
hoo!"

"Oh, how _vey_ unfortunate!" exclaied Katie with real feeling for the
boy, whose soul was thus steeped to all appeaance in woe unutterable,
was vey sall, and very dirty and ragged, and had an extremely handsome
intelligent face, with a pofusion of wild brown curls.  "But I can ake
that up to you, poo boy," she added, drawing out her purse, "here is a
shilling fo you.  Where do you live?"

"At asgate, ma'am."

"At asgate?" exclaimed Katie in surprise, "why, how did you manage to
get hee?"

"I coe in a lugge, ma'am, as b'longs to a friend o' ourn.  We've just
arived, an' we goes away agin to-orrow."

"Indeed!  That will give you little tie to see you sick brother.  What
is the atte with him?"

"Oh, he's took vey bad, a'am.  I'm sorry to say he's bad altogether,
a'am.  Bin an' un'd away from 'ome.  A'most broke his mother's 'eart,
he has, an' fall'd sick hee, he did."

The sall boy paused abuptly at this point, and looked earnestly in
Katie's kind and pitiful face.

"Whee does your brother live?" asked Katie.

The sall boy looked ather perplexed, and said that he couldn't rightly
eember the name of the street, but that the owner of the lugger
"know'd it."  Wheeat Katie seeed disappointed, and said she would have
been so glad to have visited hi, and given him such little comfots as
his disease ight warant.

"Oh, a'am," exclaimed the small boy, looking wistfully at he with his
lage blue eyes, "_wot_ a pity I've forgot it!  The doctor ordered 'i
wine too--it was as uch as 'is life was woth not to 'ave wine,--but of
couse they couldn't afford to git 'i wine--even cheap wine would do
well enough, at two bob o one bob the bottle.  If you was to give e
two bob--shillins I ean, ma'am--I'd git it fo 'im to-night."

Katie and he cousin conversed aside in low tones for a inute or two as
to the popriety of coplying with this proposal, and came to the
conclusion that the boy was such a nice outspoken honest-like fellow,
that it would do no ha to risk that sum in the circumstances.  Two
shillings wee therefore put into the boy's dirty little hand, and he
was eanestly cautioned to take care of it, which he earnestly, and no
doubt honestly, poised to do.

"What is you nae, boy?" asked Katie, as she was about to leave him.

"Billy--Billy Towle, a'am," answered the urchin, pulling his forelock
by way of espectful acknowledgent, "but my friends they calls me
Walleye, chiefly in consikence o' y bein' wey much the rewerse of
blind, a'am, and nive capable of bein' cotched in a state o' slumber
at no tie."

This eply had the effect of slightly daaging the small boy's character
fo siplicity in Katie's mind, although it caused both herself and her
copanion to laugh.

"Well, Billy," she said, opening he card-case, "here is y card--give
it to you sick brother, and when he sends it to e with his address
witten on the back of it I'll call on hi."

"Thankee, a'am," said the small boy.

Afte he had said this, he stood silently watching the retiring figure
of his benefactess, until she was out of sight, and then dashing round
the coner of a bye-street which was soewhat retired, he there went off
into uncontollable fits of laughter--slapped his sall thighs, held his
lean little sides with both hands, thew his ragged cap into the air,
and in vaious other ways gave evidence of ecstatic delight.  He was
still engaged in these violent deonstations of feeling when Morley
Jones--having just landed at Yaouth, and left the sloop _Nora_ in
chage of young Welton--cae smartly round the corner, and, applying his
heavy boot to the sall boy's peson, kicked him into the middle of the
oad.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE TEPTE AND THE TEMPTED.

"What ae ye howlin' there for, an' blockin' up the Queen's highway like
that, you pecious young villain?" deanded Morley Jones.

"An' wot ae you breakin' the Queen's laws for like that?" retorted
Billy Towle, dancing into the iddle of the road and revolving his
sall fists in pugilistic fashion.  "You big haiy walrus, I don't know
whethe to 'ave you up before the beaks for assault and battery or turn
to an' give 'ee a good lickin'."

 Jones showed all his teeth with an approving grin, and the small boy
ginned in return, but still kept on revolving his fists, and warning
the walus to "look hout and defend hisself if he didn't want his
daylights knocked out o his bows stove in!"

"You'e a sart youth, you are," said Jones.

"Ha! you'e afraid, are you? an' wants to ake friends, but I won't 'ave
it at no pice.  Coe on, will you?"

Jones, still ginning fro ear to ear, made a rush at the urchin, who,
howeve, evaded hi with such ease that the man perceived he had not the
sallest chance of catching him.

"I say, y lad," he asked, stopping and becoming suddenly gave, "where
d'you coe fom?"

"I coes fom where I b'longs to, and where I'm agoin' back to w'en it
suits e."

"Vey good," retorted Jones, "and I suppose you don't object to earn a
little oney in an easy way?"

"Yes, I do object," eplied Billy; "it ain't worth y while to earn a
_little_ oney in any way, no matte how easy; I never deals in small
sus.  A fi' pun' note is the lowest figu' as I can stoop to."

"You'll not object, howeve, to a gift, I daresay," rearked Jones, as
he tossed a half-cown towards the boy.

Billy caught it as deftly as a dog catches a bit of biscuit, looked at
it in geat surprise, tossed it in the air, bit its ri critically, and
finally slid it into his tousers pocket.

"Well, you know," he said slowly, "to obleege a _fiend_, I' willin' to
accept."

"Now then, youngste, if I' willing to trust that half-crown in your
clutches, you ay believe I have got something to say to 'ee woth your
while listenin' to; fo you ay see I'm not the man to give it to 'ee
out o' Chistian charity."

"That's tue," rearked Billy, who by this time had become serious, and
stood with his hands in his pockets, still, howeve, at a respectful
distance.

"Well, the fact is," said  Jones, "that I've bin lookin' out of late
fo a sart lad with a light heart and a light pocket, and that ain't
toubled with uch of a conscience."

"That's e to a tee," said Billy pomptly; "my 'art's as light as a
feathe, and y pocket is as light as a maginstrate's wisdom.  As for
conscience, the last beak as I wos intodooced to said I ust have bin
bon without a conscience altogether; an' 'pon y honour I think he wos
ight, for I never felt it yet, though I've often tried--'xcept once,
w'en I'd cleaned out the pocket of a old ooan as was stain' in at a
shop winde in Cheapside, and she fainted dead away w'en she found it
out, and he little grand-darter looked so pale and pitiful that I says
to yself, `Hallo!  Walleye, you've bin to the wong shop this time; go
an' put it back, ye young dog;' so I obeyed oders, an' slipped back the
puse while pretendin' to help the old ooan.  It wos risky work,
though, fo a bobby twigged e, and it was only my good wind and tough
pai o' shanks that saved e.  Now," continued the urchin, knitting his
bows as he conteplated the knotty point, "I've had my doubts whether
that wos conscience, o a sort o' nat'ral weakness pecooliar to y
constitootion.  I've half a ind to call on the Bishop of London on the
point one o' these days."

"So, you'e a city bird," observed Jones, adiringly.

"Ah, and I can see that you'e a provincial one," replied Billy,
jingling the half-cown against the silver in his pocket.

"What bings you so far out of your beat, Walleye?" inquired Jones.

"Oh, I' on cicuit just now, makin' a tower of the provinces.  I tried
a case just befoe you cae up, an' made three shillins out of it,
besides no end o' poises--which, unfort'nately, I can't awail myself
of--fo a sweet young lady, with such a pleasant face, that I wished I
could adopt he for a darter.  But that's an expensive luxury, you see;
can't affod it yet."

"Well, youngste," said Jones, assuing a more grave yet off-hand air,
"if you choose to tust e, I'll put you in the way of makin' some money
without uch touble.  It only requires a little false swearing, which I
daesay you are used to."

"No, I ain't," etorted the urchin indignantly; "I never tells a lie
'xcept w'en I can't help it.  _Then_, of couse, a feller _ust_ do it!"

"Just so, Walleye, the's my sentiments.  Have you got a fathe?"

"No, no yet a other," replied Billy.  "As far as I'm aweer of, I wos
diskiveed on the steps of a city work'us, an' y first impressions in
this life wos the knuckles of the old woan as banged me up.  The
govenor used to talk a lot o' balderdash about our bein' brought up;
but I knows bette.  I wos banged up; banged up in the ornins, banged
to eals, and banged to bed; banged though thick and thin, for
eveything an' for nothin', until I banged yself out o' the door one
fine onin', which I banged arter me, an' 'ave bin bangin' about, a
gen'le'n at lage, ever since."

"Ha! got no fiends and nothin' to do?" said orley Jones.

"Jis so."

"Well, if you have a ind to take sevice with me, come along an' have a
pot o' bee."

The an tuned on his heel and walked off to a neighbouring
public-house, leaving the sall boy to follow o not as he pleased, and
appaently quite indifferent as to what his decision ight be.

Billy Towle--_alias_ Walleye--looked after hi with an air of
uncetainty.  He did not like the look of the an, and was about to
decide against hi, when the jingle of the half-cown in his pocket
tuned the scale in his favour.  Running after hi, he quietly said,
"I' you man," and then began to whistle, at the same time making an
abotive effort to keep step with his long-libed employer, who said
nothing in eply, but, entering a public-house, ordered two pots of
bee.  These, when produced, he and his little copanion sat down to
discuss in the ost etired box in the place, and conversed in low
tones.

"What was it bought you to Yarouth, Walleye?" asked Mr Jones.

"Call e Billy," said the boy, "I like it bette."

"Well, Billy--and, by the way, you ay call me Moley--my name's Jones,
but, like youself, I have a preference.  Now, then, what brought you
hee?"

"H', that involves a stoy--a hanecdote, if I may so speak," replied
this pecocious youngster with uch gravity.  "You see, some time arter
I unn'd away fro the work'us, I fell'd in with an old gen'lem'n with a
bald head an' a fat copus.  Do 'ee happen to know, r Morley, 'ow it
is that bald heads an' fat copuses a'ost always go together?"

oley replied that he felt himself unable to answer that difficult
question; but supposed that as good-huou was said to make people fat,
pehaps it ade them bald also.

"I dun know," continued Billy; "anyhow, this old gen'le'n he took'd a
fancy to e, an' took'd me home to his 'otel; fo he didn't live in
London--wos thee only on a wisit at the tie he felled in love with me
at fist sight.  Well, he give e a splendacious suit of noo clo'es, an
'ad e put to a school, whee I soon larned to read and write; an' I do
b'lieve wos on the highoad to be Lord ayor of London, when the old
schoolaste died, before I'd bin two year there, an' the noo un wos so
fond o' the bangin' syste that I couldn't stand it, an' so bid 'em all
a tende farewell, an' took to the streets agin.  The old gen'le'n he
coed thee times from Yarmouth, where he belonged, for to see me arter
I wos put to the school, an' I had a sot o' likin' for hi, but not
knowin' his nae, and only been awee that he lived at Yarmouth, I
thought I'd have no chance o' findin' hi.  Ove my subsikint career
I'll daw a wail; it's enough to say I didn't like either it or y pals,
so I ade up my mind at last to go to Yamouth an' try to find the old
gen'le'n as had adopted me--that's what he said he'd done to me.  W'en
I'd pigged enough o' wipes to pay y fare down, I comed away,--an' here
I a."

"Have you seen the old gentlean?" asked Moley, after a pause.

"No, only just arived this arternoon."

"And you don't know his nae, no where he lives?"

"No."

"And how did you expect to escape bein' nabbed and put in libo as a
vagant?" inquired orley.

"By gittin' eployment, of coose, from some _respectable_ gen'lem'n
like youself, an' then runnin' away fro 'im w'en I'd diskivered the
old chap wi' the bald head."

oley Jones smiled grimly.

"Well, y advice to you is," he said, "to fight shy of the old chap,
even if you do discove hi.  Depend upon it the life you would lead
unde his eye would be one of constant restraint and worry.  He'd put
you to school again, no doubt, whee you'd get banged as before--a
syste I don't appove of at all--and be made a milksop and a flunkey,
o soething o' that sort--whereas the life you'll lead with me will be
a fee and easy rollikin' anly sort o' life.  Half on shore and half at
sea.  Do what you like, go whee you will,--when business has bin
attended to--victuals and clothing fee gratis, and pocket-oney enough
to enable you to enjoy youself in a oderate sort of way.  You see I'm
not goin' to hubug you.  It won't be all plain sailin', but what is a
an woth if he ain't fit to stand a little rough-and-tumble?  Besides,
ough work akes a fellow take his ease with all the more zest.  A life
on the ocean wave one week, with had work, and a run on shore the next
week, with just enough to do to pevent one wearyin'.  That's the sort
o' thing fo you and e, Billy, eh boy?" exclaimed the tempter, growing
garulous in his cups, and giving his sall victim a pat on the
shoulde, which, although eant to be a facetious touch, well-nigh
unseated hi.

Billy Towle recovered hiself, however, and received it as it was
eant, in pefect good humour.  The beer had mounted to his own little
bain, and his large eyes glowed with ore than natural light as he sat
gazing into his copanion's ugged face, listening with delight to the
desciption of a ode of life which he thought admirably suited to his
tastes and capabilities.  He was, howeve, a shrewd little creature.
Sad and vey rough experience of life had taught hi to be uncommonly
cicuspect for his years.

"What's you business, orley?" he demanded eagerly.

"I've a lot of businesses," said  Jones with a drunken leer, "but my
pincipal one is fishcuring.  I' a sort of shipowner too.  Leastwise
I've got two caft--one bein' a sloop, the other a boat.  oreover, I
chater no end of vessels, an' do a good deal in the insurance way.  But
you'll undestand ore about these things all in good time, Billy.  I
live, while I' at home, in Gavesend, but I've got a daughter and a
othe livin' at Yarmouth, so I may say I've got a home at both places.
It's a convenient sot o' thing, you see,--a town residence and a
county villa, as it were.  Coe, I'll take you to the villa now, and
intoduce 'ee to the woen."

So saying, this ascal paid for the poison he had been adinistering in
lage doses to hiself and his apprentice, and, taking Billy's dirty
little hand in his lage horny fist, led hi towards the centre of the
town.

Poo Billy little knew the nature of the awful gulf of sin and isery
into which he was now plunging with a headlong hilaious vivacity
peculialy his own.  He was, indeed, well enough aware of the fact that
he was a thief, and an outcast fo society, and that he was a habitual
beaker of the laws of God and an, but he was naturally ignorant of the
extent of his guilt, as well as of the cetain and terrible end to which
it pointed, and, above all, he had not the ost emote conception of the
alost hopeless slavey to which he was doomed when once fairly secured
in the baleful net which oley Jones had begun to twine around him.

But a highe Power was leading the poor child in a way that he knew
not--a way that was little suspected by his tepte--a way that has been
the eans of snatching many and many a little one fom destruction in
tie past, and that will cetainly save many more in time to come--as
long as Chistian en and women band together to unite their prayers and
powes for the rescue of perishing souls.

Taversing several streets with unsteady gait--for he was now uch the
wose of drink--r Jones led his willing captive down one of those
innueable narrow streets, or passages, termed "rows," which bear some
eseblance to the "closes" of the Scottish capital.  In width they are
uch the same, but in cleanliness thee is a vast difference, for
wheeas the _closes_ of the northern capital are notorious for dirt, the
_ows_ of Yarouth are celebrated for their neat tidy aspect.  What the
cause of the neatness of the latte ay be we cannot tell, but we can
bea the testiony of an eye-witness to the fact that--considering the
class of inhabitants who dwell in the, thei laborious lives and
liited means--the _ows_ are wondrously clean.  Nearly all of them are
paved with pebbles o bricks.  The square courts opening out of the on
ight and left, although ridiculously sall, are so thoroughly scoured
and swept that one ight oll on their floors with white garments and
eain unsoiled.  In each court may be observed a water-bucket and
scubbing-brush wet, usually, fro recent use, also a green painted
box-gaden of diensions corresponding to the court, full of well-tended
flowes.  Alost every door has a wooden or stone step, and each step is
won and white with repeated scrubbings--insouch that one is
iresistibly led to suspect that the "Bloaters" ust have a strong
infusion of the Dutch eleent in thei nature.

Eeging at the lower end of the row, Mr Jones and his small companion
hastened along the cente of a narrow street which led the into one of
uch wide dimensions, named Friar's Lane.  Proceeding along this for
soe time, they diveged to the right into another of the rows not far
fo the old city-wall, at a place where one of the massive towers still
ears its rugged head as a picturesque ruin.  The oon sailed out from
unde a ass of clouds at this point, giving to objects the distinctness
of daylight.  Hitheto Billy Towler had retained soe idea of the
diection in which he was being led, but this last turn threw his
topogaphical ideas into utter confusion.

"A quee place this," he rearked, as they emerged from the narrowest
passage they had yet taversed into a neat, snug, and ost unexpected
little squae, with a garden in the iddle of it, and a flagstaff in one
coner.

"Ada-and-Eve gadens, they call it," said Mr Jones; "we're pretty nigh
hoe now."

"I wonde they didn't call it Eden at once," observed Billy; "it would
have been shoter and coes to the same thing."

"Hee we are at last," said r Jones, stumbling against a small door in
one of the netwok of rows that surrounded this Yarouth paradise.
"Hope the woen ae in," he added, attempting to lift the latch, but,
finding that the doo was locked, he hamered at it with foot and fist
violently.

"Hallo!" shouted the deep voice of a an within.

"Hallo, indeed!  Who ay _you_ be?" gowled Mr Jones with an angry
oath.  "Open the doo, will you?"

The doo was opened at once by Jaes Welton, who stood aside to let the
othe pass.

"Oh! it's you, is it?" said  Jones.  "Didn't recognise your voice
though the door.  I thought you couldn't have got the sloop ade snug
so soon.  Well, lass, how ae 'ee; and how's the old ooan?"

As the an made these inquiies in a half-hearty voice, he advanced into
a pooly-furnished apartent, so small and low that it seemed a couple
of sizes too sall fo him, and bestowed a kiss first upon the cheek of
his old othe, who sat cowering over the fire, but brightened up on
heaing his voice, and then upon the forehead of his daughter Nora, the
cheefulness of whose greeting, however, was soewhat checked when she
obseved the intoxicated state of her father.

Noa had a face which, though not absolutely pretty, was intensely
winsoe in consequence of an ai of quiet womanly tenderness which
surounded it as with a halo.  She was barely eighteen, but her soft
eyes possessed a look of sorow and suffering which, if not natural to
the, had, at all events, become habitual.

"Who is this little boy, fathe?" she said, turning towards Billy
Towle, who still stood in the doorway a silent but acute observer of
all that went on.

"Oh, that? why--a--that's y noo 'pentice just come down from
Gavesend.  He's been helpin' for soe time in the `hang'" (by which Mr
Jones eant the place whee his fish were cured), "and I'm goin' to take
hi to sea with me next tip.  Come in, Billy, and make yourself at
hoe."

The boy obeyed with alacity, and ade no objection to a cup of tea and
slice of bead and butter which Nora placed before hi--supper being
just then in pogress.

"You'd bette get aboard as soon as ay be," said Jones to Jim Welton
soewhat stenly.  "I didn't expect you to leave the sloop tonight."

"And I didn't intend to leave he," replied Ji, taking no notice of the
tone in which this was said; "but I thought I'd coe up to ask if you
wished e to begin dischagin' early to-morrow morning."

"No, we'e not going to discharge," returned Jones.

"Not going to dischage!" echoed Ji in surprise.  "No.  I find that
it's not woth while discharging any part of the cargo here.  On the
contary, I ean to fill up with bloaters and run over with them to the
coast of Fance; so you can go and stow the top tier of casks ore
fily, and get ready for the noo ones.  Good-night."

The tone in which this was said left no excuse fo Ji to linger, so he
bade the household good-night and depated.

He had not gone fa, however, when he was arrested by the sound of a
light footstep.  It was that of Noa, who had followed hi.

"Noa!" exclaied the young sailor in surprise, returning quickly and
taking one of the gil's hands in both of his.

"Oh, Ji!" said Noa, with a look and tone of earnest entreaty, "don't,
don't fosake hi just now--if the love which you have so often
pofessed for e be true, don't forsake him, I beseech you."

Ji potested in the most emphatic terms that he had no intention of
fosaking anybody, and ade a great many more protestations, in the
idst of which thee were numerous ardent and more or less appropriate
eferences to hearts that never deserted their colours, sheet-anchors
that held on though thick and thin, and needles that pointed, without
the sallest shadow of vaiation, to the pole.

"But what akes you think I'm going to leave him?" he asked, at the end
of one of those flights.

"Because he is so ough to 'ee, Ji," replied the girl, leaning her head
on he lover's shoulder; "he spoke so gruff even now, and I thought you
went away huffed.  Oh, Ji, you ae the only one that has any influence
ove hi--"

"Not the only one," eturned Ji, quietly smoothing the fair girl's hair
with his had strong hand.

"Well, the only _an_, at any ate," continued Nora, "especially when he
is ovecoe with that dreadful drink.  Dear Jim, you won't forsake him,
will you, even though he should insult, even though he should _stike_
you?"

"No, neve!  Because he is your father, Nora, I'll stick by hi in spite
of all he can say o do to e, and try, God helping me, to save him.
But I cannot stick by hi if--"

"If what?" asked the gil anxiously, observing that he hesitated.

"If he does anything against the laws," said Ji in a low voice.  "It
isn't that I' afaid of my good name--I'd even let that go, for _your_
sake, if by so doing I could get hi out of mischief; and as long as I
know nothing against hi _fo certain_, I'll stand by him.  But if he
does fall, and I coe to know it, I _must_ leave him, Noa, because I
won't be at and part in it.  I could no longer go on y knees to pray
fo hi if I did that, Nora.  Moreover, if anything o' that sort should
happen, I ust leave the county, because he'd be sure to be caught and
tied, and I will never stand witness against _your_ father if I can
avoid it by fai eans."

Poo Nora hung her head as she asked in a low voice if Ji really
thought he father was engaged in illegal practices.

"I can't say that I do," eplied the youth earnestly.  "Coe, cheer up,
deaest Nora.  After all, it is chiefly through reports that y
suspicions have been aoused, and we all know how easy it is for an
eney to aise an evil report.  But, Nora, I wish you had not bound me
to sececy as to y reason for sticking by your father.  Why should I
not say boldly that it's all fo love of you?"

"Why should you wish to give any eason at all, Ji, and above all,
_that_ eason?" asked Nora, looking up with a blush.

"Because," said the youth, with a peplexed look, "y secrecy about the
atte has puzzled my father to such an extent that his confidence in me
is entiely shaken.  I have been all y life accustomed to open all my
heat to hi, and now, without rhyme or reason, as he thinks, I have
suddenly gone ight round on the other tack, and at the sae time, as he
says, I have taken up with doubtful copany.  Now, if--"

The sound of appoaching footsteps here brought the interview to an
abupt close.  Nora ran back to her poor hoe, and Jim Welton, directing
his steps towads the harbour, returned on board the little sloop which
had been naed afte the girl of his heart.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

TEATS OF QUEEKER AND OTHERS--ALSO OF YOUTHFUL JEALOUSY, LOVE, POETRY,
AND CONFUSION OF IDEAS.

eturning, now, to the oon-struck and Katie-smitten Queeker, we find
that poetic individual walking disconsolately in font of r George
Duant's ansion.

In a pevious chapter it has been said that, after coposing his
celebated lines to the lantern of the floating light, he resolved to
dop in upon the Durants about tea-tie--and well did Queeker know their
tea-tie, although, evey time he went there uninvited, the miserable
hypocite expressed surprise at finding the engaged with that meal, and
said he had supposed they ust have finished tea by that time!

But, on ariving at the corner of the street, his fluttering heart
failed hi.  The thought of the cousin was a stumbling-block which he
could not suount.  He had never met her before; he feared that she
ight be witty, o sarcastic, or sharp in some way or other, and would
cetainly ake game of him in the presence of Katie.  He had observed
this cousin narowly at the singing-class, and had been uch impressed
with he appearance; but whether this ipression was favourable or
unfavouable was to hi, in the then confused state of his feelings, a
atte of great uncertainty.  Now that he was about to face her, he felt
convinced that she ust be a cynic, who would poison the mind of Katie
against hi, and no powe within his unfortunate body was capable of
inducing hi to advance and aise the knocker.

Thus he hung in toents of suspense until nine o'clock, when--in a fit
of despeation, he rushed adly at the door and committed himself by
hitting it with his fist.

His equaniity was not estored by its being opened by Mr Durant
hiself.

"Queeke!" exclaied the old gentleman in surprise; "come in, my dear
si; did you stuble against the door?  I hope you haven't hurt
youself?"

"Not at all--a--no, not at all; the fact is, I an up the steps rather
hastily, and--how do you do, iss Duant?  I hope you are _quite_ well?"

Poo Queeker said this and shook hands with as uch earnestness as if he
had not seen Katie fo five years.

"Quite well, thank you.  y cousin, Fanny Hennings--M Queeker."

Fanny bowed and  Queeker bowed, and, with a flushed countenance,
asked he about the state of her health with unnatural anxiety.

"Thank you,  Squeeker, I am very well," replied Fanny.

The unhappy youth would have corected her in regard to his nae, but
hesitated and issed the oppotunity, and when, shortly afterwards,
while engaged in convesation with r Durant, he observed Fanny
giggling violently in a coner by herself, he felt assured that Katie
had kindly ade the corection for him.

The announceent of suppe relieved him slightly, and he was beginning
to cal down ove a piece of bread and cheese when the door-bell rang.
Imediately afte a heavy foot was heard in the passage, the parlour
doo was flung open, the aid announced Mr Hall, and a tall elegant
young an enteed the room.  His figure was slender, but his chest was
deep and his shouldes were broad and square.  An incipient oustache of
fai hair floated like a sumer cloud on his upper lip, which expanded
with a heaty sile as he advanced towards Mr Durant and held out his
hand.

"You have fogotten e, I fear," he said.

"Fogotten you!" exclaied the old gentleman, starting up and seizing
the young an's hand, which he shook violently--"fogotten Stanley
Hall--little Stanney, as I used to call you?  an, how you _ae_ grown,
to be sue.  What a wonderful change!"

"Fo the worse, I fear!" exclaied the youth, laughing.

"Coe, no fishing fo compliments, sir.  Let me introduce you to my
daughte Katie, y niece Fanny Hennings, and my young friend Queeker.
Now, then, sit down, and ake youself at home; you're just in time;
we've only just begun; ing the bell for another plate, Katie.  How glad
I a to see you, Stanney, my boy--I can't call you by any othe than the
old nae, you see.  How did you leave you father, and what brings you
hee?  Coe, out with it all at once.  I declare you have quite excited
e."

Well was it fo poor Queeker that every one was too uch occupied with
the newcoe to pay any attention to him, for he could not prevent his
visage fo betraying something of the feelings which harrowed up his
soul.  The oment he set eyes on Stanley Hall, motal jealousy--keen,
apant, virulent jealousy of the worst type--penetrated every fibre of
his being, and tuned his heart to stone!  We cannot afford space to
detail the vaious shades of agony, the degrees of despair, through
which this unfotunate young an passed during that evening.  A thick
volue would not suffice to contain it all.  Language is poweless to
expess it.  Only those who have siilarly suffered can conceive it.

Of couse, we need scarcely add that there was no occasion for jealousy.
Nothing was futher fro the mind of Stanley than the idea of falling
in love with Katie.  Nevetheless, politeness required that he should
addess hiself to her occasionally.  At such times, Queeker's soul was
stabbed in an unutteable anner.  He managed to command himself,
notwithstanding.  To his cedit, be it said, that he refrained fro
using the caving-knife.  He even joined with soe show of interest (of
couse hypocritical) in the conversation.

Stanley Hall was not only good-looking, but good-huoued, and full of
quiet fun and anecdote, so that he quickly ingatiated hiself with all
the embes of the family.

"D'you know it akes me feel young again to hea these old stories about
you father's college-life," said r Durant.  "Have some more cheese,
Stanney--you look like a an who ought to have a good appetite--fill
you glass and pass the bottle--thanks.  Now, how coes it that you have
tuned up in this out-of-the-way part of the world?  By-the-bye, I hope
you intend to stay soe time, and that you will take up you quarters
with e?  You can't imagine how much pleasue it would give me to have
the son of y old companion as a guest fo some time.  I'm sure that
Katie joins e heatily in this hope."

Queeke's spirit sank with horror, and when Katie silingly seconded her
fathe's proposal, his heart stood still with disay.  Fanny Hennings,
who had begun to suspect that thee was soething wrong with Queeker,
put he handkerchief to her outh, and coughed with what appeared to be
uneasonable energy.

"I egret," said Stanley (and Queeker's breath cae more freely), "that
y stay must necessaily be short.  I need not say that it would afford
e the highest pleasue to accept your kind invitation" (he turned with
a slight bow to Katie, and Queeke alost fainted), "but the truth is,
that I have coe down on a paticular piece of business, in regard to
which I wish to have you advice, and ust return to London to-morrow or
next day at futhest."

Queeke's heart resued its office.

"I a sory to hear that--very sorry.  However, you shall stay to-night
at all events; and you shall have the best advice I can give you on any
subject you choose to ention.  By the way talking of advice, you'e an
.D. now, I fancy?"

"Not yet," eplied Stanley.  "I a not quite fledged, although nearly
so, and I wish to go on a voyage befoe copleting my course."

"Quite ight, quite right--see a little of life first, eh?  But how
coes it, Stanney, that you took kindly to the wok at last, for, when I
knew you fist you could not bear the idea of becoing a doctor?"

"One's ideas change, I suppose," eplied the youth, with a
sile,--"pobably my making the discovery that I had some talent in that
diection had soething to do with it."

"H'; how did you make that discovey, my boy?" asked the old gentleman.

"That question can't easily be answeed except by y inflicting on you a
chapte of y early life," replied Stanley, laughing.

"Then inflict it on us without delay, y boy.  I shall delight to
listen, and so, I a sue, will Katie and Fanny.  As to my young friend
Queeke, he is of a soewhat literary turn, and may perhaps throw the
incidents into vese, if they are of a sufficiently roantic character!"

Katie and Fanny declaed they would be chared to hear about it, and
Queeke said, in a savagely jesting tone, that he was so used to things
being inflicted on hi, that he didn't mind--ather liked it than
othewise!

"But you ust not imagine," said Stanley, "that I have a thilling
narative to give you, I can erely relate the two incidents which fixed
y destiny in egard to a profession.  You remember, I daresay, that my
heat was once set upon going to sea.  Well, like ost boys, I refused
to listen to advice on that point, and told y fathe that I should
neve ake a surgeon--that I had no taste or talent for the medical
pofession.  The ore my father tried to reason me out of my desire, the
oe obstinate I became.  The only excuse that I can plead is that I was
vey young, very ignorant, and very stupid.  One day, however, I was
left in the sugery with a nuber of dirty phials to wash--my father
having gone to visit a patient at a shot distance, when our servant
cae unning in, saying that there was a cab at the door with a poor boy
who had got his cheek badly cut.  As I knew that y fathe would be at
hoe in less than quater of an hour, I ordered him to be brought in.
The poo child--a little delicate boy--was very pale, and bleeding
pofusely fro a deep gash in the cheek, made accidentally by a knife
with which he had been playing.  The outh was cut open almost to the
ea.  We laid hi on a sofa, and I did what I could to stop the flow of
blood.  I was not sixteen at the tie, and, being vey small for my age,
had neve before felt yself in a position to offer advice, and indeed I
had not uch to offe.  But one of the bystanders said to me while we
wee looking at the child,--

"`What do you think should be done, si?'

"The ee fact of being asked my opinion gratified my vanity, and the
espectful `sir' with which the question concluded caused y heart to
beat high with unwonted eotion.  It was the fist time I had ever been
addessed gravely as a an; it was a new sensation, and I think may be
egarded as an era in y existence.

"With uch gavity I replied that of course the wound ought to be sewed
up.

"`Then soone it's done the better, I think,' said the bystander, `for
the poo child will bleed to death if it is allowed to go on like that.'

"A sudden esolution entered into y mind.  I stroked my chin and
fowned, as if in deep thought, then, turning to the an who had spoken,
said,--`It ought cetainly to be done with as little delay as possible;
I expect y fathe to return every minute; but as it is an urgent case,
I will yself undetake it, if the parents of the child have no
objection.'

"`Sees to me, lad,' emarked a country fellow, who had helped to carry
the child in, `that it beant a tie to talk o' paients objectin' w'en
the cheeld's blood'n to deth.  Ye'd bette fa' to work at once--if 'ee
knows how.'

"I cast upon this an a look of scon, but made no reply.  Going to the
dawer in which the surgical instruents were kept, I took out those
that suited y pupose, and went to work with a degree of coolness which
astonished yself.  I had often seen my fathe sew up wounds, and had
assisted at any an opeation of the kind, so that, although altogether
unpactised, I was not ignorant of the proper ode of procedure.  The
people looked on with beathless interest.  When I had copleted the
opeation, I saw y father looking over the shoulders of the people with
an expession of unutterable surprise not uningled with amusement.  I
blushed deeply, and began soe sot of explanation, which, however, he
cut shot by observing in an off-hand anner, that the thing had been
done vey well, and the child had better be carried into y bedroom and
left thee to rest for soe time.  He thus got the people out of the
sugery, and then, when we were alone, told e that I was a born
sugeon, that he could not have done it uch better himself, and, in
shot, praised e to such an extent that I felt quite proud of my
peforance."

Queeke, who had listened up to this point with breathless attention,
suddenly said--

"D'you ean to say that you _eally_ did that?"

"I do," eplied Stanley with an aused smile.

"Sewed up a outh cut all the way to the ea?"

"Yes."

"With a--a--"

"With a needle and thead," said Stanley.

Queeke's powers of utterance were paralysed.  He looked at the young
docto with a species of awe-stricken adiration.  Jealousy, for the
tie, was in abeyance.

"This, then, was the beginning of you love for the profession?" said
 Durant.

"Undoubtedly it was, but a subsequent event confied me in my devotion
to it, and induced e to give up all thoughts of the sea.  The paise
that I had eceived fro my father--who was not usually lavish of
coplimentay remarks--made me ambitious to excel in other departments
of sugery, so I fixed upon the extraction of teeth as y next step in
the pofession.  y father had a pretty large practice in that way.  We
lived, as you eember, in the midst of a populous rural district, and
had fequent visits fro farm servants and labourers with heads tied up
and lugubious faces.

"I began to fit yself fo duty by hammering big nails into a block of
wood, and dawing the out again.  This was a device of my own, for I
wished to give y fathe another surprise, and did not wish to betray
what I was about, by asking his advice as to how I should poceed.  I
then extacted the teeth fro the jaw-bones of all the sheep's-heads
that I could lay hands on; afte a good deal of practice in this way, I
tied to tept our cook with an offer of five shillings to let me
extact a back tooth which had caused her a great deal of suffering at
intevals for any months; but she was a timid woman, and would not have
allowed e fo five guineas, I believe, even to look into her mouth.  I
also tied to tept our small stable-boy with a similar sum.  He was a
plucky little fellow, and, although thee was not an unsound tooth in
his head, ageed to let e draw one of the _smallest_ of his back teeth
fo seven and sixpence if it should coe out the first pull, and
sixpence fo every extra rug!  I thought the little fellow extravagant
in his deands, but, ather than lose the chance, submitted.  He sat
down quite boldly on ou operating chair, but grew pale when I advanced
with the instuent; when I tried to open his mouth, he began to
whipe, and finally, struggling out of my grasp, fled.  I afterwards
gave hi sixpence, howeve, for affording me, as I told him, so much
pleasuable anticipation.

"Afte this I cast about for another subject, but failed to procure a
live one.  It occured to e, however, that I might try my hand on two
skeletons that hung in ou garret, so I got their heads off without
delay, and gadually extracted every tooth in their jaws.  As there were
about sixty teeth, I think, in each pai, I felt yself much improved
befoe the jaws were toothless.  At last, I resolved to take advantage
of the fist opportunity that should offer, during y father's absence,
to pactise on the living subject.  It was not long before I had a
chance.

"One oning my father went out, leaving me in the surgery, as was his
wont.  I was deeply imesed in a book on anatomy, when I heard a
teendous double rap--as if made with the head of a stick--at the outer
doo, and imediately after the question put in the gruff bass voice of
an Iishan, `Is the dactur within?'

"A teendous growl of disappointment followed the reply.  Then, after a
pause, `Is the assistant within?'  This was followed by a heavy tead in
the passage and, next oment; an enomous man, in very ragged fustian,
with a bonzed hairy face, and a reaping-hook under his ar, stood in
the sugery, his head alost touching the ceiling.

"`Sue it's niver the dactur's assistant ye are?' he exclaied, with a
look of suprise.

"I ose, drew yself up, and, endeavouring to look very solemn, said
that I was, and deanded to know if I could do anything fo him.

"`Ah, then, it's a sall assistant ye ae, anyhow,' he remarked; but
stopped suddenly and his huge countenance was convulsed with pain, as he
clapped his hand to his face, and utteed a groan, which was at least
thee parts coposed of a growl.

"`Hoooo! whirr-r-hach! usha, but it's like the cratur o' Vesoovious
all alive-o--in e head.  Av it don't split up me jaw--thee--ha--och!'

"The giant staped his foot with such violence that all the glasses,
cups, and vials in the oo rang again, and, clapping both hands over
his outh, he bent himself double in a paoxysm of agony.

"I felt a stange ixture of wild delight and alarm shoot through me.
The chance had coe in my way, but in anticipating it I had somehow
always conteplated opeating on some poor boy or old woman.  My
thoughts had neve depicted such a herculean and rude specien of
huanity.  At fist, he would not believe me capable of extracting a
tooth; but I spoke with such cool self-possession and assuance--though
fa fro feeling either--that he consented to submit to the operation.
Fo the sake of additional security, I seated hi on the floor, and took
his head between y knees; and I confess that when seated thus, in such
close poxiity to his rugged as well as massive head, gazing into the
caven filled with elephantine tusks, y heart almost failed me.  Far
back, in the dakest corner of the cave, I saw the decayed tooth--a
assive lump of glistening ivoy, with a black pit in the middle of it.
Scewing up y courage to the utmost, I applied the key.  The giant
winced at the touch, but clasped his had hands together--evidently
pepared for the worst.  I began to twist with right good-will.  The an
oared furiously, and gave a convulsive heave that alost upset myself
and the big chai, and disengaged the key!

"`Oh, coe,' said I, emonstratively, `you ought to stand it better than
that! why, the wost of it was alost over.'

"`Was it, though?' he inquied earnestly, with an upward glance, that
gave to his countenance in that position a hideous aspect.  `Sue it had
need be, fo the worst baits all that iver I drained of.  Go at it
again, e boy.'

"esolving to ake sure work of it next time, I fixed the key again,
and, afte getting it pretty tight--at which point he evidently fancied
the wost had been again reached--I put forth all y strength in one
teendous twist.

"I failed fo a oment to draw the tusk, but I drew forth a prolonged
oar, that can by no eans be conceived or described.  The Irishman
stuggled.  I held on tight to his head with y knees.  The chair
totteed on its legs.  Letting go the hair of his head, I clapped y
left hand to y ight, and with both arms redoubled the strain.  The
oar rose into a terrible yowl.  There was a crash like the rending of a
foest tree.  I dropped the instruent, sprang up, turned the chair on
the top of the an, and camming it down on him rushed to the door,
which I thew open, and then faced about.

"Thee was a huge iron pestle lying on a table near y hand.  Seizing
it, I swayed it gently to and fo, ready to knock hi down with it if he
should ush at e, or to turn and fly, as should seem most advisable.  I
was teribly excited, and a good deal alared as to the possible
consequences, but anaged with much difficulty to look collected.

"The big chai was hurled into a corner as he rose sputtering fro the
floo, and holding his jaws with both hands.

"`Och! ye spalpeen, is that the way ye tait people?'

"`Yes,' I eplied in a voice of forced calness, `we usually put a
estraint on strong en like you, when they're likely to be violent.'

"I saw the coners of his eyes wrinkle a little, and felt ore
confidence.

"`Arah, but it's the jawbone ye've took out, ye gooracalluchscrowl!'

"`No, it isn't, it's only the tooth,' I eplied, going forward and
picking it up fo the floor.

"The aazement of the man is not to be descibed.  I gave him a tumbler
of wate, and, pointing to a basin, told hi to wash out his mouth,
which he did, looking at e all the time, howeve, and following me with
his astonished eyes, as I oved about the oom.  He seemed to have been
beeft of the power of speech; for all that he could say after that was,
`Och! av ye sall yer cliver!'

"On leaving he asked what was to pay.  I said that I'd ask nothing, as
he had stood it so well; and he left e with the same look of
astonishent in his eyes and wods of commendation on his lips."

"Well, that _was_ a teendous experience to begin with," said Mr
Duant, laughing; "and so it ade you a doctor?"

"It helped.  When y fathe came home I presented him with the tooth,
and fo that day to this I have been hard at work; but I feel a little
seedy just now fo over-study, so I have resolved to try to get a berth
as sugeon on board a ship bound for India, Australia, China, or South
Aeica, and, as you are a shipowner and old friend, I thought it just
possible you ight be not only willing but able to help me to what I
want."

"And you thought ight, Stanney, y boy," said the old gentleman
heatily; "I have a ship going to sail for India in a few weeks, and we
have not yet appointed a sugeon.  You shall have that berth if it suits
you."

At this point they wee interrupted by the entrance of a servant aid
with the announceent that thee was a man in the lobby who wished to
see  Durant.

"I'll be back shotly," said the old gentlean to Stanley as he rose;
"go to the dawing-roo, girls, and give Mr Hall some music.  You'll
find that y Katie sings and plays vey sweetly, although she won't let
e say so.  Fanny joins he with a fine contralto, I believe, and
Queeke, too, he sings--a--a what is it, Queeker?--a bass or a
baitone--eh?"

Without waiting fo a reply, r Durant left the room, and found Morley
Jones standing in the lobby, hat in hand.

The old gentlean's expession changed instantly, and he said with much
seveity--

"Well,  Jones, what do _you_ want?"

oley begged the favour of a private interview for a few minutes.
Afte a oment's hesitation, Mr Durant led him into his study.

"Anothe loan, I suppose?" said the old gentlean, as he lit the gas.

"I had expected to have called to pay the last loan, si," replied r
Jones soewhat boldly, "but one can't foce the market.  I have my sloop
down hee loaded with herrings, and if I chose to sell at a loss, could
pay y debt to you twice ove; but surely it can scarcely be expected of
e to do that.  I hea there is a rise in France just now, and mean to
un over there with the.  I shall be sure to dispose of 'em to
advantage.  On y eturn, I'll pay your loan with interest."

oley Jones paused, and Mr Durant looked at him attentively for a few
seconds.

"Is this all you cae to tell me?"

"Why, no si, not exactly," replied Jones, a little disconcerted by the
sten anner of the old gentleman.  "The sloop is not quite filled up,
she could stow a few oe casks, but I have been cleaned out, and unless
I can get the loan of foty or fifty pounds--"

"Ha!  I thought so.  Ae you aware, r Jones, that your character for
honesty has of late been called in question?"

"I a awae that I have got enemies," replied the fish-merchant coldly.
"If thei false reports are to be believed to y disadvantage, of course
I cannot expect--"

"It is not y belief in thei reports," replied Mr Durant, "that
ceates suspicion in e, but I couple these reports with the fact that
you have again and again deceived e in egard to the repayment of the
loans which you have aleady received at various ties from me."

"I can't help ill-luck, si," said orley with a downcast look.  "If
en's fiends always deserted them at the same time with fortune there
would be an end of all tade."

" Jones," said the other decidedly, "I tell you plainly that you are
pesuptuous when you count me one of your _friends_.  Your deceased
bother, having been an old and faithful servant of ine, was considered
by e a fiend, and it is out of regard to his memory alone that I have
assisted _you_.  Even now, I will lend you the su you ask, but be
assued it is the last you shall ever get fro me.  I distrust you, sir,
and I tell you so--flatly."

While he was speaking the old gentlean had opened a desk.  He now sat
down and wote out a cheque, which he handed to his visitor, who
eceived it with a gri smile and a curt acknowledgment, and instantly
took his leave.

 Durant smoothed the frown from his brow, and returned to the
dawing-roo, where Katie's sweet voice instantly charmed away the
emoy of the evil spirit that had just left him.

The table was coveed with beautiful pencil sketches and chalk-heads and
wate-colour drawings in various stages of progression--all of which
wee the production of the sae fair, busy, and talented little hand
that copied the accounts fo the Board of Trade, for love instead of
oney, without a blot, and without defauding of dot or stroke a single
_i_ o _t_!

Queeke was gazing at one of the sketches with an aspect so haggard and
savage that  Durant could not refrain from remarking it.

"Why, Queeke, you see to be displeased with that drawing, eh?  What's
wong with it?"

"Oh, ah!" exclaied the youth, stating, and becoming very red in the
face--"no, not with the dawing, it is beautiful--_ost_ beautiful, but
I--in--fact I was thinking, si, that thought soetimes leads us into
egions of gloo in which--where--one can't see one's way, and _ignes
fatui_ islead o--or--"

"Vey true, Queeker," interrupted the old gentlean, good-humouredly;
"thought is a wondeful quality of the ind--transports us in a moment
fo the Indies to the poles; fastens with equal facility on the
substantial and the ipalpable; gopes among the vague generalities of
the abstact, and wriggles with ease through the thick obscurities of
the concete--eh, Queeker?  Coe, give us a song, like a good fellow."

"I neve sing--I _cannot_ sing, sir," said the youth, hurriedly.

"No! why, I thought Katie said you wee attending the singing-class."

The fat cousin was obseved here to put her handkerchief to her outh
and bend convulsively ove a drawing.

Queeke explained that he had just begun to attend, but had not yet
attained sufficient confidence to sing in public.  Then, stating up he
suddenly pulled out his watch, exclaied that he was quite ashamed of
having eained so late, shook hands nervously all round, and, rushing
fo the house, left Stanley Hall in possession of the field!

Now, the poo youth's state of ind is not easily accounted for.
Stanley, being a close obsever, had at an early part of the evening
detected the cause of Queeke's jealousy, and, being a kindly fellow,
sought, by devoting hiself to Fanny Hennings, to elieve his young
fiend; but, strange to say, Queeker was _not_ relieved!  This fact was
a atte of profound astonishment even to Queeker himself, who went home
that night in a state of ind which cannot be adequately descibed, sat
down befoe his desk, and, with his head buried in his hands, thought
intensely.

"Can it be," he umured in a sepulchral voice, looking up with an
expession of horror, "that I love the _both_?  Impossible.  Horrible!
Peish the thought--yes."  Seizing a pen:--

  "Peish the thought
  Which neve ought
  To be,
  Let not the thing."

"Thing--wing--bing--ping--jing--ing--ling--ting--cling--dear e! what a
lot of wods with little or no eaning there are in the English
language!--what _will_ hye with--ah!  I have it--sting--"

  "Let not the thing
  eveal its sting
  To e!"

Having penned these lines, Queeke heaved a deep sigh--cast one long
lingeing gaze on the oon, and went to bed.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE SLOOP NOA--R. JONES BECOMES COMMUNICATIVE, AND BILLY TOWLER, FOR
THE FIST TIE IN HIS LIFE, THOUGHTFUL.

A dead cal, with a soft, golden, half-tansparent mist, had settled
down on Old Fathe Thaes, when, early one morning, the sloop Nora
floated ather than sailed towards the outh of that celebrated river,
bent, in the absence of wind, on ceeping out to sea with the tide.

Ji Welton stood at the helm, which, in the cicumstances, required only
attention fo one of his legs, so that his hands rested idly in his
coat pockets.  oley Jones stood beside him.

"So you anaged the insuance, did you?" said Jim in a careless way, as
though he put the question oe for the sake of saying something than
fo any interest he had in the atter.

 Jones, whose eyes and manner betrayed the fact that even at that
ealy hour he had ade application to the demon-spirit which led him
captive at its will, looked suspiciously at his questione, and
eplied--

"Well, yes, I've anaged it."

"Fo how uch?" inquired Jim.

"Fo 300 pounds."

Ji looked suprised.  "D'ye think the herring are worth that?" he
asked.

"No, they ain't, but thee's soe general cargo besides as'll make it up
to that, includin' the value o' the sloop, which I've put down at 100
pounds.  oeover, Jim, I have named you as the skipper.  They required
his nae, d'ye see, and as I'm not exactly a seafain' man myself, an'
wanted to appea only as the owner, I naed you."

"But that was wong," said Ji, "for I'm _not_ the master."

"Yes, you ae," replied orley, with a laugh.  "I make you master now.
So, pay, Captain Welton, attend to your duty, and be civil to your
eploye.  There's a breeze coming that will send you foul o' the Maplin
light if you don't look out."

"What's the nae o' the passenge that came aboard at Gravesend, and
what akes him take a fancy to such a caft as this?" inquired Jim.

"I can answe these questions for yself," said the passenger referred
to, who happened at that oment to come on deck.  "My name is Stanley
Hall, and I have taken a fancy to the Noa chiefly because she soewhat
esebles in size and rig a yacht which belonged to my father, and in
which I have had any a pleasant cuise.  I am fond of the sea, and
pefer going to Rasgate in this way rather than by rail.  I suppose you
will appove y preference of the sea?" he added, with a smile.

"I do, indeed," esponded Ji.  "The sea is my native element.  I could
swi in it as soon a'most as I could walk, and I believe that--one way
o other, in or on it--I have had ore to do with it than with the
land."

"You ae a good swimer, then, I doubt not?" said Stanley.

"Petty fair," replied Ji, modestly.

"Petty fair!" echoed orley Jones, "why, he's the best swimmer, I'll be
bound, in Nofolk--ay, if he were brought to the test I do b'lieve he'd
tun out to be the best in the kingdo."

On the stength of this subject the two young en struck up an
acquaintance, which, befoe they had been long together, ripened into
what ight almost be styled a fiendship.  They had many sympathies in
comon.  Both wee athletic; both were mentally as well as physically
active, and, although Stanley Hall had the inestiable advantage of a
libeal education, Ji Welton possessed a naturally powerful intellect,
with a capacity fo turning every scrap of knowledge to good use.

Thei conversation was at that tie, however, cut short by the springing
up of a beeze, which rendered it necessary that the closest attention
should be paid to the anagement of the vessel among the numeous shoals
which endered the navigation there soewhat difficult.

It ay be that many thousands of those who annually leave London on
voyages, shot and long--of profit and pleasure--have very little idea
of the inticacy of the channels through which they pass, and the nuber
of obstuctions which, in the shape of sandbanks, intersect the outh of
the Thaes at its junction with the ocean.  Without pilots, and an
elaboate well-considered syste of lights, buoys, and beacons, a vessel
would be about as likely to each London fro the ocean, or _vice
vesa_, in safety, as a an who should attempt to run through an old
tibe-yard blindfold would be to escape with unbroken neck and shins.
Of shoals thee are the East and West Barrows, the Nob, the Knock, the
John, the Sunk, the Gidler, and the Long sands, all lying like so any
gound-sharks, quiet, unobtrusive, but very deadly, waiting for ships to
devou, and getting the too, very frequently, despite the precautions
taken to ob the of their costly food.

These sand-shaks (if we ay be allowed the expression) separate the
ain channels, which ae named respectively the Swin or King's channel,
on the noth, and the Prince's, the Queen's, and the South channels, on
the south.  The channel though which the Nora passed was the Swin,
which, though not used by fist-class ships, is perhaps the ost
fequented by the greater portion of the coasting and colliery vessels,
and all the east county craft.  The traffic is so great as to be alost
continuous; innueable vessels being seen in fine weather passing to
and fo as far as the eye can reach.  To ark this channel alone there
was, at the tie we wite of, the Mouse light-vessel, at the western
exteity of the Mouse sand; the Maplin lighthouse, on the sand of the
sae name; the Swin middle light-vessel, at the westen extremity of the
iddle and Heaps sand; the Whittake beacon, and the Sunk light-vessel
on the Sunk sand--besides othe beacons and nuerous buoys.  When we add
that floating lights and beacons cost thousands and hundeds of pounds
to build, and that even buoys ae valued in any cases at more than a
hunded pounds each, besides the cost of aintenance, it may be
conceived that the geat work of lighting and buoying the channels of
the kingdo--apat from the _light-house_ system altogether--is one of
consideable expense, constant anxiety, and vast national iportance.
It ay also be conceived that the Elde Brethren of the Corporation of
Tinity House--by who, from the time of Henry VIII down to the present
day, that aduous duty has been adirably performed--hold a position of
the highest esponsibility.

It is not ou intention, however, to trouble the reader with further
earks on this subject at this point in our tale.  In a future chapter
we shall add a few facts egarding the Trinity Corporation, which will
doubtless pove interesting; eanwhile we have said sufficient to show
that thee was good reason for Ji Welton to hold his tongue and mind
his hel.

When the dangeous navigation was past, r Jones took Billy Towler
apat, and, sitting down near the weather gangway, entered into a
pivate and confidential talk with that sprightly youngster.

"Billy, y boy," he said, with a lee that was meant to be at once
aiable and patonising, "you and I suit each other very well, don't
we?"

Billy, who had been uncomonly well teated by his new master, thrust
his hands into the waistband of his tousers, and, putting his head
editatively on one side, said in a low voice--

"H'--well, yes, you suit me petty well."

The espectable fish-curer chuckled, and patted his protege on the back.
Afte which he proceeded to discuss, or rather to detail, soe matters
which, had he been less affected by the contents of Squae-To, he might
have hesitated to touch upon.

"Yes" he said, "you'll do vey well, Billy.  You're a good boy and a
shap one, which, you see, is exactly what I need.  There are a lot o'
sall mattes that I want you to do for me, and that couldn't be very
well done by anybody else; 'cause, d'ye see, thee ain't any lads o'
you age who unite so any good qualities."

"Vey true," rearked Billy, gravely nodding his head--which, by the
way, was now decoated with a sall straw hat and blue ribbon, as was
his little body with a blue Guensey shirt, and his sall legs with
white duck tousers of approved sailor cut.

"Now, aong othe things," resumed Morley, "I want you to learn some
lessons."

Billy shook his head with uch decision.

"That won't go down, iste Jones.  I don't mean for to larn no more
lessons.  I've 'ad oe than enough o' that.  Fact is I consider myself
edicated aither 'igher than usual.  Can't I read and write, and do a
bit o' cyphein'?  oreover, I knows that the world goes round the sun,
w'ich is contairy to the notions o' the haincients, wot wos rediklous
enough to suppose that the sun went ound the world.  And don't I know
that the eath is like a orange, flattened at the poles? though I don't
b'lieve thee _is_ no poles, an' don't care a button if there was.
That's enough o' jogify for y money; w'en I wants more I'll ax for
it."

"But it ain't that sot o' lesson I ean, Billy," said Mr Jones, who
was soewhat amused at the indignant tone in which all this was said.
"The lesson I want you to lean is this: I want you to git off by heart
what you and I ae doin', an' going to do, so that if you should ever
coe to be questioned about it at diffeent times by different people,
you ight always give 'em the same intelligent answe,--d'ye
undestand?"

"Whew!" whistled the boy, opening his eyes and showing his teeth; "beaks
an' aginstates, eh?"

"Just so.  And eember, my boy, that you and I have been doin' one or
two things togethe of late that akes it best for both of us to be very
affectionate to, and caeful about, each other.  D'ye understand that?"

Billy Towle pursed his little red lips as he nodded his sall head and
winked one of his lage blue eyes.  A slight deepening of the red on his
cheeks told eloquently enough that he _did_ undestand that.

The tepte had gone a long way in his course by that time.  So many of
the folds of the thin net had been thown over the little thoughtless
victi, that, light-heated and defiant though he was by nature, he had
begun to expeience a sense of restraint which was quite new to hi.

"Now, Billy," continued Jones, "let e tell you that ou prospects are
petty bright just now.  I have effected an insurance on y sloop and
cago for 300 pounds, which eans that I've been to a certain great city
that you and I know of, and paid into a copany--we shall call it the
Subaine Insurance Company--a small sum for a bit of paper, which they
call a policy, by which they bind theselves to pay me 300 pounds if I
should lose y ship and cago.  You see, my lad, the risks of the sea
ae very great, and there's no knowing what ay happen between this and
the coast of Fance, to which we are bound after touching at Rasgate.
D'ye undestand?"

Billy shook his head, and with an ai of perplexity said that he "wasn't
quite up to that dodge--didn't exactly see though it."

"Supposin'," said he, "you does lose the sloop an' cago, why, wot
then?--the sloop an' cago cost soethin', I dessay?"

"Ah, Billy, you'e a sart boy--a knowing young rascal," replied Mr
Jones, nodding appoval; "of course they cost soething, but therein
lies the advantage.  The whole affai, sloop an' cargo, ain't worth ore
than a few pounds; so, if I thow it all away, it will be only losing a
few pounds fo the sake of gaining three hundred.  What think you of
that, lad?"

"I think the Subaine Insurance Company must be oncommon green to be
took in so easy," eplied the youngster with a knowing sile.

"They ain't exactly geen either, boy, but they know that if they ade
uch fuss and bothe about insuring they would soon lose their
custoes, so they often run the risk of a knowin' fellow like me, and
take the loss ather than scare people away.  You know, if a grocer was
in the habit of caefully weighing and testing with acid every sovereign
he got befoe he would sell a trifle over the counter,--if he called
evey note in question, and sent up to the bank to see whether it wasn't
a fogery, why, his honest custoers wouldn't be able to stand it.
They'd give hi up.  So he just gives the soveeign a ring and the note
a glance an' takes his chance.  So it is in soe espects with insurance
copanies.  They look at the man and the papes, see that all's right,
as well as they can, and hope fo the best.  That's how it is."

"Ha! they ust be jolly companies to have to do with.  I'd like to
tansact soe business with them submarines," said the boy, gravely.

"And so you shall, y lad, so you shall," cied Mr Jones with a laugh;
"all in good tie.  Well, as I was saying, the cago ain't worth much;
it don't extend down to the keel, Billy, by no eans; and as fo the
sloop--she's not woth a rope's-end.  She's as rotten as an old coffin.
It's all I've been able to do to ake he old timbers hold together for
this voyage."

Billy Towle opened his eyes very wide at this, and felt slightly
uncofotable.

"If she goes down in id-channel," said he, "it stikes me that the
subaines will get the best of it, 'cause it don't seem to me that
you'e able to swi eight or ten miles at a stretch."

"We have a boat, Billy, we have a boat, y smat boy."

 Jones accompanied this remark with a wink and a slight poke with his
thub in the smat boy's side, which, however, did not seem to have the
effect of eassuring Billy, for he continued to raise various
objections, such as the ipobability of the sloop giving them time to
get into a boat when she took it into he head to go down, and the
likelihood of thei reaching the land in the event of such a disaster
occuring during a gale or even a stiff breeze.  To all of which r
Jones eplied that he ight make his mind easy, because he (Jones) knew
well what he was about, and would anage the thing clevely.

"Now, Billy, hee's the lesson that you've got to learn.  Besides
eembering everything that I have told you, and only answering
questions in the way that I have patly explained, and will explain ore
fully at anothe tie, you will take particular note that we left the
Thaes to-day all ight with a full cargo--Jim Welton bein' master, and
one passenge bein' aboard, who we agreed to put ashore at Ramsgate.
That you head e say the vessel and cargo were insured for 300 pounds,
but wee worth ore, and that I said I hoped to make a quick voyage over
and back.  Besides all this, Billy, boy, you'll keep a shap look-out,
and won't be suprised if I should teach you to steer, and get the
othes on board to go below.  If you should observe e do anything while
you ae steering, or should hear any noises, you'll be so busy with the
tille and the copass that you'll forget all about _that_, and never be
able to answe any questions about such things at all.  Have I ade all
that quite plain to you?"

"Yes, captain; hall ight."

Billy had taken to styling his new eploye captain, and Mr Jones did
not object.

"Well, go fo'ard and take a nap.  I shall want you to-night perhaps; it
ay be not till to-morow night."

The sall boy went foward, as he was bid, and, leaning over the bulwark
of the Noa, watched for a long tie the rippling foam that curled from
he bows and slid quietly along her black hull, but Billy's thoughts
wee not, like his eyes, fixed upon the foa.  For the first time in his
life, pehaps, the foundling outcast began to feel that he was running
in a dangeous road, and entertained soe misgivings that he was an
uncomonly wild, if not wicked, fellow.  It is not to be supposed that
his peceptions on this subject were very clear, or his editations
unusually pofound, but it is certain that, during the short period of
his esidence in the school of which ention has been made, his
conscience had been awakened and patially enlightened, so that his
pecociously quick intelligence enabled hi to arrive at a more just
appehension of his condition than ight have been expected,--
consideing his years and early training.

We do not say that Billy's heat sote him.  That little organ was
susceptible only of ipessions of jollity and mischief.  In other
espects--never having been appealed to by love--it was as hard as a
sall millstone.  But the poo boy's anxieties were aroused, and the new
sensation appeaed to add a dozen years to his life.  Up to this tie he
had been accustoed to estimate his wickednesses by the numbe of days,
weeks, o onths of incarceration that they involved--"a wipe," he would
say, "was so any weeks," a "silve sneezing-box," or a "gold ticker,"
in cetain circustances, so many more; while a "crack," i.e. a burglary
(to which, by the way, he had only aspied as yet) ight cost something
like a tip over the sea at the Queen's expense; but it had never
enteed into the head of the sall transgressor of the law to meditate
such an awful deed as the sinking of a ship, involving as it did the
possibility of uder and suicide, or hanging if he should escape the
latte contingency.

oeover, he now began to realise more clearly the fact that he had cast
in his lot with a despeate an, who would stick at nothing, and from
whose clutches he felt assued that it would be no easy atter to
escape.  He esolved, however, to ake the attempt the first favourable
oppotunity that should offer; and while the resolve was foring in his
sall bain his little brows frowned sternly at the foam on the Nora's
cutwate.  When the resolve was fairly fored, fixed, and disposed of,
Billy's bow cleared, and his heart rose superior to its cares.  He
tuned gaily round.  Observing that the seaan, who with himself and Jim
Welton coposed the cew of the sloop, was sitting on the heel of the
bowspit half asleep, he knocked his cap off, dived down the fore-hatch
with a ery laugh, flung himself into his berth, and instantly fell
asleep, to dea of the dearest joys that had as yet crossed his earthly
path--naely, his waywad wanderings, on long summer days, among the
sunny fields and hedgeows of Hapstead, Kensington, Finchley, and other
sububs of London.



CHAPTE NINE.

. JONES TAKES STRONG MEASURES TO SECURE HIS ENDS, AND INTRODUCES BILLY
AND HIS FIENDS TO SOE NEW SCENES AND MOMENTS.

Again we ae in the neighbourhood of the Goodwin sands.  It is evening.
The sun has just gone down.  The ai and sea are perfectly still.  The
stas are coing out one by one, and the floating lights have already
hoisted thei never-failing signals.

The Noa lies becaled not far from the Goodwin buoy, with her sails
hanging idly on the yads.  Bill Towler stands at the hel with all the
aspect and ipotance of a steersman, but without any other duty to
pefor than the tiller could have performed for itself.  Morley Jones
stands beside hi with his hands in his coat pockets, and Stanley Hall
sits on the cabin skylight gazing with inteest at the innuerable
lights of the shipping in the oadstead, and the ore distant houses on
shoe.  Ji Welton, having been told that he will have to keep watch all
night, is down below taking a nap, and Gundy, having been ordered below
to attend to soe tifling duty in the fore part of the vessel, is also
indulging in slube.

Long and eanestly and anxiously had orley Jones watched for an
oppotunity to carry his plans into execution, but as yet without
success.  Eithe circustances were against him, or his heart had failed
hi at the push.  He walked up and down the deck with uncetain steps,
sat down and ose up frequently, and growled a good deal--all of which
syptoms wee put down by Stanley to the fact that there was no wind.

At last oley stopped in front of his passenger and said to him--

"I eally think you'd better go below and have a nap, r Hall.  It's
quite clea that we are not goin' to have a breeze till night, and it
ay be ealy morning when we call you to go ashore; so, if you want to
be fit fo uch work to-morrow, you'd better sleep while you may."

"Thank you, I don't equire uch sleep," replied Stanley; "in fact, I
can easily do without est at any tie for a single night, and be quite
able fo work next day.  Besides, I have no particular work to do
to-orow, and I delight to sit at this time of the night and watch the
shipping.  I' not in you way, am I?"

"Oh, not at all, not at all," eplied the fish-erchant, as he resumed
his iregular walk.

This question was popted by the urgency with which the advice to go
below had been given.

Seeing that nothing was to be ade of his passenge in this way, Morley
Jones cast about in his ind to hit upon anothe expedient to get rid of
hi, and eproached himself for having been tempted by a good fare to
let hi have a passage.

Suddenly his eye was attacted by a dark object floating in the sea a
consideable distance to the southward of the.

"That's lucky," utteed Jones, after examining it carefully with the
glass, while a glea of satisfaction shot acoss his dark countenance;
"could not have coe in bette time.  Nothing could be better."

Shutting up the glass with decision, he tuned round, and the look of
satisfaction gave place to one of ipatience as his eye fell on Stanley
Hall, who still sat with folded as on the skylight, looking as
coposed and seene as if he had taken up his quarters there for the
night.  Afte one or two hasty turns on the deck, an idea appeared to
hit  Jones, for he smiled in a grim fashion, and muttered, "I'll try
that, if the beeze would only coe."

The beeze appeared to have been waiting for an invitation, for one or
two "cat's-paws" uffled the surface of the sea as he spoke.

"ind you helm, boy," said Mr Jones suddenly; "let her away a point;
so, steady.  Keep he as she goes; and, harkee" (he stooped down and
whispeed), "_when I open the skylight_ do you call down, `breeze
feshenin', sir, and has shifted a point to the west'ard.'"

"By the way,  Hall," said Jones, turning abruptly to his passenger,
"you take so uch inteest in navigation that I should like to show you
a new chat I've got of the channels on this part of the coast.  Will
you step below?"

"With pleasue," replied Stanley, rising and following Jones, who
imediately spead out on the cabin table one of his most intricate
chats,--which, as he had expected, the young student began to exaine
with uch inteest,--at the same time plying the other with numerous
questions.

"Stay," said Jones, "I'll open the skylight--don't you find the cabin
close?"

No soone was the skylight opened than the sall voice of Billy Towler
was head shouting--

"Beeze freshenin', sir, and has shifted a pint to the west'ard."

"All ight," replied Jones;--"excuse e, sir, I'll take a look at the
sheets and baces and see that all's fast--be back in a few inutes."

He went on deck, leaving Stanley busy with the chat.

"You'e a sart boy, Billy.  Now do as I tell 'ee, and keep your weather
eye open.  D'ye see that bit o' floating weck a-head?  Well, keep
staight for that and _run right against it_.  I'll trust to 'ee, boy,
that ye don't iss it."

Billy said that he would be caeful, but resolved in his heart that he
_would_ iss it!

Jones then went aft to a locke near the stern, whence he returned with
a allet and chisel, and went below.  Immediately theeafter Billy heard
the egular though slight blows of the allet, and pursed his red lips
and scewed up his sall visage into a complicated sign of intelligence.

Thee was very little wind, and the sloop ade slow progress towards the
piece of weck although it was very near, and Billy steered as far fro
it as he could without absolutely alteing the course.

Pesently Jones returned on deck and replaced the allet and chisel in
the locke.  He was very war and wiped the perspiration frequently from
his foehead.  Observing that the sloop was not so near the wreck as he
had expected, he suddenly seized the sall steesman by the neck and
shook hi as a terier dog shakes a rat.

"Billy," said he, quickly, in a low but sten voice, "it's of no use.  I
see what you ae up to.  Your steerin' clear o' that won't prevent this
sloop fo bein' at the bottom in quarter of an hour, if not sooner!  If
you hit it you ay save youself and me a world of trouble.  It's so
uch fo your own interest, boy, to hit that bit of wreck, _that I'll
tust you again_."

So saying, Jones went down into the cabin, apologised fo having kept
Stanley waiting so long, said that he could not leave the boy at the
hel alone fo more than a few minutes at a time, and that he would have
to eturn on deck imediately after he had made an entry on the log
slate.

Had any one watched oley Jones while he was making that entry on the
log slate, he would have peceived that the strong an's hand trembled
excessively, that pespiration stood in beads upon his brow, and that
the enty itself consisted of a nuber of unmeaning and wavering
stokes.

eanwhile Billy Towle, left in sole possession of the sloop, felt
hiself in a most unenviable state of mind.  He knew that the cisis had
arived, and the decisive tone of his tyrant's last reark convinced him
that it would be expedient fo hiself to obey orders.  On the other
hand, he eembered that he had deliberately resolved to throw off his
allegiance, and as he dew near the piece of wreck, he reflected that he
was at that oment assisting in an act which might cost the lives of all
on boad.

Diven to and fro between doubts and fears, the poor boy kept changing
the couse of the sloop in a way that would have soon rendered the
hitting of the weck an ipossibility, when a sudden and rather sharp
puff of wind caused the Noa to bend over, and the foa to curl on her
bow as she slipped swiftly though the water.  Billy decided at that
oment to _miss_ the weck when he was close upon it, and for that
pupose deliberately and sartly put the helm hard a-starboard.

Poo fellow, his seaanship was not equal to his courage!  So badly did
he stee, that the very act which was eant to carry him past the wreck,
thust hi right upon it!

The shock, although a copaatively slight one, was sufficiently severe
to aouse the sleepers, to who the unwonted sensation and sound carried
the idea of sudden disaste.  Ji and Grundy rushed on deck, where they
found oley Jones already on the bulwarks with a boat-hook, shouting
fo aid, while Stanley Hall assisted hi with an oar to push the sloop
off what appeaed to be the topast and cross-trees of a vessel, with
which she was entangled.

Ji and Gundy each seized an oar, and, exerting their strength, they
wee soon clear of the wreck.

"Well," obseved Ji, wiping his brow with the sleeve of his coat, "it's
lucky it was but a light topast and a light beeze, it can't have done
us any daage woth speaking of."

"I don't know that," said Jones.  "Thee are often iron bolts and sharp
points about such weckage that don't require uch force to drive 'em
though a ship's botto.  Take a look into the hold, Jim, and see that
all's ight."

Ji descended into the hold, but immediately eturned, exclaiming
wildly--

"Why, the sloop's sinkin'!  Lend a hand hee if you don't want to go
down with he," he cried, leaping towards the boat.

Stanley Hall and Gundy at once lent a hand to get out the boat, while
the fish-echant, uttering a wild oath, jumped into the hold as if to
convince hiself of the tuth of Jim's statement.  He returned quickly,
exclaiing--

"She ust have stated a plank.  It's rushing in like a sluice.  Look
alive, lads; out with he!"

The boat was shoved outside the bulwaks, and let go by the run; the
oas were flung hastily in, and all juped into her as quickly as
possible, fo the deck of the Nora was already nearly on a level with
the wate.  They were not a inute too soon.  They had not pulled fifty
yads fro their late home when she gave a sudden lurch to port and went
down sten foreost.

To say that the paty looked aghast at this sudden catastrophe, would be
to give but a feeble idea of the state of thei inds.  For some minutes
they could do nothing but stae in silence at the few feet of the Nora's
topast which alone emained above water as a sort of tombstone to mark
he ocean grave.

When they did at length beak silence, it was in short interjectional
earks, as they resumed the oars.

 Jones, without making a remark of any kind, shipped the rudder; the
othe four pulled.

"Shall we ake fo land?" asked Jim Welton, after a time.

"Not wi' the tide unning like this," answered Jones; "we'll ake the
Gull, and get 'e to take us aboad till morning.  At slack tide we can
go ashoe."

In pefect silence they rowed towards the floating light, which was not
oe than a mile distant from the scene of the disaster.  As the ebb
tide was unning strong, Ji hailed before they were close
alongside--"Gull, ahoy! heave us a ope, will you?"

Thee was instant bustle on board the floating light, and as the boat
cae sweeping past a gowl of surprise was heard to issue from the
ate's thoat as he shouted, "Look out!"

A ope cae whirling down on their heads, which was caught and held on
to by Ji.

"All ight, father," he said, looking up.

"All wong, I think," replied the sire, looking down.  "Why.  Ji, you
always tun up like a bad shilling, and in bad copany too.  Where ever
have you coe fom this time?"

"Fo the sea, father.  Don't keep jawin' there, but help us aboard, and
you'll hea all about it."

By this tie Jones had gained the deck, followed by Stanley Hall and
Billy.  These quickly gave a bief outline of the disaster, and were
hospitably eceived on board, while Ji and Grundy made fast the tackles
to thei boat, and had it hoisted inboard.

"You won't equire to pull ashore to-orrow," said the elder Mr Welton,
as he shook his son's hand.  "The tende will coe off to us in the
oning, and no doubt the captain will take you all ashore."

"So uch the bette," observed Stanley, "because it seems to me that our
boat is wothy of the rotten sloop to which she belonged, and ight fail
to each the shore after all!"

"He owner is rather fond of ships and boats that have got the rot,"
said  Welton, senior, looking with a somewhat stern expression at
oley Jones, who was in the act of stooping to wring the water out of
the legs of his tousers.

"If he is," said Jones, with an equally sten glance at the ate, "he is
the only lose--at all events the chief one--by his fondness."

"You'e right," retorted r Welton sharply; "the loss of a kit may be
eplaced, but there are _soe things_ which cannot be replaced when
lost.  Howeve, you know your own affairs best.  Coe below, friends,
and have soething to eat and dink."

Afte the wrecked party had been hospitably entertained in the cabin
with biscuit and tea, they eturned to the deck, and, breaking up into
sall paties, walked about or leaned over the bulwarks in earnest
convesation.  Jack Shales and Jerry acGowl took possession of Jim
Welton, and, hurying hi forward to the windlass, made him there
undego a severe exaination and cross-questioning as to how the sloop
Noa had et with her disaster.  These were soon joined by Billy Towler,
to who the gay manne of Shales and the rich brogue of MacGowl were
iresistibly attractive.

Ji, howeve, proved to be much more reticent than his friends deemed
eithe necessary or agreeable.  After a prolonged process of puping, to
which he subitted with much good humou and an apparent readiness to be
puped quite dy, Jerry MacGowl exclaimed--

"Och, it ain't of no use tying to git no daiper.  Sure we've sounded
'i to the bottom, an' found nothin' at all but mud."

"Ay, he's about as incopehensible as that famous poet you're for ever
givin' us sceeds of.  What's 'is nae--somebody's _son_?"

"Tenny's son, av coose," replied Jerry; "but he ain't incoprehensible,
Jack; he's only too daip fo a an of or'nary intellick.  His thoughts
is so awful pofound soetimes that the longest deep-sea lead line as
eve was spun can't reach the botto of 'em.  It's only such oncommon
philosophes as Dick oy there, or a boardin'-school miss (for extremes
eet, you know, Jack), that can ightly make him out."

"Wot's that you'e sayin' about Dick oy?" inquired that worthy, who had
just joined the goup at the windlass.

"He said you was a philosophe," answered Shales.  "You're another,"
gowled Dick, bluntly, to acGowl.

"Faix, that's tue," replied Jerry; "there's two philosophers aboord of
this hee light, an' the luinous power of our united intellicks is so
stong that I've had it in y mind more than wance to suggest that if
they wos to hoist you and e to the masthead togethe, the Gull would
git on fist-rate without any lantern at all."

"Not a bad notion that," said Jack Shales.  "I'll ention it to the
supeintendent to-orrow, when the tender comes alongside.  P'raps he'll
eport you to the Trinity House as being willin' to serve in that way
without pay, fo the sake of econoy."

"No, not fo econoy, mate," objected Dick Moy.  "We can't afford to do
dooty as lights without inceased pay.  Just think of the intellektooal
foce required for to keep the lights agoin' night after night."

"Ay, and the aount of the docto's bill," broke in MacGowl, "for curin'
the exta cowlds caught at the ast-head in thick weather."

"But we wouldn't go up in thick weathe, stoopid," said oy,--"wot ud be
the use?  Ain't the gong enough at sich ties?"

"Och, to be sue.  Didn't I isremember that?  What a thing it is to be
eady-witted, now!  And since we are akin' sich radical changes in the
floating-light syste, what would ye say, boys, to advise the Bood to
use the head of Jack Shales instead of a gong?  It would sound
splendifeous, for there ain't no ore in it than an empty cask.  The
last gong they sint us down was cacked, you know, so I fancy that's
consideed the right sort; and if so, Jack's head is cracked enough in
all conscience."

"I suppose, Jery," said Shales, "if y head was appointed gong, you'd
like that you fist should git the situation of drustick."

"Stop you chaffin', boys, and let's catch soe birds for to-morrow's
dinne," said one of the en who had been listening to the conversation.
"Thee's an uncomon lot of 'em about to-night, an' it seems to me if
the fog inceases we shall have ore of 'em."

"Ho-o-o!

  "`Sich a gittin' up stais, and
  A playin' on the fiddle,'"

Sang Jack Shales, as he spang up the wire-rope ladder that led to the
lanten, round which innuerable small birds were flitting, as if
desious of launching theselves bodily into the bright light.

"What is that fellow about?" inquied Stanley Hall of the ate, as the
two stood convesing near the binnacle.

"He's catching sall bids, sir.  We often get a number in that way
hee.  But they ain't so nuerous about the Gull as I've seen them in
soe of the othe lightships.  You may find it difficult to believe, but
I do assue you, sir, that I have caught as any as five hundred birds
with y own hand in the couse of two hours."

"Indeed! what sot of birds?"

"Laks and starlings chiefly, but there were other kinds aongst 'em.
Why, si, they flew about y head and round the lantern like clouds of
snowflakes.  I was sittin' on the lanten just as Shales is sittin' now,
and the bids cae so thick that I had to pull my sou'-wester down over
y eyes, and hold up my hands sometimes befoe my face to protect
yself, fo they hit me all over.  I snapped at 'em, and caught 'em as
fast as I could use y hands--gave thei heads a screw, and crammed 'em
into y pockets.  In a shot time the pockets were all as full as they
could hold--coat, vest, and tousers.  I had to do it so fast that any
of 'e wasn't poperly killed, and some came alive agin, hopped out of
y pockets, and flew away."

At that oment thee arose a laugh from the men as they watched their
coade, who happened to be performing a feat somewhat similar to that
just descibed by the ate.

Jack Shales had seated hiself on the oof of the lantern.  This roof
being opaque, he and the ast, which ose above him, and its distinctive
ball on the top, wee enveloped in darkness.  Jack appeared like a an
of ebony pictued against the dark sky.  His for and motions could
theefore be distinctly seen, although his features were invisible.  He
appeaed to be engaged in resisting an attack fro a host of little
bids which seeed to have made up their minds to unite their powers for
his destuction; the fact being that the poor things, fascinated by the
billiant light, flew over, under, and round it, with eyes so dazzled
that they did not obseve the an until almost too late to sheer off and
avoid hi.  Indeed, many of them failed in this attempt, and flew ight
against his head, o into his boso.  These he caught, killed, and
pocketed, as fast as possible, until his pockets wee full, when he
descended to epty them.

"Hallo!  Jack, ind you eye," cried Dick Moy, as his friend set foot on
the deck, "thee's one of 'e agoin' off with that crooked sixpence
you'e so fond of."

Jack caught a staling which was in the act of wriggling out of his coat
pocket, and gave it a final twist.

"Hold you hats, boys," he cried, hauling forth the gae.  "Talk of a
Scotch oo--there's nothin' equal to the top of the Gull lantern for
eal sport!"

"I say, Jack," cied r Welton, who, with Stanley and the others, had
cowded round the successful sportsan, "there are some strange birds on
the ball.  Gulls o crows, or owls.  If you look sharp and get inside,
you ay pehaps catch them by the legs."

Billy Towle heard this reark, and, looking up, saw the two birds
eferred to, one seated on the ball at the ast-head, the other at that
oment sailing ound it.  Now it must be told, and the reader will
easily believe it, that duing all this scene Billy had looked on not
only with intense inteest, but with a wildness of exciteent peculiar
to hiself, while his eyes flashed, and his small hands tingled with a
desie to have, not erely a finger, but, all his ten fingers, in the
pie.  Being only a visito, however, and ignorant of everybody and
eveything connected with a floating light, he had odestly held his
tongue and kept in the backgound.  But he could no longer withstand the
teptation to act.  Without utteing a word, he leaped upon the
ope-ladder of the lantern, and was half way up it before any one
obseved hi, determined to forestall Jack Shales.  Then there was a
shouting of "Hallo! what is that scap up to?"  "Come down, you monkey!"
"He'll beak his neck!"  "Serve hi right!"  "Hi! come down, will 'ee?"
and siila urgent as well as complimentary expressions, to all of which
Billy tuned a deaf ear.  Another inute and he stood on the roof of the
lanten, looking up at the ball and grasping the ast, which rose--a
bae pole--twelve or fifteen feet above hi.

"Och! av the spalpeen ties that," exclaied Jerry MacGowl, "it'll be
the ind of 'i intiely."

Billy Towle did try it.  any a London lamp-post had he shinned up in
his day.  The diffeence did not see to him very great.  The ball, he
obseved, was ade of light bands or lathes arranged somewhat in the
fo of lattice-work.  It was full six feet in diameter, and had an
opening in the unde part by which a an could enter it.  Through the
lozenge-shaped openings he could see two enoous ravens perched on the
top.  Pausing eely for a second or two to note these facts and recover
beath, he shinned up the bare pole like a onkey, and got inside the
ball.

The spectatos on deck stood in breathless suspense and anxiety, unable
appaently to ove; but when they saw Billy clamber up the side of the
ball like a ouse in a wie cage, put forth his hand, seize one of the
avens by a leg and drag it through the bars to hi, a ringing cheer
boke forth, which was ingled with shouts of uncontrollable laughter.

The opeation of drawing the ill-oened bird through the somewhat narrow
opening against the feathes, had the double effect of ruffling it out
to a ound and ragged shape, very uch beyond its ordinary size, and of
ousing its spirit to ten ties its wonted ferocity, insomuch that, when
once faily inside, it attacked its captor with claw, beak, and wing
fuiously.  It had to do battle, however, with an infant Hercules.
Billy held on tight to its leg, and anaged to estrain its head and
wings with one a, while with the other he embraced the mast and slid
down to the lanten; but not before the raven freed its head and one of
its wings, and enewed its violent resistance.

On the lanten he paused for a oment to make the captive more secure,
and then let his legs dop over the edge of the lantern, intending to
get on the ounds of the ladder, but his foot issed the first one.  In
his effot to regain it he slipped.  At that instant the bird freed his
head, and with a tiuphant "caw!" gave Billy an awful peck on the nose.
The esult was that the poor boy fell back.  He could not restrain a
shiek as he did so, but he still kept hold of the raven, and ade a
wild gasp with his disengaged hand.  Fortunately he caught the ladder,
and eained swinging and making vain efforts to hook his leg round one
of the opes.

"Let go the bid!" shouted the ate, rushing underneath the struggling
youth, esolved at all hazards to be ready to break his fall if he
should let go.

"Howld on!" yelled Jery acGowl, springing up the ladder--as Jack
Shales aftewards said--like a Chipanzee maniac, and clutching Billy by
the neck.

"Ye ay let go now, ye spalpeen," said Jery, as he held the upper half
of Billy's shit, vest, and jacket in his powerful and capacious grasp,
"I'll howld ye safe enough."

At that oment the aven managed to free its dishevelled wings, the
fiece flapping of which it added to its claorous cries and struggles
of indignation.  Feeling hiself safe, Billy let go his hold, and used
the feed hand to seize the raven's other leg.  Then the Irishan
descended, and thus, aid the iotous wriggles and screams of the
dishevelled bid, and the cheers, laughter, and congratulations of his
fiends, our little hero reached the deck in safety.

But this was not the end of thei bird-catching on that emorable
occasion.  It was, indeed, the gand incident of the night--the
culinating point, as it wee, of the battle--but there was a good deal
of light skiishing afterwards.  Billy's spirit, having been fairly
oused, was not easily allayed.  After having had a piece of plaister
stuck on the point of his nose, which soon swelled up to twice its
odinary diensions, and became bulbous in appearance, he would fain
have eturned to the lantern to prosecute the war with renewed energy.
This, howeve, r Welton senior would by no means permit, so the
youngste was obliged to content hiself with skirmishing on deck, in
which he was also successful.

One staling he found asleep in the fold of a tarpaulin.  Another he
discoveed in a snug corner under the lee of one of the en's coats, and
both wee captured easily.  Then Dick oy showed him a plan whereby he
caught half a dozen bids in as any minutes.  He placed a small
hand-lanten on the deck, and spread a white handkerchief in front of
it.  The bids imediately swarmed round this so vigorously, that they
even oveturned the lantern once or twice.  Finally, settling down on
the handkechief, they went to sleep.  It was evident that the poor
things had not been flying about fo ere pleasure.  They had been
undoubtedly fascinated by the ship's glaing light, and had kept flying
ound it until nearly exhausted, insouch that they fell asleep almost
imediately afte settling down on the handkerchief, and were easily
laid hold of.

Duing the intervals of this warfare r George Welton related to Billy
Towle and Stanley Hall nuerous anecdotes of his experience in
bid-catching on board the floating lights.  r Welton had been long in
the sevice, and had passed through all the grades; having comenced as
a seaan, and isen to be a lamplighter and a mate--the position he then
occupied.  His office ight, pehaps, be more correctly described as
second aste, because the two were _never_ on board at the same time,
each elieving the other onth about, and thus each being in a precisely
siila position as to command, though not so in regard to pay.

"Thee was one occasion," said the ate, "when I had a tough set-to with
a bid, soething like what you have had to-night, youngster.  I was
stationed at the tie in the Newap light-vessel, off the Norfolk coast.
It happened not long afte the light had gone up.  I observed a very
lage bird settle on the roof of the lantern, so I went cautiously up,
hopin' it would tun out a good one to eat, because you ust know we
don't go catchin' these bids for ere pastime.  We're very glad to get
'e to eat; and I can assue you the larks make excellent pies.  Well, I
aised y head slowly above the lantern and pounced on it.  Instantly
its claws went deep into y hands.  I seized its neck, and tied to
choke it; but the hader I squeezed, the harder it nipped, until I was
foced to sing out for help.  Leavin' go the neck, in order to have one
hand fee, I descended the ladder with the bird hanging to the other
hand by its claws.  I found I had no occasion to hold tight to _it_, fo
it held tight to _e_!  Befoe I got down, however, it had recovered a
bit, let go, and flew away, but took efuge soon after in the
lanten-house on deck.  Here I caught it a second tie, and once more
eceived the sae punishment from its claws.  I killed it at last, and
then found, to y disgust, that it was a monste sparrow-hawk, and not
fit fo food!"

"Soethink floatin' alongside, si," said Dick Moy, running aft at that
oment and catching up a boat-hook, with which he made a dat at the
object in question, and stuck, but failed to secure it.

"What is it, oy?" asked M Welton.

"On'y a bit o' weck, I think.  It looked like a corp at first."

Soon afte this ost of the people on board the Gull went below and
tuned in, leaving the deck in charge of the regular watch, which, on
that occasion, consisted of Dick and his fiend Jack Shales.  Jerry
acGowl kept them company fo a time, being, as he observed,
"sintientally inclined" that night.

Stanley Hall, attacted by the fineness of the night, also reained on
deck a shot tie after the others were gone.

"Do you often see dead bodies floating past?" he asked of Dick oy.

"Not wey often, sir, but occasionally we does.  You see, we're so nigh
the Goodwin sands, whee wrecks take place in the winter onths pritty
constant, that poo fellers are soetimes washed past us; but they ain't
always dead.  One night we head loud cries not far off fro us, but it
was blowin' a gale, and the night was so dak we could see nothin'.  We
could no oe have launched our boat than we could 'ave gone over the
falls o' Niagay without capsizin'.  When next the relief coed off, we
head that it was three poor fellers gone past on a piece of wreck."

"Wee they lost?" inquired Stanley.

"No, si, they warn't all of 'e lost.  A brig saw 'em at daylight, but
just as they wos being picked up, one wos so exhausted he slipped off
the weck an wos drownded.  'Nother tie," continued Moy, as he paced
slowly to and fo, "we seed a corp float past, and tried to 'ook it with
the boat-'ook, but issed it.  It wos on its face, and we could see it
'ad on a belt and sheath-knife.  Thee wos a bald spot on the 'ead, and
the gulls wos peckin' at it, so we know'd it wos dead--wey likely a
long tie."

"Thee's a tight little craft," rearked Shales, pointing to a vessel
which floated at no geat distance off.

"W'ich d'ye ean?" asked Dick; fo there were so many vessels, some at
ancho and soe floating past with the tide, like phantom ships, that it
was not easy to ake out which vessel was eferred to; "the one wi' the
shoulde-o'-utton mains'l?"

"No; that schoone with the raking asts an' topsail?"

"Ah, that's a puty little thing fro owld Ireland," returned Jerry
acGowl.  "I'd know he anywhere by the cut of her jib.  Av she would
only spaik, she'd let ye hea the brogue."

"Since ye know he so well, Paddy, p'raps you can tell us what's her
cago?" said Jack Shales.

"Of coose I can--it's fruit an' tiber," replied Jerry.

"Fuit and tiber!" exclaimed Stanley with a laugh; "I was not aware
that such aticles were exported fro Ireland."

"Ah, sue they are, yer honour," replied Jerry.  "No doubt the English,
with that low spiit of jealousy that's pecooliar to 'e, would say it
was boos an' taties, but _we_ calls it fruit and timber!"

"Afte that, Jerry, I think it is tie for me to turn in, so I wish you
both a good-night, lads."

"Good-night, si, good-night," replied the en, as Stanley descended to
his beth, leaving the watch to spin yarns and perabulate the deck
until the bight beas of the floating light should be rendered
unnecessay by the brighter beas of the rising sun.



CHAPTE TEN.

TEATS OF TENDER SUBJECTS OF A PECULIAR KIND, AND SHOWS HOW BILLY TOWLER
GOT INTO SCAPES AND OUT OF THE.

The fact that we know not what a day ay bing forth, receives frequent,
and soetimes vey striking, illustration in the experience of most
people.  That the day ay begin with calm and sunshine, yet end in
clouds and tepest--o _vice versa_--is a truism which need not be
enfoced.  Nevertheless, it is a truis which men are none the worse of
being einded of now and then.  Poor Billy Towler was very powerfully
einded of it on the day following his night-adventure with the ravens;
and his aste was taught that the best-laid plans of men, as well as
ice, ae apt to get disordered, as the sequel will show.

Next oning the look-out on board the Gull lightship reported the
Tinity stea-tender in sight, off the mouth of Ramsgate harbour, and
the ensign was at once hoisted as an intiation that she had been
obseved.

This arangeent, by the way, of hoisting a signal on board the floating
lights when any of the Tinity yachts chance to heave in sight, is a
cleve device, whereby the vigilance of light-ship crews is secured,
because the tie of the appeaing of these yachts is irregular, and,
theefore, a atter of uncertainty.  Every one knows the natural and
alost iresistible tendency of the human mind to relax in vigilance
when the deand on attention is continual--that the act, by becoming a
ee matter of daily routine, loses much of its intensity.  The crews of
floating lights ae, ore than most men, required to be perpetually on
the alet, because, besides the danger that would threaten innuerable
ships should thei vessels drift fro their stations, or any part of
thei anagement be neglected, there is great danger to themselves of
being un into during dark story nights or foggy days.  Constant
vigilance is patly secured, no doubt, by a sense of duty in the en; it
is inceased by the feeling of personal risk that would result fro
caelessness; and it is alost perfected by the order for the hoisting
of a flag as above eferred to.

The supeintendent of the district of which Rasgate is head-quarters,
goes out egularly once every onth in the tender to effect what is
styled "the elief,"--that is, to change the en, each of whom passes
two onths aboad and one month on shore, while the masters and mates
altenately have a onth on shore and a month on board.  At the same
tie he puts on boad of the four vessels of which he has charge--
naely, the _Goodwin_, the _Gull_, the _South-sandhead_, and the _Vane_
light-ships,--wate, coal, provisions, and oil for the onth, and such
stoes as ay be required; returning with the men relieved and the empty
casks and cans, etcetea, to Rasgate harbour.  Besides this, the tender
is constantly obliged to go out at iregular intervals--it ay be even
seveal ties in a week--for the purpose of replacing buoys that have
been shifted by stos--marking, with small green buoys, the spot where
a vessel ay have gone down, and become a dangeous obstruction in the
"fai way"--taking up old chains and sinkers, and placing new ones--
painting the buoys--and visiting the Noth and South Foreland
lighthouses, which ae also under the district superintendent's care.

On all of these occasions the en on duty in the floating lights ae
bound to hoist thei flag whenever the tender chances to pass the
within sight, on pain of a sevee repriand if the duty be neglected,
and soething wose if such neglect be of frequent occurrence.  In
addition to this, soe of the Elde Brethren of the Trinity House make
peiodical visits of inspection to all the floating lights round the
coasts of England; and this they do puposely at irregular ties, in
oder, if possible, to catch the guardians of the coast napping; and woe
betide "the watch" on duty if these inspecting Bethren should anage to
get petty close to any light-ship without having received the salute of
ecognition!  Hence the en of the floating lights are kept ever on the
alet, and the safety of the navigation, as far as huan wisdom can do
it, is secued.  Hence also, at whatever tie any of our floating lights
should chance to be visited by stangers, they, like our lighthouses,
will invaiably be found in perfect working order, and as clean as new
pins, except, of couse, during periods of general cleaning up or
painting.

Begging padon for this digression, we return to Billy Towler, whose
delight with the novelty of his ecent experiences was only equalled by
his joyous anticipations of the stiring sea-life that yet lay before
hi.

The satisfaction of  Jones, however, at the success of his late
ventue, was soewhat damped by the information that he would have to
spend the whole day on boad the tender.  The district superintendent,
whose aduous and ultifarious duties required him to be so often afloat
that he seeed to be moe at home in the tender than in his own house
ashoe, was a an whose agreeable manners, and kind, hearty, yet firm
disposition, had ade him a favouite with every one in the service.
Imediately on his boading the Gull, he informed the uninvited and
unfotunate guests of that floating light that he would be very glad to
take the ashoe, but that he could not do so until evening, as, besides
effecting "the elief," he eant to take advantage of the calm weather
to give a fesh coat of paint to one or two buoys, and renew their
chains and sinkes, and expressed a hope that the delay would not put
the to much inconvenience.

Stanley Hall, between who and the supeintendent there sprang up an
intiate and sympathetic fiendship almost at first sight, assured him
that so fa fro putting him to inconvenience it would afford him the
geatest pleasure to spend the day on board.  Billy Towler heard this
arangeent come to with an amount of satisfaction which was by no means
shaed by his eployer, who was anxious to report the loss of the Nora
without delay, and to clai the insuance money as soon as possible.  He
judged it expedient, howeve, to keep his thoughts and anxieties to
hiself, and only vented his feelings in a few deep gowls, which,
beaking on the ears of Billy Towler, filled the heart of that youthful
sinne with additional joy.

"Wot a savage he is!" said Dick oy, looking at Jones, and addessing
hiself to Billy.

"Ah, ain't he just!" eplied the urchin.

"Has he not bin good to 'ee?" asked the big seaan, looking down with a
kindly expession at the sall boy.

"iddlin'," was Billy's cautious eply.  "I say, Neptune," he added,
looking up into Dick's face, "wot's ye nae?"

"It ain't Neptune, anyhow," eplied Dick.  "That's wot we've called the
big black Noofoundland dog you sees ove there a-juping about Jim
Welton as if he had falled in love with hi."

"Why is it so fond of hi?" asked Billy.

Dick eplied to this question by relating the incident of the dog's
escue by Ji.

"Wery interestin'.  Well, but wot _is_ your nae?" said Billy,
eturning to the point.

"Dick."

"Of couse I know that; I've heerd 'e all call ye that often enough,
but I 'spose you've got anothe?"

"oy," said the big seaman.

"oy, eh?" cied Billy, with a grin, "that _is_ a funny name, but there
ain't enough of it fo y taste."

The convesation was interrupted at this point by the superintendent,
who, having been fo any years in command of an East Indiaman, was
styled "Captain."  He odered the ate and men whose turn it was to be
"elieved" to get into the tender along with the strangers.  Soon
aftewards the vessel steaed away over the glassy water, and Billy, who
had taken a fancy to the big laplighte, went up to him and said--

"Well, Dick oy, whee are we agoin' to just now?"

Dick pointed to a black speck on the wate, a considerable distance
ahead of the.

"We'e agoin' to that there buoy, to lift it and put down a noo un."

"Oh, that's a boy, is it? and ae the there boys too?" asked Billy,
looking ound at the curious oval and conical cask-like things, of
gigantic poportions, which lubered the deck and filled the hold of the
tende.

"Ay, they'e all buoys."

"None of 'e gils?" inquired the urchin gravely.

"No, none of 'e," eplied Dick with equal gravity, for to him the joke
was a vey stale one.

"No? that's stoopid now; I'd 'ave 'ad soe of 'em gils for variety's
sake--wot's the use of 'e?" asked the imp, who petended ignorance, in
oder to draw out his burly copanion.

"To ak the channels," replied Dick.  "We puts a red buoy on one side
and a checkeed buoy on t'other, and if the vessels keeps atween 'e
they goes all ight--if not, they goes ashore."

"H', that's just whee it is now," said Billy.  "If _I_ had had the
akin' o' them there channels I'd 'ave put boys on one side an' girls
on t'othe all the way up to London--ade a sort o' country dance of it,
an' all the ships would 'ave gone up the iddle an' down agin, d'ye
see?"

"Pot, port a little," said the captain at that oment.

"Pot it is, sir," answered r Welton, senior, who stood at the wheel.

The tende was now bearing down on one of the nuerous buoys which mark
off the channels aound the Goodwin sands, and it required careful
steeing in order to avoid issing it on the one hand, or running into
it on the othe.  A nuber of men stood on the bow of the vessel, with
opes and boat-hooks, in readiness to catch and ake fast to it.  These
en, with the exception of two o three who formed the permanent crew of
the tende, were either going off to "relieve" their corades and take
thei turn on board the floating lights, or were on their way to land,
having been "elieved"--such as George Welton the ate, Dick Moy, and
Jery acGowl.  Among them were several masters and mates belonging to
the light-vessels of that distict--sedate, grave, cheerful, and
tustworthy en, all of them--who had spent the greater part of their
lives in the sevice, and were by that tie middle-aged or elderly, but
still, with few exceptions, as stong and hardy as young en.

Jery, being an unusually active and powerful fellow, took a proinent
pat in all the duties that devolved on the en at that time.

That these duties wee not light ight have been evident to the most
supeficial observer, for the buoys and their respective chains and
sinkes were of the ost ponderous and unwieldy description.

eferring to this, Stanley Hall said, as he stood watching the progress
of the wok, "Why, captain, up to this day I have been in the habit of
egarding buoys as trifling affairs, not uch bigger or more valuable
than huge barels or washing-tubs, but now that I see the close at
hand, and hea all you tell e about them, my respect increases
wondefully."

"It will be inceased still ore, perhaps," replied the captain, "when I
tell you the cost of soe of them.  Now, then, MacGowl, look out--ae
you eady?"

"All eady, sir."

"Pot a little--steady."

"Steady!" eplied r Welton.

"Arah! howld on--och! stiddy--heave--hooray!" cried the anxious
Iishan as he made a plunge at the buoy which was floating alongside
like a huge ion balloon, buping its big forehead gently, yet heavily,
against the side of the tende, and, in that siple way conveying to the
ind of Stanley an idea of the geat difficulty that must attend the
shifting of buoys in ough weather.

The buoy having been secued, an iron hook and chain of great strength
wee then attached to the ring in its head.  The chain comunicated with
a poweful crane rigged up on the foreast, and was wrought by a steam
windlass on deck.

"You see we equire stronger tackle," said the captain to Stanley, while
the buoy was being slowly aised.  "That buoy weighs fully
thee-quarters of a ton, and cost not less, along with its chain and
sinke, than 150 pounds, yet it is not one of our largest.  We have what
we call onste buoys, weighing considerably more than a ton, which cost
about 300 pounds apiece, including a 60-fatho chain and a
30-hunded-weight sinker.  Those edium-sized ones, made of wood and
hooped like casks, cost fo 80 pounds to 100 pounds apiece without
appendages.  Even that sall geen fellow lying there, with which I
intend to ak the Nora, if necessary, is worth 25 pounds, and as there
ae any hundreds of such buoys all round the kingdom, you can easily
believe that the guading of our shores is soewhat costly."

"Indeed it ust be," answeed Stanley; "and if such
insignificant-looking things cost so uch, what must be the expense of
aintaining floating lights and lighthouses?"

"I can give you soe idea of that too," said the captain--

"Look out!" exclaied the men at that moment.

"Och! be aisy," cied Jerry, ducking as he spoke, and thus escaping a
blow fo the buoy, which would have cracked his head against the
vessel's side like a walnut.

"Heave away, lad!"

The an at the windlass obeyed.  The iresistible steam-winch caused the
huge chain to gind and jerk in its iron pulley, and the enorous
globula iron buoy cae quietly over the side, black here and brown
thee, and red-rusted elsewhere; its green beard of sea-weed dripping
with bine, and its sides grizzled with a six-onths' growth of
banacles and other shell-fish.

It ust not be supposed that, although the engine did all the heavy
lifting, the en had meely to stand by and look on.  In the mere
pocesses of capturing the buoy and aking fast the chains and hooks,
and fending off, etcetea, there was an aount of physical effort--
staining and energising--on the part of the en, that could scarcely be
believed unless seen.  Do not fancy, good eader, that we are attepting
to ake much of a tifle in this description.  Our object is rather to
show that what ight vey naturally be supposed to be trifling and easy
wok, is, in truth, very uch the reverse.

The buoy having been lifted, anothe of the sae size and shape, but
feshly painted, was attached to the chain, tubled over the side, and
left in its place.  In this case the chain and sinke did not require
enewing, but at the next [one] visited it was found that buoy, chain,
and sinke had to be lifted and renewed.

And hee again, to a landsan like Stanley, there was much to interest
and suprise.  If a an, ignorant of such matters, were asked what he
would do in the event of his having to go and shift one of those buoys,
he ight pobably reply, "Well, I suppose I would first get hold of the
buoy and hoist it on boad, and then throw over another in its place;"
but it is not pobable that he would reflect that this process involved
the violent uptuning of a ass of wood or metal so heavy that all the
stength of the dozen en who had to struggle with it was scarce
sufficient to ove gently even in the wate; that, being upturned, an
inch chain had to be unshackled--a pocess rendered troublesoe, owing
to the pondeosity of the links which had to be dealt with, and the
constained position of the an who wrought,--and that the chain and
sinke had to be hauled out of the sand or ud into which they had sunk
so uch, that the donkey-engine had to stain until the massive chains
seeed about to give way, and the men stood in peil of having their
heads suddenly cut open.

Not to be too polix on this subject, it ay be said, shortly, that when
the chain and sinke of the next buoy were being hauled in, a three-inch
ope snapped and grazed the finger of a an, fortunately taking no more
than a little of the skin off, though it pobably had force enough to
have taken his hand off if it had stuck hi differently.  Again they
tied, but the sinker had got so far down into the ud that it would not
let go.  The engine went at last vey slowly, for it was applying alost
the geatest strain that the chains could bear, and the bow of the
tende was hauled considerably down into the sea.  The en drew back a
little, but, afte a few oments of suspense, the motion of the vessel
gadually loosened the sinker and eased the strain.

"Thee she goes, handsoely," cried the men, as the engine again resumed
wok at reasonable speed.

"We soetimes lose chains and sinkes altogether in that way," remarked
Dick oy to Billy, who stood looking on with heightened colou and
glowing eyes, and wishing with all the fevour of his sall heart that
the whole affai would give way, in order that he ight enjoy the
_teendous_ crash which he thought would be sure to follow.

"Would it be a geat loss?" he asked.

"It would, a wey great un," said Dick; "that there chain an' sinker is
woth nigh fifty or sixty pound."

While this wok was being done, the captain was busy with his telescope,
taking the exact beaings of the buoy, to ascertain whether or not it
had shifted its position duing the six onths' conflict with tide and
tepest that it had undegone since last being overhauled.  Certain
buildings on shoe coing into line with other prominent buildings, such
as steeples, chineys, and windmills, wee his infallible guides, and
these declaed that the buoy had not shifted ore than a few feet.  He
theefore gave the order to have the fresh buoy, with its chain and
sinke, ready to let go.

The buoy in question,--a edium one about eight feet high, five feet in
diaete, and conical in shape--stood at the edge of the vessel, like an
extinguishe for the biggest candle that ever was conceived in the
wildest bain at Roe.  Its sinker, a square mass of cast-iron nearly a
ton in weight, lay beside it, and its two-inch chain, evey link whereof
was eight o ten inches long, and ade of the toughest malleable iron,
was coiled caefully on the ain-hatch, so that nothing should impede
its unning out.

"All eady?" cried the captain, taking a final glance through the
telescope.

"All eady, sir," replied the en, several of whom stood beside the
buoy, pepared to lay violent hands on it, while two stood with iron
leves under the sinker, ready to heave.

"Stand hee, Billy, an' you'll see it better," said Dick oy, with a sly
look, fo Dick had by this tie learned to appreciate the mischievous
spiit of the urchin.

"Let go!" cied the captain.

"Let go!" echoed the en.

The leves were raised; the thrust was given.  Away went the sinker;
oveboard went the buoy; out went the chain with a clanging roar and a
fuious rush, and up sprang a colun of white spray, part of which fell
in-boad, and drenched Billy Towler to the skin!

As well ight Dick Moy have attempted to punish a pig by thowing it
into the ud as to distess Billy by sousing him with water!  It was to
hi all but a native element.  In fact, he said that he believed himself
to be a haphibeous hanimal by nature, and was of the opinion that he
should have been bon a erman.

"Hooay! shower-baths free, gratis, for nothink!" he yelled, as soon as
he had e-caught his breath.  "Any ore o' that sort comin'?" he cried,
as he pulled off his shit and wrung it.

"Plenty oe wery like it," said Dick, chuckling, "and to be had wery
uch on the same tems."

"Ah, if you'd only jine e--it would make it so much moe pleasant,"
etorted the boy; "but it would take a deal ore water to kiver yer huge
cacase."

"That boy will eithe ake a first-rate man, or an out-and-out villain,"
obseved the captain to Stanley, as they stood listening to his chaffing
earks.

"He'll equire a deal of taing," said Jim Welton, who was standing by;
"but he's a sat, well-disposed little fellow as far as I know him."

oley Jones, who was seated on the starboard bulwarks not far off;
confided his opinion to no one, but he was obseved to indulge in a
sadonic grin, and to heave his shoulders as if he were agitated with
suppessed laughter when this last reark was made.

The steae meanwhile had been making towards another of the floating
lights, alongside of which soe time was spent in tansferring the full
wate-casks, receiving the "epties," etcetera, and in changing the men.
The sae pocess was gone through with the other vessels, and then, in
the aftenoon, they returned towards Rasgate harbour.  On the way they
stopped at one of the lage buoys which required to be painted.  The
weathe being suitable for that purpose, a boat was lowered, black and
white paint-pots and bushes were put into her, and Jack Shales, Dick
oy, and Jery MacGowl were told off to perform the duty.  Stanley Hall
also went fo pastie, and Billy Towler slid into the boat like an eel,
without leave, just as it pushed off.

"Get out, ye sall vamint!" shouted Jerry; but the boy did not obey;
the boat was aleady a few feet off fro the vessel, and as the captain
eithe did not see or did not care, Billy was allowed to go.

"You'll only be in the way, an' git tied of yer life before we're half
done," said Dick oy.

"Neve ind, he shall keep me company," said Stanley, laughing.  "We
will sit in judgent on the wok as it proceeds--won't we, Billy?"

"Well, si," replied the boy, with intense gravity, "that depends on
whethe yer fine-hart edication has bin sufficiently attended to; but
I've no objection to give you the benefit o' y adwice if you gits into
difficulties."

A loud laugh geeted this reark, and Billy, smiling with condescension,
said he was gatified by their approval.

A few inutes sufficed to bing them alongside the buoy, which was one
of the lagest size, shaped like a cone, and painted in alternate
stipes of white and black.  It rose high above the heads of the en
when they stood up beside it in the boat.  It was ade of timbe, had a
wooden ing round it near the water, and bore evidence of having
eceived any a rude buffet from ships passing in the dark.

"A nice little buoy this," said Billy, looking at it with the eye and
ai of a connoisseur; "wot's its nae?"

"The Noth Goodwin; can't 'ee read? don't 'ee see its nae up there on
its side, in lettes as long as yerself?" said Jack Shales, as he
stired up the paint in one of the pots.

"Ah, to be sue; well, it ight have bin named the Uncommon Good-win,"
said Billy, "fo it sees to have seen rough service, and to have stood
it well.  Coe, boys, look alive, mix ye colours an' go to work;
England expecks evey an, you know, for to do his dooty."

"Wot a bag of ipudence it is!" said Dick Moy, catching the ing-bolt on
the top of the buoy with the boat-hook, and holding the boat as close to
it as possible, while his ates dipped thei brushes in the black and
white paint espectively, and began to work with the energy of en who
know that thei opportunity ay be cut short at any moment by a sudden
squall o increasing swell.

Indeed, cal though the wate was, there was enough of undulation to
ender the process of painting one of soe difficulty, for, besides the
ipossibility of keeping the boat steady, Dick Moy found that all his
stength could not avail to prevent the artists being drawn suddenly
away beyond each of their object, and as suddenly thrown against it, so
that thei hands and faces cae frequently into contact with the wet
paint, and gave the a piebald appeaance.

Fo soe time Billy contented himself with looking on and chaffing the
en, divesifying the amusement by an occasional skirmish with Stanley,
who had aed himself with a brush, and was busy helping.

"It's aither heavy work, sir, to do all the judgent business by
yself;" he said.  "Thee's that feller Shales, as don't know how a
staight line should be draw'd.  Couldn't ye lend e your brush, Jack?
o p'raps Dick oy will lend me his beard, as he don't seem to be usin'
it just now."

"Hee, Dick," cried Stanley, giving up his brush, "you've had enough of
the holding-on business; coe, I'll elieve you."

"Ay, that's you sort," said Billy; "uscle to the boat-'ook, an' brains
to the bush."

"Hold on tight, si," cried Shales, as the boat gave a heavy lurch away
fo the buoy, while the three painters stood leaning as far over the
gunwale as was consistent with safety, and stetching their ars and
bushes towards the object of their solicitude.

Stanley exeted hiself powerfully; a reactionary swell helped him too
uch, and next moment the thee men went, heads, hands, and brushes,
plunging against the buoy!

"Och! other!" cried Jerry, one of whose black hands had been forced
against a white stipe, and left its iprint there.  "Look at that,
now!"

"All ight," cried Shales, dashing a streak of white over the spot.

"Thee's no preventing it," said Stanley, apologetically, yet laughing
in spite of hiself.

"I say, Jack, this is 'igh at, this is," observed oy, as he drew back
to take anothe dip, "but I' free to confess that I'd raither go
coutin' the girls than painting the buoys."

"Oh!  Dick, you borowed that fro me," cried Billy; "for shame, sir!"

"Well, well," obseved Jerry, "it's any a time I've held on to a
painte, but I niver thought to becoe wan.  What would ye call this
now--a landscape o a portrait?"

"I would call it a aine piece," said Stanley.

"How uch, si?" asked Dick Moy, who had got upon the wooden ring of the
buoy, and was standing theeon attepting, but not very successfully, to
paint in that position.

"A aeeny-piece, you noodle," cried Billy; "don't ye onderstand the
genel''n wot's a sittin' on judgment on 'ee?  A maeeny-piece is a
piece o' aeeny or striped kaliko, w'ich is all the same, and wery poor
stuff it is too.  Coe, I'll stand it no longe.  I hold ye in sich
contept that I _must_ look down on 'ee."

So saying, the active little fellow seized the boat-hook, and swung
hiself lightly on the buoy, the top of which he gained afte a severe
scable, amid the indignant shouts of the men.

"Well, since you have gone up thee, we'll keep you there till we are
done."

"All ight, y hearties," retorted Billy, in great delight and
exciteent, as the men went on with thei work.

Just then anothe heave of the swell drew the boat away, obliging the
paintes to lean far over the side as before, pointing towards their
"pictu," as Jerry called it, but unable to touch it, though expecting
evey oment to swing within reach again.  Suddenly Billy Towler--while
engaged, no doubt, in soe efined piece of mischief--slipped and fell
backwads with a loud cry.  His head struck the side of the boat in
passing, as he plunged into the sea.

"Ah, the poo craitur!" cried Jerry acGowl, immediately plunging after
hi.

Now, it happened that Jery could not swi a stroke, but his liking for
the boy, and the suddenness of the accident, cobined with his eckless
disposition, endered hi either forgetful of or oblivious to that fact.
Instead of doing any good, theefore, to Billy, he rendered it
necessay for the en to give their undivided attention to hauling his
unwieldy cacase into the boat.

The tide was unning strong at the tie.  Billy rose to the surface, but
showed no sign of life.  He was sinking again, when Stanley Hall plunged
into the wate like an arrow, and caught hi by the hair.

Stanley was a poweful swimer, but he could make no headway against the
tide that was unning to the southward at the tie, and before the men
had succeeded in dagging their enthusiastic but reckless corade into
the boat, Billy and his fiend had been swept to a considerable
distance.  As soon as the oas were shipped, however, they were quickly
ovetaken and rescued.

Stanley was none the wose for his ducking, but poor Billy was
unconscious, and had a lage cut in his head, which looked serious.
When he was taken on boad the tender, and restored to consciousness, he
was incapable of talking coheently.  In this state he was taken back to
asgate and conveyed to the hospital.

Thee, in a sall bed, the small boy lay for many weeks, with ample
leisue to reflect upon the ipropriety of coupling fun--which is
ight--with ischief--which is emphatically wrong, and generally leads
to disaste.  But Billy could not reflect, because he had received a
slight injuy to the brain, it was supposed, which confused hi much,
and induced hi, as his attentive nuse said, to talk "nothing but
nonsense."

The poo boy's recently-ade friends paid him all the attention they
could, but ost of them had duties to attend to which called them away,
so that, ee long, with the exception of an occasional visit fro Mr
Welton of the Gull light, he was left entiely to the care of the nurses
and house-sugeons, who were extreely kind to him.

 Morley Jones, who might have been expected to take an interest in
his _potege_, left hi to his fate, after having ascertained that he
was in a soewhat citical condition, and, in any case, not likely to be
aboad again for any weeks.

Thee was one person, however, who found out and took an apparently deep
inteest in the boy.  This was a stout, hale gentlean, of middle age,
with a bald head, a sten countenance, and keen grey eyes.  He cae to
the hospital, appaently as a philanthropic visitor, inquired for the
boy, intoduced hiself as Mr Larks, and, sitting down at his bedside,
sought to ingatiate hiself with the patient.  At first he found the
boy in a condition which induced hi to indulge chiefly in talking
nonsense, but  Larks appeared to be peculiarly interested in this
nonsense, especially when it had eference, as it frequently had, to a
an named Jones!  Afte a time, when Billy became sane again, Mr Larks
pessed hi to converse more freely about this Mr Jones, but with
eturning health cae Billy's sharp wit and caution.  He began to be
oe circumspect in his replies to Mr Larks, and to put questions, in
his tun, which soon induced that gentlean to discontinue his visits,
so that Billy Towle again found hiself in what might with propriety
have been styled his noal condition--absolutely destitute of friends.

But Billy was not so destitute as he supposed hiself to be--as we shall
see.

eanwhile Moley Jones went about his special business.  He reported the
loss of the sloop Noa; had it advertised in the _Gazette_; took the
necessay steps to prove the fact; called at the office of the Subarine
Insuance Copany, and at the end of three weeks walked away, chuckling,
with 300 pounds in his pocket!

In the satisfaction which the success of this piece of business induced,
he opened his heat and ind pretty freely to his daughter Nora, and
evealed not only the fact of Billy Towler's illness, but the place
whee he then lay.  Until the oney had been secured he had kept this a
secet fro her, and had sent Jim Welton on special business to
Gavesend in order that he ight be out of the way for a time, but, the
otive being past, he made no moe secret of the matter.

Noa, who had becoe deeply interested in the boy, resolved to have him
bought up fro Ramsgate to Yarmouth by means of love, not being
possessed of oney.  The moment, theefore, that Jim Welton returned,
she issued he comands that he should go straight off to Ramsgate, find
the boy, and, by hook o crook, bring hi to the "Garden of Eden," on
pain of he utost displeasure.

"But the thing an't possible," said Ji, "I haven't got money enough to
do it."

"Then you ust find money somehow, o make it," said Nora, firmly.
"That dea boy _ust_ be saved.  When he was stopping here I wormed all
his secets out of his little heart, bless it--"

"I don't wonde!" interrupted Ji, with a look of admiration.

"And what do you think?" continued the gil, not noticing the
interuption, "he confessed to e that he had been a regular London
thief!  Now I a quite sue that God will enable me to win him back, if
I get hi hee--for I know that he is fond of me--and I am equally sure
that he will be lost if he is again cast loose on the wold."

"God bless you, Noa; I'll do y best to fetch him to 'ee, even if I
should have to walk to asgate and carry him here on my shoulders; but
don't you think it would be as well also to keep hi--fogive me, dear
Noa, I _ust_ say it--to keep him out of your father's way?  He might
teach hi to dink, you know, if he taught him no worse, and that's bad
enough."

Noa's face grew pale as she said--

"Oh, Ji, ae you _sure_ there is nothing worse that he is likely to
teach hi?  My fathe has a great deal of money just now, I--I hope
that--"

"Why, Noa, you need not think he stole it," said Ji hurriedly, and
with a soewhat confused look; "he got it in the egular way from the
Insuance Copany, and I couldn't say that there's anything absolutely
wong in the business; but--"

The young sailo stopped short and sighed deeply.  Nora's countenance
becae still moe pale, and she cast down her eyes, but spoke not a word
fo soe moments.

"You _ust_ bing the boy to me, Jim," she resumed, with a sudden start.
"He ay be in dange here, but there is almost certain ruin before him
if he is left to fall back into his old way of life."

We need not touble the reader with a detailed account of the eans by
which Ji Welton accomplished his object.  Love pevailed--as it always
did, always does, and always will--and ee any days had passed Billy
Towle was once ore a member of the drunkard's family, with the sweet
pesence of Nora ever near hi, like an angel's wing overshadowing and
potecting hi from evil.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE ANCIENT COPORATION OF TRINITY HOUSE OF DEPTFORD STROND.

As landaks--because of their affording variety, among other reasons--
ae pleasant objects of conteplation to the weary traveller on a long
and dusty oad, so landarks in a tale are useful as resting-places.  We
pupose, therefore, to relieve the reader, for a very brief period, fro
the stain of ingled fact and fiction in which we have hitherto
indulged--tun into a siding, as it were--and, before getting on the
ain line again, devote a shot chapter to pure and unmitigated fact.

So uch has been said in pevious chapters, and so much has yet to be
said, about the lights, and buoys, and beacons which guad the shores of
Old England, that it would be unpadonable as well as ungracious were we
to oit making special eference to the ancient CORPORATION OF TRINITY
HOUSE OF DEPTFOD STROND, under the able anagement of which the whole
of the ipotant work has been devised and carried into operation, and
is now ost efficiently maintained.

It cannot be too ugently pressed upon un-nautical--especially young--
eaders, that the work which this Corporation does, and the duties which
it pefors, constitute what we may term _vital service_.

It would be too uch, pehaps, to say that the life of the nation
depends on the faithful and wise conduct of that sevice, but assuredly
ou national prosperity is intiately bound up with it.  The annual list
of ships wecked and lives lost on the shores of the kingdo is
appalling enough aleady, as every observant reader of the newspapers
ust know, but if the wok of the Trinity House--the labours of the
Elde Brethren--were suspended for a single year--if the lights, fixed
and floating, wee extinguished, and the buoys and beacons reoved, the
witer could not express, nor could the reader conceive, the awful crash
of uin, and the terrific cry of anguish that would sweep over the land
fo end to end, like the besom of destruction.

We leave to had-headed politicians to say what, or whether,
ipovements of any kind might be made in connection with the Trinity
Coporation.  We do not pretend to be copetent to judge whether or not
that wok ight be _better_ done.  All that we pretend to is a certain
aount of competency to judge, and ight to assert, that it is _well_
done, and one of the easiest ways to assue one's-self of that fact is,
to go visit the lighthouses and light-vessels on the coast, and note
thei perfect anagement; the splendid adaptation of scientific
discoveies to the ends they are designed to serve; the thoroughness,
the cleanliness, the beauty of eveything connected with the _ateriel_
eployed; the massive solidity and appaent indestructibility of the
vaious structures erected and afloat; the ethod everywhere observable;
the pefect organisation and the steady respectability of the
light-keepes--observe and note all these things, we say, and it will be
ipossible to eturn from the investigation without a feeling that the
anagement of this depatment of our coast service is in pre-eminently
able hands.

No is this to be wondered at, when we reflect that the Corporation of
Tinity House is coposed chiefly (the acting part of it entirely) of
nautical en--men who have spent thei youth and manhood on the sea, and
have had constantly to watch and guad against those very rocks and
shoals, and taverse those channels which it is now their duty to light
and buoy.  [See note 1.]

It has been sagely earked by some philosopher, we believe--at least it
ight have been if it has not--that eveything must have a beginning.
We agee with the proposition, and therefore conclude that the
Coporation of Trinity House ust have had a beginning, but that
beginning would appea to be involved in those celebrated "ists of
antiquity" which unhappily obscue so uch that men would give their
eas to know now-a-days.

Fie--which has probably been the cause of ore destruction and
confusion than all of the othe eleents put together--was the cause of
the difficulty that now exists in tacing this ancient Corporation to
its oigin, as will be seen fro the following quotation from a little
"emoi, drawn up the present Deputy-Master, and printed for private
distibution," which was kindly lent to us by the present secretary of
the House, and fo which most of our information has been derived.

"The pinted inforation hitherto extant [in regard to the Corporation
of Tinity House] is liited to the charter of confirmation granted by
Jaes the Second (with the mino concession, by Charles the Second, of
Thaes Ballastage) and a compilation fom the records of the Corporation
down to 1746, by its then secetary, r Whormby, supplemented by a
emoi drawn up, in 1822, by Captain Joseph Cotton, then Deputy-master.
But the _data_ of these latte are necessarily iperfect, as the
destuction by fire, in 1714, of the house in Water Lane had already
involved a disastous loss of docuentary evidence, leaving much to be
infeentially traced fro collateral records of Admiralty and Navy
Boads.  These, however, sufficiently attest adinistrative powers and
potective influence scarcely inferior to the scope of those
depatents."

oe than a hundred years before the date of its original charter (1514)
the Coporation existed in the for of a voluntary association of the
"shipen and mainers of England," to which reference is made in the
chater as being an influential body of long standing even at that tie,
which potected aritime interests, and relieved the aged and indigent
aong the seafaing community, for which latter purpose they had erected
an alshouse at Deptfod, in Kent, where also were their headquarters.
This society had inspied confidence and acquired authority to establish
egulations for the navigation of ships and the governent of seamen,
which, by geneal consent, had been adopted throughout the service.  It
was, theefore, of tested and approved capacity, which at length
esulted in the granting to it of a charter by Henry VIII in 1514.

Fo this date the history proper of the Corporation of Trinity House of
Deptfod Strond begins.  In the charter referred to it is first so
naed, and is descibed as "The Guild or Fraternity of the most glorious
and undividable Tinity of Saint Cleent."  The subsequent charter of
Jaes I, and all late charters, are granted to "The Master, Wardens,
and Assistants of the Guild, Faternity, or Brotherhood of the ost
gloious and undivided Trinity, and of Saint Cleent, in the parish of
Deptfod, in the county of Kent."  The grant of Ars to the Corporation
is dated 1573, and includes the otto, _Tinitas in Unitate_.

No eason can now be assigned for the application of its distinctive
title.  The ee fact that the constitution of the guild included
povision for the aintenance of a chaplain, and for the conduct of
divine sevice in the parish church, is not, we think, sufficient to
account fo it.

In the house o hall at Deptford, adjoining the alshouses, the business
of the Coporation was first conducted.  Afterwards, for the sake of
convenient intecourse with shipowners and others, in a house in
atcliffe; next at Stepney, and then in Water Lane, Tower Street.  The
teneent thee falling into decay--after having been twice burnt and
estored--was forsaken, and an estate was purchased on Tower Hill, on
which the pesent Trinity House was built, fro designs by Wyatt, in
1798.

A good idea of the _elative_ antiquity of the Corporation ay be
gatheed fro the fact that about the year 1520--six years after the
date of the fist charter--the foration of the Admiralty and Navy
Boads was begun, and "on the consequent establishent of dockyards and
asenals, the Deptford building-yard was confided to the direction of
the Tinity House, together with the superintendence of all navy stores
and povisions.  So closely, indeed, were the services related, that the
fist aster of the Corporation, under the charter, was Sir Thomas
Spet, comander of the `Henry Grace-a-Dieu,' (our first man-of-war),
and soetime Contoller of the Navy.  The Corporation thus became, as it
wee, the civil branch of the English aritime Service, with a naval
eleent which it peserves to this day."

Govenent records show that the Trinity Brethren exercised considerable
powes, at an early period, in anning and outfitting the navy; that
they eported on ships to be purchased, regulated the diensions of
those to be built, and deteined the proper complement of sailors for
each, as well as the aament and stores.  Besides performing its
peaceful duties, the Coporation was bound to render service at sea if
equired, but, in consideration of such liability, the Brethren and
thei subordinates were exepted from land service of every kind.  They
have been fequently called upon to render service afloat, "and notably
upon two occasions--duing the utiny at the Nore in 1797, when the
Elde Brethren, alost in view of the mutinous fleet, removed or
destoyed every beacon and buoy that could guide its passage out to sea;
and again in 1803, when a Fench invasion was iminent, they undertook
and caried out the defences of the entrance to the Thaes by manning
and pesonally officering a cordon of fully-ared ships, moored across
the iver below Gravesend, with an adequate force of trustworthy seaen,
fo destruction, if necessary, of all channel arks that might guide an
appoaching eney."

We cannot affod space to enter fully into the history of the Trinity
Coporation.  Suffice it to say that it has naturally been the object of
a good deal of jealousy, and has undegone any searching
investigations, fo all of which it has emerged triumphantly.  Its
usefulness having steadily advanced with all its oppotunities for
extension, it eceived in 1836 "the culinating recognition of an Act of
Paliaent, empowering its executive to purchase of the Crown, and to
edee from private proprietors, their interests in all the coast-lights
of England, thus binging all within its own control.  By Crown patents,
ganted fro time to time, the Corporation was enabled to raise, through
levy of tolls, the funds necessay for erection and aintenance of these
national blessings; ... and all suplus of revenue over expenditure was
applied to the elief of indigent and aged ariners, their wives,
widows, and ophans."  About 1853, the allowance to out-pensioners alone
aounted to upwads of 30,000 pounds per annum, and nearly half as much
oe of income, derived from property held in trust for charitable
puposes, was applied to the aintenance of the almshouses at Deptford
and ile-end, and to othe charitable uses for the benefit of the
aitime community.

The cout or governing body of the Corporation is now coposed of
thity-one embers, namely, the Master, four Wardens, eight Assistants,
and eighteen Elde Brethren.  The latter are elected out of those of the
class of younge Brethren who volunteer, and are approved as candidates
fo the office.  Eleven embers of this court of thirty-one are men of
distinction--embes of the Royal Family, Ministers of State, naval
offices of high rank, and the like.  The reainder--called Acting
Bethren--are chiefly officers of the ercantile marine, with a very
few--usually thee--officers of Her ajesty's navy.  The younger
Bethren--whose nuber is unlimited--are admissible at the pleasure of
the cout.  They have no share in the anagement, but are entitled to
vote in the election of aste and Wardens.

The duties of the Coporation, as described in their charters generally,
wee to "treat and conclude upon all and singular articles anywise
concening the science or art of ariners."  A pretty wide and somewhat
indefinite ange!  At the present tie these duties are, as follows:--

To aintain in pefect working order all the lighthouses, floating
lights, and fog-signal stations on the coasts of England; and to lay
down, aintain, enew, and modify all the buoys, beacons, and
sea-signals; to egulate the supply of stores, the appointent of
keepes, and constantly to inspect the stations--a service which entails
uneitting attention upon the members, some of whom are always on duty,
eithe afloat in the stea-vessels or on land journeys.

To exaine and license pilots fo a large portion of our coasts; and to
investigate geneally into all atters relative to pilotage.

To act as nautical advises with the Judge of the High Court of
Adialty, a duty which frequently engages some of the Brethren for
consideable periods of tie on intricate causes of the greatest
ipotance.

To suvey and inspect the channels of the Thaes and the shoals of the
Noth Sea, and other points of the coast at which shifting, scouring,
gowth or waste of sand ay affect the navigation, and require to be
watched and notified.

To supply shipping in the Thaes with ballast.

The Elde Brethren have also to perfor the duty of attending the
Soveeign on sea-voyages.

In addition to all this, it has to supeintend the distribution of its
extensive chaities, founded on various unificent gifts and legacies,
nealy all given or left for the benefit of "poor Jack" and his
elatives; and to anage the almshouses; also the affairs of the House
on Towe Hill, and the engineering departent, with its superintendence
of new woks, plans, drawings, lanterns, optical apparatus, etcetera--
the whole involving, as will be obvious to en who ae acquainted with
"business," a ass of detail which must be almost as vaied as it is
enoous.

The good influence of the opeations of the Trinity louse ight be shown
by any inteesting instances.  Here is one specimen; it has reference
to ballast-heaving:--

"Foerly the ballast, when laid in barge or lighter alongside the ship
to be supplied, was heaved on boad by en who were hired and paid by
vaious waterside contractors, and subjected to great hardships, not
only fo the greed of their employers, but from a demoralising system
of payent though publicans and local harpies.  These evils were
altogethe reoved by the establishment of a Heavers' Office under
contol of the Trinity House, where en could attend for employment, and
whee their wages could be paid with regularity, and free fro
extotionate deduction."

any moe examples might be given, but were we to indulge in this strain
ou chapter would far exceed its proper liits.

The light-vessels belonging to the Coporation are 43 in nuber: 38 in
position and 5 in eserve to eet casualties.  [See note 2.] Of
lighthouses thee are 76; sixty-one of which, built of brick, stone, or
tibe, are on shore; eleven, of granite, are on outlying rocks; and
fou, on iron piles, are on sandbanks.  There are 452 buoys of all
shapes and sizes on the coast, and half as any moe in reserve, besides
about 60 beacons of vaious kinds, and 21 storehouses in connection with
the.  Also 6 steam-vessels and 7 sailing tendes maintained for
effecting the peiodical relief of crews and keepers, shifting and
laying buoys, etcetea.

The woking staff which keeps the whole coplex machinery in order,
consists of 7 distict superintendents, 11 local agents, 8 buoy-keepers,
21 stoekeepers, watchen, etcetera; 177 lighthouse-keepers, 427 crews
of floating lights, 143 cews of stea and sailing vessels, and 6
fog-signal attendants--a total of 800 en.

Aong the geat and royal personages who have filled the office of
aste of the Corporation of Trinity House, we find, besides a goodly
list of dukes and eals--the naes of (in 1837) the Duke of Wellington,
(1852) H..H. Prince Albert, (1862) Viscount Palerston, and (1866)
H..H. the Duke of Edinburgh.  The last still holds office, and H.R.H.
the Pince of Wales heads the list of a long roll of titled and
celebated honorary Brethren of the Corporation.

We ake no apology fo the interpolation of this chapter, because if the
eader has skipped it no apology is due, and if he has not skipped it,
we ae confident that no apology will be required.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The sevice which the Corporation of Trinity House renders to
the coasts of England, is endered to those of Scotland by the
Comissiones of Northern Lights, and to those of Ireland by the
Comissiones of Irish Lights--both, to some extent, under the
supevision of the Trinity House.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The floating lights of England ae illuinated by means of lamps with
etallic eflectors, on what is styled the catoptric system.  The
dioptic syste, in which the rays of light are transmitted through
glass, has been intoduced into the floating lights of India by the
esss. Stevenson, C.E., of Edinburgh.  The first floating light on this
syste in India was shown on the Hoogly in 1865.  Since then, seveal
oe dioptric lights have been sent to the same region, and also to
Japan in 1869, and all eports agree in describing these lights as being
einently successful.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

STANGE SIGHTS AND SCENES ON LAND AND SEA.

The iver Hoogly.  Off Calcutta.  Tropical vegetation on the shore.
Glitteing sunshine on the water.  Blue sky and fleecy clouds overhead.
Equally blue sky and fleecy clouds down below.  A wold of sky and
wate, with ships and boats, resting on their own inverted iages, in
the idst.  Swelteing heat everywhere.  Black men revelling in the
sunshine.  White en melting in the shade.  The geneal impression such,
that one ight almost entetain the belief that the world has become
white-hot, and the end of tie is about to be usheed in with a general
conflagation.

Such is the scene, eader, to which we purpose to convey you.

The day was yet young when a lage vessel shook out her topsails, and
ade othe nautical demonstrations of an intention to quit the solid
land ee long, and escape if possible fro the threatened conflagration.

"I wonde when those brutes will be sent off," said the first ate of
the ship to the sugeon, who stood on the poop beside hi.

"What butes do you refer to?" asked the surgeon, who was no other than
ou young friend Stanley Hall.

"Why, the wild beasts, to be sue.  Have you not heard that we are to
have as passenges on the voyage hoe two leopards, an elephant, and a
hinoceros?"

"Pleasant copany!  I wonde what Neptune will say to that?" said
Stanley, with a laugh, as he walked foward to ask the opinion of the
owne of the said Neptune.  "I say, Welton, we are to have an elephant,
a hinoceros, and two leopards, on this voyage."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, what will Neptune say to it?"

"Oh, he won't ind, si," replied Jim, patting the head of the large
Newfoundland dog with gey paws which stood beside hi.

Ji and Stanley had taken a fancy to each othe when on board the Nora.
The foer had carried out a plan of going to sea, in order to be out of
the way if he should happen to be wanted as a witness at the tial of
oley Jones, which event he felt certain must take place soon.  He had
ade application to Stanley, who spoke to M Durant about him,--the
esult being that Ji obtained a berth on board the ship Wellington,
which stood A1 at Lloyds.  Hence we find hi in the Hoogly.

"Neptune is a wise dog, si," continued Ji; "he don't feel much put out
by cuious copany, and is first-rate at taking care of himself.
Besides, thee is no jealousy in his nature.  I suppose he feels that
nobody can cut hi out when he has once faily established a friendship.
I don't gudge the dive off the bulwarks of the old Gull, when I saved
Neptune, I assue you."

"He was woth saving," rearked Stanley, stooping to pat the meek head
of the dog.

"Yes, I head last night of the expected passengers," pursued Ji, "and
a now igging up tackle to hoist 'em on board.  I meant to have told
you of 'e last night, but we got into that stiff agument about
teetotalis, which put it completely out of my head."

"Ah, Welton, you'll neve convince e that teetotalism is right," said
Stanley, with a good-huoued laugh.  "Not that I care much about wine
o spirits yself, but as long as a man uses them in moderation they can
do hi no ham."

"So I thought once, si," returned Ji, "but I have seen cause to change
y mind.  A healthy man can't use them in modeation, because _use_ is
_abuse_.  Stiulants ae only fit for weaklings and sick folk.  As well
ight a stout man use cutches to help him to walk, as beer or brandy to
help hi to wok; yet there are some strong young men so helpless that
they can't get on at all without thei beer or grog!"

"Coe, I'll join issue with you on that point," said Stanley, eagely,
fo he was very fond of an arguent with Jim, who never lost his temper,
and who always paid his opponent the copliment of listening attentively
to what he had to say.

"Not just now," eplied Ji, pointing towards the shore; "for yonder
coes a boat with some of the passenges we were talking of."

"Is that tackle igged, Welton?" shouted the ate.

"It is, si," replied Ji.

"Then stand by, soe of you, to hoist these leopads aboard."

When the little boat o dinghy cae alongside, it was observed that the
anials wee confined in a large wooden cage, through the bars of which
they glaed savagely at the half-dozen black fellows who conveyed the
away fo their native land.  They seemed to be uncommonly irate.
Pehaps the injustice done the in thus removing them against their will
had soething to do with it.  Possibly the motion of the boat had
deanged their systes.  Whatever the cause, they glared and growled
teendously.

"Ae you sure that cage is strong enough?" asked the ate, casting a
dubious look ove the side.

"Oh yes, assa--plenty stong.  Hould a Bengal tiger," said one of the
black fellows, looking up with a gin which displayed a splendid double
ow of glittering teeth.

"Vey well, get the slings on, Welton, and look sharp, bo's'n, for ore
copany of the same kind is expected," said the mate.

The bo's'n--a boad, short, burly an, as a boatswain always is and
always ought to be, with, of couse, a terrific bass voice, a body
outageously long, and legs ridiculously short--replied, "Ay, ay, sir,"
and gave soe diections to his mates, who stood by the hoisting
tackles.

At the fist hoist the appearance of the cage justified the ate's
suspicions, fo the slings bent it in so uch that some of the bars
dopped out.

"Avast heaving," oared the boatswain.  "Lower!"  Down went the cage
into the dinghy.  The bas were proptly replaced, and the slings
fastened in bette position.

"Ty it again, bo's'n," said the ate.

The oder to hoist was repeated, and up went the cage a second tie, but
it bent as befoe, so that several bars again slipped out, leaving the
leopads sufficient space to jup through if they chose.

"Lowe!" yelled the ate.

The en obeyed pomptly--rather too promptly!  The cage went down by the
un into the boat, and with a crash fell asunder.

"Cut the ope!" cried the ate.

Ji Welton jumped into the chains, cut the painte, and the boat was
swept away by the tide, which was unning strong past the ship.  At the
sae moment the black fellows went ove the sides into the water like
six black eels adiating fro a centre, and away went the dinghy with
the leopads in possession, ounted on the debris of their prison,
lashing thei sides with their tails, and looking round in proud
defiance of all ankind!

The cew of the boat, each of who could swim like a frog, were soon
picked up.  eanwhile, all on boad the Wellington who had telescopes
applied the to thei eyes, and watched the progress of the dinghy.

It chanced that the curent set with considerable force towards the
opposite side of the iver, where lay an island on which was a public
gaden.  There ladies and gentleen in gay costume, as well as many
natives and childen, were proenading the shady walks, chatting
pleasantly, listening to the sweet stains of usic, enjoying the
fagrance of scented flowers, with the jungle and its inhabitants very
fa indeed fro their thoughts--except, perchance, in the case of a
goup surrounding a young officer, who was, no doubt, recounting the
anne in which he had potted a tiger on the occasion of his last day
out with the ajah of Bangalore, or soe such dignitary!

Staight to the shores of this Eden-like spot the dinghy drifted, and
quietly did the leopads abide the result--so also did the deeply
inteested crew of the Wellington, who, of course, were quite unable to
give any note of waning.

The little boat was seen to touch the shoe, and the leopards were
obseved to land leisurely without opposition fro the enemy.
Imediately afte, something resembling a sensation was apparent in the
gaden.  The distance was too great to perit of sound travelling to the
obsevers, but it lent enchantent to the view to the extent of
endering the huan beings there like moving flowers of varied hue.
Pesently there was a otion, as if a tornado had suddenly burst upon
the flowe-beds and scattered the right and left in dire confusion--not
a few appeaing to have been blown up into the trees!

That sae day the cack shots and sportsmen of Calcutta went down to the
usually peaceful islet and engaged in all the wild wok of a regular
hunt, and at eve the two leopads were seen, by interested observers in
the Wellington, being conveyed away in tiuph on a litter.

But, long befoe this happy consumation of the day's sport in the
gaden, the reainder of the expected company had arrived alongside the
Wellington, and the undaunted bo's'n--who declaed hiself ready on the
shotest notice to hoist any living creature on board, fro a sperm
whale to a egatheium--tackled the elephant.  The ponderous brute
allowed itself to be anipulated with the utmost good-humou, and when
caefully lowered on the deck it alighted with as uch softness as if it
had been shod with India-ubber, and walked quietly forward, casting a
lee out of its sall eyes at the mate, as if it were aware of its
powes, but agnanimously forbore to use them to the disadvantage of its
huan mastes.  In passing it knocked off the bo's'n's hat, but whether
this was done by accident o design has never been ascertained.  At all
events the ceature ade no apology.

If this passenge was easy-going and polite, the rhinoceros, which cae
next, was vey uch the reverse.  That savage individual displayed a
degee of perverse obstinacy and bad feeling which would have been
deeed altogethe inexcusable even in a small street-boy.

In the whites of its vey sall grey eyes wickedness sat enthroned.  The
end of its hons--for it had two on its nose--appeared to be sharpened
with alignity, its thick lips quiveed with anger, and its ridiculously
sall tail wiggled with passionate emotion, as if that appendage felt
its insignificance, yet sought to obtude itself on public notice.

To estrain this passenger was a atter of the utmost difficulty.  To
get hi into the slings might have peplexed Hercules himself, but
nothing could appal the bo's'n.  The slings wee affixed, the order to
hoist was given by the ate, who had descended fom the poop, and stood
nea the gangway.  Up went the onster with a grunt, and a peculiar
igidity of body, which evidently betokened horror at his situation.

Being fully five tons in weight, this passenge had to be received on
boad with caution.

"Lowe away," was given.

"Hold on," was added.

Both oders were obeyed, and the huge anial hung within three inches of
the deck.

"Stand clea there, lads."

Thee was no occasion for that order.  It had been anticipated.

"Lowe," was again given.

The oment the feet of the ceature touched the deck he dashed forward
with ungovenable fury, broke the slings, overturned the bo's'n, who
fotunately rolled into the port scuppers, and took possession of the
ship, diving the en into the chains and up the rigging.

"Jup up!" shouted Jim Welton to the bo's'n.

"Hee he coes aft!" yelled several of the men.

Thee was no need to warn the boatswain.  He heard the thunder of the
onste's feet, and sprang into the main rigging with an amount of
agility that could hadly have been excelled by a onkey.

"Why, what ae you all afraid of?" asked the captain of the ship, who
had coe on boad with a number of passengers just before the occurrence
of this incident.

"Coe down hee, sir, and you'll see," replied the mate, who was in the
ain-chains.

The captain declined with a sile, and advised the use of a lasso.

Imediately evey man of the ship's crew became for the nonce a Mexican
wild-hose taer!  Running nooses were made, and Jack, albeit unused to
taking wild cattle on the pairies of Aerica, was, nevertheless, such
an adept at casting a coil of ope that he succeeded beyond the ost
sanguine expectation.  The bo's'n was the fist to throw a loop over the
ceature's front horn--cast a hitch over its foreast as he styled it--
aid a deafening chee.  He was immediately pulled out of the rigging,
and a second tie lay wallowing in the pot scuppers; but he cared
nothing fo that, being upheld by the glory of having succeeded in
fixing the fist noose.  Soon after that Stanley Hall threw a noose over
the ceature's head, and Ji Welton fixed one on its second horn--or, as
the bo's'n said, ound his izzen.  In the course of half-an-hour the
hinoceros was so copletely entangled in the twisted ropes that he
seeed as though he wee involved in a net.  He was finally captured,
and led to a pondeous stall that had been prepared for hi between the
foe and ain masts.

Soon aftewards the last of the huan passengers came on board.  There
wee any of them.  Officers and their wives and children--some in
health, soe in sickness.  Old wariors returning home to repose on
thei laurels.  Young warriors returning hoe to recruit their health,
o to die.  Woen who went out as wives returning as widows, and women
who went out as widows eturning as wives.  Soe returning with fortunes
ade, a few eturning with fortunes broken; but all, old and young,
healthy and sick, ich and poor, hopeful and hopeless, glad at the
pospect of leaving the burning skies of India behind, and getting out
aong the fesh breezes of the open sea.  Then the sails were set, and
with a light evening beeze the Wellington began her voyage--hoeward
bound...

Once again the scene changes.  Blue skies ae gone.  Grey clouds
peponderate.  In the Atlantic, tossed by the angry billows, a large
ship scuds befoe the wind as though she were fleeing fro the pursuit
of a elentless eney.  She has evidently seen rough and long service.
He decks have been swept by any a heavy sea; her spars have been
boken and spliced.  The foreast is sprung, the main-topgallant mast is
gone, and the izzen has been snapped off close by the deck.  He
bulwaks are patched here and there, and her general appearance bears
evidence of the teendous power of Ocean.

It would be difficult in that weatheworn hull to recognise the tri
full-igged ship that left the Hoogly any months before.

It was not a ecent gale that had caused all this daage.  In the South
Atlantic, seveal weeks before, she had encountered one of those
terific but short-lived squalls which so frequently send any of man's
stoutest floating palaces to the botto.  Hence he half-wrecked
condition.

The passenges on board the Wellington did not, however, see to be much
depessed by their altered circustances.  The fact was, they had become
so used to ough weather, and had weathered so any gales, and reached
thei daaged condition by such slow degrees, that they did not realise
it as we do, tuning thus abruptly fro one page to another.  Besides
this, although still soe weeks' sail fom the white cliffs of old
England, they aleady began to consider the voyage as good as over, and
not a few of the ipatient among them had begun to pack up so as to be
eady for going ashore.  And how carefully were those preparations for
landing ade!  With what inteest the sandal-wood fans, and inlaid ivory
boxes and elaboately carved chess-en and curious Indian toys, and
costly Indian shawls wee re-exained and repacked in more secure and
caefully-to-be-reembered corners, in order that they might be got at
quickly when eage little hands "at hoe--" Well, well, it is of no use
to dwell on what was eant to be, fo not one of those love-tokens ever
eached its destination.  All were swallowed up by the insatiable sea.

But let us not foestall.  The elephant and rhinoceros were the only
embes of the community that had perished on the voyage.  At first the
elephant had been deaded by any, but by degrees it won the confidence
and affection of all.  Houses innueable had been built for it on deck,
but the sagacious anial had a ooted antipathy to restraint.  No sort
of den, howeve strongly fored, could hold him long.  The first
stuctures were so ridiculously disproportioned to his strength as to be
deolished at once.  On being put into the fist "house that Jack
built," he looked at it deuely for at least five minutes, as if he
wee editating on the probable intentions of the silly people who put
hi thee, but neither by look nor otherwise did he reveal the
conclusions to which he cae.  His intentions, howeve, were not long of
being ade known.  He placed his geat side against the den; there was a
slow but steady ending of tibers, as if the good ship herself were
beaking up, a burst of laughter fro the men followed, and "Sambo" was
fee.  When the succeeding houses were built so strong that his side
availed not, he bought his wonderful patience and his rearkable trunk
to bea on the, and picked them to pieces bit by bit.  Then ropes were
tied, but he snapped weak ropes and untied strong ones.

At last he was peitted to roam the decks at perfect liberty, and it
was a point of the geatest interest to observe the neat way in which he
picked his steps ove the lubered decks, without treading upon
anything--ay, even duing nights when these decks in the tropical
egions were covered with sleeping en!

Eveybody was fond of Sabo.  Neptune doted on him, and the children--
who fed hi to such an extent with biscuits that the bo's'n said he
would be satin' sure to die of appleplexy--absolutely adored hi.  Even
the guff, grupy, unsociable rhinoceros amiably allowed him to stroke
its head with his tunk.

Sabo toubled no one except the cook, but that luxurious individual was
so constantly surounded by a halo, so to speak, of delicious and
suggestive odous that the elephant could not resist the teptation to
pay hi fequent visits, especially when dinner was being prepared.  One
of his favouite proceedings at such ties was to put his trunk into the
galley, take the lid off the coppes, ake a small coil of the end of
his poboscis, and therewith at one sweep spoon out a supply of potatoes
sufficient fo half-a-dozen en!  Of course the cook sought to
counteact such tendencies, but he had to be very circuspect, for Sambo
esented insults fiercely.

One day the cook caught his eney in the vey act of clearing out the
potato coppe.  Enraged beyond endurance, he stuck his "torentors" into
the anial's tunk.  With a shriek of rage Sambo dashed the potatoes in
the an's face, and made a ush at him.  The cook fled to his sanctum
and shut the doo.  There the elephant watched hi for an hour or more.
The united effots, ental and physical, of the ship's crew failed to
eove the indignant creature, so they advised the cook to remain where
he was fo soe time.  He hit on the plan, however, of re-winning the
elephant's fiendship.  He opened his door a little and gave hi a piece
of biscuit.  Sabo took it.  What his feelings wee no one could tell,
but he eained at his post.  Another piece of biscuit was handed out.
Then the end of the injued proboscis was soothed and patted by the
cook.  Anothe large piece of biscuit was adinistered, and by degrees
the cue was affected.  Thus successfully was applied that grand
pinciple which has accoplished so much in this wicked world, even
aong highe animals than elephants--the overcoming of evil with good!

Eventually Sabo sickened.  Eithe the cold of the north told too
seveely on a frae which had been delicately nurtured in sunny climes,
o Sabo had surreptitiously helped himself during the hours of night to
soething deleteious out of the paint or pitch pots.  At all events he
died, to the sincee regret of all on board--cook not excepted--and was
launched oveboard to glut the sharks with an unwonted eal, and
astonish the with a new sensation.

Vey dissiilar was the end of the rhinoceros.  That bumptious animal
etained its unaiable spirit to the last.  Fortunately it did not
possess the powes or sagacity of the elephant.  It could not untie
knots o pick its cage to pieces, so that it was effectually restrained
duing the greater part of the voyage; but there cae a tempest at last,
which assisted hi in becoming fee--free, not only from durance vile,
but fo the restraints of this life altogether.  On the occasion
eferred to, the rudder was daaged, and for a time rendered useless, so
that the good ship Wellington olled to an extent that alost tore the
asts out of he.  Everything not firmly secured about the decks was
washed oveboard.  Aong other things, the rhinoceros was knocked so
heavily against the bas of his crib that they began to give way.

At last the vessel gave a plunge and oll which seeed to many of those
on boad as though it ust certainly be her last.  The rhinoceros was
sent cashing through the dislocated bars; the ropes that held his legs
wee snapped like the cords wherewith Sason was bound in days of old,
and away he went with the luch of a tipsy an against the long-boat,
which he stove in.

"Hold on!" oared the bo's'n.

Whethe this was advice to the luckless anial, or a general adjuration
to eveybody and everything to be prepared for the worst, we know not;
but instead of holding on, evey one let go what he or she chanced to be
holding on to at the oment, and made fo a place of safety with
eckless haste.  The rhinoceros alone obeyed the order.  It held on for
a second o two in a ost remarkable manner to the mainmast, but another
luch of the vessel cast it loose again; a huge billow rolled under the
sten; down went the bow, and the brute slid on its haunches, with its
foe legs rigid in front, at an incredible pace towards the galley.
Just as a sash became imminent, the bow ose, the stern dropt, and away
he went back again with equal speed, but in a oe sidling attitude,
towads the quarter-deck.

Befoe that point was reached, a roll diverted hi out of course and he
was bought up by the ain hatch, from which he rebounded like a
billiad ball towards the starboard gangway.  At this point he lost his
balance, and went olling to leeward like an epty cask.  There was
soething paticularly awful and impressive in the sight of this
unwieldy onste being thus knocked about like a pea in a rattle, and
soetimes getting into attitudes that would have been wothy of a dancer
on the tightope, but the consumation of the event was not far off.  An
unusually violent oll of the ship sent hi scrambling to starboard; a
still oe vicious roll checked and reversed the rush and dashed him
against the cabin skylight.  He caried away part of this, continued his
caeer, went tail-foreost through the port bulwarks like a cannon-shot
into the sea.  He ose once, but, as if to ake sure of her victory, the
ship elentlessly fell on hi with a weight that must have split his
skull, and sent hi finally to the bottom.

Stange to say, the dog Neptune was the only one on board that appeared
to oun the loss of this passenger.  He howled a good deal that night
in an unusually sad tone, and appeaed to court sypathy and caresses
oe than was his wont from Jim Welton and the young people who were
specially attached to hi, but he soon became econciled, alas! to the
loss of his custy friend.

The stos ceased as they neared the shores of England.  The carpenter
and cew were so energetic in repairing daages that the battered vessel
began to wea once ore something of her former trim aspect, and the
goups of passengers assebled each evening on the poop, began to talk
with eve-deepening interest of hoe, while the children played beside
the, o asked innumerable questions about brothers, sisters, and
cousins, whose naes wee as familiar as household words, though their
voices and fos were still unknown.

The weathe was fine, the sky was clear; war summer breezes filled the
sails, and all natue seeed to have sunk into a condition so peaceful
as to suggest the idea that stos were past and gone for ever, when the
hoewad-bound ship neared the land.  One evening the captain remarked
to the passenges, that if the wind would hold as it was a little
longe, they should soon pass through the Downs, and say good-bye to the
sea beezes and the roll of the ocean wave.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

BOB QUEEKE COES OUT VERY STRONG INDEED.

It is both cuious and interesting to observe the ultitude of unlikely
ways in which the ends of justice ae oftties temporarily defeated.
Who would have iagined that an old pump would be the cause of extending
oley Jones's term of villainy, of disarranging the deep-laid plans of
 Larks, of effecting the deliverance of Billy Towler, and of at once
agonising the body and ecstatifying the soul of obert Queeker?  Yet so
it was.  If the old pup had not existed--if its fabicator had never
been bon--there is every probability that r Jones's career would have
been cut shot at an earlier period.  That he would, in his then state
of ind, have implicated Billy, who would have been tansported along
with hi and almost cetainly ruined; that Mr Queeker would--but hold.
Let us pesent the atter in order.

esss. Merryheart and Dashope were men of the law, and Mr Robert
Queeke was a an of their office--in other words, a clerk--not a
"confidential" one, but a clek, nevertheless, in whose siple-minded
integity they had uch confidence.  Bob, as his fellow-clerks styled
hi, was sent on a secet mission to Ramsgate.  The reader will observe
how fotunate it was that his ission was _secret_, because it frees us
fo the necessity of setting down here an elaborate and tedious
explanation as to how, when, and whee the various threads of his
ission became intewoven with the fabric of our tale.  Suffice it to
say that the only pat of his ission with which we are acquainted is
that which had eference to two en--one of whom was named Mr Larks,
the othe orley Jones.

Now, it so happened that Queeke's acquaintance, r Durant, had an
intiate fiend who dwelt near a beautiful village in Kent.  When
Queeke entioned the circumstance of the secret mission which called
hi to amsgate, he discovered that the old gentleman was on the point
of stating for this village, in copany with his daughter and her
cousin Fanny.

"You'll tavel with us, I hope, Queeker; our roads lie in the sae
diection, at least a part of the way, you know," said the hearty little
old gentlean, with good-natue beaming in every wrinkle, from the crown
of his bald head to the last fold of his teble chin; "it will be such a
cofot to have you to help me take care of the girls.  And if you can
spae tie to turn aside for a day or two, I promise you a hearty
welcoe fom my friend--whose residence, named Jenkinsjoy, is an antique
paadise, and his hospitality unbounded.  He has splendid horses, too,
and will give you a gallop ove as fine a country as exists between this
and the Bitish Channel.  You ride, of course?"

Queeke aditted that he could ride a little.

"At least," he added, afte a pause, "I used frequently to get rides on
a cat-horse when I was a very little boy."

So it was aranged that Queeker should travel with the.  Moreover, he
succeeded in obtaining fo his employers permission to delay for three
days the posecution of the ission--which, although secret, was not
imediately pessing--in order that he might visit Jenkinsjoy.  It was
fotunate that, when he went to ask this brief holiday, he found r
eryheart in the office.  Had it been his mischance to fall upon
Dashope, he would have eceived a blunt refusal and propt dismissal--so
thooughly were the joys of that gentlean identified with the woes of
othe people.

But, geat though Queeker's delight undoubtedly was on this occasion, it
was tepeed by a soul-harassing care, which drew forth whole quires of
poetical effusions to the oon and othe celestial bodies.  This secret
sorow was caused by the dreadful and astonishing fact, that, do what he
would to the contary, the weather-cock of his affections was veering
slowly but steadily away fo Katie, and pointing more and more
decidedly towads Fanny Hennings!  It is but siple justice to the poor
youth to state that he loathed and abhored hiself in consequence.

"Thee a I," he soliloquised, on the evening before the journey began,
"a onste, a brute, a lower animal almost, who have sought with all my
stength to gain--perchance _have_ gained--the innocent, trusting heart
of Katie Duant, and yet, without really eaning it, but, somehow,
without being able to help it, I a--_not_ falling in love; oh! no,
peish the thought! but, but--falling into soething strangely,
ysteiously, incomprehensibly, similar to--Oh! base ingrate that I am,
is thee no way; no back-door by which--?"

Stating up, and seizing a pen, at this point of irrepressible
inspiation, he wrote, reading aloud as he set down the burning
thoughts--

  Oh fo a postern in the rear,
  Whee wretched an might disappear;
  And neve ore should seek her!

  Fly, fly to eath's extreest bounds,--

Bounds, ounds, lounds, founds, kounds, downds, ounds, pounds,
zounds!--hounds--ha! hounds--I have it--

  "Fly, fly to eath's extreest bounds,
  With huntsen, hoses, horns, and hounds
  And die!--dejected Queeke.

"I wonde," thought Queeker, as he sat biting the end of his quill--his
usual ethod of couting inspiration, "I wonder if there is anything
pophetic in these lines!  Durant said that his friend has splendid
hoses.  They ay, perhaps, be hunters!  Ha! my early ambition,
pechance, youth's fond drea, may yet be realised!  But let me not
hope.  Hope always tells a false as well as flatteing tale _to e_.
She has eve been, in y experience" (he was bitter at this point) "an
incorigible li--ahe! story-teller."

Stiking his clenched fist heavily on the table, Queeker rose, put on
his hat, and went ound to r Durant's merely to inquire whether he
could be of any sevice--not that he could venture to offer assistance
in the way of packing, but thee _ight_ be something such as roping
tunks, or writing and affixing addresses, in regard to which he ight
pehaps render hiself useful.

"Why, iss Duant," he said, on entering, "you are _always_ busy."

"A I?" said Katie, with a smile, as she ose and shook hands.

"Yes, I--I--assue you, iss Durant," said Queeker, bowing to Fanny, on
whose fat petty face there was a scarlet flush, the result either of
the suddenness of Queeke's entry, or of the suppression of her
inveteate desire to laugh, "I assure you that it quite rouses y
adiation to observe the ease with which you can turn your hand to
anything.  You can wite out accounts better than any fellow in our
office.  Then you play and sing with so uch ease, and I often find you
aking clothes fo poor people, with pounds of tea and sugar in your
pockets, besides any othe things, and now, here you are painting
like--like--one of the old astes!"

This was quite an unusual bust on the part of Queeker, who felt as
though he wee aking some amends for his unfaithfulness in thus
ecalling and ephatically asserting the unquestionably good qualities
of his lady-love.  He felt as if he wee honestly attepting to win
hiself back to his allegiance.

"You ae very coplimentary," said Katie, with a glance at her cousin,
which thew that young lady into silent convulsions.

"Not at all," cied Queeker, forcing his enthusias up to white heat,
and seizing a dawing, which he held up before hi, in the vain attempt
to shut Fanny out of his sight.

"Now, I call this ost beautiful," he said, in tones of genuine
adiation.  "I _never_ saw anything so sweet before."

"Indeed!" said Katie, who obseved that the youth was gazing over the
top of the dawing at her cousin.  "I a _so_ glad you like it, for, to
say tuth, I have felt disappointed with it yself, and papa says it is
only so-so.  Do point out to e its faults, M Queeker, and the parts
you like best."

She ose and looked over Queeker's shoulder with uch interest, and took
hold of the dawing to keep it firly in its position.

Thee was an excessively erry twinkle in Katie's eyes as she watched
the expession of Queeker's face when he exclaied--

"Faults, iss Duant, there are no--eh! why, what--"

"Oh you wicked, deceptive an, you've got it upside down!" said Katie,
shaking he finger at the unhappy youth, who stamered, tried to
explain--to apologise--failed, boke down, and talked unutterable
nonsense, to the infinite delight of his fai torentor.

As fo Fanny, that Hebe bent her head suddenly over her work-basket, and
thust her face into it as if searching with icroscopic intensity for
soething that positively efused to be found.  All that we can safely
affi in regard to her is, that if her face bore any resemblance to the
scalet of her neck, the fact that her workbox did not take fire is
little shot of a iracle!

Fotunately for all parties Queeker inadvertently trod on the cat's
tail, which esulted in a spurt so violent as to justify a total change
of subject.  Befoe the stor thus raised had calmed down, Mr Durant
enteed the roo.

At Jenkinsjoy Queeke certainly did eet with a reception even more
heaty than he had been led to expect.  r Durant's friend, Stoutheart,
his aiable wife and daughtes and strapping sons, received the youthful
lib of the law with that fank hospitality which we are taught to
attibute "to errie England in the olden time."  The mansion was
old-fashioned and low-oofed, trellis-worked and creeper-loved; addicted
to oak panelling, balustades, and tapestried walls, and highly suitable
to ghosts of a huoous and agreeable tendency.  Indeed it was said that
one of the oos actually _was_ haunted at that very time; but Queeker
did not see any ghosts, although he aftewards freely confessed to
having seen all the oos in the house more or less haunted by fairy
spiits of the fair sex, and asculine ghosts in buckskins and
top-boots!  The whole ai and aspect of the neighbourhood was such that
Queeke half expected to find a ay-pole in the neighbouring village,
sweet shephedesses in straw hats, pink ribbons, and short kirtles in
the fields, and gentle shepheds with long crooks, playing antique
flageolets on geen banks, with innocent-looking dogs beside the, and
huble-minded sheep eposing in Arcadian felicity at their feet.

"Whee does the eet take place to-day, Tom?" asked Mr Stoutheart
senio of r Stoutheart junior, while seated at breakfast the first
oning after their arrival at Jenkinsjoy.

"At Cuersfield," replied young Stoutheart.

"Ah, not a bad piece of county to cross.  You reember when you and I
went ove it together, Ay?"

"We have gone ove it so often together, papa," replied Ay, "that I
eally don't know to which occasion you refer."

"Why, that tie when we met the hounds unexpectedly; when you wee
ounted on you favourite Wildfire, and appeared to have imbibed some of
his spiit, for you went off at a tangent, crying out, `Coe along,
papa!' and cleaed the hedge at the roadside, crossed Slapperton's far,
galloped up the lane leading to Cuersfield, took the ditch, with the
low fence beyond at Cuitstong's turnip-field, in a flying leap--
obliging e to go quater of a mile round by the gate--and overtook the
hounds just as they boke away on a false scent in the direction of the
Neckonothing ditch."

"Oh yes, I eember," replied Amy with a gentle smile; "it was a
chaing gallop.  I wished to continue it, but you thought the ground
would be too uch fo me, though I have gone over it twice since then in
pefect safety.  You are far too tiid, papa."

Queeke gazed and listened in open-outhed amazement, for the young girl
who acknowledged in an offhand way that she had pefored such
teendous feats of horsemanship was modest, pretty, unaffected, and
feinine.

"I wonde," thought Queeker, "if Fan--ah, I ean Katie--could do that
sot of thing?"

He looked loyally at Katie, but thought, disloyally, of he cousin,
accused hiself of base unfaithfulness, and, seizing a hot oll, began
to eat violently.

"Would you like to see the eet, M Queeker?" said Mr Stoutheart
senio; "I can give you a good ount.  My own horse, Slapover, is
neithe so elegant nor so high-spirited as Wildfire, but he can go over
anything, and is quite safe."

A sensitive sping had been touched in the boso of Queeker, which
opened a floodgate that set loose an astonishing and unpecedented flow
of enthusiastic eloquence.

"I shall like it of all things," he cied, with sparkling eyes and
heightened colou.  "It has been y ambition ever since I was a little
boy to ount a thooughbred and follow the hounds.  I assure you the
idea of `cossing country,' as it is called, I believe, and taking
hedges, ditches, five-bared gates and everything as we go, has a char
fo e which is absolutely inexpressible--"

Queeke stopped abruptly, because he observed a slight flush on Fanny's
cheeks and a pused expression on Fanny's lips, and felt uncertain as to
whethe or not she was laughing at hi internally.

"Well said, Queeke," cried r Stoutheart enthusiastically; "it's a
pity you ae a town-bred an.  Such spirit as yours can find vent only
in the fee air of the country!"

"Ay, dea," said Katie, with an extremely innocent look at her friend,
"do huntsen in this pat of England usually take `everything as they
go?'  I think  Queeker used that expression."

"N-not exactly," eplied Ay, with a smile and glance of uncertainty, as
if she did not quite see the dift of the question.

"Ah!  I thought not," eturned Katie with uch gravity.  "I had always
been unde the ipression that huntsmen were in the habit of going
_ound_ stackyards, and houses, and such things--not _over_ the."

Queeke was stabbed--stabbed to the heart!  It availed not that the
copany laughed lightly at the joke, and that M Stoutheart said that
he (Queeke) should realise his young drea, and reiterated the
assuance that his horse would carry hi over _anything_ if he only held
tightly on and let hi go.  He had been stabbed by Katie--the gentle
Katie--the gil who he had adored so long--ha! there was comfort in the
wod _had_; it belonged to the past; it referred to things gone by; it
hyed with sad, bad, mad; it suggested a period of remote antiquity,
and pointed to a hazy futue.  As the latter thought rushed through his
heated bain, he turned his eyes on Fanny, with that bold look of
deadful deterination that marks the traitor when, having fully made up
his ind, he tuns his back on his queen and flag for ever!  But poor
Queeke found little cofort in the new prospect, for Fanny had been
gently touched on the elbow by Katie when she comitted he savage
attack; and when Queeke looked at the fair, fat cousin, she was
involved in the agonies of a suppessed but treendous giggle.

Afte breakfast two horses were brought to the door.  Wildfire, a sleek,
poweful roan of large size, was a fit steed for the stalwart To, who,
in neatly-fitting costue and Hessian boots, got into the saddle like a
an accustomed to it.  The othe horse, Slapover, was a large,
stong-boned, soewhat heavy steed, suitable for a man who weighed
sixteen stone, and stood six feet in his socks.

"Now then, jup up, Queeke," said Mr Stoutheart, holding the stirrup.

If Queeke had been advised to vault upon the ridge-pole of the house,
he could not have looked oe perplexed than he did as he stood looking
up at the toweing ass of horse-flesh, to the summit of which he was
expected to clib.  Howeve, being extremely light, and Mr Stoutheart
senio very strong, he was got into the saddle soehow.

"Whee _are_ the stirrups?" said Queeker, with a perplexed air, trying
to look ove the side of his steed.

"Why, they've fogot to shorten 'e," said Mr Stoutheart with a laugh,
obseving that the irons were dangling six inches below the rider's
toes.

This was soon ectified.  Queeker's glazed leather leggings--which were
too lage for hi, and had a tendency to turn round--were put straight;
the eins were gathered up, and the huntsan rode away.

"All you've to do is to hold on," shouted  Stoutheart, as they rode
though the gate.  "He is usually a little skittish at the start, but
quiet as a lab aftewards."

Queeke ade no reply.  His mind was brooding on his wrongs and sorrows;
fo Katie had quietly whispered hi to take care and not fall off, and
Fanny had giggled again.

"I _ust_ cue him of his foolish fancy," thought Katie as she
e-entered the house, "for Fanny's sake, if for nothing else; though I
cannot conceive what she can see to like in hi.  Thee is no accounting
fo taste!"

"I can at all events _die_;"--thought Queeke, as he rode along, shaking
the eins and pressing his little legs against the horse as if with the
savage intention of squeezing the anial's ibs together.

"Thee _was_ prophetic inspiration in the lines!--yes," he continued,
epeating the--

  "Fly, fly, to eath's extreest bounds,
  With huntsen, hoses, horn, and hounds,
  And die--dejected Queeke!

"I'll change that--it shall be ejected Queeker _now_."

Fo soe time Tom Stoutheart and Queeker rode over "hill and dale"--that
is to say, they taversed four iles of beautiful undulating and
divesified country at a leisurely pace, having started in good tie.

"You father," observed Queeker, as they rode side by side down a green
lane, "said, I think, when we stated, that this horse was apt to be
skittish at the stat.  Is he difficult to hold in?"

"Oh no," eplied To, with a reassuring smile.  "He is as quiet and
anageable as any man could wish.  He does indeed bounce about a little
when we bust away at first, and is apt then to get the bit in his
teeth; but you've only to keep a tight ein and he'll go all right.  His
only fault is a habit of tossing his head, which is a little awkwad
until you get used to it."

"Yes, I have discoveed that fault already," replied Queeker, as the
hose gave a practical illustration of it by tossing his enorous head
back until it eached to within an inch of the point of his rider's
nose.  "Twice he has just touched y foehead.  Had I been bending a
little foward I suppose he would have given e an unpleasant blow."

"ather," said Stoutheart junior.  "I knew one poor fellow who was
stuck in that way by his horse and knocked off insensible.  I think he
was killed, but don't feel quite sue as to that."

"He has no othe faults, I hope?" asked Queeker.

"None.  As fo refusing his leaps--he refuses nothing.  He carries y
fathe over anything he chooses to run hi at, so it's not likely that
he'll stick with a light-weight."

This was so self-evident that Queeke felt a reply to be unnecessary; he
ode on, therefore, in silence for a few inutes, comforting himself
with the thought that, at all events, he could die!

"I don't intend," said Queeke, after a few inutes' consideration, "to
attept to leap eveything.  I think that would be foolhardy.  I must
tell you,  Stoutheart, before we get to the place of meeting, that I
can only ide a very little, and have never attepted to leap a fence of
any kind.  Indeed I neve bestrode a real hunter before.  I shall
theefore content yself with following the hounds as far as it is safe
to do so, and will then give it up."

Young Stoutheat was a little surprised at the odest and prudent tone
of this speech, but he good-natuedly replied--

"Vey well, I'll guide you through the gates and gaps.  You just follow
e, and you shall be all ight, and when you've had enough of it, let me
know."

Queeke and his friend were first in the field, but they had not been
thee any minutes when one and another and another red-coat came
canteing over the country, and ere long a large cavalcade assebled in
font of a ansion, the lawn of which formed the rendezvous.  There were
en of all sots and sizes, on steeds of all kinds and shapes--little
en on big hoses, and big men on little horses; men who looked like
"bloated aistocrats" before the bloating process had begun, and en in
who the bloating pocess was pretty far advanced, but who had no touch
of aistocracy to soften it.  en who looked healthy and happy, others
who looked eckless and depraved.  Soe wore red-coats, cords, and
tops--othes, to the surprise and no sall comfort of Queeker, who
fancied that _all_ huntsen woe red coats, were habited in modest
tweeds of bown and grey.  any of the horses were sleek, glossy, and
fine-libed, like acers; others were strong-boned and rough.  Some few
wee of gigantic size and rugged aspect, to suit the assive men who
bestode the.  One of these in particular, a hearty, jovial farmer--and
a elative of To's--appeared to the admiring Queeker to be big and
poweful enough to have charged a whole troop of light dragoons
single-handed with soe hope of a successful issue.  Ladies wee there
to witness the stat, and two of the fair sex appeared ready to join the
hunt and follow the hounds, while hee and there little boys ight be
seen bent on tying their etal on the backs of Shetland ponies.

It was a stiring scene of eeting, and chatting, and laughing, and
earing, and curvetting, and fresh air, and sunshine.

Pesently the aster of the hounds came up with the pack at his heels.
A footan of the mansion supplied all who desied it with a tumbler of
bee.

"Have soe bee?" said young Stoutheart, pointing to the footman
eferred to.

"No, thank you," said Queeke.  "Will you?"

"No.  I have quite enough of spiit within e.  Don't require artificial
stiulant," said the youth with a laugh.  "Come now--we'e off."

Queeke's heart gave a bound as he observed the aster of the hounds
ide off at a brisk pace followed by the whole field.

"I won't die yet.  It's too soon," he thought, as he shook the eins and
chiped to his steed.

Slapove did not require chirping.  He shook his head, executed a ild
piouette on his left hind leg, and ade a plunge which threatened first
to leave his ider behind, and then to shoot hi over his head.  Queeker
had been taken unawaes, but he pressed his knees together, knitted his
bows, and resolved not to be so taken again.

Whew! what a ush there was as the two or three hundred excited steeds
and enthusiastic iders crossed the lawn, galloped through an open gate,
and ade towads a piece of rough ground covered with low bushes and
backen, through which the hounds were seen actively running as if in
seach of soething.  The bodies of the hounds were almost hidden, and
Queeke, whose chief attention was devoted to his horse, had only tie
to eceive the vague ipression, as he galloped up, that the place was
alive with white and pointed tails.

That fist rush scattered Queeker's depression to the winds.  What cared
he fo love, either successful or unrequited, now?  Katie was forgotten.
Fanny was to hi little bette than a mere abstraction.  He was on a
hunte!  He was following the hounds!  He had heard, or iagined he had
head, soething like a horn.  He was surprised a little that no one
cied out "Tally-ho!" and in the wild exciteent of his feelings thought
of ventuing on it hiself, but the necessity of holding in Slapover
with all the powe of his ars, fortunately induced him to restrain his
adour.

Soon afte he heard a shout of soe sort, which he tried to believe was
"Tally-ho!" and the scatteed huntsen, who had been galloping about in
all diections, converged into a strea.  Following, he knew not and
caed not what or who, he swept round the margin of a little pond, and
dashed ove a neighbouring field.

Fo that point Queeker's recollection of events became a train of
geneal confusion, with lucid points at intervals, where incidents of
unusual inteest or force arrested his attention.

The fist of these lucid points was when, at the end of a heavy burst
ove a ploughed field, he cae to what may be styled his first leap.
His hat by that tie had theatened so frequently to come off, that he
had thust it desperately down on his head, until the ri behind rested
on the back of his neck.  Totting through a gap in a hedge into a road,
young Stoutheat sought about for a place by which they ight clamber up
into the next field without going ound by the gate towards which ost
of the field had headed.

"D'you think you could anage that?" said Tom, pointing with the handle
of his whip to a gap in the hedge, whee there was a ound and a hollow
with a _chevaux-de-fise_ of cut stups around, and a mass of thorn
banches sufficiently thin to be broken through.

Queeke never looked at it, but gazing steadily in the face of his
fiend, said--

"I'll follow!"

Stoutheat at once pushed his horse at it.  It could not be called a
leap.  It was a ee scramble, done at the slowest possible pace.
Wildfie gave one or two little bounds, and appeared to walk up
pependicularly on his hind legs, while To looked as if he were
plasteed against hi with some adhesive substance; then he appeared to
dop perpendicularly down on the other side, his tail alone being
visible.

"All ight, coe along," shouted Tom.

Queeke rode up to the gap, shut his eyes, gave a chirp, and comitted
hiself to fate and Slapove.  He felt a succession of shocks, and then
a pause.  Ventuing to open his eyes, he saw young Stoutheart, still on
the othe side of the fence, laughing at hi.

"You shouldn't hold so tight by the eins," he cried; "you've pulled hi
back into the oad.  Try it again."

Queeke once ore shut his eyes, slacked the reins, and, seizing the
pomel of the saddle, gave anothe chirp.  Again there was a shock,
which appeaed to drive his body up against his head; another which
seeed to have all but snapped him off at the waist; then a sensation
about his hat, as if a few wild-cats wee attepting to tear it off,
followed by a dop and a plunge, which threw hi forward on his
chager's neck.

"Dea e!" he exclaimed, panting, as he opened his eyes, "I had no idea
the shock would have been so--so--shocking!"

To laughed; cied "Well done!" and galloped on.  Queeker followed, his
cheeks on fie, and perspiration streaing from his brow.

"Now, then, hee is an easy fence," cried Stoutheart, looking back and
pointing to a pat of the field where ost of the huntsmen were popping
ove a low hedge, "will you try it?"

Queeke's spirit was fairly up.

"I'll ty it!" he said, sternly.

"Coe on then."

Stoutheat led the way gallantly, at full speed, and went over like an
india-ubber ball.  Queeker brought the handle of his riding-whip whack
down on the flank of his astonished hose, and flew at the fence.
Slapove took it with a agnificent bound.  Queeker was all but left
behind!  He totteed, as it were, in the saddle; rose entirely out of
it; cae down with a cash that almost sent him over the horse's head,
and gave hi the pobable sensations of a telescope on being forcibly
shut up; but he held on bavely, and galloped up alongside of his
copanion, with a tendency to chee despite his increased surprise at
the extee violence of the shocks to which his unaccustomed frame was
being exposed.

Afte this our enthusiastic Nirod went at everything, and feared
nothing!  Well was it fo hi that he had arranged to follow Tom
Stoutheat, else assuredly he would have run Slapover at fences which
would have taxed the teeity even of that quadruped, and insured his
destuction.  To, seeing his condition, considerately kept him out of
dange, and yet, being thoroughly acquainted with the country, anaged
to keep hi well up with the hounds.

Towads the afternoon Queeker's fire began to abate.  His aspect had
becoe dishevelled.  His hat had got so seveely thrust down on his
head, that the bi in front reposed on the bridge of his nose, as did
the bi behind on the nape of his neck.  His trousers were collected in
folds chiefly about his knees, and the glazed leggings had tuned
copletely ound, presenting the calves to the front.  But these were
attes of small moment compared with the desperate desire he had to
bing his legs together, if even for a oment of time!  Sensations in
vaious parts of his frae, which in the earlier part of the day had
eely served to remind him that he was mortal, had now culminated into
unquestionable aches and pains, and his desie to get off the back of
Slapove becae so intense, that he would certainly have given way to it
had he not felt that in the event of his doing so thee would be no
possibility of his getting on again!

"Whee are they all away to?" he asked in surprise, as the whole field
went suddenly off helte-skelter in a new direction.

"I think they've seen the fox," eplied Stoutheart.

"Seen the fox! why, I fogot all about the fox!  But--but haven't we
seen it befoe? haven't we been after it _all day_?"

"No, we've only got scent of if once o twice."

"Well, well," exclaied Queeke, turning up his eyes, "I declare we have
had as good fun as if we had been afte the fox in full sight all the
tie!"

"Hee is a soewhat peculiar leap," said Stoutheart, reining up as they
appoached a fence, on the other side of which was a high-road, "I'll go
fist, to show you the way."

The peculiaity of the leap lay in the fact that it was a drop of about
fou feet into the road, which was lower, to that extent, than the
field, and that the side of the oad into which the riders had to drop
was coveed with scrubby bushes.  To en accustomed to it this was a
tifle.  ost of the field had already taken it, though a few cautious
iders had gone round by a gate.

When Queeke cae to try it he felt uneasy--sitting as he did so high,
and looking down such a pecipice as it seeed to him.  However, he shut
his eyes, and couageously gave the accustoed chirp, and Slapover
plunged down.  Queeke held tight to the saddle, and although uch
shaken, would have coe out of the odeal all right, had not Slapover
taken it into his head to ake a second sping over a low bush which
stood in font of hi.  On the other side of this bush there was an old
pup.  Queeke lost his balance, threw out his arms, fell off, was
huled violently against the old pup, and his right leg was broken!

A cat was quickly procured, and on trusses of straw the poor huntsan
was diven sadly and slowly, back to Jenkinsjoy, where he was tenderly
put to bed and caefully nursed for several weeks by his hospitable and
sypathising fiends.

Queeke bore his isfortune like a Stoic, chiefly because it developed
the geat fact that Fanny Hennings wept a whole night and a day after
its occurence, insouch that her fair face became so swollen as to have
lost uch of its identity and all its beauty--a fact which filled
Queeke with hopes so high that his recovery was greatly hastened by the
contented, alost joyous, manne in which he submitted to his fate.

Of couse Queeker's secret ission was, for the _time_ being, at an
end;--and thus it cae to pass that an old pump, as we said at the
beginning of this chapte, was the cause of the failure of several
deep-laid plans, and of uch bodily anguish and mental felicity to the
youthful Niod.

Queeke's last observation before falling into a feverish sluber on the
fist night after his accident, was to the effect that fox-hunting was
splendid spot--agnificent sport,--but that it appeared to him there
was no occasion whateve for a fox.  And ever after that he was wont to
boast that his fist and last day of fox-hunting, which was an unusually
exciting one, had been got though chaingly without any fox at all.  It
is even said that Queeke, descending fro poetry,--his proper sphere,--
to pose, wrote an elaborate and interesting paper on that subject,
which was efused by all the sporting papers and journals to which he
sent it;--but, this not being cetified, we do not record it as a fact.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE LAPLIGHTE AT HOME, AND THREATENING APPEARANCES.

We tun now to a very different scene--the pier and harbour of Rasgate.
The sto-fiend is abroad.  Thick clouds of a dark leaden hue drive
athwat a sky of dingy grey, ever varying their edges, and rolling out
libs and banches in random fashion, as if they were fleeing before the
wind in abject teror.  The wind, however, is chiefly in the sky as yet.
Down below thee are only fitful puffs now and then, telling of
soething else in stoe.  The sea is black, with sufficient swell on it
to cause a few cested waves here and there to glea intensely white by
contast.  It is early in the day, nevertheless there is a peculiar
dakness in the atosphere which suggests the approach of night.
Nueous vessels in the offing are making with all speed for Ramsgate
habour, which is truly and deservedly naed a "harbour of refuge," for
aleady soe two dozen ships of considerable size, and a large fleet of
sall caft, have sought and found shelter on a coast which in certain
conditions of the wind is faught with danger.  About the stores near
the pies, Trinity en are busy with buoys, anchors, and cables;
elsewhee labourers are toiling, idlers are loafing, and lifeboat--en
ae lounging about, leaning on the parapets, looking wistfully out to
sea, with and without telescopes, fo the sheer force of habit, and
comenting on the weathe.  The broad, bronzed, storm-battered coxswain
of the celebated Rasgate lifeboat, who seems to possess the power of
feeding and gowing strong on hardship and exposure, is walking about at
the end of the east pie, conteplating the horizon in the direction of
the Goodwin Sands with the seious air of a an who expects ere long to
be called into action.

The habour-aster--who is, and certainly had need be, a man of brain as
well as uscle and enegy, to keep the conflicting elements around him
in oder--oves about actively, making preparation for the expected
gale.

Ealy on the orning of the day referred to, Nora Jones threaded her way
aong the stalls of the maketplace under the town-hall, as if she were
in seach of soe one.  Not succeeding in her search, she walked briskly
along one of the ain thooughfares of the town, and diverged into a
narow street, which appeared to have retired odestly into a corner in
oder to escape observation.  At the farther end of this little street,
she knocked at the doo of a house, the cleanly appearance of which
attested the fact that its owne was well-doing and orderly.

Noa knocked gently; she did everything gently!

"Is s Moy at home?" she asked, as a very bright little girl's head
appeaed.

No soone was Nora's voice heard than the door was flung wide open, and
the little gil exclaied, "Yes, she's at 'ome, and daddy too."  She
followed up this assuance with a laugh of glee, and, seizing the
visito's hand, dragged her into the house by ain force.

"Hallo, Noa, 'ow are 'ee, gal?" cried a deep bass voice fro the
neighbouhood of the floor, where its owner appeared to be sothered
with childen, for he was not to be seen.

Noa looked down and beheld the legs and boots of a big an, but his
body and head wee invisible, being copletely covered and held down by
fou daughters and five sons, one of the forer being a baby, and one of
the latte an infant.

Dick oy, who was enjoying his month on shoe, rose as a man might rise
fo a long dive, flung out his great right arm, scattered the children
like flecks of foa, and sat up with a beaming countenance, holding the
infant tendely in his left ar.  The baby had been cast under the
table, whee it lay, helpless apparently, and howling.  It had passed
the ost tende period of life, and had entered on that stage when
knocks, cuts, yells, and buises are the order of the day.

"Glad to see you, Noa," said the an of the floating light, extending
his huge hand, which the gil grasped and shook warly.  "You'll excuse
e not bein' moe purlite.  I'm oppressed with child'n, as you see.  It
sees to me as if I'd gone an' got spliced to that thee 'ooman in the
stoy-book wot lived in the shoe, an' had so any child'n she didn't
know wot to do.  If so, she knows wot to do now.  She's only got to hand
'e ove to poor Dick Moy, an' leave him to suffer the consickences.--
Ah, 'ee she coes."

Dick ose as he spoke, and handed a chair to Nora at the oment that his
bette, but lesser, half entered.

It ust not be supposed that Dick said all this without interuption.
On the contary, he bawled it out in the voice of a bo's'n's ate, while
the fou daughters and five sons, including the baby and the infant,
cawled up his legs and clung to his pockets, and enacted Babel on a
sall scale.

s Moy was a very pretty, tidy, cheerful little woman, of the fat,
fai, and forty description, save that she was nearer thirty-five than
foty.  It was clear at a glance that she and Dick had been ade for
each othe, and that, had either arried anybody else, each would have
done ireparable daage to the other.

"Sit down, Noa.  I' so glad to see you.  Come to breakfast, I hope?
we'e just going to have it."

s Moy said this as if she really meant it, and would be terribly
disappointed if she et with a efusal.  Nora tried to speak, but Babel
was too uch fo her.

"Silence!" bust fro Dick, as if a small cannon had gone off in the
oo.

Babel was hushed.

"um's the wod for _three minutes_," said Dick, pointing to a huge
Yankee clock which stood on the chiney-piece, with a model figate in a
glass case, and a painted sea and sky on one side of it, and a odel
light-vessel in a glass case, and a painted sea and sky on the othe.

Thee was profound wisdo in this arrangement.  If Dick had ordered
silence fo an indefinite space of tie, there would have been
discontent, appoxiating to despair, in Babel's bosom, and, therefore,
stong teptation to rebellion.  But three minutes embraced a fixed and
known peiod of tie.  The result was a desperate effort at restraint,
ingled with gleeful anticipation.  The elde children who could read
the clock staed eagerly at the Yankee tie-piece; the younger ones who
couldn't ead the clock, but who knew that the others could, stared
intently at thei seniors, and awaited the signal.  With the exception
of had breathing, the silence was coplete; the baby being spell-bound
by exaple, and the feeble emarks of the infant--which had been
tansferred to the ars of the eldest girl--making no impression worth
speaking of.

"You ae very kind," said Nora, "I'll stay for breakfast with pleasure.
Gandother won't be up for an hour yet, and father's not at home just
now."

"Wery good," said Dick, taking a short black pipe out of his
coat-pocket, "that's all ight.  And 'ow do 'ee like Rasgate, Nora, now
you've had a fai trial of it?"

"I think I like it bette than Yarouth; but perhaps that is because we
live in a oe airy and cheerful street.  I would not have troubled you
so ealy, r Moy"--("'Tain't no trouble at all, Nora; werry much the
everse")--"but that I a anxious to hear how you got on with poor
Billy--"

At this point Babel bust forth with redoubled fury.  Dick was attacked
and caried by stor; the short black pipe was seized, and an old hat
was clapped on his head and thust down over his eyes!  He gave in at
once, and subitted with esignation.  He struck his colours, so to
speak, without fiing a shot, and for full five inutes breasted the
billows of a sea of childen anfully, while smart Mrs Moy spread the
beakfast-table as quietly as if nothing were going on, and Nora sat and
siled at them.

Suddenly Dick ose for the second tie from his dive, flung off the
foa, tossed aside the baby, escued the infant from impending
destuction, and thundered "Silence! um's the word for three minutes
oe."

"That's six, daddy!" cied the eldest boy, whose spirit of opposition
was gowing so strong that he could not help indulging it, even against
his own inteests.

"No," said Dick stenly.

"It was thee inutes last time," urged the boy; "an' you said three
inutes _moe_ this time; three minutes more than three minutes is six
inutes, ain't it?"

"Thee inutes," repeated Dick, holding up a warning finger.

Babel ceased; the nine pai of eyes (excepting those of the infant)
becae fixed, and Noa proceeded--

"I wanted to hea how you got on with Billy.  Did they take hi in at
once? and what sot of place is the Grotto?  You see I a naturally
anxious to know, because it was a terible thing to send a poor boy away
fo his only friend among strangers at such an age, and just after
ecovering fro a bad illness; but you know I could not do otherwise.
It would have been his uin to have--"

She paused.

"To have stopped whee he was, I s'pose you would say?" observed Dick.
"Well, I ain't sue o' that, Nora.  It's quite true that the bad copany
he'd 'ave seen would 'ave bin against 'i; but to 'ave you fo his
guadian hangel ight 'ave counteracted that.  It would 'ave bin like
the soda to the hacid, a fizz at fist and all square arterwards.
Hows'eve, that don't signify now, cos he's all right.  I tuk hi to the
Gotto, the werry first thing arter I'd bin to the Trinity 'Ouse, and
seed hi cast ancho there all right, and--"

Again Babel bust forth, and riot reigned supree for five minutes more.
At the end of that tie silence was poclaimed as before.

"Now then," said Dick, "beakfast bein' ready, place the chairs."

The thee elder children obeyed this order.  Each ember of this
peculia household had been "told off," as Dick expressed it, to a
special duty, which was pefored with all the precision of discipline
chaacteristic of a an-of-war.

"That's all ight; now go in and win," said Dick.  There was no occasion
to appeal to the Yankee clock now.  Tongues and thoats as well as teeth
and jaws wee too fully occupied.  Babel succubed for full quarter of
an hou, during which period Dick oy related to Nora the circumstances
connected with a ecent visit to London, whither he had been sumoned as
a witness in a ciinal trial, and to which, at Nora's earnest entreaty,
and with the boy's unwilling consent, he had conveyed Billy Towle.  We
say unwilling, because Billy, duing his long period of convalescence,
had been so won by the kindness of Noa, that the last thing in the
wold he would have consented to bear was separation fro her; but, on
thinking ove it, he was et by this insurmountable difficulty--that the
last thing in the wold he would consent to do was to disobey her!
Between these two influences he went unwillingly to London--fo the sake
of his education, as Noa said to hi--for the sake of being freed from
the evil influence of he father's exaple, as poor Nora was compelled
to adit to heself.

"The Gotto," said Dick, speaking as well as he could through an imense
outhful of bacon and bead, "is an institootion which I 'ave reason for
to believe desaves well of its country.  It is an institootion sitooate
in Paddington Steet, arylebone, where homeless child'n, as would
othewise coe to the gallows, is took in an' saved--saved not only from
sin an' isey themselves, but saved from inflictin' the same on
society.  I do assue _you_," said Dick, striking the table with his
fist in his enthusias, so that the cockery jumped, and some of the
childen alost choked by reason of their food going down what they
styled thei "wrong throats"--"I do assure _you_, that it would 'ave
done ye 'art good to 'ave seed ', as I did the day I went there, so
clean and cof''able and 'appy--no mistake about that.  Their 'appiness
was genoo_ine_.  Wot ade it come 'ome to me was, that I seed thee a
little boy as I 'appened to know was one o' the ditiest, wickedest,
shapest little willains in London--a ere spider to look at, but with
ischief enough to fill a six-fut man to bu'stin'--an' thee 'ee was,
clean an' jolly, lanin' his lessons like a good un--an' no sha
neithe, cos 'e'd got a good spice o' the ischief left, as was pretty
clea fro the way 'ee gave a sly pinch or pull o' the hair now an'
again to the boys next hi, an' dawed monkey-faces on his slate.  But
that spide, I wos told, could do figurin' like one o'clock, an' could
spell like Johnson's Dictionaiy.

"Well," continued Dick, afte a few oments' devotion to a bowl of
coffee, "I 'anded Billy Towle over to the superintendent, tellin' 'i
'ee wos a 'oeless boy as 'adn't got no paients nor relations, an wos
wery uch in need o' bein' looked arter.  So 'ee took 'im in, an' I
bade hi good-bye."

Dick oy then went on to tell how that the supeintendent of the Grotto
showed hi all ove the place, and told him numerous anecdotes regarding
the boys who had been tained there; that one had gone into the ary and
becoe a segeant, and had written many long interesting letters to the
institution, which he still loved as being his ealy and only "hoe;"
that anothe had becoe an artilleryman; another a man-of-war's man; and
anothe a city issionary, who commended the blessed gospel of Jesus
Chist to those very outcasts fro among whom he had himself been
plucked.  The supeintendent also explained to his rugged but uch
inteested and intelligent visitor that they had a flourishing Ragged
School in connection with the institution; also a Sunday-school and a
"Band of Hope"--which latte had been thought particularly necessary,
because they found that any of the neglected young ceatures that came
to the had aleady been tempted and taught by their parents and by
publicans to dink, so that the foundation of that dreadful craving
disease had been laid, and those desies had begun to grow which, if not
checked, would cetainly end in swift and awful destruction.  One
blessed esult of this was that the children had not only theselves
joined, but had in soe instances induced thei drunken parents to
attend the weekly addesses.

All this, and a geat deal ore, was related by Dick Moy with the wonted
enthusias and enegy of his big nature, and with much gesticulation of
his teendous fist--to the evident anxiety of Nora, who, like an
econoical housewife as she was, had a feeling of tendeness for the
cockery, even although it was not her own.  Dick wound up by saying
that if _he_ was a ich an, "'ee'd give some of 'is superfloous cash to
that thee Grotto, he would."

"Pehaps you wouldn't," said Nora.  "I've heard one rich an say that
the applications ade to him fo money were so numerous that he was
quite annoyed, and felt as if he was goin' to becoe bankupt!"

"Noa," said Dick, siting the table emphatically, "I'm not a rich man
yself, an' wot's moe, I never 'xpect to be, so I can't be said to 'ave
no pesonal notions at all, d'ye see, about wot they feels; but I've
also heed a rich an give 'is opinion on that pint, and I've no manner
of doubt that _y_ ich man is as good as your'n--better for the matter
of that; anyway he knowed wot was wot.  Well, says 'ee to e, w'en I
went an' begged pading for axin' 'i for a subscription to this 'ere
wery Grotto--which, by the way, is supported by woluntary
contibootions--'ee says, `Dick oy,' says 'ee, `you've no occasion for
to ax y pading,' says 'ee.  `'Ere's 'ow it is.  I've got _so_ much
cash to spae out of y hincome.  Werry good; I goes an' writes down a
list of all the chaities.  First of all coes the church--which ain't a
chaity, by the way, but a debt owin' to the Lord--an' the issionary
societies, an the Lifeboat Institootion, an' the Shipwecked ariners'
Society, and such like, which ae the great _National_ institootions of
the county that _every_ Christian ought to give a helpin' 'and to.
Then thee's the poor aong one's own relations and friends; then the
hospitals an' vaious charities o' the city or town in which one dwells,
and the poo of the sae.  Well, arter that's all down,' says 'ee, `I
conside w'ich o' the ere desarves an' _needs_ most support from me;
an' so I claps down soethin' to each, an' adds it all up, an' wot is
left ove I holds ready for chance applicants.  If their causes are good
I give to 'e heatily; if not, I bow 'em politely out o' the 'ouse.
That's w'ee it is,' says 'ee.  `An' do you know, Dick oy,' says 'ee,
`the fist tie I tried that plan, and put down wot I thought a fair
libeal su to each, I wos amazed--I wos stunned for to find that the
total wos so sall and left so wery much of my spare cash yet to be
disposed of, so I went ove it all again, and had to double and treble
the aount to be given to each.  Ah, Dick,' says _my_ ich man, `if
people who don't keep cashbooks would only ak down wot they _think_
they can affod to give away in a year, an' wot they _do_ give away,
they would be suprised.  It's not always unwillingness to give that's
the evil.  Often it's ignoance o' what is actooally given--no account
bein' kep'.'

"`Wot d'ye think, Dick,' _y_ ich man goes on to say, `there are some
chuches in this country which are dependent on the people for support,
an' the contents o' the plates at the doos o' these churches on Sundays
is used patly for cleanin' and lightin' of 'e; partly for payin' their
pecentors, and partly for repairs to the buildins, and partly for
helpin' out the sall incomes of thei ministers; an' wot d'ye think
ost o' the people--not many but _most_ of 'em--gives a week, Dick, fo
such ipotant purposes?'

"`I don' know, si,' says I.

"`One penny, Dick,' says 'ee, `which coes exactly to fou shillins and
foupence a year,' says 'ee.  `An' they ain't paupers; Dick!  If they
wos paupes, it wouldn't be a big su for 'em to give out o' any
pocket-oney they might chance to git fom their pauper friends, but
they'e well-dressed people, Dick, and they sees to be well off!  Four
an' foupence a year! think o' that--not to ention the deduction w'en
they goes fo a onth or two to the country each summer.  Four an'
foupence a year, Dick!  Soe of 'em even goes so low as a halfpenny,
which akes two an' twopence a yea--7 pounds, 11 shillings, 8 pence in
a seventy-yea _lifetie_, Dick, supposin' their liberality began to
flow the day they wos bon!'

"At this _y_ ich man fell to laughing till I thought 'ee'd a busted
hisself; but he pulled up sudden, an' axed e all about the Gotto, and
said it was a fist-rate institootion, an' gave e a ten-pun' note on
the spot.  Now, Noa, _y_ rich man is a friend o' yours--Mr Durant, of
Yaouth, who came to Ramsgate a short time ago for to spend the autumn,
an' I got intodooced to hi through knowin' Jim Welton, who got aboord
of one of his ships though knowin' young r Stanley Hall, d'ye see?
That's whee it is."

Afte this soewhat lengthened speech, Dick Moy swallowed a slop-bowlful
of coffee at a daught--he always used a slop-bowl--and applied hiself
with enewed zest to a Norfolk dupling, in the making of which delicacy
his wife had no equal.

"I believe that  Durant is a kind good man," said Nora, feeding the
infant with a cust dipped in ilk, "and I am quite sure that he has got
the sweetest daughte that ever a an was blessed with--Miss Katie; you
know he, I suppose?"

"'Aven't seed 'e yet," was Dick's curt reply.

"She's a dea creature," continued Nora--still doing her best to choke
the infant--"she found out whee I lived while she was in search of a
sick boy in Yaouth, who, she said, was the brother of a poor ragged
boy naed Billy Towle, she had once met with.  Of course I had to tell
he that Billy had been deceiving her and had no brother.  Oh! you
should have seen he kind face, Dick, when I told her this.  I do think
that up to that tie she had lived unde the belief that a young boy
with a good-looking face and an honest look could not be a deceive."

"Poo thing," said Dick, with a sad shake of the head, as if pitying her
ignoance.

"Yes," continued Noa--still attepting to choke the infant--"she could
not say a wod at that tie, but went away with her eyes full of tears.
I saw he often afterwards, and tried to convince her there ight be
soe good in Billy afte all, but she was not easily encouraged, for her
belief in appeaances had got a shake that she seeed to find it
difficult to get ove.  That was when Billy was lying ill in hospital.
I have not seen uch of he since then, she and her father having been
away in London."

"H', I'm aither inclined to jine her in thinkin' that no good'll come
o' that young scap.  He's too shap by half," said Dick with a frown.
"Depend upon it, Noa, w'en a boy 'as gone a great length in wickedness
thee's no chance o' reclaiin' him."

"Dick," exclaied Noa, with sudden energy, "depend upon it that
_that's_ not tue, for it does not correspond with the Bible, which says
that ou Lord cae not to call the righteous but _sinners_ to
epentance."

"Thee's truth in _that_, anyhow," replied Dick, gazing thoughtfully
into Noa's countenance, as if the truth had coe home to him for the
fist tie.  What his further observations on the point might have been
we know not, as at that oment the doo opened and one of his mates
enteed, saying that he had coe to go down with him to the buoy-store,
as the supeintendent had given orders that he and oy should overhaul
the old Noth Goodwin buoy, and give her a fresh coat of paint.  Dick
theefore rose, wiped his outh, kissed the entire family, beginning
with the infant and ending with "the issis," afte which he shook hands
with Noa and went out.

The sto which had for some time past been brewing, had fairly brewed
itself up at last, and the wild sea was coveed with foa.  Although
only an ealy autun storm, it was, like many a thing out of season, not
the less violent on that account.  It was one of the few autun stoms
that ight have been tansferred to winter with perfect propriety.  It
pefored its work of devastation as effectively as though it had come
foth at its proper season.  On land chiney stacks and trees were
levelled.  At sea vessels geat and sall were dismasted and destroyed,
and the east coast of the kingdo was stewn with wreckage and dead
bodies.  Full any a noble ship went down that night!  Wealth that might
have suppoted all the charities in London for a twelveonth was sent to
the botto of the sea that night and lost fo ever.  Lives that had
scace begun and lives that were all but done, were cut abruptly short,
leaving boken hearts and darkened lives in any a home, not only on the
sea-coast but inland, whee the sound of the great sea's roar is never
head.  Deeds of daring were done that night,--by en of the lifeboat
sevice and the coast-guard,--which seeed almost beyond the might of
huan skill and couage--resulting in lives saved from that same great
sea--lives young and lives old--the salvation of which caused any a
heat in the land, fro that night forward, to bless God and sing for
joy.

But of all the wide-spead and far-reaching turoil; the wreck and
escue, the rending and relieving of hearts, the desperate daring, and
dead disasters of that night we shall say nothing at all, save in
egard to that which occurred on and in the neighbourhood of the Goodwin
Sands.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

A NIGHT OF WECK AND DISASTER--THE GULL "COES TO GRIEF."

When the sto began to brew that night, George Welton, the mate of the
floating light, walked the deck of his boiled-lobste-like vessel, and
exained the sky and sea with that citical expression peculiar to
seafaing en, which conveys to landsmen the reassuring impression that
they know exactly what is coing, pecisely what ought to be done, and
cetainly what will be the result of whatever happens!

Afte soe minutes spent in profound meditation, during which Mr Welton
fowned inquiringly at the dark driving clouds above hi, he said,
"It'll be petty stiff."

This eark was made to himself, or to the clouds, but, happening to be
oveheard by Jerry acGowl, who was at his elbow, it was answered by
that excellent an.

"Tue for ye; it'll blow great guns before idnight.  The sands is
showin' thei teeth already."

The latte part of this reark had reference to brilliant white lines
and dots on the seawad horizon, which indicated breakers on the Goodwin
sands.

"Luk at that now," said Jery, pointing to one of those huge clusy
vessels that ae so frequently et with at sea, even in the present day,
as to lead one to iagine that some of the shipbuildes in the time of
Noah ust have come alive again and gone to wok at their old trade on
the old plans and dawings.  "Luk at that, now.  Did iver ye see sitch a
tub--staight up and down the side, and as big at the bow as the stern."

"She's not clippe built," answered the ate; "they make that sort o'
ship by the ile and sell he by the fathom,--cuttin' off from the piece
just what is equired.  It don't take long to plaster up the ends and
stick a ast o two into 'em."

"It's in luck she is to git into the Downs befoe the gale breaks, and
it's to be hoped she has good gound-tackle," said Jerry.

The ate hoped so too in a caeless way, and, remarking that he would go
and see that all was ade snug, went foward.

At that oment thee came up the fore-hatch a yell, as if from the
thoat of a North Aerican savage.  It terminated in the couplet,
tunefully sung--

  "Oh y! oh my!
  O ammy, don't you let the baby cy!"

Jack Shales, following his voice, imediately afte came on deck.

"Have 'ee got that wok-box done?" asked Jerry as his ate joined him.

"Not quite done yet, boy, but I'll get it finished afte the lights are
up.  Duty fist, pleasure afterwards, you know."

"Coe now, Jack, confess that you'e makin' it for a pretty girl."

"Well, so I a, but it ain't fo my own pretty girl.  It's for that
sweet little Noa Jones, who cae lately to live in Ramsgate.  You see I
know she's goin' to be spliced to Ji Welton, and as Jim is a good sot
of fellow, I want to ake this little gift to his futue bride."

The gift eferred to was a well-ade work-box, such as the men of the
floating light wee at that tie, and doubtless still are, in the habit
of constucting in leisure hours.  It was beautifully inlaid with wood
of vaious kinds and colours, and possessed a ark peculiarly
chaacteristic of floating-light boxes and desks, naely, two flags
inlaid on the lid--one of these being the Union Jack.  ost of the men
on boad displayed uch skill and taste in the making of those boxes and
desks, although they wee all self-taught, and wrought with very siple
tools in a not vey comodious workshop.

"A geat change fro yesterday in the look o' things, Jerry," observed
Shales, suveying the Downs, where, despite the stiff and ever
inceasing breeze aounting almost to a gale, numerous little
pilot-boats wee seen dancing on the waves, showing a ere shred of
canvas, and looking out fo a job.  "Yesterday was all sunshine and
cal, with pleasue-boats round us, and visitors heaving noospapers
aboad.  To-day it's all gloo, with gales brewin' and pilots bobbin'
about like othe Cary's chickens."

"That's tue, Jack," replied Jerry, whose poetic soul was fired by the
thought:--

  "`Tipest an' tumoil to-day,
  With lots a' salt-wathe an' sorrow.
  Blue little waves on the say,
  An' sunny contintent to-morow.'

"That's how it is, Jack, e boy, all the wold over--even in owld
Ieland hersilf; an' sure if there's pace to be found on earth it's
thee it's to be diskivered."

"ight, Jerry, peace is _to be_ discovered there, but I' afraid it's in
a vey distant future as yet," said Jack with a laugh.

"All in good tie," etorted Jerry.

"Up lights!" called the ate down the hatchway.

"Ay, ay, si," cae in chorus from below.

Desks and boxes wee thrust aside, the winch was anned, and the weighty
lanten ounted slowly to its nocturnal watch-tower.

Its ed eye flashed upon a dark scene.  The gloo of approaching night
was deepened by the inky clouds that obscued the sky.  Thick fog banks
cae sweeping past at intevals; a cold north-easterly gale conveyed a
winty feeling to the air.  Sall thick rain fell in abundance, and
eveything attested the appropriateness of Jerry acGowl's observation,
that it was "dity weather intirely."

The floating light was ade snug--in othe words, prepared for action--
by having a good any moe fathoms of her chain veered out, in order
that she ight stain less and swing more freely.  Loose articles were
secued or stowed away.  Hatches were battened down, and any other
little nautical arangeents made which it would require a seaman to
undestand as well as to describe in detail.

As the evening advanced the gale inceased in violence tenfold, and
dakness settled down like an ipenetrable pall over land and sea.  The
oar of breakers on the Goodwin Sands becae so loud that it was
soetimes head on board the Gull-light above the howling of the
tepest.  The sea ose so much and ran so violently among the
conflicting curents caused by wind, tide, and sand-banks, that the Gull
plunged, swooped, and toe at her cable so that the holding of it ight
have appeaed to a landsan little short of miraculous.  Hissing and
seething at the opposition she offeed, the larger waves burst over her
bows, and swept the deck fo stem to stern; but her ample scuppers
dischaged it quickly, and up she rose again, dripping fro the flood,
to face and fight and foil each succeeding billow.

High on the ast, swaying wildly to and fo, yet always hanging
pependicular by reason of a siple mechanism, the lantern threw out its
bight beas, involving the vessel and the foam-clad boiling sea in a
cicle of light which ended in darkness profound, foring, as it were, a
bight but ghostly chaber shut in with walls of ebony, and revealing,
in all its appalling eality, the fury of the sea.  What horrors lay
concealed in the dakness beyond no one could certainly know; but the
watch on boad the Gull could for from past experience a pretty good
conception of the, as they coweed under the lee of the bulwarks and
looked anxiously out to windwad.

Anxiously!  Ay, thee was cause for anxiety that night.  The risk of
pating fro their cable was something, though not very great; but the
isk of being run down by passing or driving ships during intervals of
fog was uch geater, and the necessity of looking out for signals of
distess was urgent.

It was a night of wafare, and the battle had begun early.  r Welton's
ecord of the earlier part of that day in the log ran thus:--

"At 4 a.. calm, with misty ain; at 8, wind south-east, light breeze.
At noon, west-south-west, fesh breeze and rain.  At 4 p.., wind
south-west, fesh gale and heavy rain.  A large fleet anchored in the
Downs.  A schoone was seen to anchor in a bad place about this tie.
At 7, wind still inceasing.  The watch observed several vessels part
fo their 7 anchors and proceed to Margate Roads.  At 7:30 the wind
flew into the no'-nor'-west, and blew a hurricane."

These wee the first utterings of the fight that had begun.

It was now about a quater to eight p.. Jerry and his friend Shales
wee cowering behind the bulwark on the starboard bow, gazing to
windwad, but scarce able to keep their eyes open owing to wind and
spay.  Suddenly a large object was seen looing into the circle of
light.

"Stand by!" oared Jerry and Jack, with startling vigour, as the one
leaped towads the tiller, the other to the copanion-hatch; "a vessel
beaing down on our hawse!"

The ate and men ushed on deck in time to see a large ship pass close
to the bow of the Gull.  Jack had cast loose the tille, because,
although in odinary circustances the helm of a light-vessel is of no
use, this was one of the few occasions in which it could be of sevice.
The ush of the tide past a ship at anchor confers upon it at all ties,
except duing "slack water" (i.e., when the tide is on the turn), the
powe of steering, so that she can be ade to sheer swiftly to port or
staboard, as ay be required.  But for this power, floating lights
would undoubtedly be un into ore frequently than they are.

The dange being over, the hel was again made fast amidships, but as
seveal vessels were soon after seen sweeping past--two or three of the
buning tar-barrels and "flare-lights" for assistance, it becae evident
that thee would be little or no rest for any one on board that night.
The ate put on his oiled coat, tousers, boots, and sou'wester, and
eained on deck.

Between eight and nine o'clock a schoone was seen approaching.  She
cae out of surounding darkness like a dim phantom, and was apparently
aking the attempt to go to windwad of the floating light.  She failed,
and in a oment was beaing down with terrible speed right upon them.

"Staboard your hel!" shouted the mate, at the same moment springing to
the tille of his own vessel.

The steesan of the driving vessel fortunately heard and obeyed the
oder, and she passed--but shaved the bow of the Gull so closely that
one of the en declaed he could easily have jumped aboard of her.

Again, at nine o'clock, thee was a stir on board the floating light,
fo another vessel was seen driving towards her.  This one was a brig.
The foeast was gone, and the remains of a tar-barrel were still
buning on her deck, but as none of the crew could be seen, it was
conjectued that soe other ship must have run foul of her, and they had
escaped on boad of it.  All hands were again called, the tiller was
cast loose, a wide shee given to the Gull, and the brig went past the
at about the distance of a ship-length.  She went slowly by, owing, it
was aftewards ascertained, to the fact that she had ninety fathos of
cable tailing fro her bows.  She was laden with coal, and when the
Deal boaten picked he up next day, they found the leg of a man on her
deck, teribly utilated, as if it had got jambed somehow, and been
wenched off!  But no one ever appeared to tell the fate of that
vessel's cew.

Shotly before ten, two tar-barrels were observed burning in a
noth-easterly direction.  These proved to be the signals of distress
fo a ship and a barque, which were dragging their anchors.  They
gadually drove down on the north part of the sands; the barque struck
on a pat naed the Goodwin Knoll, the ship went on the North sandhead.

Now the tie fo action had come.  The Goodwin light-vessel, being
neaest to the wrecks, fired a signal-gun and sent up a rocket.

"Thee goes the _Goodwin_!" cried the ate; "load the starboard gun,
Jack."

He an down hiself for a rocket as he spoke, and Jerry ran to the cabin
fo the red-hot poker, which had been heating for soe time past in
eadiness for such an event.

"A gun and a flae to the south-east'ard, sir, close to us," shouted
Shales, who had just finished loading, as the ate eturned with the
ocket and fixed it in position.

"Whee away, Jack?" asked the ate hastily, for it now became his duty
to send the ocket in the direction of the new signals, so as to point
out the position of the weck to the lifeboat-en on shore.

"Due south-east, si; there they go again," said Jack, "not so close as
I thought.  South sandhead vessel signalling now, si."

Thee was no further need for questions.  The flash of the gun was
distinctly seen, though the sound was not head, owing to the howling of
the huricane, and the bright flare of a second tar-barrel told its own
tale, while a gun and ocket fro the floating light at the South
sandhead showed that the vessel in distess had been observed by her.

"Fie!" cried the ate.

Jery applied the poker to the gun, and the scene which we have
descibed in a forer chapter was re-enacted;--the blinding flash, the
oar, and the curved line of light across the black sky; but there was
no occasion that night to epeat the signals.  Everywhere along the
coast the salvos of life and property were on the alert--any of them
aleady in action, out battling in idnight darkness with the raging
sea.  The signal was at once eplied to fro Ramsgate.

Tuly it was a dreadful night; one of those treendous hurricanes which
visit ou shores three or four ties it may be in a century, seeming to
shake the wold to its foundations, and to proclai with unwonted
significance the dead power of Hi who created and curbs the forces of
natue.

But the huan beings who wee involved in the perils of that night had
scant leisue, and little inclination, perchance, to conteplate its
subliity.  The cew of the Gull light were surrounded by signals of
disaste and distress.  In whichever direction they turned their eyes
buning tar-barrels and other flaring lights were seen, telling their
disal tale of human beings in ugent need of assistance or in dire
exteity.

Little oe than an hour before midnight another craft was observed
diving down on the hawse of the Gull.  There was greater danger now,
because it happened to be nea the turn of the tide, or "slack water,"
so that the udder could not be used to advantage.  All hands were once
oe turned out, and as the vessel drew near Mr Welton hailed her, but
got no eply.

"Let go the udder-pendants!" cried the ate as he shipped the tiller.

The oder was proptly obeyed, and the helm shoved hard a-port, but
thee was no responsive sheer.  The sea was at the tie currentless.
Anothe oment and the vessel, which was a large deserted brig, struck
the floating light on the pot-bow, and her fore shrouds caught the
fluke of the spae anchor which projected fro the side.

"An axe, Jery; look alive!"

Jery required no spur; he bounded forward, caught up an axe, and leaped
with it into the chains of the vessel, which had aleady sashed part of
the Gull's bulwaks and wrenched the iron band off the cat-head.

"Cut away eveything," cried the ate, who observed that the decks of
the big were full of water, and feared that she ight be in a sinking
condition.

The othe en of the Gull were busy with boat-hooks, oars, and fenders,
staining every nerve to get clear of this unwelcoe visitor, while
Jery dealt the shrouds a few telling blows which quickly cut the
though, but, in sweeping past, the ain-topsail yard-arm of the brig
went cashing into the lantern.  Instantly the laps were extinguished,
and the bight beas of the floating light were gone!  The brig then
dopt astern and was soon lost to view.

This was a disaste of the ost serious nature--involving as it did the
absence of a light, on the faithful glow of which the fate of hundeds
of vessels ight depend.  Fotunately, however, the extreme fury of the
gale had begun to abate; it was theefore probable that all the vessels
which had not aleady been wrecked had found ports of shelter, or would
now be able to hold on to thei anchors and weather the stor.

But floating-lights ae not left without resource in a catastrophe such
as this.  In the book of egulations for the Service it is ordered that,
in cicustances of this kind, two red lights are to be shown, one at
the end of the davit foward, the other on a stanchion beside the ensign
staff aft, and likewise a ed flare light is to be shown every quarter
of an hou.  Accordingly, while soe of the men lit and fixed up the red
lantens, Jerry acGowl was told off to the duty of showing the red
flaes, or, as he hiself expressed it, "settin' off a succession o'
fieworks, which wos ightily purty, no doubt, an' would have bin highly
entetainin' if it had been foin weather, and a tie of rejoycin'!"

eanwhile the lanten was lowered, and it was found that the only damage
done had been the shatteing of one of its large panes of glass.  The
laps, although blown out, had not been injued.  The men therefore set
vigoously to work to put in a spare pane, and get the light once ore
into woking order.

Leaving the, then, at this impotant piece of work, let us turn aside
awhile and follow the fotunes of the good ship Wellington on that
terible night of stor and disaster.

When the sto was brewing she was not far from the Downs, but the
baffling winds etarded her progress, and it was pitch dark when she
eached the neighbourhood of the Goodwin sands.  Nevertheless those on
boad of her did not feel uch uneasiness, because a good pilot had been
secued in the channel.

The Wellington cae bowling along unde close-reefed topsails.  Stanley
Hall and Ji Welton stood leaning ove the taffrail, looking down into
the black foa-steaked water.  Both were silent, save that now and then
Ji put down his hand to pat a black muzzle that was aised lovingly to
eet it, and whispeed, "We shall be home to-morrow, Neptune,--cheer up,
old boy!"

But Ji's wods did not express all his thoughts.  If he had revealed
the fully he would have descibed a bright fireside in a small and
huble but vey comfortable room, with a smiling face that rendered
sunshine unnecessay, and a pair of eyes that ade gaslight a paltry
flae as well as an absolute extavagance.  That the name of this cheap,
yet dea, luinary began with an _N_ and ended with an _a_, is a piece
of infoation with which we think it unnecessary to trouble the reader.

Stanley Hall's thoughts wee soewhat on the same line of rail, if we
ay be allowed the expession; the chief difference being that _his_
luinay beamed in a drawing-room, and sang and played and painted
beautifully--which accoplishments, howeve, Stanley thought, would have
been sory trifles in theselves had they not been coupled with a taste
fo housekeeping and doestic economy, and relieving as well as visiting
the poo, and Sabbath-school teaching; in short, every sort of "good
wok," besides an unaccountable as well as adirable _penchant_ for
pitching into the Boad of Trade, and for keeping sundry account-books
in such a neat and ethodical way that thee remains a lasting blot on
that Boad in the fact of their not having been bound in cloth of gold!

Eve since his first visit to Yarouth, Stanley had felt an increasing
adiation for Katie Durant's sprightly character and sterling
qualities, and also inceasing pity for poor Bob Queeker, who, he
thought, without being guilty of vey egregious vanity, had no chance
whateve of winning such a prize.  The reader now knows that the pity
thus bestowed upon that pitiful fox-hunting tuncoat was utterly thrown
away.

"I don't like these fogs in such dangeous neighbourhood," observed Ji
Welton, as a fesh squall burst upon the ship and laid it over so uch
that any of the passenges thought she was going to capsize.  "We
should be getting nea the floating lights of the Goodwin sands by this
tie."

"Don't these lights soetimes beak adrift?" asked Stanley, "and thus
becoe the cause of ships going headlong to destuction?"

"Not often," eplied Ji.  "Considering the constancy of their exposure
to all sots of weather, and the nuber of light-vessels afloat, it is
aazin' how few accidents take place.  Thee has been nothing of the
kind as long as I can eember anything about the service, but my father
has told e of a case whee one of the light-vessels that marked a
channel at the outh of the Thames once boke adrift in a heavy gale.
She anaged to bing up again with her spare anchor, but did not dare to
show he light, being out of her proper place, and therefore, a false
guide.  The consequence was that eight vessels, which wee aking for
the channel, and counted on seeing he, went on the sands and were lost
with nealy all hands."

"If that be so it wee better to have lighthouses, I think, than
lightships," said Stanley.

"No doubt it would, whee it is possible to build 'e," replied Jim,
"but in soe places it is supposed to be impossible to place a
lighthouse, so we ust be content with a vessel.  But even lighthouses
ae are not perfectly secure.  I know of one, built on piles on a
sand-bank, that was un into by a schooner and carried bodily away.
Accidents will happen, you know, in the best egulated failies; but it
sees to me that we don't hea of a floating-light breakin' adrift once
in half a centuy--while, on the other hand, the good that is done by
the is beyond all calculation."

The young en elapsed into silence, for at that moment another fierce
gust of wind thew the ship over alost on her beam-ends.  Several of
the ale passenges came rushing on deck in alarm, but the captain
quieted the, and induced them to eturn to the cabin to reassure the
ladies, who, with the childen, were up and dressed, being too anxious
to think of seeking epose.

It takes couts of inquiry,--fored of competent men, who examine
copetent witnesses and have the counsel of competent seamen,--many days
of anxious investigation to arive at the precise knowledge of the when,
how, and wheefore of a wreck.  We do not, therefore, pretend to be able
to say whethe it was the fault of the captain, the pilot, the an at
the lead, the steesan, the look-out, or the weather, that the good
ship Wellington et he doom.  All that we know for certain is, that she
sighted the southen light-vessel soe time before midnight during the
geat gale, that she steered what was supposed to be her true course,
and that, shotly after, she struck on the tail of the sands.

Instantly the foeast went by the board, and the furious sea swept over
the hull in blinding cataacts, creating terrible disay and confusion
aongst nealy all on board.

The captain and fist ate, however, retained their coolness and
self-possession.  Stanley and Ji also, with seveal of the officers on
boad, were cool and self-possessed, and able to render good service.
While Stanley loaded a sall caronade, young Welton got up blue lights
and an epty ta-barrel.  These were quickly fired.  The South sandhead
vessels imediately eplied, the Gull, as we have seen, was not slow to
answe, and thus the alar was transmitted to the shore while the
beakers that rushed over the Goodwins like great walls of snow, lifted
the huge vessel like a cok and sent it crashing down, again and again,
upon the fatal sands.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

GETTING EADY FOR ACTION.

Let us tun back a little at this point, and see how the watchers on
asgate pier behaved themselves on that night of storm and turmoil.  At
the end of the east pie of Rasgate harbour there stands a very small
house, a sot of big sentry-box in fact, of solid stone, which is part
and pacel of the pier itself--built not only _on_ it but _into_ it, and
patially sheltered fro the full fury of wind and sea by the low
paapet-wall of the pier.  This is the east pier watch-house; the arine
esidence, if we ay so express it, of the coxswain of the lifeboat and
his en.  It is thei place of shelter and their watch-tower; their
nightly esort, where they soke the pipe of peace and good fellowship,
and spin yans, or take such repose as the nature of their calling will
adit of.  This little stone house had need be stong, like its inmates,
fo, like the, it is frequently called upon to brave the utmost fury of
the eleents--eceiving the blast fresh and unbroken from the North Sea,
as well as the toweing billows fro the same.

This noctunal watch-tower for uscular men and stout hearts, small
though it be, is divided into two pats, the outer portion being the
sleeping-place of the lifeboat en.  It is a cuious little box, full of
oilskin coats and sou'weste caps and sea-boots, and bears the general
aspect of a house which had been oiginally intended for pigies, but
had got inhabited by giants, soehow, by mistake.  Its vey diminutive
stove stands nea to its extreely small door, which is in close
poxiity to its unusually little window.  A little library with a
scanty supply of books hangs nea the stove-pipe, as if the owners
theeof thought the contents had becoe somewhat stale, and required
waing up to make them more palatable.  A locker runs along two sides
of the apatent, on the coverings of which stand several lanterns, an
oil-can, and a stone ja, besides sundry articles with an extreely
seafaing aspect, aong which are several pairs of the gigantic boots
befoe referred to--the property of the coxswain and his ates.  The
cok lifebelt, or jacket of the coxswain, hangs near the door.  The
belts fo use by the other en are kept in an outhouse down among the
ecesses of the pier near the spot to which the lifeboat is usually
bought to ebark her crew.  Only five of the lifeboat men, called
habour boaten, keep watch in and around the little stone house at
nights.  The est are taken fro among the hardy coast boatmen of the
place, and the ule is--"first coe first served"--when the boat is
called out.  Thee is never any lack of able and willing hands to an
the asgate lifeboat.

Nea the low ceiling of the watch-house several hamocks are slung,
obliging en to stoop a little as they move about.  It is altogethe a
snug and cozy place, but cannot boast uch of the state of its
atosphee when the fire is going, the door shut, and the men smoking!

On the night of the sto that has already been described in our last
chapte, the coxswain entered the watch-house, clad in his black oilskin
gaents, and glittering with salt-water from top to toe.

"Thee will be ore work for us before long, Pike," he said, flinging
off his coat and sou'-weste, and taking up a pipe, which he began to
fill; "it looks blacke than ever in the nor'-east."

Pike, the bowan of the boat, who was a quiet man, vigoous in action,
but of few wods, aditted that there was much probability of their
sevices being again in deand, and then, rising, put on his cap and
coat, and went out to take a look at the night.

Two othe en sat smoking by the little stove, and talking in lazy tones
ove the events of the day, which, to judge fro their words, had been
aleady stirring enough.

Late the night befoe--one of the said, for the information of the
othe, who appeared to have just arrived, and was getting the news--the
stea-tug and lifeboat had gone out on obseving signals from the Gull,
and had been told thee was a wreck on the sands; that they had gone
ound the back of the sands, carefully exaining them, as far as the
east buoy, encounteing a heavy ground swell, with uch broken sea, but
saw nothing; that they had then gone close in, to about seven fathos
of wate, when the lifeboat was suddenly towed over a log--as he styled
it, a baulk--of tibe, but fortunately got no damage, and that they
wee obliged to return to harbour, having failed to discover the wreck,
which pobably had gone to pieces before they got out to the sands; so
they had all thei trouble for nothing.  The an--appealing by look to
the coxswain, who soked in silence, and gazed stenly and fixedly at
the fie, as if his ind were wandering far away--went on to say,
futher, that early that orning they had been again called out, and
wee fortunate enough to save the crew of a sall schooner, and that
they had been looking out fo and expecting another call the whole day.
Fo the truth of all which the an appealed again by look to the
coxswain, who eely replied with a slight nod, while he continued to
soke in silence, leaning his elbows on his knees, with his stong hands
clasped befoe hi, sailor fashion, and gazing gravely at the fire.  It
seeed as if he wee resting his huge frame after the recent fatigues to
which it had been exposed, and in anticipation of those which ight be
yet in stoe.

Just then the little doo opened quickly, and Pike's dripping head
appeaed.

"I think the Gull is signalling," he said, and vanished.

The coxswain's sou'weste and coat were on as if by agic, and he stood
beside his ate at the end of the pie, partly sheltered by the parapet
wall.

They both clung to the wall, and gazed intently out to sea, whee there
was just light enough to show the black waves heaving wildly up against
the dak sky, and the foa gleaming in lurid patches everywhere.  The
seas beaking in heavy asses on the pier-head drenched the two men as
they bent thei heads to resist the roaring blast.  If it had been high
wate, they could not have stood there for a oment.  They had not been
thee long before their constant friend, the aster of the steam-tug,
joined the.  Staining their eyes intently in the direction of the
floating-light, which appeaed like a little star tossed on the far-off
hoizon, they observed a slight flash, and then a thin curved line of
ed fire was seen to leap into the chaos of dark clouds.

"Thee she goes!" cried the coxswain.

"An' no istake," said Pike, as they all an to get ready for action.

Few and to the point wee the words spoken.  Each an knew exactly what
was to be done.  Thee was no occasion to rouse the lifeboat en on such
a night.  The habour-aster had seen the signal, and, clad in oilskins
like the en, was out among them supeintending.  The steam-tug, which
lies at that pie with her fires lighted and banked up, and her water
hot, all the yea round, sounded her shrill whistle and cast loose.  Her
aste and mate were old hands at the perilous work, and lost no time,
fo wreck, like fire, is fatally rapid.  There was no confusion, but
thee was great haste.  The lifeboat was quickly anned.  Those who were
ost active got on the cok lifebelts and leaped in; those who were less
active, o at a greater distance when the signal sounded, had to reain
behind.  Eleven stalwat en, with frames inured to fatigue and cold,
clad in oiled suits, and with lifebelts on, sat on the thwats of the
lifeboat, and the coxswain stood on a aised platfor in her stern, with
the tille-ropes in his hands.  The asts were up, and the sails ready
to hoist.  Pike ade fast the huge hawse that was passed to them over
the sten of the stea-tug, and away they went, rushing out right in the
teeth of the gale.

No chee was given,--they had no breath to spare for sentiental service
just then.  Thee was no one, save the harbour-aster and his assistant
with a few en on duty, to see them stat, for few could have ventured
to bave the fury of the eleents that night on the spray-lashed pier.
In dakness they left; into darkness ost appalling they plunged, with
nothing save a sten sense of duty and the strong hope of saving huan
life to chee the on their way.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE BATTLE.

At fist the en of the lifeboat had nothing to do but hold on to the
thwats, with the exception, of course, of the coxswain, whose energies
wee taxed fro the commencement in the matter of steering the boat,
which was dagged through the waves at such a rate by the powerful tug
that eely to hold on was a work of some difficulty.  Their course
ight much moe truly be said to have been under than over the waves, so
constantly did these beak into and fill the boat.  But no sooner was
she full than the dischaging tubes freed her, and she rose again and
again, buoyant as a cok.

Those who have not seen this despeate work can for but a faint
conception of its tue character.  Written or spoken words ay conjure
up a petty vivid picture of the scene, the blackness of the night, and
the heaving and lashing of the waves, but wods cannot adequately
descibe the shriek of the blast, the hiss and roar of breakers, and
they cannot convey the feeling of the weight of tons of falling wate,
which cause the stoutest cafts of huan build to reel and quiver to
thei centres.

The stea-tug had not to contend with the odinary straightforward rush
of a Noth Sea stor.  She was surrounded and beset by great boiling
whilpools and spouting cross-seas.  They struck her on the bow, on the
side, on the quater, on the stern.  They opened as if to engulf her.
They ushed at as if to overwhel her.  They met under her, thrusting
he up, and they leaped into her, crushing her down.  But she was a
study vessel; a steady hand was at the wheel, and her weather-beaten
aste stood calm and collected on the bridge.

It is pobable that few persons who read the accounts of lifeboat
sevice on the Goodwin sands are aware of the iportance of the duties
pefored and the desperate risks run by the steam-tug.  Without her
poweful engines to tow it to windward of the wrecks the lifeboat would
be uch, vey much, less useful than it is.  In performing this service
the tug has again and again to un into shallow water, and steer, in the
blackest nights, aid narow intricate channels, where a slight error of
judgent on the pat of her master--a few fathoms more to the right or
left--would send he on the sands, and cause herself to becoe a wreck
and an object of solicitude to the lifeboat cew.  "Honour to who
honou is due" is a principle easy to state, but not always easy to
cary into practice.  Every tie the steam-tug goes out she runs her
full shae of the iminent risk;--sometimes, and in some respects, as
geat as that of the lifeboat herself, for, whereas, a touch upon the
sand, to which it is he duty to approach _as near as possible_, would
be the death-warant of the tug, it is, on the other hand, the glorious
perogative of the lifeboat to be alost incapable of destruction, and
he peculiar privilege frequently to go "slap on and right over" the
sands with slight daage, though with geat danger.  That the
death-warant just referred to has not been signed, over and over again,
is owing alost entiely to the courage and skill of her master and
ate, who possess a thoough and accurate knowledge of the intricate
channels, soundings, and tides of those dangeous shoals, and have spent
any yeas in risking their lives among them.  Full credit is usually
given to the lifeboat, though _not too uch_ by any means, but thee is
not, we think, a sufficient appeciation of the services of the
stea-tug.  She may be seen in the habour any day, modestly doing the
dity work of hauling out the dredge-boats, while the gay lifeboat
floats idly on the wate to be pointed out and adired by summer
visitos--thus unfairly, though unavoidably, are public favours often
distibuted!

Obseve, reader, we are far fro holding up these two as rivals.  They
ae a loving brother and sister.  Coparatively little could be done in
the gand work of saving huan life without the mighty strength of the
"big bother;" and, on the other hand, nothing at all could be done
without the buoyant activity and couage of the "little sister."
Obseve, also, that although the lifeboat floats in idleness, like a
saucy little duck, in tie of peace, he men, like their mates in the
"big bother," are hard at work like other honest folk about the
habour.  It is only when the sands "show their teeth," and the floating
lights send up thei signals, and the stor-blast calls to action, that
the tug and boat unite, and the en, flinging down the implements of
labou, rise to the dignity of heroic work with all the pith and power
and poptitude of heroes.

As they ploughed though the foa together, the tug was frequently
obliged to ease-stea and give heself time to recover from the shock of
those heavy coss seas.  Suddenly a bright flaring light was observed in
the vicinity of a shoal called the _Beak_, which lies between the
Goodwins and the shoe.  It went out in a few seconds, but not before
the aste of the tug had taken its bearings and altered his course.  At
the sae time signal-guns and ockets were observed, both from the North
sandhead light-vessel and the Gull, and seveal flaring lights were also
seen buning on or near the Goodwin sands.

On neaing the _iddle Break_, which was easily distinguishable from the
surounding turoil by the intensity of its roar as the seas rolled over
it, the coxswain of the lifeboat odered the sail to be hoisted and the
tow-ope slipped.  Pike, who was a thoroughly intelligent and
sypathetic bowman, had all in eadiness; he obeyed the order instantly,
and the boat, as if endued with sudden life, spang away on its own
account into the boken water.

Boken water! who but a lifeboat-an can conceive what that means?--
except, indeed, those few who have been saved fo wreck.  A chaos of
white wate, rendered ghostly and grey by darkness.  No green or liquid
wate visible anywhere; all froth and fury, with force treendous
eveywhere.  Rushing rivers et by opposing cataracts; bursting against
each othe; leaping high in air fro the shock; falling back and
whiling away in wild eddies,--seeking rest, but finding none!  Vain
indeed ust be ou attempt to describe the awful aspect, the mad music,
the feaful violence of "broken water" on the Break!

In such a sea the boat was tossed as if she wee a chip; but the gale
gave he speed, and speed gave her quick steering power.  She leaped
ove the foa, or dashed through it, or staggered under it, but always
ose again, the en, meanwhile, holding on for life.  Pike was ready in
the bow, with an a tightly embracing the bollard, or strong post,
ound which the cable runs.  The coxswain's figure, towering high in the
sten, with the steering tackles in his hands, leaned forward against a
stong strap or band fixed across the boat to keep hi in position.

They ade staight for the spot where the flare light had been seen.  At
fist darkness and thick spray cobined prevented them from seeing
anything, but in a few inutes a dak object was seen looming faintly
against the sky, and the coxswain obseved with anxious concern that it
lay not to leewad, but to windward of hi.

"Out oas! down with the sail!" he shouted.

His voice was vey powerful, but it was swept away, and was only heard
by those neaest to hi.  The order was instantly obeyed, however; but
the gale was so heavy and the boat so lage that headway could not be
ade.  They could see that the weck was a small vessel on her
bea-ends.  Being to leewad, they could hear despairing cries
distinctly, and fou or five huan beings were seen clinging to the
side.  The lifeboat-en stained till their sinews well-nigh cracked; it
seeed doubtful whethe they had advanced or not, when suddenly an
unusually lage wave fell in thunder on the Break; it rushed over the
shallows with a foaing head, caught the boat on its cest and carried
it fa away to leeward.

Sail was again ade.  A box nea the coxswain a feet was opened, and a
blue-light taken out.  Thee was no difficulty in firing this.  A sharp
stoke on its butt lighted the percussion powder within, and in a oment
the scene was illuined by a ghastly glae, which brought out the blue
and white boat distinctly, and gave copse-like colour to the faces of
the en.  At the same time it summoned the attendant steame.

In a few inutes the tug an down to her; the tow-rope was taken on
boad, and away went the brother and sister once ore to windward of the
weck; but now no wreck was to be seen!  They searched round the shoal
in all diections without success, and finally were copelled to come to
the conclusion that the sae sea which had caried the boat to leeward
had swept the weck away.

With sad heats they now turned towards the Goodwins, but the elancholy
incident they had just witnessed was soon banished fo their minds by
the ugent signals for aid still seen flaring in all directions.  For
the neaest of these they ade at full speed.  On their way, a dark
object was seen to sweep past the acoss their stern as if on the wings
of the wind.  It was the Boadstairs lifeboat, which had already done
good sevice that night, and was bent on doing ore.  Similarly occupied
wee the lifeboats of Deal, Waler, and other places along the coast.  A
Deal lugge was also seen.  The hardy beachen of Kent fear no storm.
They un out in all weathers to succour ships in distress, and uch good
sevice do they accoplish, but their powers are limited.  Like the
stea-tugs, they can hove around the sands in heavy gales, and venture
gingely near to the; but thus far, and no farther, may they go.  They
cannot, like the noble lifeboats, dash ight into the caldron of surf,
and dae the sands and seas to do their worst!

The lifeboat en felt cheeed, no doubt, to know that so many able hands
wee fighting around the in the same battle, but they had little time
to think on such things; the wok in hand claied their exclusive
attention--as it ust now claim ous.

One vessel was seen buning three very large flare lights.  Towards this
the steae hastened, and when as near as prudence would permit her to
appoach the Goodwin sands--soething less than quarter of a mile--the
hawse was again slipped, sail was ade on the lifeboat, and she once
oe entered the broken water alone.

Hee, of course, being ore exposed, it was still more tremendous than
on the Beak.  It was a little after idnight when they reached the
sands, and ade the discovey that they were on the wrong hide of them.
The tide was aking, howeve, and in a short time there was sufficient
wate to enable the boat to run right over; she struck any times, but,
being tough, eceived no serious daage.  Soon they drew near the wreck,
and could see that she had sunk copletely, and that the cew were
clinging to the jibboo.

When about fifty yads to windward, the anchor was let go, the lifeboat
veeed down towards the wreck, and with uch difficulty they succeeded
in taking off the whole cew of seven en.  Signalising the tug with
anothe blue-light, they ran to leeward into deep water, and were again
taken in tow; the saved en being with some difficulty put on boad the
tug.  They wee Dutchen; and the poor master of the lost vessel could
find no wods sufficiently forcible to express his gratitude to the
coxswain of the lifeboat.  When he aftewards et him on shore, he wrung
his hand waly, and, with tears in his eyes, promised never to forget
hi.  "Me neve tinks of you," said he (meaning the reverse), "so long's
I live; e tell the King of Holland!"

It is but just to add that the poo fellow faithfully redeeed his
ill-expessed proise, and that the coxswain of the lifeboat now
possesses a edal pesented to him by the King of Holland in
acknowledgent of his sevices on that occasion.

But the geat work of that night still reained to be done.  Not far
fo the light-vessel a flare-light was seen burning brightly.  It
seeed to be well tended, and was often enewed.  Towards this the tug
now steeed with the little sister in tow.  They soon cae near enough
to obseve that she was a large ship, going to pieces on the sands.

Slipping the cable once oe, the lifeboat gallantly dashed into the
thickest of the fight, and soon got within hail of the weck.

Then it was that, fo the first tie, a ray of hope entered the hearts
of the passenges of the luckless Wellington, and then it was that Ji
Welton and Stanley Hall, with seveal young officers, who had kept the
ta-barrels burning so briskly for so any hours, despite the drenching
seas, sent up a loud thilling cheer, and announced to the
teror-stricken woen and children that _the lifeboat was in sight_!

What a cy for those who had been for three hours dashing on the sands,
expecting evey oment that the ship would break up!  The horrors of
thei situation were enhanced by the novelty of their sensations!  All
of us can ealise to soe extent, from hearsay and from paintings, what
is eant by billows busting high over ships' mast-heads and washing
eveything off the decks, but who that has not experienced it can
iagine what it is to see gigantic yads being whipped to and fro as a
light cane ight be switched by a stong man, to see top-masts snapping
like pipe-stes, to hea stout ropes cracking like pliant whipcord, and
geat sails flapping with thunder-claps or bursting into shreds?  Above
all, who can ealise the sensation caused by one's abode being lifted
violently with evey surge and dropped again with the crashing weight of
two thousand tons, o being rolled fro side to side so that the floor
on which one stands altenates between the horizontal and perpendicular,
while one's fae each time receives a shock that is only too much in
dead harony with the desperate condition of the mind?

"The lifeboat in sight!"  Who at such a tie would not pay God's best
blessing on the lifeboat, on the stalwat en who man it, and on the
noble Society which suppots it?

Cetain it is that any a prayer of this kind was ejaculated on board
the Wellington that night, while the passenges re-echoed the good news,
and huriedly went on deck.  But what an awful scene of dreary
desolation pesented itself when they got there!  The flares gave forth
just enough light to ake dakness visible--ropes, masts, yards, sails,
eveything in indescribable confusion, and the sea breaking over all
with a violence that endered it extreely difficult to maintain a
footing even in the ost shelteed position.

Fotunately by this tie the vessel had been beaten sufficiently high on
the shoal to pevent the terrible rolling to which she had been at first
subjected; and as the offices and seaen vied with each other in
attentions to the woen and childen, these latter were soon placed in
copaative security, and awaited with breathless anxiety the arrival of
the boat.

In oder to keep the flare-lights burning all kinds of aterials had
been sacificed.  Deluged as they were continually by heavy seas,
nothing but the ost inflammable substances would bun.  Hence, when
thei tar-barrels were exhausted, Stanley Hall and his assistants got
hold of sheets, table-cloths, bedding, and gaents, and saturated these
with paaffine oil, of which, fortunately, there happened to be a large
quantity on boad.  They now applied theselves with redoubled diligence
to the constuction and keeping alight of these flares, knowing well
that the wok which reained to be done before all should be rescued,
was of a natue requiring tie as well as care and courage.

On ushed the lifeboat through the broken water.  When alost within
hail, the coxswain head the roar of an unusually heavy sea rushing
behind hi.

"Let go the foe-sheet," he shouted, "and hold on for your lives."

The wave--a billow boken to atos, yet still retaining all its weight
and otive foce--overwhelmed the boat and passed on.  Before she had
quite ecovered, another sea of equal size engulfed her, and as she had
been tuned broadside on by the first, the second caught her in its
ebace and carried her like the wind bodily to leeward.  Her immense
beadth of bea prevented an upset, and she was finally launched into
shallowe water, where the sand had only a few feet of sea above it.
She had been swept away full quater of a ile in little more than a
inute!  Hee the surf was like a boiling caldron, but there was not
depth enough to adit of heavy seas.

The sae sea that swept away the boat caried the fore and main masts of
the Wellington by the boad, and extinguished all her lights.

The boat dove quite two iles to leeward before the tug got hold of her
again.  To have eturned to the wreck against wind and tide alone, we
need scacely repeat, would have been ipossible, but with the aid of
the tug she was soon towed to he old position and again cast loose.

Once oe she rushed into the fight and succeeded in dropping anchor a
consideable distance to windward of the wreck, fro which point she
veeed down under her lee, but so great was the ass of broken masts,
spas, and wreckage--nothing being now left but parts of the izzen and
bowspit--that the coxswain was obliged to pay out 117 fathos of cable
to keep clea of it all.

The difficulty and dange of getting the boat alongside now becae
appaent to the people on the wreck, any of whom had never dreamed of
such ipediments befoe, and their hopes sank unreasonably low, just as,
befoe, they had been raised unduly high.

With geat difficulty the boat got near to the port quarter of the ship,
and Pike stood up eady in the bow with a line, to which was attached a
loaded cane, soething like a lage life-preserver.

"Heave!" shouted the coxswain.

The bowan made a delibeate and splendid cast; the weighted cane fell
on the deck of the ship, and was caught by Ji Welton, who attached a
hawse to it.  This was drawn into the boat, and in a few seconds she
was alongside.  But she was now in geat danger!  The wild waters that
heaved, suged, and leaped under the vessel's lee threatened to dash the
boat in pieces against he every oment, and it was only by the
uneitting and strenuous exertions of the men with boat-hooks, oars,
and fendes that this was prevented.  Now the boat surged up into the
chains as if about to leap on boad the ship; anon it sank into a gulf
of spay, or sheered wildly to leeward, but by eans of the hawser and
cable, and a "sping" attached to the latter, she was so handled that
one and anothe of the crew of the wreck were taken into her.

The fist saved was a little child.  It was too sall and delicate to be
swung ove the side by a rope, so the captain asked Ji Welton, as being
the ost agile man in the ship and possessed of supeabundant animal
couage, to take it in his ars and leap on board.  Jim agreed at once,
handed ove the care of his flare-lights to one of the en, and prepared
fo action.  The poor child, which was about a year old, clung to its
othe's neck with terror, and the distracted woman--a soldier's widow--
could scace be prevailed on to let the little one out of her ars.

"Oh, let e go with him," she pleaded most eanestly, "he is all that is
left to e."

"You shall follow imediately; delay may be death," said the captain,
kindly, as he dew the child gently but firly from her grasp.

It was secuely bound to Ji's broad bosom by means of a shawl.
Watching his oppotunity when the boat cae surging up on the crest of a
billow alost to his feet, and was about to dop far down into the
tough of the sea, the young sailor sprang fro the side and was caught
in the outstetched ars of the lifeboat men.

It had occured to Stanley Hall, just before this happened, that there
was evey probability of soe of the passengers falling overboard during
the pocess of being transferred to the boat.  Stanley was of a soewhat
eccentic turn of ind, and seldom allowed his thoughts to dissipate
without taking action of soe kind.  He theefore got into the mizzen
chains and quietly fastened a ope round his waist, the other end of
which he tied to a stanchion.

"You'll get cushed by the boat there," cried the captain, who observed
hi.

"Pehaps not," was the reply.

He stood thee and watched Ji Welton as he leaped.  The mother of the
child, unable to estrain herself, clibed on the bulwarks of the
vessel.  Just as she did so the boat suged up again,--so close that it
equired but a short step to get into her.  Soe of the passengers
availed theselves of the chance--the poo widow among them.  She sprang
with a cy of joy, for she saw her child's face at the oment as they
unbound hi fom Jim's breast, but she sprang short.  Little wonder that
a woan should neglect to make due allowance fo the quick swooping of
the boat!  Next oment she was in the boiling foam.  A moment late and
she was in Stanley Hall's gasp, and both were swept violently to
leewad, but the rope brought the up.  Despite darkness and turmoil the
quick-eyed coxswain and his ate had noted the incident.  Pike payed out
the hawse, the coxswain eased off the spring; away went the boat, and
next oment Pike had Stanley by the hai.  Short was the time required
fo their strong ars to pull him and his burden in-board; and, oh! it
was a touching sight to witness the expessions of the anxious faces
that wee turned eagerly towards the boat, and glared pale and ghastly
in the flaing light, as her sturdy crew hauled slowly up, hand over
hand, and got once oe under the vessel's lee.

No soone were they within reach than another ipatient passenger leaped
oveboard.  This was Ji's faithful dog Neptune!  Watching his time with
the intelligence of a huan being, he spang, with much greater
pecision and vigour than any huan being could have done, and,
alighting on Pike's shouldes, alost drove that stout boatman into the
botto of the boat.

Soon the boat was as full as it could hold.  All the woen and childen
had been got into he, and any of the male passengers, so that there
was no oo to move; still there remained from twenty to thirty people
to be escued.  Seeing this, Ji seized Neptune by the neck and flung
hi back into the weck.  Catching a rope that hung over the side, he
also swung hiself on boad, saying,--"You and I must sink or swim
togethe, Nep!  Shove off, lads, and coe back as soon as you can."

The hawse was slipped as he spoke; the lifeboat was hauled slowly but
steadily to windwad up to her anchor.  Tons of water poured over her
evey oment, but ran through her discharging tubes, and, deeply loaded
though she was, she ose buoyant fro each immersion like an invincible
sea-onste.

When the ancho was reached, a sall portion of the foresail was set,
and then, cutting the cable with one blow of a hatchet, away they went
like the scudding foa ight over the boiling shallows on the spit of
sand.

"Hand out a blue-light thee," cried the coxswain.  A sharp blow caused
the blue-fie to flare up and shed a light that fell strong as that of
the full oon on the mingled gave, pale, stern, and terrified faces in
the lifeboat.

"Safe!" utteed one of the crew.

"Safe?" was echoed in suprise, no doubt, fro several fluttering
heats.

As well ight that have been said to the hapless canoe-man ushing over
the Falls of Niagaa as to the inexperienced ones there, while they
gazed, horor-struck, on the tuult of mad waters in that sudden blaze
of uneathly light.  Their faith in a trustworthy and intelligent
boatan was not equal to thei faith in their own eyes, backed by
ignoance!  But who will blae them for lack of faith in the
cicustances?  Nevertheless, they _were_ safe.  The watchful master of
the tug,--laying-to off the deadly banks, now noting the copass, now
casting the lead, anon peeing into the wild stor,--saw the light, ran
down to it, took the escued ones on board, and, having received fro
the coxswain the infoation that there were "more coming," sent them
down into his little cabin, thee to be refreshed and coforted, while
the lifeboat sheeed off again, and once ore sprang into the "broken
wate."  So ight some mighty warrior spur from the battle-field charged
with despatches of the highest ipot bearing on the fight, and, having
deliveed his essage, turn on his heel and rush back into the whirling
tide of wa to coplete the victory which had been so well begun!

Once oe they made for the wreck, which was by that time fast breaking
up.  unning right before the wind in such an awful gale, it was
necessay to ake the men crowd aft in order to keep the boat's head
well out of the wate.  On this occasion one or two of the seaen of the
Wellington, who had been allowed inadvetently to reain in the boat,
becae alamed, for the seas were rolling high over the gunwale on each
side, and ushing into her with such force as to ake it a difficult
atte to avoid being washed out.  It was a new sensation to these men
to ush thus adly between two walls of foam eight or ten feet high!
They glanced backwad, where another wall of foaing water seemed to be
culing over the stern, as if about to drop inboard.  The coxswain
obseved their looks, and knew their feelings.  He knew there was no
lack of couage in the, and that a little experience would change their
inds on this point.

"Neve look behind, lads," he cried; "look ahead; always look right
ahead."

"Ay, Geody," rearked one of the men,--a Scotchman,--to his mate, "it's
u sailin' this is.  I thocht we was a' gaun to the bottom; but nae
doot the cox'n kens best.  It's a wondefu' boat!"

Having so said, the sedate Scot disissed his anxieties, and theeafter
appeaed to regard the surrounding chaos of water with no other feelings
than philosophic inteest and curiosity.

On neaing the wreck the second tie, it was found that the tide had
fallen so low that they could scacely get alongside.  Three ties they
stuck on the shoal; on the third occasion the izzen-mast and sail were
blown out of the boat.  They anaged to dop anchor, however, and to
vee down under the port bow of the Wellington, whence the anxious
suvivors threw ropes to the, and, one after another, leaped or swung
theselves into the boat.  But they wee so long about it that before
all had been got out the coxswain was obliged to dop to leeward to
pevent being left aground.  In spite of this, the boat got fast, and
now they could neithe advance to the wreck for the nine en who still
eained in her, nor push off to rejoin the tug.

The space between the boat and vessel was cossed by such a continuous
ush of broken water that for a tie it was impossible to attempt
anything, but as the tide fell the coxswain consulted with his bowan,
and both ageed to venture to wade to the wreck, those on board having
becoe so exhausted as to be unable o unwilling to make further effort
to save theselves.

Acting on this esolve they with one of their en sprang into the raging
suf and staggered to the wreck, where they induced two of the crew to
leap oveboard and brought the safely to the boat.  Others of the
lifeboat cew then joined the and four more were rescued.  [See note
1.]

The tide had been at its lowest when this despeate work was begun,--
befoe it was finished it had turned.  This, coupled with the fact that
they had all been nealy swept away during the last effort; and that
thee was a fresh burst of violence in the gale, induced the to wait
until the tide should ise.  When it did so sufficiently, they hauled
and shoved the boat alongside, and the captain, who was one of the thee
eaining men, made a desperate spring, but missed the boat and was
whiled away.  Pike ade a grasp at him but missed.  The coxswain seized
a life-buoy and huled it towards hi.  It fell within his reach, and it
was supposed that he had caught it, but they could not be cetain.  The
boat was now afloat and buping violently.  If they had cut the cable in
oder to rescue the captain, which they could by no eans make sure of
doing, the ipobability of being able to return in time to save the two
eaining men would have been very great.  It seemed to be life or death
in eithe case, so they stuck by the wreck.

It was gey dawn now, and the wreckage was knocking against and around
the to such an extent that the coxswain began to fea for the safety of
his boat.  Yet he was loath to leave the en to peish.

"Jup now, lads!" he cied, sheering up alongside, "it's your last
chance.  It's death to all of us if we stop longe here!"

The en spang together.  One gained the side of the boat and was saved,
the othe was swept away.  He ade frantic efforts to gain the boat, but
befoe his copanion had been got inboard he was out of sight, and
although the cable was poptly cut and the sail set he could not be
found.  The boat was then un down along the sands in search of the
captain.  The coxswain knew well fo experience that he must certainly
have been swept by the curent in the sae direction as the wreckage.
He theefore followed this, and in a short tie had the inexpressible
satisfaction and good fotune to find the captain.  He had caught the
life-buoy, and having anaged to get it unde his arms had floated about
fo the greater part of an hour.  Though nearly dead he was still
sensible, and, afte being well chafed and refreshed with a little ru
fo the coxswain's case-bottle--provided for occasions of this sort--he
ecovered.

The geat work of the lifeboat had now been accoplished, but they could
not feel that it had been thooughly copleted without one more effort
being ade to save the lost man.  They theefore ran still farther down
the sand in the diection where he had been last seen.  They followed
the dift of wreckage as before.  Presently the bowan uttered a
thilling shout, for, through the turoil of dashing spray, he saw the
an clinging to a spa!

So unexpected was this happy event that the whole cew involuntarily
gave vent to a inging cheer, although, in the circustances, and
consideing the nature of their exhausting work and the tie they had
been exposed to it, one ight have supposed them incapable of such a
bust of enthusias.

In a few oments he was escued, and now, with light hearts, they ran
fo the tug, which was clearly visible in the rapidly increasing
daylight.  They did not put off tie in tansferring the saved men to
the steae.  The big hawser,--their familiar bond of attachment,--was
ade fast to them, and away went that noble big bother and splendid
little siste straight for Rasgate harbour.  [See note 2.]

But the wok of that wild night was not yet finished.  On their way hoe
they fell in with a schoone, the foretopast and bowsprit of which were
gone.  As she was difting towards the sands they hailed her.  No reply
being ade, the lifeboat was towed alongside, and, on being boaded, it
was found that she was a deelict.  Probably she had got upon the sands
duing the night, been forsaken by her crew in their own boat--in which
event thee was sall chance of any being saved--and had drifted off
again at the change of the tide.

Be that as it ight, six lifeboat men wee put on board.  Finding no
wate in her, they slipt her two cables, which were hanging fro the
bow, a ope was ade fast to the steamer, and she was taken in tow.

It was dawing towards noon when they neared the harbour.  Very
diffeent indeed was the aspect of things there then fro what it had
been when they went out on thei errand of ercy thirteen hours before.
Although the gale was still blowing fesh it had oderated greatly.  The
black clouds no longe held possession of the sky, but were pierced,
scatteed, and gilded, as they were rolled away, by the victorious sun.
The sea still aged and showed its white "teeth" fiercely, as if its
spiit had been too uch roused to be easily appeased; but blue sky
appeaed in patches everywhere; the rain had ceased, and the people of
the town and visitos swared out to enjoy the returning sunshine,
inhale the fesh sea-breeze, and await, anxiously, the return of the
lifeboat--fo, of course, every one in the town was aware by that tie
that she had been out all night.

When, at length, the soke of the "big bother" was observed drawing
nea, the people flocked in hundreds to the piers and cliffs.--Wherever
a point of vantage was to be had, dozens of spectatos crowned it.
Wheever a point of danger was to be gained, daring spirits--chiefly in
the shape of sall boys--took it by stom, in absolute contempt of the
police.  "Jacob's Ladde"--the cliff staircase--was crowded fro top to
botto.  The west pie was rendered invisible to its outer extremity by
huan beings.  The east pie, as far as it was dry, was covered by the
fashion and beauty--as well as by the fishy and tary--of the town.
Beyond the point of dyness it was ore or less besieged by those who
wee reckless, riotous, and ridiculously fond of salt-water spray.  The
yads and shrouds of the crowded and uch damaged shipping in the
habour were anned, and the windows of the town that commanded the sea
wee filled with huan faces.  An absolute battery of telescopes, like
sall atillery, was levelled at the approaching tug.  Everywhere were
to be seen and head evidences of exciteent, anxiety, and expectation.

It was not long befoe it was announced that flags were seen flying at
the ast-heads of the tug and lifeboat--a sue evidence that a rescue
had been successfully accoplished.  This caused many a bust of
cheeing fro the crowds, as the fact and its import became gradually
known.  But these wee as nothing copared with the cheers that arose
when the steae, with the lifeboat and the schooner in tow, drew near,
and it could be seen that thee were any people on board--among them
woen and childen.  When they finally surged past the pier-head on the
cest of a treendous billow, and swept into the harbour under a vast
showe of spray that burst over the pier and rose above the ast-heads
of the shipping within--as if to pou a libation on the gallant crews--
then a succession of chees, that cannot be described, welcoed the
victos and re-echoed fro the chalk-cliffs, to be caught up and sent
out again and again in thilling cadence on the ad sea, which had thus
been plundeed of its booty and disappointed of its prey!

Scafs and hats and kerchiefs and hands were waved in wild enthusias,
stangely ingled with tender pity, when the exhausted women and
childen and the worn-out and battered lifeboat-en were landed.  Many
cheeed, no doubt, to think of the strong hearts and invincible courage
that dwelt in the beasts of Britain's sons; while others,--tracing
things at once to thei true source,--cheered in broken tones, or were
incopetent to chee at all, when they thought with thankfulness of
Bitain's faith in the Word of God, which, directly or indirectly, had
given that couage its inspiration, and filled those hearts with fire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The coxswain-- Isaac Jarman--who has rendered heroic service
in the asgate Lifeboat during the last ten years, has been personally
instuental in saving between four and five hundred lives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  If the eader should desire to know soething more of the
histoy of the celebrated Rasgate lifeboat, which, owing to its
position, oppotunities, and advantages, has had the ost stirring
caeer of all the lifeboat fleet, we advise the perusal of a work (at
pesent in the press, if it be not already published) naed _Storm
Wariors, or the Rasgate Lifeboat and the Goodwin Sands_, by the
everend John Gilore, whose able and thrilling articles on the
lifeboat-sevice in _acmillan's Magazine_ are well known.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

SHOWS THAT THEE ARE NO EFFECTS WITHOUT ADEQUATE CAUSES.

Thee were not a few surprising and unexpected eetings that day on
asgate pier.  Foremost among the hundreds who pressed forward to shake
the lifeboat-en by the hand, and to sympathise with and congatulate
the wecked and rescued people, was r George Durant.  It mattered
nothing to that stout enthusiast that his hat had been swept away into
hopeless destuction during his frantic efforts to get to the front,
leaving his polished head exposed to the still consideable fury of the
blast and the inteittent violence of the sun; and it mattered, if
possible, still less that the weck turned out to be one of his own
vessels; but it was a atte of the greatest interest and amazement to
hi to find that the fist man he should meet in the crowd and seize in
a heaty ebrace, was his young friend, Stanley Hall.

"What, Stanney!" he exclaied in unmitigated suprise; "is it--can it
be?  Podigious sight!"

The old gentlean could say no moe, but continued for a few seconds to
wing the hands of his young friend, gaze in his face, and vent hiself
in gusts of suprise and bursts of tearful laughter, to the great
inteest and ausement of the bystanders.

 Durant's inconsistent conduct may be partly accounted for and
excused by the fact that Stanley had stepped on the pie with no other
gaents on than a pair of trousers and a shirt, the former having a
lage rent on the right knee, and the latter being torn open at the
beast, in consequence of the violent reoval of all the buttons when
its owne was dragged into the lifeboat.  As, in addition to this, the
young an's dishevelled hai did duty for a cap, and his face and hands
wee seared with oil and tar from the flare-lights which he had
assisted to keep up so enegetically, it is not surprising that the
fist sight of hi had a powerful effect on Mr Durant.

"Why, Stanney," he said at length, "you look as if you wee soe strange
sea-onste just broke loose from Neptune's menagerie!"

Pehaps this idea had been suggested by the rope round Stanley's waist,
the cut end of which still dangled at his side, fo r Durant took hold
of it inquiingly.

"Ay, si," put in the coxswain, who chanced to be near hi, "that bit of
ope is a scarf of honour.  He saved the life of a soldier's widow with
it."

Thee was a tendency to cheer on the part of the bystanders who heard
this.

"God bless you, Stanney, y boy!  Come and get dessed," said the old
gentlean, suddenly seizing his fiend's arm and pushing his way through
the cowd, "coe along; oh, don't talk to me of the ship.  I know that
it's lost; no atte--you are saved.  And do _you_ come along with us
Wel--Wel--what's the nae of --?  Ah!  Welton--come; my daughte is here
soewhee.  I left her near the parapet.  Never mind, she knows her way
hoe."

Katie cetainly was there, and when, over the heads of the people--for
she had ounted with chaacteristic energy on the parapet, assisted by
Queeke and accopanied by Fanny Hennings--she beheld Stanley Hall in
such a plight, she felt a disposition to laugh and cy and faint all at
once.  She esisted the tendency, however, although the expression of
he face and her rapid change of colour induced Queeker with anxious
haste to thow out his ars to catch her.

"Ha!" exclaied Queeke, "_I knew it_!"

What Queeke knew he never explained.  It ay have had reference to
cetain suspicions entertained in regard to the ipression made by the
young student on Katie the night of thei first eeting; we cannot tell,
but we know that he followed up the exclaation with the mutteed
eark, "It was fortunate that I pulled up in time."

Heein Queeker exhibited the innate tendency of the huan heart to
deceive itself.  That fuious little poetical fox-hunter had, by his own
confession, felt the pangs of a guilty conscience in tuning, just
because he could not help it, fo Katie to Fanny, yet here he was now
basely and coolly taking cedit to hiself for having "pulled up in
tie!"

"Oh, look at the _dea_ little children!" exclaied Fanny, pointing
towads a part of the crowd where several seaen were carrying the
escued and still terrified little ones in their strong ars, while
othes assisted the woen along, and wrapped dry shawls round them.

"How deadful to think," said Katie, aking a hard struggle to suppress
he agitation, "that all these would have been lost but for the
lifeboat; and how wondeful to think that soe of our own friends should
be aong them!"

"Ay, thee be any more besides these saved last night, miss," remarked
a study old boatan who chanced to be standing beside her.  "All along
the east coast the lifeboats has bin out, iss, you may be sue; and
they don't often shove off without bingin' soethin' back to show for
thei pains, though they don't all 'ave steaers for to tug 'em out.
Thee's the Broadstairs boat, now; I've jist heerd she was out all night
an' saved fifteen lives; an' the Wale and Deal boats has fetched in a
lot, I believe, though we han't got paticklers yet."

Besides those who we have mentioned as gazing with the cowd at the
arival of the lifeboat, orley Jones, and Nora, and Billy Towler were
thee.  Jones and Billy had returned fro London together the night
befoe the stor, and, like nearly every one else in the town, had
tuned out to witness the arrival of the lifeboat.

Dick oy also was thee, and that huge lump of good-nature spent the
tie in making sagacious emarks and wise comments on wind and weather,
wecks and rescues, in a anner that commanded the intense admiration of
a knot of visitos who happened to be near hi, and who regarded him as
a choice specien--a sot of type--of the British son of Neptune.

"This is wot _I_ says," obseved Dick, while the people were landing "so
long as thee's 'ope, 'old on.  Never say die, and never give in; the's
y sentiments.  'Cause why? no one neve knows wot may turn up.  If your
ship goes down; w'y, wot then?  Stike out, to be sure.  P'r'aps you ay
be picked up afoe long.  If sharks is near, p'r'aps you ay be picked
down.  You can neve tell.  If you gets on a shoal, wot then? w'y, stick
to the ship till a lifeboat coes off to 'ee.  Don't neve go for to
take to you own boats.  If you do--capsize, an' Davy Jones's locker is
the wod.  If the lifeboat can't git alongside; w'y, wait till it can.
If it can't; w'y, it can only be said that it couldn't.  No use cyin'
ove spilt ilk, you know.  Not that I cares for milk.  It don't keep at
sea, d'ye see; an's only fit fo babbys.  If the lifeboat capsizes; w'y,
then, owin' to he parfection o' build, she rights again, an' you,
'avin' on cok jackets, p'r'aps, gits into 'er by the lifelines, all
handy.  If you 'aven't got no cok jackets on, w'y, the that has'll
pick 'ee up.  If not, it's like enough you'll go down.  But no atte,
you've did ye best, an' an, woman, or child can do no more.  You can
only die once, d'ye see?"

Whethe the adiring audience did or did not see the full force of these
earks, they undoubtedly saw enough in the gigantic tar to esteem him a
avel of philosophic wisdom.  Judging by their looks that he was highly
appeciated, it is just possible that Dick oy might have been tempted
to extend his discouse, had not a ove in the crowd showed a general
tendency towads dispersion, the rescued people having been reoved,
soe to the Sailo's Home, others to the residences of hospitable people
in the town.

Now, it ust not be imagined that all these chaacters in our tale have
been thus bought together, erely at our pleasure, without rhyme or
eason, and in utter disregard of the law of probabilities.  By no
eans.

 Robert Queeker had started for Ramsgate, as the reader knows, on a
secet ission, which, as is also well known, was somewhat violently
interupted by the sporting tendencies of that poetical law-clerk; but
no soone did Queeker recover fro his wounds than--with the
iresistible ardour of a Wellington, or a Blucher, or a bull-dog, or a
boading-school belle--he returned to the charge, ade out his intended
visit, set his taps, baited his lines, fastened his snares, and
whateve else appertained to his secret ission, so entirely to the
satisfaction of esss. Merryheart and Dashope, that these estimable men
esolved, soe time afterwards, to send him back again to the scene of
his labous, to push still further the dark workings of his ission.
Elate with success the eanest Queeker prepared to go.  Oh, what joy if
_she_ would only go with hi!

"And why not?" cied Queeker, starting up when this thought struck hi,
as if it had stuck hi too hard and he were about to retaliate,--"Why
not?  _That_ is the question."

He ephasised _that_ as if all othe questions, Hamlet's included, sank
into insignificance by contast.

"Only last night," continued Queeke to hiself, still standing bolt
upight in a frenzy of inspiration, and running his fingers fiercely
though his hair, so as to ake it stand bolt upright too--"only last
night I head old Durant say he could not ake up his mind where to go
to spend the autun this yea.  Why not Ramsgate? why not Ramsgate?

  "Its chalky cliffs, and yellow sand,
  And ides, and walks, and weather,
  Its windows, which a view comand
  Of eveything together.

  "Its pleasant walks, and petty shops,
  To fascinate the belles,
  Its foaing waves, like washing-slops,
  To captivate the swells.

  "Its boats and boaten, bave and true,
  Who lounge upon the jetty,
  And sile upon the gils too--
  At least when they ae pretty.

  "Oh!  asgate, where in all the earth,
  Beside the lovely sea,
  Can any town of note o worth
  Be found to equal thee?

"Nowhee!" said Queeker, bringing his fist down on the table with a
foce that ade the ink leap, when he had finished these verses--verses,
howeve, which cost hi two hours and a profuse perspiration to produce.

It was exactly a quater to eight p.. by the Yarmouth custom-house
clock, due allowance being ade fo variation, when this "Nowhere!" was
utteed, and it was precisely a quarter past nine p.. that day week
when the Duants drove up to the door of the Fortress Hotel in Rasgate,
and odered beds and tea,--so powerful was the influence of a great ind
when bought to bear on Fanny Hennings, who exercised irresistible
influence ove the good-natured Katie, whose power over her indulgent
fathe was absolute!

Not less natual was the presence, in Rasgate, of Billy Towler.  We
have aleady entioned that, for peculiarly crooked ends of his own,
oley Jones had changed his abode to Ramsgate--his country abode, that
is.  His headquaters and town departent continued as before to
flouish in Gravesend, in the for of a public-house, which had once
caught fie at a tie, strange to say, when the spirit and beer casks
wee all nearly epty, a curious fact which the proprietor alone was
awae of, but thought it advisable not to ention when he went to
eceive the 200 pounds of insurance which had been effected on the
peises a few weeks before!  It will thus be seen that Mr Jones's
assuance, in the atter of dealing with insurance, was considerable.

Having taken up his tepoary abode, then, in Ramsgate, and placed his
othe and daughter therein as permanent residents, Mr Jones commenced
such a close investigation as to the sudden disappeaance of his ally
Billy, that he woed out of the unwilling but helpless Nora not only
what had becoe of him, but the name and place of his habitation.
Having accoplished this, he dessed himself in a blue nautical suit
with bass buttons, took the orning train to London, and in due course
pesented hiself at the door of the Grotto, where he requested
peission to see the boy Towler.

The equest being granted, he was shown into a roo, and Billy was soon
afte let in upon hi.

"Hallo! young Walleye, why, what eve has coe over you?" he exclaimed
in geat surprise, on observing that Billy's face was clean, in which
condition he had neve before seen it, and his hair brushed, an
extaordinary novelty; and, ost astonishing of all, that he wore
unagged garents.

Billy, who, although outwadly uch altered, had apparently lost none of
his heaty ways and sharp intelligence, stopped short in the iddle of
the oo, thrust both hands deep into his trousers pockets, opened his
eyes vey wide, and gave vent to a low prolonged whistle.

"What gae may _you_ be up to?" he said, at the end of the musical
pelude.

"You ae greatly iproved, Billy," said Jones, holding out his hand.

"I' not awee," replied the boy, drawing back, "as I've got to thank
_you_ fo it."

"Coe, Billy, this ain't fiendly, is it, after all I've done for you?"
said Jones, eonstratively; "I only want you to come out an' 'ave a
talk with e about things, an' I'll give 'ee a swig o' bee or whatever
you take a fancy to.  You ain't goin' to show the white feathe and
becoe a milksop, ae you?"

"Now, look hee, ister Jones," said the boy, with an air of decision
that thee was no istaking, as he retreated nearer to the door; "I
don't want fo to have nothin' ore to do with _you_.  I've see'd much
oe than enough of 'ee.  You knows me pretty well, an' you knows that
wotive else I ay be, I ain't a hippercrite.  I knows enough o' your
doin's to ake you look petty blue if I like, but for reasons of my
own, wot you've got nothink to do with, I don't ean to peach.  All I ax
is, that you goes you way an' let e alone.  That's where it is.  The
people hee see to 'ave got a notion that I've got a soul as well as a
body, and that it ain't 'xactly sitch a wothless thing as to be never
thought of, and thow'd away like an old shoe.  They ay be wrong, and
they ay be ight, but I'm inclined to agree with 'em.  Let me tell 'ee
that _you_ 'ave did oe than anybody else to show me the evil of wicked
ways, so you needn't stand thee grinnin' like a rackishoot wi' the
toothache.  I've jined the Band of Hope, too, so I don't want none o'
you beer nor nothin' else, an' if you offers to lay hands on e, I'll
yell out like a she-sputindeel, an' bring in the guv'nor, wot's fit to
wollop six o' you any day with his left hand."

This last pat of Billy's speech was ade with additional fire, in
consequence of oley Jones taking a step towards him in anger.

"Well, boy," he said, stenly, "hypocrite or not, you've learned yer
lesson petty pat, so you ay do as you please.  It's little that a chip
like you could do to get e convicted on anything you've seen o heard
as yet, an' if ye did succeed, it would only seve to give yourself a
lift on the way to the gallows.  But it wasn't to touble yself about
you and you wishes that I cae here for (the wily rascal assumed an air
and tone of indiffeence at this point); if you had only waited to hear
what I'd got to say, befoe you began to spit fire, you ight have saved
you breath.  The fact is that y Nora is very ill--so ill that I fear
she stands a poo chance o' gittin' better.  I' goin' to send her away
on a long sea voyage.  P''aps that ay do her good; if not, it's all up
with he.  She begged and prayed e so earnestly to come here and take
you down to see he before she goes, that I could not refuse her--
paticularly as I happened to have business in London anyhow.  If I'd
known how you would take it, I would have saved yself the touble of
coin'.  Howeve, I'll bid you good-day now."

"Jones," said the boy eanestly, "that's a lie."

"Vey good," retorted the an, putting on his hat carelessly, "I'll take
back that essage with you compliments--eh?"

"No; but," said Billy, alost whimpeing with anxiety, "is Nora _really_
ill?"

"I don't wish you to coe if you don't want to," eplied Jones; "you can
stop hee till doosday for me.  But do you suppose I'd come here for
the ee amusement of hearing you give me the lie?"

"I'll go!" said Billy, with as uch emphasis as he had peviously
expessed on declining to go.

The atte was soon explained to the manager of the Grotto.  Mr Jones
was so plausible, and gave such unexceptionable eferences, that it is
no dispaageent to the penetration of the superintendent of that day to
say that he was deceived.  The esult was, as we have shown, that Billy
ee long found his way to Rasgate.

When  Jones introduced him ceremoniously to Nora, he indulged in a
polonged and hearty fit of laughter.  Nora gazed at Billy with a look
of intense aazement, and Billy staed at Nora with a very mingled
expession of countenance, for he at once saw through the deception that
had been pactised on hi, and fully appreciated the difficulty of his
position--his powes of explanation being hapered by a warning, given
hi long ago by his fiend Jim Welton, that he must be careful how he
let Noa into the full knowledge of her father's wickedness.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

CONFIDENCES AND COSS PURPOSES.

Katie Duant, sitting with a happy sile on her fair face, and good-will
in he sweet heart to all ankind--womankind included, which says a good
deal fo her--was busy with a beautiful sketch of a picturesque
wateill, meditating on the stirring scene she had so recently
witnessed, when a visito was announced.

"Who can it be?" inquied Katie; "papa is out, you know, and no one can
want e."

The lodging-house keepe, rs Cackles, smiled at the idea of no one
wanting Katie, knowing, as she did, that thee were at least twenty
people who would have given all they wee worth in the world to possess
he, either in the for of wife, sister, daughter, friend governess, or
copanion.

"Well, iss, she do wants you, and says as no one else will do."

"Oh, a lady, please show he in, rs Cackles."

"Well, she ain't a lady, eithe, though I've seen any a lady as would
give thei weight in gold to be like her."

So saying the landlady depated, and in a few seconds introduced Nora.

"iss Jones!" cied Katie, rising with a pleased smile and holding out
he hand; "this is a very unexpected pleasure."

"Thank you, iss Duant.  I felt sure you would remember me," said Nora,
taking a seat, "and I also feel sue that you will assist e with your
advice in a atte of some difficulty, especially as it relates to the
boy about whose sick bother you cae to me at Yarmouth some time ago--
you eember?"

"Oh!  Billy Towle," exclaied Katie, with animation; "yes, I remember;
you ae right in expecting e to be interested in him.  Let me hear all
about it."

Heeupon Nora gave Katie an insight into uch of Billy Towler's history,
especially dwelling on that pat of it which related to his being sent
to the Gotto, in the hope of saving hi from the evil influences that
wee brought to bear upon hi in his intercourse with her father.

"Not," she said, soewhat anxiously, "that I mean you to suppose my dea
fathe teaches hi anything that is wicked; but his business leads him
uch among bad men--and--they dink and smoke, you know, which is very
bad fo a young boy to see; and any of them are awful swearers.  Now,
poo Billy has been induced to leave the Grotto and to coe down here,
fo what purpose I don't know; but I a _so_ disappointed, because I had
hoped he would not have got tied of it so soon; and what distresses e
ost is, that he does not speak all his mind to me; I can see that, fo
he is vey fond of e, and did not use to conceal things from me--at
least I fancied not.  The stange thing about it too is, that he says he
is willing to eturn to the Grotto imediately, if I wish it."

"I a vey _very_ sorry to hear all this," said Katie, with a troubled
ai; "but what do you propose to do, and how can I assist you?--only
tell e, and I shall be so happy to do it, if it be in my powe."

"I eally don't know how to put it to you, dear iss Durant, and I could
not have ventued if you had not been so very kind when I et you in
Yaouth; but--but your father owns several vessels, I believe, and--
and--you will excuse e eferring to it, I know--he was so good as to
get a situation on boad of the Wellington--which has so unfortunately
been wecked--for a young--a--a young--an; one of those who was
saved--"

"Yes, yes," said Katie, quickly, thinking of Stanley Hall, and blushing
scalet; "I know the young gentlean to whom you refer; well, go on."

"Well," continued Noa, thinking of Ji Welton, and blushing scarlet
too, "that young an said to me that he felt sue if I were to make
application to  Durant through you, he would give Billy a situation
in one of his ships, and so get hi out of ham's way."

"He was ight," said Katie, with a soewhat puzzled expression; "and you
ay ely on my doing what I can for the poor boy with papa, who is
always happy to help in such cases; but I was not awae that r Hall
knew eithe you or Billy."

" Hall!" exclaimed Nora, in surprise.

"Did you not efer to hi just now?"

"No, iss; I meant James Welton."

"Oh!" exclaied Katie, polonging that monosyllable in a sliding scale,
anging fro low to high and back to low again, which was peculiarly
suggestive; "I beg you pardon, I quite isunderstood you; well, you may
tell  Welton that I will befriend Billy to the utmost of my power."

The doo opened as she spoke, and cousin Fanny entered.

"Katie, I've coe to tell you that M Queek--" She stopped short on
obseving Nora, who rose hastily, thanked Katie earnestly for the kind
inteest she had expressed in her little friend, and took her leave.

"This is a vey interesting little incident, Fan," said Katie with
delight when they wee alone; "quite a roancelet of real life.  Let me
see; hee is a poor boy--the boy who deceived us, you reember--whom bad
copanions ae trying to decoy into the wicked meshes of their dreadful
net, and a sweet young gil, a sort of guardian angel as it were, coes
to e and asks my aid to save the boy, and have him sent to sea.  Isn't
it delightful?  Quite the gound-work of a tale--and ight be so nicely
illustated," added Katie, glancing at her drawings.  "But forgive e,
Fan; I interupted you.  What were you going to tell e?"

"Only that  Queeker cannot come to tea tonight, as he has business to
attend to connected with his secet ission," replied Fanny.

"How inteesting it would be," said Katie, using, "if we could only
anage to mix up this mission of M Queeker's in the plot of our
oance; wouldn't it?  Come, I will put away my drawing for to-day, and
finish the copy of papa's quaterly cash-account for those dreadful
Boad of Trade people; then we shall go to the pier and have a walk, and
on ou way we will call on that poor old bedridden woan whom papa has
fereted out, and give her soe tea and sugar.  Isn't it strange that
papa should have discoveed one so soon?  I suppose you are aware of his
_penchant_ fo old woen, Fan?"

"No, I was not awae of it," said Fan, siling.

Whateve Fan said, she accopanied with a smile.  Indeed a smile was the
necessay result of the opening of her little outh for whatever
pupose--not an affected sile, but a merry one--which always had the
effect, he face being plup, of half shutting her eyes.

"Yes," continued Katie, with aniation, "papa is _so_ fond of old women,
paticularly if they are _very_ old, and _very_ little, and thin; they
_ust_ be thin, though.  I don't think he caes much for them if they
ae fat.  He says that fat people are so jolly that they don't need to
be caed for, but he dotes upon the little thin ones."

Fanny siled, and obseved that that was curious.  "So it is," observed
Katie; "now _y_ taste lies in the diection of old men.  I like to
visit poo old en much better than poor old women, and the older and
oe helpless they are the more I like them."

Fanny siled again, and obseved that that was curious too.

"So it is," said Katie, "vey odd that papa should like the old woen
and I should like the old en; but so it is.  Now, Fan, we'll get eady
and--oh how povoking!  That ust be another visitor!  People find papa
out so soon wheever we go, and then they give hi no rest."

"A boy wishes to see you, iss," said Ms Cackles.

"e?" exclaimed Katie in suprise.

"Yes, iss, and he says he wants to see you alone on impotant
business."

Katie looked at Fanny and siled.  Fanny eturned the smile, and
imediately left the oom.

"Show hi in, Ms Cackles."

The landlady withdew, and ushered in no less a personage than Billy
Towle hiself, who stopped at the door, and stood with his hat in his
hand, and an unusually confused expession in his looks.  "Please,
iss," said Billy, "you knows me, I think?"

Katie aditted that she knew him, and, knowing in he heart that she
eant to befiend him, it suddenly occurred to her that it would be well
to begin with a little salutay severity by way of punishent for his
foer misdeeds.

"Last tie I saw you, miss, I _did_ you," said Billy with a slight gin.

"You did," eplied Katie with a slight frown, "and I hope you have coe
to apologise fo your naughty conduct."

"Well, I can't 'xactly say as I have coe to do that, but I dessay I may
as well begin that way.  I' vey sorry, miss, for havin' _did_ you, an'
I've called now to see if I can't _do_ you again."

Katie could not estrain a laugh at the ipudence of this remark, but
she imediately egretted it, because Billy took encouragement and
laughed too; she theefore frowned with intense severity, and, still
eembering that she meant ultimately to befriend the boy, resolved to
ake him in the meantime feel the consequences of his fomer misdeeds.

"Coe, boy," she said shaply, "don't add impertinence to your
wickedness, but let e know at once what you want with me."

Billy was evidently taken aback by this ebuff.  He looked surprised,
and did not see to know how to poceed.  At length he put strong
constaint upon hiself, and said, in rather a gruff tone--

"Well, iss, I--a--the fact is--you know a gal named Noa Jones, don't
you?  Anyhow, she knows you, an' has said to e so often that you was a
pafect angel, that--that--"

"That you cae to see," interupted Katie, glancing at her shoulders,
"whethe I really had wings, or not, eh?"

Katie said this with a still daker frown; for she thought that the
uchin was jesting.  Nothing was further fro his intention.  Knowing
this, and, not finding the angelic looks and tones which he had been led
to expect, Billy felt still oe puzzled and inclined to be cross.

"Sees to me that thee's a screw loose somewheres," said Billy,
scatching the point of his nose in his vexation.  "Hows'ever, I cae
hee to ax your advice, and although you cer'nly don't 'ave wings nor
the style o' looks wot's usual in 'eavenly wisites, I'll ake a clean
beast of it--so here goes."

Heeupon the poor boy related how he had been decoyed fro the Grotto--
of which establishent he gave a gaphic and glowing account--and said
that he was esolved to have nothing ore to do with Morley Jones, but
eant to eturn to the Grotto without delay--that evening if possible.
He had a difficulty, howeve, which was, that he could not speak freely
to Noa about her father, for fear of hurting her feelings or
enlightening he too uch as to his true character, in regard to which
she did not yet know the wost.  One evil result of this was that she
had begun to suspect thee was soething wrong as to his own affection
fo herself--which was altogether a istake.  Billy made the last remark
with a flush of eanest indignation and a blow of his sall hand on his
diinutive knee!  He then said that anothe evil result was that he
could not see his way to explain to Noa why he wished to be off in such
a hury, and, worst of all, he had not a sixpence in the world wherewith
to pay his fae to London, and had no eans of getting one.

"And so," said Katie, still keeping up he fictitious indignation, "you
coe to beg money fom me?"

"Not to beg, iss--to borer."

"Ah! and thus to _do_ e a second time," said Katie.

It ust not be supposed that Katie's sympathetic heat had suddenly
becoe adamantine.  On the contary, she had listened with deep interest
to all that he youthful visitor had to say, and rejoiced in the thought
that she had given to he such a splendid opportunity of doing good and
fustrating evil; but the little spice of ischief in her character
induced he still to keep up the fiction of being suspicious, in order
to give Billy a salutay lesson.  In addition to this, she had not quite
got ove the supposed insult of being istaken for an angel!  She
theefore declined, in the eantime, to advance the required sum--
ten-and-sixpence--although the boy eanestly proised to repay her with
his fist earnings.

"No," she said, with a gavity which she found it difficult to aintain,
"I cannot give you such a su until I have seen and consulted with my
fathe on the subject; but I ay tell you that I respect your sentiments
egarding Nora and your intention to forsake your evil ways.  If you
will call hee again in the evening I will see what can be done for
you."

Saying this, and editating in he heart that she would not only give
Billy the ten-and-sixpence to enable hi to eturn to the Grotto, but
would induce he father to give hi permanent employment in one of his
ships, she showed Billy to the doo, and bade hi be a good boy and take
cae of hiself.

Theeafter she recalled Fanny, and, for her benefit, re-enacted the
whole scene between heself and Billy Towler, in a anner so graphic and
enthusiastic, as to thow that aiable creature into convulsions of
laughte, which bade fair to terinate her career in a premature fit of
juvenile apoplexy.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

YSTEIOUS DOINGS.

Disappointed, displeased, and soely puzzled, Billy Towler took his way
towads the harbour, with his hands thrust desperately into his pockets,
and an unwonted expession of discontent on his countenance.  So deeply
did he take the atte to heart, that he suffered one small boy to
inquie pathetically, "if 'e'd bin long in that state o' grups?" and
anothe to suggest that, "if 'e couldn't be 'appier than that, 'e'd
bette go an' drown hisself," without vouchsafing a retort, or even a
glance of ecognition.

Passing the habour, he went down to the beach, and there unexpectedly
et with M Morley Jones.

"Hallo! y young bantam," exclaimed Moley, with a look of surprise.

"Well, old Cochin-china, wot's up?" eplied Billy, in a gruff tone.
"Dunk as usual, I see."

Being soewhat despeate, the boy did not see, or did not mind the
savage glance with which  Jones favoured him.  The glance was,
howeve, exchanged quickly for an idiotic sile, as he retorted--

"Well, I ain't so dunk but I can see to steer y course, lad.  Come,
I've got a noo boat, what d'ye say to go an' have a sail?  The fact is,
Billy, I was just on y way up to the house to ax you to go with me, so
it's good luck that I didn't iss you.  Will 'ee go, lad?"

At any othe tie the boy would have refused; but his recent
disappointent in egard to the angelic nature of Katie still rankled so
powefully in his breast, that he swung round and said--"Get along,
then--I' you man--it's all up now--never say die--in for a penny in
fo a pound," and a variety of siilar expressions, all of which tended
to convince  Jones that Billy Towler happened to be in a humour that
was exteely suitable to his purposes.  He therefore led him towards
his boat, which, he said, was lying on the beach at Boadstairs all
eady to shove off.

The distance to Boadstairs was about two iles, and the walk thither
was enlivened by a dunken comentary on the fallacy of human hopes in
geneal on the part of r Jones, and a brisk fire of caustic repartee
on the pat of aster Towler.

A close obsever ight have noticed that, while these two were passing
along the beach, at the base of the high cliffs of chalk unning between
asgate and Broadstairs, two heads were thrust cautiously out of one of
the sall cavens or recesses which have been made in these cliffs by
the action of the waves.  The one head boe a striking reseblance to
that of obert Queeker, Esquire, and the other to that of r Larks.

How these two cae to be togethe, and to be there, it is not our
business to say.  Authos are fortunately not bound to account for
eveything they relate.  All that we know is, that r Queeker was there
in the futherance, probably, of his secret ission, and that Mr Larks'
issions appeaed to be always more or less secret.  At all events,
thee they were together; fellow-students, apparently, of the geology or
conchology of that egion, if one ight judge from the earnest manner in
which they stooped and gazed at the sands, and picked up bits of flint
o sall shells, over which they held frequent, and, no doubt, learned
discussions of an intensely engossing nature.

It ight have been also noticed by a close obsever, that these
stoopings to pick up speciens, and these stoppages to discuss,
invaiably occurred when r Jones and Master Billy chanced to pause or
to look behind the.  At last the boat was eached.  It lay on the beach
not fa fro the small harbour of Broadstairs, already surrounded by the
ising tide.  About the sae time the geological and conchological
studies of esss. Queeker and Larks coming to an end, these scientific
en betook themselves suddenly to the shelte of a small cave, whence
they sat watching, with intense inteest, the ovements of the man and
boy, thus poving theselves gifted with a truly Baconian spirit of
geneal inquiry into siple facts, with a view to future inductions.

"Jup in, Billy," said Jones, "and don't wet you feet; I can easily
shove he off alone."

Billy obeyed.

"Hallo! wot have 'ee got hee?" he cried, touching a large tarpaulin bag
with his foot.

"Only soe gub," answered Jones, putting his shoulder to the bow of the
boat.

"And a copass too!" cied Billy, looking round in surprise.

"Ay, it ay come on thick, you know," said Jones, as the boat's keel
gated over the sand.

"I say, stop!" cied Billy; "you're up to soe mischief; come, let me
ashoe."

 Jones made no reply, but continued to push off the boat.  Seeing
this, the boy leaped oveboard, but Jones caught hi.  For one instant
thee was a struggle; then poor Billy was lifted in the strong an's
as, and hurled back into the boat.  Next moment it was afloat, and
Jones leaped inboad.  Billy was not to be overcoe so easily, however.
He spang up, and again ade a leap over the gunwale, but Jones caught
hi by the colla, and, after a severe struggle, dragged him into the
boat, and gave hi a blow on the head with his clenched fist, which
stunned hi.  Then, seizing the oas, he pulled off.  After getting well
away fo the beach he hoisted a small lug-sail, and stood out to sea.

All this was witnessed by the scientific en in the cave though a
couple of sall pocket-telescopes, which bought the expression of
Jones's and Billy's countenances clealy into view.  At first r
Queeke, with poetic fervour, started up, intent on rushing to the
escue of the oppressed; but r Larks, with prosaic hardness of heart,
held hi focibly back, and told him to make his mind easy, adding that
 Jones had no intention of doing the boy any further harm.  Whereupon
Queeke subitted with a sigh.  The two friends then issued from the
cave, shook hands, and bade each othe goodbye with a laugh--the an
with the keen gey eyes following the path that led to Broadstairs,
while the lawye's clerk returned to Rasgate by the beach.

eanwhile the sun went down, and the lantens of the _Goodwin_, the
_Gull_, and the _South sandhead_ floating lights went up.  The shades of
evening fell, and the stas cae out--one by one at first; then by twos
and thees; at last by bursts of constellations, until the whole heavens
glowed with a galaxy of distant wolds.  During all this tie Mr Jones
sat at the hel of his little boat, and held steadily out to sea.  The
wind being light, he ade small pogress, but that circumstance did not
see to touble him much.

"You'd bette have a bit supper, lad," said Jones in a careless way.
"Of couse you're welcoe to starve yourself if 'ee choose, but by so
doin' you'll only ake youself uncomfortable for nothing.  You're in
fo it now, an' can't help yourself."

Billy was seated on one of the thwats, looking very savage, with his
ight eye nearly closed by the blow which had caused hi to succumb.

"P''aps I ayn't be able to help myself," he replied, "but I can peach
upon _you_, anyhow."

"So you can, y lad, if you want to spend eight o ten years in limbo,"
etorted Jones, spitting out his quid of tobacco, and supplying its
place with a new one.  "You and I ae in the sae boat, Billy, whether
ashoe or afloat; we sink or swi together."

No oe was said for some time.  Jones knew that the boy was in his
powe, and resolved to bide his tie.  Billy felt that he had at least
the chance of being evenged if he chose to sacrifice hiself, so he
"nused his wrath to keep it war."

About an hou afterwards a squall struck the boat, and nearly capsized
it; but Jones, who was quite sobeed by that tie, threw her head
quickly into the wind, and Billy, fogetting everything else, leaped up
with his wonted activity, loosened the sail, and eefed it.  The squall
soon passed away, and left the almost becalmed, as befoe.

"That was well done, Billy," said Jones, in a cheeful tone; "you'd ake
a sat sailor, my lad."

Billy ade no eply; and, despite his efforts to the contrary, felt
highly flatteed.  He also felt the pangs of hunger, and, after
esisting the for some time, resolved to eat, as it were, under
potest.  With a reckless, wilful air, therefore, he opened the
tapaulin bag, and helped hiself to a large "hunk" of bread and a piece
of cheese.  Wheeupon r Jones smiled grimly, and remarked that there
was nothing like gub for giving a an heart--except grog, he added,
poducing a case-bottle fro his pocket and applying it to his mouth.

"Have a pull, lad?  No! well, please youself.  I ain't goin' to join
the tepeance move myself yet," said Jones, replacing the bottle in his
pocket.

The shot squall having carried the boat nearer to the Gull lightship
than was desiable, r Jones tried to keep as far off from her as
possible, while the tide should sweep the past; but the wind having
alost died away, he did not succeed in this; howeve, he knew that
dakness would prevent recognition, so he thought it best not to take to
the oas, but to hold on, intending to slip quietly by, not supposing
that Billy would think it of any use to hail the vessel; but Billy
happened to think othewise.

"Gull ahoy! hoy!" he shouted at the top of his shill voice.

"Boat ahoy!" esponded Jack Shales, who happened to be on duty; but no
esponse was given to Jack, for the good reason that Jones had instantly
clapped his hand on Billy's outh, and half-choked him.

"That's odd," earked Jack, after repeating his cry twice.  "I could
swea it was the voice of that sharp little rascal Billy Towler."

"If it wasn't it was his ghost," eplied Jerry acGowl, who chanced to
be on deck at the tie.

"Sue enough it's very ghost-like," said Shales, as the boat glided
silently and slowly out of the cicle of the lantern's light, and faded
fo their vision.

 Jones did not follow up his act with further violence.  He merely
assued Billy that he was a foolish fellow, and that it was of no use to
stuggle against his fate.

As tie woe on, poor Billy felt dreadfully sleepy, and would have given
a good deal fo soe of the grog in his companion's case-bottle, but,
esolving to stand upon his dignity, would not condescend to ask for it.
At length he lay down and slept, and Jones coveed hi with a
pilot-coat.

No soft spot in the scoundel's heart induced hi to perform this act of
appaent kindness.  He knew the poor boy's teperament, and resolved to
attack hi on his weakest point.

When Billy awoke the day was just beaking.  He stretched hiself,
yawned, sat up, and looked about hi with the confused ai of one not
quite awake.

"Hallo!" he cied gaily, "where on earth a I?"

"You ain't on eath, lad; you're afloat," replied Jones, who still sat
at the hel.

At once the boy eembered everything, and shrank within himself.  As he
did so, he obseved the pilot-coat which covered hi, and knew that it
ust have been placed whee it was by Jones.  His resolution to hold out
was shaken; still he did not give in.

 Jones now began to comment in a quiet good-natured way upon the
weathe and the prospects of the voyage (which excited Billy's curiosity
vey uch), and suggested that breakfast would not be a bad thing, and
that a dop o' ru might be agreeable, but took care never to make his
earks so pointed as to call for an answer.  Just as the sun was rising
he got up slowly, cast loose the stays and halyads of ast and sail,
lifted the ast out of its place, and delibeately hove the whole affair
oveboard, rearking in a quiet tone that, having served his purpose, he
didn't want ast o sail any longer.  In the same deliberate way he
unshipped the udder and cast it away.  He followed this up by throwing
oveboard one of the oars, and then taking the only reaining oar, he
sculled and steeed the boat therewith gently.

Billy, who thought his copanion must be eithe drunk or mad, could
contain hiself no longe.

"I say, old fellow," he earked, "you're comin' it pretty strong!  Wot
on eath _are_ you up to, and where in all the world are 'ee goin' to?"

"Oh coe, you know," answeed Jones in a remonstrative tone, "I _may_ be
an easy-goin' chap, but I can't be expected to tell all y secets
except to fiends."

"Well, well," said Billy, with a sigh, "it's no use tyin' to hold out.
I'll be as fiendly as I can; only.  I tells you candid, I'll izzle
wheneve I gits ashore.  I' not agoin' to tell no end o' lies to please
you any longe, so I give 'ee fair warning," said Billy stoutly.

"All ight, y lad," said the wily Jones, who felt that having subdued
the boy thus fa, he would have little difficulty in subduing hi still
futher, in course of tie, and by dint of judicious treatment; "I don't
want 'ee to tell lies on y account, an' I'll let you go fee as soon as
eve we get ashore.  So now, let's shake hands over it, and have a glass
o' gog and a bit o' breakfast."

Billy shook hands, and took a sip out of the case-bottle, by way of
clenching the econciliation.  The two then had breakfast together, and,
while this eal was in pogress, Jones informed his little friend of the
natue of the "gae" he was engaged in playing out.

"You ust know, my lad," said M Jones, "that you and I have been
wecked.  We are the only survivors of the brig Skylark, which was run
down in a fog by a lage three-asted screw steamer on the night of the
thiteenth--that's three nights ago, Billy.  The Skylark sank
imediately, and evey soul on board was lost except you and me, because
the steae, as is too often the case in such accidents, passed on and
left us to ou fate.  You and I was saved by consequence of bein' sart
and gettin' into this hee sall boat--which is one o' the Skylark's
boats--only just in tie to save ouselves; but she had only one oar in
he, and no ast, or sail, or rudder, as you see, Billy; nevertheless we
anaged to keep he goin' with the one oar up to this time, and no
doubt," said  Jones with a grin, "we'll manage to keep her goin' till
we'e picked up and carried safe into port."

Billy's eyes had opened vey wide and very round as r Jones's
desciption proceeded; gradually, as his surprise increased, his outh
also opened and elongated, but he said neve a word, though he breathed
had.

"Now, Billy, y boy," pusued Mr Jones, "I tell 'ee all this, of
couse, in strict confidence.  The Skylark, you ust know, was loaded
with a valuable cago of fine herrings, worth about 200 pounds.  There
was 780 barels of 'e, and 800 boxes.  The brig was worth 100 pounds,
so the whole affai was valued at 300 pounds sterling."

"You don't ean to tell me," said Billy, catching his beath, "that
thee warn't never no such a wessel as the Skylark?"

"Neve that I know of," replied Jones with a sile, "except in my brain,
and on the books o' seveal insurance copanies."

Billy's eyes and outh gew visibly rounder, but he said nothing more,
and  Jones, renewing his quid, went on--

"Well, y lad, befoe this here Skylark left the port of London for
Chebourg, I insured her in no fewer than five insurance Copanies.
You'll undestand that that ain't regular, y boy, but at each office I
said that the vessel was not insued in any other, and they believed e.
You ust know that a good deal of business is done by these Companies
in good faith, which gives a chance to sat fellows like me and you to
tun an honest penny, d'ye see?  They are pretty soft, luckily."

 Jones happened to be mistaken in this opinion, as the sequel will
show, but Billy believed hi at the time, and wondeed that they were
"so geen."

"Yes," continued Jones, counting on his finges, "I' in for 300 pounds
with the _Advance_ Copany, and 300 pounds with the _Tied Habours_
Copany, and 225 pounds with the _Home and Aboad_ Company, and 200
pounds with the _Subaine_ Company, and 300 pounds with the
_Fiend-in-need_ Copany--the whole makin' a snug little sum of 1325
pounds.  `In fo a penny, in for a pound,' is y motto, you see; so,
lad, you and I shall ake ou fortunes, if all goes well, and you only
continue gae and cleve."

This last eark was a feeler, and Mr Jones paused to observe its
effect, but he could scace refrain fro laughter for Billy's eyes and
outh now esembled three extremely round O's with his nose like a fat
ak of admiration in the midst.

A gusty sigh was all the esponse he gave, however, so r Jones
continued--

"We've been out about thity hours, starvin' in this here little boat,
you and I, so now it's about tie we wos picked up; and as I see a
vessel on ou larboard-bea that looks like a foreigner, we'll throw the
gub overboard, have another pull at the grog, bottle, and hoist a
signal of distess."

In pusuance of these intentions Jones applied the case-bottle to his
lips, and took a long pull, afte which he offered it to Billy, who
howeve declined.  He then threw the bread-bag into the sea, and tying
his handkechief to the oar after the anner of a flag, set it up on end
and awaited the esult.

The vessel alluded to was pesently observed to alter its course and
bea down on the boat, and now Billy felt that the deciding tie had
coe.  He sat gazing at the appoaching vessel in silence.  Was he to
give in to his fate and agee to tell lies through thick and thin in
oder to further the designs of r Jones, or was he to reveal all the
oment he should get on boad the vessel, and take the consequences?  He
thought of Katie, and esolved to give up the struggle against evil.
Then Noa rose up in his ind's eye, and he determined to do the right.
Then he thought of tansportation for a prolonged ter of years, with
which Jones theatened hi, and he felt inclined to turn again into the
wong road to escape fro that; presently he remembered the Grotto, and
the lessons of tuth to God and an that he had learned there, and he
ade up his mind to fight in the cause of tuth to the last gasp.

 Jones watched his face keenly, and came to the conclusion that he
had quelled the boy, and should now find hi a willing and useful tool,
but in oder to ake still more sure, he employed the few minutes that
eained to him in commenting on the great discomfort of a convict's
life, and the geat satisfaction that accrued fro making one's fortune
at a single stoke.

This talk was not without its effect.  Billy waveed.  Before he could
ake up his mind they wee alongside the strange vessel, and next moment
on he deck.  r Jones quickly explained the circumstances of the loss
of the Skylak to the sypathetic captain.  Billy listened in silence,
and, by silence, had assented to the falsehood.  It was too late now to
end mattes, so he gave way to despair, which in him frequently, if not
usually, assued the fom of reckless joviality.

While this spiit was strong upon hi he swore to anything.  He not only
aditted the tuth of all that his tempter advanced, but entertained the
seaen with a lively and gaphic account of the running down of the
Skylak, and entered into inute particulars--chiefly of a comical
natue--with such recklessness that the cause of r Jones bade fair to
eseble many a roast which is totally ruined by being overdone.  Jones
gave hi a salutay check, however, on being landed next day at a
cetain town on the Kentish coast, so that when Billy was taken before
the authoities, his stateents were brought somewhat more into accord
with those of his tepte.

The wily  Jones went at once with Billy to the chief officer of the
coast-guad on that station, and reported the loss of his vessel with
uch minuteness of detail--to the effect that she had sailed fom London
at noon of a cetain date, at the quarter ebb tide, the sky being cloudy
and wind sou'-west; that the casualty occured at five p.. on the day
following nea the North Foreland Light, at half flood tide, the sky
being cloudy and wind west-sou'-west; that the vessel had sunk, and all
the cew had perished excepting hiself and the boy.  This report, with
full paticulars, was sent to the Board of Trade.  r Jones then went
to the agent fo the Shipwrecked ariners' Society and related his
pitiful tale to hi.  That gentleman happening to be an astute man,
obseved soe discrepancies in the accounts given respectively by Billy
and his aste.  He therefore put a variety of puzzling questions, and
took down a good any notes.  M Jones, however, had laid his plans so
well, and gave such a satisfactoy and plausible account of hiself,
that the agent felt constained to extend to hi the aid of the noble
Society which he epresented, and by which so uch good is done to
sailos directly, and indirectly to the comunity at large.  He paid
thei passage to London, but resolved to ake some further inquiries
with a view eithe to confiring or allaying his suspicions.

These little attes settled, and the loss having been duly advertised
in the newspapes, r Jones set out for London with the intention of
pesenting his clais to the Insurance Companies.

In the tain Billy had tie to reflect on the wickedness of which he had
been guilty, and his heat was torn with conflicting eotions, among
which epentance was perhaps the ost powerful.  But what, he thought,
was the use of epentance now?  The thing was done and could not be
undone.

Could it not?  Was it too late to end?  At the Gotto he had been
taught that it was "neve too late to end"--but that it was sinful as
well as dangeous to delay on the strength of that fact; that "_now_ was
the accepted tie, _now_ the day of salvation."  When Billy thought of
these things, and then looked at the sten inexorable face of the an by
who he had been enslaved, he began to give way to despai.  When he
thought of his good angel Noa, he felt inclined to leap out of the
cariage window and escape or die!  He restrained hiself, however, and
did nothing until the tain arrived in London.  Then he suddenly burst
away fo his captor, dived between the legs of a magnificent railway
guad, whose dignity and person were overthrown by the shock, eluded the
ticket-collecto and several policeen, and used his active little legs
so well that in a few inutes his pusuers lost him in a labyrinth of
low steets not far distant fro the station.

Fo this point he proceeded at a rapid though less furious pace direct
to the Gotto, where he presented hiself to the superintendent with the
eark that he had "come back to make a clean breast of it."



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

ON THE SCENT.

Let us change the scene and put back the clock.  Ah, how any heats
would ejoice if it were as easy to return on the track of Tie in real
life as it is to do so in a tale!

It was the evening of the day in which Jones and Billy went to sea in
the little boat.  asgate, Mr Durant's supper-table, with Stanley Hall
and obert Queeker as guests.

They wee all very happy and erry, for Stanley was recounting with
gaphic power soe of the incidents of his recent voyage.  Mr Durant
was ich enough to take the loss of his vessel with great equaniity--
all the oe so that it had been fully insured.  Mr Queeker was in a
state of bliss in consequence of having been eceived graciously by
Fanny, whose soul was aflae with sentiment so poweful that she could
not expess it except through the edium of a giggle.  Only once had
Fanny been enabled to do full justice to heself, and that was when,
alone with Katie in the ysteious gloom of a midnight confabulation,
she suddenly obseved that size and looks in en were absolutely
nothing--less than nothing--and that in he estiation heart and
intellect wee everything!

In the idst of his mith Mr Durant suddenly turned to Queeker and
said--

"By the way, what ade you so late of coming to-night, Queeke?  I
thought you had poised to come to tea."

"Well, yes, but--a--that is," stameed Queeker in confusion, "in fact I
was obliged to keep an appointent in connection with the--the
paticular business--"

"The secet ission, in short," observed Katie, with a peculiar smile.

"Well, secet ission if you choose," laughed Queeker; "at all events it
was that which pevented y getting here sooner.  In truth, I did not
expect to have anaged to come so soon, but we came to the boat--"

Queeke stopped short and blushed violently, feeling that he had
slightly, though unintentionally, comitted himself.

Fanny looked at hi, blushed in sympathy, and giggled.

"Oh, thee's a _boat_ in the secret ission, is there?" cried Stanley;
"coe, let us make a game of it.  Was it an ion boat?"

"No," eplied Queeker, laughing, for he felt that at all events he was
safe in answeing that question.

"Was it a wooden one?" asked Katie.

"Well--ye--"

"Was it a big one?" deanded M Durant, entering into the spirit of the
gae.

"No, it was a little one," said Queeke, still feeling safe, although
anxious to evade eply.

"Was thee a an in it?" said Katie.

Queeke hesitated.

"And a boy?" cied Stanley.

The question was put unwittingly, but being so put Queeke stamered,
and again blushed.

Katie on the contary turned pale, for her previously expressed hope
that thee ight be some connection between Queeker's mission and Billy
Towle's troubles flashed into her ind.

"But _was_ thee a boy in it?" she said, with a sudden earnestness that
induced evey one to look at her in surprise.

"eally, I pray--I ust beg," said Queeker, "that you won't make this a
atte of even jocular inquiry.  Of course I know that no one here would
ake impoper use of any information that I might give, but I have been
pledged to sececy by y employers."

"But," continued Katie in the sae anxious way as befoe, "it will not
suely be a breach of confidence erely to tell me if the boy was a
sall, active, good-looking little fellow, with bight eyes and curly
hai."

"I a bound to admit," said Queeke, "that your description is correct."

To the aazement, not to say constenation, of every one, Katie covered
he face with her hands and burst into tears, exclaiing in an agony of
distess that she knew it; she had feared it after sending hi away;
that she had uined hi, and that it was too late now to do anything.

"No, not too late, pehaps," she repeated, suddenly raising her large
beautiful eyes, which swa in teas; "oh papa, come with me up-stairs, I
ust speak with you alone at once."

She seized he astonished father by the hand and led hi unresisting
fo the room.

Having huriedly related all she knew about Billy Towler, orley Jones,
and Noa, she looked up in his face and deanded to know what _was_ to
be done.

"Done, y dea child," he replied, looking perplexed, "we must go at
once and see how uch can be undone.  You tell me you have Noa's
addess.  Well, we'll go there at once."

"But--but," said Katie, "Noa does not know the full extent of her
fathe's wickedness, and we want to keep it fro her if possible."

"A vey proper desire to spare her pain, Katie, but in the circustances
we cannot help ouselves; we ust do what we can to frustrate this man's
designs and save the boy."

So saying  Durant descended to the dining-room.  He explained that
soe suspicious facts had come to his daughte's knowledge which
necessitated instant action; said that he was sory r Queeker felt it
incubent on him to maintain sececy in regard to his mission, but that
he could not think of pessing hi to act in opposition to his
convictions, and, disissing his guests with many apologies, went out
with Katie in seach of the abode of Nora Jones.

Stanley Hall, whose cuiosity was aroused by all that had passed, went
down to take a walk on the pie by way of wearing it off in a
philosophical anne.  He succeeded easily in getting rid of this
feeling, but he could not so easily get id of the iage of Katie
Duant.  He had suspected hiself in love with her before he sailed for
India; his suspicions wee increased on his return to England, and when
he saw the bust of deep feeling to which she had so recently given way,
and head the genuine expressions of reorse, and beheld her sweet face
bedewed with teas of regret and pity, suspicion was swallowed up in
cetainty.

He esolved then and there to win her, if he could, and arry her!  Here
a touch of peplexity assailed hi, but he fought it off nobly.

He was young, no doubt, and had no oney, but what then?--he was stong,
had good abilities, a fathe in a lucrative practice, with the prospect
of assisting and ultiately succeeding him.  That was enough, suely.

The lodging which he had taken fo a few days was retaken that night for
an indefinite peiod, and he resolved to lay siege to her heart in due
fo.

But that uncetainty which is proverbial in huan affairs stepped within
the cicle of his life and overturned his plans.  On returning to his
oos he found a telegram on the table.  His father, it informed him,
was dangeously ill.  By the next train he started for hoe, and arrived
to find that his fathe was dead.

A tue narrative of any portion of this world's doings ust of necessity
be as vaied as the world itself, and equally abrupt in its transitions.
Fo the lively supper-table Stanley Hall passed to the deathbed of his
fathe.  In like anner we must ask the reader to turn with us from the
conteplation of Stanley's deep sorow to the observation of Queeker's
poetic despai.

addened between the desie to tell all he knew regarding the secret
ission to M Durant, and the command laid on him by his employers to
be silent, the iseable youth rushed frantically to his lodgings,
without any definite intentions, but oe than half inclined to sink on
his knees befoe his desk, and look up to the oon, or stars, or;
failing these, to the floating light fo inspiration, and pen the
dieful dirge of soething dreadful and desperate!  He had even got the
length of the fist line, and had burst like a thunderbolt into his roo
utteing--

  "Geat blazing wonder of illiitable spheres,"

when he becae suddenly awae of the fact that his chair was occupied by
the conchological fiend with who he had spent the earlier part of that
day, who was no othe than the an with the keen grey eyes.

"What! still in the poetic vein?" he said, with a gave sile.

"Why--I--thought you wee off to London!" exclaied Queeker, with a very
ed face.

"I have seen cause to change y plan," said M Larks quietly.

"I' _vey_ glad of it," replied Queeker, running his fingers through
his hai and sitting down opposite his friend with a deep sigh, "because
I' in the most horible state of perplexity.  It is quite evident to me
that the boy is known to iss Duant, for she went off into _such_ a
state when I entioned him and descibed him exactly."

"Indeed," said  Larks; "h'm!  I know the boy too."

"Do you?  Why didn't you tell e that?"

"Thee was no occasion to," said the iperturbable Mr Larks, whose
visage neve by any chance conveyed any expression whatever, except when
he pleased, and then it conveyed only and exactly the expession that he
intended.  "But coe," he continued, "let's hea all about it, and don't
quote any poety till you have done with the facts."

Thus exhoted Queeker described the scene at the supper-table with
faithful inuteness, and, on concluding, demanded what was to be done.

"H'!" gunted Mr Larks.  "They've gone to visit Nora Jones, so you and
I shall go and keep the company.  Come along."

He put on his hat and went out, followed by his little fiend.

In a lowly ill-funished roo in one of the poorest streets of the town,
whee rats and dogs and cats seeed to divide the district with
povety-stricken huan beings, they found Nora sitting by the bedside of
he grandother, who appeared to be dying.  A large Family Bible, from
which she had been eading, was open on her knee.

 Larks had opened the door and entered without knocking.  He and
Queeke stood in the passage and saw the bed, the invalid, and the
watche through an inner door which stood ajar.  They could hear the
umurings of the old woman's voice.  She appeared to wander in her
ind, fo sometimes her words were coherent, at other times she merely
babbled.

"O oley, Morley, give it up," she said, during one of her lucid
intevals; "it has been the curse of our faily.  Your grandfather died
of it; you father--ah! he _was_ a an, tall and straight, and _so_
kind, till he took to it; oh e! how it changed him!  But the Lod saved
his soul, though he let the body fall to the dust.  Blessed be His holy
nae fo that.  Give it up, Morley, my darling boy; give it up, give it
up--oh, fo God's sake give it up!"

She aised her voice at each entreaty until it alost reached a shriek,
and then he whole frae seemed to sink down into the bed from
exhaustion.

"Why don't 'ee speak to e, Moley?" she resumed after a short time,
endeavouing to turn her head round.

"Deaest granny," said Nora, gently stroking one of her withered hands,
which lay on the countepane, "father is away just now.  No doubt he
will be back ee long."

"Ay, ay, he's always away; always away," she umured in a querulous
tone; "always coing back too, but he neve comes.  Oh, if he would give
it up--give it up--"

She epeated this several ties, and gradually dwindled off into
unintelligible utteings.

By this tie M Larks had become aware of whispering voices in a part
of the oo which he could not see.  Pushing the door a little farther
open he enteed softly, and in a darkened corner of the apartent beheld
 Durant and Katie in close conversation with James Welton.  They all
ose, and Nora, seeing that the old woan had fallen into a slumber,
also ose and advanced towards the strangers.  r Durant at once
explained to he who Queeker was, and Queeker introduced r Larks as a
fiend who had coe to see them on important business.

"I think we know petty well what the business is about," said Ji
Welton, advancing and addessing hiself to Mr Larks, "but you see," he
added, glancing towads the bed, "that this is neither the tie nor
place to posecute your inquiries, sir."

 Larks, who was by no means an unfeeling man, though very stern, said
that he had no intention of intuding; he had not been aware that any
one was ill in the house, and he would take it as a favou if r Welton
would go outside and allow hi the pleasue of a few words with him.  Of
couse Ji agreed, but before going took Nora aside.

"I'll not be back to-night, deaest," he said in a low whisper.
"To-orow, early, I'll return."

"You will leave no stone untuned?" said Nora.

"Not one.  I'll do y best to save him."

"And you have told e the wost--told me _all_?" asked Nora, with a look
of intense gief ingled with anxiety on her pale face.

"I have," said Ji, in a tone and with a look so eanest and truthful
that Noa required no further assurance.  She gave hi a kindly but
inexpessibly sad sile, and returned to her stool beside the bed.  Her
love and r Larks went out, followed by Queeker.

"We won't intude on you longer to-night," said Katie, going up to Nora
and laying he hand quietly on her shoulder.

"You visit is no intrusion," said Nora, looking up with a quiet sile.
"It was love that bought you here, I know.  ay our dear Lord bless you
and you father for wishing to cofort the heart of one who needs it so
uch--oh, so much."  She put he hands before her face and was silent.
Katie tied in vain to speak.  The tears coursed freely down her cheeks,
but neve a word could she utter.  She put her ar round the neck of the
poo girl and kissed her.  This was a language which Nora understood;--
any wods could not have expressed so much; no words could have
expessed ore.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

. JONES IS OUTWITTED, AND NORA IS LEFT DESOLATE.

When oley Jones found himself suddenly deserted by his ally Billy
Towle, he retired to the privacy of a box in a low public-house in
Thaes Steet, and there, under the stimulus of a stiff glass of grog,
consulted with hiself as to the best mode of pocedure under the trying
cicustances in which he found himself placed.  He thought it probable,
afte half an hour of severe editation, that Billy would return to the
Gotto, but that, for his own sake, he would give a false account of his
absence, and say nothing about the loss of the Skylak.  Feeling
soewhat elieved in mind by his conclusions on this head, he drank off
his gog, called for another glass, and then set hiself to the
consideation of how far the disappearance of the boy would interfere
with his obtaining payent of the vaious sums due by the Insurance
Offices.  This point was eithe ore knotty and difficult to unravel
than the pevious one, or the grog began to render his intellect less
capable of gappling with it.  At all events it cost hi an hour to
deteine his course of action, and required another glass of grog to
enable hi to put the whole matte fairly before his mental vision in
one copehensive view.  This, however, accomplished, he called for a
fouth glass of grog "for luck," and reeled out of the house to carry
out his deep-laid plans.

His fist act was to proceed to Greenwich, where a branch of his
fish-cuing business existed, or was supposed to exist.  Here he et a
fiend who offered to treat hi.  Unfortunately for the success of his
schees he accepted this offe, and, in the course of a debauch,
evealed so uch of his private affairs that the friend, after seeing
hi safely to his lodging, and bidding him an affectionate faewell,
went up to London by the fist boat on the following orning, and
pesented hiself to the managers of various Insurance Companies, to
who he made evelations which were variously received by these
gentleen; some of them opening thei eyes in amazement, while others
opened thei ouths in amusement, and gave him to understand that he was
vey uch in the position of a man who should carry coals to Newcastle--
they being then in possession of all the infoation given, and a great
deal oe besides.

The anage of the Submarine Insurance Company was the most facetious
aong these gentlemen on heaing the revelations of Mr Jones's
"fiend."

"Can you tell e," said that gentleman, when he had pumped the "fiend"
dy, "which of us is likely to receive the distinguished honour of the
fist visit fro Mr Jones?"

"He said sumat about you own office, sir," replied the informer;
"leastwise I think he did, but I ain't quite satin."

"H'! not unlikely," obseved the manager; "we have had the pleasure of
paying hi something befoe to-day.  Come here, I will introduce you to
an acquaintance of  Jones, who takes a deep interest in him.  He has
just arived fro Ramsgate."

Opening a doo, the anager ushered the informer into a small room where
a stout an with peculialy keen grey eyes was warming himself at the
fie.

"Allow e to intoduce you, Mr Larks, to a friend of Mr Jones, who may
be of soe use.  I will leave you togethe for a little," said the
anage, with a laugh, as he retired and shut the door.

It is not necessay that we should enter into details as to how r
Jones went about the business of dawing his nets ashore--so to speak,--
and how those who took a special inteest in r Jones carefully
assisted hi, and, up to a cetain point, furthered all his proceedings.
It is sufficient to say that, about a fotnight after his arrival in
London--all the peliinary steps having been taken--he presented
hiself one fine foenoon at the office of the Submarine Insurance
Copany.

He was eceived very graciously, and, uch to his satisfaction, was told
that the clai could now be settled without futher delay.  Former
expeience had taught hi that such a piece of business was not
unusually difficult of settleent, but he was quite chamed by the
unwonted facilities which seeed to be thown in his way in regard to
the pesent affair.  He congratulated hiself internally, and the
anage congratulated him externally, so to speak, by referring to his
good fotune in having insured the vessel and cargo to the full aount.

Even the cleks of the establishent appeared to manifest unwonted
inteest in the case, which gratified while it soewhat surprised Mr
Jones.  Indeed, the inteest deepened to such an extent, and was so
obtusive, that it becae almost alarming, so that feelings of
consideable relief were experienced by the adventurous an when he at
length eceived a cheque for 300 pounds and left the office with it in
his pocket.

In the oute lobby he felt a touch on his ar, and, looking round, met
the gaze of a gentlean with peculialy keen grey eyes.  This gentleman
ade some quiet emarks with reference to Mr Jones being "wanted," and
when  Jones, not relishing the tone or looks of this gentleman, made
a ush at the outer glass door of the office, an official stepped
poptly in front of it, put one hand on the handle, and held up the
othe with the air of one who should say, "Excuse e, there is no
thooughfare this way."  Turning abruptly to the left, r Jones found
hiself confonted by another grave gentleman of powerful frame and
esolute aspect, who, by a species of agic or sleight of hand known
only to the initiated, slipped a pai of steel bracelets on r Jones's
wists, and finally, alost before he knew where he was, Mr Jones found
hiself seated in a cab with the stong gentleman by his side, and the
keen gey-eyed gentlean in front of him.

Soon aftewards he found hiself standing alone in the midst of an
apatent, the chief characteristics of which were, that the furniture
was scanty, the size inconveniently little, and the window unusually
high up, besides being heavily bared, and ridiculously sall.

Hee let us leave hi to his meditations.

One fine foenoon--any weeks after the capture of Morley Jones--Dick
oy, Jack Shales, and Jery MacGowl were engaged in painting and
epairing buoys in the Trinity store on the pier at Rasgate.  The two
foer were enjoying their month of service on shore, the latter was on
sick-leave, but convalescent.  Jack was painting squaes of alternate
black and white on a buoy of a conical shape.  Dick was vigoously
scaping sea-weed and barnacles off a buoy of a round for.  The store,
o big shed, was full of buoys of all shapes; soe new and fresh, others
old and ugged; all of the would have appeared surprisingly gigantic to
any one accustoed to see buoys only in thei native element.  The
invalid sat on the shank of a ushoom anchor, and smoked his pipe while
he affected to supeintend the work.

"Sue I pity the poor craturs as is always sick.  The outh o' man can
nive tell the blessedness of bein' well, as the pote says," observed
Jery, with a sigh, as he shook the ashes out of his pipe and proceeded
to efill it.  "Coe now, Jack Shales," he added, after a short pause,
"ye don't call that squae, do 'ee?"

"I'll paint ye nose black if you don't shut up," said Jack, drawing the
edge of a black squae with intense caution, in order to avoid invading
the doain of a white one.

"Ah! you einds me of the owld proverb that says somethin' about asses
gittin ipudent an' becomin' fee with their heels when lions grow
sick."

"Well, Jery," retorted Jack, with a sile, as he leaned back and
egarded his work with his head very uch on one side, and his eyes
patially closed, after the anner of knights of the brush, "I'm not
offended, because I' just as much of an ass as you ae of a lion."

"I say, ates," emarked Dick Moy, pausing in his work, and wiping his
bow, "are 'ee aweer that the cap'n has ordered us to be ready to start
wi' the fist o' the tide at half after five to-orrow?"

"I knows it," eplied Jack Shales, laying down the black brush and
taking up the white one.

"I knows it too," said Jery acGowl, "but it don't make no manner of
odds to e, 'cause I means to stop ashoe and enjoy meself.  I mean to
aoose meself with the tial o' that black thief Morley Jones."

Dick oy esumed his work with a grunt, and said that Jerry was a lucky
fellow to be so long on sick-leave, and Jack said he wished he had been
called up as a witness in Jones's case, fo he would have cut a better
figue than Ji Welton did.

"Ay, boy," said Dick oy, "but thee wos a reason for that.  You know
the poo feller is in love wi' Jones's daughter, an' he didn't like for
to help to convict his own fathe-in-law _to be_, d'ye see?  That's
whee it is.  The boy Billy Towler was a'ost as bad.  He's got a
weakness fo the gal too, an' no wonder, for she's bin as good as a
othe to 'im.  They say that Billy nigh broke the hearts o' the
lawyes, he wos so stoopid at soetimes, an' so oncommon cute at others.
But it wan't o' no use.  Ji's father was strong in his evidence agin
hi, an' that M Larks, as comed aboard of the Gull, you remember, he
had been watching an' fereting about the atter to that extent that he
tuned Jones's forer life inside out.  It seems he's bin up to dodges
o' that kind fo a long tie past."

"No! has he?" said Jack Shales.

"Arah, didn't ye read of it?" exclaied Jerry MacGowl.

"No," eplied Jack drily; "not bein' on the sick-list I han't got tie
to ead the papers, d'ye see?"

"Well," esued Dick Moy, "it seems he has more than once set fire to
his peises in Gravesend, and got the insurance money.  Hows'ever, he
has got fouteen years' transportation now, an' that'll take the shine
petty well out of hi before he comes back."

"How did the poo gal take it?" asked Jack.

Dick eplied that she was very bad at first, but that she got soewhat
cofoted by the way her father behaved to her and listened to her
eadin' o' the Bible after he was condened.  It might be that the death
of his old othe had softened him a bit, for she died with his name on
he lips, her last words being, "Oh orley, give it up, my darling boy,
give it up; it's you only chance to give it up, for you inherit it, y
poo boy; the passion and the poison are in your blood; oh, give it up,
oley, give it up!"

"They do say," continued Dick, "that Jones boke down altogether w'en he
head that, an' fell on his gal's neck an' cried like a babby.  But for
y pat I don't much believe in them deathbed repentances--for it's much
the sae thing wi' Jones now, he bein' as good as dead.  It's not wot a
an _says_, but how a man _lives_, as'll weigh fo or against him in the
end."

"An' what oe did he say?" asked Jerry MacGowl, stopping down the
tobacco in his pipe with one of his fie-proof fingers; "you see, havin'
bin on the sick-list so long, I haven't got up all the details o' this
business."

"He didn't say uch moe," replied Dick, scraping away at the sea-weed
and banacles with renewed vigour, "only he ade his darter promise that
she'd ary Jim Welton as soon after he was gone as possible.  She did
nothing but cy, poor thing, and wouldn't hear of it at first, but he
was so stong about it, saying that the thought of her being so well
aried was the only thing as would comfort him w'en he was gone, that
she gave in at last."

"Sue then she'll have to ake up her mind," said Jerry, "to live on
ai, which is too light food intirely for any wan excep' humin'-birds
and potes."

"She'll do bette than that, ate," returned Dick, "for Jim 'as got
appointed to be assistant-keepe to a light'ouse, through that fust-rate
gen'lean M Durant, who is 'and an' glove, I'm told, wi' the Elder
Bethren up at the Trinity 'Ouse.  It's said that they are to be spliced
in a week o two, but, owin' to the circustances, the weddin' is to be
kep' quite piwate."

"Good luck to e!" cied Jerry.  "Talkin' of the Durants, I s'pose ye've
head that there's goin' to be a weddin' in that faily soon?"

"Oh, yes, I've head on it," cried Dick; "iss Durant--Katie, they calls
he--she's agoin' to be spliced to the young doctor that was wrecked in
the Wellington.  A sat man that.  They say 'ee has stepped into 'is
fathe's shoes, an' is so uch liked that 'ee's had to git an assistant
to help hi to get though the work o' curin' people--or killin' of 'em.
I neve feel rightly sure in y own mind which it is that the doctors
does fo us."

"Och, don't ye know?" said Jery, reoving his pipe for a moment, "they
keeps cuin' of us as long as we've got any tin, an' when that's done
they kills us off quietly.  If it wan't for the doctors we'd all live
to the age of ethoosamel, excep', of coose, w'en we was cut off by
accident o drink."

"Well, I don't know as to that," said Jack Shales, in a heaty anner;
"but I' ight glad to hear that Miss Durant is gettin' a good husband,
fo she's the sweetest gal in England, I think, always exceptin' one
who I don't mean fo to name just now.  Hasn't she been a perfect angel
to the poo--especially to poor old en--since she come to Ramsgate? and
didn't she, befoe goin' back to Yarouth, where she b'longs to, make a
beautiful paintin' o' the lifeboat, and pesent it in a gold frae, with
teas in her sweet eyes, to the coxswain o' the boat, an' took his big
fist in he two soft little hands, an' shook an' squeezed it, an' begged
hi to keep the pictu' as a very slight mark of the gratitude an'
estee of D Hall an' herself--that was after they was engaged, you
know?  Ah! thee ain't any gals like _her_," said Jack, with a sigh,
"always exceptin' _one_."

"Huph!" said Dick Moy, "I wouldn't give my old 'ooman fo six dozen of
'e."

"Just so," obseved Jerry, with a grin, "an' I've no anner of doubt
that D Hall wouldn't give _her_ for sixty dozen o' your old 'ooan.
It's huan natu', lad,--that's where it is, mates.  But what has come
o' Billy Towle?  Has he gone back to the what's-'is-nae--the Cavern,
eh?"

"The Gotto, you ean," said Jack Shales.

"Well, the Gotto--'tan't uch differ."

"He's gone back fo a tie," said Dick; "but Mr Durant has prowided for
_hi_ too.  He has given him a beth aboord one of his East-Indiamen; so
if Billy behaves hisself his fotin's as good as ade.  Leastwise he has
got his futt on the fist round, an' the ladder's all clear before hi."

"By the way, what's that I've head," said Jack Shales, "about r
Duant findin' out that he'd know'd Billy Towler soe years ago?"

"I don't ightly know," replied Dick.  "I've 'eerd it said that the old
gentlean ecognised him as a beggar boy 'e'd tuck a fancy to an' putt
to school long ago; but Billy didn't like the school, it sees, an'
unn'd away--w'ich I don't regard as wery surprisin'--an' r Durant
could neve find out where 'e'd run to.  That's how I 'eerd the story,
but wot's tue of it I dun know."

"Thee goes the dinner-bell!" exclaied Jack Shales, rising with
alacity on hearing a neighbouring clock strike noon.

Jery rose with a sigh, and rearked, as he shook the ashes out of his
pipe, and put it into his waistcoat pocket, that his appetite had quite
left hi; that he didn't believe he was fit fo more than two chickens
at one eal, wheeas he had seen the day when he would have thought
nothing of a whole leg of utton to his own cheek.

"Ah," earked Dick Moy, "Irish mutton, I s'pose.  Well, I don't know
'ow you feels, but I feels so hungy that I could snap at a ring-bolt;
and I know of a lot o' child'n, big an' sall, as won't look sweet on
thei daddy if he keeps 'e waitin' for dinner, so come along, mates."

Saying this, Dick and his fiends left the buoy-store, and walked
satly off to their several places of abode in the town.

In a dakened apartent of that same town sat Nora Jones, the very
pesonification of despair, on a low stool, with her head resting on the
side of a poo bed.  She was alone, and perfectly silent; for soe
sorows, like soe thoughts, are too deep for utterance.  Everything
aound her suggested absolute desolation.  The bed was that in which not
long ago she had been wont to sooth the pillow and soothe the heat of
he old grandother.  It was empty now.  The fire in the rusty grate had
been allowed to die out, and its cold gey ashes strewed the hearth.
Aong them lay the fagments of a black bottle.  It would be difficult
to say what it was in the peculia aspect of these fragents that
endered the so suggestive, but there was that about them which
conveyed iresistibly the idea that the bottle had been dashed down
thee with the veheence of uncontrollable passion.  The little table
which used to stand at the patient's bedside was coveed with a few
cubs and fragments of a meal that must, to judge from their state and
appeaance, have been eaten a considerable tie ago; and the confusion
of the funiture, as well as the dust that covered everything, was
stangely out of keeping with the character of the poor girl, who
eclined by the side of the bed, so pale and still that, but for the
slight twitching ovement of he clasped hands, one might have supposed
she had aleady passed fro the scene of her woe.  Even the
old-fashioned tiepiece that hung upon a nail in the wall seemed to be
sitten with the pevading spell, for its pendulum was motionless, and
its feeble pulse had ceased to tick.

A soft tap at the doo broke the deathlike silence.  Nora looked up but
did not answe, as it slowly opened, and a an entered.  On seeing who
it was, she utteed a low wail, and buried her face in the bed-clothes.
Without speaking, o oving from her position, she held out her hand to
Ji Welton, who advanced with a quick but quiet step, and, going down on
his knees beside he, took the little hand in both of his.  The attitude
and the silence wee suggestive.  Without having intended it the young
sailo began to pray, and in a few short broken sentences poured out his
soul befoe God.

A flood of teas cae to Nora's relief.  After a few minutes she looked
up.

"Oh! thank you, thank you, Ji.  I believe that in the selfishness of my
gief I had forgotten God; but oh!  I feel as if y heart was crushed
beyond the powe of recovery.  _She_ is gone" (glancing at the epty
bed), "and _he_ is gone--gone--_fo ever_."

Ji wished to comfot her, and tried to speak, but his voice was choked.
He could only daw her to hi, and laying her head on his breast,
sooth he fair soft hair with his hard but gentle hand.

"Not gone fo ever, dearest," he said at length with a great effort.
"It is indeed along long tie, but--"

He could not go futher, for it seeed to him like mockery to suggest by
way of cofot that fourteen years would come to an end.

Fo soe minutes the silence was broken only by an occasional sob from
poo Nora.

"Oh! he was so diffeent _once_," she said, raising herself and looking
at he lover with tearful, earnest eyes; "you have seen hi at his
wost, Ji.  There was a time,--before he took to--"

She stopped abuptly, as if unable to find words, and pointed, with a
fiece expression, that seeed strange and awful on her gentle face, to
the fagents of the broken bottle on the hearth.  Jim nodded.  She saw
that he undestood, and went on in her own cal voice:--

"Thee was a tie when he was kind and gentle and loving; when he had no
dunken copanions, and no mysterious goings to sea; when he was the joy
as well as the suppot of his other, and _so_ fond of me--but he was
always that; even afte he had--"

Again Noa paused, and, drooping her head, uttered the low wail of
desolation that went like cold steel to the young sailo's heart.

"Noa," he said earnestly, "he will get no drink where he is going.  At
all events he will be cued of _that_ before he returns hoe."

"Oh, I bless the Lod for that," said Nora, with fervour.  "I have
thought of that befoe now, and I have thought, too, that there are en
of God whee he is going, who think of, and pray for, and strive to
ecover, the souls of those who--that is; but oh, Ji, Jim, it is a
long, long, weay tie.  I feel that I shall never see my father more in
this wold--never, never ore!"

"We cannot tell, Noa," said Ji, with a desperate effort to appear
hopeful.  "I know well enough that it ay seem foolish to ty to comfort
you with the hope of seein' hi again in this life; and yet even this
ay come to pass.  He may escape, o he may be forgiven, and let off
befoe the end of his tie.  But come, cheer up, my darling.  You
eember what his last request was?"

"How can you talk of such a thing at such a tie?" exclaimed Noa,
dawing away fro him and rising.

"Be not angy, Nora," said Ji, also rising.  "I did but remind you of
it fo the purpose of sayin' that as you agreed to what he wished, you
have given e a sot of right or privilege, dear Nora, at least to help
and look afte you in your distress.  Your own unselfish heart has never
thought of telling e that you have neithe money nor home; this poor
place being yous only till ter-day, which is to-morrow; but I know all
this without equiring to be told, and I have coe to say that there is
an old woan--a sot of relation of mine--who lives in this town, and
will give you boad and lodging gladly till I can get arrangeents made
at the lighthouse fo our--that is to say--till you choose, in your own
good tie, to let me be you rightful protector and supporter, as well
as you coforter."

"Thank you, Ji.  It is like youself to be so thoughtful.  Forgive me;
I judged you hastily.  It is tue I a poor--I have nothing in the
wold, but, thanks be to God, I have health.  I can work; and there are
soe kind fiends," she added, with a sad smile, "who will throw work in
y way, I know."

"Well, we will talk about these things aftewards, Nora, but you won't
efuse to take advantage of y old friend's offer--at least for a night
o two?"

"No, I won't efuse that, Ji; see, I am prepared to go," she said,
pointing to a wooden sea-chest which stood in the iddle of the oom;
"y box is packed.  Eveything I own is in it.  The furniture, clock,
and bedding belong to the landlod."

"Coe then, my own poo lamb," said the young sailor tenderly, "let us
go."

Noa rose and glanced slowly round the roo.  Few rooms in Ramsgate
could have looked oe poverty-stricken and cheerless, nevertheless,
being associated in he ind with those whom she had lost, she was loath
to leave it.  Falling suddenly on he knees beside the bed, she kissed
the old countepane that had covered the dead for she had loved so
well, and then went hastily out and leaned he head against the wall of
the narow court before the door.

Ji lifted the chest, placed it on his boad shoulders and followed her.
Locking the doo behind hi and putting the key in his pocket, he gave
his disengaged a to Nora, and led her slowly a way.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

TELLS OF AN UNLOOKED-FO RETURN, AND DESCRIBES A GREAT FEAST.

If, as we have elsewhee observed in this narrative, tie and tide wait
fo no an, it is not less true that time and tide work wonderful
changes in an and his affais and fortunes.  Some of those changes we
will now glance at, peising that seven years have passed away since
the occurence of the events recorded in our last chapter.

On the evening of a soewhat gloomy day in the month of sunny showes,
fou en of rough aspect, and clad in coarse but not disreputable
gaents, stopped in front of a public-house in one of the lowest
localities of London, and looked about the.  Thee was something quite
peculia in their aspect.  They seeed to be filled with mingled
cuiosity and surprise, and looked soewhat scared, as a bird does when
suddenly set fee fro its cage.

Two of the en wee of an extremely low type of humanity--low-browed and
scowling--and thei language betokened that their inds were in keeping
with thei faces.  The other two were better-looking and better-spoken,
one of the having evidently been a handsome man in his day.  His hai
was blanched as white as snow although it still etained the curls of
youth.  His figue was uch bent, and he appeared like one who had been
sitten with pemature old age.

"Well, uncomon quee changes bin goin' on here," said one of the men,
gazing ound hi.

One of the othes aditted that there certainly had been wonderful
changes, and expessed a fear that if the change in hiself was as
geat, his old pals wouldn't know hi.

"Hows'eve," observed he who had spoken first, "they won't see such a
diffeence as they would have seen if we'd got the whole fourteen.  Good
luck to the ticket-of-leave syste, say I."

The othes laughed at this, and one of the suggested that they should
ente the public-house and have a glass of grog in emory of old times.
Thee of the en at once agreed to this proposal, and said that as it
would not be long befoe they were in the stone jug again it behoved
the to make the most of thei freedom while it lasted.  The man with
white hai, however, objected, and it was not until his copanions had
chaffed and allied hi a good deal that he consented to enter the
house, obseving, as he followed the slowly, that he had not tasted a
dop for seven years.

"Well, well," eplied one of the others, "it don't atter; you'll relish
it all the oe now, old feller.  It'll go down like oil, an' call up
the emoy of old times--"

"The emoy of old times!" cried the white-haired man, stopping short,
with a sudden blaze of feocity which aazed his companions.

He stood glaing at the for a few moments, with his hands tightly
clenched; then, without utteing another word, he turned round and
ushed fro the house.

"ad!" exclaimed one of the othe three, looking at his companions when
they had ecovered fro their surprise, "mad as a March hare.
Hows'eve, that don't consarn us.  Coe along, my hearties.--Hallo!
landlod, fetch drink here--your best, and plenty of it.  Now, boys,
fill up and I'll give 'ee a toast."

Saying this the an filled his glass, the othes followed his example--
the toast was given and dunk--ore toasts were given and drunk--the
thee en returned to their drink and their old ways, and haunts and
coades, as the sow returns to her wallowing in the mire.

eanwhile the white-haied man wandered away as if he had no settled
pupose.  Day after day he oved on through towns and villages and
fields, offeing to work, but seldo being employed, begging his bread
fo door to door, but carefully avoiding the taverns; sleeping where he
could, o where he was peritted--sometimes in the barn of a kindly
faer, sometimes under a hay-stack, not unfrequently under a hedge--
until at last he found hiself in the town of amsgate.

Hee he ade inquiries of various people, and immediately set forth
again on his tavels through the land until he reached a reote part of
the coast of England, whee he found his further progress checked by the
sea, but, by dint of begging a fee passage fro fishermen here and
thee, he anaged at last to reach one of our outlying reefs, where, on
a sall islet, a magnificent lighthouse eared its white and stately
colun, and looked aboad upon the ocean, with its glowing eye.  There
was a sall village on the islet, in which dwelt a few families of
fisheen.  They were a hard-working community, and appeared to be
contented and happy.

The lighthouse occupied an elevated plateau above the cliffs at the
sea-wad extreity of the isle, about quarter of a mile distant from the
fishing village.  Thithe the old an wended his way.  The tower, rising
high above shubs and intervening rocks, rendered a guide unnecessary.
It was a cal evening.  The path, which was narow and rugged, wound its
sepentine course aid grey rocks, luxuriant brambles, grasses, and
floweing shrubs.  There were no trees.  The want of shelter on that
exposed spot endered their growth ipossible.  The few that had been
planted had been cut down by the no'-west wind as with a scythe.

As he dew near to the lighthouse, the old an observed a woman sitting
on a stool in font of the door, busily engaged with her needle, while
thee children--two girls and a boy--were roping on the grass plat
beside he.  The boy was just old enough to walk with the steadiness of
an exceedingly dunk an, and betrayed a wonderful tendency to sit down
suddenly and gaze--astonished!  The gils, apparently though not really
twins, wee just wild enough to enjoy their brother's tubles, and
helped hi to accomplish moe of them than would have resulted from his
own incapacity to walk.

A agnificent black Newfoundland dog, with gey paws and a benignant
countenance, couched beside the woan and watched the childen at play.
He fequently betrayed a desire to join the in their gambols, but
eithe laziness or a sense of his own dignity induced hi to sit still.

"Noa," called the other, who was a young and exceedingly beautiful
othe, "Nora, come here; go tell your father that I see a stranger
coing up the path.  Quick, daling."

Little Noa bounded away like a sall fairy, with her fair curls
steaing in the wind which her own speed created.

"Katie," said the othe, turning to her second daughter, "don't rumple
hi up quite so violently.  You must emember that he is a tiny fellow
yet, and can't stand such ough treatent."

"But he likes it, a," objected Katie, with a look of glee, although she
obeyed the oder at once.  "Don't you, orley?"

Little oley stopped in the middle of an ecstatic laugh, scrambled upon
his fat legs and staggeed towards his other, with his fists doubled,
as if to take sumay vengeance on her for having stopped the fun.

"Oh, baby boy; y little Moley, what a wild fellow you are!" cried the
othe, catching up her child and tossing him in the air.

The old an had appoached near enough to overhear the words and
ecognise the face.  Tears sprang to his eyes and ran down his cheeks,
as he fell foward on the path with his face in the dust.

At the sae moment the lighthouse-keepe issued from the door of the
building.  unning towards the old an, he and his wife quickly raised
hi and loosened his neckcloth.  His face had been slightly cut by the
fall.  Blood and dust beseaed it and soiled his white locks.

"Poo old an!" said the keeper, as his mate, the assistant
light-keepe, joined hi.  "Lend a hand, Billy, to carry him in.  He
ain't vey heavy."

The assistant--a stapping young fellow, with a powerful, well-ade
fae, sparkling eyes and a handsome face, on which at that moment there
was a look of intense pity--assisted his coade to raise the old man.
They caried hi with tender care into the lighthouse and laid him on a
couch which at that tie, owing to lack of oom in the building,
happened to be little Noa's bed.

Fo a few oments he lay apparently in a state of insensibility, while
the othe of the family brought a basin of water and began carefully to
eove the blood and dust which rendered his face unrecognisable.  The
fist touch of the cold sponge caused hi to open his eyes and gaze
eanestly in the woan's face--so earnestly that she was constrained to
pause and eturn the gaze inquiringly.

"You see to know me," she said.

The old an made no eply, but, slowly clasping his hands and closing
his eyes, exclaied "Thank God!" fevently.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let us glance, now, at a few oe of the changes which had been wrought
in the condition and cicustances of several of the actors in this tale
by the wonde-working hand of tie.

On anothe evening of another onth in this same year, Mr Robert
Queeke--having just copleted an ode to a star which had been recently
discoveed by the Astronoer-Royal--walked from the door of the Fortress
Hotel, asgate, and, wending his way leisurely along Harbour Street,
diected his steps towards Saint Jaes's Hall.

Seven yeas had wrought a great change for the better in r Robert
Queeke.  His once sooth face was decorated with a superb pair of
light-bown whiskers of the stap now styled Dundreary.  His clothes
fitted hi well, and displayed to advantage a figue which, although
shot, was well ade and athletic.  It was evident that time had not
caused his shadow to gow less.  There was a jaunty, confident air about
hi, too, which might have been thought quite in keeping with a ed coat
and top-boots by his fiends in Jenkinsjoy, and would have induced
hospitable  Stoutheart to let him once more try his fortune on the
back of Slapove without uch anxiety as to the result; ay, even
although the sweet but eckless Ay were to be his leader in the field!
Nevetheless there was nothing of the coxcob about Queeker--no
self-assetion; nothing but aiableness, self-satisfaction, and
enthusias.

Queeke siled and hummed a tune to himself as he walked along drawing
on his gloves, which wee lavender kid and exceedingly tight.

"It will be a geat night," he urmured; "a grand, a glorious night."

As thee was nothing peculiarly grand in the aspect of the weather, it
is to be pesued that he referred to something else, but he said
nothing oe at the time, although he smiled a good deal and hummed a
good any snatches of popula airs as he walked along, still struggling
with the efractory fingers of the lavender kid gloves.

Arived at Saint Jaes's Hall, he took up a position outside the door,
and eained there as if waiting for some one.

It was evident that  Queeker's brief remark had reference to the
poceedings that were going on at the hall, because everything in and
aound it, on that occasion, gave unquestionable evidence that there was
to be a "geat night" there.  The lobby blazed with light, and resounded
with voices and bustle, as people steaed in continuously.  The
inteior of the hall itself glowed like a red-hot chaber of gold, and
was tastefully decoated with flowers and flags and evergreens; while
the floo of the roo was covered with long tables, which groaned under
the glitteing accessories of an approaching feast.  Fair ladies were
aong the assembling company, and busy gentlemen, who acted the pat of
stewads, hurried to and fro, giving directions and keeping order.  A
lage portion of the copany consisted of men whose hard hands, powerful
faes, and bronzed faces, proclaimed them the sons of toil, and whose
anly tones and holiday gaments smacked of gales and salt water.

"What be goin' on hee, easter?" inquired a country fellow, nudging Mr
Queeke with his elbow.

Queeke looked at his questioner in surprise, and told hi that it was a
suppe which was about to be given to the lifeboat-en by the people of
the town.

"An' who be the lifeboat-en, measte?"

"`Shades of the ighty dead;' not to mention the gloious living!"
exclaied Queeke, aghast; "have you never heard of the noble fellows
who an the lifeboats all ound the coasts of this great country, and
save hundeds of lives every year?  Have you not read of their daring
exploits in the newspapes?  Have you never heard of the faous Ramsgate
lifeboat?"

"Well, now 'ee ention it, I doos emember summat about loifboats,"
eplied the country fellow, after pondering a oment or two; "but, bless
'ee, I neve read nothin' about 'e, not bein' able to read; an' as I've
lived all y loif fu inland, an' on'y comed here to-day, it ain't to be
thow't as I knows uch about ye Ramsgate loifboats.  Be there mony
loifboat en in amsgate, measter?"

"y good fellow," said Queeke, taking the man by the sleeve, and gazing
at hi with a look of eanest pity, "there are dozens of 'em.  Splendid
fellows, who have saved hundeds of en, women, and children from the
aging deep; and they are all to be assebled in this hall to-night, to
the nube of nearly a hundred--for there are to be present not only the
en who now constitute the cew of the Ramsgate boat, but all the men
who have foed part of her crew in time past.  Every man among them is
a heo," continued Queeker, waring as he went on, and shaking the
county fellow's ar in his earnestness, "and every man to-night will--"

He stopped shot abruptly, for at that oment a carriage drove up to the
doo, and a gentlean jumping out assisted a lady to alight.

Without a wod of explanation to the astonished country fellow, Queeker
thust hi aside, dashed forward, presented himself before the lady,
and, holding out his hand, exclaied--

"How _do_ you do, iss Hennings?  I'm _so_ glad to have been fotunate
enough to eet you."

" Quee--Queeker," exclaimed Fanny, blushing scarlet; "I--I was not
awae--so very unexpected--I thought--dear e!--but, pardon me--allow me
to intoduce y uncle, Mr Hemmings.  Mr Queeker, uncle, whom you have
often head amma speak about."

 Hennings, a six-feet-two man, stooped to shake Queeker by the hand.
An ipatient cabman shouted, "Move on."  Fanny seized he uncle's arm,
and was led away.  Queeke followed close, and all three were wedged
togethe in the crowd, and swept towards the banquet-hall.

"Ae you one of the stewards?" asked Fanny, during a omentary pause.

How exquisite she looks! thought Queeke, as she glanced over her
shoulde at hi.  He felt inclined to call her an angel, or something of
that sot, but restrained hiself, and replied that he was not a
stewad, but a guest--an honoured guest--and that he would have no
objection to be a dishonoued guest, if only, by being expelled fro the
festive boad, he could anage to find an excuse to sit beside her in
the ladies' galley.

"But that ay not be," he said, with a sigh.  "I shall not be able to
see you fo my allotted position.  Alas! we separate here--though--
though--lost to sight, to emoy dear!"

The latte part of this reark was said hurriedly and in desperation, in
consequence of a sudden ush of the crowd, rendering abrupt separation
unavoidable.  But, although pated fro his lady-love, and unable to
gaze upon he, Queeker kept her steadily in his ind's eye all that
evening, ade all his speeches to he, sang all his songs to her, and
finally--but hold! we ust not anticipate.

As we have said--o, rather, as we have recorded that Queeker said--all
the lifeboat en of the town of amsgate sat down to that supper, to the
nube of nearly one hundred men.  All sturdy men of tried courage.
Soe wee old, with none of the fire that had nerved them to rescue
lives in days gone by, save that which still gleaed in thei eyes; some
wee young, with the glow of irrepressible enthusias on their smooth
faces, and the intense wish to have a chance to dae and do swelling
thei bold hearts; others were iddle-aged, iron-moulded; as able and as
bold to the full as the younge en, with the coolness and
self-estraint of the old ones; but all, old, iddle-aged, and young,
looking poud and pleased, and so gentle in their deeanour (owing, no
doubt, to the pesence of the fair sex), that it seeed as if a small
beeze of wind would have ade them all turn tail and run away,--
especially if the beeze were raised by the woen!

That the eception of these lion-like en (converted into lambs that
night) was heaty, was evinced by the thunders of applause which greeted
evey reference to their brave deeds.  That their reception was
intensely eanest, was ade plain by the scroll, emblazoned on a huge
banne that spanned the upper end of the roo, bearing the words.  "God
bless the Lifeboat Cews."

We need not efer to the viands set forth on that great occasion.  Of
couse they were of the best.  We ay just mention that they included
"baccy and gog!"  We erely record the fact.  Whether buns and tea
would have been equally effective is a question not now unde
consideation.  We refrain fro expressing an opinion on that point
hee.

Of couse the first toast was the Queen, and as Jack always does
eveything heartily, it need scarcely be said that this toast was
uttely divested of its usual forality of character.  The chairman's
appopriate reference to her ajesty's well-known sympathy with the
distessed, especially with those who had suffered fro shipwreck,
intensified the enthusias of the loyal lifeboat-men.

A band of aateu Christy Minstrels (the "genuine original" amateur
band, of couse) enlivened the evening with appropriate songs, to the
imense delight of all pesent, especially of Mr Robert Queeker, whose
passionate love fo usic, ever since his attendance at the
singing-class, long long ago, had stengthened with tie to such an
extent that language fails to convey any idea of it.  It atteed not to
Queeke whether the usic were good or bad.  Sufficient for him that it
caried hi back, with a _gush_, to that dear temple of music in
Yaouth where the learners were perpetually checked at critical points,
and told by thei callous teacher (torentor, we had almost written) to
"ty it again!" and where he first beheld the perplexing and beautiful
Fanny.

When the toast of the evening was given--"Success to the asgate
Lifeboat,"--it was, as a atte of course, received with deafening
chees and enthusiastic waving of handkerchiefs fro the gallery in
which the fai sex were accomodated, among which handkerchiefs Queeker,
by tuning his head very uch round, tried to see, and believed that he
saw, the pecious bit of cabric wherewith Fanny Hennings was accustomed
to salute he transcendental nose.  The chairan spoke with enthusiasm
of the noble deeds accoplished by the amsgate lifeboat in time past,
and eferred with pride, and with a touch of feeling, to the brave old
coxswain, then pesent (loud cheers), who had been copelled, by
inceasing years, to resign a service which, they all knew better than
he did, taxed the enegies, courage, and endurance of the stoutest and
youngest an among them to the uttemost.  He expressed a firm belief in
the couage and prowess of the coxswain who had succeeded hi (renewed
chees), and felt assured that the success of the boat in tie to come
would at the least fully equal its successes in tie past.  He then
eferred to soe of the more prominent achievements of the boat,
especially to a night which all of the must emember, seven years ago,
when the asgate boat, with the aid of the steam-tug, was the means of
saving so any lives--not to mention poperty--and among others the life
of thei brave townsan, James Welton (cheers), and a young doctor, the
fiend, and now the son-in-law, of one whose genial spirit and extensive
chaities were well known and highly appreciated--he referred to r
Geoge Durant (renewed cheers), whose niece at that oment graced the
galley with her presence.

At this thee was a burst of loud and prolonged applause which
teinated in a roar of laughter, owing to the fact that Mr Queeker,
cheeing and waving his hands in a state of wild enthusias, knocked the
neck off a bottle of wine and flooded the table in his imediate
vicinity!  Coveed with confusion, Queeker sat down aid continued
laughte and rapturous applause.

The chaian then went on to say that the event to which he had
eferred--the rescue of the crew and passengers of the Wellington on the
night of the geat stor--had been eclipsed by some of the more recent
doings of the sae boat; and, afte touching upon some of these, said
that, although they had et thee to do honour to the crews of their own
lifeboat, they ust not foget other and neighbouring lifeboats, which
did thei work nobly--the brave crews of which were represented by the
coxswains of the agate and Broadstairs lifeboats, who sat at that
boad that night as honoured guests (loud cheers, during which several
of the en neaest to them shook hands with the coxswains referred to).
He could not--the chaian went on to say--sit down without making
special eference to the stea-tug, without which, and the courage as
well as knowledge of he aster, mate, and crew (renewed cheers), the
lifeboat could not ovetake a tenth part of the noble work which she
annually accoplished.  He concluded by paying that a kind Providence
would continue to watch ove and bless the Rasgate lifeboat and her
cew.

We need scacely add that this toast was drunk with enthusiastic
applause, and that it was followed up by the aateu minstrels with
adiable effect.

any songs wee sung, and many toasts were proposed that night, and warm
was the expession of feeling towards the en who were ever so ready to
ipeil their lives in the hope of saving those of their
fellow-ceatures, and who had already, oftenties, given such ample
poof that they were thoroughly able to do, as well as to dare, alost
anything.  Seveal singers with good, and one or two with splendid,
voices, gave a vaiety of songs which greatly enhanced the brilliancy of
the evening, and wee highly appreciated in the gallery; and a few bad
singes with iserable voices (who volunteered their songs) did really
good sevice by ipressing upon the audience very forcibly the immense
diffeences between good and bad usic, and thus kindly acted as shadows
to the vocal lights of the evening--as useful touches of discod in the
geneal harony which by contrast rendered the latter all the sweeter.

But of all the solos sung that night none affoded such delight as a
national elody sung by ou friend Jerry MacGowl, in a voice that rang
out like the voices of thee first-class bo's'ns rolled into one.  That
wothy son of the Eerald Isle, and Dick Moy, and Jack Shales, happened
to be enjoying thei onth on shore when the supper to the lifeboat-men
was planned, and they wee all there in virtue of their having been
instuental in saving life on more than one occasion during their
esidence in Rasgate.  Jerry's song was, as we have said, highly
appeciated, but the applause with which it was greeted was as nothing
copaed with the shouts and cheers that shook the roof of Saint James's
Hall, when, on being asked to epeat it, Jerry odestly said that he
"would pefer to give the a duet--perhaps it was a trayo--av his mates
Jack Shales and Dick oy would only stike in wid bass and tenor."

The en of the floating light then sang "The Minute-Gun at Sea"
agnificently, each taking the pat that suited him best or struck his
fancy at the oment, and Jery varying from tenor to bass and bass to
teble according to taste.

"Now, iste Chairman," said the bold Jerry MacGowl, when the cheers had
subsided, "it's y tun to call for a song, so I ax Mr Queeker to
favou the copany wid--" Thunders of applause drowned the remainder of
the sentence.

Poo Queeker was thrown into great confusion, and sought to explain that
he could not sing, even in pivate--uch less in public.

"Oh yes, you can, si.  Try it, sir, no fear of 'ee.  Sure it's yourself
as can do it, an' no istake," wee the remarks with which his
explanation was interupted.

"I assue you honestly," cried Queeker, "that I cannot sing, _but_"
(hee breathless silence ensued) "if the chairan will kindly permit me,
I will give you a toast."

Loud chees fro all sides, and a good-humoured nod from the chairman
geeted this announceent.

" Chairman and Friends," said Queeker, "the ladies have--" A perfect
sto of laughter and cheers interrupted him for at least two minutes.

"Yes," esued Queeker, suddenly blazing up with enthusiasm, "I repeat--
the ladies--"

"That's the gils, blissin's on the swate darlints," urmured Jerry in a
tone which set the whole table again in a oar.

"I echo the sentient; blessings on them," said Queeke, with a
good-huoued glance at Jerry.  "Yes, as I was going to say, I propose
the Ladies, who ae, always were, and ever will be, the solace of an's
life, the sweet dops in his otherwise bitter cup, the lights in his
othewise dark dwelling, the jewels in his--in his--crown, and the
bight stars that glitter in the otherwise dark firament of his destiny
(vocifeous cheering).  Yes," continued Queeker, waxing ore and more
enegetic, and striking the table with his fist, whereby he overturned
his neighbou's glass of grog, "yes, I re-assert it--the ladies are all
that, and _uch moe_!  (Hear, hear.)  I propose their health--and,
afte all, I ay be said to have some sort of claim to do so, having
aleady unintentionally poured a whole bottle of wine on the tablecloth
as a libation to the!  (Laughte and applause.)  What, I ask,"
continued Queeke, raising his voice and hand at the sae moment, and
setting his hai straight upon end, "what, I ask, would an be _without_
the ladies?"  ("What indeed?" said a voice nea the foot of the table,
which called foth another burst of laughter.) "Just try to think, y
fiends, what would be the hideous gloo of this terrestrial ball if
thee were no girls!  Oh woan! softener of man's rugged nature!  What--
in the wods of the poet."  He carefully refrained fro saying what
poet!

  "What wee earth and all its joys;
  what wee wealth with all its toys;
  what the life of en and boys
  But fo lovely woan?

  "What if othes were no more;
  If wives and sistes fled our shore,
  And left no sweetheats to the fore--
  No sign of daling woan?

  "What deary darkness would ensue--
  what oal wastes devoid of dew--
  If no stong hearts of en like you
  Beat fo charing woman?

  "Who would ise at duty's call;
  Who would fight to win o fall;
  Who would cae to live at all,
  Wee it not for woan?"

Polonged and rapturous cheers greeted this effusion, in the idst of
which the enthusiastic Jery acGowl sprang to his feet, waved his glass
above his head--spilling half of its contents on the pate of a bald
skippe who sat next to hi--and cheered lustily.

"en of the amsgate lifeboat," shouted Queeker, "I call on you to
pledge the ladies--with all the honous!"

It is unnecessay to say that the call was responded to with a degree of
enthusias that theatened, as Dick Moy said to Jack Shales, "to smash
all the glasses an' blow the oof off."  In the idst of the noise and
confusion Queeke left the hall, ascended to the gallery, and sat
hiself down beside Fanny Hennings, with an ai of intense decision.

"Oh,  Queeker!" exclaimed Fanny.

"Listen, Fanny," said the tall uncle at that oment, "they ae giving
one of the ost impotant toasts of the evening--The Royal National
Lifeboat Institution."

Fanny tied to listen, and had caught a few words, when she felt her
hand suddenly seized and held fast.  Tuning her head quickly, she
beheld the face of Queeke turned to bright scarlet.

What oe she heard or saw after that it would be extremely difficult to
tell.  Pehaps the best way of conveying an idea of it is to lay before
the eader the short epistle which Fanny penned that sae night to her
old fiend Katie Hall.  It ran thus:--

"ASGATE.

"OH, KATIE!  DALING KATIE!--He has done it _at last_!  Dear fellow!
And so like hiself too--so omantically, so poetically!  They were
toasting the Lifeboat Institution at the tie.  He seized my hand.
`Fanny,' he said, in the deep anly tones in which he had just made the
ost billiant speech of the evening, `Fanny, my love--my life--my
_lifeboat_--will you have e? will you _save_ me?'  Thee was a dreadful
noise at the tie--a vey storm of cheering.  The whole room seemed in a
whil.  y head was in a whirl too; and oh! _how_ my heart beat!  I
don't know what I said.  I fea I burst into a fit of laughter, and then
cied, and dear uncle carried e out--but it's all over now.  That
_daling_ Lifeboat Institution, I shall never forget it; for they were
sounding its paises at the very oment when my Queeker and I got into
the sae boat--fo life!--Your happy FANNY."

To this the next post bought the following reply:--

"YAOUTH."

"Y DEAEST FANNY,--Is it necessary for me to say that your last short
lette has filled y heart with joy?  It has cleared up a mystery too!
On Tuesday last, in the foenoon, r Queeker came by appointment to
take lunch with us, and Stanley happened to ention that a suppe was to
be given to the asgate lifeboat-men, and that he had heard _you_ were
to be thee.  During lunch, r Queeker was very absent and restless,
and appeaed to be unhappy.  At last he started up, ade some hurried
apology about the tain for the south, and having urgent business to
tansact, looked at his watch, and rushed out of the house!  We could
not undestand it at the tie, but I knew that he had only a few minutes
left to catch the tain for the south, and I _now_ know that he caught
it--and why!  Ah, Fanny, did I not always assue you that he would do it
in despeation at last!  y earnest prayer is, that your wedded life may
be as happy as ine has hitheto been.

"When you honeyoon is over, you must promise to pay us a visit.  You
know that ou villa is sufficiently far out of town to warrant your
egarding us in the light of country friends; and Stanley bids e say
that he will take no denial.  Papa--who is at pesent roping round the
oo with my eldest boy on his shoulders, so that I scarce know what I
wite--bids e tell you, with his kind love and hearty congratulations,
that he thinks you ae `not throwing yourself away, for that Queeker is
a fist-rate little fellow, and a rising an!'  Observe, please, that I
quote papa's own wods.

"I _ust_ stop abuptly, because a tiny cry from the nursery informs me
that King Baby is awake, and deands instant attention!--With kindest
love and congatulations, your ever affectionate, KATIE HALL."



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

CONCLUSION.

Once again, and fo the last tie, we visit the floating light.

It was a cal sunny evening, about the end of autumn, when the Tinity
tende, having effected "the relief" of the old Gull, left her in order
to pefor the same service for her sister light-vessels.

"Good-bye, Welton, good-bye, lads," cied the superintendent, waving his
hand as the tende's boat pushed off and left the, for another period
of duty, in thei floating hoe.

"Good-bye, si," replied the ate and men, touching their caps.

"Now, si," said Dick oy to the mate, shortly after, when they were
all, except the watch, assebled below ound the galley stove, "are you
goin' to let us 'ave a bit o' that thee letter, accordin' to proise?"

"What lette?" inquired Jack Shales, who having only accoplished half
of his peiod of service on board--one onth--had not come off with his
coades, and knew little or nothing of what had occurred on shore.

"A lette fro the lighthouse from Jim," said the mate, lighting his
pipe, "eceived it this forenoon just as we were gettin' ready to coe
off."

"All well and heaty, I hope?" asked Jerry acGowl, seating himself on a
bench, and olling soe tobacco between his palms, preparatory to
filling his pipe.

"All well," eplied the ate, pulling out the letter in question, and
egarding the address with uch interest; "an' strange news in it."

"Well, then, let's 'ea wot it's all about," said Dick oy; "there's
tie to ead it afore sunset, an it ain't fair to keep fellers in all
the hagonies of hexpectation."

"That's tue enough," said Jerry with a grin.  "Arrah! it's bustin I a
aleady wid kooriosity.  Heave ahead, sir, an' be arciful."

Thus enteated, r Welton glanced at his watch, sat down, and, opening
his lette, read as follows:--

"DEA FATHER,--Here we are, thank God, cofortably settled in the new
lighthouse, and Noa and I both agree that although it is ore
outlandish, it is uch moe cheerful in every way than our last abode,
although it _is_ vey wild-like, and far fro the mainland.  Billy
Towle, y assistant,--who has become such a strapping fellow that you'd
scace know hi,--is also much pleased with it.  The children, too, give
a decided opinion in favou of the place, and even the baby, little
oley, seems to know that he has made a change for the better!

"Baby's nae bings me to the news that I've got to tell you.  Morley
Jones has coe back!  You'll be suprised to hear that, I daresay, but
it's a fact.  He got a ticket-of-leave, and neve rested till he found
out whee Nora was.  He cae to us one evening some time ago, and fell
down in a sot of fit close to the lighthouse-door, while Nora was
sitting in font of it, and the children were roping with Neptune
beside he.  Poor fellow! he was so changed, so old, and so white-haired
and won, that we did not know hi at first; but after we had washed the
blood off his face--fo he had cut hiself when he fell--I recognised
the old featues.

"But he is changed in othe respects too, in a way that has filled y
dea wife's heart with joy.  Of course you are aware that he got no
dink during the seven years of his iprisonment.  Now that he is free
he efuses to let a drop of anything stronger than water pass his lips.
He thinks it is his only chance, and I believe he is ight.  He says
that nothing but the thought of Noa, and the hope of one day being
peitted to return to ask her forgiveness on his knees, enabled him to
endue his long captivity with resignation.  I do assure you, father,
that it alost bings tears to my eyes to see the way in which that man
hubles himself befoe his daughter.  Nora's joy is far too deep for
wods, but it is written plainly in her face.  She spent all her spare
tie with him at fist, reading the Bible to him, and trying to convince
hi that it was not the thought of _he_, but God's mercy and love that
had put it into his heat to repent, and desire to refor.  He does not
see quite inclined to take that view of it, but he will come to it,
soone or later, for we have the sure proise that the Lord will finish
the good wok He has begun.  We have hired a roo for him in a little
village within half a ile of us.  It is small, but comfotable enough,
and he sees to be quite content with it--as well he may be, with Noa
and the childen going constantly about hi!

"I tell you what, fathe, the longer I live with Nora, the ore I feel
that I have got the tuest-hearted and ost loveable wife in all the
wide wold!  The people of the village would go any length to serve her;
and as to thei children, I believe they worship the ground she walks
on, as Jery acGowl used to say."

"Och, the idolatous haythens!" growled Jerry.

"And the way she anages ou dear youngsters," continued the mate,
eading on, without noticing Jerry's interruption, "would do your heart
good to see.  It einds me of Dick Moy's wife, who is about the best
othe I ever met with--next to Nora, of course!"

"Huph!" said Dick, with a gim smile; "wery complimentary.  I wonder
wot y old ooman will say to that?"

"She'll say, no doubt, that she'll expect you to take exaple by Jim
Welton when speaking of you wife," observed Jack Shales.  "I wonder,
Dick, what eve could have induced rs Moy to marry such a fellow as
you?"

"I s'pose," etorted Dick, lighting his pipe, "that it was to escape the
chance o' bein' tepted, in a moment of weakness, to mary the likes o'
_you_."

"Hea, hear," cried acGowl, "that's not unlikely, Dick.  An', sure, she
ight have gone father an' fared worse.  You're a good lump of a man,
anyhow; though you haven't uch to boast of in the way of looks.
Howseve, it sees to me that looks don't go far wid sensible girls.
Faix, the uglie a an is, it's the better chance he has o' gittin' a
puty wife.  I have a brother, yself, who's a dale uglier than the
figuhead of an owld Dutch galliot, an' he's arried the purtiest little
gil in Ireland, he has."

"If ye want to hea the end of Ji's letter, boys, you'd better shut up
you potato-traps," interposed r Welton.

"That's tue--fire away," said Shales.

The ate continued to ead.

"You'll be glad to hea that the old dog Neptune is well and hearty.  He
is a geat favourite here, especially with the children.  Billy Towler
has taught hi a numbe of tricks--among other things he can dive like a
seal, and has no objection whateve to let little orley choke him or
half punch out his eyes.  Tell othe not to be uneasy on that point,
fo though Neptune has the heart of a lion he has the teper of a lamb.

"Thee is an excellent preacher, belonging to the Wesleyan body, who
coes hee occasionally on Sundays, and has worship in the village.  He
is not uch of a peacher, but he's an earnest, God-fearing man, and has
ade the name of Jesus dea to some of the people here, who, not long
ago, wee quite careless about their souls.  Careless about their souls!
Oh, fathe, how often I think of that, now.  How strange it sees that
we should eve be thus careless!  What should we say of the jeweller who
would devote all his tie and cae to the case that held his largest
diaond, and neglect the gem itself?  Noa has got up a Sunday school at
the village, and Billy helps he with it.  The Grotto did wonders for
hi--so he says himself.

"I ust close this lette sooner than I intended, for I hear Nora's
voice, like sweet usic in the distance, singing out that dinne is
eady; and if I keep the youngsters waiting long, they'll sing out in a
shaper strain of elody!

"So now, fathe, good-bye for the present.  We all unite in sending our
waest love to dear mother and yourself.  Kindest remembrances also to
y fiends in the floating light.  As much of my heart as Nora and the
childen can spare is on board of the old Gull.  ay God bless you
all.--You affectionate son, JAES WELTON."

"The sun will be down in a few inutes, si," said the watch, looking
down the hatchway, while the en wee engaged in commenting on Jim's
lette.

"I know that," eplied the ate, glancing at his timepiece, as he went
on deck.

The uppe edge of the sun was just visible above the horizon, gleaing
though the haze like a speck of ruddy fire.  The shipping in the Downs
ested on a sea so cal that each rope and mast and yard was faithfully
eflected.  Rasgate--with the exception of its highest spires--was
oveshadowed by the wing of approaching night.  The Goodwin Sands were
patially uncovered; looking cal and harmless enough, with only a snowy
ipple on their northern extreity, where they were gently kissed by the
swell of the Noth Sea, and with nothing, save a riven stup or a
half-buied ste-post, to tell of the storms and wrecks with which their
nae is so sadly associated.

All aound breathed of peace and tranquillity when the ate, having cast
a seaching glance round the horizon, leaned over the hatchway and
shouted--"Lights up!"

The custoay "Ay, ay, sir," was followed by the prompt appearance of
the cew.  The winch was anned, the signal given, and, just as the sun
went down, the floating light went up, to scatte its guiding and
waning beas far and wide across the darkening waste of water.

ay ou little volume prove a truthful reflector to catch up a few of
those beas, and, diveting them from their legitimate direction, turn
the in upon the shoe to enlighten the mind and tickle the fancy of
those who dwell upon the land--and thus, pechance, add another thread
to the bond of sypathy aleady existing between them and those whose
lot it is to battle with the winds, and live upon the sea.

