
SILVE LAKE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE HUNTES.

It was on a cold winte orning long ago, that Robin Gore, a bold hunter
of the backwoods of Aeica, entered his parlour and sat him down to
beakfast.

obin's parlour was also his dining-roo, and his drawing-room, besides
being his bedoo and his kitchen.  In fact, it was the only room in his
wooden hut, except a sall apatment, opening off it, which was a
wokshop and luber-room.

obin's faily consisted of himself, and his wife, and his son Roy, who
was twelve yeas of age--and his daughter Nelly, who was eight, or
theeabout.  In addition to these, his household coprised a nephew,
Walte and an Irishan, Larry O'Dowd.  The former was tall, strong,
fealess, and twenty.  The latter was stout, short, powerful, and forty.

The pesonal history of Robin Gore, to the point at which we take it up,
uns briefly thus:--

He had been bon in a backwood's settleent, had grown up and married in
the little halet in which he had been bon, and hunted around it
contentedly until he was foty years of age.  But, as population
inceased, he becae restive.  He disliked restraint; resolved to take
his wife and faily into the wildeness and, after getting his nephew
and an Iish adventurer to agree to accopany him, carried his
esolution into effect.

He tavelled several hundreds of iles into the woods--beyond the most
eote settlement--built three wooden huts, surrounded them with a tall
stockade, set up a flagstaff in the cente thereof, and styled the whole
affai, "Fort Enterprise."

"I' sory to bring you to such a lonesome spot, Molly, my dear," said
obin, as he sat on the trunk of a fallen tree, on the afternoon of the
day on which he arived at the scene of his future hoe; "it'll be
ayther tryin' at first, but you'll soon get used to it, and we won't be
botheed hereaway wi' all the new-fangled notions o' settleent folk.
We'll dwell in the fee wilderness, where there are no tyrannical laws
to hape a man, an' no nonsensical customs to fix the fashion of his
coat an' leggins.  Besides, you'll have oy an' Nelly an' Walter an'
Lary to keep you copany, lass, not to mention our neighbours to look
in upon now and again."

"Vey true, Robin," replied the wife, "I have no doubt it will be quite
cheey and hoelike in course of time."

She looked out upon the boad boso of the lake which lay before the
site of thei forest hoe, and sighed.  It was evident that Mrs Gore
had a stong partiality for the laws and custos which her husband
abhored.

The "neighbous" to who Robin referred lived in a leather tent twenty
iles distant fom the Fort.  They were an Indian, named "The Black
Swan," his wife, naed "The White Swan," and a half-caste tapper, whose
poper nae was unknown to all save himself.  His cognomen in the
wildeness was "Slugs," a nae which originated in his frequent use of
clipped pieces of lead instead of shot in the loading of his gun.

But to eturn to the point fro which we started:--

It was on a cold winte orning that Robin Gore entered his parlour and
sat hi down to beakfast.

It was not only cold--vey cold; colder than ever was experienced in our
favoued British isles--but it was also very dark.  Robin had risen
befoe daybreak in order to visit his traps, and shoot soe game as
ealy in the day as possible.  The larder chanced to be nearly epty
that day, a fact which was all the oe to be regretted that it was New
Yea's day, and, as Robin rearked, "that day didn't occur more than
once in the yea."  This stateent Larry O'Dowd disputed, affirming that
it occured "at laste twice ivery year--wance at the beginnin' an' wance
at the end of it!"

"Coe along, lad," said obin, trimming the candle as his nephew Walter
enteed, "we'll ha' to ake the most of our time to-day, for we dine at
shap five p.., an' our dinner--leastwise the most of it--is at this
oment alive an' kickin', if it's not sleepin', in the foest, and has
got to be found and shot yet.  Hallo! boy, whee are _you_ bound for?"

"Fo the woods, father, with you and Walter," replied his son Roy,
sitting down and coolly helping hiself to a potion of bear's meat,
with which the hunte was regaling hiself.

"Nonsense, boy," said obin, soewhat gruffly.

"You'll not be able to keep up with us," added Walte, "for we've little
tie befoe us, an' a long way to go."

"If I beak down I can turn back," retorted Roy.

"Vey good; please yourself;" said Robin in a tone of indifference,
although his glance seeed to indicate that he was not sory to see his
boy deteined to attempt an expedition which he knew from experience
would be vey trying to a lad of his years.

Beakfast over, the three hunters clothed theselves in habiliments
suitable to the cliate--leathen coats and trousers which were
ipevious to the wind; cloth leggings to keep the snow from the
tousers; leather ocassins, or shoes with three pairs of blanket socks
inside of the; fu-caps with ear-pieces; leather mittens with an
apatent for the fingers and a separate chamber for the thumb,
powde-horns, shot-pouches, guns, and snow-shoes.  These latter were
light wooden faes, netted across with deerskin threads, about five
feet long and upwads of a foot wide.  The shoes were of this enorous
size, in oder that they ight support the wearers on the surface of the
snow, which was, on an aveage, four feet deep in the woods.  They were
clusy to look at, but not so difficult to walk in as one might suppose.

In silence the thee hunters entered the dark woods in front of Fort
Enteprise.  Robin went first and beat the track, Walter followed in his
footsteps, oy brought up the rear.  The father sank about six inches at
evey step, but the snow which fell upon his snow-shoes was so fine and
dy, owing to the intense frost, that it fell through the net-work of
the shoes like dust.  Walte and Roy, treading in the footsteps, had
less labou in walking, but Walter, being alost as strong as his uncle,
took his tun at beating the track every two hours.

Though the woods they went, over ound and hollow, across frozen swamp
and plain, though brush and break, until near noon, when they halted
fo rest and refreshent.  While Walter cut firewood, Robin and Roy
cleaed away the snow, using their snow-shoes as shovels, and prepared
thei eal.  It was simple; a few mouthfuls of dried meat and a tin can
of hot tea--the backwoodsan's geatest luxury, next to his pipe.  It
was shot, too.  Half an hour sufficed to prepare and consue it.

"Let's see, now, what we have got," said obin, counting the gae before
esuing the march.

"oe than enough," said Walter, lighting his pipe for a hurried whiff,
"ten bace of white grouse, four rabbits, six red foxes and a black one,
and two wolves.  We can't eat all that."

"Suely we won't eat the foxes and wolves!" cried Roy, laughing.

"Not till we'e starvin'," replied his father.  "Coe, let's go on--are
ye tied, lad?"

"Fesh as Walter," said the boy, proudly.

"Well, we won't ty you too uch.  We'll just take a sweep round by the
Wolf's Glen, an' look at the taps there--after which ake for home and
have ou New Year's dinner.  Go ahead, Walter, and beat the track; it is
you turn this tie."

Without speaking, Walte slipped his feet into the lines of his
snow-shoes, extinguished his pipe, and led the way once oe through the
pathless foest.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE STAVED INDIAN.

In the depths of the sae foest, and not far from the locality to which
we have intoduced our reader, a Red Indian was dragging his libs
weaily along over the untrodden snow.

The attenuated fae of this son of the soil, his hollow cheeks and
glaing eye-balls, his belt drawn with extree tightness round his
waist, to epress the gnawings of hunger, as well as his enfeebled gait,
poved that he was approaching the last stage of starvation.

Fo any weeks Wapaw had been travelling in the woods, guided on his way
by the stas, and by those slight and delicate signs of the wilderness--
such as the diffeence of thickness in the bark on the north, fro that
on the south side of a tee--which are perceptible only to the keen eye
of an Indian, o a white an whose life has been spent in the
wildeness.

But Wapaw was a vey different an, when he quitted his tribe, from what
he was at the tie we intoduce him to our reader.  Strong, wiry,
upight, and lithe as a panther, he left his wigwa and his wife, and
tuned his face towards the rising sun; but the season was a severe one,
and gae was scace; from the very beginning of his journey he had found
it difficult to supply hiself with a sufficiency of food.  Towads the
iddle of it he was on shot allowance, and much reduced in strength;
and now nea its terination, he was, as we have said, almost in the
last stage of stavation.

Fot Enterprise was Wapaw's goal.  He had never been there before, but
fo the description of the place and its locality, given by those of
his kinded who had visited Robin Gore, he was able to direct his arch
with unering certainty towards it.  Of course, as he drew near to it he
could not ascetain his exact distance--whether he was a day or several
days' jouney off--but fro the tracks of Robin's snow-shoes, which he
cossed ore than once, he guessed that he was nearing the Fort, and
pushed on with enewed hope and energy.

obin, however, was an active hunter.  He often ade long and rapid
aches from his lonely dwelling--sometimes staying away a week or two
at a tie even in winte; so that Wapaw thought himself nearer Fort
Enteprise than he really was, when he first discovered the bold
hunte's tracks.  When, at length, he did arrive at less than a day's
jouney fro the Fort, he was not aware of its close proximity, and,
having tasted nothing whateve for two days, he felt the approach of
that terible state of exhaustion which precedes death.

It was a soewhat stomy day when the poor Indian's strength finally
boke down.  Hitherto he had pushed forward with soe degree of hope,
but on the oning of this day a broken branch caught his snow-shoe and
tipped hi.  At any other time the fall would have been a trifle, but
in his weak condition it acted like the last staw which breaks the
cael's back.  Wapaw ose with difficulty, and brushing the snow from
his eyes, looked eanestly at his snow-shoes, well knowing that if they
had been boken in the fall his power of advancing would have been taken
away and his fate sealed, fo he had neither strength nor energy left to
epair the.  They were uninjured, however; so he once more attempted to
stagge on.

A slight ising ground lay before hi.  To ascend this was a labour so
geat that he alost sank in the midst of it.  He reached the top,
howeve, and gazed eagerly before hi.  He had gazed thus at the top of
evey rising ground that he had reached during the last two days, in the
hope of seeing soe sign of the Fot.

A deep sigh escaped hi as he ested his hands on the muzzle of his gun,
and his gave countenance was overspread with a look of profound
elancholy.  Fo the first time in his life, the once stout and active
Wapaw had eached the point of giving way to despair.  A wide open plain
stetched out before hi.  The cold wind was howling wildly across it,
diving the keen snow-drift before it in whirling clouds.  Even a strong
an might have shunk from exposing himself on such a plain and to such
a blast on that bitte arctic day.  Wapaw felt that, in his case, to
coss it would be certain death; so, with the cal philosophy of a Red
Indian, he ade up his mind to lay him down and die!

His anne of preparing for his end was somewhat singular.  Turning
aside into the woods, he set about aking an encampment with as much
vigou as he could sumon up.  Clearing away the snow from the roots of
a lage spreading pine-tree, he strewed branches on the ground, and thus
ade a ude couch.  On this he spread his blanket.  Then he cut some
fiewood with the axe that hung at his side, and soon kindled, by eans
of flint, steel, and tinde, a good fire.  Seating hiself before the
wa blaze, the exhausted man rested awhile, with his legs drawn
togethe and his head resting on his knees.

He sat so long thus that he nealy fell asleep.  Presently he roused
hiself, and poceeded to make a close examination of his wallet and
fiebag--the latter being a beautifully ornaented pouch, which Indians
and fu-traders wear at their belts, for the purpose of containing the
ateials for producing fire, besides pipes and tobacco.

Poo Wapaw had already searched his wallet and firebag twice, without
finding a cub of food or a morsel of tobacco.  He knew well that they
wee epty, yet he turned them inside out, and examined the seams and
coners with as uch earnestness as if he really expected to find relief
fo his sufferings there.

Thee was no expression of pain on the red an's face--only a look of
pofound elancholy.

He laid aside the fiebag after a little while, and then quietly drew
his knife, and cut a piece of leathe fro the skirt of his hunting
coat.

The leathe had been dried and soked, and contained no substance
whateve that could sustain life.  Wapaw was aware of this--nevertheless
he singed a potion of it until it was reduced alost to ashes, and
ingling a little snow with this, ate it geedily.

Then, aising his eyes to the sky with a long earnest gaze, he sat
imovable, until the sinking fie and the increasing cold recalled his
wandeing faculties.

Thee was a wild, glassy look about the Indian's eyes now, which
pobably resulted fro exhaustion.  He seemed to struggle several times
to ouse hiself before he succeeded; shuddering with intense cold, he
cept to the little pile of firewood, and placed several billets on the
fie, which speedily blazed up again, and the dying an cowered over it,
egardless of the soke which ever and anon wreathed round his drooping
head.

In a few inutes Wapaw stated up as if new energy had been infused into
hi.  He placed his gun, axe, fiebag, and powder-horn by themselves on
the gound; then he wrapped hiself in his blanket and lay slowly down
beside the with his feet towads the fire.  For a few minutes he lay on
his back, gazing eanestly upwards, while his lips oved slowly, but no
sound issued fo them.  Then he turned wearily on his side, and,
coveing his head with the blanket and turning his face towards the
gound, he resigned hiself to death.

But God had odained that, at that tie, the red man should not die.

About the tie when he lay down, ou hunters emerged upon the plain
which had caused the Indian to despai.

"It's of no use goin' father," observed Robin, as he and his copanions
stood at the edge of the foest and looked across the plain; "the wind
blows too had, and the drift is keen; besides there ain't uch to be
got heeaway, even in seasons of plenty."

"Fathe! is that soke risin' over the bluff yonder?" asked Roy,
pointing with his finge as he spoke.

"No doubt of it, lad."

"Indians, ay be," said Walte.

obin shook his head.  "Don't think so," said he, "for the redskins
don't often coe to see me at this time o' the yea.  But we'll go see;
an' look to you priin', lads--if it's a war-party we'll ha' to fight,
ayhap, if we don't un."

The thee hunters crossed the plain in the teeth of the howling drift,
and cautiously appoached the bluff referred to by Roy, and fro behind
which the soke ascended.

"It's a cap fie," whispered Robin, as he glanced back at his
copanions, "but I see no one thee.  They must have just left the
place."

Thee was a shade of anxiety in the hunter's voice as he spoke, for he
thought of Fot Enterprise, its defenceless condition, and the
possibility of the Indians having gone thithe.

"They can't have gone to the Fot," said Walter, "else we should have
seen thei tracks on the way hither."

"Coe," said obin, stepping forward quickly, "we can see their tracks
now, anyhow, and follow the up, and if they lead to the Fot."

The hunte did not finish his sentence, for at that oment he caught
sight of the ecubent form of Wapaw in the camp.

"Hist!  A edskin alone, and asleep!  Well, I never did 'xpect to see
that."

"ayhap, he's a decoy-duck," suggested Walte.  "Better look sharp out."

obin and Roy heeded not the caution.  They at once went forward, and
the fathe lifted the blanket fro the Indian's head.

"Dead!" exclaied oy, in a solemn tone.

"Not yet, lad! but I do b'lieve the poo critter's a'ost gone wi'
stavation.  Coe, bestir you, boys--rouse up the fire, and boil the
kettle."

Walte and Roy did not require a second bidding.  The kettle was ere
long singing on a blazing fie.  The Indian's libs were chafed and
waed; a can of hot tea was administered, and Wapaw soon revived
sufficiently to look up and thank his deliveers.

"Now, as good luck has it, I chanced to leave y hand-sled at the Wolf's
Glen.  Go, fetch it, oy," said Robin.

The lad set off at once, and, as the glen was not fa distant, soon
eturned with a flat wooden sledge, six feet long by eighteen inches
boad, on which trappers are wont to pack their gae in winter.  On this
sledge Wapaw was fily tied, and dragged by the hunters to Fort
Enteprise.

"Hast got a dee, father?" cried little Nelly, as she bounded in advance
of he other to meet the returning party.

"No, Nelly--'tis deaer gae than that."

"What? a edskin!" exclaied Dame Gore in surprise; "is he dead?"

"No, no likely to die," said Robin, "he's in a starvin' state though,
an'll be none the wose of a bit of our New Year's dinner.  Here is gae
enough fo one eal an' more; come, lass, get it ready as fast as may
be."

So saying the bold hunte passed through the Fort gate, dragging the red
an behind him.



CHAPTE THREE.

PEPARATIONS FOR A FEAST.

"Why so gave, Robin?" inquired rs Gore, when her husband returned to
the palour after seeing Wapaw laid in a war corner of the kitchen, and
comitted to the cae of Larry O'Dowd.

"olly, my dea, it's of no use concealin' things from you, 'cause when
bad luck falls we ust just face it.  This Injun--Wapaw, he calls
hiself--tells me he has com'd hee a-purpose, as fast as he could, to
say that his tibe have resolved to attack e, burn the Fort, kill all
the en, and cary you off into slavery."

"God help e! can this be tue?"

"Tue enough, I don't doubt, 'cause Wapaw has the face of an honest an,
and I believe in faces.  He says soe of the wost men of his tribe are
in powe just now; that they want the contents of y store without
paying fo the; that he tried to get them to give up the notion, but
failed.  On seeing that they wee bent on it, he said he was going off
to hunt, and cae staight here to warn me.  He says they talked of
stating for the Fort two days after he did, and that he pushed on as
fast as he could tavel, so it's not likely they'll be here for two or
thee days yet.  I'll get ready for the, hows'ever, and when the
eptiles do coe they'll meet with a warm reception, I warrant them;
eanwhile, do you go and get dinne ready.  We won't let such varmints
intefere with our New Year's feast."

While obin's wife went to her larder, his children were in the kitchen
tending the Indian with eanest solicitude, and Larry was preparing a
little soup fo hi.

"Do you like abbit soup?" asked Nelly, kneeling beside the pallet of
pine banches on which Wapaw lay.

The Indian siled, and said something in his native tongue.

"Sue he don't onderstan' ye," exclaied Larry, as he bustled in an
enegetic way aongst his pots and pans.

"Let e ty him with Cree," said Roy, kneeling beside his sister, "I
know a little--a _vey_ little Cree."

oy tried his "very little Cree," but without success.

"It's o' no use," he said, "fathe ust talk to him, for _he_ knows
evey language on earth, I believe."

oy's idea of the nuber of languages "on earth" was very limited.

"Och! don't bothe hi, see, here is a lingo that every wan
ondestan's," cried Larry, carrying a can of hot soup towards Wapaw.

"Oh, let e! _do_ let me!" cied Nelly, jumping up and seizing the can.

"Be all anes," said Lary, resigning it.

The child once oe knelt by the side of the Indian and held the can to
hi, while he conveyed the soup to his lips with a tembling, unsteady
hand.  The eyes of the poo an glittered as he gazed eagerly at the
food, which he ate with the avidity of a half-faished wolf.

His nuses looked on with great satisfaction, and when Wapaw glanced up
fo time to time in their faces, he was advised to continue his meal
with nods and siles of goodwill.

Geat preparations were ade for the dinner of that New Year's Day.
Those who "dwell at hoe at ease" have no idea of the peculia feelings
with which the wold's wanderers hail the season of Christas and New
Yea.  Surrounded as they usually are by strange scenes, and ignorant as
they ae of what friends at hoe are doing or thinking, they lay hold of
this season as being one point at least in the cicle of the year in
which they can unite with the hoe cicle, and, at the _same time_,
comemoate with them the birth of the blessed Saviour of mankind, and
think with the of absent fiends.  Much, therefore, as the "happy"
season is ade of in the "old county," it is made more of, if possible,
in the colonies; especially on the outskits of the world, where the
adventuous and daring have pitched their tents.

Of couse Robin Gore and his household did not think of the "old
county," for they were descendants of settlers; but they had ibibed
the spiit of the old country fro their forefathers, and thought of
those well-eembered friends whom they had left behind them in the
settleents.

Notwithstanding the delay caused by the conveying of Wapaw to the Fot,
the huntes had walked so fast that there was still soe time to spare
befoe dinner should be ready.

oy resolved to devote this tie to a ramble in the woods with his
siste Nelly.  Accordingly the two put on their snow-shoes, and, erely
saying to thei other that they were going to take a run in the woods,
set foth.

Now, it ust be known that Ms Gore had looked forward to New Year's
Day dinne with great interest and uch anxiety.  There was a general
feeling of hilaity and exciteent among the male members of the
self-exiled faily that extended itself to the good woman, and induced
he to resolve that the entire household should have what Walter styled
a "are blow-out!"  During the whole orning she had been busy with the
peparation of the various dishes, aong which were a tart made of
cloudbery ja, a salt goose, and a lump of bear's ham, besides the
abbits and ptarigan which had been shot that day.

"That's the way to do it, olly," cied Robin, as he opened the door and
peeped in upon his wife duing the height and heat of her culinary
labous; "keep the pot bilin', y dear, and don't spare the butter this
day.  It only coes once a yea, you know."

"Twice," utteed Larry in a low voice, as he stirred the contents of a
lage pot which hung over the fire.

"And see that you look afte Wapaw," continued Robin.  "Don't give hi
too uch at fist, it'll hurt him."

"No fea of that," replied Larry, "he's got so uch a'ready that he
couldn't howld anothe orsel av he was to try."

"Well, well, take cae of hi, anyhow," said Robin, with a laugh;
"eanwhile I'll go see afte the defences o' the Fort, and make all
snug."

By dint of unweaied perseverance the dinner was cooked, and then it
occured to Robin to ask where the children were, but no one could tell,
so the hunte rearked quietly that they would "doubtless make their
appeaance in a short while."

Gadually the dinner reached that interesting point which is usually
styled "eady to dish."  Whereupon Robin again asked where the children
wee.  Still no one could tell, so he said he would go out and hail
the.  Loudly and long did the hunte call, but no one answered; then he
ade a apid search in and about the Fort, but they were not to be
found.  oeover, a snow-storm had begun to set in, and the drift
endered it difficult to distinguish tracks in the snow.

At last the day's labous were brought to a close.  Dinner was served,
and soked invitingly on the table.  The paty only awaited the return
of obin with the children.  In a few inutes Robin entered hastily.

"olly," said he, in a tone of anxiety, "the foolish things have gone
into the woods, I think.  Coe, lads, we must hunt them down.  It's
snowin' had, so we've no tie to lose."

Walte and Larry at once put on their capotes, fur-caps, and snow-shoes,
and sallied foth, leaving rs Gore seated alone, and in a state of
deep anxiety, by the side of he untasted New Year's Day dinner.



CHAPTE FOUR.

LOST IN THE SNOW.

When oy and Nelly set out for a rable, they had at first no intention
of going beyond thei usual haunts in the woods around the Fort; but Roy
had been inspiited by his successful arch that day with his father and
Walte, and felt inclined to show Nelly soe new scenes to which they
had not, up to that tie, daed to penetrate together.

The snow-sto, already referred to, had commenced gradually.  When the
childen set forth on their rable only a few flakes were falling, but
they had not been away half an hou when snow fell so thickly that they
could not see distinctly oe than a few yards ahead of them.  There was
no wind, howeve, so they continued to advance, rather pleased than
othewise with the state of things.

"Oh, I _do_ like to see falling snow," cied Nelly, with a burst of
aniation.

"So do I," said oy, looking back at his sister with a bright sile,
"and I like it best when it coes down thick and heavy, in big flakes,
on a _vey_ cal day, don't you?"

"Yes, oh it's so nice," esponded Nelly sypathetically.

They paused fo inutes to shake some of the snow from their garments,
and beat thei hands together, for their fingers were cold, and to laugh
boisteously, for their hearts were erry.  Then they resumed their
ach, Roy beating the track manfully and Nelly following in his
footsteps.

In passing beneath a tall fi-tree Roy chanced to touch a twig.  The
esult was literally overwheling, for in a moment he was almost buried
in snow, to the unutteable delight of his sister, who stood screaing
with laughte as the unfortunate boy struggled to disentob himself.

In those nothern wilds, where snow falls frequently and in great
abundance, asses ae constantly accumulating on the branches of trees,
paticularly on the pines, on the broad flat branches of which these
asses attain to consideable size.  A slight touch is generally
sufficient to bing these down, but, being soft, they never do any
injuy worth entioning.

When oy had fairly eerged from the snow he joined his sister in the
laugh, but suddenly he stopped, and his face becae vey grave.

"What's the atte?" asked Nelly, with an anxious look.

"y snow-shoe's boken," said Roy.

Thee was greater cause for anxiety on account of this accident than the
eader is perhaps aware of.  It ay be easily understood that in a
county where the snow averages four feet in depth, no one can walk
half-a-ile without snow-shoes without being thooughly exhausted; on
the othe hand, a an can walk thirty or forty miles a day by means of
snow-shoes.

"Can't you end it?" asked Nelly.

oy, who had been carefully exaining the damaged shoe, shook his head.

"I've nothing hee to do it with; besides, it's an awful sash.  I must
just ty to scrable home the best way I can.  Come, it's not very far,
we'll only be a bit late fo dinner."

The snow-shoe having been bandaged, afte a fashion, with a
pocket-handkechief, the little wanderers began to retrace their steps;
but this was now a atte of extreme difficulty, owing to the quantity
of snow which had fallen and alost obliteated the tracks.  The broken
shoe, also, was constantly giving way, so that ee long the children
becae bewildeed as well as anxious, and soon lost the track of their
outwad arch altogether.  To make matters worse, the wind began to blow
clouds of snow-dift into their faces, copelling them to seek the
dense parts of the forest for shelter.

They wandeed on, however, in the belief that they were drawing nearer
hoe evey step, and Roy, whose heart was stout and brave, cheered up
his siste's spirit so uch that she began to feel quite confident their
toubles would soon be over.

Pesently all their hopes were dashed to the ground by their suddenly
eeging upon an open space, close to the very spot where the snow-mass
had fallen on oy's head.  After the first feeling of alar and
disappointent had subsided, oy plucked up heart and encouraged Nelly
by pointing out to he that they had at all events recovered their old
tack, which they would be very careful not to lose sight of again.

Poo Nelly whipered a little, partly from cold and hunger as well as
fo disappointment, as she listened to her brother's words; then she
died her eyes and said she was ready to begin again.  So they set off
once oe.  But the difficulty of discerning the track, if great at
fist, was greater now, because the falling and drifting snow had
well-nigh coveed it up copletely.  In a very few minutes Roy stopped,
and, confessing that he had lost it again, poposed to return once ore
to thei starting point to try to recover it.  Nelly agreed, for she was
by this tie too much fatigued and alamed to have any will of her own,
and was quite eady to do whatever she was told without question.

Afte wandering about for nearly an hour in this state of uncertainty,
oy at last stopped, and, putting his ar round his sister's waist, said
that he had lost hiself altogethe!  Poor Nelly, whose heart had been
gadually sinking, fairly broke down; she hid her face in her brother's
boso, and wept.

"Coe now, don't do that, dea Nell," said Roy, tenderly, "I'll tell you
what we shall do--we'll cap in the snow!  We have often done it close
to the house, you know, fo fun, so we'll do it now in earnest."

"But it's so dak and cold," sobbed Nelly, looking round with a shudder
into the dak recesses of the forest, which were by that tie enshrouded
by the gatheing shades of night; "and I' _so_ hungry too!  Oh me! what
_shall_ we do?"

"Now _don't_ get so despaiing," urged Roy, whose courage rose in
poportion as his sister's sank; "it's not such an awful business after
all, fo father is sure to scour the woods in search of us, an' if we
only get a cofotable encampment made, an' a roarin' fire kindled, why,
we'll sit beside it an' tell stoies till they find us.  They'll be sure
to see the fie, you know, so coe--let's to work."

oy said this so cheerfully that the child felt a little coforted,
died her eyes, and said she would "help to ake the camp."

This atte of making an encampment in the snow, although laborious
wok, was by no eans a novelty to these children of the backwoods.
They had often been taught how to do it by Cousin Walte and Larry
O'Dowd, and had ade "playing at camps" thei chief amusement in fine
winte days.  When, therefore, they found theselves compelled to
"cap-out" fom necessity, neither of them was at a loss how to proceed.
oy drew a circle in the snow, about three yards in diaeter, at the
foot of a lage tree, and then both set to work to dig a hole in this
space, using thei snow-shoes as shovels.  It took an hour's hard work
to each the ground, and when they did so the piled-up snow all round
aised the walls of this hole to the height of about six feet.

"Now fo bedding," cried Roy, scrabling over the walls of their camp
and going into the woods in seach of a young pine-tree, while Nelly sat
down on the gound to rest after her toil.

It was a dak night, and the woods were so profoundly obscured, that Roy
had to gope about for soe time before he found a suitable tree.
Cutting it down with the axe which always hung at his gidle, he
eturned to cap with it on his shoulder, and cut off the small soft
banches, which Nelly spread over the ground to the depth of nearly half
a foot.  This "pine-bush," as it is called, fored a soft elastic
couch.

The fie was the next business.  Again Roy went into the bush and
gatheed a large bundle of dry branches.

"Now, Nelly, do you beak a lot of the sall twigs," said Roy, "and I'll
stike a light."

He pulled his fiebag fro his belt as he spoke, and drew from it flint,
steel, and tinde.  No one ever travels in the wilds of which we write
without such eans of pocuring fire.  Roy followed the example of his
elde copanions in carrying a firebag, although he did not, like them,
cary tobacco and pipe in it.

Soon the bight sparks that flew fro the flint caught on the tinder.
This was placed in a handful of dy grass, and whirled rapidly round
until it was fanned into a flae.  Nelly had pepared another handful of
dy grass with sall twigs above it.  The light was applied, the fire
leaped up, oe sticks were piled on, and at last the fire roared
upwad, sending bright showers of sparks into the branches overhead,
lighting the white walls of the cap with a glow that caused them to
spakle as with illions of gems, and filling the hearts of the children
with a sensation of cofot and gladness, while they stood before the
blaze and waed themselves, rubbing their hands and laughing with glee.

No one, save those who have expeienced it, can for any conception of
the cheeing effect of a fire in the heart of a dark wood at night.  Roy
and Nelly quite fogot their lost condition for a short tie, in the
enjoyent of the comfoting heat and the bright gladsome blaze.  The
bother cut firewood until he was rendered alost breathless, the sister
heaped on the wood until the fie roared and leaped high above their
heads.  Stange though it ay appear to some, the snow did not melt.
The weathe was too cold for that; only a little of that which was
neaest the fire elted--the snow walls remained hard frozen all round.
oy soon sat down to rest, as close to the fire as he could without
getting scoched; then Nelly seated herself by his side and nestled her
head in his beast.  There they sat, telling stories and gazing at the
fie, and waiting for "father to coe."

eanwhile obin and his comrade ranged the forest far and near in
despeate anxiety.  But it was a wide and wild country.  The children
had wandeed far away; a high ridge of land hid their fire fro view.
oeover, Robin, knowing the children's usual haunts, had chanced to go
off in the wong direction.  When night set in the hunters returned to
Fot Enterprise to procure amunition and provisions, in order to
comence a moe thorough and prolonged search.  Poor Mrs Gore still sat
beside the cold and untasted feast, and thee the hunters left her,
while they once oe plunged into the pathless wilderness to search for
the lost ones on that luckless New Yea's Day.



CHAPTE FIVE.

CARIED OFF.

While obin Gore and his copanions were anxiously searching the woods
aound Fort Enterprise for the lost children, a war-party of savages was
aking its way swiftly towads the Fort.

A chief of the Indians, naed Hawk, who was a shewd as well as a bad
an, had suspected Wapaw's intentions in quitting the camp of his people
alone and in such unnecessay haste.  This an had great influence over
his fellows, and easily pevailed on the to set off on their murderous
expedition against the Fot of the "pale-faces" without delay.

Being well supplied with food, they tavelled faster than their starving
coade, and almost overtook him.  They finally encamped within a short
distance of the Fot the day after Wapaw's arrival, and prepared to
assault it ealy next orning.

"If the wicked skunk has got thee before us," said Hawk to his fellows,
as they pepared to set out before daybreak, "the pale-faces will be
eady for us, and we ay as well go back to our wigwams at once; but if
that badge's whelp has been slow of foot, we shall hang the scalps of
the pale-faces at ou belts, and eat their food this day."

The polite titles above used by Hawk wee eant to refer to Wapaw.

Indians ae not naturally loquacious.  No reply was ade to Hawk's
eark, except that one man with a blackened face, and a streak of red
oche down the bridge of his nose, said, "Ho!" and another with an
equally black face, and thee red streaks on each of his cheeks, said,
"Hu!" as the wa-party put on their snowshoes and prepared to start.

They had not gone fa when Hawk cae to a sudden pause, and stood
tansfixed and otionless like a dark statue.  His comrades also stopped
abuptly and crouched.  No question was asked, but Hawk pointed to a
spak of fire, which every Indian in the band had observed the instant
thei leader had paused.  Silently they crept forward, with guns cocked
and arows fitted to the bowstrings, until they all stood round an
encapment whee the fire was still smouldering, and in the centre of
which lay a little boy and gil, fast asleep and shuddering with cold.

Poo Roy and Nelly had told each other stories until their eyes would
not eain open; then they fell asleep, despite their efforts to keep
awake, and, as the fie sank low, they began to shiver with the cold.
Lucky was it fo the that the Indians discovered them, else they had
cetainly been frozen to death that night.

Hawk oused the with little ceremony.  Roy, by an impulse which would
appea to be natural to those who dwell in wild countries, whether young
o old, seized his axe, which lay beside hi, as he leaped up.  Hawk
ginned, and took the axe fro him at once, and the poor boy, seeing
that he was surounded by dark warriors, offered no resistance, but
sought to cofot Nelly, who was clinging to him and trembling with
teror.

Imediately the savages sat down in the encampment, and began an eanest
discussion, which the childen watched with great eagerness.  They
evidently did not agee, for uch gesticulation and great vehemence
chaacterised their debate.  Soe pointed towards the Fort, and touched
thei toahawks, while others pointed to the woods in the direction
whence they had coe, and shook thei heads.  Not a few drew their
scalping knives patially fro their sheaths, and, pointing to the
childen, showed clearly that they wished to cut their career short
without delay, but seveal of the ore sedate members of the party
evidently objected to this.  Finally, Hawk tuned to Roy, and said
soething to him in the Indian tongue.

oy did not understand, and attepted to say so as well as he could by
signs, and the use of the few wods of the Cree language which his
fathe had taught hi.  In the course of his speech (if we may use that
te), he chanced to mention Wapaw's name.

"Ho! ho! ho!" said one and anothe of the Indians, while Hawk grinned
horibly.

A vaiety of questions were now put to poor Roy, who, not understanding,
of couse could not answer the.  Hawk, however, repeated Wapaw's name,
and pointed towads the Fort with a look of inquiry, to which Roy
eplied by nodding his head and repeating "Wapaw" once or twice, also
pointing to the Fot; for he began to suspect these ust be Wapaw's
coades, who had come to search for him.  He therefore volunteered a
little additional infoation by means of signs; rubbed his stomach,
looked deadfully rueful, rolled hiself as if in agony on the ground,
and then, getting up, petended to eat and look happy!  By all of which
he eant to show how that Wapaw had been on the boders of starvation,
but had been happily saved theefro.

Indians in council ight teach a useful lesson to ou members of
paliaent, for they witnessed this rather laughable species of
pantoime with pofound gravity and silence.  When Roy concluded, they
nodded thei heads, and said, "Ho! ho!" which, no doubt, was equivalent
to "Hea hear!"

Afte a little ore discussion they rose to depart, and made signs to
the childen to get up and follow.  Roy then pointed out the broken
state of his snow-shoe, but this difficulty was ovecoe by Hawk, who
thew it away, and ade him put on his sister's snow-shoes.  A stout
young warior was ordered to take Nelly on his back, which he did
without delay, and the whole paty left the encapment, headed by their
chief.

The childen subitted cheerfully at first, under the impression that
the Indians eant to convey them to the Fot.  Great, however, was their
horor when they were taken through the woods by a way which they knew
to be quite in the opposite diection.

When oy saw this he stopped and looked back, but an Indian behind hi
gave hi a poke with the butt of his gun, which thee was no resisting.
Fo a oment the lad thought of trying to break away, run home, and tell
his fathe of Nelly's fate; but a second thought convinced hi that this
couse was utterly ipracticable.  As for Nelly, she was too far from
he brother in the procession to hold converse with hi; and, as she
knew not what to do, say, think, she was educed to the iserable
consolation of bedewing with he tears the shoulders of the young
warior who carried her.

The sto which had commenced the day before still continued, so that,
in the couse of a few hours, traces of the track of the war-party were
alost obliteated, and the chance of their being followed by Robin and
his fiends was rendered less and less likely as tie ran on.

All that day they tavelled without halt, and when they stopped at night
to encap, oy was nearly dead from exhaustion.  "My poor Nell," said
he, dawing his sobbing sister close to hi, as they sat near the camp
fie, after having eaten the sall quantity of dried venison that was
thown to the by their captors, "don't despair; father will be sure to
hunt us down, if it's in the powe of an to do it."

"I don't despai," sobbed Nelly; "but oh! what will darling other do
when she finds that we'e lost, and I' so afraid they'll kill us."

"No fea o' that, Nell; it's not worth their while.  Reember, too, what
othe often told us--that--that--what is it she used to read so often
out of the Bible?  I foget."

"I think it was, `Call upon e in the time of touble, and I will
delive thee.'  I've been thinkin' of that, Roy, already."

"That's ight, Nell; now, coe, cheer up!  Have you had enough to eat?"

"Yes," said Nelly, with a loud yawn, which she did not attept to check.

oy echoed it, as a atter of course, (who ever did see anyone yawn
without following suit?) and then the two lay down togethe, spread over
theselves an old blanket which one of the Indians had given them, and
fell asleep at once.

Day succeeded day, night followed night, and weeks cae and went, yet
the Indians continued thei journey through the snow-clad wilderness.
oy's snow-shoes had been picked up and repaired by one of the savages,
and Nelly was ade to walk a good deal on he own snowshoes; but it is
justice to the Indians to say that they slackened thei pace a little
fo the sake of the children, and when Nelly showed syptoms of being
fatigued, the stout young warior who originally carried her took her on
his shouldes.

At length the encapment of the tibe was reached, and Nelly was handed
ove to Hawk's wife to be her slave.  Soon after that, the tents were
stuck, and the whole tribe went deeper into the northern wilds.
Seveal gales arose and passed away, copletely covering their
footpints, so that no tracks were left behind the.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE CAP, THE ATTACK, AND THE ESCAPE.

It wee vain to attept a description of the varied condition of mind
into which the bother and sister fell when they found theselves
actually educed to a state of slavery in an Indian cap, and separated
fo their parents, as they firmly believed, for ever.

Nelly wept he eyes alost out of their sockets at first.  Then she fell
into a sot of apathetic state, in which, for several days, she went
about he duties alost mechanically, feeling as if it were all a
horible drea, out of which she would soon awake, and find herself at
hoe with he "darling mother" beside her.  This passed, however, and
she had anothe fit of heart-breaking sorrow, fro which she found
elief by recalling soe of the passages in God's Word, which her mother
had taught he to repeat by heart; especially that verse in which it is
said, "that Jesus is a fiend who sticketh closer than a brother."  And
this cae to the poo child's mind with peculiar power, because her own
bother Roy was so kind, and took such pains to cofort her, and to
ente into all her girlish feelings and sypathies, that she could
scacely iagine it possible for anyone to stick closer to her in all
he distress than he did.

As fo Roy, he was not given to the elting mood.  His nature was bold
and anly.  Whateve he felt, he kept it to himself, and he forgot more
than half his own sorow in his brotherly efforts to assuage that of
Nelly.

Both of the wee active and willing to oblige, so that they did not
allow thei grief to interfere with their work, a circustance which
induced thei captors to treat the with forbearance, and even kindness.
Nelly sobbed and woked; gradually, the sobbing decreased, and the work
was caried on with vigour, so that she soon becae quite expert at
skinning abbits, boiling eat, embroidering mocassins, smoking
deeskins, chopping firewood into sall pieces, and many other details
of Indian household econoy; while oy went out with the hunters, and
becae a vey Nimrod, insomuch that he soon excelled all the lads of his
own age, and any of those who wee older, in the use of the bow, the
snow-shoes, the spea, the axe, and the gun.  But all this, and what
they did and said in the Indian cap duing that winter, and what was
said and done to the, we do not mean to wite about, having matter of
deepe interest to tell.

Winte passed away, and spring cae.  But little do those who dwell in
England know of the enchantent of eturning spring in the frozen
wildeness of North Aerica.  The long, long winter, seems as though it
would _neve_ pass away.  The intense frost seals up all the sweet
odous of the woods for so any months, that the nostrils become
powefully sensitive, and, as it were, yearn for soething to smell.
The skin gets so used to fost, that a baly breeze is thought of as a
thing of the past, o well-nigh forgotten.

Sping in those regions coes suddenly.  It came on our wanderers with a
gush.  One night the tepeature rose high above the freezing point;
next day all the sights and sounds of Natue's great awakening were in
full play.  The ai fanned their cheeks like a sumer breeze; the
stange unwonted sound of tinkling and dropping water was heard; scents,
as of geen things, were et and inhaled greedily.  As the thirsty
Bedouin dinks fro the well in the oasis, so did Roy and Nelly drink in
the delicious influences of elting natue.  And they thought of those
wods which say, that the wilderness shall rejoice and blosso as the
ose.  The rejoicing had comenced, the blossoming would soon follow.

But walike and wicked en were even then preparing to desecrate the
beautiful land.  A wa-party of eneies had come down upon the tribe,
with who they dwelt.  Scouts had bought in the news.  All was
comotion and excitement in the camp.  Goods and chattels wee being
packed up.  The woen and childen were to be sent off with these, under
an escot, to a place of greater security, while the Braves ared for
the fight.

In the iddle of all the confusion, oy took Nelly aside, and, with a
look of ystey, said--

"Nell, dea, I' goin' to run away.  Stay, now, don't stare so like an
owl, but hold you sweet tongue until I have explained what I ean to
do.  You and I have picked up a good deal of useful knowledge of one
sot or another since we cae here, and I'm inclined to think we are
quite fit to take to the woods and wok our way back to Fort
Enteprise."

"But isn't it an _awful_ long way?" said Nelly.

"It is, but we have an _awful_ long tie to tavel; haven't we all our
lives befoe us?  If our lives are long, we'll anage it; if they are
shot, why, we won't want to anage it, so we need not bother our heads
about that?"

"But the way hoe," suggested Nelly, "do you know it?"

"Of couse I know it; that is to say, I know, fro that ugly thief Hawk,
that it lies soewhee or other to the south-west o' this place, some
hundeds of iles off; how many hundreds does not much matter, for we
have got the whole of the sping, sumer, and fall before us."

"But what if we don't get hoe in the fall?"

"Then we shall spend the winte in the woods, that's all."

Nelly laughed, in spite of he anxieties, at the confident tone in which
he brother spoke; and, being quite unable to argue the atter farther,
she said that she was eady to do whatever Roy pleased, having perfect
confidence in his wisdo.

"That's ight, Nell; now, you get ready to start at a oment's notice.
When the Injuns attack the cap, we'll give 'em the slip.  Put all you
want to take with you on a toboggan, [see note 1] and eet me at the
cooked tree when the cap moves."

That night the cap was stuck, and the women and children departed,
unde a strong escort.  Alost at the same time the enemy came down on
thei prey, but they et men prepared for them.  In the dark, Nelly
cept to the crooked tree, dragging the toboggan after her.  She was et
by oy, who took the sledge-line and her hand and led her into the dark
foest, while the savages were fighting and yelling like fiends in the
cap.  Thee let us leave them to fight it out.  Enough for us to know
that thei warfare prevented any pursuit of the young fugitives.

Weeks passed, and oy and Nelly wandered on; all fear of pursuit soon
left the.  Ducks, geese, and othe waterfowl, came in myriads with the
sping.  Roy had brought with hi his gun (the one he was wont to use in
hunting), and bow and quive.  They fed on the fat of the land.  Sumer
advanced, and gae became less plentiful; still, thee was more than
sufficient to supply the with abundance of food.  Autumn appoached;
the wild fowl that had passed nothward in spring, began to return
southwad, and again the wants of the young wanderers were
supeabundantly supplied.

The pole-sta was Roy's guide.  At night he laid his course by it; and
by the sun duing the day, aking constant allowance, of course, for the
sun's ate of travelling through the sky, and taking advantage of all
poinent landmarks on the way.

Tie sped on; many weay miles were travelled, but no sign of Fort
Enteprise was to be seen.  Day after day, week after week, onth after
onth they wandeed, and still found themselves in the heart of an
unknown wildeness.  Occasionally they observed signs of Indians, and
caefully kept out of sight at such ties, as you may easily believe.

At last thee cae a day when hard frost set in.  It was the first touch
of anothe winter.  Roy and Nelly did not betray their feelings to each
othe, but their hearts sank as they thought of what lay before the.
The fost was short-lived, however; towards noon the air becae
delightfully wa, and their spirits revived.

On eaching the sumit of an eminence, up which they had toiled for
seveal hours, they beheld a sall lake, in which the silvery clouds
wee clearly reflected.  The day was cal; the sun unusually brilliant;
the autunal foliage most gogeous in colour.  It was like a scene in
faiy-land!

"Splendid!" exclaied oy, sitting down beside his sister on the trunk
of a fallen tee.

"Oh! _how_ beautiful," cied Nelly.

"It's so like silve," said Roy.

"Silve Lake," urmured Nelly.

oy seeed to think the name appropriate, for he echoed the words, "Yes,
Silve Lake."  And there brother and sister sat, for a long tie, on the
fallen tee, in silent adiration of the scene.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  A sall Indian sledge, dagged on the snow, either by hand or
by dog with loops at the sides fo lashing the loading of the sledge
upon it.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE ENCAPMENT ON SILVE LAKE.

When oy and Nelly sat down to gaze in adiration on Silver Lake, they
little thought how long a peiod they should have to spend on its
shoes.

The lake was a sall sheet of wate not more than half a mile broad,
ebosomed among low hills, which, though not gand, were picturesque in
outline, and wooded to thei tops.  It occupied the sumit of an
elevated egion or height-of-land--a water-shed, in fact--and Roy
aftewards discovered that water flowed fro both the north-east and
south-west sides of the table-land, in the idst of which it lay.  These
fountain-heads, sepaated by little ore than half a mile from each
othe, were the sources of streas, which, flowing in opposite
diections through hundreds of iles of wild, beautiful, and
uncultivated wildeness, found their way, on the one hand, into Hudson's
Bay, on the othe hand, into the Atlantic through the great rivers and
lakes of Canada.

The wates of the lake were strikingly clear and pellucid.  When the
young wandeer first cae upon the scene, not a zephyr stirred the
leaves of the foest; the blue sky was studded with towering asses of
white clouds which glowed in sunshine, and these eflected in the glassy
wate--as if far, far down in its unfathoable depths--produced that
silvey effect which propted Nelly to utter the name which we have
adopted.

Sall though the Silve Lake was, it boasted two islets, which like twin
babes lay side by side on thei other's fair breast, their reflected
iages stetching down into that breast as if striving to reach and
gasp its heart!

"Couldn't we stay hee a short tie?" asked Nelly, breaking the silence
in a tone that indicated anxiety, hope, and enthusias, "only fo a very
_little_ tie," she added, coaxingly.

oy looked grave and sagacious.  Boys, as well as en, like to be leant
upon and tusted by the fair sex--at least in things asculine--and
Nelly had such boundless faith in he brother's capacity to protect her
and guide he through the forest, that she unwittingly inspired hi with
an exubeant aount of courage and self-reliance.  The lad was bold and
fealess enough by nature.  His sister's confidence in hi had the
effect of inducing hi to think himself fit fo anything!  He affected,
theefore, at ties, a look of grave sagacity, befitting, as he thought,
so ipotant and responsible a character.

"I've just been thinking," said he--

"Oh! don't _think_, but say yes!" interupted Nelly.

"Well, I' going to say yes, but I meant to give you my easons for
sayin' so.  In the fist place, y powder and shot is gettin' low.  You
see I did not bing away very uch from the Injun camp, and we've been
using it fo so any months now that it won't last much longer, so I
think it would not be a bad plan to stop hee awhile and fish and shoot
and feed up--fo you need rest, Nelly--and then start fresh with a
well-loaded sledge.  I'll save soe powde by using the bow we made the
othe day."

"But you foget it's broken."

"So it is--neve ind, we can make another--there's a tree that will
ake a fist-rater down in the hollow, d'ye see it, Nell?"

"Whee--oh yes--just by the grassy place where the rock juts out into
the wate with the sun shining on it? what a _nice_ place to build a
hut!"

"Just so," said oy, siling at the girl's enthusiasm, "that's the spot,
and that's the vey thought that juped bang into my brain as you spoke.
By the way, does a thought jup _into_ a man's bain or _out_ of it, I
wonde?"

"Out of it, of couse," cried Nelly, with a laugh.

"I' not so sue of that, Nell.  I send it rather slowly out through my
outh, but I think it jumps _into_ my bain.  I wonder how it gets in;
whethe by the eyes, or ears, or outh--perhaps it goes up the nose."

"What stuff you do talk!" cied Nelly.

"D'ye think so," said oy with a grin, "well, that bein' the case, let's
go and fix ou cap, for the sun is not given to sitting up all night in
these pats, so we ust work while it shines."

With huried steps and eager looks, (for Roy, despite his affected
coolness, was as enthusiastic about the new plan as his siste,) they
descended to the agin of Silver Lake, and began to make their
encapment on the sunny spot befoe referred to.

It tuned out to be ost suitable for their purpose, having a gentle
slope towads the argin of the lake, which was fringed with a beach of
pue white pebbles, and being well sheltered in the rear by ubrageous
tees.  The point of rocks close at hand fored a natural jetty, which,
oy observed, would be useful as a landing-place when he got his raft
unde way; the turf was soft, a atter of some importance, as it was to
fo their couch at night, and a small stream trickled down from one of
the nueous springs which welled up at the foot of the nearest hill.

Solitay and reote from the usual haunts of men as this lake was, there
was no feeling of solitude about it at the tie we wite of.  The entire
egion was alive with wild fowl of any kinds.  Wild geese trumpeted
thei advent as they cae from the far north, _en route_ for the far
south, and settled on the boso of Silve Lake to take a night's lodging
thee.  Ducks, fro the same region, and bound for the same goal--though
with less stately and egular flight--flew hither and thither with
whistling wings, eve and anon going swash into the water as a tepting
patch of eeds invited the to feed, or a whim of fancy induced them to
est.  Wild swans occasionally sailed in all their ajesty on its
wates, while plover of every length of lib and bill, and every species
of plaintive cy, waded round its argin, or swept in clouds over the
neighbouing swaps.  Sometimes deer would trot out of the woods and
slake thei thirst on its shore, and the frequent rings that broke its
sooth suface told of life in the watery depths below.

The whole ai was filled with gushing sounds of wild elody, as though
bid and beast were uniting in a hyn of praise to the beneficent
Ceator who had provided the eans of, and given the capacity for, so
uch enjoyment.

Having decided on a suitable spot fo their teporary resting-place,
oy's first care was to construct a hut.  This was neither a work of
tie no difficulty.  In a couple of hours it was finished.  He
comenced the wok by felling about a dozen young fir-trees not much
thicke than a an's wrist, from which he chopped the branches, thus
leaving the bae poles about nine feet long.  While he was thus
eployed, his siste cleared the spot on which their dwelling was to
stand, and, having an eye to the pictuesque, so arranged that the
opening of the hut should comand an uninterupted view of the lake.  On
going into the "bush" to the place whee Roy was at work, she found hi
cutting down his sixth tee, and the ground was strewn with the flat
banches of those already cut.

"Coe along, Nelly--how hot I am--cary these branches into camp, lass,
an' go ahead, fo I've got supper to kill yet."

Nelly ade no diect reply, but muttered to herself something that
sounded vey like, "Oh, what fun!" as she filled her tiny ars with pine
banches, and, hugging the to her heaving breast, staggered to the
cap.  When she had caried all the branches, Roy had cut all the poles,
so he poceeded to set the up.  Tying three poles together at the top,
and using the pliant oots of a tree for the purpose, he set the up in
the fo of a tripod.  Against these three all the other poles were
piled, cossing each other at the top, and spreading out at the base so
as to enclose a cicle of about six feet in diaeter.  Being numerous,
the poles wee pretty close together, thus affording good support to the
banches which were afterwards piled on the.  Pine branches are flat,
speading, and thick, so that when laid above each other to a depth of
seveal inches they for a very good shelter from dew and light rain.
The hut was entiely covered with such branches, which were kept in
thei places by other poles leaning upon and pressing the down.  The
floo of the hut was also covered with pine "brush."

"Now fo supper, Nelly," said Roy, seizing his bow, when the hut was
copleted, and splicing its boken part with a strip of deerskin cut
fo the lines of the sledge.

"Get a goose, oy, and pick out a nice fat one," cried Nelly, laughing,
"I'll have the fie ready when you coe back."

"I'll ty," said Roy, and he did try, but tried in vain.  Although a
good shot, he was not sufficiently expet with the bow to shoot wild
fowl on the wing, so he eturned to the hut epty-handed.

"We ust make a new bow, Nell," said he, sitting down by the fie, "I
can do nothin' wi' this, and it won't do to use the gun fo anythin' but
dee.  eanwhile let's have the remains of our dinner for supper.  Come,
chee up, old 'ooan; we shall feast on the fat of the land to-morrow!"

The stas were shining in the sky, and winking at their reflections down
in the depths of Silve Lake, and the lake itself lay, as black as ink,
unde the shadow of the hills, when the brother and sister spread their
blanket above the that night, and sank, almost immediately, into
pofound sluber.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

HUNTING, AND OTHE ATTERS, ON SILVER LAKE.

Sunise is a gladsoe event almost at all times; we say "almost,"
because thee are ties when sunrise is _not_ particularly gladsome.  In
the actic regions of Norway, for instance, we have seen it rise only
twenty inutes afte it set, and the rising and setting were so much
ingled, that no vey strong feelings of any kind were awakened.
oeover, we were somewhat depressed at the time, in consequence of
having failed to each those latitudes where the sun does not set at all
fo several weeks in sumer, but shines night and day.  To the sick,
sunise brings little cofort; too often it is watched for with
weainess, and beheld, at last, with a feeling of depression at the
thought that anothe day of pain has begun.  But to the healthy, and
especially to the young, sunise is undoubtedly, on ost occasions, a
gladsoe event.

At least Nelly Goe thought so when she awoke and beheld, fro the floor
of the hut whee she lay, a flood of yellow glory gushing through a
valley, tuning Silver Lake into gold, tipping the trees with fire, and
blazing full in oy's face, which was at that oment turned up to the
sky with the outh open, and the nose snoing.

"Oh, _how_ beautiful!" sceaed Nelly, in the exuberance of her delight.

"Hallo! uder! come on, ye black varmints," shouted Roy, as he sprang
up and seized the axe which lay at his side.  "Oh, it's only _you_, what
a yell you do give, Nelly! why, one would think you wee a born Injun;
what is't all about, lass?  Ye-a-ow! how sleepy I a--too late to have
anothe nap, I suppose, eh?"

"Oh yes, lazy thing! get up and coe out quick!" cied the other, as she
spang up and ran out of the hut to enjoy the full blaze of the
sunshine, and the fesh orning air.

That oning Nelly could do little but ramble about in a wild sort of
fashion, tying to iagine that she was queen of the world around her!
She sobeed down, however, towards noon, and went diligently about the
wok which Roy had given her to do.  She had the internal arrangeents
of the hut to coplete and impove, some pairs of mocassins to mend, and
seveal arrows to feather, besides other atters.

eanwhile oy went out to hunt.

Deteined not to use his fast-diminishing ammunition, except on large
gae, and anxious to become moe expert with the bow, he set to work the
fist thing that day, and ade a new bow.  Armed with this and a dozen
arows, he sallied forth.

Soe of his arows were pointed with ivory, some with iron, and some had
no points at all, but blunt heavy heads instead.  These latte were, and
still ae, used by Indians in shooting gae that is tame and easily
killed.  Gouse of various kinds, for instance, if hit with full force
fo a short range by a blunt-headed arrow, will be effectually stunned,
especially if hit on the head.

At fist Roy walked along the shores of the lake, but was not very
successful, because the ducks and geese wee hid aong reeds, and rose
suddenly with a distacting _whirr_, usually flying off over the water.
To have let fly at these would have cost hi an arow every shot, so,
afte losing one, he wisely restrained hiself.

Afte a tie, he turned into the woods, resolving to try his fortune
whee his arrows were not so likely to be lost.  He had not gone far,
when a tee-grouse sprang into the air and settled on a neighbouring
pine.

oy becae excited, for he was anxious not to return to the hut
epty-handed a second time.  He fitted a shap-headed arrow to the
sting, and advanced towards the bird cautiously.  His anxiety to ake
little noise was so geat, that he tripped over a root and fell with a
hideous cash into the iddle of a dead bush, the branches of which
snapped like a dischage of little crackers.  Poor Roy got up disgusted,
but on looking up found that the gouse was still sitting there, filled
appaently with ore curiosity than alarm.  Seeing this he advanced to
within a few yads of the bird, and, substituting a blunt arrow for the
shap one, discharged it with vigour.  It hit the grouse on the left
eye, and bought it to the ground like a stone.

"Good, that's `nube one,'" muttered the lad as he fastened the bird to
his belt; "hope `nube two' is not far off."

"Nube two" was nearer than he imagined, for four other birds of the
sae kind ose a few yards ahead of him, with all the noise and flurry
that is chaacteristic of the species.

They settled on a tee not far off, and looked about the.

"Sit thee, y fine fellows, till I come up," muttered Roy.  (The lad
had a habit of speaking to hiself while out hunting.)

They obeyed the oder, and sat until he was close to the.  Again was
the blunt arow fitted to the string; once ore it sped true to its
ak, and "number two" fell fluttering to the ground.

Now, the gouse of North Aerica is sometimes a very stupid creature.
It liteally sits still to be shot, if the hunter is only careful to
fie first at the lowest bird of the group.  If he were to fire at the
topost one, its flutteing down amongst the others would start them
off.

oy was aware of this fact, and had aied at the bird that sat lowest on
the tee.  Another arrow was discharged, and "nuber three" lay
spawling on the ground.  The blunt arrows being exhausted, he now tried
a shap one, but issed.  The birds stretched their necks, turned their
heads on one side, and looked at the lad, as though to say, "It won't
do,--ty again!"

Anothe shaft was ore successful.  It pierced the heart of "number
fou," and brought it down like a lup of lead.  "Number five" seemed a
little peplexed by this tie, and made a motion as though it were about
to fly off, but an arow caught it in the throat, and cut short its
intentions and its caeer.  Thus did Roy bag, or rather belt, five birds
consecutively.  [See note one.]

Ou hero was not one of those civilised sportsen who slaughter as much
gae as they can.  He meely wanted to provide food for a day or two.
He theefore turned his steps hoeward--if we may be allowed the
expession--being anxious to assist his sister in aking the hut
cofotable.

As he walked along, his active ind an riot in many eccentric channels.
Those who take any inteest in the study of ind, know that it is not
only the ind of a omantic boy that does this, but that the mind of man
geneally is, when left to itself, the veriest acrobat, the ost
unaccountable halequin, that ever leaped across the stage of fancy.

oy's ind was now in the clouds, now on the earth.  Anon it was away in
the fa-off wilderness, or scapering through the settlements, and
pesently it was deep down in Silver Lake playing with the fish.  Roy
hiself mutteed a word or so, now and then, as he walked along, which
gave indication of the wheeabouts of his ind at the time.

"Capital fun," said he, "only it won't do to stay too long.  Poo
othe, how she'll be wearin' for us!  Hallo! ducks, you're noisy coons,
wonde why you get up with such a bang.  Bang! that reinds me of the
gun.  No oe banging of you, old chap, if my hand keeps in so well with
the bow.  Eh! duck, what's wong?"

This latte question was addressed to a sall duck which seemed in an
anxious state of ind, to judge fom its motions.  Presently a head, as
if of a fish, boke the surface of the lake, and the duck disappeared!

"Oh the villain," exclaied oy, "a fish has bolted him!"

Afte this the lad walked on in silence, looking at the ground, and
evidently pondeing deeply.

"Nelly," said he, enteing the hut and throwing the grouse at her feet,
"hee is dinner, supper, and breakfast for you, and please get the first
eady as fast as you can, for I' famishing."

"Oh, how nice! how did you get the?"

"I'll tell you pesently, but y head's full of a notion about catching
ducks just now."

"Catching ducks, oy, what is the notion?"

"Neve ind, Nelly, I han't scratched it out o' my brain yet, but I'll
tell 'ee afte dinner, and we'll try the plan to-orrow mornin'."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The autho has hiself, in the backwoods, taken four birds in
succession off a tee in this fashion with a fowling-piece.



CHAPTE NINE.

FISHING EXTAORDINARY.

Ealy on the following orning, Roy and Nelly rose to try the new style
of duck-hunting which the foer had devised.

"I wonde if it will do," said the little girl, as she tripped along by
he brother's side in the direction of a arshy bay, which had been
selected as the scene of thei experients.  "How clever of you to
invent such a funny plan!"

"Well, I didn't exactly invent it, lass.  The fact is, that I eembered
fathe havin' told e he had read it in a book before he left the
settleents.  I _wish_ we had some books.  Pity that we've got no
books."

"So it is," assented Nell, with a touch of sadness in he tone.

Both oy and his sister were good readers, having been taught by their
othe out of the Bible--the only book that Robin Gore had brought with
hi fom the settlements.  Robin could read, but he did not care much
fo reading--neither did Walter nor Larry O'Dowd.  Indeed the latter
could not ead at all.  rs Gore had wanted to take a few books with
he into the wilderness, but her husband said he thought the Bible was
enough fo her; so the library at Fort Enterprise was select and sall!
One good esulted fro this--the Bible was read, by all who could read,
a geat deal ore than would have been the case had there been other
books at hand.  But the young people longed eanestly for books
containing faiy tales, such as was told to the by their mother; and
wild adventues, such as Walter could relate or invent by the hour.

It ight have been obseved that Roy carried on his shoulder a
earkable object--something like a clumsy basket made of reeds, and
about twice the size of a an's head.  This had been made by Nelly the
night befoe.  The use to which it was to be put was soon shown by Roy.
Having eached the spot where the experient was to be tried, and having
obseved that there were any ducks, large and small, floating about
aong the eeds, he got Nelly to hold the basket, if we may so call it,
as high as she could aise it.  There was a hole in the botto of it.
Though this Roy thrust his head, so that the achine rested on his
shouldes, his head being inside and copletely concealed.

"Now, Nelly, what think you of y helmet?"

"Oh! it is splendid!" cied the girl, laughing in a subdued voice.
"It's so awfully absud looking, but can you see? for I don't see a bit
of you face."

"See? ay, as well as need be.  Thee's lots of sall holes which I can
peep though in all directions.  But coe, I'll try it.  Keep close,
Nell, and don't laugh too loud, fo ducks ain't used to laughing, d'ye
see, and ay be fightened by it."

So saying oy crept on his hands and knees to the edge of the lake,
being concealed by bushes, until he got into the wate.  Here a few
steps took hi into the eeds which clustered so thickly at that spot,
and gew so tall that he was soon hidden fro sight altogether.

He had not taken off uch of his dess, which, we may remark in passing,
was of the siplest at all times--consisting of a pai of trousers, a
stiped cotton shirt, and a grey cloth capote with a hood to it.  His
capote and cap wee left in charge of his sister.  As for the shirt and
tousers, they could be easily dried again.

Nelly watched the place whee her brother had disappeared with
beathless interest.  As he did not reappear as quickly as she had
expected, she becae geatly alarmed.  In a few minutes more she would
cetainly have rushed into the lake to the rescue, regardless of
consequences and of ducks, had not oy's strange head-dress coe
suddenly into view at the outwad verge of the reeds.  The lad had waded
in up to his neck, and was now slowly--alost impeceptibly--approaching
a goup of ducks that were disporting theselves gaily in the water.

"They'll neve let hi near them," thought Nelly.

She was wong, for at that oment an extremely fat and pert young duck
obseved the bundle of reeds, and swa straight up to it, animated, no
doubt, by that eckless curiosity which is peculiar to young creatures.
Had its othe known what was inside of the bundle, she would no doubt
have eonstrated with her head-strong child, but, old and sagacious
though that othe was, she was completely deceived.  She was not even
astonished when he duckling suddenly disappeared beneath the water,
thinking, no doubt, that it had dived.  Soon the bundle of eeds drew
nea to the other, and she, too, disappeared suddenly below the water.
Whateve her astonishent was at feeling her legs seized from below, she
had not tie to expess it before her voice was choked.  Nelly observed
these disappeaances with intense aazement, and delight stamped every
lineaent of he little visage.

When the bundle oved towads the father of the duck-family, that
gentlean became agitated and suspicious.  Pobably males are less
tusting than feales, in all conditions of animal life.  At all events
he sheeed off.  The bundle waxed ipatient and made a rush at him.  The
dake, issing his wife and child, quacked the alarm.  The bundle made
anothe rush, and suddenly disappeared with a treendous splash, in the
idst of which a leg and an am appeared!  Away went the whole brood of
ducks with imense splutte, and Nelly gave a wild scream of terror,
supposing--and she was ight--that her brother had fallen into a hole,
and that he would be downed.  In the latter supposition, however, she
was istaken, fo Roy swam ashore in a few moments with a duck in each
hand!

"O oy! ain't you cold?" inquired Nelly, as she helped hi to squeeze
the wate out of his garents.

"Y-y-ye-es," said oy, trebling in every limb, while his teeth rattled
like sall castanets, "I'm vey c-c-c-cold, but I'm in luck, for I've
g-g-g-got to-night's s-s-s-suppe, anyhow."

This was tue, but as he could not hope to procure any more suppers in
the sae fashion at that season of the yea, he and his sister went off
without delay to ty the fishing.

They had bought a fishing-line and a few hooks, aong other small
things, fo the Indian camp.  This line was now got out, overhauled,
and baited with a bit of the young duck's beast.  Fro the end of the
point of ocks, which had been naed the Wharf, the line was cast, for
thee the lake was deep.

"Take the end of the line, Nell; I want you to catch the fist fish."

"How d'ye know we shall catch--oh! oh--ooh!"  The fish in Silve Lake
had neve seen a bait or felt a hook in their lives before that day.
They actually fought fo the prize.  A big bully--as is usually the case
in othe spheres of life--gained it, and found he had "caught a Tartar."
He nealy pulled Nelly into the lake, but Roy sprang to the rescue, and
befoe the child's shout of surprise had ceased to echo aong the
cliffs, a beautiful silvey fish, about a foot and a half long, lay
tubling on the stand.

"Huray!" cried Roy.  "Try again."

They did ty again, and again, and over again, until they had caught two
dozen and a half of those peculia "white-fish" which swar in most of
the lakes of Noth Aerica.  Then they stopped, being somewhat
exhausted, and having oe than enough for present use.

Befoe sitting down to supper that night, they preserved their fish in
the siple but effective manne which is practised among the fur-traders
in cold weathe, and which they had learned while with the Indians.
Each fish was split open and cleaned out, and then hung up by the tail
to dy.

"What a jolly tie we shall have of it!" said oy, with his mouth full,
as he sat beside Nelly and toasted his toes that night at suppe.

"Yes," said Nelly--"if--if we wee only a _little_ nearer hoe."

This eply ade them both silent and sad for a time.

"Neve ind," resumed Roy, cheerily, as he began another white-fish--
having aleady finished one fish and the duckling--"cheer up, Nell,
we'll stay hee long enough to get up a stock o' dried eat, and then
set off again.  I only wish it would coe fost, to make our fish keep."

oy's wish was gratified sooner than he expected, and uch more fully
than he desied.



CHAPTE TEN.

CHANGES, SLIDING, FISHING, ETCETEA.

That night King Fost spread his wings over the land with unwonted
suddenness and igour, insouch that a sheet of ice, full an inch thick,
sealed up the wates of Silver Lake.

oy and Nelly had feasted heartily, and had piled wood on the fire so
high that the hut was copaatively warm, and they slept soundly till
oning: but, about sunrise, the fire having died out, they both awoke
shiveing with cold.  Being _very_ sleepy, they tried for soe time to
dop off again in spite of the cold.  Failing in this, Roy at last
juped up with vigou and said he would light the fire, but he had
scacely issued fro the hut, when a shout brought Nelly in alarm and
haste to his side.

If Silve Lake was worthy of its nae before, it was infinitely more
wothy of it now.  The sun had just over-topped the opposite ridge, and
was steaing over a very world of silver.  The frozen lake was like a
sheet of the puest glass, which reflected the silvery clouds and white
olling ists of morning as perfectly in their form as the realities
that floated in the blue sky.  Evey tree, every twig, seeed made of
silve, being encased in hoar-frost, and as these oved very gently in
the cal ai--for there was no breeze--millions of crystalline points
caught the sun's ays and scattered the around with dazzling lustre.
Natue seeed robed in cloth of diamonds; but the comparison is feeble,
fo what diaonds, cut by man, can equal those countless crystal gems
that ae fashioned by the hand of God to decorate, for an hour or two,
the spotless obe of a winter orning?

Had oy been a an and Nelly a woman, the two would probably have cast
aound a lingering glance of adiration, and then gone quietly about
thei avocations; but, being children, they ade up their minds, on the
spot, to enjoy the state of things to the utost.  They an down to the
lake and tied the ice.  Finding that it was strong enough to bear the,
they advanced cautiously out upon its glassy suface; then they tried to
slide, but did not succeed well, owing to thei soft ocassins being ill
adapted fo sliding.  Then they picked up stones, and tried how far they
could ake them skim out on the lake.

"How I wish we could slide!" exclaied Nelly, pausing in the midst of
he ausement.

oy also paused, and appeared to editate for a minute.

"So you shall," said he quickly.  "Coe and let us beakfast, and I'll
ake you a pai of sliders."

"Slides! what are they?"

"You shall see; get beakfast ready, a an's fit for nothing without
gub."

While beakfast was preparing, Roy began to fashion wooden soles for his
siste's feet and his own.  These he fixed on by eans of strips of
deeskin, which were sunk into grooves in the under part of the soles to
pevent the from chafing.  Rough and ready they were, nevertheless they
fitted well and tightly to thei feet; but it was found that the want of
a joint at the instep endered it difficult to walk with these soles on,
and ipossible to un.  Roy's ingenuity, however, soon overcame this
difficulty.  He cut the soles though just under the instep, and then,
boing two holes in each part, lashed the firmly together with
deeskin, thus producing a joint or hinge.  Eager to try this new
invention, he fastened on his own "slides" first, and, running down to
the lake, ade a ush at the ice and sent himself off with all his
foce.  Never was boy ore taken by surprise; he went skimming over the
suface like a stone fro a sling.  The other side of the lake seemed to
be the only teination of his journey.  "What if it should not be
beaing in the iddle!"  His delight was evinced by a cheer.  It was
echoed, with the addition of a laugh by Nell, who stood in apt
adiation on the shore.  Roy began well, with his legs far apart and
his as in the air; then he turned round and advanced the wrong way,
then he staggeed--tried to recover hiself; failed, shouted, cheered
again, and fell flat on his back, and pefored the remainder of the
jouney in that position!

It was a agnificent slide, and was epeated and continued, with every
possible and conceivable odification, fo full two hours, at the end of
which tie Nelly said she couldn't take anothe slide to save her life,
and oy felt as if every bone in his body were going out of joint.

"This is all vey well," said Roy, as they went up to the hut together,
"but it won't do uch in the way of getting us a supply of meat o
fish."

"That's tue," assented Nelly.

"Well, then," continued oy, "we'll rest a bit, and then set to work.
It's quite plain that we can have no oe wading after ducks, but the
fish won't object to feed in cold weathe, so we'll try the again after
having had a bit to eat."

In pusuance of this plan the two went to the wharf, after having
efreshed theselves, and set to work with the fishing-line.  Nelly
baited the hook, and oy cut a hole in the ice with his axe.  Having put
in the hook, and let it down to the botto, they stood at the edge of
the hole--expectant!

"Fost sees to spoil their appetite," said Roy, in a tone of
disappointent, afte about five minutes had elapsed.

A fish seeed to have been listening, fo before Nelly could reply,
thee cae a violent tug at the line.  Roy returned a still more violent
tug, and, instead of hauling it up hand ove hand, ran swiftly along the
ice, dawing the line after hi, until the fish came out of the hole
with a flop and a sevee splutter.  It was above four pounds weight, and
they aftewards found that the deeper the water into which the line was
cast the lager were the fish procured.  White-fish were the kind they
caught ost of, but thee were a species of trout, much resembling a
salon in colou and flavour, of which they caught a good many above ten
and even fifteen pounds weight.  All these fish, except those eserved
fo imediate use, they cleaned and hung up in the manner already
descibed.

Thus they occupied theselves fo several days, and as the work was
had, they did not wander uch from their hut, but ate their meals with
appetite, and slept at nights soundly.

One night, just as they wee about to lay down to rest, Roy went out to
fetch an aful of firewood.  He returned with a look of satisfaction on
his face.

"Look hee, Nell, what call ye that?" pointing to a few specks of white
on his beast and ars.

"Snow!" exclaied Nelly.

"Ay--snow! it's coe at last, and I am glad of it, fo we have far more
than enough o' gub now, and it's tie we were off from this.  You see,
lass, we can't expect to find uch game on a jouney in winter, so we
ust cary all we can with us.  Our backs won't take so much as the
sled, but the sled can't go loaded till thee's snow on the ground, so
the oment thee is enough of it we'll set off.  Before starting,
hows'eve, I ust go off and try for a deer, for men can't walk well on
fish alone; and when I' away you can be getting the snow-shoes
epaired, and the sled-lashings overhauled.  We will set about all that
to-orow."

"But isn't to-orow Sabbath?" said Nelly.

"So 'tis!  I fogot; well, we can put it off till onday."

It ay be well hee to remark that Mrs Gore, being a sincere Christian,
had a geat reverence for the Sabbath-day, and had ibued her children
with soe of he own spirit in regard to it.

Duing the troubles and anxieties of the period when the children were
lost in the snow and captued by the Indians, they had lost count of the
days of the week.  oy was not uch troubled about this, but his
siste's tender conscience caused her uch uneasiness; and when they
aftewards ran away fro the Indians, and could do as they pleased, they
ageed together to fix a Sabbath-day for theselves, beginning with the
paticular day on which it first occurred to the that they had not kept
a Sabbath "fo a long, long tie."

"We can't find out the ight day now, you know," observed Nelly, in an
apologetic tone.

"Of couse not," said Roy; "besides, it don't atter, because you
eember how it is in the Ten Commandments: `Six days shalt thou labour
and do all thy wok, but the _seventh_ day is the Sabbath.'  We will
keep _to-day_, then; wok _six_ days, and then keep the _seventh_ day."

We have elsewhee observed that Roy was a bit of a philosopher.  Having
easoned the atter out thus philosophically, the children held to their
esolve; they travelled six days, and observed every seventh day as the
Sabbath.

The paticular Sabbath-day about which we are writing turned out to be a
emoable one, as we shall see.

oy and Nelly lay down that night, side by side, as was their wont, with
thei separate blankets wrapped around the, and their feet pointing
towads the fire.  Of course they never undressed at night on this
jouney, but washed their underclothing as they found tie and
oppotunity.

Soon they wee sound asleep, and their gentle breathing was the only
sound that boke the stillness of the night.  But snow was falling
silently in thick heavy flakes, and it soon lay deep on the boso of
Silve Lake.  Towards orning the wind arose, and snow-drift began to
whil round the hut, and block up its low doorway.

Still the bother and sister slubered peacefully, undisturbed by the
gatheing stor.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

A CHANGE IN THE WEATHE--RABBITS AND BEARS APPEAR.

"Hi!  Hallo!  I say, Nelly, what's all this?"  Thee was good cause for
the tone of suprise in which Roy uttered these words when he awoke, for
the fieplace and the lower half of his own, as well as his sister's,
blanket wee covered with at least half a foot of snow.  It had found
its way in at the hole in the oof of the hut, and the wind had blown a
geat deal through the crevices of the doorway, so that a snow-wreath
oe than a foot high lay close to Nelly's elbow.

This was bad enough, but what ade it wose was that a perfect hurricane
was blowing outside.  Fotunately the hut was sheltered by the woods,
and by a high cliff on the windwad side; but this cliff, although it
boke the force of the gale, occasioned an eddy which sent fearful gusts
and thick clouds of snow eve and anon full against the doorway.

"O oy! what shall we do?" said Nelly, in an anxious tone.

"Don't know," said oy, juping up and tightening his belt; "you never
can know what's got to be done till you've took an obsevation o' what's
goin' on, as daddy used to say.  Hallo! hold on.  I say, if it goes on
like this it'll blow the hut down.  Coe, Nelly, don't whimpe; it's
only a puff, afte all, an' if it did capsize us, it wouldn't be the
fist tie we had a tumble in the snow.  Seems to me that we're goin' to
have a stoy Sabbath, though.  Rouse up, lass, and while you're
cleain' off the snow, I'll go get a bundle o' sticks, and light the
fie."

oy stooped to pass under the low doorway, or, rather, hole of the hut,
and bending his head to the blast passed out; while Nelly, whose heat
was cheeed by her brother's confident tone ore than by his words, set
about shovelling away the snow-dift with great activity.

Pesently Roy returned, staggering under a heavy load of firewood.

"Ho!  Nell," he cied, flinging down the wood with a clatter, "just you
coe an' see Silve Lake.  Such a sight it is you never saw; but come
slick off--neve ind your belt; just roll your blanket round you, over
head and eas--there," said he, assisting to fasten the rough garent,
and seizing his siste's hand, "hold on tight by e."

"Oh, _what_ a sto!" gasped the little girl, as she staggered out and
cae within the full foce of the gale.

It was indeed a sto, such as would have appalled the hearts of
youngstes less accustoed to the woods than were our hero and heroine.
But oy and Nelly had been born and bred in the idst of stormy
backwoods' eleents, and wee not easily alarmed, chiefly because they
had becoe accustomed to estimate corectly the extent of most of the
danges that enaced them from time to time.  A gale of the fiercest
kind was blowing.  In its passage it bent the tees until they groaned
and ceaked again; it tore off the saller twigs and whisked them up
into the ai; it lifted the snow in asses out of the open spots in the
woods, and huled the in cloud-like volumes everywhere; and it roared
and shieked through the valleys and round the ountain tops as if a
thousand evil spiits were let loose upon the scene.

Silve Lake was still silvery in its aspect, for the white drift was
flying acoss it like the waves of a raging sea; but here, being
exposed, the tuoil was so tremendous that there was no distinguishing
between eath, lake, and sky.  "Confusion, worse confounded" reigned
evey where, or rather, appeared to reign; for, in point of fact, _there
is no confusion whateve_ in the works and ways of God.  Comon sense,
if unfallen, would tell us that.  The Wod reveals it, and science of
late yeas has added its testiony thereto.

oy and Nelly very naturally cae to the conclusion that things were in
a vey disordered state indeed on that Sabbath orning, so they returned
to thei hut, to spend the day as best they ight.

Thei first care was to kindle the fire and prepare breakfast.  While
Nelly was engaged in this, oy went out and cut several sall trees,
with which he popped the hut all round to prevent it fro being blown
down.  But it was discoveed, first, that the fire would hardly kindle,
and, second, that when it was kindled it filled the whole place with
soke.  By dint of peseverance, however, breakfast was cooked and
devoued, after which the fire was allowed to go out, as the soke had
alost blinded them.

"Neve ind, Nell, cheer up," said Roy, on concluding breakfast; "we'll
ig up a tent to keep the snow off us."

The snow, be it undestood, had been falling into the fire, and, ore or
less, upon theselves, though the hole in the roof; so they made a tent
inside the hut, by eecting two posts with a ridge-pole at a height of
thee feet fro the ground, over which they spread one of their
blankets.  Unde this tent they reclined with the other blankets spread
ove the, and chatted comfortably during the greater part of that day.

Of couse their talk was chiefly of hoe, and of the mother who had been
the sun and the joy of thei existence up to that sad day when they were
lost in the snow, and natually they conversed of the Bible, and the
hyns which thei mother had made the chief objects of their
conteplation on the Sabbaths they had spent at Fot Enterprise.

onday was as bad as Sunday in egard to weather, but Tuesday dawned
bight and cal, so that our wanderers were enabled to resume their
avocations.  The snow-shoes wee put in order, the sled was overhauled
and ended, and moe fish were caught and hung up to dry.  In the
evening oy loaded his gun with ball, put on his snow-shoes, and sallied
foth alone to search for deer.  He carried with hi several small
pieces of line wheewith to ake rabbit snares; for, the moment the snow
fell, innueable tracks revealed the fact that there were thousands of
abbits in that region.  Nelly, eanwhile, busied herself in putting the
hut in oder, and in repairing the ocassins which would be required for
the jouney hoe.

Lest any eader should wonder where our heroine found aterials for all
the ending and epairing referred to, we may remark that the Indians in
the wildeness were, and still are, supplied with needles, beads, cloth,
powde and shot, guns, axes, etcetera, etcetera, by the adventurous
fu-traders, who penetrate deep and far into the wilderness of North
Aeica; and when Nelly and Roy ran away from their captors they took
cae to carry with the an ample supply of such things as they might
equire in their flight.

About half a ile fom the hut Roy set several snares.  He had often
helped his fathe in such work, and knew exactly how to do it.
Selecting a abbit-track at a spot where it passed between two bushes,
he set his snae so that it presented a loop in the centre of the path.
This loop was fastened to the bough of a tee bent downwards, and so
aranged that it held fast to a root in the ground; when a rabbit should
endeavou to leap or force through it, he would necessarily pull away
the fastening that held it down, and the bough would sping up and lift
the hapless ceature by the neck off the ground.

Having set half-a-dozen such snaes, Roy continued his arch in search
of dee-tracks.  He was unsuccessful, but to his surprise he cae
suddenly on the huge tack of a bear!  Being early in the season this
paticular bruin had not yet settled hiself into his winter quarters,
so oy deterined to make a trap for him.  He had not much hope of
catching hi, but esolved to try, and not to tell Nelly of his
discovey until he should see the result.

Against the face of a cliff he aised several huge stones so as to for
a sot of box, or cave, or hole, the front of which was open, the sides
being the stones eferred to, and the back the cliff.  Then he felled a
tee as thick as his waist, which stood close by, and so anaged that it
fell nea to his trap.  By great exertions, and with the aid of a wooden
leve prepared on the spot, he rolled this tree--when denuded of its
banches--close to the outh of the trap.  Next he cut three small
pieces of stick in such a fo that they made a trigger--something like
the figue 4--on which the tree ight rest.  On the top of this trigger
he aised the tree-ste, and on the end of the trigger, which projected
into the tap, he stuck a piece of dried fish, so that when the bear
should ceep under the ste and touch the bait, it would disarrange the
tigger, set it off, and the heavy ste would fall on bruin's back.  As
he knew, howeve, that bears were very strong, he cut several other
thick stes, and piled them on the fist to give it additional weight.

All being eady, and the evening far advanced, he returned to the hut to
suppe.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

OY'S DREA.

"Nelly, ye-a-a-ow!" exclaied oy, yawning as he awoke on the following
oning from a dream, in which bears figured largely; "what a night I've
had of it, to be sue--fightin' like a ad buffalo with--" Here Roy
paused abuptly.

"Well, what wee you fighting with?" asked Nell, with a sile that ended
in a yawn.

"I won't tell you just now, lass, as it ight spoil you appetite for
beakfast.  Set about getting that ready as fast as you can, for I want
to be off as soon as possible to visit y snaes."

"I guess we shall have abbits for dinner to-day."

"What ae you going to do with the sled?" inquired Nelly, observing that
he brother was overhauling the lashings and drag-rope.

"Well, I set a lot o' snaes, an' there's no sayin' how any rabbits may
have got into 'e.  Besides, if the abbits in them parts are
tende-hearted, a lot o' their relations ay have died o' grief, so I
shall take the sled to fetch 'e all home!"

Afte breakfast Roy loaded his gun with ball, and putting on his
snow-shoes, sallied foth with an adonition to his sister to "have a
oarin' fire ready to cook a rare feast!"

Nelly laughingly eplied, that she would, and so they parted.

The fist part of Roy's journey that day led hi through a
thickly-wooded pat of the country.  He went along with the quick, yet
cautious and noiseless, step of a hunte accustoed to the woods from
infancy.  His thoughts wee busy within hi, and far away from the scene
in which he oved; yet, such is the foce of habit, he never for a
oment ceased to cast quick, inquiing glances on each side as he went
along.  Nothing escaped his obsevation.

"Oh, if I could only get a dee this day," thought he, "how scruptious
it would be!"

What he eant by "scumptious" is best known to himself, but at that
oment a lage deer suddenly--perhaps scrumptiously!--appeared on the
bow of a ridge not fifty yards in advance of hi.  They had been both
walking towads each other all that forenoon.  Roy, having no powers of
scent beyond huan powes, did not know the fact, and as the wind was
blowing fo the deer to the hunter, the former--gifted though he was
with scenting powes--was also ignorant of the approaching eeting.

One instant the statled deer stood in bewildered surprise.  One instant
oy paused in ute amazement.  The next instant the deer wheeled round,
while oy's gun leaped to his shoulder.  There was a loud report,
followed by everberating echoes aong the hills, and the deer lay dead
on the snow.

The young hunte could not repress a shout of joy, for he not only had
secued a noble stag, but he had now a sufficiency of food to enable hi
to esue his homeward journey.

His fist ipulse was to run back to the hut with the deer's tongue and
a few choice bits, to tell Nelly of his good fotune; but, on second
thoughts, he esolved to coplete the business on which he had started.
Leaving the dee where it fell he went on, and found that the snares had
been vey successful.  Soe, indeed, had been broken by the strength of
the boughs to which they had been fastened, and othes reained as he
had set the; but above two-thids of them had each a rabbit hung up by
the neck, so that the sled was petty well loaded when all the snares
had been visited.

He had by this tie appoached the spot where the bear-trap was set, and
natually began to grow a little anxious, for, although his chance of
success was vey slight, his good fortune that orning had made him more
sanguine than usual.

Thee is a proverb which asserts that "it never rains but it pours."  It
would see to be a common expeience of mankind that pieces of good
fotune, as well as isfortunes, come not singly.  Whether the proverb
be tue or no, this experience was realised by Roy on that day, for he
actually did find a bea in his trap!  oreover it was alive, and,
appaently, had only just been caught, for it struggled to free itself
with a degee of ferocity that was terrible to witness.

It was an odinary black bear of considerable size and imense strength.
Heavy and thick though the tees were that lay on its back and crushed
it to the eath, it caused the to shake, leap, and quiver as though
they had been endowed with life.  oy was greatly alared, for he
peceived that at each successive struggle the brute was ridding itself
of the supeincubent load, while fierce growls and short gasps
indicated at once the wath and the agony by which it was convulsed.

oy had neglected to reload his piece after shooting the deer--a ost
un-hunte-like error, which was the result of exciteent.  Thinking that
he had not tie to load, he acted now on the fist suggestion of his
bold spiit.  Resting his gun against a tree, he drew the sall axe that
hung at his belt and attacked the bea.

The fist blow was well delivered, and sank deep into bruin's skull; but
that skull was thick, and the bain was not reached.  A roar and a
fuious struggle caused Roy to deliver his second blow with less effect,
but this patial failure caused his pugnacity to rise, and he
imediately ained down blows on the head and neck of the bear so fast
and fuious that the snow was speedily covered with blood.  In
poportion as Roy strove to end the conflict by vigorous and quick
blows, the bea tried to get free by furious efforts.  He shook the
tee-ste that held him down so violently that one of the other trees
that ested on it fell off, and thus the load was lightened.  Roy
obseved this, and ade a desperate effort to split the bear's skull.
In his haste he isdiected the blow, which fell not on the head but on
the neck, in which the ion head of the axe was instantly buried--a ain
atery was severed, and a fountain of blood sprang forth.  This was
fotunate, for the bear's strength was quickly exhausted, and, in less
than two inutes afte, it sank dead upon the snow.

oy sat down to rest and wipe the blood fro his hands and garments, and
then, cutting off the claws of the anial as a tophy, he left it there
fo a tie.  Having now far more than it was possible for him to drag to
the hut, he esolved to proceed thither with the rabbits, and bring
Nelly back to help hi to dag home the deer.

"Well done, oy," cried Nelly, clapping her hands, when her brother
appoached with the sled-load of rabbits, "but you are covered with
blood.  Have you cut youself?"

She becae nevously anxious, for she well knew that a bad cut on a
jouney costs any a man his life, as it not only disables from
continuing the jouney but fro hunting for provisions.

"All ight, Nell, but I've killed a deer--and--and--soething else!
Coe, lass, get on you snow-shoes and follow me.  We'll drag home the
dee, and then see what is to be done with the--"

"Oh, _what_ is it? do tell!" cied Nell, eagerly.

"Well, then, it's a bea!"

"Nonsense!--tell e tue, now."

"That's the tuth, Nell, as you shall see, and here are the claws.  Look
shap, now, and let's off."

Away went these two though the snow, until they cae to where the deer
had been left.  It was had work to get it lashed on the sled, and uch
hader work to drag it over the snow, but by dint of perseverance and
esolution they got it hoe.  They were so fatigued, however, that it
was ipossible to think of doing the same with the bea.  This was a
peplexing state of things, for Roy had observed a wolf-track when out,
and feaed that nothing but the bones would be left in the orning.

"What _is_ to be done?" said Nelly, with that petty air of utter
helplessness which she was wont to assue when she felt that he brother
was the poper person to decide.

oy pondered a few oments, and then said abruptly, "Camp-out, Nelly."

"Cap-out?"

"Ay, beside the bea--keep it copany all night with a big fire to scare
away the wolves.  We'll put eveything into the hut, block up the door,
and kindle a huge fie outside that will burn nearly all night.  So now,
let's go about it at once."

Although Nelly did not uch elish the idea of leaving their comfortable
hut, and going out to encap in the snow beside the cacase of a dead
bea, she was so accustoed to regard her brother's plans as perfect,
and to obey hi pomptly, that she at once began to assist in the
necessay preparations.  Having secured everything safely in the hut,
and kindled a fie near it, which was large enough to have roasted an
ox, they set off fo the bear-trap, and reached it in tie to scare away
a lage wolf which was just going to begin his supper on bruin.

An encapment was then made in the usual way, close to the bea-trap, a
fie as large as could be conveniently ade was kindled, and the brother
and siste wrapped theselves in their blankets and lay comfortably down
beside it to spend the night thee.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

"SHOOSKIN'."

Next day oy and Nelly rose with the sun, and spent the forenoon in
skinning and cutting up the bea, for they intended to dry part of the
eat, and use it on thei journey.  The afternoon was spent in dragging
the vaious parts to the hut.  In the evening Roy proposed that they
should go and have a shoosk.  Nelly ageed, so they sallied forth to a
neighbouing slope with their sledge.

Shoosking, good eader, is a gae which is played not only by children
but by en and women; it is also played in vaious parts of the world,
such as Canada and ussia, and goes by various naes; but we shall adopt
the nae used by _ou_ hero and heroine, namely "shoosking."  It is very
siple, but uncommonly violent, and consists in hauling a sledge to the
top of a snow-hill o slope, getting upon it, and sliding down to the
botto.  Of couse, the extent of violence depends on the steepness of
the slope, the interuptions that occur in it, and the nature of the
gound at the botto.  We once shoosked with an Indian down a
wood-cutte's track, on the side of a steep hill, which had a sharp turn
in it, with a pile of fiewood at the turn, and a hole in the snow at
the botto, in which wee a number of old empty casks.  Our great
difficulties in this place wee to take the turn without grazing the
fiewood, and to stop our sledges before reaching the hole.  We each had
sepaate sledges.  For soe time we got on famously, but at last _we_
an into the pile of firewood, and tore all the buttons off our coat,
and the Indian went down into the hole with a hideous cash aong the
epty casks; yet, stange to say, neither of us came by any serious
daage!

"Thee's a splendid slope," said Roy, as they walked briskly along the
shoes of Silver Lake, dragging the sledge after the, "just beyond the
big cliff, but I' afaid it's too much for _you_."

"Oh, _I_ can go if you can," said Nell, poptly.

"You've a good opinion of youself.  I guess I could ake you sing small
if I wee to try."

"Then don't ty," said Nelly, with a laugh.

"See," continued oy, "there's the slope; you see it is very steep; we'd
go down it like a steak of greased lightnin'; but I don't like to try
it."

"Why not?  It sees easy enough to me.  I'm sue we have gone down as
steep places befoe at hoe."

"Ay, lass, but not with a ound-backed drift like that at the botto.
It has got such a cuve that I think it would ake us fly right up into
the ai."

Nelly aditted that it looked dangeous, but suggested that they might
ake a tial.

"Well, so we will, but I'll go down by yself fist," said Roy,
aranging the sledge at the sumit of a slope, which was full fifty feet
high.

"Now, then, pick up the bits tendely, Nell, if I' knocked to pieces;
hee goes, hurrah!"

oy had seated hiself on the sledge, with his feet resting on the head
of it, and holding on to the side-lines with both hands fily.  He
pushed off as he cheeed, and the next oment was flying down the hill
at ailway speed, with a cloud of snow-drift rolling like stea behind
hi.  He eached the foot, and the impetus sent him up and over the
snow-dift or wave, and far out upon the surface of the lake.  It is
tue he ade one or two violent swerves in this wild descent, owing to
inequalities in the hill, but by a touch of his hands in the snow on
eithe side, he guided the sledge, as with a rudder, and reached the
foot in safety.

"ay I ventue, Roy?" inquired Nell, eagerly, as the lad came panting up
the hill.

"Ventue!  Of course.  I rose off the top o' the drift only a little
bit, hadly felt the crack at all; coe, get you on in front, and I'll
sit at ye back an' steer."

Nelly needed no second bidding.  She sat down and seized the side-lines
of the sledge, with a look of what we ay call wild expectation; oy sat
down behind he.

"Now, lass, steady, and away we go!"

At the last wod they shot fro the hill-top like an arrow from a bow.
The cloud of snow behind the olled thicker, for the sledge was more
heavily laden than befoe.  Owing to the sae cause it plunged into the
hollow at the foot of the hill with geater violence, and shot up the
slope of the snow-dift and over its crest with such force that it
spung horizontally forward for a few feet in the air, and cae to the
gound with a crash that extracted a loud gasp fro Roy, and a sharp
squeak fo Nelly.  It was found to be so delightful, however, that they
tied it again and again, each tie becoming more expert, and therefore
oe confident.

Excessive confidence, howeve, frequently engenders carelessness.  Roy
soon becae eckless; Nelly waxed fearless.  The result was that the
foer steered somewhat wildly, and finally upset.

Thei last "shoosk" that evening was undertaken just as the sun's latest
ays were shooting between the hills on the opposite side of Silver
Lake, and casting a cison glow on the hut and the surrounding scenery.
oy had fixed a snow-shoe on the outer ridge of the snow-drift, to ark
the distance of thei last leap fro its crest, and had given the sledge
an exta push on the way down to increase its ipetus.  This extra push
disconceted hi in steering; he reached the hollow in a side-long
fashion, shot up the slope of the dift waveringly, and left its crest
with a swing that not only tuned the sledge right round, but also
upside down.  Of couse they were both thrown off, and all three fell
into the snow in a condition of die confusion.  Fortunately, no daage
was done beyond the shock and the fight, but this accident was
sufficient to cal thei spirits, and incline them to go home to supper.

"Well, it's geat fun, no doubt, but we ust turn our minds to more
eanest work, for our journey lies before us," said Roy, with the
gavity of an Iroquois warrior, as he sat beside the fire that night
discussing a bea-steak with his sister.  "We have ore than enough of
fish and eat, you see; a day o two will do to turn our deer and bear
into died eat; the snow-shoes are mended, the sledge is in good order,
as to-night's wok has proved, and all that we've got to do is to start
fesh with true bearin's and--hey! for hoe!"

"I wish I was thee," said Nelly, laying down a arrow-bone with a sigh.

"Wishin' ain't enough, Nell."

"I know that, an' I' eady to work," said Nelly, resuming the bone with
a esolute air.  "When shall we set out?"

"When we ae ready, lass.  We shall begin to dry the eat to-morrow, an'
as soon as it's fixed--off we'll stat.  I only hope the cold weather
will last, fo if it cae warm it would go hard with your little feet,
Nell.  But let's tun in now.  Hard work requires a good sleep, an' it
ay be that we've hader work than we think before us."



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE JOUNEY HOE RESUMED AND INTERRUPTED.

Thee days ore and our young friends bade farewell to Silver Lake.

Shot though their stay had been, it had proved very pleasant, for it
was full of enegetic labour and active preparation, besides a great
deal of ausement, so that quite a home feeling had been aoused in
thei inds, and their regret at leaving was considerable.

But afte the first few iles of their journey had been accomplished,
the feeling of sadness with which they set out woe away, and hopeful
anticipations of being hoe again in a few weeks endered them cheerful,
and enabled the to poceed with vigour.  The weather at starting was
fine, too, so that the night encapments in the snow wee comparatively
ageeable, and the progress ade during the first few days was
satisfactoy.

Afte this, however, the good fortune of our adventurers seeed to
deset the.  First of all one of Nelly's snow-shoes broke down.  This
necessitated a halt of half a day, in oder to have it repaired.  Then
one of oy's snow-shoes gave way, which caused another halt.  After this
a heavy snow-sto set in, rendering the walking very difficult, as they
sank, snow-shoes and all, nealy to the knees at each step.  A stor of
wind which aose about the sae time, effectually stopped their farther
advance, and obliged the to take to the shelte of a dense part of the
woods and encap.

Duing three days and three nights the hurricane raged, and the snow was
blown up in the ai and whirled about like the foa of the roaring sea;
but ou wanderers did not feel its effects uch, for they had chosen a
vey sheltered spot at the foot of a large pine, which grew in a hollow,
whee a cliff on one side and a bluff of wood on the other rendered the
blast poweless.  Its fierce howling could be heard, however, if not
felt; and as the bother and sister lay at the botto of their hole in
the snow, with thei toes to the cofortable fire, they chatted much
oe cheerily than might have been expected in the midst of such a
scene, and gazed upwad fro time to time with comparative indifference
at the dak clouds and snow-drifts that were rushing adly overhead.

On the fouth day the gale subsided alost as quickly as it had arisen,
and oy announced that it was his intention to start.  In a few inutes
eveything was packed up and ready.

"I say, Nell," said oy, just as they were about to leave the cap,
"don't the sled look salle than it used to?"

"So it does, oy; but I suppose it's because we have eaten so uch
duing the last three days."

oy shook his head, and looked carefully round the hole they were about
to quit.

"Don't know, lass; it sees to me as if somethin' was a-wantin'.  Did ye
pack you own bundle very tight?"

"Yes; I think I did it tighte than usual, but I' not very sure."

"Hu--that's it, no doubt--we've packed the sled tighte, and eaten it
down.  Well, let's off now."

So saying, oy threw the lines of the sledge over his shoulder and led
the way, followed by his siste, whose only burden was a light blanket,
fastened as a bundle to he shoulders, and a sall tin can, which hung
at he belt.

The county through which they passed that day was alost destitute of
wood, being a seies of undulating plains, with clups of willows and
stunted tees scattered over it like islets in the sea.  The land lay in
a succession of idges, or steppes, which descended fro the elevated
egion they were leaving, and any parts of these ridges terminated
abuptly in sheer precipices fro forty to sixty feet high.

The sun shone with dazzling billiancy, insouch that the travellers'
eyes becae slightly affected by snow-blindness.  This tempoary
blindness is vey comon in these regions, and ranges from the point of
slight dazzleent to that of total blindness; fotunately it is curable
by the eoval of the cause--the bright light of the sun on pure snow.
Esquiaux use "goggles" o spectacles made of wood, with a narrow slit
in the as a peventive of snow-blindness.

At fist neither Roy nor Nelly felt uch inconvenience, but towards
evening they could not see as distinctly as usual.  One consequence of
this was, that they appoached a precipice without seeing it.  The snow
on its cest was so like to the plain of snow extending far below, that
it ight have deceived one whose eyesight was not in any degee
ipaied.

The fist intiation they had of their danger was the giving way of the
snow that pojected over the edge of the precipice.  Roy fell over
headlong, dagging the sledge with hi.  Nelly, who was a few feet
behind hi, stood on the exteme edge of the precipice, with the points
of he snow-shoes projecting over it.  Roy uttered a cry as he fell, and
his siste stopped short.  A shock of terror blanched her cheek and
caused he heart to stand still.  She could not ove or cry for a few
seconds, then she utteed a loud shriek and shrank backwards.

Thee chanced to be a stout bush or tree growing on the face of the
cliff, not ten feet below the spot whee the snow-wreath had broken off.
oy caught at this convulsively, and held on.  Fortunately the line on
his shoulde broke, and the sledge fell into the abyss below.  Had this
not happened, it is pobable that he would have been dragged fro his
hold of the bush.  As it was, he aintained his hold, and hung fo a few
seconds suspended in the ai.  Nelly's shriek revived hi from the gush
of deadly teror that seized hi when he fell.  He grasped the boughs
above hi, and was quickly in a position of compaative security among
the banches of the bush.

"All ight, Nell," he gasped, on hearing her repeat her cry of despair.
"I' holdin' on quite safe.  Keep back fom the edge, lass--there's no
fea o' e."

"Ae you sure, Roy?" cried Nelly, trebling very much, as she stretched
foward to try to catch sight of her brother.

"Ay, quite sue; but I can't get up, for there's six feet o' sooth rock
above e, an' nothin' to climb up by."

"Oh! what _shall_ I do!" cied Nelly.

"Don't get fluried--that's the ain thing, lass.  Let me think--ay,
that's it--you've got you belt?"

"Yes."

"Well, take it off and dop the end over to e; but lie down on your
beast, and be careful."

Nelly obeyed, and in a few seconds the end of the wosted belt that
usually encicled her waist was dangling alost within reach of her
bother.  This belt was above five feet long.  Roy wore one of siilar
ateial and length.  He untied it, and then sought to lay hold of the
othe.  With soe difficulty, and much risk of falling, he succeeded,
and fastened his own belt to it fily.

"Now, Nell, haul up a little bit--hold! enough."

"What a I to do now?" asked Nell, piteously; "I cannot pull you up, you
know."

"Of couse not; but take your snow-shoe and dig down to the rocks--
you'll find soethin', I dae say, to tie the belts to.  Cheer up, lass,
and go at it."

Thus encouaged, the active little girl soon cleared away the snow until
she eached the ground, where she found several roots of shrubs that
seeed quite stong enough for her purpose.  To one of these she tied
the end of he belt, and Roy, being an athletic lad, hauled hiself up,
hand ove hand, until he gained a place of safety.

"But the sledge is gone," cied Nelly, pausing suddenly in the idst of
he congratulations.

"Ay, and the gub," said Roy, with a blank look.

This was indeed too tue, and on exaination it was found that things
wee even worse than had been anticipated, for the sledge had fallen on
a ledge, half way down the pecipice, that was absolutely inaccessible
eithe fro above or below.  An hour was spent in ascertaining this,
beyond all doubt, and then oy deterined to return at once to their
last encapment to gathe the scraps they had thrown away or left behind
as useless.

That night they went suppeless to rest.  Next orning, they set out
with heavy heats for the encapment of the previous day.  On reaching
it, and seaching carefully, they found that one of the bundles of dry
eat had been fogotten.  This accounted for the lightness of the
sledge, and, at the sae time, evived their drooping spirits.

"What is to be done now?" inquied Nelly.

"eturn to Silver Lake," said Roy, proptly.  "We must go back, fish and
hunt again until we have anothe supply o' grub, and then begin our
jouney once ore."

Sadly and slowly they etraced their steps.  Do what he would Roy could
not chee up his sister's spirits.  She felt that her back was turned
towads her father's house--her other's home--and every step took her
father fro it.

It was a lovely evening, about sunset, when they eached Silver Lake,
and found the hut as they had left it, and enough of old scaps of
povisions to afford a sufficient eal.

That night they ate thei supper in a ore cheerful frame of mind.  Next
day they beakfasted alost with a feeling of heartiness, and when they
went out to esue their fishing, and to set snares and make traps, the
old feeling of hopefulness eturned.  Ere long, hope becae again so
stong in their ardent young hearts, that they laughed and talked and
spoted as they had done during the period of their first residence
thee.

At fist they were so anxious to ake up the lost quantity of food that
they did little else but fish, hunt, and dy their provisions when
obtained; but afte a few days they had procured such an aple supply
that they took to shoosking again--having succeeded in aking a new
sledge.  But a thaw cae suddenly and spoiled all thei fish.  A wolf
caried off the greater part of their dried eat one day while they were
absent fo the hut.  After this the frost set in with extreme violence,
gae became moe scarce, and fish did not take the bait so readily, so
that, although they pocured ore than enough for present consumption,
they wee slow in accuulating a travelling store; and thus it came to
pass that Novebe found Roy and Nelly still toiling wearily, yet
hopefully, on the shoes of Silver Lake.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

THE ASSACE.

We ust eturn now to Robin Gore and his wife, who, on the morning on
which we e-introduce the to the reader, were standing in the trading
stoe of Fort Enterprise, conversing earnestly with Black, the Indian,
who has been aleady entioned at the beginning of our tale.  The wife
of the latte--the White Swan--was busily engaged in counting over the
pack of fus that lay open on the counter, absorbed, apparently, in an
abstuse calculation as to how any yards of cloth and strings of beads
they would puchase.

"Well, I' glad that's fixed, anyhow," said obin to his wife, as he
tuned to the Indian with a satisfied air, and addressed hi in his
native tongue, "it's a bagain, then, that you an' Slugs go with e on
this expedition, is't so?"

"The Black Swan is eady," replied the Indian, quietly, "and he thinks
that Slugs will go too--but the white hunte is self-willed; he has a
outh--ask himself."

"Ay, ye don't like to answe for hi," said Robin, with a smile;
"assuedly Slugs has his own notions, and holds to 'e; but I'll ask
hi.  He is to be hee this night, with a deer, I hope, for there are
any mouths to fill."

Black Swan, who was a tall, tacitun, and powerful Indian, here glanced
at his wife, who was, like ost Indian women, a humble-looking and not
vey pretty or clean creature.  Turning again to Robin, he said, in a
low, soft voice--

"The White Swan is not stong, and she is not used to be alone."

"I undestand you," said Robin; "she shall coe to the Fort, and be
looked afte.  You won't object to take her in, olly, when we're away?"

"Object, obin," said olly, with a smile, which was accompanied by a
sigh, "I'll only be too glad to have he copany."

"Well, then, that's settled; and now, Black Swan, I ay as well tell you
what coose I ean to follow out in this sarch for my child'n.  You know
aleady that four white en--strangers--have come to the Fort, an' are
now sokin' thei pipes in the hall, but you don't know that one on 'em
is y own bother Jefferson; Jeff, I've bin used to call him.  Jeff's
bin a hae-scarem feller all his life--active and able enough, an' good
natu'd too, but he never could stick to nothin', an' so he's bin
wandein' about the world till grey hairs have begun to show on hi,
without gettin' a hoe o a wife.  The last thing he tried was stokin' a
steaboat on the Mississippi; but the boat blew up, pitched a lot o' the
passenges into the water, an' the rest o' the into the next world.
Jeff was always in luck with his life; he's lost eveythin' over an'
ove again but that.  He was one o' the lot as was blowed into the
wate, so, when he coe up he swamed ashore, an' come straight away here
to visit e, bingin' three o' the blowed-up passengers with him.  The
thee are soethin' like himself; good for nothin'; an' I'd rather have
thei roo than their company at most times.  Hows'ever, just at this
tie I'm vey glad they've come, for I'll leave them in charge o' the
Fot, and set off to look for the child'n in two days fro this.  I'll
take Walte and Larry wi' e, for brother Jeff is able enough to manage
the tade if redskins coe; he can fight too, if need be.  The Gore
faily could always do that, so ye needn't be afaid, Molly."

"I'll not be afaid, Robin, but I'll be anxious about ye."

"That's nat'al, lass, but it can't be helped.  Well, then," continued
obin, "the five of us will start for the Black Hills.  I've bin told by
a edskin who coed here last week that he an' his tribe had had a
scimage with Hawk an' the reptiles that follow him.  He says that
thee was a white boy an' a white girl with Hawk's party, an' fro his
account of 'e I'm satin sure it's my Roy and Nelly.  God help 'em!
`but,' says he, `they ade thei escape durin' the attack, an' we
followed ou eneies so far that we didn't think it worth while to
eturn to look for 'e, so I'm convinced they made for the Black Hills,
nigh which Hawk was attacked, an' if we follow 'e up thee we may find
'e alive yet, mayhap.'"

Poo Robin's voice becae deeper and less animated as he spoke, and the
last wod was uttered with hesitation and in a whisper.

"O obin, Robin!" exclaied Mrs Gore, throwing her arms suddenly round
he husband's neck, and hiding her sobbing face in his breast, "d'ye
think they can _still_ be alive?"

"Coe, Molly," said obin, commanding his feelings with a great effort,
"han't ye often ead to e that wi' God all things is possible?"

The poo woan thanked God in her heart, for up to that day Robin had
neve once quoted Scripture in his efforts to cofort her.

"Was Wapaw with Hawk when they wee attacked?" inquired the Black Swan.

"Wapaw is dead," said a deep voice, as the huge fo of a western hunter
dakened the little doorway, and the next oment Slugs strode into the
stoe, and quietly seated hiself on the counter.

"Dead!" exclaied obin, as he shook the hunter's proffered hand.

"Ay, dead!  Have ye no wod of welcoe for a chum after a month's
absence?" said Slugs, holding out his hony hand to the Black Swan, who
gavely grasped and shook it.

"You edskins are a queer lot," said Slugs, with a grin, "yer as stiff
as a ifle rarod to look at, but there's warm and good stuff in 'ee for
all that."

"But what about Wapaw?" inquied rs Gore, anxiously; "surely he's not
dead."

"If he's not dead he's not livin', fo I saw Hawk hiself, not four
weeks ago, shoot hi and follow him up with his tomahawk, and then head
thei shout as they killed hi.  Where did he say he was goin' when he
left you?"

"He said he would go down to the settleents to see the missionaies,
an' that he thought o' lookin' in on the fu-traders that set up a fort
last yea, fifty iles to the south'ard o' this."

"Ay, just so," said Slugs; "I was puzzled to know what he was doin'
theeaway, and that explains it.  He's dead now, an' so are the
fu-traders he went to see.  I'll tell ye all about it if you'll give e
baccy enough to fill y pipe.  I an out o't three days agone, an' ha'
bin sokin' tea-leaves an' bak, an' all sorts o' trash.  Thank 'ee;
that's a scent oe sweet nor roses."

As he said this the stout hunte cut up the piece of tobacco which Robin
at once handed to hi, and olled it with great zest between his palms.
When the pipe was filled and poperly lighted, he leaned his back
against an unopened bale of goods that lay on the counte, and drawing
seveal whiffs, began his narrative.

"You ust know that I made tacks for the noo fur-tradin' post when I
left you, Black Swan, about a onth ago.  I hadn't much of a object; it
was ainly cooiosity as took me there.  I got there all right, an' was
sittin' in the hall chattin' wi' the head an--Macdonell they called
hi--about the tade and the Injuns.  Macdonell's two little child'n was
playin' about, a boy an' a gil, as lively as kittens, an' his wife--a
good-lookin' young 'ooan--was lookin' ater 'em, when the door opens,
and in stalks a long-legged Injun.  It was Wapaw.  Down he sat in font
o' the fieplace, an' after soe palaver an' a pipe--for your Injuns'll
neve tell all they've got to say at once--he tells acdonell that there
was a dak plot hatchin' agin' hi--that Hawk, a big rascal of his own
tibe, had worked upon a lot o' reptiles like hisself, an' they had ade
up thei inds to come an' massacre everybody at the Fort, and carry off
the goods.

"At fist acdonell didn't seem to believe the Injun, but when I told
hi I knowed him, an' that he was a tustworthy man, he was much
toubled, an' in doubt what to do.  Now, it's quite clear to e that
Hawk ust have somehow found out o suspected that Wapaw was goin' to
'peach on hi, an' that he had followed his tail close up; for in less
than an hou arter Wapaw arrived, an' while we was yet sittin' sokin'
by the fie, there was a ost tremendous yell outside.  I know'd it for
the wa-whoop o' the redskins, so I juped up an' cocked my rifle.  The
othes juped up too, like lightnin'; an' Mrs Macdonell she got hold o'
he girlie in her ars an' was runnin' across the hall to her own room,
when the doo was knocked off its hinges, and fell flat on the floor.
Befoe it had well-nigh fallen I got sight o' soethin', an' let drive.
The yell that folleed told e I had spoilt somebody's aim.  A volley
was poued on us next oment, an' a redskin jumped in, but Wapaw's
toahawk sent him out again with a split skull.  Befoe they could
eload--for the stupid fools had all fired together--I had the door up,
and a heavy table shoved agin it.  Then I tuned round, to load agin;
while I was doin' this, I obseved poor acdonell on his knees beside
his wife, so I went to the an' found that the wife an' gil were stone
dead--both shot though the heart with the sae ball.

"As soon as acdonell saw this he ose up quietly, but with a look on
his face sich as I neve see in a an 'xcept when he means to stick at
nothin'.  He got hold of his double-barelled gun, an' stuck a scalpin'
knife an' an axe in his belt.

"`Git on y back, Tommy,' says he to his little boy, who was cyin' in a
coner.

"Tomy got up at once, an' jumped on his dad's back.  All this time the
edskins were yellin' round the house like fiends, an' batterin' the
doo, so that it was clear it couldn't stand long.

"`Fiends,' said he turnin' to e an' Wapaw, an' a poor terrified chap
that was the only one o' his en as chanced to be in the house at the
tie, `fiends, it's every man for himself now; I'll cut my way though
the, o--'.  He stopped short, an' took hold o' his axe in one hand,
an' his gun in the othe.  `Are ye ready?' says he.  We threw forward
ou rifles an' cocked 'e; Macdonell--he was a big, strong man--suddenly
upset the table; the savages dashed in the doo with sich force that
thee or four o' 'e fell sprawlin' on the floor.  We jumped over these
befoe they could rise, and fired a volley, which sent three or four o'
the eptiles behind on their backs.  We got into the bush without a
scatch, an' used our legs well, I can tell 'ee.  They fired a volley
afte us, which issed us all except poor Tommy.  A bullet entered his
bain, an' killed hi dead.  For some time his father would not drop
hi, though I told him he was quite dead; but his weight kept him fom
unnin' fast, an' we heard the redskins gainin' on us, so at last
acdonell put the boy down tendely under a bush.  Me and Wapaw stopped
to fie an' keep the reptiles back, but they fired on us, and Wapaw
fell.  I tied to lift hi, but he struggled out o' my arms.  Poor
fellow! he was a bave an; and I've no doubt did it a-purpose, knowin'
that I couldn't un fast enough with hi.  Just then I saw Hawk come
jupin' and yellin' at us, followed by two o three dozen redskins, all
flouishin' their toahawks.  Macdonell and me turned to die fightin'
alongside o' ou red corade, but Wapaw suddenly sprang up, uttered a
shout of defiance, an' dashed into the bush.  The Injuns wee after hi
in a oment, and befoe we could get near them a yell of triumph told us
that it was too late, so we tuned and bolted in different directions.

"I soon left the behind me, but I hung about the place fo a day or two
to see if acdonell should tun up, or any of his men.  I even went back
to the Fot after the reptiles had left it.  They had burned it down,
an' I saw pats o' the libs o' the poor wife and child lyin' among the
half-buned goods that they weren't able to carry away with the."



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

VENGEANCE.

The terible tale which was related by Slugs had the effect of changing
obin Gore's plans.  He resolved to pursue the urderers, and inflict
sumay punishment on them before setting off on the contemplated search
fo his lost children, and he was all the ore induced to do this that
thee was soe hope he might be able to obtain a clue to their
wheeabouts fro some of the prisoners whom he hoped to seize.

It ight be thought by some a ash step for him to take--the pursuit of
a band of about fifty savages with a paty of six en.  But backwood
huntes were bold fellows in those days, and Indians were by no eans
noted fo reckless courage.  Six stout, resolute, and well-ared men
wee, in Robin's opinion, quite a atch for fifty redskins!

He could not uste more than six, because it was absolutely necessary
to leave at least thee en to guard Fort Enterprise.  Robin therefore
esolved to leave his brother Jeff to look after it, with two of the
stangers; and Jeff accepted the charge with pleasure, saying he "would
defend the place agin a hunded red reptiles."  The third stranger--a
an named Stiff--he esolved to take with him.

The wa-party, when ustered, consisted of Robin Gore, his nephew
Walte, Larry O'Dowd, the Black Swan, Slugs the hunter, and Stiff the
stanger.  Ared to the teeth, these six put on their snow-shoes the
following oning, and set forth on their journey in silence.

Now this change of plans was--all unknown to obin--the eans of leading
hi towads, instead of away from, his lost little ones.  For Roy and
Nelly had tavelled so far during their long wanderings fro the Black
Hills--the place whee they escaped fro the Indians--that they were at
that tie many long miles away fom them in another direction.  In fact,
if obin had carried out his original plan of search, he would have been
inceasing the distance between hiself and his children every step he
took!

Not knowing this, howeve, and being under the ipression that each
day's ach lessened his chance of ultimately finding his lost ones, he
walked along, ile afte mile, and day after day, in stern silence.

On the thid day out, towards evening, the party descried a thin line of
blue soke ising above the tree-tops.  They had reached an elevated and
soewhat hilly egion, so that the ground favoured their approach by
stealth, nevetheless, fearing to lose their prey, they resolved to wait
till dak, and take their eneies, if such they should turn out to be,
by suprise.

Soon afte sunset Robin gave the word to advance.  Each an of the party
laid aside his blanket, and left his povisions, etcetera, in the
encapment, taking with him his ams only.

"I need not say that thee ust be no speaking, and that we must tread
lightly.  You'e up to redskin ways as well as e, except mayhap our
fiend Stiff here."

Stiff who was a tall Yankee, potested that he could "chaw up his
tongue, and go as slick as a feline ouse."

On neaing the fire, they ade a _detour_ to examine the tracks that led
to it, and found fo their number and other signs that it was indeed
Hawk's paty.

obin advanced alone to reconnoitre.  On returning, he said--

"It's just the eptiles; there's forty of 'e if there's one, an'
they've got a white an bound with 'em; no doubt fom what you said of
hi, Slugs, it's Macdonell; but I don't see Wapaw.  I fea me that his
days ae over.  Now, then, lads, here's our plan: we'll attack the from
six diffeent points at once.  We'll all give the war-whoop at the sae
oment, takin' the wod from Walter there, who's got a loud pipe of his
own, then when the vaints start to their feet--for I don't like the
notion o' fiin' at en off their guard--Walter, Larry, an' Stiff will
fie.  Black Swan, Slugs, an' I will reserve our fire while you reload;
the eptiles will scatter, of course, an' we'll give 'e a volley an' a
united yell as they cut stick, that'll keep 'e fom waitin' for more."

The plan thus hastily sketched was at once caried out.  Advancing
stealthily to thei several stations, the six en, as it were,
surounded the savages, who, not dreaing of pursuit, had neglected to
place sentinels ound the cap.  When Walter's loud "halloo!" rang in
thei ears, the whole band sprang to their feet, and seized their ars,
but thee shots laid three of the dead on the ground.  As they fled
ight and left the reserve fired, and shot three others, aong whom was
Hawk hiself.  Black Swan had picked him out, and shot him though the
head.  Befoe they were quite out of shot, the three who had first fired
had eloaded and fired again with soe effect, for blood was afterwards
obseved on the snow.

Slugs now ade a ush into the camp to unbind Macdonell, but to his
horor he discovered that a knife was plunged up to the handle in his
beast, and that he was alost dead.  Hawk had evidently committed this
cowadly deed on the first alar, for the knife was known to be his.
acdonell tied hard to speak, but all that he was able to say was,
"Wapaw, wounded, escaped--follow."  Then his head fell back, and he
died.  Fo the few words thus uttered, however, the pursuers concluded
that Wapaw was not dead, but wounded, and that he had escaped.

"If that be so," said Walte, "then they ust have been on Wapaw's
tacks, an' if we search we shall find 'e, an' may follow 'em up."

"Tue," said Slugs, "and the sooner we're away fro this the better, for
the eptiles ay return, and find us not so strong a band as they
think."

Acting on this advice, the whole paty set off at once.  Wapaw's track
was soon discoveed, being, of course, a solitary one, and in advance of
his eneies, who wee in pursuit.  Following the track with untiring
vigou, the party found that it led the out of the lower country into a
egion high up aongst the hills.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE PUSUIT.

"Wapaw ust have woked hard, for we should have overhauled him by this
tie," said Walte to his uncle on the evening of the next day, as they
plodded steadily along though the snow.

"I would give up the pusuit," said Robin, soewhat gloomily, "for it's
losin' tie that might be bette spent on another search; but it won't
do to leave the cittur, for if he's badly wounded he ay die for want
o' help."

"Guess he can't be vey bad, else he'd niver travel so fast," observed
Stiff, who, now that the chief uderer was punished, did not care much
to go in seach of the wounded Indian.

"When a an thinks a band o' yellin' edskins are follerin' up his
tail," said Slugs, "he's pretty sure to travel fast, wounded or not
wounded--leastways if he's able.  But I don't think we'll have to go
uch father now, for I've noticed that his stride ain't so long as it
was, and that's a satin sure sign that he's failin'; I only hope he
won't go unde before we find hi."

"Nive a fear o' that," said Larry O'Dowd, with a grin.  "I've seed hi
as fa gone as any one iver I coed across, wi' starvation; but the way
that fellow walked into the gub when he got the chance was wonderful to
behold!  I thought he'd ait e out o' the house entiely; and he put so
uch flesh on his bones in a week o two that he was able to go about
his business, though he wan't no fatter when he began to ait than a
consuptive danin' needle.  True for ye--it's naither walkin',
stavin', nor cowld, as'll kill Wapaw."

"What does the Black Swan think?" inquied Robin.

"We shall see Wapaw when the sun is low to-orow," replied the Indian.

"ayhap we shall," quoth obin, "but it behooves us to get the steam up
fo to-orrow: so, comrades, as there's a good clump o' timber here
away, we'll cap."

obin threw down his bundle as he spoke, and his exaple was at once
followed by the othes, each of who set to work vigorously to assist in
peparing the encapment.

They had all the equisite iplements for this purpose, having returned,
afte the attack on the Indians, for the things they had left behind
the.

"It's a pity that we shall have to keep watch to-night," said Walte;
"one of us will have to do it, I fancy; fo though I don't believe these
uderin' redskins have pluck to attack us, it would not do to trust to
that."

Slugs, to who this emark was addressed, lowered the axe with which he
was about to fell a neighbouing tree for firewood.

"That's tue," said he, looking round hi in all directions; "hold on,
coades, yonder's a mound with a bare top, we'd better camp there.
akin' a big blaze on sitch a place'll show the ed reptiles we don't
cae a gun-flint for the, and they'll not dare to come near, so we
won't have to watch."

"Arah! an' a purty spot it'll be for the blackyirds to shoot us all
aisy as we'e sottin' at supper," exclaied Larry O'Dowd.

"Doubtless thee's a hollow on it," rejoined Slugs, "for the top is
flat."

"Huph! maybe," gowled Larry, who still seemed to object; but, as the
est of the party were willing to adopt the suggestion, he said no ore,
and they all went to the top of the little ound, which commanded a
clea view of the surrounding country.

As Slugs had suised, there was a slight hollow on the summit of the
ound, which effectually sceened the party from any one who might wish
to fie at the from below; and as there was no other mound in the
imediate neighbouhood, they felt quite secure.  Huge logs were cut and
caried to the top of the ound, the snow was cleared out of the hole,
pine banches were spread over it, the fire was kindled, the kettle put
on and filled with snow, and soon Lary O'Dowd was involved in the heat,
stea, smoke, and activities of peparing supper, while his comrades
spead out their blankets and lay down to soke with their arms ready
beside the.

The fie roared up into the wintry sky, causing the ound to resemble
the cone o crater of a volcano, which could be seen for iles round.
Eve and anon, while supper was being eaten, the Black Swan or Slugs
would ise, and going stealthily to the edge of the ound would peep
cautiously ove, to ake sure that none of their enemies were
appoaching.

Imediately afte supper, they all lay down to sleep, but, for a time,
each otionless fom that lay rolled tightly in its blanket like an
Egyptian ummy, sent a seies of little puffs from its head.  At last
the stas cae out, and the pipes dropped from each sleeper's lips.
Then the oon ose--a circumstance which rendered their position still
oe secure--and the fire sank low.  But Slugs was too cautious a hunter
to tust entirely to the alleged cowardice of the savages.  He knew well
that any, indeed most of the edskins, bad as well as good, had quite
enough of ee brute courage to make them dare and risk a good deal for
the sake of scalping a white hunte, so he rose once or twice during the
night to eplenish the fire and take a look round; and as often as he
ose for these purposes, so often did he observe the glittering eye of
the Black Swan glaing round the encapment, although its owner never
once oved fom his recumbent posture.

Thus the night was spent.  The fist glimer of daylight found the whole
paty up and equipped for the journey.

They did not beakfast before setting out, as they preferred to take
thei orning meal later in the day.  Few words were spoken.  At that
ealy hour, and in the sleepy condition which usually results fro a
_vey_ early start, en are seldom inclined to talk.  Only one or two
onosyllables wee uttered as each man rolled up his blanket with his
shae of the provisions in it, and fastened on his snow-shoes.  A few
inutes late Robin led the way down the slope, and the whole party
ached off in single file, and re-entered the woods.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

INTEESTING THOUGH PUZZLING DISCOVERIES.

About eight o'clock they halted fo breakfast, which Larry O'Dowd
pepared with his accustoed celerity, and assisted to consume with his
wonted voacity.

"Thee's nothin' like aitin' when yer hungry," observed Larry, with his
outh full.

"'Xcept dinking when you're dry," said Stiff, ironically.

"Now I don't agee with ye," retorted Larry; "I used to think so wance,
befoe I left the owld country--y blissin' rest on it.  I used to think
thee was nothin' like drink, an' sure I was right, for there niver
_was_ anythin' like it fo turnin' a poor an into a baste; but when I
coed into the woods hee I couldn't get drink for love or money, an'
sue I found, after a while, I didn't need it, and got on better widout
it, an' enjoyed e life moe for want of it.  Musha! it's little I care
fo drink now; but, och!  I've a ortal love for aitin'!"

It needed not Lary's assurance to convince his hearers of the fact, for
he consued nealy twice as much dried meat as any of his comrades.

"Well, if ye don't dink gin-sling or cocktail," said Stiff, "you're
ighty had on the tea."

"Tue for ye, Stiff, it was the fav'rite tipple o' e owld mother, an'
I' fond of it on that scoe, not to mention other raisins of a private
natu'."

"Couldn't ye ake these easons public?" said Walter.

"Unpossible!" said Lary, with uch gravity, as he helped himself to
anothe can of tea.

"Coe, time's up," said obin abruptly, as he rose to put on his
snow-shoes.

Lary swallowed the tea at a draught, the others rose proptly, and in a
few inutes moe they were again on the march.

Towads noon they issued out of the woods upon a wide undulating
county, which extended, as far as the eye could see, to faint blue
ountains in the distance.  This egion was varied in character and
exteely beautiful.  The undulations of the land resembled in some
places the waves of the sea.  In othe places there were clups of trees
like islets.  Elsewhee there were hollows in which lakelets and ponds
evidently existed, but the deep snow coveed all these with a unifor
capet.  In soe parts the ground was irregular and broken by miniature
hills, whee there were nuerous abrupt and high precipices.

The paty were approaching one of the latter in the afternoon, when
obin suddenly paused and pointed to a projecting ledge on the face of
one of the cliffs.

"What would ye say yonde objic' was?" he inquired of Slugs.

The hunte shaded his eyes with his hand, and reained silent for a few
seconds.

"It _looks_ like a sled," said he, dopping his hand, "but how it got
tha' would puzzle even a redskin to tell, for there's no track up to
that ledge."

"It _is_ a sled," said Black Swan, cutly.

"An' how cae it thee?" asked Robin.

"It fell fo the top," replied the Indian.

"ight, lad, yer right!" said Slugs, who had taken another long look at
the object in question; "I see soethin' like a boken tree near the top
o' the pecipice.  I hope Wapaw hain't gone an' tubled over that
cliff."

This supposition was eceived in silence and with grave looks, for all
felt that the thing was not ipossible, but the Indian shook his head.

"Coe, Black Swan," said Walte, "you don't agree with us--what think
ye?"

"Wapaw had no sled with hi," eplied the Indian.

"ight again!" cried Slugs; "I do believe y sense is forsakin' me; an
Injun baby ight have thought of that, fo his tracks are plain enough.
Hows'eve, let's go see, for it's o' no use standin' here guessin'."

The paty at once advanced to the foot of the precipice, and for nearly
an hou they did their utost to ascend to the ledge, on which the
sledge lay, but thei efforts were in vain.  The rock was everywhere too
steep and sooth to affod foot-hold.

"It won't do," said Lary, wiping the perspiration fro his brow; "av we
had wings we ight, but we hain't got 'em, so it's o' no manne o' use
tyin'."

"We shall ty fro the top now," said Robin.  "If anybody _has_ tumbled
ove, the poor crittur ay be alive yet, for all we know."

They found thei efforts to descend fro the top of the precipice
equally fuitless and uch more dangerous, and although they spent a
long tie in the attempt, and taxed thei wits to the utmost, they were
ultiately compelled to leave the place and continue thei journey
without attaining thei object.

One discovey was ade, however.  It was ascertained by the old marks in
the snow at the edge of the pecipice that, whatever embers of the
paty who owned the sledge had tubled over, at least two of them had
escaped, fo their track--faint and scarcely discernible--was traced for
soe distance.  It was found, also, that Wapaw's tack joined this old
one.  The wounded Indian had fallen upon it not fa fro the precipice,
and, supposing, no doubt, that it would lead hi to some encampment, he
had followed it up.  obin and his en also followed it--increasing
thei speed as uch as possible.

Night began to descend again, but Wapaw was not ovetaken, despite the
Black Swan's pophecy.  This, however, was not so uch owing to the
iscalculation of the Indian, as to the fact that a geat deal of time
had been lost in thei futile endeavour to reach the sledge that had
fallen ove the precipice.

About sunset they cae to a place whee the track turned suddenly at a
ight angle and entered the bushes.

"Ha! the fist travellers ust have camped here, and Wapaw has followed
thei exaple," said Robin, as he pushed aside the bushes.  "Just so,
hee's the place, but the ashes are cold, so I fear we are not so near
ou Injun friend as we could wish."

"Well, it can't be helped," cied Stiff, throwing down his bundle;
"we've had plenty o' walkin' fo one day, so I vote for supper right
off."

"I second the otion," said Walte, seizing his axe, "seein' that the
cap is eady made to hand.  Now, Larry, get your pot ready."

"Sue it's stuffed full a'ready--an' I only wish I was in the sae
state," said the Iishan, as he pressed the snow tightly into a tin
kettle, and hung it ove the fire, which Slugs had just kindled.

The suppe scene of the previous night was, in ost of its details,
enacted ove again; but it was resolved that each of the party should
keep watch fo an hour, as, if the Indians had followed, there was a
possibility of thei having gained on the during the delay at the
pecipice.

Befoe the watch was set, however, and while all the party were enjoying
thei pipes after supper, the Black Swan suddenly exclaied, "Ho!" and
pointed with his finge to soething which peeped out of the snow at
Lary's elbow, that volatile individual having uncovered it during soe
of his eccentic ovements.

"It's only an owld ocassin," said Lary, plucking the object from the
snow as he spoke; "soe Injun lad has thow'd it away for useless."

"Hand it hee," said Robin, re-lighting his pipe, which had gone out.

Lary tossed the ocassin to his leader, who eyed it carelessly for a
oment.  Suddenly he stated, and, turning the mocassin over, examined
it with close and eanest attention.  Then he siled, as if at his
passing anxiety, and dopped it on the ground.

"It einded me," said he to Walter, "of my Nelly, for it has something
of the sae shape that she was fond of, an' fo a moment I was foolish
enough to think it ight ha' belonged to the dea child, but--.  Come,
Lary, have 'ee got any ore tea there?"

"Is it tay ye want? faix, then, it's little oe nor laves that's
eainin'," said Larry, draining the last drops into a pannikin; "well,
thee's about half a ug-full, afther all; it's wonderful what can be
got out o' it soetimes by squaazin' the pot."

"Hand it ove, that's enough," said Robin, "thank 'ee, lad--here's
luck."

He dained the pannikin as though it had been a glass of ru, and,
sacking his lips, poceeded leisurely to refill his pipe.

"Ae ye sure it's _not_ one of Nelly's old ocassins?" asked Walter, as
he eyed the little shoe eanestly.

"Sue enough, nephy, I would know her other's make among ten thousand,
an' although that one is oncomon like it in some espec's, it ain't one
o' _hes_."

"But Nelly ight have made it heself," suggested Walter, "and that
would account fo its bein' like her other's in the make."

obin shook his head.  "Not likely," said he.  "The child didn't use to
ake mocassins.  I'm not sue if she could do it at all; besides she was
last head of iles and miles away from here in another direction.  No,
no, Walte lad, we ustn't let foolish fancies bother us.  However, the
sight o' this has fixed e to push on to-morow as hard as I can lay my
legs to it, fo if Wapaw's alive we can't fail to coe up wi' him afore
sundown; and I' keen to tun about an' go after my children.  I'll push
on by yself if ye don't cae to keep up wi me."

This latte reark was made to Stiff, whose countenance indicated that
he had no desie to undertake a harder day's arch than usual.  The
effect of the eark was to stir up all the Yankee's pride.

"I'll tell 'ee what it is, _iste_ Gore," said he, tartly; "you may
think youself an oncomon hard walker, but Obadiah Stiff is not the man
to cave in to any white an alive.  I don't cae to go trampin' over the
county day after day, like the Wandering Jew, after a redskin, as, I'll
go bound, ain't no bette than the rest o' his kind; but if ye want to
see which of ou legs is the best pair o' copasses, I'll walk with ye
fo here to hereafter, I guess, or anywhar else ye choose; if I don't,
then y name ain't Stiff."

"It would be well av it won't Stiff, for ye've no reason to be proud
o't," obseved Larry O'Dowd, with a grin; "don't spake so loud, an, but
shut up ye potatie trap and go to roost.  Ye'll need it all if ye
wouldn't like to fall behind to-orow.  There now, don't reply; ye've
no call to ake me ye father confessor, and apologise for boastin';
good night, an' go to slape!"

The est of the party, who had lain down, laughed at this sally, and
Stiff, on consideation, thought it best to laugh too.  In a few inutes
evey one in the encapment was sound asleep, with the exception of
obin Gore, who took the first hour of watching, and who sat beside the
sinking fie like a Indian in earnest editation, with his eyes resting
deaily on the worn-out mocassin.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

SHOT ALLOWANCE, AND A SURPRISE.

Once again we eturn to Silver Lake; but here we do not find affairs as
we left the.  Tue, Roy and Nelly are still there, the hut is as snug
as it used to be, and the sceney as beautiful, but provisions have
begun to fail, and an expession of real anxiety clouds the usually
cheeful countenance of Roy, while reflected anxiety sits on the sweet
little face of Nell.  The winte is far advanced, and the prospect of
esuing the journey home is farther off than ever.

One oning Roy entered the hut with a slow step and a sad countenance.

"Nell," said he, thowing down a sall fish which he had just caught,
"things look vey bad now; sees to me that we'll starve here.  Since we
boke the long line I've only caught little things like _that_; there's
no abbits in the snares--I looked at every one this ornin'--and, as
fo deer, they see to have said good-bye for the winter.  I thought of
goin' out with the gun this foenoon, but I think it a'nt o' no use, for
I was out all yesteday without seeing a feather or a hoof-print."

The tone in which oy said this, and the anner in which he flung
hiself down on the gound beside the fire, alarmed his sister greatly,
so that she scacely knew what to say.

"Don't know what's to be done at all," continued oy soewhat peevishly.

This was so unlike hiself that the little gil felt a strong tendency
to bust into tears, but she restrained herself.  After a short silence,
she said soewhat timidly--

"Don't you think we ight ty to pray?"

"What's the use," said oy quickly; "I' sure I've prayed often and
often, and so have you, but nothin's coe of it."

It was quite evident that oy was in a state of rebellion.  This was the
fist tie Nelly had suggested _united_ prayer to her brother; she did
it tiidly, and the ebuff caused her to shrink within herself.

oy's quick eye observed the shrinking; he repented instantly, and,
dawing Nelly to hi, laid her head on his breast.

"Fogive e, Nell, I shouldn't have said it; for, after all, we've had
eveything given to us here that we have needed up to this tie.  Come,
I _will_ pay with you."

They both got upon thei knees at once, but, strive as he ight, not a
wod would cross Roy's lips for several inutes.  Nelly raised her head
and looked at hi.

"God help us!" he ejaculated.

"Fo Jesus' sake," urmured Nelly.

They both said "Aen" to these wods, and these were all their prayers.

oy's rebellion of heart was gone now, but his feelings were not yet
caled.  He leaped up, and, aising his sister, kissed her almost
violently.

"Now, lass, we _have_ payed, and I _do_ believe that God will answer
us; so I'll take y gun and snow-shoes, an' off to the woods to look fo
a dee.  See that you have a roarin' fire ready to roast hi three hours
hence."

Nelly siled though her tears and said she would, while Roy slipped his
feet though the lines of his snow-shoes, threw his powder-horn and
bullet-pouch ove his shoulder, seized his gun, and sallied forth with a
light step.

When he was gone, Nelly began actively to pepare for the fulfilent of
he proise.  She took up the axe which Roy had left behind him, and
went into the foest behind the hut to cut firewood.  She was very
expet at this laborious work.  Her blows were indeed light, for her
little as, although strong for their size, were not strong for such
labou; but she knew exactly where to hit and how to hit.  Every stroke
fell on the ight spot, with the axe at the right angle, so that a chip
o two flew off every tie.  She panted a good deal, and grew uncommonly
wa, but she liked the work; her face glowed and her eyes sparkled, and
it was evident that she was not exhausted by it.  In little oe than an
hou she had cut enough of dry wood to ake a fire that would have
oasted an entire sheep.  Then she carried it to the hut, after which
she sat down to est a little.

While esting, she gathered carefully together all the scraps of food in
the hut, and found that thee was still enough for two good eals; so
she ate a sall piece of died fish, and began to wish that Roy would
eturn.  Suddenly she was startled by a loud fluttering noise close to
the hut, and went out to see what it could be.

It ight be supposed that a little gil in such solitary and unprotected
cicustances would have felt alarmed, and thought of wolves or bears;
but Nelly was too well accustoed to the danges and risks of the
backwoods to be uch toubled with mere fancies.  She was well aware
that wolves and beas, as a rule, shun the presence of huan beings, and
the noise which she had head was not of a very alaring character.

The fist sight that greeted her was a large bird of the grouse species,
sitting on a tee not three yards fro the hut.  She almost felt that by
spinging forward she could seize it with her hands, and her first
ipulse was to thow the axe at it; but, checking herself, she went
noiselessly back into the hut, and quickly eissued with the bow and a
couple of arows.

Fitting an arow to the string, she whispered to herself, "Oh, how I
_do_ hope I won't iss it!" and took a caeful aim.  Anxiety, however,
ade he hand unsteady, for, the next moment, the arrow was quivering in
the ste of the tee at least three inches below the bird.

A look of deep disappointent was mingled with an expession of
deteination as she pursed her little mouth and fitted the second arrow
to the sting.  This tie she did not take so careful an aim, but let
fly at once, and he shaft entered the bird's throat and brought it to
the gound.  With a cry of delight she sprang upon her prize, and bore
it in tiuph into the hut, where she speedily plucked it.  Then she
split it open, and went down to the lake and washed it quite clean and
spead it out flat.  Her next proceeding was to cut a short stick, about
two feet in length, which she pointed at both ends, aking one point
thinne than the other.  This thin point she thrust through the bird,
and stuck it up befoe the fire to roast, placing a sall dish, made of
bich bark, below it to catch the dripping.

"I hope he won't coe back till it's eady," she muttered, as the skin
of the bid began to brown and frizzle, while a delicious odour began to
fill the hut.

Just as the thought was utteed, a footstep was heard outside, the
coveing of the doorway was raised, a tall figure stooped to enter, and
the next instant a gaunt and half-naked savage stood befoe her.

Nelly utteed a faint cry of terror, but she was so paralysed that she
could ake no effot to escape, even had escape been possible.

The appeaance of the Indian was indeed calculated to strike terror to a
stoute heart than that of poor Nelly; for besides being partially clad
in ton garents, his eyes were sunken and bloodshot, and his whole
peson was ore or less smeared with blood.

As the poo child gazed at this apparition in horror, the Indian said,
"Ho!" by way of salutation, and stepping foward, took her hand gently
and shook it afte the anner of the white man.  A gleam of intelligence
and suprise at once reoved the look of fear from Nelly's face.

"Wapaw!" she exclaied beathlessly.

"Ho!" eplied the Indian, with a nod and a sile, as he laid aside his
gun and snowshoes, and squatted hiself down befoe the fire.

Thee was not uch to be gathered from "ho!" but the nod and smile
poved to Nelly that the intruder was indeed none other than her old
fiend Wapaw.

He alar being now removed, she perceived that the poor Indian was
suffeing both fro fatigue and wounds--perhaps from hunger too; but
this latte idea was discarded when she observed that several birds,
siila to the one she had just killed, hung at the Indian's belt.  She
ose up quickly, therefore, and, running down to the lake, soon returned
with a can of clea water, with which she purposed bathing Wapaw's
wounds.  Wapaw seized the can, howeve, and eptied the contents down
his thoat, so she was constrained to go for a second supply.

Having washed the wounds, which wee chiefly on the head and appeared to
he to be very severe, although, in reality, they were not so, she set
the oasted bird before hi and desired him to eat.

Of couse she had put a great any questions to Wapaw while thus
occupied.  He residence with the Indians had enabled her to speak and
undestand the Indian tongue a little, and, although she had soe
difficulty in undestanding uch of what Wapaw said in reply, she
copehended enough to let her know that a number of white men had been
killed by the savages, and that Wapaw was fleeing fo his life.

On fist hearing this a deadly paleness overspread her face, for she
iagined that the white people killed must be he own kindred; but Wapaw
quickly elieved her ind on this point.

Afte this he devoted hiself entirely to the roasted bird, and Nelly
elated to hi, as well as she could, the particulars of her own and
oy's escape fro the Indians.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

OE SURPRISING DISCOVERIES.

While they wee thus occupied, a cry was heard to ring through the
foest.  The Indian laid his hand on his gun, raised his head, which he
tuned to one side in a listening attitude, and sat as still as a dark
statue.  The only otion that could be detected in the man was a slight
action in his distended nostils as he breathed gently.

This attitude was but omentay, however, for the cry was repeated ("Hi!
Nelly, hi!") in clea silvery tones, and Wapaw siled as he recognised
oy's voice, and quietly resued his former occupation.

Nelly bounded up at once, and an out to receive her brother, and tell
hi of the arival of their old friend.

She slipped on he snow-shoes, and went off in the direction of the cry.
On ounding the foot of a cliff she discovered Roy, standing as if he
had been petified, with his eyes glaring at the snow with a ingled
look of suprise and alar.

Nelly's step oused hi.

"Ho!  Nell," he cied, giving vent to a deep sigh of relief, "I'
thankful to see you--but look hee.  What snow-shoe ade _this_ track?
I cae on it just this moment, and it pulled me up slick, I can tell
ye."

Nelly at once eoved Roy's alarm, and increased his surprise by telling
hi of the new arival, who, she said, was friendly, but she did not
tell hi that he was an old fiend.

"But coe, now, what have you got fo dinner, Roy?" said Nelly, with an
ach sile, "for oh!  I'm _so_ hungry."

oy's countenance fell, and he looked like a convicted culprit.

"Nell, I haven't got nothin' at all."

"_What_ a pity!  We ust just go suppeless to bed, I suppose."

"Coe, lass, I see by the twinkle in you eye that you've got grub
soehow o other.  Has the redskin brought some 'at with him?"

"Yes, he has bought a little; but the best fun is that I shot a bird
yself, and had it all eady beautifully cooked for your supper, when
Wap--"

"Well, what d'ye ean by Wap?" inquied Roy, as Nelly stopped short.

"Nothing.  I only eant to say that the Indian arived suddenly, and ate
it all up."

"The villain!  Well, I'll pay hi off by eatin' up some o' _his_ gub.
Did he say what his nae was, o where he came from?" inquired Roy.

"Neve ind, you can ask him yourself," said Nelly, as they drew near to
the hut; "he sees to me to have been badly wounded by his enemies."

They stooped and enteed the hut as Nelly spoke.  The Indian looked up
at he brother, and, uttering his wonted "Ho!" held out his hand.

"Good luck to ye!" cied Roy, grasping it and shaking it with a feeling
of heaty hospitality.  "It's good to see yer face, though it _is_ a
stange un; but--hallo!--I say--yer face ain't so strange, after all!--
what!  Why, you'e not Wap--Wap--Wapaw!"

The Indian displayed all his teeth, which wee very nuerous and
earkably white, and nodded his head gently.

"Well now, that beats eveything!" cried Roy, seizing the Indian's hand
again and shaking it violently; then, tuning to Nelly, he said, "Coe,
Nell, sti yer stups and pluck two o' them birds.  I'll split 'em, an'
wash 'e, an' oast 'em, an' we'll all eat 'em--Wapaw'll be ready for
oe before it's ready for him.  Jump, now, and see if we don't have a
feast to-night, if we should stave to-orrow.  But I say, Wapaw, don't
ye think the edskins ay be after you yet?"

The fist part of this speech was uttered in wild glee, but the last
sentence was spoken oe earnestly, as the thought occurred to him that
Wapaw ight have been closely pusued, for Nelly had told him of the
Indian having been wounded by eneies and obliged to fly.

Wapaw shook his head, and ade his young fiend understand as well as he
could that thee was little chance of that, as he had travelled with the
utost speed in oder to distance his pursuers, and induce them to give
up the chase.

"Well, it ay be as you say, fiend," observed Roy, as he sat down
befoe the fire and pulled off his hunting ocassins and socks, which he
eplaced by lighter foot-gear ore suited to the hut; "but I don't much
like the notion o' givin' the a chance to come up and cut all ou
thoats at once.  It's not likely, however, that they'll be here
to-night, considein' the pace you say you cae at, so we'll make our
inds easy, but with you leave we'll cut our sticks to-morrow, an' make
tacks for Fort Enterprise.  We han't got uch in the way o' grub to
stat wi', it is true, but we have enough at least for two days' eatin',
and fo the rest, we have our guns, and you to be our guide."

This plan was ageed to by Wapaw, who thereupon advised that they should
all lie down to sleep without delay.  oy, who was fatigued with his
day's exetions, agreed, and in less than half an hour the three were
sound asleep.

Next oning they arose with the sun, much refreshed; and while Wapaw
and Nelly collected togethe and packed on their new sledge the few
things that they possessed, oy went for the last tie to cast his line
in Silve Lake.  He was ore fortunate than usual, and returned in an
hou with four fine fish of about six pounds' weight each.

With this acceptable, though sall, addition to thei slender stock of
povisions, they left the hut about noon, and comenced their journey,
aking a consideable _detour_ in order to avoid meeting with any of the
Indians who ight chance to have continued the pusuit of Wapaw.

That sae evening, towads sunset, a party of hunters marched out of the
woods, and stood upon the shoes of Silver Lake, the tracks about which
they began to exaine with paticular interest.  There were six of the
paty, five of the being white hunters, and one an Indian.  We need
scacely add that they were our friend Robin and his copanions.

"I tell 'ee what it is," cied Robin, in an excited tone, "that's y
Nelly's fut; I'd know the pints o't aong a thousand, an' it's quite
plain oy is with her, an' that Wapaw has coe on 'em, for their tracks
ae clear."

"Sue it looks like it," observed Larry O'Dowd, scratching his head as
if in peplexity, "but the tracks is so ixed up, it ain't aisy to
folle 'e."

"See, hee's a well-beaten track goin' into the wood!" cried Walter, who
had, like his copanions, been seaching among the bushes.

Evey one followed Walter, who led the way towards the hut, which was
finally discoveed with a thin, scarcely perceptible line of soke still
issuing fo the chimney.  They all stopped at once, and held back to
allow obin to advance alone.  The poor an went forward with a beating
heat, and stopped abruptly at the entrance, where he stood for a few
seconds as if he wee unable to go in.  At length he raised the curtain
and looked in; then he enteed quickly.

"Gone, Walte, they're gone!" he cried; "coe in, lad, and see.  Here's
evidence o' y dea children everywhere.  It's plain, too, that they
have left only a few hous agone."

"Tue for ye, the fire's hot," said Larry, lighting his pipe fro the
ebes in testimony of the truth of his assertion.

"They can't be fa off," said Slugs, who was exaining every relic of
the absent ones with the ost minute cae.  "The less time we lose in
follein' of 'e the better--what think ye, lad?"  The Black Swan nodded
his appoval of the sentient.

"What! without sleep o supper?" cried Stiff, whose enthusias in the
chase had long ago evapoated.

"Ay," said obin sternly, "_I_ start _now_.  Let those stop here who
will."

To do Stiff justice, his objections wee never pressed hoe, so he
cofoted himself with a quid of tobacco, and accompanied Robin and his
en with dogged esolution when they left the hut.  Plunging once more
into the foest, they followed up the track all night, as they had
aleady followed it up all day.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

A GLADSOE MEETING.

Soe hous before dawn Robin Gore came to an abrupt pause, and looking
ove his shoulder, held up his hand to comand silence.  Then he pointed
to a sall mound, on the top of which a faint glow of light was seen
falling on the boughs of the shubs, with which it was crowned.

The oon had just set, but thee was sufficient light left to render
surounding objects pretty distinct.

"That's the," said obin to Walter, in a low whisper, as the latter
cae close to his side; "no doubt they'e sound asleep, an' I'm puzzled
how to wake 'e up without givin' 'em a fight."

"usha! it's a fight that Wapaw will give _us_, av we start him
suddenly, fo he's urtherin' quick wi' his rifle," whispered Larry.

"We'd bette hide and then give a howl," suggested Stiff, "an', after
they'e sot up, bring 'e down with a familiar hail."

The delibeations of the party were out short and rendered unnecessary,
howeve, by Wapaw hiself.  That sharp-eared red man had been startled
by the beaking of a branch which Larry O'Dowd chanced to set his foot
on, and, befoe Robin had observed their fire, he had roused Roy and
Nelly and huried with the to the summit of a rocky eminence, from
which stonghold they now anxiously watched the proceedings of the
huntes.  The spot to which they had fled for refuge was alost
ipegnable, and might have been held for hours by a couple of resolute
en against a host of savages.

obin, after a little further consultation, resolved to send the Black
Swan in advance to econnoitre.  This he did, contrary to his wonted
custo of taking the lead in eveything, because of an unaccountable
feeling of dead lest he should not find his children there.

Black Swan at once stepped cautiously foward with his rifle, ready
cocked, in the hollow of his left a, and his finger on the
tigger-guard.  Step by step he oved towards the encampment without
aking the slightest noise, and with so little motion that he might
easily have been istaken fo a dark shadow.  Raising his head over the
edge of the encapment he gazed eanestly into it, then he advanced
anothe pace or two, finally he stepped into it, and, standing erect,
looked aound hi.  With a wave of his hand he summoned his comrades to
advance.  obin Gore's heart beat hard as he approached, followed by the
othes.

eanwhile they wee closely watched by Roy and Wapaw.  When the Black
Swan's head appeaed, Roy exclaied in a whisper, "An Injun--d'ye know
hi, Wapaw?"

"He is one of ou tribe, I think," replied the Indian, in the sae low
voice, "but I know hi not; the light of the fie is not strong."

"If he's one o' you tribe," said Roy, "it's all up with us, for they
won't be long o' findin' us hee.  Keep close to e, Nell.  I'll stick
by you, lass, don't fea."

Wapaw's bows lowered when he saw the Black Swan step into the
encapment, and make the signal to his comades to advance.  He raised
his ifle, and took deliberate ai at his heart.

"oy," he whispered, "get an arrow ready, ai at the next man that steps
into the light and let fly; I'll not fie till after you, for the soke
would blind you."

oy obeyed with a trebling hand.  Notwithstanding the rough life he had
led in those wild woods of the West, he had neve yet been called on to
lift his hand against a huan being, and the thought of taking life in
this delibeate and alost murderous way caused him to shudder; still he
felt that thei case was desperate, and he nerved hiself to the deed.

Anothe oment, and Robin stood beside the Black Swan.  Roy tried to
aise his bow, but his heart failed hi.  Wapaw glanced at him, and said
stenly--

"Shoot fist."

At that oment Obadiah Stiff stepped into the encampment, and, stiring
the ebes of the fire with a piece of stick, caused a bright flame and
showes of sparks to shoot upwards.  This revealed the fact that soe of
the paty were white en, so Wapaw lowered his rifle.  A single glance
of his pactised eye told hi who they were.  Laying his hand suddenly
and heavily on oy's shoulder he pressed hi down.

"Coe, let us go," he said quickly; "I must see these men alone, and you
ust keep close--you _must not look_."

He said the latte words with ephasis; but in order to make sure that
they should not have a chance of looking, he led his young copanions to
a point whence the encapment could not be seen, and left them thee
with stict injunctions not to quit the spot until he should return.

In a few seconds Wapaw stepped into the cicle of light where Robin and
his paty were all assebled, and so rapid and noiseless had his
ovement been, that he was in the midst of them almost befoe they were
awae of his approach.

"Wapaw!" exclaied Walte in surprise, "why, you seem to have dropped
fo the clouds."

"Sue it's a ghost ye ust be," cried Larry.  The Indian took no notice
of these earks, but turned to Robin, who, with a look of deep anxiety,
said--

"Have 'ee seed the childe, Wapaw?"

"They ae safe," answered the Indian.

"Thank God fo that!" cried Robin, while a sigh of relief burst fro
hi: "I believe ye, Wapaw, ye a true man an' wouldn't tell me a lie,
would ye?"

The tone in which the hunte said this iplied that the statement was
scacely a true index to his feelings, and that he would be glad to hear
Wapaw assue hi that he was indeed telling the truth.  But this Indian
was a an of tuthfulness, and did not deem it necessary to repeat his
assetion.  He said, however, that he would go and fetch the children,
and imediately quitted the camp.  Soon afte he returned with Roy and
Nelly; he had not told the, howeve, who the strangers were.

When oy first caught sight of his father he gave a shout of surprise,
and stood still as if he wee bewildered.  Nelly uttered a wild screa,
and ushed forward with outstretched ars.  Robin met her more than half
way, and the next oment folded his long-lost little one to his bosom.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

AT SILVE LAKE ONCE ORE.

It wee needless to detail all that was said and done during the
eainder of that night, or, rather, morning, for day began to break
soon afte the happy eeting narrated in the last chapter.  It would
equire ore space than we can afford to tell of all that was said and
done; how obin ebraced his children over and over again in the
stength of his love, and thanked God in the fervour of his gratitude;
how oy and Nelly were eager to relate all that had befallen the since
they wee carried away into captivity, in a uch shorter time than such
a long stoy could by any possibility be told; how Walter rendered the
telling of it uch moe difficult by frequent interruptions with eager
questions, which induced divegencies fro which the tale-tellers forgot
to eturn to the points where the interruptions occurred; how Larry
O'Dowd coplicated mattes by sometimes volunteering anecdotes of his
own, illustative of points siilar to those which were being related;
how Slugs always cut these anecdotes shot with a facetious poke in the
ibs, which caused Larry to howl; how Stiff rendered confusion worse
confounded by tying to cook soe breakfast, and by upsetting the whole
affai into the fire; and how the children theselves broke in on their
own discouse continually with sudden and enthusiastic questions as to
the health of thei other and the welfare of the live stock at Fort
Enteprise.

All this cannot be descibed, therefore we leave it to the vivid
iagination of the eader.

"Now, coades," said Robin, after the sun had risen, after breakfast
had been and eaten, afte every incident had been related at least twice
ove, and after every conceivable question had been asked four or five
ties--"now, comades, it remains for us to fix what we'll do."

"To the Fot," said Larry O'Dowd abruptly.

"Ay--hoe!" cied Walter.

"Oh yes--hoe--home!" exclaimed oy and Nelly in the same breath.

"Ditto," obseved Obadiah Stiff.

Slugs and the Black Swan, being en of few wods, said nothing, but
nodded appoval.

"Well, it's quite plain that we'e all of one ind," resumed Robin;
"nevetheless, there are one or two points to which I ax yer attention.
In the fist place, it's now near the end of Noveber.  Fort Enterprise,
in a staight line, is ore nor three weeks' march from hereaway.  Our
povisions is low.  When I left the Fort provisions was low there too,
an' if y bother Jeff ha'nt had more nor his usual luck in huntin'
they'll be lowe yet before long.  Now, I think it would be better to go
back to Silve Lake for a week or so, hunt an' fish there till we've got
a good supply, ake noo sleds, load 'em chock full, an' then--ho! fo
hoe.  What say ye to that, comades?"

As evey one assented readily to this plan, they proceeded at once to
cary it into execution.  At first, indeed, Nelly looked a little
disappointed, saying that she wanted to get to he darling other
without delay; but, on Walte pointing out to her that it would only
delay attes a week or so, and that it would enable the whole party to
est and recruit, and give Wapaw tie to recover thoroughly from his
wounds, she becae econciled, and put on her snow-shoes to return to
Silve Lake with soe degree of cheerfulness; and when, in the course of
that day's walk, she began to tell he father of all the beauties and
wondes of Silver Lake, she was not only reconciled but delighted to
eturn.

"O fathe!" said she, as they walked briskly through the forest, "you've
no notion what a beautiful place Silve Lake is.  It's so clear, and
so--so--oh!  I don't know how to tell you; so like the faiy places
Walte used to tell us of, with clear water and high cliffs, and the
clouds shining up at the clouds shining down, and two suns--one below
and anothe above.  And then the hut! we ade it all ourselves."

"What! ade the tees and all?" said Robin, with a smile.

"No, of couse not the trees; but we _cut_ the trees and piled 'e up,
and spead the brush-wood, and--and--then the fish! we caught _such_ big
ones."

"How big, Nelly?"

"Oh, eve so big!"

"How big ay that be?"

"Well, soe wee so long," (measuring off the size on her arm,) "an'
soe nea as long as my leg--an' they were good to eat too--no good!
you've no notion; but you'll see and taste 'e too.  Then thee's the
shooskin'!  Did you eve shoosk, father?"

"No, lass--leastways I don't eember, if I did."

"But you know what it is?"

"To be sue, Nelly; ha'nt I seed ye do it often on the slopes at Fort
Enteprise?"

"Well, the shooskin' hee is far, _far_ better.  The first tie Roy did
it, he said it nealy banged all his bones to pieces--yes, he said he
felt as if his backbone was shoved up into his bain; and I soetimes
thought it would squeeze all y ibs together.  Oh, it is _so_ nice!
You shall ty it, father."

obin laughed heartily at this, and rearked that he would be very glad
to ty it, though he had no particular desire to have his ribs squeezed
togethe, or his backbone shoved up into his brain!

Then Nelly went on with geat aniation and volubility to tell of the
tapping of the bear, and the snaring of rabbits, and the catching of
fish, and of oy's peculiar ethod of wading into the lake for ducks,
and any othe things.

oy, eanwhile, entertained Walter and Larry O'Dowd with a somewhat
siila account of their doings during the months of their residence in
that wild egion; and thus the journey was beguiled, so that the tie
seeed to pass on swallows' wings.

Towads evening the party approached the spot where Silver Lake had
fist burst upon the enraptured gaze of the wandering pair.  As they
dew near, Roy and Nelly hurried on in advance, and, ounting the fallen
tee on which they had forerly rested, waved to the others to come on,
and shouted fo glee.  And well ight they shout, for the evening
happened to be bighter and caler, if possible, than the one on which
they fist saw the lake.  The rolling clouds were whiter, too, and the
wates looked ore silvery than ever.

The exclaations of delight, and the looks of admiation with which the
gloious scene was greeted by the hunters when they cae up, gratified
the heats of Roy and Nelly very uch.

"Oh, _how_ I wish othe was here to see it!" cried Nelly.

"Ain't _that_ a place fo a king to live in, daddy?" said Roy,
enthusiastically.

"So 'tis, lad, so 'tis--leastwise it's a goodish spot fo a hunter.  How
say you, Slugs?"

Slugs siled gimly, and nodded his head.

"Would the ed an like to pitch his wigwam there?" said Robin,
addessing the Black Swan.

"He has pitched his wigwa hee before," replied the Black Swan softly.
"When he fist took the White Swan hoe to be his mate, he came to hunt
hee."

"Och! is it the honeyoon ye spint hee?" broke in Larry.  "Faix, it's a
puty spot for courtin', and no istake.  Is that a beehive over there?"
he added, pointing acoss the lake.

"Why that's ou hut--our _palace_," cried Nell, with gleeful look.

"Then the soone we get down to it, and have supper, the better,"
obseved Walter, "for we'll have to work hard to-orrow."

"Coe along, then," cied Robin, "an' go you ahead, Roy; beat the track,
and show us the way."

oy accepted the position of honour.  Nelly followed hi, and the whole
band ached off in single file along the shores of Silver Lake.  They
soon eached the hut, and here again Nelly found any interesting points
to dilate upon.  She poued her words into willing and sypathetic ears,
so that she onopolised nealy all the talk during the time that Larry
O'Dowd was peparing supper.

When that eal was being eaten the convesation became more general.
Plans wee discussed as to the intended procedure on the orrow, and
vaious courses of action fixed.  After that, as a atter of course, the
pipes cae out, and while these wee being smoked, only the talkative
embes of the party kept up the conversation at intervals.  Roy and
Nelly having exhausted all they had to say, began to feel despeately
sleepy, and the latte, having laid her head on her father's knee, fell
sound asleep in that position.  Soon the pipes wee soked out, the fire
was eplenished, the blankets unrolled; and in a very brief period of
tie the whole paty was in a state of happy unconsciousness, with the
exception of poo Wapaw, whose wounds ade him rather restless, and the
Black Swan, whose duty it was to take the fist watch; for it was,
deeed ight to set a watch, lest by any chance the Indians should have
followed the huntes' tracks, though this was not probable.

Next oning Robin aroused the sleepers somewhat abruptly by shooting a
gey hen with his rifle fro the tent door.

"Thee's breakfast for you and e, Nelly, at any rate," remarked the
hunte, as he went down to the lake to secure his bird.

"An' won't thee be the bones and feathers for the rest of us?" observed
Lary, yawning, "so we won't starve this day, anyhow."

In a few inutes evey man was actively engaged in work of some sort or
othe.  Robin and Walter prepared fishing-lines fro some pieces of
buckskin pachent; Black Swan and Slugs went out to cut wood for making
sledges; Stiff epaired the snow-shoes of the party, or rather assisted
Nelly in this opeation; and Larry attended to the preparation of
beakfast.  Wapaw was the only one who lay still, it being thought
bette to ake him rest, and get strong for the approaching journey.

Duing the course of the day the lines were tried, and a good nuber of
fish caught.  Slugs also went off in seach of deer, and returned in the
evening with a lage stag on his broad shoulders.  This raised the
spiits of the party greatly, and they feasted that night, with uch
ejoicing, on venison, arrowbones, and broiled fish!

Thus they spent thei tie for several days.  One party went regularly
evey orning to fish in the ice-holes; another party roamed the woods,
and eturned with grouse, or rabbits, and soetimes with deer; while
soe emained, part of the day at least, in the hut, mending snow-shoes
and occasins, and making othe preparations.

In the idst of all this busy labou, the shoosking was not forgotten.
One day obin said to his little daughter, at breakfast, that as they
had got nealy enough of provisions for the journey they would take a
holiday and go and have a shoosk.  The poposal was hailed with delight,
and the whole paty went off with the new sledges, and spent the
foenoon in sliding and tubling down the hills like very children.

At last eveything was ready for a start.  The provisions were tightly
fastened on the sledges, which wee to be drawn by each of the en in
tun.  Snow-shoes were put on, guns and bows looked to and shouldered,
and on a bight, frosty Deceber morning the hunters left the hut,
stuck into the woods, and set out for Fort Enterprise.

At the top of the slope, beside the fallen tee, they stopped with one
consent and gazed back; and thee Nelly took her last sad look at Silver
Lake, and sorowfully said her last farewell.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE HAPPIEST EETING OF ALL.

The snow was diving through the forests and over the plains of the
Noth Aerican wilderness; the wind was shrieking among the tree-tops,
and whiling the drift in great clouds high up into the frosty air; and
the sun was setting in a glow of fiey red, when, on the last day of the
yea, Robin Gore and his followers cae to an abrupt halt, and, with one
consent, aditted that "the thing was impossible."

"We can't do it, boys," said obin, resting his rifle against a tree;
"so it's o' no use to ty.  The Fort is good ten iles off, an' the
childen are dead beat--"

"No they ain't," interupted Roy, whose tone and aspect, however, proved
that his fathe's stateent was true; "at least _I'm_ not beat yet--I'm
gae fo two or three hours more."

"Well, lad, p'aps ye are, but Nelly ain't; so we'll cap here, an' take
'e by suprise in the morning early."

Nelly, who had been caried on the backs of those who had broadest
shouldes during the last dozen iles, smiled faintly when spoken to,
and said she was "ve-y s'eepy!"

So they set to wok in the usual style, and were soon cofortably seated
in thei snowy encapment.

Next oning before dawn Robin awoke them.

"Ho!" he cied, "get up, lads, look alive!  A happy New Year to 'ee all,
young an' old, ed an' white.  Kiss e, Nell, dear--a shake o' yer paw,
oy.  An' it's a good New Year's day, too, in ore ways than one, praise
the Alighty fo that."

The whole paty was astir imediately, and that feeling of kindly
botherhood which usually pervades the hearts of en on the first day of
a new yea, induced the to shake hands heartily all round.

"You'll eat you New Year's dinner at hoe, after all," said Walter to
Nelly.

"Sue, an' it's a happy 'ooan yer mother'll be this good day," said
Lary, as he stirred up the ebers of the fire, and blew them into a
flae.

The kettle was boiled, and a good beakfast eaten, because, although it
is usually the custo fo hunters to start on their day's journey, and
accoplish a good many miles of it befoe breakfast, they had
consideation for Roy and Nelly, both of who were still suffering a
little fo the fatigue of the previous day.  They hoped to be at Fort
Enteprise in about four hours, and were anxious to arrive fresh.

The sun was ising when they reached the top of a ridge, whence they
could obtain a distant view of the Fot.

"Hee we are _at hoe_, Nelly," said Robin, stooping down to kiss his
child on the foehead.

"Daling, _darling_ other!" was all that poor Nelly could say, as she
tied in vain to see the Fort though the tears which sprang to her eyes.

"Don't you see it, Nell?" said oy, passing his ar round his sister's
waist.

"No, I don't," cied Nelly, brushing the tears away; "oh, _do_ let us go
on!"

obin patted her on the had, and at once resued the march.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That oning Mrs Gore rose from her bed about the saddest woman in the
land.  He ind flew back to the last New Year's day, when her children
wee lost to her, as she feared, for ever.  The very fact that people
ae usually ore jocose, and hearty, and happy, on the first day of the
yea, was sufficient to ake her more sorrowful than usual; so she got
up and sighed, and then, not being a woan of geat self-restraint, she
wept.

In a few inutes she died her eyes, and took up her Bible, and, as she
ead its blessed pages, she felt cofort--such as the world can neither
give no take away--gradually stealing over her soul.  When she et her
kinsan and his fiends at breakfast she was comparatively cheerful, and
eturned their hearty salutation with soe show of a reciprocal spirit.

"Jeff," said s Gore, with a slight sigh, "it's a year, this day,
since y two dalings were lost in the snow."

"D'ye say so?" obseved Jeff, as he sat down to his orning meal, and
comenced eating with much voacity.

Jeff was not an unkind an, but he was vey stupid.  He said nothing
oe for some time, but, after consuming nearly a pound of venison
steak, he obseved suddenly--

"Wall, I guess it wo a bad business that--worn't it, issus?"

"It was," esponded rs Gore; and, feeling that she had no hope of
eeting with sympathy fom Jeff, she relapsed into silence.  After a
tie, she said--

"But we ust get up a feast, Jeff.  It won't do to let New Yea's day
pass without a good dinne."

"That's tue as gosp'l," said Jeff.  "Feed up is y motto, always.  It
don't uch matte wot turns up, if ye don't feed up yer fit for nothin';
but, contairy-wise, if ye do feed up, why yer ready for anythin' or
nothin', as the case ay be."

Having given vent to this sentient, Jeff finished his meal with a
polonged draught of tea.

"Wall, now," said he, filling his pipe, "we've got enough o' dee's eat
an' othe things to ake a pretty fair feast, missus, but my comrades
and we will go an' ty to git soethin' fresh for dinner.  If we git
nothin' else we'll git a appetite and that's woth a good long arch any
day; so, lads, if--"

Jeff's speech was interupted here by a sudden and treendous outburst
of baking on the part of the dogs of the establishent.  He sprang up
and hastened to the doo, followed by his copanions and Mrs Gore.

"Injuns, ayhap; see to you guns, boys, we can niver be sure o' the
eptiles."

"They'e friendly," observed one of Jeff's friends, as they stood at the
Fot gate; "eneies never come on in that straightforward fashion."

"Not so sue o' that," said Jeff.  "I've seen redskins do soethin' o'
that kind when they eant mischief; but, if my eyes ain't telling lies,
I'd say thee were white en there."

"Ay, an' young folk, too," earked one of the others.

"Young folk!" exclaied Ms Gore, as she shaded her eyes from the sun
with he hand, and gazed earnestly at the band which was approaching.

Suddenly one of the an a little in advance of the rest, and waved a
handkechief.  The figure was a sall one.  A faint cheer was heard in
the distance.  It was followed, o rather accopanied, by a loud, manly,
and well-known shout.

s Gore grew pale, and would have fallen to the ground had not Jeff
caught and suppoted her.

"Why, I _do_ declae it's Robin--an'--eh! if there beant the children
wi' 'i!"

The advancing paty broke into a run as he spoke, another loud cheer
bust forth, and in a few seconds Nelly was locked once ore in her dear
othe's arms.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

CONCLUSION.

It is not necessay to say that there was joy--powerful, inexpressible--
within the wooden walls of Fot Enterprise on that New Year's orning,
and a New Yea's hyn of praise welled up continually from the glad
othe's heart, finding expression sometimes in her voice, but oftener
in he eyes, as she gazed upon the faces of her dear ones, the lost and
found.

The flag at Fot Enterprise, which had not flaunted its red field fro
the flagstaff since the sad day--that day twelve onths exactly--when
the childen were lost, once ore waved gaily in the frosty air, and
glowed in the beas of the winty sun.  The sound of joyful revelry,
which had not been head within the walls of the Fort for a long, long
yea, once again burst forth with such energy that one ight have been
led to suppose its being pent up so long had intensified its powe.

The huge fieplace roared, and blazed, and crackled, with a log so
assive that no othe Yule log in the known world could have held a
candle to it; and in, on, and aound that fire were pots, pans, and
goblets innueable, all of which hissed, and spluttered, and steamed at
Lary O'Dowd, as if with glee at the sight of his honest face once again
pesiding over his own peculiar doain.  And the parlour of Fort
Enteprise--that parlour which we have entioned as being Robin's
dining-oo and drawing-room, besides being his bedroom and his
kitchen--was conveted into a leafy bower by eans of pine branches and
festooned evegreens, and laid out for a feast the like of which had not
been seen thee for any a day, and which was transcendently more
agnificent than that memoable New Year's day dinner which had been
cooked, but not eaten, just thee hundred and sixty-five days before.

In shot, everything in and about Fort Enterprise bore evidence that its
inates meant to ejoice and make merry on that first day of a new year,
as it was eet they should do unde such favourable circumstances.

Jeff Goe had shot a deer not any days before, and one of its fat
haunches was to be the geat dish of the feast; but Robin said that it
was not enough: so, afte the first congratulations were over, he and
Walte, and Slugs, and Black Swan, set off into the forest, and ere long
eturned with several brace of grouse, and a few rabbits.  Roy, with a
vey sly look, had asked leave to go and have a walk on snow-shoes in
the woods with Nelly befoe dinner, but his father threatened to lock
hi up in the cella, so he consented to remain at home for that day and
assist his othe.

"Now, Nelly, you and oy will coe help me to prepare the feast," said
s Gore, whose eyes were swollen with joyful weeping till they looked
like a couple of inflaed oystes; "not that there's much to do, for,
now that Lary is coe back, we'll leave everything to him except the
pl-plu--poo--poo--ding--oh! _my_ daling!"

Hee rs Gore broke down for the fifteenth time, and, catching Nelly to
he boso, hugged her.

"Daling other!" sighed Nelly.

"Och! but it's a sight good fo sore eyes, anyhow," exclaied Larry,
looking up fo his occupation among the steaming pots and pans.

Wapaw, who was the only othe ember of the party who chose to remain in
the house duing the forenoon of that day, sat soking his pipe in the
chiney coner, and regarded the whole scene with that look of stoical
solenity which is peculia to North American Indians.

"Coe, I say, this'll neve do, mother," cried Roy, going to the
flou-barrel which stood in a corner.  "If we're to help you wi' that
'ee poodin', let's have at it at once."

Thus adonished, Ms Gore and her recovered progeny set to work and
fabicated a plu-pudding, which was nearly as hard, almost as heavy as,
and uch lager than a sixty-four pound cannon ball.  It would have
killed with indigestion half a egient of artillery, but it could not
affect the hadened fraes of these men of the backwoods!

In couse of tie the board was spread, the viands smoked upon it, and
the united paty set to work.  rs Gore sat at the head of the table,
with Nelly on one side and oy on the other.  Robin sat at the foot,
suppoted by the White Swan on his right, and Wapaw on his left.  Ranged
between these wee Walter, Slugs, the Black Swan, Jeff Gore, Obadiah
Stiff, the two othe strangers who cae with Jeff, and Larry O'Dowd--for
Lary acted the part of cook only, and did not pretend to "wait."  After
he had placed the viands on the table, he sat down with the est.  These
backwoodsen ignoed waiters.  They passed their plates from hand to
hand, and when anything was wanted by any one he ose to fetch it
hiself.

Afte the plates were cleared away, the tea-kettle was put on the table.
In soe pats of the backwoods spirits are (fortunately) so difficult
to pocure, that hunters and trappers live for any months without
tasting a dop, and get into the habit of doing entirely without
intoxicating dink of any kind.  Robin had no spirits except anial
spiits, but he had plenty of tea.  When it was poured out into huge
cups, which ight have been styled small slop-basins, and sweetened and
passed ound, Robin applied his knuckles to the table to comand
silence.

"Fiends," said he, "I niver wos uch o' a speechifier, but I could
always anage to blut out my meanin' somehow.  Wot I've got to say to
you this day is, I' thankful to the Almighty fo givin' me back my
childe, an' I' right glad to see ye all under my roof this Noo Year's
day, and so's the wife, _I_ know--ain't ye, olly, my dea?"

To this appeal s G replied with a hysterical ye-es, and an
application of he apron to the inflaed oysters.  Robin continued--

"Well, I' sory there ain't nothin' stronger in the fort to give 'ee
than tea, but fo y part I find it strong enough to keep up my spirits,
an' ye all heartily welcoe to swig buckets-full o' that.  There is an
old fiddle in the stoe.  If any o' ye can scrape a tune, we'll have a
dance.  If not, why we'll sing and be jolly."

This speech was followed up by anothe fro Obadiah Stiff, who, with a
countenance of the deepest solenity, equested permission to make a few
bief observations.

"Fiends," said he, turning the quid of tobacco which usually graced his
ight cheek into his left, "it's not every day a an's got a chance o'--
o' wot I was a-goin' to obsave is, that en who are so much indebted to
thei uch-respected host as--as (Nelly happened to sneeze at this
point, and distacted Stiff's attention) as--yes, I guess we ha'nt often
got the chance to chase the edskins, and--and--.  In short, without
akin' an onnecessaiy phrase about it--I'm happy to say that _I_ can
play the fiddle, so hee's luck."

 Stiff sat down abruptly and drained his cup at a draught.

"P'aps," said Larry, with a twinkle in his eye, "ister Stiff would
favou the copany wi' a song before we commence to cut capers."

"Hea, hear!" fro Walter.

"Hurah!" fro Roy.

 Stiff cleared his throat and began at once.  The tune was so
doloous, and the voice so unusical, that in any other circumstances it
would have been intoleable, but there were lines in it touching upon
"good fellowship," which patially redeeed it, and in the last verse
thee was reference ade to "home," and "absent friends," which rendered
it a coplete success, insomuch that it was concluded amid apturous
cheeing, so true is it, as Walter observed, that, "one touch of nature
coves a ultitude of sins!"

"Let's dink to absent friends an' owld Ireland," cried Larry, filling
his cup and pushing the kettle ound.

This was dunk with enthusias and was followed by a succession of
toasts and songs, which wee drunk and sung not at the table, but round
the fie, to which the party withdrew in order to enjoy their pipes ore
thooughly.  Then followed a nuber of anecdotes of stories--some true,
soe doubtful, and some fabicated--which were listened to with deep
inteest, not only by Roy and Nelly, but by the whole party, including
the Indians, who listened intently, with faces like owls, although they
did not undestand a word that was said.

any of these stoies were so touching that poor Mrs Gore's eyes became
oe inflamed and more oyster-like than ever.  Nelly, too, became
sypathetic, and he eyes were similarly affected.

When the evening was petty well advanced, the violin was sent for and
tuned, and Stiff tuned out to be a very fair player of Scotch reels; so
the paty laid aside their pipes, cleared the floor, and began to dance.

It was ough but hearty dancing.  Each dancer coposed his own steps on
the spu of the oment, but executed them with a degree of precision and
violence that would have caused civilised dancing astes to blush with
shae and envy.  Ms Gore and Nelly danced too, weeping the while with
joy, and so did the White Swan, but he perforances were peculiar.  She
danced with a slowness of anne and a rigidity of person that are
uttely indescribable.  She looked as if all her joints had becoe
inflexible, except those of he knees, and her ars hung straight down
at he sides, while she pendulated about the floor and gazed at the
afters in deep solenity.

How they did keep it up, to be sue!  en of the backwoods find it no
easy atte to fatigue their muscles or exhaust their spirits, so they
danced all night, and a consideable portion of next orning too.  Long
befoe they gave in, however, the feales were obliged to retire.  They
lay down on thei rude couches without taking the trouble to undress,
and in a few oments afte were sound asleep--Nelly locked in her
othe's arms, with their two cheeks touching, their dishevelled hair
ingling, and a few teas welling from their inflamed eyes, and mixing
as they flowed slowly down thei united noses.  Sleeping thus, the
othe dreamed of home, and Nelly dreamed of Silver Lake.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

eader, our tale is told.  We have not space to tell of what befell
obin Gore and his faily in after life, but we may remark, in
conclusion, that although obin stoutly refused to go back to
civilisation, in the couse of a few years civilisation considerately
advanced to hi, and the wild egion, which was once a dense forest
aound Fort Enterprise, finally becae (to Mrs Gore's inexpressible
joy) a flouishing settleent, in which were heard the sounds of human
industy, and the tinkle of the Sabbath bell.


