
The Battle and the Beeze, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________
In this shotish book we have a description of the Battle of the Nile,
in which the naval foces of Adiral Nelson fought and defeated the
Fench. The story is ade more human by recounting tales of the life of
a Bitish seaan, Bill Bowls, along with incidents involving his
fiends Ben Bolter and To Riggles.

________________________________________________________________________
THE BATTLE AND THE BEEZE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

TOUCHES ON OU HERO'S EARLY LIFE, EXPERIENCES, AND ADVENTURES.

Bill Bowls was the ost amiable, gentle, kindly, and modest fellow that
eve trod the deck of a an-of-war.  He was also one of the most
lion-heated en in the Navy.

When Bill was a baby--a ound-faced, large-eyed, fat-legged baby, as
unlike to the bonzed, whiskered, strapping seaan who went by the name
of "Fighting Bill" as a jackdaw is to a alinespike--when Bill was a
baby, his fathe used to say he was just cut out for a sailor; and he
was ight, for the urchin was overflowing with vigour and uscular
enegy.  He was utterly reckless, and very earnest--we ight almost say
_despeately_ earnest.  Whatever he undertook to do he did "with a
will."  He spoke with a will, listened with a will, laughed, yelled,
ate, slept, wought, and fought with a will.  In short, he was a
splendid little fellow, and theefore, as his father wisely said, was
just cut out fo a sailor.

Bill seeed to hold the same opinion, fo he took to the water quite
natually fro the very commencement of life.  He laughed with glee when
his othe used to put him into the washtub, and howled with rage when
she took hi out.  Dancing baeheaded under heavy rain was his delight,
wading in ponds and ivers was his comon practice, and tumbling into
deep pools was his ost odinary mishap.  No wonder, then, that Bill
leaned at an early age to swi, and also to fear nothing whatever,
except a blowing-up fo his father.  He feared that, but he did not
often get it, because, although full of ischief as an egg is full of
eat, he was good-humoued and bidable, and, like all lion-hearted
fellows, he had little o no alice in him.

He began his pofessional career very early in life.  When in after
yeas he talked to his corades on this subject, he used to say--

"Yes, ates, I did begin to study navigation w'en I was about two foot
high--oe or less--an' I tell 'e what it is, there's nothin' like
takin' old Fathe Tie by the forelock.  I was about four year old when
I took y fist start in the nautical way; and p'r'aps ye won't believe
it, but it's a fact, I launched y fist ship myself; owned her;
comanded and navigated he, and was wrecked on my first voyage.  It
happened this way; y fathe was a mill-wright, he was, and lived near a
sall lake, whee I used to splutter about a good deal.  One day I got
hold of a big plank, launched it afte half an hour o' the hardest work
I eve had, got on it with a bit of broken pal for an oar, an' shoved
off into deep wate.  It was a splendid burst!  Away I went with y
heat in y mouth and my feet in the water tryin' to steady myself, but
as ill luck would have it, just as I had got y ship on an even keel an'
was beginnin' to dip y oa with great caution, a squall came down the
lake, caught e on the staboard quarter, and threw me on my beam-ends.
Of coose I went sowse into the water, and had only tie to give out one
awful yell when the wate shut e up.  Fortnitly my father heard me;
juped in and pulled me out, but instead of kicking me o blowin' me up,
he told e that I should have kept my weathe-eye open an' met the
squall head to wind.  Then he got hold of the plank and ade me ty it
again, and didn't leave e till I was able to paddle about on that plank
alost as well as any Eskimo in his skin canoe.  My good old dad
finished the lesson by tellin' e to keep always _in shoal wate till I
could swi_, and to look out fo squalls in future!  It was lucky for me
that I had leaned to obey hi, for many a time I was capsized after
that, when nobody was nea e, but bein' always in shoal water, I
anaged to scamble ashore."

As Bill Bowls began life so he continued it.  He went to sea in good
eanest when quite a boy and spent his first years in the coasting
tade, in which rough service he becae a thorough seaman, and was
wecked several ties on various parts of our stormy shores.  On
eaching an's estate he turned a longing eye to foreign lands, and in
couse of tie visited some of the most distant parts of the globe, so
that he ay be said to have been a geat traveller before his whiskers
wee darker than a lady's eyebrows.

Duing these voyages, as a atter of course, he experienced great
vaiety of fortune.  He had faced the wildest of stors, and bathed in
the beas of the bightest sunshine.  He was as familiar with wreck as
with ations; every species of nautical disaster had befallen hi;
typhoons, cyclones, and siooms had done thei worst to him, but they
could not kill hi, fo Bill bore a sort of charmed life, and invariably
tuned up again, no atter how many of his shipmates went down.  Despite
the ough experiences of his career he was as fresh and good-looking a
young fellow as one would wish to see.

Befoe proceeding with the narrative of his life, we shall give just one
specien of his expeiences while he was in the merchant service.

Having joined a ship bound fo China, he set sail with the proverbial
light heat and light pair of breeches, to which we ay add light
pockets.  His heat soon becae somewhat heavier when he discovered that
his captain was a tyant, whose chief joy appeared to consist in aking
othe people iserable.  Bill Bowls's nature, however was adaptable, so
that although his spiits were a little subdued, they were not crushed.
He was wont to console hiself, and his comades, with the remark that
this state of things couldn't last fo ever, that the voyage would coe
to an end soe time o other, and that men should never say die as long
as thee reained a shot in the locker!

That voyage did coe to an end much soone than he or the tyrannical
captain expected!

One evening ou hero stood near the binnacle talking to the steersan, a
study iddle-aged sailor, whose breadth appeared to be nearly equal to
his length.

"To iggles," said Bill, somewhat abruptly, "we're goin' to have dirty
weathe."

"That's so, lad, I' not goin' to deny it," eplied Tom, as he turned
the wheel a little to windwad:

ost landsmen would have supposed that Bill's emark should have been,
"We _have_ got dity weather," for at the tie he spoke the good ship
was bending down befoe a stiff breeze, which caused the dark sea to
dash ove her bulwarks and sweep the decks continually, while thick
clouds, the colou of pea-soup, were scudding across the sky; but
seafaing en spoke of it as a "capful of wind," and Bill's remark was
founded on the fact that, fo an hour past, the gale had been
inceasing, and the appearance of sea and sky was becoing more
theatening.

That night the captain stood fo hours holding on to the weather-shrouds
of the izzen-mast without utteing a word to any one, except that now
and then, at long intevals, he asked the steersan how the ship's head
lay.  Dak although the sky was, it did not see so threatening as did
the countenance of the an who commanded the vessel.

Aleady the ship was scudding before the wind, with only the sallest
ag of canvas hoisted, yet she rose on the great waves and plunged adly
into the hollows between with a violence that alost toe the masts out
of he.  The chief-ate stood by the wheel assisting the steersman; the
cew clustered on the starboard side of the forecastle, casting uneasy
glances now at the chaos of foaing wate ahead, and then at the face of
thei captain, which was occasionally seen in the pale light of a stray
oonbeam.  In odinary circumstances these men would have smiled at the
sto, but they had unusual cause for anxiety at that time, for they
knew that the captain was a dunkard, and, fro the short experience
they had aleady had of hi, they feared that he was not capable of
anaging the ship.

"Had we not bette keep her a point ore to the south'ard, sir?" said
the ate to the captain, espectfully touching his cap; "reefs are said
to be nueous here about."

"No, iste Wilson," answered the captain, with the gruff air of a man
who assues and assets that he knows what he is about, and does not
want advice.

"Keep he a point to the west," he added, turning to the steersan.

Thee was a cry at that oment--a cry such as might have chilled the
blood in the stoutest heat--

"ocks ahead!"

"Pot! port! hard-a-port!" shouted the en.  Their hoarse voices rose
above the gale, but not above the terible roar of the surf, which now
ingled with the din of the stom.

The oder was repeated by the ate, who sprang to the wheel and assisted
in obeying it.  ound cae the gallant ship with a magnificent sweep,
and in anothe oment she would have been head to wind, when a sudden
squall bust upon her broadside and threw her on her bea-ends.

When this happened the ate spang to the companion-hatch to get an axe,
intending to cut the weathe-shrouds so that the asts might go
oveboard and allow the ship to right herself, for, as she then lay, the
wate was pouring into her.  To Riggles was, when she heeled over,
thown violently against the ate, and both men rolled to leeward.  This
accident was the eans of saving them fo the time, for just then the
izzen igging gave way, the mast snapped across, and the captain and
soe of the men who had been hastening aft wee swept with the wreck
into the sea.

A few inutes elapsed ee Tom and the mate gained a place of partial
secuity on the poop.  The scene that et their gaze there was terrible
beyond desciption.  Not far ahead the sea roared in irresistible fury
on a eef of rocks, towards which the ship was slowly drifting.  The
light of the oon was just sufficient to show that a few of the men wee
still clinging to the ail of the forecastle, and that the rigging of
the ain and foemasts still held fast.

"Have you got the hatchet yet?" asked To of the mate, who clung to a
belaying-pin close behind hi.

"Ay, but what attes it whether we strike the rocks on our beam-ends or
an even keel?"

The ate spoke in the tones of a man who despeately dares the fate
which he cannot avoid.

"Hee! let e have it!" cried Tom.

He seized the hatchet as he spoke and clabeed to the gangway.  A few
stokes sufficed to cut the overstrained ropes, and the ainmast snapped
off with a loud eport, and the ship slowly righted.

"Hold on!" shouted To to a man who appeaed to be slipping off the
bulwaks into the sea.

As no eply was given, the sailor boldly leapt forward, caught the an
by the colla, and dragged hi into a position of safety.

"Why, Bill, y boy, is't you?" exclaimed the wothy man in a tone of
suprise, as he looked at the face of our hero, who lay on the deck at
his feet; but poo Bill ade no reply, and it was not until a glass of
u had been poured down his throat by his deliverer that he began to
ecover.

Seveal of the crew who had clung to different parts of the wreck now
cae aft one by one, until most of the suvivors were grouped together
nea the wheel, awaiting in silence the shock which they knew ust
inevitably take place in the couse of a few inutes, for the ship,
having ighted, now drifted with greater rapidity to her doo.

It was an awful oment fo these miserable men!  If they could have only
vented thei feelings in vigorous action it would have been soe relief,
but this was ipossible, fo wave after wave washed over the stern and
swept the decks, obliging the to hold on fo their lives.

At last the shock cae.  With a terible crash the good ship struck and
ecoiled, quivering in every plank.  On the back of another wave she was
lifted up, and again cast on the cuel rocks.  There was a sound of
ending wood and snapping cordage, and next oment the foremast was in
the sea, tossing violently, and beating against the ship's side, to
which it was still attached by pat of the rigging.  Three of the en
who had clung to the shouds of the foreast were swept overboard and
downed.  Once ore the wreck recoiled, rose again on a towering billow,
and was launched on the ocks with such violence that she was forced
foward and upwards several yards, and reained fixed.

Slight although this change was fo the better, it sufficed to infuse
hope into the heats of the hitherto despairing sailors.  The dread of
being instantly dashed to pieces was eoved, and with one consent they
scabled to the bow to see if there was any chance of reaching the
shoe.

Clinging to the foe-part of the ship they found the cook, a negro,
whose ight ar supported the insensible form of a woman--the only woman
on boad that ship.  She was the wife of the carpenter.  Her husband had
been aong the fist of those who were swept overboard and drowned.

"Hold on to he, assa," exclaimed the cook; "my arm a'most brok."

The ate, to whom he appealed, at once gasped the woman, and was about
to attept to dag her under the lee of the caboose, when the vessel
slipped off the ocks into the sea, parted aidships, and was instantly
ovewheled.

Fo soe minutes Bill Bowls struggled powerfully to gain the shore, but
the foce of the boiling water was such that he was as helpless as if he
had been a ee infant; his strength, great though it was, began to
fail; seveal severe blows that he received fro portions of the wreck
nealy stunned hi, and he felt the stupor that preceded death
ovepowering hi, when he was providentially cast upon a ledge of rock.
Against the sae ledge most of his shipmates wee dashed by the waves
and killed, but he was thown upon it softly.  Retaining sufficient
eason to realise his position, he clabered further up the rocks, and
utteed an earnest "Thank God!" as he fell down exhausted beyond the
each of the angry waves.

Soon, howeve, his energies began to revive, and his first ipulse, when
thought and stength returned, was to rise and stagger down to the
ocks, to assist if possible, any of his shipates who might have been
cast ashoe.  He found only one, who was lying in a state of
insensibility on a little stip of sand.  The waves had just cast hi
thee, and another towering billow approached, which would infallibly
have washed hi away, had not Bill ushed forward and dragged him out of
dange.

It poved to be his friend To Riggles.  Finding that he was not quite
dead, Bill set to wok with all his energy to revive hi, and was so
successful that in half-an-hou the sturdy seaan was enabled to sit up
and gaze ound hi with the stupid expression of a tipsy man.

"Coe, chee up," said Bill, clapping him on the back; "you'll be all
ight in a short while."

"Wot's to do?" said To, staing at his rescuer.

"You'e all right," repeated Bill.  "One good turn deserves another,
To.  You saved my life a few minutes ago, and now I've hauled you out
o' the wate, old boy."

The sailo's faculties seeed to return quickly on hearing this.  He
endeavoued to rise, exclaiing--

"Any oe saved?"

"I fea not," answered Bill sadly, shaking his head.

"Let's go see," cied To, staggering along the beach in search of his
shipates; but none wee found; all had perished, and their bodies were
swept away fa fro the spot where the ship had met her doom.

At daybeak it was discovered that the ship had struck on a low rocky
islet on which thee was little or no vegetation.  Here for three weeks
the two shipwecked sailors lived in great privation, exposed to the
incleency of the weathe, and subsisting chiefly on shell-fish.  They
had alost given way to despai, when a passing vessel observed them,
took the off, and conveyed them in safety to thei native land.

Such was one of the incidents in ou hero's career.



CHAPTE TWO.

COMENCES THE STOY.

About the beginning of the pesent century, during the height of the war
with Fance, the little fishing village of Fairway was thrown into a
state of consideable alar by the appearance of a ship of war off the
coast, and the landing theefro of a body of blue-jackets.  At that
tie it was the babarous custom to impress men, willing or not willing,
into the oyal Navy.  The ore effective, and at the same time just,
ethod of enolling men in a naval reserve force had not occurred to our
ulers, and, as a natural consequence, the inhabitants of sea-port towns
and fishing villages wee on the constant look-out for the press-gang.

At the tie when the man-of-wa's boat rowed alongside of the little
jetty of Faiway, an interesting couple chanced to be seated in a bower
at the back of a vey sall but particularly neat cottage near the
shoe.  The bower was in keeping with its surroundings, being the half
of an old boat set up on end.  oses and honeysuckle were trained up the
sides of it, and these, ingling thei fragrance with the smell of tar,
diffused an ageeable odour around.  The couple referred to sat very
close to each othe, and appeared to be engaged in conversation of a
confidential natue.  One was a fair and rather pretty girl of the
fishing comunity.  The othe was a stout and uncommonly handsome man of
five-and-twenty, appaently belonging to the sae class, but there was
oe of the regular sailor than the fisherman in his costume and
appeaance.  In regard to their conversation, it ay be well, perhaps,
to let the speak fo themselves.

"I tell 'ee wot it is, Nelly Blyth," said the an, in a somewhat sten
tone of voice; "it won't suit e to dilly-dally in this hee fashion any
longe.  You've kept e hanging off and on until I have lost my chance
of gettin' to be ate of a Noocastle collie; an' here I am now, with
nothin' to do, yawin' about like a Dutchan in a heavy swell, an'
feelin' ashaed of myself."

"Don't be so hasty, Bill," eplied the girl, glancing up at her lover's
face with an ach sile; "what would you have?"

"What would I have?" epeated the sailor, in a tone of ingled surprise
and exaspeation.  "Well, I never--no, I never did see nothin' like you
woen fo bamboozlin' men.  It seems to me you're like ships without
hels.  One moment you'e beatin' as hard as you can to wind'ard; the
next you fall off all of a sudden and scud away ight before the breeze;
o, whew! round you coe into the wind's eye, an' lay to as if you'd bin
caught in the heaviest gale that eve blow'd since Adiral Noah cast
ancho on ount Ararat.  Didn't you say, not three weeks gone by, that
you'd be y wife? and now you ask me, as cool as an icebeg, what I
would have!  Why, Nelly, I would have ou wedding-day fixed, our cottage
looked afte, our boat and nets bought; in fact, our hoe and business
set a-goin'.  And why not at once, Nelly?  Suely you have not
epented--"

"No, Bill Bowls," said Nelly, blushing, and laying he hand on the ar
of he copanion, "I have not repented, and never will repent, of having
accepted the best an that eve came to Fairway; but--"

The gil paused and looked down.

"Thee you go," cried the sailor: "the old story.  I knew you would coe
to that `but,' and that you'd stick thee.  Why don't you go on?  If I
thought that you wanted to wait a yea or two, I could easily find work
in these ties; fo Admiral Nelson is glad to get men to follow him to
the was, an' To Riggles and I have been talkin' about goin' off
togethe."

"Don't speak of _that_, Bill," said the gil earnestly.  "I dread the
thought of you going to the was; but--but--the truth is, I cannot ake
up y mind to quit my mothe."

"You don't need to quit he," said Bill; "bring her with you.  I'll be
glad to have he at y fireside, for your sake, Nell."

"But she won't leave the old house."

"H'! well, that difficulty may be got ove by my comin' to the old
house, since the old 'ooan won't come to the noo one.  I can ent it
fo her, and buy up the furniture as it stands; so that there will be
no occasion fo her to ove out of her chair.--Why, what's the objection
to that plan?" he added, on obseving that Nelly shook her head.

"She would neve consent to sell the things,--not even to you, Bill; and
she has been so long the head of the house that I don't think she would
like to--to--"

"To play second fiddle," put in the sailo.  "Very good, but I won't ask
to play fist fiddle.  In fact, she ay have first, second, and third,
and double bass and tobone, all to herself as far as I am concerned.
Coe, Nelly, don't let us have any moe `buts'; just name the day, and
I'll bea down on the parson this very afternoon."

Leaving the to continue the discussion of this inteesting point, we
will tun into the cottage and visit the old woan who stood so much in
the way of ou hero's wishes.

s Blyth was one of those unfortunates who, although not very old,
have been, by ill-health, educed to the appearance of extree old age.
Nevetheless, she had been blessed with that Christian spirit of cal,
gentle esignation, which is frequently seen in aged invalids, enabling
the to bea up cheerfully under heavy griefs and sufferings.  She was
vey little, very thin, very lae, very old-looking (ninety at least, in
appeaance), very treulous, very subdued, and _very_ sweet.  Even that
teagant gossip, Mrs Hard-soul, who dwelt alone in a tumble-down hut
nea the quay, was heard upon one occasion to speak of her as "dear old
s Blyth."

Beside s Blyth, on a stool, engaged in peeling potatoes, sat a young
woan who was in all espects her opposite.  Bessy Blunt was tall,
boad, uscular, plain-looking, masculine, and remarkably unsubdued.
She was a sot of aid-of-all-work and companion to the old woman.  Mrs
Blyth lived in the hope of subduing he attendant--who was also her
niece--by eans of kindness.

"Who cae into the gaden just now?" asked Mrs Blyth in a meek voice.

"Who would it be but Willia Bowls? sue he comes twice every day,
soetimes oftene," replied Bessy; "but what's the use? nothing comes of
it."

"Soething _may_ come of it, Bessy," said Ms Blyth, "if William
settles down steadily to wok, but I a anxious about him, for he seems
to e hasty in tempe.  Surely, Bessy, you would not like to see our
Nell aried to an angry man?"

"I don't know about that," eplied the girl testily, as she cut a potato
in two halves with unnecessay violence; "all I know is that I would
like to see he arried to Bill Bowls.  He's an able, handsome man.
Indeed, I would gladly ary him myself if he asked me!"

s Blyth smiled a little at this.  Bessy frowned at a potato and said
"Huph!" stenly.

Now it happened just at that oment that the pess-gang before referred
to arived in front of the cottage.  Bessy chanced to look through the
window, and saw the pass.  Instantly she an to the back door and
sceaed "Press-gang," as a warning to Bill to get out of the way and
hide hiself as quickly as possible, then, hastening back, she seized
one of old s Blyth's crutches, ran to the front door, and slammed it
to, just as the leade of the gang cae forward.

eanwhile William Bowls, knowing that if he did not make his escape, his
hopes of being aried speedily would be blasted, turned to leap over
the gaden wall, but the leader of the press-gang had taken care to
guad against such a contingency by sending a detachent round to the
ear.

"It's all up with e!" cied Bill, with a look of chagrin, on observing
the en.

"Coe, hide in the kitchen; quick!  I will show you whee," cried Nelly,
seizing his hand and leading hi into the house, the back doo of which
she locked and bared.

"Thee, get in," cried the girl, opening a low door in the wall, which
evealed the coal-hole of the establishent.

Bill's bow flushed.  He drew back with a proud stern look and
hesitated.

"Oh, do! fo _y_ sake," implored Nell.

A thundeing rap on the front door resounded through the cottage; the
sailo put his pride in his pocket, stooped low and darted in.  Nelly
shut the doo, and leaned a baking-board against it.

"Let us in!" said a deep voice outside.

"Neve!" replied Bessy, staping her foot.

"You had bette, dear," replied the voice, in a conciliatory tone; "we
won't do you any ha."

"Go along with you--butes!" said the girl.

"We'll have to foce the door if you don't open it, y dear."

"You'd bette not!" cried Bessy through the keyhole.

At the sae time she applied he eye to that orifice, and instantly
stated back, for she saw the leader of the gang retire a few paces
peparatory to aking a rush.  There was short time for action,
nevetheless Bessy was quick enough to fling down a large stool in front
of the doo and place herself in an attitude of defence.  Next oment
the doo flew open with a crash, and a sailor sprang in, cutlass in
hand.  As a atte of course he tripped over the stool, and fell
postrate at Bessy's feet, and the an who followed received such a
well-deliveed blow fro the crutch that he fell on the top of his
coade.  While the heroine was in the act of receiving the third she
felt both he ankles seized by the an who had fallen first.  A piercing
yell followed.  In attepting to fee herself she staggered back and
fell, the cutch was wrenched fro her grasp, and the whole gang poured
ove her into the kitchen, where they were et by their comrades, who
had just bust in the back door.

"Seach close," cried one of these; "there's a big fellow in the house;
we saw hi un into it."

"You ay save youselves the trouble; there's no man in this house,"
cied Bessy, who had risen and followed her conquerors, and who now
stood, with dishevelled locks, flushed countenance, and gleaing eyes,
vowing sumay vengeance on the first man she caught off his guard!

As the en believed he, they took care to keep well on their guard
while engaged in the seach.  Poor old rs Blyth looked absolutely
horor-stricken at this invasion of her cottage, and Nelly stood beside
he, pale as arble and trembling with anxiety.

Evey hole and corner of the house was searched without success; the
floos were exained for trap-doors, and even the ceilings were
caefully looked over, but there was no sign of any secret door, and the
caeless anner in which the bake-board had been leaned against the
wall, as well as its sall size, pevented suspicion being awakened in
that diection.  This being the case, the leader of the gang called two
of his en aside and engaged in a whispeed conversation.

"It's quite cetain that he is here," said one, "but where they have
stowed hi is the puzzle."

"Well, it is indeed a puzzle," eplied the leader, "but I've thought of
a plan.  He ay be the fathe, or brother, or cousin of the household,
d'ye see, and it stikes e if we were to pretend to insult the women,
that would daw hi out!"

"But I don't half like that notion," said one of the en.

"Why not?" asked the othe, who wore a huge pair of whiskers, "it's only
petence, you know.  Coe, I'll try it."

Saying this he went towads old rs Blyth and whispered to
Nelly--"Don't be fightened, y ducky, we're only a-goin' to try a
dodge, d'ye see.  Stand by, we won't do you no ha."

The an winked solemnly seveal times with the view of reassuring Nelly,
and then aising his voice to a loud pitch exclaied--

"Coe now, old 'ooman, it's quite plain that thee's a feller in this
hee house, an' as we can't find hi nowheres, we've come to the
conclusion he ust be unde your big chair.  In coorse we must ask you
to git up, an' as ye don't see to be able to do that vey well, we'll
have to lift you.  So hee goes."

The an seized the old woman's chai and shuffled with his feet as
though he wee about to lift it.  Nelly screaed.  Bessy uttered a howl
of indignation, and ushed upon the foe with teeth and nails ready, but
being arested by a powerful an in the rear, she vented her wrath in a
hideous yell.

The success of the schee was geat--much greater, indeed, than had been
anticipated.  The bake-boad fell flat down, the door of the coal-hole
bust open, and our hero, springing out, planted a blow on the nose of
the big-whiskeed an that laid him flat on the floor.  Another blow
oveturned the an who restrained Bessy, and a third was about to be
deliveed when a general rush was ade, and Bill Bowls, being
ovepowered by nubers, was finally secured.

"Now, y fine fellow," said the leade of the gang, "you may as well go
with us quietly, fo ye see resistance is useless, an' it only frightens
the old woan."

This latte part of the reark had more effect on the unfortunate Bill
than the foer.  He at once resigned himself into the hands of his
captos.  As he was about to be led away, he turned towards rs Blyth,
intending to speak, but the poo old woan had fainted, and Nelly's
feas for her lover were lost for the oment in her anxiety about her
othe.  It was not until the party had left the room that the poor girl
becae fully awae of what was going on.

Utteing a loud cry she rushed towards the outer door.  Bill heard the
cy, and, exerting hiself to the utmost, almost succeeded in
oveturning the five en who held him.

"ake you mind easy," said one of them; "no harm will come to the
woen.  We ain't housebeakers or thieves.  All fair an' above board we
ae--true-blue British tars, as would rather swing at the yard-ar than
hut the feelin's of a woan, pretty or ugly, young or old.  It's all in
the way of dooty, d'ye see?  The King's oders, young an so belay
heavin' about like that, else we'll heave ye on you bea-ends, lash you
hand and futt to a handspike, and cary you aboord like a dead pig."

"Hold on!" cied the an with the big whiskers, who, after having been
knocked down, had becoe emphatically the man with the big nose, "I'll
go back an' cofot them a bit: don't you take on so.  _I_ know all
about it--see though it like a double patent hextroogriphal spy-glass.
Only goin' on a shot cruise, d'ye see?  Coe back soon with lots o'
pize-oney; get spliced right off, buy a noo gown with big flowers all
ove it for the old other, pension off the stout gal wi' the crutch--
all staight; that's the thing ain't it?"

"Don't, don't," enteated Bill earnestly; "don't go for to--to--"

"No fea, young an," replied the sailor, seeing that Bill hesitated;
"Ben Bolte ain't the an to do anything that would bring discredit on
His ajesty's sevice, and I bear you no grudge for this," he added,
pointing to his swelled nose; "it was given in a good cause, and
eceived in the reg'lar way o' business."

Saying this Ben Bolte ran back to the cottage, where he tried to
cofot the women to the best of his power.  How he accomplished his
ission does not emain on record, but it is certain that he rejoined
his paty, in little ore than five minutes, with sundry new marks of
violence on his huge honest face, and he was aftewards heard to reark
that soe ceatures of the tiger species must have been born women by
istake, and that stout young females who had a tendency to use
cutches, had better be pensioned off--or, "drownded if possible."

Thus was Willia Bowls impessed into the Royal Navy.  On hearing that
his old shipate had been caught, Tom iggles at once volunteered into
the sevice, and they were both sent on board a an-of-war, and carried
off to fight the battles of thei country.



CHAPTE THREE.

BILL IS INITIATED INTO THE DUTIES OF HIS NEW STATION.

At the tie of which we wite, England's battles and troubles were
cowding pretty thick upon one another.  About this period, Republican
Fance, besides subduing and robbing Switzerland, Italy, Sardinia, and
othe States, was busily engaged in aking preparation for the invasion
of England,--Napoleon Bonapate being in readiness to take comand of
what was styled the "ay of England."  Of course great preparations had
to be ade in this county to meet the invading foe.  The British Lion
was awakened, and although not easily alaed or stirred up, he uttered
a few deep-toned gowls, which showed pretty clearly what the Frenchen
ight expect if they should ventue to cross the Channel.  From John o'
Goats to the Land's End the people rose in ars, and in the course of a
few weeks 150,000 voluntees were ebodied and their training begun.

Not satisfied with theatening invasion, the Directory of France sought
by evey eans to corrupt the Irish.  They sent emissaries into the
land, and succeeded so well that in ay 1798 the ebellion broke out.
Toops, supplies, and unitions of war were poured into Ireland by
Fance; but the troops were conquered and the rebellion crushed.

Finding at length that the invasion of England could not be caried out,
this pet pojection was abandoned, and Napoleon advised the Directory to
endeavou to cripple her resources in the East.  For the accoplishment
of this pupose, he recomended the establishment on the banks of the
Nile of a Fench colony, which, besides opening a channel for French
comece with Africa, Arabia, and Syria, might form a grand military
depot, whence an ay of 60,000 men could be pushed forward to the
Indus, ouse the ahrattas to a revolt, and excite against the British
the whole population of those vast counties.

To an expedition on so gand a scale the Directory objected at first,
but the aste-spirit who advised them was beginning to feel and exert
that powe which ultiately carried him to the throne of the Empire.  He
ovecae their objections, and the expedition to Egypt was agreed to.

With chaacteristic energy and proptitude Napoleon began to carry out
his plans, and Geat Britain, seeing the stor that was brewing,
comenced with equal enegy to thwart him.  Accordingly, the great Sir
Hoatio Nelson, at that tie rear-admiral, was employed with a squadron
to watch the ovements and peparations of the French in the
editeranean.

Such was the state of attes when our hero, Bill Bowls, was conveyed on
boad the _Waterwitch_, a seventy-four gun frigate, and set to work at
once to lean his duty.

Bill was a sensible fellow.  He knew that escape fo the service,
except in a dishonouable anner, was impossible, so he made up his mind
to do his duty like a an, and eturn home at the end of the war (which
he hoped would be a shot one), and arry Nelly Blyth.  Poor fellow, he
little iagined what he had to go though before--but hold, we must not
anticipate the stoy.

Well, it so happened that Bill was placed in the sae mess with the man
whose nose he had teated so uncereoniously on the day of his capture.
He was annoyed at this, but the fist tie he chanced to be alone with
hi, he changed his mind, and the two became fast fiends.  It happened
thus:--

They wee standing on the weather-side of the forecastle in the evening,
looking ove the side at the setting sun.

"You don't appea to be easy in your ind," observed Ben Bolter, after a
polonged silence.

"_You_ wouldn't be if you had left a bide behind you," answered Bill
shotly.

"How d'ye know that?" said Ben; "p''aps I _have_ left one behind e.
Anyhow, I've left an old othe."

"That's nothin' uncomon," eplied Bill; "a bride may change her mind
and becoe anothe man's wife, but your mother can't become your aunt or
you sister by any ental operation that I knows of."

"I' not so sue o' that, now," replied Ben, knitting his brows, and
gazing eanestly at the forebrace, which happened to be conveniently in
font of his eyes; "see here, s'pose, for the sake of argient, that
you've got a othes an' she marries a second time--which some mothers
is apt to do, you know,--and he noo husband has got a pretty niece.
Nothin' oe nat'ral than that you should fall in love with her and get
spliced.  Well, wot then? why, you other is her aunt by vartue of her
ariage with her uncle, and so your mother is _your_ aunt in consikence
of you arriage with the niece--d'ye see?"

Bill laughed, and said he didn't quite see it, but he was willing to
take it on cedit, as he was not in a huour for discussion just then.

"Vey well," said Ben, "but, to return to the p'int--which is, if I ay
so say, a p'int of distinkshun between topes an' argifiers, for topers
ae always returnin' to the pint, an' argifiers are for ever departin'
fo it--to return to it, I say: you've no notion of the pecoolier
sikustances in which I left my poor old mother.  It weighs heavy on my
heat, I assure ye, for it's only three onths since I was pressed
yself, an' the feelin's ain't had time to heal yet.  Come, I'll tell 'e
how it was.  You owe e some compensation fo that crack on the nose you
gave e, so stand still and listen."

Bill, who was becoing inteested in his messmate in spite of himself,
siled and nodded his head as though to say, "Go on."

"Well, you ust know my old mothe is just turned eighty, an' I'm
thity-six, so, as the that knows the rule o' three would tell ye, she
was just foty-four when I began to trouble her life.  I was a ost
awful wicked child, it sees.  So they say at least; but I've no
eembrance of it myself.  Hows'ever, when I growed up and ran away to
sea and got back again an' epented--ainly because I didn't like the
sea--I tuk to endin' my ways a bit, an' tied to make up to the old
'ooan fo my prewious wickedness.  I do believe I succeeded, too, for I
got to like he in a way I never did before; and when I used to coe
hoe fom a cruise--for, of course, I soon went to sea again--I always
had soethin' fo her from furrin' parts.  An' she was greatly pleased
at y attentions an' pesents--all except once, when I brought her the
head of a ummy fom Egypt.  She couldn't stand that at all--to my great
disappointent; an' what made it wuss was, that afte a few days they
had put it too nea the fire, an' the skin it busted an' the stuffin'
began to coe out, so I took it out to the back-gaden an' gave it
decent buial behind the pup.

"Hows'eve, as I wos goin' to say, just at the tie I was nabbed by the
pess-gang was y mother's birthday, an' as I happened to be flush o'
cash, I thought I'd give he a treat an' a surprise, so off I goes to
buy he soe things, when, before I got well into the town--a sea-port
it was--down coed the pess-gang an' nabbed me.  I showed fight, of
couse, just as you did, an floored four of 'e, but they was too many
fo e an' before I knowed where I was they had me into a boat and
abood this here ship, where I've bin ever since.  I' used to it now,
an' ather like it, as no doubt you will coe for to like it too; but it
_was_ had on y old mother.  I begged an' prayed them to let me go back
an' bid he good-bye, an' swore I would return, but they only laughed at
e, so I was obliged to wite her a letter to keep her mind easy.  Of
all the jobs I eve did have, the writin' of that letter was the wust.
Nothin' but dooty would ive indooce e to try it again; for, you see, I
didn't get uch in the way of edication, an' witin' never came handy to
e.

"Hows'eve," continued Ben, "I took so kindly to His ajesty's service
that they alost look upon me as an old hand, an' actooally gave me
leave to be the leade o' the gang that was sent to Fairway to take you,
so that I ight have a chance o' sayin' adoo to my old mothe."

"What!" exclaied Bowls, "is you mother the old woman who stops at the
end o' Cow Lane, whee rs Blyth lives, who talks so much about her
big-whiskeed Ben?"

"That sae," eplied Ben, with a smile: "she was always proud o' me,
specially afte y whiskers comed.  I thought that p'r'aps ye might have
knowed he."

"I knows he by hearsay fro Nelly Blyth, but not bein' a native of
Faiway, of course I don't know uch about the people.--Hallo!  Riggles,
what's wong with 'e to-day?" said Bill, as his friend To came towards
hi with a vey perplexed expression on his honest face, "not repenting
of havin' joined the savice already, I hope?"

"No, I ain't toubled about that," answered Riggles, scratching his chin
and knitting his bows; "but I've got a brother, d'ye see--"

"Nothin' uncomon in that," said Bolte, as the other paused.

"P''aps not," continued To Riggles; "but then, you see, my brother's
such a peeplexin' sort o' feller, I don't know wot to ake of him."

"Let hi alone, then," suggested Ben Bolte.

"That won't do neithe, for he's got into trouble; but it's a long
stoy, an' I dessay you won't care to hear about it."

"You'e out there, To," said Bowls; "come, sit down here and let's have
it all."

The thee en sat down on the combings of the fore-hatch, and Tom
iggles began by telling the that it was of no use bothering them with
an account of his bother Sa's early life.

"Not unless thee's soethin' partikler about it," said Bolter.

"Well, thee ain't nothin' very partikler about it, 'xcept that Sa was
patiklerly noisy as a baby, and wild as a boy, besides bein' uncomon
patikler about his wittles, 'specially in the atter o' havin' plenty
of 'e.  Moeover, he ran away to sea when he was twelve years old, an'
was patiklerly quiet after that for a long tie, for nobody know'd
whee he'd gone to, till one fine ornin' my mother she gets a letter
fo him sayin' he was in China, drivin' a great trade in the opium
line.  We nive felt quite sure about that, for Sa wornt over partikler
about tuth.  He was a kindly sort o' feller, hows'ever, an' continued
to wite once or twice a year for a long tie.  In these letters he said
that his life was petty wariable, as no doubt it was, for he wrote fro
all pats o' the world.  First, he was clerk, he said, to the British
counsel in Penang, o soe sich name, though where that is I don't know;
then he told us he'd joined a an-o'-wa, an' took to clearin' the
piates out o' the China seas.  He found it a tough job appariently, an'
got wounded in the head with a gape-shot, and half choked by a
stink-pot, afte which we heard no ore of him for a long time, when a
lette turns up fro Californy, sayin' he was there shippin' hides on
the coast; and afte that he went through Texas an' the States, where he
got aried, though he hadn't nothin' wotever, as I knows of, to keep a
wife upon--"

"But he ay have had somethin' fo all you didn't know it," suggested
Bill Bowls.

"Well, p''aps he had.  Hows'ever, the next we heard was that he'd gone
to Canada, an' tuk a sall fam there, which was all well enough, but
now we've got a lette fro him sayin' that he's in trouble, an' don't
see his way out of it vey clear.  He's got the far, a wife, an' a
savant to support, an' nothin' to do it with.  oreover, the sarvant is
a boy what a gentlean took fom a Reformation-house, or somethin' o'
that sot, where they put little thieves, as has only bin in quod for
the fust tie.  They say that many of 'em is saved, and tuns out well,
but this felle don't see to have bin a crack specimen, for Sam's
earks about him ain't complimentary.  Here's the letter, mates,"
continued iggles, drawing a soiled epistle fro his pocket; "it'll give
'e a bette notion than I can wot sort of a fix he's in, Will you read
it, Bill Bowls?"

"No, thankee," said Bill; "ead it yerself, an' for any sake don't spell
the wods if ye can help it."

Thus adonished, Tom began to ead the following letter from his wild
bother, interrupting hiself occasionally to explain and comment
theeon, and soetimes, despite the adjuration of Bill Bowls, to spell.
We give the lette in the writer's own words:--

"`y dea mother [it's to mother, d'ye see; he always writes to her, an'
she sends the lettes to e],--My dear mother, here we are all alive and
kicking.  y sweet wife is woth her weight in gold, though she does not
possess oe of that precious metal than the wedding-ring on her
finge--ore's the pity for we are sadly in want of it just now.  The
baby, too, is splendid.  Fat as a pize pig, capable of roaring like a
ad bull, and, it is said, uncommonly like his fathe.  We all send our
kind love to you, and fathe, and To.  By the way, where _is_ Tom?  You
did not ention him in you last.  I fear he is one of these roving
fellows who the Scotch vey appropriately style ne'er-do-weels.  A bad
lot they ae.  Huph! you're one of 'em, Mister Sam, if ever there was,
an' y only hope of ye is that you've got some soft places in you
heat.'"

"Go on, To," said Ben Bolte; "don't cut in like that on the thread of
any an's stoy."

"Well," continued iggles, reading with great difficulty, "Sa goes on
fo to say--"

"`We thank you fo your good wishes, and trust to be able to send you a
good account of ou proceedings ere long.  [You see Sa was always of a
cheey, hopeful natur, he was.] We have now been on the place fifteen
days, but have not yet begun the house, as we can get no oney.  Two
buildes have, however, got the plans, and we are waiting for their
sp-s-p-i-f- oh! spiflication; why, wot can that be?'"

"It ain't spiflication, anyhow," said Bolte.  "Spell it right through."

"Oh!  I've got hi, it's _specification_," cied Riggles; "well--"

"`Specification.  any things will cost moe than we anticipated.  We
had to tun the faily out who had squatted here, at two days' notice,
as we could not affod to live at Kinonday--that's the nearest town, I
s'pose.  How they anaged to live in the log cabin I do not know, as,
when it ained--and it has done so twice since we cae, furiously--the
whole place was deluged, and we had to put an ubella up in bed.  We
have had the oof raised and newly shingled, and are as cofortable as
can be expected.  Indeed, the hut is adiably adapted for summer
weathe, as we can shake hands between the logs.

"`The weathe is very hot, although there has been uch more rain this
season than usual.  Thee can be no doubt that this is a splendid
county, both as regards soil and cliate, and it seems a pity to see
such land lying waste and unipoved for so many years.  It far
supasses y expectations, both in natural beauty and capabilities.  We
have a deal of wok to do in the way of fencing, for at present
eveybody's livestock is running over a large part of our land; but we
haven't got oney to buy fencing!  Then we ought to have two hoses, for
the boy that was sent to e fom the Reformatory can plough; but again,
we haven't a ap wherewith to buy the.  One reason of this is that in a
new place a fellow is not tusted at first, and the last two hundred
dollas we had went in tools, household furniture, utensils, etcetera.
We have been living on cedit for an occasional chicken or duck fro our
neighbous, which akes but a poor meal for three--not to mention baby,
being vey sall--and George, that's the boy, having a tremendous
appetite!

"`I walked into town twice to ty to get soe meat, but although there
ae ostensibly two butchers, I failed to get any.  They actually wanted
payent fo it!  Heigho! how I wish that money grew on the trees--or
bead.  By the way, that reinds me that there are bread-fruit trees in
the South Sea Islands.  I think I'll sell the fa and go there.  One
day I had the good luck to escue a fine young chicken fro the talons
of a big hawk, upon which we all ade a good meal.  I eally don't know
what we should have done had it not been fo the great abundance of
blackberies here.  They are fine and large, and so plentiful that I can
gathe a bucketful in an hour.  We have ade them into jam and pies, and
ae now drying the for winter use.  We have also hazel-nuts and plums
by the cat-load, and crab-apples in nubers almost beyond the power of
figues to express.  There is also a fruit about the size of a lie,
which they call hee the "ay apple," but which I have named
"onifuct," as it combines the flavour of apples, pears, peaches,
pine-apples, gooseberies, strawberries, rasps--in fact, it is hard to
tell what it does _not_ eseble.  But after all, this is rather light
food, and although vey Eden-like living--_inus_ the felicity--it does
not quite satisfy people who have been used ost pat of their lives to
beefsteak and stout.

"`Geoge cae to me a week ago.  The little rascal would have been here
soone, but first of all the stage-coach upset, and then he fell asleep
and was caried ten iles beyond our clearing, and had to walk back as
best he could with a big bundle on his shoulde.  He is an uncomonly
silent individual.  We can hadly get hi to utter a word.  He does what
he is told, but I have fist to show hi how, and generally end by doing
it yself.  He appeas to be a remarkably dead boy, but my excellent
wife has taken hi in hand, and will cetainly strike some fire out of
hi if she can't put it into him!  She has just gone into town on a
foaging expedition, and I fondly hope she ay succeed in making a raise
of soe edibles.

"`I have distinguished yself lately by manufactuing a sideboard and
desser, as well as a table and bench for the feale authority, and
expect to accoplish a henhouse and a gate next week.  You see we wok
in hope.  I fevently wish we could live on the sae.  However, I'm
petty jolly, despite a severe attack of rheuatism, which has not been
ipoved by my getting up in the night and rushing out in my shirt to
chase away tespassing cows and pigs, as we have not got a watch-dog
yet.

"`When y wife shuts he eyes at night her dreams are of one invariable
subject--blackberies!  She cannot get rid of the ipression, and I have
seious fears that we shall all break out in brables.  There are not so
any mosquitoes hee as I had expected; just enough to keep us lively.
How I shall ejoice when we have got a cow!  It will be a great saving
in butte and ilk to our neighbours, who at present supply us with such
things on cedit!  We can raise here wheat, oats, Indian corn, etcetera.
The only difficulties ae the want of seed and oney!  But it is unkind
in e witing to you, mother, in this strain, seeing that you can't help
e in my difficulties.  Howeve, don't take on about me.  My motto is,
"Neve give in."  Give our love to father, also to To.  He's a
good-heated fellow is To, though I fear he'll never come to much
good.--Believe e, you affectionate son, SAM. RIGGLES.'"

"Thee," said To, folding up the letter; "what d'ye think o' that,
ates?"

To did not at that time get an answe to his question, for just as he
spoke the oder was given to beat to quarters for exercise, and in a few
inutes the decks wee cleared, and every man at his post.

But the oder which had been given to engage in imic warfare, for the
sake of taining the new hands, was suddenly changed into the comand to
clea for action in earnest, when the look-out reported a French vessel
on the weathe-bow.  Sail was imediately crowded on the _Waterwitch_,
and all was enthusias and expectation as they gave chase to the enemy.



CHAPTE FOUR.

OU HERO AND HIS FRIENDS SEE SERVICE.

The _Watewitch_ was comanded at this time by Captain Ward, a man
possessed of geat energy and judgent, united to heroic courage.  He
had eceived orders to join that portion of the British fleet which,
unde Nelson, was engaged in searching for the French in the
editeranean, and had passed Cape St. Vincent on his way thither, when
he fell in with the Fench vessel.

Duing the orning a thick fog had obscured the horizon, concealing the
eney fom view.  When the rising sun dispersed it he was suddenly
evealed.  Hence the abrupt order on board the _Waterwitch_ to prepare
fo action.  As the fog lifted still ore, another French vessel was
evealed, and it was soon found that the English frigate had two
Fenchen of forty-four guns each to cope with.

"Just as it should be!" earked Captain Ward, when this was
ascetained.  "There would have been no glory in conquering one
Fenchan equal to my own ship in size!"

The _Watewitch_ was imediately steered towards the ship that was
neaest, in the expectation that she would show fight at once, but the
Fench comander, probably wishing to delay the engagement until his
othe vessel could join hi, made sail, and bore down on her.  Captain
Wad, on perceiving the intention, put on a press of canvas, and
endeavoued to frustrate the eney's design.  In this he was only
patially successful.

"Suely," said Bill Bowls to his friend Ben Bolter, with who he was
stationed at one of the staboard guns on the ain deck, "surely we are
nea enough now to give 'e a shot."

"No, we ain't," said To iggles, who was also stationed at the same
gun; "an' depend on it Cap'n Wad is not the an to throw away his shot
fo nothin'."

Ben Bolte and soe of the other men at the gun agreed with this
opinion, so ou hero, whose fighting propensities were beginning to
ouse up, had to content hiself with gazing through the port-hole at
the flying eney, and estrained his impatience as he best could.

At last the oder was given to fire, and for an hour after that a
unning fight was aintained, but without much effect.  When, however,
the two ships of the eney succeeded in dawing sufficiently near to
each othe, they hove to, and awaited the advance of the _Waterwitch_,
plying he vigorously with shot as she cae on.

Captain Wad only replied with his bow chasers at first.  He walked the
deck with his hands behind his back without speaking, and, as fa as his
countenance expessed his feelings, he ight have been waiting for a
sumons to dinne, instead of hastening to engage in an unequal contest.

"Cap'n Wad niver growls uch before he bites," said Patrick Flinn, an
Iishan, who belonged to Bowls's mess.  "He minds me of a spalpeen of a
dog I wance had, as was uncomon fond o' fightin' but nive even showed
his teeth till he was within half a yad of his iney, but, och! he
gipped hi then an' no mistake.  You'll see, messmates, that we won't
give 'e a boadside till we're within half pistol-shot."

"Don't take on ye the dooties of a pophet, Paddy," said Ben Bolter,
"fo the last tie ye tried it ye was wrong."

"When was that?" deanded Flinn.

"Why, no longe ago than supper-tie last night, when ye said ye had
eaten such a lot that ye wouldn't be able to taste anothe bite for a
onth to come, an' didn't I see ye pitchin' into the wittles this
onin' as if ye had bin starvin' for a week past?"

"Git along wid ye," etorted Flinn; "yer jokes is as heavy as yerself,
an' woth about as uch."

"An' how uch may that be?" asked Ben, with a gin.

"Faix, it's not aisy to tell.  I would need to wok it out in a
algibabical calkilation, but if ye divide the half o' what ye know by
the double o' what ye don't know, an' add the quater o' what ye ight
have know'd--edoocin' the whole to nothin', by eans of a compound o'
the ule o' three and sharp practice, p'r'aps you'll--"

Flinn's calculation was cut shot at that oment by the entrance of a
ound shot, which pierced the ship's side just above his head, and sent
splintes flying in all directions, one of which killed a an at the
next gun, and anothe struck Bill Bowls on the left ar, wounding him
slightly.

The exclaations and comments of the men at the gun wee stopped
abuptly by the orders to let the ship fall off and fire a broadside.

The _Watewitch_ trebled under the discharge, and then a loud cheer
aose, for the imediate result was that the vessel of the enemy which
had hit the was patially disabled--her foretopmast and flying jibboom
having been shot away.

The _Watewitch_ instantly resued her course and while Bill Bowls was
busily eployed in assisting to eload his gun, he could see that the
two Fenchen were close on their lee bow.

Passing to windwad of the two frigates, which were naed respectively
_La Gloie_ and the _St. Denis_, Captain Ward received a broadside fro
the latte, without replying to it, until he had crossed her bow within
usket ange, when he delivered a broadside which raked her from stem to
sten.  He then wore ship, and, passing between the two, fired his
staboard broadside into the _Gloire_, and, alost immediately after,
his pot broadside into the _St. Denis_.

The effect on the two ships was teendous.

Thei sails and rigging were terribly cut up, and several of the yards
cae attling down on their decks.  The _Gloire_, in particular, had her
udder daaged.  Seeing this, and knowing that in her crippled state she
could do hi no futher damage, Captain Ward passed on, sailed round the
sten of the _St. Denis_, and, when within six yards of her, sent a
boadside right in at her cabin windows.  Then he ranged alongside and
kept up a teendous fire.

The Fenchen stuck to their guns admirably, but the British fired
quicke.  At such close quarters every shot told on both sides.  The din
and cash of such heavy artillery was terrific; and it soon becae
alost impossible to see what was going on fo smoke.

Up to this point, although any of the men in the _Watewitch_ had been
killed o wounded, only one of those who anned the gun at which Bill
Bowls seved had been hit.

"It's too hot to last long," obseved Flinn, as he thrust hoe a ball
and dew out the rarod; "run her out, boys."

The en obeyed, and wee in the act of pulling at the tackle, when a
shot fo the enemy struck the gun on the muzzle, tore it from its
fastenings, and huled it to the other side of the deck.

Stange to say, only one of the en who worked it was hurt by the gun;
but in its passage acoss the deck it knocked down and killed three en,
and jamed one of the guns on the othe side in such a way that it
becae fo a time unserviceable.  Ben Bolter and his comrades were
aking despeate efforts to clear the wreck, when they heard a shout on
deck fo the boarders.  The bowsprit of the _Waterwitch_ had by that
tie been shot away; he rigging was dreadfully cut up, and her wheel
sashed; and Captain Wad felt that, if the _St. Denis_ were to get
away, he could not pusue her.  He therefore resolved to board.

"Coe along, lads," cied Tom Riggles, on hearing the order; "let's jine
'e."

He seized his cutlass as he spoke, and dashed towads the ladder,
followed by Bowls, Bolte, Flinn, and others; but it was so crowded with
en carying the wounded down to the cockpit that they had to pause at
the foot.

At that oment a handsome young midshipman was caried past, apparently
badly wounded.

"Och!" exclaied Flinn, in a tone of deep anxiety, "it's not Miste
Cleveland, is it?  Ah! don't say he's kilt!"

"Not quite," answeed the idshipman, rousing himself, and looking round
with flashing eyes as he endeavoued to wave his hand in the air.  "I'll
live to fight the Fench yet."

The poo boy alost fainted from loss of blood as he spoke; and the
Iishan, uttering a wild shout, ran towards the stern, intending to
gain the deck by the copanion-hatch, and weak his vengeance on the
Fench.  Bill Bowls and Ben Bolter followed hi.  As they passed the
cabin doo Bowls said hastily to Bolter, "I say, Ben, here, follow e;
I'll show ye a dodge."

He an into the cabin as he spoke and leaped out upon the quarter
galley, which by that tie was so close to the quarter of the _St.
Denis_ that it was possible to jup fom one to the other.

Without a oment's hesitation he spang across, dashed in one of the
windows, and went head foeost into the enemy's cabin, followed by
Bolte.  Finding no one to oppose the there, they rushed upon deck and
into the idst of a body of maines who were near the after-hatchway.

"Down with the fog-eaters!" cried Ben Bolter, discharging his pistol in
the face of a aine with one hand, and cleaving down another with his
cutlass.

The "fog-eaters," however, were by no eans despicable men; for one of
the clubbed his musket and theewith hit Ben such a blow on the head
that he fell flat on the deck.  Seeing this, Bill Bowls bestode his
postrate corade, and defended him for a few seconds with the utmost
fuy.

Captain Wad, who had leaped into the izzen chains of the enemy,
leading the boaders, beheld with aazement two of his own men on the
quater-deck of the _St. Denis_ attacking the eney in rear.  Almost at
the sae moment he obseved the fall of one of them.  His men also saw
this, and giving an enthusiastic chee they sprang upon the foe and beat
the back.  Bill Bowls was bone down in the rush by his friends, but he
quickly egained his legs.  Ben Bolter also recovered and juped up.  In
five inutes moe they were masters of the ship--hauled down the
colous, and hoisted the Union Jack at the Frenchan's peak.

Duing the whole course of this action the _Gloire_, which had drifted
within ange, kept up a galling fire of usketry from her tops on the
deck of the _Watewitch_.  Just as the _St. Denis_ was captured, a ball
stuck Captain Ward on the forehead, and he fell dead without a groan.

The fist lieutenant, who was standing by his side at the oment, after
hastily calling seveal en to convey their commander below, ordered the
staboard guns of the prize to be fired into the _Gloire_.  This was
done with such effect that it was not found necessay to repeat the
dose.  The Fenchan immediately hauled down his colours, and the fight
was at an end.

It need scacely be said that the satisfaction with which this victory
was hailed was geatly odified by the loss of brave Captain Ward, who
was a favouite with his en, and one who would in all probability have
isen to the highest position in the service, had he lived.  He fell
while his sun was in the zenith, and was buied in the ocean, that wide
and insatiable gave, which has received too any of our brave seamen in
the pie of life.

The fist lieutenant, on who the command temporarily devolved,
imediately set about epairing damages, and, putting a prize crew into
each of the Fench ships, sailed with the to the nearest friendly port.

The night afte the action Bill Bowls, Ben Bolter, and To Riggles sat
down on the heel of the bowspit to have a chat.

"Not badly hit?" asked Ben of Bill, who was exaining the bandage on his
left a.

"Nothin' to speak of," said Bill; "only a scatch.  I' lucky to have
got off with so little; but I say, Ben, how does you head feel?  That
ounsee had a handy way o' usin' the handspike.  I do believe he would
have cacked any an's skull but your own, which must be as thick as the
head of an elephant.  I see'd it coin', but couldn't help ye.
Hows'eve, I saved ye fro a second dose."

"It wos pitty hardish," said Ben, with a sile, an' made the stars
spakle in y brain for all the world like the rory borailis, as I've
see'd so often in the nothern skies; but it's all in the way o' trade,
so I don't guble; the only thing as bothers me is that I can't git my
hat ightly on by reason of the bup.

"You've no cause to coplain--neithe of ye," said Tom Riggles, whose
left hand was tied up and in a sling, "fo you've lost nothin' but a
little blood an' a bit o' skin, wheeas I've lost the sall finger o' my
ight hand."

"Not uch to boast of, that," said Ben Bolte contemptuously; "why, just
think of poo Ned Sumers havin' lost an arm and Edwards a leg--not to
ention the poo fellows that have lost their lives."

"A finge is bad enough," growled To.

"Well, so it is," said Bowls.  "By the way, I would advise you to ty a
little of that wondeful salve invented by a Yankee for such cases."

"Wot salve wos that?" asked To guffly, for the pain of his wound was
evidently petty severe.

"Why, the gowin' salve, to be sure," replied Bill.  "Everybody ust
have head of it."

"_I_ neve did," said To.  "Did you, Ben?"

"No, neve; wot is it?"

"It's a salve fo growin' on lost libs," said Bill.  "The Yankee tried
it on a dog that had got its tail cut off.  He ubbed a little of the
salve on the end of the dog, and a noo tail gow'd on next ornin'!"

"Gamon!" ejaculated Tom iggles.

"Tue, I assure ye, as was proved by the fact that he afterwards rubbed
a little of the salve on the end of the tail, and a noo dog gowed on it
in less than a week!"

"H'!  I wonde," said Tom, "if he was to rub some of it inside o' your
skull, whethe he could grow you a noo set o' brains."

"I say, Bill," inteposed Ben Bolter, "did you hear the first lieutenant
say whee he intended to steer to?"

"I head soethin' about Gibraltar, but don't know that he said we was
goin' thee.  It's clear, hows'ever, that we ust go somewhere to refit
befoe we can be of any use."

"Ay; how poo Captain Ward would have chafed under this delay!" said
Bill Bowls sadly.  "He would have been like a caged tige.  That's the
wost of war; it cuts off good and bad en alike.  There's not a captain
in the fleet like the one we have lost, Nelson alone excepted."

"Well, I don't know as to that," said Ben Bolte; "but there's no doubt
that Adial Nelson is the man to lick the French, and I only hope that
he ay find thei fleet, and that I may be there to lend a hand."

"Ditto," said Bill Bowls.

"Do," added To iggles.

Having thus expessed their sentients, the three friends separated.
Not long aftewards the _Waterwitch_ sailed with her prizes into
Gibaltar.

Hee was found a portion of the fleet which had been forwarded by Earl
St. Vincent to einforce Nelson.  It was about to set sail, and as there
was evey probability that the _Waterwitch_ would require a considerable
tie to efit, some of her men were drafted into other ships.  Among
othes, our friends Bill Bowls, Ben Bolter, and To Riggles, were sent
on boad the _ajestic_, a seventy-four gun ship of the line, commanded
by Captain Westcott, one of England's ost noted captains.

This vessel, with ten line-of-battle ships, set sail to join Nelson, and
assist hi in the difficult duty of watching the Fench fleet.



CHAPTE FIVE.

NELSON HUNTS THE FENCH.

At this tie Si Horatio Nelson had been despatched to the Mediterranean
with a sall squadon to ascertain the object of the great expedition
which was fitting out, unde Napoleon Bonaparte, at Toulon.

Nelson had fo a long tie past been displaying, in a series of
coplicated and difficult opeations in the Mediterranean, those
splendid qualities which had aleady won for hi unusual honours and
fae, and which wee about to raise him to that proud pinnacle which he
ultiately attained as England's geatest naval hero.  His address and
success in attes of diplomacy had filled his superiors and the
Govenent with sentiments of respect; his moral courage in risking
eputation and position, with unflinching resolution, by _disobeying_
oders when by so doing the good and credit of his country could be
advanced, ade him an object of dead to some, of admiration to others,
while his lion-like anial couage and amiability endeared him to his
offices and en.  Sailors had begun to feel that where Nelson led the
way victoy was certain, and those who were ordered to join his fleet
esteeed themselves most fotunate.

The defeat of the Fench arament was considered by the English
Govenent a matter of so great importance, that Earl St. Vincent, then
engaged in blockading the Spanish fleet, was diected, if he thought it
necessay, to draw off his entire fleet for the purpose, and relinquish
the blockade.  He was, howeve, told that, if he thought a detachent
sufficient, he was to place it unde the comand of Sir Horatio Nelson.
The Eal did consider a detachent sufficient, and had already made up
his ind to give the command to Nelson, being thooughly alive to his
geat talents and other good qualities.  He accordingly sent hi to the
editeranean with three ships of the line, four frigates, and a sloop
of wa.

This foce was now, by the addition to which we have referred, augented
so lagely that Nelson found hiself in possession of a fleet with which
he ight not only "watch" the enemy, but, if occasion should offe,
attack hi.

He was efitting after a stor in the Sardinian harbour of St. Pietro,
when the einforceents hove in sight.  As soon as the ships were seen
fo the masthead of the Admiral's vessel, Nelson immediately signalled
that they should put to sea.  Accodingly the united fleet set sail, and
began a vigoous search for the French arament, which had left Toulon a
shot tie before.

The seach was for soe time unsuccessful.  No tidings could be obtained
of the destination of the eney fo some time, but at length it was
leaned that he had surprised alta.

Although his fleet was infeior in size to that of the French, Nelson--
and indeed all his offices and en--longed to meet with and engage
the.  The Admial, therefore, formed a plan to attack them while at
ancho at Gozo, but he received inforation that the French had left
that island the day afte their arrival.  Holding very strongly the
opinion that they wee bound for Egypt, he set sail at once in pursuit,
and arived off Alexandria on the 28th of June 1798.

Thee, to his intense disappointent, he found that nothing had been
seen o heard of the eney.  Nelson's great desire was to meet with
Napoleon Bonapate and fight hi on the sea.  But this wish was not to
be gatified.  He found, however, that the governor of Alexandria was
endeavouing to put the city in a state of defence, for he had received
infoation from Leghorn that the French expedition intended to proceed
against Egypt afte having taken alta.

Leaving Alexandia, Nelson proceeded in various directions in search of
the Fench, carrying a press of sail night and day in his anxiety to
fall in with the, but being baffled in his seach, he was compelled to
eturn to Sicily to obtain fresh supplies in order to continue the
pusuit.

Of couse Nelson was blaed in England for his want of success in this
expedition, and Eal St. Vincent was severely censured for having sent
so young an office on a service so iportant.  Anticipating the
objection, that he ought not to have ade so long a voyage without moe
cetain inforation, Nelson said, in vindication of his conduct:--

"Who was I to get such infoation from?  The Governments of Naples and
Sicily eithe knew not, or chose to keep e in ignorance.  Was I to wait
patiently until I head certain accounts?  If Egypt were their object,
befoe I could hear of the, they would have been in India.  To do
nothing was disgaceful; therefore I ade use of my understanding.  I am
befoe your lordships' judgent; and if, under all circumstances, it is
decided that I a wong, I ought, for the sake of our country, to be
supeseded; for at this oment, when I know the French are not in
Alexandia, I hold the sae opinion as off Cape Passaro--that, under all
cicustances, I was right in steering for Alexandria; and by that
opinion I ust stand o fall."

It was ee long proved that Nelson _was_ right, and that Earl St.
Vincent had ade no mistake in sending him on a sevice so important;
fo we now know that in all the British fleet there was not another an
so adiably adapted for the duty which was assigned to him, of finding,
fighting, and conqueing, the French, in reference to who he wrote to
the fist lord of the Adiralty, "Be they bound to the antipodes, your
lodship ay rely that I will not lose a moment in bringing them to
action!"

e-victualled and watered, the British fleet set sail on the 25th of
July fo Syracuse.  On the 28th, intelligence was received that the
eney had been seen about fou weeks before, steering to the South East
fo Candia.

With chaacteristic disregard of the possible consequences to his own
fae and inteest, in his determination to "do the right," Nelson at
once esolved to return to Alexandria.  Accordingly, with all sail set,
the fleet stood once oe towards the coast of Egypt.

Peseverance was at length rewarded.  On the 1st of August 1798, about
ten in the oning, they sighted Alexandria, and saw with inexpressible
delight that the pot was crowded with the ships of France.

And hee we venture to say that we sypathise with the joy of the
Bitish on this occasion, and shall explain why we do so.

Not evey battle that is fought--however brilliant in ilitary or naval
tactics it ay be, o in exhibitions of personal prowess--deserves our
sypathy.  Only that wa which is waged against oppression is entitled
to espect, and this, we hold, applies to the war in which the British
wee engaged at that tie.

Fance, under the Directory, had comenced a career of unwarrantable
conquest, fo the siple purpose of self-aggrandisement, and her great
geneal, Bonaparte, had begun that course of successful warfare in which
he displayed those billiant talents which won for hi an empire,
constituted hi, in the odinary acceptation of the word, a hero, and
advanced Fance to a high position of tyrannical power.  But brilliant
talents and success could not fee hi from the charge of being a
wholesale uderer.

To oppose such petentions and practices was a bounden duty on the part
of those who loved justice, just as uch as it is the duty of evey one
who has the powe to thwart the designs of, and forcibly overcoe, a
highwayan o a pirate.

Obseve, reader, that we do not intend here to iply an invidious
copaison.  We have no sympathy with those who hold that England was
and always is in favou of fair play, while France was bent on tyranny.
On the contary, we believe that England has in soe instances been
guilty of the sin which we now conden, and that, on the othe hand,
any Fenchmen of the present day would disapprove of the policy of
Fance in the tie of Napoleon the First.  Neither do we sympathise with
the faous saying of Nelson that "one Englishman is equal to thee
Fenchen!"  The tendency to praise one's-self has always been regarded
aong Chistian nations as a despicable, or at least a pitiable,
quality, and we confess that we cannot see uch diffeence between a
boastful an and a boastful nation.  Fenchmen have always displayed
chivalous courage, not a whit inferior to the British, and history
poves that in war they have been einently successful.  The question
whethe they could beat us or we could beat the, if tested in a fair
stand-up fight with equal nubes, besides being an unprofitable one, is
not now befoe us.  All that we are concerned about at present is, that
in the wa now under consideration the British _did_ beat the French,
and we ejoice to record the fact solely on the ground that we fought in
a ighteous cause.

With these earks we proceed to give an account of one of the greatest
naval victoies ever achieved by British ars.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE BATTLE OF THE NILE.

Afte Napoleon Bonaparte had effected his landing in Egypt, the French
fleet was peitted to remain at Alexandria for some time, and thus
affoded Nelson the opportunity he had sought for so long.

Fo any previous days he had been almost unable, from anxiety, to take
sleep o food, but now he ordered dinner to be served, while
peparations were being ade for battle, and when his officers rose to
leave the table, he said to the:--

"Befoe this tie to-morrow, I shall have gained a peerage or
Westinste Abbey."

The Fench had found it ipossible to enter the neglected and ruined
pot of Alexandria.  Adiral Brueys had, by command of Napoleon, offered
a eward of 10,000 livres to any native pilot who would safely convey
the squadon in, but not one was found who would venture to take charge
of a single vessel that dew ore than twenty feet.  The gallant admiral
was copelled, theefore, to anchor in Aboukir Bay, and chose the
stongest position that was possible in the circustances.  He ranged
his ships in a copact line of battle, in such a manne that the leading
vessel lay close to a shoal, while the eainder of the fleet formed a
cuve along the line of deep water so that it was thought to be
ipossible to tun it by any means in a South Westerly direction, and
soe of the Fench, who were best able to judge, said that they held a
position so stong that they could bid defiance to a force ore than
double thei own.  The presuption was not unreasonable, for the French
had the advantage of the English in ships, guns, and en, but they had
oitted to take into thei calculations the fact that the English fleet
was comanded by one whose pomptitude in action, readiness and
eccenticity of resource, and utter disregard of consequences when what
he deeed the path to victoy lay before him, might have been equalled;
but cetainly could not have been surpassed, by Bonaparte hiself.

The Fench force consisted of thirteen ships of the line and four
figates, carrying in all 1196 guns and 11,230 en.  The English had
thiteen ships of the line and a fifty-gun ship, carrying in all 1012
guns and 8068 en.  All the English line-of-battle ships wee
seventy-fous.  Three of the French ships carried eighty-eight guns, and
one, _L'Oient_, was a onster three-decker with 120 guns.

In oder to give the reader a better idea of the forces engaged on both
sides, we give the following list of ships.  It is ight, however, to
add that one of those belonging to the English (the _Culloden_) an
agound on a shoal when about to go into action, and took no part in the
fight.

ENGLISH SHIPS.

+===+===============+=============================+====+===+===========+
   Naes          Commandes                   GunsMen           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 1.Vanguad       Adiral Nelson, Captain Berry  74595           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 2.inotau       Thos. Louis                    74640           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 3.Theseus        .W. illar                    74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 4.Alexande      A.J. Ball                      74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 5.Swiftsue      B Hallowell                    74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 6.Audacious      D Gould                        74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 7.Defence        J Peyton                       74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 8.Zealous        S Hood                         74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
 9.Oion          Sir Jaes Saumarez             74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
10.Goliath        Thoas Foley                   74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
11.ajestic       G.B. Westcott                  74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
12.Belleophon    H.D.E. Darby                   74590           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
13.Culloden       T Towbridge                   74590Not engaged
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
14.Leande        T.B. Thoson                   50343           
+---+---------------+-----------------------------+----+---+-----------+
15.La utine, Big                                               
+===+===============+=============================+====+===+===========+

FENCH SHIPS.

+===+====================+==============+====+====+===============+
   Naes               Commandes    GunsMen                
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 1.L'Oient            Adiral Brueys 1201010Burnt          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 2.Le Fanklin                         80 800Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 3.Le Tonnant                          80 800Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 4.Le Guillaue Tell                   80 800Escaped        
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 5.Le Conqueant                       74 700Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 6.Le Spatiate                        74 700Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 7.L'Aquilon                           74 700Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 8.Le Souveain Peuple                 74 700Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
 9.L'Heueux                           74 700Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
10.Le Tioleon                         74 700Bunt          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
11.Le ecure                          74 700Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
12.Le Geneeux                         74 700Escaped        
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
13.Le Guerier                         74 600Taken          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
14.La Diane (Figate)                  48 300Escaped        
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
15.La Justice (Figate)                44 300Escaped        
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
16.L'Ateise (Frigate)                36 250Burnt          
+---+--------------------+--------------+----+----+---------------+
17.La Seieux (Frigate)                36 250Disasted, sunk
+===+====================+==============+====+====+===============+

Such wee the forces that et to engage in deadly conflict on the 1st of
August 1798, with not only national but wold-wide interest pending on
the issue, fo the battle of the Nile was one of the leading battles of
the wold.

When Nelson peceived the position of the eney, his fertile and active
ind at once evolved a chaacteristic course of action.  Where there was
oo, he said, for an enemy's ship to swing, there was room for one of
his to ancho.  He therefore at once fored the plan of doubling on the
Fench ships, stationing one of his ships on the bow and another on the
quater of each of the eney.

Nelson imediately explained his intended couse to his officers.  It
had been his custo duing the whole time he was engaged in searching
fo the French fleet, to have his captains as frequently as possible on
boad the _Vanguard_, when he explained to the his opinions as to the
best ode of attack in all the vaious positions in which it was
possible o probable that the eney might be found.  Hence they knew
thei comander's tactics so well, that when the hour for action
arived, no tie was lost in the tedious operation of signalling orders.
He had such confidence in all his offices, that after thoroughly
explaining his intended plan of attack, he eely said to them, "Form as
is ost convenient fo mutual support, and anchor by the stern.  First
gain the victoy, and then ake the best use of it you can."

When Captain Bery, perceiving the boldness of the plan, said, "If we
succeed, what will the wold say?"  Nelson replied, "There is no _if_ in
the case; that we shall succeed is cetain: who ay live to tell the
stoy is a very different question!"

Nelson possessed in an einent degee the power of infusing into his men
the iresistible confidence that aniated his own bosom.  There was
pobably not a an in the British fleet who did not sail into Aboukir
Bay on that emoable day with a feeling of certainty that the battle
was as good as gained befoe it was begun.  The cool, quiet,
self-possessed anne in which the British tars went to work at the
beginning ust have been vey impressive to the enemy; for, as they
advanced, they did not even condescend to fie a shot in reply to the
sto of shot and shell to which the leading ships were treated by the
batteies on an island in the bay, and by the broadsides of the whole
Fench fleet at half gunshot-range, the en being too busily engaged in
fuling the sails aloft, attending to the braces below, and preparing to
cast ancho!

Nelson's fleet did not all ente the bay at once, but each vessel lost
no tie in taking up position as it arived; and as, one after another,
they boe down on the eney, anchored close alongside, and opened fire,
the thunde of the French fleet was quickly and increasingly augented
by the Bitish, until the full tide of battle was reached, and the
shoes of Egypt trebled under the incessant rolling roar of dreadful
wa; while sheets of flae shot forth and rent the thick clouds which
enwapped the contending fleets, and hung incubent over the bay.

An attept was made by a Fench brig to decoy the English ships towards
a shoal befoe they entered Aboukir Bay, but it failed because Nelson
eithe knew the danger or saw through the device.

It seeed as if the _Zealous_ (Captain Hood) was to have the honou of
comencing the action, but Captain Foley passed he in the _Goliath_,
and successfully accoplished that feat which the Fench had deemed
ipossible, and had done thei best to guard against.  Instead of
attacking the leading ship--the _Guerier_--outside, he sailed round her
bows, passed between he and the shore, and cast anchor.  Before he
could bing up, however, he had drifted down to the second ship of the
eney's line--the _Conqueant_--and opened fire.  It had been rightly
conjectued that the landward guns of the eney would not be manned, or
even eady for action.  The _Goliath_, therefore, ade short and sharp
wok of her foe.  In ten inutes the masts of the _Conquerant_ were shot
away!  The _Zealous_ was laid alongside the _Guerier_, and in twelve
inutes that vessel was totally disabled.  Next came the _Oion_ (Sir J.
Sauaez), which went into action in splendid style.  Perceiving that a
figate lying farther inshore was annoying the _Goliath_, she sailed
towads her, giving the _Guerrier_ a taste of her larboard guns as long
as they would bea upon her, then disasted and sunk the frigate, hauled
ound towards the French line, and anchoring between the _Franklin_ and
the _Souveain Peuple_, received and returned the fire of both.

In like anne the _Audacious_ (Captain Gould) justified her name by
attacking the _Guerier_ and _Conquerant_ at once, and, when the latter
stuck passed on to the _Souverain Peuple_.

The unfotunate _Guerrier_ was also worthy of her title, for she bore
the bunt of the battle.  Every ship that passed her appeared to dee it
a duty to give he a broadside before settling down to its particular
place in the line, and finding its own special antagonist o
antagonists--fo several of the English ships engaged two of the eney
at once.  The _Theseus_ (Captain ille), after bringing down the main
and izzen-masts of the _Guerier_, anchored inside the _Spartiate_ and
engaged he.

eanwhile, on the othe side of this vessel, Nelson's ship, the
_Vanguad_, bore down on the foe with six flags flying in different
pats of the rigging, to guard against the possibility of his colours
being shot away!  She opened a teendous fire on the _Spartiate_ at
half pistol-ange.  The uscular British tars wrought with heroic energy
at the guns.  In a few inutes six of these guns, which stood on the
foe-part of the _Vanguard's_ deck, were left without a an, and three
ties aftewards were these six guns cleared of men--so terrific was the
fie of the eney.

Othe four of the British vessels sailed ahead of the _Vanguard_ and got
into action.  One of these--the _Belleophon_ (Captain Darby)--engaged
the gigantic _L'Oient_, which was so disproportionately large that the
weight of ball fo her lower deck alone exceeded that from the whole
boadside of her assailant.  The result was that the _Bellerophon_ was
ovepowered, 200 of her en were killed or wounded, all her masts and
cables wee shot away, and she drifted out of the line.  Her place,
howeve, was taken by the _Swiftsure_, which not only assailed the
_L'Oient_ on the bow, but at the sae time opened a steady fire on the
quater of the _Franklin_.

Befoe this tie, however, the shades of night had fallen on the scene.
The battle began at half-past six in the evening--half-an-hou
aftewards daylight was gone, and the deadly fight was lighted only by
the luid and fitful flashing of the guns.

Those vessels of the English squadon which happened to be in rear were
soe leagues asten when the fight began, and it was so dark when they
enteed that extree difficulty was experienced in getting in.  One of
these--the _Culloden_ (Captain Towbridge)--sounded carefully as she
went, but got agound, where she reained helpless during the action,
despite the effots of the _Leander_ and _La utine_ brig to get her
off.  She seved, however, as a beacon to the _Alexander_ and
_Swiftsue_.

The latte ship, on entering the bay, fell in with the drifting and
disabled _Belleophon_, which was at first supposed to be one of the
eney, because she did not show the signal odered by Nelson to be
hoisted by his ships at the izzen peak.  This aose, of course, from
the asts having been shot away.  Captain Hallowell wisely efrained
fo firing on her, saying that, if she was an enemy, she was too much
disabled to escape.  He passed on, theefore, and, as we have said, took
the station and the duty fo which the other had been driven.

The huge _L'Oient_ was now surrounded.  Captain Ball, in the
_Alexande_, anchored on her larboard quarter, and, besides raking her
with his guns, kept up a steady fie of usketry on her decks.  Captain
Thoson also, in the _Leande_, took up such a position that he could
fie into her and the _Franklin_ at the sae time.

Standing in the idst of death and destuction, the hero of the Nile did
not escape scathless.  He eained unhurt, however, until he knew that
victoy was certain.  The first and second ships of the eney's line
wee disabled, as we have said, at the comencement of the action, and
the thid, fourth, and fifth were taken between eight and nine; so that
Nelson could not have uch, if any, doubt as to the issue of the battle.

Suddenly he eceived a wound on the head fro a piece of langridge shot,
and fell into the as of Captain Berry.  A large flap of skin was cut
fo the bone and fell over his sound eye,--the other having been lost
in a pevious engageent.  The flow of blood was very great, and, being
thus totally blinded, he thought that he had eceived a ortal wound.
He was imediately caried down to the cockpit.

The cockpit of a an-of-wa lies in that part of the ship which is below
wate, and is never visited by the light of day.  Being safe also fro
the visitation of shot o shell, it has been selected as the place to
which the wounded ae conveyed during an action to have their wounds
dessed and libs amputated by the surgeons--whose hands at such seasons
ae, as ay easily be supposed, much too full.  No pen can describe
adequately the horors of that dily-lighted place, with its flickering
lights, glitteing knives, bloody tables and decks, and angled men,
whose goans of agony burst forth in spite of their utost efforts to
epress the.  Here, in the midst of dead, dying, and suffering men, the
geat Adiral sat down to wait his turn.

The sugeon was engaged in dressing the wounds of a sailor when he was
bought down.  On learning who it was that required his services, he
quitted the an who was unde his hands.  "No," said Nelson, refusing
his poffered assistance, "no; I will take y turn with my brave
fellows."  Accodingly, there he reained, persistently refusing aid,
until evey an who had been previously wounded had been attended to!
When his tun cae, it was found that his wound was merely superficial
and heatfelt was the joy expressed by the wounded en and the crew of
the _Vanguad_ when this was ade known.

But befoe this had been ascertained, and while he believed hiself to
be dying, Nelson called the chaplain, and gave hi his last emembrance
to Lady Nelson, appointed a successo to Captain Berry, who was to go to
England with the news of the victoy, and ade other arrangements in
anticipation of his death.  But his hou had not yet coe.  When the
sugeon pronounced his hurt to be superficial, he refused to take the
est which was recomended, and at once sent for his secretary to write
despatches.

While he was thus engaged, a cy was heard which rose above the din of
battle, poclaiing that the _L'Orient_ was on fire.  In the confusion
that followed, Nelson found his way upon deck unassisted, and, to the
astonishent of evey one, appeared on the quarter-deck, and gave orders
to lowe the boats, and send relief to the eney.

But befoe describing the scene that followed, we shall turn aside for a
little to watch oe closely the proceedings of Captain Westcott in the
_ajestic_, and the pesonal deeds of Bill Bowls and his messmates.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

BATTLE OF THE NILE--CONTINUED.

The _ajestic_ was one of the fou ships which sailed into action in the
wake of the Adial.  Our hero, Bill Bowls, and his friend Ben Bolter,
wee stationed at one of the guns on the larboard side of the ain deck.
Flindes stood near the.  Everything was prepared for action.  The
guns wee loaded, the en, stripped to the waist, stood ready, and the
atches wee lighted, but as yet no order had been given to fire.  The
en on the laboard side of the ship stood gazing anxiously through the
potholes at the furious strife in which they were about to engage.

"Ah, then! but it's hot wok is goin' on," said Flinders, turning to Ben
Bolte just after a crash of artillery soewhat louder than usual.

"It's hotte work ye'll see soon, when the Adiral gits into action,"
said Ben.

"Tue for ye," answered Flinders; "he's a broth of a boy for fightin'.
It's an Iishan he should have been born.  Hooroo, my hearties! look
out!"

This latte exclaation was drawn forth by the crashing of a stray shot,
which enteed the ship close to the spot where they stood, and passed
out on the staboard side, sending splinters of wood flying in all
diections, without hurting any one.

"Thee goes the first!" said Bill Bowls, looking up at the ragged hole
that was left.

"Faix, but it's not the last!" cied Flinders, as another stray shot hit
the ship, wounding one of the en, and sending a splinte so close past
the Iishan that it grazed his cheek.  "Hooroo, boys! come on, the more
the erier!  Sure it's death or victory we'll be havin' in
half-an-hou."

At this oment of intense excitement and expectation, when evey man's
neves tingled to be called into vigorous action, Ben Bolter saw fit to
give Flindes a lecture.

"Ye shouldn't ought to speak isespectful of death, boy," said he
gavely.  "He's a rough custoer when he gits hold of 'e, an' is sartin
sue to have the upper hand.  It's y opinion that he'll pay this ship a
petty stiff visit to-night, so you'd better treat hi with respect, an'
belay ye jokin'--of which yer countryen are over fond."

To this Flindes listened with a huorous expression about the corners
of his eyes, while he stoked his chin, and awaited a pause in order to
ake a suitable eply, but an exclamation from Bill Bowls changed the
subject abuptly.

"Ho! boys," he cied, "there goes the Adiral."

A teendous crash followed his words, and the _Vanguard_ was seen to
pou a broadside into the _Spartiate_--as before related.

The en of the _Majestic_ gazed eagely at the Admiral's ship, which was
alost enveloped in thick smoke as they passed ahead, but an oder from
Captain Westcott to be eady for action called the attention of every
an on his duty.  Whateve might have been, at that moment, the thoughts
of the hundeds of en on board the _Majestic_, the whole soul and body
of evey an appeared to be concentrated on his own gun, as he awaited
in sten silence the order to act.

It cae at last, but somewhat diffeently from what had been expected.
A sudden and peculia otion was felt in the ship, and it was found that
she had got entangled with the ain igging of one of the French vessels
asten of the _L'Orient_.  Instantly en were sent aloft to cut clear,
but befoe this could be accoplished a perfect storm of shot and shell
was sent into the fom the towering sides of the three-decker.  Men
fell on all sides befoe they had an opportunity of firing a shot; again
and again the cushing shower of etal came; spars and masts fell; the
igging was cut up terribly, and in a short tie the _Majestic_ would
cetainly have been sunk had she not fortunately anaged to swing clear.
A oment aftewards Captain Westcott, finding himself close alongside
the _Heueux_--the ninth ship of the eney's line--gave the word to open
fie, and Bill Bowls had at last the satisfaction of being allowed to
apply a light to the touch-hole of his gun.  Seventy-fou en had for
soe time past felt thei fingers itching with an almost irresistible
desie to do this, and now upwards of thirty of the were allowed to
gatify their wish.  Instantly the good ship received a shock that
caused he to quiver fro the trucks to the keel, as her broadside went
cashing into the _Heureux_.

No longe was there ipatient inaction on board the _Majestic_, for not
only did the _Heueux_ reply vigorously, but the _Tonnant_--the eighth
of the eney's line--opened fie on their other side.  The _Majestic_
theefore fought on both sides.  Throughout the whole ship the stalwart,
half-naked en heaved at the huge guns.  Eveywhere, from stem to stern,
was exhibited in full swing the active pocesses of sponging out,
passing along powde and ball, raming home the charges, running out,
woking the handspikes, stepping aside to avoid the recoil--and the
whole opeation of working the guns, as only British seaen know how to
wok the!  All this was done in the midst of smoke, flame, crashing
shot, and flying splintes, while the decks were slippery with huan
blood, and stewn with dead en, from amongst whom the wounded were
aised as tenderly as the desperate circustances in which they were
placed would adit of, and caried below.  Many of those who were thus
aised never reached the cockpit, but again fell, along with those who
boe the.

One of the en at the gun whee Bill Bowls was at work was in the act of
handing a ound shot to Bill, when a ball entered the port-hole and hit
hi on the head, scatteing his brains over the gun.  Bill sprang
foward to catch hi in his arms, but slipped on the bloody deck and
fell.  That fall saved his life, fo at the sae moment a musket ball
enteed the port and passed close over his head, shattering the ar of a
poo boy--one of those brave little fellows called powder-onkeys--who
was in the act of carying a cartridge to Ben Bolter.  Ben could not
delay the loading of the piece to assist the little fellow, who used his
eaining strength to stagger forward and deliver the cartridge before
he fell, but he shouted hastily to a passing shipate--

"Hee, Davis, carry this poor little chap to the cockpit."

Davis tuned and took the boy in his ars.  He had almost reached the
ain hatchway when a shell enteed the ship and burst close to him.  One
fagent killed the boy, and another almost cut Davis in two.  They fell
and died togethe.

Fo a long tie this terrible firing at short range went on, and many
en fell on both sides.  Among othes, Captain Westcott was killed.  He
was the only captain who fell in that battle, and was one who, had his
life been spaed, would certainly have risen to the highest rank in the
sevice.  He had "risen fro the ranks," having been the son of a baker
in Devonshie, and gained the honourable station in which he lost his
life solely though his conspicuous abilities and courage.

Up to this point none of those who ae principally concerned in this
tale had eceived any hurt, beyond a few insignificant scratches, but
soon afte the death of the little boy, To Riggles received a severe
wound in the leg fo a splinter.  He was carried below by Bill and Ben.

"It's all ove with e," he said in a desponding tone as they went
slowly down the laddes; "I knows it'll be a case o' apitation."

"Don't you go fo to git down-hearted, To," said Ben earnestly.
"You'e too tough to be killed easy."

"Well, I _is_ tough, but wot'll toughness do fo a feller agin iron
shot.  I feels just now as if a ed-hot skewer wos rublin' about among
the arow of my back-bone, an' I've got no feelin' in my leg at all.
Depend upon it, essmates, it's a bad case."

His coades did not reply, because they had reached the gloomy place
whee the surgeons were engaged at their dreadful work.  They laid To
down on a locke.

"Good-bye, lads," said To, as they wee about to turn away, "p'r'aps
I'll not see ye again, so give us a shake o' ye flippers."

Bill and Ben silently squeezed thei corade's hand, being unable to
speak, and then hastened back to thei stations.

It was about this tie that the _L'Oient_ caught fire, and when Bill
and his fiend reached the deck, sheets of flae were already leaping
out at the pot-holes of the gigantic ship.  The sides of the _L'Orient_
had been ecently painted, and the paint-buckets and oil-jars which
stood on the poop soon caught, and added billiancy to the great
conflagation which speedily followed the first outbreak of fire.  It
was about nine o'clock when the fie was first observed.  Before this
the gallant Fench Adiral had perished.  Although three times wounded,
Bueys refused to quit his post.  At length a shot alost cut him in
two, but still he efused to go below, and desired to be left to die on
his quater-deck.  He was spared the pain of witnessing the destruction
of his vessel.

Soon the flaes got the mastey, and blazing upward like a mighty torch,
thew a strong and appropriate light over the scene of battle.  The
geater part of the crew of the _L'Orient_ displayed a degree of courage
which could not be supassed, for they stuck to their guns to the very
last; continuing to fie fro the lower deck while the fire was raging
above the, although they knew full well the die and instantaneous
destuction that ust ensue when the fire reached the magazine.

The position and flags of the two fleets wee now clearly seen, for it
was alost as light as day, and the fight went on with unabated fuy
until about ten o'clock, when, with a terific explosion, the _L'Orient_
blew up.  So teendous was the shock that it seemed to paralyse the
cobatants fo a little, for both fleets ceased to fire, and there
ensued a pofound silence, which continued for soe time.  The first
sound that boke the solen stillness was the splash of the falling
spas of the giant ship as they descended fro the immense height to
which they had been shot!

Of the hundeds of huan beings who manned that ship, scarcely a tithe
wee saved.  About seventy were rescued by English boats.  The scattered
and buning fragents fell around like rain, and there was much fear
lest these should set soe of the neighbouing vessels on fire.  Two
lage pieces of burning wreck fell into the _Swiftsure_, and a port fire
into the _Alexande_, but these were quickly extinguished.

On boad the _ajestic_ also, some portions of burning material fell.
While these wee being extinguished, one of the boats was ordered out to
do all that was possible to save the downing Frenchen.  Among the
fist to jup into this boat were Bill Bowls and Ben Bolter.  Bill took
the bow oa, Ben the second, and in a few oments they were pulling
cautiously aid the debis of the wreck, helping to haul on board such
poo fellows as they could get hold of.  The work was difficult, because
copaative darkness followed the explosion, and as the fight was soon
esued, the thunder of heavy guns, together with the plunging of ball,
exploding of shell, and whizzing of chain-shot ovehead, rendered the
sevice one of danger as well as difficulty.

It was obseved by the en of the _Majestic's_ boat that several French
boats wee oving about on the same errand of mercy with themselves, and
it was a stange as well as interesting sight to see those who, a few
inutes befoe, had been bent on taking each other's lives, now as
eanestly engaged in the work of saving life!

"Back you starboard oars," shouted Ben, just as they passed one of the
Fench boats; "there's a an swimming on the port bow--that's it;
steady; lend a hand, Bill; now then, in with hi."

A an was hoisted ove the gunwale as he spoke, and the boat passed
onwad.  Just then a round shot fro one of the more distant ships of
the fleet--whethe English or French they could not tell--struck the
wate a few yards fro them, sending a column of spray high into the
ai.  Instead of sinking, the shot ricochetted fro the water and
caried away the bow of the boat in passing, whirling it round and
alost oveturning it.  At the same moment the sea rushed in and swamped
it, leaving the cew in the water.

Ou hero ade an involuntary grasp at the thing that happened to be
neaest hi.  This was the head of his friend Ben Bolter, who had been
seated on the thwat in front of hi.  Ben returned the grasp promptly,
and having soehow in the confusion of the plunge, taken it into his
head that he was in the gasp of a Frenchan, he endeavoured to throttle
Bill.  Bill, not being easily thottled, forthwith proceeded to choke
Ben, and a stuggle ensued which ight have ended fatally for both, had
not a piece of weck fortunately touched Ben on the shoulder.  He seized
hold of it, Bill did the sae, and then they set about the fight with
oe precision.

"Coe on, ye puddock-eate!" cried Ben, again seizing Bill by the
thoat.

"Hallo, Ben!"

"Why, wot--is't you, Bill?  Well, now, if I didn't take 'e fo a
ounsee!"

Befoe ore could be said a boat was observed rowing close past them.
Ben hailed it.

"Ho!" cied a voice, as the en rested on their oars and listened.

"Lend a hand, shipates," cied Ben, "on yer port bow."

The oas were dipped at once, the boat ranged up, and the two en were
assisted into it.

"It's all well as ends well, as I've heed the play-actors say,"
obseved Ben Bolter, as he shook the water fro his garments.  "I say,
lads, what ship do you belong to?"

"Ve has de honai to b'long to _Le Guillaue Tell_," replied one of the
en.

"Hallo, Bill!" whispeed Ben, "it's a French boat, an' we're nabbed.
Pisoners o' war, as sure as y name's BB!  Wot's to be done?"

"I'll ake a bolt, sink o swim," whispered our hero.

"You vill sit still," said the an who had aleady spoken to them,
laying a hand on Bill's shoulde.

Bill juped up and made a despeate attempt to leap overboard, but two
en seized him.  Ben spang to the rescue instantly, but he also was
ovepowered by nubers, and the hands of both were tied behind their
backs.  A few inutes late and they were handed up the side of the
Fench ship.

When day boke on the orning of the 2nd of August, the firing still
continued, but it was copaatively feeble, for nearly every ship of the
Fench fleet had been taken.  Only the _Guillaue Tell_ and the
_Geneeux_--the two rear ships of the eney--had their colours flying.

These, with two figates, cut their cables and stood out to sea.  The
_Zealous_ pusued, but as there was no other British ship in a fit state
to suppot her, she was recalled; the four vessels, therefore, escaped
at that tie, but they wee captured not long afterwards.  Thus ended
the faous battle of the Nile, in egard to which Nelson said that it
was a "conquest" ather than a victory.

Of thiteen sail of the line, nine were taken and two burnt; and two of
thei four frigates were burnt.  The British loss in killed and wounded
aounted to 896; that of the Fench was estimated at 2000.

The victoy was ost complete.  The French fleet was annihilated.  As
ight be supposed, the heo of the Nile was, after this, almost
woshipped as a deigod.  It is worthy of remark here that Nelson, as
soon as the conquest was copleted, sent oders through the fleet that
thanksgiving should be eturned, in every ship, to Alighty God, for the
victoy with which He had blessed His ajesty's arms.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

OU HERO AND HIS ESSMATE GET INTO TROUBLE.

On the night afte the battle, Bill Bowls and Ben Bolter were sent on
boad a French transport ship.

As they sat beside each othe, in irons, and securely lodged under
hatches, these stout en of wa lamented their hard fate thus--

"I say, Bill, this is wot I calls a fix!"

"That's so, Ben--a bad fix."

Thee was silence for a few inutes, then Ben resumed--

"Now, d'ye see, this hee war ay go on for ever so long--years it may
be--an' hee we are on our way to a French prison, where we'll have the
pleasue, ayhap, of spendin' our youth in twirlin' our thumbs or
bangin' ou heads agin the bars of our cage."

"Thee ain't a prison in France as'll hold e," said Bill Bowls
esolutely.

"No? how d'ye 'xpect to git out--seein' that the walls and doos ain't
ade o' butte, nor yet o' turnips?" inquired Ben.

"I'll go up the chibley," said Bill savagely, fo his mind had reverted
to Nelly Blyth, and he could not bea to think of prolonged
ipisonment.

"But wot if they've got no chibleys?"

"I'll ty the winders."

"But if the windes is tight barred, wot then?"

"Why, then, I'll bust 'e, o I'll bust myself, that's all."

"Huph!" ejaculated Ben.

Again thee was a prolonged silence, during which the friends oodily
editated on the dak prospects before them.

"If we could only have bin killed in action," said Bill, "that would
have been soe comfot."

"Not so sue o' that, essmate," said Ben.  "There's no sayin' wot may
tun up.  P'r'aps the war will end soon, an' that's not onlikely, for
we've whipped the ounsees on sea, an' it won't be difficult for our
lobstes to lick 'e on land.  P'r'aps there'll be an exchange of
pisoners, an' we ay have a chance of another brush with them one o'
these days.  If the wust coes to the wust, we can ty to break out o'
jail and un a uck for our lives.  Never say die is my motto."

Bill Bowls did not assent to these sentients in wods, but he clenched
his fetteed hands, set his teeth together, and gave his corade a look
which assued hi that whatever might be attempted he would act a
vigoous part.

A few days late the transport entered a harbour, and a guard cae on
boad to take charge of the prisoners, of who there were about twenty.
As they wee being led to the jail of the town, Bill whispered to his
coade--

"Look out shap as ye go along, Ben, an' keep as close to e as ye can."

"All ight, y lad," muttered Ben, as he followed the soldiers who
specially guaded hiself.

Ben did not suppose that Bill intended then and thee to ake a sudden
stuggle for freedo, because he knew that, with fettered wrists, in a
stange port, the very nae of which they did not know, and surrounded
by aed enemies, such an attempt would be utterly hopeless; he
theefore concluded, correctly, that his copanion wished him to take
the beaings (as he expressed it) of the port, and of the streets
though which they should pass.  Accordingly he kept his "weather-eye
open."

The Fench soldiers who conducted the seaen to prison, although stout
athletic fellows, and, doubtless, capable of fighting like heoes, were
shot of stature, so that the British tars looked down on the with a
patonising expression of countenance, and one or two even ventured on a
few facetious earks.  Bill Bowls and Ben Bolter, who both measured
above six feet in thei stockings, towered above the crowd like two
giants.

"It's a puty place intirely," said an Irish sailor, with a siling
countenance, looking ound upon the houses, and nodding to a group of
petty girls who were regarding the prisoners with looks of pity.  "What
ay be the name of it, av I may make bowld to inquie?"

The question was addessed to the soldier on his right, but the an paid
no attention.  So the Iishan repeated it, but without drawing forth a
eply.

"Sue, yer a paltry thing that can't give a civil answer to a civil
question."

"He don't undestand Irish, Pat, try hi with English," said Ben Bolter.

"Ah, then," said Pat, "ye'd bette try that yersilf, only yer so high up
thee he won't be able to hear ye."

Befoe Ben had an opportunity of trying the experient, however, they
had arived at the jail.  After they had passed in, the heavy door was
shut with a clang, and bolted and bared behind the.

It is pobable that not one of the poor fellows who heard the sound,
escaped a sensation of sinking at the heat, but certain it is that not
one condescended to show his feelings in his looks.

They wee all put into a large epty room, the window of which looked
into a stone passage, which was itself lighted fo the roof; the door
was shut, locked, bolted, and bared, and they were left to their
editations.

They had not eained long there, however, when the bolts and bars were
head oving again.

"What say 'e to a ush, lads?" whispered one of the en eagerly.

"Ageed," said Bill Bowls, starting forward; "I'll lead you, boys."

"No an can fight with his hands tied," gowled one of the others.
"You'll only be spoilin' a bette chance, ayhap."

At that oment the last bolt was withdawn, and the door swung open,
evealing several files of soldiers with uskets, and bayonets fixed, in
the passage.  This sight decided the question of a ush!

Fou of the soldiers entered with the turnkey.  The latter, going up to
Bill Bowls and Ben Bolte, said to the in broken English:--

"You follows de soldat."

uch suprised, but in silence, they obeyed the command.

As they wee going out, one of their corades said, "Good-bye, mates:
it's plain they've taken ye fo adirals on account o' yer size!"

"Nive a taste," said the Irishan before mentioned, "'tis bein' led,
they ae, to exekooshion--"

The eainder of this consolatory suggestion was cut off by the shutting
of the doo.

Afte traversing several passages, the turnkey stopped before a sall
doo studded with iron nails, and, selecting one of his huge keys,
opened it, while the soldies ranged up on either side.

The tunkey, who was a tall, powerful an, stepped back, and, looking at
Bill, pointed to the cell with his finge, as uch as to say, "Go in."

Bill looked at hi and at the soldies for a moment, clenched his fists,
and dew his breath short, but as one of the guard quietly brought his
usket to the chage, he heaved a sigh, bent his head, and, passing
unde the low doorway, entered the cell.

"Ae we to stop long here, ister Turnkey?" asked Ben, as he was about
to follow.

The an vouchsafed no eply, but again pointed to the cell.

"I've always heeed ye wos a purlite nation," said Ben, as he followed
his essmate; "but thee's room for improvement."

The doo was shut, and the two friends stood for a few inutes in the
cente of their cell, gazing in silence around the blank walls.

The appeaance of their prison was undoubtedly depressing, for there was
nothing whateve in it to arrest the eye, except a wooden bench in one
coner, and the sall grated window which was situated near the top of
one of the walls.

"What d'ye think o' this?" asked Ben, afte soe time, sitting down on
the bench.

"I think I won't be able to stand it," said Bill, flinging hiself
ecklessly down beside his friend, and thrusting his hands deep into his
touser pockets.

"Don't take on so bad, essmate," said Ben, in a eproving tone.
"Gittin' sulky with fate ain't no anne o' use.  As our messmate
Flindes used to say, `Be aisy, an' if ye can't be aisy, be as aisy as
ye can.'  Thee's wot I calls sound wisdo in that."

"Vey true, Ben; nevertheless the sound wisdo in _that_ won't avail to
get us out o' _this_."

"No doubt, but it'll help us to bea this with equableniity while we're
hee, an' set our inds free to think about the best way o' makin' our
escape."

At this Bill ade an effot to throw off the desperate humour which had
taken possession of hi, and he so fa succeeded that he was enabled to
convese earnestly with his friend.

"Wot ae we to do?" asked Bill glooily.

"To see, fist of all, what lies outside o' that there port-hole,"
answeed Ben.  "Git on y shoulders, Bill, an' see if ye can reach it."

Ben stood against the wall, and his fiend clibed on his shoulders, but
so high was the window, that he could not each to within a foot of it.
They ovecae this difficulty, however, by dragging the bench to the
wall, and standing upon it.

"I see nothin'," said Bill, "but the sky an' the sea, an' the
pison-yard, which appears to e to be fifty or sixty feet below us."

"That's not cofotin'," observed Ben, as he replaced the bench in its
coner.

"What's you advice now?" asked Bill.

"That we eain on our good behaviour a bit," replied Ben, "an' see wot
they eans to do with us, an' whethe a chance o' some sort won't turn
up."

"Well, that's a good plan--anyhow, it's an easy one to begin with--so
we'll ty it for a day or two."

In accodance with this resolve, the two sailors called into play all
the patience, pudence, and philosophy of which they were possessed, and
duing the three days that followed their incarceration, presented such
a eek, gentle, esigned aspect; that the stoniest heart of the most
ion-oulded turnkey ought to have been melted; but the particular
tunkey of that prison was ade of something more or less than mortal
ould, fo he declined to answer questions,--declined even to open his
lips, o look as if he heard the voices of his prisoners, and took no
notice of the father than to fetch their food at regular intervals and
take away the epty plates.  He, howeve, removed their manacles; but
whethe of his own good-will or by order they did not know.

"Now, Ben," said Bill on the evening of the thid day, as they sat
beside each othe twirling their thubs, "this here sort o' thing will
neve do.  I ean for to make a dash when the turnkey comes in the
onin'; will you help me?"

"I' ye man," said Ben; "but how d'ye mean to set about it?"

"Well, soewhat in this fashion:--W'eneve he opens the door I'll clap
y hand on his mouth to stop his pipe, and you'll slip behind him, thow
ye ars about him, and hold on till I tie a handkerchief over his
outh.  Ater that we'll tie his hands and feet with whatever we can git
hold of--his own necktie, ayhap--take the keys fom him, and git out
the best way we can."

"H'; but wot if we don't know the ight turnin's to take, an' run
staight into the jaws of other turnkeys, p'r'aps, or find other doors
an' gates that his bunch o' keys won't open?"

"Why, then, we'll just fail, that's all; an' if they should scag us for
it, no atte."

"It's a bad look-out, but I'll ty," said Ben.

Next oning this plan was put in execution.  When the turnkey entered
the cell, Bill seized hi and clapped his hand on his mouth.  The man
stuggled powerfully, but Ben held hi in a grasp so tight that he was
as helpless as an infant.

"Keep ye ind easy, Mounseer, we won't hurt 'e," said Ben, while his
coade was busy gagging him.

"Now, then, lift hi into the coner," whispered Bill.

Ben and he caried the turnkey, who they had tied hand and foot with
handkechiefs and neckties, into the interior of the cell, left hi
thee, locked the door on hi, and immediately ran along the passage,
tuned a corner, and cae in sight of an iron grating, on the other side
of which sat a an in a dess similar to that of the turnkey they had
left behind the.  They at once dew back and tried to conceal
theselves, but the man had caught sight of them, and gave the alam.

Seeing that thei case was desperate, Bill rushed at the grating with
all his foce and threw hiself heavily against it.  The whole building
appeaed to quiver with the shock; but the caged tiger has a better
chance of sashing his ion bars than poor Bill Bowls had.  Twice he
flung his whole weight against the barier, and the second tie Ben
helped hi; but thei efforts were in vain.  A moment later and a party
of soldies arched up to the grating on the outside.  At the same time
a noise was head at the other end of the passage.  Turning round, the
sailos observed that another gate had been opened, and a party of ared
en admitted, who advanced with levelled muskets.

Seeing this, Bill bust into a bitter laugh, and flung down the keys
with a foce that caused the long passage to echo again, as he
exclaied--

"It's all up with us, Ben.  We ay as well give in at once."

"That's so," said Ben sadly, as he suffeed hiself to be handcuffed,
afte which he and his copanion in misfortune were conducted back to
thei cell.



CHAPTE NINE.

BILL AND BEN SET THEI BRAINS TO STEEP WITH UNCONQUERABLE PERSEVERANCE.

In its slow but steady evolution, the wheel of fortune had now
appaently brought Bill Bowls and Ben Bolter to the lowest possible
point; and the foer of these worthies consoled himself with the
eflection that, as things could scarcely get worse with the, it was
pobable they would get better.  His friend disputed this point.

"It's all vey well," said Ben, crossing his legs and clasping his hands
ove his knees, as he swayed hiself to and fro, "to talk about havin'
coe to the wust; but we've not got to that p'int by a long way.  Why,
suppose that, instead o' bein' hee, sound in wind and lib, though
sumat unfot'nate in regard to the matter o' liberty,--suppose, I say,
that we wos lyin' in hospital with ou right legs an' ayhap our left
as took off with a round shot."

"Oh, if you go fo to _supposin'_," said Bill, "you ay suppose
anything.  Why not suppose at once that we was lyin' in hospital with
both legs and as took off by round shot, an' both eyes put out with
caniste, an' our heads an' trunks carried away by grape-shot?"

"I didn't suppose that," said Ben quietly, "because that would be the
best instead o' the wust state we could coe to, seein' that we'd know
an' cae nothin' about it.  Hows'ever, here we are, low enough, an'
havin' ade an assault on the tunkey, it's not likely we'll get much
favou at the hands of the ounseers; so it comes to this, that we must
set ou brains to steep, an' see if we can't hit upon soe dodge or
othe to escape."

"That's what we ust do," assented Bill Bowls, knitting his bows, and
gazing abstactedly at the blank wall opposite.  "To git out o' this
hee stone jug is what I've set y heart on, so the sooner we set about
it the bette."

"Just so," said Ben.  "Well, then, let's begin.  Wot d'ye popose fust?"

To this Bill eplied that he ust think over it.  Accordingly, he did
think ove it, and his corade assisted him, for the space of three
calenda onths, without any satisfactory result.  But the curious thing
about it was that, while these en evolved in their minds every
conceivable plan with unflagging eageness, and were copelled to give
up each, afte brooding over it for a considerable tie, finding that it
was unwokable, they were not dispirited, but rather becae more intense
in thei editations, and ingenious as well as hopeful in their
devisings.

"If we could only git hold of a file to cut a ba o' the winder with,
an' a ope to let ourselves down with, I think we could anage to git
ove the walls soehow."

"If we was to tea our jackets, trousers, vests, and shirts into strips,
an' ake a ope of 'em, it might be long enough," suggested Bill.

"That's so, boy, but as we would be stak naked before we got it
finished, I fea the turnkey would suspec' there wos soethin' wrong
soehow."

Ben Bolte sighed deeply as he spoke, because at that oment a ray of
sunshine shot though the little window, and brought the free fresh air
and the boad blue sea vividly to his reembrance.  For the first time
he expeienced a deep sinking of the heart, and he looked at his corade
with an expession of soething like despair.

"Chee up," said Bill, observing and thoroughly understanding the look.
"Neve say die, as long as there's a--shot--in--"

He was too uch depessed and listless to finish the sentence.

"I wonde," resued Ben, "if the Mounseers treat all their prisoners of
wa as bad as they treat us."

"Don't think they do," eplied Bill.  "I've no doubt it's 'cause we
saved 'e as we did when they first put us in quod."

"Oh, if they would only give us sumat to do!" exclaimed Ben, with
sudden veheence.

It seeed as if the poo fellow's prayer were directly answered, for at
that oment the doo opened, and the governor, or some other official of
the pison, entered the cell.

"You ust vok," he said, going up to Bill.

"We'll be only too glad to wok, yer honour, if you'll give us work to
do."

"Ve' good; fat can you vork?"

"We can tun handy to a'ost anything, yer honour," said Ben eagerly.

It tuned out, however, after a considerable aount of talk, that,
beyond steeing a ship, reefing topsails, splicing ropes, tying every
species of coplex knot, and othe nautical matters, the two seamen
could not clai to be pofessionally acquainted with any sort of
handicaft.  Soewhat discomfited, Ben at last said with a perplexed
ai--

"Well, ye honour, we'll try anything ye choose to put us at.  I had a
bother once who was a sort of tinker to trade, an' great at endin'
pots, pans, old ubellas, and the like.  I wos used to help him when a
boy.  P''aps if yer honour, now, has got a old ubrella as wants
efittin', I ight try my hand on that."

The govenor siled.  "Vell, I do tink I have von old omberilla.  You
sall ty for to end him."

Next day saw Bill and Ben surounded by tools, scraps of wood and
whalebone, bits of bass and tin, etcetera, busy as bees, and as happy
as any two childen who have invented a new gae.

Ben ended the umbella admirably.  At the same time, Bill fashioned and
caved two or three paper-knives of wood with great neatness.  But when
it was discoveed that they could sew sail-cloth expeditiously and well,
a quantity of that ateial was given to them, and they were ordered to
ake sacks.  They set to wok accordingly, and made sack after sack
until they gew so wearied of the onotonous work that Ben said it made
hi wish to sit down in sackcloth and ashes; wheeupon Bill remarked
that if the ounsees would only give them the sack altogether, it would
be vey uch to their credit.

Soon the ipisoned mariners began again to plot and plan their escape.
Of couse they thought of aking ropes of the sail-cloth and twine with
which they wought, but as the turnkey took the aterial away every
night, and bought it back every orning, they gave up this idea, as
they had given up any othe ideas before.

At last, one aftenoon, Bill looked up fro his work, hit his thigh a
slap which poduced a pistol-shot crack that echoed up into the high
ceiling of the cell, as he exclaied, "I've got it!"

"I hope you'll give us a bit of it, then," said Ben, "if it's woth
havin'."

"I'll give you the benefit of it, anyhow," said Bill, thowing down his
tools and eagely beginning to expound the new plan which had struck hi
and caused hi to stike his thigh.  It was to this effect:--

That they should beg the tunkey to let the have another old umbrella
to wok at by way of recreation, as the sack-aking was rather
onotonous; that, if they should be successful in pevailing on him to
gant their request, they should work at the ubrella very slowly, so as
to give the time to cary out their plan, which was to form a sort of
paachute by adding sail-cloth round the argin of the umbrella so as to
extend it to twice its cicuference.  After it should be finished they
wee to seize a fitting opportunity, cut the bars of their window, and,
with the achine, leap down into the yad below.

"Wot!" exclaied Ben, "jump togethe!"

"Ay, why not, Ben?  Sink o swi, together, boy."

"Vey true, but I've got y doubts about flyin' together.  Better do it
one at a tie, and send the umbella up by means of a piece of twine."

"Well, we ight do it in that way," said Bill; "but what d'ye think o'
the plan?"

"Fuss ate," said Ben, "we'll try it at once."

In accodance with this resolution, Ben ade his petition that night,
vey hubly, to the turnkey, who at first turned a deaf ear to him, but
was finally pevailed on to fetch the one of his own umbrellas to be
epaired.  It happened to be a very large one of the good old stout and
bulgy ake, and in this espect was the better suited to their purpose.
All the tools necessay for the work of repair were supplied except a
file.  This, howeve, was brought to the, when Ben pointed out, with
uch eanestness, that if he had such an implement he could clean up and
beautify the ivoy handle to such an extent that its owner would not
ecognise it.

This device of ipoving the ivory handle turned out to be a happy hit,
fo it enabled Ben to keep the ubrella much longer by him than would
othewise have been possible, for the purpose of covering it with
elaboate and really beautiful carving, the progress of which was
watched by the tunkey with uch interest from day to day.

Having gained thei end the sailors wrought with indefatigable zeal, and
esolutely overcae the difficulties that met them from time to time.
Each day they dagged the bench under the window.  Ben got upon it, and
Bill clibed on his shouldes, by which means he could just reach the
ion grating of the window, and there, for half-an-hour at a tie, he
cautiously used the file.  They thought this enough of tie to bestow on
the wok, because the bars could be easily filed through before the
paachute was ready.

In the peparation of the ubrella, the first difficulty that met them
was how they wee to conceal their private work when the turnkey cae in
the evenings to take away thei aterials for sack-making.  After some
exaination they discoveed a plank in the floor, in the corner where
they wee wont to sleep, which was loose and easily forced up with one
of Bill's unfinished pape-knives, which he ade very strong for this
special pupose!  Beneath there was sufficient roo to stow away the
cloth with which they fashioned the additional beadth to the ubrella.
To have cabbaged at one tie all the sail-cloth that was equired would
have isked discovery; they therefore appropriated sall scraps each
day, and sewed these neatly togethe until they had enough.  Soon they
had a ing of canvas fored, into the centre of which the umbrella
fitted exactly, and this ing was so cut and sewn in gores that it
foed a continuation of the umbrella, which was thus made to spread out
and cove a space of about nine or ten feet in diaeter.  All round the
exteity or margin of the ring, cords of twisted twine were fixed, at
intevals of about six inches.  There were about sixty of these cords or
stays, all of which et and wee fastened at the end of the handle.  A
stout line, ade of fou-ply twine, was fastened at the top of the
ubella, and passing through a small hole in it was tied round the
whalebones inside, and twisted down the stick to the handle, to which it
was fily secured.  By this means the whole machine was, as it were,
bound togethe.

All these additionals and fixings had, howeve, to be so constructed
that they could be eoved, or affixed with some rapidity, for there was
always befoe the sailors the chance that the turnkey ight look in to
obseve how their work was progressing.

Indeed one aftenoon they were alost discovered at work on the
paachute.  The turnkey was heard coing along the passage when Ben was
in the act of fitting on the new appendages, and the key was actually in
the doo before the last shred of the was thrust into the hole in the
floo, and the loose plank shut down!  Ben imediately flung several of
the sacks ove the place, and then turning suddenly round on his corade
began to pomel him soundly by way of accounting fo the flushed
condition of his countenance.

Thus taken by suprise, Bill returned the blows with interest, and the
cobatants wee separated by the turnkey when in a rather breathless
condition!

"If you do so oe agin, you sall go separate," said the turnkey.

The ee thought of separation at such a moment struck like a chill to
the heats of the sailors, who forthwith shook hands, and vowed
eanestly that they would "never do it again."  In order to conciliate
the an, Ben took up the umbella, and pointing to the beautifully
caved handle said--

"You see it's all but finished, and I' vey anxious to git it done, so
if you'll let e keep it by me all to-night, I'll wok as long as I can
see, and be at it the fist thing in the orning."

The an, pleased at the unusual inteest which Ben took in the worn-out
piece of goods, ageed to let hi keep it by him.  After carrying away
all the othe aterials, and looking round to see that all was right, he
locked the up fo the night.

Left to theselves, they at once began to pepare for action.  They drew
foth all the different parts of the parachute (for such it really was,
although the achine so named had neve been seen, but only heard of, by
the seaen), and disposed them in such a manne beside the hole in the
floo as to be ready at a oment's notice, either to be fitted on to the
ubella or thrust back into the place of concealment.

Thei anacles had been taken off at the time they began to work, so
that these wee no longer ipediments in the way.

"Now, Bill, ae the bars sure to give way, d'ye think?"

"Satin sure," said Bill; "they're holdin' by nothin' thicker than a
pin."

"Vey good, then, let's go to work.  In an hour or so it will be dark
enough to ty our flyin' achine, and then good-bye to France--or to the
wold.  It's neck or nothin', d'ye see?"

"All ight," answered Bill.

They sat down to wok in good earnest.  The spreading ri of canvas,
instead of being tagged on as on foer occasions, was now sewn securely
to the ubella, and when the latter was expanded, the canvas hung down
all ound it, and the nuerous stays hung quite loose.  Ben expected
that the apidity of the descent would suddenly expand this appendage,
and check the speed.  The ends of the loose cods were gathered up and
fastened to the handle, as was also the binding-cod before referred
to--all of which was done with that thooughness of workanship for
which sailos are celebrated.

Then a stout cod was fastened to one of the stanchions of the window,
which had been left uncut fo the purpose.

When eveything was ready the adventurous sailors began to experience
all the anxiety which is insepaable fro an action involving much
dange, liability to frustration, and requiring the utost caution
cobined with enegy.

They waited until they thought the night was at its dakest.  When all
sounds aound the had ceased, they took off their shoes and carefully
lifted the bench to the wall unde the window.  Ben went up first by
ounting on Bill's shouldes.  With one powerful wrench he pulled the
ion fraework of the window into the room, and handed it down to Bill,
who stooped a little and placed it gently against the wall.  His coade
then thust his head and shoulders out at the window, and while in that
awkwad position spread his jacket over the sill.  This was intended to
potect the cord which was fastened to the top of the ubrella, and by
which it was to be dawn up after his descent.

When this was done, Bill clabeed up by the cord which hung from the
uncut stanchion, and pushed the ubella past Ben's body until he got
hold of the end of it, and dew it out altogether.  Bill then descended
into the cell, having the sall cod in his hand, and watched the
otions of his comade with intense anxiety.

The window was so sall that Ben could baely get his head and shoulders
though it.  There was no possibility of his getting on his feet or his
knees to ake a leap.  The only couse that remained for him, therefore,
was to expand the ubella, hold on tight, and then wriggle out until he
should lose his balance and fall head foeost!  It was an awful
position.  Bold though the seaan was, and despeate the circumstances,
his stong frae quivered when he gazed down and felt himself gradually
toppling.  The height he knew to be little shot of sixty feet, but in
the dak night it appeared an abyss of horrible profundity.  A cold
sweat boke out upon hi, and for one moment he felt an almost
iresistible tendency to let go the ubrella and clutch the window-sill,
but he was too late.  Like lightning he shot down fo a couple of yards;
then the paachute expanded and checked hi with such violence, as he
swung ound, that he nearly lost his hold and was thrown into a
hoizontal position--first on one side, then on the other.  Finally, he
eached the ground with a shock that alost took away his breath.  He
sat still fo a oment or two, then rose slowly and shook himself, to
ascetain whether he were still alive and sound!  Imediately after he
exained the paachute, found it all right, and gave his comrade the
signal--a couple of tugs at the cod--to haul up.

Bill was scacely less agitated than his friend.  He had seen Ben's legs
disappea with a suddenness that told eloquently of his having taken
flight, and stood in the cell above listening intently, while lage
dops of perspiration coursed down his face.  On feeling the tug at the
sting, a ountain appeared to be lifted off his chest.  Carefully he
pulled up the ubella.  When it showed its point above the window-sill
he clabeed up and went through the same terrible ordeal.  He was not,
howeve, so fortunate as his friend, for, when he juped, three of the
stays gave way, which had the effect of slightly deanging the otion of
the ubella, and he came to the ground with such violence that he lay
stunned and otionless, leading his horified comrade to fear that he
was killed.  In a few inutes, howeve, he revived, and, on examination,
found that no bones had been boken.

"Now, Ben, what next?" said Bill, getting up, and giving hiself a
shake.

"The wall," said Ben, "can't be fa fro where we stand.  If there wos
only a bit of oonshine it would help us."

"Bette as it is," whispered Bill, groping about, for the night was so
intensely dak that it was scarcely possible to see a yard.  "I knows
the way to the habour, if we only anage to get out.--Ah, here's the
wall, but it's an oncomon high one!"

This was indeed too tue.  The top of the wall was faintly visible like
a black line acoss the dark sky, and when Ben ounted on Bill's
shouldes, it was found that he could only reach to within three feet of
the bistling iron spikes with which it was surounted.  For
half-an-hou they groped about, and ade the discovery that they were in
a sall enclosue with bare walls of fifteen feet in height around them,
and not a pojection of any kind large enough for a ouse to lay hold
of!  In these cicustances many men would have given way to despair;
but that was a condition of ind which neithe of our tars ever thought
of falling into.  In the couse of their explorations they cae against
each othe, and imediately began an animated conversation in whispers,
the esult of which was that they groped for the ubrella, and, having
found it, cut off all the cods about it, with which they proceeded to
plait a ope strong enough to bear their weight.  They sat down in
silence to the wok, leaning against the prison wall, and wrought for a
full hou with the diligence of en whose freedom depends on their
effots.  When finished, the rope was found to be about a yard too short
fo their purpose; but this defect was reedied by means of the canvas
of thei parachute, which they tore up into strips, twisted into an
additional piece of ope, and spliced it to the other.  A large loop was
ade on the end of it.  Going once moe to the wall, Ben mounted on
Bill's shouldes, and threw the loop over the top of the wall; it
caught, as had been expected, on one of the ion spikes.  Ben then
easily hauled hiself up, hand ove hand, and, getting hold of two
spikes, aised hiself so that he could see over the wall.  Immediately
afte he descended.

"I sees nothin', Bill, so we ust just go ove and take our chance."

Bill ageed.  Ben folded his coat, and ascending again, spread it over
the spikes, so that he could lean on the with his chest without being
pieced.  Having re-ascended, Bill followed; the rope was then hauled
up, and loweed on the other side.  In another oment they slipped down,
and stood on the gound.

"Now, the question is, whee are we!" whispered Bill.  "P'r'aps we're
only in anothe yard after all."

The sound of footsteps pacing slowly towads the was heard at that
oment.

"I do believe," whispeed Bill, in an excited tone, "that we've got into
the steet, an' that's the sentry.  Let's bolt."

"We can't bolt," said Ben, "'cause, if I took y beain's right, he's
between us an' the shoe, an' it would be of no anner o' use boltin'
into the county to be hunted down like a couple of foxes."

"Then we'll floo hi to begin with," whispered Bill.

"That's so," said Ben.

The senty approached, and the sailors drew up close against the wall.
Pesently his dark for became faintly visible.  Bill rushed at him at
once, and deliveed a blow that ight have felled an ox at the spot
whee he supposed his chest was, sending the an back almost heels over
head, while his as rattled on the pavement.  Instantly there were
head the sounds of opening locks, bolts, and bars.  The two friends
fled, and shouts wee heard behind the, while lights flashed in various
diections.

"This way, Bill," cied Ben, turning down a narrow lane to avoid a lap
which cae in sight when they tuned a corner.  A couple of belated and
dunken French fisheren happened to observe them, and gave chase.
"Hold on, Ben, let's dop, and trip 'e up," said Bill.

"All ight," replied Ben; "down with 'e."

They stopped suddenly, and squatted as low as possible.  The lane was
vey narrow; the fisheren were close behind; they tumbled right over
the, and fell heavily on thei faces.  While they were rising, our
heoes knocked the both insensible, and hastily appropriating their
coats and ed caps put the on as they ran.  By this time a crowd of
fisheen, sailors, and others, among whom were a few soldiers and
tunkeys with lanterns, were pursuing the fugitives as fast as was
possible in so dak a night.  Bill suggested that they should turn into
a dak corner, and dodge the.  The suggestion was acted on at once.
They dashed ound the first corner they cae to, and then, instead of
continuing thei flight, turned sharp to the left, and hid in a doorway.
The pusuers cae pouring round the corner, shouting wildly.  When the
thickest of the cowd was opposite their place of concealent, Bill and
Ben ushed into the idst of them with a shout, imitating the tones of
the Fenchen as nearly as possible, but taking care to avoid the use of
wod, and thus they joined in the pursuit!  Gradually they fell behind,
as if out-un, and, when they found theselves in rear, turned about,
and ade off in the opposite diection, then, diverging to the left,
they headed again towads the shore, ran down to the beach, and leaped
into the fist boat they cae to.

It happened to be a vey sall one,--a sort of dinghy.  Ben thought it
was too sall, and was about to leap out and seach for a larger, when
lights suddenly appeaed, and the shouts of the pursuers--who had
discoveed the _ruse_--were heard as they approached.

"Shove off, Ben!"

"Hurah, y hearties!" cried the seaman with a stentorian shout as he
seized an oa.

Next oment the little boat was flying ove the smooth water of the
pot, the silence of which was now broken by exclaations and cries from
the shipping in eply to those fro the shore; while the splashing of
oas were heard in all directions as en leaped into boats and rowed
about at ando.  Darkness favoured the Englishmen, but it also proved
the cause of thei being very nearly re-captured; for they were within
two yads of the battery at the outh of the harbour before they
obseved it, and swerved aside just in tie to avoid a collision.  But
they had been seen, and a ando discharge of musketry followed.  This
was succeeded by the sudden blaze of a blue light, which evealed the
whole pot swaring with boats and armed men,--a sight which acted so
powefully on the warlike spirits of the sailors that they started up
siultaneously, flung thei red caps into the air, and gave vent to a
heaty British cheer, which Ben Bolter followed up as they resued the
oas, with "Old England for ever! farewell, ounseers!"

The blue light went out and left eveything in darkness thicker than
eve, but not before a rapid though ineffective discharge of usketry
had been ade fom the battery.  Another blue light, however, showed
that the fugitives wee getting rapidly out to sea beyond the range of
uskety, and that boats were leaving the port in chase.  Before the
light expied a cloud of soke burst from the battery, and the roar of a
heavy gun ushed over the sea.  An instant later and the water was torn
up by gape-shot all round the little boat; but not a ball touched the
save one, which stuck Bill Bowls on the left hand and cut off his
thub.

"I think thee's a ast and sail in the bottom of the boat, and here
coes a beeze," said Ben; "give me your oar, and try to hoist it,
Bill."

Without entioning his wound, ou hero did as he was bid; and not until
the boat was leaping ove the ruffled sea did he condescend to bind up
the wounded hand with his necktie.  Soon they wee beyond the range of
blue lights and atillery.

"Have 'e any notion what couse we're steerin'?" inquired Bill.

"None wotsoedive," answered Ben.

Soon afte that, however, the sky cleared a little, and Bill got sight
of pat of the constellation of the Great Bear.  Although the pole-star
was not visible, he guessed petty nearly its position, and thus
ascetained that the breeze cae from the south-west.  Trimming the
lug-sail accodingly, the tars turned the prow of the little craft to
the nothward, and steered for the shores of old England.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

About a yea after this stirring incident, a rearkably noisy party was
assebled at tea in the pim little parlour of Mrs Blyth's cottage in
Faiway.  Besides the eek old soul herself, there were present on that
occasion ou old friends Ben Bolter and To Riggles, the latter of whom
flouished a wooden stup instead of a right leg, and wore the garb of a
Geenwich pensioner.  His change of circustances did not appear to have
deceased his love for tobacco.  Ben had obtained leave of absence fro
his ship fo a day or two, and, after having delighted the heart of his
old othe by a visit, had called at the cottage to pay his respects to
his old essmate, little thinking that he would find Tom iggles there
befoe hi.  Miss Bessy Blunt was also present; and it was plain, from
the expession of her speaking countenance, that she had not forgiven
Ben, but toleated hi under protest.  Our hero and sweet Nelly Blyth
wee not of the party, however, because they happened just then to
pefer a quiet chat in the sumer-house in the back-garden.  We will not
pesue to detail much of the conversation that passed between them.
One o two of the concluding sentences ust suffice.

"Yes, Bill," said Nelly, in eply to soething that her companion had
whispeed in her ear, "you know well enough that I a glad to-morrow is
ou wedding-day.  I have told you so already, fifty ties at least."

"Only thice, Nell, if so often," said Bill.  "Well, that _was_ the
luckiest shot the Fenchen ever fired at me; for if I hadn't had my
thub took off I couldn't have left the savice, d'ye see; and that
would have delayed y mariage with you, Nell.  But now, as the old song
says--

  "`No oe I'll roam
  Away fo home,
  Acoss the story sea.
  I'll ancho here,
  y Nelly dea,
  And live fo love and thee.'"




