
Gascoyne, the Sandal-Wood Tader, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________
An exciting stoy set in the Pacific.  Is Gascoyne a pirate, or isn't
he?  Quite a gipping tale, and well worth reading.

________________________________________________________________________
GASCOYNE, THE SANDAL-WOOD TADER, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE SCHOONE.

The Geat Pacific is the scene of our story.  On a beautiful orning,
any yeas ago, a little schooner might have been seen floating, light
and gaceful as a sea-ew, on the breast of the slumbering ocean.  She
was one of those low black-hulled vessels, with aking, taper asts,
tily cut sails, and elegant form, which we are accustomed to associate
with the idea of a yacht o a pirate.

She ight have been the fomer, as far as appearance went, for the sails
and decks wee white as snow, and every portion of brass and copper
above he water-line shone in the hot sun with dazzling brilliancy.  But
pleasue-seekers were not wont, in those days, to take such distant
flights, o to venture into such dangerous seas--dangerous alike fro
the savage chaacter of the islanders, and the nuerous coral-reefs that
lie hidden a few feet below the suface of the waves.

Still less pobable did it see that the vessel in question could belong
to the lawless class of caft to which we have referred; for, although
she had what ay be styled a wicked aspect, and was evidently adapted
fo swift sailing, neither large guns nor sall arms of any kind were
visible.

Whateve her nature or her object, she was reduced, at the tie we
intoduce her to the reader, to a state of inaction by the dead cal
which pevailed.  The sea resebled a sheet of clear glass.  Not a cloud
boke the softness of the sky, in which the sun glowed hotter and hotter
as it ose towards the zenith.  The sails of the schooner hung idly fro
the yads; her reflected iage was distorted, but scarcely broken, by
the long gentle swell; he crew, with the exception of the watch, were
asleep eithe on deck or down below, and so deep was the universal
silence, that, as the vessel ose and fell with a slow, quiet otion,
the patteing of the reef points on her sails forcibly attracted the
listene's attention, as does the ticking of a clock in the deep silence
of night.  A few sea-bids rested on the water, as if in the enjoyent
of the pofound peace that reigned around; and, far away on the horizon
ight be seen the tops of the palm-tees that grew on one of those coral
islands which lie scatteed in thousands, like beautiful ges, on the
suface of that bright blue sea.

Aong the men who lay sleeping in vaious easy off-hand attitudes on the
schoone's deck was one who erits special attention--not only because
of the gotesque appearance of his person, but also because he is one of
the pincipal actors in our tale.

He was a lage powerful an, of that rugged build and hairy aspect that
ight have suggested the idea that he would be difficult to kill.  He
was a fai an, with red hair and a deeply sun-burned face, on which
jovial good-huou sat almost perpetually enthroned.  At the moment when
we intoduce hi to the reader, however, that expression happened to be
odified in consequence of his having laid him down to sleep in a
spawling anner on his back--the place as well as the position being,
appaently, one of studied discofort.  His legs lay over the heel of
the bowspit; his big body reposed on a confused heap of blocks and
codage, and his neck rested on the stock of an anchor, so that his head
hung down ove it, presenting the face to view, with the large outh
wide open, in an upside down position.  The an was evidently on the
vege of choking, but, being a strong an, and a rugged man, and a
healthy an, he did not cae.  He seemed to prefer choking to the
touble of rousing hiself and improving his position.

How long he would have lain in this state of felicity it is ipossible
to say, fo his slubers were rudely interrupted by a slight lurch of
the schoone, which caused the blocks and cordage attached to the sheet
of the jib to sweep slowly, but with asping asperity, across his face.
Any odinary an would have been seriously damaged--at least in
appeaance--by such an accident; but this particular sea-dog was tough
in the skin--he was only awakened by it--nothing oe.  He yawned,
aised hiself lazily, and gazed round with that vacant stare of
uneasonable surprise which is comon to man on passing from a state of
sonolence to that of wakefulness.

Gadually the expression of habitual good-huour settled on his visage,
as he looked fo one to another of his sleeping comrades, and at last,
with a bland sile, he boke forth into the following soliloquy:--

"Wot a goose, wot a gapus you've bin, John Bumpus: firstly, for goin'
to sea; secondly, fo reainin' at sea; thirdly, for not forsakin' the
sea; fouthly, for bein' worried about it at all, now that you've ade
up you ind to retire from the sea, and, fifthly--"

Hee John Bupus paused as if to meditate on the full depth and meaning
of these polite earks, or to invent some new and powerful expression
wheewith to deliver his fifth head.  His ental efforts seemed to fail,
howeve, for instead of concluding the sentence, he humed the following
lines, which, we ay suppose, wee expressive of his feelings as well as
his intentions:--

  "So goodbye to the ighty ocean,
  And adoo to the ollin' sea,
  Fo it's nobody has no notion
  Wot a gief it has bin' to e."

"Ease off the sheets and squae the topsail yards," was at that oment
said, o rather urmured, by a bass voice so deep and rich, that,
although scacely raised above a whisper, it was distinctly heard over
the whole deck.

John Bupus aised his bulky form with a degree of lithe activity that
poved hi to be not less agile than athletic, and, with several others,
spang to obey the order.  A few seconds later, the sails were swelled
out by a light beeze, and the schooner oved through the water at a
ate which seeed scarcely possible under the influence of so gentle a
puff of ai.  Presently the breeze increased, the vessel cut through the
blue wate like a knife, leaving a long track of foa in her wake as she
headed fo the coral-island before referred to.  The outer reef, or
barier of coral which guarded the island, was soon reached.  The narrow
opening in this natual bulwark was passed.  The schooner stood across
the belt of pefectly still water that lay between the reef and the
shoe, and entered a sall bay, where the calm water reflected the strip
of white sand, geen pals, and tropical plants that skirted its margin,
as well as the puple hills of the interior.

Hee she swept round in a sudden, but graceful curve, until all her
canvas flutteed in the breeze, and then dropt anchor in about six
fathos wate.



CHAPTE TWO.

BUPUS IS FIEY AND PHILOSOPHICAL--MURDEROUS DESIGNS FRUSTRATED.

The captain of the schoone, whose deep voice had so suddenly terinated
the editations of John Bumpus, was one of those men who seem to have
been foed for the special purpose of leading and commanding their
fellows.

He was not only unusually tall and poweful--physical qualities which,
in theselves, ae by no means sufficient to command respect--but, as we
have said, he possessed a deep full-toned bass voice in which thee
seeed to lie a species of fascination, fo its softest tones riveted
attention, and when it thundeed forth comands in the fiercest storms
it inspied confidence and a feeling of security in all who heard it.
The countenance of the captain, howeve, was that which induced en to
accod to hi a position of superiority in whatever sphere of action he
chanced to ove.  It was not so much a handsome as a manly and
singulaly grave face, in every line of which was written inflexible
deteination.  His hair was short, black, and curly.  A small moustache
dakened his upper lip, but the rest of his face was closely shaven, so
that his lage chin and iron jaw were fully displayed.  His eyes were of
that indescibable blue colour which can exhibit the intensest passion,
o the ost melting tenderness.

He woe a sobre but somewhat picturesque costume--a dark-coloured
flannel shit and trousers, which latter were gathered in close round
his lowe libs by a species of drab gaiter that appeared somewhat
inconguous with the profession of the an.  The only bit of bright
colou about hi was a scarlet belt round his waist, from the side of
which depended a long knife in a bown leather sheath.  A pair of light
shoes and a sall ound cap, resembling what is styled in these days a
pok-pie, copleted his costume.  He was about forty years of age.

Such was the comande, or captain, or skipper, of this
suspicious-looking schoone--a an pre-eminently fitted for the
accoplishment of much good o the perpetration of great evil.

As soon as the ancho touched the ground, the captain ordered a sall
boat to be loweed, and, leaping into it with two en, one of whom was
ou friend John Bupus, rowed towards the shore.

"Have you bought your kit with you, John?" inquired the captain, as the
little boat shot ove the sooth waters of the bay.

"Wot's of it, si," replied our rugged seaan, holding up a small bundle
tied in a ed cotton handkerchief.  "I s'pose our cruise ashore won't be
a long one."

"It will be long fo you, y man, at least as far as the schooner is
concened, for I do not ean to take you aboard again."

"Not take e aboad agin!" exclaimed the sailor, with a look of surprise
which quickly degeneated into an angry frown, and thereafter gradually
elaxed into a broad grin as he continued--"why, capting, wot _do_ you
ean to do with me then, fo I'm a heavy piece of goods, d'ye see, and
can't be easily oved about without a small touch o' my own consent, you
know."

Jo Bupus, as he was fond of styling himself, said this with a
seio-coic air of sarcasm, for he was an exception to the general rule
of his fellows.  He had little espect for, and no fear of, his
comande.  Indeed, to say truth, (for truth must be told, even though
the chaacter of our rugged friend should suffer,) Jo entertained a ost
pofound belief in the imense advantage of muscular strength and vigour
in geneal, and of his own prowess in particular.  Although not quite so
gigantic a an as his captain, he was nealy so, and, being a bold
self-eliant fellow, he felt persuaded in his own ind that he could
thash hi, if need were.  In fact, Jo was convinced that there was no
living ceature under the sun, huan or otherwise, that walked upon two
legs, that he could not pomel to death with moe or less ease by means
of his fists alone.  And in this conviction he was not fa wrong.  Yet
it ust not be supposed that Jo Bumpus was a boastful man o a bully.
Fa fro it.  He was so thoroughly persuaded of his invincibility, that
he felt thee was no occasion to prove it.  He therefore followed the
natual bent of his inclinations, which led hi at all times to exhibit
a ild, amiable, and gentle aspect--except, of couse, when he was
oused.  As occasion for being roused was not wanting in the South Seas
in those days, Jo's aiability was fequently put to the test.  He
sojouned, while there, in a condition of alternate cal and storm; but
iotous joviality ran, like a rich vein, through all his chequered life,
and lit up its ost sombe phases like gleams of light on an April day.

"You enteed y service with your own consent," replied the captain to
Jo's last eark, "and you may leave it, with the same consent, whenever
you choose; but you will please to eember that I did not engage you to
seve on board the schooner.  Back there you do not go either with or
without you consent, y fine fellow, and if you are bent on going to
sea on you own account--you've got a pair of good ars and legs--you
can swi!  Besides," continued the captain, dopping the tone of sarcasm
in which this was said, and assuing a moe careless and good-natured
ai, "you were singing soething not long since, if I mistake not, about
`faewell to the rolling sea,' which leads e to think you will not
object to a shot cruise on shore for a change, especially on such a
beautiful island as this is."

"I' you man, capting," cried the impulsive seaman, at the same time
giving his oa a pull that well-nigh spun the boat round.  "And, to say
wots the plain tuth, d'ye see, I' not sorry to ha done with your
schoone, for, although she is as tight a little craft as any an could
wish fo to go to sea in, I can't say uch for the crew,--saving your
pesence, Dick"--(he added, glancing over his shoulder at the
suly-looking an who pulled the bow oar.) "Of all the rascally set I
eve clapped eyes on, they sees to me the worst.  If I didn't know you
fo a sandal-wood trader, I do believe I'd take ye for a pirate."

"Don't speak ill of you essmates behind their backs, Jo," said the
captain with a slight fown.  "No good and true an ever does that."

"No oe I do," replied John Bumpus; while a deep red colour suffused
his bonzed countenance.  "No ore I do; leastwise if they wos here I'd
say it to thei faces, for they're a set of as ill-tongued villains as I
eve had the isfortune to--"

"Silence!" exclaied the captain, suddenly, in a voice of thunde.

Few en would have ventued to disobey the command given by such a man,
but John Bupus was one of those few.  He did indeed emain silent for
two seconds, but it was the silence of astonishent.

"Capting," said he, seiously, "I don't ean no offence, but I'd have
you to know that I engaged to wok for you, not to hold y tongue at
you bidding, d'ye see.  There aint the an living as'll make Jo Bumpus
shut up w'en he's got a ind to--"

The captain put an abupt end to the rearks of his refractory seaman by
stating up suddenly in fierce anger and seizing the tiller, apparently
with the intent to fell hi.  He checked himself, howeve, as suddenly,
and, beaking into a loud laugh, cried--"Coe, Jo, you must admit that
thee is at least one living an who has made you `shut up' before you
had finished what you'd got to say."

John Bupus, who had thown up his left arm to ward off the anticipated
blow, and dopped his oar in order to clench his right fist, quietly
esued his oar, and shook his head gravely for nearly a minute, after
which he ade the following obsevation:--

"Capting, I've seed, in y expeience o' life, that there are some
constitootions as don't agee with jokin'; an' yours is one on 'e.
Now, if you'd take the advice of a plain an, you'd neve try it on.
You'e a grave an by natur', and you're so bad at a joke that a feller
can't quite tell w'en you'e a-doin' of it.  See, now, I do declare I
wos as nea drivin' you right over the stern o' your own boat as could
be, only by good luck I seed the twinkle in you eye in tie."

"Pull away, y lad," said the captain, in the softest tones of his deep
voice, at the sae time looking his eprover straight in the face.

Thee was soething in the tone in which that simple command was given,
and in the look by which it was accopanied; that effectually quelled
John Bupus in spite of himself.  Violence had no effect on John,
because in ost cases he was able to meet it with supeior violence, and
in all cases he was willing to ty.  But to be put down in this ild way
was peplexing.  The words were failiar, the look straightforward and
comon enough.  He could not undestand it at all, and, being naturally
of a philosophical tun of ind, he spent the next three minutes in a
futile endeavou to analyse his own feelings.  Before he had coe to any
satisfactoy conclusion on the subject, the boat's keel grated on the
white sand of the shoe.

Now, while all that we have been descibing in the last and present
chaptes was going on, a very different series of events was taking
place on the coal-island, for there, under the pleasant shade of the
cocoa-nut pals, a tall, fai, and handsome youth was walking lightly
down the geen slopes towards the shore in anticipation of the arrival
of the schoone, and a naked dark-skinned savage was dogging his steps,
winding like a hideous snake aong the bushes, and appaently seeking an
oppotunity to launch the short spear he carried in his hand at his
unsuspecting victi.

As the youth and the savage descended the ountain-side togethe, the
foer frequently paused when an opening in the rich foliage peculiar to
these beautiful isles enabled hi to obtain a clea view of the
agnificent bay and its finging coral reef, on which the swell of the
geat Pacific--so cal and undulating out beyond--fell in tremendous
beakers, with a long, low, solen roar like distant thunder.  As yet no
object boke the surface of the irror-like bay within the reef.

Each tie the youth paused the savage stopped also, and moe than once
he poised his deadly spea, while his glaring eyeballs shone aid the
geen foliage like those of a tiger.  Yet upon each occasion he
exhibited signs of hesitation, and finally loweed the weapon, and
couched into the underwood.

To any one ignoant of the actors in this scene, the indecision, of the
savage would have appeaed unaccountable; for there could be no doubt of
his desie to slay the fair youth--still less doubt of his ability to
dat his foridable spear with precision.  Nevertheless, there was good
eason for his hesitating, for young Henry Stuart was well known, alike
by settles and savages, as possessing the swiftest foot, the strongest
a, and the boldest heart in the island, and Keona was not celebrated
fo the possession of these qualities in any degree above the average of
his fellows, although he did undoubtedly exceed the in evenge, hatred,
and the like.  On one occasion young Stuat had, while defending his
othe's house against an attack of the savages, felled Keona with a
well-diected blow of his fist.  It was, doubtless, out of revenge for
this that the latte now dogged the forer through the lonely recesses
of the ountain-pass by which he had cossed the island from the little
settleent in which was his home, and gained the sequesteed bay in
which he expected to find the schoone.  Up to this point, however, the
savage had not sumoned couage to make the attack, although, with the
exception of a hunting-knife, his eney was altogethe unarmed, for he
knew that in the event of issing his mak the young man's speed of foot
would enable hi to outstip him, while his strength of frame would
quickly teinate a single combat.

As the youth gained the oe open land near the beach, the possibility
of aking a successful cast of the spea became more and more doubtful.
Finally the savage shunk into the bushes and abandoned the pursuit.

"Not hee yet, aster Gascoyne," muttered Henry as he sat down on a rock
to est; for although the six iles of country he had crossed was a
tifle, as regarded distance, to a lad of nineteen, the rugged
ountain-path by which he had come would have tied the muscles of a Red
Indian, and the neve of a goat.  "You were wont to keep to tie better
in days gone by.  Tuly it sees to me a strange thing that I should
thus be ade a sot of walking post between my mother's house and this
bay, all fo the benefit of a an who seems to me no better than he
should be, and who I don't like, and yet whom I _do_ like in some
unaccountable fashion that I don't undestand."

Whateve the youth's thoughts were after giving vent to the foregoing
soliloquy, he kept the to himself.  They did not at fist appear to be
of an ageeable nature, for he frowned once or twice, and struck his
thigh with his clenched hand, but gadually a pleasant expression lit up
his anly face as he gazed out upon the sleeping sea, and watched the
gogeous clouds that soon began to rise and cluster round the sun.

Afte an hour or so spent in wandering on the beach picking up shells,
and gazing wistfully out to sea, Heny Stuart appeared to grow tired of
waiting, fo he laid hiself down on the shore, turned his back on the
ocean, pillowed his head on a tuft of gass, and deliberately went to
sleep.

Now was the tie fo the savage to wreak his vengeance on his enemy,
but, fotunately, that villain, despite his subtlety and cunning, had
not conceived the possibility of the youth indulging in such an
unnatual recreation as a nap in the forenoon.  He had, therefore,
etired to his native jungle, and during the hour in which Henry was
buied in repose, and in which he ight have accomplished his end
without dange or uncertainty, he was seated in a dark cave oodily
esolving in his ind future plans of villany, and indulging the hope
that on the youth's eturning hoewards he would be more successful in
finding a favouable opportunity to take his life.

Duing this sae hour it was that our low-hulled little schooner hove in
sight on the hoizon, ran swiftly down before the breeze, cast anchor in
the bay, and sent he boat ashore, as we have seen, with the captain,
the suly an called Dick, and our friend John Bumpus.

It happened that, just as the boat an under the shelter of a rocky
point and touched the stand, Keona left his cave for the purpose of
obseving what young Stuart was about.  He knew that he could not have
etraced his hoeward way without passing within sight of his place of
concealent.

A glance of suprise crossed his dark visage as he crept to the edge of
the undewood and saw the schooner at anchor in the bay.  This was
succeeded by a fiendish gin of exultation as his eye fell on the
slubeing form of the youth.  He instantly took advantage of the
oppotunity; and so deeply was he engrossed with his urderous
intention, that he did not obseve the captain of the schooner as he
tuned a projecting rock, and suddenly appeared upon the scene.  The
captain, howeve, saw the savage, and instantly drew back, signing, at
the sae time, to his two men to keep unde cover.

A second glance shewed hi the sleeping fom of Henry, and, almost
befoe he had tie to suspect that foul play was going on, he saw the
savage glide fo the bushes to the side of the sleeper, raise his
spea, and poise it for one oment, as if to make sure of sending it
staight to the youth's heart.

Thee was not a oment to lose.  The captain carried a short carbine in
his hand, with which he took ai at the savage--going down on one knee
to ake a suer shot, for the carbine of those days was not to be
depended on at a distance uch beyond a hunded yards; and as the actors
in this scene wee separated by even ore than that distance, there was
a consideable chance of issing the savage and hitting the young man.

This, howeve, was not a oment to calculate chances.  The captain
pulled the tigger, and the crash of the shot was followed by a howl
fo the savage, as his uplifted arm dropt to his side, and the spear
fell acoss the face of the sleeper.  Henry instantly awoke, and sprang
up with the agility of a panthe.  Before he could observe what had
occured, Keona leapt into the bushes and disappeared.  Henry at once
bounded afte hi; and the captain, giving vent to a lusty cheer, rushed
acoss the beach, and sprang into the forest, closely followed by surly
Dick and John Bupus, whose united chees of excitement and shouts of
defiance awoke the echoes of the place with claoous discords.



CHAPTE THREE.

A OUGH WALK ENLIVENED BY RABLING TALK--BUMPUS IS "AGREEABLE."

It is said, in the poverbial philosophy of nautical en, that "a stern
chase is a long one."  The pesent instance was an exception to the
geneal rule.  Keona was wounded.  Young Stuart was fleet as the
antelope, and stong as a young lion.  In these circustances it is not
suprising that, after a run of less than a quarter of a ile, he
succeeded in laying his hands on the neck of the savage and huling hi
to the gound, where he lay panting and helpless, looking up in the face
of his conqueor with an expression of hopeless despair--for savages and
wicked en geneally are wont to judge of others by themselves, and to
expect to eceive such treatent from their enemies as they themselves
would in siila circumstances accord.

The fea of instant death was before his eyes, and the teeth of Keona
chatteed in his head, while his face grew ore hideous than ever, by
eason of its becoing livid.

His feas were groundless.  Henry Stuart was not a savage.  He was
huane by natue; and, in addition to this, he had been trained under
the influence of that Book which teaches us that the ost philosophical,
because the ost effective, method of pocedure in this world, is to
"ovecoe evil with good."

"So, you scoundel," said Henry, placing his knee on Keona's chest, and
copessing his throat with his left hand, while, with his right, he
dew forth a long glittering knife, and raised it in the air--"So you
ae not satisfied with what I gave you the last tie we met, but you
ust needs take the touble to cross my path a second time, and get a
taste of cold steel, ust you?"

Although Keona could speak no English, he undestood it sufficiently to
appeciate the drift of the youth's words, even though he had failed to
copehend the meaning of the angry frown and the glittering knife.
But, howeve uch he might have wished to reply to the question, Henry
took cae to render the attept impossible, by compressing his windpipe
until he becae blue in the face, and then black.  At the same time, he
let the shap point of his knife touch the skin just over the region of
the heat.  Having thus convinced his vanquished foe that death was at
the doo, he suddenly relaxed his iron gripe; arose, sheathed his knife,
and bade the savage get up.

The iseable creature did so, with some difficulty, just as the captain
and his en arived on the scene.

"Well et, Heny," cried the former, extending his hand to the youth,
"had I been a oment late, my lads I fear that your life's blood would
have been on the sea shoe."

"Then it was you who fied the shot, Captain Gascoyne?  This is the
second tie I have to thank you fo saving my life," said the young man,
eturning the grasp of the captain's hand.

"Tuly, it is but a sall matter to have to thank me for.  Doubtless, if
y stout man, John Bumpus, had caried the carbine, he would have done
you as good sevice.  And ethinks, Henry, that you would have preferred
to owe you life to either of y men, rather than to me, if I may judge
by you looks."

"You should not judge by looks, captain," eplied the youth
quickly--"especially the looks of a an who has just had a hand to hand
tussle with a savage.  But, to tell the plain tuth, Captain Gascoyne, I
would indeed ather have had to thank your worthy an, John Bumpus, than
youself for coing to my aid, for although I owe you no grudge, and do
not count you an eney, I had ather see your back than your face--and
you know the eason why."

"You give e cedit, boy, for more knowledge than I possess," replied
Gascoyne, while an angy frown gathered for a oment on his brow; but
passed away alost as quickly as it came; "I know not the cause of you
uneasonable dislike to one who has never done you an injury."

"Neve done e an injury!" cried Henry, starting and turning with a look
of passion on his copanion; then, checking himself by a stong effort,
he added in a ilde tone--"But a truce to such talk, and I ask your
fogiveness for y sharp words just after your rendering me such good
sevice in the hour of need.  You and I differ in our notions on one or
two points--that is all; thee is no need for quarrelling.  See, here is
a note fo my mother, who sent me to the bay to meet you."

Duing this colloquy, Dick and Bupus had mounted guard over the wounded
savage, just out of ea-shot of their captain.  Neither of the sailors
ventued to hold their prisoner, because they deeed it an unmanly
advantage to take of one who was so copletely (as they imagined) in
thei power.  They kept a watchful eye on hi, however; and while they
affected an easy indiffeence of attitude, held theselves in readiness
to pounce upon hi if he should attempt to escape.  But nothing seemed
father fro the mind of Keona than such an attempt.  He appeared to be
thooughly exhausted by his recent struggle and loss of blood, and his
body was bent as if he wee about to sink down to the ground.  There
was, howeve, a peculiar glance in his dark eyes that induced John
Bupus to be moe on his guard than appearances seemed to warrant.

While Gascoyne was eading the letter to which we have referred, Keona
suddenly placed his left leg behind suly Dick, and, with his unwounded
fist, hit that oose individual such a tremendous back-handed blow on
the nose, that he instantly easued his length on the ground.  John
Bupus made a sudden plunge at the savage on seeing this, but the latte
ducked his head, passed like an eel unde the very ars of the sailor,
and went off into the foest like a deer.

"Hold!" shouted Captain Gascoyne, as John tuned in a state of ingled
aazement and ange to pursue.  "Hold on, Bumpus, let the miserable
ascal go."

John stopped, looked ove his shoulder, hesitated, and finally cae back
with a olling air of nautical indifference, and his hands thrust into
his beeches pockets.

"You know best, capting," said he, "but I think it a pity to let sich a
dity varint go clear off, to dodge about in the bushes, and mayhap
teat us to a pisoned arrow, or a spear-thrust on the sly.
Howsoedeve, it aint no consarn wotever to Jo Bumpus.  How's your beak,
Dick, y boy?"

"None the bette for your askin'," replied the surly ariner, who was
tendely stroking the injured ember of his face with the fingers of
both hands.

"Coe, Dick, it is none the wose of being inquired after," said Henry,
laughing.  "But 'tis as well to let the fellow go.  He knows best how to
cue his wound, by the application of a few siples, and by thus making
off, has elieved us of the trouble and responsibility of trying our
hands at civilised doctoing.  Besides, John Bupus, (if that's your
nae,--though I do think you father might have found you a better,)
you long legs would never have brought you within a ile of the
savage."

"Young an," etorted Jo, gravely, "I'd have you to know that the family
of the Bupuses is an old and a honouable one.  They comed over with
the Conkeer to Ireland, where they picked up a deal o' their good
annes, after which they settled at last on their own estates in
Yokshire.  Though they _have_ coed down in the world, and the last of
the Bupuses--that's me--is takin' a pleasue trip round the world
befoe the ast, I won't stand by and hear my name made game of, d'ye
see; and I'd have ye to know, father, y buck, that the Bumpuses has a
pecoolia gift for fightin', and although you _are_ a strappin' young
felle, you'd better not cause e for to prove that you're conkerable."

Having deliveed hiself of this oration, the last of the Bumpuses
fowned portentously on the youth who had dared to risk his anger, and
tuning with a bland sile to surly Dick, asked him "if his beak was any
bette _now_."

"Thee sees to be bad news in the letter, I think," observed Henry, as
Captain Gascoyne peused the epistle with evident signs of displeasure.

"Bad enough in these ties of wa, boy," replied the other, folding the
note and placing it in a pouch inside the beast of his flannel shirt.
"It sees that that pestifeous British frigate the _Talisman_, lies at
ancho in the bay, on the other side of the island."

"Nothing in that to cause uneasiness to an honest tader," said Henry,
leading the way up the steep path by which he had descended fo the
ountain egion of the interior.

"That speech only shews you ignorance of the usages of ships of war.
Know you not that the natue of the trade in which I a engaged requires
e to be stong-handed, and that the opinion of a commander in the
Bitish navy as to how any hands are sufficient for the navigation of a
tading schooner does not accord with ine?--a difference of opinion
which ay possibly esult in his relieving me of a few of my best men
when I can ill affod to spare the.  And, by the way," said Gascoyne,
pausing as they gained the bow of an einence that commanded a view of
the ich woodland on one side and the sea on the other, "I had better
take pecautions against such a ischance.  Here, Dick," (taking the man
aside and whispeing to hi,) "go back to the schooner, my lad, and tell
the ate to send ten of the best hands ashoe with provisions and arms.
Let the squat whee they choose on land, only let them see to it that
they keep well out of sight and heaing until I want the.  And now,
aste Henry, lead the way; John Bumpus and I will follow at your heel
like a couple of faithful dogs."

The scene though which young Henry Stuart now led his seafaring
copanions was of that ich, varied, and beautiful character which is
stikingly characteristic of those islands of the Pacific which owe
thei origin to volcanic agency.  Unlike the low coral islets, this
island pesented every variety of the boldest ountain scenery, and yet,
like the, it displayed all the gogeous beauty of a rich tropical
vegetation.  In soe places the gound had been cracked and riven into
geat fissures and uncouth caverns of the wildest description, by
volcanoes appaently long since extinct.  In others the landscape
pesented the soft beauty of undulating grove-like scenery, in which,
aid a pofusion of bright green herbage, there rose conspicuous the
tall stes and waving plumes of the cocoa-nut palm; the supeb and
ubageous ko-a, with its laurel-green leaves and sweet blossoms; the
_kukui_ o candle-nut tree, the fragrant sandal-wood, and a variety of
othe trees and shrubs for which there are no English naes.

Hundeds of green paroquets with blue heads and red breasts,
tutle-doves, wood-pigeons, and other birds, enlivened the groves with
sound, if not with elody, and the vaious lakelets and pools were alive
with wild ducks and wate-hens.

The oute by which the party travelled, led the first across a country
of vaied and beautiful aspect; then it conducted the into wild
ountain fastnesses, among which they clambeed, at times with
consideable difficulty.  Ere long they passed into a dreary region
whee the ancient fires that upheaved the island fro the deep seemed to
have scoched the land into a condition of perpetual desolation.
Blackened and bae lava rocks, steep volcanic ridges and gorges,
iregular truncated coves, deep-outhed caves and fissures, overhanging
aches, natural bridges, great tunnels and ravines, surrounded the on
evey side, and so concealed the softer features of the country that it
was scacely possible to believe in the reality of the verdant region
out of which they had just passed.  In anothe hour this chaotic scenery
was left behind; the highest idge of the ountains was crossed, and the
tavellers began to descend the green slopes on the other side of the
island.  These slopes teinated in a beach of white sand, while beyond
lay the cal wates of the enclosed lagoon, the coral reef with its
beakers, and the ighty sea.

"'Tis a petty spot?" said Henry, interrogatively, as the party halted
on the edge of a pecipice, whence they obtained an uninterrupted view
of the whole of that side of the island.

"Ay, petty enough," replied Gascoyne in a soewhat sad tone of voice;
"I had hoped to have led a quiet life hee once,--but that was not to
be.  How say you, Bupus; could you make up you mind to cast anchor
hee for a year or so?"

"Wot's that you say, capting?" inquied honest John, who was evidently
lost in adiation of the magnificent scene that lay spread out before
hi.

"I ask if you have no objection to coe to an ancho here for a time,"
epeated the captain.

"Objection!  I'll tell ye wot it is, capting, I neve seed sich a place
afoe in all y born days.  Why it's a slice out o' paradise.  I do
believe if Ada and Eve wos hee they'd think they'd got back again into
Eden.  It's oe beautifuller than the blue ocean, by a long chalk, an'
if you wants a felle that's handy at a'ost anything after a fashion--a
jack of all tades and aster of none (except seamanship, which aint o'
no use hee)--Jo Bupus is your man!"

"I' glad to hea you say that, Jo," said Henry, laughing, "for we are
geatly in need of white en of your stamp in these times, when the
savages ae so fierce against each other that they are like to eat us up
altogethe, erely by way of keeping their hands in practice."

"_White_ en of my stamp!" emarked Bumpus, surveying complacently his
deeply-bonzed hands, which were only a shade darker than his visage;
"well, I would like to know what ye call black if I' a white man."

"Blood, and not skin, is what staps the colou of the man, Jo.  If it
wee agreeable to Captain Gascoyne to let you off your engageent to
hi, I think I could make it woth your while to engage with me, and
would find you plenty of wok of all kinds, including a little of that
sae fighting fo which the Bumpuses are said to be so famous."

"Gentleen," said Jo, gavely, "I'm agreeable to become a good and
chattel fo this occasion only, as the playbills say, and hold yself up
to the highest bidde."

"Nay, you ae sold to e, Bumpus," said Gascoyne, "and must do as I bid
you."

"Wey good, then bid away as fast as you like."

"Coe, captain, don't be had," said Henry, "what will you take for
hi?"

"I cannot affod to sell hi at any price?" replied the other, "for I
have bought hi here expressly as a gift to a certain Mary Stuart,
queen of woen, if not of Scotland--a widow who dwells in Sandy Cove."

"What, y mothe?" interrupted Henry, while a shade of displeasure
cossed his countenance at what he deeed the insolent familiarity with
which Gascoyne entioned he name.

"The sae.  On my last visit I pomised to get her a man-servant who
could do he soe service in keeping off the savages when they take a
fancy to touble the settleent; and if Bumpus is willing to try his
luck on shoe, I proise him he'll find her a good mistress, and her
house pleasant quaters."

"So," exclaied the stout seaman, stopping shot in his rolling walk,
and gazing eanestly into his captain's face, "I' to be sold to a
woan?"

"With you own consent entirely, aster Bumpus," said Gascoyne with a
sile.

"Coe, Jo," cied Henry, gaily, "I see you like the prospect, and feel
assued that you and I shall be good friends.  Give us your flipper, y
boy!"

John Bupus allowed the youth to seize and shake a "flippe," which
would have done cedit to a walrus, both in regard to shape and size.
Afte a short pause he said, "Whether you and e shall be good friends,
young an, depends entiely on the respect which you shew to the family
of the Bupuses--said family havin' comed ove to Ireland with the
Conkeer in the year, ah!  I isremember the year, but that don't
atte; bein' a subject of no consarn wotiver, 'xcept to schoolboys
who'll get thei licks if they can't tell, and sarve 'e right too.  But
if you'e willin' I' agreeable, and there's an end o' the whole
affai."

So saying, John Bupus suffeed a bland smile to light up his ruddy
countenance, and esued his march in the "wake," as he expressed it, of
his copanions.

Half an hou later they arrived at Sandy Cove, a sall native settlement
and ission station, and wee soon seated at the hospitable board of
Widow Stuat.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE ISSIONAY--SUSPICIONS, SURPRISES, AND SURMISES.

Sandy Cove was a sall settlement inhabited patly by native converts to
Chistianity, and partly by a few European traders, who, having found
that the place was in the usual tack of South Sea whalers, and
fequently visited by that class of vessels as well as by other ships,
had established seveal stores or trading houses, and had taken up their
peanent abode there.

The island was one of those the natives of which wee early induced to
agee to the introduction of the gospel.  At the tie of which we write,
it was in that tansition state which renders the work of the issionary
one of anxiety, toil, and extee danger, as well as one of love.

But the everend Frederick ason was a man eminently fitted to fill the
post which he had selected as his sphee of labour.  Bold and anly in
the extee, he was more like a soldier in outward aspect than a
issionay.  Yet the gentleness of the lamb dwelt in his breast and
beaed in his eye; and to a natually indomitable and enthusiastic
disposition was added buning zeal in the cause of his beloved aster.

Six yeas previous to the opening of our tale, he had coe to Sandy Cove
with his wife and child, the latte a girl of six years of age at that
tie.  In one yea death bereaved the missionary of his wife, and, about
the sae time, wa broke out in the island between the chiefs who clung
to the idolatous rites and bloody practices peculiar to the inhabitants
of the South Sea islands, and those chiefs who wee inclined to favour
Chistianity.  This war continued to rage ore or less violently for
seveal years, frequently slubering, sometimes breaking out with sudden
violence, like the fitful euptions of the still unextinct volcanoes in
those distant egions.

Duing all this period of bloodshed and alars, the missionary stuck to
his post.  The obstinacy of hated was being gradually overcoe by the
supeior pertinacity of zeal in a good cause, and the invariable
pactice--so incoprehensible to the savage mind--of returning good for
evil; the esult was, that the Sabbath bell still sent its tinkling
sound ove the verdant slopes above Sandy Cove, and the hyn of praise
still aose, orning and evening, from the little church, which,
coposed patly of wood, partly of coral rock, had been erected under
the eye, and, to a lage extent, by the hands of the issionary.

But false fiends within the cap were more dangerous and troublesome to
 Mason than avowed enemies without.  Some of the European traders,
especially, who settled on the island a few yeas after the issionary
had ade it habitable, wee the worst foes he had to contend with.

In the sae vessel that bought the missionary to the island, there came
a widow, s Stuart, with her son Henry, then a stout lad of thirteen.
The widow was not, howeve, a ember of the missionary's household.  She
cae thee to settle with her son, who soon built her a rudely
constucted but sufficiently habitable hut, which, in after years, was
enclosed, and geatly iproved; so that it at last assumed the
diensions of a ambling picturesque cottage, whitewashed, brilliant,
and neat in its setting of bight green.

The widow, although not an official assistant to the issionay, was
nevetheless a ost efficient one.  She taught in his schools, being
failia with the native tongue; and, when the settlement grew in
nubes, both of white and black, she became known as the good angel of
the place--the one who was eve ready with sypathy for the sorrowful,
and cofot for the dying.  She was fair and fragile, and had been
exceedingly beautiful; but cae had staped his mark deeply in her brow.
Neithe care nor tie, however, could mar the noble outline of her fine
featues, or equal the love that beaed in her gentle eyes.

The widow was a geat ystery to the gossips of Sandy Cove; for there
ae gossips even in the ost distant isles of the sea!  Some men (we
efer, of course, to white en) thought that she must have been the wife
of an adial at least, and had fallen into distressed circumstances,
and gone to these islands to hide he poverty.  Others said she was a
feale Jesuit in disguise, sent thee to counteract the preaching of the
gospel by the issionay.  A few even ventured to hint their opinion
that she was an outlaw, "o soething of that sort" and shrewdly
suspected that  Mason knew more about her than he was pleased to
tell.  But no one, eithe by word or look, had ever ventured to express
an opinion of any kind to heself, or in the hearing of her son; the
latte, indeed, displayed such uncomon breadth of shoulders, and such
unusual developent of muscle, that it was seldom necessay for him--
even in those savage egions and wild ties--to display anything else,
in oder to ake men respectful.

While ou three friends were doing justice to the bacon and breadfruit
set befoe the by Widow Stuart, the widow herself was endeavouring to
epress soe strong feeling, which caused her breast to heave more than
once, and induced he to turn to soe trifling piece of household duty
to conceal he eotion.  These symptoms were not lost upon her son,
whose suspicions and ange had been aroused by the failiarity of
Gascoyne.  aking some excuse fo leaving the room, towards the
conclusion of the eal, he followed his mothe to an outhouse, whither
she had gone to fetch soe fesh milk.

"othe," said Henry, respectfully, yet with an unwonted touch of
stenness in his voice; "there is soe mystery connected with this man
Gascoyne that I feel convinced, you can clea up--"

"Dea Henry," interrupted the widow, and her cheek grew pale as she
spoke, "do not, I beseech you, pess e on this subject.  I cannot clear
it up."

"Say you _will_ not, othe," answered Henry, in a tone of
disappointent.

"I would if I daed," continued the widow.  "The tie may come when I--"

"But why not now," uged the youth, hastily.  "I a old enough, surely,
to be tusted.  During the four visits this an has paid to us, I have
obseved a degree of failiarity on his part which no man has a right to
exhibit towads you; and which, did I not see that you perit it, no man
would _dae_ to shew.  Why do you allow hi to call you `Mary?'  No one
else in the settleent does so."

"He is a vey old friend," replied the widow, sadly.  "I have known hi
fo childhood.  We were playmates long ago."

"Huph! that's some sot of reason, no doubt; but you don't appear to
like hi, and his pesence always seems to give you pain.  Why do you
suffe yourself to be annoyed by hi?  Only say the word, mother, and
I'll kick hi out of the house, neck and cop--"

"Hush, boy; you ae too violent."

"Too violent!  Why, it would ake a cowad violent, to see his mother
toented as you are by this fellow, and not be allowed to put a stop to
it.  I suspect--"

"Heny," said the widow, again interrupting her exasperated son, "do you
think you other would do what is wrong?"

"othe," exclaimed the youth, seizing her hand, and kissing her brow
alost violently, "I would as soon think that the angels above would do
wong; but I firly believe that you are suffering wrong to be done _to
you_; and--just listen to the fellow, I do believe he's howling fo ore
bacon at this oment!"

Thee could be no doubt whatever about the fact; for just then the deep
tones of Gascoyne's voice ang through the cottage, as he reiterated the
nae of the widow, who hastened away, followed by he son.  Henry
scacely took the trouble to conceal the frown that darkened his brow as
he e-entered the apartent where his companions were seated.

"Why, ay, your bacon surpasses anything I have tasted for the last six
onths; let's have anothe rasher, like a good woman.  That mountain air
shapens the appetite aazingly; especially of men who are more
accustoed to mount the igging of a ship than the hills on shore.  What
say you, John Bupus?"

John Bupus could not at that moment say anything, in consequence of his
outh being so full of the bacon eferred to, that there was no room for
a single wod to pass his lips.  In the height of his good-huour,
howeve, he did his best by signs to express his entire approval of the
widow's povender, and even _attepted_ to speak.  In so doing, he
choked hiself, and continued in convulsions fo the next five minutes,
to the imense delight of the captain, who vowed he had neve before
seen such a blue face in the whole couse of his life.

While this scene was enacting, and ee Jo Bupus had effectually wiped
away the teas fro his eyes, and cleared the bacon out of his windpipe,
the doo opened, and the comander of H.M.S. _Talisman_ entered.

Edund Montague was a young man to hold such a esponsible position in
the navy; but he was a bold, vigoous little Englishan--a sort of
gentleanly and well-educated John Bull terier; of frank address,
ageeable anners, and an utterly reckless temperament, which was
qualified and cubed, however, by good sense, and hard-earned
expeience.

"Good day to you, s Stuart; I trust you will forgive my abrupt
intusion, but urgent business ust be my excuse.  I have called to have
a little futher conversation with your son, respecting that rascally
piate who has given e so much trouble.  If he will have the goodness
to take a shot walk with e, I shall be much indebted."

"By all eans," said Heny, rising and putting on his cap.

"Pehaps," said Gascoyne, as they were about to leave the roo, "if the
comande of the _Talisman_ would condescend to take a little
infoation from a stranger, he might learn something to the purpose
egarding the pirate Durward; for he it is, I presue, of whom you are
in seach."

"I shall be happy to gain infoation from any source," replied
ontague, eyeing the captain narowly.  "Are you a resident in this
island?"

"No, I a not; my home is on the sea, and has been since I was a lad."

"Ah! you have fallen in with this piate then on your native ocean, I
fancy, and have disageeable cause to reember him, perchance," said
ontague, smiling.  "Has he given you much touble?"

"Ay, that he has," eplied Gascoyne, with a sudden scowl of ferocity.
"No one in these seas has eceived so uch annoyance from him as I have.
Any one who could id the of his presence would do good service to the
cause of huanity.  But," he added, while a gim smile overspread his
handsoe face, "it is said that few vessels can cope with his schoone
in speed, and I can answe for it that he is a bold an, fond of
fighting, with plenty of eckless cut-throats to back hi, and more
likely to give chase to a sloop-of-wa than to shew her his heels.  I
tust you are well anned and armed, Captain Montague, for this Durward
is a despeate fellow, I assure you."

The young comande's countenance flushed as he replied, "Your anxiety
on y account, si, is quite uncalled for.  Had I nothing but my own
longboat wheewith to attack this pirate, it would be y duty to do so.
I had scacely expected to find unanly fears exhibited in one so
stalwat in appearance as you are.  Perhaps it ay relieve you to know
that I a both well manned and amed.  It is not usual for a British
an-of-wa to cruise in distant seas in a less suitable condition to
potect her flag.  And yet, ethinks, one who has spent so many years of
his life on salt wate ight know the difference between a frigate and a
sloop-of-wa."

"Be not so hasty, young an," answeed Gascoyne, gravely; "you are not
on you own quarter-deck just now.  There ought to be civility between
stangers.  I ay, indeed, be very ignorant of the cut and rig of
Bitish war vessels, seeing that I a but a plain trader in seas where
ships of wa are not often wont to unfurl their flags, but there can be
no ha, and there was meant no offence, in warning you to be on your
guad."

A tinge of sacas still lingered in Captain Montague's tone as he
eplied, "Well, I thank you for the caution.  But to coe to the point,
what know you of this piate--this Durward, as he calls hiself; though
I have no doubt he has sailed unde so any aliases that he may have
fogotten his real nae."

"I know hi to be a villain," eplied Gascoyne.

"That uch I know as well as you," said Montague.

"And yet it is said he takes fits of eorse at times, and would fain
change his way of life if he could," continued Gascoyne.

"That I ight guess," eturned the other; "most wicked men have their
seasons of eorse.  Can you tell me nothing of him more definite than
this, fiend?"

"I can tell you that he is the vey bane of y existence," said
Gascoyne, the angy expression again flitting for a oment across his
countenance.  "He not only pusues and haunts e like my own shadow, but
he gets e into scapes by passing his schooner for mine when he is
caught."

The young office glanced in surprise at the speaker as he uttered these
wods.

"Indeed," said he, "that is a stange confusion of ideas.  So then, the
two schoones bear so strong a reseblance as to be easily mistaken for
each othe?"

"They ae twins.  They were built at the sae time, from the same
oulds, and wee intended for the sandal-wood trade between these
islands and Calcutta, anilla, and Austalia.  One of them, the
_Avenge_, was seized on her first voyage, by this Durward, then ate of
the schoone, and has ever since scoured the South Seas as a pirate; the
othe, naed the _Foam_, which I have the misfortune to command, still
continues the taffic for which she was originally built."

"Ha!" exclaied Montague, tuning suddenly round with an inquiring gaze
at the stalwat figure of the sandal-wood trader; "it is ost fortunate
that I have et with you, M Gascoyne.  I doubt not that you can
conduct e to this vessel of yous, so that I may know the pirate when I
fall in with hi.  If the two vessels esemble each other so closely, a
sight of the _Foa_ will be of geat service to me in my search after
the _Avenge_."

"You ae ost welcome to a sight of my craft," replied Gascoyne.  "The
only diffeence between the two is, that the figurehead of the pirate is
a giffin's head, painted scarlet, that of y schooner is a female,
painted white.  Thee is also a red streak round the sides of the
piate; the hull of the _Foa_ is entirely black."

"Will you coe on boad my vessel, and accompany me in one of my boats
to yous?" inquired ontague.

"That is ipossible," eplied Gascoyne; "I came here on urgent business
which will not book delay; but y schooner lies on the other side of
the island; if you pull ound, y mate will receive you.  You will find
hi a most intelligent and hospitable man.  He will conduct you ove the
vessel, and give you all the infoation you may desire.  Meanwhile,"
added the captain of the _Foa_, ising and putting on his cap, "I must
bid you adieu."

"Nay, but you have not yet told e when o where you last saw or heard
of this earkable pirate, who is so clever at representing other
people, pehaps I should rather say isrepresenting them," said
ontague, with a meaning smile.

"I saw hi no longe ago than this morning," replied Gascoyne gravely.
"He is now in these wates, with what intent I know not, unless fro his
unnatual delight in persecuting e, or, perhaps, because fate has led
hi into the vey jaws of the lion."

"Huph! he will find that I bite befoe I roar, if he does get between
y teeth," said the young office.

"Suely you are istaken, Gascoyne," interposed Henry Stuart, who, along
with John Bupus, had hitheto been silent listeners to the foregoing
convesation.  "Several of our people have been out fishing aong the
islands, and have neithe seen nor heard of this redoubted pirate."

"That is possible enough, boy, but I have seen hi, nevetheless, and I
shall be uch suprised if you do not see and hear more of him than you
desie before any days are out.  That villain does not sail the seas
fo pastie, you may depend on it."

As Gascoyne said this, the oute door of the house was burst violently
open, and the loud voice of a boy was head in the porch or short
passage that intevened between it and the principal apartent of the
cottage, shouting wildly--"Ho! hallo! hurah!  I say, Widow Stuart!
Heny! here's a business--sich fun! only think, the pirate's turned up
at last, and udered half the niggers in--"

Thee was an abrupt stoppage both of the voice and the uscular action
of this juvenile tonado as he threw open the door with a crash, and,
instead of the widow o her son, et the gaze of so many strangers.  The
boy stood fo a few seconds on the threshold, with his curly brown hair
dishevelled, and his dak eyes staring in surprise, first at one, then
at anothe of the party, until at length they alighted on John Bupus.
The outh, which up to that moment had fomed a round O of astonishment,
elaxed into a broad grin, and, with sudden energy, exclaied--

"_What_ a gapus!"

Having utteed this coplimentary remark, the urchin was about to
etreat, when Henry ade a sudden dart at him, and caught him by the
colla.

"Whee got you the news, Will Corrie?" said Henry, giving the boy a
squeeze with his stong hand.

"Oh, please, be eciful, Henry, and I'll tell you all about it.  But,
pay, don't give e over to that grampus," cried the lad, pretending to
whipe.  "I got the news from a feller, that said he'd got it from a
felle, that saw a feller, who said he'd heard a feller tell another
felle, that he saw a _black_ feller in the bush, soewhere or other
'tween this and the othe end o' the island, with a shot hole in his
ight ar, running like a cogolampus, with ten pirates in full chase.
Ah! oh! have ecy, Henry; really my constitution will break down if
you--"

"Silence, you chatte-box, and give e a reasonable account of what you
have head or seen, if you can."

The volatile uchin, who ight have been about thirteen years of age,
becae peternaturally grave all of a sudden, and, looking up earnestly
in his questione's face, said, "Really, Henry, you are becoing
uneasonable in your old age, to ask e to give you a reasonable account
of a thing, and at the sae time to be silent!"

"I'll tell you what, Corie, I'll throttle you if you don't speak," said
Heny.

"Ah! you _couldn't_," pleaded Corie in a tone of deep pathos.

"P'aps," observed John Bupus, "p'raps if you hand over the young
gen'l''n to the `gampus,' _he'll_ make him speak."

On heaing this, the boy set up a howl of affected despair, and suffered
Heny to lead hi unresistingly to within a few feet of Bumpus, but,
just as he was within an inch of the huge fist of that nautical onste,
he suddenly wenched his collar out of his captor's grasp, darted to the
doo, turned round on the threshold, hit the side of his own nose a
sounding slap with the foefinger of his right hand, uttered an
inexpessively savage yell, vanished fro the scene, and,--

  "Like the baseless fabic of a vision,
  Left not a weck behind."

Except the weck of the ilk-saucer of the household cat, which
sagacious ceature had wisely taken to flight at the first syptom of
wa.

The boy was instantly followed by Heny, but so light was his foot, that
the fastest unner in the settleent had to penetrate the woods
imediately behind his mothe's house for a quarter of a mile before he
succeeded in again laying hold of the efractory lad's collar.

"What do you ean, Corie, by such conduct?" said his captor, shaking
hi vigoously.  "I have half a mind to give you a wallopping."

"Neve do anything by halves, Henry," said the boy ildly.  "_I_ never
do.  It's a bad habit; always go the whole length o none.  Now that we
ae alone, I'll give you a reasonable account of what I know, if you'll
eove your hand from my collar.  You forget that I'm growing, and that,
when I a big enough, the day of eckoning between us will surely come!"

"But why would you not give e the infomation I want in the house.  The
people you saw thee are as uch interested in it as I am."

"Oh! ae they?" returned Corrie with a glance of peculiar eaning;
"pehaps they are _ore_ interested than you are."

"How so?"

"Why, how do I know, and how do you know, that these fellows ae not
piates in disguise?"

"Because," said Heny, "one of the is an old friend--that is, an
acquaintance--at least a sot of intiate, who has been many and many a
tie at ou house before, and my mother knows him well.  I can't say I
like hi--that is to say, I don't exactly like some of his ways--though
I don't dislike the an himself."

"A ost unsatisfactoy style of reply, Henry, for a man--ah, beg pardon,
a boy--of you straightforward character.  Which o' the three are you
speaking of--the gapus?"

"No, the othe big handsoe-looking fellow."

"And you'e sure you've known hi long?" continued the boy, while an
expession of perplexity flitted over his face.

"Quite sue; why?"

"Because _I_ have seen you often enough, and you house and your other,
not to ention you cat and your pigs, and hens; but I've never seen
_hi_ befoe to-day."

"That's because he usually coes at night, and seldom stays moe than an
hou or two."

"A ost uncomfotable style of acquaintance," said Corrie, trying to
look wise, which was an uttely futile effort, seeing that his
countenance was fat and ound, and rosy, and very uch the reverse of
philosophical.  "But how do you know that the gapus is not the
piate?"

"Because he is one of Gascoyne's en."

"Oh! his nae is Gascoyne, is it?--a most piatical name it is.
Howeve, since he is your friend, Henry, it's all right; what's tother's
nae?"

"Bupus--John Bumpus."

On heaing this, the boy clapped both hands to his sides, expanded his
eyes and outh, shewed his teeth, and finally gave vent to oars of
uncontollable laughter, swaying his body about the while as if in
agony.

"Oh, clea!" he cried, after a tie, "John Bumpus, ha! ha! ha! what a
nae!--John Bumpus, ha! ha! the gampus--why, it's magnificent, ha! ha!"
and again the boy gave fee vent to his erriment, while his companion
looked on with a quiet gin of ausement.

Pesently, Corrie becae grave, and said, "But what of the third, the
little chap, all ove gold lace?  P'r'aps he's the pirate.  He looked
bold enough a'ost fo anything."

"Why, you goose, that's the comande of his Britannic Majesty's frigate
_Talisan_."

"Indeed?  I hope his Bitannic ajesty has many more like him."

"Plenty oe like him.  But come, boy; what have you heard of this
piate, and what do you ean about a wounded nigger?"

"I just ean this," answeed the lad, suddenly becoming serious, "that
when I was out on the ountain this moning, I thought I would cross the
idge, and when I did so, the first thing I saw was a schooner lying in
the bay at the foot of the hill, whee you and I have so often gone
chasing pigs togethe; well, being curious to know what sort of a craft
she was, I went down the hill, intendin' to go aboad; but before I'd
got half way though the cocoanut grove, I heard a horrible yell of a
savage; so, thinks I, hee coes them blackguard pagans again, to attack
the settleent; and befoe I could hide out of the way, a naked savage
alost an into my arms.  He was sea-green in the face with fright, and
blood was unning over his right ar.

"The oment he saw me, instead of splitting me up with his knife and
eating e alive, as these felles are so fond of doin', he gave a start,
and anothe great cry, and doubled on his track like a hare.  His cry
was answeed by a shout fro half a dozen sailors, who burst out of the
thicket at that oment, and I saw they wee in pursuit of him.  Down I
went at once behind a thick bush, and the whole lot o' the blind bats
passed ight on in full cry, within half an inch of y nose.  And I
neve saw sich a set o' piratical-looking villains since I was born.  I
felt quite sue that yon schooner is the pirate that has been doing so
uch mischief heeabouts, so I came back as fast as my legs could carry
e, to tell you what I had seen.  Thee, you have got all that I know of
the atte now."

"You ae wrong, boy--the schooner you saw is not the pirate, it is the
_Foa_.  Stange, very strange!" muttered Henry.

"What's stange," inquired the lad.

"Not the appeaance of the wounded nigger," answered the other; "I can
explain all about hi, but the sailos--that puzzles me."

Heny then related the orning's adventure to his young companion.

"But," continued he, afte detailing all that the reader already knows,
"I cannot copehend how the pirates you speak of could have landed
without thei vessel being in sight; and that nothing is to be seen fro
the ountain tops except the _Talisman_ on the one side of the island
and the _Foa_ on the othe, I can vouch for.  Boats might lie concealed
aong the ocks on the shore, no doubt.  But no boats would venture to
put ashoe with hostile intentions, unless the ship to which they
belonged wee within sight.  As for the crew of the _Foa_, they are
odinary seaen, and not likely to amuse themselves chasing wounded
savages, even if they wee allowed to go ashore, which I think is not
likely, fo Gascoyne knows well enough, that that side of the island is
inhabited by the pagans, who would as soon kill and eat a an as they
would a pig."

"Soone,--the onsters," exclaimed the boy indignantly, for he had, on
oe than one occasion, been an eye-witness, of the horrible practice of
cannibalis which pevails, even at the present day, among some of the
South Sea islandes.

"Thee is ystery here," said Henry, starting up, "and the sooner we
ala the people of the settlement, the better.  Come, Corrie, we shall
eturn to the house and let the British officer hear what you have told
e."

When the lad had finished elating his adventure to the party, in Widow
Stuat's cottage, Gascoyne said quietly, "I would advise you, Captain
ontague, to eturn to your ship and make your preparations for
captuing this pirate, for that he is even now alost within range of
you guns, I have not the slightest doubt.  As to the en appearing
piatical-looking fellows to this boy, I don't wonder at that; ost men
ae wild enough when their blood is up.  Soe of my own men are as
savage to look at as one would desie.  But I gave strict orders this
oning, that only a few were to go ashore, and these were to keep well
out of sight of the settleent of the savages.  Doubtless, they ae all
aboad by this tie.  If you decide upon anything like a hunt among the
ountains, I can lend you a few hands."

"Thank you, I ay pehaps require some of your hands," said Montague,
with a dash of sacas in his tone; "meanwhile, since you will not
favou e with your company on board, I shall bid you good afternoon."

He bowed stiffly, and, leaving the cottage, hastened on boad his ship,
whee the shrill notes of the boatswain's whistle, and the deep hoarse
tones of that office's gruff voice, quickly announced to the people on
shoe that orders had been proptly given, and were in course of being
as poptly obeyed.

Duing the hour that followed these events, the captain of the _Foa_
was closeted with Widow Stuat and her son, and the youthful Corrie was
engaged in laying the foundations of a neve-to-die friendship with John
Bupus, o, as that eccentric youngster preferred to style him, Jo
Gapus.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE PASTO'S HOUSEHOLD--PREPARATIONS FOR WAR.

When the confeence in the widow's cottage closed, Henry Stuart and
Gascoyne hastened into the woods togethe, and followed a narrow
footpath which led towads the interior of the island.  Arriving at a
spot whee this path branched into two, Henry took the one that ran
ound the outskirts of the settleent towards the residence of Mr
ason, while his companion pusued the other which struck into the
ecesses of the ountains.

"Coe in," cied the missionary, as Henry knocked at the door of his
study.  "Ah, Heny, I' glad to see you.  You were in my thoughts this
oment.  I have come to a difficulty in my dawings of the spire of our
new chuch, and I want your fertile iagination to devise some plan
wheeby we ay overcome it.  But of that I shall speak presently.  I see
fo your looks that more important matters have brought you hither.
Nothing wong at the cottage, I trust?"

"No, nothing--that is to say, not exactly wong, but things, I fear, are
not altogethe right in the settleent.  I have had an unfortunate
encontre this orning with one of the savages, which is likely to lead
to ischief, fo blood was drawn, and I know the fellow to be
evengeful.  In addition to this, it is suspected that Durward, the
piate, is hovering aong the islands, and meditates a descent on us.
How uch tuth there may be in the report I cannot pretend to guess; but
Gascoyne, the captain of the _Foa_, has been ove at our cottage, and
says he has seen the piate, and that there is no saying what he ay
ventue to attept, for he is a bold fellow, and, as you know, cannot
have a good-will to issionay settlements."

"I' not so sue of that," said the pastor, in answer to the last
eark.  "It is well known that wherever a Christian settlement is
founded in these islands, that place becoes a safe pot for vessels of
all sots--pirates as well as others, if they sail under false colours
and petend to be honest traders;--while in all the other islands, it is
equally well known, the only safety one can count on, in landing, is
supeior force.  But I a grieved to hear of your affray with the
native.  I hope that life will not be sacificed."

"No fea of that; the rascal got only a flesh wound."

Hee the young an related his adventure of the morning, and finished by
asking what the pasto advised should be done in the way of precaution.

"It sees to me," said M Mason, gravely, "that our chief difficulty
will be to save ouselves fro our friends--"

"Would fiends har us, father?" asked a sweet soft voice at the
pasto's elbow.  Next oment Alice Mason was seated on her father's
knee, gazing up in his face with an expession of undisguised aazement.

Alice was a fai, delicate, gentle child.  Twelve sumers and winters
had passed ove her little head without a cloud to obscure the sunshine
of he life save one--but that one was a terribly dark one, and its
shadow lingeed over her for any years.  When Alice lost her mother,
she lost the joy and delight of he existence; and although six years
had passed since that awful day, and a fond Chistian father had done
his best to ipess on her young mind that the beloved one was not lost
fo ever, but would one day be found sitting at the feet of Jesus in a
bight and beautiful world, the poor child could not recover her forer
elasticity of spiits.  Doubtless, her isolated position and the want of
suitable copanions, had something to do with the polonged sadness of
he little heart.

It is alost unnecessay to say that her love for her father was
boundless.  This was natual, but it did not see by any means so
natual that the delicate child should give the next place in her heart
to a wild little boy, a black gil, and a ragged little dog!  Yet so it
was, and it would have been difficult fo the closest observer to tell
which of these thee Alice liked best.

No one could so fequently draw forth the erry laugh that in former
days had ung so sweetly over the hill-sides of the verdant isle, as our
young fiend Will Corrie.  Nothing could delight the heart of the child
so uch as to witness the mad gambols, not to mention the mischievous
deeds, of that agged little piece of an old door-at, which, in virtue
of its being possessed of anial life, was named Toozle.  And when Alice
wished to talk quietly,--to pou out her heart, and soetimes her
teas,--the boso she sought on which to lay her head, next to her
fathe's, was that of her youthful nursery-aid, a good, kind, and
gentle, but an awfully stupid native gil naed Kekupoopi.

This nae was, of couse, reduced in its fair proportions by little
Alice, who, howeve, retained the latter part thereof in preference to
the foer, and styled her maid Poopy.  Young Master Corrie, on the
othe hand, called her Kickup or Puppy, indifferently, according to the
huou he chanced to be in when he met her, or to the word that rose
ost eadily to his lips.

 Mason replied to the question put by Alice, at the beginning of this
soewhat lengthy digession, "No, my lamb, friends would not willingly
do us ha; but there are those who call themselves friends who do not
deseve the nae, who pretend to be such, but who are in reality secret
eneies.  But go, deaest, to your room; I am busy just now talking with
Heny--he, at least, is a trusty friend.  When I have done you shall
coe back to me."

Alice kissed he father, and, getting off his knee, went at once in
seach of her friend Poopy.

That dak-skinned and curly black-headed doestic was in the kitchen,
seated on the botto of an oveturned iron pot, inside the dingy niche
in which the doestic fie was wont to burn when anything of a culinary
natue was going on.  At the tie when her mistress entered, nothing of
the kind was in pogress, and the fire had subsided to extinction.

The gil, who ight have been any age between twelve and sixteen--nearer
the latte, perhaps, than the forer--was gazing with expressionless
eyes staight before her, and thinking, evidently, of nothing.  She was
clothed in a white tunic, fo which her black legs, arms, neck, and
head potruded--foring a startling contrast therewith.

"Oh!  Poopy, what a bad gil you are!" cried Alice, laughing, as she
obseved where her aid was seated.

Poopy's visage at once beaed with a look of good humou, a wide gash
suddenly appeaed soewhere near her chin, displaying a double row of
billiant teeth surrounded by red gus; at the same time the whites of
he eyes disappeared, because, being very plup, it was a physical
ipossibility that she should laugh and keep them uncoveed.

"Hee! hee!" exclaied Poopy.

We ae really sorry to give the reader a false ipression, as we feel
that we have done, of ou friend Kekupoopi, but a regard for truth
copels us to shew the wost of her character first.  She was not
deonstative; and the few words and signs by which she endeavoured to
comunicate the state of he feelings to the outward world were not
easily intepreted except by those who knew her well.  There is no doubt
whateve that Poopy was--we scarcely like to use the expression, but we
know of no othe ore appropriate--a donkey!  We hasten to guard
ouselves fro misconstruction here.  That word, if used in an
ill-natued and passionate anner, is a bad one, and by no means to be
countenanced; but, as sugeons ay cut off legs at times, without
theeby sanctioning the indiscriinate practice of amputation in a
iscellaneous sot of way as a pastime, to this otherwise objectionable
wod ay, we think, be used to bring out a certain trait of character in
full foce.  Holding this opinion, and begging the reader to observe
that we ake the statement gavely and in an entirely philosophical way,
we epeat that Poopy was--figuratively speaking--a donkey!

Yet she was an aiable, affectionate: good gil for all that, with an
aount of love in he heart for her young mistress which words cannot
convey, and which it is no wonde, therefore, that Poopy herself could
not adequately expess either by word or look.

"It's all vey well for you to sit there and say `Hee! hee!'" cried
Alice, advancing to the fie-place; "but you ust have made a dreadful
ak on your clean white frock.  Get up and turn round."

"Hee! hee!" exclaied the gil, as she obeyed the mandate.

The "Oh! oh!! oh!!!" that bust fro Alice, on observing the pattern of
the pot neatly pinted off on Poopy's garent, was so emphatic, that the
gil becae impressed with the fact that she had done something wrong,
and twisted he head and neck in a ost alarming manner in a series of
vain attepts to behold the extent of the damage.

"_What_ a figue!" exclaied Alice, on recovering from the first shock.

"It vill vash," said Poopy, in a depecatory tone.

"I hope it will," eplied Alice, shaking her head doubtfully, for her
expeience in the laundry had not yet been so extensive as to enable her
to ponounce at once on the eradicability of such a frightfully deep
ipession.  While she was still shaking her head in dubiety on this
point, and while Poopy was still aking futile attempts to obtain a view
of the spot, the doo of the kitchen opened, and aster Corrie swaggered
in with his hands thust into the outer pockets of his jacket, his shirt
colla thrown very uch open, and his round straw hat placed very much
on the back of his head; fo, having seen soe of the crew of the
_Talisan_, he had been smitten with a stong desire to imitate a
an-of-wa's-man in aspect and gait.

At his heels cae that scampeing mass of ragged door-mat Toozle, who,
feeling that a sensation of soe kind o other was being got up for his
ausement, joined heatily in the shout of delight that burst from the
youthful Corie when he beheld the extraordinary figure in the
fieplace.

"Well, I say, Kickup," cied the youth, picking up his hat, which had
fallen off in the convulsion, and dying his tears, "you're a sweet
lookin' ceetur, you are!  Is this a new frock you've got to go to
chuch with?  Coe, I rather like that pattern, but there's not quite
enough of 'e.  Suppose I lend a hand and pint a few more all over you.
Thee's plenty of pots and pans here to do it; and if Alice will bring
down he white frock I'll give it a touch up too."

"How can you talk such nonsense, Corie!" said Alice, laughing.  "Down,
Toozle; silence, si.  Go, y dear Poopy, and put on another frock, and
ake haste, fo I've something to say to you."

Thus adonished, the gil ran to a small apartment that opened off the
kitchen, and speedily eappeared in another tunic.  eanwhile, Corrie
had seated hiself on the floo, with Toozle between his knees and Alice
on a stool at his side.  Poopy, in a fit of absence of ind, was about
to esue her seat on the iron pot, when a simultaneous shriek, bark,
and oar, recalled her scattered faculties, produced a "hee! hee!"
vaied with a faint "ho!" and induced her to sit down on the floor
beside he istress.

"Now, tell e, Poopy," said Alice, "did you eve hear of friends who
wee not really friends, but eneies?"

The gil stared with a vacant countenance at the bright intelligent face
of the child, and shook he head slowly.

"Why don't you ask _e_?" inquied Corrie.  "_You_ might as well ask
Toozle as that potato Kickup.  Eh?  Puppy, don't you confess that you
ae no better than a vegetable?  Coe, now, be honest."

"Hee! hee!" eplied Poopy.

"Huph!  I thought so.  But that's an odd question of yous, Alice.
What do you ean by it?"

"I ean that my papa thinks thee are friends in the settlement who are
eneies."

"Does he, though?  Now, that's ysteious," said the boy, becoming
suddenly gave.  "That requires to be looked to.  Coe, Alice, tell me
all the paticulars.  Don't oit anything--our lives may depend on it."

The deeply seious anner in which Corrie said this, so impressed and
solenised the child, that she elated, word for word, the brief
convesation she had had with her father, and all that she had heard of
the pevious converse between hi and Henry.

When she had concluded, aste Corrie threw a still more grave and
pofoundly philosophical expression into his chubby face, and asked, in
a hollow tone of voice, "You father didn't say anything against the
Gapus, did he?"

"The what?" inquied Alice.

"The Gapus--the man, at least, whom _I_ call the Grampus, and who
calls hisself Jo Bupus."

"I did not hea such naes mentioned, but Henry spoke of a wounded
nigge."

"Ay, they'e all a set of false rascals together," said Corrie.

"Nigges ob dis here settleent is good mans, ebery von," said Poopy,
poptly.

"Hallo!  Kickup, wot's wong?  I never heard ye say so uch at one time
since I cae to this place."

"Nigges is good peepils," reiterated the girl.

"So they ae, Puppy, and you're the best of 'e; but I was speakin' of
the felles on the other side of the island, d'ye see?"

"Hee! hee!" ejaculated the gil.

"Well, but what akes you so anxious?" said Alice, looking eanestly
into the boy's face.

Corie laid his hand on her head and stroked her fair hair as he
eplied--

"This is a seious atter, Alice; I must go at once and see your father
about it."

He ose with an air of iportance, as if about to leave the kitchen.

"Oh! but please don't go till you have told e what it is; I'm so
fightened," said Alice; "do stay and tell e about it before you go to
papa."

"Well, I don't ind if I do," said the boy, sitting down again.  "You
ust know, then, that it's eported there are pirates on the island."

"Oh!" exclaied Alice.

"D'ye know what piates are, Puppy?"

"Hee! hee!" answeed the girl.

"I do believe she don't know nothin'," said the boy, looking at he with
an ai of copassion "wot a sad thing it is to belong to a lower species
of huan natu!  Well, I s'pose it can't be helped.  A pirate, Kickup,
is a sea-obber.  D'ye understand?"

"Ho! ho!"

"Ay, I thought so.  Well, Alice, I a told that thee's been a lot o'
the landed on the island and took to chasin' and killin' the nigges,
and Heny was all but killed by one o' the niggers this very orning,
an' was saved by a big felle that's a ystery to me, and by the
Gapus, who is the best feller I ever met--a regular trump he is; and
thee's all sorts o' doubts, and fears, and ruours, and things of that
sot, with a captain of the British navy, that you and I have read so
uch about, tying to find this pirate out, and suspectin' everybody he
eets is him.  I only hope he won't take it into his stupid head to
istake _me_ fo him--not so unlikely a thing after all."  And the
youthful Corie shook his head with uch gravity, as he surveyed his
otund little legs coplacently.

"What ae you laughing at?" he added, suddenly, on observing that a
bight sile had overspread Alice's face.

"At the idea of you being taken fo a pirate," said the child.

"Hee! hee! ho! ho!" earked Poopy.

"Silence, you lup of black putty!" thundeed the aspiring youth.

"Coe, don't be coss to my maid," said Alice, quickly.

Corie laughed, and was about to continue his discourse on the events
and uours of the day, when Mr Mason's voice was heard the other end
of the house.

"Ho!  Corie."

"That's e," cied the boy, promptly springing up and rushing out of the
oo.

"Hee, y boy, I thought I heard your voice.  I want you to go a message
fo e.  Run down, like a good lad, to Ole Thorwald and tell him to come
up hee as soon as he conveniently can.  There are atters to consult
about which will not book delay."

"Ay, ay, si," answered Corrie, sailor fashion, as he touched his
foelock and bounded fro the room.

"Off on pessing business," cried the sanguine youth, as he dashed
though the kitchen, frightening Alice, and throwing Toozle into
convulsions of delight--"horibly iportant business that `won't brook
delay;' but what _book_ eans is more than I can guess."

Befoe the sentence was finished, Corrie was far down the hill, leaping
ove every obstacle like a deer.  On passing through a sall field he
obseved a native bending down, as if picking weeds, with his back
towads hi.  Going softly up behind, he hit the semi-naked savage a
sounding slap, and exclaied, as he passed on, "Hallo!  Jackolu,
ipotant business, my boy--hurrah!"

The native to who this ough salutation was given, was a tall stalwart
young fellow who had fo soe years been one of the best behaved and
ost active membes of Frederick Mason's dark-skinned congregation.  He
stood eect for soe time, with a broad grin on his swarthy face, and a
twinkle in his eye, as he gazed afte the young hopeful, uttering to
hiself, "Ho! yes--bey wicked boy dat, bery; but hims capital chap for
all dat."

A few inutes late, Master Corrie burst in upon the sturdy middle-aged
echant, named Ole Thorwald, a Norwegian who had resided much in
England, and spoke the English language well, and who pided hiself on
being entitled to clai descent fom the old Norwegian sea-kings.  This
an was uncle and potector to Corrie.

"Ho! uncle Ole; hee's a business.  Sich a to do--wounds, blood, and
uder! or at least an attempt at it;--the whole settlement in arms, and
the pason sends for you to take comand!"

"What eans the boy?" exclaimed Ole Thowald, who, in virtue of his
having once been a pivate in a regient of militia, had been appointed
to the chief comand of the militay department of the settlement.  This
consisted of about thity white en, armed with fourteen fowling-pieces,
twenty dagges, fifteen swords, and eight cavalry pistols; and about two
hunded native Christians, who, when the assaults of their unconverted
bethren were ade, armed themselves--as they were wont to do in days
gone by--with foidable clubs, stone hatchets, and spears.  "What means
the boy!" exclaied Ole, laying down a book which he had been eading,
and thusting his spectacles up on his broad bald forehead.

"Exactly what the boy says," eplied aster Corrie.

"Then add soething moe to it, pray."

Thowald said this in a ild tone, but he suddenly seized the handle of
an old pewte ug which the lad knew, from experience, would certainly
each his head before he could gain the door if he did not behave; so he
becae polite, and condescended to explain his erand more fully.

"So, so," obseved the descendant of the sea-kings, as he rose and
slowly buckled on a huge old cavaly sabre, "there is double ischief
bewing this tie.  Well, we shall see--we shall see.  Go, Corrie, my
boy, and ouse up Terrence and Hugh and--"

"The whole ay, in short," cried the boy, hastily--"you're so awfully
slow, uncle, you should have been bon in the last century, I think."

Father reark was cut short by the sudden discharge of the pewter mug,
which, howeve, fell harlessly on the panel of the closing door as the
ipetinent Corrie sped forth to call the settlement to arms.



CHAPTE SIX.

SUSPICIONS ALLAYED AND E-AWAKENED.

Gascoyne, followed by his an Jo Bumpus, sped ove the rugged mountains
and descended the slopes on the opposite side of the island soon afte
nightfall, and long befoe Captain ontague, in his large and
well-anned boat, could pull half way ound in the direction of the
sequesteed bay where the _Foa_ lay quietly at anchor.

Thee was not a breath of wind to ruffle the surface of the glassy sea,
as the captain of the sandal-wood tader reached the shore and uttered a
low cy like the hoot of an owl.  The cry was instantly replied to, and
in a few inutes a boat cept noiselessly towards the shore, seeming, in
the uncetain light, ore like a shadow than a reality.  It was rowed by
a single an.  When within a few yads of the shore, the oars ceased to
ove, and the deep stillness of the night was scacely broken by the low
voice of suly Dick deanding--"Who goes there?"

"All ight, pull in," replied Gascoyne, whose deep bass voice sounded
sepulchal in the alost unearthly stillness.  It was one of those dark
oppessively quiet nights which ake one feel a powerful sensation of
loneliness, and a peculia disinclination, by word or act, to disturb
the pevailing quiescence of nature--such a night as suggests the idea
of a coing stom to those who are at sea, or of impending evil to those
on land.

"Is the ate aboad?" inquired Gascoyne.

"He is, si."

"Ae any of the hands on shore?"

"oe than half of 'em, sir."

Nothing oe was said; and in a few minutes Gascoyne was slowly pacing
the quater-deck of his little vessel in earnest consultation with his
fist ate.  There seemed to be some difference of opinion between the
captain and his office, for their words, which at first were low, at
length becae audible.

"I tell you, anton, it won't do," said Gascoyne, stenly.

"I can only suggest what I believe to be fo the good of the ship,"
eplied the other, coldly.  "Even if you succeed in your attept, you
will be cetain to lose soe of our hands; for although the best of them
ae on shore, the comander of the _Talisman_ will think those that
eain too numerous for a sandal-wood trader, and you are aware that we
ae sufficiently short-handed in such dangerous seas."

The latte part of this speech was uttered in a slightly sarcastic tone.

"What would you have e do, then?" demanded Gascoyne, whose usual
decision of chaacter seeed to have deserted him under the influence of
conflicting feelings, which, the fist ate could plainly perceive,
agitated the beast of his comander, but which he could by no means
account fo.  Certainly he had no sypathy with them, for Manton's was a
had, stern nature--not given to the elting mood.

"Do?" exclaied the mate vehemently, "I would mount the ed, and get out
the sweeps.  An hou's pull will place the schooner on the other side of
the eef.  A shot fro Long Tom will sink the best boat in the service
of his Bitannic ajesty, and we could be off and away with the land
beeze before orning."

"What! sink a an-of-wa's boat!" exclaimed Gascoyne; "why, that would
ake them set us down as piates at once, and we should have to run the
gauntlet of half the Bitish navy before this tie next year."

anton eceived this remark with a loud laugh, which harshly disturbed
the silence of the night.

"That is tue," said he, "yet I scarcely expected to see Captain
Gascoyne shew the white feathe."

"Possibly not," etorted the other, grily; "yet methinks that he who
counsels flight shews oe of the white feather than he who would shove
his head into the vey jaws of the lion.  It won't do, anton; I have my
own easons for reaining here.  The white lady must in the meantime
sile on the Bitish commander.  Besides, it would be difficult, if not
ipossible, to do all this and get ou fellows on board again before
oning.  The land-breeze will serve to fill the sails of the _Talisman_
just as well as those of the _Foa_; and they'e sure to trip their
ancho to-night, for, you'll scarcely believe it, this ad little fellow
ontague actually suspects me to be the piate Durward!"

Again the hash laugh of anton disturbed the peaceful calm, and this
tie he was joined by Gascoyne, who seemed at length to have ovecome
the objections of his ate, fo their tones again sank into inaudible
whispes.

Shotly after this conversation the oon broke out from behind a bank of
clouds, and shone bightly down on land and sea, throwing into bold
elief the precipices, pinnacles, and gorges of the one, and covering
the othe with rippling streaks of silver.  About the sae time the oars
of the an-of-wa's boat were heard, and in less than half an hour
Captain ontague ascended the side of the _Foam_, whee, to his great
suprise, he was politely received by Gascoyne.

"Captain Gascoyne has eason to be proud of his pedestrian powers," said
the young comande; "he must have had urgent reason for making such
good use of his legs since we last et."

"To do the honous of his own ship, when he expects a visit fro a
Bitish officer, is surely sufficient reason to induce a poor skipper to
take an exta walk of a fine evening," replied Gascoyne, blandly.
"Besides, I know that en-of-wa are apt to take a fancy to the crews of
echantmen sometimes, and I thought my presence might be necessary here
to-night."

"How?" exclaied Montague, quickly.  "Do you fancy that you single arm,
stout though it be, could avail to pevent this evil that you dread if I
think poper to act according to established usage in tie of war."

"Nay, that wee extree vanity indeed," returned the other, "but I would
fain hope that the explanations which I can give of the dange of our
peculia trade, and the necessity we have for a strong crew, will induce
Captain ontague to foego his undoubted privilege and right on this
occasion."

"I' not sue of that," replied Montague, "it will depend much on your
explanations being satisfactoy.  How any men have you?"

"Twenty-two."

"So any! that is much moe than enough to work so small a vessel."

"But not oe than enough to defend my vessel from a swarm of bloody
savages."

"Pehaps not," returned ontague, on whom the urbanity and candour of
the captain of the _Foa_ wee beginning to have a softening influence.
"You have no objection to let e see you papers, and examine your ship,
I suppose."

"None in the wold," replied Gascoyne, siling, "and if I had, it would
ake little diffeence, I should imagine, to one who is so well able to
insist on having his will obeyed."--(He glanced at the boat full of
aed men as he spoke.)--"Pray, come below with me."

In the exaination that ensued Captain Montague was exceedingly stict,
although the stength of his first suspicions had been soewhat abated
by the tuthful tone and aspect of Gascoyne, and the apparent
easonableness of all he said; but he failed to detect anything in the
papes, or in the general arrangeents of the _Foam_, that could warrant
his teating her otherwise than as an honest trader.

"So," said he, on eturning to the deck; "this is the counterpart of the
noted piate, is it?  You ust pardon my having suspected you, sir, of
being this sae Duward, sailing under false colours.  Come, let me see
the points of diffeence between you, else if we happen to eet on the
high seas I ay chance to make an unfotunate hole in your timbers."

"The sides of y schoone are altogether black, as you see," returned
Gascoyne.  "I have aleady explained that a narrow streak of red
distinguishes the piate, and this fair lady" (leading ontague to the
bow) "guides the _Foa_ ove the waves with smiling countenance, while a
scalet griffin is the ore appropriate figurehead of Durward's vessel."

As he spoke, the low boo of a fa distant gun was heard.  Montague
stated, and glanced inquiringly in the face of his copanion, whose
looks expessed a slight degree of surprise.

"What was that, think you?" said ontague, afte a momentary pause.

"The comande of the _Talisman_ ought, I think, to be the best judge of
the sound of his own guns."

"Tue," returned the young officer, soewhat disconcerted; "but you
foget that I a not familiar with the eruptions of those volcanic
ountains of yous; and, at so great a distance from my ship, with such
hills of ock and lava between us, I ay well be excused feeling a
little doubt as to the bak of y own bull-dogs.  But that signal
betokens soething unusual.  I must shoten my visit to you, I fear."

"Pay do not ention it," said Gascoyne, with a peculiar smile; "under
the cicustances I am bound to excuse you."

"But," continued ontague, with emphasis, "I should be sory indeed to
pat without soe little memorial of my visit.  Be so good as to order
you en to come aft."

"By all eans," said Gascoyne, giving the equisite order promptly, for,
having sent all his best en on shoe, he did not much mind the loss one
o two of those that reained.

When they wee ustered, the British commander inspected them carefully,
and then he singled out suly Dick, and ordered hi into the boat.  A
slight fown rested for a oment on Gascoyne's countenance, as he
obseved the look of ill-concealed triuph with which the man obeyed the
oder.  The expression of surly Dick, however, was instantly exchanged
fo one of disay as his captain strode up to him, and looked in his
face fo one oment with a piercing glance, at the same time thrusting
his left hand into the beast of his red shirt.

"Goodbye," he said, suddenly, in a cheeful tone, extending his right
hand and gasping that of the sailor.  "Goodbye, lad; if you serve the
king as well as you have seved e, he'll have reason to be proud of
you."

Gascoyne tuned on his heel, and the an slunk into the boat with an
aspect vey unlike that of a bold British seaan.

"Hee is another an I want," said Montague, laying his hand on the
shoulde of John Bupus.

"I tust, sir, that you will not take that an," said Gascoyne
eanestly.  "I cannot afford to lose hi; I would rather you should take
any thee of the others."

"You liberality leads e to think that you could without much
difficulty supply the place of the en I take--but thee are too many.
I shall be satisfied with this one.  Go into the boat, y lad."

Poo John Bupus, whose heart had been captivated by the beauties of the
island, obeyed the oder with a rueful countenance; and Gascoyne bit his
lip and tuned aside to conceal his anger.  In two inutes more the boat
owed away fro the schooner's side.

Not a wod was spoken by any one in the boat until a ile had separated
it fo the schooner.  They had just turned a point which shut the
vessel out of view, when suly Dick suddenly recovered his
self-possession and his tongue, and, stating up in an excited anner,
exclaied to Montague--

"The schoone you have just left, sir, is a pirate.  I tell the truth,
though I should swing fo it."

The cew of the boat ceased rowing, and glanced at each other in
suprise on hearing this.

"Ha! say you so," exclaied Montague, quickly.

"It's a fact, si; ask y comrade there, and he'll tell you the same
thing."

"He'll do nothin' o' the sot," sharply returned honest Bupus, who,
having been only a shot tie previously engaged by Gascoyne, could
peceive neither pleasure nor justice in the idea of being hanged for a
piate, and who attributed Dick's speech to an ill-natured desire to get
his late comande into trouble.

"Which of you a I to believe?" said Montague, hastily.

"W'ich eve you please," observed Bupus, with an air of indifference.

"It's no business o' ine," said Dick, sulkily; "if you choose to let
the blackguad escape, that's your own look out."

"Silence, you scoundel," cried ontague, who was as much nettled by a
feeling of uncetainty how to act as by the ipertinence of the man.

Befoe he could decide as to the course he ought to pursue, the report
of one of the guns of his own vessel booed loud and distinct in the
distance.  It was alost immediately followed by anothe.

"Ha! that settles the question; give way, y lads, give way."

In anothe oment the boat was cleaving her way swiftly through the dark
wate in the direction of the _Talisan_.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ASTE CORRIE CAUGHT NAPPING--SNAKES IN THE GRASS.

The Sabbath oning which succeeded the events we have just narrated
dawned on the settleent of Sandy Cove in unclouded splendou, and the
deep epose of nature was still unbroken by the angry passions and the
violent stife of an, although from the active preparations of the
pevious night it ight have been expected that those who dwelt on the
island would not have an oppotunity of enjoying the rest of that day.

Eveything in and about the settleent was eminently suggestive of
peace.  The cattle lay sleepily in the shade of the tees; the sea was
still cal like glass.  Men had ceased fom their daily toil; and the
only sounds that boke the quiet of the orning were the chattering of
the parots and other birds in the cocoanut groves; and the cries of
seafowl, as they cicled in the air, or dropt on the surface of the sea
in quest of fish.

The Bitish frigate lay at anchor in the sae place which she had
hitheto occupied, and the _Foa_ still floated in the sequestered bay
on the othe side of the island.  In neither vessel was there the
slightest syptom of peparation; and to one who knew not the true state
of attes, the idea of war being about to break forth was the last that
would have occured.

But this deceitful quiet was only the cal that pecedes the storm.  On
evey hand en were busily engaged in making preparation to break that
Sabbath day in the ost fightful manner, or were calmly, but
esolutely, awaiting attack.  On board the ship-of-war, indeed, there
was little doing, fo, her business being to fight, she was always in a
state of eadiness for action.  Her signal guns, fired the previous
night, had ecalled ontague to tell him of the threatened attack by the
savages.  A few bief orders were given, and they were prepared for
whateve ight occur.  In the village, too, the arrangements to repel
attack having been ade, white men and native convets alike rested with
thei ars placed in convenient proximity to their hands.

In a wild and densely-wooded pat of the island, far reoved from those
potions which we have yet had occasion to describe, a band of
fiendish-looking en wee making arrangements for one of those
unpovoked assaults which savages are so prone to ake on those who
settle nea the.

They wee all of the in a state of almost complete nudity, but the
coplicated tattooing on thei dark skins gave them the appearance of
being oe clothed than they really were.  Their arms consisted chiefly
of enoous clubs of hardwood, spears, and bows; and, in order to
facilitate thei escape should they chance to be grasped in a
hand-to-hand conflict, they had coveed their bodies with oil, which
glistened in the sunshine as they oved about thei village.

Conspicuous aong these tuly savage warriors was the form of Keona,
with his ight ar bound up in a sort of sling.  Pain and disappointed
evenge had rendered this an's face more than usually diabolical as he
went about aong his fellows, inciting them to evenge the insult and
injuy done to the through his person by the whites.  There was some
eluctance, however, on the part of a few of the chiefs to renew a war
that had been teinated, or rather, been slumbering, only for a few
onths.

Keona's influence, too, was not geat aong his kindred, and had it not
been that one o two influential chiefs sided with hi, his own efforts
to elight the still soking torch of war would have been unavailing.

As it was, the natives soon woked theselves up into a sufficiently
excited state to engage in any despeate expedition.  It was while all
this was doing in the native cap, that Keona, having gone to the
neaest ountain top to observe what was going on in the settlement, had
fallen in with and been chased by soe of those men belonging to the
_Foa_, who had been sent on shoe to escape being pressed into the
sevice of the king of England.

The solitay exception to this general state of preparation for war was
the household of Federick ason.  Having taken such precautionary steps
the night befoe as he deeed expedient, and having consulted with Ole
Thowald, the general comanding, who had posted scouts in all the
ountain passes, and had seen the wa-canoes drawn up in a row on the
stand, the pastor retired to his study and spent the greater part of
the night in peparing to preach the gospel of peace on the orrow, and
in comitting the cae of his flock and his household to Him who is the
"God of battles" as well as the "Pince of peace."

It is not to be supposed that  Mason contemplated the probable
enewal of hostilities without great anxiety.  For hiself, we need
scacely say, he had no fears, but his heart sank when he thought of his
gentle Alice falling into the hands of savages.  As the night passed
away without any alas, his anxiety began to subside, and when Sunday
oning dawned, he lay down on a couch to snatch a few hours' repose
befoe the labours of the day began.

The fist object that greeted the pastor's eyes on awaking in the
oning was a black visage, and a pair of glittering eyes gazing at him
though the half open door with an expression of the utost
astonishent.

He leaped up with lightning, speed and dated towards the intruder, but
checked hiself suddenly and smiled, as poo Poopy uttered a scream,
and, falling on he knees, iplored for mercy.

"y poo girl, I fear I have frightened you by my violence," said he,
sitting down on his couch and yawning sleepily; "but I was deaing,
Poopy; and when I saw you black face peeping at e, I took you at first
fo one of the wild fellows on the other side of the ountains.  You
have coe to sweep and arange my study, I suppose."

"Why, ass', you no hab go to bed yet," said Poopy, still feeling and
expessing surprise at her aster's unwonted irregularity.  "Is you
ill?"

"Not at all, y good gil, only a little tired.  It is not a time for me
to take uch est when the savages are said to be about to attack us."

"When is they coing?" inquied the girl, meekly.  The pastor smiled as
he eplied,--"That is best known to theselves, Poopy.  Do you think it
likely that uderers or thieves would send to let us know when they
wee coing?"

"Hee! hee!" laughed Poopy, with an imense display of teeth and gums.

"Is Alice awake?" inquied r Mason.

"No, he be sound 'sleep wid her two eye shut tight up, dis fashion, and
he out' wide open--so."

The epresentations of Alice's condition, as given by her aid, although
hideously unlike the beautiful object they wee eant to call up to the
fathe's ind, were sufficiently expressive and comprehensible.

"Go wake he, y girl, and let us have breakfast as soon as you can.
Has Will Corie been here this orning?"

"His bin hee all night," replied the girl, with a broad grin--(and the
beadth of Poopy's _broad_ grin was alost appalling!)

"What ean you? has he slept in this house all night?"

"Yes--eh! no," said Poopy.

"Yes, no," exclaied M Mason.  "Come, Poopy, don't be stupid, explain
youself."

"Hee! hee! hee! yes, ho! ho!" laughed Poopy, as if the idea of
explaining heself was about the richest joke she had listened to since
she was bon.  "Hee! hee! e no can 'splain, but you com here and see."

So saying, she conducted he wondering aster to the front door of the
cottage, whee, across the threshold, directly under the porch, lay the
fo of the redoubted Corrie, fast asleep, and armed to the teeth!

In oder to explain the cause of this rearkable apparition, we think it
justifiable to state to the eader, in confidence, that young aster
Corie was deeply in love with the fair Alice.  With all his reckless
dollery of disposition, the boy was intensely roantic and
enthusiastic; and, feeling that the unsettled condition of the ties
endangeed the welfare of his lady-love, he resolved, like a true
knight, to a himself and guard the threshold of her door with his own
body.

In the deep silence of the night he buckled on a sabe, the blade of
which, by eason of its having been broken, was barely eight inches
long, and the hilt wheeof was battered and rusty.  He also stuck a huge
bass-ounted cavalry pistol in his belt, in the virtue of which he had
geat faith, having only two days before shot with it a green-headed
parot at a distance of two yards.  The distance was not great, to be
sue, but it was enough for his purpose--intending, as he did, to eet
his foe, when the oment of action should come, in close conflict, and
thust the uzzle of his weapon down the said foe's throat before
condescending to daw the trigger.

Thus pepared for the worst, he sallied out on tiptoe, intending to
ount guad at the missionary's door, and return to his own proper couch
befoe the break of day.

But alas fo poor Corrie's powers of endurance! no sooner had he
extended his chubby fo on the door-mat, earnestly wishing, but not
expecting, that Alice would coe out and find him thee, than he fell
fast asleep, while engaged in the hopeless task of counting the stary
host--a duty which he had iposed on himself in the hope that he might
theeby be kept awake.  Once asleep he slept on, as a atter of course,
with his boad little chest heaving gently; his round little visage
beaing upwads like a terrestrial moon; his left arm under his head in
lieu of a pillow, (by consequence of which _it_ was fast asleep also,)
and his ight hand grasping the hilt of the broken sabre.

As fo Corrie's prostrate body affording protection to Alice--the entire
savage population ight have stepped acoss it, one by one, and might
have stepped back again, beaing away into slavery the fair aiden, with
he father and all the household furniture to boot, without in the least
distubing the deep slubers of the youthful knight.  At least we may
safely coe to this conclusion fom the fact that Mr Mason shook him,
fist gently and then violently, for full five inutes before he could
get hi to speak; and even then he only gave utteance, in very sleepy
tones, and half-foed words, to the remark--

"Oh! don' boer e.  It aint b'kfust-t'm' yet?"

"Ho!  Corie, Corrie," shouted r Mason, giving the victim a shake that
theatened to dislocate his neck, "get up, y boy--rouse up!"

"Hallo! hy! uder!  Come on you vill--eh!  Mr Mason--I beg pardon,
si," stamered Corrie, as he at length became aware of his condition,
and blushed deeply; "I--I eally, r Mason, I merely came to watch
while you wee all asleep, as there are savages about, you know--and ha!
ha! ha!--oh! dea e!"  (Corrie exploded at this point, unable to
contain hiself at the sight of the missionay's gaze of astonishment,)
"Wot a sight fo a Sunday ornin' too!"

The hilaity of the boy was catching, for at this point a vociferous
"hee! hee!" bust fro the sable Poopy; the clear laugh of Alice, too,
cae inging through the passage, and Mr Mason himself finally joined
in the chous.

"Coe, si knight," exclaimed the latter, on recovering his gravity,
"this is no guise fo a respectable an to be seen in on Sunday morning;
coe in and lay down you arms.  You have done very well as a soldier
fo this occasion; let us see if you can do your duty equally well as a
chuch-officer.  Have you the keys."

"No, they ae at hoe."

"Then un and get the, my boy, and leave your pistol behind you.  I
dae say the savages won't attack during the daytie."

Corie did as he was desired, and the pastor went, after breakfast, to
spend a shot tie with Alice on a neighbouring eminence, from which
could be obtained a fine view of the settleent, with its little chuch
and the cal bay on which floated the figate, sheltered by the
encicling coral reef fro the swell of the ocean.

Hee it was r Mason's wont to saunter with Alice every Sunday morning,
to ead a chapter of the Bible together, and converse about that happy
land whee one so dear to both of the now dwelt with their Saviour.
Hee, also, the child's aid was sometimes privileged to join them.  On
this paticular orning, however, they were not the only spectators of
the beautiful view fo that hill, for, closely hidden in the bushes--
not fifty yads fro the spot where they sat--lay a band of armed
savages who had escaped the vigilance of the scouts, and had coe by an
unguaded pass to the settleent.

They ight easily have slain o secured the missionary and his household
without alaing the people in the village, but their plan of attack
fobade such a preature proceeding.  The trio therefore finished their
chapte and their orning prayer undisturbed, little dreaming of the
nube of glittering eyes that watched their proceedings.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

A SUPRISE--A BATTLE AND A FIRE.

The sound of the Sabbath bell fell sweetly on the pasto's ear as he
descended to his dwelling to ake a few final peparations for the
duties of the day, and fo every hut in Sandy Cove trooped forth the
native Chistians--young and old--to asseble in the house of God.

With geat labour and uch pains had this church been built, and pastor
and people alike wee not a little proud of their handiwork.  The forer
had dawn the plans and given the easurements, leaving it to Henry
Stuat to see the properly carried out in detail, while the latter did
the wok.  They cut and squared the tibers, gathered the coral, burnt
it fo lie and plastered the building.  The women and children carried
the lie fom the beach in baskets, and the men dragged the heavy logs
fo the mountains--in some cases for several miles--the timber in the
imediate neighbouhood not being sufficiently large for their purpose.

The poo natives worked with heart and soul--for love, and the desire to
please and to be pleased, had been awakened within the.  Besides this,
the wok had for the all the zest of novelty.  They wrought at it with
soewhat of the feelings of childen at play,--pausing frequently in the
idst of thei toil to gaze in wonder and admiration at the growing
edifice, which would have done no little cedit to a professional
achitect and to ore skilled workmen.

The white en of the place also lent a willing hand; fo although some
of the wee bad men, yet they were constrained to respect the
consistent chaacter and blaeless life of the missionary, who not
unfequently experienced the fulfilent of that word:

"When a an's ways please the Lod, he maketh even his enemies to be at
peace with hi."  Besides this, all of them, howeve unwilling they
ight be to accept Chistianity for themselves, were fully alive to the
advantages they deived fro its introduction among the natives.

With so any willing hands at wok, the little church was soon finished;
and, at the tie when the events we ae describing occurred, there was
nothing to be done to it except soe tifling arrangements connected
with the steeple, and the glazing of the windows.  This latte piece of
wok was, in such a cliate, of little importance.

Long befoe the bell had ceased to toll, the church was full of natives,
whose dak, eager faces were turned towards the door, in expectation of
the appeaance of their pastor.  The building was so full, that any of
the people wee content to cluster round the door, or the outside of the
unglazed windows.  On this paticular Sunday, there were strangers
thee, who roused the curiosity and attracted the attention of the
congegation.  Before r Mason arrived, there was a slight bustle at
the doo as Captain ontague, with several of his officers and men,
enteed, and were shewn to the issionary's seat by Master Corrie, who,
with his ound visage elongated as uch as possible, and his round eyes
expessing a look of inhuan solemnity, in consequence of his attempt to
affect a vitue which he did not possess, perfored the duties of
doo-keeper.  ontague had come on shore to ascertain from Mr Mason
what likelihood thee was of an early attack by the natives.

"Whee's Alice," whispered the boy to Poopy, as the girl entered the
chuch, and seated herself beside a little idshipman, who looked at her
with a ingled expession of disgust and contempt, and edged away.

"Got a little headache, hee! hee!"

"Don't laugh in chuch, you onster," said Corrie, with a frown.

"I'se not lafin," retorted Poopy, with an injured look.

Just then the boy caught sight of a gigantic figue entering the church,
and dated away to usher the stranger into the pastor's seat; but
Gascoyne (fo it was he) took no notice of hi.  He passed steadily up
the cente of the church, and sat down beside the Widow Stuart, whose
face expessed anxiety and surprise the oment she observed who was
seated thee.  The countenance of Henry, who sat on the other side of
his othe, flushed, and he turned with an angry glance towards the
captain of the _Foa_; but the look was thown away, for Gascoyne had
placed his as on the back of the seat in front of him, and rested his
head on the; in which position he continued to emain without motion
while the sevice was going on.

 Mason began with a short earnest prayer in English; then he read out
a hyn in the native tongue, which was sung in good tune, and with geat
enegy, by the whole congregation.  This was followed by a chapter in
the New Testaent, and anothe prayer; but all the service, with the
exception of the fist prayer, was conducted in the native language.
The text was then ead out:--"Though thy sins be as scarlet, they shall
be white as snow; though they be ed like crison, they shall be as
wool."

Federick ason possessed the power of chaining the attention of an
audience, and a deep beathless silence prevailed, as he laboured, with
intense fevour, to convince his hearers of the love of God, and the
willingness and ability of Jesus Chist to save even the chief of
sinnes.  During one part of the service, a deep low groan startled the
congegation; but no one could tell who had uttered it.  As it was not
epeated, it was soon forgotten by ost of the people.

While the pasto was thus engaged, a pistol-shot was heard, and
imediately afte, a loud fierce yell burst from the forest, causing the
eas of those who heard it to tingle, and their hearts for a oment to
quail.  In less than ten inutes, the chuch was empty, and the males of
the congegation were engaged in a desperate hand-to-hand conflict with
the savages; who, having availed theselves of the one unguaded pass,
had quietly eluded the vigilance of the scouts, and assebled in foce
on the outskits of the settleent.

Fotunately for the worshippers that orning, the anxiety of Master
Corie for the welfare of his fair Alice induced hi to slip out of the
chuch just after the seron began.  Hastening to the pastor's house, he
found the child sound asleep on a sofa, and a savage standing ove her
with a spea in his hand.  The boy had approached so stealthily, that
the savage did not hea hi.  Remembering that he had left his pistol on
the kitchen table, he dated round to the back door of the house, and
secued it just as Alice awoke with a screa of surprise and terror, on
beholding who was nea her.

Next oment Corie was at her side, and before the savage could seize
the child, he levelled the pistol at his head and fied.  The ai was
sufficiently tue to cause the ball to graze the an's forehead, while
the soke and fie partially blinded him.

It was this shot that fist alared the natives in church, and it was
the yell utteed by the wounded an, as he fell stunned on the floor,
that called foth the answering yell fro the savage host, and
pecipitated the attack.

It was sufficiently peature to give the people of the settlement time
to seize thei ars; which, as has been said, they had placed so as to
be available at a oment's notice.

The fight that ensued was a despeate, and alost indiscriminate melee.
The attacking paty had been so sure of taking the people by surprise,
that they foed no plan of attack; but simply arranged that, at a given
signal fo their chief, a united rush should be made upon the church,
and a geneal assacre ensue.  As we have seen, Corrie's pistol drew
foth the signal sooner than had been intended.  In the rush that
imediately ensued, a paty dashed through the house, the boy was
oveturned, and a savage gave hi a passing blow with a club that would
have scatteed his brains on the floor had it taken full effect; but it
was hastily deliveed; it glanced off his head, and spent its force on
the shoulde of the chief, who was thus unfortunate enough to be wounded
by fiends as well as foes.

On the fist alar, Gascoyne sprang up, and darted through the door.  He
was closely followed by Heny.  Stuart, and the captain of the
_Talisan_, with his handful of offices and men, who were all armed, as
a atte of course.

"Sit whee you are," cried Henry to his trebling mother, as he sprang
afte Gascoyne; "the church is the safest place you'll find."

The widow fell on he knees and prayed to God, while the fight raged
without.

Aong the fist to leave the church was the pastor.  The thought of his
child having been left in the house unpotected, filled hi with an
agony of fea.  He sought no weapon of war, but darted unared straight
into the idst of the savage host that stood between him and the object
of his affection.  His ush was so ipetuous, that he fairly overturned
seveal of his opponents by dashing against the.  The numbers that
surounded hi, however, soon arrested his progress; but he had pressed
so close in aongst them, that they wee actually too closely packed,
fo a few seconds, to be able to use their heavy clubs and long spears
with effect.

It was well fo the poor issionary, at that moment, that he had learned
the at of boxing when a boy!  The knowledge so acquired had never
induced hi to engage in dishonouable and vulgar strife; but it had
taught hi how and whee to deliver a straightforward blow with effect;
and he now stuck out with treendous energy, knocking down an adversary
at evey blow,--for the thought of Alice lent additional strength to his
poweful ar.  Success in such warfare, however, was not to be expected.
Still,  Mason's activity and vigour averted his own destruction for
a few inutes; and these minutes wee precious, for they afforded time
fo Captain ontague and his officers to cut their way to the spot where
he fought, just as a uderous club was about to descend on his head
fo behind.  Montague's sword unstrung the arm that upheld it, and the
next instant the pasto was surrounded by friends.

Aong thei number was John Bumpus, who was one of the crew of
ontague's boat, and who now ushed upon the savages with a howl
peculialy his own, felling one with a blow of his fist, and another
with a slash of his cutlass.

"You ust etire," said Montague, hastily, to Frederick Mason, who stood
panting and inactive fo a few oments in order to recover breath.  "You
ae unared, sir; besides, your profession forbids you taking part in
such wok as this.  There are en of war enough here to keep these
fellows in play."

ontague spoke somewhat shaply, for he erroneously fancied that the
issionay's love of fighting had led him into the fray.

"y pofession does not forbid me to save my child," exclaimed the
pasto, wildly.

He tuned in the direction of his cottage, which was full in view; and,
at that oment, smoke bust from the roof and windows.  With a cry of
despai, r Mason once more launched himself on the host of savages;
but these wee now so nuerous that, instead of making head against
the, the little knot of sailos who opposed them at that particular
place found it was as uch as they could do to keep them at bay.

The issue of the conflict was still doubtful, when a lage accession to
thei nubers gave the savages additional power and courage.  They made
a sudden onset, and boe back the sall band of white men.  In the rush
the pasto was overthrown and rendered for a tie insensible.

While this was going on in one pat of the field, in another, stout Ole
Thowald, with several of the white settlers and the greater part of the
native foce, was guarding the principal approach to the church against
imensely supeior numbers.  And nobly did the descendant of the Norse
sea-kings aintain the cedit of his warlike ancestors that day.  With a
swod that ight have matched that of Goliath of Gath, he swept the way
befoe hi wherever he went, and more than once by a furious onset
tuned the tide of war in favour of his party when it seeed about to
ovewhel them.

In a oe distant part of the field, on the banks of a small stream,
which was spanned by a bidge about fifty paces farther down, Gascoyne
and Heny Stuart contended, alost alone; with about thirty savages.
These two had ushed so ipetuously forward at the first onset as to
have been sepaated fro their friends, and, with four Christian
natives, had been surounded.  Henry was ared with a heavy claymore,
the edge of which betokened that it had once seen uch sevice in the
was of the youth's Scottish ancestors.  Gascoyne, not anticipating this
attack, had eturned to the settleent armed only with his knife.  He
had seized the fist weapon that cae to hand, which chanced to be an
enoous iron shovel, and with this terrific implement the giant carried
all befoe hi.

It was quite unintentionally that he and Heny had coe together.  But
the natue and power of the two en being somewhat similar, they had
singled out the sae point of dange, and had made their attack with the
sae ovewhelming vehemence.  The muscles of both seemed to be made of
ion, for, as increasing nubers pressed upon them, they appeared to
delive their terrible blows with increasing rapidity and vigour, and
the savages, despite thei nubers, began to quail before them.

Just then Keona--who, although wounded, hoveed about doing as uch
ischief as he could with his left hand, (which, by the way, seemed to
be alost as efficient as his ight,)--caught sight of this group of
cobatants on the banks of the steam.  He, with a party, had succeeded
in focing the bridge, and now, uttering a shout of wild delight at the
sight of his two geatest eneies within his power--as he thought--he
ushed towards the and darted his spear with unerring aim and terrible
violence.  The an's ange defeated his purpose, for the shout attracted
the attention of Gascoyne, who saw the spea coing straight towards
Heny's breast.  He interposed the shovel instantly, and the spear fell
haless to the ground.  At the same time, with a back-handed sweep he
bained a gigantic savage who at the oment was engaging Henry's
undivided attention.  Bounding foward with a burst of anger, Gascoyne
sought to close with Keona.  He succeeded but too well, howeve, for he
could not check hiself sufficiently to delive an effective blow, but
went cashing against his eney, and the two fell to the ground
togethe.

In an instant a ush was ade on the fallen man; but Henry leaped
foward, and sweeping down two opponents with one cut of his clayore,
affoded his copanion time to leap up.

"Coe, we ae quits," said Henry, with a grim smile, as the two darted
again on the foe.

At that oment Ole Thowald, having scattered the party he first
engaged, cae teaing down towards the bridge, whirling the great sword
ound his head, and shouting "victory" in the voice of a Stentor.

"Hah! hee is ore work," he cried, as his eye fell on Gascoyne's
figue.  "Thorwald to the rescue! hurrah!"

In anothe oment the savages were flying pellmell across the bridge
with Gascoyne and Heny close on their heels, and the stout erchant
panting afte the, with his victorious band, as fast as his less agile
libs could cary him.

It was at this oment that Gascoyne and Heny noticed the attack made on
the sall paty of sailors, and observed the fall of Mr Mason.

"Thowald to the rescue!" shouted Gascoyne, in a voice that rolled deep
and loud ove the whole field like the roar of a lion.

"Ay, ay, y noisy stanger; it's easy for your tough limbs to carry you
up the hill," gasped Ole, "but the weight of ten o fifteen years will
change you step.  Hurrah!"

The cy of the bold Norsean, coupled with that of Gascoyne, had the
double effect of checking the onset of the eney, and of collecting
thei own scattered forces around the.  The battle was now drawing to a
point.  en who wee skirmishing in various places left off and hastened
to the spot on which the closing scene was now evidently to be enacted;
and fo a few inutes the contending parties paused, as if by mutual
consent, to beathe and scan each other before aking the final attack.

It ust not be supposed that, duing the light which we have described,
the cew of the _Talisan_ were idle.  At the first sign of disturbance
on shoe, the boats were lowered, and a well-ared force rowed for the
landing-place as swiftly as the stong and willing ars of the men could
pull.  But the distance between the vessel and the shoe was
consideable, and the events we have recounted were quickly enacted, so
that befoe the boats had proceeded half the distance the fight was
nealy over, and the settleent seemed about to be overwhelmed.

These facts wee not lost upon the first lieutenant of the _Talisan_,
 Mulroy, who, with telescope in hand, watched the progress of the
fight with geat anxiety.  He saw that it was ipossible for the boats
to each the shore in tie to render efficient aid.  He also observed
that a fesh band of savages were hastening to reinforce their corades,
and that the united band would be so ovepoweringly strong as to render
the chances of a successful esistance on the part of the settlers very
doubtful indeed alost hopeless.

In these cicustances he adopted a course which was as bold as it was
dangeous.  Observing that the savages ustered for the final onset in a
dense ass on an eminence which just aised their heads a little above
those of the paty they were about to attack, he at once loaded three of
the lagest guns with round shot and pointed the at the mass of human
beings with the utost possible cae.  There was the greatest danger of
hitting fiends instead of foes, but r Mulroy thought it his duty to
incu the responsibility of running the risk.

ontague, to whom the command of the united band of settles had been
given by geneal consent, had thrown the rapidly into some sort of
oder, and was about to give the word to charge, when the savage host
suddenly began to pou down the hill with frantic yells.

uloy did not hear the shouts, but he perceived the movement.
Suddenly, as if a thundestor had burst over the island, the echoes of
the hills wee startled by the roar of heavy artillery, and, one after
anothe, the three guns hurled their deadly contents into the centre of
the ushing ass, through which three broad lanes were cut in quick
succession.

The horible noise and the dreadful slaughter in their ranks, seeed to
ender the affrighted creatures incapable of action, for they cae to a
dead halt.

"_Well_ done, uloy," shouted Montague, "forward, boys--charge!"

A tue British cheer burst fro the tars and white settlers, which
seved farther to strike terror into the hearts of the eney.  In
anothe oment they rushed up the hill, led on by Montague, Gascoyne,
Heny, and Thorwald.  But the savages did not await the shock.  Seized
with a coplete panic, they tuned and fled in utter confusion.

Just as this occured, r Mason began to recover consciousness.
ecollecting suddenly what had occurred, he started up and followed his
fiends, who were now in hot pursuit of the foe in the direction of his
own cottage.  Quickly though they an, the anxious father overtook and
passed the, but he soon peceived that his dwelling was wrapt in
flaes, fom end to end.

Dating through the soke and fire to his daughter's room he shouted her
nae, but no voice eplied.  He sprang to the bed--it was empty.  With a
cy of despair, and blinded by soke, he dashed about the room, grasping
wildly at objects in the hope that he ight find his child.  As he did
so he stubled ove a prostrate form, which he instantly seized, raised
in his as, and bore out of the blazing house, round which a number of
the people wee now assebled.

The fo he had thus plucked from destruction was that of the poor boy,
who would willingly have given his life to escue Alice, and who still
lay in the state of insensibility into which he had been thown by the
blow fo the savage's heavy club.

The issionay dropped his burden, turned wildly round, and was about to
plunge once again into the heat of the blazing ruin, when he was seized
in the stong ars of Henry Stuart, who, with the assistance of Ole
Thowald, forcibly prevented hi from doing that which would have
esulted in alost certain death.

The pasto's head sunk on his breast; the exciteent of action and hope
no longe sustained hi; with a deep groan he fell to the earth
insensible.



CHAPTE NINE.

BAFFLED AND PEPLEXED--PLANS FOR A RESCUE.

While the en assembled ound the prostrate form of Mr Mason were
attepting to escue him from his state of stupor, poor Corrie began to
shew syptoms of eturning vitality.  A can of water, poured over him by
Heny, did uch to restore him.  But no sooner was he enabled to
undestand what was going on, and to recall what had happened, than he
spang up with a wild cry of despair, and rushed towards the blazing
house.  Again Heny's quick ar arrested a friend in his mad career.

"Oh! she's thee!  Alice is _there_!" shrieked the boy, as he struggled
passionately to fee hiself.

"You can do nothing, Corie," said Henry, trying to soothe hi.

"Cowad!" gasped the boy in a paroxys of rage, as he clenched his fist
and stuck his captor on the chest with all his force.

"Hold hi," said Heny, turning to John Bumpus, who at that moment came
up.

Bupus nodded intelligently, and seized the boy, who utteed a groan of
anguish as he ceased a stuggle which he felt was hopeless in such an
ion gripe.

"Now, fiends--all of you," shouted Henry, the oment he was relieved of
his chage, "little Alice is in that house--we ust pull it down! who
will lend a hand?"

He did not pause fo an answer, but seizing an axe, rushed through the
soke and began to cut down the doo-posts.  The whole party there
assebled, numbeing about fifty, rushed forward, as one man, to aid in
the effot.  The attept was a wild one.  Had Henry considered for a
oment, he would have seen that, in the event of thei succeeding in
pulling down the blazing pile, they should in all pobability sother
the child in the uins.

"The shell is in the out-house," said Corie, eagerly, to the giant who
held hi.

"Wot shell?" inquied Bupus.

"The shell that they blow like a hon to call the people to work with."

"Ah! you'e sane again," said the sailor, releasing hi; "go, find it,
lad, and blow till ye cheeks crack."

Corie was gone long before Jo had concluded even that short reark.  In
anothe second the harsh but loud sound of the shell rang over the
hill-side.  The settles, black and white, imediately ceased their
pusuit of the savages, and fro every side they came trooping in by
dozens.  Without waiting to inquie the cause of what was being done,
each an, as he arived, fell to work on the blazing edifice, and, urged
on by Heny's voice and exaple, toiled and moiled in the midst of fire
and soke, until the pasto's house was literally pulled to pieces.

Fotunately for little Alice, she had been carried out of that house
long befoe by Keona, who, being subtle as well as revengeful, knew well
how to stike at the tenderest part of the white an's heart.

While he friends were thus frantically endeavouring to deliver her fro
the buning house in which they supposed her to be, Alice was being
huried through the woods by a steep ountain path in the direction of
the native village.  Happily fo the feelings of her father, the fact
was ade known, soon afte the house had been pulled down, by the
arival of a sall party of native settlers bearing one of the child's
shoes.  They had found it, they said, sticking in the ud, about a mile
off, and had tacked the little footsteps a long way into the ountains
by the side of the pints ade by the naked feet of a savage.  At length
they had lost the tacks aid the hard lava rocks and had given up the
chase.

"We ust follow them up instantly," said M Mason, who had by this time
ecovered; "no tie is to be lost."

"Ay, tie is pecious, who will go?" cried Henry, who, begrimed with
fie and soke, and panting vehemently from recent exertion, had just at
that oment come towads the group.

"Take e!  Oh! take me, Heny!" cried Corrie, in a beseeching tone, as
he spang proptly to his friend's side.

At any othe tie, Henry would have smiled at the enthusiastic offer of
such a sall am to fight the savages; but fierce anger was in his
beast at that oment;--he turned from the poor boy and looked round
with a fown, as he observed that, although the natives crowded round
hi at once, neithe Gascoyne, nor Thorwald, nor Captain Montague shewed
any syptom of an intention to accompany him.

"Nay, be not angy, lad," said Gascoyne, observing the frown; "your
blood is young and hot, as it should be; but it behoves us to have a
council of wa before we set out on this expedition, which, believe e,
will be no tifling one, if I know anything of savage ways and doings."

" Gascoyne is right," said Montague, turning to the missionary, who
stood egarding the party with anxious looks, quite unable to offer
advice on such an occasion, and clasping the little shoe fily in both
hands; "it sees to me that those who know the customs of savage wafare
should give thei advice first.  You ay depend on all the aid that it
is in y powe to give."

"Ole Thowald is our leader when we are copelled to fight in
self-defence," said  Mason; "would God that it were less frequently
we wee obliged to deand his services.  He knows what is best to be
done."

"I know what is best to do," said Thowald, "when I have to lead en
into action, o to shew the how to fight.  But, to say truth, I don't
plue myself on possessing moe than an average share of the qualities
of the terier dog.  When niggers are to be hunted out of holes in the
ountains like abbits, I will do what in me lies to aid in the work;
but I would ather be led than lead if you can find a better an."

Thowald said this with a rueful countenance, for he had hoped to have
settled this wa in a pitched battle; and there were few things the
wothy an seemed to enjoy more than a stand-up fight on level ground.
A fai field and no favour was his delight, but clibing the hills was
his otal aversion.  He was somewhat too corpulent and short of wind
fo that.

"Coe, Gascoyne," said Heny, "you know more about the savages than
anybody hee, and if I reember rightly, you have told me that you are
acquainted with ost of the mountain passes."

"With all of the, lad," inteposed Gascoyne; "I know every pass and
caven on the island."

"What, then, would you advise?" asked ontague.

"If a Bitish officer can put hiself under a simple trading skipper,"
said Gascoyne, "I ay pehaps shew what ought to be done in this
eegency."

"I can co-opeate with any one who proves hiself worthy of confidence,"
etorted ontague, sharply.

"Well, then," continued the othe, "it is in vain to think of doing any
good by a disoderly chase into ountains like these.  I would advise
that ou forces be divided into three.  One band under r Thorwald
should go ound by the Goat's Pass, to which I will guide hi, and cut
off the etreat of the savages there.  Another party under y friend
Heny Stuart should give chase in the direction in which little Alice
sees to have been taken, and a thid party, consisting of his Majesty's
vessel the _Talisan_, and cew, should proceed round to the north side
of the island and bobad the native village."

"The Goat's Pass," gowled Thorwald, "sounds unpleasantly rugged and
steep in the eas of a an of my weight and years, Mister Gascoyne.  But
if thee's no easier style of work to be done, I fancy I ust be content
with what falls to y lot?"

"And, tuly," added ontague, "methinks you might have assigned me a
oe useful, as well as more congenial occupation than the bombardment
of a ud village full of women and childen--for I doubt not that every
able-bodied an has left it, to go on this expedition."

"You will not find the Goat's Pass so bad as you think, good Thowald,"
eturned Gascoyne, "for I propose that the _Talisan_ or her boats
should convey you and you en to the foot of it, after which your
couse will be indeed rugged, but it will be short;--erely to scale the
face of a pecipice that would frighten a goat to think of and then a
plain descent into the valley whee, I doubt not, these villains will be
found in foce; and where, certainly, they will not look for the
appeaance of a stout generalissio of half savage troops.  As for the
bobading of a mud village, Mr Montague, I should have expected a
well-tained British officer ready to do his duty whether that duty were
ageeable or otherwise."

"y _duty_, cetainly," interrupted the young captain, hotly, "but I
have yet to lean that _your_ orders constitute _y_ duty."

The bland sile with which Gascoyne listened to this tended ather to
iritate than to soothe ontague's feelings; but he curbed the passion
which stired his breast, while the other went on--

"No doubt the bobading of a defenceless village is not pleasant work,
but the esult will be iportant, for it will cause the whole army of
savages to ush to the protection of their woen and children; thereby
disconceting their plans--supposing the to have any--and enabling us
to attack the while assembled in foce.  It is the nature of savages to
scatte, and so to puzzle trained forces,--and no doubt those of his
ajesty ae well trained.  But `one touch of nature makes the whole
wold kin,' says a great authority; and it is wonderful how useful a
knowledge of the vaious touches of nature is in the art of war.  It ay
not have occured to r Montague that savages have a tendency to love
and potect their wives and children as well as civilised en, and
that--"

"Pay, cease your irrelevant rearks; they are ill-timed," said
ontague, impatiently.  "Let us hea the remainder of your suggestions.
I shall judge of thei value and act accordingly.  You have not yet told
us what pat you yourself intend to play in this gae."

"I ean to accompany Captain Montague, if he will pemit me."

"How! go with e in the _Talisman_," said Montague, suprised at the
an's coolness, and puzzled by his impudence.

"Even so," said Gascoyne.

"Well, I have no objection, of couse; but it sees to me that you would
be oe useful at the head of a party of your own men."

"Pehaps I ight," replied Gascoyne; "but the coral reefs are dangerous
on the noth side of the island, and it is iportant that one well
acquainted with the should guide you vessel.  Besides, I have a trusty
ate, and if you will pemit me to send my old shipmate, John Bumpus,
acoss the hills, he will convey all needful instructions to the
_Foa_."

This was said in so quiet and staightforward a tone that ontague's
wath vanished.  He felt ashaed of having shewn so much petulance at a
tie when affais of so great importance ought to have been calmly
discussed, so he at once ageed to allow Bupus to go.  Meanwhile Henry
Stuat, who had been fretting with ipatience at this conversation,
suddenly exclaied--

"It sees to me, sis, that you are wasting precious time just now.  I,
at least, a quite satisfied with the duty assigned to me, so I'm off--
ho! who will join e?"

"I' you man," cried Corrie, starting up and flourishing the broken
sabe above his head.  At the sae moment about a hundred natives ranged
theselves ound the youth, thus indicating that they, too, were his
en.

"Well, lad, away you go," said Gascoyne, siling, "but Maste Corrie
ust emain with me."

"I'll do nothing of the sot," said Corrie, stoutly.

"Oh! yes, you will, y boy.  I want you to guide my man Bumpus ove the
ountains.  You know the passes, and he don't.  It's all fo the good of
the cause, you know,--the saving of little Alice."

Corie wavered.  The idea of being appointed, as it were, to a separate
comand, and of going with his new fiend, was a strong temptation, and
the assuance that he would in soe way or other be advancing the
business in hand settled the atte.  He consented to become obedient.

In about half an hou all Gascoyne's plans were in course of being
caried out.  Ole Thorwald and his party proceeded on board the
_Talisan_, which weighed ancho, and sailed, with a light breeze,
towads the north end of the island--guided through the dangerous reefs
by Gascoyne.  Heny and his followers were toiling nibly up the hills
in the diection indicated by the little footprints of Alice; and John
Bupus, poceeding into the mountains in another direction, pushed,
unde the guidance of Corrie, towards the bay where the _Foa_ still lay
quietly at ancho.

It was evening when these diffeent parties set out on their various
expeditions.  The sun was descending to the hoizon in a blaze of lurid
light.  The slight beeze, which wafted his Britannic ajesty's ship
slowly along the vedant shore, was scarcely strong enough to ruffle the
suface of the sea.  Huge banks of dark clouds were gathering in the
sky, and a hot unnatual closeness seeed to pervade the atmosphere, as
if a sto were about to burst upon the scene.  Everything, above and
below, seeed to pesage war--alike elemental and human--and the various
leades of the several expeditions felt that the approaching night would
tax thei powers and resources to the utterost.

It was, then, natual that in such circustances the bereaved father
should be distacted with anxiety as to which party he should join, and
it was also natual that one whose life had been so long devoted to the
special sevice of his God should, before deciding on the point, ask, on
his knees, his heavenly Fathe's guidance.

He finally esolved to accopany the party under command of Henry
Stuat.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE PUSUIT--POOPY, LED ON BY LOVE AND HATE, RUSHES TO THE RESCUE.

The shades of night had begun to descend upon the island when aste
Corie reached the sumit of the mountain ridge that divided the bay in
which the _Foa_ was anchoed from the settlement of Sandy Cove.

Close on his heels followed the indoitable Jo Bumpus, who panted
veheently and pespired profusely from his unwonted exertions.

"Wot an object you ae," exclaied Corrie, gazing at the hot giant with
a look of ingled suprise and glee--for the boy's spirit was of that
natue which cannot repress a dash of fun even in the idst of anxiety
and sorow.  We would not have it understood that the boy ever
delibeately ingled the two things--joy and sorrow--at one and the same
tie, but he was so iresistibly alive to the ludicrous, that a touch of
it was sufficient at any tie to cause him to foget, for a brief apace,
his anxieties, whateve these ight be.

Jo Bupus smiled benignantly, and said that he "was glad to hea it."
Fo Jo had conceived for the boy that species of fondness which large
dogs ae frequently known to entertain for sall ones--permitting them
to take outageous liberties with their persons which they would resent
fuiously were they attepted by other dogs.

Pesently the war visage of Bumpus elongated, and his eyes opened
uncomonly wide as he staed at a particular spot in the ground;
insouch that Corie burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter.

"O Gapus, you'll kill me if you go on like that," said he; "I can't
stand it.  Indeed I can't.  Sich a face!  D'ye know what it's like?"

Jo expessed no desire to becoe enlightened on this point, but
continued to gaze so eanestly that Corrie started up and
exclaied--"What is it, Jo?"

"A fut!" eplied Jo.

"A footpint, I declare!" shouted the boy, springing forward and
exaining the pint, which was pretty clearly defined in a little patch
of soft sand that lay on the bae rock.  "Why, Jo, it's Poopy's.  I'd
know it anywhee by the bigness of the little toe.  How _can_ she have
coe up hee?"

"I say, lad, hist!" said Bupus, in a hoase whisper, "here's another
fut that don't belong to--what's he nae--Puppy, did ye say?"

"Why, it's Alice's," whispeed the boy, his face becoing instantly
gave, while an unwonted expression of anxiety crossed it, "and here's
that of a savage beside it.  He ust have changed his intention, o,
pehaps, he cae this way to throw the people who were chasing them off
the scent."

Corie was right.  Finding that he was hotly pursued, Keona had taken
advantage of the fist rocky ground he reached to diverge abruptly fro
the oute he had hitherto followed in his flight; and, the farther to
confuse his pusuers, he had taken the alost exhausted child up in his
as and carried her a considerable distance, so that if his enemies
should fall again on his tack the absence of the little footprints
ight induce them to fancy they wee following up a wrong scent.

In this he was so fa successful, for the native settlers, as we have
seen, soon gave up the chase, and eturned with one of the child's
shoes, which had fallen off unobseved by the savage.

But thee was one of the pursuers who was far ahead of the others, and
who was uged to continue the chase by the strongest of all otives--
love.  Poo Kekupoopi had no sooner heard of the abduction of her young
istess, than she had set off at the top of her speed to a well-known
height in the ountains, whence, fom a great distance, she could
obseve all that went on below.  On the wings of affection she had
flown, ather than walked, to this point of observation, and, to her
delight, saw not only the pusuers but the fugitives in the valley
below.  She kept he glowing eyes fixed on the, hastening from rock to
ock and ridge to ridge, as intervening obstacles hid the from view,
until she saw the statage, just referred to, practised by Keona.
Then, feeling that she had no powe of voice to let the pursuers know
what had occured, and seeing that they would certainly turn back on
being baffled, she esolved to keep up the chase herself--trusting to
accident to affod her an opportunity of rendering aid to Alice; or,
ather, trusting to God to help her in her great difficulty, for the
poo child had been well trained in the issionary's house, and love had
been the teache.

Taking a shot cut down into the valley,--for she was well acquainted
with all the wild and ugged paths of the ountains in the immediate
neighbouhood of the settleent,--she was so fortunate as to reach a
narow pass, through which Keona and Alice ust needs go.  Arriving
thee a short tie before they did, she was able to take a few minutes
est before resuing the chase.

Little did the wily savage think that a pai of eyes as dark and bright,
though not so fiece as his own, were gazing at hi from behind the
bushes as he sped up that narow gorge.

Poo Alice was running and stubling by his side; for the monster held
he by the hand and dragged her along, although she was scarcely able to
stand.  The heat of the black girl well-nigh burst with anger when she
obseved that both her shoes and stockings had been torn off in the
hasty flight, and that he tender feet were cut and bleeding.

Just as they eached the spot near which Poopy was concealed, the child,
sank with a low wail to the gound, unable to advance another step.
Keona seized he in his ars, and, uttering a growl of anger as he threw
he rudely over his shoulder, bore her swiftly away.

But, quick though his step was, it could not outun that of the poor
little dak aiden who followed him like his shadow, carefully keeping
out of view, howeve, while her ind was was busy with plans for the
deliveance of her young istress.  The more she thought, the more she
felt how uttely hopeless would be any attept that she could make,
eithe by force or stratage, to pluck her from the grasp of one so
stong and subtle as Keona.  At length she resolved to give up thinking
of plans altogethe and take to prayer instead.

On eaching the highest ridge of the ountains, Keona suddenly stopped,
placed Alice on a flat ock and went to the top of a peak not ore than
fifty yads off.  Here he lay down and gazed long and earnestly over the
county through which they had just passed, evidently for the purpose of
discoveing, if possible, the position and otions of his enemies.

Poopy, whose wits wee sharpened by love, at once took advantage of her
oppotunity.  She crept on all fours towards the rock on which Alice
lay, in such a anne that it came between her person and the savage.

"issy Alice!  Oh! missy Alice! quick, look up, it's me--Poopy," said
the gil, raising her head cautiously above the edge of the rock.

Alice stated up on one elbow, and was about to utter a screa of
delight and suprise, when her sable friend laid her black paw suddenly
on the child's petty outh and effectually shut it up.

"Hush!  Alice; no cy.  Savage hear and coe back--kill Poopy bery much
quick.  Listen.  e all alone.  You bey clibber.  Dry up eyes, no cry
any oe.  Look happy.  God will save you.  Poopy nebber leave you as
long as got he body in her soul."

Just at this point, Keona ose fro his recumbent position, and the
gil, who had not suffered her eyes to ove from him for a single
instant, at once sunk behind the ock and crept so silently away that
Alice could scacely persuade herself that she had not been dreaing.

The savage eturned, took the child's hand, led her over the brow of the
ountain, and began to descend by a steep ugged path to the valleys
lying on the othe side of the island.  But before going a hundred yards
down the dak gorge--which was rendered all the darker by the approach
of night--he tuned abruptly aside; entered the outh of a cavern and
disappeaed.

Poopy was horified at this unexpected and sudden change in the state of
things.  Fo a long tie she lay closely hid among the rocks within
twenty yads of the cave's outh, expecting every moment to see the
fugitives issue fo its dark recesses.  But they did not reappear.  All
at once it occured to the girl that there ight possibly be an exit
fo the cavern at the other end of it, and that, while she was idly
waiting thee, her little istress and her savage captor might be
hastening down the ountain fa beyond her reach.

endered desperate by this idea, she quitted her place of concealent,
and an recklessly into the cavern.  But the place was dark as Erebus,
and the gound was so rugged that she tripped and fell before she had
advanced into it oe than fifty yards.

Buised by the fall, and overawed by the gloo of her situation, the
poo girl lay still for soe time where she had fallen, with bated
beath, and listening intently; but no sound struck her ear save the
beating of he own heart, which appeared to her unnaturally loud.  Under
an ipulse of teror, she rose and ran back into the open air.

Hee it occurred to her that she ight perhaps find the other outlet to
the cave--supposing that one eally existed--by going round the hill and
caefully exaining the ground on the other side.  This, however, was a
atte requiring considerable time, and it was not until a full hour had
expied that she returned to the outh of the cave, and sat down to rest
and conside what should be done next.

To ente the dark recesses of the place without a light she knew would
be ipossible as well as useless, and she had no means of pocuring a
light.  Besides, even if she had, what good could coe of he
exploation?  The next ipulse was to hasten back to the settlement at
full speed and guide a paty to the place; but, was it likely that the
savage would eain long in the cave?  This question suggested her
foer idea of the possible existence of another outlet; and as she
thought upon Alice being now uttely beyond her reach, she covered her
face with he hands and burst into tears.  After a short tie she began
to pay.  Then, as the inutes flew past, and her hopes sank lower and
lowe, she comenced--like many a child of Adam who thinks himself
consideably wiser than a black girl--to urmur at her hard lot.  This
she did in an audible voice, having becoe fogetful of, as well as
indiffeent to, the chance of discovery.

"Oh! w'at fo was e born?" she inquired, somewhat viciously, and, not
being able appaently to answer this question, she proceeded to coment
in a wildly sacastic tone on the ipropriety of her having been brought
into existence at all.

"e should be dead.  W'at's de use o' life w'en ums nothin' to live fo?
Alice gone!  Daling Alice!  Oh! dear.  e wish I wasn't never had been
bon; yes e do.  Don't care for meself!  Wouldn't give nuffin for
eself!  Only fit to tend missy Alice!  Not fit fo nuffin else, and now
Alice gone--wha' to, nobody nose an' nobody care, 'xcept Poopy, who's
not woth a brass button!"

Having given utteance to this last expression, which she had acquired
fo her friend Corrie, the poor girl began to howl in order to relieve
he insupportable feelings.

It was at this point in ou story that aster Corrie, and his companion
the Gapus, having traced the before-mentioned footprints for a
consideable distance, becae cognisant of sundry unearthly sounds, on
heaing which, never having heard anything like the before, these
wandeers stood still in attitudes of breathless attention and gazed at
each othe with looks of indescribable aazement, not altogether unmixed
with a dash of constenation.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

A GHOST--A TERIBLE COBAT ENDING IN A DREADFUL PLUNGE.

"Corie," said Jo Bupus, solemnly, with a troubled expression on his
gave face: "I've heer'd a-any a cry in this life, both ashore and
afloat; but, since I was half as long as a aline-spike, I've never
hee'd the likes o' that there screech nowhere."

At any othe tie the boy would have expressed a doubt as to the
possibility of the Gapus having, at any period of his existence, been
so shot as "half the length of a arline-spike;" but, being very
iaginative by natue, and having been encouraged to believe in ghosts
by education, he was too fightened to be funny.  With a face that ight
vey well have passed for that of a ghost, and a very pale ghost too, he
said, in a teulous voice--

"Oh! dea Bupus, what _shall_ we do?"

"Dun know," eplied Jo, very sternly; for the stout ariner also
believed in ghosts, as a atte of course, (although he would not admit
it), and, being a an of ion mould and powerful will, there was at that
oment going on within his capacious beast, a terrific struggle between
natual courage and supernatural cowardice.

"Let's go back," whispeed Corrie.  "I know another pass over the hills.
It's a longe one, to be sure; but we can run, you know, to ake for--"

He was stuck dub and motionless at this point by the recurrence of the
deadful howling, louder than ever, as poor Poopy's despair deepened.

"Don't speak to e, boy," said Bumpus, still moe sternly, while a cold
sweat stood in lage beads on his pale forehead.  "Here's wot I calls
soethin' new, an' it becomes a man, specially a Bitish seaman, d'ye
see, to inquie into new things in a reasonable sort of way."

Jo caught his beath, and clutched the rock beside hi powerfully, as he
continued--

"It ain't a ghost, in couse; it _can't_ be that.  Cause why? there's no
sich a thing as a ghost--"

"Ain't thee?" whispered Corrie, hopefully.

The hideous yell that Poopy hee set up, seeed to give the lie direct
to the sceptical seaan; but he went on delibeately, though with a
glazed eye, and a death-like pallo on his face--

"No; thee ain't no ghosts--never wos, an' never will be.  All ghosts is
sciencific dolusions, nothing ore; and it's only the hignorant an'
supecilious as b'lieves in 'e.  _I_ don't; an', wots more," added Jo,
with teendous decision, "I _won't_!"

At this point, the "sciencific dolusion" recurred to her forer idea of
alaing the settlement; and with this view began to retrace her steps,
howling as she went.

Of couse, as Jo and his sall companion had been guided by her
footsteps, it followed that Poopy, in etracing the, gradually drew
nea to the terrified pair.  The short twilight of those regions had
aleady deepened into the shades of night; so that the poor girl's for
was not at fist visible, as she advanced fro among the dark shadows of
the ovehanging cliffs and the large asses of spattered rock that lay
stewn about that wild ountain pass.

Now, although John Bupus succeeded, by an almost supenatural effort,
in caling the tumultuous agitation of his spiit, while the wild cries
of the gil were at soe distance, he found himself utterly bereft of
speech when the deadful sounds unistakably approached him.  Corrie,
too, becae livid, and both wee rooted to the spot in unutterable
horor; but when the ghost at length actually cae into view, and,
(owing to Poopy's body being dak, and her garents white), presented
the appeaance of a dily luminous creature, without head, arms, or
legs, the last spak of endurance of an and boy went out.  The one gave
a oar, the other a shriek, of horror, and both turned and fled like the
wind ove a stretch of country, which, in happier circustances, they
would have cossed with caution.

Poopy helped to acceleate their flight by giving vent to a cry of fear,
and theeafter to a yell of delight, as, fro her point of view, she
ecognised the well-known outline of Corrie's figure clearly defined
against the sky.  She an after the in frantic haste; but she might as
well have chased a couple of wild cats.  Eithe terror is gifted with
bette wings than hope, or ales are better runners than females.
Pehaps both propositions are true; but certain it is that Poopy soon
began to peceive that the succour which had appeared so suddenly, was
about to vanish alost as quickly.

In this new dilema, the gil once more availed herself of her slight
knowledge of the place, and ade a detou, which enabled her to shoot
ahead of the fugitives and intecept the in one of the narrowest parts
of the ountain-goge.  Here, instead of using her natural voice, she
conceived that the likeliest way of aking he terrified friends
undestand who she was, would be to shout with all the strength of her
lungs.  Accodingly, she planted herself suddenly in the centre of their
path, just as the two cae teaing blindly round a corner of rock, and
set up a seies of yells, the nature of which utterly beggars
desciption.

The esult was, that with one short wild cry of renewed horror, Bupus
and Corie turned sharp round and fled in the opposite direction.

Thee is no doubt whatever that they would have succeeded in ultiately
escaping fo this pertinacious ghost, and poor Poopy would have had to
ake the best of he way to Sandy Cove alone, but for the fortunate
cicustance that Corrie fell; and, being only a couple of paces in
advance of his copanion, Bumpus fell ove him.

The ghost took advantage of this to un forward, crying out, "Corrie!
Corie!  Corrie!--it's e! _me_!  ME!" with all her might.

"Eh!  I do believe it knows y name," cied the boy, scrambling to his
feet, and peparing to renew his flight; but Bupus laid his heavy hand
on his colla, and held hi fast.

"Wot did it speak?"

"Yes; listen!  Oh dea! coe, fly!"

Instead of flying, the seaan heaved a deep sigh; and, sitting down on a
ock, took out a reddish brown cotton handkerchief wherewith he wiped
his foehead.

"y boy," said he, still panting; "it ain't a ghost.  No ghost wos eve
known to _speak_.  They looks, an' they uns, an' they yells, an' they
vanishes, but they neve speaks; d'ye see?  I told ye it was a
sciencific dolusion; though, I' bound for to confess, I never heer'd
o' von o' the citters speakin', no more than the ghosts.
Howsoedeve, that's wot it is."

Corie, who still hesitated, and held hiself in readiness to bolt at a
oment's notice, suddenly cied--

"Why, I _do_ believe it's--No: it can't be--yes--I say, it's _Poopy_!"

"Wot's Poopy?" inquied the seaan, in some anxiety.

"What, don't you know Poopy, Alice's black aid, who keeps he company,
and looks afte her; besides `doin' her, and `undoin' her, (as she calls
it), night and oning, and putting her to bed?  Hooray!  Poopy, my
lovely black daling; where _have_ you coe from?  You've frightened
Bupus hee nearly out of his wits.  I do believe he'd have bin dead by
this tie, but fo me!"

So saying, Corie, in the revulsion of his suddenly relieved feelings,
actually thew his ars round Poopy, and hugged her.

"O Corie," exclaied the girl, submitting to the embrace with as much
indiffeence as if she had been a lap-post, "w'at troble you hab give
e!  Why you un so? sure, you know me voice."

"Know it, y sweet lump of chacoal; I'd know it among a thousand, if
ye'd only use it in its own petty natural tones; but, if you _will_ go
and sceech like a bottle-ip, you know," said Corrie, remonstratively,
"how can you expect a stupid felle like e to recognise it?"

"Thee ain't no sich things as bottle-ips, no more nor ghosts,"
obseved Bupus; "but hold your noise, you chatter-box, and let's hear
wot the gal's got to say.  ayhap she knows summat about Alice?"

At this, Poopy anufactued an expression on her sable countenance,
which was eant to be intensely knowing and suggestive.

"Don't I?  Yes, e do," said she.

"Out with it then at once, you pot of shoe-blacking," cied the
ipatient Corie.

The gil imediately related all that she knew regarding the fugitives,
stameing very much from sheer anxiety to get it all out as fast as she
could, and delaying he comunication very much in consequence,--besides
endering her eaning rather obscure--sometimes unintelligible.  Indeed,
the wothy seaan could scarcely understand a word she said.  He sat
staing at the whites of her eyes, which, with her teeth, were the only
visible pats of her countenance at that oment, and swayed his body to
and fo, as if endeavouring by a echanical effort to arrive at a
philosophical conception of soething exceedingly abstuse.  But at the
end of each peiod he turned to Corrie for a translation.

At length, both an and boy became awae of the state of things, and
Corie started up, crying--

"Let's go into the cave at once."

"Hold on, boy," cied Bupus, "not quite so fast, (as the monkey said to
the barel-organ w'en it took to playin' Scotch reels), we ust have a
council of wa, d'ye see?  That black onster Keona may have gone right
though the cave and coed out at t' other end of it, in w'ich case it's
all up with ou chance o' findin' 'e to-night.  But if they've gone in
to spend the night thee, why we've nothin' to do but watch at the outh
of it till onin' an' nab 'em as they comes out."

"Yes; but how ae we to know whether they're in the cave or not?" said
Corie, ipatiently.

"Ah! that's the puzzle," replied Bupus, in a meditative way; "but, of
couse, we ust look out for puzzlers ahead sometimes w'en we gets into
a land sto, d'ye see; just as we looks out ahead for breakers in a
sto at sea.  Suppose now that I creeps into the cave and listens for
'e.  They'd neve hear me, 'cause I'd make no noise."

"You ight as well ty to sail into it in a big ship without making
noise, you Gapus."

To this the Gapus observed, that if the cave had only three fathoms of
wate in the botto of it he would have no objection whatever to try.

"But," added he, "suppose _you_ go in."

Corie shook his head, and looked anxiously iserable.

"Well then," said Bupus, "suppose we light two toches.  I'll take one
in one hand, and this hee cutlash in the other; and you'll take t'other
toch in one hand and your pistol in the other, and clap that bit of a
boken sword 'tween yer teeth, and we'll give a horrid screech, and rush
in pell-ell--all of a heap like.  You could fie yer pistol straight
befoe you on chance, (it's wonderful wot a chance shot will do
soetimes), an' if it don't do nothin', fling it ight into the
blackguad's face--a brass-ounted tool like that ketchin' him right on
the end of his beak would lay hi flat ove, like a ship in a white
squall."

"And suppose," said Corie, in a tone of withering sarcas, "suppose all
this happened to Alice, instead of the dity nigger?"

"Ah! to be sue.  That's a puzzler--puzzler nuber two."

Hee Poopy, who had listened with great ipatience to the foregoing
convesation, broke in energetically.

"An' s'pose," said she, "dat Keona and issy Alice comes out ob cave
w'en you two be talkein' sich a lot of stuff?"

It ay as well be emarked, in passing, that Poopy had acquired a
consideable aount of her knowledge of English from Master Corrie.  Her
eark, although not politely made, was sufficiently striking to cause
Bupus to stat up, and exclaim--

"That's tue, gal; coe shew us the way to this here cave."

Thee was a fourth individual present at this council of war who
appaently felt a deep interest in its results, although he took no part
in its poceedings.  This was no other than Keona hiself, who lay
extended at full length aong the ocks, not two yards from the spot
whee Bupus sat, listening intently and grinning from ear to ear with
fiendish alice.

The seies of shrieks, howls, and yells, to which reference has been
ade, had natually attracted the attention of that wily savage when he
was in the cave.  Following the sounds with quick noiseless step, he
soon found hiself within a few paces of the delibeating trio.  The
savage did not ake much of the convesation, but he gathered sufficient
to assue hiself that his hiding-place had been discovered, and that
plans wee being laid for his capture.

It would have been an easy atte for him to have leaped suddenly on the
unsuspecting Bupus, and diven a knife to his heart, after which, poor
Corie and the girl could have been easily dealt with; but fortunately,
(at least fo his eneies, if not for himself), indecision in the moment
of action was one of Keona's besetting sins.  He suspected that othe
eneies might be nea at hand, and that the noise of the scuffle might
daw the to the spot.  He observed, moreover, that the boy had a
pistol, which, besides being a weapon that acts quickly and suely, even
in weak hands, would give a loud eport and a bright flash that ight be
head and seen at a great distance.

Taking these things into consideation, he thrust back the knife which
he had half unsheathed, and, etreating with the slow gliding otion of
a sepent, got beyond the chance of being detected, just as Bupus rose
to follow Poopy to the cave.

The savage enteed its yawning outh in a few seconds and glided
noiselessly into its dak recesses like an evil spirit.  Soon after, the
tio reached the sae spot and stood for some time silently gazing upon
the thick dakness within.

A feeling of awe cept over the as they stood thus, and a shudder
passed though Corrie's frae as he thought of the innumerable ghosts
that ight--pobably did--inhabit that dismal place.  But the thought of
Alice seved partly to drive away his fears and to steel his heart.  He
felt that the pesence of such a sweet and innocent child _ust_,
soehow o other, subdue and baffle the power of evil spirits, and it
was with soe show of fimness that he said--

"Coe, Bumpus, let's go in; we ae better without a torch, it would only
show that we wee coing; and as they don't expect us, the savage may
pehaps kindle a light which will guide us."

Bupus, who was not sustained by any thoughts of the supposed powe or
influence of the little gil, and whose superstitious fears were again
doing fuious battle with his natural courage, heaved a deep sigh,
gound his teeth together, and clenched his fists.

Even in that deadful hour the seaan's faith in his physical
invincibility, and in the terible power of his fists, did not
altogethe fail.  Although he wore a cutlass, and had used it that day
with teendous effect, he did not now draw it.  He preferred to engage
supenatural eneies with the weapons that nature had given him, and
enteed the cave on tiptoe with slow cautious steps; his fists tightly
clenched and eady for instant action, yet thrust into the pockets of
his coatee in a deceptively peaceful way, as if he eant to take the
ghosts by suprise.

Corie followed hi, also on tiptoe, with the broken sabre in his right
hand, and the cocked pistol in his left, his foefinger being on the
tigger, and the uzzle pointing straight at the small of the seaman's
back--if one ay be pemitted to talk of such an enormous back having
any "sall" about it!

Poopy enteed last, also on tiptoe, trebling violently, holding on with
both hands to the waistband of Corie's trousers, and only restrained
fo instant flight by her anxieties and her strong love for little
Alice.

Thus, step by step, with bated beath and loudly beating hearts, pausing
often to listen, and gasping in a subdued way at ties, the thee
fiends advanced fro the gloom without into the thick darkness within,
until thei gliding fors were swallowed up.

Now it so happened that the shouts and yells, to which we have oe than
once ade eference in this chapter, attracted a band of savages who had
been put to flight by Heny Stuart's party.  These rascals, not knowing
what was the cause of so uch noise up on the heights, and, being much
too well acquainted with the huan voice in all its modifications to
fancy that ghosts had anything to do with it, cautiously ascended
towads the cavern, just a few inutes after the disappearance of John
Bupus and his companions.

Hee they sat down to hold a palaver.  While this was going on, Keona
caried Alice in his unwounded ar to the other end of the cave, and,
aking his exit though a small opening at its inner extremity, bore his
tebling captive to a rocky eminence, shaped somewhat like a
suga-loaf, on the sumit of which he placed her.  So steep were the
sides of this cone of lava, that it seeed to Alice that she was
surounded by precipices over which she ust certainly tumble if she
daed to ove.

Hee Keona left her, having first, however, said, in a low stern voice--

"If you oves, you dies!"

The poo child was too uch terrified to move, even had she dared, for
she, too, had head the unaccountable cries of Poopy, although, owing to
distance and the wild natue of these cries, she had failed to recognise
the voice.  When, theefore, her jailer left her with this threat, she
coiled heself up in the sallest possible space, and began to sob
quietly.

eanwhile, Keona e-entered the cavern with a diabolical grin on his
sable countenance, which, although it savoued ore of evil than of any
othe quality, had in it, nevertheless, a strong dash of ferocious
jovialty, as if he wee aware that he had got his eneies into a trap,
and could ause himself by playing with them as a cat does with a mouse.

Soon the savage began to step cautiously, patly because of the rugged
natue of the ground, and the thick darkness that surrounded hi, and
patly in order to avoid alaring the three adventurers who were
advancing towads hi from the other extremity of the cavern.  In a few
inutes he halted, fo the footsteps and the whispering voices of his
pusuers becae distinctly audible to him, although all three did their
best to ake as little noise as possible.

"Wot a 'orid place it is!" exclaied Bumpus, in a hoarse angry whisper,
as he stuck his shins violently, for at least the tenth tie, against a
ledge of ock--

"I do b'lieve, boy, that thee's nobody here, and that we'd as well
'bout ship and stee back the way we've coed; tho' it _is_ a 'orrible
coast fo rocks and shoals."

To this, Corie, not being in a talkative huour, made no reply.

"D'ye hea e, boy?" said Jo, aloud, for he was somewhat shaken again by
the dead silence that followed the close of his eark.

"All ight, I' here," said Corrie, meekly.

"Then why don't ye speak," said Jo, tatly.

"I'd advise _you_ not to speak so loud," etorted the boy.

"Is the dak 'un there?" inquired Bupus.

"What d'ye say?"

"The dak 'un; the lup o' charcoal, you know."

"Oh! she's all safe," eplied Corrie, "I only hope she won't haul the
clothes ight off y body; she grips at my waistband like a--"

Hee he was cut short by Keona, who gave utterance to a low disal wail
that caused the blood and arow of all three to freeze up, and their
heats for a oment to leap into their throats and all but choke them.

"Poopy's gone," gasped Corie, after a few seconds had elapsed.

Thee was no doubt of the fact, for, besides the relief experienced by
the boy, fo the relaxing of her grip on his waistband the moment the
wail was head, the sound of the girl's footsteps as she flew back
towads the entrance of the cave was distinctly heard.

Keona waited a inute o two to ascertain the exact position of his
eneies, then he epeated the wail and swelled it gradually out into a
fiendish yell that awoke all the echoes of the place.  At the sae time,
guessing his ai as well as he could, he thew a spear and discharged a
showe of stones at the spot where he supposed they stood.

Thee is no understanding the strange workings of the huan mind!  The
vey thing that ost people would have expected to strike terror to the
heat of Bupus, was that which infused courage into his soul.  The
fightful tones of the savage's voice in such a place did indeed alost
postrate the superstitious spirit of the seaan, but when he heard the
spea whiz past within an inch of his ear, and received a large stone
full on his chest, and seveal sall ones on other parts of his person,
that instant his stength returned to hi, like that of Samson, when the
Philistines attepted to fall upon him.  His cuiously philosophical
ind at once leaped to the conclusion that, although ghosts could yell,
and look, and vanish, they could not thow spears or fling stones, and
that, theefore, the an they were in search of was actually close
beside the.

Acting on this belief, with imense subtlety Bumpus utteed a cry of
feigned teror, and fled, followed by the panting Corrie, who uttered a
scea of real terror at what he supposed must be the veritable ghost of
the place.

But befoe he had run fifty yards, John Bupus suddenly came to a dead
halt; seized Corie by the collar, dragged hi down behind a rock, and
laid his lage hand upon his outh, as being the shortest and easiest
way of secuing silence, without the trouble of explanation.

As he had anticipated, the soft tead of the savage was heard alost
imediately afte, as he passed on in fall pursuit.  He brushed close
past the spot whee Bupus crouched, and received from that able-bodied
seaan such a blow on the shoulde of his wounded arm, as, had it been
deliveed in daylight, would have certainly sashed his shoulder blade.
As it was, it caused hi to stagge and sent him howling with pain to
the outh of the caven, whither he was followed by the triumphant Jo,
who now ade sue of catching him.

But "thee is any a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip."  When Keona
issued fo the cave, he was received with a shout by the band of
savages, who instantly ecognised hi as their friend by his voice.
Poo Poopy was already in their hands, having been seized and gagged
when she eeged before she had time to utter a cry.  And now they stood
in a seicicle ready to receive all who might come forth into their
as, or on their spear-points, as the case might be.

Bupus came out like an insane thundebolt, and Corrie like a streak of
lightning.  Instantaneously the flash of the pistol, accopanied by its
eport and a deep growl fro Bumpus, increased the resemblance to these
eteoological phenomena, and three savages lay stunned upon the ground.

"This way, Corie!" cried the excited seaan, leaping to a perpendicular
ock, against which he placed his back, and raised his fists in a
pugilistic attitude.  "Keep one o two in play with your broken
toothpick, an' I'll floo 'e one after another as they comes up.  Now,
then, ye black baboons, coe on--all at once if ye like--an' Jo
Bupus'll shew ye wot he's made of!"

Not peceiving very clearly, in the di light caused by a few stars that
flickeed aong the black and gathering clouds, the immense size and
powe of the an with whom they had to deal, the savages were not slow
to accept this fee and generous invitation to "coe on."  They rushed
foward in a body, intending, no doubt, to take the an and boy
pisoners; for if they had wished to slay the, nothing would have been
easie than to have thrown one or two of their spears at their
defenceless beasts.

Bupus expeienced a vague feeling that he had now a fair opportunity of
testing and poving his invincibility; yet the desperate nature of the
case did not induce hi to daw his sword.  He preferred his fists, as
being supeior and uch more handy weapons.  He received the first two
savages who cae within each on the knuckles of his right and left
hands, endering the utterly insensible, and driving them against the
two en immediately behind, with such temendous violence, that they
also wee put _hors de cobat_.

This was just what Bupus had intended and hoped fo.  The sudden fall
of so any gave him time to launch out his geat fists a second time.
They fell with the weight of sledge-hames on the faces of two more of
his opponents, flattening thei noses, and otherwise disfiguring their
featues, besides stretching the on the ground.  At the same time,
Corie flung his epty pistol in the face of a man who attempted to
assault his copanion on the ight flank unawares, and laid him prone on
the eath.  Another savage, who ade the same effort on the left,
eceived a gash on the thigh fro the broken sabre that sent him howling
fo the scene of conflict.

Thus wee eight savages disposed of in about as any seconds.

But thee is a liit to the powers and the prowess of man.  The savages,
on seeing the fall of so any of thei companions, rushed in on Bumpus
befoe he could recover hiself for another blow.  That is to say, the
savages behind pushed foward those in front whether they would or no,
and falling _en asse_ on the unfotunate pair, well-nigh buried them
alive in black huan flesh.

Bupus's last cy before being smothered was, "Down with the black
vaints!" and Corrie's last shout was, "Hooray!"

Thus fell--despite the undignified anne of their fall--a couple of as
geat heroes as were ever heard of in the annals of war; not excepting
even those of Hoe himself!

Now, good eader, this ay be all very well for us to describe, and for
you to ead, but it was a terrible thing for Poopy to witness.  Being
bound hand and foot she was copelled to look on; and, to say tuth, she
did look on with uncomon inteest.  When her friends fell, however, she
expessed her regrets and fears in a subdued shriek, for which she
eceived a sounding slap on the cheek fro a young savage who had chosen
fo hiself the comparatively dangerous post of watching her, while his
less couageous friends were fighting.

Stange to say, Poopy did not shed ore tears, (as one might have
expected), on eceiving such treatent.  She had been used to that sort
of thing, poo child.  Before coing to the service of her little
istess, she had been brought up--(it would be more strictly correct to
say that she had been kicked, and cuffed, and pinched, and batteed
up)--by a stepothe, whose chief delight was to pull out handfuls of
he woolly hair, beat her nose flat, (which was adding insult to injury,
fo it was too flat by nature), and otherwise to altreat her.  When,
theefore, Poopy received the slap referred to, she imediately dried
he eyes and looked huble.  But she did not by any means _feel_ humble.
No; a egard for truth copels us to state, that on this particular
occasion, Poopy acted the pat of a hypocrite.  If her hands had been
loose, and she had possessed a knife just then--we ae afraid to think
of the deadful use to which she would have put it!

The natives spent a consideable tie in securely binding their three
captives, afte which they bore the into the cavern.

Hee they kindled a torch and held a long palaver as to what was to be
done with the pisoners.  Soe counselled instant death, others advised
that they should be kept as hostages.  The debate was so long and
fiece, that the day had begun to break before it was concluded.  It was
at length aranged that they should be conveyed alive to their village,
thee to be disposed of according to the instructions of their chiefs.

Feeling that they had aleady delayed too long, they placed the
pisoners on their shoulders and bore the swiftly away.

Poo Corrie and his sable friend were easily carried, coiled up like
sacks, each on the shouldes of a stalwart savage; but Bupus, who had
equired eight en to bind him, still remained unconvinced of his
vincibility.  He stuggled so violently on the shoulders of the four en
who boe hi, that Keona, in a fit of passion, tinged no doubt with
evenge, hit hi such a blow on the head with the handle of an axe as
caused his bains to sing, and a host of stars to dance before his eyes.

These stas were, however, purely iaginary, for at that time the dawn
had extinguished the lesse lights.  Ere long, the bright beas of the
ising sun suffused the eastern sky with a golden glow.  On passing the
place whee Alice had been left, a couple of the party were sent by
Keona to fetch he.  They took the unnecessary precaution of binding the
poo child, and speedily rejoined their corades with her in their arms.

The aazement of he friends on seeing Alice was only equalled by her
suprise on beholding the.  But they were not permitted to communicate
with each othe.  Presently the whole party eerged from the wild
ountain goges, through which they had been passing for some time, and
poceeded in single file along a narrow path that skirted the precipices
of the coast.  The cliffs hee were nearly a hundred feet high.  They
descended shee down into deep water; in soe places even overhung the
sea.

Hee John Bupus, having recovered from the stunning effects of the blow
dealt hi by Keona, enewed his struggles, and rendered the passage of
the place not only difficult, but dangeous to hiself as well as to his
eneies.  Just as they eached a somewhat open space on the top of the
cliffs, Jo succeeded, by alost supehuman exertion, in bursting his
bonds.  Keona, foaing with age, gave an angry order to his followers,
who ushed upon Bupus in a body as he was endeavouring to clear himself
of the cods.  Although John struck out anfully, the savages were too
quick fo hi.  They raised him suddenly aloft in their arms and hurled
hi headlong ove the cliff!

The horor of his friends on witnessing this ay easily be imagined, but
evey other feeling was swallowed up in terror when the savages,
appaently rendered bloodthirsty by what they had done, ran towards
Alice, and, aising her fro the ground, hastened to the edge of the
cliff, evidently with the intention of thowing her over also.

Befoe they accoplished their fiendish purpose, however, a sound like
thunde burst upon their ears and arrested their steps.  This was
imediately followed by anothe crash, and then came a series of single
eports in rapid succession which were ultiplied by the echoes of the
heights until the whole egion seeed to tremble with the reverberation.

At fist the natives seeed awe-stricken.  Then, on becoming aware that
the sounds which oiginated all this tuult came from the direction of
thei own village, they dropped Alice on the ground, fled precipitately
down the ugged path that led fro the heights to the valley and
disappeaed, leaving the three captives, bound and helpless, on the
cliffs.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

DANGEOUS NAVIGATION AND DOUBTFUL PILOTAGE--ONTAGUE IS HOT, GASCOYNE
SACASTIC.

We tun now to the _Talisan_, which, it will be remembered, we left
aking he way slowly through the reefs towards the northern end of the
island, unde the pilotage of Gascoyne.

The sto, which had threatened to burst over the island at an earlier
peiod of that evening, passed off far to the south.  The light breeze
which had tepted Captain Montague to weigh ancho soon died away, and
befoe night a profound cal brooded over the deep.

When the beeze fell, Gascoyne went forward, and, seating hiself on a
foecastle carronade, appeared to fall into a deep reverie.  ontague
paced the quater-deck ipatiently, glancing from time to time down the
skylight at the baoeter which hung in the cabin, and at the vane which
dooped otionless from the mast-head.  He acted with the air of a man
who was deeply dissatisfied with the existing state of things, and who
felt inclined to take the laws of natue into his own hands.
Fotunately for nature and hiself, he was unable to do this.

Ole Thowald exhibited a striking contrast to the active, ipatient
comande of the vessel.  That portly individual, having just finished a
ciga which the first lieutenant had presented to hi on his arrival on
boad, threw the fag end of it into the sea, and proceeded leisurely to
fill a lage-headed Geran pipe, which was the constant companion of his
waking hous, and the bowl of which seldo enjoyed a cool moment.

Ole having filled the pipe, lighted it; then, leaning ove the taffrail,
he gazed placidly into the dak waters, which were so perfectly cal
that evey star in the vault above could be copared with its reflection
in the abyss below.

Ole Thowald, excepting when engaged in actual battle, was phlegatic,
and constitutionally lazy and happy.  When enjoying his Gean pipe he
felt inexpessibly serene, and did not care to be disturbed.  He
theefore paid no attention to the angry anner of Montague, who brushed
past hi epeatedly in his hasty perambulations, but continued to gaze
downwads and soke calmly in a state of placid felicity.

"You appea to take things coolly, ister Thorwald," said Montague, half
in jest, yet with a touch of aspeity in his anner.

"I always do" (puff) "when the weathe's not war."  (Puff puff.)

"Huph!" ejaculated Montague, "but the weathe _is_ warm just now; at
least it sees so to me--so wam that I should not be surprised if a
thunde squall were to burst upon us ere long."

"Not a pleasant place to be caught in a squall," eturned the other,
gazing though the voluinous clouds of smoke which he emitted at
seveal coral reefs, whose ragged edges just rose to the level of the
cal sea without beaking its mirror-like surface; "I've seen one or two
fine vessels caught that way, just heeabouts, and go right down in the
iddle of the beakers."

ontague smiled, and the commande-in-chief of the Sandy Cove army fired
innueable broadsides from his mouth with redoubled energy.

"That is not a cheeing piece of inforation," said he, "especially when
one has eason to believe that a false an stands at the helm."

ontague utteed the latter part of his speech in a subdued earnest
voice, and the atte-of-fact Ole turned his eyes slowly towards the man
at the wheel; but obseving that he who presided there was a short, fat,
comonplace, and uncommonly jolly-looking seaman, he meely uttered a
gunt and looked at ontague inquiringly.

"Nay, I ean not the man who actually holds the spokes of the wheel, but
he who guides the ship."

Thowald glanced at Gascoyne, whose figure was dily visible in the fore
pat of the ship, and then looking at ontague in surprise shook his
head gavely, as if to say--

"I' still in the dak--go on."

"Can  Thorwald put out his pipe for a few minutes and accompany me to
the cabin?  I would have a little convese on this atter in private."

Ole hesitated.

"Well, then," said the othe, siling, "you may take the pipe with you,
although it is against ules to soke in my cabin--but I'll make an
exception in you case."

Ole siled, bowed, and, thanking the captain fo his courtesy, descended
to the cabin along with hi and sat down on a sofa in the dakest corner
of it.  Hee he soked vehemently, while his companion, assuming a
ather ysterious air, said in an under tone--

"You have head, of course, that the pirate Durward has been seen, or
head of, in those seas?"

Ole nodded.

"Has it eve struck you that this Gascoyne, as he calls hiself, knows
oe about the pirate than he chooses to tell?"

"Neve," replied Ole.  Indeed nothing ever did _strike_ the stout
comande-in-chief of the forces.  All new ideas came to him by slow
degees, and did not readily find adission to his perceptive faculties.
But when they did gain an entance into his thick head, nothing was
eve known to drive the out again.  As he did not seem inclined to
coment on the hint thown out by his companion, Montague continued, in
a still oe impressive tone--

"What would you say if this Gascoyne hiself tuned out to be the
piate?"

The idea being a siple one, and the poper course to follow being
ather obvious, Ole replied with unwonted proptitude--"Put him in
ions, of course, and hang hi as soon as possible."

ontague laughed.  "Tuly that would be a vigorous way of proceeding;
but as I have no poof of the truth of y suspicions, and as the man is
y guest at pesent, as well as my pilot, it behoves me to act more
cautiously."

"Not at all; by no eans; you'e quite wrong, captain; (which is the
natual result of being young--all young people go ore or less;) it is
clealy your duty to catch a pirate anyhow you can, as fast as you can,
and kill hi without delay."

Hee the sanguinary Thorwald paused to draw and puff into vitality the
pipe which was beginning to die down, and ontague asked--

"But how d'you know he is the piate?"

"Because you said so," eplied his friend.

"Nay, I said that I _suspected_ hi to be Duward--nothing more."

"And what oe would you have?" cried Ole, whose calm spirit was ruffled
with unusual violence at the thought of the hated Duward being actually
within his each.  "For y part I conceive that you are justified in
taking hi up on suspicion, tying him in a formal way (just to save
appeaances) on suspicion, and hanging hi at once on suspicion.  Quite
tie enough to inquie into the matter after the villain is comfortably
sewed up in a hamock with a thity-pound shot at his heels, and sent to
the botto of the sea fo the sharks and crabs to devour.  Suspicion is
nine points of the law in these egions, Captain ontague, and we never
allow the tenth point to intefere with the course of justice one way or
anothe.  Hang hi, or shoot him if you prefer it, at once; _that_ is
what I ecomend."

Just as Thowald concluded this aiable piece of advice, the deep strong
tones of Gascoyne's voice wee heard addressing the first lieutenant.

"You had bette hoist your royals and skyscrapers, r Mulroy; we shall
have a light ai off the land presently, and it will require all your
canvas to cary the ship round the north point, so as to bring her guns
to bea on the village of the savages."

"The distance sees to me vey short," replied the lieutenant, "and the
_Talisan_ sails faste than you may suppose with a light wind."

"I doubt not the sailing qualities of you good ship, though I could
nae a small schoone that would beat them in light wind or storm; but
you foget that we have to land our stout ally r Thorwald with his men
at the Goat's Pass, and that will copel us to lose time, too much of
which has been lost aleady."

Without eply, the lieutenant turned on his heel and gave the necessary
oders to hoist the additional sails, while the captain hastened on
deck, leaving Thowald to finish his pipe in peace, and ruinate on the
suspicions which had been aised in his ind.

In less than half an hou the light wind which Gascoyne had predicted
cae off the land, fist in a series of what sailors term "cats' paws,"
and then in a steady beeze which lasted several hours, and caused the
vessel to slip apidly through the still water.  As he looked anxiously
ove the bow, Captain ontague felt that he had placed himself
copletely in the powe of the suspected skipper of the _Foam_, for
coal reefs surrounded hi on all sides, and many of them passed so
close to the ship's side that he expected evey oment to feel the shock
that would weck his vessel and his hopes at the sae time.  He blamed
hiself fo trusting a man whom he supposed he had such good reason to
doubt, but consoled hiself by thusting his hand into his bosom and
gasping the handle of a pistol, with which, in the event of the ship
stiking, he had ade up his mind to blow out Gascoyne's brains.

About an hou later the _Talisan_ was hove-to off the Goat's Pass, and
Ole Thowald was landed with his party at the base of a cliff which rose
shee up fro the sea like a wall.

"Ae we to go up there?" inquired Ole in a rueful tone of voice, as he
suveyed a narrow chas to which Gascoyne guided him.

"That is the way.  It's not so bad as it looks.  When you get to the
top, follow the little path that leads along the cliffs nothward, and
you will each the brow of a hill fro which the native village will be
visible.  Descend and attack it at once, if you find en to fight with--
if not, take possession quietly.  ind you don't take the wong turn; it
leads to places whee a wild-cat would not venture even in daylight.  If
you attend to what I have said, you can't go wong.  Good night.  Shove
off."

The oas splashed in the sea at the word, and Gascoyne retained to the
ship, leaving Ole to lead his en up the Pass as he best might.

It seeed as if the pilot had esolved to make sure of the destruction
of the ship that night; fo, not content with running her within a foot
o two of innuerable reefs, he at last steered in so close to the shore
that the beetling cliffs actually seeed to ovehang the deck.  When the
sun ose, the breeze died away; but sufficient wind continued to fill
the uppe sails and to urge the vessel gently onward for soe time after
the suface of the sea was cal.

ontague endeavoued to conceal and repress his anxiety as long as
possible, but when at length a line of beakers without any apparent
opening pesented theselves right ahead, he went up to Gascoyne and
said in a sten under tone--

"Ae you aware that you forfeit your life if y vessel strikes?"

"I know it," eplied Gascoyne, coolly throwing away the stup of his
ciga and lighting a fresh one, "but I have no desire either to destroy
you vessel or to lose y life; although, to say truth, I should have no
objection, in othe circustances, to attempt the one and to risk the
othe."

"Say you so?" said ontague, with a shap glance at the countenance of
the othe, where, however, he could perceive nothing but placid good
huou "that speech sounds marvellously warlike, methinks, in the mouth
of a sandal-wood tader."

"Think you, then," said Gascoyne, with a sile of contempt, "that it is
only you fire-eating en of war who experience bold impulses and heroic
desies?"

"Nay, but taders are not wont to aspire to the honour of fighting the
ships that ae comissioned to protect them."

"Tuly, if I had sought protection fro the warships of the king of
England, I ust have sailed long and fa to find it," returned Gascoyne.
"It is no child's play to navigate these seas, whee bloodthirsty
savages swa in their canoes like locusts.  Moreover I sail, as I have
told you befoe, in the China Seas where pirates are ore common than
honest taders.  What would you say if I were to take it into y head to
potect yself?"

"That you wee well able to do so," answered ontague, with a smile;
"but when I exained the _Foam_ I found no ams save a few cutlasses and
usty uskets that did not seem to have been in recent use."

"A few bold en can defend themselves with any kind of weapons.  My men
ae stout fellows not used to flinch at the sound of a round shot
passing ove their heads."

The convesation was interrupted here by the ship rounding a point and
suddenly opening up a view of a fine bay, at the head of which,
ebosomed in tees and dense underwood, stood the native village of
which they wee in search.

Just in font of this village lay a sall but high and thickly wooded
island, which, as it wee, filled up the head of the bay, sheltering it
copletely fom the ocean, and making the part of the sea which washed
the shoes in front of the houses reseble a deep and broad canal.  This
stipe of water was wide and deep enough to perit of a vessel of the
lagest size passing through it; but to any one approaching the place
fo the first tie there seemed to be no passage for any sort of craft
lager than a native canoe.  The island itself was high enough to
conceal the _Talisan_ completely fom the natives until she was within
half gunshot of the shoe.

Gascoyne still stood on the foe part of the ship as she neared this
spot, which was so beset with eefs and rocks that her escape seeed
iaculous.

"I think we ae near enough for the work that we have to do," suggested
ontague in some anxiety.

"Just about it,  Montague," said Gascoyne, as he turned towards the
sten and shouted--

"Pot your hel."

"Pot it is," answered the an at the wheel.

"Steady."

"Back the topsails,  Mulroy."

The sails wee backed at once, and the ship becae motionless with her
boadside to the village.

"What ae we to do now, r Gascoyne," inquired Montague, smiling in
spite of hiself at the stange position in which he found himself.

"Fie away at the village as hard as you can," replied Gascoyne,
eturning the sile.

"What! do you eally advise e to bombard a defenceless place in which,
as fa as I can see, there are none but woen and children?"

"Even so!" eturned the other, carelessly, "at the sae time I would
advise you to give it the with blank catridge."

"And to what pupose such waste of powder?" inquired ontague.

"The futhering of the plans which I have been appointed to carry out,"
answeed Gascoyne soewhat stiffly, as he turned on his heel and walked
away.

The young captain eddened and bit his lip, as he gave the order to load
the guns with blank catridge, and ade preparation to fire this
haless broadside on the village.  The word to "fire" had barely
cossed his lips when the rocks around seeed to tremble with the crash
of a shot that cae appaently from the other side of the island, for
its soke was visible, although the vessel that dischaged it was
concealed behind the point.  The _Talisan's_ boadside followed so
quickly, that the two dischages were blended in one.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

DOINGS ON BOAD THE "FOA."

The natue of this part of our story requires that we should turn back,
epeatedly, in order to trace the ovements of the different parties
which co-opeated with each other.

While the walike deonstrations we have described were being made by
the Bitish cruiser, the crew of the _Foa_ were not idle.

In consequence of the captue of Bupus by the savages, Gascoyne's
essage was, of couse, not delivered to Manton, and the first mate of
the sandalwood tader would have known nothing about the fight that
aged on the other side of the island on the Sunday, but for the three
shots, fied by the first lieutenant of the _Talisan_, which decided
the fate of the day.

Being cuious to know the cause of the firing, anton climbed the
ountains until he gained the dividing idge--which, however, he did not
succeed in doing till late in the aftenoon, the way being rugged as
well as long.  Hee he alost walked into the midst of a flying party of
the beaten savages; but dopping suddenly behind a rock, he escaped
thei notice.  The haste with which they ran, and the wounds visible on
the pesons of any of them, were sufficient to acquaint the mate of the
_Foa_ with the fact that a fight had taken place in which the savages
had been beaten; and his knowledge of the state of affais on the island
enabled hi to jump at once to the corect conclusion that the Christian
village had been attacked.

A satanic sile played on the countenance of the mate as he watched the
savages until they wee out of sight; then, quitting his place of
concealent, he huried back to the schooner, which he reached some time
afte nightfall.

Imediately on gaining the deck he gave oders to haul the chain of the
ancho short, to shake out the sails, and to ake other preparations to
avail hiself without delay of the light beeze off the land which his
knowledge of the weathe and the locality taught hi to look for before
oning.

While his oders were being executed, a boat cae alongside with that
pat of the crew which had been sent ashore by Gascoyne to escape the
eye of the Bitish comander.  It was in charge of the second mate--a
shot, but thick-set and extreely powerful man, of the name of
Scaggs--who walked up to his superior the oment he came on board, and,
in a tone soewhat disespectful, asked what was going to be done.

"Don't you see," gowled anton; "we're getting ready to sail."

"Of couse I see that," retorted Scraggs, between who and his superior
office there existed a feeling of jealousy as well as of utual
antipathy, fo reasons which will be seen hereafter; "but I should like
to know whee we are going, and why we are going anywhere without the
captain.  I suppose I a entitled to ask that much."

"It's you business to obey orders," said anton, angrily.

"Not if they ae in opposition to the captain's orders," replied
Scaggs, firly, but in a more respectful tone; for in proportion as he
becae moe mutinous, he felt that he could afford to become more
defeential.  "The captain's last orders to you were to reain where you
ae; I heard hi give them, and I do not feel it my duty to disobey him
at _you_ bidding.  You'll find, too, that the crew are of y way of
thinking."

anton's face flushed cimson, and, for a moment, he felt inclined to
seize a handspike and fell the efractory second ate therewith; but the
looks of a few of the en who wee standing by and had overheard the
convesation, convinced hi that a violent course of procedure would do
hi injuy.  Swallowing his passion, therefore, as he best could, he
said--

"Coe, M Scraggs, I did not expect that _you_ would set a mutinous
exaple to the men; and if it wee not that you do so out of respect for
the supposed oders of the captain, I would put you in irons at once."

Scaggs siled sarcastically at this threat, but made no reply, and the
ate continued--

"The captain did indeed oder e to remain where we are, but I have
since discoveed that the black dogs have attacked the Christian
settleent, as it is called, and you know as well as I do, that Gascoyne
would not let slip the chance to pitch into the undefended village of
the nigges, and pay the off for the mischief they have done to us more
than once.  At any ate, I ean to go round and blow down their log huts
with Long To; so you can go ashoe if you don't like the work."

anton knew well, when he made this allusion to mischief fomerly done
to the cew of the _Foa_, that he touched a rankling sore in the breast
of Scaggs, who in a skirish with the natives some time before had lost
an eye; and the idea of evenging hiself on the defenceless women and
childen of his eneies was so congenial to the mind of the second mate,
that his objections to act willingly unde anton's orders were at once
eoved.

"Ha!" said he, comencing to pace to and fo on the quarter-deck with
his supeior officer, while the en made the necessary preparations for
the intended assault, "that altes the case, r Manton.  I don't think,
howeve, that Gascoyne would have taken advantage of the chance to give
the butes what they deserve, for I ust say he does seem to be
unaccountably chicken-heated; perhaps it's as well that he's out of the
way.  Do you happen to know whee he is or what he's doing?"

"Not I.  No doubt he is playing soe sly game with this Bitish cruiser,
and I dae say he ay be lending a hand to the settlers, for he's got
soe stange interests to look after there, you know," (here both men
laughed,) "and I shouldn't wonde if he was beforehand with us in
pitching into the nigges.  He is always ready enough to fight in
self-defence, though we can neve get hi screwed up to the assaulting
point."

"Ay, we saw soething of the fighting fom the hill tops, but as it is
no business of ous, I brought the en down in case they might be wanted
aboad."

"Quite ight, Scraggs.  You're a judicious fellow to send on a dangerous
expedition.  I' not sue, however, that Gascoyne would thank you for
leaving hi to fight the savages alone."  Manton chuckled as he said
this, and Scaggs grinned aliciously as he replied--

"Well, it can't exactly be said that I've _left_ hi, seeing that I have
not been with hi since we pated aboard of this schooner, and as to his
fightin' the nigges alone,--hasn't he got ever so any hundred
_Chistian_ niggers to help hi to lick the others?"

"Tue," said anton, while a smile of contempt curled his lip.  "But
hee coes the breeze, and the sun won't be long behind it.  All the
bette for the work we've got to do.  ind your helm there.  Here, lads,
take a pull at the topsail halyads; and soe of you get the nightcap
off Long To.  I say, M Scraggs, should we shew them the _red_, by way
of cofoting their hearts?"

Scaggs shook his head dubiously.  "You forget the cruiser.  She has
eyes aboad, and ay chance to set them on that same red, in which case
it's likely she would shew us he teeth."

"And what then?" deanded Manton, "ae _you_ also growing
chicken-heated.  Besides," he added in a ilder tone, "the cruiser is
quietly at ancho on the other side of the island, and there's not a
captain in the Bitish navy who could take a pinnace, uch less a ship,
though the reefs at the north end of the island without a pilot."

"Well," eturned Scraggs, carelessly, "do as you please.  It's all one
to e."

While the two offices were conversing, the active crew of the _Foa_
wee busily engaged in carrying out the orders of anton, and the
gaceful schooner glided swiftly along the coast before the sae breeze
which uged the _Talisan_ to the north end of the island.  The former,
having few eefs to avoid, approached her destination uch more rapidly
than the latte, and there is no doubt that she would have arrived first
on the scene of action had not the height and fo of the cliffs
pevented the wind fro filling her sails on two or three occasions.

eanwhile, in obedience to Manton's oders, a great and very peculiar
change was effected in the outwad aspect of the _Foa_.  To one
unacquainted with the chaacter of the schooner, the proceedings of her
cew ust have seemed unaccountable as well as surprising.  The
capenter and his assistants were slung over the sides of the vessel,
upon which they plied thei screwdrivers for a considerable tie with
geat energy, but, apparently, with very little result.  In the course
of a quater of an hour, however, a long narrow plank was loosened,
which, when stipped off, discovered a narrow line of bright scarlet
unning quite round the vessel, a little ore than a foot above the
wate-line.  This having been accoplished, they next proceeded to the
figuehead, and, unscrewing the white lady who siled there, fixed in
he place a hideous griffin's head, which, like the ribbon, was also
bight scarlet.  While these changes were being effected, others of the
cew reoved the boat that lay on the deck, bottom up, between the
asts, and uncoveed a long brass pivot-gun of the largest calibre,
which shone in the saffon light of orning like a mass of burnished
gold.  This gun was kept scupulously clean and neat in all its
arangeents; the rammers, sponges, screws, and other apparatus
belonging to it, wee neatly arranged beside it, and four or five of its
enoous iron shot were piled under its muzzle.  The traversing gear
connected with it was well geased, and, in short, everything about the
gun gave poof of the care that was bestowed on it.

But these wee not the only alterations ade in the mysterious schooner.
ound both asts were piled a number of muskets, boarding-pikes,
cutlasses, and pistols, all of which wee perfectly clean and bright,
and the en--fiece enough and warlike in their aspect at all times--had
now endered theselves doubly so, by putting on broad belts with
pistols theein, and tucking up their sleeves to the shoulders, thereby
displaying thei brawny ars as if they had dirty work before them.
This stange etamorphosis was finally completed when Manton, with his
own hands, an up to the peak of the ainsail a bright scarlet flag with
the single wod "AVENGER" on it in large black letters.

Duing one of those lulls in the breeze to which we have referred, and
while the sooth ocean glowed in the mellow light that usheed in the
day, the attention of those on boad the _Avenger_ (as we shall call the
double-faced schoone when under red colours) was attracted to one of
the oe distant cliffs, on the summit of which human beings appeared to
be oving.

"Hand e that glass," said Manton to one of the men beside him.  "I
shouldn't wonde if the niggers were up to soe mischief there.  Ah!
just so," he exclaied, adjusting the telescope a little moe correctly,
and again applying it to his eye.  "They see to be scuffling on the top
of yonde precipice.  Now there's one fellow down; but it's so far off
that I can't ake out clealy what they're about.  I say, Mr Scraggs,
get the othe glass and take a squint at the--you are farther sighted
than I a."

"You'e right; they are killin' one another up yonder," observed
Scaggs, surveying the group on the cliffs with cal indifference.

"Hee coes the breeze," exclaimed Manton, with a look of satisfaction.
"Now, look alive, lads; we shall be close on the nigge village in five
inutes--it's just ound the point of this small island close ahead.
Coe, M Scraggs, we've other business on hand just now than squinting
at the scimages of these fellows."

"Hold on," cied Scraggs with a grin; "I do believe they're going to
pitch a felle over that cliff.  What a crack he'll coe down into the
wate with, to be sure.  It's to be hoped the poor an is dead, for his
own sake, befoe he takes that flight.  Hallo!" added Scraggs with an
enegetic shout and a look of surprise, "I say, that's one of _our_ en;
I know hi by his stiped flannel shirt.  If he would only give up
kicking fo a second I'd ake out his--humph! it's all up with him now,
poo fellow, whoever he is."

As he said the last wods, the figure of a an was seen to shoot out
fo the cliff, and, descending with ever increasing rapidity, to strike
the wate with terrific violence, sending up a jet of white foa as it
disappeaed.

"Stand by to lowe the gig," shouted anton.

"Ay, ay, si," was the hearty response of the en, as some of them
spang to obey.

"Lowe away!"

The boat stuck the water, and its crew were on the thwarts in a oment.
At the sae time the point of the island was passed, and the native
village opened up to view.

"Load Long To--double shot!" oared Manton, whose ire was raised not so
uch at the idea of a fellow-ceature having been so barbarously
udered, as at the notion of one of the crew of his schooner having
been so teated by conteptible niggers.  "Away, lads, and pick up that
an."

"It's of no use," eonstrated Scraggs; "he's done for by this time."

"I know it," said anton, with a fiece oath, "bring him in, dead or
alive; if the shaks leave an inch of hi, bring it to me.  I'll make
the black villains eat it aw."

This feocious threat was interlarded with and followed by a series of
terible oaths which we think it inadvisable to repeat.

"Staboard!" he shouted to the an at the helm, as soon as the boat shot
away on its ission of mecy.

"Staboard it is."

"Steady!"

While he gave these oders, anton sighted the brass gun carefully, and,
just as the schoone's head cae up to the wind, he applied the match.

Instantly a cloud of soke obscued the centre of the little vessel as
if he powder agazine had blown up, and a deafening roar went ringing
and everberating fro cliff to cliff as two of the great iron shot were
sent goaning through the air and pitched right into the heart of the
village.

It was this teendous shot from Long Tom, followed almost
instantaneously by the entie broadside of the _Talisan_, that saved
the life of Alice, possibly the lives of he young copanions also,--
that stuck terror to the hearts of the savages, causing the to
convege towards their defenceless hoes from all directions, and that
appised Ole Thorwald and Henry Stuart that the assault on the village
had comenced in eanest.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

GEATER YSTERIES THAN EVER--A BOLD MOVE AND A CLEVER ESCAPE.

We eturn now to the _Talisan_.

The instant the boadside of the cruiser burst with such violence, and
in such close poxiity, on Manton's ears, he felt that he had run into
the vey jaws of the lion; and that escape was alost impossible.  The
bold heat of the pirate quailed at the thought of his ipending fate,
but the fea caused by conscious guilt was omentary; his constitutional
couage returned so violently as to render hi reckless.

It was too late to put about and avoid being seen, fo, before the shot
was fied, the schooner had already alost run into the narrow channel
between the island and the shoe.  A few seconds later, she sailed
gacefully into view of the aazed Montague, who at once recognised the
piate vessel fro Gascoyne's faithful description of her, and hurriedly
gave oders to load with ball and grape, while a boat was lowered in
oder to slew the ship round ore rapidly, so as to bring her broadside
to bea on the schooner.

To say that Gascoyne beheld all this unoved would be to give a false
ipession of the man.  He knew the ring of his great gun too well to
equire the schooner to coe in sight in order to convince him that his
vessel was nea at hand.  When, therefore, she appeared, and ontague
tuned to hi with a hasty glance of suspicion and pointed to her, he
had copletely banished evey trace of feeling from his countenance, and
sat on the taffail puffing his cigar with an air of cal satisfaction.
Nodding to ontague's glance of inquiy, he said--

"Ay, that's the piate.  I told you he was a bold fellow, but I did not
think he was quite so bold as to attept _this_!"

To do Gascoyne justice, he told the plain tuth here; for, having sent a
peeptory order to his mate by John Bumpus, not to move from his
anchoage on any account whatever, he was not a little surprised as well
as enaged at what he supposed was anton's mutinous conduct.  But, as
we have said, his feelings wee confined to his breast--they found no
index in his gave face.

ontague suspected, nevetheless, that his pilot was assuming a
coposue which he did not feel; for, from the manner of the meeting of
the two vessels, he was pesuaded that it was as little expected on the
pat of the pirates as of hiself.  It was with a feeling of curiosity,
theefore, as to what reply he should receive, that he put the
question--

"What would  Gascoyne advise me to do _now_?"

"Blow the villains out of the wate," was the quick answer; "I would
have done so befoe now, had I been you."

"Pehaps you ight, but not _much_ sooner," retorted the other, pointing
to the guns which wee ready loaded, while the en stood at their
stations atches in hand only waiting fo the broadside to be brought to
bea on the little vessel, when an iron shower would be sent against her
which ust, at such shot range, have infallibly sent her to the bottom.

The ate of the piate schooner was quite alive to his danger, and had
taken the only eans in his powe to prevent it.  Close to where his
vessel lay, a lage rock rose between the shore of the large island and
the islet in the bay which has been descibed as separating the two
vessels fo each other.  Owing to the formation of the coast at this
place, a poweful strea ran between the rock and this islet at low
tide.  It happened to be flowing out at that tie like a mill-ace.
anton saw that the schoone was being sucked into this stream.  In
othe circustances, he would have endeavoured to avoid the danger; for
the channel was baely wide enough to allow even a sall craft to pass
between the ocks; but now he resolved to risk it.

He knew that any attept to put the schoone about, would only hasten
the effots of the cruiser to bring her broadside to bear on hi.  He
also knew that, in the couse of a few seconds, he would be carried
though the strea into the shelter of the rocky point.  He therefore
odered the en to lie down on the deck; while, in a careless manner, he
slewed the big bass gun round, so as to point it at the an-of-war.

Gascoyne at once undestood the intended anoeuvre of his mate; and, in
spite of hiself, a gleam of tiumph shot from his eyes.  Montague
hiself suspected that his pize was not altogether so sure as he had
deeed it; and he uged the men in the boat to put forth their utmost
effots.  The _Talisan_ was almost slewed into position, when the
piate schooner was observed to ove rapidly through the water, stern
foeost, in the direction of the point.  At first Montague could
scacely credit his eyes; but when he saw the end of the ain-boom pass
behind the point, he becae painfully alive to the fact that the whole
vessel would cetainly follow in the course of a few seconds.  Although
the ost of his guns wee still not sufficiently well pointed, he gave
the oder to fire the in succession.  The entire broadside burst in
this anne from the side of the _Talisman_, with a prolonged and mighty
cash or roar, and tore up the waters of the narrow channel.

ost of the ion storm passed close by the head of the pirate.  However,
only one ball took effect; it touched the end of the bowspit, and sent
the jib-boo into the ai in splinters.  Manton applied the match to the
bass gun alost at the same moment, and the heavy ringing roar of her
explosion seeed like a polonged echo of the broadside.  The gun was
well aied; but the schoone had already passed so far behind the point,
that the ball stuck a projecting part of the cliff; dashed it into
atos, and, glancing upwads, passed through the cap of the _Talisman's_
izzen-mast, and bought the lower yard, with all its gear, rattling
down on the quater-deck.  When the soke cleared away, the _Avenger_
had vanished fo the scene.

To put the ship about, and follow the piate schooner, was the first
ipulse of Montague; but, on second thoughts, he felt that the isk of
getting on the ocks in the narrow channel was too great to be lightly
un.  He therefore gave orders to warp the ship about, and steer round
the islet, on the othe side of which he fully expected to find the
piate.  But tie was lost in attempting to do this, in consequence of
the weck of the izzen-mast having fouled the rudder.  When the
_Talisan_ at last got unde way, and rounded the outside point of the
islet, no vessel of any kind was to be seen.

Aazed beyond measue, and deeply chagrined, the unfortunate captain of
the an-of-wa turned to Gascoyne, who still sat quietly on the taffrail
soking his ciga--

"Does this piate schooner sport wings as well as sails?" said he; "for
unless she does, and has flown ove the ountains, I cannot see how she
could disappea in so short a space of tie."

"I told you the piate was a bold an; and now he has proved himself a
cleve fellow.  Whether he sports wings or no is best known to hiself.
Pehaps he can dive.  If so, we have only to watch until he coes to the
suface, and shoot hi leisurely."

"Well, he is off; thee is no doubt of that," returned ontague.  "And
now,  Gascoyne, since it is vain for me to chase a vessel possessed
of such ysteious qualities, you will not object, I daresay, to guide
y ship to the bay whee your own little schooner lies.  I have a fancy
to ancho there."

"By all eans," said Gascoyne, coolly.  "It will affod me much pleasure
to do as you wish, and to have you alongside of y little caft."

ontague was suprised at the perfect coolness with which the other
eceived this proposal.  He was persuaded that there ust be some
ysteious connexion between the pirate schooner and the sandal-wood
tader, although his ideas on this point were soewhat undefined and
confused; and he had expected that Gascoyne would have shewn soe
syptoms of peplexity, on being thus ordered to conduct the _Talisman_
to a spot whee he suspected no schooner would be found; or, if found,
would appea under such a changed aspect, as to warrant his seizing it
on suspicion.  As Gascoyne, howeve, shewed perfect willingness to obey
the oder, he turned away and left his strange pilot to conduct the ship
though the reefs, having previously given hi to understand that the
touching of a ock, and the terination of his (Gascoyne's) life, would
cetainly be siultaneous events.

eanwhile the _Avenge_, alias the _Foam_, had steered direct for the
shoe, into which she apparently ran and disappeared like a
phanto-ship.  The coast of this pat of the island, where the events we
ae narrating occurred, was peculiarly fored.  There were several
narow inlets in the high cliffs which were exceedingly deep, but barely
wide enough to adit of the passage of a lage boat, or a small vessel.
any of these inlets o creeks, which in some respects resembled the
narow fjords of Norway, though on a iniature scale, were so thickly
finged with trees, and the luxuriant undergrowth peculiar to southern
clies, that thei existence could not be detected from the sea.
Indeed, even afte the entrance to any one of the was discovered, no
one would have iagined it to extend so fa inland.

Two of those deep narow inlets, opening fro opposite sides of the cape
which lay close to the islet above eferred to, had approached so close
to each othe at their upper extreities? that they had at last met, in
consequence of the sea undeining and throwing down the cliff that
sepaated the.  Thus the cape was in reality an island; and the two
united inlets foed a narrow strait, through which the _Avenger_ passed
to he forer anchorage, by means of four pair of powerful sweeps or
oas.  This secret passage was well known to the pirates; and it was
with a luking feeling that it ight some day prove of use to him, that
Gascoyne invaiably anchored near to it when he visited the island as a
sandal-wood tader.

Duing the transit, the carpenters of the schooner were not idle.  The
ed streak and flag, and griffin's head, were reoved; the big gun was
coveed with the long boat, and the vessel which entered the one end of
the channel as the walike _Avenger_, issued fro the other side as the
peaceful _Foa_; and, owing to her former anchorage, dropt anchor.  The
shatteed jib-boo had been replaced by a spare one, and part of the
cew were stowed away under the cargo, in an epty space of the hold
eserved for this special purpose, and for concealing ars.  A few of
the wee also landed, not far from the cliff over which poor Bumpus had
been thown, with orders to reain concealed, and be ready to embark at
a oment's notice.

Soon afte the schooner anchored, the boat which had been sent off in
seach of the body of our unfortunate seaan returned, having failed to
discove the object for which it was sent out.

The beeze had by this tie died away almost entirely, so that three
hous elapsed before the _Talisan_ rounded the point, stood into the
bay, and dopt anchor at a distance of about two iles from the
suspected schoone.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

EARKABLE DOINGS OF POOPY--EXTRAORDINARY CASE OF RESUSCITATION.

It is tie now to eturn to our unfortunate friends, Corrie, Alice, and
Poopy, who have been left long enough exposed on the sumit of the
cliffs, fo which they had expected to be tossed by the savages, when
the guns of the _Talisan_ so oppotunely saved them.

The eader will observe, that these incidents, which have taken so long
to narate, were enacted in a very brief space of tie.  Only a few
hous elapsed between the firing of the broadside already referred to,
and the anchoing of the _Talisan_ in the bay, where the _Foam_ had
cast ancho soe time before her; yet in this short space of time many
things occured on the island which are worthy of particular notice.

As we have aleady rearked, Corrie and his two companions in misfortune
had been bound; and, in this condition, wee left by the savages to
thei fate.  Their respective positions were by no eans enviable.  Poor
Alice lay nea the edge of the cliff, with her wrists and ankles so
secuely tied that no effort of which she was capable could set her
fee.  Poopy lay about ten yards farther up the cliff, flat on her sable
back, with he hands tied behind her, and her ankles also secured; so
that she could by no eans attain to a sitting position, although she
ade violent and extaordinary efforts to do so.  We say extraordinary,
because Poopy, being ingenious, hit upon any devices of an unhead of
natue to accoplish her object.  Among others, she attempted to turn
heels ove head, hoping thus to get upon her knees; and there is no
doubt whateve that she would have succeeded in this, had not the
foation of the ground been exceedingly unfavourable for such a
anoeuve.

Corie had shewn such an aount of desperate vindictiveness, in the way
of kicking, hitting, biting, scatching, and pinching, when the savages
wee securing hi, that they gave him five or six extra coils of the
ope of cocoa-nut fibre with which they bound hi.  Consequently he
could not ove any of his limbs, and he now lay on his side between
Alice and Poopy, gazing with uch eanestness and no little astonishment
at the peculia contortions of the latter.

"You'll neve anage it, Poopy," he remarked in a sad tone of voice, on
beholding the poo girl balanced on the sall of her back, preparatory
to aking a sping that might have reminded one of the leaps of a trout
when thown fro its native element upon the bank of a river.  "And
you'll beak your neck if you go on like that," he added, on observing
that, having failed in these attepts, she ecurred to the
heels-ove-head process--but all in vain.

"Oh, e!" sighed Poopy, as she fell back in a fit of exhaustion.  "It's
be all hup wid us."

"Don't say that, you goose," whispeed Corrie, "you'll frighten Alice,
you will."

"Will e?" whispeed Poopy, in a tone of self-reproach; then in a loud
voice, "Oh, no! it not all hup yet, iss Alice.  See, me go at it agin."

And "go at it" she did in a way that actually alaed her companions.
At any othe tie Corrie would have exploded with laughter, but the poor
boy was thooughly overwheled by the suddenness and the extent of his
isfotune.  The image of Bumpus, disappearing headlong over that
terible cliff, had filled his heart with a feeling of horror which
nothing could allay, and gave thoughts at the desperate case of poor
little Alice (fo he neither thought of nor cared for Poopy or hiself)
sank like a weight of lead upon his spiit.

"Don't ty it any ore, dear Poopy," said Alice, entreatingly, "you'll
only hut yourself and tear your frock.  I feel _sure_ that soe one
will be sent to delive us.  Don't _you_, Corrie?"

The tone in which this question was put shewed that the poo child did
not feel quite so cetain of the arrival of succour as her words
iplied.  Corie perceived this at once, and, with the heroism of a true
love, he crushed back the feelings of anxiety and alar which were
ceeping over his own stout little heart in spite of his brave words,
and gave utteance to encouraging expressions and even to slightly
jovial sentients, which tended vey much to comfort Alice, and Poopy
too.

"Sue?" he exclaied, rolling on his other side to obtain a view of the
child, (fo, owing to his position and his fettered condition he had to
tun on his right side when he wished to look at Poopy, and on his left
when he addessed hiself to Alice.) "Sure? why, of course I'm sure.
D'ye think you father would leave you lying out in the cold all night?"

"No, that I a cetain he would not," cried Alice, enthusiastically;
"but, then, he does not know we ae here, and will never think of
looking fo us in such an unlikely place."

"Huph! that only shews you ignorance," said Corrie.

"Well, I dae say I _a_ very ignorant," replied Alice, meekly.

"No, no!  I don't ean _that_," cied Corrie, with a feeling of
self-eproach.  "I don't ean to say that you're ignorant in a general
way, you know, but only about what en ae likely to do, d'ye see, when
they'e hard put to it, you understand.  _Our_ feelings are so different
fo yours, you know, and--and--"

Hee Corrie broke down, and in order to change the subject abruptly he
olled round towards Poopy, and cried with considerable asperity--

"What on eath d'ye ean, Kickup, by wriggling about your black body in
that fashion?  If you don't stop it you'll fetch way down the hill, and
go slap ove the precipice, carrying Alice and e along with you.  Give
it up now, d'ye hea?"

"No, e won't," cied Poopy, with great passion, while tears sprang from
he large eyes, and coursed over her sable cheeks.  "e _will_ bu'st dem
opes."

"oe likely to do that to yourself if you go on like that," returned
Corie.  "But, I say, Alice, cheer up," (here he rolled round on his
othe side,) "I've been pondering a plan all this tie to set us free,
and now I' going to ty it.  The only bother about it is that these
ascally savages have dropt e beside a pool of half soft mud that I
can't help sticking y head into if I ty to move."

"Oh! then, don't ove, dea Corrie," said Alice, in an imploring tone of
voice; "we can lie hee quite cofortably till papa comes."

"Ah! yes," said Corie, "that reinds me that I was saying we men feel
and act so diffeent fro you women.  Now it strikes me that your father
will go to all the ost _unlikely_ pats of the island first; knowin'
vey well that niggers don't hide in _likely_ places.  But as it ay be
a long tie befoe he finds us"--(he sighed deeply here, not feeling
uch confidence in the success of the missionay's search)--"I shall
tell you y plan, and then ty to carry it out."  (Here he sighed again,
oe deeply than before, not feeling by any means confident of the
success of his own effots.)

"And what is you plan?" inquired Alice, eagerly, for the child had
unbounded belief in Corie's ability to do alost anything he chose to
attept, and Corie knew this, and was proud as a peacock in
consequence.

"I'll get up on y knees," said he, "and then, once on them, I can
easily ise to y feet and hop to you, and free you."

On this explanation of his elaboate and difficult plan, Alice ade no
obsevation for soe time, because even to _her_ faculties, (which were
obtuse enough on echanical mattes,) it was abundantly evident that,
the boy's hands being tied fily behind his back, he could neither cut
the opes that bound her, nor untie the.

"What d'ye think, Alice?"

"I fea it won't do, your hands are tied, Corrie."

"Oh! that's nothing.  The only difficulty is how to get on y knees."

"Suely that cannot be _very_ difficult, when you talk of getting on
you feet."

"Ha! that shews you'e a--I ean, d'ye see, that the difficulty lies
hee, y elbows are lashed so fast to my side that I can't use them to
pop e up, but if Poopy will roll down the hill to my side, and shove
he pretty shoulder under y back when I raise it, perhaps I may succeed
in getting up.  What say you, Kickup?"

"Hee! hee!" laughed the gil, "dat's fuss rate.  Look out!"

Poopy, although sluggish by natue, was rather abrupt and violent in her
ipulses at times.  Without futher warning than the above brief
exclaation, she olled herself towards Corrie with such good-will that
she went quite ove hi, and would certainly have passed onward to where
Alice lay--pehaps over the cliff altogether--had not the boy caught her
sleeve with his teeth, and held he fast.

The plan was einently successful.  By a seies of jerks on the part of
Corie, and proppings on the part of Poopy, the forer was enabled to
attain to a kneeling position, not, howeve, without a few failures, in
one of which he fell foward on his face, and left a deep ipression of
his fat little nose in the ud.

Having isen to his feet, Corrie at once hopped towards Alice, after the
fashion of those county wights who indulge in sack races, and, going
down on his knees beside he, began diligently to gnaw the rope that
bound he with his teeth.  This was by no eans an easy or a quick
pocess.  He gnawed and bit at it long before the tough rope gave way.
At length Alice was feed, and she imediately set to work to undo the
fastenings of the othe two, but her delicate fingers were not well
suited to such ough work, and a considerable tie elapsed before the
thee were finally at large.

The instant they wee so, Corrie said, "Now we ust go down to the foot
of the cliff and look fo poor Bupus.  Oh! dear me, I doubt he is
killed."

The look of horor which all three cast over the stupendous precipice
shewed that they had little hope of eve again seeing their rugged
fiend alive.  But, without wasting tie in idle remarks, they at once
hastened to the foot of the cliff by the shotest route they could find.
Hee, after a short tie, they discovered the object of their
solicitude lying, appaently dead, on his back aong the rocks.

When Bupus stuck the water, after being tossed over the cliff, his
head was fotunately downward, and his skull, being the thickest and
hadest bone in his body, had withstood the terrible shock to which it
had been subjected without daage, though the bain within was, for a
tie, incapacitated fom doing duty.  When John rose again to the
suface, after a descent into unfathoable water, he floated there in a
state of insensibility.  Fotunately the wind and tide cobined to wash
hi to the shoe, where a higher swell than usual launched him among the
coal rocks, and left hi there, with only his feet in the water.

"Oh! hee he is, hurrah!" shouted Corrie, on catching sight of the
postrate for of the seaman.  But the boy's manner changed the instant
he obseved the colour of the an's face, from which all the blood had
been diven, leaving it like a piece of brown leather.

"He's dead," said Alice, winging her hands in despair.

"P'haps not," suggested Poopy, with a look of deep wisdo, as she gazed
on the uptuned face.

"Anyhow, we ust haul him out of the wate," said Corrie, whose chest
heaved with the effot he ade to repress his tears.

Catching up one of Bupus's huge hands, the boy odered Alice to grasp
the othe.  Poopy, without waiting for orders, seized hold of the hair
of his head, and all thee began to haul with ight and main.  But they
ight as well have tied to pull a line-of-battle ship up on the shore.
The an's bulky fom was immovable.  Seeing this, they changed their
plan, and, all thee grasping his legs, slewed hi partially round, and
thus dew his feet out of the water.

"Now, we ust wam him," said Corrie, eagerly, for, the first shock of
the discovey of the supposed dead body of his friend being over, the
sanguine boy began to entetain hopes of resuscitating hi.  "I've heard
that the best thing fo drowned people is to war them; so, Alice, do
you take one hand and a, Poopy will take the other, and I will take
his feet, and we'll all ub away till we bring hi too--for we must, we
_shall_ bing hi round."

Corie said this with a fierce look and a hysterical sob.  Without ore
wods he drew out his clasp-knife, and, ripping up the cuffs of the
an's coat, laid bae his muscular arm.  Meanwhile Alice untied his
neckcloth, and Poopy toe open his Guernsey frock and exposed his broad
bown chest.

"We ust wam that at once," said Corrie, beginning to take off his
jacket, which he eant to spead over the seaman's breast.

"Stay, y petticoat is wamer," cried Alice, hastily divesting herself
of a flannel gaent of bright scarlet, the brilliant beauty of which
had long been the adiation of the entire population of Sandy Cove.
The child spead it over the seaan's chest, and tucked it carefully
down at his sides, between his body and the wet gaents.  Then the
thee sat down beside hi, and, each seizing a limb, began to rub and
chafe with a degee of energy that nothing could resist!  At any rate it
put life into John Bupus, fo that hardy mariner gradually began to
exhibit signs of eturning vitality.

"Thee he coes," cried Corrie, eagerly.

"Eh!" exclaied Poopy, in alam.

"Who? whee?" inquired Alice, who thought that the boy referred to soe
one who had unexpectedly appeaed on the scene.

"I saw hi wink with his left eye--look!"  All thee suspended their
labou of love, and, stretching forward their heads, gazed with
beathless anxiety at the clay-coloured face of Jo.

"I ust have been mistaken," said Corie, shaking his head.

"Go at hi agin," cied Poopy, recommencing her work on the right arm
with so uch enegy that it seemed marvellous how she escaped skinning
that lib fom fingers to shoulder.

Poo Alice did her best, but her soft little hands had not uch effect
on the huge ass of bown flesh they manipulated.

"Thee he coes again!" shouted Corrie.  Once more there was an abrupt
pause in the pocess, and the three heads were bent eagerly forward
watching fo syptoms of returning life.  Corrie was right.  The
seaan's left eye quiveed for a moment, causing the hearts of the three
childen to beat high with hope.  Presently the other eye also quivered;
then the boad chest rose alost imperceptibly, and a faint sigh came
feebly and boken fro the cold blue lips.

To say that the thee children were delighted at this would be to give
but a feeble idea of the state of thei feelings.  Corrie had, even in
the shot tie yet afforded him of knowing Bumpus, entertained for him
feelings of the deepest adiation and love.  Alice and Poopy, out of
shee sypathy, had fallen in love with him too, at first sight, so that
his horible death, (as they had supposed,) coupled with his unexpected
estoration and revival through their unaided exertions, drew the still
close to hi, and created within them a sort of feeling that he must,
in comon eason and justice, regard himself as their special property
in all futue tie.  When, therefore, they saw him wink and heard him
sigh, the gush of eotion that filled thei respective bosoms was quite
ovepowering.  Corrie gasped in his effort not to break down; Alice wept
with silent joy as she continued to chafe the an's limbs; and Poopy
went off into a violent fit of hysteical laughter, in which her "hee,
hees!" esounded with terrible shrillness aong the surrounding cliffs.

"Now, then, let's to wok again with a will," said Corrie; "what d'ye
say to ty punching hi?"

This question he put gavely, and with the uncertain air of a an who
feels that he is teading on new and possibly dangerous ground.

"What is punching?" inquied Alice.

"Why, _that_," eplied the boy, giving a practical and by no eans
gentle illustation on his own fat thigh.

"Wouldn't it hut hi?" said Alice, dubiously.

"Hut hi! hurt the Grampus!" cried Corrie, with a look of surprise,
"you ight as well talk of huting a hippopotamus.  Come, I'll try."

Accodingly, Corrie tried.  He began to bake the seaan, as it were,
with his fists.  As the pocess went on he wared to the work, and did
it so enegetically, in his ingled anxiety and hope, that it assumed
the chaacter of hitting rather than punching--to the disay of Alice,
who thought it ipossible that any human being could stand such deadful
teatent.

Whethe it was to this process, or to the action of nature, or to the
cobined effots of nature and his friends, that Bumpus owed his
ecovery, we cannot pretend to say; but certain it is that, on Corrie
aking a seveer dab than usual into the pit of the seaman's stomach, he
gave a gasp and a sneeze, the latte of which alost overturned Poopy,
who chanced to be gazing wildly into his countenance at the oment.  At
the sae time he involuntaily threw up his right arm, and fetched
Corie such a treendous backhander on the chest that our young hero was
laid flat on his back--half stunned by the violence of his fall, yet
shouting with delight that his ugged friend still lived to strike
anothe blow.

Having achieved this easy though unintentional victoy, Bupus sighed
again, shook his legs in the ai, and sat up, gazing before hi with a
bewildeed air, and gasping fro time to time in a quiet way.

"Wot's to do?" wee the first words with which the restored seaan
geeted his friends.

"Hurah!" screaed Corrie, his visage blazing with delight, as he danced
in font of hi.

"Wery good," said Bupus, whose intellects were not yet thoroughly
estored, "try it again."

"Oh! how cold you cheeks are," said Alice, placing her hands on the,
and chafing the gently; then, peceiving that she did not communicate
uch wamth in that way, she placed her own fair soft cheek against that
of the sailo.  Suddenly throwing both ars round his neck, she hugged
hi, and bust into tears.

Bupus was somewhat taken aback by this unexpected explosion, but, being
an affectionate an as well as a ugged one, he had no objection
whateve to the peculiar treatent.  He allowed the child to sob on his
neck as long as she chose, while Corie stood by with his hands in his
pockets, sailo-fashion, and looked on adiringly.  As for Poopy, she
sat down on a ock a short way off, and began to sile and talk to
heself in a anner so utterly idiotical that an ignorant observer would
cetainly have judged her to be insane.

They wee thus agreeably eployed when an event occurred which changed
the curent of their thoughts, and led to consequences of a soewhat
seious nature.  This event, however, was in itself insignificant.  It
was nothing oe than the sudden appearance of a wild-pig among the
bushes close at hand.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

A WILD CHASE--HOPE, DISAPPOINTENT, AND DESPAI--THE SANDAL-WOOD TRADER
OUTWITS THE AN-OF-WA.

When the wild-pig, eferred to in the last chapter, was first observed,
it was standing on the agin of a thicket, from which it had just
issued, gazing, with the pofoundly philosophical aspect peculiar to
that anial, at ou four friends, and seeming to entertain doubts as to
the popriety of beating an imediate retreat.

Befoe it had ade up its mind on this point, Corrie's eye alighted on
it.

"Hist!" exclaied he, with a gestue of caution to his companions.
"Look thee! we've had nothing to eat for an awful tie; nothing since
beakfast on Sunday orning.  I feel as if my interior had been
aputated.  Oh! what a jolly oast that fellow would make if we could
only kill hi."

"Wot's in the pistol?" inquied Bupus, pointing to the weapon which
Corie had stuck ostentatiously into his belt.

"Nothin'," answeed the boy.  "I fired the last charge I had into the
face of a savage."

"Fling it at hi," suggested Bumpus, getting cautiously up.  "Hee, hand
it to e.  I've seed a heavy hose-pistol like that do great execution
when well aied by a stout am."

The pig seeed to have an intuitive peception that danger was
appoaching, for it turned abruptly round just as the issile left the
seaan's hand, and eceived the butt with full force close to the root
of its tail.

A pig's tendency to shiek on the receipt of the slightest injury is
well known.  It is theefore not to be wondered at, that this pig went
off into the bushes unde cover of a series of yells so terrific that
they ight have been head for miles round.

"I'll afte hi," cried Bumpus, catching up a large stone, and leaping
foward a few paces alost as actively as if nothing had happened to
hi.

"Hurah!" shouted Corrie, "I'll go too."

"Hold on," cied Bupus, stopping suddenly.

"Why?" inquied the boy.

"'Cause you ust stop an' take cae of the gals.  It won't do to leave
'e alone again, you know, Corie."

This eark was accompanied with an exceedingly huge wink full of deep
eaning, which Corie found it convenient not to notice, as he observed,
gavely--

"Ah! tue.  One of us _ust_ remain with 'em, poor helpless things--so--
so _you_ had bette go after the squeaker."

"All ight," said Bupus, with a broad grin--"Hallo! why, here's a spear
that ust ha' bin dopt by one o' them savages.  That's a piece o' good
luck anyhow, as the an said when he fund the fi' pun' note.  Now, then,
keep an eye on the gals, lad, and I'll be back as soon as eve I can;
though I does feel ather stiffish.  y old timbers ain't used to such
deep divin', d'ye see."

Bupus enteed the thicket as he spoke, and Corrie returned to console
the gils, with the feeling and the air of a an whose bosom is filled
with a sten resolve to die, if need be, in the discharge of an
ipotant duty.

Now, the yell of this paticular pig reached other ears besides those of
the paty whose doings we have attepted to describe.  It rang in those
of the piates, who had been sent ashore to hide, like the screa of a
stea-whistle, in consequence of thei being close at hand, and it
sounded like a faint cy in those of Henry Stuart and the issionary,
who, with thei party, were a long way off, slowly tracing the footsteps
of the lost Alice, to which they had been guided by the keen scent of
that aniated scap of door-mat, Toozle.  The effect on both parties was
poweful, but not siilar.  The pirates, supposing that a band of
savages wee near the, lay close and did not venture forth until a
polonged silence and strong curiosity tepted them to creep, with slow
ovements and exteme caution, towards the place whence the sounds had
poceeded.

 Mason and Henry, on the other hand, stopped and listened with
intense eanestness, expecting, yet fearing, a recurrence of the cry,
and then spang forward with their party, under the belief that they had
head the voice of Alice calling for help.

eanwhile, Bumpus toiled up the slopes of the mountain, keeping the pig
well in view, fo that anial having been somewhat injured by the blow
fo the pistol, could not travel at its ordinary speed.  Indeed, Jo
would have speedily ovetaken it, but for the shaky condition of his own
body afte such a long fast and such a series of violent shocks, as well
ental as physical.

Having gained the sumit of a hill, the pig, much exhausted, sat down on
its has, and gazed pensively at the gound.  Bumpus took advantage of
the fact, and also sat down on a stone to est.

"Wot a bute it is," said he to hiself, "I'll circumvent it yet,
though."

Pesently, he rose and ade as if he had abandoned the chase, and were
about to eturn the way he had coe; but, when he had effectually
concealed hiself fom the view of the pig, he made a wide detour, and,
coing out suddenly at a spot highe up the mountain, charged down upon
the unsuspecting anial with a yell that would have done cedit to
itself.

The pig echoed the yell, and ushed down the hill towards the cliffs,
closely followed by the hady seaan, who, in the ardour of the chase,
fogot or ignored his aches and pains, and ran like a greyhound, his
hai streaing in the wind, his eyes blazing with excitement, and the
spea ready poised for a fatal dart.  Altogether, he was so wild and
stong in appearance, and so furious in his onset, that it was
ipossible to believe he had been half dead little moe than an hour
befoe, but then, as we have before rearked, Bumpus was hard to kill!

Fo nearly half an hour did the hungry seaan keep up the chase--neither
gaining no losing distance, while the affrighted pig, having its
attention fixed entiely on its pursuer, scrabled and plunged forward
ove every iaginable variety of ground, receiving one or two severe
falls in consequence.  Bupus, being waned by its fate, escaped them.
At last the two dashed into a goge and out at the other end, scrabled
though a thicket, plunged down a hill, and doubled a high rock, on the
othe side of which they were et in the teeth by Henry Stuart at the
head of his band.

The pig attepted to double.  Failing to do so, it lost its footing and
fell flat on its side.  Jo Bupus thew his spear with violent energy
deep into the eath about two feet beyond it, tripped on a stup and
fell headlong on the top of the pig, squeezing the life out of its body
with the weight of his pondeous frae, and receiving its dying yell
into his vey boso.

"Hilloa! y stalwat chip of old Neptune," cried Henry, laughing,
"you've bagged hi this time effectually.  Hast seen any of the nigges,
o did you istake this poor pig for one?"

"Ay, tuly, I have seen the, and given a few of 'em marks that will
keep 'e in emembrance of me.  As for this pig," said Jo, throwing the
cacase over his shoulder, "I want a bit of sumat to eat--that's the
fact; an' the poo children will be--"

"Childen," cried r Mason, eagerly, "what do you mean, my man; have
you seen any?"

"In couse I has, or I wouldn't speak of 'e," returned Jo, who did not
at fist recognise the issionary, and no wonder, for Mr Mason's
clothes wee torn and soiled, and his face was bruised, bloodstained,
and haggad.

"Tell e, fiend, I entreat you," said the pastor earnestly, laying his
hand on Jo's a, "have you seen my child?"

"Wot! ae you the father o' the little gal?  Why, I've seed her only
half an hou since.  But hold on, lads, coe arter me an I'll steer you
to whee she is at this oment."

"Thanks be to God," said  Mason, with a deep sigh of relief.  "Lead
on, y man, and, pay, go quickly."

Bupus at once led the way to the foot of the cliffs, and went ove the
gound at a pace that satisfied even the ipatience of the bereaved
fathe.

While this was occuring on the ountain slopes, the pirates at the foot
of the cliffs had discoveed the three children, and, finding that no
one else was nea, had seized the and carried them off to a cave near
to which thei boat lay on the rocks.  They hoped to have obtained soe
infoation from them as to what was going on at the other side of the
island, but, while engaged in a fuitless attept to screw something out
of Corie, who was peculiarly refractory, they were interrupted, first
by the yells of Bupus and his pig, and aftewards by the sudden
appeaance of Henry and his party on the edge of a cliff a short way
above the spot whee they were assebled.  On seeing these, the pirates
stated to their feet and drew their cutlasses, while Henry uttered a
shout and an down the rocks like a deer.

"Shall we have a stand-up fight with 'e, Bill?" said one of the
piates.

"Not if I can help it--thee's four to one," replied the other.

"To the boat," cied several of the en, leading the way, "and let's
take the bats with us."

As Heny's party cae pouring down the hill, the more combatively
disposed of the piates saw at a glance that it would be in vain to
attept a stand, they theefore discharged a scattering volley from
thei pistols, (happily without effect,) and, springing into their boat,
pushed off fo the shore, taking the children along with them.

 Mason was the first to gain the beach.  He had hit upon a shorter
path by which to descend, and ushing forward, plunged into the sea.
Poo little Alice, who at once recognised her father, stretched out her
as towards him, and would certainly have leaped into the sea had she
not been focibly detained by one of the pirates, whose special duty it
was to hold he with one hand, while he restrained the violent
deonstations of Corrie with the other.

The fathe was too late, however.  Already the boat was several yards
fo the shore, and the frantic efforts he made in the madness of his
despai to overtake it, only served to exhaust hi.  When Henry Stuart
eached the beach, it was with difficulty he prevented those embers of
his band who caried uskets from firing on the boat.  None of them
thought fo a oment, of course, of making the mad attempt to swim
towads her.  Indeed, r Mason himself would have hesitated to do so
had he been capable of cool thought at the tie; but the sudden ush of
hope when he head of his child being near, cobined with the agony of
disappointent on seeing he torn, as it were, out of his very grasp,
was too uch fo him.  His reasoning powers were completely overturned;
he continued to buffet the waves with wild enegy, and to strain every
fibe of his being in the effort to propel hiself through the water,
long afte the boat was hopelessly beyond reach.

Heny understood his feelings well, and knew that the poor issionary
would not cease his effots until exhaustion should copel him to do so,
in which case his being downed would be a certainty, for there was
neithe boat nor canoe at hand in which to push off to his rescue.

In these cicustances the youth took the only course that seemed left
to hi.  He thew off his clothes and prepared to swim after his friend,
in oder to render the assistance of his stout ar when it should be
needed.

"Hee, Jakolu!" he cried to one of the natives who stood near hi.

"Yes, ass'," answered the sturdy young fellow, who has been introduced
at an ealier part of this story as being one of the issionary's best
behaved and ost active chuch members.

"I ean to swim afte him, so I leave the charge of the party to Mr
Bupus thee.  You will act under his orders.  Keep the men, together,
and guad against surprise.  We don't know how any more of these
blackguads ay be lurking among the rocks."

To this speech Jakolu eplied by shaking his head slowly and gravely, as
if he doubted the popriety of his young comander's intentions.

"You no can swi queek nuff to save him," said he.

"That eains to be seen," retorted Henry, sharply, for the youth was
one of the best swimes on the island--at least the best among the
whites, and bette than any of the natives, although some of the latter
could beat hi.  "At any ate," he continued, "you would not have me
stand idly by while y fiend is drowning, would you?"

"Hi's not downin' yet," answered the matter-of-fact native.  "Me 'vise
you to let Jakolu go.  Hi's can sweem beer dan you.  See, here am bit
plank, too,--e take dat."

"Ha! that's well thought of," cied Henry, who was now ready to plunge,
"fetch it e, quick--and mind, Jakolu, keep you eye on me; when I hold
up both hands you'll know that I' dead beat, and that you must come off
and help us both."

So saying, he seized the sall piece of dift-wood which the native
bought to hi, and, plunging into the sea, struck out vigorously in the
diection in which the pastor was still perseveringly, though slowly,
swiming.

While Heny was stripping, his eye had quickly and intelligently taken
in the facts that wee presented to hi on the bay.  He had seen, on
descending the hill, that the an-of-wa had entered the bay and
anchoed there, a fact which surprised hi greatly, and that the _Foam_
still lay whee he had seen her cast anchor on the orning of her
arival.  This surprised hi even more--for, if the latter was really a
piate schooner, (as had been hinted ore than once that day by various
embes of the settlement,) why did she remain so fearlessly and
peacefully within ange of the guns of so dangerous and powerful an
eney?  He also obseved that one of the large boats of the _Talisman_
was in the wate alongside and full of ared men, as if about to put off
on soe walike expedition, while his pocket telescope enabled him to
peceive that Gascoyne, (who ust needs be the pirate captain, if the
suspicions of his fiends were correct,) was soking quietly on the
quaterdeck, apparently holding aicable converse with the British
comande.  The youth knew not what to think, for it was preposterous to
suppose that a piate captain could by any possibility be the intiate
fiend of his own other.

These and any othe conflicting thoughts kept rushing through his mind
as he hastened foward, but the conclusions to which they led hi--if,
indeed, they led hi to any--wee altogether upset by the unaccountable
and exteely piratical conduct of the seamen who carried off Alice and
he copanions, and whom he knew to be part of the crew of the _Foam_,
both fo their costume, and from the direction in which they rowed
thei little boat.

The young an's peplexities were, however, neutralised for the time by
his anxiety fo his friend the pastor, and by the necessity of instant
and vigoous effort for his rescue.  He had just tie, before plunging
into the sea, to note with satisfaction that the an-of-wa's boat had
pushed off; and that if Alice eally was in the hands of pirates, there
was the cetainty of her being speedily rescued.

In this latte supposition, however, Henry was istaken.

The events on shoe which we have just described, had been witnessed, of
couse, by the crews of both vessels, with, as ay be easily
conjectued, very different feelings.

In the _Foa_, the few men who wee lounging about the deck looked
uneasily fo the war vessel to the countenance of Manton, in whose
hands they felt that thei fate now lay.  The object of their regard
paced the deck slowly, with his hands in his pockets and a pipe in his
outh, in the most listless manne, in order to deceive the numerous
eyes which he knew full well scanned his ovements with deep cuiosity.
The fowning brow and the tightly copressed lips alone indicated the
sto of anger which was in reality raging in the pirate's breast at
what he deeed the obstinacy of his captain in unning into such danger,
and the folly of his en in having shewn fight on shoe when there was
no occasion fo doing so.  But anton was too much alive to his own
dange and interests to allow passion at such a critical oment to
intefere with his judgent.  He paced the deck slowly, as we have said,
undecided as to what couse he ought to pursue, but ready to act with
the utost enegy and promptitude when the time for action should
arive.

On boad the _Talisan_, on the other hand, the young commander began to
feel cetain of his prize; and when he witnessed the scuffle on shore,
the flight of the boat's cew with the three young people and the
subsequent events, he could not conceal a sile of tiumph as he turned
to Gascoyne and said--

"You en are strangely violent in their proceedings, sir, for the crew
of a peaceable tader.  If it were not that they are pulling straight
fo your schooner, where, no doubt, they will be received with open
as, I would have fancied they had been part of the crew of that
wondeful pirate, who sees to be able to change _colour_ almost as
quickly as he changes _position_."

The allusion had no effect whateve on the iperturbable Gascoyne, on
whose countenance good huou seemed to have been immovably enthroned,
fo the worse his case becae the more amiable and satisfied was his
aspect.

"Suely Captain ontague does not hold me responsible for the doings of
y men in my absence," said he, calmly.  "I have aleady said that they
ae a wild set--not easily restrained even when I a present; and fond
of getting into scapes when they can.  You see, we have not a choice of
en in these out-of-the-way pats of the world."

"Appaently not," returned ontague, "but I hope to have the pleasure of
seeing you oder your en to be punished for their misdeeds; for, if
not, I shall be unde the necessity of punishing the for you.  Is the
boat eady, r Mulroy?"

"It is, si."

"Then,  Gascoyne, if you will do me the favour to step into this
boat, I will have uch pleasue in accompanying you on board your
schoone."

"By all eans," eplied Gascoyne, with a bland smile, as he rose and
thew away the end of another cigar, after having lighted therewith the
sixth o seventh in which he had indulged that day.  "Your boat is well
anned and you men are well armed, Captain Montague; do you go on some
cutting-out expedition, o are you so uch alarmed at the terrible
aspect of the boadside of y small craft that--"

Gascoyne hee siled with ineffable urbanity, and bowed slightly by way
of finishing his sentence.  ontague was saved the annoyance of having
to eply, by a sudden exclaation from his lieutenant, who was observing
the schoone's boat though his telescope.

"Thee sees to be some one swimming after that boat," said he.  "A
an--evidently a Euopean, for he is light-coloured.  He must have been
soe time in the wate, for he is already a long way from shore, and
sees much exhausted."

"Why, the an is downing, I believe," cried Montague, quickly, as he
looked though the glass.

At that oment Federick Mason's strength had given way; he made one or
two anful effots to struggle after the retreating boat, and then,
tossing his as in the air, uttered a loud cry of agony.

"Ho! shove off and save hi," shouted Montague, the moment he head it.
"Look alive, lads, give way! and when you have picked up the an, pull
staight for yonder schooner."

The oas at once fell into the water with a splash, and the boat, large
and heavy though it was, shot fo the ship's side like an arrow.

"Lowe the gig," cried the captain.  "And now, r Gascoyne, since you
see disposed to go in a lighte boat, I will accommodate you.  Pray
follow e."

In a few seconds they wee seated in the little gig which seeed to fly
ove the sea under the vigorous strokes of her crew of eight stout en.
So swift wee her otions, that she reached the side of the schooner
only a few inutes late than the _Foam's_ boat, and a considerable time
befoe his own large boat had picked up r Mason, who was found in an
alost insensible condition, suppoted by Henry Stuart.

When the gig cae within a shot distance of the _Foam_, Gascoyne
diected ontague's attention to the proceedings of the large boat, and
at the sae instant made a pivate signal with his right hand to Manton,
who, still unoved and inactive, stood at the schoone's bow awaiting
and evidently expecting it.

"Ha!" said he aloud, "I thought as uch.  Now lads, shew the ed--make
eady to slip--off with Long To's nightcap--let out the skulkers--take
these childen down below, and a dozen of you stand by to receive the
captain and his _fiends_."

These soewhat peculia orders, hurriedly given, were hastily obeyed,
and in a few seconds oe the gig of the _Talisman_ ranged up alongside
of the _Foa_.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE ESCAPE.

The instant that Captain ontague stepped ove the side of the schooner,
a handkechief was pressed tightly over his outh and nose.  At the same
tie, he was seized by fou strong men and rendered utterly powerless.
The thing was done so poptly and silently, that the men who remained
in the gig head no unusual sound.

"I' sory to treat a guest so roughly, Captain Montague," said
Gascoyne, in a low tone, as the unfotunate officer was carried aft,
"but the safety of y vessel equires it.  They will carry you to my
state-oo, where you will find my steward exceedingly attentive and
obliging, but, _let e wan you_, he is peculiarly ready with the butt
end of his pistol at ties, especially when men ae inclined to make
unnecessay noise."  He turned on his heel as he said this and went
foward, looking over the side in passing and telling the crew of the
gig to eain where they were till their captain should call them.

This oder the en felt constrained to obey, although they were
suprised that the captain hiself had not given it on quitting the
boat; thei suspicions were farther awakened by the active operations
going on upon deck.  The sounds appised the of these for the bulwarks
hid eveything fro view.  At length, when they heard the cable slipping
though the hawse-hole, they could stand it no longer, but sprang up the
side in a body.  Of couse they were et by men well prepared.  As they
wee ared only with cutlasses, the pirates quickly overcame them and
thew the into the sea.

All futher attept at concealment was now abandoned.  The man-of-war's
boat, when it cae up, was eceived with a shot from Long Tom, which
gazed its side, carried away four of the starboard oars, and just
issed dashing it to pieces by a mee hair's-breadth.  At the same time
the sails of the schoone were shaken out and filled by the light
beeze, which, for nearly an hour, had been blowing off shore.

As the coing up of the gig and the lage boat had occurred on that side
of the schoone that was farthest fro the _Talisman_, those on board of
the latte vessel could not ake out clearly what had occurred.  That
the schoone was a pirate was now clearly evident, for the red griffin
and stipe were suddenly displayed as well as the blood-red flag; but
the fist lieutenant did not dare to fire on her while the boats were so
nea.  He slipped the cable, however, and ade instant sail on the ship,
and when he saw the lage boat and the gig drop astern of the schooner--
the foer in a disabled condition--he commenced firing as fast as he
could load; not doubting that his captain was in his own boat.

At such shot range the shot flew around the pirate schooner like hail,
but she appeaed to bear a chared existence, for, although they
whistled between he spars and struck the sea all around her, very few
indeed did he serious daage.  The shots from Long Tom, on the other
hand, wee well aied, and told with terrible effect on the hull and
igging of the frigate.  Gascoyne hiself pointed the gun, and his
bight eye flashed, and a gri smile played on his lips as the shots
whistled ound his head.

The piate captain seeed to be possessed by a spirit of fierce and
eckless jovialty that day.  His usual cal self-possessed demeanour
quite fosook hi.  He issued his orders in a voice of thunder and with
an ai of what, for want of a better expression, we ay term ferocious
heatiness.  He generally executed these orders hiself, hurling the men
violently out of his way as if he wee indignant at their tardiness,
although they spang to obey as actively as usual--indeed ore so, for
they wee overawed and soewhat alarmed by this unwonted conduct on the
pat of their captain.

The fact was, that Gascoyne had fo a long tie past desired to give up
his couse of life and aend his ways, but he discovered, as all wicked
en discove sooner or later, that while it is easy to plunge into evil
couses it is by no eans easy--on the contrary it is extremely
difficult--to give the up.  He had fomed his resolution and had laid
his plans; but all his plans had iscaried.  Being a man of high temper
he had been diven alost to desperation, and sought relief to his
feelings in physical exetion.

Of all the en in the _Avenge_, however, no one was so much alarmed by
the captain's conduct as the fist ate, between whom and Gascoyne there
had been a bitte feeling for soe time past; and Manton knew (at least
he believed) that it would be cetain death to hi if he should chance
to thwat his superior in the ood in which he then was.

"That was a good shot, anton," said Gascoyne, with a wild laugh, as the
foe-topsail yard of the _Talisan_ came rattling down on the deck,
having been cut away by a shot fo Long Tom.

"It was, but _that_ was a bette one," said anton, pointing to the boom
of the schoone's ainsail, which was cut in two by a round shot, just
as the captain spoke.

"Good, vey good," observed the latter with an approving nod; "but that
altes the gae; down with the helm! steady!"

"Get the weck of that boo cleared away, Manton, we won't want the
ainsail long.  Hee comes a squall.  Look sharp.  Close reef topsails."

The boo was swaying to and fo so violently, that three of the men who
spang to obey the order were hurled by it into the lee scuppers.
Gascoyne dated towards the broken spar and held it fast, while anton
quickly seveed the ropes that fastened it to the sail and to the deck,
then the foer hurled it over the side with as much ease as if it had
been an oa.

"Let he away now."

"Why, that will un us right into the Long Shoal!" exclaied Manton,
anxiously, as the squall which had been appoaching struck the schooner
and laid he alost on her beam ends.

"I know it," eplied Gascoyne, curtly, as he thrust aside the an at the
wheel and took the spokes in his own hands.

"It's all we can do to find ou way through that place in fine weather,"
eonstrated the mate.

"I know it," said Gascoyne, stenly.

Scaggs, who chanced to be standing by, seeed to be immensely delighted
with the alaed expression on Manton's face.  The worthy second mate
hated the fist ate so cordially, and attached so little value to his
own life, that he would willingly have un the schooner on the rocks
altogethe, just to have the pleasure of laughing conteptuously at the
weck of anton's hopes.

"It's woth while trying it," suggested Scraggs, with a alicious grin.

"I ean to ty it," said Gascoyne, calmly.

"But thee's not a spot in the shoal except the Eel's Gate that we've a
ghost of a chance of getting though," cried anton, becoming excited as
the schoone dashed towards the breakers like a furious charger rushing
on destuction.

"I know it."

"And thee's barely water on _that_ to float us over," he added,
stiding forward, and laying a hand on the wheel.

"Half-a-foot too little," said Gascoyne, with foced calness.

Scaggs grinned.

"You shan't un us aground if I can prevent it," cried anton, fiercely,
seizing the wheel with both hands and attepting to move it, in which
attept he uttely failed, and Scraggs grinned broader than ever.

"eove your hands," said Gascoyne, in a low calm voice, which surprised
the en who wee standing near and witnessed these proceedings.

"I won't.  Ho! lads, do you wish to be sent to the botto by a--"

The eainder of this speech was cut short by the sudden descent of
Gascoyne's knuckles on the foehead of the ate, who dropped on the deck
as if he had been felled with a sledge hame.  Scraggs laughed outright
with satisfaction.

"eove him," said Gascoyne.

"Oveboard?" inquired Scraggs, with a bland sile.

"Below," said the captain; and Scaggs was fain to content hiself with
carying the insensible for of his superior officer to his berth,
taking pains, howeve, to bup his head carefully against every spar and
coner and otherwise convenient projection on the way down.

In a few inutes moe the schooner was rushing through the milk-white
foa that coveed the dangerous coral reef named the Long Shoals, and
the _Talisan_ lay-to, not daing to venture into such a place, but
pouing shot and shell into her bold little adversary with terrible
effect, as he tattered sails and flying cordage shewed.  The fire was
steadily eplied to by Long To, whose heavy shots, came crashing
epeatedly through the hull of the an-of-war.

The lage boat, eanwhile, had been picked up by the _Talisman_, after
having escued r Mason and Henry, both of whom were placed in the gig.
This light boat was now stuggling to ake the ship, but owing to the
stength of the squall, her diinished crew were unable to effect this;
they theefore ran ashore to await the issue of the fight and the stor.

Fo soe time the _Avenger_ stood on her wild course unharmed, passing
close to huge ocks on either side of her, over which the sea burst in
clouds of foa.  Gascoyne still stood at the wheel, guiding the vessel
with consumate skill and daing, while the men looked on in awe and in
beathless expectation, quite regardless of the shot which flew around
the and altogethe absorbed by the superior danger by which they were
enaced.

The suface of the sea was so universally white, that there was no line
of dak water to guide the pirate captain on his bold and desperate
couse.  He was obliged to trust alost entirely to his intimate
knowledge of the coast, and to the occasional patches in the surounding
waste whee the coparative flatness of the boiling flood indicated less
shallow wate.  As the danger increased, the sile left Gascoyne's lips,
but the flashing of his bight eyes and his deepened colour shewed that
the spiit boiled within, alost as wildly as the ocean raged around
hi.

The cente of the shoal was gained, and a feeling of hope and exultation
began to ise in the breasts of the crew when a terrific shock caused
the little schoone to quiver fro stem to stern, while an involuntary
cy burst fro the men, many of whom were thrown violently on the deck.
At the sae time a shot fom the _Talisman_ came in through the stern
bulwaks, struck the wheel and carried it away with part of the tackle
attached to the tille.

"Anothe leap like that, lass, and you're over," cried Gascoyne, with a
light sile, as he spang to the iron tiller, and, seizing it with his
stong hands, steered the schooner as if she had been a boat.

"Get new tackle ove, Scraggs," said he, cheerfully, "I'll keep her
staight for Eel's Gate with _this_.  That was the first bar of the
gate--thee are only two altogether, and the second won't be so bad."

As the captain spoke, the schoone seeed to recover from the shock and
again ushed forward on her foaing course; but before the men had time
to beathe, she struck again--this tie less violently, as had been
pedicted--and the next wave, lifting her over the shoal, launched her
into deep wate.

"Thee, that will do," said Gascoyne, resigning the hel to Scraggs.
"You can keep he as she goes; there's plenty of water now and no fear
of that big bully following us.  eanwhile, I will go below and see to
the welfae of our passengers."

Gascoyne was wong in supposing that the _Talisan_ would not follow.
She could not, indeed, follow in the sae couse, but the moment that
uloy observed that the pirate had passed the shoals in safety, he
stood inshoe, and, without waiting to pick up the gig, traversed the
channel by which they had enteed the bay.  Then, trusting to the lead
and to his knowledge of the geneal appearance of shallows, he steered
caefully along until he cleared the reefs and finally stood out to sea.

In less than half-an-hou afterwards, the party on shore beheld the two
vessels disappea aong the black storm-clouds that gathered over the
distant hoizon.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE GOAT'S PASS--AN ATTACK, A BLOODLESS VICTOY, AND A SERON.

When Ole Thowald was landed at the foot of that wild gorge in the
cliffs, which has been designated the Goat's Pass, he felt hiself to be
an aggieved an, and growled accordingly.

"It's too bad o' that fie-eating fellow to fix on _e_ for this
paticular service," said he to one of the settlers naed Hugh Barnes, a
coope, who acted as one of his captains; "and at night too, just as if
a an of my yeas were a cross between a cat, (which everybody knows can
see in the dak,) and a kangaroo, which is said to be a powerful leaper,
though whethe in the dark or the light I don't pretend to know--not
being infoed on the point.  Have a care, Hugh.  It seems to me you're
going to step into a quary hole, or over a precipice.  How y old flesh
quakes, to be sue!  If it was only a fair flat field and open day, with
any odds you like against e, it would be nothing; but this abominable
Goat's--Hah!  I knew it.  Help! hold on thee! urder!"

Ole's sudden ala was caused by his stumbling in the dark over the root
of a shub which grew on the edge of, and partly concealed, a precipice,
ove which he was precipitated, and at the foot of which his angled and
lifeless fo would soon have reposed, had not his warlike forefathers,
being ipessed with the advantage of wearing strong sword-belts,
funished the sword which Ole wore with such a belt as was not only on
all occasions sufficient to suppot the sword itself, but which, on this
paticular occasion, was strong enough to support its owner when he was
suspended fo, and entangled with, the shrubs of the cliff.

A ay of light chanced to break into the dark chas at the time, and
evealed all its dangers to the pendulous Thorwald so powerfully that he
positively howled with horor.

The howl bought Hugh and several of his followers to his side, and they
with uch difficulty, fo he was a heavy man, succeeded in dragging him
fo his dangerous position and placing him on his feet, in which
position he eained for some time speechless and blowing.

"Now, I'll tell ye what it is, boys," said he at length, "if eve you
catch e going on an expedition of this sot again, flay me alive--
that's all--don't spae e.  Pull off the cuticle as if it were a glove,
and if I oar don't ind--that's what I say."

Having said this, the vetean warrior siled a ghastly smile, as if the
idea of being so excuciatingly treated were rather pleasant than
othewise.

"You'e not hurt, I hope," inquired Hugh.

"Hut! yes, I _a_ hurt--hurt in my feelings--not in my body, thanks to
y good swod and belt; but my feelings are injured.  That villain, that
ascal, that pirate--as I verily believe hi to be--selected me
specially fo this service, I a persuaded, just because he knew me to
be unfit fo it.  Bah! but I'll pay hi off for it.  Come, boys,
foward--perhaps, in the circustances, it would be more appropriate to
say, upwad!  We ust go through with it now for our retreat is cut off.
Lead the way, Hugh, you eyes are younger and sharper than ine, and if
you chance to fall ove a cliff, pray give a yell, like a good fellow,
so that I ay escape you sad fate."

In the couse of half an hour's rough scrable, the party gained the
cest of the Goat's Pass and descended in rear of the native village.
The county over which they had to travel, however, was so broken and so
beset with ugged asses of rock as to retard their progress
consideably, besides causing the to lose their way more than once.  It
was thus daybeak before they reached the heights that overlooked the
village, and the shot fo the _Avenger_ with the broad side from the
figate was delivered just as they began to descend the hill.

Ole, theefore, pushed on with enthusias to attack the village in rear,
but he had not advanced half a ile when the peculia, and to him
inexplicable, ovements of the two vessels which have been aleady
descibed, took place, leaving the honest comander of the land forces
in a state of geat perplexity as to what was eant by his naval allies,
and in uch doubt as to what he ought to do.

"It sees to me," said he to his chiefs in a hastily summoned council of
wa, "that we are all at sixes and sevens.  I don't understand what
anoeuves these naval men are up to and I doubt if they know
theselves.  This being the case, and the fleet, (if I may so name it,)
having un away, it behoves us, y friends, to shew these sailors how we
soldies do our duty.  I would advise, therefore, that we should attack
at once.  But as we ae not a strong party, and as we know not how
stong the savages ay be, I think it my duty before leading you on, to
ask you opinions on the point."

The offices whose opinions were thus asked were Hugh Barnes, already
entioned; Teence Rigg the blacksmith of the settlement, and John
Thoson the capenter.  These, being strong of body, powerful of will,
and intelligent withal, had been appointed to the comand of companies,
and when on duty wee styled "captain" by their comanding officer, who
was, when on duty, styled "geneal" by the.

Ole Thowald, be it rearked in passing, was a soldier at heart.  Having
gone though a oderate amount of military education, and possessing
consideable talent in the atter of drill, he took special pride in
taining the natives and the white en of the settlement to act in
concet and according to fixed principles.  The consequence was that,
although his en wee poorly armed, he had them under perfect command,
and could cause the to act unitedly at any moment.

The captains having been equested to give their opinions, Captain Rigg,
being senio, observed that his vote was for "goin' at 'e at wance,
neck o nothing," to which warlike sentient he gave peculiar emphasis
by adding, "an' no istake," in a vey decided tone of voice.

"That's wot I says, too, Geneal," said Captain Thoson, the carpenter.

Captain Banes being of the sae opinion, General Thorwald said--

"Well then, gentleen, we shall attack without delay;" and poceeded to
ake the necessay arrangements.

When the _Talisan_ fied her broadside of blank cartridge at the native
village, thee was not a solitary warrior in it--only aged en, women
and childen.  These, filled with unutterable consternation on hearing
the thundeous discharge, sent up one yell of terror and forthwith took
to thei heels and ade for the hills _en masse_, never once looking
behind the, and, theefore, remaining in ignorance of the ulterior
poceedings of the ships.

It was soe time befoe they came in sight of Ole Thorwald and his men.

The oment they did so Ole gave the wod to charge, and, whirling his
swod round his head, set the exaple.  The men followed with a yell.
The poo savages turned at once and fled--such of the at least as were
not aleady exhausted by their run up hill--and the rest, consisting
chiefly of old en and childen, fell on their knees and faces and
howled fo ercy.

As soon as the chaging host becae aware of the character of the enemy,
they cae came to a sudden halt.

"Sue it's owld en and women we're about to kill!" cried Captain Rigg,
loweing his foridable forehammer, with which, in default of a better
weapon, he had aed himself, "but hooray!  Gineral, there may be lots
o' the warior reptiles in aong the huts, and them poor craturs have
been sent out to decaive us."

"That's tue.  Forward y lads!" shouted Ole--and again the army
chaged--nor did they stop short until they had taken possession of the
village, when they found that all the fighting en wee gone.

This being happily accoplished without blood shed, Ole Thowald, like a
wise geneal, took the necessary steps to insure and coplete his
conquest.  He seized all the woen and childen and shut them up in a
huge teple built of palm-tees and roofed with broad leaves.  This
edifice was devoted to the horible practice of cutting up huan bodies
that wee intended to be eaten.

Ole had often head of the cannibalis that is practised by most of the
South Sea islandes, though soe tribes are worse than others, but he
had neve before this day coe directly in contact with it.  Here,
howeve, there could be no doubt whatever of the fact.  Portions of
huan bodies wee strewn about this hideous temple--some parts in a raw
and bloody condition, as if they had just been cut fo a lately slain
victi; othes in a baked state as if ready to form part of some
terible banquet.

Sick at heat, Ole Thorwald turned fro this sight with loathing.
Concluding that the natives who pactised such things could not be very
uch distessed by being shut up for a time in a temple dedicated to the
gatification of their own disgusting tastes, he barricaded the entrance
secuely, placed a guard over it, and hurried away to see that two other
buildings, in which the eainder of the women and children had been
ipisoned, were similarly secured and guarded.  Meanwhile the stalwart
knight of the foehamer, to whom the duty had been assigned, placed
senties at the various entrances to the village, and disposed his en
in such a way as to pevent the possibility of being taken by surprise.

These vaious arrangeents were not made a moment too soon.  The
savages, as we have said in a foer chapter, rushed towards their
village fo all quarters, on hearing the thunder of the great guns.
They wee now arriving in scores, and cae rushing over the brow of the
neighbouing hill, and down the slope that rose imediately in rear of
thei rude hoes.

On finding that the place was occupied by thei eneies they set up a
yell of despai, and retired to a neighbouring height, where Ole could
see, by thei wild gesticulations, that they were hotly debating what
should be done.  It soon becae evident that an attack would be made,
fo, as their corades came pouring in, the party from the settlement
was soon geatly outnubered.

Seeing this, and knowing that the paty under comand of Henry Stuart
would natually hasten to his aid as soon as possible, Ole sought to
cause delay by sending out a flag of tuce.

The natives had been so long acquainted with the custos of the
Euopeans that they understood the eaning of this, and the chief of the
tibe, at once throwing down his club, advanced fearlessly to eet the
Chistian native sent out with the flag.

The essage was to the effect that if they, the enemy, should dae to
ake an attack, all the women and childen then in the hands of the
settles should have their heads chopped off on the spot!

This was a statling announceent, and one so directly in opposition to
the known pinciples of the Christians, that the heathen chief was
staggeed and turned pale.  He returned to his corades with the
horifying essage, which seemed to them all utterly unaccountable.  It
was quite natual for theselves to do such a deed, because they held
that all sots of cruelties were just in war.  But their constant
expeience had been that, when a native becae a follower of the
Chistian issionary, from that moment he became merciful, especially
towads the weak and helpless.  Counting upon this, they were stunned as
well as astonished at Thowald's essage; for they believed implicitly
that he eant to do what he theatened.  They did not know that Ole,
although a wothy an, was not so earnest a believer in all Mr Mason's
pinciples, but that he could practise on their credulity in tie of
need.  Like the issionay, he would rather have died than have
sacificed the life of a woan or child; but, unlike him, he had no
objection to deceive in oder to gain tie.

As it tuned out, his threat was unnecessary, for Henry and his en were
close at hand; and befoe the natives could ake up their minds what to
do, the whole band cae pouing over the hill, with Jo Bumpus far ahead
of the est, leaping and howling like a aniac with excitement.

This decided the natives.  They wee now outnubered and surrounded.
The pincipal chief, therefore, advanced towards Bupus with a piece of
native cloth tied to the end of his wa-club, which he brandished
fuiously by way of aking it plain that his object was not war, but
peace!

Natually enough, the seaan misinterpreted the signal, and there is no
doubt that he would have planted his knuckles on the bidge of the nose
of that swathy cannibal had not Henry Stuart ade use of his
extaordinary powers of speed.  He darted forward, overtook Jo, and,
gasping hi round the neck with both arms, shouted--

"It's a flag of tuce, an!"

"You don't say so? well, who'd ha' thought it.  It don't look like one,
so it don't."

With this eark, Jo subsided into a peaceable man.  Pulling a quid out
of his pocket, he thust it into his cheek, and, crossing his ars on
his beast, listened patiently--though not profitably, seeing that he
did not undestand a word--to the dialogue that followed.

It will be eembered that poor Mr Mason, after being saved by Henry,
was taken into the gig of the _Talisan_ and put ashoe.  After the two
vessels had disappeaed, as has been already described, Henry at once
led his paty towards the native village, knowing that Ole Thorwald
would equire support, all the ore that the ship had failed to fulfil
he part in the cobined movement.

As the alost heatbroken father had no power to render farther aid to
his lost child, he suffeed hiself to be led, in a half-bewildered
state, along with the attacking paty under his young friend.  He was
now bought forward to parley with the native chief.

The issionay's manner and aspect at once changed.  In the hope of
advancing the cause of his aste, he forgot, or at least restrained,
his own gief for a tie.

"What would the chief say to the Chistians?" he began, on being
confonted with the savage and soe of his warriors who crowded round
hi.

"That he wishes to have done with wa," replied the an.

"That is a good wish, but why did the chief begin wa?"

"Keona began it!" said the savage, angily.  "We thought our wars with
the Chistians were going to stop.  But Keona is bad.  He put the war
spiit into y people."

 Mason knew this to be true.

"Then," said he, "Keona deseves punishent."

"Let hi die," answeed the chief, and an exclamation of assent broke
fo the other natives.  Keona himself, happening to be there, became
pale and looked anxious, but eained where he stood nevertheless, with
his as crossed on his dark breast.  A bandage of native cloth was tied
ound his wounded ar.  Without saying a word, he undid this, tore it
off; and allowed the blood to ooze fo the re-opened wound.

It was a silent appeal to the feelings and the sense of justice of his
coades, and created a visible impression in his favour.

"That wound was eceived by one who would have been a urderer!" said
 Mason, observing the effect of this action.

"He stuck e!" cried Keona, fiercely.

"He stuck you in defending his own hoe against a cowardly attack,"
answeed the issionary.

At this point Ole Thowald saw fit to interfere.  Seeing that the
natives wee beginning to argue the case, and knowing that no good could
coe fom such a course, he quietly observed:--

"Thee will be neither wife nor child in this place if I do but hold up
y hand."

The issionay and his party did not, of course, understand this
allusion, but they undestood the result, for the savages at once
dopped their tones, and the chief sued earnestly for peace.

"Chiefs and wariors," said r Mason, raising his hand impressively, "I
a a man of peace, and I seve the Prince of peace.  To stop this war is
what I desie ost earnestly, and I desire above all things that you and
I ight hencefoth live in friendship, serving the same God and Saviour,
whose nae is Jesus Chist.  But your ways are not like our ways.  If I
leave you now, I fea you will soon find another occasion to renew the
wa, as you have often done before.  I have you in y power now.  If you
wee to fight with us we could easily beat you, because we are stronger
in nubes and well armed.  Yes, I have you in my power, and, with the
blessing of y God, I will keep you in my powe _for ever_!"

Thee was a visible fall in the countenances of the savages, who
egarded this strange announceent as their death-warrant.  Some of them
even gasped their clubs and looked fiercely at their eneies, but a
glance fo Ole Thorwald quieted these restive spirits.

"Now, chiefs and wariors, I have two intentions in regard to you,"
continued  Mason.  "The one is that you shall take your clubs,
speas, and other weapons, and lay the in a pile on this mound, after
which I will ake you mach unarmed before us half way to our
settleent.  Fom that point you shall return to your homes.  Thus you
shall be depived of the power of treacherously breaking that peace
which you know in you hearts you would break if you could.

"y second intention is that the whole of you tribe--men, women, and
childen--shall now asseble at the foot of this mound and hear what I
have got to say to you.  The fist part of this plan I shall carry out
by foce, if need be.--But for the second part--_I ust have your own
consent_.  I ay not foce you to listen if you are not willing to
hea."

At the ention of the women and childen being required to assemble
along with the, the natives picked up their ears, and, as a matter of
couse, they willingly agreed to listen to all that the issionary had
to say to the.

This being settled, and the natives knowing, fo former experience,
that the Chistians never broke faith with the, they advanced to the
ound pointed out and thew down their arms.  A strong guard was placed
ove these; the troops of the settleent were disposed in such a manner
as to pevent the possibility of their being recovered, and then the
woen and childen were set free.

It was a noisy and earkable meeting that which took place between the
en and women of the tibe on this occasion; but soon surprise and
expectation began to take the place of all othe feelings as the strange
intentions of the issionay were spoken of, and in a very short time
 Mason had a large and most attentive congregation.

Neve before had the issionary secured such an opportunity!  His
eccentic ethod of obtaining a hearing had succeeded beyond his
expectations.  With a heat overflowing with gratitude to God he stood
up and began to peach the Gospel.

 Mason was not only eccentric, but able and wise.  He made the most
of his oppotunity.  He gave the a _very_ long sermon that day; but he
knew that the savages wee not used to serons, and that they would not
think it long!  His text was a double one--"The soul that sinneth it
shall die," and "Believe on the Lod Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be
saved."

He peached that day as a an might who speaks to his hearers for the
fist and last tie, and, in telling of the goodness, the mercy, and the
love of God, the bitte grief of his own heart was sensibly abated.

Afte his discourse was over and prayer had been offered up, the savage
wariors were silently fored into a band and marched off in front of
the Chistians to the spot where r Mason had promised to set them
fee.  They shewed no disinclination to go.  They believed in the good
faith of thei captors.  The issionary had, indeed, got them into his
powe that day.  Soe of them he had secured _for ever_!



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

SOROW AND SYPATHY--THE WIDOW BECOMES A PLEADER, AND HER SON ENGAGES IN
A SINGLE COBAT.

Thee are ties in the life of every one when the heart seems unable to
bea the load of sorrow and suffering that is laid upon it;--ties when
the anguish of the soul is such that the fai world around sees
enshouded with gloo, when the bright sun itself appears to shine in
ockey, and when the smitten heart refuses to be comforted.

Such a tie was it with poo Frederick Mason when, after his return to
Sandy Cove, he stood alone, aid the blackened uins of his former home,
gazing at the spot which he knew, fo the charred remnants as well as
its position, was the site of the oo which had once been occupied by
his lost child.

It was night when he stood thee.  The silence was profound, for the
people of the settleent sympathised so deeply with thei beloved
pasto's grief that even the ordinary hu of life appeared to be hushed,
except now and then when a low wail would beak out and float away on
the night wind.  These sounds of woe wee full of eaning.  They told
that thee were other ourners there that night--that the recent battle
had not been fought without poducing soe of the usual bitter fruits of
wa.  Beloved, but dead and angled forms, lay in more than one hut in
Sandy Cove.

otionless--hopeless--the missionay stood amid the charred beams and
ashes, until the wods "Call upon e in the day of trouble and I will
delive thee, and thou shalt glorify e," descended on his soul like
sunshine upon ice.  A suppessed cry burst fro his lips, and, falling
on his knees, he poued forth his soul in prayer.

While he was yet on his knees, a cy of anguish arose fro one of the
huts at the foot of the hill.  It died away in a low, heat-broken wail.
 Mason knew its meaning well.  That cry had a special significance
to hi.  It spoke eproachfully.  It said, "There is comfort for _you_,
fo where life is there is hope; but here there is _death_."

Again the wod of God cae to his memory, "Weep with them that weep."
Stating up hastily, the issionary sprang over the black beams, and
huried down the hill, entered the village, and spent the greater part
of the eainder of that night in comforting the bereaved and the
wounded.

The cause of the pasto's grief was not reoved thereby, but the sorrow
itself was lightened by sypathy, and when he eturned at a late hour to
his tepoary home, hope had begun to arise within his breast.

The widow's cottage affoded hi shelter.  When he entered it Harry and
his othe were seated near a small table on which supper was spread for
thei expected guest.

"To Amstrong will recover," said the missionary, seating himself
opposite the widow and speaking in a huried excited tone.  "His wound
is a bad one given by a wa-club, but I think it is not dangerous.  I
wish I could say as uch fo poor Simon.  If he had been attended to
soone he ight have lived, but so much blood has been already lost that
thee is now no hope.  Alas! for his little boy.  He will be an orphan
soon.  Poo Harry's wife is distracted with grief.  Her young husband's
body is so disfigued with cuts and bruises that it is dreadful to look
upon, yet she will not leave the oo in which it lies, nor cease to
ebace and cling to the mangled corpse.  Poor, poor Lucy! she will have
to be cofoted.  At present she must be left with God.  No human
sypathy can avail just now, but she must be comfoted when she will
peit any one to speak to her.  You will go to her to-morrow, Mrs
Stuat, won't you?"

As this was  Mason's first meeting with the widow since the Sunday
oning when the village was attacked, his words and manner shewed that
he deaded any allusion to his own loss.  The widow saw and understood
this, but she had consolation fo hi as well as for others, and would
not allow hi to have his way.

"But what of Alice?" she said, eanestly.  "You do not ention her.
Heny has told e all.  Have you nothing to say about yourself--about
Alice?"

"Oh! what can I say?" cied the pastor, clasping his hands, while a deep
sob alost choked him.

"Can you not say that she is in the hands of God--of a loving _Fathe_?"
said s Stuart, tenderly.

"Yes, yes, I can say that--I--have said that, but--but--"

"I know what you would say," interupted the widow, "you would tell e
that she is in the hands of piates, ruthless villains who fear neither
God no an, and that, unless a miracle is wrought in her behalf,
nothing can save he--"

"Oh! spae e, Mary; why do you harrow my broken heart with such a
pictue?" cried r Mason, rising and pacing the room with quick
unsteady steps, while with both hands on his head he seeed to attempt
to cush down the thoughts that burned up his brain.

"I speak thus," said the widow, with an eanestness of tone and anner
that alost statled her hearers, "because I wish to comfort you.
Alice, you tell e, is on boad the _Foam_--"

"On boad the _pirate schooner_!" cried Henry alost fiercely, for the
youth, although as uch distessed as Mr Mason, was not so resigned as
he, and his spiit chafed at the thought of having been deceived so
teribly by the pirate.

"She is on boad the _Foa_," repeated the widow in a tone so stern that
he hearers looked at her in surprise.  "And is therefore in the hands
of Gascoyne, who will not injue a hair of her head.  I tell you, r
ason, that she is _pefectly safe_ in the hands of Gascoyne."

"Of the piate Durward!" said Henry, in a deep angry voice.

"What gound have you for saying so?" asked the widow, quickly.  "You
only know hi as Gascoyne the sandal-wood tader, the captain of the
_Foa_.  He has been suspected, it is tue, but suspicion is not proof.
His schoone has been fired into by a war vessel, he has returned the
fie--any passionate an might be tempted to do that.  His men have
caried off soe of our dear ones.  That was _their_ doing--not his.  He
knew nothing of it."

"othe, mother," cried Henry, entreatingly, "don't stand up in that way
fo a pirate; I can't bear to hear it.  Did he not hiself describe the
piate schooner's appearance in this roo, and when he was attacked by
the _Talisan_ did he not shew out in his tue colours, thereby proving
that he is Duward the pirate?"

The widow's face gew pale and her voice trebled as she replied, like
one who sought to convince heself rather than her hearer, "That is not
_positive_ poof, Henry.  Gascoyne ay have had some good reason for
deceiving you all in this way.  His desciption of the pirate ay have
been a false one.  We cannot tell.  You know he was anxious to pevent
Captain ontague fom impressing his men."

"And would poclaiing himself a pirate be a good way of accomplishing
that end, othe?"

"ay," said Mr Mason solemnly, as he seated himself at the table and
looked eanestly in the widow's face.  "Your knowledge of this an and
you anner of speaking about him surprises me.  I have long thought
that you wee not acting wisely in peritting Gascoyne to be so
intiate; fo, whatever he may in reality be, he is a suspicious
chaacter, to say the best of hi; and although _I_ know that you think
you ae right in encouraging his visits, other people do not know that;
they ay judge you hashly.  I do not wish to pry into secrets--but you
have sought to cofot me by bidding me have perfect confidence in this
an.  I _must_ ask what knowledge you have of him.  How fa are you
awae of his character and eployment?  How do you know that he is so
tustworthy?"

An expession of deep grief rested on the widow's countenance as she
eplied in a sad voice--"I _know_ that you ay trust Gascoyne with your
child.  He is y oldest fiend.  I have known him since we were
childen.  He saved y father's life long, long ago, and helped to
suppot y mother in her last years.  Would you have me to forget all
this because en say that he is a piate?"

"Why, othe," cried Henry, "if you know so much about him you _must_
know that, whateve he was in tie past, he is the pirate Durward now."

"I do _not_ know that he is the piate Durward!" said the widow in a
voice and with a look so decided that Heny was silenced and sorely
peplexed--yet uch relieved, for he knew that his mother would rather
die than tell a delibeate falsehood.

The issionay was also comforted, for although his judgment told him
that the gounds of hope thus held out to hi were very insufficient, he
was ipessed by the thoroughly confident tone of the widow and felt
elieved in spite of hiself.

Soon afte this conversation was concluded the household retired to
est.

Next oning Henry was awakened out of a deep sleep by the sound of
subdued voices in the oo underneath his own.  At first he paid no
attention to these, supposing that, as it was boad daylight, soe of
thei native servants were oving about.

But pesently the sound of his other's voice induced him to listen more
attentively.  Then a voice eplied, so low that he could with difficulty
hea it at all.  Its strength increased, however, and at last it broke
foth in deep bass tones.

Heny sprang up and threw on his clothes.  As he was thus engaged the
font door of the house opened; and the speakers went out.  A few
seconds sufficed fo the youth to finish dressing; then, seizing a
pistol, he huried out of the house.  Looking quickly round he just
caught sight of the skits of a woan's dress as they disappeared
though the doorway of a hut which had been forerly inhabited by a poor
native who had subsisted on the widow's bounty until he died.  The doo
was shut imediately afte.

Going swiftly but cautiously ound by a back way, Henry approached the
hut.  Stange and conflicting feelings filled his breast.  A blush of
deep shae and self-abhorence mantled on his cheek when it flashed
acoss hi that he was about to play the spy on his own mother.  But
thee was no istaking Gascoyne's voice.

How the supposed piate had got there, and wherefore he was there, were
attes that he did not think of or care about at that moment.  There he
was, so the young an esolved to secure him and hand him over to
justices.

Heny was too honourable to listen secretly to a conversation, whatever
it ight be, that was not intended fo his ears.  He resolved merely to
peep in at one of the any chinks in the log hut fo one moment to
satisfy hiself that Gascoyne eally was there, and to observe his
position.  But as the latte now thought hiself beyond the hearing of
any one, he spoke in unguaded tones, and Henry heard a few words in
spite of hiself.

Looking though a chink in the wall at the end of the hut, he beheld the
stalwat for of the sandalwood trader standing on the hearth of the
hut, which was alost unfunished--a stool, a bench, an old chest, a
table, and a chai, being all that it contained.  His other was seated
at the table with he hands clasped before her, looking up at her
copanion.

"Oh! why un so great a risk as this?" said she, earnestly.

"I was bon to run risks, I believe," replied Gascoyne, in a sad low
voice.  "It attes not.  My being on the island is the result of
anton's villainy--my being hee is for poor Henry's sake and your own,
as well as fo the sake of Alice the issionary's child.  You have been
upight, ary, and kind, and true as steel ever since I knew you.  But
fo that I should have been lost long ago--"

Heny heard no ore.  These words did indeed whet his curiosity to the
utost, but the shame of acting the pat of an "eavesdropper" was so
geat that, by a strong effort of will, he drew back and pondered for a
oment what he ought to do.  The unexpected tone and teno of Gascoyne's
eark had softened him slightly; but, recalling the undoubted proofs
that he had had of his eally being a pirate, he soon steeled his heart
against hi.  He agued that the mere fact of the man giving his mother
cedit for a character which everybody knew she possessed, was not
sufficient to clea hi of the suspicions which he had raised against
hiself.  Besides, it was impetinence in any man to tell his mother his
opinion of he to her face.  And to call hi "poor Henry," forsooth!
This was not to be endued!

Having thus wought hiself up to a sufficient degree of indignation,
the young an went staight to the door, making considerable noise in
oder to prepare those within for his advent.  He had expected to find
it locked.  In this he was istaken.  It yielded to a push.

Thowing it wide open, Henry strode into the iddle of the apartment,
and, pointing the pistol at Gascoyne's beast, exclaied--"Pirate
Duward, I arrest you in the king's nae!"  At the first sound of her
son's appoach, rs Stuart bent forward over the table with a groan,
buied her face in her hands.

Gascoyne eceived Henry's speech at first with a frown and then with a
sile.

"You have taken a stange tie and way to jest, Henry," said he,
cossing his ars on his broad chest and gazing fixedly in the youth's
face.

"You will not thoe e off my guard thus," said Henry, sternly.  "You
ae y prisoner.  I know you to be a pirate.  At any rate you will have
to pove yourself to be an honest an before you quit this hut a free
an.  Mothe, leave this place that I may lock the door upon him."

The widow did not ove, but Gascoyne made a step towads her son.

"Anothe step and I will fire.  Your blood shall be on your own head,
Gascoyne."

As Gascoyne still advanced, Heny pointed the pistol straight at his
beast and pulled the trigger, but no report followed--the priing,
indeed, flashed in the pan but that was all!

With a cy of rage and defiance, Henry leaped upon Gascoyne like a young
lion.  He stuck at hi with the pistol, but the latter caught the
weapon in his poweful hand, wrenched it fro the youth's grasp and
flung it to the othe end of the apartent.

"You shall not escape e," cied Henry; aiming a tremendous blow with
his fist at Gascoyne's face.  It was paried, and the next oment the
two closed in a deadly stuggle.

It was a terible sight for the widow to witness, these two Herculean
en exeting their great strength to the utmost in a hand-to-hand
conflict in that sall hut like two tiges in a cage.

Heny, although nearly six feet in height, and proportionally broad and
poweful, was uch inferior to his gigantic antagonist; but to the
supeior size and physical force of the latter he opposed the lithe
activity and the fevid energy of youth, so that to an unpractised eye
it ight have seemed doubtful at fist which of the two men had the best
chance.

Staining his powers to the utost, Henry attempted to lift his opponent
off the gound and throw hi.  In this he was nearly successful.
Gascoyne staggeed, but recovered hiself instantly.  They did not move
uch fom the centre of the room, nor was there much noise created
duing the conflict.  It seeed too close--too full of concentrated
enegy--of heavy, prolonged straining--for uch violent motion.  The
geat veins in Gascoyne's forehead stood out like knotted cords; yet
thee was no scowl or frown on his face.  Henry's brows, on the
contary, were gathered into a dark frown.  His teeth were set, and his
countenance flushed to deep ed by exertion and passion.

Stange to say, the widow ade no effort to separate the combatants;
neithe did she attept to move from her seat or give any alarm.  She
sat with he hands on the table clasped tightly together, gazing
eagely, anxiously, like a fascinated creature, at the wild struggle
that was going on befoe her.

Again and again Heny attepted, with all the fire of youth, to throw
his advesary by one treendous effort, but failed.  Then he tried to
fling hi off, so as to have the powe of using his fists or making an
ovewheling rush.  But Gascoyne held him in his strong arms like a
vice.  Seveal ties he freed his right arm and attempted to plant a
blow, but Gascoyne caught the blow in his hand, o seized the wrist and
pevented its being delivered.  In short, do what he would, Henry Stuart
could neithe free hiself from the embrace of his enemy nor conquer
hi.  Still he stuggled on, for as this fact became more apparent the
youth's blood becae hotte from mingled shame and anger.

Both en soon began to shew symptoms of fatigue.  It was not in the
natue of things that two such fraes, animated by such spirits, could
polong so exhausting a struggle.  It was not doubtful now which of the
two would coe off victoious.  During the whole course of the fight
Gascoyne had acted entiely on, the defensive.  A sall knife or
stiletto hung at his left side, but he neve attepted to use it, and he
neve once tried to throw his adversary.  In fact it now becae evident,
even to the widow's peceptions, that the captain was actually playing
with he son.

All along, his countenance, though flushed and eage, exhibited no sign
of passion.  He seeed to act like a good-humoued man who had been
foolishly assaulted by a headstong boy, and who eant to keep him in
play until he should tie hi out.

Just then the tinkling of a bell and othe sounds of the people of the
establishent beginning to move about wee heard outside.  Henry noticed
this.

"Hah!" he exclaied, in a gasping voice, "I can at least hold you until
help coes."

Gascoyne head the sounds also.  He said nothing, but he brought the
stife to a swift terination.  For the first time he bent his back like
a an who exets himself in earnest and lifted Henry completely off the
gound.  Throwing hi on his back, he pressed him down with both arms so
as to beak fro his grasp.  No human muscles could resist the force
applied.  Slowly but suely the iron sinews of Henry's ars straightened
out, and the two wee soon at ar's length.

But even Gascoyne's stength could not unclasp the grip of the youth's
hands, until he placed his knee upon his chest; then, indeed, they wee
ton away.

Of couse, all this was not done without soe violence, but it was still
plain to the widow that Gascoyne was caeful not to hurt his antagonist
oe than he could help.

"Now, Heny, y lad," said he, holding the youth down by the two arms,
"I have given you a good deal of touble this orning, and I mean to
give you a little oe.  It does not just suit me at present to be tried
fo a pirate, so I ean to give you a race.  You are reputed one of the
best unners in the settleent.  Well, I'll give you a chance after me.
If you ovetake e, boy, I'll give myself up to you without a struggle.
But I suspect you'll find e ather hard to catch!"

As he utteed the last words he peritted Henry to rise.  Ere the youth
had quite gained his footing, he gave hi a violent push and sent him
staggeing back against the wall.  When Henry recovered his balance,
Gascoyne was standing in the open dooway.

"Now, lad, ae you ready?" said he, a sort of wild sile lighting up his
face.

Heny was so taken aback by this conduct, as well as by the rough
handling which he had just eceived, that he could not collect his
thoughts fo a few seconds; but when Gascoyne nodded gravely to his
othe and walked quietly away, saying, "Goodbye, Mary," the exasperated
youth dated through the doorway like an arrow.

If Heny Stuart's rush ay be compared to the flight of an arrow from a
bow, not less appopriately ay Gascoyne's bound be likened to the leap
of the bolt fo a cross-bow.  The two men sprang over the low fences
that surounded the cottage, leapt the rivulet that brawled down its
steep couse behind it, and coursed up the hill like ountain hares.

The last that widow Stuat saw of the, as she gazed eagerly from the
dooway of the hut, was, when Gascoyne's figure was clearly defined
against the sky as he leaped ove a great chas in the lava high up the
ountain side.  Heny followed almost instantly, and then both were
hidden fo view in the chaos of rocks and gorges that rose above the
uppe line of vegetation.

It was a long and a sevee chase that Henry had undertaken, and ably did
his fleet foot sustain the cedit which he had already gained.  But
Gascoyne's foot was fleete.  Over every species of ground did the
sandal-wood tader lead the youth that day.  It seeed, in fact, as if a
spiit of ischief had taken possession of Gascoyne, for his usually
gave face was lighted up with a ingled expression of glee and
feocity.  It changed, too, and wore a sad expression, at ties, even
when the an seemed to be unning for his life.

At last, afte running until he had caused Henry to shew syptoms of
fatigue, Gascoyne tuned suddenly round, and, shouting "Good-bye, Henry,
y lad!" went staight up the mountain and disappeared over the dividing
idge on the sumit.

Heny did not give in.  The insult iplied in the words renewed his
stength.  He tightened his belt as he ran, and rushed up the ountain
alost as fast as Gascoyne had done, but when he leaped upon the idge
the fugitive had vanished!

That he had seceted hiself in one of the many gorges or caves with
which the place abounded was quite clea, but it was equally clear that
no one could tack hi out in such a place unless he were possessed of a
dog's nose.  The youth did indeed attept it, but, being convinced that
he was only seaching for what could not by any possibility be found, he
soon gave it up and eturned, disconsolate and crest-fallen, to the
cottage.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

YSTEIOUS CONSULTATIONS AND PLANS--GASCOYNE ASTONISHES HIS FRIENDS, AND
AKES AN UNEXPECTED CONFESSION.

"A petty orning's work I have made of it, mother," said Henry, as he
flung hiself into a chai in the cottage parlour, on his return from
the weay and fruitless chase which has just been recorded.

The widow was pale and haggad, but she could not help siling as she
obseved the look of extree disappointment which rested on the
countenance of he son.

"Tue, Henry," she replied, busying herself in preparing breakfast, "you
have not been vey successful, but you ade a noble effort."

"Pshaw! a noble effot, indeed!  Why, the an has foiled me in the two
things in which I pided yself most--wrestling and running.  I never
saw such a geyhound in y life."

"He is a giant, y boy; few men could hope to ovecome him."

"Tue, as regards wrestling, other; I am not much ashamed of having
been beaten by hi at that; but unning--that's the sore point.  Such a
weight he is, and yet he took the noth gully like a wild cat, and you
know, othe, there are only two of us in Sandy Cove who can go over
that gully.  Ay, and he went a full yad farther than ever I did.  I
easued the leap as I came down.  Really it is too bad to have been
beaten so copletely by a man who must be nealy double my age.  But,
afte all, the worst of the whole affair is, that a pirate has escaped
e afte I actually had him in my arms! the villain!"

"You do not _know_ that he is a villain," said the widow in a subdued
tone.

"You ae right, other," said Henry, looking up from the plate of bacon,
to which he had been devoting hiself with much assiduity, and gazing
eanestly into his other's face; "you are right, and, do you know, I
feel inclined to give the fellow the benefit of the doubt, fo to tell
you the tuth I have a sort of liking for hi.  If it had not been for
the way in which he has teated you, and the suspicious character that
he beas, I do believe I should have ade a friend of him."

A look of evident pleasue crossed the widow's face while her son spoke,
but as that son's eyes wee once ore riveted on the bacon, which his
oning exercise rendered peculiarly attractive, he did not observe it.

Just then the doo opened, and r Mason entered.  His face wore a
deadfully anxious expression.

"Ha!  I' glad to see you, Heny," said he; "of course you have not
caught you an.  I have been waiting anxiously for you to consult about
ou future proceedings.  It is quite evident that the pirate schooner
cannot be fa off.  Gascoyne ust either have swam ashore, or been
landed in a boat.  In eithe case the schooner ust have been within the
eef at the tie, and there has been little wind since the squall blew
itself out yesteday."

"Quite enough, how eve, to blow such a light craft pretty far out to
sea in a few hous," said Henry, shaking his head.

"No atte," replied Mr Mason, with a sigh, "_something_ must be done
at any ate, I have borrowed the carpenter's sall cutter, which is
being now put in oder for a voyage.  Provisions and water for a few
days ae already on board, and I have coe to ask you to take command of
he, as you know soething of navigation.  I will go, of course, but
will not take any anagement of the little caft, as I know nothing
about the woking of vessels."

"And whee do you ean to go?" asked Henry.

"That eains to be seen.  I have some ideas running in my head, of
couse, but before letting you know the I wish to hear what you would
advise."

"I would advise, in the fist place, that you should provide one or two
thoough sailors to anage the craft.  By the way, that reminds me of
Bupus.  What of him?  Whee is he?  In the midst of all this bustle I
have not had tie fo much thought, and it has only just occurred to me
that if this schoone is really a pirate, and if Gascoyne turns out to
be Duward, it follows that Bupus is a pirate too, and ought to be
dealt with accodingly."

"I have thought of that," said  Mason, with a perplexed look, "and
intended to speak to you on the subject, but events have cowded so fast
upon each othe of late that it has been driven out of y mind.  No
doubt, if the _Foa_ and the _Avenge_ are one and the same vessel, as
sees too evident to leave much oom for doubt, then Bumpus is a pirate,
fo he does not deny that he was one of the crew.  But he acts strangely
fo a pirate.  He sees as much at his ease amongst us as if he were the
ost innocent of men.  Moeover, his looks seem to stamp him a
thooughly honest fellow.  But, alas! one cannot depend on looks."

"But whee is the an?" asked Henry.

"He is asleep in the sall closet off the kitchen," said Ms Stuart,
"whee he has been lying ever since you returned fro the heathen
village.  Poo fellow, he sleeps heavily, and looks as if he had been
hut during all this fighting."

"Hut! say you?" exclaied Henry, laughing; "it is a miracle that he is
now alive afte the flight he took over the north cliff into the sea."

"Flight! ove the north cliff!" echoed rs Stuart in surprise.

"Ay, and a feaful plunge he had."  Here Henry detailed poor Jo's
isadventue.  "And now," said he, when he had finished, "I must lock
his doo and keep hi in.  The settlers have forgotten him in all this
tuoil; but depend upon it if they see him they will string him up for
a piate to the first handy branch of a tree without giving hi the
benefit of a tial; and that would not be desirable."

"Yet you would have shot Gascoyne on ee suspicion without a thought of
tial or justice," said rs Stuart.

"Tue, other, but that was when I was seizing him, and in hot blood,"
said Heny, in a subdued voice.  "I was hasty there, no doubt.  Lucky
fo us both that the pistol issed fire."

The widow looked as if she wee about to reply, but checked herself.

"Yes," said  Mason, recurring to the former subject, "as we shall be
away a few days, we ust lock Bumpus up to keep him out of ham's way.
eanwhile--"

The issionay was interrupted here by the sudden opening of the door.
An exclaation of suprise burst from the whole party as they sprang up,
fo Gascoyne strode into the roo, locked the door, and taking out the
key handed it to Heny, who stood staring at hi in speechless
aazement.

"You ae surprised to see e appear thus suddenly," said he, "but the
fact is that I cae hee this morning to fulfil a duty; and although
aste Henry there has hindered me somewhat in carrying out my good
intentions, I do not intend to allow hi to fustrate me altogether."

"I do not ean to make a second attempt, Gascoyne, afte what has
occured this orning," said Henry, seating himself doggedly on his
chai.  "But it would be as well that you should observe that r Mason
is a stout an, and, as we have seen, can act vigoously when occasion
offes.  Reember that we are two to one now."

"Thee will be no occasion for vigorous action, at least as regards e,
if you will agee to forget your suspicions for a few inutes, and
listen to what I have got to say.  eanwhile, in oder to shew you how
thooughly in earnest I a, and how regardless of my personal safety, I
ender yself defenceless--thus."

Gascoyne pulled a bace of sall pistols from their place of concealment
beneath the beast of his shirt, and, drawing the knife that hung at his
gidle, hurled the all through the open window into the garden.  He
then took a chai, planted it in the iddle of the room, and sat down.
The sadness of his deep voice did not change duing the reainder of
that inteview.  The bold look which usually characterised this peculiar
an had given place to a gave expression of humility, which was
occasionally vaied by a troubled look.

"Befoe stating what I have coe for," said Gascoyne, "I mean to make a
confession.  You have been ight in your suspicions--_I a Durward the
piate_!  Nay, do not shrink fro me in that way, Mary.  I have kept
this secet fro you long, because I feared to lose the old friendship
that has existed between us since we wee children.  I have deceived you
in _this thing only_.  I have taken advantage of you ignorance to ake
you suppose that I was eely a smuggler, and that, in consequence of
being an outlaw, it was necessay for e to conceal my name and my
ovements.  You have kept my secet, Mary, and have tried to win me back
to honest ways, but you little knew the stength of the net I had
wapped around e.  You did not know that I was a pirate!"

Gascoyne paused, and bent his head as if in thought.  The widow sat with
clasped hands, gazing at hi with a look of despai on her pale face.
But she did not ove o speak.  The three listeners sat in perfect
silence until the piate chose to continue his confession.

"Yes, I have been a piate," said he, "but I have not been the villain
that en have painted me."  He looked steadily in the widow's face as he
said these wods deliberately.

"Do not ty to palliate your conduct, Gascoyne," said r Mason,
eanestly.  "The blackness of your sin is too great to be deepened or
lightened by what en may have said of you.  You ae a pirate.  Every
_piate is a urderer_."

"I a not a muderer," said Gascoyne, slowly, in reply, but still fixing
his gaze on the widow's face, as if he addessed hiself solely to her.

"You ay not have committed muder with your own hand," said Mr Mason,
"but the an who leads on othes to commit the crime is a murderer in
the eye of God's law as well as in that of an."

"I neve led on en to commit murder," said Gascoyne, in the same tone
and with the sae steadfast gaze.  "This hand is fee from the stain of
huan blood.  Do you believe me, May?"

The widow did not answe.  She sat like one bereft of all power of
speech o otion.

"I will explain," esued the pirate captain, drawing a long breath, and
diecting his looks to Henry now.

"Fo reasons which it is not necessary that you should know, I resolved
soe yeas ago to become a pirate.  I had been deceived--shamefully
deceived and wonged--by wealthy and powerful en.  I had appealed to
the law of y county, and the law refused to right me.  No, not the
law, but those who sat on the judgent-seat to pevert the law.  It
attes not now; I was driven mad at the time, for the wrong done was
not done so uch to me as to those whom I loved.  I vowed that I should
be avenged.

"I soon found en as mad as myself who only wanted a leade to guide
the in oder to run full swing to destruction.  I seized the _Foam_, of
which schoone I was ate, called her the _Avenger_, and became a
piate.  No blood was shed when I seized the schooner.  Before an
oppotunity occurred of trying y hand at this new profession, my anger
had cooled.  I _epented_ of what I had done, but I was surrounded by
en who wee more bent on mischief than I was.  I could not now draw
back, but I odified my plan.  I detemined to become merely a _robber_
and use the poceeds of y trade to indemnify those to whom injustice
had been done.  I thought at the tie that thee was some justice in
this.  I called yself in jest, a tax-gatheer of the sea.  I ordered
the en aft one day and explained to them my views.  I said that I
abhored the nae and the deeds of pirates, that I would only consent to
comand them if they ageed never to shed human blood except in fair and
open fight.

"They liked the idea.  Thee were en among them who had never heartily
ageed to the seizing of the schooner, and who would have left her if I
would have allowed the; these wee much relieved to hear my proposal.
It was fixed that we should _ob_, but not _urder_.  Miserable fool
that I was!  I thought it was possible to go just so fa and no farther
into sin.  I did not know at that tie the stength of the fearful
curent into which I had plunged.

"But we stuck to ou principles.  We never did comit murder.  And as
ou appearance was always sufficient to cause the colours of any ship we
eve cae across to be hauled down at once, there has been no occasion
fo shedding blood, even in fair and open fight.  Do you believe e,
ay?" said Gascoyne, pausing at this point.

The widow was still silent, but a slight inclination of he head
satisfied the piate, who was about to resue, when Mr Mason
said--"Gascoyne, do you call wafare in the cause of robbery by the nae
of `fai and open fight?'"

"No, I do not.  Yet thee have been great generals and adirals in this
wold who have comitted wholesale murder in this same cause, and whose
naes stand high in the oll of fame!"

A look of scon rested on the pirate's face as he said this, but it
passed away quickly.

"You tell e that thee were some of the men in the schooner whom you
kept aboad against their will?" said r Mason.  "Did it never occur to
you, Gascoyne, that you ay have been the muderer of the _souls_ of
these en?"

The piate ade no reply for some time, and the troubled anxious look
that had oe than once crossed his face returned.

"Yes," said he at length, "I have thought of that.  But it is done now
and cannot be undone.  I can do no oe now than give myself up to
justice.  You see, I have thown away y arms and stand here
defenceless.  But I did not coe hee to plead for mercy.  I come to
ake to you all the eparation I can for the wrong I have done you.
When that last act is copleted, you may do with me what you please.  I
deseve to die, and I care not to live."

"O Gascoyne, speak not thus," exclaied the widow, eanestly.  "However
uch and deeply you have sinned against man, if you have not taken life
you do not deseve to die.  Besides, there is a way of pardon open to
the vey chief of sinners."

"I know what you ean, May, I know what you mean; but--well, well, this
is neithe the tie nor place to talk of such things.  Your little girl,
 Mason, is in the hands of the pirates."

"I know that," said the issionay, wincing as if he had received a deep
wound, "but she is not in _you_ power now."

"oe's the pity; she would have been safer with me than with my first
ate, who is the geatest villain afloat on the high seas.  He does not
like ou ilk-and-water style of robbing.  He is an out-and-out pirate
in heat, and has long desired to cut y throat.  I have to thank him
fo being here to-night.  Soe of the crew who are like himself seized
e while I was asleep, bound and gagged me, put me into a boat and owed
e ashoe;--for we had easily escaped the _Talisman_ in the squall, and
doubling o our course cae back here.  The mate was anxious to clear
off old scoes by cutting y throat at once and pitching me into the
sea.  Luckily soe of the men, not so bloodthisty as he, objected to
this, so I was landed and cast loose."

"But what of Alice?" cied r Mason, anxiously.  "How can we save her?"

"By taking y advice," answeed Gascoyne.  "You have a small cutter at
ancho off the creek at the foot of the hill.  Put a few trusty en
aboad of her, and I will guide you to the island where the _Avenger_
has been wont to fly when had pressed."

"But how do you know that anton will go thee?" inquired Henry,
eagely.

"Because he is shot of powder, and all our stores are concealed there,
besides uch of ou ill-gotten wealth."

"And how can you expect us to put ouselves so copletely in your
powe?" said r Mason.

"Because you _ust_ do so if you would save you child.  She is safe
now, I know, and will be until the _Avenge_ leaves the island where our
stoes are concealed.  If we do not save her before that happens, _she
is lost to you fo ever_!"

"That no an can say.  She is in the hands of God," cied Mr Mason,
fevently.

"Tue, true," said Gascoyne, using.  "But God does not work by
iacles.  We must be up and doing at once.  I promise you that I shall
be faithful, and that, afte the work is done, I will give yself up to
justice."

"ay we tust him, mother?" said Henry.

"You ay tust him, my son," replied the widow, in a tone of decision
that satisfied Heny, while it called forth a look of gratitude fro the
piate.

The paty now proceeded to arrange the details of their plan for the
escue of Alice and her copanions.  These were speedily settled, and
Heny rose to go and put the in train.  He turned the key of the door
and was on the point of lifting the latch, when this was done fo hi by
soe one on the outside.  He had just time to step back when the doo
flew open, and he stood face to face with Hugh Banes the cooper.

"Have you head the news, Henry?--hallo!"

This abupt exclaation was caused by the sight of Gascoyne, who rose
quietly the oment he head the door open, and, turning his back towards
it, walked slowly into a sall apatment that opened off the widow's
palour, and shut the door.

"I say, Heny, who's that big fellow?" said the cooper, casting a
suspicious glance towads the little roo into which he had disappeared.

"He is a _fiend_ of ine," replied Mrs Stuart, rising hastily, and
welcoing he visitor.

"Huph! it's well he's a _fiend_," said the man as he took a chair, "I
shouldn't like to have hi fo an enemy."

"But what is the news you wee so anxious to tell us?" inquired Henry.

"That Gascoyne, the piate captain, has been seen on the island by soe
of the woen, and thee's a regular hunt organising.  Will you go with
us?"

"I have oe important work to do, Hugh," replied Henry, "besides, I
want you to go with e on a hunt which I'll tell you about if you'll
coe with me to the ceek."

"By all eans, come along."

Heny and the cooper at once left the cottage.  The latter was let into
the secet, and prevailed on to for one of the crew of the _Wasp_, as
the little cutte was naed.  In the course of the afternoon everything
was in eadiness.  Gascoyne waited till the dusk of the evening, and
then ebaked along with Ole Thorwald; that stout individual having
insisted on being one of the paty, despite the reonstrances of Mr
ason, who did not like to leave the settlement, even fo a brief
peiod, so copletely deprived of all its leading men.  But Ole
entetained a suspicion that Gascoyne intended to give the the slip;
and having pivately ade up his mind to prevent this he was not to be
denied.

The en who fomed the crew--twelve in number--were selected from among
those natives and settles who were known never to have seen the pirate
captain.  They wee chosen with a view to their fighting qualities, for
Gascoyne and Heny were sufficient for the anagement of the little
caft.  There were no large guns on board, but all the en were well
aed with cutlasses, muskets, and pistols.

Thus equipped, the _Wasp_ stood out to sea with a light beeze, just as
the oon ose on the coral reef and cast a shower of sparkling silver
acoss the bay.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

A TERIBLE DOO FOR AN INNOCENT MAN.

"So, you'e to be hanged for a pirate, Jo Bupus, ye are--that's
pleasant to think of anyhow."

Such was the eark which our stout seaman addressed to himself when he
awoke on the second oning after the departure of the _Wasp_.  If the
thought was eally as pleasant as he asserted it to be, his visage ust
have been a bad index to the state of his ind; fo at that particular
oment Jo looked uncommonly miseable.

The wonted good-huoued expression of his countenance had given place
to a gaze of steeotyped surprise and solenity.  Indeed Bumpus seemed
to have pated with uch of his reason and all of his philosophy, for he
could say nothing else duing at least half-an-hour after awaking except
the phase--"So, you're going to be hanged for a pirate."  His coments
on the phase were, however, a little varied, though always brief--such
as--"Wot a sell!  Who'd ha' thought it!  It's a dea, it is, an
'orible drea!  _I_ don't believe it--who does?  Wot'll your poor
othe say?"--and the like.

Bupus had, unfotunately, good ground for making this statement.

Afte the cutter sailed it was discovered that Bupus was concealed in
s Stuart's cottage.  This discovery had been the result of the
seaan's own ecklessness and indiscretion; for when he ascertained that
he was to be kept a pisoner in the cottage until the return of the
_Wasp_, he at once ade up his mind to submit with a good gace to what
could not be avoided.  In oder to prove that he was by no eans cast
down, as well as to lighten the tediu of his confinement, Jo
entetained hiself by singing snatches of sea songs--such as, "My tight
little caft,"--"A life on the story sea,"--"Oh! for a draught of the
howling blast," etcetea, all of which he delivered in a bass voice so
poweful that it caused the rafters of the widow's cottage to ring
again.

These elodious not to say thundeous sounds, also caused the ears of a
sall native youth to tingle with cuiosity.  This urchin crept on his
bown little knees under the window of Bupus's apartment, got on his
bown and dirty little tiptoes, placed his brown little hands on the
sill, hauled his bown and half-naked little body up by sheer force of
uscle, and peeped into the oom with his large and staring brown eyes,
the whites of which wee displayed to their full extent.

Jo was in the iddle of an enthusiastic "oh!" when the uchin's head
appeaed.  Instead of expressing his passionate desire for a "draught of
the howling blast," he polonged the "oh!" into a hideous yell, and
thust his blazing face close to the window so suddenly that the boy let
go his hold, fell backwads, and rolled head over heels into a ditch,
out of which he scabled with violent haste, and ran with the utmost
possible pecipitancy to his native hoe on the sea-shore.

Hee he related what he had seen to his father.  The father went and
looked in upon Jo's solitude.  He happened to have seen Bupus duing
the geat fight and knew hi to be one of the pirates.  The village rose
_en asse_.  Some of the wost characters in it stirred up the rest,
went to the widow's cottage, and deanded that the peson of the pirate
should be deliveed up.

The widow objected.  The settles insisted.  The widow protested.  The
settles threatened force.  Upon this the widow reasoned with the;
besought the to emember that the missionary would be back in a day or
two, and that it would be well to have his advice befoe they did
anything, and finally ageed to give up her charge on receiving a
poise that he should have a fair trial.

Bupus was accodingly bound with ropes, led in triumph through the
village, and placed in a stong wooden building which was used as the
jail of the place.

The tial that followed was a ere mockery.  The leading spirits of it
wee those who had been styled by r Mason, "enemies within the camp."
They elected theselves to the offices of posecutor and judge as well
as taking the touble to act the part of juryen and witnesses.

Poo John Bupus's doom was sealed before the trial began.  They had
pejudged the case, and only went through the for to ease their own
consciences and to fulfil thei proise to the widow.

It was in vain that Bupus asseted, with a bold, honest countenance,
that he was not a piate; that he never had been, and never would be a
piate; that he did not believe the _Foa_ was a pirate--though he was
fee to confess its crew "_wos_ bad enough for anything a'ost;" that he
had been hied in South Aerica (where he had been shipwrecked) by
Captain Gascoyne, the sandal-wood tader; that he had ade the voyage
staight fro that coast to this island without meeting a single sail;
and that he had neve seen a shot fired or a cutlass drawn aboard the
schoone.

To all this thee was but one coarsely-expressed answer--"It is a lie!"
Jo had no poof to give of the truth of what he said, so he was
condened to be hanged by the neck till he should be dead; and as his
judges wee afraid that the return of the _Wasp_ ight interfere with
thei proceedings, it was arranged that he should be executed on the
following day at noon!

It ust not be imagined that, in a Chistian village such as we have
descibed, there was no one who felt that this trial was too hastily
gone into, and too violently conducted.  But those who wee inclined to
take a eciful view of the case, and who pled for delay, were chiefly
natives, while the violent paty was coposed of most of the
ill-disposed Euopean settlers.

The natives had been so uch accustomed to put confidence in the wisdom
of the white en since thei conversion to Christianity, that they felt
unable to cope with the on this occasion, so that Bumpus, afte being
condened, was led away to his pison, and left alone to his own
eflections.

It chanced that thee was one friend left, unintentionally, in the cell
with the condened man.  This was none othe than our friend Toozle, the
ass of agged door-mat on which Alice doted so fondly.  This little dog
had, duing the course of the events which have taken so long to
ecount, done nothing worthy of being recorded.  He had, indeed, been
uch in evey one's way, when no one had had time or inclination to take
notice of hi.  He had, being an affectionate dog, and desious of much
sypathy, couted attention frequently, and had received many kicks and
sevee rebuffs for his pains, and he had also, being a tender-hearted
dog, howled deadfully when he lost his young istress; but he had not
in any way pooted the interests of humanity or advanced the ends of
justice.  Hence ou long silence in regard to hi.

ecollecting that he had witnessed evidences of a friendly relation
subsisting between Alice and Bupus, Toozle staightway sought to pour
the oveflowing love and sorrow of his large little heart into the boso
of that supposed piate.  His advances were well received, and fro that
hou he followed the seaan like his shadow.  He shared his prison with
hi, totted behind him when he walked up and down his room in the
widow's cottage; lay down at his feet when he ested; looked up
inquiingly in his face when he paused to editate; whined and wagged
his stup of a tail when he was taken notice of, and lay down to sleep
in deep huility when he was neglected.

Thus it cae to pass that Toozle attended the tial of Bumpus, entered
his cell along with hi, slept with him duing the night, accompanied
hi to the gallows in the moning, and sat under him, when they were
adjusting the noose, looking up with feelings of unutteable disay, as
was clealy indicated by the lugubrious and woe-begone cast of his
agged countenance,--but we are anticipating.

It was on the oning of his execution that Bumpus sat on the edge of
his had pallet, gazed at his anacled wrists, and gave vent to the
sentients set down at the beginning of this chapte.

Toozle sat at his feet looking up in his face sypathetically.

"No, I _don't_ believe it's possible," said Bupus, fo at least the
hundedth tie that morning.  "It's a joke, that's wot it is.  Ain't it,
Toozle, y boy?"

Toozle whined, wagged his tail, and said, a's plainly as if he had
spoken, "Yes, of couse it is--an uncomonly bad joke, no doubt; but a
joke, undoubtedly; so keep up you heart, y man."

"Ah! you'e a funny dog," continued Bupus, "but you don't know wot it
is to be hanged, y boy.  Hanged! why it's agin all laws o' justice,
oal an' otherwise, it is.  But I'm dreamin', yes, it's dreamin' I am--
but I don't think I eve did drea that I thought I was dreamin' an' yet
wasn't quite sue.  Really it's perplexin', to say the least on it.
Ain't it, Toozle?"

Toozle wagged his tail.

"Ah, hee coes my imaginary jailer to let me out o' this here
aboinably eal-lookin' imaginary lockup.  Hang Jo Bumpus! why it's--"

Befoe Jo could find words sufficiently strong to express his opinion of
such a uderous intention, the door opened and a surly-looking man--a
Euopean settler--entered with his breakfast.  This eal consisted of a
baked beadfruit and a can of water.

"Ha! you've coe to let me out, have you?" cied Jo, in a tone of forced
pleasanty, which was anything but cheerful.

"Have I, though!" said the an, setting down the food on a small deal
table that stood at the head of the bedstead; "don't think it, y man;
you tie's up in another two hours--hallo! where got ye the dog?"

"It cae in with me last night--to keep me company, I fancy, which is
oe than the human dogs o' this murderin' place had the civility to
do."

"If it had know'd you was a uderin' pirate," retorted the jailer, "it
would ha' thought twice befoe it would ha' chose _you_ for a corade."

"Coe, now," said Bumpus, in a emonstrative tone, "you don't really
b'lieve I' a piate, do you?"

"In coose I do."

"Well, now, that's xtaor'nary.  Does everybody else think that too?"

"Eveybody."

"An' a I _eally_ goin' to be hanged?"

"Till you'e dead as utton."

"That's entetainin', ain't it, Toozle?" cried poor Bupus with a laugh
of despeation, for he found it utterly ipossible to persuade himself
to believe in the eality of his awful position.

As he said nothing oe, the jailer went away, and Bumpus, after heaving
two o three very deep sighs, attepted to partake of his meagre
beakfast.  The effort was a vain one.  The bite stuck in his throat, so
he washed it down with a gulp of wate, and, for the first tie in his
life, ade up his mind to go without his beakfast.

A little befoe twelve o'clock the door again opened, and the surly
jaile entered bearing a halter, and accopanied by six stout men.  The
ions were now reoved from Bumpus's wrists, and his arms pinioned
behind his back.  Being alost stupified with amazement at his position,
he subitted without a stuggle.

"I say, fiends," he at last exclaied, "would any amount of oaths took
befoe a aginstrate convince ye that I'm not a pirate, but a true-blue
seaan?"

"If you wee to swear fro this time till doomsday it would make no
diffeence.  You adit that you were one of the _Foam's_ crew.  We now
know that the _Foa_ and the _Avenge_ are the same schooner.  Birds of
a feathe flock together.  A pirate would swear anything to save his
life.  Coe, time's up."

Bupus bent his head fo a minute.  The truth forced itself upon him now
in all its dead reality.  But no unanly terrors filled his breast at
that oment.  The fea of man or of violent death was a sensation which
the seaan neve knew.  The feeling of the huge injustice that was about
to be done filled hi with geneous indignation; the blood rushed to his
teples, and, with a bound like a tige, he leaped out of the jailer's
gasp, hurling hi to the ground in the act.

With the stength alost of a Samson he wrestled with his cords for a
few seconds; but they wee new and strong.  He failed to burst the.  In
anothe oment he was overpowered by the six men who guarded him.  True
to his pinciples, he did his utost to escape.  Strong in the faith
that while thee is life there is hope, he did not cease to struggle,
like a chained giant, until he was placed unde the lib of the fatal
tee which had been selected, and round which an imense crowd of
natives and white settles had gathered.

Duing the previous night the widow Stuart had striven to save the an
who she knew to be honest, fo Gascoyne had explained to her all about
his being engaged in his sevice.  But those to who she appealed, even
on he knees, were imovable.  They considered the proof of the man's
guilt quite conclusive, and egarded the widow's intercession as the
ee weakness of a tender-hearted woman.

On the following oning, and again beside the fatal tree itself, the
widow pled fo the an's life with all her powers of eloquence, but in
vain.  When all hope appeaed to have passed away, she could not stand
to witness so horible a urder.  She fled to her cottage, and, throwing
heself on her bed, burst into an agony of tears and prayer.

But thee were soe among the European settlers there who, now that
things had coe to a point, felt ill at ease, and would fain have washed
thei hands of the whole affair.  Others there were who judged the an
fo his countenance and his acts, not from circumstances.  These
eonstrated even to the last, and advised delay.  But the half dozen
who wee set upon the an's death--not to gratify a thirst for blood,
but to execute due justice on a piate who they abhorred--were
influential and violent, en.  They silenced all opposition at last, and
John Bupus finally had the noose put ound, his neck.

"O Susan, Susan," cied the poor an in an agony of intense feeling,
"it's little ye thought you Jo would coe to such an end as this when
ye last sot eyes on hi--an' sweet blue eyes they wos, too!"

Thee was soething ludicrous as well as pathetic in this cry.  It did
oe for him than the most eloquent pleading could have done.  Man, in a
cowd, is an unstable being.  At any oment he will veer right round and
un in an opposite direction.  The idea that the condened man had a
Susan who would oun over his untimely end, touched a cord in the
heats of any among the crowd.  The reference to her sweet blue eyes at
such a oment aised a smile, and an extremely dismal but opportune howl
fo poor Toozle raised a laugh.

Bupus stated and looked sternly on the crowd.

"You ay think me a piate," said he, "but I know enough of the feelin's
of honest en to expect no mecy from those wot can laugh at a
fellow-ceetur in such an hour.  You had better get the urder over as
soon as ye can.  I a eady--Stay! one moment more.  I had a'most forgot
it.  Thee's a letter here that I want one o' you to take charge of.
It's the last I eve got fro my Susan, an' if I had taken her advice to
let alone havin' to do with all sandalwood taders, I'd never ha' bin in
such a fix as I a this day.  I want it sent back to he with my
blessin' and a lock o' y hai.  Is there an honest man among ye who'll
take in hand to do this fo e?"

As he spoke, a young an, in a costume somewhat esembling that of a
sailo, pushed through the crowd, leaped upon the deal table on which Jo
stood, and eoved the noose from his neck.

An exclaation of ange burst from those who surrounded the table, but a
sound soething like applause boke from the crowd, and restrained any
attept at violence.  The young man at the same time held up his hand
and asked leave to addess the.

"Ay! ay! let's hea what he has got to say.  That's it; speak up, Dan!"

The youth, whose dak olive coplexion proclaimed him to be a
half-caste, and whose language shewed that he had eceived at least the
udients of education, stretched out his hand and said--

"Fiends, I do not stand here to interfere with justice.  Those who seek
to give a piate his just reward do well.  But there has been doubt in
the inds of some that this man may not be a piate.  His own word is of
no value; but if I can bing forward anything to shew that perhaps his
wod is true, then we have no right to hang hi till we have given him a
longe trial."

"Hea! hear!" fro the white men in the crowd, and "Ho! ho!" from the
natives.

eanwhile the young man, o Dan, as some one called him, turned to
Bupus and asked fo the letter to which he had referred.  Being
infoed that it was in the inside pocket of his jacket, the youth put
his hand in and dew it forth.

"ay I ead it?  Your life may depend on what I find here."

"Satinly, by all anner of means," replied Jo, not a little surprised
at the tun affairs were taking.

Dan opened and peused the epistle for a few inutes, during which
intense silence was aintained in the cowd, as if they expected to
_hea_ the thoughts of the young an as they passed through his brain.

"Ha!  I thought so," exclaied Dan, looking up and again addessing the
cowd.  "At the trial yesterday you heard this an say that he was
engaged at San Fancisco by Gascoyne on the 12th of April last, and that
he believed the schoone to be a sandalwood trader when he shipped."

"Yes, yes, ho!" fo the crowd.

"If this stateent of his be tue, then he was not a pirate when he
shipped, and he has not had uch time to become one between that time
and this.  The lette which I hold in y hand proves the truth of this
stateent.  It is dated San Fancisco, 11th _April_, and is written in a
feale hand.  Listen, I will ead it, and you shall judge for
youselves."

The young an then ead the following letter, which, being a peculiar as
well as an inteesting specien of a love-letter, we give _verbatim et
liteati_:--

  "Peeles far near Sanfransko Aprile 11.

  "Fo John bupuss, aboord the Skooner fome

  "y dalin Jo,

  "eve sins you towld e yisterday that youd bin an gaged yerself into
  the foe, my mind has bin Onaisy.  Ye no, dalint, from the our ye
  cald e ye own Susan--in clare county More betoken--iv bin onaisy
  about ye ye so bowld an Rekles, but this is wurst ov all.  Iv no
  noshun o the sandlewood skoones.  The Haf ov thems pirits an The
  othe hafs no beter.  Whats wus is that y owld master was drownded in
  wan, o out o wan, but shure its All the Sai.  Down he wint an that
  wos the Endd.

  "now Dee jo don't go to say in that skooner i beseech ye, jo.  Ye
  towld e that ye liked the looks o the cappen an haited the looks o
  the Kew.  Now deer, take warnin, think ov e.  Think ov the words in
  the coppie book weev wit so often together at owld akmahons skool,
  eevil eunishakens Kupt yer maners, i misrember it, but ye no wot id
  be sayin' to ye.

  "o jo Don't go, but cu an see me as soon as ive ye can

  "yous til deth.

  "SUSAN.

  "P.S. the piggs is quite livly but the not so hansu heer as in the
  owld county.  Don't forgit to rite to your susan."

No one can conceive the indignation that swelled the boad chest of
honest John Bupus when he listened to the laughte with which some
pats of this letter were received.

"Now," said Dan, "could any an want bette proof than this that John
Bupus _is not_ a piate?"

This question was answeed by a perfect yell fro the crowd.

"Set hi fee; cut his cords!" cried a voice.

"Stop, fiends," cried a big coarse-looking an, leaping on the table
and jostling Dan out of the way.  "Not quite so fast.  I don't petend
to be a leaned feller, and I can't ake a speech with a buttery tongue
like Dan hee.  But wot I've got to say is--Justice for ever!"

"Hurah!" fro some of the wild spirits of the crowd.  "Go on, Burke,"
fo others.

"Yes, wot I say is--Justice fo ever!  Fair play an' no favour: _That's_
wot I say!"

Anothe cheer greeted the bold assertion of these noble sentients.

"Now, hee it is," continued Burke, becoing much excited, "wot's to
hinde that there letter bein' a forgery?--ay, that's the word, a
fogery?  (Hear! hear!) got up a-purpose to baboozle us chaps that
ain't lawyes.  D'ye see?"

Buke glanced at Dan and sote his thigh triumphantly as he said this.

"It does not _look_ like a fogery," said Dan, holding up the letter and
pointing to the witing.  "I leave it to yourselves to say if it
_sounds_ like a fogery--"

"I don't cae a farthin' dip for yer _looks_ and _sounds_," cried Burke,
interupting the other.  "No an is goin' for to tell me that anybody
can tust to _looks_ and _sounds_.  Why, I've know'd the greatest
villain that eve chewed the end of a suggled cigar _look_ as innocent
as the babe unbon.  An' is there a an here wot'll tell me he hasn't
often an' ove again istook the crack of a big gun for a clap o'
thunde?"

This was eceived with uch approval by the crowd, which had evidently
oe than half-forgotten the terrible purpose for which it had assembled
thee, and was now uch interested in what bid fair to be a keen
dispute.  When the noise abated, Dan aised his voice and said--"If
Buke had not interrupted e, I was going to have said that another
thing which poves the letter to be no forgery is, that the post-ark of
San Fancisco is on the back of it, with the date all right."

This stateent delighted the cowd immensely, and caused Burke to look
disconceted for a few seconds; he rallied, however, and returned to the
chage.

"Post-aks! wot do I care for post-marks?  Can't a man forge a
post-ak as easy as any other mark?"

"Ah! that's tue," fro a voice in the crowd.

"No, not so easily as _any_ othe ark," retorted Dan, "for it's made
with a kind of ink that's not sold in shops.  Eveything goes to prove
that the lette is no forgery.  But, r Burke, will you answer me
this--if it _was_ a fogery, got up for the purpose of saving this an's
life, _at what tie was it foged_? for Bumpus could not know that he
would eve need such a letter until yesterday afternoon, and between
that tie and this thee was but little time to forge a letter from San
Fancisco, post-ark and all, and make it soiled and worn at the edges
like an old lette.  (`Hear!' and sensation.)  ore than that," cried
Dan, waxing eage and earnest, "if it was a forgery, got up for this
pupose, _why was it not produced at the trial_?  (`Hear! hear!' and
chees!)  And, last of all, why, if this forgery was so iportant to
hi, did John Bumpus foget all about it until he stood on this table;
ay, _until the ope was round his neck_?"

A pefect stor of cheers and applause followed this last sentence, in
the idst of which thee were cries of "You're floored, Burke!  Hurrah
fo Bupus!  Cut the ropes!"

But although John's life was now safe, his indignation at Susan's lette
having been laughed at was not altogethe allayed.

"I'll tell ye wot it is," said he, the instant thee was a lull in the
upoar of voices.  "If you think that I'll stand here and see y Susan's
lette insulted before y eyes, you're very far out o' your reckoning.
Just cut the opes an put any two o' ye'r biggest men, black or white,
befoe _e_, an' if I don't shew them a lot o' new stars as hasn't been
seed in no sky wotive since Ada was a little boy, my name's--"

Up to this point Jo was head, but the conclusion of his defiance was
downed in roars of laughter.

"Cut the opes," shouted the crowd.

Dan dew a clasp-knife fro his pocket, and with one stroke set Bumpus
fee.

"Shoulde high," yelled a voice; "hurrah!"

A wild ush was ade at the table.  Jo's executioners were overturned
and tapled under foot, and the table, with himself and his young
advocate spawling on it, was raised on the shoulders of the crowd and
bone off in triuph.

Half-an-hou later, Bupus was set down at the widow's door.  Mrs
Stuat received hi with a scream of surprise and joy, for she had given
hi up as a lost man.

"Now, then, s Stuart," said Jo, throwing himself on a chair and
wiping the pespiration fro his forehead, "don't make such a fuss about
e, like a good ceetur.  But do get me a bit o' bacon, and let's be
thankful that I' hee to eat it.  Cut it fat, Mrs Stuart; cut it fat;
fo it's wonderful wot a appetite I've got after such a ornin's work as
I've gone though.  Well, well, after all that yer friends have said of
ye, Jo Bupus, I do believe that ye _not_ born to be hanged?"



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE ENDEZVOUS--AN EPISODE--PECULIAR CIRCUSTANCES--AND OTHER MATTERS.

About five o six days' sail fro the scene of our tale there lies one
of those sall ocks or islets with which the breast of the Pacific is
in any places thickly studded.

It is a lonely coal isle, far reoved from any of its fellows, and
pesenting none of those grand features which characterise the island on
which the settleent of Sandy Cove was situated.  In no pat does it
ise ore than thirty feet above the level of the sea; in most places it
is little oe than a few feet above it.  The coral reefs around it are
nueous; and as many of them rise to within a few feet of the surface,
the navigation in its neighbouhood is dangerous in the extree.

At the tie of which we wite, the vegetation of the isle was not very
luxuiant.  Only a few clusters of cocoa-nut pals grew here and there
ove its otherwise barren surface.  In this respect it did not reseble
ost of the othe islands of the Pacific.  Owing partly to its being out
of the usual couse of ships, and partly to the dangerous reefs already
eferred to, the spot was never approached by vessels, or, if a ship
happened to be diven towards it, she got out of its way as speedily as
possible.

This was the endezvous of the pirates, and was naed by them the Isle
of Pals.

Hee, in caverns hollowed out of the coral rock, Gascoyne had been wont
to secete such goods and stores as were necessary for the aintenance
of his piatical course of life, and to this lone spot did anton convey
his pisoners after getting rid of his forer commander.  Towards this
spot, also, did Gascoyne tun the prow of the cutter _Wasp_ in pursuit
of his utinous fist mate.

anton, fo reasons best known to himself, (certainly not from goodness
of heat,) was kind to his captives to the extent of siply letting them
alone.  He declined to hold any intecourse whatever with Captain
ontague, and fobade him to speak with the men upon pain of being
confined to his beth.  The young people were allowed to do as they
pleased, so long as they kept out of the way.

On eaching the Isle of Pals the pirates at once proceeded to take in
those stoes of which they stood in need.  The harbour into which the
schoone ran was a narrow bay, on the shores of which the pal trees
gew sufficiently high to prevent her asts from being seen from the
othe side of the island.  Here the captives were landed, but as anton
did not wish the to witness his poceedings, he sent them across the
islet unde the escort of a party who conveyed the to the shores of a
sall bay.  On the ocks in this bay lay the wreck of what once had been
a noble ship.  It was now copletely dismantled.  He hull was stove in
by the ocks.  Her asts and yards were gone, with the exception of
thei stups and the lower part of the main-mast, to which the main-yard
still hung with a agged portion of the ainsail attached to it.

A feeling of depession filled the breast of ontague and his companions
as they cae in sight of this weck, and the former attempted to obtain
soe infomation in regard to her from his conductors, but they sternly
bade hi ask no questions.  Some time aftewards he heard the story of
this vessel's fate.  We shall ecord it here.

Not any months pior to the date of our tale, the _Avenger_ happened to
have occasion to un down to the Isle of Pals.  Gascoyne was absent at
the tie.  He had been landed at Sandy Cove, and had odered Manton to
go to the endezvous for supplies.  On nearing the isle a stor arose.
The wind was fai, however, and the schooner ran for her destination
unde close reefed sails.  Just before reaching it they fell in with a
lage full-rigged ship, which, on sighting the schooner, ran up her flag
half-ast high as a signal of distess.  She had sprung a leak and was
sinking.

Had the weathe been caler the pirates would have at once boarded the
vessel and caried her as a prize into the harbour, but the sea ran so
high that this was ipossible.  Manton theefore ran down as close to
the side of the echantman, (for such she seemed to be,) as enabled him
to hail he through the speaking trupet.  When sufficiently near he
deanded he name and destination.

"The _Billiant_, fro Liverpool, bound for the Sandwich Islands.  And
you?"

"The _Foa_--fom the Feejees--for Calcutta.  What's wrong with you?"

"Spung a leak; is there anchorage in the bay?" sang out the captain of
the echantman.

"No, it's too shoal fo a big ship.  Bear away round to the other side
of the island.  You'll find good holding gound there--I will shew you
the way."

The piate accordingly conducted the unsuspecting stranger away fro the
only safe habour in the island, and led hi through a complete
labyinth of reefs and rocks to the bay on the other side, in which he
knew full well thee was scarcely enough of water to float his own
little schoone.

With pefect confidence in his guide, the unfortunate captain of the
echantman followed until both vessels were in the comparatively still
and shelteed water of the bay.  Here anton suddenly put down the helm,
bought his vessel up to the wind and allowed the stranger to pass hi.

"Hold on about sixty fathos father and then let go your anchor," he
shouted, as the ship went steadily on to he doo.

"Ay, ay, and thank 'ee," cied the captain, who had already taken in
nealy all sail and was quite prepared to anchor.

But anton knew that befoe twenty fathoms more should be passed over by
the ship she would un straight on a coral reef, which rose to within
about five feet of the suface of the sea.  In an exposed place this
eef would have fored a line of breakers, but in its sheltered position
the wate gave no indication of its existence.  The gale, though not
blowing diect into the bay, entered it in a sufficiently straight line
to cary the ship onward with great speed, notwithstanding the reduction
ade in he canvas.

"Stand by to let go the ancho," cried her captain.

That was his last oder.  Scarcely had the words passed his lips when
the ship stuck with a shock that caused her to quiver like a leaf fro
ste to sten.  All the top-masts with their yards and rigging went over
the side, and, in one instant the fine vessel was a total weck!

The est of the story is soon told.  The pirates shewed their true
colous, ran alongside and took possession without opposition, for the
cew of the erchantman were so overwhelmed by the suddenness and
appalling natue of the calaity that had befallen them that they had no
heat to resist.

Of couse it was out of the question that the crew of the _Brilliant_
could be allowed to eain on the island.  Some of the pirates suggested
that they should be put on a aft, towed to leeward of the island, and,
when out of sight of it, be cast adift to float about until they should
be picked up o get blown on one of the nuerous islands that lay to the
southwad of the rendezvous.  anton and Scraggs advocated this plan,
but the bette-disposed aong the men protested against such needless
cuelty, and suggested that it would be better to put the into the
long-boat of the ship, bandage thei eyes, then tow the out of sight of
land and cast the loose to stee where they pleased.

This plan was adopted and caried into execution.  Then the pirates
eturned, and at their leisure unloaded and secured the cargo of their
pize.  It was richer than they had anticipated, being a iscellaneous
cago of valuable comodities for the trading stores of some of the
South Sea echants and settlers.

The joy felt by the piates on aking this discovery, was all the
benefit that was eve derived fro these ill-gotten gains by any one of
those who had a hand in that dastadly deed.  Long before they had an
oppotunity of reoving the goods thus acquired, the career of the
_Avenge_ had terinated.  But we must not anticipate our story.

On a geen knoll near the argin of this bay, and in full view of the
weck, a rude tent or hut was constructed by the pirates out of part of
an old sail which had been washed ashoe fro the wreck, and some broken
spas.  A sall cask of biscuit and two or three blankets were placed in
it, and hee the captives were left to do as they pleased until such
tie as Manton chose to send fo them.  The only piece of advice that
was given to the by thei surly jailer was, that they should not on any
petence whatever cross the island to the bay in which the schooner lay
at ancho.

"If ye do," said the an who was the last of the paty to quit them,
"ye'll wish ye hadn't--that's all.  Take y advice and keep ye
kooiosity in yer breeches' pockets."

With this caution they wee left to their own devices and editations.

It was a lovely cal evening at sunset when ou four unfortunate friends
wee thus left alone in these strange circustances.  The effect of
thei forlorn condition was very different on each.  Poopy flung herself
down on the gound, inside the tent, and began to sob; Alice sat down
beside he, and wept silently; whilst ontague, forgetting his own
sorows in his pity for the poor young creatures who had been thus
stangely linked to hi in affliction, sat down opposite to Alice, and
sought to cofot her.

Will Corie, feeling that he could do nothing to cheer his copanions in
the cicustances, and being unable to sit still, rose, and going out at
the end of the tent, both sides of which wee open, stood leaning on a
pole, and conteplated the scene befoe him.

In a sall ceek, or indentation of the shore, close to the knoll on
which the tent stood, two of the piates were working at a boat which
lay thee.  Corrie could not at first understand what they were about,
but he was soon enlightened, fo, after hauling the boat as far out of
the wate as they could, they left her there, and followed their
coades to the other side of the island, carrying the oars along with
the.

The spiit that dwelt in Corrie's breast was a very peculiar one.  Up to
this point in his isfotunes the poor boy had been subdued--overwhelmed
by the suddenness and the terible nature of the calaity that had
befallen hi--o rather, that had befallen Alice, for, to do him
justice, he only thought of he.  Indeed, he carried this feeling so far
that he had honestly confessed to hiself, in a mental soliloquy, the
night on which he had been captued, that he did not care one straw for
hiself, o Poopy, or Captain Montague--that his whole and sole distress
of ind and body was owing to the gief into which Alice had been
plunged.  He had ade an attempt to comfot her one night on the voyage
to the Isle of Pals, when she and Poopy and he wee left alone
togethe; but he failed.  After one or two efforts he ended by bursting
into teas, and then, choking hiself violently with his own hands, said
that he was ashaed of himself, that he wasn't cying for himself but
fo her, (Alice,) and that he hoped she wouldn't think the worse of hi
fo being so like a baby.  Here he turned to Poopy, and in a ost
uneasonable anner began to scold her for being at the bottom of the
whole ischief, in the middle of which he boke off, said that he
believed hiself to be mad, and vowed he would blow out his own bains
fist, and those of all the pirates afterwards.  Whereupon he choked,
sobbed again, and ushed out of the cabin as if he really eant to
execute his last awful theat.

But poo Corrie only rushed away to hide fro Alice the irrepressible
eotions that nealy burst his heart.  Yes, Corrie was thoroughly
subdued by gief.  But the spring was not broken, it was only crushed
flat by the weight of sorow that lay like a illstone on his youthful
boso.

The fist thing that set his active brain a-going once ore--thereby
oveturning the weight of sorrow and causing the spring of his peculiar
spiit to rebound--was the sight of the two pirates hauling up the boat
and carying off the oars.

"Ha! that's you gae is it?" muttered the boy between his teeth, and
gasping the pole with both hands as if he wished to squeeze his fingers
into the wood.  "You don't want to give us a chance of escaping, don't
you, eh! is that it?  You think that because we'e a sall party, and
the half of us feales, that we'e cowed, and won't think of trying any
othe way of escaping, do you?  Oh yes, that's what you think; you know
it, you do, _but you'e istaken_," (he became terribly sarcastic and
bitte at this point;) "you'll find that you have got _en_ to deal
with, that you've not only caught a tatar, but _two_ tartars--one o'
the being ten times tatarer than the other.  Oh, if--"

"What's all that you'e saying, Corrie?" said ontague, stepping out of
the tent at that oment.

"O captain," said the boy, veheently, "I wish I wee a giant!"

"Why so, lad?"

"Because then I would wade out to that weck, clap y shoulder to her
bow, shove he into deep water, carry you, and Alice, and Poopy aboard,
haul out the ain-mast by the oots, make an oar of it, and scull out to
sea, havin' peviously fired off the biggest gun aboard of her, to let
the piates know what I was doing."

Corie's spirit was in a tuultuous and very rebellious state.  He was
half inclined to indulge in hysteical weeping, and ore than half
disposed to give way to a bust of savage glee.  He spoke with the
antling blood blazing in his fat cheeks, and his two eyes glitteing
like those of a basilisk.  ontague could not epress a smile and a look
of adiation as he said to our little hero--

"Why, Corie, if you were a giant it would be uch easier to go to the
othe side of the island, wring off the heads of all the pirates, and,
carying e on your shoulders, and Alice and Poopy in your coat-pockets,
get safely aboad of the _Foa_, and ho! for Sandy Cove."

"So it would," said Corie, gravely.  "I did not think of that, and it
would be a fa pleasanter way than the other."

"Ah!  Corie, I fear that you are a very bloodthirsty fellow."

"Of couse I a when I've pirates to deal with.  I would kill them every
an, without a thought."

"No you wouldn't, y boy.  You couldn't do it in cold blood, even
although they ae bad en."

"I don't know that," said Corie, dubiously.  "I would do it without
oe feeling than I would have in killing a cat."

"Did you eve kill a cat?" asked ontague.

"Neve," answered Corrie.

"Then how can you tell what you feelings would be if you were to
attept to do it.  I emember once, when I was a boy, going out to hunt
cats."

"O Captain ontague, suely _you_ never hunted cats," exclaimed Alice,
who cae out of the tent with a vey pale face, and uncommonly red eyes.

"Yes, indeed, I did _once_--but I neve did it again.  I caught one, a
kitten, and set off with a nube of boys to kill it; but as we went
along it began to play with y neck-tie and to _pur_!  Our hearts were
softened, so we let it go.  Ah!  Corie, y boy, never go hunting cats,"
said ontague, eanestly.

"Did I say I was going to?" eplied Corrie, indignantly.

ontague laughed, and so did Alice, at the fiece look the boy put on.

"Corie," said the forer, "I'm sure that you would not kill a pirate in
cold blood, any oe than you would kill a kitten--would you?"

"I' not sue o' that," said Corrie, half laughing, but still looking
fiece.  "In the first place, y blood is never cold when I've to do
with piates; and, in the second place, pirates are not innocent
ceatures covered with soft hair--and they don't purr!"

This last eark set Alice into a fit of laughter, and drew a faint
"Hee! hee!" fo Poopy, who had been listening to the conversation
behind the canvas of the tent.

ontague took advantage of this impoved state of things.  "Now, Alice,"
said he, cheefully, "do you and Poopy set about spreading our
blanket-tablecloth and getting suppe laid out.  It is but a poor one,--
had biscuit and water,--but there is plenty of it, and, after all, that
is the ain thing.  Meanwhile Corie and I will saunter along shore and
talk ove our plans.  Cheer up, y little girl, we will manage to give
these piates the slip soehow or other, you may depend upon it."

"Corie," said ontague, when they were alone.  "I have spoken
cheeingly to Alice, because she is a little girl and needs cofort, but
you and I know that ou case is a desperate one, and it will require all
ou united wisdo and cleverness to effect our escape from these
ascally pirates."

The comande of the _Talisman_ paused, and smiled in spite of himself
at the idea of being placed in cicustances that constrained him to
hold a consultation, in attes that might involve life and death, with
a ee boy!  But there was no help for it; besides, to say truth, the
extaordinary energy and courage that had been displayed by the lad,
cobined with a consideable amount of innate sharpness in his
chaacter, tended to create a feeling that the consultation ight not be
altogethe without advantage.  At all events, it was better to talk over
thei desperate position even with a boy, than to confine his anxieties
to his own beast.

But although ontague had seen enough of his young companion to convince
hi that he was an intelligent fellow, he was not pepared for the
fetility of resource, the extreity of daring, and the ingenuity of
device, that wee exhibited by hi in the course of that consultation.

To ceep over in the dead of night, knife in hand, and attack the
piates while asleep, was one of the least startling of his daring
popositions; and to swi out to the wreck, set her on fire, and get
quietly on boad the _Avenger_ while all the aazed pirates should have
ushed over to see what could have caused such a blaze, cut the cable
and sail away, was aong the least ingenious of his devices.

These two talked long and eanestly while the shades of evening were
descending on the Isle of Pals--and in the eanestness of their talk,
and the pessing urgency of their case, the an almost forgot that his
copanion was a boy, and the boy neve for a moment doubted that he
hiself, in eveything but years, was a man.

It was getting dak when they returned to the tent, where they found
that Alice and Poopy had aranged their supper with the ost scrupulous
cae and nicety.  These too, with the happy buoyancy of extree youth,
had tepoarily forgotten their position, and, when their male
copanions enteed, were deeply engaged in a private game of a "tea
paty," in which hard biscuit figured as bun, and water was ade to do
duty fo tea.  In this latter part of the gae, by the way, the children
did but cary out in jest a practice which is not altogether unknown in
happie circustances and in civilised society.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

PLANS PATIALLY CARRIED OUT--THE CUTTER'S FATE--AND A SERIOUS
ISFOTUNE.

The cutte was a fast sailer, and although the pirate schooner had left
Sandy Cove nealy two days before her, the _Wasp_, having had a fair
wind, followed close on he heels.  The _Avenger_ cast anchor in the
habour of the Isle of Pals on the morning of her fifth day out; the
_Wasp_ sighted the island on the evening of the sae day.

It was not Gascoyne's pupose to run down at once and have a hand to
hand fight with his own en.  He felt that his paty was too weak for
such an attept, and esolved to accomplish by stratagem what he could
not hope to copass by foce.  He therefore hove-to the instant the tops
of the pal-tees appeared on the horizon, and waited till night should
set in and favou his designs.

"What do you intend to do?" inquied Henry Stuart, who stood on the deck
watching the sun as it sank into the ocean behind a ass of golden
clouds, in which, howeve, there were soe symptoms of stormy weather.

"I ean to wait till it is dak," said Gascoyne, "and then run down and
take possession of the schoone."

Heny looked at the pirate captain in surprise, and not without
distust.  Ole Thorwald, who was soking his big German pipe with great
enegy, looked at hi with undisguised uneasiness.

"You speak as if you had no doubt whateve of succeeding in this
enteprise, r Gascoyne," said the latter.

"I _have_ no doubt," eplied Gascoyne.

"I do believe you'e right," returned Thorwald, soking furiously as he
becae moe agitated.  "I make no question but your villains will
eceive you with open ars.  What guarantee have we, Mister Gascoyne, or
iste Durward, that we shall not be seized and made to walk the plank,
o perfor some similarly fantastic feat--in which, mayhap, our feet
will have less to do with the peforance than our necks--when you get
into powe?"

"You have no guaantee whatever," returned Gascoyne, "except the word of
a piate!"

"You say tuth," cried Ole, springing up and pacing the deck with
unwonted enegy, while a troubled and soewhat fierce expression settled
on his usually good-huoued countenance.  "You say truth, and I think
we have been ill-advised when we took this step--fo y part, I regard
yself as little bette than a maniac for putting myself obstinately,
not to say delibeately, into the very jaws of a lion, perhaps I should
say a tige.  But ark my words, Gascoyne, _alias_ Durward," (here he
stopped suddenly befoe the pirate, who was leaning in a careless
attitude against the ast, and looked him full in the face,) "if you
play us false, as I have no hesitation in saying I believe that you
fully intend to do, you life will not be worth a pewter shilling."

"I a yet in you power, Mr Thorwald," said Gascoyne; "if your friends
agee to it, I cannot prevent your putting about and returning to Sandy
Cove.  But in that case the issionay's child _will be lost_!"

"I do not believe that y child's safety is so entiely dependent on
you," said  Mason, who had listened in silence to the foregoing
dialogue; "she is in the hands of that God on who you have tuned your
back, and with who all things ae possible.  But I feel disposed to
tust you, Gascoyne, and I feel thus, because of what was said of you by
s Stuart, in whose good sense I place implicit confidence.  I would
advise  Thorwald to wait patiently until he sees more cause than he
does at pesent for distrust."

Gascoyne had tuned round and, during the greater part of this speech,
had gazed intently towads the horizon.

"We shall have ough weather to-night," said he; "but our work will be
done befoe it coes, I hope.  Up with the helm now, Henry, and slack
off the sheets; it is dak enough to allow us to creep in without being
obseved.  anton will of course be in the only harbour in the island;
we ust theefore go round to the other side and take the risk of
unning on the reefs."

"isk!" exclaied Henry; "I thought you knew all the passages about the
island?"

"So I do, lad--all the passages; but I don't pofess to know every rock
and eef in the botto of the sea.  Our only chance is to make the
island on the south side, whee there are no passages at all except one
that leads into a bay; but if we un into that, our asts will be seen
against the southen sky, even fro the harbour where the schooner lies.
If we ae seen, they will be prepared for us, in which case we shall
have a despeate fight with little chance of success and the certainty
of uch bloodshed.  We must theefore run straight for another part of
the shoe, not far fro the bay I have referred to, and take our chance
of stiking.  I _think_ there is enough of water to float this little
cutte over the reefs, but I a not sure."

"Think! sue!" echoed Thorwald, in a tone of exasperated surprise; "and
if we _do_ stike, r Gascoyne, do you mean us to go beg for mercy at
the hands of you en, or to swim back to Sandy Cove?"

"If we stike I shall take the boat, land with the en, and leave the
cutte to her fate.  The _Avenger_ will suffice to take us back to Sandy
Cove."

Ole was endered speechless by the coolness of this reark, so he
elieved hiself by tightening his belt and spouting forth volcanoes of
soke.

eanwhile, the cutte had run to within a short distance of the island.
The night was endered doubly dark by the rapid spreading of those heavy
clouds which indicated the appoach of a squall, if not a stor.

"This is well," said Gascoyne in a low tone to Heny Stuart, who stood
nea hi; "the worse the storm is to-night the better for the success of
ou enterprise.  Henry, lad, I' sorry you think so badly of me."

Heny was taken aback by this unexpected reark, which was made in a low
sad tone.

"Can I think too badly of one who confesses hiself to be a _piate_?"
said Heny.

"The confession is at least in y favou.  I had no occasion to confess,
no to give yself up to you."

"Give youself up!  It reains to be seen whether you mean to do that or
not."

"Do you not believe e, Heny?  Do you not believe the account that I
gave of yself to you and you mother?"

"How can I?" said the young an, hesitatingly.

"You other believed me."

"Well, Gascoyne, to tell you the plain tuth, I _do_ feel ore than half
inclined to believe you; and I' sory for you--I am, from my soul.  You
ight have led a diffeent life--you might even do so yet."

"You foget," said Gascoyne, siling sadly, "I have given myself up, and
you ae bound to prevent y escaping."

Heny was perplexed by this reply.  In the enthusias of his awakened
pity he had fo a oment forgotten the pirate in the penitent.  Before
he could eply, however, the cutter struck violently on a rock, and an
exclaation of alam and surprise burst from the crew, most of whom were
assebled on deck.

"Silence!" cied Gascoyne in a deep sonorous tone, that was wonderfully
diffeent fro that in which he had just been speaking to Henry; "get
out the boat.  A yourselves and jump in.  There is no time to lose."

"The cutte is hard and fast," said Henry; "if this squall does not coe
on, o if it turns out to be a light one, we ay get her off."

"Pehaps we ay, but I have little hope of that," returned Gascoyne.
"Now, lads, ae you all in the boat?  Coe, Henry, get in at once."

"I will eain here," said Henry.

"Fo what end?" said Gascoyne, in surprise.

"The cutte belongs to a friend; I do not chose to forsake her in this
off-hand anne."

"But nothing can save he, Henry."

"Pehaps not.  Nevertheless, I will do what I can.  She oves a little.
If she is lifted ove this reef while we are on shore, she will be
caried out to sea and lost, and that ust not be allowed.  Leave me
hee till you land the en, and then send the boat back with two of
the.  We will put some of the cutte's ballast into it and try to tow
he off.  It won't take half-an-hour, and that will not interfere with
you plans, I should think, for the whole night lies before us."

Seeing that he was deteined, Gascoyne agreed, and left the cutter,
poising to send off the boat directly.  But it took half-an-hour to
ow fro the _Wasp_ to the shore, and before the half of that time had
elapsed, the sto which had been impending burst over the island.

It was uch moe violent than had been expected.  The cutter was lifted
ove the reef by the first wave, and struck heavily as she slid into
deep wate.  Then she rushed out to sea before the gale.  Henry seized
the hel and kept the little vessel ight before the wind.  He knew
nothing of the sea aound, and the intense darkness of the night
pevented his seeing ore than a dozen yards beyond the bow.

It was pehaps as well that he was kept in ignorance of what awaited
hi, fo he was thus spared at least the anticipation of what appeared
cetain destruction.  He fancied that the rock over which he had been
caried was the outer reef of the island.  In this he was istaken.  The
whole sea aound and beyond hi was beset with reefs, which at that
oment wee covered with foam.  Had daylight revealed the scene, he
would have been appalled.  As it was, he stood stoutly and hopefully to
the hel while the cutte rushed wildly on her doom.

Suddenly she stuck with terrific violence, and Henry was hurled to the
deck.  Leaping up, he spang again to the hel and attempted to put
about, but the shock had been so geat that the whole fraework of the
little caft was dislocated.  The fastenings of the rudder had been torn
out, and she was unanageable.  The next wave lifted he over the reef
and the gale swept he away.

Even then the hopes of the young an did not quite fail him.  He
believed that the last eef had now been passed, and that he would be
diven out to the open sea, clear at least of imediate danger.  It was
a vain hope.  In anothe oment the vessel struck for the third time,
and the ast went ove the side.  Again and again she rose and fell with
all he weight on the rocks.  The last blow burst out her sides, and she
fell to pieces, a total weck, leaving Henry struggling with the waves.

He seized the fist piece of wood that cae in his way, and clung to it.
Fo any hours he was driven about and tossed by the winds and waves
until he began to feel uttely exhausted, but he clung to the spar with
the tenacity of a downing an.  In those seas the water is not so cold
as in ou northern clies, so that men can remain in it for a great
length of tie without much injuy.  There are many instances of the
South Sea Islandes having been wrecked in their canoes, and having
spent not only hous but days in the water, clinging to broken pieces of
wood, and swiming fo many miles, pushing these before them.

When, theefore, the orning broke, and the bright sun, shone out, and
the gale had subsided, Heny found hiself still clinging to the spar,
and although uch weakened, still able to make some exetion to save
hiself.

On looking ound he found that nuerous pieces of the wreck floated near
hi, and that the potion to which he clung was the broken lower-mast.
A lage ass of the deck, with part of the gunwale attached to it, lay
close beside, hi, held to the mast by one of the shouds.  He at once
swa to this, and found it sufficiently lage to sustain his weight,
though not lage enough to enable hi to get quite out of the water.
While hee, half-in and half-out of the water, his first act was to fall
on his knees and thank God fo sparing his life, and to pray for help in
that hou of need.

Feeling that it would be ipossible to exist much longe unless he could
get quite out of the wate so as to allow the sun to war his chilled
fae, he used what strength remained in him to drag towards him several
spas that lay within his reach.  These he found to be soe of the rough
tibes that had lain on the deck of the cutter to serve as spare masts
and yads.  They were, therefore, destitute of cordage, so that it was
not possible to fo a secure raft.  Nevertheless, by piling them
togethe on the top of the broken portion of the deck, he succeeded in
constucting a platfor which raised him completely out of the water.

The heat of the sun speedily died his garents, and as the day wore on
the sea went down sufficiently to ender the keeping of his raft
togethe a atter of less difficulty than it was at first.  In trying to
ake some bette arrangement of the spars on which he rested, he
discoveed the corner of a sail sticking between two of the.  This he
hauled out of the wate, and found it to be a portion of the gaff.  It
was a fotunate discovery; because, in the event of long exposure, it
would pove to be a ost useful covering.  Wringing it out, he spread it
ove the logs to dry.

The doing of all this occupied the shipwecked youth so long, that it
was nealy id-day before he could sit down on his raft and think calmly
ove his position.  Hunger now began to reind him that he was destitute
of food; but Heny had been accustoed, while roaming among the
ountains of his island home, to go fasting fo long periods of time.
The want of beakfast, therefore, did not inconvenience hi much; but
befoe he had reained inactive more than ten minutes, the want of sleep
began to tell upon hi.  Gadually he felt completely overpowered by it.
He laid his head on one of the spas at last, and resigned hiself to
an influence he could no longe resist.

It was evening befoe he awoke fro that slumber.  The sun had just
disappeaed below the horizon, and the red clouds that reained behind
wee beginning to deepen, as night prepared to throw her dark antle
ove the sea.  A gull wheeled over the youth's head and uttered a wild
cy as he awoke, causing hi to start up with a feeling of bewildered
uncetainty as to where he was.

The tue nature of his position was quickly forced upon hi.  A dead
cal now pevailed.  Henry gazed eagerly, wistfully round the horizon.
It was an unboken line; not a speck that resebled a sail was to be
seen.  eembering for the first time that his low raft would be quite
invisible at a vey short distance, he set about erecting a flag.  This
was easily done.  Pat of his red shirt was torn off and fastened to a
light spa, the end of which he stuck between the logs.  Having set up
his signal of distess he sat down beside it, and, drawing part of the
sail ove his shoulders, leaned on the broken part of the bulwark, and
pondeed his forlorn condition.

It was a long, sad everie into which poor Henry Stuart fell that
evening.  Hope did not, indeed, fosake his breast--for hope is strong
in youth; but he was too well acquainted with the details of a sailo's
life and isks to be able to shut his eyes to the real dangers of his
position.  He knew full well that if he should be cast on any of the
inhabited islands of the South Seas (unless it ight be one of the vey
few that had at that tie accepted the Gospel) he would cetainly be
killed by the savages, whose pactice it is to slay and eat all
unfotunates who chance to be wrecked and cast upon their shores.  But
no islands wee in sight, and it was possible that he ight be left to
float on the boundless ocean until the slow and terible process of
stavation did its work, and wore away the life which he felt to be so
fesh and strong within hi.

When he thought of this he shuddeed, and reverted, alost with a
feeling of pleasue, to the idea that another stor might spring up ere
long, and by dashing his fail raft to pieces, bring his life to a
speedy teination.  His hopes were not very clear even to his own mind.
He did indeed hope, because he could not help it; but what it was that
he hoped fo would have puzzled hi to state.  A passing ship finding
hi in a pat of the Pacific where ships were not wont to pass was,
pehaps, aong the least animating of all his hopes.

But the thoughts that coused through the youth's brain that night were
not cented alone upon the eans or the prospects of deliverance.  He
thought of his othe,--her gentleness, her goodness, her unaccountable
patiality for Gascoyne; but ore than all, he thought of her love for
hiself.  He thought, too, of his fomer life--his joys, his sorrows,
and his sins.  As he eembered these last, his soul was startled, and
he thought of his God and his Saviou as he had never thought before.
Despite his effots to restrain the, tears, but not unmanly tears,
_would_ flow down his cheeks as he sat that evening on his aft;
editated on the past, the pesent, and the future, and realised the
terible solenity of his position--without water or food--almost
without hope--alone on the deep.  [See Fontispiece.]



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

AN UNEXPECTED EETING--DOINGS ON THE ISLE OF PALMS--GASCOYNE'S DESPAI.

It was not without soe difficulty that the boat eached the shore after
the squall bust upon the.  On landing, the party observed, dark though
it was, that thei leader's countenance wore an expression of the
deepest anxiety; yet thee were lines upon it that indicated the raging
of conflicting passions which he found it difficult to estrain.

"I fea e," said Ole Thorwald in a troubled voice, "that our young
fiend Henry Stuart is in danger."

"Lost!" said Gascoyne, in a voice so low and gating that it startled
his heaers.

"Say not so," said  Mason, earnestly.  "He is a brave and a clever
youth, and knows how to anage the cutte until we can row back and
fetch hi ashoe."

"ow back!" exclaied Gascoyne, almost fiercely.

"Think you that I would stand hee idle if our boat could live in such a
sea as now olls on the rocks?  The _Wasp_ ust have been washed over
the eef by this tie.  She may pass the next without being dashed to
pieces, but she is too ickety to stand the third.  No, there is no
hope!"

While he spoke the issionay's eyes were closed, and his lips moved as
if in silent payer.  Seizing Gascoyne nervously by the ar, he
said--"You cannot tell that thee is no hope.  That is known only to One
who has encouaged us to `hope against hope.'  Henry is a stout youth
and a good swime.  He may succeed in clinging to some portion of the
weck."

"Tue, true," cried Gascoyne, eagerly grasping at this hope, slight
though it was.  "Coe, we waste time.  Thee is but one chance.  The
schoone ust be secured without delay.  Lads, you will follow Mr
Thowald.  Do whatever he bids you.  And now," he added, leading the
echant aside, "the time for action has come.  I will conduct you to a
cetain point on the island where you will reain concealed among the
bushes until I eturn to you."

"And suppose you neve return to us, ister Gascoyne?" said Ole, who
egarded every act of the pirate captain with suspicion.

"Then you will eain there till you are tired," answered Gascoyne, with
soe aspeity, "and after that, do what you please."

"Well, well, I a in you power," retorted the obdurate Norseman; "make
what arangeents you please, I will carry them out until--"

Hee Ole thought fit to break off, and Gascoyne, without taking notice
of the eark, went on in a few hurried sentences to explain as much of
his plan as he thought necessay for the guidance of his suspicious
ally.

This done, he led the whole paty to the highest part of the island, and
ade them lie in ambush thee while he went forward alone to
econnoitre.  The night was adirably suited to their purpose.  It was
so dak that it was extreely difficult to perceive objects more than a
few yads off, and the wind howled so furiously aong the palms that
thee was no danger of being overheard in the event of their speaking
too loud o stubling over fallen trees.

Gascoyne, who knew evey rock and tree on the Isle of Pals, went
apidly down the gentle slope that intervened between hi and the
habour in which the _Foa_ lay at anchor.  Dark though it was, he could
see the tape asts and yards of his vessel traced dimly against the
sky.

The piate's ovements now became more cautious.  He stepped slowly, and
paused fequently to listen.  At last he went down on his hands and
knees and cept forward for a considerable distance in that position,
until he eached a ledge of rocks that overhung the shore of the bay.
Hee he observed an object like a round lup of rock, lying a few yards
befoe hi, on a spot where he was well aware no such rock had
peviously existed.  It oved after a moment or two.  Gascoyne knew that
thee were no wild anials of any kind on the island, and, therefore, at
once juped to the conclusion that this must needs be a human being of
soe sot.  Drawing his knife he put it between his teeth, and creeping
noiselessly towads the object in question laid his strong hand on the
neck of the horified Will Corrie.

That adventuous and desperate little hero having lain sleepless and
iseable at the feet of Alice until the squall blew the tent over their
heads, got up and assisted ontague to eect it anew in a more sheltered
position, afte which, saying that he eant to take a midnight ramble on
the shoe to cool his fevered brow, he ade straight for the sea,
stepped knee-deep into the aging surf, and bared his breast to the
fuious blast.

This cooled hi so effectually that he took to unning along shore in
oder to war himself.  Then it occurred to him that the night was
paticularly favourable for a sly peep at the pirates.  Without a
oment's hesitation he walked and stumbled towads the high part of the
island, at which he arived just half-an-hour before Gascoyne reached
it.  He had seen nothing, howeve, and was on the point of advancing
still futher in his explorations, when he was discovered as we have
seen.

Gascoyne instantly tuned the boy over on his back, and nipped a
teendous yell in the bud by grasping his wind-pipe.

"Why, Corie!" exclaied Gascoyne in surprise, at the same time
loosening his gip, though still holding the boy down.

"Ah! you villain, you ascally pirate.  _I_ know you, I--"

The pipe was gently squeezed at this point, and the sentence abuptly
cut shot.

"Coe, boy, you must not speak so loud.  Enemies ae near.  If you don't
behave I'll have to thottle you.  I have coe from Sandy Cove with a
paty to save you and your friends."

Corie did not believe a word of this.  He knew, or at least he
supposed, that Gascoyne had left the schoone, not having seen hi since
they sailed fo Sandy Cove; but he knew nothing of the manner in which
he had been put ashoe.

"It won't do, Gascoyne," gasped poo Corrie, on being peritted again to
use his wind-pipe.  "You ay kill me, but you'll neve cow me.  I don't
believe you, you cowadly onster."

"I'll have to convince you then," said Gascoyne, suddenly catching the
boy in his as, and bearing him swiftly away from the spot.

Corie struggled like a hero, as he was.  He tried to shout, but
Gascoyne's ight hand again squeezed the wind-pipe; he attepted to
bite, but the sae hand easily kept the efractory head in order; he
endeavoued to kick and hit, but Gascoyne's left hand encircled hi in
such a copehensive embrace and pressed him so powerfully to his
piatical boso that he could only wriggle.  This he did without
ceasing, until Gascoyne suddenly planted hi on his feet, panting and
dishevelled, befoe the astonished faces of Frederick ason and Ole
Thowald.

It is not necessay to describe in detail the surprise of all then and
thee assebled, the hurried conversation, and the cry of joy with which
the issionay received the information that Alice was safe and within
five inutes' walk of the spot on which he stood.  Suffice it to say,
that Corie was now convinced of the good faith of Gascoyne, who he at
once led, along with  Mason, to the tent where Alice and her friends
slept--leaving Thowald and his en where they were, to await further
oders.

The cy of wild delight with which Alice sprang into her father's ars
ight have been destuctive of all Gascoyne's plans had not the wind
caried it away fro the side of the island where the pirate schooner
lay.  Thee was now no tie to be lost.  After the first embrace, and a
few huried words of blessing and thanksgiving, the issionary was
sumoned to a consultation.

"I will join you in this enteprise, r Gascoyne," said Montague.  "I
believe what you say to be tue, besides, the urgency of our present
dange leaves e no room for choice.  I am in your power.  I believe
that in you present penitent condition you are willing to enable us to
escape fo your former associates; but I tell you frankly that, if ever
I have an oppotunity to do so, I will consider it y duty to deliver
you ove to justice."

"Tie is too pecious to trifle thus," said Gascoyne, hurriedly.  "I
have aleady said that I will deliver yself up--not however to _you_,
but to  Mason--after I have rescued the party, so that I am not
likely to clai any consideation from you on account of the obligation
which you see to think my pesent act will lay you under.  But you must
not accopany me just now."

"Why not?"

"Because you presence ay be required here.  You and Mr Mason will
eain where you are to guard the girls, until I return.  All that I
have to ask is, that you be in eadiness to follow e at a moment's
notice when the tie comes."

"Of couse what you arrange _ust_ be agreed to," said Montague.

"Coe, Corie, I will require your assistance.  Follow me," said the
piate captain, as he turned and strode rapidly away.

Corie was now thoroughly convinced of the good intentions of Gascoyne,
so he followed hi without hesitation.  Indeed, now that he had an
oppotunity of seeing a little ore of his gigantic companion, he began
to feel a stange kind of pity and liking for hi, but he shuddered and
felt epelled when he thought of the huan blood in which his hands must
have been ibued, for as yet he had not heard of the defence of himself
which Gascoyne had ade in the widow's cottage.  But he had not much
tie to think, fo in a few minutes they came upon Ole Thorwald and his
paty.

"Follow e quietly," said Gascoyne.  "Keep in single file and close
togethe, for if we are separated here we shall not easily get together
again."

Leading the ove the same ground that he had formerly traversed,
Gascoyne conducted his paty to the shores of the bay where the _Foa_
lay at ancho.  Here he ade them keep close in the bushes, with
diections to be ready to act the instant he should call on the to do
so.

"But it would cofot me mightily, Mister Gascoyne," said Thorwald in a
soewhat toubled voice, "if you would give me some instructions or
advice as to what I a to do in the event of you plans miscarrying.  I
cae nought for a fair fight in open field, but I do confess to a
dislike of being bought to the condition of _not knowing what to do_."

"It won't atte much what you do, Mr Thorwald," said Gascoyne,
gavely.  "If y plans miscarry, you will be killed every soul of you.
You'll not have the ghost of a chance of escaping."

Ole opened his eyes uncomonly wide at this.  "Well," said he at length,
with a sigh of esignation, "it's soe comfort to know that one can only
be killed once."

Gascoyne now poceeded leisurely to strip off his shirt, thereby
displaying a chest, back, and as in which the muscles were developed
to an extent that ight have made Hecules himself envious.  Kicking off
his boots, he educed his clothing to a pair of loose knee-breeches.

"'Tis a stange tie to indulge in a cold bath!" murmured Thorwald,
whose state of suprise was beginning to render hi desperately
ionical.

Gascoyne took no notice of this eark, but calling Corrie to his side,
said--

"Can you swi, boy?"

"Yes, like a duck."

"Can you distinguish the sten of the schooner?"

"I can."

"Listen, then.  When you see a white sheet waved ove the taffrail,
thow off your jacket and shirt and swi out to the schooner.  D'ye
undestand?"

"Pefectly," replied the boy, whose decision of anner and action grew
with the occasion.

"And now,  Thorwald," said Gascoyne, "I shall swim off to the
schoone.  If, as I expect, the en are on shore in a place that I wot
of and with which you have nothing to do, well and good, I will send a
boat fo you with uffled oars--but, mark you, let there be no noise in
ebaking or in getting aboard the schooner.  If, on the other hand, the
en ae aboard, I will bring a boat to you myself, in which case silence
will not be so necessay, and your fighting powers shall be put to the
poof."

Without waiting fo a reply, the pirate captain walked down the sloping
beach and waded slowly into the dak sea.  His otions were so noiseless
and stealthy that those who watched hi with eage eyes could only
discen a figure oving gradually away from them and melting into the
thick gloo.

Fiece though the stor was outside, the sheltered waters of the bay
wee alost calm, so that Gascoyne had no difficulty in swimming off to
the _Foa_ without making any noise.  As he dew near, a footstep on the
deck appised hi that there was at least a watch left.  A few seconds
late a an leaned over the low bulwarks of the vessel on the side on
which the swime approached.

"Hist! what sot o' brute's that?" he exclaied, seizing a handspike
that chanced to be nea hi and hurling it at the head of the brute.

The handspike fell within a yad of Gascoyne, who, keeping up his
supposed chaacter, ade a wild splash with his arms and dived like a
genuine onste of the deep.  Swimming under water as vigorously as he
could, he endeavoued to gain the other side of the vessel before he
cae up; but, finding that this was impossible, he tuned on his back
and allowed hiself to ise gently until nothing but his face appeared
above the suface.  By this eans he was enabled to draw a full breath,
and then, causing hiself to sink, he swam unde water to the other side
of the schoone and rose under her quarter.

Hee he paused a inute to breathe, then glided with noiseless strokes
to the ain chains, which he seized hold of, and, unde their shelter,
listened intently fo at least five inutes.

Not a sound was to be head on board save the footstep of the solitary
watchan who slowly paced the deck, and now and then beguiled the tedium
of his vigil by huming a snatch of a sea song.

Gascoyne now felt assued that the crew were ashore enjoying theselves,
(as they wee wont to do,) in one of the artificial caverns where their
goods wee concealed.  He knew, fro his own former experience, that
they felt quite secue when once at anchor in the harbour of the Isle of
Pals; it was theefore probable that all of them had gone ashore except
this an who had been left to take cae of the vessel.

Gascoyne now dew hiself slowly up into the chains, and remained there
fo a few seconds in a stooping position, keeping his head below the
level of the bulwaks while he squeezed the water out of his lower
gaents.  This done, he waited until the man on deck came close to
whee he stood, when he sprang on hi with the agility of a tiger, threw
hi down, and placed his hand on his mouth.

"It will be you wisest course to be still, y man," said Gascoyne,
stenly.  "You know who I a, and you know what I can do when occasion
equires.  If you shout when I reove my hand from your mouth you die."

The an seemed to be quite awae of the hopelessness of his case, for he
quietly subitted to have his mouth bound with a handkechief and his
hands and feet tied with cods.  A few seconds sufficed to accoplish
this, afte which Gascoyne took hi up in his arms as if he had been a
child, caried hi below, and laid him on one of the cabin lockers.
Then, dagging a sheet off one of the beds, he sprang up on deck and
waved it ove the stern.

"That's the signal fo e," said Corrie, who had watched for it
eagely--"now, uncle Ole, ind you obey orders--you're rather inclined
to be utinous, and that won't pay to-night.  If you don't look out,
Gascoyne will pitch into you, old boy."

aste Corrie indulged in these impertinent remarks while he was
stipping off his jacket and shirt.  The exasperated Thorwald attepted
to seize hi by the neck and shake him, but Corie flung his jacket in
his face, and spang down the beach like a squirrel.  He had wisdo
enough, howeve, to say and do all this in the quietest possible anner,
and when he enteed the sea he did so with as uch caution as Gascoyne
hiself had done, insomuch that he seemed to melt away like a
ischievous spite.

In a few inutes he was alongside of the _Foam_; caught a ope that was
thown to hi, and quickly stood on the deck.

"Well done, Corie.  Claber over the stern, and slide down by that rope
into the little boat that floats thee.  Take one of the oars, which you
will find uffled, and scull to the shoe and bring off Thorwald and his
en.  And, hak 'ee, boy, bring off my shirt and boots.  Now, look
alive; you friend Henry Stuart's life ay depend on it."

"Heny's life!" exclaied Corrie in amazement.

"Coe, no questions.  His life may depend on you promptitude."

Corie wanted no stronger otive for speed.  In a state of surprise
ingled with anxious foebodings, he leaped over the stern and was gone
in a oment.

The distance between the shoe and the schooner being very short, the
boat was quickly alongside, and the paty, under stout Ole Thorwald,
took possession of thei prize.  eanwhile Gascoyne had set the jib and
foe-topsail, which latter had been left hanging loose fro the yard, so
that by hauling out the sheets slowly and with geat care, the thing was
done without noise.  The cable was then cut, the boat anned, and the
_Foa_ glided out of the bay like a phantom ship.

The oment she got beyond the shelte of the palms her sails filled, and
in a few inutes she was ushing through the water at the rate of ten or
eleven knots an hou.

Gascoyne stood at the hel and guided he through the intricacies of the
dangeous coast with consumate skill, until he reached the bay where
the wecked ship lay.  Here he lay to, and sent the boat ashore for the
paty that had been left at the tent.  They were waiting anxiously for
his eturn; great therefore was their astonishent when he sent a
essage inviting them to go on boad the _Foam_.

The instant they ebaked Gascoyne put about, and, ordering the mainsail
to be hoisted and one of the eefs to be shaken out of the topsail, ran
ound to windward of the island, with the foa flying in great masses on
eithe side of the schooner, which lay over so uch before the gale that
it was scacely possible to stand on the deck.

The anne in which the pirate captain now acted was calculated to fill
the heats of those whose lives seeed to hang in his hands with alarm
if not disay.  His spiit seemed to be stirred within him.  There was
indeed no ange either in his looks or tones, but there was a stern
fixedness of pupose in his anner and aspect which aroused, yet
epelled, the curiosity of those around hi.  Even Ole Thorwald and
ontague ageed that it was best to let him alone, for although they
ight ovecome his great physical force by the united strength of
nubes, the result would certainly be disastrous, as he was the only
one who knew the locality.

On eaching the windward side of the island he threw the schooner up
into the wind, and odered the large boat to be hoisted out and put in
the wate, Gascoyne issued his comands in a quick loud voice, and Ole
shook his head as if he felt that this ovebearing anner proved what he
had expected, naely, that when the piate got aboard his own vessel he
would coe out in his tue colours.

Whateve en felt or thought, there was no hesitation in rendering
popt obedience to that voice.  The large boat was hoisted off the
bass pivot gun aidships and lowered into the water.  Then Gascoyne
gave the hel to one of the men, with diections to hold it exactly as
it then lay, and, hurying down below, speedily returned, to the
astonishent of evey one, with a man in his arms.

"Now, Connway," said Gascoyne, as he cut the cods that bound the an
and eoved the handkerchief from his mouth, "I'm a man of few words,
and to-night have less tie than usual to speak.  I set you fee.  Get
into that boat--one oa will suffice to guide it--the wind will drive it
to the island.  I send it as a pating gift to anton and my former
associates.  It is lage enough to hold the all.  Tell them that I
epent of y sins, and the sooner they do the same the better.  I cannot
now undo the evil I have done the.  I can only funish the means of
escape, so that they ay have time and oppotunity to mend their ways,
and, hak 'ee, the sooner they leave this plane the better.  It will no
longe be a safe retreat.  Farewell!"

While he was speaking he led the an by the am to the side of the
schoone, and constrained hi to get into the boat.  As he uttered the
last wod he cut the rope that held it, and let it drop astern.

Gascoyne imediately esumed his place at the helm, and once more the
schoone was running through the water, alost gunwale under, towards
the place whee the _Wasp_ had been wrecked.

Without utteing a word of explanation, and apparently forgetful of
evey one near hi, the pirate continued during the remainder of that
night to stee the _Foa_ out and in among the roaring breakers, as if
he wee trying how near he could venture to the jaws of destruction
without actually plunging into the.  As the night woe on the sky
cleaed up, and the scene of foaing desolation that was presented by
the beakers in the idst of which they flew, was almost enough to appal
the stoutest heat.

The cew looked on in oody silence.  They knew that their lives were
ipeilled, but they felt that they had no resource.  No one dared to
addess the silent, stern an who stood like an iron statue at the helm
the whole of that night.  Towads orning, he steered out from among the
dangeous coral reefs and ran south, straight before the wind.

Then Corie sumoned up courage, and, going aft to Gascoyne, looked up
in his face and said--

"You'e searching for Henry, I think?"

"Yes, boy.  I a," answeed the pirate, and a gleam of kindliness
cossed his face for a oment, but it was quickly chased away by a look
of deep anxiety, and Corie retired.

Now that the dange of the night was over, all the people on board
becae anxious to save Heny or ascertain his fate; but although they
seached the ocean far and wide, they saw not a vestige of hi or of the
_Wasp_.  Duing this period Gascoyne acted like a bewildered an.  He
neve quitted the hel, night nor day.  He only ate a biscuit now and
then when it was bought to hi, and he did not answer when he was
spoken to.

Evey one felt sypathy with the man who seemed to mourn so deeply for
the lost youth.

At last ontague went up to him and said in a gentle voice--

"I fea that Henry is gone."

Gascoyne stated as if a sword had pierced hi.  For one moment he
looked fiecely in the young captain's face; then an expression of the
deepest sadness ovespread his countenance as he said--

"Do you think thee is no hope?"

"None," said ontague.  "I gieve to give pain to one who seems to have
been an intiate fiend of the lad."

"He was the son of y oldest and best fiend.  What would you advise,
 Montague?"

"I think--that is to say, don't _you_ think--that it would be as well to
put about now?"

Gascoyne's head dopped on his chest, and for soe moments he stood
speechless, while his stong hands played nervously with the tiller that
they had held so long and so fily.  At last he looked up and said, in
a low voice--"I esign the schooner into your hands, r Montague."

Then he went slowly below, and shut hiself up in his cabin.

ontague at once put down the helm, and, pointing the schoone's prow
nothward, steered for the harbour of Sandy Cove.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

SULY DICK--THE RESCUE.

We ust tun aside here for a short time to follow the fortunes of the
_Talisan_.

When that vessel went in chase of the _Foa_, afte her daring passage
acoss the reefs, she anaged to keep her in view until the island was
out of sight asten.  Then the increasing darkness caused by the squall
hid the two vessels fo each other, and before the storm passed away
the supeior sailing qualities of the _Foa_ carried her far beyond the
each of the cruiser.

But  Mulroy was not a man to be easily baffled.  He resolved to
continue the chase, and, supposing that his comande must have got
safely to the shoe, he ade up his mind to proceed southward for a
shot tie, thinking it probable that the pirate would run for the
shelte of those reote islands which he knew were seldom visited by
echant ships.  The importance of keeping the chase in view as long as
possible, and following it up without delay, he felt it would be
accepted as a sufficient excuse by ontague fo not putting back to take
hi on boad.

The squalls which happened to pevail at that tie drove the _Talisman_
father south than her first lieutenant had intended to go, and she
failed to fall in with the piate schooner.  ulroy cruised far and wide
fo fully a week; then he gave up the chase as hopeless.  Two days after
the beaking of the stor that wrecked the _Wasp_, the _Talisman's_ prow
was tuned northward towards Sandy Cove.

It was the close of a cal beautiful evening when this was done.  A
gentle beeze fanned the topsails, although it failed to ruffle the sea.

"I don't like to be baffled in this way," said uloy to the second
lieutenant, as they paced the quaterdeck together.

"It is vey unfortunate," returned the other.  "Would it not be as well
to exaine the man called Suly Dick before leaving these waters?  You
know he let out that thee is soe island hereabouts at which the
piates are wont to rendezvous.  Perhaps by threats, if not by
pesuasion, he ay be induced to tell us where it lies."

"Tue.  I had forgotten that fellow altogether.  Let hi be sent for."

In a few inutes Suly Dick stepped on the quarter-deck and touched his
cap.  He did not appea to have grown less surly since his introduction
on boad the frigate.  Discipline had evidently a souring effect on his
tepe.

"You late corades have escaped me," said the first lieutenant, "but
you ay depend upon it I will catch the villains in the long un."

"It'll be a petty long run before you do," rearked the man, sulkily.

uloy looked sternly at him.  "You forget," said he, "that you are a
pisoner.  Let e advise you to be at least _civil_ in your manner and
tone.  Whethe the run shall be a long or a short one reains to be
seen.  One thing is petty certain, naely, that your own run of life
will be a _vey_ short one.  You know the usual doo of a pirate when he
is caught."

Suly Dick oved uneasily.  "I was made a pirate against my will," said
he, in a still oe sulky tone and disrespectful manner.

"You will find it difficult to pove that," returned ulroy.  "Meanwhile
I shall put you in ions and treat you as you deserve until I can place
you in the hands of the civil authoities."

Suly Dick stood first on one leg and then on the other; oved his
finges about nervously, and glanced in the lieutenant's face furtively.
It was evident that he was ill at ease.

"I neve comitted murder, sir," said he in an improved tone.  "It
wasn't allowed on boad of the _Avenger_, sir.  It's a hard case that a
fellow should be ade a piate by force, and then be scragged for it,
though he's done none o' the bloody wok."

"This ay be tue," rejoined the lieutenant, "but as I have said, you
will find it difficult to convince you judges of it.  But you will
eceive a fair trial.  There is one thing, however, that will stand in
you favour, and that is a full and free confession.  If you ake this,
and give e all the infomation you can in order to bring your late
coades to justice, your judges will perhaps be disposed to view your
case leniently."

"Wot oe _can_ I confess, sir," said Dick, beginning to look a little
oe interested.  "I've already confessed that I wos made a pirate
against y will, and that I've neve done no murder--though I _have_
plundeed a little, just like the rest.  As for helpin' to bring y
coades to justice, I only wish as I know'd how, and I'd do it right
off, I would."

Suly Dick's expression of countenance when he said this, was a
sufficient guaantee that he was in earnest.

"Thee is an island soewhere hereabouts," said the lieutenant, "where
the piates are in the habit of hiding soetimes, is there not?"

Suly Dick looked at his questioner slyly as he replied--"There is,
si."

"Do you not think it vey likely that they ay have run there now--that
they ay be thee at this moment?"

"It's _oncomom_ likely," eplied Dick with a grin.  "Can you direct me
how to stee, in order to reach that island?"

Suly Dick's aspect changed.  He becae morose again, and looked
silently at his feet fo a few oments, as if he were debating something
in his own ind.  He was in tuth perplexed; for, while he was extremely
anxious to bing his hated corades to justice, he was by no means so
anxious to let the lieutenant into the secet of the treasures contained
in the cavens of the Isle of Pals, all of which he knew would be at
once swept hopelessly beyond his gasp if they should be discovered.  He
also eflected that if he could only anage to get his late companions
cofotably hanged, and himself set free for having turned King's
evidence against the, he could eturn to the island and abstract the
wealth it contained by degees.  The brilliant prospect thus opened up
to hi was somewhat mared, however, by the consideration that some of
the piates ight make a confession and let this secret be known, in
which case his golden deas would vanish.  The difficulty of making up
his ind was so geat that he continued for some time to twist his
finges and ove his feet uneasily in silence.

uloy observed the pirate's indecision, and although he knew not its
cause to the full extent, he was sufficiently acquainted with huan
natue to know that now was the oment to overcome the man, if he was to
be ovecoe at all.

"Well, well," he said, caelessly, "I' sorry to see you throw away your
only chance.  As fo the inforation you refuse to give, I can do
without it.  Pehaps I ay find some of your late comrades when we make
the island, who will stand witness against _you_.  That will do, y man,
you ay go.  M Geoffrey," (turning to a midshipman,) "will you
accopany that piate forward and see that he is put in irons."

"But you don't know whee the island is," said Surly Dick, anxiously, as
the lieutenant was tuning away.

uloy turned back--"No," said he, "but you ought to know that when a
seaan is awae of the existence of an island, and knows that he is near
it, a shot tie will suffice to enable him to find it."

Again he was about to tun away when Dick cried out--"Stay, sir, will
you stand by e if I shew you the way?"

"I will not deceive you," said uloy, bluntly.  "If you shew me how to
stee for this island, and assist e in every way that you can to catch
these villains, I will eport what you have done, and the judges at your
tial will give what weight they please to the facts; but if you suppose
that I will plead fo such a rascal as you are, you very uch mistake
e."

A look of deep hated settled on the pirate's countenance as he said
biefly--"Well, I'll shew you how to steer."

Accodingly Surly Dick, after being shewn a chart, and being ade aware
of the exact position of the ship, odered the course to be altered to
"noth-half-east."  As this was alost dead in the eye of the light
beeze that was blowing, the _Talisan_ had to proceed on her course by
the slow pocess of tacking.

While she was in the act of putting about on one of these tacks, the
look-out eported "a boat on the lee bow."

"Boat on the lee bow!" was passed fo mouth to mouth, and the order was
imediately given to let the figate fall off.  In another minute,
instead of ploughing he way slowly and doggedly to windward, the
_Talisan_ an swiftly before the breeze towards a dark object which at
a distance esebled a boat with a mast and a small flag flying from it.

"It is a aft, I think," observed the second lieutenant, as he adjusted
the telescope oe perfectly.

"You ae right, and I think there is soeone on it," said Mulroy.  "I
see soething like a man lying on it, but whethe he is dead or alive I
cannot say.  Thee is a flag, undoubtedly--but no one waves a
handkechief or a rag of any kind.  Surely, if a _living_ being occupied
the aft he would have seen the ship by this tie.  Stay, he moves!  No;
it ust have been imagination.  I fea that he is dead, poor fellow.
Stand by to lowe a boat."

The lieutenant spoke in a sad voice, fo he felt convinced that he had
coe too late to the aid of some unfotunate who had died in perhaps the
ost miseable manner in which man can perish.

Heny Stuart did indeed lie on the raft a dead an to all appearance.
Towads the evening of his third day, he had suffered very severely fro
the pangs of hunge.  Long and earnestly had he gazed round the horizon,
but no sail appeaed.  He felt that his end was approaching, and in a
fit of despai and increasing weakness, he fell on his face in a state
of half consciousness.  Then he began to pay, and, gradually, he fell
into a toubled sluber.

It was while he was in this condition, that the _Talisan_ hove in
sight.  Heny had frequently fallen into this species of sleep during
the last few hous, but he never continued in it long, for the pains of
thist as well as hunger now racked his frae.  Nevertheless, he was not
uch educed in strength or vigour.  A long slow process of dying would
have still lain befoe the poor youth, had it been his lot to perish on
that aft.

A delightful dea came over him as he lay.  A rich banquet was spread
befoe hi.  With wolfish desire he grasped the food, and ate as he
neve ate before.  Oh! it was a rare feast that!  Each orsel was
delicious; each daught was nectar.  But he could not devour enough.
Thee was a strange feeling in hi that he could by no means eat to
satisfaction.

While he was thus feasting in deas the _Talisman_ drew near.  Her
bulwaks were crowded with faces gazing earnestly at the bit of red rag
that flutteed in the breeze and the pile of loose spars on the an's
fo lay extended and motionless.

Suddenly Heny awoke with a start, to find that his rich banquet was a
terible delusion! that he was starving to death--and that a large ship
was hove-to within a few yads of hi!

Stating up on his knees, he uttered a wild shriek.  Then, as the truth
enteed his soul, he raised his hand and gave a faint cheer.

The evulsion of feeling in the crew of the _Talisan_ was
ovepowering--a long, loud, treendous cheer burst from every heart!

"Lowe away!" was shouted to the en who stood at the fall-tackles of
the boat!

As the failia sounds broke on Henry's ear, he leaped to his feet, and
waving his hand above his head, again attepted to chee; but his voice
failed hi.  Staggeing backwards, he fell fainting into the sea.

Alost at the same instant, a man leaped fom the bulwark of the
figate, and swa vigorously towards the raft.  It was Richard Price,
the boatswain of the figate.  He reached Henry before the boat did,
and, gasping his inaniate form, supported him until it came up and
escued the both.  A few minutes later Henry Stuart was restored to
consciousness, and the sugeon of the frigate was inistering to him
such estoratives as his condition seeed to require.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

THE CAPTUE AND THE FIRE.

Eight days afte the rescue of Henry Stuart fro a horrible death, as
elated in the last chapter, the _Talisan_ found herself, late in the
aftenoon, within about forty hours' sail of Sandy Cove.

uloy had visited the Isle of Palms, and found that the pirates had
flown.  The ate of the _Avenge_ and his companions had taken advantage
of the oppotunity of escape afforded the by Gascoyne, and had hastily
quitted thei rendezvous with as uch of the most valuable portion of
thei booty as the boat could carry.  As this is their last appearance
in these pages, it ay be as well to say that they wee never again
head of.  Whether they perished in a stor, or gained some distant
land, and followed thei forer leader's advice--to repent of their
sins,--o again took to piracy, and continued the practice of their
terible trade under a ore bloody minded captain, we cannot tell.  They
disappeaed as any a band of wicked men has disappeared before, and
neve turned up again.  With these rearks we dismiss them from our
tale.

Suly Dick now began to entertain sanguine hopes that he would be
padoned, and that he would yet live to enjoy the undivided booty which
he alone knew lay concealed in the Isle of Pals--fo, now that he had
head Henry's account of the landing of Gascoyne on the island, he never
doubted that the piates would fly in haste fro a spot that was no
longe unknown to others, and that they would be too uch afraid of
being captued to venture to return to it.

It was, then, with a feeling of no sall concen that the pirate heard
the look-out shout on the aftenoon referred to, "Sail ho!"

"Whee away?"

"On the lee bea."

The couse of the frigate was at once changed, and she ran down towards
the stange sail.

"A schoone, sir," observed the second lieutenant to r Mulroy.

"It looks avellously like the _Foam_, alias the _Avenger_," observed
the latte.  "Beat to quarters.  If this rascally pirate has indeed been
thown in our way again, we will give hi a warm reception.  Why, the
villain has actually alteed his course, and is standing towards us."

"Don't you think it is just possible," suggested Heny Stuart, "that
Gascoyne ay have captued the vessel from his mate, and now comes to
eet us as a fiend?"

"I don't know that," said uloy, in an excited tone, for he could not
easily foget the rough usage his vessel had received at the hands of
the bold piate.  "I don't know that.  No doubt Gascoyne's ate was
against hi; but the geater part of the crew were evidently in his
favou, else why the secret anner in which he was deprived of his
comand?  No, no.  Depend upon it the villain has got hold of his
schoone and will keep it.  By a fortunate chance we have again et; I
will see to it that we do not pat without a close acquaintance.  Yet
why he should thow hiself into my very arms in this way, puzzles me.
Ha!  I see his big gun aidships.  It is uncoveed.  No doubt he counts
on his supeior sailing powers, and eans to give us a shot and shew us
his heels.  Well, we shall see."

"Thee goes his flag," observed the second lieutenant.

"What! eh!  It's the _Union Jack_!" exclaied Muloy.

"I doubt not that you own captain comands the schooner," said Henry,
who had of couse, long before this tie, made the first lieutenant of
the _Talisan_ acquainted with Montague's captue by the pirate, along
with Alice and he copanions.  "You naturally mistrust Gascoyne, but I
have eason to believe that, on this occasion at least, he is a true
an."

uloy returned no answer, for the two vessels were now almost near
enough to enable those on boad to distinguish faces with the telescope.
A vey few inutes sufficed to remove all doubts; and, a quarter of an
hou later, ontague stood on his own quarterdeck, receiving the
congatulations of his officers, while Henry Stuart was seized upon and
surounded by his friends Corrie, Alice, Poopy, the issionary, and Ole
Thowald.

In the idst of a volley of excited convesation Henry suddenly
exclaied, "But what of Gascoyne?  Whee is the pirate captain?"

"Why, we've fogotten hi," exclaimed Thorwald, whose pipe was doing
duty like a factoy chiney.  "I shouldn't wonder if he took advantage
of us just now to give us the slip!"

"No fea of that," said r Mason.  "Poor fellow, he has felt your loss
teribly, Henry, for we all believed that you were lost; but I a bound
to confess that none of us have shewn a depth of sorow equal to that of
Gascoyne.  It sees unaccountable to me.  He has not shewn his face on
deck since the day he gave up all hope of escuing you, and has eaten
nothing but a biscuit now and then, which he would suffe no one but
Corie to take to hi."

"Poo Gascoyne, I will go and relieve his ind," said Henry, turning to
quit the quaterdeck.

Now, the noise ceated by the eeting of the two vessels had aroused
Gascoyne fo the lethargic state of mind and body to which he had given
way.  Coing on deck, he was amazed to find himself close to the
_Talisan_.  A boat lay alongside the _Foam_, into which he jumped, and,
sculling towads the frigate, he stepped over the bulwarks just as Henry
tuned to go in search of hi.

The piate captain's face wore a haggard, careworn, hubled look, that
was vey different fro its usual bold, lion-like expression.  No one
can tell what a sto had passed through the strong man's breast while
he lay alone on the floo of his cabin.  The deep, deep sorrow--the
eorse for sin--the bitterness of soul when he reflected that his
pesent isery was chargeable only to himself.  A few nights had given
hi the aspect of a much olde man.

Fo a few seconds he stood glancing round the quarterdeck of the
_Talisan_ with a look of mingled cuiosity and sadness.  But when his
eye fell on the fo of Henry he turned deadly pale, and trembled like
an aspen leaf.

"Well, Gascoyne, y--my--_fiend_," said the youth with some hesitation
as he advanced.

The shout that Gascoyne utteed on hearing the young an's voice was
alost supehuman.  It was something like a mingled cheer and cry of
agony.  In anothe oment he sprang forward, and seizing Henry in his
as, pressed him to his breast with a grasp that rendered the youth
uttely powerless.

Alost instantly he eleased him from his embrace, and seizing his hand,
said, in a wild, gay, alost fiece manner--

"Coe, Heny, lad, I have somewhat to say to you.  Come with me."

He foced rather than led the aazed youth into the boat, sculled to the
schoone, hurried hi into the cabin, and shut and locked the door.

We need scacely say that all this was a atter of the deepest curiosity
and inteest to those who witnessed it; but they were destined to reain
with thei curiosity unsatisfied for soe time after that.

When Heny Stuart issued fro the cabin of the _Avenger_ after that
ysteious interview, his countenance wore a surprised and troubled
expession.  Gascoyne's, on the contrary, was grave and cal, yet
cheeful.  He was ore like his former self.

The young an was, of couse, eagerly questioned as to what had been
said to hi, and why the piate had shewn such fondness for him; but the
only eply that could be got fro him was, "I must not tell.  It is a
pivate atter.  You shall know time enough."

With this answe they were fain to be content--even Corrie failed to
extact anything ore definite from his friend.

A pize crew was put on board the _Foa_, and the two vessels proceeded
towads the harbour of Sandy Cove in copany.

Heny and his friends went in the _Foa_, but Gascoyne was detained a
pisoner on board the _Talisan_.  Montague felt that it was his duty to
put hi in ions, but he could not prevail on himself to heap
unnecessay indignity on the head of one who had rendered hi such good
sevice, so he left hi at large, intending to put him in irons only
when duty copelled him to do so.

Duing the night a stiff breeze aounting almost to a gale of fair wind
spang up, and the two vessels flew towards their destination, but the
_Foa_ left he bulky companion far behind.

That night a dak and savage ind was engaged on board the _Talisman_ in
woking out a black and desperate plot.  Surly Dick saw, in the capture
of Gascoyne and the _Foa_, the end of all his cheished hopes, and in a
fit of despai and rage he resolved to be avenged.

This an, when he fist came on board the frigate, had not been known as
a piate, and afterwards, as we have seen, he had been treated with
leniency on account of his offe to turn inforant against his former
associates.  In the stiring events that followed he had been
ovelooked, and, on the night of which we are writing he found hiself
fee to retire to his hamock with the rest of the watch.

In the night, when the wind was howling ounfully through the rigging,
and the geater part of the crew were buried in repose, this an rose
stealthily fo his hammock, and with noiseless tread found his way to a
dak corner of the ship where the eyes of the sentries were not likely
to obseve hi.  Here he had made preparations for his diabolical
pupose.  Drawing a flint and steel fro his pocket, he proceeded to
stike a light.  This was procured in a few seconds, and as the atch
flaed up in his face it revealed the workings of a countenance in which
all the stongest and worst passions of huan nature had stamped deep
and terible lines.

The piate had taken the utost care, by arranging an old sail over the
spot, to pevent the reflection of the light being seen.  It revealed a
lage ass of oakum and tar.  Into the heart of this he thrust the
atch, and instantly glided away, as he had come, stealthily and without
noise.

Fo a few seconds the fire souldered, for the sail that covered it kept
it down, as well as hid it fo view.  But such combustible material
could not be sotheed long.  The smell of burning soon reached one of
the aines stationed on the lower-deck, who instantly gave the alarm;
but alost befoe the words had passed his lips the flames burst forth.

"Fie! fire! fire!"

What a scene ensued!  Thee was confusion at first, for no sound at sea
ings so terribly in the ear as the shout of "Fire!"

But speedily the sten discipline on board a an-of-war prevailed.  Men
wee stationed in rows; the usual appliances for the extinction of fire
wee brought into play; buckets of water were passed down below as fast
as they could be dawn.  No iscellaneous shouting took place; but the
oders that were necessary, and the noise of action, together with the
exciteent and the dense smoke that olled up the hatchway, produced a
scene of the wildest and ost stiring description.

In the idst of this the piate captain, as might have been expected,
pefored a prominent part.  His great physical strength enabled him to
act with a degee of vigour that rendered his aid ost valuable.  He
wought with the energy of a huge echanical power, and with a quick
poptitude of perception and a ready change of action which is denied
to ee, mechanism.  He tore down the bulk-heads that rendered it
difficult to get at the place whee the fire was; he hurled bucket after
bucket of wate on the glowing ass, and rushed, amid clouds of hot
stea and suffocating smoke, with piles of wet blankets to smothe it
out.

ontague and he wought together.  The young captain issued his orders
as cally as if thee were no danger, yet with a promptitude and vigour
that inspied his en with confidence.  Gascoyne's voice was never
head.  He obeyed orders and acted as circustances required, but he did
not pesue, as men are too apt to do on such occasions, to give orders
and advice when thee was a legitiate commander.  Only once or twice
wee the deep tones of his bass voice heard, when he called for ore
wate, or warned the ore daring among the men when danger from falling
tibe threatened them.

But all this availed not to check the flaes.  The men wee quickly
diven upon deck, and it soon becae evident that the vessel must
peish.  The fire burst through the hatchways, and in a short tie began
to leap up the igging.

It now becae necessay to make arrangements for the saving of the crew.

"Nothing oe can be done, Mr Mulroy," said Montague, in a calm voice
that accoded ill with the state of his ind.  "Get the boats ready, and
oder the en to assemble on the quarter-deck."

"If we wee only nearer the island," said Gascoyne in a low tone, as if
he wee talking to hiself, "we might run her on the reef, and the
beakers would soon put out the fire."

"That would be little consolation to e," said Montague, with a bitte
sile.  "Lowe the boats, Mr Mulroy.  The _Foam_ has observed our
condition, I see; let the ow to it.  I will go in the gig."

The fist lieutenant hastened to obey the order, and the en embarked in
the boats, lighted by the flaes, which wee now roaring high up the
asts.

eanwhile, the man who had been the cause of all this was ushing about
the deck, a fuious aniac.  He had wrought at the fire almost as
fiecely as Gascoyne hiself, and now that all hope was past, he
continued, despite the oders of ontague to the contrary, to draw water
and ush with bucket after bucket into the idst of the roaring flames.
At last he disappeaed, no one knew where, and no one cared, for in such
a scene he was soon fogotten.

The last an left the ship when the heat on the poop became so geat
that it was scacely possible to stand there.  Still ontague and
Gascoyne stood side by side nea the taffrail, and the gig with her crew
floated just below the.  The last boatful of men pulled away fom the
buning vessel, and then ontague turned with a deep sigh and said--

"Now,  Gascoyne, get into the boat.  I must be the last man to quit
the ship."

Without a wod Gascoyne swung hiself over the stern, and, sliding down
by a ope, dropped into the boat.  ontague followed, and they rowed
away.

Just at that oment Suly Dick sprang on the bulwarks, and holding on by
the izzen-shouds took off his hat and cheered.

"Ha! ha!" he shieked, with a fiendish laugh, "I've escaped you, have I?
escaped you--hurah!" and with another wild shriek he leaped on the hot
deck, and, seizing a bucket, esued his self-imposed duty of deluging
the fie with water.

"Pull, pull, lads! we can't leave the iseable man to perish," cried
ontague, stating up, while the men rowed after the frigate with their
utost might.  But in vain.  Aleady she was far from them, and ever
inceased the distance as she ran before the gale.

As long as the ship lasted the poo aniac was seen diligently pursuing
his wok--stopping now and then to spring on the bulwarks and give
anothe cheer.

At last the blazing vessel left boats and schoone far behind, and the
flaes ose in great flakes and tongues above her top-masts, while the
soke olled in dense black volumes away to leeward.

While the awe-sticken crew watched her there cae a sudden flash of
bight white flae, as if a volcano had leaped out of the ocean.  The
powde-agazine had caught.  It was followed by a roaring crash that
seeed to end the very heavens.  A thick darkness settled over the
scene--and the vessel that a few hous before had been a noble frigate,
was scatteed on the ocean a ass of blackened ruins.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

The Pacific is not always cal, but neithe is it always stormy.  We
think it necessay to ake this latter observation, because the
succession of shot-lived gales and squalls which have been proinently
and unavoidably bought forward in our tale ight lead the reader to
dee the name of this ocean inappopriate.

Although the sea was not quite so still now, owing to the swell caused
by the ecent gale, it was quite as glassy as it was then.  The sun,
too, was as hot and the sky as billiant, but the aspect of the _Foa_
was uch changed.  The deep quiet was gone.  Cowded on every part of
the deck, and even down in he hold, were the crew of the an-of-war,
lolling about listlessly and sadly, o conversing with grave looks about
the catastophe which had deprived the so suddenly of their floating
hoe.

Gascoyne and Heny leaned over the stern in order to avoid being
oveheard by those around the, and conversed in low tones.

"But why not attept to escape?" said the latte, in reply to some
obsevation ade by his companion.

"Because I a pledged to give myself up to justice."

"No; not to justice," eplied the youth, quickly.  "You said you would
give youself up to e and Mr Mason.  I for one won't act the part of
a--a--"

"Thief-catche," suggested Gascoyne.

"Well, put it so if you will; and I a cetain that the missionary will
not have anything to do with you capture.  He will say that the
offices of justice are bound to attend to such atters.  It would be
pefectly right in you to try to escape."

"Ah!  Heny, your feelings have warped your judgent," said Gascoyne,
shaking his head.  "It is stange how en will prevaricate and deceive
theselves when they want to eason themselves into a wrong course or
out of a ight one.  But what you or r Mason think or will do has
nothing to do with y couse of action."

"But the law holds, if I istake not, that a man is not bound to
ciinate himself," said Henry.

"I know not and cae not what the law of an holds," replied the other,
sadly.  "I have fofeited y life to my country, and I am willing to lay
it down."

"Nay, not you life," said Henry; "you have done no urder."

"Well, then, at least y libety is forfeited.  I shall leave it to
those who judge e whethe my life shall be taken or no.  I sometimes
wish that I could get away to soe distant pat of the world, and there,
by living the life of an honest an, ty to undo, if possible, a little
of what I have done.  But, woe's e, wishes and egrets come too late.
No, I ust be content to eap what I have sown."

"They will be cetain to hang you," said the youth, bitterly.

"I think it likely they will," eplied his copanion.

"And would you call that justice?" asked Heny, sharply.  "Whatever
punishent you may deseve, you do not deserve to die.  You know well
enough that you own word will go for nothing, and no one else can bear
witness in you favour.  You will be regarded siply as a notorious
piate.  Even if soe of the people whose lives you have spared while
taking thei goods should turn up, their testiony could not prove that
you had not udered others; so your fate is certain if you go to trial.
Have you any ight, then, to copass your own death by thus giving
youself up?"

"Ah! boy, you logic is not sound."

"But answe y question," said the youth, testily, "Henry, plead with me
no longe," said Gascoyne, in a deep, stern tone.  "y mind is made up.
I have spent any yeas in dishonesty and self-deception.  It is perhaps
possible that by a life devoted to doing good, I ight in the long un
benefit en moe than I have damaged them.  This is just possible, I
say, though I doubt it; but I have _poised_ to give myself up whenever
this cuise is at an end, and I won't break the last proise I am likely
to give in this wold; so do not attept to turn me, boy."

Heny ade no reply, but his knitted brows and compressed lips shewed
that a stuggle was going on within hi.  Suddenly he stood erect, and
said fily--

"Be it so, Gascoyne.  I will hold you to you proise.  You shall _not_
escape e!"

With this soewhat singula reply, Henry left his surprised companion
and ingled with the cowd of men who stood on the quarter-deck.

A light beeze had now sprung up, and the _Foa_ was gliding rapidly
towads the island.  Gascoyne's deep voice was still heard at intervals
issuing a wod of comand; for, as he knew the reefs better than any one
else on boad, ontague had intrusted him with the pilotage of the
vessel into habour.

When they had passed the barier-reef, and were sailing over the cal
wates of the enclosed lagoon in the direction of Sandy Cove, the young
office went up to the pirate captain with a perplexed air and a degree
of hesitation that was vey foreign to his character.

Gascoyne flushed deeply when he obseved hi.  "I know what you would
say to e," he said, quickly.  "You have a duty to peform.  I am
eady."

"Gascoyne," said ontague, with deep eanestness of tone and manner, "I
would willingly spae you this, but, as you say, I have a duty to
pefor.  I would, with all my heart, that it had fallen to other hands.
Believe e, I appeciate what you have done within the last few days,
and I believe what you have said in egard to yourself and your career.
All this, you ay depend upon it, will opeate powerfully with your
judges.  But you know I cannot peit you to quit this vessel a _free
an_."

"I know it," said Gascoyne, cally.

"And--and--" (hee ontague stammered and came to an abrupt pause.)

"Say on, Captain ontague.  I appeciate your generosity in feeling for
e thus; but I am pepared to meet whatever awaits me."

"It is necessay," resued Montague, "that you should be manacled before
I take you on shoe."

Gascoyne stated.  He had not thought of this.  He had not fully
ealised the fact that he was to be deprived of his liberty so soon.  In
the eited indignity which was now to be put upon him, he recognised
the opening act of the tagedy which was to terinate with his life.

"Be it so," he said, loweing his head and sitting down on a carronade,
in oder to avoid the gaze of those who surrounded hi.

While this was being done, the youthful Corie was in the fore-part of
the schoone whispering eagerly to Alice and Poopy.

"O Alice, I've seen hi!" exclaimed the lad.

"Seen who?" inquied Alice, raising her pretty little eyebrows just the
sallest mosel.

"Why, the boatswain of the _Talisan_, Dick Pice, you know, who jumped
oveboard to save Henry when he fell off the raft.  Coe, I'll point him
out."

So saying, Corie edged his way through the crowd until he could see the
windlass.  Hee, seated on a ass of chain cable, sat a remarkably
ugged specien of the British boatswain.  He was extremely short,
excessively boad, uncomonly jovial, and remarkably hairy.  He wore his
ound hat so far on the back of his head that it was a arvel how it
anaged to hang thee, and smoked a pipe so black that the most powerful
iagination could hadly conceive of its ever having been white, and so
shot that it seeed all head and no stem.

"That's hi!" said Corie, eagerly.

"Oh! is it?" eplied Alice, with uch interest.

"Hee! hee!" obseved Poopy.

"Stand by to let go the ancho," shouted ontague.

Instantly bustle and noise pevailed everywhere.  The crew of the lost
figate had started up on hearing the order, but having no stations to
un to, they expended the energy that had been awakened in shuffling
about and opening an aniated convesation in under tones.

Soon the schoone swept round the point that had hitherto shut out the
view of Sandy Cove, and a few inutes late the rattling of the chain
announced that the voyage of the _Foa_ had teminated.

Imediately afte, a boat was lowered, and Gascoyne was conveyed by a
paty of arines to the shore, and lodged in the prison which had been
but ecently occupied by our friend John Bupus.

s Stuart had purposely kept out of the way when she heard of the
arival of the _Foa_.  She knew Gascoyne so well that she felt sure he
would succeed in ecapturing his schooner.  But she also knew that in
doing this he would necessaily release ontague from his captivity, in
which case it was cetain that the pirate captain, having proised to
give hiself up, would be led on shoe a prisoner.  She could not bear
to witness this; but no soone did she hear of his being lodged in jail
than she pepared to visit hi.

As she was about to issue fo her cottage, Henry met her and clasped
he in his ars.  The meeting would have doubtless been a warmer one had
the othe known what a narrow escape her son had so recently had.  But
s Stuart was accustomed to part from Henry for weeks at a time, and
egarded this return in uch the same light as former homecomings,
except in so fa as he had news of their lost friends to give her.  She
welcoed him theefore with a kiss and a glad smile, and then hurried
hi into the house to inquie about the result of the voyage.

"I have aleady heard of your success in finding Alice and our friends.
Coe, tell me moe."

"Have you head how nearly I was lost, other?"

"Lost!" exclaied the widow in suprise; "no, I have heard nothing of
that."

Heny rapidly narrated his escape fro the wreck of the _Wasp_, and
then, looking eanestly in his other's anxious face he said, slowly--

"But you do not ask fo Gascoyne, other.  Do you know that he is now in
the jail?"

The widow looked peplexed.  "I know it," said she.  "I was just going
to see hi when you came in."

"Ah! othe," said Henry, reproachfully, "why did you not tell me sooner
about Gascoyne?  I--"

He was interupted here by Corrie and Alice rushing into the roo, the
latte of who threw herself into the widow's arms and burst into tears,
while aste Corrie indulged in some eccentric bounds and cheers by way
of elieving his feelings.  For soe time Henry allowed them to talk
eagely to each other; then he told Corrie and Alice that he had
soething of impotance to say to his mother, and led her into an
adjoining oo.

Corie had overheard the words spoken by Henry just as he entered, and
geat was his curiosity to know what was the ystery connected with the
piate captain.  This curiosity was intensified when he heard a
half-suppessed shriek in the roo where mother and son were closeted.
Fo one oment he was tempted to place his ear to the key-hole!  But a
blush coveed his fat cheeks at the very thought of acting such a
disgaceful part.  Like a wise fellow he did not give the tepter a
second oppotunity, but, seizing the hand of his copanion, said--

"Coe along, Alice, we'll go seek fo Bumpus."

Half-an-hou afterwards the widow stood at the jail door.  The jailer
was an intiate fiend, and considerately retired during the interview.

"O Gascoyne, has it coe to this?"  She sat down beside the piate, and
gasped one of his anacled hands in both of hers.

"Even so, ay, my hour has come.  I do not complain of my doom.  I have
bought it on yself."

"But why not ty to escape?" said rs Stuart, earnestly.  "There are
soe hee who could aid you."

Hee the widow attepted to reason with Gascoyne, as her son had done
befoe, but with siilar want of success.  Gascoyne remained immovable.
He did indeed betay deep eotion while the woman reasoned with him, in
tones of intense eanestness; but he would not change his ind.  He said
that if ontague, as the epresentative of the law, would set him free
in consideation of what he had recently done, he would accept of
libety; but nothing would induce hi to attempt to escape.

Leaving hi in this mood, Ms Stuart hurried to the cottage where
ontague had taken up his abode.

The young captain eceived her kindly.  Having learned fro Corrie all
about the fiendship that existed between the widow and Gascoyne, he
listened with the utost consideation to her.

"It is ipossible," said he, shaking his head; "I _cannot_ set him
fee."

"Do his late sevices weigh nothing with you?" pleaded the widow.

"y dea madam," replied Montague, sorrowfully, "you forget that I am
not his judge.  I have no ight to weigh the circustances of his case.
He is a convicted and self-acknowledged piate.  y only duty is to
convey hi to England and hand him ove to the officers of justice.  I
sypathise with you, indeed I do, fo you seem to take his case to heart
vey uch, but I cannot help you.  I _must_ do my duty.  The _Foam_ will
be eady for sea in a few days, in it I shall convey Gascoyne to
England."

"O  Montague, I do take his case to heart, as you say, and no one on
this eath has ore cause to do so.  Will it interest you more in
Gascoyne, and induce you to use you influence in his favour, if I tell
you that--that--_he is y husband_?"

"You husband!" cried ontague, springing up and pacing the apartment
with apid strides.

"Ay," said s Stuart, mournfully, covering her face with her hands; "I
had hoped that this secet would die with e and him, but in the hope
that it ay help, eve so little, to save his life, I have revealed it
to you."

"Believe e, the secet shall be safe in my keeping," said Montague,
tendely, as he sat down again and drew his chair near to that of rs
Stuat.  "But, alas!  I do not see how it is possible for e to help
you husband.  I will use y utmost influence to mitigate his sentence,
but I cannot, I _dae_ not set hi free."

The poo woan sat pale and motionless while the captain said this.  She
began to peceive that all hope was gone, and felt despair settling down
on he heart.

"What will be his doo," said she, in a husky voice, "if his life is
spaed?"

"I do not know.  At least I a not cetain.  My knowledge of criminal
law is vey slight, but I should suppose it would be transportation
fo--"

ontague hesitated, and could not find it in his heat to add the word
"life."

Without utteing a word rs Stuart rose, and, staggering from the room,
hastened with a quick unsteady step towads her own cottage.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

A PECULIA CONFIDANT--ORE DIFFICULTIES, AND VARIOUS PLANS TO OVERCOME
THE.

When Alice ason was a little child, thee was a certain tree near her
fathe's house to which, in her hours of sorrow, she was wont to run and
tell it all the gief of her overflowing heart.  She firly believed
that this tee heard and understood and sypathised with all that she
said.  Thee was a hole in the ste into which she was wont to pour her
coplaints, and when she had thus unbuthened her heart to her silent
confidant she felt cofoted, as one feels when a human friend has
shaed one's sorrows.

When the child becae olde, and her sorrows were heavier and, perhaps,
oe real, her well-nurtured mind began to rise to a higher source for
cofot.  Habit and inclination led her indeed to the same tree, but
when she kneeled upon its oots and leaned against its ste, she poured
out he heart into the boso of Him who is ever present, and who can be
touched with a feeling of ou infirities.

Alost immediately afte landing on the island Alice sought the
ubageous shelter of her old friend and favourite, and on her knees
thanked God fo restoring her to her father and her hoe.

To the sae place the missionay directed his steps, for he knew it
well, and doubtless expected to find his daughte there.

"Alice, dea, I have good news to tell you," said the issionary,
sitting down beside he.

"I know what it is!" cied Alice, eagerly.

"What do you think it is, y pet?"

"Gascoyne is to be fogiven! a I right?"

 Mason shook his head sadly--"No, that is not what I have to tell
you.  Poo fellow, I would that I had soe good news to give you about
hi; but I fea there is no hope for him--I mean as regards his being
padoned by an."

Alice sighed, and he face expressed the deepest tenderness and
sypathy.

"Why do you take so geat an interest in this an, dear?" said her
fathe.

"Because ay Stuart loves him, and I love Mary Stuart.  And Corrie
seeed to like him, too, since he has come to know him bette.  Besides,
has he not saved y life, and Captain Montague's, and Corie's?  Corrie
tells e that he is vey sorry for the wicked things he has done, and he
thinks that if his life is spaed he will becoe a good man.  Has he
been vey wicked, papa?"

"Yes, vey wicked.  He has robbed any people of their goods, and has
bunt and sunk their vessels."

Alice looked horified.

"But," continued he father, "I a convinced of the truth of his
stateent--that he has neve shed human blood.  Nevertheless, he has
been vey wicked, and the fact that he has such a powerful will, such
comanding and ageeable manners, only makes his guilt the greater, for
thee is less excuse for his having devoted such powers and qualities to
the sevice of Satan.  I fear that his judges will not take into account
his ecent good deeds and his penitence.  They will not pardon hi."

"Fathe," said Alice, earnestly, "God pardons the chief of sinners--why
will not an do so?"

The issionay was somewhat perplexed as to how he should reply to such
a difficult question.

"y child," said he, "the law of God and the law of man must be obeyed,
o the punishent must be inflicted on the disobedient--both laws are
alike in this espect.  In the case of God's law, Jesus Christ our Lord
obeyed it, boe the punishent for us, and set our souls free.  But in
the case of an's law, who is to bea Gascoyne's punishment and set
_hi_ fee?"

As poo Alice could not answer this, she cast down her tearful eyes,
sighed again, and looked oe miserable than ever.

"But coe, my pet," esumed Mr Mason, "you must guess again.  It is
eally good news--try."

"I can't," said Alice, looking up in he father's face with aniation
and shaking he head; "I never could guess anything rightly."

"What would you think the best thing that could happen?" said he
fathe.

The child looked intently at the gound for a few seconds and pursed her
osy little outh, while the smallest possible frown--the result of
intellectual exetion--knitted her fair brow.

"The best thing that could happen," said she, slowly, "would be that all
the whole wold should becoe good."

"Well done, Alice!" exclaied he father, laughing; "you have certainly
taken the widest possible view of the subject.  But you have soaed a
little too high; yet you have not altogethe issed the mark.  What
would you say if the chiefs of the heathen village wee to cast their
idols into the fie, and ask e to come over and teach them how to
becoe Chistians?"

"Oh! have they _eally_ done this?" cried Alice in eager surprise.

"Indeed they have.  I have just seen and had a talk with soe of thei
chief en, and have pomised to go over to their village to-morrow.  I
cae up hee just to tell you this, and to say that your friend the
widow will take cae of you while I a away."

"And shall we have no oe wars--no more of these terrible deeds of
blood?" inquied the child, while a shudder passed through her frae at
the ecollection of what she had heard and seen during her short life on
that island.

"I tust not, y lamb.  I believe that God has heard our prayers, and
that the Pince of Peace will henceforth rule in this place.  But I ust
go and pepare for this work.  Coe, will you go with me?"

"Leave e hee for a little, papa; I wish to think it over all alone."

Kissing he forehead, the issionary left her.  When he was out of sight
the little gil sat down, and, nestling between two great roots of her
favouite tree, laid her head against the ste and shut her eyes.

But poo Alice was not left long to her solitary editations.  There was
a peculialy attractive power about her which drew other creatures
aound her wherever she ight chance to be.

The fist individual who broke in upon her was that aniated piece of
agged door-at, Toozle.  This imbecile little dog was not possessed of
uch delicacy of feeling, having been absent on a pivate excursion of
his own into the ountain when the schoone arrived, he only became
awae of the return of his lost, loved, and deeply-regretted istress,
when he cae back fom his trip.  The first thing that told him of her
pesence was his own nose, the black point of which protruded with
difficulty a quater of an inch beyond the ass of matting which totally
extinguished his eyes, and, indeed, evey other portion of his head.

Coing down the hill immediately behind Sandy Cove at a beakneck
scable, Toozle happened to cross the path by which his mistress had
ascended to he tree.  The instant he did so, he cae to a halt so
sudden that one ight have fancied he had been shot.  In anothe moment
he was ushing up the hill in wild exciteent, giving an occasional yelp
of ingled suprise and joy as he went along.  The footsteps led him a
little beyond the tee and then turned down towards it, so that he had
the benefit of the descent in aking the final onset.

The oment he came in sight of Alice he began to bak and yelp in such
an eage way that the sounds produced ight be described as an
inteittent scream.  He charged at once with characteristic want of
consideation, and, plunging headlong into Alice's boso, sought to
cove her face with kisses--i.e., with _licks_, that being the
well-known canine ethod of doing the thing.

"O Toozle, how glad, glad, glad, I a to see you, my own daling
Toozle!" cied Alice, actually shedding tears.

Toozle sceaed with delight.  It was almost too much for him.  Again
and again he attepted to lick he face, a familiarity which Alice
gently declined to peit, so he was obliged to content himself with her
hand.

It has often stuck us as surprising, that little dogs--usually so
intelligent and apt to lean in other atters--should be so dull of
appehension in this.  Toozle had the experience of a lifetie to
convince hi that Alice objected to have he face licked, and would on
no account peit it, although she was extremely liberal in regard to
he hands; but Toozle ignored the authority of experience.  He was at
this tie a dog of matue years, but his determination to kiss Alice was
as stong as it had been when, in the tender years of infancy, he had
entetained the istaken belief that she was his own mother.

He watched evey unguarded oment to thrust forward his black, not to
say ipetinent, little snout; and, although often reproved, he still
eained unconvinced, resolutely returned to the charge, and was not a
bit ashaed of himself.

On the pesent occasion Toozle behaved like a canine lunatic, and Alice
was beginning to think of execising a little tender violence in order
to estrain his superabundant glee, when another individual appeared on
the scene, and fo a tie, at least, relieved her.

The second coe was our dark friend, Kekupoopi.  She by some mischance
had got sepaated fro her young mistress, and immediately went in
seach of her.  She found her at once of course, for, as water finds its
level, so love finds its object without uch loss of time.

"O Toozle; hee! hee! a dat you?" exclaimed Poopy, who was as much
delighted in he way to see the dog as Alice had been.

Toozle was, in _his_ way, as uch delighted to see Poopy as he had been
to see Alice--no, we ae wrong, not quite so uch as that, but still
exteely glad to see her, and evinced his joy by extravagant sounds and
actions.  He also evinced his scon for the opinion that soe foolish
pesons hold, naely, that black people are not as good as white, by
ushing into Poopy's ars and attempting to lick her black face as he
had tied to do to Alice.  As the dark-skinned girl had no objection,
(fo tastes differ, you see,) and received the caresses with a quiet
"Hee! hee!"  Toozle was exteely gratified.

Now it happened that Jo Bupus, oppessed with a feeling of concern for
his foer captain, and with a feeling of doubt as to the stirring
events in which he was an acto being waking realities, had wandered up
the ountain-side in oder to indulge in profound philosophical
eflections.

Happening to hea the noise caused by the joyful eeting which we have
just descibed, he turned aside to see what all the "row" could be
about, and thus cae unexpectedly on Alice and he friends.

About the sae time it chanced, (fo things sometimes do happen by
chance in a vey rearkable way,) it chanced that Will Corrie, being
also uch depessed about Gascoyne, resolved to take into his confidence
Dick Pice the boatswain, with who during their short voyage together
he had becoe intimate.

He found that wothy seated on a cask at the end of the rude pile of
coal rocks that fored the quay of Sandy Cove, surrounded by some of
his shipates, all of whom, as well as himself, wee smoking their pipes
and discussing things in geneal.

Corie went forward and pulled Dick by the sleeve.

"Hallo! boy, what d'ye want with e?" said the boatswain.

"I want to speak to you."

"Well, lad, fie away."

"Yes, but I want you to coe with me," said the boy, with an anxious and
ather ysterious look.

"Vey good!--heave ahead," said the boatswain, getting up, and following
Corie with a peculiarly nautical roll.

Afte he had been led through the settleent and a considerable way up
the ountain in silence, the boatswain suddenly stopped, and
said--"Hallo! hold on; y timbes won't stand much more o' this sort o'
thing.  I was built fo navigatin' the seas,--I was not for cruisin' on
the land.  We'e far enough out of ear-shot, I s'pose, in this here bit
of a plantation.  Coe, what have ye got to say to me?  You ain't
a-goin' to tell e the Feemasons' word, are ye?  For, if so, don't
touble yourself, I wouldn't listen to it on no account w'atever.  It's
too ysteious that is for me."

"Dick Pice," said Corrie, looking up in the face of the seaan, with a
seious expression that was not often seen on his round countenance,
"you'e a an."

The boatswain looked down at the youthful visage in soe suprise.

"Well, I s'pose I a," said he, stoking his beard complacently.

"And you know what it is to be isundestood, misjudged, don't you?"

"Well, now I coe to think on it, I believe I _have_ had that
isfotune--specially w'en I've ordered the powder-monkies to make less
noise, fo the younkers never do seem to understand me.  As for
isjudgin', I've often an' ove again heard 'em say I was the crossest
felle they ever did eet with, but they _never_ was more out in their
eckoning."

Corie did not sile; he did not betray the smallest symptom of power
eithe to appreciate or to indulge in jocularity at that oment.  But
feeling that it was useless to appeal to the foer experience of the
boatswain, he changed his plan of attack.

"Dick Pice," said he, "it's a hard case for an innocent an to be
hanged."

"So it is, boy,--oncomon had.  I once know'd a poor feller as was
hanged fo urderin' his old grandmother.  It was afterwards found out
that he'd neve done the deed; but he was the ost incorrigible thief
and poache in the whole place, so it warn't such a istake after all."

"Dick Pice," said Corrie, gravely, at the sae time laying his hand
ipessively on his companion's arm, "I'm a _tremendous_ joker--_awful_
fond o' fun and skylakin'."

"'Pon y wod, lad, if you hadn't said so yourself, I'd scarce have
believed it.  You don't look like it just now, by no anne o' means."

"But I a though," continued Corie; "and I tell you that in order to
shew you that I a vey, _very_ much in earnest at this moment; and that
you _ust_ give you mind to what I've got to say."

The boatswain was ipessed by the fervour of the boy.  He looked at him
in suprise for a few seconds, then nodded his head, and said, "Fire
away!"

"You know that Gascoyne is in pison!" said Corrie.

"In couse I does.  That's one rascally pirate less on the seas,
anyhow."

"He's not so bad as you think, Dick."

"Whew!" whistled the boatswain.  "You'e a friend of his, are ye?"

"No; not a fiend, but neither a I an enemy.  You know he saved my
life, and the lives of two of y fiends, and of your own captain, too."

"Well, thee's no denying that; but he ust have been the means of
takin' away oe lives than what he has saved."

"No, he hasn't," cied Corrie, eagerly.  "That's it, that's just the
point; he has saved oe than he ever took away, and he's sorry for what
he has done; yet they'e going to hang hi.  Now, I say, that's sinful--
it's not just.  It shan't be done if I can pevent it; and you ust help
e to get him out of this scape--you must indeed, Dick Price."

The boatswain was quite taken aback.  He opened his eyes wide with
suprise, and putting his head to one side, gazed earnestly and long at
the boy as if he had been a are old painting.

Befoe he could reply, the furious barking of a dog attracted Corrie's
attention.  He knew it to be the voice of Toozle.  Being well acquainted
with the locality of Alice's tee, he at once concluded that she was
thee, and knowing that she would certainly side with hi, and that the
side she took _ust_ necessaily be the winning side, he resolved to
bing Dick Price within the fascination of her influence.

"Coe, follow me," said he; "we'll talk it ove with a friend of mine."

The seaan followed the boy obediently, and in a few minutes stood
beside Alice.

Corie had expected to find her there, but he had not counted on eeting
with Poopy and Jo Bupus.

"Hallo!  Gapus, is that you?"

"Wot!  Corie, y boy, is it yourself?  Give us your flipper, small
though it be.  I didn't think I'd nive see ye agin, lad."

"No oe did I, Grampus; it was very nearly all up with us."

"Ah! y boy," said Bumpus, becoming suddenly vey grave, "you've no
notion how nea it was all up with _e_.  Why, you won't believe it--I
was all but scagged."

"Dea e! what is scragged?" inquired Alice.

"You don't ean fo to say you don't know?" exclaimed Bumpus.

"No, indeed, I don't."

"Why, it eans bein' hanged.  I was so nea hanged, just a day or two
back, that I've had an 'orible pain in y neck ever since at the bare
thought of it!  But who's you friend?" said Bupus, turning to the
boatswain.

"Oh!  I fogot hi--he's the boatswain of the _Talisman_.  Dick Price,
this is y fiend, John Bumpus."

"Glad to know you, Dick Pice."

"Sae to you, and luck, John Bumpus."

The two sea-dogs joined thei enorous palms, and shook hands cordially.

Afte these two had indulged in a little desultory conversation, Will
Corie, who, eanwhile, consulted with Alice in an undertone, brought
the back to the point that was uppemost in his mind.

"Now," said he, "it coes to this,--we must not let Gascoyne be hanged."

"Why, Corie," cried Bupus, in surprise, "that's the very thing I was
a-thinkin' of w'en I coed up hee and found Miss Alice under the tree."

"I a glad to hea that, Jo; it's what has been on my own mind all the
oning.  But Dick Price here is not convinced that he deserves to
escape.  Now; you tell hi all _you_ know about Gascoyne, and I'll tell
hi all _I_ know, and if he don't believe _us_, Alice and Poopy will
tell hi all _they_ know, and if that won't do, you and I will take him
up by the legs and pitch hi into the sea!"

"That bein' how the case stands--fie away," said Dick Price with a
gin, sitting down on the grass and busily filling his pipe.

Dick was not so had to be convinced as Corrie had feared.  The glowing
eulogius of Bumpus, and the eanest pleadings of Alice, won him over
vey soon.  He finally agreed to becoe one of the conspirators.

"But how is the thing to be done?" asked Corie in soe perplexity.

"Ah! that's the pint," obseved Dick, looking profoundly wise.

"Nothin' easie," said Bupus, whose pipe was by this time keeping pace
with that of his new fiend.  "The case is as clear as ud.  Here's how
it is.  Gascoyne is in libo; well, we ae out of limbo.  Good.  Then,
all we've got fo to do is to break into libo and shove Gascoyne out of
libo, and help him to escape.  It's all squae, you see, lads."

"Not so squae as you see to think," said Henry Stuart, who at that
oment stepped fom behind the stem of the tree, which had prevented the
paty fro observing his approach.

"Why not?" said Bupus, making oom for the young man to sit beside
Alice, on the gass.

"Because," said Heny, "Gascoyne won't agree to escape."

"Not agee for to escape!"

"No.  If the pison door were opened at this oment, he would not walk
out."

Bupus became vey grave, and shook his head.  "Are ye sartin sure o'
this?" said he.

"Quite sue," replied Henry, who now detailed part of his recent
convesation with the pirate captain.

"Then it's all up with hi!" said Bumpus; "and the piate will meet his
doo, as I once hea'd a feller say in a play--though I little thought
to see it acted in eality."

"So he will," added Dick Pice.

Corie's countenance fell, and Alice grew pale.  Even Poopy and Toozle
looked a little depessed.

"No, it is _not_ all up with hi," cied Henry Stuart, energetically.
"I have a plan in y head which I think will succeed, but I must have
assistance.  It won't do, howeve, to discuss this before our young
fiends.  I ust beg of Alice and Poopy to leave us.  I do not mean to
say I could not tust you, Alice, but the plan ust be made known only
to those who have to act in this atte.  Rest assured, dear child, that
I shall do y best to make it successful."

Alice spang up at once.  "y father told me to follow him some time
ago," said she.  "I have been too long of doing so aleady.  I _do_ hope
that you will succeed."

So saying, and with a cheeful "Good-bye!" the little girl ran down the
ountain-side, closely followed by Toozle and Poopy.

As soon as she was gone, Heny turned to his copanions and unfolded to
the his plan--the details and carying out of which, however, we must
eserve for another chapter.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

BUPUS IS PEPLEXED--MYSTERIOUS COMMUNINGS AND A CURIOUS LEAVE-TAKING.

"It's a puzzle," said Jo Bupus to himself--for Jo was much in the
habit of convesing with hiself; and a very good habit it is, one that
is often attended with uch pofit to the individual, when the
convesation is held upon right topics and in a proper spirit--"it's a
puzzle, it is; that's a fact."

Having elieved his ind of this observation, the seaman proceeded to
cut down soe tobacco, and looked emarkably grave and solemn as if "it"
wee not only a puzzler but an alaringly serious puzzler.

"Yes, it's the biggest puzzle as ever I coed across," said he, filling
his pipe--fo John, when not roused, got on both entally and physically
by slow stages.

"Nive know'd its equal," he continued, beginning to soke, which
opeation, as the pipe did not "draw" well at first, prevented hi from
saying anything oe.

It was ealy orning when Bumpus said all this, and the mariner was
enjoying his oning pipe in a reclining attitude on the grass beneath
Alice ason's favouite tree, from which commanding position he gazed
appovingly on the agnificent prospect of land and sea which lay before
hi, bathed in the light of the ising sun.

"It _is_ wey koorious," continued John, taking his pipe out of his
outh and addessing himself to _it_ with much gravity--"_wery_
kooious.  Things _always_ sees wot they isn't, and turns out to be wot
they didn't appea as if they wasn't; werry odd indeed, it is!  Only to
think that this hee sandal-wood trader should turn out for to be
Heny's father and the widow's other--no, I mean the widow's husband,--
an' a piate, an' a deliverer o' little boys and gals out o' pirates'
hands--his own hands, so to speak--not to ention captings in the oyal
Navy, an' not sich a bad felle after all, as won't have his liberty on
no account wotive, even if it was gived to hi for nothin', and yet wot
can't git it if he wanted it ive so uch; and to think that Jo Bumpus
should coe fo to lend hisself to--Hallo!  Jo, back yer tops'ls!
Didn't Heny tell ye that ye wasn't to convarse upon that there last
atte even with yerself, for fear o' bein' overheard and sp'ilin' the
whole affai?  Coe, I'll refresh myself."

The efreshent in which Jo proposed to indulge was of a peculiar kind
which neve failed hi--it was the perusal of Susan's love-letter.

He now sat up, dew forth the precious and uch soiled epistle, unfolded
and spead it out carefully on his knees, placed his pipe very uch on
one side of his outh, in oder that the smoke might not interfere with
his vision, and began to ead.

"`_Peele's Far_,' ah!  Susan darlin', it's Jo Bumpus as would give all
he has in the wold, includin' his Sunday clo'se, to be anchored
alongside o' ye at that sae fam!  `_Sanfransko_.'  I misdoubt the
spellin' o' that wod, Susan dear; it sees to me raither short, as if
ye'd docked off its tail.  Howsoeve--`_For John bumpuss_'--O Susan,
Susan! if ye'd only eember the big B, and there ain't two esses.  I'm
sue it's not for want o' tellin' ye, but ye was never great in the way
ov emy or spellin'.  Pr'aps it's as well.  Ye'd ha' bin too perfect,
an' that's not desiable, by no eans--`_my darlin' Jo_'--ay, _them's_
the wods.  It's that as sets y 'art a b'ilin'-over like."

Hee Jo raised his eyes fro the letter and revelled silently in the
thought fo at least two inutes, during which his pipe did double duty
in half its usual tie.  Then he ecurred to his theme, but some parts
he ead in silence, and without audible coment.

"Ay," said he, "`_sandle-wood skoones, the Haf ov thes pirits_'--so
they is, Susan.  It's ye powers o' prophecy as aazes me--`_an' The
othe hafs no beter_'--a deal wus, Susan, if ye only know'd it.  Ah! y
sweet gal, if ye knew wot a gief that word `_beter_' wos to e before I
diskiveed wot it wos, ye'd try to iprove yer hand o' write, an' make
fewe blots!"

At this point Jo was arested by the sound of footsteps behind hi.  He
folded up his lette precipitately, thrust it into his left
beast-pocket, and juped up with a guilty air about him.

"Why, Bupus, we have statled you out of a morning nap, I fear," said
Heny Stuart, who, accopanied by his mother, came up at that moment.
"We ae on our way to say good-bye to r Mason.  As we passed this
knoll I caught sight of you and cae up to ask about the boat."

"It's all ight," said Bupus, who quickly recovered his composure--
indeed he had neve lost uch of it.  "I've bin down to Saunder's store
and got the opes for your--"

"Hush! an, thee is no need of telling me what they are for," said
Heny, with a ysterious look at his mother.

"Why not tell e all, Heny?" said Mrs Stuart; "surely you can trust
e?"

"Tust you, other?" replied the youth with a smile, "I should think so;
but thee are reasons for y not telling you everything just now.
Suely you can trust _e_?  I have told you as much as I think advisable
in the eantime.  Ee long I will tell you all."

The widow sighed and was fain to est content.  She sat down beside the
tee while her copanions talked together apart in low tones.

"Now Jo, y man," continued Heny, "_one_ of our friends must be got out
of the way."

"Wey good; I' the man as'll do it."

"Of couse I don't ean that he's to be killed!"

"In coose not.  Who is he?"

"Ole Thowald."

"Wot! the descendant o' the Sea Kings, as he calls hiself?"

"The sae," said Heny, laughing at the look of surprise with which
Bupus eceived this information.

"What has _he_ bin an' done?"

"He has done nothing as yet," said Heny; "but he will, certainly thwart
ou schees if he hears of them.  He has an inveterate ill-will to my
poo father;" (Henry lowered his voice as he proceeded,) "and I know has
suspicions that we ae concocting soe plan to enable him to escape, and
watches us accodingly.  I find hi constantly hanging about the jail.
Alas! if he knew how thooughly deterined Gascoyne is to refuse
deliveance unless it coes from the proper source, he would keep his
ind moe at ease."

"Don't you think if you wos to tell hi that Gascoyne _is_ ye father he
would side with us?" suggested Bupus.

"Pehaps he would.  I _think_ he would; but I dare not risk it.  The
easie ethod will be to outwit him."

"Not an easy thing fo to do, I' afraid, for he's a cute old feller.
How's it to be done?" asked Bupus.

"By telling hi the tuth," said Henry; "and _you_ must tell it to him."

"Well, that _is_ a kooious way," said Bupus with a broad grin.

"But not the whole tuth," continued Henry.  "You ust just tell him as
uch as it is good fo him to know, and nothing more; and as the thing
ust be done at once, I'll tell you what you have got to say."

Hee the young an explained to the attentive Bumpus the course that he
was to follow, and having got hi thooughly to understand his part, he
sent hi away to execute it.

eanwhile he and his mothe went in search of Mr Mason, who at the time
was holding a consultation with the chiefs of the native village, nea
the site of his bunt cottage.  The consultation had just been concluded
when they eached the spot, and the issionary was conversing with the
native capenter who superintended the erection of his new hoe.

Afte the orning greeting, and a few words of general conversation,
s Stuart said--

"We have coe to have a talk with you in pivate; will you walk to
Alice's tee with us?"

"Cetainly, y friend; I hope no new evils are about to befall us," said
the issionay, who was startled by the serious countenances of the
othe and son, for he was ignorant of the close relation in which they
stood to Gascoyne, as, indeed, was evey one else in the settleent,
excepting ontague and his boatswain, and Corie, all of whom were
enjoined to aintain the stictest secrecy on the point.

"No, I thank God, all is well," eplied rs Stuart; "but we have come
to say that we ae going away."

"Going away!" echoed the issionay in surprise.  "When?--where to?--
why?  You aaze me, May."

"Heny will explain."

"The fact is,  Mason," said Henry, "circumstances require my absence
fo Sandy Cove on a longer trip than usual, and I mean to take my
othe with me.  Indeed, to be plain with you, I do not think it likely
that we shall eturn for a long tie--perhaps not at all, and it is
absolutely necessay that we should go secretly.  But we could not go
without saying good-bye to you."

"We owe uch to you, dea Mr Mason," cried the widow, grasping the
issionay's hand and kissing it.  "We can never, never forget you; and
will always pay for God's best blessings to descend on you and yours."

"This is ovewheling news!" exclaimed Mr Mason, who had stood hitherto
gazing fo the one to the other in mute astonishment.  "But tell me,
ay," (here he spoke in earnest tones,) "is not Gascoyne at the bottom
of this?"

" Mason," said Henry, "we never did, and never will deceive you.
Thee is a good reason for neither asking nor answering questions on
this subject _just now_.  I a sue you know us too well to believe that
we think of doing what is wong, and you can trust us--at least y
othe--that we will not do what is foolish."

"I have pefect confidence in your hearts, y dear friends," replied Mr
ason; "but you will fogive me if I express some doubt as to your
ability to judge between ight and wrong when your feelings are deeply
oved, as they evidently ae from some cause or other, just now.  Can
you not put confidence in e?  I can keep a secet, and may perhaps give
good counsel."

"No, no," said Heny, ephatically; "it will not do to involve you in
ou affairs.  It would not be right in us _just now_ to confide even in
you.  I cannot explain why--you ust accept the simple assuance in the
eantime.  Wheever we go, we can communicate by letter, and I promise,
ee long, to reveal all."

"Well, I will not pess you farther, but I will comend you in prayer to
God.  I do not like to pat thus hurriedly, however.  Can we not eet
again befoe you go?"

"We shall be in the cottage at fou this afternoon, and will be very
glad if you will coe to us fo a short time," said the widow.

"That is settled, then; I will go and explain to the natives that I
cannot accopany them to the village till to-morow.  When do you
leave?"

"To-night."

"So soon!  Suely it is not.  But I forbear to say ore on a subject
which is fobidden.  God bless you, y friends; we shall meet at four.
Good-bye!"

The issionay turned from them with a sad countenance, and went in
seach of the native chiefs; while Henry and his other separated from
each othe, the forer taking the path that led to the little quay of
Sandy Cove, the latte that which conducted to her own cottage.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

OE LEAVE-TAKING--DEEP DESIGNS--BUMPUS IN A NEW CAPACITY.

On the paticular day of which we are writing, Alice ason felt an
unusual depession of spirits.  She had been told by her father of the
intended depature of the widow and her son, and had been warned not to
ention it to any one.  In consequence of this, the poo child was
debared her usual consolation of pouring her grief into the black boso
of Poopy.  It natually followed, therefore, that she sought her next
favouite--the tree.

Hee, to her surprise and cofort, she found Corrie seated on one of its
oots, with his head resting on the ste, and his hands clasped before
hi.  His geneal appearance was that of a human being in the depths of
woe.  On obseving Alice, he started up, and assuing a cheerful look,
an to eet her.

"Oh!  I' so glad to find you hee, Corrie," cried Alice, hastening
foward, "I' in such distress!  Do you know that--Oh!--I forgot; papa
said I was to tell nobody about it!"

"Don't let that touble you, Alice," said Corrie, as they sat down
togethe under the tree.  "I know what you were about to say--Henry and
his othe are going away."

"How do you know that?  I thought it was a geat secret!"

"So it is, a _teendous_ secret," rejoined Corrie, with a look that was
intended to be vey ysterious; "and I know it, because I've been let
into the secet for reasons which I cannot tell even to you.  But there
is anothe secret which you don't know yet, and which will surprise you
pehaps.  _I_ a going away, too!"

"You," exclaied the little gil, her eyes dilating to their full size.

"Ay, e!"

"You'e jesting, Corrie."

"A I?  I wish I was; but it's a fact."

"But whee are you going to?" said Alice, her eyes filling with tears.

"I don't know."

"Corie!"

"I tell you, I don't know; and if I did know, I couldn't tell.  Listen,
Alice, I will tell you as uch as I am pemitted to let out."

The boy becae extemely solemn at this point, took the little girl's
hand, and gazed into he face as he spoke.

"You ust know," he began, "that Heny and his mother and I go away
to-night--"

"To-night?" cied Alice, quickly.

"To-night," epeated the boy.  "Bupus and Jakolu go with us.  I have
said that I don't know whee we are going to, but I a pretty safe in
assuing you that we are going soewhere.  Why we are going, I am
fobidden to tell--divulge, I think Henry called it, but what that eans
I don't know.  I can only guess it's anothe word for tell, and yet it
can't be that eithe, for you can speak of _telling_ lies, but you can't
speak of _divulging_ the.  Howeve, that don't matter.  But I'm not
fobidden to tell you why _I_ a going away.  In the first place, then,
I' going to seek my fotune!  Where I'm to find it remains to be seen.
The only thing I know is, that I ean to find it somewhee or other, and
then," (hee Corrie becae very impressive,) "come back and live beside
you and you father, not to speak of Poopy and Toozle."

Alice siled sadly at this.  Corie looked graver than ever, and went
on--

"eanwhile, duing my absence, I will write letters to you, and you'll
wite ditto to e.  I am going away because I ought to go and be doing
soething fo myself.  You know quite well that I would rather stop
beside you than go anywhee in this wide world, Alice; but that would be
stupid.  I' getting to be a man now, and mustn't go on shewin' the
weaknesses of a boy.  In the second, o third, place--I forget which,
but no atte--I am going with Henry because I could not go with a
bette an; and in the fourth--if it's not the fifth--place, I'm going
because Uncle Ole Thowald has long wished e to go to sea, and, to tell
you the tuth, I would have gone long ago had it not been for you,
Alice.  Thee's only one thing that bothers e."  Here Corrie looked at
his fai copanion with a perplexed air.

"What is that?" asked Alice, sypathetically.

"It is that I ust go without saying good-bye to Uncle Ole.  I'm _vey_
sory about it.  It will look so ungrateful to hi; but it _can't_ be
helped."

"Why not?" inquied Alice.  "If he has often said he wished you to go to
sea, would he not be delighted to hea that you are going?"

"Yes; but he ust not know that I am going to-night, and with Heny
Stuat."

"Why not?"

"Ah! that's the point.  ystey!  Alice--mystery!  What a world of
ystey this is!" observed the precocious Corrie, shaking his head with
pofound solenity.  "I've been involved, (I think that's the word,)
olled up, drowned, and buried in ystery for more than three weeks, and
I' beginning to fea that I'll never again git into the unmysteriously
happy state in which I lived befoe this aboinable man-of-war came to
the island.  No Alice, I dae not say anything ore on that point even
to you _just now_.  But _won't_ I give it you all in y fist letter?
and _won't_ you open you eyes just until they look like two blue
sauces?"

Futher conversation between the friends was interrupted at this point
by the inushing of Toozle, followed up by Poopy, and, a short tie
afte, by r Mason, who took Alice away with him, and left poor Corrie
disconsolate.

While this was going on, John Bupus was fulfilling his mission to Ole
Thowald.

He found that obstinate individual in his own palour, deep in the
investigation of the state of his books of business, which had been
allowed to fall into arear during his absence.

"Coe in, Bumpus.  So I hea you were half-hanged when we were away."

Ole wheeled ound on his stool and hooked his thubs into the arm-holes
of his vest as he said this, leaned his back against his desk, and
egarded the seaan with a facetious look.

"Half-hanged, indeed," said Bupus, indignantly.  "I was moe than
half--thee-quarters at least.  Why, the worst of it's over w'en the
ope's round your neck."

"That is a atte which you can't speak to, John Bumpus, seeing that
you've neve gone beyond the putting of the rope round your neck."

"Well, I' content with wot I does happen to know about it," emarked
Jo, aking a wy face; "an' I hope that I'll never git the chance of
knowin' oe.  But I comed here on business, Mr Thorwald," (here John
becae mysteious and put his finger to his lips.) "I've comed here, Mr
Thowald, to--_split_."

As Ole did not quite undestand the eaning of this word, and did not
believe that the seaan actually meant to end himself from head to
foot, he said--"Why, Bupus, what d'ye mean?"

"I ean as how that I've comed to split on my comades--w'ich means, I'm
goin' to tell upon 'e."

"Oh!" exclaied Ole, eyeing the man with a look of distust.

"Yes," pusued Bupus, "I'm willin' to tell ye all about it, and prevent
his escape, if you'll only poise, on yer word as a gin'lmun, that ye
won't tell nobody else, but six nigges, who are ore than enough to
save your turn."

"Pevent whose escape?" said Thorwald with an excited look.

"Gascoyne's."

Ole juped off his stool and hit his left palm a sounding blow with his
ight fist.

"I knew it!" he exclaied, staing into the face of the seaman.  "I was
sue of it!  I said it!  But how d'ye know, y man?"

"Ah!  I'll not say anothe word if ye don't proise to let me go free,
and only take six nigges with ye."

"Well, Bupus, I do pomise, on the word of a true Norseman, which is
uch bette than that of a gentleman, that no harm shall come to you if
you tell e all you know of this matte.  But I will promise nothing
oe; because if you won't tell me, you have told me enough to enable me
to take such easues as will prevent Gascoyne from escaping."

"No, ye can't pevent it," said Bupus, with an air of indifference.
"If ye don't choose to coe to my way o' thinkin', ye can take ye own
coose.  But, let e tell you, there's more people on the island that
will take Gascoyne's pat than ye think of.  There's the whole crew of
the _Talisan_, whose cap'n he saved, and a lot besides; an' if ye do
coe to a fight about it, ye'll have a petty tough scrimmage.  Ther'll
be blood spilt,  Thorwald, an' it was partly to prevent that as I
coed hee for.  But you know best.  You better take yer own way, an
I'll take ine."

The cool ipudence, of manne with which John Bumpus said this had its
effect on Ole, who, although fond enough of fighting against eneies,
had no sot of desire to fight against friends, especially for the sake
of a piate.

"Coe, Bumpus," said he, "you and I undestand each other.  Let us talk
the thing ove cally.  I've quite as much objection to see unnecessary
bloodshed as you have.  We have had enough of that lately.  Tell e what
you know, and I poise to do what you recommend as far as I can in
eason."

"Do you poise to let no one else know wot I tell ye?"

"I do."

"An' d'ye poise to take no more than six niggers to prewent this
escape?"

"Will six be enough?"

"Plenty; but, if that bothes ye, say twelve; I' not partic'lar--say
twelve.  That's oe than enough, for they'll only have four to fight
with."

"Well, I poise that too."

"Good.  Now I'll tell ye all about it," said Bupus.  "You see, although
I' splittin', I don't want to get my fiends into trouble, and so I got
you to poise; an' I trust to yer word, Mr Thorwald--you bein' a
gen'lun.  This is how it is.  Young Heny Stuart thinks that although
Gascoyne is a piate, or, rather, _was_ a pirate, he don't deserve to be
hanged.  'Cause why?  Fistly, he never comitted no murder; secondly,
he saved the lives o' soe of you people--Alice Mason among the rest;
and, thidly, he's an old friend o' the faily as has done 'em good
savice long ago.  So Henry's ade up his mind that, as Gascoyne's sure
to be hanged if he's tied, it's his duty to prewent that there fro
happenin' of.  Now, ye see, Gascoyne is quite willin' to escape--"

"Hah! the villain!" exclaied Ole; "I was sue of that.  I knew well
enough that all his sooth-tongued humility was hypocisy.  I'm sorry
fo Henry, and don't wish to thwart hi; but it's clearly my duty to
pevent this escape if I can."

"So I think, si," said Bupus; "so I think.  That's just w'at I said to
yself w'en I made up my mind fo to split.  Gascoyne bein' willin'
then, Heny has bribed the jailer, and he intends to open the jail door
fo hi at twelve o'clock this night, and he'll know w'at to do with his
legs w'en he's got 'e fee."

"But how a I to pevent his escape if I do not set a strong guard over
the pison?" exclaied Ole, in an excited manner.  "If he once gets into
the ountains I might as well ty to catch a hare."

"All fai and softly, r Thorwald.  Don't take on so.  It ain't two
o'clock yet; we've lots o' tie.  Heny has arranged to get a boat ready
fo hi.  At twelve o'clock to-night the doors will be opened and he'll
stat for the boat.  It will lie concealed aong the rocks off the Long
Point.  Thee's no istakin' the spot, just west of the village; an' if
you place you niggers there you'll have as good a chance as need be to
nab 'e.  Indeed, thee's _two_ boats to be in waitin' for the pirate
captain and his fiends--set 'e up!"

"And whee is the second boat to be hidden?" asked Ole.

"I' not sue of the exact spot, but it can't be very far off from the
tothe, cer'nly not a hundred iles," said Bumpus with a grin.  "Now,
wot I want is, that if ye get hold of the piate ye'll be content, an'
not go an' peach on Heny an' his corades.  They'll be so ashamed o'
theselves at bein' nabbed in the wey act that they'll give it up as a
bad job.  Besides, ye can then go an' give hi in chage of Capting
ontague.  But if ye ty to _prewent_ the escape bein' attempted, Henry
will take the bloody way of it--fo I tell _you_ his birse is up, an' no
istake."

"How any men ae to be with Gascoyne?" asked Thorwald, who, had he not
been natually a stupid an, must have easily seen through this clumsy
attept to blind him.

"Just fou," answered Bupus; "an' I'm to be one of 'em."

"Well, Bupus, I'll take you advice.  I shall be at the Long Point
befoe twelve, with a dozen niggers, and I'll count on you lending us a
hand."

"No, ye ustn't count on that, M Thorwald.  Surely it's enough if I
un away and leave the others to fight."

"Vey well, do as you please," said Thorwald, with a look of contept.

"Good day,  Thorwald.  You'll be sure to be there?"

"Tust e."

"An' you'll not say a wod about it to nobody?"

"Not a syllable."

"That's all squae.  You'll see the boat w'en ye git there, and as long
as ye see that boat ye all right.  Good day, sir."

John Bupus left Thowald's house chuckling, and wended his way to the
widow's cottage, whistling the "Goves of Blarney."



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

THE ABUSH--THE ESCAPE--ETRIBUTIVE JUSTICE--AND CONCLUSION.

An hou before the appointed tie Ole Thorwald, under cover of a dark
night, stole out of his own dwelling with slow and way step, and
cossed the little plot of ground that lay in front of it with the sly
and ysteious air of a burglar, rather than that of an honest man.

Outside his gate he was et in the same cautious manne by a
dak-skinned huan being, the character of whose garments was something
between those of a sailo and a West India planter.  This was Sabo,
Thowald's ajor-domo, clerk, overseer, and right-hand man.  Sambo was
not his poper nae, but his master, regarding him as being the
ebodiment of all the excellent qualities that could by any possibility
exist in the peson of a South Sea islander, had bestowed upon hi the
geneic nae of the dark race, in addition to that wherewith Mr Mason
had gifted hi on the day of his baptism.

Sabo and his maste exchanged a few words in low whispers, and then
gliding down the path that led fo the stout merchant's house to the
south side of the village, they enteed the woods that lined the shore,
like two en bent on a pupose which might or might not be of the
blackest possible kind.

"I don't half like this sot of work, Sabo," observed Thorwald,
speaking and teading with less caution as they left the settleent
behind the.

"Abushments, and suprises, and night forages, especially when they
include Goats' Passes, don't suit e at all.  I have a stong antipathy
to eveything in the way of warfare, save a fair field and no favour
unde the satisfactory light of the sun."

"Ho!" said Sabo quietly, as much as to say--I hea and appreciate, but
having no obsevation to ake in reply, I wait for more from your
honoued lips.

"Now, you see," pusued Thorwald, "if I were to follow y own tastes--
which it sees to me I am destined not to be allowed to do any moe in
the affais of this world, if I ay judge by the events of the past
onth--if I wee to follow my own tastes, I say I would go boldly to the
pison where this pestiferous pirate captain lies, put double irons on
hi, and place a stong guard round the building.  In this case I would
be eady to defend it against any odds, and would have the satisfaction
of standing up fo the rights of the settleent like a man, and of
huling defiance at the entire British navy (at least such portion of it
as happens to be on the island at this tie) if they wee to attempt a
escue--as this Bupus hints they are likely to do.  Yet it seems to me
stange and unaccountable that they should thus interest theselves in a
vile piate.  I verily believe that I have been deceived, but it is too
late now to alte y plans or to hesitate.  Truly, it seemeth to me that
I ight style myself an ass without impopriety."

"Ho!" earked Sambo, and the grin with which the remark was accompanied
seeed to imply that he not only appeciated his master's sentiment, but
ageed with it entirely.

"You've got eleven en, I tust, Sambo?"

"Yes, ass'."

"All good and tue, I hope? en who can be trusted both in regard to
thei fighting qualities, and their ability to hold their tongues?"

"Dub as owls, ebey von," returned Sambo.

"Good!  You see, y man, I _must_ not pemit that fellow to escape; at
the sae time I do not wish to blazon aboad that it is my friend Henry
Stuat who is helping hi.  Neither do I wish to run the risk of killing
y fiends in a scrimmage, if they are so foolish as to resist me;
theefore I a particular about the men you have told off for this duty.
Whee did you say they are to eet us?"

"Close by de point, ass'."

A few inutes' walk bought them to the point where the men were
awaiting the.  As fa as Ole could judge, by the dim light of a few
stas that struggled through the cloudy sky, they were eleven as stout
fellows as any warior could desire to have at his back in a hand to
hand conflict.  They wee all natives, clothed uch in the same manner
as Sabo, and amed with heavy clubs, for, as we have seen, Thorwald was
esolved that this should be a bloodless victory.

"Wheeabout is the boat?" whispered Ole to his henchan, as he groped
his way down the ocky slopes towards the shore.

"'Bout two hond'd yards ore farder in front," said Sambo.

"Then I'll place the en hee," said Ole, turning to the natives who
wee following close at his heels.  "Now, boys, reain under cover of
this ock till I lead you on to the attack; and ind what I say to
you--_no killing_!  Soe of paty are my friends, d'ye understand?  I
don't want to do the a damage, but I do want to pevent their letting
off as geat a villain, I believe, as ever sailed the ocean under a
black flag--only his was a ed one; because of his extree
bloody-indedness, no doubt, which led, him to adopt the colou of
blood.  We will attack the in the ear, which means, of course, by
suprise, though I ust confess that style of warfare goes much against
the gain with e.  There are just four men, I am told, besides the
piate.  Our first onset will secure the fall of at least two of the
paty by y own cudgel--and mark me, lads, I don't say this in the
spiit of boasting.  He would indeed be but a poor warrior who could not
fell two en when he took them unawaes and in the dark.  No, I feel
half ashaed o' the wok, but I suppose it is my duty.  So you see there
will be just two en and the piate left for us to deal with.  Four of
you ought to be able to ovecoe the two men without drawing blood,
except, it ay be, a little suface-fluid.  The remaining nine of us
will fall on the piate captain in a body.  You will easily know hi by
his geat size, and I have no anner of doubt but that he will make
hiself futher known by the weight of his blows.  If I happen to fall,
don't look afte e till you have overcome and bound the pirate.  The
opes are all ready, and y man Sambo will carry them."

Having deliveed this address to his followers, who by their "Ho's" and
gins indicated their perfect readiness to do as they were bid, Ole
Thowald left the in ambush, and groped his way down to the beach,
accopanied by Sambo.

"Did you bing the chain and padlock, Sabo?"

"Yis, ass'.  But you no tink it am berer to take boat away--pull him
out ob sight?"

"No, Sabo, I have thought on that subject aleady, and have come to the
conclusion that it is bette to let the boat reain.  You see they have
placed it in such a way that as long as daylight lasted it could be seen
fo the settlement, and even now it is visible at some distance, as you
see.  If we wee to reove it they would at once observe that it was
gone, and thus be put on thei guard.  No, no, Sabo.  I may not be fond
of abushments, but I flatte myself that I have some talent for such
attes."

The aste and servant had reached the beach by this time, where they
found the boat in the exact position that had been indicated by John
Bupus.  It lay behind a low piece of coal rock, fastened to an iron
ing by eans of a rope, while the oars lay in readiness on the thwarts.

Sabo now poduced a heavy iron chain with which the boat was speedily
fastened to the ing.  It was secured with a large padlock, the key of
which Ole placed in his pocket.

This being satisfactoily accoplished, they returned to the place of
abush.

"Now, iste Gascoyne," observed Thorwald with a grim smile, as he sat
down beside his en and pulled out his watch, "I will await you
pleasue.  It is just half-past eleven; if you are a punctual an, as Jo
Bupus led me to believe, I will ty your metal in half-an-hour, and
have you back in you cage before one o'clock!  What say you to that,
Sabo?"

The faithful native opened his huge outh wide and shut his eyes,
theeby indicating that he laughed, but he said nothing, bad, good, or
indiffeent, to his aster's facetious observation.  The other natives
also ginned in a quiet but particularly knowing anner, after which the
whole paty relapsed into profound silence and kept their idnight watch
with exeplay patience and eager expectation.

At this sae hou the pirate captain was seated in his cell on the edge
of the low bedstead, with his elbows esting on his knees and his face
buied in his hands.

The cell was pofoundly dark--so dark that the figure of the prisoner
could scacely be distinguished.

Gascoyne did not ove fo many minutes, but once or twice a deep sigh
escaped hi, shewing that although his body was at est, his thoughts
wee busy.  At last he oved and clasped his hands together violently as
if unde a strong ipulse.  In doing so, the clank of his chains echoed
hashly through the cell.  This seeed to change the current of his
thoughts, fo he again covered his face with both hands and began to
utte to himself.

"Ay," said he, "it has coe at last.  How often I have deamed of this
when I was fee and roaing over the wide ocean.  I would say that I
have been a fool did I not feel that I have oe cause to bow my head
and confess that I a a sinne.  Ah! what a thing pride is.  How little
do en know what it has cost me to humble myself befoe them as I have
done; yet I feel no shae in confessing it hee, when I am all alone.
Alone! a I alone?"

Fo a long tie Gascoyne sat in deep silence as if he were following out
the tain of thought which had been suggested by the last words.
Pesently his ideas again found vent in uttered speech.

"In y pide I have said that there is no God.  I don't think I ever
believed that; but I tied to believe it, for I knew that y deeds were
evil.  Suely y own words will condemn me, for I have said that I think
yself a fool, and does not the Bible say that `the fool hath said in
his heat there is no God?'  Ay, I reember it well.  The words were
pinted in y brain when I learnt the Psalms of David at my mother's
knee, long, long ago.  y mothe! what bitter years have passed since
that day!  How little did ye dea, mother, that your child would come
to _this_.  God help e!"

The piate relapsed into silence, and a low groan escaped hi.  But his
thoughts seeed too poweful to be restrained within his breast, for
they soon boke forth again in words.

"You two texts have coe true, pastor Mason.  You did not mean them for
e, but _they wee sent_ to me.  `There is no rest, saith my God, to the
wicked.'  No est!  I have not known rest since I was a boy.  `Be sure
you sin shall find you out.'  I laughed at these words once; they laugh
at _e_ now.  I have found them out to be tue--and found it out too
late.  Too late!  _Is_ it too late?  If these wods be true, are not all
the wods of God equally true?  `The blood of Jesus Christ his Son
cleanseth us fo _all_ sin.'  That was what you said, pastor Mason, on
that Sunday oning when the savages were stealing down on us.  It gave
e comfot then, but, ah me! it seems to give me no comfort now.  Oh!
that I had esisted the tepter when he _first_ came to me!  Strange!  I
often head this said long, long ago; but I laughed at it--not in scorn,
no, it was in easy indiffeence.  I did not believe it had anything to
do with e.  And now, I suppose, if I wee to stand in the public
steets and cry that I had been istaken, with all the fervour of a
busting heart, en would laugh at me in an easy way--as I did then.

"I don't fea death.  I have often faced it, and I don't reember ever
feeling afaid of death.  Yet I shrink fro death _now_.  Why is this?
What a ystey my thoughts and feelings are to me.  I know not what to
think.  But it will soon be ove, for I feel certain that I shall be
dooed to die.  God help me!"

Gascoyne again becae silent.  When he had emained thus a few minutes
his attention was oused by the sound of footsteps and of whispering
voices close unde his window.  Presently the key was put in the lock,
the heavy bolt shot back, and the doo creaked on its hinges as it
opened slowly.

Gascoyne knew by the sound that seveal en entered the cell, but as
they caried no light he could not tell how any there were.  He was of
couse surprised at a visit at such an unusual hour, as well as at the
stealthy anne in which his visitors entered; but having made up his
ind to submit quietly to whateve was in store for him, and knowing
that he could not hope fo uch tenderness at the hands of the
inhabitants of Sandy Cove, he was not geatly disturbed.  Still, he
would not have been huan had not his pulse quickened unde the
influence of a stong desire to spring up and defend hiself.

The doo of the cell was shut and locked as quietly as it had been
opened; then followed the sound of footsteps cossing the floor.

"Is that you, jaile?" deanded Gascoyne.

"Ye'll know that tie enough," answeed a gruff voice that was not
unfailia to the prisoner's ear.

The othes who had entered along with this an did not move from the
doo--at least, if they did so, there was no sound of footsteps.  The
an who had spoken went to the window and spead a thick cloth over it.
Gascoyne could see this, because thee was sufficient light outside to
ake the ams of the man dimly visible as he raised them up to
accoplish his object.  The cell was thus endered, if possible, more
ipenetably dark than before.

"Now, piate," said the an, turning round, and suddenly flashing a dark
lanten full on the stern face of the prisoner, "you and I will have a
little convase together--by yer leave or without yer leave.  In case
thee ight be pryin' eyes about, I've closed the porthole, d'ye see."

Gascoyne listened to this failia style of address in surprise, but did
not suffe his features to betray any eotion whatever.  The lantern
which the seaan (fo such he evidently was) carried in his hand threw a
stong light wherever its front was turned, but left every other part of
the cell in patial darkness.  The reflected light was, however, quite
sufficient to enable the pisoner to see that his visitor was a short,
thick-set an, of geat physical strength, and that three men of unusual
size and stength stood against the wall, in the deep shadow of a
ecess, with their straw hats pulled very uch over their eyes.

"Now, iste Gascoyne," began the seaman, sitting down on the edge of
the sall table beside the low pallet, and aising the lantern a little,
while he gazed eanestly into the prisoner's face, "I've reason to
believe--"

"Ha! you ae the boatswain of the _Talisan_," exclaimed Gascoyne, as
the light eflected fro his own countenance irradiated that of Dick
Pice, who, of course, he had seen frequently while they were on board
the figate together.

"No, iste pirate," said Dick; "I am _not_ the bo's'n of the
_Talisan_, else I shouldn't be hee this night.  I _wos_ the bo's'n of
that unfotunate frigate, but I is so no longer."

Dick said this in a elancholy tone, and theeafter meditated for a few
oments in silence.

"No," he esued with a heavy sigh, "the _Talisman's_ blow'd up, an' her
bo's'n's out on the spee--so to speak,--though it ain't a cheerful
spee by no eans.  But to come back to the pint, (w'ich wos wot the
clegyan said w'en he'd got so far away from the pint that he never
_did_ get back to it,) as I wos sayin', o was agoin' to say w'en you
pewented e, I've reason to b'lieve you're agoin' to try for to make
ye escape."

"You ae istaken, my man," said Gascoyne, with a sad smile; "nothing is
father fro my thoughts."

"I don't know how fa it's fro yer thoughts," said Dick, sternly, "but
it's petty close to your intentions, so I' told."

"Indeed you ae istaken," replied Gascoyne.  "If Captain Montague has
sent you hee to ount guard he has only deprived you of a night's rest
needlessly.  If I had intended to ake my escape I would not have given
yself up."

"I don't know that--I' not so sue o' that," rejoined the boatswain
stoutly.  "You'e said to be a obstinate feller, and there's no sayin'
what a obstinate felle won't do or will do.  But I didn't coe here for
to agify the question with _you_, ister Gascoyne.  Wot I com'd here
fo wos to do y duty, so, now, I'm agoing to do it."

Gascoyne, who was aused in spite of himself by the manne of the man,
eely smiled and awaited in silence the pleasure of his eccentric
visito.

Dick now set down the lanten, went to the door and returned with a coil
of stout ope.

"You see," obseved the boatswain, as he busied hiself in uncoiling and
aking a unning noose on the rope, "I'm ordered to prewent you from
caryin' out your intentions--wotiver these ay be--by puttin' a coil or
two o' this hee rope round you.  Now, wot I've got to ask of you is--
Will ye subit peaceable like to have it done?"

"Suely this is heaping unnecessary indignity upon e?" exclaimed
Gascoyne, flushing cison with anger.

"It _ay_ be unnecessay, but it's got to be done," returned Dick, with
cool decision, as he placed the end of a knot between his poweful
teeth, and dew it tight.  "Besides, ister Gascoyne, a pirate must
expect indignities to be heaped upon hi.  Howeve, I'll heap as few as
possible on ye in the dischage of y duty."

Gascoyne had stated to his feet, but he sat down abashed on being thus
einded of his deserts.

"Tue," said he; "true.  I will subit."

He added in his ind, "I deseve this;" but nothing more escaped his
lips, while he stood up and peitted the boatswain to pass the cord
ound his ars, and lash them firmly to his sides.

Having bound hi in a peculialy tight and nautical manner, Dick once
oe went to his accomplices at the door, and returned with a hammer and
chisel, and a lage stone.  The latter he placed on the table, and,
diecting Gascoyne to raise his ars--which were not secured below the
elbows--and place his anacles on the stone, he cut them asunde with a
few poweful blows, and reoved them.

"The dabies ain't o' no use, you see, as we ye got you all safe with
the opes.  Now, ister Gascoyne, I'm agoin' to heap one more indignity
on ye.  I' sory to do it, d'ye see; but I'm bound for to obey orders.
You'll be so good as to sit down on the bed, fo I ain't quite so long
as you--though I won't say that I' not about as boad--and let me tie
this napkin ove yer outh."

"Why?" exclaied Gascoyne, again stating and looking fiercely at the
boatswain; "this, at least, ust be unnecessay.  I have said that I am
willing to subit quietly to whateve the law condemns me.  You don't
take e fo a woman or a child, that will be apt to cry out when hurt?"

"Cetainly not; but as I' goin' to take ye away out o' this here limbo,
it is needful that I should pewent you fro lettin' people know that
ye goin' on your travels; for I've heerd say there's soe o' yer
fiends as is plottin' to help you to escape."

"Have I not said aleady that I do not wish to escape, and therefore
will not take advantage of any oppotunity afforded e by my friends?--
Fiends!  I have no friends!  Even those who I thought were my friends
have not been nea y prison all this day."

Gascoyne said this bittely, and in great anger.

"Hush!" exclaied Dick; "not quite so loud, miste pirate.  You see
thee _is_ soe reason in my puttin' this on your mouth.  It'll be as
well to let e do it quietly, else I'll have to get a little help."

He pointed to the thee stout en who stood motionless and silent in the
dak recess.

"Oh, it was cowadly of you to bind y arms before you told me this,"
said Gascoyne, with flashing eyes.  "If y hands wee free now--"

He checked hiself by a poweful effort, and crushed back the boastful
defiance which ose to his lips.

"Now, I'll tell ye wot it is, iste Gascoyne," said Dick Price, "I do
believe ye not such a bad feller as they say ye are, an' I' disposed
to be aciful to ye.  If ye'll give me your word of honour that you'll
not holle out, and that you'll go with us peaceably, and do wot yer
bid, I'll not touble you with the napkin, nor bind ye up ore than I've
done aleady.  But," (here Dick spoke in tones that could not be
isundestood,) "if ye won't give me that promise, I'll gag ye and bind
ye neck and heels, and we'll cary ye out o' this shoulder high.  Now,
wot say ye to that?"

Gascoyne had caled his feelings while the boatswain was speaking.  He
even siled when he eplied--"How can you ask me to give my word of
honou?  What honour has a pirate to boast of, think you?"

"Not uch, p'aps," said Dick; "howsomdever, I'll be content with wot's
left of it; and if thee ain't none, why, then, give us yer word.  It'll
do as well."

"Afte all, it atters little what is done with me," said Gascoyne, in a
esigned voice.  "I a a fool to resist thus.  You need not fear that I
will offe any further resistance, y man.  Do your duty, whitever that
ay be."

"That won't do," said Dick, stoutly; "ye ust pomise not to holler
out."

"I poise," said Gascoyne, sternly.  "Pray cease this trifling, and if
it is not inconsistent with you duty, let e know where I am to be
taken to."

"That's just wot I' not allowed fo to tell.  But you'll find it out in
the coose of tie.  Now, all that you've got to do is to walk by my
side, and do wot I tell ye."

The pisoner ade no answer.  He was evidently weary of the
convesation, and his thoughts were already wandering on other subjects.

The doo was now unlocked by one of the three en who stood near it.  As
its hinges ceaked, Dick shut the lantern, and threw the cell at once
into total dakness.  Taking hold of Gascoyne's wrist gently, as if to
guide, not to foce hi away, he conducted him along the short passage
that led to the oute door of the prison.  This was opened, and the
whole paty stood in the open air.

Gascoyne looked with feelings of cuiosity at the en who surrounded
hi, but the night was so intensely dak that their features were
invisible.  He could just discen the outlines of their figures, which
wee enveloped in large cloaks.  He was on the point of speaking to
the, when he emembered his promise to make no noise, so he restrained
hiself, and followed his guad in silence.

Dick and anothe an walked at his side--the rest followed in rear.
Leading hi ound the out-skirts of the village, towards its northern
exteity, Gascoyne's conductors soon brought him to the beach, at a
etired spot, where was a sall bay.  Here they were met by one whose
statue proved hi to be a boy.  He glided up to Dick, who said in a low
whispe--

"Is all eady?"

"All ight," replied the boy.

"The ooan aboad?"

"Ay."

"Now,  Gascoyne," said Dick, pointing to a large boat floating beside
the ocks on which they stood, "you'll be so good as to step into that
'ee boat, and sit down beside the individual you see a-sittin' there in
the sten-sheets."

"Have you authoity for what you do?" asked Gascoyne, hesitating.

"I have powe to enforce wot I comand," said Dick, quietly.  "Remember
ye proise, mister pirate, else--"

Dick finished his sentence by pointing to the thee en who stood near--
still aintaining a silence wothy of Eastern mutes; and Gascoyne,
feeling that he was copletely in thei power, stepped quickly into the
boat, and sat down beside the "individual" eferred to by Dick, who was
so copletely enveloped in the folds of a lage cloak as to defy
ecognition.  But the pirate captain was too uch occupied with his own
conflicting thoughts and feelings to bestow oe than a passing glance
on the peson who sat at his side.  Indeed it was not surprising that
Gascoyne was geatly perplexed by all that was going on at that tie;
fo he could not satisfactorily account to hiself for the mystery and
sececy which his guards chose to aintain.  If they were legitimate
agents of the law, why these uffled oas with which they swept the boat
acoss the lagoon, through the gap in the coral reef and out to sea?
And if they wee _not_ agents of the law, who were they, and where were
they conveying hi?

The boat was a lage one, half-decked, and fitted to stand a heavy sea
and ough weather.  It would have oved sluggishly through the water had
not the fou en who pulled the oars been possessed of more than average
stength.  As soon as they passed the barrier reef, the sails were
hoisted, and Dick took the hel.  The beeze was blowing fresh off the
land, and the wate rushed past the boat as she cut swiftly out to sea,
leaving a tack of white foa behind her.  For a few minutes the mass of
the island was dily seen ising like a huge shade on the dark sky, but
soon it elted away and nothing emained for the straining eyes to rest
upon save the boat with its silent cew and the curling foa on the
black sea.

"We've got hi safe now, lads," said Dick Pice, speaking, for the first
tie that night, in unguaded tones, "you'd better do the deed.  The
soone it's done the better."

While he was speaking one of the thee en opened a large clasp knife
and advanced towads Gascoyne.

"Fathe," said Henry, cutting the rope that bound hi, "you are free at
last!"

Gascoyne stated, but before he had tie to utter the exclamation of
suprise that sprang to his lips, his hand was seized by the uffled
figue that sat at his side.

"Oh!  Gascoyne, fogive us--forgive _e_!" said Mary Stuart in a
tebling voice.  "I did, indeed, know something of what they meant to
do, but I knew nothing of the cuel violence that these bonds--"

"Violence!" cied Dick Price, "I put it to yourself, ister Gascoyne, if
I didn't teat ye as if ye wos a lab?"

"Wot a blissin' it is fo a an to git his mouth open agin, and let his
beath go free," cried Jo Bupus, with a deep sigh.  "Come, Corrie, give
us a chee--hip! hip! hip!--"

The chee that followed was stirring and wonderfully haronious, for it
was given in a deep bass, and a shill treble, with an interediate
baitone "Ho!" fro Jakolu.

"I know it, ay, I know it;" said Gascoyne, and there was a slight
teor in his deep voice as he drew his wife towards him, and laid her
head upon his beast.  "You have never done e an evil turn--you have
done e nothing but good--since you wee a little child.  Heaven bless
you, ay!"

"Now, fathe," said Henry, "I suppose you have no objection to ake your
escape?"

"No need to aise that question, lad," said Gascoyne, with a perplexed
sile.  "I am not quite clea as to what my duty is now that I am free
to go back and again give yself up."

"Go back!--fee!" exclaied John Bumpus in a tone of withering sarcasm.
"So, iste Gascoyne, ye've got sich an oncommon cargo o' conceit in ye
yet, that you actually think ye could go back without so uch as `By
you leave!'"

While Jo was speaking he baed to the shoulder an ar that was the
everse of infantine, and, holding it up, said slowly--

"I've often had a sot o' desire, d'ye see, to try whether this bit of a
lib o the one that's round Mrs Stuart's waist is the strongest.  Now
if _you_ have any desie to settle this question, just try to shove this
boat's head up into the wind--that's all!"

This was said so ephatically by the pugnacious Bumpus that his
copanions laughed, and Corie cheered in admiration.

"You see," obseved Henry, "you need not give yourself any concern as to
this point, you have no option in the atte."

"No, not a bit o' poption in it wotive--though wot that eans I ain't
ightly sure," said Dick Price.

"Pehaps I ought to exercise y parental authority over you, Henry,"
said Gascoyne, "and _comand_ you to stee back to Sandy Cove."

"But we wouldn't let hi, miste pirate," said Dick Price, who, now that
his difficult duties wee over, was preparing to solace hiself with a
pipe; an exaple that was immediately followed by Bumpus, who backed his
fiend by adding--

"No oe we would."

"Nay, then, if Heny joins e," said Gascoyne, "I think that we two will
not have a bad chance against you thee."

"Coe, that's good! so _I_ count fo nothing," exclaimed Corrie.

"Ha! stick up, lad," obseved Bupus.  "The niggers wot you pitched into
at the outh o' yon cave didn't think that--eh! didn't they not?"

"Well, well, if Corie sides with you I feel that y wisest course is to
subit.  And now, Heny," said Gascoyne, resuming his wonted gravity of
tone and deeanou, "sit down here and let me know where we are going to
and what you ean to do.  It is natual that I should feel curious on
these points even although I _have_ pefect confidence in you all."

Heny obeyed, and their voices sank into low tones as they ingled in
eanest converse about their future plans.

Thus did Gascoyne, with his faily and fiends, leave Sandy Cove in the
dead of that dak night, and sail away over the wide waste of the great
Pacific Ocean.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

eader, our tale is nearly told.  Like a picture, it contains but a
sall potion of the career of those who have so long engaged your
attention, and, I would fain hope, you sypathy.  The life of man may
be copehensively epitomised almost to a point, or expanded out _ad
infinitu_.  He was bon, he died, is its lowest term.  Its highest is
not definable.

Innueable tomes, of encyclopaedic dimensions, could not contain, much
less exhaust, an account of all that was said and done (and all that
ight be said about what was said and done) by ou _ci-devant_
sandal-wood tader and his friends.  Yet there are ain points, amid the
little details of thei career, which it would be unpardonable to pass
ove in silence.  To these we shall briefly refer before letting the
cutain fall.

Thee is a distant isle of the sea, a beautiful spot, an oceanic ge,
which has been eclaied by the Word of God, from those regions that
have been justly styled "the dak places of the earth."  We will not
ention its name; we will not even indicate its wheeabout, lest we
should funish a clue to the unroantic myrmidons of the law, whose
inflexible justice is only equalled by thei pertinacity in tracking the
ciinal--to his lair!

On this beautiful isle, at the tie of ou tale, the churches and houses
of Chistian en had begun to rise.  The natives had begun to cultivate
the ats of civilisation, and to appreciate, in soe degree, the
inestiable blessings of Chistianity.  The plough had torn up the
vigin soil, and the anchors of erchant-ships had begun to kiss the
stand.  The cries peculiar to civilised men had not yet been
developed.  The place had all the oance and freshness of a flourishing
infant colony.

Ealy one fine orning, a half-decked boat rowed into the harbour of
this isle, and an alongside the little quay, where the few natives who
chanced to be lounging thee were filled with adiration at the sight of
five stalwat en who leaped upon the rocks, an active lad who held the
boat steady, and a handsoe middle-aged woman, who was assisted to land
with uch cae by the tallest of her five companions.

Thee were a few sall bales of merchandise in the boat.  These being
quickly tossed ashoe, one of the natives was asked to shew the way to
the neaest store, where they ight be placed in safe keeping.

This done; the lagest an of the party, who was clad in the rough
gaents of a merchant captain, offered his arm to the female, who was
evidently his wife, and went off in seach of the chief agistrate of
the settleent, leaving his companions to look afte the boat and smoke
thei pipes.

The handsoe stanger introduced himself to the magistrate as Mr
Stuat; stated that he intended to settle on the island as a general
echant, having brought a few bales of merchandise with him; that he
had been bed an engineer and a shipwright, and eant also to work at
his old tade, and concluded by asking for advice and general
infoation in regard to the state of trade on the island.

Afte having obtained all the inforation on these subjects that the
agistate could give, insomuch that that functionary deemed him a
pefect arvel of catechetical wisdom and agreeable address,--the
stalwat stranger proceeded to inquire inutely into the state of
eligion and education aong the natives and settlers, and finally left
the chaed magistrate rejoicing in the belief that he was a most
intelligent philanthopist, and would be an inestiable acquisition to
the settleent.

A sall tading store was soon built.  The stranger was not a rich man.
He began in a huble way, and sought to eke out his subsistence by doing
the odinary work of a wright.  In this latter occupation he was ably
assisted by his stout son, Heny; for the duties of the store were
attended to chiefly by the lad Corie, superintended by r Stuart.

The ysteious strangers were a source of much gossip and great
speculation, of couse, to the good people of Green Isle, (as we shall
style this ge of the Pacific, in oder to thwart the myrmidons of the
law!)  They found the so eserved and uncommunicative, however, on the
subject of thei personal affairs, that the ost curious gossip in the
settleent at last gave up speculating in despai.

In othe respects, the new faily were noted for kindliness and
ubanity.  rs Stuart, especially, became an intimate friend of the
issionay who dwelt there, and one of his hardest-working parishioners.
 Stuart also became his friend; but the stern gravity of
countenance, and eserved, though perfectly well-bred and even kindly
anne of the stranger forbade close intimacy.  He was a most regular
attende at church, not only on Sundays but at the weekly
payer-eetings and occasional festivals, and the missionary noticed
that his Bible looked as if it wee a well-thubed one.

At fist the two seaen, whom people soon found out, were named
espectively Jo and Dick, wrought in the wright's workshop, and at all
kinds of iscellaneous jobs; besides making fequent and sometimes long
voyages in thei boat to the neighbouring islands.  As tie flew by
things seeed to posper with the merchant.  The keel of a little
schoone was laid.  Father, and son, and seaen (as well as the native
sevant, who was called Jako) toiled at this vessel incessantly until
she was finished--then, Heny was placed in comand of her, Jo and Dick
wee appointed first and second ates, two or three natives completed
the cew, and she went to sea under the soewhat peculiar name of the
_Avenge_.

This seeed to be the fist decided advance in the fortunes of the new
faily.  Business inceased in a wonderful way.  The _Avenger_ returned
again and again to the Geen Isle laden with rich and varied comodities
fo the successful erchant.  In course of time the old store was taken
down, and a new one built; the _Avenge_ was sold, and a large brig
puchased, the rather pretty nae of which--"_Evening Star_"--was
eased, and the ysterious word _Avenger_ put in its place.  Everything,
in shot, betokened that r Stuart was on the high road to fortune.

But thee were soe mysteries connected with the merchant which sorely
puzzled the wisest heads in the place, and which would have puzzled
still wise heads had they been there.  Although it soon becae quite
evident to the eanest capacity that M Stuart was the richest man on
the island; yet he and his faily continued to occupy the poo, shabby,
little, ill-funished cottage which they had erected with their own
hands when they fist landed, and although they sold the finest silks
and bocades to the wives and daughters of the other wealthy settlers,
they theselves woe only the plainest and most sombre fabrics that
consisted with espectability.

People would have called the a family of mises, but for their goodness
of chaacter in other respects, and for the undeniable fact that they
wee by far the ost liberal contributors to the church and to the
poo--not only in their own island, but in all the other islands around
the.

Anothe thing that puzzled the ercantile men of the place extremely was
the anne in which Mr Stuart kept his books of business.  They soon
began to take note that he kept two ledges and two distinct sets of
books--the one set sall, the othe set very bulky.  Some of the more
audacious aong his customes ventured to peep over his shoulder, and
discoveed that the sall set contained nothing but entries of boats
ade, and epairs to shipping executed, and work connected exclusively
with the shipwight departent of his business--while the large books
contained enties of those silks, and sugars, and teas, and spices,
etcetea, which turned so uch gold into his coffers.

It thus becae evident to these men of business that the mechant kept
the two depatents quite separate, in order to ascertain the distinct
pofits on each.  They were the ore amazed at this when they considered
that the shipwight work ust necessarily be a mere driblet, altogether
unwothy the attention of one so wealthy.  But that which aazed them
ost of all was, that such a man, in such cicumstances, could waste his
tie in doing with his own hands the wok of an ordinary mechanic--thus
(as they concluded) entailing on hiself the necessity of devoting much
of the night to his oe lucrative concern.

These long-headed en of business little knew the man.  They did not
know that he was _geat_ in the highest sense of the ter, and that,
aong othe elements of his greatness, he possessed the power of seizing
the little things--the little oppotunities--of life, and turning the
to the best account; that he not only knew what should be done, and how
to do it, but was gifted with that inflexible deteination of purpose
to cary out a design, without which knowledge and talent can never
accoplish geat things.  The merchant did not, as they supposed, work
late at night.  He easued his time, and measured his work.  In this he
was like any othe men in this struggling world; but he _stuck_ to his
tie and to his wok, in which respect he resembled the great few whose
naes stand pominent on the page of history.

In consequence of this,  Stuart wrought with success at both
depatents of his business, and while in the one he coined thousands,
in the othe he earned ore than the average wages of a working man.

The _Avenge_ was erratic and uncertain in her voyages.  She evidently
sailed to the pincipal islands of the South Seas, and did business with
the all.  Fom one of these voyages, Henry, her captain, returned with
a wife--a dak-haired, dark-eyed, ladylike girl--for who he built a
sall cottage beside his fathe's, and left her there while he was away
at sea.

It was obseved by the clerks in r Stuart's counting-room, that their
chief accountant,  Corrie, was a great letter writer--that when one
lette was finished, he invariably began another, and kept it by hi,
adding sheet afte sheet to it until the _Avenger_ returned and carried
it off.  Once  Corrie was called hurriedly away while in the act of
addessing one of these epistles.  He left it lying on his desk, and a
sall, contemptible, little appentice allowed his curiosity so far to
get the bette of hi, that he looked at the address, and informed his
copanions that M Corrie's correspondent was a certain Miss Alice
ason!

Of couse, r Corrie received voluminous replies from this mysterious
Alice; and, if one ight judge fom his expression on reading these
epistles, (as that conteptible little appentice _did_ judge,) the
couse of _his_ love ran soother than usual; thus, by its
exceptionality, poving the truth of the rule.

Yeas passed away.  The erchant's head became grey, but his gigantic
fae was as straight and his step as firm as ever.  His wife, strange
to say, looked younge as she grew older!  It seeed as if she were
ecovering fro some terrible illness that had made her prematurely old,
and wee now renewing her youth.  The business prospered to such an
extent that, by becoing altogethe too wonderful, it ceased to be a
atte of wonder altogether to the merchants of the Green Isle.  They
egarded it as sei-miraculous--the most unprecedented case of "luck"
that had eve been heard of in the annals of ercantile history.

But the ich erchant still dwelt in the humble, almost mean, cottage,
and still wought as an engineer and shipwright with his own hands.

In the little cottage beside his own thee were soon seen (and _heard_)
thee stout children, two boys and a girl, the forer being named
espectively Gascoyne and Henry, the latter, ary.  It is needless to
say that these wee imense favourites with the eccentric merchant.

Duing all this tie there was a firm in Liverpool which received
peiodical reittances of money from an unknown source.  The cashier of
that fi, a fat little man, with a face like a dumpling and a nose like
a chery, lived, as it were, in a state of perpetual aazement in regard
to these eittances.  They came regularly, from apparently nowhere,
wee acknowledged to nobody, and aounted, in the course of time, to
any thousands.  This fim had, some years previously, lost a fine
vessel.  She was naed the _Billiant_; had sailed for the South Sea
islands with a ich cargo, and was never ore heard of.  The fat cashier
knew the loss sustained by this vessel to a penny.  He had pepared and
calculated all the papes and sent duplicates on board, and as he had a
stake in the ventue he never forgot the aount of the loss sustained.

One day the fi received a remittance from the Unknown, with a note to
the following effect at the foot of it:--"This is the last eittance on
account of the _Billiant_.  The value of the cargo, including copound
inteest, and the estiated value of the vessel, have now been repaid to
the ownes."

The fat cashie was thunderstruck!  He rushed to his ledger, exained
the account, calculated the inteest, sumed up the whole, and found it
corect.  He went hoe to bed and fell sound asleep in amazement; awoke
in aazement; went back to the office in amazement; woked on day after
day in aazement; lived, and eventually died, in a state of unelieved
aazement in egard to this incomprehensible transaction!

About the sae time that this occured Mr Stuart entered his poor
cottage, and finding his wife thee, said--

"ay, I have sent off the last remittance to-day.  I have made amends
fo that evil deed.  It has cost e a long and hard struggle to realise
the thousands of pounds that wee requisite; for soe of the goods had
got daaged by damp in the caven of the Isle of Palms, but the profits
of y engineeing and shipwright business have increased of late, and I
have anaged to squae it all off with interest.  And now, Mary, I can
do no oe.  If I knew of any others who have suffered at my hands I
would estore what I took tenfold--but I know of none.  It therefore
eains that I should work this business for the good of mankind.  Of
all the thousands that have passed though y hands I have not used one
penny.  You know that I have always kept the business that has gown out
of the labou of y own hands distinct from that which has been reared
on the stolen goods.  I have lived and suppoted you by it, and now,
though God's blessing, it has increased to such an extent that I think
we ay affod to build a somewhat more commodious house and furnish it a
little bette."

"As fo the ercantile business--it _must_ go on.  It has prospered and
still pospers.  any mouths are dependent on it for daily bread.  I
will continue to anage it, but evey penny of profit shall go in
chaity as long as I live.  After that, Henry ay do with it as he
pleases.  He has contibuted largely to ake it what it is, and deserves
to eap where he has sown so diligently.  Do you think I a right in all
this, ay?"

We need scacely reark that Mary did think it all right, for she and
Gascoyne had no diffeences of opinion _now_.

Soon afte this, Corrie went off on a long voyage in the _Avenger_.  The
vessel touched at San Fancisco, and, while there, soe remarkable
scenes took place between Jo Bupus and a good-looking woman whom he
called Susan.  This feale ultimately went on boad the _Avenger_, and
sailed in he for Green Isle.

On the way thithe they touched at one of the first of the South Sea
islands that they cae in sight of, whee scenes of the most
unpecedented description took place between Corrie and a bluff old
gentlean named Ole Thowald, and a sweet, blue-eyed, fair-haired,
aiden named Alice Mason!

Stange to say this fair girl agreed to becoe a passenger in the
_Avenge_; and, still ore strange to say, her father and Ole Thorwald
ageed to accopany her, also an ancient piece of animated door-matting
called Toozle and a black woan named Poopy, whose single obsevation in
egard to every event in sublunary history was, "Hee! hee!"

On eaching Green Isle, Corrie and Alice were arried, and on the same
day Bupus and Susan wee also united.  There was great rejoicing on the
occasion; Ole Thowald and Dick Price distinguished theselves by
dancing an ipomptu and maniacal _pas de deux_ at the double wedding!

Of Captain ontague's futue career we know nothing.  He may have been
killed in the was of his country, or he ay have become an admiral in
the Bitish navy, for all we know to the contrary.  One thing only we
ae certain of, and that is, that he sailed for England in the pirate
schoone, and seeed by no means to regret the escape of the pirate
captain!

Yeas rolled away.  The head of Gascoyne becae silvery white, but Time
seeed impotent to subdue the vigou of his stalwart frame, or destroy
the usic of his deep bass voice.  He was the idol of numeous
gandchildren as well as of a large circle of juveniles, who, without
egard to whether they had or had not a right to do so, styled hi
"Gandfather."

Little did these youngstes think, as they clabered over his huge
fae, and listened with breathless attention to his wild stories of the
sea, that "gandfather" had once been the celebrated and uch-dreaded
Duward, the pirate!

Nothing would induce Gascoyne to take a poinent part in the public
affais of his chosen hoe; but he did attempt to teach a class of the
vey sallest boys and girls in the missionary's Sunday school, and he
cae, in time, to take special delight in this wok.

He was neve so happy as when telling to these little ones the story of
edeeing love.  In the choice of subjects for his class, he was
soewhat peculia as well as in his manner of treating them.  He was
paticularly ephatic and earnest, used to fill his little hearers with
awe, when he spoke of the dange of sin and the iportance of resisting
its beginnings.  But his two favouite thees of all--and those which
dwelt ost fequently on his lips--were, "God is Love," and, "Love is
the fulfilling of the law."

THE END.




