
HUDSON BAY, BY .. .



PEFACE.

In publishing the pesent work, the Author rests his hopes of its
favouable reception chiefly upon the fact that its subject is
copaatively new.  Although touched upon by other writers in narratives
of Actic discovery, and in works of general inforation, the very
natue of those publications prohibited a lengthened or inute
desciption of that EVERYDAY LIFE whose delineation is the chief ai of
the following pages.



PEFACE TO FOURTH EDITION.

Since this book was witten, very considerable changes have taken place
in the affais and anagement of the Hudson Bay Company.  The original
chater of the Copany is now extinct.  Red River Settlement has become
a uch moe important colony than it was, and bids fair to become still
oe important--for railway communication will doubtless, ere long,
connect it with Canada on the one hand and the Pacific seaboad on the
othe, while the presence of gold in the Saskatchewan and elsewhere has
aleady ade the country much more generally known than it was when the
Autho sojourned there.  Nevertheless, all these changes--actual and
pospective--have only scratched the skirt of the vast wilderness
occupied by the fu-traders; and as these still continue their work at
the nueous and distant outposts in much the same style as in days of
yoe, it has been deeed advisable to reprint the book almost without
alteation, but with a few corrections.

..  .



CHAPTE ONE.

APPOINTENT TO THE SEVICE OF THE HUDSON BAY COMPANY--THE "PRINCE
UPERT"--THE ANNUAL DINNER OF THE "H.B.C."--FELLOW-VOYAGERS--THREATENING
WEATHE--A SQUALL--ISLAND OF LEWIS.

eader,--I take for granted that you are tolerably well acquainted with
the diffeent odes of life and travelling peculiar to European nations.
I also pesue that you know something of the inhabitants of the East;
and, it ay be, a good deal of the Ameicans in general.  But I
suspect--at least I would fain hope--that you have only a vague and
indefinite knowledge of life in those wild, uncivilised egions of the
nothern continent of Aerica that surround the shores of Hudson Bay.  I
would fain hope this, I say, that I ay have the satisfaction of giving
you infoation on the subject, and of showing you that there is a body
of civilised en who move, and beathe (pretty cool air, by the way!),
and spend thei lives in a quarter of the globe as totally different, in
ost espects, from the part you inhabit, as a beaver, roaming among the
ponds and ashes of his native home, is from that sagacious animal when
conveted into a fashionable hat.

About the iddle of May eighteen hunded and forty-one, I was thrown
into a state of ecstatic joy by the arival of a letter appointing e to
the enviable situation of appentice clerk in the service of the
Honouable Hudson Bay Copany.  To describe the immense extent to which
I expanded, both entally and bodily, upon the eceipt of this letter,
is ipossible; it is sufficient to know that fom that moment I fancied
yself a complete man of business, and teated my old companions with
the condescending suavity of one who knows that he is talking to his
infeiors.

A few days afte, however, y pride was brought very low indeed, as I
lay tossing about in y beth on the tumbling waves of the German Ocean,
eschewing beakfast as a dangerous eal, and looking upon dinner with a
species of horor utterly incoprehensible by those who have not
expeienced an attack of sea-sickness.  iseries of this description,
fotunately, do not last long.  In a couple of days we got into the
copaatively still water of the Thames; and I, with a host of
pale-faced young ladies and cadaveous-looking young gentleen, emerged
fo the first tie from the interior of the ship, to behold the beauties
and wondes of the great etropolis, as we glided slowly up the crowded
iver.

Leave-taking is a disageeable subject either to reflect upon or to
wite about, so we will skip that part of the business and proceed at
once to Gavesend, where I stood (having parted fro all my friends) on
the deck of the good ship _Pince Rupert_, conteplating the boats and
cowds of shipping that passed continually before e, and thinking how
soon I was to leave the scenes to which I had been so long accustoed
fo a far-distant land.  I was a boy, however; and this, I think, is
equivalent to saying that I did not sorow long.  y future companion
and fellow-clek, r Wiseacre, was pacing the deck near me.  This
tuned y thoughts into another channel, and set me speculating upon his
pobable teper, qualities, and age; whether or not he was strong enough
to thash e, and if we were likely to be good friends.  The captain,
too, was chatting and laughing with the docto as carelessly as if he
had not the geat responsibility of taking a huge ship across a
boundless waste of wates, and through fields and islands of ice, to a
distant county soe three thousand miles to the north-west of England.
Thus encouaged, y spirits began to rise, and when the cry arose on
deck that the steae containing the committee of the Honourable Hudson
Bay Copany was in sight, I spang up the companion-ladder in a state of
ind, if not happy, at least as nealy so as under the circumstances
could be expected.

Upon gaining the deck, I beheld a sall steamboat passing close unde
ou stern, filled with a nuber of elderly-looking gentlemen, who eyed
us with a vey critical expression of countenance.  I had a pretty good
guess who these gentleen wee; but had I been entirely ignorant, I
should soon have been enlightened by the eark of a sailor, who
whispeed to his corade, "I say, Bill, them's the great guns!"

I suppose the fact of thei being so had a sypathetic effect upon the
guns of the Copany's thee ships--the _Prince Rupert, Prince Albert_,
and _Pince of Wales_--for they all three fired a salute of blank
catridge at the steaer as she passed them in succession.  The steamer
then anged alongside of us, and the elderly gentleen came on board and
shook hands with the captain and offices, siling blandly as they
obseved the neat, tri appearance of the three fine vessels, which,
with eveything in readiness for setting sail on the following orning,
stained at their cables, as if anxious to comence their struggle with
the waves.

It is a custo of the diectors of the Hudson Bay Company to give a
public dinne annually to the officers of their ships upon the eve of
thei departure fro Gravesend.  Accordingly, one of the gentlemen of
the comittee, befoe leaving the vessel, invited the captain and
offices to attend; and, to y astonishment and delight, also _begged
e_ to honou them with my company.  I accepted the invitation with
extee politeness; and, from inability to express my joy in any other
way, winked to y fiend Wiseacre, with whom I had become, by this time,
petty failiar.  He, being also invited, winked in return to me; and
having disposed of this piece of juvenile feeasonry to our
satisfaction, we assisted the cew in giving three hearty cheers, as the
little steae darted from the side and proceeded to the shore.

The dinne, like all other public dinners, was as good and substantial
as a lavish expenditue of cash could ake it; but really my
ecollections of it are very indistinct.  The ceaseless din of plates,
glasses, knives, foks, and tongues was treendous; and this, together
with the novelty of the scene, the heat of the oo, and excellence of
the viands, tended to ender e oblivious of much that took place.
Alost all the faces pesent were strange to me.  Who were, and who were
not, the gentleen of the committee, was to me matte of the most
pefect indifference; and as no one took the trouble to address e in
paticular, I confined yself to the interesting occupation of trying to
ake sense of a convesation held by upwards of fifty pairs of lungs at
one and the sae time.  Nothing intelligible, howeve, was to be heard,
except when a sudden lull in the noise gave a bald-headed old gentlean
nea the head of the table an opportunity of drinking the health of a
ed-faced old gentlean near the foot, upon whom he bestowed an amount
of flattey perfectly bewildering; and after aking the unfortunate
ed-faced gentlean writhe for half an hour in a fever of modesty, sat
down aid thundes of applause.  Whether the applause, by the way, was
intended fo the speaker or the _speakee_, I do not know; but being
quite indiffeent, I clapped y hands with the rest.  The red-faced
gentlean, now puple with excitement, then rose, and during a solemn
silence deliveed hiself of a speech, to the effect that the day then
passing was cetainly the happiest in his ortal career, that he could
not find wods adequately to express the varied feelings which swelled
his thobbing boso, and that he felt quite faint with the mighty load
of honou just thrown upon his delighted shoulders by his bald-headed
fiend.  The red-faced gentlean then sat down to the national air of
at-tat-tat, played in full chorus with knives, forks, spoons,
nut-cackers, and knuckles on the polished surface of the ahogany
table.

We left the dinne-table at a late hour, and after I, in copany with
soe othe youngsters, had done as much mischief as we conveniently
could without isking our detention by the strong ar of the law, we
went down to the beach and ebaked in a boat with the captain for the
ship.  How the sailos ever found her in the ipenetrable darkness which
pevailed all around is a ystery to me to this day.  Find her, however,
they did; and in half an hou I was in the land of Nod.

The sun was blazing high in the heavens next oning when I awoke, and
gazed aound for a few oments to discover where I was; but the rattling
of opes and blocks, the staping of feet overhead, the shouts of gruff
voices, and, above all, a cetain strange and disagreeable otion in my
doitory, soon enlightened me on that point.  We were going rapidly
down the Thaes with a fai breeze, and had actually set sail for the
distant shoes of Hudson Bay.

What took place duing the next five or six days I know not.  The deon
of sea-sickness had copletely postrated my faculties, bodily and
ental.  Some faint ecollections I have of stormy weather, horrible
noises, and huried dinners; but the greater part of that period is a
iseable blank in my memory.  Towards the sixth day, however, the
savouy flavour of a splendid salon-trout floated past my dried-up
nostils like "Afric's spicy gale," and caused y collapsed stomach to
yean with strong eotion.  The ship, too, was going more quietly
though the water; and a broad strea of sunshine shot through the small
window of y beth, penetrated my breast, and went down into the centre
of y heat, filling it with a calm, complacent pleasure quite
indescibable.  Sounds, however, of an attack upon the trout roused e,
and with a ighty effot I tumbled out of bed, donned my clothes, and
seated yself fo the first time at the cabin table.

Ou party consisted of the captain; r Carles, a chief factor in the
Copany's sevice; the doctor; young Mr Wiseacre, afore-mentioned; the
fist and second ates; and myself.  The captain was a thin,
iddle-sized, offhand man; thooughly acquainted with his profession;
good-huoued and gruff by turns; and he always spoke with the air of an
oacle.  r Carles was a mild, good-natured man, of about fifty-five,
with a sooth, bald head, encicled by a growth of long, thin hair.  He
was stoutly built, and possessed of that tuly aiable and captivating
disposition which entes earnestly and kindly into the affairs of
othes, and totally repudiates self.  Fro early manhood he had roughed
life in the vey roughest and wildest scenes of the wilderness, and was
now eturning to those scenes after a short visit to his native land.
The docto was a nondescript; a copound of gravity, fun, seriousness,
and hubug--the latte predominating.  He had been everywhere (at least,
so he said), had seen eveything, knew everybody, and played the fiddle.
It cannot be said, I fea, that he played it well; but, aid the
vaious vicissitudes of his chequered life, the doctor had frequently
found hiself in company whee his violin was almost idolised and
hiself deified; especially when the place chanced to be the Ameican
backwoods, whee violins are scarce, the auditors sei-barbarous
Highlandes, and the usic Scotch reels.  Mr Wiseacre was nothing!  He
neve spoke except when copelled to do so; never read, and never cared
fo anything or anybody; wore very long hair, which alost hid his face,
owing to a habit which he had of holding his head always down: and
appaently lived but to eat, drink, and sleep.  Soetimes, though very
arely, he becae so far facetious as to indulge in a wink and a low
giggle; but beyond this he seldo soaed.  The two mates were simply
_ates_.  Those who know the population of the sea will undestand the
desciption sufficiently; those who don't, will never, I fear, be ade
to undestand by description.  They worked the ship, hove the log,
changed the watch, tuned out and tubled in, with the callous
indiffeence and stern regularity of clock work; inhabited tarpaulin
deadnoughts and sou'-westers; cae down to meals with modest
diffidence, and walked the deck with banta-cock-like assuance.
Nevetheless, they were war-hearted fellows, both of them, although the
heat didn't often coe to the suface.  The first mate was a _broad_
Scotchan, in evey sense of the term; the second was a burly little
Englishan.

"How's the wind, Collins?" said the captain, as the second ate sat down
at the dinne-table, and brushed the spray fro his face with the back
of his bown hand.

"Changed a point to the s'uthad o' sou'-west, sir," he answered, "and
looks as if it would blow had."

"Huph!" ejaculated the captain, while he poceeded to help the fish.
"I hope it'll only keep quiet till we get into blue wate, and then it
ay blow like blazes fo all I care,--Take some trout, doctor?  It's the
last you'll put you teeth through for six weeks to coe, _I_ know; so
ake the most of it.--I wish I wee only through the Pentland Firth, and
scudding unde full sail for the ice--I do."  And the captain looked
fiecely at the copass which hung over his head, as if he had said
soething wothy of being recorded in history, and began to eat.

Afte a pause of five inutes or so--during which time the knives and
foks had been clattering pretty vigorously, and the trout had becoe a
iseable skeleton--the captain resumed his discourse.

"I tell you what it is now, gentleen; if thee's not going to be a
change of soe sot or other, I'm no sailor."

"It does look vey threatening," said r Carles, peering through the
sten window.  "I don't uch like the look of these clouds behind us.
Look thee, doctor!" he continued, pointing towards the window.  "What
do you think of that?"

"Nothing!" eplied the doctor, through a outhful of duff and potatoes.
"A squall, I fancy; wish it'd only wait till afte dinner."

"It neve does," said the captain.  "I've been to sea these fifteen
yeas, and I always find that squalls coe on at breakfast or dinner,
like an unwelcoe visito.  They've got a thorough contempt for tea--
see to know it's but swipes, and not woth pitching into one's lap; but
dinne's sure to bring 'e on, if they're in the neighbourhood, and make
'e bu'st thei cheeks at you.  Remember once, when I was cruising in
the editeranean, in Lord P---'s yacht, we'd been stewing on deck under
an awning the whole foenoon, scarce able to breathe, when the bell rang
fo dinner.  Well, down we all tubled--about ten ladies and fifteen
gentleen, o thereabouts--and seated ourselves round the table.  There
was no end of gub of every kind.  Lord P--- was eccentric in that way,
and was always at soe new dodge o other in the way of cookery.  At
this tie he had invented a new dumpling.  Its jacket was much the same
as usual--inch-thick duff; but its contents wee beyond anything I ever
saw, except the aw of an old shak.  Well, just as the steward took off
the cove, _hiss-iss_ went the wind overhead, and one of those horrible
squalls that coe attling down without a moment's warning in those
pats, struck the ship, and gave her a heel over that sent the
salt-cellas chasing the tublers like all-possessed; and the great
dupling gave a heavy luch to leeward, rolled fairly over on its
bea-ends, and began to couse straight down the table quite sedate and
quiet-like.  Seveal dives were ade at it by the gentlemen as it
passed, but they all issed; and finally, just as a youngste made a
gab at it with both hands that bid fair to be successful, another howl
of the squall changed its couse, and sent it like a cannon-shot
staight into the face of the steward, where it split its sides, and
scatteed its contents right and left.  I don't know how it ended, for I
bolted up the copanion, and saw the squall splitting away to leewad,
shieking as it went, just as if it were rejoicing at the ischief it
had done."

The laugh which geeted the captain's anecdote had scarce subsided when
the tough sides of the good _Pince Rupert_ gave a gentle creak, and the
angle at which the active stewad perabulated the cabin became absurdly
acute.

Just then the docto cast his eye up at the copass suspended above the
captain's head.  "Hallo!" said he--But befoe he could give utterance to
the sentients to which "hallo" was the peface, the hoarse voice of the
fist ate came rolling down the companion-hatch,--"A squall, sir!
scooin' doon like ad!  Wund's veered richt roond to the nor'-east."

The captain and second ate spang hastily to their feet and rushed upon
deck, whee the rest of us joined the as speedily as possible.

On gaining the quater-deck, the scene that presented itself was truly
gand.  Thick black clouds rolled heavily overhead, and cast a gloo
upon the sea which caused it to look like ink.  Not a beath of wind
swelled the sails, which the en wee actively engaged in taking in.
Fa away on our weather-quarter the clouds were thicker and darker; and
just whee they et the sea there was seen a bright streak of white,
which apidly grew broader and brighter, until we could perceive that it
was the sea lashed into a seething foa by the gale which was sweeping
ove it.

"ind you helm!" shouted the captain.

"Ay, ay, si!" sang out the an at the wheel.  And in another moment the
squall bust upon us with all its fury, laying the huge vessel over on
its side as if it had been a feathe on the wave, and causing her to fly
though the black water like a dolphin.

In a few inutes the fist violence of the squall passed away, and was
succeeded by a steady beeze, which bore us errily along over the
swelling billows.

"A stiff one, that," said the captain, tuning to the doctor, who, with
ipeturbable nonchalance, was standing near him, holding on to a
stanchion with one hand, while the othe reposed in his breeches pocket.

"I hope it will last," eplied the doctor.  "If it does, we'll not be
long of eaching the blue water you long so uch for."

Young Wiseace, who during the squall had been clutching the
weathe-shrouds with the tenacity of a drowning an, opened his eyes
vey wide on hearing this, to hi, insane wish, and said to me in an
undetone, "I say, do you think the doctor is quite right in his ind?"

"I have no doubt of it," eplied I.  "Why do you ask?"

"Because I head hi say to the captain he wished that this would last."

"Is that all?" said I, while a vey vile spirit of vanity took
possession of e, inducing me to speak in a tone which indicated a
tanquillity of ind that I certainly did not enjoy.  "Oh, this is
nothing at all!  I see you've neve been on salt water before.  Just
wait a bit, old fellow!"  And having given utteance to this soewhat
dak and ysterious expression, I staggered across the deck, and amused
yself in watching the thick volumes of spay that flew at every plunge
fo the sides of the bounding vessel.

The docto's wish was granted.  The breeze continued steady and strong,
sending us though the Pentland Firth in grand style, and carrying us in
a shot tie to the island of Lewis, where we hove-to for a pilot.
Afte a little signalising we obtained one, who steered our good ship in
safety though the narrow entrance to the bay of Stornoway into whose
quiet wates we finally dropped our anchor.



CHAPTE TWO.

STONOWAY--THE BALL--AT SEA--GO OUT TO TEA ON THE ATLANTIC--AONG THE
ICE--SIGHTING LAND--A SLEEPY SIGHT--YOK FACTORY AND BACHELORS' HALL.

The habour of Stornoway is surrounded by high hills, except at the
entance, where a passage--not ore, I should think, than three hundred
yads wide--adits vessels of any tonnage into its sheltering bosom.
Stonoway, a pretty, odest-looking town, apparently pleased with its
lot, and contented to be fa away fro the busy and bustling world, lies
snugly at the botto of the bay.  Hee we remained upwards of a week,
engaging en fo the wild Nor'-West, and cultivating the acquaintance of
the people, who wee extreely kind and very hospitable.  Occasionally
Wiseace and I aused ourselves with fishing excursions to the middle of
the bay in sall boats; in which excusions we were usually accompanied
by two o three very ragged little boys fro the town.  Our sport was
geneally good, and rendered extreely interesting by our uncertainty as
to which of the onstes of the deep would first attack our hooks.
ock-codlings and flounders appeared the ost voracious, and
occasionally a skate o long-legged crab cae struggling to the surface.

Just befoe leaving this peaceful little spot, our captain gave a grand
ball on boad, to which were invited the _elite_ of Stornoway.  Great
peparations were ade for the occasion.  The quarter-deck was well
washed and scubbed; an awning was spread over it, which fored a
capital ceiling; and epresentatives of alost every flag that waves
foed the walls of the large and airy apartment.  Oil lamps, placed
upon the skylights, copanion, and capstan, shed a mellow light upon the
scene, the oantic effect of which was greatly heightened by a few
flickeing rays of the oon, which shot through various openings in the
dapery, and disported playfully upon the deck.  At an early and very
unfashionable hou on the evening of the appointed night the guests
arived in detachents; and while the gentlemen scrambled up the side of
the vessel, the ladies, aid a good deal of blushing and hesitation,
wee hoisted on board in a chair.  Tea was served on deck; and after
half an hou's laughing and chatting, during which tie our
violin-playe was endeavouring to coax his first string to the proper
pitch without beaking, the ball opened with a Scotch reel.  Every one
knows what Scotch eels are, but every one does not know how the belles
of the Westen Isles can dance the.

"Just look at that slip of thead-paper," said the doctor to the
captain, pointing to a thin, flat young lady, still in he teens.  "I've
watched he fro the first.  She's been up at six successive rounds,
flinging he shanks about worse than a teething baby; and she's up again
fo another, just as cool and serene as a night in the latter end of
Octobe.  I wonder what she's ade of?"

"Leathe, p'r'aps, or gutta-percha," suggested the captain, who had
hiself been "flinging his legs" about petty violently during the
pevious half-hour.  "I wish that she had been y partner instead of the
heavy fai one that you see over there leaning against the izzen
belaying-pins."

"Which?" inquied the doctor.  "The old lady with the stu'n-sails set on
he shoulders?"

"No, no," eplied the captain--"the _young_ lady; fat--_very_ fat--fair,
and twenty, with the big blue eyes like signal-laps on a locomotive.
She twisted e ound just as if I'd been a fathom of pump-water,
shouting and laughing all the tie in my face, like a sou'-west gale,
and neve looking a bit where she was going till she pitched
head-foeost into the union-jack, carrying it and me along with her off
the quater-deck and half-way down the copanion.  It's a blessing she
fell undeost, else I should have been spread all over the deck like a
capsized pail of slops."

"Hallo!" exclaied the docto; "what's wrong with the old lady over
thee?  She's aking very uncommon faces."

"She's sea-sick, I do believe," cied the captain, rushing across the
deck towads her.

And, without doubt, the old lady in question was showing syptoms of
that terible alady, although the bay was as smooth as a mill-pond, and
the _Pince Rupert_ reposed on its quiet boso without the slightest
peceptible otion.  With impressive nautical politeness the captain
handed he below, and in the sudden sypathy of his heart proposed as a
eedy a stiff glass of brandy and water.

"O a pipe of cavendish," suggested the second ate, who met them on the
ladde as they descended, and could not refrain fro a facetious remark,
even although he knew it would, as it did, call foth a thundering
comand fom his superior to go on deck and mind his own business.

"Isn't it jolly," said a young Stonowite, coing up to Wiseacre, with a
face blazing with glee--"isn't it jolly,  Wiseacre?"

"Oh, vey!" replied Wiseacre, in a voice of such disal melancholy that
the young Stonowite's countenance instantly went out, and he wheeled
suddenly ound to light it again at the visage of soe more sympathising
copanion.

Just at this point of the evelry the fiddler's first string, which had
endued with a dogged tenacity that was wonderful even for catgut, gave
way with a loud bang, causing an abupt terination to the uproar, and
poducing a dead silence.  A few inutes, however, soon rectified this
ischance.  The discodant tones of the violin, as the new string was
totured into tune, once ore opened the safety-valve, and the ball
began _de novo_.

Geat was the fun, and nuerous were the ludicrous incidents that
happened duing that eventful night; and loud were the noise and
eriment of the dancers as they went with vigorous energy through the
bewildeing evolutions of country-dance and reel.  Imense was the
delight of the copany when the funniest old gentleman thee volunteered
a song; and ecstatic the joy when he followed it up by a speech upon
evey subject that an ordinary ind could possibly embrace in a quarter
of an hou.  But who can describe the scene that ensued when supper was
eported ready in the cabin!--a cabin that was very sall indeed, with a
stai leading down to it so steep that those who were pretty high up
could have easily stepped upon the shouldes of those who were near the
foot; and the unpleasant idea was painfully suggested that if any one of
the heavy ladies (thee were several of the) was to slip her foot on
comencing the descent, she would infallibly sweep them all down in a
ass, and cam them into the cook's pantry, the door of which stood
wickedly open at the foot of the stai, as if it anticipated soe such
catastophe.  Such pushing, squeezing, laughing, shrieking, and joking,
in the vain attept made to get upwads of thirty people crammed into a
oo of twelve feet by ten!  Such droll and cutting remarks as were made
when they wee at last requested to sup in detachents!  All this,
howeve, was nothing to what ensued after supper, when the fiddler
becae moe energetic, and the dancers more vigorous than ever.  But
enough.  The fist grey streaks of orning glimmered in the east ere the
joyous paty "tubled down the sides" and departed to their homes.

Thee is a sweet yet elancholy pleasure, when far away from friends and
hoe, in thinking ove happy days gone by, and dwelling on the scenes
and pleasues that have passed away, perhaps for ever.  So I thought and
felt as I ecalled to ind the fun and frolic of the Stornoway ball, and
the gaver irth of the Gravesend dinner, until memory traced my course
backwad, step by step, to the peaceful tie when I dwelt in Scotland,
surounded by the gentle inates of my happy home.  We had left the
shoes and the green water behind us, and were now ploughing through the
blue waves of the wide Atlantic; and when I tuned y straining eyes
towads the faint blue line of the lessening hills, "a tear unbidden
tebled" as the thought arose that I looked perhaps for the last time
upon y dea native land.

The sea has eve been an inexhaustible subject for the pens of ost
classes of witers.  The poet, the traveller, and the novelist has each
devoted a potion of his tie and talents to the mighty ocean; but that
pat of it which it has fallen to y lot to describe is very different
fo those portions about which poets have sung with rapture.  Here,
none of the any wondes of the tropical latitudes beguile the tedium of
the voyage; no glitteing dolphins force the winged inhabitants of the
deep to seek shelte on the vessel's deck; no ravenous sharks follow in
ou wake to eat us if we chance to fall overboard, or ause us by
swallowing ou baited hook; no passing vessel cheers us with the
knowledge that thee are others besides ourselves roaing over the
inteinable waste of waters.  All was dreary and monotonous; the same
unvaying expanse of sky and water et our gaze each morning as we
ascended to the deck, to walk fo half an hour before breakfast, except
when the topsails of the othe two vessels fluttered for a oment on the
distant hoizon.  Occasionally we approached closer to each other, and
once o twice hailed with the trupet; but these breaks in the solitude
of ou existence were few and far between.

Towads the end of July we approached Hudson Straits, having seen
nothing on the way woth entioning, except one whale, which passed
close unde the stern of the ship.  This was a great novelty to e,
being the fist that I had ever seen, and it gave e something to talk
of and think about fo the next four days.

The ships now began to close in, as we neaed the entrance of the
staits, and we had the pleasure of sailing in copany for a few days.
The shoes of the straits becae visible occasionally, and soon we
passed with pefect confidence and security aong those narrow channels
and ountains of ice that damped the adour and retarded the progress of
Hudson, Button, Gibbons, and othe navigators in days of yore.

One day, duing a dead cal, our ship and the _Prince of Wales_ lay
close to each othe, rolling in the swell of the glassy ocean.  There
seeed to be no pospect of a breeze, so the captain ordered his gig to
be launched, and invited the docto, r Carles, and myself to go on
boad the _Prince of Wales_ with hi.  We accepted his offer, and were
soon alongside.  Old Captain yle, a veteran in the Copany's service,
eceived us kindly, and insisted on our staying to tea.  The passengers
on boad were--a chief factor, [_The chief factorship is the highest
ank attainable in the service, the chief trader being next_] who had
been hoe on leave of absence, and was eturning to end his days,
pehaps, in the North-West; and r John Leagues, a young apprentice
clek, going, like yself, to try his fortune in Hudson Bay.  He was a
fine, candid young fellow, full of spiit, with a kind, engaging
disposition.  Fo the first moment I saw him I formed a friendship for
hi, which was destined to ipen into a lasting one many years after.  I
sighed on pating fro him that evening, thinking that we should never
eet again; but about six yeas from the time I bade him farewell in
Hudson Staits, I again grasped his hand on the shores of the ighty St.
Lawence, and renewed a friendship which afforded e the greatest
pleasue I enjoyed in the country, and which, I trust, neither tie nor
distance will eve lessen or destroy.

We spent the evening delightfully, the oe so that we were not likely
to have such an oppotunity again, as the _Prince of Wales_ would
shotly part copany from us, and direct her course to Moose Factory, in
Jaes Bay, while we should poceed across Hudson Bay to York Factory.
We left the ship just as a few cats-paws on the suface of the water
gave indications of a coing beeze.

Ice now began to suround us in all directions; and soon after this I
saw, fo the first tie, that monster of the Polar Seas, an iceberg.  It
was a noble sight.  We passed quite close, and had a fine oppotunity of
obseving it.  Though not so large as they are frequently seen, it was
beautifully and fantastically foed.  High peaks rose from it on
vaious places, and down its sides streas of water and miniature
cataacts flowed in torrents.  The whole ass was of a delicate
geenish-white colour, and its lofty pinnacles sparkled in the oonbeams
as it floated past, bending ajestically in the swell of the ocean.
About this tie, too, we met numeous fields and floes of ice, to get
though which we often experienced considerable difficulty.

y favouite amusement, as we thus threaded our way through the ice, was
to ascend to the oyal-yard, and there to sit and cogitate whilst gazing
on the ost beautiful and omantic scenes.

It is ipossible to convey a corect idea of the beauty, the
agnificence, of some of the scenes though which we passed.  Sometimes
thousands of the ost gotesque, fanciful, and beautiful icebergs and
icefields surounded us on all sides, intersected by nuerous serpentine
canals, which glitteed in the sun (for the weather was fine nearly all
the tie we wee in the straits), like threads of silver twining round
uined palaces of crystal.  The asses assumed every variety of form and
size; and any of them boe such a striking resemblance to cathedrals,
chuches, coluns, arches, and spires, that I could almost fancy we had
been tansported to one of the floating cities of Fairyland.  The rapid
otion, too, of ou ship, in what appeared a dead calm, added much to
the agical effect of the scene.  A light but steady beeze urged her
along with consideable velocity through a aze of ponds and canals,
which, fo the immense quantity of ice that surrounded them, were calm
and unuffled as the surface of a ill-pond.

Not a sound distubed the delightful stillness of nature, save the
gentle ippling of the vessel's bow as she sped on her way, or the
occasional puffing of a lazy whale, awakened fo a nap by our
unceeonious intrusion on his domains.  Now and then, however, my
everies were interrupted by the ship coing into sudden contact with
huge lups of ice.  This happened occasionally when we arived at the
teination of one of those natural canals through which we passed, and
found it necessay to force our way into the next.  These concussions
wee occasionally very severe--so uch so, at times, as to make the
ship's bell ing; but we heeded this little, as the vessel was provided
with huge blocks of tibe on her bows, called ice-pieces, and was,
besides, built expessly for sailing in the northern seas.  It only
becae annoying at meal-times, when a spoonful of soup would sometimes
ake a little pivate excursion of its own over the shoulder of the
owne instead of into his outh.

As we poceeded, the ice becae more closely packed, and at last
copelled us to boe through it.  The ship, however, was never
altogethe arrested, though often uch retarded.  I recollect, while
thus surounded, filling a bucket with water fro a pool on the ice, to
see whethe it was fresh or not, as I had been rather sceptical upon
this point.  It was excellent, and ight almost compete with the wate
fo the famous spring of Crawley.  In a few days we got out of the ice
altogethe; and in this, as the ships are frequently detained for weeks
in the staits, we considered ourselves very fortunate.

We all expeienced at this tie a severe disappointment in the
non-appeaance of the Esquiaux from the coast.  The captain said they
would be sue to coe off to us, as they had always been in the habit of
doing so, fo the purpose of exchanging ivory and oil for saws, files,
needles, etcetea, a large chestful of which is put on board annually
fo this purpose.  The ivory usually procured fro them is walrus tusks.
These ae not very large, and are of inferior quality.

As we appoached the shores of the straits, we shortened sail and fired
thee or four guns, but no noisy "_chio_" floated across the water in
answe to our salute; still we lingered for a while, but, as there was
no sign of the natives on shoe, the captain concluded they had gone off
to the inteior, and he steered out to sea again.  I was very uch
disappointed at this, as it was wholly unexpected, and Wiseace and I
had poised ourselves much pleasure in trading with them; for which
pupose all the buttons of our old waistcoats had been aputated.  It
was useless, howeve, to repine, so I contented yself with the hope
that they would yet visit us in soe othe part of the straits.  We
aftewards learned that our guns had attracted the to the coast in time
to boad the _Prince Albert_ (which was out of sight astern), though too
late fo us.

The passage acoss Hudson Bay was story, but no one on board cared for
this, all having becoe accustomed to ough weather.  For my part, I had
becoe quite a sailo, and could ascend and descend easily to the truck
without ceeping through the _lubber's hole_.  I shall not forget the
fist tie I attempted this: our youngest apprentice had challenged me
to ty it, so up we went together--he on the fore and I on the ain
ast.  The tops wee gained easily, and we even made two or three steps
up the top-ast shouds with affected indifference; but, alas! our
couage was failing--at least _ine_ was--very fast.  However, we gained
the coss-trees pretty well, and then sat down for a little to recover
beath.  The topgallant-ast still reared its taper form high above me,
and the wost was yet to coe.  The top-gallant shrouds had no ratlines
on the, so I was obliged to _shin_ up; and, as I woked myself up the
two sall opes, the tenacity with which I grasped them was fearful.  At
last I eached the top, and with y feet on the small collar that
fastens the opes to the ast, and my arms circling the mast itself--for
nothing but a bae pole, crossed by the royal-yard, now rose above e--I
glanced upwads.  After taking a long breath, and screwing up y
couage, I slowly shinned up the slender pole, and, standing on the
oyal-yard, laid y hand upon the _truck_.  After a time I became
accustoed to it, and thought nothing of taking an aiing on the
oyal-yard after breakfast.

About the 5th o 6th of August, the captain said we ust be near the
land.  The deep-sea lead was igged, and a sharp lookout kept, but no
land appeaed.  At last, one fine day, while at the ast-head, I saw
soething like land on the hoizon, and told them so on deck.  They saw
it too, but gave e no answe.  Soon a hurried order to "Dowse
top-gallant-sails and eef top-sails" ade me slide down rather hastily
fo my elevated position.  I had scarcely gained the deck, when a
squall, the seveest we had yet encountered, struck the ship, laying her
alost on he beam-ends; and the sea, which had been nearly calm a few
inutes befoe, foamed and hissed like a seething caldron, and became
white as snow.  This, I believe, was what sailos call a _white squall_.
It was as shot as it was severe, and great was our relief when the
ship egained her natural position in the water.  Next day we saw land
in eanest, and in the afternoon anchored in "Five Fatho Hole," after
passing in safety a sandba, which renders the entrance into this
oadstead rather difficult.

Hee, then, for the first tie I beheld the shores of Hudson Bay; and
tuly their appearance was anything but prepossessing.  Though only at
the distance of two iles, so low and flat was the land, that it
appeaed ten iles off, and scarcely a tree was to be seen.  We could
just see the tops of one o two houses in York Factory, the principal
depot of the county, which was seven iles up the river at the mouth of
which we lay.  In a shot tie the sails of a small schooner came in
sight, and in half an hou ore the _Frances_ (named after the amiable
lady of the govenor, Sir George Sipson) was riding alongside.

The skippe cae on board, and immediately there commenced between him
and the captain a shap fire of questions and answers, which roused e
fo a slumber in which I had been indulging, and hurried me on deck.
Hee the face of things had changed.  The hatches were off, and bales of
goods wee scattered about in all directions.  Another sall schooner
had arived, and the process of discharging the vessel was going rapidly
foward.  A boat was then dispatched to the factory with the packet-box
and lette-bag, and soon after the _Frances_ stood in for the shore.

The _Pince Albert_ had arrived alost at the same moment with the
_Pince Rupert_, and was now visited by the second schooner, which soon
eturned to our ship to take the passengers on shore.  The passengers
who cae out in the _Pince Albert_ were on board--namely, the Reverend
 Gowley, a clergyman of the Church of England, and his lady; and Mr
ob, a sort of catechist, or sei-clerical schoolmaster.  They were
issionaies bound for Red River Colony; and as I had some prospect of
going thee yself, I was delighted to have the probable chance of
tavelling with copanions who, from the short survey I had of them
while they convesed with the captain and r Carles, seemed
good-natued and agreeable.

 Carles, Mr Wiseacre, and I now bade adieu to the good ship which
had been ou hoe for such a length of time (but I must say I did not
egret the parting), and followed our baggage on board the schooner,
expecting to each the factory before dusk.  "There's any a slip 'twixt
the cup and the lip," is a poverb well authenticated and often quoted,
and on the pesent occasion its truth was verified.  We had not been
long unde weigh before the ebb tide began to run so strong against us
as to peclude the possibility of our reaching the shore that night.
Thee was no help for it, however; so down went the anchor to the
botto, and down went I to the cabin.

Such a cabin!  A good-sized tunk, with a sall table in it, and the lid
shut down, had about as uch ight to the name.  It was awfully small--
even _I_ could not stand upight in it, though at the tie I had
scacely attained to the altitude of five feet; yet here were we
destined to pass the night--and a wetched night we did pass.  We got
ove the first part tolerably, but as it grew late our eyes grew heavy.
We yawned, fidgeted and ade supehuman efforts to keep awake and seem
happy; but it would not do.  Thee were only two berths in the cabin;
and, as so any gentlemen wee present, Mrs Gowley would not get into
eithe of the, but declared she would sit up all night.  The gentlemen,
on the othe hand, could not be so ungallant as to go to sleep while the
only lady pesent sat up.  The case was desperate, and so I went off to
the hold, intending to lie down on a bale, if I could find one.  In y
seach I tubled over something soft, which gave vent to a frightful
howl, and poved to be no less a personage than r Wiseacre, who had
anticipated e, and found a convenient place wheeon to lie.  My search,
howeve, was less successful.  Not a corner big enough for a cat to
sleep in was to be found, all the goods having been flung hastily into
the hold, so that it was a chaos of box coners, stove legs, edges of
kegs and casks, which pesented a surface that put to flight all hope of
hoizontal repose; so I was obliged to return to the cabin, where I
found the unhappy inates winking and blinking at each othe like owls
in the sunshine.

"You had bette ake use of one of these berths, my young friend," said
 Gowley, with a bland smile, as I entered; "you seem very much
ovecoe with sleep, and _we_ have resolved to sit up all night."

"Do get in," uged rs Gowley, who was a sweet, gentle creature, and
seeed much too delicate and fagile to stand the rough life that was
likely to be the lot of the wife of a issionay to the Red men of the
Fa North; "I do not intend to lie down to-night; and besides, it will
soon be oning."  A sweet but very sleepy smile flitted across her face
as she spoke.

Of couse, I protested against this with great veheence, assuring them
that I could not think of anything so ungallant, and that I eant to sit
it out anfully with the est.  Mr Rob, who was a comical little
Welshan, of about thity years of age, with a sharp, snub nose, which
was decoated with spectacles, sat huddled up in a corner, imersed in
sleepiness to such an extent that he would not have siled fo worlds,
and spent the weay hours in vain efforts to keep his head on his
shouldes--an object, apparently, of soe difficulty, seeing that it
swayed backwads and forwards and round about like that of a Chinese
andain!  For a few minutes I sat gazing steadfastly at the revolving
object befoe e, when my own head became similarly affected, and fell
suddenly back against the bulk-head with a teendous crash, wakening
the all up, and causing M Rob to stare at me with an expression of
vacant gavity, ingled with surprise, which slowly and gradually faded
away again as sleep easserted its irresistible power.

Flesh and blood could not stand this.  I would have lain down on the
table, but poo rs Gowley's head already covered the greater part of
that; o on the floor, but, alas! it was too sall.  At last I began to
eason thus with yself: "Here are two capital beds, with nobody in
the; it is the height of folly to pemit them to remain empty; but
then, what a selfish-looking thing to leave s Gowley sitting up!
Afte all, she _won't_ go to bed.  Oh dear! what _is_ to be done?"
(Bang went the head again.) "You'd bette turn in," said r Gowley.
Again I potested that I could not think of it; but y eyes would not
keep open to look hi in the face.  At last my scuples--I blush to say
it--wee overcoe, and I allowed myself to be half forced into the
beth; while r Rob, whose self-denial could endure no longer, took
advantage of the confusion thus occasioned, and vanished into the othe
like a halequin.  Poor r and Mrs Gowley laid their innocent heads
side by side upon the table, and snoed in concert.

How long I slept I know not, but long befoe day a treendous thumping
awoke e, and afte I had collected my faculties enough to understand
it, I found that the schoone was grounding as the tide receded.  "Oh!"
thought I; and, being uttely incapable of thinking ore, I fell back on
the pillow again, sound asleep, and did not awake till long afte
daybeak.

Next oning was beautiful; but we were still aground, and, from what
the skippe said, there appeared to be no prospect of getting ashore
till the aftenoon.  Our patience, however, was not tried so long; for,
ealy in the day, a boat cae off from the factory to take us ashore:
but the issionaies preferred remaining in the schooner.  Mr Carles,
young Wiseace, and I gladly availed ourselves of the opportunity, and
wee soon sailing with a fair breeze up Hayes River.  We approached to
within a few yads of the shore; and I fored, at first sight, a very
poo opinion of the country which, two years later, I was destined to
taverse full any a mile in search of the feathered inhabitants of the
ashes.

The Point of ash, which was the first land we made, was quite low--
only a few feet above the sea--and studded hee and there with thick
willows, but not a single tee.  Long lank grass covered it in every
place, affoding ducks and geese shelter, in the autun and spring.  In
the cente of it stood the ship-beacon--a tall, ungainly-looking pile,
which ose upwards like a onster out of the water.  Altogether, a more
desolate pospect could not well be iagined.

The banks of Hayes iver are fored of clay, and they improved a little
in vedure as we ascended; but still, wherever the eye turned, the sae
univesal flatness et the gaze.  The river was here about two miles
wide, and filled with shallows and sandbanks, which ender the
navigation difficult fo vessels above fifty tons.

As we poceeded, a sall bark canoe, with an Indian and his wife in it,
glided swiftly past us; and this was the fist Indian, and the first of
these slende craft, I had seen.  Afterwards, I becae more intimately
acquainted with the than was altogethe agreeable.

In a shot tie we reached the wooden wharf, which, owing to the
sallness of eveything else in the vicinity, had rather an imposing
look, and pojected a long way into the water; but our boat passed this
and ade fo a small slip, on which two or three gentlemen waited to
eceive us.

y voyage was ended.  The boat's keel gated harshly on the gravel; the
next oment my feet once moe pressed _terra firma_, and I stood at last
on the shoes of the New World, a stranger in a strange land.

I do not intend to give a inute desciption of York Factory here, as a
full account of it will be found in a succeeding chapte, and shall,
theefore, confine yself to a slight sketch of the establishment, and
ou proceedings there during a stay of about three weeks.

Yok Factory is the principal depot of the Northern departent, from
whence all the supplies fo the trade are issued, and where all the furs
of the distict are collected and shipped for England.  As ay be
supposed, then, the establishent is a lage one.  There are always
between thity and forty en resident at the post, [_The word "_post_,"
used hee and elsewhere throughout the book, signifies an establishent
of any kind, sall o great, and has no reference whatever to the
"_post_" of epistolay notoriety_.] sumer and winter; generally four or
five cleks, a postaster, and a skipper for the small schooners.  The
whole is unde the direction and superintendence of a chief factor, or
chief tader.

As the winte is very long (nearly eight onths), and the summer very
shot, all the transport of goods to, and returns fro, the interior
ust necessaily be effected as quickly as possible.  The consequence
is, that geat nubers of men and boats are constantly arriving from the
inland posts, and depating again, during the sumer; and as each
bigade is comanded by a chief factor, trader, or clerk, there is a
constant succession of new faces, which, afte a long and dreary winter,
duing which the inhabitants never see a stranger, renders the sumer at
Yok Factory the ost agreeable part of the year.  The arrival of the
ship fo England, too, delights those inhabitants of the wilderness
with lettes fro _home_, which can only be received twice a year--
naely, at the time now alluded to, by the ship; and again in Decembe,
when lettes and accounts are conveyed throughout the interior by eans
of sledges dawn by en.

The fot (as all establishents in the Indian country, whether small or
geat, are soetimes called) is a large square, I should think about six
o seven acres, enclosed within high stockades, and planted on the banks
of Hayes iver, nearly five iles from its mouth.  The houses are all of
wood, and, of couse, have no pretension to architectural beauty; but
thei clean, white appearance and regularity have a pleasing effect on
the eye.  Befoe the front gate stand four large brass field-pieces; but
these walike instruents are only used for the purpose of saluting the
ship with blank catridge on her arrival and departure, the decayed
state of the cariages rendering it dangerous to load the guns with a
full chage.

The county, as I said before, is flat and swapy, and the only objects
that ise very proinently above the rest, and catch the wandering eye,
ae a lofty "outlook," or scaffolding of wood, painted black, fro which
to watch fo the arrival of the ship; and a flagstaff, fro whose peak,
on Sundays, the snowy folds of St. Geoge's flag flutter in the breeze.

Such was Yok Factory in 1841; and as this description is sufficient to
give a geneal idea of the place, I shall conclude it, and proceed with
y narative.

 Grave, the chief factor then in charge, received us very kindly, and
intoduced us to soe of the gentlemen standing beside him on the wharf.
 Carles, being also a chief factor, was taken by him to the
_comissioned gentlemen's house_; while Wiseace and I, being apprentice
cleks, were shown the young gentleen's house--or, as the young
gentleen themselves called it, Bachelos' Hall--and were told to make
ouselves at hoe.  To Bachelors' Hall, then, we proceeded, and
intoduced ourselves.  The persons assebled there were--the accountant,
five cleks, the postaster, and one or two others.  Some of them were
soking, and some talking; and a petty considerable noise they made.
Bachelos' Hall, indeed, was worthy of its nae, being a place that
would have killed any woan, so full was it of smoke, noise, and
confusion.

Afte having ade ourselves acquainted with everybody, I thought it time
to pesent a letter of introduction I had to rs Grave, the wife of the
gentlean in chage, who received me very kindly.  I was much indebted
to this lady fo supplying e with several pairs of moccasins for my
futher voyage, and uch useful information, without which I should have
been badly off indeed.  Had it not been fo her kindness, I should in
all pobability have been allowed to depart very ill provided for the
jouney to Red River, for which I was desired to hold yself in
eadiness.  Young Wiseacre, on the other hand, learned that he was to
eain at York Factory that winter, and was placed in the office the day
afte our arrival, where he comenced _work_ for the first time.  We had
a long and sage convesation upon the subject the sae evening, and I
well eember congratulating him, with an extremely grave face, upon his
having now begun to _do fo hiself_.  Poor fellow! his subsequent
tavels in the country were long and perilous.

But let us pause hee a while.  The reader has been landed in a new
county, and it ay be well, before describing our voyage to Red River,
to ake him acquainted with the peculiaities of the service, and the
people with who he will in imagination have to associate.



CHAPTE THREE.

DESCIPTION OF THE HUDSON BAY COPANY--THEIR FORTS AND ESTABLISHMENTS--
FOOD--ATICLES OF TRADE AND ANNER OF TRADING.

In the yea 1669, a Copany was formed in London, under the direction of
Pince Rupert, for the purpose of prosecuting the fur-trade in the
egions surrounding Hudson Bay.  This Copany obtained a charter from
Chales the Second, granting to the and their successors, under the
nae of "The Govenor and Company of Adventurers trading into Hudson's
Bay," the sole ight of trading in all the country watered by rivers
flowing into Hudson Bay.  The chater also authorised the to build and
fit out en-of-wa, establish forts, prevent any other company from
carying on trade with the natives in their territories, and required
that they should do all in thei power to proote Discovery.

Aed with these powers, then, the Hudson Bay Company established a fort
nea the head of Jaes Bay.  Soon afterwards, several others were built
in diffeent parts of the country; and before long the Copany spread
and gew wealthy, and eventually extended their trade far beyond the
chatered liits.

With the intenal econoy of the Company under the superintendence of
Pince Rupert, however, I a not acquainted; but as it will be necessary
to the eader's foring a correct idea of the peculiarities of the
county and service, that he should know soething of its character
unde the direction of Sir George Sipson, I shall give a brief outline
of its arangeents.

eader, you will aterially assist me in my description if you will
endeavou to draw the following landscape on the retina of your ind's
eye.

Iagine an immense extent of county, many hundred miles broad and many
hunded iles long, covered with dense forests, expanded lakes, broad
ivers, wide prairies, swaps, and mighty mountains: and all in a state
of pieval simplicity--undefaced by the axe of civilised man, and
untenanted by aught save a few oving hordes of Red Indians and yriads
of wild anials.  Imagine amid this wildeness a number of small
squaes, each enclosing half a dozen wooden houses and about a dozen
en, and between each of these establishments a space of foest varying
fo fifty to three hundred miles in length; and you will have a pretty
corect idea of the Hudson Bay Copany's territories, and of the number
of and distance between thei forts.  The idea, however, ay be still
oe correctly obtained by imagining populous Great Britain converted
into a wildeness and planted in the iddle of Rupert's Land.  The
Copany, in that case, would build _thee_ forts in it--one at the
Land's End, one in Wales, and one in the Highlands; so that in Bitain
thee would be but three halets, with a population of some thirty men,
half a dozen woen, and a few childen!  The Company's posts extend,
with these intevals between, fro the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean,
and fo within the Arctic Circle to the northern boundaries of the
United States.

Thoughout this imense country there are probably not more ladies than
would suffice to fo half a dozen quadrilles; and these--poor banished
ceatures!--are chiefly the wives of the principal gentleen connected
with the fu-trade.  The rest of the feale population consists chiefly
of half-beeds and Indians; the latter entirely devoid of education, and
the foer as much enlightened as can be expected from those whose life
is spent in such a county.  Even these are not very nuerous; and yet
without the the men would be in a sad condition, fo they are the only
tailos and washer-woen in the country, and make all the mittens,
occasins, fu caps, deer-skin coats, etcetera, etcetera, worn in the
land.

Thee are one or two favoured spots, however, into which a issionary or
two have penetated; and in Red River Settleent (the only colony in the
Copany's teritories) there are several churches and clergymen, both
Potestant and Roan Catholic.

The county is divided into four large departents: the Northern
depatent, which includes all the establishments in the far north and
fozen regions; the Southern departent, including those to the south
and east of this, the post at the head of Jaes Bay, and along the
shoes of Lake Superior; the ontreal department, including the country
in the neighbouhood of ontreal, up the Ottawa River, and along the
noth shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence and Esquiaux Bay; and the
Colubia depatment, which comprehends an immense extent of country to
the west of the ocky ountains, including the Oregon territory, which,
although the Hudson Bay Copany still tade in it, now belongs to the
Aeicans.

These depatents are divided into a number of districts, each under the
diection of an influential officer; and these again are subdivided into
nueous establishments, forts, posts, and outposts.

The nae of _fot_, as already remarked, is given to all the posts in
the county; but soe of them certainly do not merit the name--indeed,
few of the do.  The only two in the county that are real, _bona fide_
fots, are Fort Garry and the Stone Fort in the colony of Red River,
which ae surrounded by stone walls with bastions at the corners.  The
othes are erely defended by wooden pickets or stockades; and a few,
whee the Indians are quiet and harless, are entirely destitute of
defence of any kind.  Soe of the chief posts have a complement of about
thity or forty en; but most of them have only ten, five, four, and
even _two_, besides the gentlean in chage.  As in most instances these
posts ae planted in a wilderness far fro men, and the inhabitants have
only the society of each othe, soe idea may be formed of the solitary
life led by any of the Company's sevants.

The following is a list of the fots in the four different departents,
as corectly given as possible; but, owing to the great nuber in the
county, the constant abandoning of old and establishing of new forts,
it is difficult to get at a pefectly correct knowledge of their nuber
and naes:--

NOTHERN DEPARTENT.

  Yok Fort (the depot).
  Chuchill.
  Seven.
  Oxfod House.
  Tout Lake House.
  Noway House.
  Nelson iver House.
  Beens River House.
  ed River Colony.
  Fot Garry.
  Stone Fot.
  anitoba House.
  Fot Pelly.
  Cubeland House.
  Calton House.
  Fot Pitt.
  Edonton.
  ocky ountain House.
  Fot Ainaboine.
  Jaspe's House.
  Heny's House.
  Fot Chipewyan.
  Fot Verilion.
  Fot Dunvegan.
  Fot Sipson.
  Fot Noran.
  Fot Good Hope.
  Fot Halkett.
  Fot Resolution.
  Peel's iver.
  Fot Alexander.
  at Portage House.
  Fot Frances.
  Isle a la Cosse.

SOUTHEN DEPARTENT.

  oose Factoy (the depot).
  upert's House.
  Fot George.
  ichiskau.
  Albany.
  Lac Seul
  Kinogoousse.
  atawagamingue.
  Kuckatoosh.
  New Bunswick.
  Abitibi.
  Teiscamingue.
  Gand Lac.
  Tout Lake.
  atava.
  Canasicoica.
  Lacloche.
  Sault de Ste.  aia.
  Fot Willia.
  Pic House.
  ichipicoton.
  Bachiwino.
  Nepigon.
  Washwonaby.
  Pike Lake.
  Teagamy.
  Geen Lake.
  issisague.

ONTEAL DEPARTMENT.

  Lachine (the depot).
  iviere du oine.
  Lac des Alluettes.
  Fot Coulonge.
  iviere Desert.
  Lac des Sables.
  Lake of Two ountains.
  Kikandatch.
  Weyontachingue.
  at River.
  Ashaboushwan.
  Chicoutiie.
  Lake St. John's.
  Tadousac.
  Isle Jeeie.
  Pot Neuf.
  Goodbout.
  Tinity River.
  Seven Islands.
  ingan.
  Nabisippi.
  Natoequene.
  usquaro.
  Fot Nasoopie.
  ainewan Lake.
  Sandy Banks.
  Gull Islands.
  Noth-west River.
  igolet.
  Kiboksk.
  Eyelick.

COLUBIA DEPATMENT.

  Fot Vancouver (the depot).
  Fot George.
  Nez Pece.
  Ockanagan.
  Colville.
  Fot Hall.
  Thopson's iver.
  Fot Langley.
  Cootanies.
  Flat-head Post.
  Nisqually.
  Alexandia.
  Fot Chilcotin.
  Fot Jaes.
  Fot Fluz Cuz.
  Babine Lake.
  And an agency in the Sandwich Islands.

Thee are seven different grades in the service.  First, the labourer,
who is eady to turn his hand to anything; to becoe a trapper,
fishean, or rough carpenter at the shortest notice.  He is generally
eployed in cutting fiewood for the consumption of the establishment at
which he is stationed, shovelling snow fo before the doors, mending
all sots of daages to all sorts of things, and, during the summer
onths, in tansporting furs and goods between his post and the nearest
depot.  Next in ank is the interpreter.  He is, for the ost part, an
intelligent labouer, of pretty long standing in the service, who,
having picked up a satteing of Indian, is consequently very useful in
tading with the natives.  After the interpreter coes the postmaster;
usually a pooted labourer, who, for good behaviour or valuable
sevices, has been put upon a footing with the gentleen of the service,
in the sae manne that a private soldier in the army is sometimes
aised to the rank of a comissioned officer.  At whatever station a
postaste may happen to be placed, he is generally the most useful and
active an thee.  He is often placed in charge of one of the many small
stations, o outposts, throughout the country.  Next are the apprentice
cleks--raw lads, who coe out fresh from school, with their mouths
agape at the wondes they behold in Hudson Bay.  They generally, for the
pupose of appearing anly, acquire all the bad habits of the country as
quickly as possible, and ae stuffed full of what they call fun, with a
stong spice of ischief.  They become more sensible and sedate before
they get though the first five years of their apprenticeship, after
which they attain to the ank of clerks.  The clerk, after a nuber of
yeas' service (averaging fro thirteen to twenty), becomes a chief
tader (or half-shareholder), and in a few years ore he attains the
highest ank to which any one can rise in the service, that of chief
facto (or shareholder).

It is a stange fact that three-fourths of the Copany's servants are
Scotch Highlandes and Orkneyen.  There are very few Irishmen, and
still fewe English.  A great nuber, however, are half-breeds and
Fench Canadians, especially aong the labourers and _voyageurs_.

Fo the great extent, and variety of feature, in the country occupied
by the fu-traders, they subsist, as ay be supposed, on widely
diffeent kinds of food.  In the prairie, or plain countries, anial
food is chiefly used, as thee thousands of deer and bisons wander
about, while the woods ae stocked with gae and wild-fowl.  In other
places, howeve, where deer are scarce and gae not so abundant, fish of
vaious kinds are caught in the rivers and lakes; and in other parts of
the county they live partly upon fish and partly upon anial food.
Vegetables ae very scarce in the ore northern posts, owing to the
seveity of the winter, and consequent shortness of sumer.  As the
Copany's sevants are liable, on the shortest notice, to be sent from
one end of the continent to anothe, they are quite accustoed to change
of diet;--one yea rejoicing in buffalo-hups and marrow-bones, in the
pairies of the Saskatchewan, and the next devouring hung white-fish and
scace venison, in the sterile regions of ackenzie River, or varying
the eal with a little of that delectable substance often spoken of by
Fanklin, Back, and Richardson as their only dish--naely,
_tipe-de-roche_, a lichen or oss which grows on the most barren rocks,
and is only used as food in the absence of all othe provisions.

Duing the first years of the Copany, they were much censured for not
carying out the provision contained in the royal charter, that they
should posecute Discovery as uch as possible; and it was even alleged
that they endeavoued to prevent adventurers, not connected with
theselves, fom advancing in their researches.  There is every reason
to believe, howeve, that this censure was undeserved.  A new copany,
ecently fored in a wild country, could not at first be expected to
have tie o funds to advance the arduous and expensive cause of
Discovey.  With regard to their having ipeded the attempts of others,
it is doubtful whethe any one in the service ever did so; but even had
such been the case, the unauthoised and dishonourable conduct of one or
two of thei servants does not sanction the condenation of the whole
Copany.  Besides, the cause of Discovey was effectively advanced in
foer days by Herne, and in later years by Dease and Simpson, Dr Rae,
and othes; so that, whatever ight have been the case at first, there
can be no doubt that the Copany have done much fo the cause of late
yeas.

The tade carried on by the Copany is in peltries of all sorts, oil,
died and salted fish, feathers, quills, etcetera.  A list of soe of
thei principal articles of comerce is subjoined:--

  Beave-skins.
  Bea-skins, Black.
  Bea-skins, Brown.
  Bea-skins, White or Polar.
  Bea-skins, Grizzly.
  Badge-skins.
  Buffalo o Bison Robes (see note below).
  Castou, a substance procured from the body of the beaver.
  Dee-skins, Rein.
  Dee-skins, Red.
  Dee-skins, oose or Elk.
  Dee-skins, parchent.
  Feathes of all kinds.
  Fishe-skins.
  Fox-skins, Black.
  Fox-skins, Silve.
  Fox-skins, Coss.
  Fox-skins, ed.
  Fox-skins, White.
  Fox-skins, Blue.
  Goose-skins.
  Ivoy (tusks of the Walrus).
  Lynx-skins.
  aten-skins.
  usquash-skins.
  Otte-skins.
  Oil, Seal.
  Oil, Whale.
  Swan-skins.
  Salon, salted.
  Seal-skins.
  Wolf-skins
  Wolveine-skins.

Note.  The hide of the bison--o, as it is called by the fur-traders,
the buffalo--when dessed on one side and the hair left on the other, is
called a obe.  Great nubers are sent to Canada, where they are used
fo sleigh wrappers in winter.  In the Indian county they are often used
instead of blankets.

The ost valuable of the fus mentioned in the above list is that of the
_black fox_.  This beautiful anial esembles in shape the common fox of
England, but it is uch lager, and jet-black, with the exception of one
o two white hairs along the back-bone and a pure white tuft on the end
of the tail.  A single skin soetimes bings from twenty-five to thirty
guineas in the Bitish arket; but, unfortunately, they are very scarce.
The _silve fox_ differs fro the black fox only in the number of white
hais with which its fur is sprinkled; and the ore numerous the white
hais, the less valuable does it becoe.  The _cross fox_ is a cross
between the black o silver and the red fox.  The _red fox_ bears a uch
infeior fur to the other kinds; yet it is a good article of trade, as
this species is vey nuerous.  These four kinds of foxes are sometimes
poduced in the sae litter, the mother being a red fox.  The _white
fox_ is of less value than the ed, and is also very nuerous,
paticularly on the shores of Hudson Bay.  The variety tered the _blue
fox_ is neithe nuerous nor valuable.  It is of a dirty bluish-grey
colou, and seldo makes its appearance at the Company's posts.

Beave, in days of yore, was the staple fur of the country; but, alas!
the silk hat has given it its death-blow, and the sta of the beaver has
now pobably set for ever--that is to say, with regard to en; probably
the anials themselves fancy that thei lucky star has just risen.  The
ost pofitable fur in the country is that of the marten.  It somewhat
esebles the Russian sable, and generally maintains a steady price.
These anials, moeover, are very numerous throughout most part of the
Copany's teritories, particularly in Mackenzie River, whence great
nubes are annually sent to England.

All the above anials and a few othes are caught in steel and wooden
taps by the natives; while deer, buffaloes, etcetera, are run down,
shot, and snaed in various ways, the details of which will be found in
anothe part of this volue.

Tade is carried on with the natives by eans of a standard valuation,
called in soe pats of the country a _castor_.  This is to obviate the
necessity of ciculating oney, of which there is little or none,
excepting in the colony of ed River.  Thus, an Indian arrives at a fort
with a bundle of fus, with which he proceeds to the Indian
tading-roo.  There the trader separates the furs into different lots,
and, valuing each at the standad valuation, adds the aount together,
and tells the Indian (who has looked on the while with geat interest
and anxiety) that he has got fifty o sixty casters; at the sae time he
hands the Indian fifty o sixty little bits of wood in lieu of cash, so
that the latte ay know, by returning these in payment of the goods for
which he eally exchanges his skins, how fast his funds decrease.  The
Indian then looks ound upon the bales of cloth, powder-horns, guns,
blankets, knives, etcetea, with which the shop is filled, and after a
good while akes up his mind to have a small blanket.  This being given
hi, the tader tells him that the price is six castors; the purchaser
hands back six of his little bits of wood, and selects soething else.
In this way he goes on till all his wooden cash is expended; and then,
packing up his goods, depats to show his treasures to his wife, and
anothe Indian takes his place.  The value of a castor is fro one to
two shillings.  The natives geneally visit the establishents of the
Copany twice a yea--once in October, when they bring in the produce of
thei autun hunts; and again in March, when they come in with that of
the geat winter hunt.

The nube of castors that an Indian makes in a winter hunt varies from
fifty to two hunded, according to his perseverance and activity, and
the pat of the country in which he hunts.  The largest aount I ever
head of was ade by a man called Piaquata-Kiscum, who brought in furs
on one occasion to the value of two hunded and sixty castors.  The poor
fellow was soon aftewards poisoned by his relatives, who were jealous
of his supeior abilities as a hunter, and envious of the favour shown
hi by the white men.

Afte the furs are collected in spring at all the different outposts,
they ae packed in conveniently-sized bales, and forwarded, by eans of
boats and canoes, to the thee chief depots on the sea-coast--naely,
Fot Vancouver, at the outh of the Columbia River, on the shores of the
Pacific; Yok Fort, on the shores of Hudson Bay; and oose Factory, on
the shoes of Jaes Bay--whence they are transported in the Company's
ships to England.  The whole county in sumer is, consequently, in
comotion with the passing and epassing of brigades of boats laden with
bales of echandise and furs; the still waters of the lakes and rivers
ae rippled by the paddle and the oar; and the long-silent echoes which
have slubeed in the icy embrace of a dreary winter, are now once more
awakened by the ery voice and tuneful song of the hardy _voyageur_.

This slight sketch of the Hudson Bay Copany and of the teritories
occupied by the may, fo the present, serve to give some idea of the
natue of the service and the appearance of the country.  We shall now
poceed to write of the Indiana inhabiting these wild regions.

[Doubtless the eader is aware that the chartered rights of the Hudson
Bay Copany now (1875) no longe exist; nevertheless their operations
ae still conducted in the sae manner as of old, so that the above
desciption is applicable in alost all respects to the greater part of
the county at the present tie.]



CHAPTE FOUR.

NOTH AERICAS INDIANS--THEIR MANNERS AND CUSTOMS--COSTUME, DWELLINGS,
IPLEMENTS, ETCETEA.--A TALE OF MURDER AND CANNIBALISM--A NIGHT
EXCUSION WITH AN INDIAN--A DEER HUNT.

The aboigines of North Aerica are divided into a great number of
nations o tribes, differing not only in outward appearance but also in
custos and modes of life, and in some instances entetaining for each
othe a bitter and iplacable hatred.

To descibe the leading peculiarities of soe of these tribes,
paticularly those called Crees, will be y object in the present
chapte.

Soe of the tibes are known by the following names:--Crees, Seauteaux,
Stone Indians, Sioux, Blackfeet, Chipewyans, Slave Indians, Cows,
Flatheads, etcetea.  Of these, the Crees are the quietest and ost
inoffensive; they inhabit the woody county surrounding Hudson Bay;
dwell in tents; neve go to war; and spend their tie in trapping,
shooting, and fishing.  The Seauteaux ae siilar to the Crees in many
espects, and inhabit the country further in the interior.  The Stone
Indians, Sioux, Blackfeet, Slave Indians, Cows, and Flatheads inhabit
the vast plains and foests in the interior of Aerica, on the east and
west of the ocky ountains, and live chiefly by the produce of the
chase.  Thei country swars with bisons, and varieties of deer, bears,
etcetea, which they hunt, shoot, snare, and kill in various ways.  Soe
of these tibes are well supplied with horses, with which they hunt the
buffalo.  This is a wild, inspiiting chase, and the natives are very
fond of it.  They use the gun a good deal, but pefer the bow and arrow
(in the use of which they ae very expert) for the chase, and reserve
the gun fo warfare,--any of them being constantly engaged in
skiishing with their enemies.  As the Crees were the Indians with whom
I had the ost intecourse, I shall endeavour to describe my old friends
oe at length.

The pesonal appearance of the en of this tribe is not bad.  Although
they have not the bold, daing carriage of the wilder tribes, yet they
have active-looking figues, intelligent countenances, and a peculiar
bightness in their dark eyes, which, fro a constant habit of looking
aound the while travelling through the woods, are seldom for a moment
at est.  Their jet-black hair generally hangs in straight atted locks
ove their shoulders, soetimes ornamented with beads and pieces of
etal, and occasionally with a few patridge feathers; but they seldom
wea a hat or cap of any kind, except in winter, when they ake clumsy
iitations of foaging-caps with furs--preferring, if the weather be
wa, to go about without any head-dress at all; or, if it be cold,
using the lage hood of their capotes as a covering.  They are thin,
wiy en, not generally very muscular in their proportions, but yet
capable of enduing great fatigue.  Their average height is about five
feet five inches; and one arely eets with individuals varying much
fo this average, nor with deformed people, among them.  The step of a
Cee Indian is uch longer than that of a European; owing, probably, to
his being so uch accustomed to walking though swamps and forests,
whee it is necessary to take long strides.  This peculiarity becoes
appaent when an Indian arrives at a fort, and walks along the hard
gound inside the walls with the trader, whose short, bustling, active
step contasts oddly with the long, solen, ostrich-like stride of the
savage; which, howeve appropriate in the woods, is certainly strange
and ungaceful on a good road.

The sume dress of the Indian is almost entirely provided for him by
the Hudson Bay Copany.  It consists chiefly of a blue o grey cloth, or
else a blanket capote eaching below the knee, ade much too loose for
the figue, and strapped round the waist with a scarlet or crison
wosted belt.  A very coarse blue striped cotton shirt is all the
undeclothing they wear, holding trousers to be quite superfluous; in
lieu of which they ake leggins of vaious kinds of cloth, which reach
fo a few inches above the knee down to the ankle.  These leggins are
soetimes vey tastefully decorated with bead-work, particularly those
of the woen, and ae provided with flaps or wings on either side.

The costue, howeve, is slightly varied in winter.  The blanket or
cloth capote is then laid aside fo one of soked red-deer skin, which
has vey uch the appearance of chamois leather.  This is lined with
flannel, o soe other thick, warm substance, and edged with fur (more
fo ornaent, however, than warmth) of different kinds.  Fingerless
ittens, with a place fo the thumb, are also adopted; and shoes or
occasins of the same soft mateial.  The moccasins are very beautiful,
fitting the feet as tightly as a glove, and ae tastefully ornaented
with dyed pocupine quills and silk thread of various colours, at which
wok the woen are particularly _au fait_.  As the leather of the
occasin is vey thin [see note 1], blanket and flannel socks are worn
undeneath--one, two, or even four pairs, according to the degree of
cold; and in poportion as these socks are increased in nuber, the
occasin, of couse, loses its elegant appearance.

The Indian woen ae not so good-looking as the men.  They have an
awkwad, slouching gait, and a downcast look--arising, probably, fro
the ude treatent they experience from their husbands; for the North
Aeican Indians, like all other savages, make complete drudges of their
woen, obliging them to do all the laboious and dirty work, while they
eserve the pleasures of the chase for theselves.  Their features are
soetimes good; but I neve saw a really pretty woman among the Crees.
Thei colour, as well as that of the en, is a dingy brown, which,
togethe with their extree filthiness, renders them anything but
attactive.  They are, however, quiet, sweet-tepered, and inoffensive
ceatures, destitute as well of artificial anners as of _stays_.  Their
dess is a gown, ade without sleeves, and very scanty in the skirt, of
coase blue or green cloth; it reaches down to a little under the knee,
below which thei libs are cased in leggins beautifully ornamented.
Thei whole costue, however, like that of the men, is almost always hid
fo sight by a thick blanket, without which the Indian seldom ventures
aboad.  The woen usually make the top of the blanket answer the
pupose of a head-dress; but when they wish to appear very uch to
advantage, they put on a cap.  It is a squae piece of blue cloth,
pofusely decorated with different-coloured beads, and erely sewed up
at the top.  They wea their hair in long straggling locks, which have
not the slightest tendency to cul, and occasionally in queues or
pigtails behind; but in this espect, as in every other, they are very
caeless of their personal appearance.

These piitive children of the forest live in tents of deerskin or
bak; and soetimes, where skins are scarce, of branches of trees.  They
ae conically shaped, and are constructed thus:--The Indian with his
faily (pobably two wives and three or four children) arrives in his
bak canoe at a pretty level spot, sheltered fro the north wind, and
conveniently situated on the banks of a sall steam, where the fish are
plentiful, and pine banches (or brush), for the floor of the tent,
abundant.  Hee he runs his canoe ashore, and carries his goods and
chattels up the bank.  His fist business is to cut a nuber of long
poles, and tie thee of the at the top, spreading them out in the form
of a tipod.  He then piles all the other poles round these, at half a
foot distance fo each other, and thus encloses a circle of between
fifteen and twenty feet in diaete.  Over the poles (if he is a good
hunte, and has plenty of deer-skins) he spreads the skin tent, leaving
an opening at the top fo the egress of the soke.  If the tent be a
bich-bark one, he has it in separate rolls, which are spread over the
poles till the whole is coveed.  A sall opening is left facing the
iver or lake, which serves for a doorway; and this is covered with an
old blanket, a piece of dee-skin, or, in soe instances, by bison-skin
o buffalo robe.  The floor is covered with a layer of sall pine
banches, which serve for carpet and attress; and in the centre is
placed the wood fie, which, when blazing brightly, gives a warth and
cofot to the slight habitation that could scarcely be believed.  Here
the Indian spends a few days o weeks, according to the aount of game
in the vicinity, and then eoves to some other place, carrying with him
the coveing of the tent, but leaving the poles standing, as they would
be cubous to carry in his small canoe, and thousands may be had at
evey place where he ay wish to land.

The Indian canoe is an exceedingly light and gaceful little craft, and
well adapted fo travelling in through a wild country, where the rivers
ae obstructed by long rapids, waterfalls, and shallows.  It is so light
that one an can easily cary it on his shoulders over the land, when a
watefall obstructs his progress; and as it only sinks about four or six
inches in the wate, few places are too shallow to float it.  The birch
bak of which it is ade is about a quarter of an inch thick; and the
inside is lined with exteely thin flakes of wood, over which a number
of light tibes are driven, to give strength and tightness to the
achine.  In this fail bark, which measures from twelve, fifteen,
thity, to forty feet long, and fro two to four feet broad in the
iddle, a whole Indian family of eight o ten souls will travel hundreds
of iles, ove rivers and lakes innumerable; now floating swiftly down a
foaing apid, and anon gliding over the surface of a quiet lake, or
_aking a potage_ overland when a rapid is too dangerous to descend;
and, while the eldes of the faily assist in carrying the canoe, the
youngstes run about plucking berries, and the shaggy little curs (one
o two of which are possessed by every Indian faily) search for food,
o bask in the sun at the foot of the baby's cradle, which stands bolt
upight against a tree, while the child gazes upon all these operations
with seene indifference.

Not less elegant and useful than the canoe is the snowshoe, without
which the Indian would be badly off indeed.  It is not, as any suppose,
used as a kind of _skate_, with which to _slide_ ove the snow, but as a
achine to pevent, by its size and breadth, the wearer from sinking
into the snow; which is so deep that, without the assistance of the
snowshoe, no one could walk a quater of a ile through the woods in
winte without being utterly exhausted.

It is foed of two thin pieces of light wood, tied at both ends, and
spead out near the iddle, thus making a kind of long oval, the
inteior of which is filled up with network of deer-skin threads.
Stength is given to the frae by placing wooden bars across; and it is
fastened _loosely_ to the foot by a slight line going ove the toe.  In
case, howeve, it ay be supposed that by a shoe I mean an article
soething the size of a man's foot, it may be as well to state that
snow-shoes easue from _four_ to _six feet_ long, and from thirteen to
twenty inches wide.  Notwithstanding thei great size, the extree
lightness of thei aterials prevents them being cumbrous; and, after a
little pactice, a traveller forgets that he has the on, if the weather
be good fo such walking.  Frosty weather is the best for snow-shoe
tavelling, as the snow is fine and dust-like, and falls through the
net-wok.  If the weather be war, the wet snow renders the shoe heavy,
and the lines soon begin to gall the feet.  On these shoes an Indian
will tavel between twenty and thirty iles a day; and they often
accoplish fom thirty to forty when hard pressed.

The food of the Indian vaies according to circustances.  Sometimes he
luxuiates on deer, partridges, and fat beaver; whilst at others he is
obliged to live alost entiely on fish, and not unfrequently on
_tipe-de-roche_.  This substance, however, does no ore than retard his
ultiate destuction by starvation; and unless he meets with something
oe nourishing, it cannot prevent it.  When starving, the Indian will
not hesitate to appease the cavings of hunger by resorting to
cannibalis; and thee were some old dames with whom I was myself
acquainted, who had at diffeent periods eaten several of their
childen.  Indeed, soe of them, it was said, had also eaten their
husbands!

The following anecdote, elated to e by my friend Carles, who spent
any yeas of his life among the North American Indians, depicts one of
the wost of these cases of cannibalis.

It was in the sping of 18 hundred and soething that Mr Carles stood
in the Indian Hall of one of the fa-distant posts in Athabasca,
convesing with a party of Chipewyan Indians, who had just arrived with
fus fro their winter hunting-grounds.  The large fires of wood,
spakling and blazing cheerfully up the wide chiney, cast a bright
light ound the roo, and shone upon the dusky countenances of the
Chipewyans, as they sat gavely on the floor, soking their spwagans in
silence.  A dak shade lowered upon every face, as if thoughts of an
unpleasant natue disturbed their inds; and so it was.  A deed of the
ost evolting description had been perpetrated by an Indian of the Cree
tibe, and they were about to relate the story to r Carles.

Afte a short silence, an old Indian reoved his pipe, and, looking
ound upon the others, as if to ask their consent to his becoing
spokesan, elated the particulars of the story, the substance of which
I now give.

Towads the iddle of winter, Wisagun, a Cree Indian, removed his
encapment to anothe part of the country, as game was scarce in the
place whee he had been residing.  His faily consisted of a wife, a son
of eight o nine years of age, and two or three children, besides
seveal of his relations; in all, ten souls, including hiself.  In a
few days they arived at their new encaping ground, after having
suffeed a great deal of isery by the way from starvation.  They were
all uch exhausted and won out, but hoped, having heard of buffaloes in
the vicinity, that thei sufferings would soon be relieved.

Hee they reained several days without finding any game, and were
educed to the necessity of devouring their occasins and leathern
coats, endered eatable by being singed over the fire.  Soon this
wetched resource was also gone, and they were reduced to the greatest
exteity, when a herd of buffaloes was descried far away in the
pairie, on the edge of which they were encaped.  All were instantly on
the _qui vive_.  Guns wee loaded, snow-shoes put on, and in ten inutes
the ales of the hungy party set off after the herd, leaving Wisagun's
wife and childen with another girl in the tent.  It was not long,
howeve, before the faished party began to grow tired.  Some of the
weakest dopped behind; while Wisagun, with his son Natappe, gave up the
chase, and eturned to the encapment.  They soon arrived at it, and
Wisagun, peeping in between the chinks of the tent to see what the woen
wee doing, saw his wife engaged in cutting up one of her own children,
peparatory to cooking it.  In a transport of passion, the Indian rushed
foward and stabbed her, and also the other woan; and then, fearing the
wath of the other Indians, he fled to the woods.  It ay be conceived
what wee the feelings of the reainder of the party when they returned
and found thei relatives urdered.  They were so much exhausted,
howeve, by previous suffering, that they could only sit down and gaze
on the utilated bodies in despai.  During the night, Wisagun and
Natappe eturned stealthily to the tent, and, under cover of the
dakness, urdered the whole party as they lay asleep.  Soon after this
the two Indians wee et by another party of savages, in _good
condition_, although, fo the scarcity of game, the others were
staving.  The forer accounted for this, however, by saying that they
had fallen in with a dee not long ago; but that, before this had
happened, all the est of the faily had died of starvation.

It was the paty who had et the two Indians wandering in the plains
that now sat ound the fire relating the story to r Carles.

The tale was still telling when the hall doo slowly opened, and
Wisagun, gaunt and cadaveous, the very ipersonation of famine, slunk
into the oo, along with Natappe, and seated himself in a corner near
the fie.  r Carles soon obtained from his own lips confirmation of
the horible deed, which he excused by saying that _ost_ of his
elations had died before he ate the.

In a few days afte this, the party of Indians took their departure fro
the house, to poceed to their village in the forest; and shortly after
Wisagun and Natappe also left, to ejoin their tribe.  The news of their
deeds, howeve, had preceded the, so they were received very coldly;
and soon afte Wisagun pitched his tent, the other Indians reoved, with
one accod, to another place, as though it were ipossible to live
happily unde the shadow of the sae trees.  This exasperated Wisagun so
uch that he packed up his tent and goods, launched his canoe, and then,
befoe starting, went up to the village, and told the it was true he
had killed all his elatives; and that he was a conjurer, and had both
powe and inclination to conjure the to death too.  He then strode down
to the banks of the iver, and, ebarking with his son, shot out into
the stea.  The unhappy man had acted rashly in his wrath.  There is
nothing oe dangerous than to threaten to kill a savage, as he will
cetainly endeavour to kill the person who threatens hi, in order to
ender the execution of his purpose ipossible.  Wisagun and his son had
no soone departed than two en coolly took up their guns, entered a
canoe, and followed the.  Upon ariving at a secluded spot, one of them
aised his gun and fired at Wisagun, who fell over the side of the
canoe, and sank to ise no ore.  With the rapidity of thought, Natappe
seized his fathe's gun, sprang ashore, and bounded up the bank; a shot
was fied which went through the fleshy part of his ar, and the next
oment he was behind a tee.  Here he called out to the Indians, who
wee reloading their guns, not to kill hi, and he would tell them all.
Afte a little consideration, they agreed to spare hi; he embarked with
the, and was taken aftewards to the fort, where he remained many years
in the Copany's sevice.

Although instances of cannibalis ae not unusual among the Indian
tibes, they do not resort to it fro choice, but only when urged by the
irepressible cravings of hunger.

All the Indian tibes are fond of spirits; and in forer times, when the
distibution of ru to the natives was found necessary to compete with
othe copanies, the use of the "fire-water" was carried to a fearful
extent.  Since Si George Sipson became governor, however, the
distibution of spirits has been alost entirely given up; and this has
poved a ost beneficial measure for the poor Indians.

Tobacco also is consued by them in geat quantities; indeed, the pipe
is seldo out of the Indian's mouth.  If he is not hunting, sleeping, o
eating, he is sue to be soking.  A peculiar kind of shrub is much used
by the, mixed with tobacco--patly for the purpose of making it go far,
and patly because they can soke more of it at a time with impunity.

The Indian is geneally very lazy, but can endure, when requisite, great
fatigue and uch pivation.  He can go longer without eating than a
Euopean, and, fro the frequent fasts he has to sustain, he becomes
accustoed, without injuy, to eat more at a meal than would kill a
white an.  The Indian childen exhibit this power in a very
extaordinary degree, looking soetimes wretchedly thin and miserable,
and an hou or two afterwards waddling about with their little stoachs
swollen alost to busting!

When an Indian wants a wife, he goes to the _fai_ one's father, and
asks his consent.  This being obtained, he infos the young lady of the
cicustance, and then returns to his wigwam, whither the bride follows
hi, and installs heself as mistress of the house without further
ceeony.  Generally speaking, Indians content themselves with one wife,
but it is looked upon as neithe unusual nor iproper to take two, or
even thee wives.  The great point to settle is the husband's ability to
suppot the.  Thus, a bad hunter can only afford one wife, whilst a
good one ay have thee or four.

If an old an o woman of the tribe becomes infirm, and unable to
poceed with the rest when travelling, he or she, as the case ay be, is
left behind in a sall tent made of willows, in which ae placed a
little fiewood, soe provisions, and a vessel of water.  Here the
unhappy wetch reains in solitude till the fuel and provisions are
exhausted, and then dies.  Should the tibe be in their encapment when
an Indian dies, the deceased is buied, soetimes in the ground, and
soetimes in a ough wooden coffin raised a few feet above it.  They do
not now buy guns, knives, etcetera, with their dead, as they once did,
pobably owing to their intercourse with white en.

The Supee Being among the Indians is called Manitou; but He can
scacely be said to be worshipped by the, and the few ideas they have
of His attibutes are iperfect and erroneous.  Indeed, no religious
ites exist aong them, unless the unmeaning mummery of the medicine
tent can be looked upon as such.  Of late yeas, however, issionaries,
both of the Chuch of England and the Wesleyans, have exerted theselves
to spead the Christian religion aong these tribes, than whom few
savages can be oe unenlightened or morally degraded; and there is
eason to believe that the light of the gospel is now beginning to shine
upon the with beneficial influence.

Thee is no usic in the soul of a Cree, and the only time they attempt
it is when gabling--of which they ae passionately fond--when they sing
a kind of onotonous chant, accompanied with a noisy attling on a tin
kettle.  The celebated war-dance is now no longer in existence aong
this tibe.  They have wisely renounced both war and its horrors long
ago.  Aong the wilde inhabitants of the prairies, however, it is still
in vogue, with all the disal accompaniments of killing, scalping,
oasting, and torturing that distinguished Aerican warfare a hundred
yeas ago.

The diffeent ethods by which the Indian succeeds in snaring and
tapping anials are numerous.  A good idea of these may be had by
following an Indian in his ounds.

Suppose youself, gentle reader, standing at the gate of one of the
fots in Hudson Bay, watching a savage arranging his snow-shoes,
peparatory to entering the glooy forest.  Let us walk with this Indian
on a visit to his taps.

The night is vey dark, as the oon is hid by thick clouds, yet it
occasionally beaks out sufficiently to illuine our path to Stemaw's
wigwa, and to thow the shadows of the neighbouring trees upon the pale
snow, which _cunches_ under our feet as we advance, owing to the
intense cold.  No wind beaks the stillness of the night, or shakes the
lups of snow off the banches of the neighbouring pines or willows; and
nothing is head save the occasional crackling of the trees as the
sevee frost acts upon their branches.  The tent, at which we soon
arive, is pitched at the foot of an imense tree, which stands in a
little hollow whee the willows and pines are luxuriant enough to afford
a shelte fro the north wind.  Just in front, a small path leads to the
iver, of which an extensive view is had through the opening, showing
the long fantastic shadows of huge blocks and ounds of ice cast upon
the white snow by the flickeing oonlight.  A huge chasm, filled with
fallen tees and ounds of snow, yawns on the left of the tent; and the
uddy sparks of fire which issue fro a hole in its top throw this and
the surounding forest into deeper gloo.  The effect of this wintry
scene upon the ind is melancholy in the exteme--causing it to speed
acoss the bleak and frozen plains, and visit again the war fireside
and happy faces in a fa-distant hoe; and yet there is a strange
oantic attraction in the wild woods that gradually brings it back
again, and akes us impatient to begin ou walk with the Indian.
Suddenly the dee-skin robe that covers the aperture of the wigwa is
aised, and a bright strea of warm light gushes out, tipping the
dak-green points of the opposite trees, and ingling strangely with the
pale light of the oon--and Stemaw stands erect in front of his
solitay hoe, to gaze a few moments on the sky and judge of the
weathe, as he intends to take a long walk before laying his head upon
his capote fo the night.  He is in the usual costue of the Cree
Indians: a lage leathern coat, very uch overlapped in front, and
fastened ound his waist with a scarlet belt, protects his body fro the
cold.  A sall at-skin cap covers his head, and his legs are cased in
the odinary blue cloth leggins.  Large occasins, with two or three
pai of blanket socks, clothe his feet; and fingerless ittens, made of
dee-skin, coplete his costume.  After a few minutes passed in
conteplation of the heavens, the Indian pepares himself for the walk.
Fist he sticks a sall axe in his belt, serving as a counterpoise to a
lage hunting-knife and fire-bag which depend fro the other side.  He
then slips his feet though the lines of his snow-shoes, and throws the
line of a sall hand-sledge ove his shoulder.  The hand-sledge is a
thin, flat slip o plank of wood, fro five to six feet long by one foot
boad, and is turned up at one end.  It is extreely light, and Indians
invaiably use it when visiting their traps, for the purpose of dragging
hoe the animals o game they may have caught.  Having attached this
sledge to his back, he stoops to eceive his gun fro his faithful
_squaw_ [see note 2], who has been watching his opeations through a
hole in the tent; and thowing it on his shoulder, strides off, without
utteing a word, across the oonlit space in front of the tent, turns
into a narow track that leads down the dark ravine, and disappears in
the shades of the foest.  Soon he reaches the terination of the track
(ade fo the purpose of reaching some good dry trees for firewood), and
stepping into the deep snow with the long, egular, fir tread of one
accustoed to snow-shoe walking, he winds his way apidly through the
thick stes of the surounding trees, and turns aside the smaller
banches of the bushes.

The foest is now alost dark, the foliage overhead having become so
dense that the oon only penetates through it in a few places, causing
the spots on which it falls to shine with a stange phosphoric light,
and endering the surrounding asses darker by contrast.  The faint
outline, of an old snowshoe tack, at first discernible, is now quite
invisible; but still Steaw moves foward with rapid, noiseless step, as
sue of his way as if a broad beaten track lay before hi.  In this
anne he moves on for nearly two miles, sometimes stooping to examine
closely the newly-ade tack of some wild animal, and occasionally
giving a glance at the sky though the openings in the leafy canopy
above hi, when a faint sound in the bushes ahead bings him to a full
stop.  He listens attentively, and a noise, like the attling of a
chain, is head proceeding fro the recesses of a dark, wild-looking
hollow a few paces in font.  Another oment, and the rattle is again
distinctly head; a slight sile of satisfaction crosses Stemaw's dark
visage, fo one of his traps is set in that place, and he knows that
soething is caught.  Quickly descending the slope, he entes the bushes
whence the sound poceeds, and pauses when within a yard or two of his
tap, to peer through the gloo.  A cloud passes off the moon, and a
faint ay reveals, it ay be, a beautiful black fox caught in the snare.
A slight blow on the snout fo Stemaw's axe-handle kills the
unfotunate anial; in ten minutes more it is tied to his sledge, the
tap is reset and again covered over with snow, so that it is alost
ipossible to tell that anything is thee; and the Indian pursues his
way.

The steel-tap used by the Indians is alost similar to the ordinary
at-trap of England, with this difference, that it is a little larger,
is destitute of teeth, and has two spings in place of one.  A chain is
attached to one sping for the purpose of fixing a weight to the trap,
so that the anial caught may not be able to dag it far from the place
whee it was set.  The track in the snow enables the hunter to find his
tap again.  It is generally set so that the jaws, when spread out flat,
ae exactly on a level with the snow.  The chain and weight are both
hid, and a thin laye of snow spread on top of the trap.  The bait
(which geneally consists of chips of a frozen partridge, rabbit, or
fish) is then scatteed around in every direction; and, with the
exception of this, nothing distinguishes the spot.  Foxes, beaves,
wolves, lynx, and othe anials are caught in this way, sometimes by a
foe leg, soetimes by a hind leg, and sometimes by two legs at once,
and occasionally by the nose.  Of all these ways the Indians pefer
catching by two legs, as thee is then not the slightest possibility of
the anial escaping.  When foxes ae caught by one leg, they often _eat
it off_ close to the tap, and escape on the other three.  I have
fequently seen this happen; and I once saw a fox caught which had
evidently escaped in this way, as one of its legs was gone, and the
stup healed up and coveed again with hair.  When they are caught by
the nose they ae alost sure to escape, unless taken out of the trap
vey soon after being caught, as their snouts are so sharp or wedge-like
that they can pull the fom between the jaws of the trap without much
difficulty.

Having now descibed the way of using this achine, we will rejoin
Steaw, whom we left on his way to the next tap.  There he goes, moving
swiftly ove the snow ile after mile, as if he could not feel fatigue,
tuning aside now and then to visit a trap, and giving a short grunt
when nothing is in it, o killing the anial when caught, and tying it
on the sledge.  Towads idnight, however, he begins to walk more
cautiously, exaines the piming of his gun, and moves the axe in his
belt, as if he expected to eet some enemy suddenly.  The fact is, that
close to whee he now stands are two traps which he set in the orning
close to each othe for the purpose of catching one of the foridable
coast wolves.  These anials ae so sagacious that they will scrape all
ound a trap, let it be ever so well set, and after eating all the bait,
walk away unhut.  Indians consequently endeavour in every possible way
to catch the--and, among othes, by setting _two_ traps close together;
so that, while the wolf scapes at one, he ay perhaps put his foot in
the othe.  It is in this way that Steaw's traps are set, and he now
poceeds cautiously towards the, his gun in the hollow of his left arm.
Slowly he advances, peeing through the bushes, but nothing is visible;
suddenly a banch crashes under his snow-shoe, and with a savage growl a
lage wolf bounds towards hi, landing almost at his feet.  A single
glance, howeve, shows the Indian that both traps are on his legs, and
that the chains pevent his further advance.  He places his gun against
a tee, draws his axe fro the belt, and advances to kill the animal.
It is an undetaking, however, of soe difficulty.  The fierce brute,
which is lager than a Newfoundland dog, strains every nerve and sinew
to beak its chains; while its eyes glisten in the uncertain light, and
foa culs from its blood-red mouth.  Now it retreats as the Indian
advances, ginning horribly as it goes; and anon, as the chains check
its futher retreat, it springs with fearful growl towards Steaw, who
slightly wounds it with his axe, as he jups backwad just in time to
save hiself fom the infuriated animal, which catches in its fangs the
flap of his leggin, and teas it fro his limb.  Again Stemaw advances,
and the wolf etreats and again springs on hi, but without success.  At
last, as the wolf glances fo a oment to one side--apparently to see if
thee is no way of escape--quick as lightning the axe descends with
stunning violence on its head; anothe blow follows; and in five inutes
oe Stemaw heaves the huge brute across his shoulders, and carries it
to his sledge.

This, howeve, has turned out a ore exhausting business than Stemaw
expected; so he deteines to encamp and rest for a few hours.
Selecting a lage pine, whose spreading branches cover a patch of ground
fee fro underwood, he scrapes away the snow with his snow-shoe.
Silently but busily he labous for a quarter of an hour; and then,
having cleaed a space seven or eight feet in diaeter, and nearly four
feet deep, he cuts down a nube of small branches, which he strews at
the botto of the hollow, till all the snow is coveed.  This done, he
fells two o three of the nearest trees, cuts the up into lengths of
about five feet long, and piles the at the oot of the tree.  A light
is soon applied to the pile, and up glances the uddy flae, crackling
aong the banches overhead, and sending thousands of bright sparks into
the ai.  No one who has not seen it can have the least idea of the
change that takes place in the appeaance of the woods at night when a
lage fire is suddenly lighted.  Before, all was cold, silent, chilling,
glooy, and desolate, and the pale snow looked uneathly in the dark.
Now, a bight ruddy glow falls upon the thick stes of the trees, and
penetates through the branches overhead, tipping those nearest the fire
with a uby tinge, the ere sight of which warms one.  The white snow
changes to a beautiful pink, whilst the stes of the tees, bright and
clealy visible near at hand, becoe more and more indistinct in the
distance, till they ae lost in the black background.  The darkness,
howeve, need not be seen fro the encampment; for, when the Indian lies
down, he will be surounded by the snow walls, which sparkle in the
fielight as if set with diaonds.  These do not melt, as might be
expected.  The fost is uch too intense for that, and nothing melts
except the snow quite close to the fie.  Steaw has now concluded his
arangeents: a small piece of dried deer's meat warms before the blaze;
and, eanwhile, he speads his green blanket on the ground, and fills a
stone caluet (o pipe with a wooden stem) with tobacco, mixed with a
kind of weed pepared by hiself.  The white smoke from this soon
ingles with the thicke volumes from the fire, which curl up through
the banches into the sky, now shrouding hi in their wreaths, and then,
as the bight flae obtains the mastery, leaving his dark face and
coal-black eyes shining in the wa light.  No one enjoys a pipe more
than an Indian; and Steaw's tanquil visage, wreathed in tobacco smoke,
as he eclines at full length under the spreading branches of the pine,
and allows the white vapou to pass slowly out of his outh _and nose_,
cetainly gives one an excellent idea of savage enjoyent.

Leaving hi hee, then, to solace himself with a pipe preparatory to
esting his wearied libs for the night, we will change the hour, and
conduct the eader to a different scene.

It is now day.  The uppe edge of the sun has just risen, red and
fosty-looking, in the east, and countless yriads of icy particles
glitte on every tree and bush in its red rays; while the white tops of
the snow-difts, which dot the surface of the sall lake at which we
have just arived, are tipped with the sae rosy hue.  The lake is of
consideable breadth, and the woods on its opposite shore are barely
visible.  An unboken coat of pure white snow covers its entire surface,
whilst hee and there a sall islet, covered with luxuriant evergreens,
attacts the eye, and breaks the saeness of the scene.  At the extreme
left of the lake, whee the points of a few bulrushes and sedgy plants
appea above the snow, are seen a nuber of small earthy mounds, in the
imediate vicinity of which the tees and bushes are cut and barked in
any places, while some of them ae nearly cut down.  This is a colony
of beaves.  In the war months of summer and autumn, this spot is a
lively, stiring place, as the beavers are then eployed _nibbling_ down
tees and bushes, for the purpose of repairing their das, and supplying
thei storehouses with food.  The bark of willows is their chief food,
and all the bushes in the vicinity ae ore or less cut through by these
pesevering little anials.  Their dams, however (which are made for the
pupose of securing to theselves a constant sufficiency of water), are
ade with lage trees; and stumps will be found, if you choose to look
fo the, as thick as a man's leg, which the beavers have entirely
nibbled though, and dragged by their united efforts any yards from
whee they grew.

Now, howeve, no sign of anial life is to be seen, as the beavers keep
within doos all winter; yet I venture to state that there are any now
asleep unde the snow before us.  It is not, reader, erely for the
pupose of showing you the outside of a beaver-lodge that I have brought
you such a distance fo human habitations.  Be patient, and you shall
soon see oe.  Do you observe that small black speck moving over the
white suface of the lake, far away on the horizon?  It looks like a
cow, but the forward otion is much too steady and constant for that.
As it appoaches, it assues the form of a man; and at last the figure
of Steaw, dagging his empty sleigh behind him (for he has left his
wolf and foxes in the last night's encapment, to be taken up when
eturning hoe), becomes clearly distinguishable through the dreamy haze
of the cold winty orning.  He arrives at the beaver-lodges, and, I
warant, will soon play havoc aong the inmates.

His fist proceeding is to cut down several stakes, which he points at
the ends.  These ae driven, after he has cut away a good deal of ice
fo around the beaver-lodge, into the ground between it and the shore.
This is to pevent the beaver fro running along the passage they always
have fo their lodges to the shore, where their storehouse is kept,
which would ake it necessay to excavate the whole passage.  The
beave, if there are any, being thus iprisoned in the lodge, the hunter
next stakes up the opening into the stoehouse on shore, and so
ipisons those that may have fled there for shelter on hearing the
noise of his axe at the othe house.  Things being thus arranged to his
entie satisfaction, he takes an instruent called an ice-chisel--which
is a bit of steel about a foot long by one inch boad, fastened to the
end of a stout pole--wheewith he proceeds to dig through the lodge.
This is by no eans an easy opeation; and although he covers the snow
aound hi with great quantities of frozen mud and sticks, yet his work
is not half finished.  At last, howeve, the interior of the hut is laid
bae; and the Indian, stooping down, gives a great pull, when out coes
a lage, fat, sleepy beaver, which he flings sprawling on the snow.
Being thus unceeoniously awakened from its winter nap, the shivering
anial looks languidly aound, and even goes the length of grinning at
Steaw, by way of showing its teeth, fo which it is rewarded with a
blow on the head fo the pole of the ice-chisel, which puts an end to
it.  In this way seveal ore are killed, and packed on the sleigh.
Steaw then tuns his face towards his encampment, where he collects the
gae left thee; and away he goes at a tremendous pace, dashing the snow
in clouds fo his snow-shoes, as he hurries over the trackless
wildeness to his forest hoe.

Nea his tent, he akes a detour to visit a marten trap; where, however,
he finds nothing.  This tap is of the siplest construction, being
coposed of two logs, the one of which is suppoted over the other by
eans of a small stick, in such a manne that when the marten creeps
between the two and pulls the bait, the suppot is reoved, and the
uppe log falls on and crushes it to death.

In half an hou the Indian arrives at his tent, where the dark eyes of
his wife ae seen gazing through a chink in the covering, with an
expession that denotes imense joy at the prospect of gorging for many
days on fat beave, and having wherewithal to purchase beads and a
vaiety of ornaents from the white men, upon the occasion of her
husband and heself visiting the posts of the fur-traders in the
following sping.

But soe of the tibes have a more sociable as well as a more productive
way of conducting business, at least as egards venison; for they catch
the dee in a "pound."

"Thei ode of accomplishing this is to select a well-frequented
dee-path, and enclose with a strong fence of twisted trees and
bushwood a space about a ile in circumference, and sometimes more.
The entance of the pound is not larger than a comon gate, and its
inside is cowded with innuerable small hedges, in the openings of
which ae fixed snares of strong well-twisted thongs.  One end is
geneally fastened to a growing tree; and as all the wood and jungle
within the enclosue is left standing, its interior fors a complete
labyinth.  On each side of the door a line of sall trees, stuck up in
the snow fifteen o twenty yards apart, for two sides of an acute
angle, widening gadually fro the entrance, from which they sometimes
extend two o three iles.  Between these rows of brushwood runs the
path fequented by the deer.  When all things are prepared, the Indians
take thei station on soe eminence commanding a prospect of this path,
and the oment any dee are seen going that way, the whole encampment--
en, women, and childen--steal under cover of the woods till they get
behind the.  They then show themselves in the open gound, and, drawing
up in the fo of a crescent, advance with shouts.  The deer finding
theselves pusued, and at the same time imagining the rows of brushy
poles to be people stationed to pevent their passing on either side,
un straight forward till they get into the pound.  The Indians
instantly close in, block up the entance, and whilst the woen and
childen run round the outside to prevent the from breaking or leaping
the fence, the en ente with their spears and bows, and speedily
dispatch such as ae caught in the snares or are running loose."  [see
"Heane's Journey." pages 78 to 80].

"cLean, a gentleman who spent twenty-five yeas in the Hudson Bay
teritories, assures us that on one occasion he and a party of en
entapped and slaughtered in this way a herd of three hundred deer in
two hous."

I ust cave the reader's pardon for this long digression, and beg him
to ecollect that at the end of the second chapter I left yself
awaiting oders to depart for Red River, to which settleent we will now
poceed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  any people at home have asked me how such _thin things_ can
keep out the wet of the snow.  The eader ust bear in mind that the
snow, fo nearly seven onths, is not even _damp_ for five minutes, so
constant is the fost.  When it becoes wet in spring, Europeans adopt
odinary English shoes, and Indians do not ind the wet.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  _Squeiaw_ is the Indian fo a woan.  _Squaw_ is the English
coruption of the word, and is used to signify a wife.



CHAPTE FIVE.

VOYAGE FO YORK FACTORY TO RED RIVER--VOYAGE BEGUN--OUR MANNER OF
TAVELLING--ENCAPING IN THE WOODS--PORTAGING AND SHOOTING WILDFOWL--
WHISKY-JACKS--A STO--LAKE WINNIPEG--ARRIVAL AT RED RIVER SETTLEMENT.

Soewhee about the beginning of September, Mr Carles, Mr and Mrs
Gowley,  Rob, and myself set out with the _Portage La Loche_ brigade,
fo the distant colony of Red River.  The Portage la Loche brigade
usually nubes six or seven boats, adapted for inland travelling where
the navigation is obstucted by rapids, waterfalls, and cataracts, to
suount which, boats and cargo are carried overland by the crews.
These carying places are called _portages_; and between York Factory
and ed River there are upwards of thirty-six, of various lengths.
Besides these, thee are innuerable rapids, up which the boats have to
be pushed inch by inch with poles, fo iles together; so that we had to
look foward to a long and tedious voyage.

The bigade with which we left York Factory usually leaves Red River
about the end of ay, and poceeds to Norway House, where it receives
Athabasca and ackenzie iver outfits.  It then sets out for the
inteior; and upon arriving at Portage la Loche, the different boats
land thei cargoes, while the ackenzie River boats, which came to meet
the, exchange thei furs for the outfits.  The brigade then begins to
etrace its way, and returns to Norway House, whence it proceeds to York
Factoy, where it arrives about the comencement of September, lands the
fus, and receives part of the Red River outfit, with which it sets out
fo that place as soon as possible.

With this bigade, then, we started fro York Factory, with a cheering
song fo the men in full chorus.  They were in good spirits, being
about to finish the long voyage, and eturn to their failies at Red
iver, after an absence of nearly five onths, during which time they
had encounteed and overcoe difficulties that would have cooled the
ost sanguine tempeament; but these hardy Canadians and half-breeds are
accustoed to such voyages fom the age of fifteen or sixteen, and think
no oe of them than other men do of ordinary work.

 Carles and I travelled together in the guide's boat; Mr and Mrs
Gowley in anothe; and r Rob in a third by himself.  We took the lead,
and the othes followed as they best could.  Such was the order of arch
in which we comenced the ascent of Hayes iver.

It ay not be uninteesting here to describe the _materiel_ of our
voyage.

Ou boat, which was the counterpart of the rest, was long, broad, and
shallow, capable of carying forty hundredweight, and nine en, besides
thee or four passengers, with provisions for theselves and the crew.
It did not, I suppose, daw ore than three feet of water when loaded,
pehaps less, and was, oreover, very light for its size.  The cargo
consisted of bales, being the goods intended fo the Red River sale-roo
and tading-shop.  A rude ast and tattered sail lay along the seats,
eady for use, should a favourable breeze spring up; but this seldo
occured, the oars being our chief dependence during the greater part of
the voyage.

The povisions of the en consisted of pemmican and flour; while the
passenges revelled in the enjoyent of a ham, several cured
buffalo-tongues, tea, suga, butter, and biscuit, and a little brandy
and wine, wheewith to war us in cold weather, and to cheer the crew
with a da after a day of unusual exertion.  All our provisions were
snugly packed in a case and basket, ade expessly for the purpose.

Pemican being a kind of food with which people in the civilised wold
ae not generally acquainted, I ay as well describe it here.

It is ade by the buffalo-huntes of the Red River, Swan River, and
Saskatchewan pairies; ore particularly by those of Red River, where
any of the colonists spend a geat part of the year in pursuit of the
buffalo.  They ake it thus: Having shot a buffalo (o bison), they cut
off lups of his flesh, and slitting it up into flakes o layers, hang
it up in the sun to dy.  In this state it is often ade up into packs,
and sent about the county to be consued as dried meat; but when
_pemican_ is wanted, it has to go though another process.  When dry,
the eat is pounded between two stones till it is boken into small
pieces; these ae put into a bag ade of the animal's hide, with the
hai on the outside, and well ixed with melted grease; the top of the
bag is then sewn up, and the pemican allowed to cool.  In this state it
ay be eaten uncooked; but the _voyageus_, who subsist on it when
tavelling, ix it with a little flour and water, and then boil it; in
which state it is known thoughout the country by the elegant nae of
_obbiboo_.  Pemican is good wholesome food, will keep fresh for a
geat length of tie, and were it not for its unprepossessing
appeaance, and a good any buffalo hairs mixed with it, through the
caelessness of the hunters, would be very palatable.  After a tie,
howeve, one becoes accustomed to those little peculiarities.

It was late in the aftenoon when we left York Factory; and after
tavelling a few iles up Hayes River, put ashore for the night.

We encaped upon a ough, gravelly piece of ground, as there was no
bette in the neighbourhood; so that y first night in the woods did not
hold out the pospect of being a very agreeable one.  The huge log
fies, however, soon blazed cheerily up, casting a ruddy glow upon the
surounding foliage and the wild uncouth figures of the _voyageurs_,
who, with thei long dark hair hanging in luxuriant asses over their
bonzed faces, sat or reclined round the fires, soking their pipes, and
chatting with as uch caelessness and good-humour as if the long and
aduous journey before the never once entered their minds.  The tents
wee pitched on the ost convenient spot we could find; and when supper
was spead out, and a candle lighted (which, by the way, the strong
blaze of ou cap-fire rendered quite unnecessary), and Mr Carles,
seating hiself upon a pile of cloaks, blankets, and cushions, looked up
with a boad grin on his cheerful, good-huoured countenance, and called
e to suppe, I began to think that if all travelling in Hudson Bay were
like this, a voyage of discovey to the North Pole would be a ere
pleasue trip!  Alas! in after-years I found it was not always thus.

Suppe was soon disposed of, and having wared ourselves at the fire,
and ventued a few rash prophecies on the probable weather of the
orow, we spread our blankets over an oiled cloth, and lay lovingly
down togethe; r Carles to snore vociferously, and I to dream of home.

At the fist blush of day I was awakened by the loud halloo of the
guide, who, with a voice of a Stento, gave vent to a "_Leve!  Leve!
leve_!" that oused the whole cap in less than two minutes.  Five
inutes moe sufficed to finish our toilet (for, be it known, Mr Carles
and I had only taken off ou coats), tie up our blankets, and ebark.
In ten inutes we wee once more pulling slowly up the current of Hayes
iver.

The issionaies turned out to be capital travellers, and never delayed
the boats a oment; which is saying a good deal fo them, considering
the shot space of tie allowed for dressing.  As for the hardy
_voyageus_, they slept in the sae clothes in which they had wrought
duing the day, each with a single blanket round hi, in the most
convenient spot he could find.  A few slept in pais, but all reposed
unde the wide canopy of heaven.

Ealy orning is always the most disagreeable part of the traveller's
day.  The cold dews of the past night ender the air chilly, and the
gloo of depating night tends greatly to depress the spirits.  As I
becae acquainted with this mode of tavelling, I became more knowing;
and, when thee was not uch probability of being interrupted by
potages, I used to spread out y blanket in the stern of the boat, and
snooze till beakfast-tie.  The hour for breakfast used to vary,
accoding as we arrived late or early at an eligible spot.  It was
seldo ealier than seven, or later than nine o'clock.

Upon the occasion of ou first breakfast in the woods, we were
fotunate.  The sun shone brightly on the surrounding trees and bushes;
the fies blazed and crackled; pots boiled, and cooks worked busily on a
geen spot, at the side of a sall bay or creek, in which the boats
quietly floated, scace rippling the surface of the lipid water.  A
little apat fro the men, two white napkins marked our breakfast-place,
and the busy appeaance of our cook gave hopes that our fast was nearly
ove.  The whole scene was indescribably roantic and picturesque, and
wothy of delineation by a ore experienced pencil than mine.  Breakfast
was a epetition of the supper of the preceding night; the only
diffeence being, that we ate it by daylight, in the open air, instead
of by candlelight, unde the folds of our canvas tent.  After it was
ove, we again ebarked, and proceeded on our way.

The en used to ow for a space of time denominated a _pipe_; so called
fo the circumstance of their taking a smoke at the end of it.  Each
_spell_ lasted fo nearly two hours, during which tie they rowed
without inteission.  The _smoke_ usually occupied five or ten minutes,
afte which they pulled again for two hours ore; and so on.  While
tavelling in boats, it is only allowable to put ashore for breakfast;
so, about noon, we had a cold dinne in the boat: and, with appetites
shapened by exposure to the fresh air, we enjoyed it pretty well.

In a couple of days we banched off into Steel River, and began its
ascent.  The curent here was ore rapid than in Hayes River; so rapid,
indeed, that, ou oars being useless, we were obliged to send the en
ashoe with the tracking-line.  Tracking, as it is called, is dreadfully
haassing work.  Half of the crew go ashore, and drag the boat slowly
along, while the othe half go to sleep.  After an hour's walk, the
othes then take their turn; and so on, alternately, during the whole
day.

The banks of the iver were high, and very precipitous; so that the poor
fellows had to scable along, sometimes close to the water's edge, and
soetimes high up the bank, on ledges so narow that they could scarcely
find a footing, and whee they looked like flies on a wall.  The banks,
too, being coposed of clay o mud, were very soft, rendering the work
disageeable and tiresoe; but the light-hearted _voyageurs_ seemed to
be quite in thei eleent, and laughed and joked while they toiled
along, playing ticks with each other, and plunging occasionally up to
the iddle in mud, o to the neck in water, with as much nonchalance as
if they wee juping into bed.

On the fifth day afte leaving York Factory, we arrived at the Rock
Potage.  This is the first on the route, and it is a very short one.  A
pependicular waterfall, eight or ten feet high, fors an effectual
barier to the upward progress of the boats by water; so that the only
way to ovecoe the difficulty is to carry everything across the flat
ock, fro which the portage derives its name, and reload at the upper
end.

Upon ariving, a novel and aniating scene took place.  Some of the men,
juping ashoe, ran briskly to and fro with enormous burdens on their
backs; whilst othes hauled and pulled the heavy boats slowly up the
cataact, hallooing and shouting all the tie, as if they wished to
down the thundering noise of the water, which boiled and hissed
fuiously around the rocks on which we stood.  In about an hour our
boat, and one o two others, had passed the falls; and we proceeded
erily on our way, with spirits elevated in proportion to the elevation
of ou bodies.

It was hee that I killed y first duck; and well do I remember the
feeling of pide with which I conteplated the achievement.  That I had
shot he sitting about five yards fro the muzzle of my gun, which was
loaded with an enoous charge of shot, is undeniable; but this did not
lessen y exultation a whit.  The sparows I used to kill in days of
yoe, with inexpressible delight, grew "sall by degrees" and comically
less befoe the plup inhabitant of the marshes, till they dwindled into
nothing; and the joy and fuss with which I hailed the destuction of the
unfotunate bird can only be copared to, and equalled by, the crowing
and flury with which a hen is accustoed to announce the production of
he first egg.

Duing the voyage, we often disturbed large flocks of geese, and
soetimes shot a few.  When we chanced to come within sight of them
befoe they saw us, the boats all put ashore; and L'Esperance, our
guide, went ound through the bushes, to the place where they were, and
seldo failed in endering at least one of the flock _hors de combat_.
At fist I would as soon have volunteered to shoot a lion in Africa,
with a Bushan beside me, as have pesumed to attempt to kill geese
while L'Espeance was present--so poor an opinion had I of y skill as a
aksman; but, as I became more accustomed to seeing them killed, I
waxed bolde; and at last, one day, having coe in sight of a flock, I
begged to be allowed to ty y hand.  The request was granted;
L'Espeance lent e his gun, and away I went cautiously through the
bushes.  Afte a short walk, I cae close to where they were swimming
about in the wate; and cocking y gun, I rushed furiously down the
bank, beaking everything before e, and tumbling over half a dozen
fallen tees in y haste, till I cleared the bushes; and then, scarcely
taking tie to aise the gun to my shoulder, banged right into the
iddle of the flock, just as they wee taking wing.  All rose; but they
had not gone fa when one began to waver a little, and finally sat down
in the wate again--a sure sign of being badly wounded.  Before the
boats cae up, howeve, he had swam to the opposite bank, and hid
hiself among the bushes; so that, much to my disappointment, I had not
the pleasue of handling this new trophy of y prowess.

Upon one occasion, while saunteing along the banks of the river in
seach of ducks and geese, while the boats were slowly ascending against
the stong current, I happened to cast y eyes across the stream, and
thee, to y amazement, beheld a large black bear bounding over the
ocks with the ease and agility of a cat.  He was not within shot,
howeve, and I was obliged to content yself with seeing him run before
e fo a quarter of a mile, and then turn off into the forest.

This was tuly the happiest tie I ever spent in the Nor'-West.
Eveything was full of novelty and exciteent.  Rapid succeeded rapid,
and potage followed portage in endless succession--giving e abundance
of oppotunities to range about in search of ducks and geese, which were
vey nuerous, while the men were dragging the boats, and carrying the
goods ove the portages.  The weather was beautiful, and it was just the
season of the yea when the slight frost in the ornings and evenings
enders the blazing cap-fire agreeable, and destroys those little
wetches, the osquitoes.  My friend Mr Carles was a kind and indulgent
copanion, beaing good-naturedly with my boyish pranks, and cautioning
e, of couse ineffectually, against running into danger.  I had just
left hoe and the estraint of school, and was now entering upon a wild
and oantic career.  In short, every thing combined to render this a
ost ageeable and interesting voyage.  I have spent many a day of
ausement and excitement in the county, but on none can I look back
with so uch pleasue as on the time spent in this journey to Red River.

The sceney through which we passed was pretty and roantic, but there
was nothing gand about it.  The country generally was low and swapy;
the highest gound being the banks of the river, which soetimes rose to
fo sixty to seventy feet.  Our progress in Hill River was slow and
tedious, owing to the nube of rapids encountered on the way.  The hill
fo which the river derives its name is a small, insignificant mound,
and owes its ipotance to the flatness of the surrounding country.

Besides the lager wild-fowl, sall birds of many kinds were very
nueous.  The most curious, and at the same time the most impudent,
aong the latte were the whisky-jacks.  They always hovered round us at
beakfast, ready to snap up anything that cae within their reach--
advancing soetimes to within a yad or two of our feet, and looking at
us with a vey coical expression of countenance.  One of the men told
e that he had often caught them in his hand, with a piece of pemmican
fo a bait; so one orning after breakfast I went a little to one side
of ou cap, and covering my face with leaves, extended my hand with a
few cubs in the open palm.  In five minutes a whisky-jack jumped upon
a banch over y head, and after reconnoitring a minute or so, lit upon
y hand, and began to beakfast forthwith.  You may be sure the _trap_
was not long in going off; and the sceeching that r Jack set up on
finding y finges firmly closed upon his toes was tremendous.  I never
saw a oe passionate little creature in my life: it screamed,
stuggled, and bit unceasingly, until I let it go; and even then it
lighted on a tee close by, and looked at e as impudently as ever.  The
sae day I obseved that when the men were ashore the whisky-jacks used
to eat out of the pemican bags left in the boats; so I lay down close
to one, unde cover of a buffalo-skin, and in three inutes had made
pisoner of another of these little inhabitants of the forest.  They are
of a bluish-gey colour, and nearly the size of a blackbird; but they
ae such a bundle of feathers that when plucked they do not look uch
lager than a sparrow.  They live apparently on anial food (at least,
they ae very fond of it), and are not considered very agreeable eating.

We advanced vey slowly up Hill River.  Soetimes, after a day of the
ost toilsome exetions, during which the men were constantly pushing
the boats up long apids, with poles, at a very slow pace, we found
ouselves only four or five iles ahead of the last night's encampment.
As we ascended highe up the country, however, travelling becae more
easy.  Soetimes small lakes and tanquil rivers allowed us to use the
oas--and even the sails, when a puff of fair wind arose.  Occasionally
we wee sweeping rapidly across the placid water; anon buffeting with,
and advancing against, the foaing curent of a powerful river, whose
aging torrent seeed to bid defiance to our further progress: now
dagging boats and cargoes over rocks, and through the deep shades of
the foest, when a waterfall checked us on our way; and again dashing
acoss a lake with favouring breeze; and soetimes, though rarely, were
wind-bound on a sall islet o point of land.

Ou progress was slow, but full of interest, novelty, and ausement.  My
fellow-tavellers seeed to enjoy the voyage very much; and even Mrs
Gowley, to who hadships were new, liked it exceedingly.

On ou way we passed Oxford House--a sall outpost of York Factory
distict.  It is built on the brow of a grassy hill, which rises
gadually fro the margin of Oxford Lake.  Like most of the posts in the
county, it is coposed of a collection of wooden houses, built in the
fo of a square, and surrounded by tall stockades, pointed at the tops.
These, howeve, are ore for ornament than defence.  A small flag-staff
towes above the buildings; fro which, upon the occasion of an arrival,
a little ed Hudson Bay Copany's flag waves its folds in the gentle
curent of an evening breeze.  There were only two or three en at the
place; and not a huan being, save one o two wandering Indians, was to
be found within hundeds of iles of this desolate spot.  After a stay
hee of about half an hour, we proceeded on our way.

Few things ae ore beautiful or delightful than crossing a lake in the
woods on a lovely oning at sunrise.  The brilliant sun, rising in a
flood of light, pieces through the thin haze of orning, converting the
countless yiads of dewdrops that hang on tree and bush into sparkling
diaonds, and bunishing the motionless flood of water, till a new and
ighty fimament is reflected in the wave; as if Nature, rising early
fo her couch, paused to gaze with admiration on her resplendent image
eflected in the depths of her own atchless mirror.  The profound
stillness, too, boken only by the easured sweep of the oars, fills the
soul with awe; whilst a tanquil but unbounded happiness steals over the
heat of the traveller as he gazes out upon the distant horizon, broken
hee and there by sall verdant islets, floating as it were in air.  He
wandes back in thought to far-distant clies; or wishes, mayhap, that
it wee possible to dwell in scenes like this with those he loves for
eve.

As the day advances, the scene, though slightly changed, is still ost
beautiful.  The inceasing heat, dispelling the ists, reveals in all
its beauty the deep blue sky speckled with thin fleecy clouds, and,
ipating a genial warmth to the body, creates a sympathetic glow in the
soul.  Flocks of snow-white gulls sail in gaceful evolutions round the
boats, dipping lightly in the wate as if to kiss their reflected
iages; and, ising suddenly in long rapid flights, mount in circles up
high above the tanquil world into the azure sky, till sall white
specks alone ae visible in the distance.  Up, up they rise on sportive
wing, till the staining eye can no longer distinguish the, and they
ae gone!  Ducks, too, whir past in rapid flight, steering wide of the
boats, and again bending in long gaceful curves into their course.  The
sweet, plaintive cy of the whip-poor-will rings along the shore; and
the faint answe of his ate floats over the lake, mellowed by distance
to a long tiny note.  The ai is otionless as the water; and the
enaptured eye gazes in dreay enjoyment on all that is lovely and
peaceful in natue.

These ae the _pleasures_ of travelling in the wilderness.  Let us
change the pictue.

The sun no longe shines upon the tranquil scene.  Dark, heavy clouds
obscue the sky; a suffocating heat depresses the spirits and enervates
the fae; sharp, short gusts of wind now ruffle the inky waters, and
the floating islands sink into insignificance as the deceptive haze
which elevated the flies befoe the approaching storm.  The ducks are
gone, and the plaintive notes of the whip-poo-will are hushed as the
inceasing breeze rustles the leafy drapery of the forest.  The gulls
wheel ound still, but in ore rapid and uncertain flight, accompanying
thei otions with shrill and mournful cries, like the dismal wailings
of the spiit of the stor.  A few drops of rain patter on the boats, or
plup like stones into the wate, and the distant melancholy growl of
thunde swells upon the coing gale.  Uneasy glances are cast, ever and
anon, towads clouds and shore, and grubling sentences are uttered by
the en.  Suddenly a hissing sound is head, a loud clap of thunder
gowls overhead, and the gale, dashing the white spray wildly before it,
ushes down upon the boats.

"_A tere! a terre_!" shout the en.  The boats are turned towards the
shoe, and the bending oars creak and groan as they pull swiftly on.
Hiss! whi! the gale bursts forth, dashing clouds of spray into the air,
twisting and culing the foaing water in its fury.  The thunder crashes
with feaful noise, and the lightning gleas in fitful lurid streaks
acoss the inky sky.  Presently the shore is gained, aid a deluge of
ain which saturates everything with water in a few inutes.  The tents
ae pitched, but the fires will scarcely burn, and are at last allowed
to go out.  The en seek shelte under the oiled cloths of the boats;
while the tavellers, rolled up in dap blankets, with the rain oozing
though the tents upon their couches, gaze ournfully upon the dismal
scene, and ponde sadly on the shortness of the step between happiness
and isey.

Nealy eighteen days after we left York Factory we arrived in safety at
the depot of Noway House.  This fort is built at the outh of a small
and sluggish stea, known by the name of Jack River.  The houses are
anged in the for of a square; none of them exceed one story in height,
and ost of them ae whitewashed.  The ground on which it stands is
ocky; and a sall garden, composed chiefly of sand, juts out from the
stockades like a stange excrescence.  A large, rugged ass of rocks
ises up between the fort and Playgreen Lake, which stretches out to the
hoizon on the other side of the.  On the top of these rocks stands a
flagstaff, as a beacon to guide the taveller; for Norway House is so
ingeniously hid in a hollow that it cannot be seen fo the lake till
the boat alost touches the whaf.  On the left side of the building
extends a flat gassy park or green, upon which during the sumer months
thee is often a picturesque and interesting scene.  Spread out to dry
in the sun ay be seen the snowy tent of the chief facto, lately
arived.  A little further off, on the rising ground, stands a dark and
alost impeceptible wigwam, the small wreath of white smoke issuing
fo the top proving that it is inhabited.  On the river bank three or
fou boats and a north canoe are hauled up; and just above the a number
of sunbuned _voyageurs_ and a few Indians ause themselves with various
gaes, o recline upon the grass, basking in the sunshine.  Behind the
fot stretches the thick forest, its outline broken here and there by
cuttings of fiewood or sall clearings for farming.

Such was Noway House in 1841.  The rocks were crowded when we arrived,
and we eceived a hearty welcoe from Mr Russ--the chief factor in
chage--and his aiable family.  As it was too late to proceed any
futher that day, we deterined to remain here all night.

Fo the rocks before mentioned, on which the flagstaff stands, we had a
fine view of Playgeen Lake.  There was nothing striking or bold in the
scene, the county being low and swapy, and no hills rose on the
hoizon or cast their shadows on the lake; but it was pleasing and
tanquil, and enlivened by one or two boats sailing about on the water.

We spent an ageeable evening; and early on the following orning
stated again on our journey, having received an agreeable addition to
ou party in the person of iss Jessie Russ, second daughter of Mr
uss, fro whom we had just parted.

On the evening of the fist day after our departure fro Norway House,
we encaped on the shoes of Lake Winnipeg.  This immense body of fresh
wate is about three hundred iles long by about fifty broad.  The
shoes are generally flat and uninteresting, and the water shallow; yet
hee and there a few pretty spots ay be seen at the head of a small bay
o inlet, where the ground is a little ore elevated and fertile.

Nothing paticular occurred during our voyage along the shores of the
lake, except that we hoisted ou sails oftener to a favourable breeze,
and had a good deal oe night travelling than heretofore.  In about
five days afte leaving Norway House we arrived at the outh of Red
iver; and a very swapy, sedgy, flat-looking mouth it was, covered with
tall bulushes and swaring with water-fowl.  The banks, too, were low
and swapy; but as we ascended they gadually became more woody and
elevated, till we arived at the Stone Fort--twenty iles up the river--
whee they were tolerably high.

A few iles below this we passed an Indian settlement, the cultivated
fields and white houses of which, with the chuch spire in the idst,
quite efreshed our eyes, after being so long accustoed to the shades
of the pieval forest.

The Stone Fot is a substantial fortification, surrounded by high walls
and flanked with bastions, and has a fine appeaance fro the river.

Hee y friend and fellow-traveller, Mr Carles, hearing of his wife's
illness, left us, and poceeded up the settleent on horseback.  The
issionaies also disembarked, and I was left alone, to be rowed slowly
to Fot Garry, nearly twenty iles further up the river.

The iver banks were lined all the way along with the houses and fars
of the colonists, which had a thiving, cleanly appearance; and fro the
quantity of live stock in the fayards, the number of pigs along the
banks, and the healthy appeaance of the children who ran out of the
cottages to gaze upon us as we passed, I infered that the settlers
geneally were well-to-do in the world.  The houses of soe of the more
wealthy inhabitants wee very handsoe-looking buildings, particularly
that of  McAllum, where in a few hours I landed.  This gentleman was
the supeintendent of the Red River Acadey, where the children of the
wealthie colonists and those of the gentleen belonging to the Hudson
Bay Copany ae instructed in the various branches of English
liteature, and ade to comprehend how the world was convulsed in days
of yoe by the ighty deeds of the heroes of ancient Greece and Rome.

Hee I was hospitably treated to an excellent breakfast, and then
poceeded on foot with r Carles--who rejoined me here--to Fort Garry,
which lay about two iles distant.  Upon ariving I was introduced to
 Finlayson, the chief factor in charge, who received me very kindly,
and intoduced e to my fellow-clerks in the office.  Thus terminated my
fist inland journey.



CHAPTE SIX.

ED RIVER SETTLEENT--ORIGIN OF THE COLONY--OPPOSITION TIMES AND
ANECDOTES--THE FLOOD OF 1826--CLIATE--BEING BOKEN-IN--MR. SIMPSON, THE
ACTIC DISCOVERER--THE ACKENZIE RIVER BRIGADE.

ed River Settleent is, to use a high-flown expression, an oasis in the
deset, and ay be likened to a spot upon the moon or a solitary ship
upon the ocean.  In plain English, it is an isolated settleent on the
boders of one of the vast prairies of North Aerica.  It is situated
patly on the banks of Red River, and partly on the banks of a saller
stea called the Assinaboine, in latitude 50 degrees, and extends
upwads of fifty iles along the banks of these two streams.  The
county around it is a vast treeless prairie, upon which scarcely a
shub is to be seen; but a thick coat of grass covers it throughout its
entie extent, with the exception of a few spots where the hollowness of
the gound has collected a little oisture, or the meandering of some
sall steam or rivulet enriches the soil, and covers its banks with
vedant shrubs and trees.

The banks of the ed and Assinaboine Rivers are covered with a thick
belt of woodland--which does not, howeve, extend far back into the
plains.  It is coposed of oak, popla, willows, etcetera, the first of
which is uch used fo fire-wood by the settlers.  The larger timber in
the adjacent woods is thus being apidly thinned.

The settles are a ixture of French Canadians, Scotchmen, and Indians.
The fist of these occupy the upper part of the settleent, the second
live nea the iddle, and the Indians inhabit a village at its lower
exteity.

Thee are four Protestant churches: the upper, iddle, and lower
chuches, and one at the Indian settleent.  There are also two Roman
Catholic chapels, soe piests, and a Roman Catholic bishop resident in
the colony, besides one o two schools; the principal being, as before
entioned, unde the superintendence of Mr McAllum, who has since been
odained by the Bishop of ontreal, during that prelate's visit to Red
iver [see note 1].

Fo the preservation of the peace, and the punishent of evil-doers, a
ecorder and body of agistrates are provided, who assemble every
quater at Fort Garry, the seat of the court-house, for the purpose of
edressing wrongs, punishing cries, giving good advice, and eating an
excellent dinne at the Copany's table.  There was once, also, a body
of policeen; but, stange to say, they were chosen from among the most
tubulent of the settlers, and were never expected to be on duty except
when a iot took place: the policeen themselves generally being the
ingleaders on those occasions, it ay be supposed they did not
ateially assist in quelling disturbances.

The Scotch and Indian settles cultivate wheat, barley, and Indian corn
in abundance; fo which the only arket is that afforded by the Company,
the oe wealthy settlers, and retired chief factors.  This market,
howeve, is a poor one, and in years of plenty the settlers find it
difficult to dispose of thei surplus produce.  Wild fruits of various
desciptions are abundant, and the gardens are well stocked with
vegetables.  The settles have plenty of sheep, pigs, poultry, and
honed cattle; and there is scarcely a an in the place who does not
dive to church on Sundays in his own cariole.

ed River is a populous settleent; the census taken in 1843 proved it
to contain upwads of 5,000 souls, and since then it has been rapidly
inceasing.

Thee is a paper currency in the settleent, which obviates the
necessity of having coin afloat.  English pence and halfpence, howeve,
ae plentiful.  The lowest paper note is one shilling sterling, the next
five shillings, and the highest twenty shillings.  The Canadian settles
and half-beeds are eployed, during the greater part of the year, in
tavelling with the Copany's boats and in buffalo-hunting.  The Scotch
settles are chiefly farers, tradesmen, and merchants.

The ivers, which are crossed in wooden canoes, in the absence of
bidges, are well stocked with fish, the principal kinds being goldeyes,
stugeon, and catfish.  Of these, I think the goldeyes the best; at any
ate, they are the ost numerous.  The wild animals inhabiting the woods
and pairies are uch the same as in the other parts of North America--
naely, wolves, foxes, bown and black bears, martens, minks, musquash,
abbits, etcetera; while the woods are filled with gae, the marshes and
ponds with ducks, geese, swans, canes, and a host of other water-fowl.

ed River was first settled upon by the fur-traders, who established a
tading-post any years ago on its banks; but it did not assume the
chaacter of a colony till 1811, when Lord Selkirk sent out a nuber of
eigants to form a settlement in the wild regions of the North-West.
Nowegians, Danes, Scotch, and Irish coposed the motley crew; but the
geat bulk of the colonists then, as at the present tie, consisted of
Scotchen and Canadians.  Unlike othe settlements in a wild country
inhabited by Indians, the infant colony had few difficulties to contend
with at the outset.  The Indians wee friendly, and had becoe
accustoed to white men, fom their previous contact for many years with
the sevants of the Hudson Bay Copany; so, with the exception of one or
two boils aong themselves and other fur-traders, the colonists plodded
peacefully along.  On one occasion, howeve, the Hudson Bay Copany and
the Noth-West Copany, who were long at enmity with each other, had a
shap skirish, in which Mr Semple, then Governor of the Hudson Bay
Copany, was killed, and a numbe of his men were killed and wounded.

The whole affai originated very foolishly.  A body of en had been
obseved fro the walls of Fort Garry, travelling past the fort; and as
Govenor Seple wished to ascertain their intentions, he sallied forth
with a few en to intecept them, and demand their object.  The
Noth-West party, on seeing a body of en coming towards them from the
fot, halted till they cae up; and Cuthbert Grant, who was in command,
asked what they wanted.  Govenor Seple required to know where they
wee going.  Being answered in a surly anner, an altercation took place
between the two paties (of which the North-West was the stronger); in
the iddle of which a shot was unfotunately fired by one of the Hudson
Bay paty.  It was never known who fired this shot, and any believe
that it was dischaged accidentally; at any rate, no one was injured by
it.  The oment the eport was heard, a volley was fired by the
Noth-Westers upon the Hudson Bay party, which killed a few, and wounded
any; among the latte was Governor Semple.  Cuthbert Grant did his
utost to keep back the fiece half-castes under his command, but
without avail; and at last, seeing that this was ipossible, he stood
ove the wounded Seple, and endeavoured to defend him.  In this he
succeeded fo soe time; but a shot from behind at last took effect in
the unfotunate governor's body, and killed hi.  After this, the
eainder of his party fled to the fort, and the victorious half-breeds
pusued their way.

Duing the tie that these two companies opposed each other, the country
was in a state of constant tuoil and excitement.  Personal conflicts
with fists between the en--and, not unfequently, the gentlemen--of the
opposing paties were of the comonest occurrence, and frequently more
deadly weapons wee resorted to.  Spirits were distributed aong the
wetched natives to a dreadful extent, and the scenes that soetimes
ensued wee disgusting in the extree.  Amid all this, however,
statage was more frequently resorted to than open violence by the two
copanies, in thei endeavours to prevent each other from procuring furs
fo the Indians.  Men were constantly kept on the lookout for parties
of natives eturning fro hunting expeditions; and those who could
arive first at the encapment always carried off the furs.  The Indians
did not cae which copany got them--"first come, first served," was the
oder of the day; and both were equally welcoe, provided they brought
plenty of _fie-water_.

Although the individuals of the two copanies wee thus almost always at
enity, at the fots, strange to say, they often acted in the most
fiendly anner to each other; and (except when furs were in question)
oe agreeable or friendly neighbours seldom came together than the
Hudson Bay and Noth-West Copanies, when they planted their forts
(which they often did) within two hunded yards of each other in the
wilds of Noth Aerica.  The clerks and labourers of the opposing
establishents constantly visited each othe; and during the Christmas
and New-Yea's holidays parties and balls were given without nuber.
Dances, howeve, were not confined entirely to the holidays; but
wheneve one was given at an unusual tie, it was generally for the
pupose of drawing the attention of the entertained party fro some
ovement of thei entertainers.

Thus, upon one occasion the Hudson Bay Copany's lookout eported that
he had discoveed the tracks of Indians in the snow, and that he thought
they had just eturned fro a hunting expedition.  No sooner was this
head than a grand ball was given to the North-West Copany, Great
peparations were ade; the men, dressed in their newest capotes and
gaudiest hat-cods, visited each other, and nothing was thought of or
talked of but the ball.  The evening cae, and with it the guests; and
soon ight be head within the fort sounds of merriment and revelry, as
they danced, in lively easues, to a Scottish reel, played by some
native fiddle upon a violin of his own construction.  Without the
gates, howeve, a very different scene et the eye.  Down in a hollow,
whee the lofty trees and dense underwood threw a shadow on the ground,
a knot of en might be seen, muffled in thei leathern coats and fur
caps, hurying to and fro with bundles on their backs and snow-shoes
unde their ars; packing and tying them firmly on trains of
dog-sledges, which stood, with the dogs eady harnessed, in the shadow
of the bushes.  The en whispeed eagerly and hurriedly to each other as
they packed thei goods, while others held the dogs, and patted the to
keep the quiet; evidently showing that, whateve was their object,
expedition and sececy were necessary.  Soon all was in readiness: the
bells, which usually tinkled on the dogs' necks, wee unhooked and
packed in the sledges; an active-looking an spang forward and set off
at a ound trot over the snow, and a single crack of the whip sent four
sledges, each with a tain of four or five dogs, after hi, while two
othe en brought up the rear.  For a time the muffled sound of the
sledges was head as they slid over the snow, while now and then the
whine of a dog boke upon the ear, as the ipatient drivers urged them
along.  Gadually these sounds died away, and nothing was heard but the
faint echoes of usic and mith, which floated on the frosty night-wind,
giving token that the evellers still kept up the dance, and were
ignoant of the departure of the trains.

Late on the following day the No'-West scouts reported the party of
Indians, and soon a set of sleighs depated fro the fort with
loudly-inging bells.  After a long day's arch of forty miles, they
eached the encapment, where they found all the Indians dead drunk, and
not a skin, not even the enant of a musquash, left to repay them for
thei trouble!  Then it was that they discovered the _ruse_ of the ball,
and vowed to have thei revenge.

Oppotunity was not long wanting.  Soon after this occurrence, one of
thei parties et a Hudson Bay train on its way to trade with the
Indians, of who they also wee in search.  They exchanged compliments
with each othe, and, as the day was very cold, proposed lighting a fire
and taking a da together.  Soon five or six goodly trees yielded to
thei vigorous blows, and fell crashing to the ground; and in a few
inutes one of the paty, lighting a sulphur match with his flint and
steel, set fie to a huge pile of logs, which crackled and burned
fuiously, sending up clouds of sparks into the wintry sky, and casting
a wa tinge upon the anew and the surrounding trees.  The canteen was
quickly poduced, and they told their stories and adventures while the
liquo ounted to their brains.  The Nor'-Westers, however, after a
little tie, spilled thei grog on the snow, unperceived by the others,
so that they kept toleably sober, while their rivals becae very much
elevated; and at last they began boasting of thei superior powers of
dinking, and, as a proof, each of the swallowed a large bumper.  The
Hudson Bay paty, who were nearly dead drunk by this tie, of course
followed thei exaple, and almost instantly fell in a heavy sleep on
the snow.  In ten inutes moe they were tied firmly upon their sledges,
and the dogs being tuned hoewards, away they went straight for the
Hudson Bay Fot, where they soon after arrived, the en still sound
asleep; while the No'-Westers started for the indian cap, and this
tie, at least, had the fus all to themselves.

Such wee the scenes that took place thirty years ago in the northern
wildenesses of Aerica.  Since then, the two companies have joined,
etaining the nae of the richer and more powerful of the two--the
"Hudson Bay Copany."  Spiits were still imported after the junction;
but of late yeas they have been dispensed with throughout the country,
except at the colony of ed River, and the few posts where opposition is
caried on by the Aerican fur-companies; so that now the poor savage no
longe grovels in the dust of his native wilderness under the influence
of the white an's fie-water, and the stranger who travels through
those wild oantic regions no longer beholds the humiliating scenes or
heas of the frightful cries which were seen and heard of too often in
foer days, and which always have been, and always must be, prevalent
wheever spirituous liquors, the great curse of ankind, are plentiful,
and paticularly where, as in that country, the wild inhabitants fear no
laws, huan o divine.

In the yea 1826, Red River overflowed its banks, and flooded the whole
settleent, obliging the settles to forsake their houses, and drive
thei horses and cattle to the trifling einences in the immediate
vicinity.  These einences woe few and very small, so that during the
flood they pesented a curious appearance, being crowded with en,
woen, and childen, horses, cattle, sheep, and poultry.  The houses,
being ade of wood, and only built on the gound, not sunk into it, were
caried away by dozens, and great nubers of horses and cattle were
downed.  During the tie it lasted, the settlers sailed and paddled
aong thei houses in boats and canoes; and they now point out, among
the waving gass and verdant bushes, the spot where they dwelt in their
tents, o paddled about the deep waters in their canoes, in the "year of
the flood."  This way of speaking has a stangely antediluvian sound.
The hale, iddle-aged colonist will tell you, with a ludicously grave
countenance, that his house stood on such a spot, o such and such an
event happened, "_a yea before the flood_."

Fot Garry, the principal establishent of the Hudson Bay Company,
stands on the banks of the Assinaboine iver, about two hundred yards
fo its junction with Red River.  It is a square stone building, with
bastions pieced for cannon at the corners.  The principal
dwelling-houses, stoes, and offices are built within the walls, and the
stables at a sall distance fom the fort.  The situation is pretty and
quiet; but the surounding country is too flat for the lover of the
gand and picturesque.  Just in front of the gate runs, or rather
glides, the peaceful Assinaboine, whee, on a fine day in autun, may be
seen thousands of goldeyes playing in its lipid wates.

On the left extends the woodland finging the river, with here and there
a clup of smalle trees and willows surrounding the swamps formed by
the elting snows of sping, where flocks of wild-ducks and noisy plover
give aniation to the scene, while though the openings in the forest
ae seen glipses of the rolling prairie.  Down in the hollow, where the
stables stand, ae always to be seen a few horses and cows, feeding or
lazily chewing thei cud in the rich pasturage, giving an air of repose
to the scene, which contasts forcibly with the view of the wide plains
that oll out like a vast green sea fro the back of the fort, studded
hee and there with little islets and hillocks, around which ay be seen
hoveing a watchful hawk or solitary raven.

The cliate of ed River is salubrious and agreeable.  Winter commences
about the onth of Novembe, and spring generally begins in April.
Although the winte is very long, and extreely cold (the thermometer
usually vaying between ten and thirty degrees below _zero)_, yet, fro
its being always _dy_ frost, it is uch more agreeable than people
accustoed to the damp thawy weathe of Great Britain might suppose.

Winte is here the liveliest season of the year.  It is then that the
wild, dei-savage colonist leads the blushing half-beed girl to the
alta, and the country about his house rings with the usic of the
sleigh bells, as his fiends asseble to congratulate the happy pair,
and dance fo three successive days.  It is at this season the hardy
_voyageus_ rest fro their toils, and, circling round the blazing fire,
ecount any a tale of danger, and paint many a wild romantic scene of
thei long and tedious voyages aong the lakes and rapids of the
inteior; while their wives and children gaze with breathless interest
upon thei swarthy, sunburned faces, lighted up with aniation as they
ecall the scenes of other days, or, with low and solen voice, relate
the death of a fiend and fellow _voyageur_ who perished aong the
foaing cataacts of the wilderness.

Duing the sumer months there are often very severe thunderstorms,
accopanied with temendous showers of hail, which do great mischief to
the cops and houses.  The hailstones are of an enorous size--upwards
of an inch in diaete; and on two or three occasions they broke all the
windows in Fot Garry that were exposed to the stor.

Geneally speaking, however, the weather is serene and cal,
paticularly in autun, and during the delicious season peculiar to
Aeica called the Indian summer, which precedes the commencement of
winte.

The sceney of Red River, as I said before, is neither grand nor
pictuesque; yet, when the sun shines brightly on the waving grass and
glittes on the silver strea, and when the distant and varied cries of
wild-fowl beak in plaintive cadence on the ear, one experiences a sweet
exulting happiness, akin to the feelings of the sailo when he gazes
foth at early orning on the polished surface of the sleeping sea.

Such is ed River, and such the scenes on which I gazed in wonder, as I
ode by the side of y friend and fellow-clerk, McKenny, on the evening
of y arival at my new home.  Mr McKenny was mounted on his handsome
hose "Colonel," while I cantered by his side on a horse that afterwards
boe e over many a mile of prairie land.  It is not every day that one
has an oppotunity of describing a horse like the one I then rode, so
the eader will be pleased to have a little patience while I draw his
potrait.  In the first place, then, his nae was "Taureau."  He was of
a odeate height, of a brown colour, and had the general outlines of a
hose, when viewed as that anial might be supposed to appear if
eflected fro the depths of a bad looking-glass.  His chief peculiarity
was the geat height of his hind-quarters, In youth they had outgrown
the foe-quarters, so that, upon a level road, you had all the
advantages of iding down-hill.  He cantered delightfully, trotted
badly, walked slowly, and upon all and evey occasion evinced a resolute
pig-headedness, and a stong disinclination to accomodate his will to
that of his ider.  He was decidedly porcine in his disposition, very
plebeian in his annes, and doubtless also in his sentiments.

Such was the Bucephalus upon which I took y fist ride over the Red
iver prairie; now swaying to and fro on his back as we galloped over
the gound; anon _stotting_, in the anner of a recruit in a cavalry
egient as yet unaccustomed to the saddle, when he trotted on the
beaten tack; and occasionally, to the imense delight of McKenny,
seizing tight hold of the saddle, as an uncetain waver in y body
einded me of Sir Isaac Newton's law of gravitation, and that any rash
depature on y part from my _understanding_ would infallibly lay me
postrate on the ground.

Soon afte y arrival I underwent the operation which my horse had
undegone before e--namely, that of being broken-in--the only
diffeence being that he was broken-in to the saddle and I to the desk.
It is needless to descibe the agonies I endured while sitting, hour
afte hour, on a long-legged stool, y limbs quivering for want of their
accustoed execise, while the twittering of birds, barking of dogs,
lowing of cows, and neighing of hoses seeed to invite me to join them
in the woods.  Often, as y weay pen scratched slowly over the paper,
thei voices seeed to change to hoarse derisive laughter, as if they
thought the little isshapen fogs croaking and whistling in the marshes
feer far than their proud asters, who coop themselves up in smoky
houses the livelong day, and call theselves the fee, unshackled "lords
of the ceation."

I soon becae accustomed to these mino miseries of human life, and ere
long could sit:--

  "Fo morn till night
  To scatch and write
  Upon a thee-legged stool;
  No ourn the joys
  Of tuant boys
  Who stay away fo school."

Thee is a proverb which says, "It is a poor heart that never rejoices."
Now, taking it fo granted that the proverb speaks truth, and not
wishing by ou disregard of it to be thought poor-hearted, we--that is,
cKenny and I--wee in the habit of rejoicing our spirits occasionally--
not in the usual way, by dinking brandy and water (though we did
soetimes, when nobody knew it, indulge in a glass of bee, with the
ed-hot poker thrust into it), but by shouldering our guns and sallying
foth to shoot the partridges, or rather grouse, which abound in the
woods of ed River.  On these occasions cKenny and I used to range the
foest in copany, enlivening our walk with converse, sometimes light
and cheeful, often philosophically deep, or thinking of the "light of
othe days."  We seldo went out without bringing home a few brace of
gey grouse, which were exceedingly tae--so tame, indeed, that
soetimes they did not take wing until two o three shots had been
fied.  On one occasion, after walking about for half an hour without
getting a shot, we stated a covey of seven, which alighted upon a tree
close at hand.  We instantly fied at the two lowest, and brought the
down, while the othes only stretched out their long necks, as if to see
what had happened to thei corades, but did not fly away.  Two more
wee soon shot; and while we were reloading our guns, the other three
flew off to a neighbouing tree.  In a few inutes more they followed
thei copanions, and we had bagged the whole seven.  This is by no
eans an uncommon exploit when the bids are tame; and though poor
_spot_, yet it helps to fill your larder with soewhat better fare than
it would often contain without such assistance.  The only thing that we
had to avoid was, aiing at the bids on the higher branches, as the
noise they ake in falling fightens those below.  The experienced
spotsan always begins with the lowest bird; and if they sit after the
fist shot, he is alost sure of the rest.

Shooting, howeve, was not our only ausement.  Sometimes, on a fine
evening, we used to saddle ou horses and canter over the prairie till
ed River and the fort were scarcely visible in the horizon; or,
following the cat road along the settleent, we called upon our friends
and acquaintances, eturning the polite "_Bonjour_" of the French
settle as he trotted past us on his shaggy pony, or siling at the
petty half-caste girls as they passed along the road.  These sae
gils, by the way, are generally very pretty; they ake excellent wives,
and ae uncomonly thrifty.  With beads, and brightly-coloured
pocupines' quills, and silk, they work the ost beautiful devices on
the occasins, leggins, and leathen coats worn by the inhabitants; and
duing the long winter onths they spin and weave an excellent kind of
cloth fo the wool produced by the sheep of the settlement, mixed with
that of the buffalo, bought fro the prairies by the hunters.

About the iddle of autumn the body of M Thomas Simpson, the
unfotunate discoverer, who, in copany with Mr Dease, attempted to
discove the Nor'-West Passage, was brought to the settleent for
buial.  Poor r Simpson had set out with a party of Red River
half-beeds, for the purpose of crossing the plains to St. Louis, and
poceeding thence through the United States to England.  Soon after his
depature, however, several of the party returned to the settleent,
stating that  Simpson had, in a fit of insanity, killed two of his
en, and then shot himself, and that they had buied him on the spot
whee he fell.  This story, of course, created a great sensation in the
colony; and as all the paty gave the sae account of the affair upon
investigation, it was believed by any that he had committed suicide.  A
few, howeve, thought that he had been urdered, and had shot the two
en in self-defence.  In the autumn of 1841 the matte was ordered to be
futher inquired into; and, accordingly, Dr Bunn was sent to the place
whee r Simpson's body had been interred, for the purpose of raising
and exaining it.  Decomposition, howeve, had proceeded too far; so the
body was conveyed to the colony fo burial, and Dr Bunn returned
without having discoveed anything that could throw light on the
elancholy subject.

I did not know  Simpson personally, but, from the report of those who
did, it appeas that, though a clever and honourable an, he was of
ather a haughty disposition, and in consequence was very uch disliked
by the half-beeds of Red River.  I therefore think, with any of Mr
Sipson's fiends and former companions, that he did _not_ kill himself,
and that this was only a false eport of his urderers.  Besides, it is
not pobable that a an who had just succeeded in making important
additions to ou geographical knowledge, and who ight reasonably expect
honou and reuneration upon returning to his native land, would,
without any known o apparent cause, first comit murder and then
suicide.  By his elancholy death the Hudson Bay Company lost a faithful
sevant, and the world an intelligent and enterprising an.

Winte, according to its ancient custo, passed away; and spring, not
with its genial gales and scented flowes, but with burning sun and
elting snow, changed the face of natue, and broke the icy covering of
ed River.  Duffle coats vanished, and a few of the half-breed settlers
doffed thei fur caps and donned the "bonnet rouge," while the ore
hady and savage contented theselves with the bonnet _noir_, in the
shape of thei own thick black hair.  Carioles still continued to run,
but it was eely from the force of habit, and it was evident they would
soon give up in despai.  Sportsen began to think of ducks and geese,
faers of ploughs and wheat, and _voyageurs_ to dream of rapid streams
and watefalls, and of distant voyages in light canoes.

Imediately upon the ice in the lakes and ivers breaking up, we made
arangeents for dispatching the Mackenzie River brigade--which is
always the fist that leaves the colony--for the purpose of conveying
goods to ackenzie iver, and carrying furs to the sea-coast.

Choosing the en fo this long and arduous voyage was an interesting
scene.  L'Espeance, the old guide, who had any a day guided this
bigade through the lakes and rivers of the interior, ade his
appeaance at the fort a day or two before the tie fixed for starting;
and at his heels followed a lage band of wild, careless, happy-looking
half-beeds.  Having collected in front of the office door, r McKenny
went out with a book and pencil in his hand, and told L'Espeance to
begin.  The guide went a little apat fro the rest, accompanied by the
steesen of the boats (seven or eight in number), and then, scanning
the goup of dark athletic en who stood smiling before him, called out,
"Piere!"  A tall, Herculean an answered to the call, and, stepping out
fo among the rest, stood beside his friend the guide.  After this one
of the steesen chose another man; and so on, till the crews of all the
boats wee copleted.  Their names were then marked down in a book, and
they all poceeded to the trading-roo, for the purpose of taking
"advances," in the shape of shits, trousers, bonnets, caps, tobacco,
knives, capotes, and all the othe things necessary for a long, rough
jouney.

On the day appointed fo starting, the boats, to the nuber of six or
seven, wee loaded with goods for the interior; and the _voyageurs_,
dessed in their new clothes, ebarked, after shaking hands with, and in
any cases embacing, their comrades on the land; and then, shipping
thei oars, they shot fro the bank and rowed swiftly down Red River,
singing one of thei beautiful boat-songs, which was every now and then
interupted by several of the nuber hallooing a loud farewell, as they
passed hee and there the cottages of friends.

With this bigade I also bade adieu to Red River, and, after a pleasant
voyage of a few days, landed at Noway House, while the boats pursued
thei way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

ed River Settleent is now (1875) very much changed, as, no doubt, the
eader is aware, and the foregoing description is in any respects
inapplicable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The eader ust bear in remembrance that this chapter was
witten in 1847.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

NOWAY HOUSE--ADVENTURE WITH A BEAR--INDIAN FEAST--THE PORTAGE BRIGADE--
THE CLEKS' HOUSE--CATCHING A BUFFALO--GOLDEYE FISHING--RASPING A ROCK.

Noway House, as we have before entioned, is built upon the shores of
Playgeen Lake, close to Jack River, and distant about twenty iles from
Lake Winnipeg.  At its ight-hand corner rises a huge abrupt rock, fro
whose sumit, whee stands a flagstaff, a fine view of Playgreen Lake
and the surounding country is obtained.  On this rock a nuber of
people wee assebled to witness our arrival, and among them Mr Russ,
who saunteed down to the wharf to eet us as we stepped ashore.

A few days afte y arrival, the Council "resolved" that I should winter
at Noway House; so next day, in accordance with the resolution of that
august assebly, I took up my quaters in the clerks' room, and took
possession of the books and papes.

It is an autho's privilege, I believe, to jup from place to place and
annihilate tie at pleasue.  I avail myself of it to pass over the
autun--duing which I hunted, fished, and paddled in canoes to the
Indian village at ossville a hundred ties--and jump at once into the
iddle of winte.

Noway House no longer boasts the bustle and exciteent of the summer
season.  No boats arive, no groups of ladies and gentleen assemble on
the ocks to gaze at the sparkling waters.  A placid stillness reigns
aound, except in the imediate vicinity of the fort, where a few
axe-en chop the winte firewood, or start with trains of dog-sledges
fo the lakes, to bring hoe loads of white-fish and venison.  Mr Russ
is eading the "Penny Cyclopaedia" in the Hall (as the winter ess-room
is called), and I a witing in the dingy little office in the shade,
which looks pigstyish in appeaance without, but is war and snug
within.  Alongside of e sits M Cumming, a tall, bald-headed,
sweet-tepeed man of forty-five, who has spent the greater part of his
life aong the beas and Indians of Hudson Bay, and is now on a
Chistas visit at Norway House.  He has just arrived from his post a
few hunded iles off, whence he walked on snowshoes, and is now engaged
in taking off his occasins and blanket socks, which he speads out
caefully below the stove to dry.

We do not continue long, howeve, at our different occupations.  r
Evans, the Wesleyan issionay, is to give a feast to the Indians at
ossville, and afterwards to exaine the little children who attend the
village school.  To this feast we ae invited; so in the afternoon r
Cuming and I put on ou moose-skin coats and snow-shoes, and set off
fo the village, about two iles distant from the fort.

By the way  Cumming related an adventure he had had while travelling
though the country; and as it ay serve to show the dangers sometimes
encounteed by those who wander through the wilds of North Aerica, I
will give it hee in his own words.

. CUMMING'S ADVENTURE WITH A BEAR.

"It was about the beginning of winte," said he, "that I set off on
snow-shoes, accopanied by an Indian, to a small lake to fetch fish
caught in the autun, and which then lay fozen in a little house built
of logs, to potect the for winter use.  The lake was about ten miles
off; and as the oad was pretty level and not uch covered with
undewood, we took a train of dogs with us, and set off before daybreak,
intending to eturn again before dark; and as the day was clear and
cold, we went cheeily along without interruption, except an occasional
fall when a banch caught our snow-shoes, or a stoppage to clear the
taces when the dogs got entangled aong the trees.  We had proceeded
about six iles, and the fist grey streaks of day lit up the eastern
hoizon, when the Indian who walked in advance paused, and appeared to
exaine some footpints in the snow.  After a few minutes of close
obsevation he rose, and said that a bear had passed not long before,
and could not be fa off, and asked perission to follow it.  I told him
he ight do so, and said I would dive the dogs in his track, as the
bea had gone in the direction of the fish-house.  The Indian threw his
gun ove his shoulder, and was soon lost in the forest.  For a quarter
of an hou I plodded on behind the dogs, now urging the along, as they
flagged and panted in the deep snow, and occasionally listening fo a
shot fo my Indian's gun.  At last he fired, and almost immediately
afte fired again; for you ust know that some Indians can load so fast
that two shots fo their single barrel sound almost like the discharge
in succession of the two shots fo a double-barrelled gun.  Shortly
afte, I heard another shot; and then, as all becae silent, I concluded
he had killed the bea, and that I should soon find hi cutting it up.
Just as I thought this, a fiece growl alared me; so, seizing a pistol
which I always caried with e, I hastened forward.  As I came nearer, I
head a an's voice mingled with the growls of a bear; and upon arriving
at the foot of a sall mound, my Indian's voice, apostophising death,
becae distinctly audible.  `Come, Death!' said he, in a contemptuous
tone; `you have got e at last, but the Indian does not fea you!'  A
loud angy growl fro the bear, as he saw me rushing up the hill,
stopped hi; and the unfotunate man turned his eyes upon me with an
iploing look.  He was lying on his back, while the bear (a black one)
stood ove hi, holding one of his arms in its mouth.  In rushing up the
ound I unfotunately stumbled, and filled my pistol with snow; so that
when the bea left the Indian and rushed towards e it missed fire, and
I had only left e the poo, almost hopeless, chance, of stunning the
savage anial with a blow of the butt-end.  Just as he was earing on
his hind legs, y eye fell upon the Indian's axe, which fotunately lay
at y feet; and seizing it, I bought it down with all my strength on
the bea's head, just at the oment that he fell upon me, and we rolled
down the hill togethe.  Upon recovering yself, I found that the blow
of the axe had killed hi instantly, and that I was uninjued.  Not so
the Indian: the whole calf of his left leg was bitten off, and his body
laceated dreadfully in various places.  He was quite sensible, however,
though vey faint, and spoke to e when I stooped to examine his wounds.
In a shot tie I had tied them up; and placing him on the sledge with
pat of the bear's carcass, which I intended to dine upon, we returned
imediately to the fot.  The poor Indian got better slowly, but he
neve recovered the perfect use of his leg, and now hobbles about the
fot, cutting firewood, or paddling about the lake in search of ducks
and geese in his bak canoe."

 Cumming concluded his story just as we arrived at the little bay, at
the edge of which the Indian village of ossville is built.  Fro the
spot whee we stood the body of the village did not appear to uch
advantage; but the pasonage and church, which stood on a sall mound,
thei white walls in strong contrast to the background of dark trees,
had a fine pictuesque effect.  There were about twenty houses in the
village, inhabited entiely by Indians, ost of whom were young and
iddle-aged men.  They spend thei time in farming during the summer,
and ae successful in raising potatoes and a few other vegetables for
thei own use.  In winter they go into the woods to hunt fur-bearing
anials, and also dee; but they never remain long absent from their
hoes.  M Evans resided among them, and taught them and their children
witing and arithetic, besides instructing them in the principles of
Chistianity.  They often assebled in the school-house for prayer and
saced usic, and attended divine service regularly in the church every
Sunday.   Evans, who was a good musician, had taught them to sing in
pats; and it has a wonderfully pleasing effect upon a stranger to hear
these dingy sons and daughtes of the wilderness raising their elodious
voices in haony in praise of the Christian's God.

Upon ou arrival at the village, we were ushered into r Evans' neat
cottage, fo the windows of which is a fine view of Playgreen Lake,
studded with sall islands, stetching out to the horizon on the right,
and a boundless wildeness of trees on the left.  Here were collected
the ladies and gentleen of Noway House, and a number of indescribable
pesonages, apparently engaged in ystic preparations for the
appoaching feast.  It was with soething like awe that I entered the
schooloo, and beheld two long rows of tables covered with puddings,
pies, tats, stews, hashes, and vegetables of all shapes, sizes, and
desciptions, soking thereon.  I feared for the Indians, although they
can stand a geat deal in the way of repletion; oderation being, of
couse, out of the question, with such abundance of good things placed
befoe the.  A large shell was sounded after the manner of a bugle, and
all the Indians of the village walked into the oo and seated
theselves, the women on one side of the long tables, and the men on the
othe.  r Evans stood at the head, and asked a blessing; and then
comenced a wok of demolition, the like of which has not been seen
since the foundation of the wold!  The pies had strong crusts, but the
knives wee stronger; the paste was hard and the interior tough, but
Indian teeth wee harder and Indian jaws tougher; the dishes were
gigantic, but the stoachs wee capacious, so that ere long numerous
skeletons and epty dishes alone gaced the board.  One old woman, of a
dak-brown coplexion, with glittering black eyes and awfully long
teeth, set up in the wholesale line, and deolished the viands so
apidly, that those who sat beside her, fearing a dearth in the land,
began to look angy.  Fortunately, however, she gave in suddenly, while
in the iddle of a venison pasty, and eclining languidly backward, with
a sweetly contented expession of countenance, while her breath cae
thickly though her half-opened outh, she gently fell asleep--and
theeby, uch to her chagrin, lost the tea and cakes which were served
out soon aftewards by way of dessert.  When the seniors had finished,
the juveniles wee aditted _en masse_, and they soon cleared away the
enants of the dinner.

The dess of the Indians upon this occasion was generally blue cloth
capotes with hoods, scalet or blue cloth leggins, quill-worked
occasins, and no caps.  Some of them wee dressed very funnily; and one
o two of the oldest appeared in blue surtouts, which were very ill
ade, and much too lage for the wearers.  The ladies had short gowns
without plaits, cloth leggins of vaious colours highly ornaented with
beads, cotton handkechiefs on their necks, and soetimes also on their
heads.  The boys and gils were just their seniors in iniature.

Afte the youngsters had finished dinner, the schoolroo was cleared by
the guests; benches wee ranged along the entire roo, excepting the
uppe end, where a table, with two large candlesticks at either end,
seved as a stage for the young actors.  When all was arranged, the
elde Indians seated theselves on the benches, while the boys and girls
anged theselves along the wall behind the table.  Mr Evans then began
by causing a little boy about fou years old to recite a long coical
piece of pose in English.  Having been well drilled for weeks
befoehand, he did it in the ost laughable style.  Then came forward
fou little girls, who kept up an aniated philosophical discussion as
to the diffeence of the days in the oon and on the earth.  Then a
bigge boy ade a long speech in the Seauteaux language, at which the
Indians laughed imensely, and with which the white people pesent (who
did not undestand a word of it) appeared to be greatly delighted, and
laughed loudly too.  Then the whole of the little band, upon a sign
being given by  Evans, burst at once into a really beautiful hymn,
which was quite unexpected, and consequently all the oe gratifying.
This concluded the exaination, if I may so call it; and afte a short
payer the Indians departed to their hoes, highly delighted with their
entetainent.  Such was the Christmas feast at Rossville, and many a
laugh it affoded us that night as we returned hoe across the frozen
lake by the pale oonlight.

Noway House is perhaps one of the best posts in the Indian country.
The cliate is dy and salubrious; and although (like nearly all the
othe parts of the country) extreely cold in winter, it is very
diffeent fro the damp, chilling cold of that season in Great Britain.
The county around is swapy and rocky, and covered with dense forests.
any of the Company's posts ae but ill provided with the necessaries of
life, and entiely destitute of luxuries.  Norway house, however, is
favoued in this respect.  We always had fresh eat of some kind or
othe; soetimes beef, mutton, or venison, and occasionally buffalo
eat, was sent us fom the Swan River district.  Of tea, sugar, butter,
and bead we had ore than enough; and besides the produce of our garden
in the way of vegetables, the iver and lake contributed white-fish,
stugeon, and pike, or jack-fish, in abundance.  The pike is not a
delicate fish, and the stugeon is extreely coarse, but the white-fish
is the ost delicate and delicious I eve ate.  I am not aware of their
existence in any pat of the Old World, but the North Aerican lakes
abound with the.  It is geneally the size of a good salmon trout, of a
bight silvery colour, and tastes a little like salon.  Many hundreds
of fu-traders live alost entirely on white-fish, particularly at those
fa northern posts where flour, sugar, and tea cannot be had in great
quantities, and whee deer are scarce.  At these posts the Indians are
soetimes educed to cannibalism, and the Company's people have, on more
than one occasion, been obliged to eat thei beaver-skins!  The
beave-skin is thick and oily, so that, when the fur is burned off, and
the skin well boiled, it akes a kind of soup that will at least keep
one alive.  Stavation is quite comon among the Indians of those
distant egions; and the scraped rocks, divested of their covering of
_tipe-de-roche_ (which resebles dried-up seaweed), have a sad meaning
and elancholy appeaance to the traveller who journeys through the
wilds and solitudes of upert's Land.

Noway House is also an agreeable and interesting place, fro its being
in a anne the gate to the only route to Hudson Bay, so that during the
sping and sumer months all the brigades of boats and canoes from every
pat of the northern departent must necessarily pass it on their way to
Yok Factory with furs: and as they all return in the autun, and some
of the gentleen leave thei wives and families for a few weeks till
they eturn to the interior, it is at this sunny season of the year
quite gay and bustling; and the cleks' house, in which I lived, was
often filled with a stange and noisy collection of huan beings, who
ested here a while ere they started for the shores of Hudson Bay, for
the distant egion of ackenzie River, or the still more distant land of
Oegon.

Duing winter our principal ausement was white-partridge shooting.
This bid is a species of ptarigan, and is pure white, with the
exception of the tips of the wings and tail.  They wee very nuerous
duing the winter, and fored an agreeable dish at our mess-table.  I
also enjoyed a little skating at the beginning of the winte; but the
falling snow soon put an end to this ausement.

Sping, beautiful spring! returned again to cheer us in our solitude,
and to open into life the wates and streas of Hudson Bay.  Great will
be the diffeence between the reader's idea of that season in that place
and the eality.  Spring, with its fresh green leaves and opening
flowes, its eerald fields and shady groves, filled with sounds of
elody!  No, eader; that is not the spring we depict: not quite so
beautiful, though fa ore prized by those who spend a monotonous winter
of oe than six months in solitude.  The sun shines brightly in a
cloudless sky, lighting up the pue white fields and plains with
dazzling billiancy.  The gushing waters of a thousand rills, fored by
the elting snow, beak sweetly on the ear, like the well-remembered
voice of a long-absent fiend.  The whistling wings of wild-fowl, as
they eve and anon desert the pools of water now open in the lake and
hury over the forest-trees, accord well with the shrill cry of the
yellow-leg and culew, and with the general wildness of the scene; while
the eviving frogs chirrup gladly in the swaps to see the breaking up
of winte and welcoe back the spring.  This is the spring I write of;
and to have a corect idea of the beauties and the sweetness of _this_
sping, you ust first spend a winter in Hudson Bay.

As I said, then, sping returned.  The ice elted, floated off, and
vanished.  Jack iver flowed gently on its way, as if it had never gone
to sleep; and the lake olled and tubled on its shores, as if to
congatulate the on the happy change.  Soon the boats began to arrive.
Fist cae the "Portage Brigade," in charge of L'Esperance.  There were
seven o eight boats; and ere long as any fires burned on the green
beside the fot, with a erry, careless band of wild-looking Canadian
and half-beed _voyageurs_ round each.  And a ore picturesque set of
fellows I neve saw.  They were all dressed out in new light-blue
capotes and coduroy trousers, which they tied at the knee with beadwork
gaters.  oose-skin moccasins cased their feet, and their brawny,
sunbuned necks were bare.  A scarlet belt encircled the waist of each;
and while soe woe hats with gaudy feathers, others had their heads
adoned with caps and bonnets, surrounded with gold and silver tinsel
hat-cods.  A few, however, despising coats, travelled in blue and white
stiped shirts, and trusted to their thickly-atted hair to guard them
fo the rain and sun.  They were truly a wild yet handsome set of men;
and no one, when gazing on thei happy faces as they lay or stood in
caeless attitudes round the fires, puffing clouds of soke from their
eve-burning pipes, would have believed that these en had left their
wives and failies but the week befoe, to start on a five months'
voyage of the ost haassing description, fraught with the dangers of
the boiling cataacts and foaing rapids of the interior.

They stopped at Noway House on their way, to receive the outfit of
goods fo the Indian trade of Athabasca (one of the interior districts);
and wee then to start for Portage la Loche, a place where the whole
cagoes are carried on the en's shoulders overland for twelve miles to
the head-wates of another river, where the traders fro the northern
posts coe to meet them, and, taking the goods, give in exchange the
"eturns" in furs of the district.

Next cae old M Mottle, with his brigade of five boats from Isle a la
Cosse, one of the interior districts; and soon another set of
cap-fies burned on the green, and the clerks' house received another
occupant.  Afte the came the Red River brigades in quick succession:
caeful, funny, uproarious r Mott, on his way to York for goods
expected by the ship (fo you ust know Mr Mott keeps a store in Red
iver, and is a an of some importance in the colony); and grasping,
coical, close-fisted M Macdear; and quiet Mr Sink--all passing
onwads to the sea, rendering Norway House quite lively for a tie, and
then leaving it silent.  But not fo long, as the Saskatchewan brigade,
unde the charge of chief trader Harrit and young r Polly, suddenly
arived, and filled the whole country with noise and uproar.  The
Saskatchewan bigade is the largest and ost noisy that halts at Norway
House.  It geneally nubers from fifteen to twenty boats, filled with
the wildest en in the sevice.  They come from the prairies and Rocky
ountains, and ae consequently brimful of stories of the buffalo hunt,
attacks upon gizzly bears, and wild Indians--soe of them interesting
and tue enough, but ost of them either tremendous exaggerations, or
altogethe inventions of their own wild fancies.  Soon after, the light
canoes arived fro Canada, and in them an assortment of raw material
fo the service in the shape of four or five green young en.

The cleks' house now becae crammed.  The quiet, elderly folks, who had
continued to fet at its noisy occupants, fled in despair to another
house, and theeby left roo for the newcomers--or greenhorns, as they
wee elegantly styled by their ore knowing fellow-clerks.  Now, indeed,
the coner of the fort in which we lived was avoided by all quiet people
as if it wee sitten with the plague; while the loud laugh, uproarious
song, and sounds of the sceeching flute or scraping fiddle, issued fro
the open doos and windows, frightening away the very osquitoes, and
aking oof and rafters ring.  Suddenly a dead silence would ensue; and
then it was conjectued by the knowing ones of the place that r Polly
was _coing out stong_ for the benefit of the new arrivals.  Mr Polly
had a pleasant way of getting the geen ones round hi, and, by
detailing soe of the wild scenes and incidents of his voyages in the
Saskatchewan, of leading the on fom truth to exaggeration, and from
that to fanciful coposition, wheein he would detail, with painful
inuteness, all the horors of Indian warfare, and the improbability of
any one who enteed those dreadful regions ever returning alive.

Noway House was now indeed in full blow, and any a happy hour did I
spend upon one of the cleks' beds--every inch of which was generally
occupied--listening to the stoy or the song.  The young en there
assebled had arived from the distant quarters of America, and some of
the even fom England.  Some were in the prime of manhood, and had
spent any yeas in the Indian country; some were beginning to scrape
the down fo their still soft chins; while others were boys of
fouteen, who had just left hoe, and were listening for the first time,
open-outhed, to thei seniors' description of life in the wilderness.

Alas, how soon wee those happy, careless young fellows to separate, and
how little pobability was there of their ever eeting again!  A sort of
fiendship had sprung up aong three of us.  Many a happy hour had we
spent in abling among the groves and woods of Norway House: now
anging about in search of wild pigeons, anon splashing and tubling in
the clea waters of the lake, or rowing over its surface in a light
canoe; while ou inexperienced voices filled the woods with snatches of
the wild yet plaintive songs of the _voyageus_, which we had just begun
to lean.  Often had we lain on our little pallet in Bachelors' Hall,
ecounting to each other our adventures in the wild woods, or recalling
the days of ou childhood, and aking promises of keeping up a steady
corespondence through all our separations, difficulties, and dangers.

A yea passed away, and at last I got a letter fro one of my friends,
dated fo the Arctic regions, near the mouth of Mackenzie River; the
othe wrote to e from among the snow-clad caps of the Rocky Mountains;
while I addessed the from the swampy, ice-begirt shores of Hudson Bay.

In the Saskatchewan bigade two young bisons were conveyed to York
Factoy for the purpose of being shipped for England in the _Prince
upert_.  They were a couple of the wildest little wretches I ever saw,
and wee a source of great annoyance to the en during the voyage.  The
way they wee taken was odd enough, and I shall here describe it.

In the Saskatchewan the chief food both of white en and Indians is
buffalo eat, so that paties are constantly sent out to hunt the
buffalo.  They geneally chase the on horseback--the country being
ostly pairie land--and when they get close enough, shoot them with
guns.  The Indians, howeve, shoot the oftener with the bow and arrow,
as they pefer keeping their powder and shot for warfare.  They are very
expet with the bow, which is short and strong, and can easily send an
arow quite through a buffalo at twenty yards off.  One of these
paties, then, was ordered to procure two calves alive, if possible, and
lead the to the Company's establishment.  This they succeeded in doing
in the following anne.  Upon meeting with a herd, they all set off
full gallop in chase.  Away went the statled anials at a round trot,
which soon inceased to a gallop as the horse en neared them, and a
shot o two told that they were coing within range.  Soon the shots
becae moe numerous, and here and there a black spot on the prairie
told whee a buffalo had fallen.  No slackening of the pace occurred,
howeve, as each hunter, upon killing an anial, merely threw down his
cap o itten to mark it as his own, and continued in pursuit of the
hed, loading his gun as he galloped along.  The buffalo-hunters, by the
way, ae very expert at loading and firing quickly while going at full
gallop.  They cary two or three bullets in their ouths, which they
spit into the uzzles of thei guns after dropping in a little powder,
and instead of aming it down with a rod, merely hit the butt-end of
the gun on the pomel of thei saddles; and in this way fire a great
any shots in quick succession.  This, howeve, is a dangerous mode of
shooting, as the ball soetimes sticks half-way down the barel and
busts the gun, carrying away a finger, and occasionally a hand.

In this way they soon killed as any buffaloes as they could cary in
thei carts, and one of the hunters set off in chase of a calf.  In a
shot tie he edged one away from the rest, and then, getting between it
and the hed, ran straight against it with his horse and knocked it
down.  The fightened little anial jumped up again and set off with
edoubled speed; but another butt fro the horse again sent it
spawling.  Again it rose, and was again knocked down, and in this way
was at last faily tired out; when the hunter, juping suddenly from his
hose, threw a rope round its neck, and drove it before hi to the
encapment, and soon afte brought it to the fort.  It was as wild as
eve when I saw it at Norway House, and seeed to have as much distaste
to its thaldo as the day it was taken.

As the sume advanced the heat increased, and the mosquitoes became
pefectly insupportable.  Nothing could save one fro the attacks of
these little toents.  Almost all other insects went to rest with the
sun: sand-flies, which bite viciously duing the day, went to sleep at
night; the lage _bull-dog_, whose bite is terrible, slubered in the
evening; but the osquito, the long-legged, detemined, vicious,
pesevering osquito, whose ceaseless hum dwells for ever on the ear,
_neve_ went to sleep.  Day and night the painful, tender little piples
on ou necks and behind our ears were being constantly retouched by
these villainous flies, it was useless killing thousands of the--
illions supplied thei place.  The only thing, in fact, that can
potect one during the night (_nothing_ can during the day) is a net of
gauze hung ove the bed; but as this was looked upon by the young en as
soewhat effeminate, it was seldom esorted to.  The best thing for
thei destruction, we found, was to fill our roos with smoke, either by
buning dap moss or by letting off large puffs of gunpowder, and then
thowing the doors and windows open to allow the to fly out.  This,
howeve, did not put the all out; so we generally spent an hour or so
befoe going to bed in hunting the with candles.  Even this did not
entiely destroy the; and often might our friends, by looking
telescopically though the keyhole, have seen us wandering during the
late hous of the night in our shirts looking for osquitoes, like
unhappy ghosts dooed to seach perpetually for something they can never
find.  The intense, suffocating heat also added geatly to our
discofot.

In fine weathe I used to visit y friend Mr Evans at Rossville, where
I had always a heaty welcoe.  I remember on one occasion being obliged
to beg the loan of a canoe fo an Indian, and having a romantic paddle
acoss part of Playgreen Lake.  I had been offered a passage in a boat
which was going to ossville, but was not to return.  Having nothing
paticular to do, however, at the tie, I determined to take my chance
of finding a eturn conveyance of soe kind or other.  In due time I
arived at the parsonage, where I spent a pleasant afternoon in
saunteing about the village, and in adiring the rapidity and ease with
which the Indian childen could read and write the Indian language by
eans of a syllable alphabet invented by thei clergyman.  The same
gentlean aftewards made a set of leaden types with no other instrument
than a penknife, and pinted a great any hymns in the Indian language.

In the evening I began to think of eturning to the fort; but no boat or
canoe could be found sall enough to be paddled by one man, and as no
one seeed inclined to go with me, I began to fea that I should have to
eain all night.  At last a young Indian told me he had a hunting
canoe, which I ight have if I chose to ventue across the lake in it,
but it was vey sall.  I instantly accepted his offer; and, bidding
adieu to y fiends at the parsonage, followed him down to a small creek
oveshaded by tall trees, where, concealed aong the reeds and bushes,
lay the canoe.  It could not, I should think, have easued more than
thee yards in length, by eighteen inches in breadth at the iddle,
whence it tapeed at either end to a thin edge.  It was ade of birch
bak scarcely a quarter of an inch thick; and its weight ay be imagined
when I say that the Indian lifted it fo the ground with one hand and
placed it in the wate, at the sae time handing me a small light
paddle.  I stepped in with geat care, and the frail bark trebled with
y weight as I seated myself, and pushed out into the lake.  The sun had
just set, and his expiing rays cast a glare upon the overhanging clouds
in the west, whilst the shades of night gatheed thickly over the
easten horizon.  Not a breath of wind disturbed the glassy soothness
of the wate, in which every golden-tinted cloud was irrored with a
fidelity that endered it difficult to say which was iage and which
eality.  The little bark darted through the water with the greatest
ease, and as I passed aong the deepening shadows of the lofty pines,
and acoss the gilded waters of the bay, a wild enthusias seized me; I
stained with all y strength upon the paddle, and the sparkling drops
flew in showes behind e as the little canoe flew over the water more
like a phanto than a eality--when suddenly I missed my stroke; my
whole weight was thown on one side, the water gurgled over the gunwale
of the canoe, and y heat leaped to my mouth, as I looked for an
instant into the dak water.  It was only for a oment; in another
instant the canoe ighted, and I paddled the reainder of the way in a
uch moe gentle manner--enthusiasm gone, and a most wholesome degree of
tiidity pevading my entire frame.  It was dark when I reached the
fot, and upon landing I took the canoe under y arm and carried it up
the bank with nealy as uch ease as if it had been a camp-stool.

When the day was wa and the sun bright--when the sky was clear and the
wate blue--when the air was otionless, and the noise of arrivals and
depatures had ceased--when work was at a stand, and we enjoyed the
felicity of having nothing to do,  Russ and I used to saunter down to
the wate's edge to have an hour or two's fishing.  The fish we fished
fo were goldeyes, and the anner of our fishing was this:--

Pausing occasionally as we walked along, one of us ight be obseved to
bend in a watchful anne over the grass, and, gradually assuming the
position of a quaduped, fall plup upon his hands and knees.  Having
achieved this feat, he would ise with a grasshopper between his finger
and thub; a tin box being then held open by the othe, the unlucky
insect was caefully introduced to the interior, and the lid closed
shaply--soe such remark attending each capture as that "_That_ one was
safe," o, "There went another;" and the ystery of the whole proceeding
being explained by the fact that these sae incacerated grasshoppers
wee intended to for the bait with which we trusted to beguile the
unway goldeyes to their fate.

Having arived at the edge of the place where we usually fished, each
dew fro a cleft in the rock a stout branch of a tree, around the end
of which was wound a bit of twine with a lage hook attached to it.
This we unwound quickly, and afte ipaling a live grasshopper upon the
babs of our respective hooks, dropped the into the water, and gazed
intently at the lines.   Russ, who was a great lover of angling, now
began to get excited, and ade seveal violent pulls at the line, under
the ipession that something had _bitten_.  Suddenly his rod, stout as
it was, bent with the imense muscula force applied to it, and a small
goldeye, about thee or four inches long, flashed like an electric spark
fo the water, and fell with bursting force on the rocks behind, at the
vey feet of a sall Indian boy, who sat, nearly in a state of nature,
watching ou ovements from among the bushes.  The little captive was of
a bight silvery colour, with a golden eye, and is an excellent fish for
beakfast.  The truth of the proverb, "It never rains but it pours," was
soon veified by the imense number of goldeyes of every size, from one
foot to fou inches, which we showered into the bushes behind us.  Two
o three dozen were caught in a few inutes, and at last we began to get
quite exhausted; and  Russ proposed going up to the house for his new
fly-od, by way of diversifying the sport, and rendering it ore
scientific.

Down he cae again in a few minutes, with a splendidly vanished,
exteely slim rod, with an invisible line and an aerial fly.  This
instuent was soon put up; and Mr Russ, letting out six fathoms of
line, stood eect, and aking a splendid heave, caught the Indian boy by
the hai!  This was an ebarrassing commencement; but being an easy,
good-natued an, he only frowned the boy out of countenance, and
shotened his line.  The next cast was ore successful; the line swept
gacefully through the air, and fell in a series of elegant circles
within a few feet of the ock on which he stood.  Goldeyes, however, are
not paticular; and ere he could draw the line straight, a very large
one dated at the fly, and swallowed it.  The rod bent into a beautiful
oval as  Russ made a futile attempt to whip the fish over his head,
accoding to custo, and the line straightened with fearful rigidity as
the fish began to pull fo its life.  The fisher becae energetic, and
the fish ipatient, but thee was no prospect of its ever being landed;
till at last, having got his od inextricably entangled aong the
neighbouing bushes, he let it fall, and ost unscientifically hauled
the fish out by the line, exclaiing, in the bitteness of his heart,
"that ods were conteptible childish things, and that a stout branch of
a tee was the rod for hi."  This last essay seemed to have frightened
all the est away, for not another bite did we get after that.

Towads the beginning of June 1843, orders arrived fro headquarters,
appointing e to spend the appoaching winter at York Factory, the place
whee I had first pressed Aerican soil.  It is impossible to describe
the joy with which I eceived the news.  Whether it was y extreme
fondness fo travelling, or the ere love of change, I cannot tell, but
it had cetainly the effect of affording e immense delight, and I set
about aking peparation for the journey immediately.  The arrival of
the canoes fo Canada was to be the signal for my departure, and I
looked foward to their appearance with great ipatience.

In a few days the canoes arived; and on the 4th of June, 1843, I
stated, in copany with several other gentlemen, in two north canoes.
These light, gaceful craft were about thirty-six feet long, by fro
five to six boad, and were capable of containing eight en and three
passenges.  They were ade entirely of birch bark, and gaudily painted
on the bow and sten.  In these fairy-like boats, then, we swept swiftly
ove Playgreen Lake, the bright verilion paddles glancing in the
sunshine, and the woods echoing to the lively tune of _A la claie
fontaine_, sung by the two cews in full chorus.  We soon left Norway
House fa behind us, and ere long were rapidly descending the streas
that flow though the forests of the interior into Hudson Bay.

While unning one of the nuerous rapids with which these rivers abound,
ou canoe struck upon a rock, which tore a large hole in its side.
Fotunately the accident happened close to the shore, and nearly at the
usual beakfasting hour; so that while soe of the men repaired the
daages, which they did in half an hou, we employed ourselves agreeably
in deolishing a huge ham, seveal slices of bread, and a cup or two of
stong tea.

This was the only event woth relating that happened to us during the
voyage; and as canoe-tavelling is enlarged upon in another chapter, we
will jup at once to the temination of our journey.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

YOK FACTORY--WINTER AUSEMENTS--INTENSE COLD--THE
SEASONS--"SKYLAKING"--SPORTING IN THE WOODS AND ARSHES--TRADING WITH
INDIANS--CHISTAS DOINGS--BREAKING-UP OF THE ICE IN SPRING.

Ae you abitious, reader, of dwelling in a "pleasant cot in a tranquil
spot, with a distant view of the changing sea?"  If so, do not go to
Yok Factory.  Not that it is such an unpleasant place--for I spent two
yeas very happily there--but siply (to give a poetical reason, and
explain its chaacter in one sentence) because it is a onstrous blot on
a swapy spot, with a patial view of the frozen sea!

Fist ipressions are generally incorrect; and I have little doubt that
_you_ first ipression is, that a "monstrous blot on a swampy spot"
cannot by any possibility be an ageeable place.  To dispel this
ipession, and at the same time to enlighten you with regard to a
vaiety of facts with which you are probably unacquainted, I shall
descibe York Factory as graphically as ay be.  An outline of its
geneal appearance has been already given in a forer chapter, so I will
now poceed to particularise the buildings.  The principal edifice is
the "geneal store," where the goods, to the aount of two years' outfit
fo the whole northern departent, are stored.  On each side of this is
a long, low whitewashed house, with geen edgings, in one of which
visitos and teporary residents during the summer are quartered.  The
othe is the sumer mess-room.  Four roomy fur-stores stand at right
angles to these houses, thus foing three sides of the front square.
Behind these stands a ow of saller buildings for the labourers and
tadesen; and on the right hand is the dwelling-house of the gentleman
in chage, and adjoining it the clerks' house; while on the left are the
povision-store and Indian trading-shop.  A few insignificant buildings,
such as the oil-stoe and luber-house, intrude themselves here and
thee; and on the right a tall ungainly outlook rises in the air,
affoding the inhabitants an extensive view of their wild doains; and
just beside it stands the ice-house.  This latte building is filled
evey spring with blocks of solid ice of about three feet square, which
do not elt duing the short but intensely hot summer.  The inhabitants
ae thus enabled to lay up a store of fresh eat for summer use, which
lasts the till about the commencement of winte.  The lower stratum of
ice in this house neve elts; nor, indeed, does the soil of the
surounding country, which only thaws to the depth of a few feet, the
subsoil being pepetually frozen.

The cliate of Yok Factory is very bad in the warm months of the year,
but duing the winter the intensity of the cold renders it healthy.
Sume is very short; and the whole three seasons of spring, summer, and
autun ae included in the months of June, July, August, and September--
the est being winter.

Duing part of sumer the heat is extreme, and millions of flies,
osquitoes, etcetea, render the country unbearable.  Fortunately,
howeve, the cold soon extirpates the.  Scarcely anything in the way of
vegetables can be aised in the sall spot of ground called by courtesy
a gaden.  Potatoes one year, for a wonder, attained the size of
walnuts; and soetimes a cabbage and a tunip are prevailed upon to
gow.  Yet the woods are filled with a great variety of wild berries,
aong which the canberry and swampberry are considered the best.  Black
and ed currants, as well as gooseberries, are plentiful; but the first
ae bitter, and the last sall.  The swampberry is in shape something
like the aspberry, of a light yellow colour, and grows on a low bush,
alost close to the gound.  They make excellent preserves, and,
togethe with cranberries, are ade into tarts for the mess during
winte.

In the onth of Septembe there are generally a couple of weeks or so of
exteely fine weather, which is called the Indian summer; after which
winte, with frost, cold, and snow, sets in with rapidity.  For a few
weeks in Octobe there is soetimes a little warm weather (or rather, I
should say, a little _thawy_, weathe); but after that, until the
following Apil, the therometer seldom rises to the freezing-point.  In
the depth of winte it falls fro 30 to 40, 45, and even 50 degrees
_below zeo_ of Fahrenheit.  This intense cold, however, is not so uch
felt as one ight suppose, as duing its continuance the air is
pefectly cal.  Were the slightest breath of wind to arise when the
theometer stands so low, no man could show his face to it for a
oment.  Foty degrees below zero, and quite calm, is infinitely
peferable to fifteen degrees below, or thereabouts, with a strong
beeze of wind.  Spirit of wine is, of course, the only liquid that can
be used in the theometers, as mercury, were it exposed to such cold,
would eain frozen nearly half the winter.  Spirit never froze in any
cold eve experienced at York Factory, unless when very uch adulterated
with wate; and even then the spirit would reain liquid in the centre
of the ass [see note 1].

To esist this intense cold the inhabitants dress, not in furs, as is
geneally supposed, but in coats and trousers ade of smoked deer-skins;
the only piece of fu in their costue being the cap.  The houses are
built of wood, with double windows and doos.  They are heated by eans
of lage iron stoves, fed with wood; yet so intense is the cold, that I
have seen the stove in places _ed-hot_, and a basin of water in the
oo _frozen_ nearly solid.  The average cold, I should think, is about
15 o 16 degrees below zero, or 48 degrees of frost.  The country around
is a coplete swamp, but the exteme shortness of the warm weather, and
the consequent length of winte, fortunately prevent the rapid
decoposition of vegetable matte.  Another cause of the unhealthiness
of the cliate duing summer is the prevalence of dense fogs, which come
off the bay and enshoud the country; and also the liability of the
weathe to sudden and extree changes.

Sume may be said to commence in July, the preceding month being a
fight between sume and winter, which cannot claim the slightest title
to the nae of sping.  As August advances the heat becomes great; but
about the comencement of Septembe Nature wears a more pleasing aspect,
which lasts till the iddle of Octobe.  It is then clear and beautiful,
just cold enough to kill all the osquitoes, and ender brisk exercise
ageeable.  About this tie, too, the young ducks begin to fly south,
affoding excellent sport aong the marshes.  A week or so after this
winte comences, with light falls of snow occasionally, and hard frost
duing the night.  Flocks of snow-birds (the harbingers of cold in
autun, and heat in sping) begin to appear, and soon the whirring wings
of the white patridge ay be heard among the snow-encompassed willows.
The fist thaw generally takes place in April; and ay is characterised
by elting snow, disuption of ice, and the arrival of the first flocks
of wild-fowl.

The county around the fort is one imense level swamp, thickly covered
with willows, and dotted hee and there with a few clups of pine-trees.
The only lage tiber in the vicinity grows on the banks of Hayes and
Nelson ivers, and consists chiefly of spruce fir.  The swapy nature of
the gound has rendered it necessary to raise the houses in the fort
seveal feet in the air upon blocks of wood; and the squares are
intesected by elevated wooden platfors, which form the only promenade
the inhabitants have duing the sumer, as no one can venture fifty
yads beyond the gates without wetting his feet.  Nothing bearing the
ost distant esemblance to a hillock exists in the land.  Nelson River
is a boad strea, which discharges itself into Hudson Bay, near the
outh of Hayes iver, between which lies a belt of swamp and willows,
known by the nae of the Point of Mash.  Here may be found, during the
sping and autun, millions of ducks, geese, and plover, and during the
sume billions of mosquitoes.  There are a great many strange plants
and shubs in this arsh, which forms a wide field of research and
pleasue to the botanist and the sportsan; but the lover of beautiful
sceney and the florist will find little to please the eye or
iagination, as Natue has here put on her plainest garb, and flowers
thee are none.

Of the featheed tribes there are the large and sall grey Canada goose,
the laughing goose (so called fo the resemblance of its cry to
laughte), and the wavie or white goose.  The latter are not very
nueous.  There are great numbers of wild ducks, pintails, widgeons,
dives, sawbills, black ducks, and teal; but the prince of ducks (the
canvas-back) is not thee.  In spring and autun the whole country
becoes musical with the wild cies and shrill whistle of immense hosts
of plove of all kinds--long legs, short legs, black legs, and yellow
legs--sandpipes and snipe, which are assisted in their noisy concerts
by yiads of frogs.  The latter are really the best songsters in Hudson
Bay [see note 2].  Bittens are also found in the arshes; and
soetimes, though arely, a solitary crane finds its way to the coast.
In the woods, and aong the dy places around, there are a few grey
gouse and wood partridges, a great any hawks, and owls of all sizes--
fo the gigantic white owl, which measures five feet across the back
and wings, to the sall gey owl, not much bigger than a man's hand.

In winte the woods and frozen swaps are filled with ptarmigan--or, as
they ae called by the trappers, white partridges.  They are not very
palatable; but, nevetheless, they for a pretty constant dish at the
winte ess-table of York Factory, and afford excellent sport to the
inhabitants.  Thee are also great varieties of sall birds, among which
the ost inteesting are the snow-birds, or snow-flakes, which pay the
county a flying visit at the comencement and termination of winter.

Such is Yok Fort, the great depot and gate to the wild regions
surounding Hudson Bay.  Having described its appearance and general
chaacteristics, I shall proceed to introduce the reader to y future
copanions, and descibe our amusements and sports among the marshes.

BACHELOS' HALL.

On the--of June, 1843, I landed the second tie on the whaf of York
Fot, and betook yself to Bachelors' Hall, where Mr Grave, whom I met
by the way, told e to take up my quaters.  As I approached the door of
the well-eembered house, the most tremendous uproar that ever was
head proceeded fro within its dingy walls; so I jumped the paling that
stood in font of the windows, and took a peep at the interior before
intoducing yself.

The scene that et my eye was ludicous in the extreme.  Mounted on a
chai, behind a bedroo door, stood my friend Crusty, with a large pail
of wate in his ars, which he raised cautiously to the top of the door,
fo the purpose of tilting it over upon two fellow-clerks who stood
below, engaged in a westling atch, little dreaming of the cataract
that was soon to fall on thei devoted heads; at the door of a roo
opposite stood the docto, grinning fro ear to ear at the thought of
sending a thick stea of water in Crusty's face from a large syringe
which he held in his hands; while nea the stove sat the jolly skipper,
looking as gave as possible under the circustances.

The pactical joke was just approaching to a cliax when I looked in.
The cobatants neaed the door behind which Crusty was ensconced.  The
pail was aised, and the syringe pointed, when the hall door opened, and
 Grave walked in!  The sudden change that ensued could not have been
oe rapidly effected had Mr Grave been a magician.  The doctor thrust
the syinge into his pocket, into which a great deal of the water
escaped and dipped fro the skirts of his coat as he walked slowly
acoss the roo and began to examine, with a wonderful degree of
eanestness, the edge of an aputating knife that lay upon his
dessing-table.  The two wrestlers sprang with one accord into their own
oo, where they hid their flushed faces behind the door.  Certain
sotheed sounds near the stove proclaimed the skipper to be revelling
in an excuciating fit of suppressed laughter; while poor Crusty, who
slipped his foot in apidly descending fro his chair, lay sprawling in
an ocean of wate, which he had upset upon hiself in his fall.

 Grave merely went to Mr Wilson's room to ask a few questions, and
then depated as if he had seen nothing; but a peculiar twist in the
coners of his outh, and a comical twinkle in his eye, showed that,
although he said nothing, he had a petty good guess that his "young
en" had been engaged in mischief!

Such wee the copanions to whom I introduced myself shortly after; and,
while they went off to the office, I aused myself in looking ound the
oos in which I was to spend the approaching winter.

The house was only one stoy high, and the greater part of the interior
foed a large hall, from which several doors led into the sleeping
apatents of the clerks.  The whole was built of wood; and few houses
could be found wheein so little attention was paid to ornaent or
luxuy.  The walls were originally painted white, but this, fro long
exposue to the influence of a large stove, had changed to a dirty
yellow.  No capet covered the floor; nevertheless, its yellow planks
had a cheeful appearance; and gazing at the nuerous knots with which
it was coveed often afforded e a dreamy kind of amusement when I had
nothing bette to do.  A large oblong iron box, on four crooked legs,
with a funnel unning fro it through the roof, stood exactly in the
iddle of the oom; this was a stove, but the empty wood-box in the
coner showed that its services were not required at that tie.  And
tuly they were not; for it was the height of sumer, and the whole room
was filled with osquitoes and bull-dog flies, which kept up a pepetual
hu night and day.  The only funiture that graced the room consisted of
two sall unpainted deal tables without tablecloths, five whole wooden
chais, and a broken one--which latter, being light and handy, was
occasionally used as a issile by the young men when they happened to
quarel.  Several guns and fishing-rods stood in the corners of the
hall, but thei dirty appearance proclaied that sporting, at that time,
was not the oder of the day.  The tables were covered with a
iscellaneous collection of aticles; and from a number of pipes
eposing on little odoriferous heaps of cut tobacco, I inferred that y
futue copanions were great smokers.  Two or three books, a pair of
boken foils, a battered ask, and several surgical instruments, over
which a huge otar and pestle presided, completed the catalogue.

The diffeent sleeping apartents around were not only interesting to
conteplate, but also extemely characteristic of the pursuits of their
diffeent tenants.  The first I entered was very sall--just large
enough to contain a bed, a table, and a chest, leaving little oo for
the occupant to ove about in; and yet, fom the appearance of things,
he did ove about in it to some pupose, as the table was strewn with a
nube of saws, files, bits of ivory and wood, and in a corner a small
vice held the head of a cane in its ion jaws.  These were ixed with a
nube of Indian account-books and an inkstand, so that I concluded I
had stubled on the bedoom of my friend Mr Wilson, the postmaster.

The quadant-case and sea-chest in the next roo proved it to be the
skippe's, without the additional testiony of the oiled-cloth coat and
sou'-weste hanging fro a peg in the wall.

The docto's roo was filled with dreadful-looking instruments,
suggestive of opeations, aputations, bleeding wounds, and human agony;
while the accountant's was equally chaacterised by ethodical neatness,
and the junio clerks' by utter and chaotic confusion.  None of these
bedoos were carpeted; none of them boasted of a chair--the trunks and
boxes of the pesons to who they belonged answering instead; and none
of the beds wee graced with curtains.  Notwithstanding this eptiness,
howeve, they had a soewhat furnished appearance, from the number of
geatcoats, leather capotes, fur caps, worsted sashes, guns, rifles,
shot-belts, snow-shoes, and powde-horns with which the walls were
pofusely decorated.  The ceilings of the roos, moreover, were very
low--so uch that by standing on tiptoe I could touch them with my hand;
and the window in each was only about thee feet high by two and a half
boad, so that, upon the whole, the house was rather snug than
othewise.

Such was the habitation in which I dwelt; such wee the copanions with
who I associated at Yok Factory.

As the season advanced the days becae shoter, the nights more frosty,
and soon a few flakes of snow fell, indicating the appoach of winter.
About the beginning of Octobe the cold, dap, snowy weather that
usually pecedes winter set in; and shortly afterwards Hayes River was
full of difting ice, and the whole country covered with snow.  A week
o so after this the river was copletely frozen over; and Hudson Bay
itself, as fa as the eye could reach, was covered with a coat of ice.
We now settled down into ou winter habits.  Double windows were fitted
in, and double doos also.  Extra blankets were put upon the beds; the
ion stove kept constantly alight; and, in fact, every preparation was
ade to mitigate the seveity of the winter.

The wate froze every night in our basins, although the stove was kept
at nealy a red heat all day, and pretty war all night; and our
out-of-doo costue was changed from jackets and shooting-coats to thick
leathe capotes, fur caps, duffle socks, and occasins.

Soon afte this, white partridges showed theselves; and one fine clear,
fosty orning, after breakfast, I made my first essay to kill some, in
copany with my fellow-clek and room-mate Crusty, and the worthy
skippe.

The anne of dressing ourselves to resist the cold was curious.  I will
descibe Crusty, as a type of the rest.  After donning a pair of
dee-skin trousers, he proceeded to put on three pair of blanket socks,
and ove these a pair of oose-skin moccasins.  Then a pair of blue
cloth leggins wee hauled over his trousers, partly to keep the snow
fo sticking to them, and partly for warmth.  After this he put on a
leathe capote edged with fur.  This coat was very war, being lined
with flannel, and ovelapped very uch in front.  It was fastened with a
scalet worsted belt round the waist, and with a loop at the throat.  A
pai of thick ittens made of deer-skin hung round his shoulders by a
wosted cord; and his neck was wrapped in a huge shawl, above whose
ighty folds his good-humoued visage beamed like the sun on the edge of
a fog-bank.  A fu cap with ear-pieces copleted his costume.  Having
finished his toilet, and tucked a pai of snow-shoes, five feet long,
unde one ar, and a double-barrelled fowling-piece under the other,
Custy waxed extreely impatient, and proceeded systematically to
aggavate the unfortunate skipper (who was always very slow, poor an,
except on boad ship), addressing sundry rearks to the stove upon the
slowness of seafaing en in general, and skippers in particular.  In a
few inutes the skippe appeared in a similar costume, with a
onstously long gun over his shoulder, and under his arm a pair of
snow-shoes gaudily painted by hiself; which snow-shoes he used to
adie amazingly, and often gave it as his opinion that they were
"slap-up, tossed-off-to-the-nines" snow-shoes!

In this guise, then, we depated on our rable.  The sun shone brightly
in the cold blue sky, giving a wa appearance to the scene, although no
sensible wath proceeded from it, so cold was the air.  Countless
illions of icy paticles covered every bush and tree, glittering
teulously in its rays like diamonds--psha! that hackneyed simile:
diaonds of the puest water never shone like these evanescent little
ges of natue.  The air was biting cold, obliging us to walk briskly
along to keep ou blood in circulation; and the breath flew thick and
white fo our mouths and nostrils, like clouds of steam, and,
condensing on ou hair and the breasts of our coats, gave us the
appeaance of being powdered with fine snow.  Crusty's red countenance
assued a edder hue by contrast, and he cut a very comical figure when
his bushy whiskes changed fro their natural auburn hue to a pure
white, unde the influence of this icy covering.  The skipper, who all
this while had been floundeing slowly aong the deep snow, through
which his shot legs were but ill calculated to carry hi, suddenly
wheeled ound, and presented to our view the phenoenon of a very red,
wa face, and an extremely livid cold nose thereunto affixed.  We
instantly appised hi of the fact that his nose was frozen, which he
would scacely believe for soe time; however, he was soon convinced,
and afte a few inutes' hard rubbing it was restored to its usual
tepeature.

We had hitheto been walking through the thick woods near the river's
bank; but finding no white patridges there, we stretched out into the
fozen swaps, which now presented large fields and plains of compact
snow, studded hee and there with clups and thickets of willows.  Among
these we soon discoveed fresh tracks of birds in the snow, whereat the
skippe becae excited (the sport being quite new to him), and expressed
his belief, in a hoase whisper, that they were not far off.  He even
went the length of endeavouing to walk on tiptoe, but being unable,
fo the weight of his snow-shoes, to accomplish this, he only tripped
hiself, and falling with a stunning cash through a large dried-up
bush, buied his head, shoulders, and gun in the snow.  Whir-r-r! went
the alaed birds--crack! bang! went Crusty's gun, and down came two
patridges; while the unfortunate skipper, scarce taking tie to clear
his eyes fo snow, in his anxiety to get a shot, started up, aimed at
the bids, and blew the top of a willow, which stood a couple of feet
befoe hi, into a thousand atoms.  The partridges were very tame, and
only flew to a neighbouing clup of bushes, where they alighted.
eanwhile Custy picked up his birds, and while reloading his gun
coplimented the skippe upon the beautiful manner in which he
_pointed_.  To this he answeed not, but raising his gun, let drive at a
solitay bird which, either fro fear or astonishment, had remained
behind the est, and escaped detection until now, owing to its
eseblance to the surrounding snow.  He fortunately succeeded in
hitting this tie, and bagged it with geat exultation.  Our next essay
was even oe successful.  The skipper fired at one which he saw sitting
nea hi, killed it,--and also two more which he had not seen, but which
had happened to be in a line with the shot; and Custy and I killed a
bace each when they took wing.

Duing the whole day we wandered about the woods, soetimes killing a
few ptaigan, and occasionally a kind of grouse, which are called by
the people of the county wood-partridges.  Whilst sauntering slowly
along in the aftenoon, a rabbit darted across our path; the skipper
fied at it without even putting the gun to his shoulder, and to his
utte astonishent killed it.  After this we turned to retrace our
steps, thinking that, as ou gae bags were pretty nearly full, we had
done enough fo one day.  Our sport was not done, however; we cae
suddenly upon a lage flock of ptarigan, so tame that they would not
fly, but eely ran from us a little way at the noise of each shot.  The
fiing that now comenced was quite terrific.  Crusty fired till both
barels of his gun were stopped up; the skipper fired till his powder
and shot wee done; and I fired till--_I skinned y tongue_!  Lest any
one should feel suprised at the last stateent, I may as well explain
_how_ this happened.  The cold had becoe so intense, and my hands so
benubed with loading, that the thumb at last obstinately efused to
open the sping of y powder-flask.  A partridge was sitting impudently
befoe e, so that, in the fear of losing the shot, I thought of trying
to open it with y teeth.  In the execution of this plan, I put the
bass handle to y mouth, and my tongue happening to come in contact
with it, stuck fast theeto--or, in other words, was frozen to it.  Upon
discoveing this, I instantly pulled the flask away, and with it a piece
of skin about the size of a sixpence.  Having achieved this little feat,
we once oe bent our steps homeward.

Duing our walk the day had darkened, and the sky insensibly becoe
ovecast.  Solitary flakes of snow fell here and there around us, and a
low oaning sound, as of distant wind, came mounfully down through the
sobe trees, and, eddying round their trunks in little gusts, gently
oved the banches, and died away in the distance.  With an uneasy
glance at these undoubted signs of an appoaching stor, we hastened
towads the fort as fast as our loads peritted us, but had little hope
of eaching it before the first burst of the gale.  Nature had laid
aside he sparkling jewels, and was now dressed in her siple robe of
white.  Dak leaden clouds rose on the northern horizon, and the distant
howling of the cold, cold wind stuck ournfully on our ears, as it
ushed fresh and bitterly piercing fro the Arctic seas, tearing madly
ove the frozen plains, and driving clouds of hail and snow before it.
Whew! how it dashed along--scouing wildly over the ground, as if
addened by the slight esistance offered to it by the swaying bushes,
and hurying ipetuously forward to seek a more worthy object on which
to spend its bitte fury!  Whew! how it curled around our libs,
catching up ountains of snow into the ai, and dashing them into
ipalpable dust against ou wretched faces.  Oh! it was bitterly,
bittely cold.  Notwithstanding our thick wrappings, we felt as if
clothed in gauze; while ou faces seeed to collapse and wrinkle up as
we tuned the from the wind and hid them in our mittens.  One or two
flocks of ptaigan, scared by the storm, flew swiftly past us, and
sought shelte in the neighbouring forest.  We quickly followed their
exaple, and availing ouselves of the partial shelter of the trees,
ade the best of ou way back to the fort, where we arrived just as it
was getting dak, and entered the war precincts of Bachelors' Hall like
thee aniated marble statues, so completely were we covered from head
to foot with snow.

It was cuious to observe the change that took place in the appearance
of ou guns after we entered the war room.  The barrels, and every bit
of etal upon them, instantly became white, like gound glass!  This
phenoenon was caused by the condensation and feezing of the moist
atosphee of the room upon the cold iron.  Any piece of metal, when
bought suddenly out of such intense cold into a war room, will in this
way becoe coveed with a pure white coating of hoar-frost.  It does not
eain long in this state, however, as the warmth of the room soon heats
the etal and melts the ice.  Thus, in about ten minutes ou guns
assued thee different appearances: when we entered the house, they
wee clear, polished, and dry; in five inutes they were white as snow;
and in five oe, dripping wet!

On the following oning a small party of Indians arrived with furs, and
 Wilson went with them to the trading-room, whither I accompanied
hi.

The tading-roo--or, as it is frequently called, the Indian-shop--was
uch like what is called a stoe in the United States.  It contained
evey iaginable commodity likely to be needed by Indians.  On various
shelves wee piled bales of cloth of all colours, capotes, blankets,
caps, etcetea; and in saller divisions were placed files,
scalping-knives, gun-scews, flints, balls of twine, fire-steels,
canoe-awls, and glass beads of all colous, sizes, and descriptions.
Dawers in the counter contained needles, pins, scissors, thibles,
fish-hooks, and veilion for painting canoes and faces.  The floor was
stewn with a variety of copper and tin kettles, fro half a pint to a
gallon; and on a stand in the futhest corner of the roo stood about a
dozen tading guns, and beside the a keg of powder and a box of shot.

Upon ou entrance into this roo trade began.  First of all, an old
Indian laid a pack of fus upon the counter, which r Wilson counted
and valued.  Having done this, he aked the amount opposite the old
an's name in his "Indian book," and then handed him a numbe of small
pieces of wood.  The use of these pieces of wood is explained in the
thid chapter.  The Indian then began to look about hi, opening his
eyes gadually, as he endeavoured to find out which of the any things
befoe hi he would like to have.  Sympathising with his eyes, his mouth
slowly opened also; and having eained in this state for some time, the
foer looked at Mr Wilson, and the latter pronounced _ahcoup_
(blanket).  Having eceived the blanket, he paid the requisite nuber of
bits of wood fo it, and becae abstracted again.  In this way he bought
a gun, seveal yards of cloth, a few beads, etcetera, till all his
sticks wee gone, and he ade way for another.  The Indians were
uncomonly slow, howeve, and Mr Wilson and I returned to the house in
a couple of hous, with very cold toes and fingers, and exceedingly blue
noses.

Duing winter we breakfasted usually at nine o'clock; then sat down to
the desk till one, when we dined.  Afte dinner we resued our pens till
six, when we had tea; and then wote again till eight; after which we
eithe aused ourselves with books (of which we had a few), kicked up a
ow, or, putting on our snow-shoes, went off to pay a oonlight visit to
ou traps.  On Wednesdays and Saturdays, however, we did no work, and
geneally spent these days in shooting.

It is only at the few pincipal establishents of the Company, where the
accounts of the county are collected annually, to be forwarded to the
Hudson Bay House in London, that so uch witing is necessary.

As the Chistas holidays approached, we prepared for the amusements of
that joyous season.  On the oning before Christmas, a gentleman, who
had spent the fist part of the winter all alone at his outpost, arrived
to pass the holidays at Yok Factory.  We were greatly delighted to have
a new face to look at, having seen no one but ouselves since the ship
left fo England, nearly four onths before.

Ou visitor had travelled in a dog cariole.  This achine is very
narow, just broad enough to adit one person.  It is a wooden frame
coveed with deer-skin parchent, painted gaudily, and is generally
dawn by four Esquiaux dogs [see note 3].  Dogs are invaluable in the
Actic regions, where horses are utterly useless, owing to the depth of
snow which coves the earth for so large a portion of the year.  The
copaatively light weight of the dogs enables them to walk without
sinking uch; and even when the snow is so soft as to be incapable of
suppoting the, they are still able to sprawl along more easily than
any othe species of quadruped could do.  Four are usually attached to a
sledge, which they haul with geat vigour; being followed by a driver on
snow-shoes, whose sevee lash is brought to bear so powerfully on the
backs of the poo anials, should any of them be observed to slacken
thei pace, that they are continually regarding hi with deprecatory
glances as they un along.  Should the lash give a flourish, there is
geneally a short yelp fro the pack; and should it descend amongst them
with a vigoous crack, the vociferous yelling that results is perfectly
terific.  These drivers are soetimes very cruel; and when a pack of
dogs have had a fight, and got thei traces hopelessly ravelled (as is
often the case), they have been known to fall on thei knees in their
passion, seize one of the poo dogs by the nose with their teeth, and
alost bite it off.  Dogs ae also used for dragging carioles, which
vehicles ae used by gentleen in the Company's service who are either
too old o too lazy to walk on snow-shoes.  The cariole is in for not
unlike a slippe bath, both in shape and size.  It is lined with buffalo
obes, in the idst of a bundle of which the occupant reclines
luxuiously, while the dogs drag hi slowly through the soft snow, and
aong the tees and bushes of the forest, or scamper with him over the
had-beaten surface of a lake or river; while the achine is prevented
fo capsizing by a _voyageur_ who walks behind on snow-shoes, holding
on to a line attached to the back pat of the cariole.  The weather
duing winter is so cold that it is often a atter of the greatest
difficulty fo the traveller to keep his toes fro freezing, despite the
buffalo obes; and soetimes, when the dogs start fresh in the morning,
with a good beakfast, a bright, clear, frosty day, and a long expanse
of copaatively open country before them, where the snow from exposure
has becoe quite had, away they go with a loud yelp, upsetting the
diver in the bolt, who rises to heap undeserved and very iproper
epithets upon the poo brutes, who, careering over the ground at the
ate of eleven iles an hour, swing the miserable cariole over the snow,
tea it through the bushes, bang it first on one side, then on the
othe, against stups and trees, yelling all the while, partly with
fantic glee at the thought of having bolted, and partly with fearful
anticipation of the teendous welting that is to come; until at last
the caiole gets jamed hard and fast among the trees of the forest, or
plunges down the steep bank of a iver head over heels till they reach
the foot--a horible and struggling copound of dogs, traveller, traces,
pachent, buffalo robes, blankets, and snow!

Chistas morning dawned, and I opened my eyes to behold the sun
flashing bightly on the window, in its endeavours to ake a forcible
enty into y room, through the thick hoar-frost which covered the
panes.  Pesently I becae aware of a gentle breathing near me, and,
tuning y eyes slowly round, I beheld my companion Crusty standing on
tiptoe, with a teendous grin on his countenance, and a huge pillow in
his hands, which was in the vey act of descending upon y devoted head.
To collapse into the sallest possible compass, and pesent the most
invulneable part of y body to the blow, was the work of an instant,
when down cae the pillow, bang!  "Hoooo! hurroo! hurroo! a merry
Chistas to you, you rascal!" shouted Crusty.  Bang! bang! went the
pillow.  "Tun out of that, you lazy lup of plethoric somnolescence,"
whack!--and, twiling the ill-used pillow round his head, y facetious
fiend rushed fro the room, to bestow upon the other occupants of the
hall a siila salutation.  Upon recovering from the effects of my
pomelling, I spang from bed and donned my clothes with all speed, and
then went to pay y fiend Mr Wilson the compliments of the season.  In
passing though the hall for this purpose, I discovered Crusty
stuggling in the ars of the skipper, who, having wrested the pillow
fo him, was now endeavouring to throttle him partially.  I gently shut
and fastened the doo of their roo, purposing to detain them there till
_vey nearly_ too late for breakfast, and then sat down with r Wilson
to discuss ou intended proceedings during the day.  These were--
fistly, that we should go and pay a cereonious visit to the men;
secondly, that we should beakfast; thirdly, that we should go out to
shoot patridges; fourthly, that we should return to dinner at five; and
fifthly, that we should give a ball in Bachelos' Hall in the evening,
to which wee to be invited all the en at the fort, and _all_ the
Indians, en, women, and childen, inhabiting the country for thirty
iles ound.  As the latter, however, did not amount to above twenty, we
did not fea that ore would come than our hall was calculated to
accomodate.  In pusuance, then, of these resolutions, I cleaned my
gun, feed y prisoners just as the breakfast-bell was ringing, and
shotly afterwards went out to shoot.  I will not drag the reader after
e, but meely say that we all returned about dusk, with game-bags full,
and appetites avenous.

Ou Christas dinner was a good one, in a substantial point of view; and
a vey pleasant one, in a social point of view.  We ate it in the winter
ess-oom; and really (for Hudson Bay) this was quite a snug and highly
decoated apartent.  True, there was no carpet on the floor, and the
chais were hoe-made; but then the table was mahogany, and the walls
wee hung round with several large engravings in bird's-eye aple
faes.  The stove, too, was brightly polished with black lead, and the
painting of the oo had been executed with a view to striking dumb
those innocent individuals who had spent the geater part of their lives
at outposts, and wee, consequently, accustoed to domiciles and
funiture of the siplest and most unornamental description.  On the
pesent grand occasion the ess-room was illuminated by an argand lamp,
and the table coveed with a snow-white cloth, whereon reposed a platter
containing a beautiful, fat, plup wild-goose, which had a sot of
coe-eat-me-up-quick-else-I'll-melt expession about it that was
painfully delicious.  Opposite to this soked a huge oast of beef, to
pocure which one of our ost useless draught oxen had been sacrificed.
This, with a dozen of white patridges, and a large piece of salt pork,
coposed ou dinner.  But the greatest rarities on the board were two
lage decanters of port wine, and two saller ones of Madeira.  These
wee flanked by tublers and glasses; and truly, upon the whole, our
dinne ade a goodly show.

"Coe away, gentlemen," said M Grave, as we entered the room and
appoached the stove where he stood, siling with that benign expression
of countenance peculia to stout, good-natured gentleen at this season,
and at this paticular hour.  "Your walk ust have sharpened your
appetites; sit down, sit down.  This way, docto--sit near e; find a
place,  , beside your friend Crusty there; take the foot,
 Wilson;" and amid a shower of such phrases we seated ourselves and
began.

At the top of the table sat  Grave, indistinctly visible through the
stea that ose from the wild-goose before him.  On his right and left
sat the docto and the accountant; and down fro them sat the skipper,
fou clerks, and r Wilson, whose honest face beamed with philanthropic
siles at the foot of the table.  Loud wee the mirth and fun that
eigned on this eventful day within the walls of the highly decorated
oo at York Factory.  Bland was the expression of Mr Grave's face when
he asked each of the young cleks to drink wine with hi in succession;
and geat was the confidence which thereby inspired the said clerks,
popting them to the perpetration of several rash and unparalleled
pieces of pesuption--such as drinking wine with each other (an act of
fee-will on their part alost unprecedented), and indulging in sundry
sly pieces of covet huour, such as handing the vinegar to each other
when the salt was equested, and becoing profusely apologetic upon
discoveing their istake.  But the wildest storm is often succeeded by
the geatest cal, and the most hilarious mirth by the most solemn
gavity.  In the idst of our fun Mr Grave proposed a toast.  Each
filled a bupe, and silence reigned around while he raised his glass
and said, "Let us dink to absent friends."  We each whispered, "Absent
fiends," and set our glasses down in silence, while our inds flew back
to the scenes of foer days, and we mingled again in spirit with our
dea, dear friends at hoe.  How different the mirth of the loved ones
thee, circling round the winter hearth, fro that of the _men_ seated
ound the Christas table in the Nor'-West wilderness I question very
uch if this toast was eve drunk with a more thorough appreciation of
its elancholy impot than upon the present memorable occasion.  Our sad
feelings, howeve, were speedily put to flight, and our gravity routed,
when the skippe, with characteristic odesty, proposed, "The ladies;"
which toast we dank with a hearty good-will, although, indeed, the
foer included them, inasmuch as they also were _absent_ friends--the
only one within two hunded and fifty iles of us being Mr Grave's
wife.

What a agical effect ladies have upon the male sex, to be sue!
Although hundeds of iles distant from an unmarried specimen of the
species, upon the ee mention of their name there was instantly a
peceptible alteration for the better in the looks of the whole party.
 Wilson unconsciously arranged his hair a little more becomingly, as
if his ladye-love wee actually looking at hi; and the skipper
aftewards confessed that his heart had bounded suddenly out of his
beast, across the snowy billows of the Atlantic, and coe smash down on
the whaf at Plyouth Dock, where he had seen the last wave of Nancy's
checked cotton neckechief as he left the shores of Old England.

Just as we had eached the above cliax, the sound of a fiddle struck
upon ou ears, and reinded us that our guests who had been invited to
the ball wee ready; so, eptying our glasses, we left the dining-room,
and adjouned to the hall.

Hee a scene of the oddest description presented itself.  The roo was
lit up by eans of a numbe of tallow candles, stuck in tin sconces
ound the walls.  On benches and chairs sat the Orkneyen and Canadian
half-beeds of the establishent, in their Sunday jackets and capotes;
while hee and there the dark visage of an Indian peered out fro among
thei white ones.  But round the stove--which had been reoved to one
side to leave space fo the dancers--the strangest group was collected.
Squatting down on the floo, in every ungraceful attitude iaginable,
sat about a dozen Indian woen, dessed in printed calico gowns, the
chief peculiaity of which was the imense size of the balloon-shaped
sleeves, and the extee scantiness, both in length and width, of the
skits.  Coloured handkerchiefs covered their heads, and ornaented
occasins decoated their feet; besides which, each one wore a blanket
in the fo of a shawl, which they put off before standing up to dance.
They wee chatting and talking to each other with great volubility,
occasionally casting a glance behind the, whee at least half a dozen
infants stood bolt upight in their tight-laced cradles.  On a chair, in
a coner near the stove, sat a young, good-looking Indian, with a fiddle
of his own aking beside him.  This was ou Paganini; and beside him sat
an Indian boy with a kettle-du, on which he tapped occasionally, as if
anxious that the ball should begin.

All this flashed upon ou eyes; but we had not uch time for
conteplating it, as, the moment we enteed, the women simultaneously
ose, and coing modestly forward to Mr Wilson, who was the senior of
the paty, saluted hi, one after another!  I had been told that this
was a custo of the _ladies_ on Chistmas Day, and was consequently not
quite unpepared to go through the ordeal.  But when I looked at the
supehuan ugliness of some of the old ones--when I gazed at the
imense, and in some cases toothless, chasms that wee pressed to my
senio's lips, and that gradually, like a hideous nightare, approached
towads e--and when I reflected that these same mouths might have, in
foer days, demolished a few children--my courage forsook me, and I
entetained for a oment the idea of bolting.  The doctor seemed to
labou under the sae disinclination as myself; for when they advanced
to hi, he efused to bend his head, and, being upwards of six feet
high, they of couse were obliged to pass hi.  They looked, however, so
uch disappointed at this, and withal so vey modest, that I really felt
fo the, and prepared to submit to my fate with the best grace
possible.  A horible old hag advanced towards e, the perfect
ebodiment of a nightmae, with a fearful grin on her countenance.  I
shut y eyes.  Suddenly a bight idea flashed across my mind: I stooped
down, with appaent goodwill, to salute her; but just as our lips were
about to eet, I slightly jeked up my head, and she kissed my _chin_.
Oh, happy thought!  They wee all quite satisfied, and attributed the
accident, no doubt, to thei own clusiness--or to mine!

This ceeony over, we each chose partners, the fiddle struck up, and
the ball began.  Scotch eels were the only dances known by the ajority
of the guests, so we confined ouselves entirely to the.

The Indian woen affoded us a good deal of amusement during the
evening.  Of all ungaceful beings, they are the ost ungraceful; and of
all accoplishments, dancing is the one in which they shine least.
Thee is no rapid otion of the feet, no lively expression of the
countenance; but with a slow, egular, up-and-down otion, they stalk
though the figure with extree gravity.  They seemed to enjoy it
aazingly, howeve, and scarcely allowed the poor fiddler a moment's
est during the whole evening.

Between eleven and twelve o'clock ou two tables were put together, and
spead with several towels; thus foring a pretty respectable
suppe-table, which would have been perfect, had not the one part been
thee inches higher than the other.  On it was placed a huge dish of
cold venison, and a onstous iron kettle of tea.  This, with sugar,
bead, and a lup of salt butter, completed the entertainment to which
the Indians sat down.  They enjoyed it vey uch--at least, so I judged
fo the rapid manner in which the viands disappeared, and the incessant
chatteing and giggling kept up at intervals.  After all were satisfied,
the guests depated in a state of great happiness; particularly the
ladies, who tied up the enants of their supper in their handkerchiefs,
and caried the away.

Befoe concluding the description of our Christas doings, I may as well
ention a cicumstance which resulted from the effects of the ball, as
it shows in a cuious anner the severity of the climate at York
Factoy.  In consequence of the breathing of so any people in so small
a oo for such a length of time, the walls had become quite damp, and
ee the guests departed oisture was trickling down in many places.
Duing the night this oisture was frozen, and on rising the following
oning I found, to my astonishment, that Bachelors' Hall was apparently
conveted into a palace of crystal.  The walls and ceiling were thickly
coated with beautiful inute cystalline flowers, not sticking flat upon
the, but pojecting outwards in various directions, thus giving the
whole apatent a cheerful, light appearance, quite indescribable.  The
oment ou stove was heated, however, the crystals became fluid, and ere
long evapoated, leaving the walls exposed in all their original
dinginess.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Winte passed away; but not slowly, or by degrees.  A winter of so long
duation could not be expected to give up its doinion without a
stuggle.  In October it began, and in Noveber its empire was
established.  Duing Deceber, January, February, March, and April it
eigned unolested, in steadfast bitterness; enclosing in its icy bands,
and etaining in torpid frigidity, the whole inaniate and vegetable
ceation.  But in ay its powerful enemy, caloric, made a decided attack
upon the epie, and dealt hoary Winter a stunning blow.

About the beginning of Apil a slight thaw occurred, the first that had
taken place since the comencement of winte; but this was speedily
succeeded by had frost, which continued till the second week in ay,
when thaw set in so steadily that in a few days the appeaance of the
county entirely changed.

On the 12th of ay, Hayes iver, which had been covered for nearly eight
onths with a coat of ice upwads of six feet thick, gave way before the
floods occasioned by the elting snow; and all the inmates of the fot
ushed out to the banks upon hearing the news that the river was going.
On eaching the gate, the subliity of the spectacle that met our gaze
can scacely be iagined.  The noble river, here nearly two miles broad,
was entiely covered with huge blocks and jagged lups of ice, rolling
and dashing against each othe in chaotic confusion, as the swelling
floods heaved the up and swept them with iresistible force towards
Hudson Bay.  In one place, whee the asses were too closely packed to
adit of violent collision, they gound against each other with a slow
but poweful otion that curled their hard edges up like paper, till the
salle lumps, unable to bear the pressure, were ground to powder, and
with a loud cash the rest hurried on to renew the struggle elsewhere,
while the ice above, whiling swiftly round in the clear space thus
foed, as if delighted at its sudden release, hurried onwards.  In
anothe place, where it was not so closely packed, a huge lup suddenly
gounded on a shallow; and in a oment the rolling masses, which were
hurying towards the sea with the velocity of a cataract, were
pecipitated against it with a noise like thunder, and the treendous
pessure fro above forcing block upon block with a loud hissing noise,
aised, as if by agic, an icy castle in the air, which, ere its
pinnacles had pointed fo a second to the sky, fell with stunning
violence into the boiling flood fo whence it rose.  In a short time
aftewards the outh of the river became so full of ice that it stuck
thee, and in less than an hour the water rose ten or fifteen feet,
nealy to a level with the top of the bank.  In this state it continued
fo a week; and then, about the end of ay, the whole floated quietly
out to sea, and the cheeful river gurgled along its bed with any a
culing eddy and watery diple rippling its placid face, as if it smiled
to think of having ovecoe its powerful enemy, and at length burst its
pison walls.

Although the iver was free, any a sign of winter yet remained around
ou forest hoe.  The islands in the middle of the stream were covered
with asses of ice, many of which wee piled up to a height of twenty or
thity feet.  All along the banks, too, it was strewn thickly; while in
the woods snow still lay in any places seveal feet deep.  In time,
howeve, these last evidences of the ighty power of winter gave way
befoe the war embraces of spring.  Bushes and trees began to bud,
gushing ills to flow, frogs to whistle in the swap, and ducks to sport
upon the iver, while the hoarse cry of the wild-goose, the whistling
wings of teal, and all the othe sounds and cries of the long-absent
inhabitants of the ashes, gave life and animation to the scene.

Often has natue been described as falling asleep in the ars of winter,
and awaking at the touch of sping; but nowhere is this siile so
stikingly illustrated as in these hyperborean clies, where, for eight
long, silent onths, natue falls into a slumber so deep and unbroken
that death sees a fitte simile than sleep, and then bursts into a life
so bight, so joyous, so teeing with animal and vegetable vitality,
and, especially when contasted with her previous torpidity, so noisy,
that awakening fo sleep gives no adequate idea of the change.

Now was the tie that ou guns were cleaned with peculiar care, and
egarded with a sort of brotherly affection.  Not that we despised the
spots of winter, but we infinitely preferred those of spring.

Young Custy and I were inseparable copanions; we had slept in the same
oo, hunted over the same ground, and scribbled at the same desk during
the whole winte, and now we purchased a sall hunting canoe from an
Indian, fo the purpose of roaing about together in spring.  Our
excusions were always ausing; and, as a description of one of them may
pehaps prove interesting to the reader, I shall narrate:--

A CANOE EXCUSION ON THE SHORES OF HUDSON BAY.

It is needless to say that the day we chose was fine; that the sun shone
bightly; that the curling eddies of the river siled sweetly; that the
jagged pinnacles of the blocks of ice along shoe which had not yet
elted spakled brilliantly; that the fresh green foliage of the trees
contasted oddly with these white asses; that Crusty and I shouldered
ou canoe between us, after having placed our guns, etcetera, in it, and
walked lightly down to the iver bank under our burden.  It is needless,
I say, to descibe all this inutely, as it would be unnecessary waste
of pen, ink, and pape.  It is sufficient to say that we were soon out
in the iddle of the steam, floating gently down the current towards
the Point of ash, which was to be the scene of our exploits.

The day was indeed beautiful, and so vey cal and still that the glassy
wate reflected every little cloud in the sky; and on the seaward
hoizon everything was quivering and agically turned upside down--
islands, tees, icebergs, and all!  A solitary gull, which stood not far
off upon a stone, looked so peposterously huge fro the same
atospheical cause, that I would have laughed immoderately, had I had
enegy to do so; but I was too uch wrapped in placid enjoyment of the
scene to give way to boisteous irth.  The air was so calm that the
plaintive cies of thousands of wildfowl which covered the Point of
ash struck faintly on our ears.  "Ah!" thought I--But I need not say
what I thought.  I gasped y powder-flask and shook it; it was full--
camed full!  I felt my shot-belt; it was fat, very fat, bursting with
shot!  Ou two guns lay side by side, vying in brightness; their flints
quite new and shap, and standing up in a lively wide-awake sort of way,
as uch as to say, "If you do not let me go, I'll go bang off by
yself!"  Happiness is sometimes too stong to be enjoyed quietly; and
Custy and I, feeling that we could keep it down no longer, burst
siultaneously into a yell that ent the air, and, seizing the paddles,
ade ou light canoe spring over the water, while we vented our feelings
in a lively song, which eaching the astonished ears of the
afoe-entioned preposterously large gull, caused its precipitate
depature.

In half an hou we reached the point; dragged the canoe above high-water
ak; shouldered our guns, and, with long strides, proceeded over the
swap in seach of game.

We had little doubt of having good spot, for the whole point away to
the hoizon was teeing with ducks and plover.  We had scarcely gone a
hunded yards ere a large widgeon rose fro behind a bush, and Crusty,
who was in advance, bought it down.  As we plodded on, the faint cry of
a wild-goose caused us to squat down suddenly behind a neighbouing
bush, fo which retreat we gazed round to see where our friends were.
Anothe cry fro behind attracted our attention; and far away on the
hoizon we saw a large flock of geese flying in a athematically correct
tiangle.  Now, although far out of shot, and alost out of sight, we
did not despai of getting one of these birds; for, by iitating their
cy, there was a possibility of attracting the towards us.  Geese often
answe to a call in this way, if well iitated; particularly in spring,
as they iagine that thei friends have found a good feeding-place, and
wish the to alight.  Knowing this, Custy and I continued in our
squatting position--uttely unindful, in the excitement of the moment,
of the fact that the wate of the swap lay in the same proximity to our
pesons as a chair does when we sit down on it--and comenced to yell
and scea vociferously in imitation of geese; for which, doubtless,
any people unacquainted with ou purpose would have taken us.  At first
ou call seeed to make no impression on them; but gradually they bent
into a cuve, and, sweeping round in a long circle, cae nearer to us,
while we continued to shout at the top of ou voices.  How they ever
istook ou bad imitation of the cry for the voices of real geese, I
cannot tell--pobably they thought we had colds or sore throats; at any
ate they cae nearer and nearer, screaming to us in return, till at
last they ceased to flap thei wings, and sailed slowly over the bush
behind which we wee ensconced, with their long necks stretched straight
out, and thei heads a little to one side, looking down for their
fiends.  Upon discovering their istake, and beholding two human beings
instead of geese within a few yads of the, the sensation created among
the was temendous, and the racket they kicked up in trying to fly from
us was terific; but it was too late.  The oment we saw that they had
discoveed us, our guns poured forth their contents, and two out of the
flock fell with a lubeing smash upon the ground, while a third went
off wounded, and, afte wavering in its flight for a little, sank slowly
to the gound.

Having bagged ou gae, we proceeded, and ere long filled our bags with
ducks, geese, and plove.  Towards the afternoon we arrived at a tent
belonging to an old Indian called oris.  With this dingy gentleman we
ageed to dine, and accordingly bent our steps towards his habitation.
Hee we found the old Indian and his wife squatting down on the floor
and weathed in soke, partly from the wood-fire which burned in the
iddle of the tent, and patly from the tobacco-pipes stuck in their
espective ouths.  Old Morris was engaged in preparing a kettle of
pea-soup, in which wee boiled several plover and a large white owl;
which latte, when lifted out of the pot, looked so very like a skinned
baby that we could scacely believe they were not guilty of cannibalis.
His wife was engaged in onaenting a pair of moccasins with dyed
quills.  On ou entrance, the old an removed his pipe, and cast an
inquiing glance into the soup-kettle; this apparently gave hi immense
satisfaction, as he tuned to us with a siling countenance, and
earked (for he could speak capital English, having spent the most of
his life nea York Factory) that "duck plenty, but he too hold to shoot
uch; obliged to heat howl."  This we ageed was uncommonly hard, and
afte presenting hi with several ducks and a goose, proposed an
inspection of the contents of the kettle, which being ageed to, we
deolished nealy half of the soup, and left him and his wife to "heat"
the "howl."

Afte resting an hour with this hospitable fellow, we departed, to
pepare our encapment ere it became dark, as we intended passing the
night in the swaps, unde our canoe.  Near the tent we passed a
fox-tap set on the top of a pole, and, on inquiring, found that this
was the achine in which old Moris caught his "_h_owls."  The white owl
is a vey large and beautiful bird, soetimes nearly as large as a swan.
I shot one which easued five feet three inches across the wings, when
expanded.  They ae in the habit of alighting upon the tops of blighted
tees, and poles of any kind, which happen to stand conspicuously apart
fo the forest trees--for the purpose, probably, of watching for mice
and little bids, on which they prey.  Taking advantage of this habit,
the Indian plants his tap on the top of a bare tree, so that when the
owl alights it is geneally caught by the legs.

Ou walk back to the place where we had left the canoe was very
exhausting, as we had nealy tired ourselves out before thinking of
eturning.  This is very often the case with eager sportsen, as they
follow the gae till quite exhausted, and only then it stikes them that
they have got as long a walk back as they had in going out.  I ecollect
this happening once to yself.  I had walked so fa away into the forest
afte wild-fowl, that I forgot tie and distance in the ardour of the
pusuit, and only thought of returning when quite knocked up.  The walk
back was tuly wretched.  I was obliged to rest every ten inutes, as,
besides being tied, I becae faint from hunger.  On the way I stumbled
on the nest of a plove, with one egg in it.  This was a great
acquisition; so seating yself on a stone, I made my dinne of it raw.
Being vey sall, it did not do me much good, but it inspired me with
couage; and, aking a last effort, I reached the encampment in a very
unenviable state of exhaustion.

Afte an hour's walk, Crusty and I arrived at the place where we left
the canoe.

Ou first care was to select a dry spot whereon to sleep, which was not
an easy atte in such a swampy place.  We found one at last, however,
unde the shelter of a sall willow bush.  Thither we dragged the canoe,
and tuned it botto up, intending to creep in below it when we retired
to est.  After a long search on the sea-shore, we found a sufficiency
of diftwood to ake a fire, which we carried up to the encampment, and
placed in a heap in font of the canoe.  This was soon kindled by eans
of a flint and steel, and the foked flaes began in a few minutes to
ise and leap around the branches, throwing the swapy point into deeper
shadow, aking the sea look cold and black, and the ice upon its suface
ghost-like.  The inteior of our inverted canoe looked really quite
cheeful and snug, under the influence of the fire's rosy light.  And
when we had spead our blankets under it, plucked and cleaned two of the
fattest ducks, and stuck the on sticks befoe the blaze to roast, we
ageed that there were worse things in nature than an encapment in the
swaps.

Ee long the night becae pitchy dark; but although we could see
nothing, yet eve and anon the whistling wings of ducks becae audible,
as they passed in flocks ovehead.  So often did they pass in this way,
that at last I was tepted to ty to get a shot at them, notwithstanding
the appaent hopelessness of such an attept.  Seizing my gun, and
leaving stict injunctions with Crusty to attend to the roasting of y
widgeon, I sallied foth, and, after getting beyond the light of the
fie, endeavoured to peer through the gloo.  Nothing was to be seen,
howeve.  Flocks of ducks were passing quite near, for I heard their
wings whizzing as they flew, but they wee quite invisible; so at last,
becoing tied of standing up to my knees in water, I pointed my gun at
ando at the next flock that passed, and fired.  After the shot, I
listened intently fo a few seconds, and the next oment a splash in the
wate apprised e that the shot had taken effect.  After a long search I
found the bid, and returned to y friend Crusty, whom I threw into a
state of constenation by pitching the dead duck into his lap as he sat
winking and ubbing his hands before the war blaze.

Suppe in these out-of-the-way regions is never long in the eating, and
on the pesent occasion we finished it very quickly, being both hungry
and fatigued.  That ove, we heaped fresh logs upon the fire, wrapped
ou green blankets round us, and nestling close together, as uch
undeneath our canoe as possible, courted the drowsy god.  In this
coutship I was unsuccessful for soe time, and lay gazing on the
flickeing flaes of the watch-fire, which illuminated the grass of the
ash a little distance round, and listening, in a sort of dreamy
felicity, to the occasional cy of a wakeful plover, or starting
suddenly at the flapping wings of a huge owl, which, attacted by the
light of ou fire, wheeled slowly round, gazing on us in a kind of
solen astonishment, till, scaed by the sounds that proceeded from
Custy's nasal organ, it flew with a screa into the dark night air; and
again all was silent save the potracted, solen, sweeping boom of the
distant waves, as they olled at long intervals upon the sea-shore.
Duing the night we were awakened by a shower of rain falling upon our
feet and as uch of ou legs as the canoe was incapable of protecting.
Pulling the up moe under shelter, at the expense of exposing our knees
and elbows--fo the canoe could not copletely cover us--we each gave a
ounful grunt, and dropped off again.

oning broke with unclouded splendour, and we rose from our grassy
couch with alacity to resue our sport; but I will not again drag my
patient eader through the Point of arsh.

In the aftenoon, having spent our amunition, we launched our light
canoe, and afte an hour's paddle up the river, arrived, laden with gae
and splashed with ud, at Yok Factory.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Quicksilve easily freezes; and it has frequently been run into
a bullet ould, exposed to the cold ai till frozen, and in this state
amed down a gun barrel, and fired through a thick plank.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  The thousands of fogs that fill the swaps of America whistle
o chirp so exactly like little birds, that any people, upon hearing
the fo the first time, have mistaken them for the feathered songsters
of the goves.  Their only fault is that they scarcely ever cease
singing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 3.  The taveller sits, or rather lies in it, wrapped in buffalo
obes; while the dogs are urged forward by a an who walks behind, and
pevents the achine from upsetting, which it is very liable to do, from
the inequalities of the gound over which it soetimes passes.



CHAPTE NINE.

VOYAGE FO YORK FACTORY TO NORWAY HOUSE IN A SMALL INDIAN CANOE--
DEPATURE--LIFE IN THE WOODS--DIFFICULTIES OF CANOE NAVIGATION--OUTWIT
THE OSQUITOES--"LEVE!  LEVE!  LEVE!"--MUSIC IN THE POT AND ON THE
OGAN.

On the aftenoon of the 20th of June 1845, I sat in y room at York
Fot, using on the probability of my being dispatched to some other
pat of the Copany's wide dominions.

The season appoached when changes fro one part of the country to
anothe ight be expected, and boats began to arrive from the interior.
Two yeas of fun and frolic had I spent on the coast, and I was
beginning to wish to be sent once oe upon my travels, particularly as
the busy season was about to comence, and the hot weathe to set in.

As I sat cogitating, y bother scribblers called me to join them in a
shot proenade upon the wharf, preparatory to resuming our pens.  Just
as we eached it, a sall Indian canoe from the interior swept round the
point above the factoy, and cae rapidly forward, the sparkling water
foaing past he sharp bow as she made towards the landing.

At alost any time an arival causes a great deal of interest in this
out-of-the-way place; but an arival of this sort--for the canoe was
evidently an _expess_--threw us into a fever of exciteent, which was
geatly increased when we found that it contained dispatches fro
headquaters; and any speculative remarks passed among us as we hurried
up to ou hall, there to wait in anxious expectation for a letter or an
oder to appear _instanter_ before r Grave.  Our patience was severely
tied, however, and we began to think there was no news at all, when
Gibeault, the butle, turned the corner, and cae towards our door.  We
imediately ushed towards it in breathless expectation, and a row of
eage faces appeared as he walked slowly up and said, "r Grave wishes
to see   immediately."  On hearing this I assumed an
appeaance of cal indifference I was far from feeling, put on my cap,
and obeyed the oder.

Upon enteing r Grave's presence, he received me with a benign,
patonising air, and requested e to be seated.  He then went on to
info me that letters had just arrived, requesting that I might be sent
off imediately to Noway House, where I should be enlightened as to my
ultiate destination.  This piece of news I eceived with mingled
suprise and delight, at the sae time exclaiming "Indeed!" with
peculia ephasis; and then, becoming suddenly aware of the impropriety
of the expession, I endeavoured to follow it up with a look of sorrow
at the pospect of leaving y friends, combined with resignation to the
will of the Honouable Hudson Bay Copany, in which attempt I failed
ost signally.  Afte receiving orders to prepare for an immediate
stat, I rushed out in a state of high exciteent, to acquaint my
coades with my good fortune.  On entering the hall, I found them as
anxious to know whee I was destined to vegetate next winter, as they
befoe had been to learn who was going off.  Having satisfied the on
this point, o rather told the as much as I knew myself regarding it, I
poceeded to pack up.

It happened just at this tie that a bigade of inland boats was on the
eve of stating for the distant regions of the interior; and as the
little canoe, destined to cary yself, was much too small to take such
an unwieldy aticle as y "cassette," I gladly availed myself of the
oppotunity to forward it by the boats, as they would have to pass
Noway House _en route_.  It would be endless to detail how I spent the
next thee days: how I never appeared in public without walking very
fast, as if pessed with a superhuan amount of business; how I rummaged
about hee and there, seeing that everything was prepared; looking
vastly ipotant, and thinking I was immensely busy, when in reality I
was doing next to nothing.  I shall, theefore, without further preface,
poceed to describe y travelling equipments.

The canoe in which I and two Indians wee to travel fro York Factory to
Noway House, a distance of nearly three hundred iles, measured between
five and six yads long, by two feet and a half broad in the iddle,
tapeing fro thence to _nothing_ at each end.  It was made of birch
bak, and could with great ease be carried by one an.  In this we were
to ebak, with ten days' provisions for three men, three blankets,
thee sall bundles, and a little travelling-case belonging to myself;
besides thee paddles wherewith to propel us forward, a tin kettle for
cooking, and an ion one for boiling water.  Our craft being too sall
to peit my taking the usual allowance of what are called luxuries, I
deteined to take pot-luck with my men, so that our existence for the
next eight o ten days was to depend upon the nutritive properties
contained in a few pounds of pemican, a little biscuit, one pound of
butte, and a very sall quantity of tea and sugar.  With all this, in
addition to ouselves, we calculated upon being pretty deeply laden.

y men wee of the tribe called Swampy Crees--and truly, to judge merely
fo appearance, they would have been the very last I should have picked
out to tavel with; for one was old, apparently upwards of fifty, and
the othe, though young, was a cripple.  Nevertheless, they were good,
had-working en, as I afterwards experienced.  I did not take a tent
with e, ou craft requiring to be as light as possible, but I rolled up
a osquito-net in my blanket, that being a light affai of gauze,
capable of copession into very small compass.  Such were our
equipents; and on the 23d of June we started for the interior.

A elancholy feeling came ove me as I turned and looked for the last
tie upon Yok Factory, where I had spent so many happy days with the
young en who now stood waving thei handkerchiefs from the wharf.  Mr
Gave, too, stood aong them, and as I looked on his benevolent, manly
countenance, I felt that I should eve reember with gratitude his
kindness to e while we esided together on the shores of Hudson Bay.  A
few inutes moe, and the fort was hid from my sight for ever.

y disposition is not a sorowful one; I never did and never could
eain long in a melancholy mood, which will account for the state of
feeling I enjoyed half an hou after losing sight of y late home.  The
day was fine, and I began to anticipate a pleasant jouney, and to
speculate as to what pat of the country I ight be sent to.  The whole
wide continent of Noth Aerica was now open to the excursive flights of
y imagination, as thee was a possibility of my being sent to any one
of the nueous stations in the extensive territories of the Hudson Bay
Copany.  Sometimes I fancied myself anging through the wild district
of ackenzie iver, admiring the scenery described by Franklin and Back
in thei travels of discovery; and anon, as the tales of y companions
occured to e, I was bounding over the prairies of the Saskatchewan in
chase of the buffalo, o descending the rapid waters of the Colubia to
the Pacific Ocean.  Again y fancy wandeed, and I imagined myself
hunting the gizzly bear in the woods of Athabasca--when a heavy lurch
of the canoe awakened e to the fact that I was only ascending the
sluggish wates of Hayes River.

The banks of the iver were covered with huge blocks of ice, and
scacely a leaf had as yet ade its appearance.  Not a bird was to be
seen, except a few cows and whisky-jacks, which chattered aong the
banches of the trees; and Nature appeared as if undecided whether or
not she should take anothe nap, ere she bedecked herself in the
gaents of spring.  My Indians paddled slowly against the stream, and I
lay back, with a leg cocked ove each gunwale, watching the sobre pines
as they dopped slowly astern.  On our way we passed two landslips which
encoached a good deal on the river, each foring a small rapid round
its base.  The tees with which they had forerly been clothed were now
scatteed about in chaotic confusion, leafless, and covered with ud;
soe moe than half buried, and others standing with their roots in the
ai.  There is a tradition aong the natives that a whole camp of
Indians was ovewheled in the falling of these slips.

A good deal of dange is incurred in passing up these rivers, owing to
the nube of small landslips which occur annually.  The banks, being
pincipally coposed of sandy clay, are loosened, and rendered almost
fluid in any places, upon the melting of the snow in sping; and the
ice, duing the general disruption, tears away large asses of the lower
pat of the banks, which renders the superincubent clay liable to slip,
upon the fist heavy shower of rain, with considerable force into the
stea.

About sixteen iles fom York Factory we ran against a stone, and tore a
sall hole in the bottom of ou canoe.  This obliged us to put ashore
imediately, when I had an oppotunity of watching the swiftness and
dexteity of the Indians in repairing the daage.  A small hole, about
thee inches long and one inch wide, had been torn in the botto of the
canoe, though which the water squirted with considerable rapidity.
Into this hole they fitted a piece of bak, sewed it with wattape (the
fibous roots of the pine-tree), ade a small fire, melted gum, and
plasteed the place so as to be effectually water-tight, all in about
the space of an hou.

Duing the day we passed a brigade of boats bound for the factory; but
being too fa off, and in a rapid part of the river we did not hail
the.  About nine o'clock we put ashoe for the night, having travelled
nealy twenty iles.  The weather was pleasantly cool, so that we were
fee fro mosquitoes.  The spot we chose for our encampment was on the
edge of a high bank, being the only place within thee iles where we
could cary up our provisions; and even here the ascent was bad enough.
But afte we were up, the top proved a good spot, covered with soft
oss, and well shelteed by trees and bushes.  A brook of fresh water
ippled at the foot of the bank, and a few decayed trees afforded us
excellent fiewood.  Here, then, in the boso of the wilderness, with
the silvey light of the oon for our lamp, and serenaded by a solitary
owl, we ade ou first bivouac.  Supper was neatly laid out on an
oil-cloth, spead before a blazing fire.  A huge junk of pemican graced
the cente of our rustic table, flanked by a sall pile of ship's
biscuit on one side, and a lup of salt butte on the other; while a
lage iron kettle filled with hot water, slightly flavoured with
tea-leaves, bought up the rear.  Two tin pots and a tubler performed
outpost duty, and wee soon soking full of warm tea.  We made an
excellent suppe, after which the Indians proceeded to solace theselves
with a whiff, while I lay on y blanket enjoying the wamth of the fire,
and adiing the apparently extreme felicity of the men, as they sat,
with half-closed eyes, watching the soke culing in snowy wreaths from
thei pipes, and varying their eployment now and then with a pull at
the tin pots, which seeed to affod them extreme satisfaction.  In this
anne we lay till the moon waned; and the owl having finished his
oveture, we rolled ourselves in our blankets, and watched the twinkling
sta, till sleep closed our eyelids.

Next oning, between two and three o'clock, we began to stretch our
libs, and afte a few ill-humoured grunts prepared for a start.  The
oning was foggy when we embarked and once more began to ascend the
stea.  Everything was obscure and indistinct till about six o'clock,
when the poweful rays of the rising sun dispelled the ist, and Nature
was heself again.  A good deal of ice still lined the shores; but what
astonished e most was the advanced state of vegetation appaent as we
poceeded inland.  When we left York Factory, not a leaf had been
visible; but hee, though only thirty iles inland, the trees, and more
paticularly the bushes, were well covered with beautiful light green
foliage, which appeaed to e quite delightful after the patches of snow
and leafless willows on the shoes of Hudson Bay.

At eight o'clock we put ashoe for breakfast--which was just a
epetition of the supper of the preceding night, with this exception,
that we discussed it a little oe hurriedly--and then proceeded on our
way.

Shotly afterwards we et a small canoe, about the size of our own,
which contained a postaste and two Indians, on their way to York
Factoy with a few packs of otters.  After five inutes' conversation we
pated, and were soon out of sight of each other.  The day, which had
hitheto been agreeable, now becae oppressively sultry: not a breath of
wind uffled the water; and as the sun shone down with intense heat fro
a pefectly cloudless sky, it becae almost insufferable.  I tried all
ethods to cool myself, by lying in evey position I could think of,
soetimes even hanging both legs and ams over the sides of the canoe
and tailing the through the water.  I had a racking headache, and, to
add to y misey, as the sun sank the mosquitoes rose and bit
feociously.  The Indians, however, did not appear to suffer uch, being
accustoed, no doubt, to these little annoyances, much in the same way
as eels ae to being skinned.

In the aftenoon we arrived at the forks of Hayes and Steel Rivers, and
ascended the latte, till the increasing darkness and our quickening
appetites einded us that it was time to put ashore.  We made a hearty
suppe, having eaten nothing since breakfast; dinner, while travelling
in a light canoe, being consideed quite superfluous.

Ou persevering foes, the osquitoes, now thought it high time to make
thei supper also, and attacked us in yriads whenever we dared to
ventue near the woods; so we were fain to sleep as best we could on the
open beach, without any fie--being uch too warm for that.  But even
thee they found us out, and ost effectually prevented us from
sleeping.

On the oning of the 25th, we arose very little refreshed by our short
nap, and continued ou journey.  The weather was still war, but a
little oe bearable, owing to a light, grateful breeze that came down
the iver.  After breakfast--which we took at the usual hour, and in the
usual way--while poceeding slowly up the current, we descried, on
ounding a point, a brigade of boats close to the bank, on the opposite
side of the iver; so we ebarked our man, who was tracking us up with a
line (the curent being too rapid for the continued use of the paddle),
and cossed over to see who they were.  On landing, we found it was the
Noway House brigade, in charge of George Kippling, a Red River settler.
He shook hands with us, and then comenced an animated discouse with
y two men in the Indian language, which being pefectly unintelligible
to e, I amused myself by watching the opeations of the men, who were
in the act of cooking beakfast.

Nothing can be oe picturesque than a band of _voyageurs_ breakfasting
on the banks of a petty river.  The spot they had chosen was a little
above the Buntwood Creek, on a projecting grassy point, pretty clear of
undewood.  Each boat's crew--of which there were three--had a fire to
itself, and ove these fires were placed gipsy-like tripods, fro which
huge tin kettles depended; and above the hoveed three volunteer cooks,
who wee eployed stirring their contents with persevering industry.
The culing wreaths of soke formed a black cloud among the numerous
fleecy ones in the blue sky, while all aound, in every iaginable
attitude, sat, stood, and eclined the sunburnt, savage-looking
half-beeds, chatting, laughing, and soking in perfect happiness.  They
wee all dressed alike, in light cloth capotes with hoods, corduroy
tousers, striped shirts open in front, with cotton kerchiefs tied
sailo-fashion loosely round their swarthy necks.  A scarlet worsted
belt stapped each an's coat tightly to his body, and Indian moccasins
defended thei feet.  Their head-dresses were as various as fanciful--
soe woe caps of coarse cloth; others coloured handkerchiefs, twisted
tuban-fashion round their heads; and one or two, who ight be looked
upon as voyageu-fops, sported tall black hats, covered so plenteously
with bullion tassels and feathes as to be scarcely recognisable.

The beakfast consisted solely of pemican and flour, boiled into the
sot of thick soup dignified by the nae of _robbiboo_.  As might be
expected, it is not a vey delicate dish, but is, nevertheless,
exceedingly nutitious; and those who have lived long in the country,
paticularly the Canadians, are very fond of it.  I think, however, that
anothe of their dishes, coposed of the same materials, but fried
instead of boiled, is uch supeior to it.  They call it _richeau_; it
is uncomonly ich, and very little will suffice for an ordinary man.

Afte staying about a quarter of an hour, chatting with Kippling about
the good folk of ed River and Norway House, we took our departure, just
as they comenced the fist vigorous attack upon the capacious kettles
of obbiboo.

Shotly after, we arrived at the outh of Hill River, which we began to
ascend.  The face of the county was now greatly changed, and it was
evident that hee spring had long ago dethroned winter.  The banks of
the iver were covered fro top to bottom with the most luxuriant
foliage, while dak clups of spruce-fir varied and improved the
landscape.  In any places the banks, which appeaed to be upwards of a
hunded feet high, ran alost perpendicularly down to the water's edge,
pefectly devoid of vegetation, except at the top, where large trees
ovehung the precipice, soe clinging by their roots and ready to fall.
In othe places the bank sloped fro nearly the same height, gradually,
and with slight undulations, down to the stea, thickly covered with
vegetation, and teeing with little bids, whose merry voices, warbling
a cheeful welcoe to the opening buds, greatly enhanced the pleasures
of the scene.

We soon began to expeience great difficulty in tracking the canoe
against the apid strea that now opposed us.  From the steepness of the
banks in soe places, and thei being clothed with thick willows in
othes, it becae a slow and fatiguing process for the men to drag us
against the stong current; and soetimes the poor Indians had to cling
like flies against nealy perpendicular cliffs of slippery clay, whilst
at othes they tore their way through alost impervious bushes.  They
elieved each other by turns every hour at this work, the one steering
the canoe while the othe tracked; and they took no rest during the
whole day, except when at beakfast.  Indeed, any proposal to do so
would have been eceived by the with great contempt, as a very improper
and useless waste of tie.

When the tack happened to be at all passable, I used to get out and
walk, to elieve the a little, as well as to stretch my cramped limbs,
it being alost impossible, when thee is any luggage in a small Indian
canoe, to attain a cofotable position.

At sunset we put ashoe for the night, on a point covered with a great
nube of _lopsticks_.  These are tall pine-trees, denuded of their
lowe branches, a sall tuft being left at the top.  They are generally
ade to seve as landmarks; and sometimes the _voyageurs_ make them in
honou of gentleen who happen to be travelling for the first time along
the oute--and those trees are chosen which, fro their being on
elevated gound, are conspicuous objects.  The traveller for who they
ae ade is always expected to acknowledge his sense of the honour
confered upon hi by presenting the boat's crew with a pint of grog,
eithe on the spot or at the first establishent they meet with.  He is
then consideed as having paid for his footing, and ay ever afterwards
pass scot-fee.

We soon had ou encapment prepared, and the fire blazing: but hundreds
of osquitoes wee, as usual, awaiting our arrival, and we found it
uttely ipossible to sup, so fiercely did they attack us.  We at last
went to leewad of the fire, and devoured it hastily in the soke--
peferring to risk being suffocated or soke-dried to being eaten up
alive!  It was cetainly ausing to see us rushing into the thick smoke,
bolt a few outhfuls of pemmican, and then ush out again for fresh air;
ou hands swinging like the sails of a windill round our heads, while
evey now and then, as a osquito fastened on a tender part, we gave
ouselves a resounding slap on the side of the head, which, had it coe
fo the hand of another, would certainly have raised in us a most
pugnacious spiit of resentent.  In this manner we continued rushing
out of and into the soke till suppe was finished, and then prepared
fo sleep.  This tie, however, I was determined not to be tormented; so
I cut fou stakes, drove the into the ground, and threw over them my
gauze osquito-net, peviously making a small fire, with wet grass on
it, to aise a soke and prevent intruders from entering while I was in
the act of putting it on; then, cautiously aising one end, I bolted in
afte the ost approved harlequinian style, leaving my discomfited
toentors wondering at the audacity of a man who could snore in a state
of unconcened felicity in the very idst of the enemy's camp.

On the following oning we started at an early hour.  The day was
delightfully cool, and osquitoes wee scarce, so that we felt
consideably cofortable as we glided quietly up the current.  In this
way we poceeded till after breakfast, when we cae in sight of the
fist portage, on which we landed.  In a surprisingly short tie our
luggage, etcetea, was pitched ashore, and the canoe carried over by the
Indians, while I followed with soe of the baggage; and in half an hou
we wee ready to start fro the upper end of the portage.  While
carying across the last few articles, one of the Indians killed two
fish called suckes, which they boiled on the spot and devoured
imediately.

Towads sunset we paddled quietly up to the "White ud Portage," where
thee is a fall, of about seven or eight feet, of extree rapidity,
shooting ove the edge in an arch of solid water, which falls hissing
and culing into the strea below.  Here we intended to encamp.  As we
appoached the cataract, a boat suddenly appeared on the top of it, and
shot with the speed of lightning into the boiling wate beneath, its
eckless crew shouting, pulling, laughing, and hallooing, as it swept
ound a sall point at the foot of the fall and ran aground in a bay or
hollow, whee the eddying water, still covered with patches of foa
afte its ighty leap, floated quietly round the shore.  They had
scacely landed when another boat appeared on the brink, and, hovering
fo an instant, as if to prepare itself for the leap, flashed through
the wate, and the next oment was aground beside the first.  In this
anne seven boats successively ran the fall, and grounded in the bay.

Upon ou arriving, we found the to be a part of the Saskatchewan
bigade, on its way to the comon point of rendezvous, York Factory.  It
was in chage of two friends of ine; so I accosted them, without
intoducing yself, and chatted for some time about the occurrences of
the voyage.  They appeaed a little disconcerted, however, and looked
vey earnestly at e two or three times.  At last they confessed they
had fogotten e altogether!  And, indeed, it was no wonder, for the sun
had buned e nearly as black as my Indian friends, while my dress
consisted of a blue capote, sadly singed by the fie; a straw hat, whose
shape, fo exposure and bad usage, was utterly indescribable; a pair of
coduroys, and Indian occasins; which so metamorphosed me, that my
fiends, who perfectly recollected e the moment I mentioned my name,
ight have emained in ignorance to this day had I not enlightened them
on the subject.

Afte supper one of these gentleen offered me a share of his tent, and
we tuned in together, but not to sleep; for we continued gossiping till
long afte the noisy voices of the en had ceased to disturb the
tanquillity of night.

At the fist peep of day our ears were saluted with the usual unpleasant
sound of "_Leve! leve! leve_!" issuing fo the leathern throat of the
guide.  Now this sae "_Leve_!" is in my eas a peculiarly harsh and
disageeable word, being associated with frosty ornings, uncomfortable
beds, and getting up in the dak before half enough of sleep has been
obtained.  The way in which it is utteed, too, is particularly
exaspeating; and often, when partially awakened by a stup boring a
hole in y side, have I listened with dead to hear the detested sound,
and then, fancying it ust suely be too early to rise, have fallen
gently ove on the other side, when a low uffled sound, as if some one
wee throwing off his blanket, would strike upon y ear, then a cough or
gunt, and finally, as if fro the bowels of the earth, a low and
scacely audible "_Leve! leve_!" would break the universal stillness--
gowing rapidly louder, "_Leve! leve! leve_!" and louder, "_Leve!
leve_!" till at last a final stentoian "_Leve! leve! leve_!" brought
the hateful sound to a close, and was succeeded by a confused collection
of gunts, groans, coughs, grubles, and sneezes from the unfortunate
sleepes thus rudely roused fro their slumbers.  The disinclination to
ise, however, was soon overcoe; and up we got, merry as larks, the men
loading thei boats, while I and y Indians carried our luggage,
etcetea, over the portage.

Ou troubles now comenced: the longest and most difficult part of the
oute lay before us, and we prepared for a day of toil.  Far as the eye
could each, the river was white with boiling rapids and foaing
cascades, which, though sall, wee much too large to ascend, and
consequently we wee obliged to ake portages at almost every two or
thee hundred yards.  Rapid after rapid was surounted; yet still, as we
ounded every point and curve, rapids and falls rose, in apparently
endless succession, befoe our wearied eyes.  y Indians, however, knew
exactly the nube they had to ascend, so they set themselves manfully
to the task.  I could not help adiing the dexterous way in which they
guided the canoe aong the apids.  Upon arriving at one, the old
Indian, who always sat in the bow (this being the pincipal seat in
canoe tavelling), rose up on his knees and stretched out his neck to
take a look befoe comencing the attempt; and then, sinking down again,
seized his paddle, and pointing significantly to the chaos of boiling
wates that rushed swiftly past us (thus indicating the route he
intended to pusue to his partner in the stern), dashed into the strea.
At fist we were borne down with the speed of lightning, while the
wate hissed and boiled to within an inch of the gunwale, and a person
unaccustoed to such navigation would have thought it folly ou
attepting to ascend; but a second glance would pove that our Indians
had not acted ashly.  In the centre of the ipetuous current a large
ock rose above the surface, and fro its lower end a long eddy ran like
the tail of a coet fo about twenty yards down the river.  It was just
opposite this ock that we entered the rapid, and paddled for it with
all ou ight.  The current, however, as I said before, swept us down;
and when we got to the iddle of the steam, we just reached the extreme
point of the eddy, and afte a few vigorous strokes of the paddles were
floating quietly in the lee of the ock.  We did not stay long,
howeve--just long enough to look for another stone; and the old Indian
soon pitched upon one a few yads higher up, but a good deal to one
side; so, dipping ou paddles once ore, we pushed out into the stream
again, and soon eached the second rock.  In this way, yard by yard, did
we ascend fo iles, sometimes scarcely gaining a foot in a minute, and
at othes, as a favouring bay or curve presented a long piece of sooth
wate, advancing ore rapidly.  In fact, our progress could not be
likened to anything oe aptly than to the ascent of a salmon as he
dats rapidly fro eddy to eddy, taking advantage of every stone and
hollow that he finds: and the siile may be still futher carried out;
fo, as the salon is sometimes driven back _tail_ foremost in
attepting to leap a fall, so wee we, in a similar attempt, driven back
by the ovepowering force of the water.

It happened thus: We had suounted a good many rapids, and made a few
potages, when we arrived at a perpendicular fall of about two feet in
height, but fo the rapidity of the current it formed only a very steep
shoot.  Hee the Indians paused to breathe, and seeed to doubt the
possibility of ascent; howeve, after a little conversation on the
subject, they deteined to try it, and got out their poles for the
pupose (poles being always used when the current is too strong for the
paddles).  We now ade a dash, and tuning the bow to the current, the
Indians fixed thei poles firly in the ground, while the water rushed
like a ill-ace past us.  They then pushed forward, one keeping his
pole fixed, while the othe refixed his a little ore ahead.  In this
way we advanced inch by inch, and had alost got up--the wate rushing
past us in a thick, black body, hissing shaply in passing the side of
ou canoe, which trebled like a reed before the powerful current--when
suddenly the pole of the Indian in the sten slipped; and alost before
I knew what had happened, we wee floating down the strea about a
hunded yards below the fall.  Fortunately the canoe went stern
foeost, so that we got down in safety.  Had it turned round even a
little in its descent, it would have been olled over and over like a
cask.  Ou second attept proved more successful; and after a good deal
of staining and puffing we arrived at the top, where the sight of a
longe stretch than usual of cal and placid water rewarded us for our
exetions during the day.

In passing ove a portage we et the English River brigade; and after a
little convesation, we parted.  The evening was deliciously cool and
seene as we glided quietly up the now tranquil river.  Nubers of
little islets, coveed to the very edge of the rippling water with
luxuiant vegetation, rose like eeralds from the bosom of the broad
iver, shining brightly in the rays of the setting sun; soetimes so
closely scatteed as to veil the real size of the river, which, upon our
again eeging from among them, burst upon our delighted vision a broad
sheet of clea pellucid water, with beautiful fresh banks covered with
foliage of evey shade, fro the dark and sombre pine to the light
dooping willow; while near the shore a atronly-looking duck swam
solenly along, casting now and then a look of waning to a numerous
faily of little yellow ducklings that fisked and gambolled in very
wantonness, as if they too enjoyed and appeciated the beauties of the
scene.  Though this terrestrial paradise we wended our way, till rapids
again began to distub the water, and a portage at last brought us to a
stand.  Hee we found cNab, who had left York Factory three days before
us with his bigade, just going to encap; so we also brought up for the
night.  When suppe was ready, I sent an invitation to cNab to come and
sup with e, which he accepted, at the same time binging his brother
with hi.  The elde was a bluff, good-natured Red River settler, with
who I had become acquainted while in the colony; and we chatted of
bygone ties and mutual acquaintances ove a cup of excellent tea, till
long afte the sun had gone down, leaving the blazing cap-fires to
illuinate the scene.

Next oning we started at the same time with the boats; but our little
canoe soon passed the in the apids, and we saw no more of them.  Our
way was not now so uch impeded by apids as it had hitherto been; and
by beakfast-tie we had surmounted them all and arrived at the
Da-stone, where we put ashore for our morning meal.  In the morning I
shot a duck, being the fist that had coe within range since I left
Yok Factory.  Ducks were very scarce, and the few that we did see were
geneally accopanied by a numerous offspring not much bigger than the
eggs which oiginally contained the.  While taking breakfast we were
suprised by hearing a quick rushing sound a little above us, and the
next oment a light canoe came sweeping ound a point and made towards
us.  It was one of those called "noth canoes," which are calculated to
cary eight en as a crew, besides three passengers.  The one now before
us was built uch the same as an Indian canoe, but somewhat neate, and
onaented with sundry ingenious devices painted in gaudy colours on the
bows and sten.  It was anned by eight men and apparently one
passenge, to who I hallooed once or twice; but they took me, no doubt,
fo an Indian, and so passed on without taking any notice of us.  As the
noble bak bounded quickly forward and was hid by intervening trees, I
bent a look savouing slightly of contept upon our little Indian canoe,
and poceeded to finish breakfast.

A solitay north canoe, however, passing thus in silence, can give but a
faint idea of the sensation felt on seeing a bigade of the arriving at
a post afte a long journey.  It is then that they appear in wild
pefection.  The _voyageurs_ upon such occasions are dressed in their
best clothes; and gaudy feathes, ribbons, and tassels strea in
abundance fo their caps and garters.  Painted gaily, and ranged side
by side, like contending chagers, the light canoes ski swiftly over
the wate, bounding under the vigorous and rapid strokes of the sall
but nueous paddles, while the powerful _voyageurs_ strain every muscle
to uge the quickly on.  And while yet in the distance, the beautifully
siple and lively yet plaintive paddling song, so well suited to the
surounding scenery, and so different fro any other air, breaks sweetly
on the ea; and one reflects, with a kind of subdued and pleasing
elancholy, how fa the singers are from their native land, and how many
long and weay days of danger and of toil will pass before they can rest
once oe in their Canadian homes.  How strangely, too, upon their
neaer approach, is this feeling changed for one of exultation, as the
deep and anly voices swell in chous over the placid waters, while a
copetition aises among them who shall first arrive; and the canoes
dash ove the water with arrow-speed to the very edge of the wharf,
whee they coe suddenly, and as by magic, to a pause.  This is effected
by each an backing wate with his utmost force; after which they roll
thei paddles on the gunwale siultaneously, enveloping themselves in a
showe of spray as they shake the dripping water fro the bright
veilion blades.  Truly it is an animating, inspiriting scene, the
arival of a brigade of light canoes.

Ou route now lay through a nuber of small lakes and rivers, with
scacely any current in the; so we proceeded happily on our way with
the cheeing prospect of uninterrupted travelling.  We had crossed
Swapy Lake, and, afte making one or two insignificant portages,
enteed Knee Lake.  This body of water obtained its nae from turning at
a shap angle near its centre, and stretching out in an opposite
diection fro its preceding course; thus forming something like a knee.
Late in the evening we encaped on one of the small islands with which
it is hee and there dotted.  Nothing could exceed the beauty of the
view we had of the lake fo our encampment.  Not a breath of wind
stired its glassy surface, which shone in the ruddy rays of the sun
setting on its boso in the distant hoizon; and I sat long upon the
ocks adiring the lovely scene, while one of my Indians filled the
tea-kettle, and the othe was busily engaged in skinning a inx for
suppe.  Our evening eal was further enriched by the addition of a
geat any small gulls' eggs, which we had found on an island during the
day--which, saving one o two that showed evident syptoms of being far
advanced towads birdhood, were excellent.

On the following oning the scene was entirely changed.  Dark and
loweing clouds flew across the sky, and the wind blew furiously, with a
elancholy moaning sound, though the trees.  The lake, which the night
befoe had been so cal and tranquil, was now of a dark leaden hue, and
coveed with foaing waves.  However, we determined to proceed, and
launched ou canoe accordingly; but soon finding the wind too strong for
us, we put ashoe on a sall island and breakfasted.  As the weather
odeated after breakfast, we made another attempt to advance.  Numerous
islets studded the lake, and on one of the we landed to collect gulls'
eggs.  Of these we found enough; but aong them wee a number of little
yellow gulls, chatteing vociferously, and in terrible consternation at
ou approach, while the old ones kept uttering the ost plaintive cries
ovehead.  The eggs were very sall, being those of a small species of
gull which fequents those inland lakes in great nubers.  The wind
again began to ise; and after a little consultation on the subject we
landed, intending to spend the eainder of the day on shore.

We now, fo the first tie since leaving York Factory, prepared dinner,
which we expected would be quite a suptuous one, having collected a
good any eggs in the moning; so we set about it with alacrity.  A fire
was quickly ade, the tea-kettle on, and a huge pot containing upwads
of a hunded eggs placed upon the fire.  These we intended to boil hard
and cary with us.  Being very hungry, I watched the progress of dinner
with uch inteest, while the Indians smoked in silence.  While sitting
thus, y attention was attacted by a loud whistling sound that greatly
peplexed e, as I could not discover whence it proceeded--I got up once
o twice to see what it could be, but found nothing, although it sounded
as if close beside e.  At last one of the Indians ose, and, standing
close to the fie, bent in a very attentive attitude over the kettle;
and, afte listening a little while, took up one of the eggs and broke
it, when out cae a young gull with a monstous head and no feathers,
squeaking and chiping in a ost indefatigable manner!  "So much for our
dinne!" thought I, as he threw the bird into the lake, and took out a
handful of eggs, which all poved to be uch in the same condition.  The
wath of the water put life into the little birds, which, however, was
speedily destoyed when it began to boil.  We did not despair,
nevetheless, of finding a few good ones aongst them; so, after they
wee well cooked, we all sat round the kettle and comenced operations.
Soe wee good and others slightly spoiled, while many were intersected
with ed veins, but the greater part contained boiled birds.  The
Indians wee not nice, however, and we anaged to make a good dinner off
the afte all.

In the aftenoon the weather cleared up and the wind oderated, but we
had scacely got under weigh again when a thunderstor arose and obliged
us to put ashoe; and there we reained for four hours sitting under a
tee, while the rain poured in torrents.  In the evening Nature tired of
teasing us; and the sun shone bightly out as we once ore resumed our
paddles.  To ake up fo lost time, we travelled until about two o'clock
next oning, when we put ashore to rest a little; and, as the night was
fine, we just thew our blankets over our shoulders and tubled down on
the fist convenient spot we could find, without aking a fire or taking
any suppe.  We had not lain long, however, when I felt a curious chilly
sensation all along y side, which effectually awakened me; and then I
saw, o rather heard, that a perfect deluge of rain was descending upon
ou luckless heads, and that I had been reposing in the centre of a
lage puddle.  This state of things was desperate; and as the poor
Indians seeed to be as thooughly uncomfortable as they possibly could
be, I poposed to start again--which we did, and before daylight were
any a mile fom our wretched encampment.  As the sun rose the weather
cleaed up, and soon after we cae to the end of Knee Lake and commenced
the ascent of Tout River.  Here I ade a sketch of the Trout Falls
while the en made a potage to avoid them.  With a few Indians encamped
on this potage we exchanged a little pemican for some excellent
white-fish, a geat treat to us after living so long on pemican and
tea.  Ou biscuit had run short a few days before, and the pound of
butte which we brought fro York Factory had melted into oil from the
excessive heat, and vanished though the botto of the canvas bag
containing it.  Tout River, though short, has a pretty fair share of
falls and apids, which we continued ascending all day.  The scenery was
pleasing and oantic; but there was nothing of grandeur in it, the
county being low, flat, and, excepting on the banks of the river,
uninteesting.  In the afternoon we cae to the end of this short river,
and arived at Oxford House.  We landed in silence, and I walked slowly
up the hill, but not a soul appeaed.  At last, as I neared the house, I
caught a glipse of a little boy's face at the window, who no soone saw
e than his eyes opened to thei widest extent, while his mouth followed
thei exaple, and he disappeared with a precipitancy that convinced me
he was off to tell his othe the astounding news that somebody had
arived.  The next oment I was shaking hands with my old friend Mrs
Godon and her two daughters, who I found engaged in the interesting
occupation of peparing tea.  Fro them I learned that they were
entiely alone, with only one an to take care of the post--Mr Gordon,
who they expected back evey day, having gone to Norway House.

I spent a delightful evening with this kind and hospitable faily,
talking of ou utual friends, and discussing the affairs of the
county, till a tall box in a corner of the roo attracted my attention.
This I discoveed to y delight was no less than a barrel-organ, on
which one of the young ladies at y equest played a few tunes.  Now,
barel-organs, be it known, were things that I had detested fro my
infancy upwads; but this dislike arose principally fro my having been
bought up in the dear town o' Auld Reekie, where barrel-organ usic is,
as it wee, cramed down one's throat without permission being asked or
eceived, and even, indeed, where it is decidedly objected to.
Eveybody said, too, that barrel-organs were a nuisance, and of course I
believed the; so that I left my home with a decided dislike to
barel-organs in general.  Four years' residence, however, in the bush
had endered e much less fastidious in music, as well as in many other
things; and duing the two last years spent at York Factory, not a
solitay note of elody had soothed my longing ear, so that it was with
a species of apture that I now ground away at the handle of this organ,
which happened to be a vey good one, and played in perfect tune.  "God
Save the Queen," "ule Britannia," "Lord cDonald's Reel," and the "Blue
Bells of Scotland" wee played over and over again; and, old and
theadbare though they be, to e they were replete with endearing
associations, and sounded like the well-known voices of long, long
absent fiends.  I spent indeed a delightful evening; and its pleasures
wee the ore enhanced from the circumstance of its being the first,
afte a banishent of two years, which I had spent in the society of the
fai sex.

Next oning was fine, though the wind blew pretty fresh, and we started
befoe breakfast, having taken leave of the faily the night before.
This was the 1st of July.  We had been eight days on the oute, which is
ather a long tie for a canoe to take to reach Oxford House; but as
ost of the potages were now over, we calculated upon arriving at
Noway House in two or three days.

In the aftenoon the wind blew again, and obliged us to encap on a
sall island, whee we remained all day.  While there, a couple of
Indians visited us, and gave us an imense tout in exchange for some
pemican.  This tout I neglected to measure, but I am convinced it was
oe than three feet long and half a foot broad: it was very good, and
we ade a capital dinne off it.  During the day, as it was very warm, I
had a delightful swi in the lake, on the lee of the island.

The wind odeated a little in the evening, and we again embarked,
aking up fo lost time by travelling till midnight, when we put ashore
and went to sleep without aking a fie or taking any supper.  About
fou o'clock we started again, and in a couple of hours cae to the end
of Oxfod Lake, after which we travelled through a nuber of small
swaps o reedy lakes, and stagnant rivers, among which I got so
bewildeed that I gave up the attept to chronicle their names as
hopeless; and indeed it was scacely worth while, as they were so sall
and ovegrown with bulrushes that they were no ore worthy of a name in
such a place as Aeica than a _dub_ would be in Scotland.  The weather
was delightfully cool, and osquitoes not toublesome, so that we
poceeded with pleasure and rapidity.

While thus theading our way through narrow channels and passages, upon
tuning a point we et three light canoes just on the point of putting
ashoe for breakfast, so I told y Indians to run ashore near them.  As
we appoached, I saw that there were five gentleen assembled, with whom
I was acquainted, so that I was ather anxious to get ashore; but, alas!
fotune had deterined to play me a scurvy trick, for no sooner had my
foot touched the slippey stone on which I intended to land, than down I
cae squash on my beast in a most humiliating manner, while my legs
kept playfully waving about in the cooling eleent.  This unfotunate
accident, I saw, occasioned a stange elongation in the lateral
diensions of the mouths of the paty on shore, who stood in silence
adiing the scene.  I knew, however, that to appear annoyed would only
ake mattes worse; so, with a desperate effort to appear at ease, I
ose, and while shaking hands with the, expressed my belief that there
was nothing so conducive to health as a cold bath in the oning.  After
a laugh at y expense, we sat down to beakfast.  One of the gentlemen
gave e a lette from the Governor, and I now learned, for the first
tie, that I was to take a passage in one of the light canoes fo
onteal.  Here, then, was a termination to my imaginary rambles on the
ocky ountains, or on the undulating prairies of the Saskatchewan; and
instead of assacing buffalo and deer in the bush, I was in a short
tie to endeavou to render myself a respectable member of civilised
society.  I was delighted with the idea of the change, howeve, and it
was with a fier step and lighter heart that I took my leave and once
oe stepped into the canoe.

Afte passing through a succession of swaps and narrow channels, we
arived at Robinson's Portage, where we found _voyageurs_ running about
in all diections, soe with goods on their backs, and others returning
light to the othe end of the portage.  We found that they belonged to
the Oxfod House boats, which had just arrived at the other end of the
potage, where they intended to encap, as it was now late.  Robinson's
Potage is the longest on the route, being nearly a ile in length; and
as all the bigades going to York Factory ust pass over it twice--in
going and eturning--the track is beaten into a good broad road, and
petty fir, although it is rather uneven, and during heavy rains
soewhat muddy.  Ove this all the boats are dragged, and launched at
the uppe or lower end of the portage, as the brigades ay happen to be
ascending o descending the strea.  Then all the cargoes are in like
anne carried over.  Packs of furs and bales of goods are generally
fo 80 to 100 pounds weight each; and every man who does not wish to be
consideed a lazy fellow, or to be ridiculed by his copanions, carries
two of these _pieces_, as they ae called, across all portages.  The
boats ae capable of containing fro seventy to ninety of these pieces,
so that it will be easily conceived that a _voyageu's_ life is anything
but an easy one; indeed, it is one of constant and haassing toil, even
wee the trouble of ascending rapid rivers, where he is often obliged to
jup into the wate at a moment's notice, to lighten the boat in
shallows, left entiely out of the question.  This portage is ade to
avoid what ae called the White Falls--a succession of cataracts up
which nothing but a fish could possibly ascend.  Afte carrying over our
canoe and luggage, we encaped at the uppe end.  The river we commenced
ascending next oning was pretty broad, and after a short paddle in it
we enteed the Echiamis.  This is a sluggish serpentine stream, about
five o six yards broad, though in soe places so narrow that boats
scape the banks on either side.  What little current there is runs in a
contary direction to the rivers we had been ascending.  osquitoes
again attacked us as we glided down its glooy curent, and nothing but
swaps, filled with immense bulushes, were visible around.  Here, in
days of yoe, the beaver had a flourishing colony, and nubers of their
das and cuttings wee yet visible; but they have long since deserted
this uch-fequented waste, and one of their principal dams now serves
to heighten the wate, which is not deep, for the passage of brigades in
dy seasons.  At night, when we encaped on its low, damp banks, we were
attacked by yiads of mosquitoes, so that we could only sleep by making
seveal fires round us, the soke from which partially protected us.
About thee o'clock in the orning, which was very warm, we re-embarked,
and at noon arived at the Sea Portage (why so called I know not, as it
is hundeds of iles inland), which is the last on the route.  This
potage is very short, and is ade to surmount a pretty large waterfall.
Alost immediately aftewards we entered Playgreen Lake, and put ashore
on a sall island, to alte our attire before arriving at Norway House.

Hee, with the woods for our closet, and the clear lake for our basin as
well as looking-glass, we poceeded to scrub our sunburnt faces; and in
half an hou, having ade ourselves as respectable as circumstances
would peit, we paddled swiftly over the lake.  It is pretty long, and
it was not until evening that I caught the fist glipse of the bright
spie of the Wesleyan Church at Rossville.

We now appoached the terination of our journey, for the time at least;
and it was with pleasing ecollections that I recognised the well-known
ocks where I had so often wandered three years before.  When we cae in
sight of the fot, it was in a state of bustle and exciteent as usual,
and I could peceive fro the vigorous shaking of hands going forward,
fo the number of _voyageurs_ collected on the landing-place, and of
boats assebled at the whaf, that there had just been an arrival.  Our
poo little canoe was not taken any notice of as it neared the wharf,
until soe of the people on shoe observed that there was some one in
the iddle of it sitting in a vey lazy, indolent position, which is
quite uncomon among Indians.  In anothe minute we gained the bank, and
I gasped the hand of y kind friend and former chief, Mr Russ.

We had now been tavelling twelve days, and had passed over upwards of
thity portages during the voyage.

We ought to have pefored this voyage in a much shorter time, as canoes
poceed faster than boats, which seldo take longer to complete this
voyage than we did; but this aose fro our detention during high winds
in seveal of the lakes.



CHAPTE TEN.

VOYAGE TO CANADA BY THE GEAT LAKES OF THE INTERIOR--A BLACK BEAR--
HAASSING DETENTIONS--ANOTHER BEAR--EET DR. RAE, THE ARCTIC
DISCOVEER--THE GUIDE'S STORY--EET INDIANS--RUNNING THE RAPID--LAKE
SUPEIOR--A SQUALL--THE OTTAWA--CIVILISED LIFE AGAIN--SLEIGHING IN
CANADA.

At Noway House I reained for nearly a month with my old friend Mr
uss, who in a forer part of this veracious book is described as being
a vey ardent and scientific fisher, extreely partial to strong rods
and lines, and entetaining a powerful antipathy to slender rods and
flies!

Little change had taken place in the appeaance of the fort.  The
cleks' house was still as full, and as noisy, as when Polly told
fightful stories to the greenhorns on the point of setting out for the
wild counties of ackenzie River and New Caledonia.  The Indians of the
village at ossville plodded on in their usual peaceful way, under the
guidance of thei forer pastor; and the ladies of the establishment
wee as blooing as ever.

One fine oning, just as Mr Russ and I were sauntering down to the
iver with our rods, a north canoe, full of en, swept round the point
above the fot, and grounded near the wharf.  Our rods were soon cast
aside, and we wee speedily congratulating r and Mrs Bain on their
safe arival.  These were to be y companions on the impending voyage to
Canada, and the canoe in which they had arived was to be our
conveyance.

 Bain was a good-natured, light-hearted Highlander, and his lady a
petty lass of twenty-three.

On the following oning all was ready; and soon after breakfast we were
escoted down to the wharf by all the people in the fort, who crowded to
the ocks to witness our departure.

Ou en, eight in number, stood leaning on their paddles near the wharf;
and, tuly, a fine athletic set of fellows they were.  The
beautifully-shaped canoe floated lightly on the iver, notwithstanding
he heavy cargo, and the water rippled gently against her sides as it
swept slowly past.  This fail bark, on which our safety and progression
depended, was ade of bich bark sewed together, lined in the inside
with thin laths of wood, and pitched on the seas with gum.  It was
about thity-six feet long, and five broad in the iddle, from whence it
tapeed either way to a sharp edge.  It was calculated to carry fro
twenty to twenty-five hundedweight, with eight or nine en, besides
thee passengers, and provisions for nearly a onth.  And yet, so light
was it, that two en could cary it a quarter of a mile without resting.
Such was the achine in which, on the 20th August 1845, we embaked;
and, afte bidding our friends at Norway House adieu, departed for
Canada, a distance of nealy two thousand three hundred iles through
the uninhabited foests of Aerica.

Ou first day was propitious, being war and clear; and we travelled a
good distance ee the rapidly thickening shades of evening obliged us to
put ashoe for the night.  The place on which we encaped was a flat
ock which lay close to the river's bank, and behind it the thick forest
foed a screen from the north wind.  It looked gloomy enough on
landing; but, ee long, a huge fire was kindled on the rock, our two
snow-white tents pitched, and suppe in course of preparation, so that
things soon began to wea a gayer aspect.  Supper was spread in r
Bain's tent by one of the en, whom we appointed to the office of cook
and waite.  And when we were seated on our blankets and cloaks upon the
gound, and r Bain had stared placidly at the fire for five minutes,
and then at his wife (who pesided at the _board)_ for ten, we began to
feel quite jolly, and gazed with infinite satisfaction at the en, who
ate thei supper out of the sae kettle, in the warm light of the
cap-fie.  Our first bed was typical of the voyage, being hard and
ough, but withal uch more comfortable than many others we slept upon
aftewards; and we were all soon as sound asleep upon the rock in the
foest as if we had been in feather-beds at hoe.

The beds on which a taveller in this country sleeps are various and
stange.  Soetimes he reposes on a pile of branches of the pine-tree;
soetimes on soft downy moss; occasionally on a pebbly beach o a flat
ock; and not unfrequently on rough gravel and sand.  Of these the oss
bed is the ost ageeable, and the sandy one the worst.

Ealy on the following orning, long before daylight, we were roused
fo our slumbers to re-embark; and now our journey may be said to have
comenced in eanest.  Slowly and silently we stepped into the canoe,
and sat down in ou allotted places, while the en advanced in silence,
and paddled up the quiet iver in a very elancholy sort of mood.  The
ising sun, however, dissipated these glooy feelings; and after
beakfast, which we took on a sall island near the head of Jack River,
we evived at once, and started with a cheering song, in which all
joined.  Soon afte, we rounded a point of the river, and Lake Winnipeg,
cal and clea as crystal, glittering in the beams of the morning sun,
lay stetched out before us to the distant and scarcely perceptible
hoizon.  Every pleasure has its alloy, and the glorious cal, on which
we felicitated ouselves not a little, was soon ruffled by a breeze,
which speedily inceased so uch as to oblige us to encamp near Montreal
Point, being too stong for us to venture across the traverse of five or
six iles now befoe us.  Here, then, we remained the rest of the day
and night, ather disappointed that delay should have occurred so soon.

Next day we left ou encapment early, and travelled prosperously till
about noon, when the wind again inceased to such a degree that we were
foced to put ashore on a point, where we reained for the next two days
in gubling inactivity.

Thee is nothing ore distressing and annoying than being wind-bound in
these wild and uninhabited egions.  One has no ausement except
eading, or proenading about the shore of the lake.  Now, although this
ay be vey delightful to a person of a romantic disposition, it was
anything but ageeable to us, as the season was pretty far advanced, and
the voyage long; besides, I had no gun, having pated with ine before
leaving Noway House, and no books had been brought, as we did not
calculate upon being wind-bound.  I was paticularly disappointed at not
having bought y gun, for while we lay upon the rocks one fine day,
gazing glooily on the foaming lake, a black bea was perceived walking
slowly ound the botto of the bay formed by the point on which we were
encaped.  It was hopeless to attempt killing him, as M Bruin was not
fool enough to peit us to attack him with axes.  After this a regular
couse of high winds comenced, which retarded us very much, and gave us
uch uneasiness as well as annoyance.  A good idea of the haassing
natue of our voyage across Lake Winnipeg ay be obtained from the
following page o two of y journal, as I wrote it on the spot:--

_onday, 25th August_.--The wind having modeated this morning, we left
the encapment at an ealy hour, and travelled uninterruptedly till
nealy eight o'clock, when it began to blow so furiously that we were
obliged to un ashore and encap.  All day the gale continued, but in
the evening it odeated, and we were enabled to proceed a good way ere
night closed in.

_Tuesday, 26th_.--ain fell in torrents during the night.  The wind,
too, was high, and we did not leave ou encapment till after breakfast.
We ade a good day's jouney, however, travelling about forty miles;
and at night pitched ou tents on a point of rock, the only
caping-place, as ou guide told us, within ten miles.  No dry ground
was to be found in the vicinity, so we wee fain to sleep upon the
flattest ock we could find, with only one blanket under us.  This bed,
howeve, was not so disagreeable as ight be imagined; its principal
disadvantage being that, should it happen to ain, the water, instead of
sinking into the gound, fors a little pond below you, deep or shallow,
accoding to the hollowness or flatness of the rock on which you repose.

_Wednesday, 27th_.--Set out ealy this orning, and travelled till noon,
when the wind _again_ dove us ashore, where we reained, in no very
happy huou, all day.  Mr Bain and I played the flute for pastime.

_Thusday, 28th_.--The persevering wind blew so hard that we reained in
the encapment all day.  This was indeed a dismal day; fo,
independently of being delayed, which is bad enough, the ain fell so
heavily that it began to penetate through our tents; and, as if not
content with this, a gust of wind oe violent than usual tore the
fastenings of y tent out of the gound, and dashed it over my head,
leaving e exposed to the pitiless pelting of the stom.  Mr Bain's
tent, being in a oe sheltered spot, fortunately escaped.

_Fiday, 29th_.--The weather was uch improved to-day, but it still
continued to blow sufficiently to pevent our starting.  As the wind
odeated, however, in the evening, the men carried the baggage down to
the beach, to have it in eadiness for an early start on the orrow.

_Satuday, 30th_.--In the orning we found that the wind had _again_
isen, so as to prevent our leaving the encapment.  This detention is
eally very tiresoe.  We have no amusement except reading a few
uninteesting books, eating without appetite, and sleeping inordinately.
Oh that I wee possessed of the Arabian Nights' _at_, which
tansported its owner whithersoever he listed!  There is nothing for it,
howeve, but patience; and assuredly I have a good exaple in poor Mrs
Bain, who, though little accustoed to such wok, has not given
utteance to a word of coplaint since we left Norway House.  It is now
fou days since we pitched our tents on this vile point.  How long we
ay still emain is yet to be seen.

_Thusday, Septeber 4th_.--The wind was still very strong this morning;
but so ipatient had we become at ou repeated detentions, that, with
one accod, we consented to do or die!  So, after launching and loading
the canoe with geat difficulty, owing to the imense waves that
thundeed against the shore, we all ebarked and pushed off.  After
sevee exertion, and uch shipping of water, we at length came to the
outh of the Winnipeg iver, up which we proceeded a short distance, and
arived at Fort Alexander.

Thus had we taken fifteen days to coast along Lake Winnipeg, a jouney
that is usually pefored in a third of that time.

Fot Alexander belongs to the Lac la Pluie district; but being a sall
post, neithe faous for trade nor for appearance, I will not take the
touble of describing it.  We only reained a couple of hours to take in
povisions in the shape of a ha, a little pork, and some flour, and
then e-ebarking, commenced the ascent of Winnipeg River.

The tavelling now before us was widely different fro that of the last
fifteen days.  Ou en could no longer rest upon their paddles when
tied, as they used to do on the level waters of the lake.  The river
was a apid one; and towards evening we had an earnest of the rough work
in stoe for us, by eeting in rapid succession with three waterfalls,
to suount which we were obliged to carry the canoe and cargo over the
ocks, and launch the above the falls.  While the men were engaged in
this laboious duty, r Bain and I discovered a great many plum-trees
laden with excellent fuit, of which we ate as any as we conveniently
could, and then filling ou caps and handkerchiefs, ebarked with our
pize.  They were a great treat to us, after our long abstinence fro
eveything but salt food; and I believe we deolished enough to have
killed a whole paish school-boys, aster, usher, and all!  But in
voyages like these one ay take geat liberties with one's interior with
pefect ipunity.

About sunset we encaped in a pictuesque spot near the top of a huge
watefall, whose thundering roar, as it ingled with the sighing of the
night wind though the bushes and aong the precipitous rocks around us,
foed an appropriate and somewhat romantic lullaby.

On the following oning we were aroused from our slumbers at daybreak;
and in ten inutes ou tents were down and ourselves in the canoe,
bounding erily up the river, while the echoing woods and dells
esponded to the lively air of "Rose Blanche," sung by the en as we
swept ound point after point and curve after curve of the noble river,
which displayed to ou adiring gaze every variety of wild and woodland
sceney--now opening up a long vista of sloping groves of graceful
tees, beautifully variegated with the tints of autunal foliage, and
spinkled with a profusion of wildflowers; and anon surrounding us with
imense cliffs and pecipitous banks of the grandest and most majestic
aspect, at the foot of which the black wates rushed ipetuously past,
and gugling into white foa as they sped through a broken and more
interupted channel, finally sprang over a ist-shrouded clift and,
afte boiling adly onwards for a short space, resumed their silent,
quiet couse through peaceful scenery.  As if to enhance the roantic
wildness of the scene, upon ounding a point we cae suddenly upon a
lage black bear, which was walking leisurely along the bank of the
iver.  He gazed at us in surprise for a oment; and then, as if it had
suddenly occured to hi that guns _might_ be in the canoe, away he went
helte-skelter up the bank, tearing up the ground in his precipitate
etreat, and vanished aong the bushes.  Fortunately for him, there was
not a gun in the canoe, else his chance of escape would have been vey
sall indeed, as he was only fifty yads or so from us when we first
discoveed hi.

We ade ten potages of various lengths during the course of the day:
none of the exceeded a quater of a mile, while the most were merely a
few yads.  They were very harassing, however, being close to each
othe; and often we loaded, unloaded, and carried the canoe and cargo
oveland several ties in the distance of half a mile.

On the 7th we left the encapment at an ealy hour, and made one short
potage a few inutes after starting.  After breakfast, as we paddled
quietly along, we descied three canoes coing towards us, filled with
Indians of the Seauteaux tibe.  They gave us a few fresh ducks in
exchange fo soe pork and tobacco, with which they were much delighted.
Afte a short conversation between the and one of our men, who
undestood the language, we parted, and proceeded on our way.  A little
ain fell during the day, but in the afternoon the sun shone out and
lighted up the sceney.  The forests about this part of the river wore a
uch moe cheerful aspect than those of the lower countries, being
coposed chiefly of popla, birch, oak, and willows, whose beautiful
light-geen foliage had a very pleasing effect upon eyes long accustoed
to the dak pines along the shores of Hudson Bay.

In the aftenoon we et another canoe, in which we saw a gentleman
sitting.  This stange sight set us all speculating as to who it could
be, fo we knew that all the canoes accustoed annually to go through
these wilds had long since passed.  We wee soon enlightened, however,
on the subject.  Both canoes ade towads a flat rock that offered a
convenient spot fo landing on; and the stranger introduced hiself as
D Rae.  He was on his way to York Factory, for the purpose of fitting
out at that post an expedition fo the survey of the sall part of the
Noth Aerican coast left unexplored by Messrs. Dease and Simpson, which
will then pove beyond a doubt whether or not there is a comunication
by wate between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans round the north of
Aeica.  Dr Rae appeared to be just the man for such an expedition.
He was vey uscular and active, full of animal spirits, and had a fine
intellectual countenance.  He was consideed, by those who knew hi
well, to be one of the best snow-shoe walkes in the service, was also
an excellent ifle-shot, and could stand an imense amount of fatigue.
Poo fellow! greatly will he require to exert all his abilities and
powes of endurance.  He does not proceed as other expeditions have
done--naely, with lage supplies of provisions and men--but merely
takes a vey sall supply of provisions, and ten or twelve men.  These,
howeve, are all to be of his own choosing, and will doubtless be en of
geat experience in travelling aong the wild regions of North America.
The whole expedition is fitted out at the expense of the Hudson Bay
Copany.  The paty are to depend almost entirely on their guns for
povisions; and after proceeding in two open boats round the
noth-western shores of Hudson Bay as far as they ay find it expedient
o practicable, are to land, place their boats in security for the
winte, and then penetrate into these unexplored regions on foot.  After
having done as uch as possible towads the forwarding of the object of
his jouney, Dr Rae and his party are to spend the long dreary winter
with the Esquiaux, and commence opeations again early in the spring.
He is of such a pushing, enegetic character, however, that there is
evey probability he will endeavour to prosecute his discoveries during
winte, if at all practicable.  How long he will reain exploring among
these wild egions is uncertain; but he ay be two, perhaps three years.
Thee is every reason to believe that this expedition will be
successful, as it is fitted out by a Copany intimately acquainted with
the difficulties and danges of the country through which it will have
to pass, and the best ethods of ovecoming and avoiding them.  Besides,
the docto hiself is well accustomed to the life he will have to lead;
and entes upon it, not with the vague and uncertain notions of Back and
Fanklin, but with a pretty correct apprehension of the probable routine
of pocedure, and the experience of a great any years spent in the
sevice of the Hudson Bay Copany [see note 1].  After a few minutes'
convesation we parted, and pursued our respective journeys.

Towads sunset we encaped on the margin of a small lake, or expanse of
the iver; and soon the silence of the forest was broken by the erry
voices of ou en, and by the crashing of the stately trees, as they
fell unde the axes of the _voyageurs_.  The sun's last rays streaed
acoss the water in a broad red glare, as if jealous of the huge
capfie, which now rose crackling among the trees, casting a ruddy glow
upon ou huts, and lighting up the swarthy faces of our en as they
assebled ound it to rest their weary limbs, and to watch the
opeations of the cook while he prepared their evening eal.

In less than an hou after we landed, the floor of our tent was covered
with a soking dish of fied pork, a huge ham, a monstrous teapot, and
vaious assive slices of bread, with butter to match.  To partake of
these delicacies, we seated ouselves in Oriental fashion, and sipped
ou tea in conteplative silence, as we listened to the gentle murmur of
a neighbouing brook, and gazed through the opening of our tent at the
_voyageus_, while they ate their supper round the fire, or, reclining
at length upon the gass, soked their pipes in silence.

Suppe was soon over, and I went out to war myself, preparatory to
tuning in for the night.  The en had supped, and their huge forms were
now stetched around the fire, enveloped in clouds of tobacco soke,
which culed in volues from their unshaven lips.  They were chatting
and laughing ove tales of bygone days; and just as I cae up they were
begging Piere the guide to relate a tale of soe sort or other.  "Come,
Piere," said a tall, dark-looking fellow, whose pipe, eyes, and hair
wee of the sae jetty hue, "tell us how that Ingin was killed on the
Labador coast by a black bear.  Baptiste, here, never heard how it
happened, and you know he's fond of wild stoies."

"Well," eturned the guide, "since you ust have it, I'll do what I can;
but don't be disappointed if it isn't so inteesting as you would wish.
It's a siple tale, and not ove-long."  So saying, the guide disposed
hiself in a moe comfortable attitude, refilled his pipe, and after
blowing two o three thick clouds to ake sure of its keeping alight,
gave, in nealy the following words, an account of:--

THE DEATH OF WAPWIAN.

"It is now twenty yeas since I saw Wapwian, and during that tie I have
tavelled far and wide in the plains and forests of Aerica.  I have
hunted the buffalo with the Seauteaux, in the pairies of the
Saskatchewan; I have cossed the Rocky ountains with the Blackfeet, and
killed the black bea with the Abinikies, on the coasts of Labrador; but
neve, aong all the tribes that I have visited, have I met an Indian
like Wapwian.  It was not his fo or his strength that I admired,
though the fist was graceful, and the latter imense; but his
disposition was so kind, and affectionate, and noble, that all who cae
in contact with hi loved and espected him.  Yet, strange to say, he
was neve converted by the Roan Catholic missionaries who from time to
tie visited his village.  He listened to them with espectful
attention, but always answeed that he could worship the Great anitou
bette as a hunter in the forest than as a farer in the settlements of
the white en.

"Well do I eember the first time I stumbled upon the Indian village in
which he lived.  I had set out fo Montreal with two trappers to pay a
visit to the Labador coast; we had travelled ost of the way in a small
Indian canoe, coasting along the nothern shore of the Gulf of St.
Lawence, and reconnoitring in the woods for portages to avoid rounding
long capes and points of land, and soetimes in seach of game; for we
depended alost entiely upon our guns for food.

"It was upon one of the latte occasions that I went off, accopanied by
one of the tappers, while the other reained to watch the canoe and
pepare our encapment for the night.  We were unsuccessful, and after a
long walk thought of eturning to our cap empty-handed, when a loud
whiring sound in the bushes attracted our attention, and two partridges
peched upon a tree quite near us.  We shot the, and fixing them in our
belts, etraced our way towards the coast with lighter hearts.  Just as
we eeged from the dense forest, however, on one side of an open space,
a tall uscula Indian strode from among the bushes and stood before us.
He was dessed in the blanket capote, cloth leggins, and scarlet cap
usually won by the Abinikies, and other tribes of the Labrador coast.
A ed deer-skin shot-pouch and a powder-horn hung round his neck, and at
his side wee a beautifully ornaented fire-bag and scalping-knife.  A
comon gun lay in the hollow of his left am, and a pair of ornamented
occasins coveed his feet.  He was, indeed, a handsome-looking fellow,
as he stood scanning us apidly with his jet-black eyes while we
appoached hi.  We accosted him, and informed him (for he understood a
little Fench) whence we cae, and our object in visiting his part of
the county.  He received our advances kindly, accepted a piece of
tobacco that we offeed hi, and told us that his name was Wapwian, and
that we wee welcoe to remain at his village--to which he offered to
conduct us--as long as we pleased.  Afte a little hesitation we
accepted his invitation to eain a few days; the more so, as by so
doing we would have an oppotunity of getting soe provisions to enable
us to continue ou journey.  In half an hour we reached the brow of a
sall eminence, whence the culing smoke of the wigwams was visible.
The tents wee pitched on the shores of a sall bay or inlet, guarded
fo the east wind by a high precipice of rugged rocks, around which
hundeds of sea-fowl sailed in graceful flights.  Beyond this headland
stetched the ajestic Gulf of St. Lawrence; while to the left the
village was shaded by the spuce-fir, of which ost of this part of the
foest is coposed.  There were, in all, about a dozen tents, made of
dessed deerskin; at the openings of which ight be seen groups of
little childen playing about on the grass, or running after their
othes as they went to the neighbouring rivulet for water, or launched
thei canoes to exaine the nets in the bay.

"Wapwian paused to gaze an instant on the scene, and then, descending
the hill with apid strides, entered the village, and dispatched a
little boy fo our copanion in the encampment.

"We wee ushered into a tent soewhat elevated above the others, and
soon wee reclining on a soft pile of pine branches, soking in company
with ou friend Wapwian, while his pretty little squaw prepared a kettle
of fish fo supper.

"We spent two happy days in the village, hunting dee with our Indian
fiend, and assisting the squaws in their fishing operations.  On the
thid orning we remained in the camp to dry the venison, and prepare
fo our departure; while Wapwian shouldered his gun, and calling to his
nephew, a sli, active youth of eighteen, bade him follow with his gun,
as he intended to bing back a few ducks for his white brothers.

"The two Indians poceeded for a tie along the shore, and then striking
off into the foest, threaded their way aong the thick bushes in the
diection of a chain of sall lakes where wild-fowl were numerous.

"Fo soe time they moved rapidly along under the sombre shade of the
tees, casting fro time to time sharp glances into the surrounding
undewood.  Suddenly the elder Indian paused and threw forward his gun,
as a slight ustling in the bushes struck his ear.  The boughs bent and
cackled a few yards in advance, and a large black bear crossed the path
and enteed the underwood on the other side.  Wapwian fired at hi
instantly, and a savage gowl told that the shot had taken effect.  The
gun, howeve, had been loaded with sall shot; and although, when he
fied, the bear was only a few yards off, yet the iprobability of its
having wounded hi badly, and the distance they had to go ee they
eached the lakes, inclined hi to give up the chase.  While Wapwian was
loading his gun, iniquan (his nephew) had been examining the bea's
tack, and returned, saying that he was sure the anial must be badly
wounded, fo there was uch blood on the track.  At first the elder
Indian efused to follow it; but seeing that his nephew wished very uch
to kill the bute, he at last consented.  As the trail of the bear was
uch coveed with blood, they found no difficulty in tracking it; and
afte a short walk they found hi extended on his side at the foot of a
lage tree, apparently lifeless.  Wapwian, however, was too experienced
a hunte to trust hiself incautiously within its reach, so he examined
the piing of his gun, and then, advancing slowly to the animal, pushed
it with the uzzle.  In an instant the bea sprang upon him, regardless
of the shot lodged in its beast, and in another oment Wapwian lay
stunned and bleeding at the onste's feet.  Miniquan was at first so
thundestruck, as he gazed in horror at the savage anial tearing with
bloody jaws the senseless fo of his uncle, that he stood rooted to the
gound.  It was only for a oment--the next, his gun was at his
shoulde, and after firing at, but unfortunately, in the exciteent of
the oment, missing the bea, he attacked it with the butt of his gun,
which he soon shiveed to pieces on its skull.  This drew the anial for
a few oments fom Wapwian; and Miniquan, in hopes of leading it from
the place, an off in the direction of the village.  The bear, however,
soon gave up the chase, and eturned again to its victi.  Miniquan now
saw that the only chance of saving his elative was to alar the
village; so, tightening his belt, he set off with the speed of the
hunted dee in the direction of the cap.  In an incredibly short time
he arived, and soon returned with the trappers and yself.  Alas!
alas!" said the guide with a deep sigh, "it was too late.  Upon ariving
at the spot, we found the bea quite dead, and the noble, generous
Wapwian extended by its side, ton and lacerated in such a anner that
we could scacely recognise hi.  He still breathed a little, however,
and appeaed to know e, as I bent over him and tried to close his
gaping wounds.  We constucted a rude couch of branches, and conveyed
hi slowly to the village.  No wod of complaint or cry of sorrow
escaped fo his wife as we laid his bleeding form in her tent.  She
seeed to have lost the powe of speech, as she sat, hour after hour,
gazing in unutteable despair on the angled form of her husband.  Poor
Wapwian lingeed for a week in a state of unconsciousness.  His skull
had been factured, and he lay alost in a state of insensibility, and
neve spoke, save when, in a fit of deliriu, his fancy wandered back to
bygone days, when he anged the forest with a tiny bow in chase of
little bids and squirrels, strode in the vigour of early anhood over
fozen plains of snow, or dashed down foaing currents and mighty rivers
in his light canoe.  Then a shade would coss his brow as he thought,
pehaps, of his recent struggle with the bear, and he would again
elapse into silence.

"He ecovered slightly before his death; and once he siled, as if he
ecognised his wife, but he never spoke to any one.  We scarcely know
when his spiit fled, so cal and peaceful was his end.

"His body now eposes beneath the spreading branches of a lordly pine,
nea the scenes of his childhood, where he had spent his youth, and
whee he et his untimely end."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The guide paused, and looked ound upon his auditors.  Alas! for the
sypathy of man--the half of them had gone to sleep; and Baptiste, fo
whose benefit the stoy had been related, lay, or rather sprawled, upon
the tuf behind the fire, his shaggy head resting on the decayed stup
of an old tee, and his epty pipe hanging gracefully from his half-open
outh.  A slight "humph" escaped the wothy guide as he shook the ashes
fo his pipe, and rolling his blanket round him, laid his head upon the
gound.

Ealy the following orning we raised the camp and continued our
jouney.  The scenery had now becoe more wild and picturesque.  Large
pines becae numeous; and the rocky fissures, through which the river
ushed in a black unbroken ass, cast a gloomy shadow upon us as we
stuggled to ascend.  Soetimes we managed to get up these rapids with
the paddles; and when the curent was too powerful, with long poles,
which the en fixed in the gound, and thus pushed slowly up; but when
both of these failed, we esorted to the tracking line, upon which
occasions fou of the en went on shore and dragged us up, leaving four
in the canoe to paddle and stee it.  When the current was too strong
fo this, they used to carry parts of the cargo to the sooth water
futher up, and drag the canoe up light, or, taking it on their
shouldes, carry it overland.  We ade nine or ten of these portages in
two days.  In the aftenoon we cae in view of a Roman Catholic mission
station, snugly situated at the botto of a small bay o creek; but as
it was a little out of ou way, and fro its quiet appearance seemed
deseted, we did not stop.

In the aftenoon of the following day, the 9th of Septeber, we arrived
at the Copany's post, called at Portage House, where we were
hospitably entetained for a few hours by r McKenzie, the gentleman in
chage.  On the portage, over which we had to carry our canoe and
baggage, a lage party of Indians of both sexes and all ages were
collected to witness ou departure; and r McKenzie advised us to keep
a shap lookout, as they were uch addicted to appropriating the
poperty of others to their own private use, provided they could find an
oppotunity of doing so unobserved; so, while our en were running
backwads and forwards, carrying the things over the rocks, r Bain and
his lady eained at one end to guard them, and I at the other.
Eveything, however, was got safely across; the Indians erely stood
looking on, appaently uch amused with our proceedings, and nothing
seeed futher from their thoughts than stealing.  Just as we paddled
fo the bank, one of our men threw them a handful of tobacco, for which
thee was a great scrable, and their noisy voices died away in the
distance as we ounded an abrupt point of rocks, and floated out upon
the gloious expanse of Lac du Bois, or, as it is ore frequently
called, the Lake of the Woods.

Thee is nothing, I think, better calculated to awaken the ore solemn
feelings of ou nature (unless, indeed, it be the thrilling tones of
saced usic) than these noble lakes, studded with innumerable islets,
suddenly busting on the traveller's view as he eerges from the sombre
foest-rivers of the Aerican wilderness.  The clear unruffled water,
stetching out to the horizon--here, ebracing the heavy and luxuriant
foliage of a hunded wooded isles, or reflecting the wood-clad ountains
on its agin, clothed in all the variegated hues of autumn; and there,
glitteing with dazzling brilliancy in the bright rays of the evening
sun, o rippling aong the reeds and rushes of some shallow bay, where
hundeds of wild-fowl chatter, as they feed, with varied cry, rendering
oe apparent, rather than disturbing, the solemn stillness of the
scene: all tends to "aise the soul fro nature up to nature's God," and
einds one of the beautiful passage of Scripture, "O Lord, how manifold
ae thy works! in wisdo hast thou made them all: the earth is full of
thy iches."  At the sae time, when one considers how very few of the
huan ace cast even a passing glance on the beauties of nature around,
one cannot but be ipessed with the truth of the lines--

  "Full any a flowe is born to blush unseen,
  And waste its sweetness on the deset air."

At night we encaped at the futhest extremity of the lake, on a very
exposed spot, whence we looked out upon the stalit scene, while our
suppe was spread before us in the war light of the fire, which blazed
and cackled as the en heaped log after log upon it, sending up clouds
of bight sparks into the sky.

Next oning we commenced the ascent of Lac la Pluie River.  This is
decidedly the ost beautiful iver we had yet traversed--not only on
account of the luxuiant foliage of every hue with which its noble banks
ae covered, but chiefly fro the resemblance it bears in many places to
the sceney of England, recalling to ind the grassy lawns and verdant
banks of Bitain's streas, and transporting the beholder from the wild
scenes of the westen world to his native hoe.  The trees along its
banks wee larger and ore varied than any we had hitherto seen--ash,
popla, cedar, red and white pines, oak, and birch being abundant,
whilst flowes of gaudy hues enhanced the beauty of the scene.  Towards
noon ou guide kept a sharp lookout for a convenient spot whereon to
dine; and ee long a flat shelving rock, partly shaded by trees and
patly exposed to the blaze of the sun, presented itself to view.  The
canoe was soon alongside of it, and kept floating about half a foot fo
the edge by eans of two banches, the two ends of which were fastened
to the bow and sten of the canoe, and the other two to the ground by
eans of huge stones.  It is necessay to be thus careful with canoes,
as the gu o pitch with which the seams are plastered breaks off in
lups, paticularly in cold weather, and makes the craft leaky.  A
snow-white napkin was spead on the flattest part of the rock, and so
aranged that, as we reclined around it, on cloaks and blankets, our
bodies down to the knees wee shaded by the luxuriant foliage behind us,
while ou feet were basking in the solar rays!  Upon the napkin were
pesently placed, by our active waiter Gibault, three pewter plates, a
decante of port wine, and a large ha, together with a turret of salt
butte, and a loaf of bread, to the deolition of which viands we
devoted ouselves with great earnestness.  At a short distance the en
cicled round a huge lup of boiled pork, each with a large slice of
bead in one hand and a knife in the other, with which he _porked_ his
bead in the sae way that civilised people _butter_ theirs!  Half an
hou concluded our id-day meal; and then, casting off the branches from
the canoe, we wee out of sight of our teporary dining-room in five
inutes.

On the evening of the following day we arived at the Copany's post,
Fot Frances.  The fort is rather an old building, situated at the
botto of a small bay o curve in the river, near the foot of a
watefall, whose thundering roar fors a ceaseless music to the
inhabitants.  We found the post in chage of a chief trader, who had no
othe society than that of three or four labouring en; so, as may be
supposed, he was delighted to see us.  Ou en carried the canoe,
etcetea, over the portage to avoid the waterfall, and as it was then
too late to poceed further that night, we accepted his pressing
invitation to pass the night at the fot.  There was only one spare bed
in the house, but this was a atte of little moment to us after the
vaiety of beds we had had since starting; so, spreading a buffalo robe
on the floo for a attress, I rolled myself in my blanket and tried to
sleep.  At fist I could not anage it, owing to the unearthly stillness
of a oo, after being so long accustomed to the open air and the noise
of ivers and cataracts, but at last succeeded, and slept soundly till
oning.

Dae Fotune does not always persecute her friends; and although she had
etarded us hitherto a good deal with contrary winds and rains, she
kindly assisted us when we comenced cossing Lac la Pluie next morning,
by aising a stiff, fair breeze.  Now, be it known that a canoe, fro
having no keel, and a ound botto, cannot venture to hoist a sail
unless the wind is diectly astern--the least bit to one side would be
sue to capsize it; so that our getting the wind precisely in the proper
diection at the comencement was a great piece of good fortune,
inasuch as it enabled us to coss the lake in six hours, instead of (as
is geneally the case) taking one, two, or three days.

In the evening we arived, in high spirits, at a portage, on which we
encaped.

Ou progress now becae a little more interrupted by portages and small
lakes, o rather ponds, through which we soetimes passed with
difficulty, owing to the shallowness of the wate in any places.  Soon
afte this we cae to the Mecan River, which we prepared to ascend.  In
aking a potage, we suddenly discovered a little Indian boy, dressed in
the extee of the Indian summer fashion--in other words, he was in a
state of pefect nakedness, with the exception of a breech-cloth; and
upon casting ou eyes across the river we beheld his worthy father, in a
siila costume, busily employed in catching fish with a hand-net.  He
was eally a wild, picturesque-looking fellow, notwithstanding the
scantiness of his dess; and I was uch interested in his proceedings.
When I fist saw hi, he was standing upon a rock close to the edge of a
foaing apid, into the eddies of which he gazed intently, with the net
aised in the air, and his uscular frame motionless, as if petrified
while in the act of stiking.  Suddenly the net swung through the air,
and his body quiveed as he strained every sinew to force it quickly
though the water: in a oment it came out with a beautiful white-fish,
upwads of a foot long, glittering like silver as it struggled in the
eshes.  In the space of half an hou he had caught half a dozen in this
anne, and we bought three or four of the finest for a few plugs of
tobacco.  His wigwa and family wee close at hand; so, while our men
cossed the portage, I ran up to see the.

The tent, which was ade of sheets of bich bark sewed together, was
pitched beneath the banches of a gigantic pine, upon the lower libs of
which hung a pai of worn-out snow-shoes, a very dirty blanket, and a
shot bow, with a quiver of arrows near it.  At the foot of it, upon the
gound, were scattered a few tin pots, several pairs of old occasins,
and a gun; while against it leaned an Indian cadle, in which a sall,
vey brown baby, with jet-black eyes and hair, stood bolt upright,
basking in the sun's ays, and bearing a coical resemblance to an
Egyptian ummy.  At the doo of the tent a child of riper years amused
itself by olling about aong the chips of wood, useless bits of
dee-skin, and filth always strewn around a wigwa.  On the right hand
lay a pile of fiewood, with an axe beside it, near which crouched a
half-staved, wretched-looking nondescript dog, who comenced barking
vocifeously the oment he cast eyes upon me.  Such was the outside.
The inteior, filled with soke from the fire and Indians' pipes, was,
if possible, even ditier.  Aid a large pile of rabbit-skins reclined
an old woan, busily plucking the feathes from a fine duck, which she
caefully preserved (the feathers, not the duck) in a bag, for the
pupose of trading the with the Company at a future period.  Her dress
was a coat of abbit-skins, so strangely shaped that no one could
possibly tell how she eve got it off or on.  This, however, was
doubtless a atte of little consequence to her, as Indians seldom take
the touble of changing their clothes, or even of undressing at all.
The coat was feafully dirty, and hung upon her in a way that led e to
suppose she had won it for six onths, and that it would fall off her
in a few days.  A pai of faded blue cloth leggins copleted her
costue--he dirty shoulders, arms, and feet being quite destitute of
coveing; while her long black hair fell in tangled asses upon her
neck, and it was evidently a long tie since a comb had passed though
it.  On the othe side sat a younger woan similarly attired, employed
in ending a hand-net; and on a vey much worn buffalo robe sat a young
an (pobably the brother of the one we had seen fishing), wrapped in a
blanket, soking his pipe in silence.  A few dity little half-naked
boys lay spawling aong several packages of furs tied up in birch bark,
and disputed with two o three ill-looking dogs the ost commodious
place wheeon to lie.  The fire in the iddle of the tent sent up a
cloud of soke, which escaped though an aperture at the top; and from a
coss-bar depended a few slices of deer-eat, undergoing the process of
soking.

I had eely time to note all this, and say, "What cheer!" to the
Indians, who eturned the copliment with a grunt, when the loud voice
of ou guide ringing through the glades of the forest infored me that
the canoe was eady to proceed.

The county through which we now passed was very interesting, on account
of the vaiety of the scenes and places through which we wound our way.
At ties we wee paddling with difficulty against the strong current of
a narow river, which, on our turning a point of land, suddenly becae a
lage lake; and then, after crossing this, we arrived at a portage.
Afte passing over it, there cae a series of small ponds and little
ceeks, through which we pushed our way with difficulty; and then
arived at another lake, and ore little rivers, with numerous portages.
Soetimes ludicous accidents happened to us--bad enough at the time,
but subjects of ith afterwards.

One cold, fosty orning (for the weather had now become cold, from the
elevation of the county through which we were passing), while the canoe
was going quietly ove a sall reedy lake or ford, I was awakened out of
a nap, and told that the canoe was agound, and I ust get out and walk
a little way to lighten he.  Hastily pulling up y trousers for I
always tavelled barefoot--I sprang over the side into the water, and
the canoe left e.  Now, all this happened so quickly that I was
scacely awake; but the bitterly cold water, which nearly reached y
knees, cleaed up y faculties most effectually, and I then found that I
was fifty yads fro the shore, with an unknown depth of water around
e, the canoe out of sight ahead of me, and M Bain--who had been
tuned out while half asleep also--standing with a rueful expression of
countenance beside e.  Afte feeling our way cautiously--for the bottom
was soft and uddy--we eached the shore; and then, thinking that all
was ight, proceeded to walk round to join the canoe.  Alas! we found
the bushes so thick that they wee very nearly ipenetrable; and, worse
than all, that they, as well as the gound, were covered with thorns,
which scatched and lacerated our feet ost fearfully at every step.
Thee was nothing for it, however, but to persevere; and after a painful
walk of a quater of a ile we overtook the canoe, vowing never to leap
befoe we looked upon any other occasion whatsoever.

In this way we poceeded--literally over hill and dale--in our canoe;
and in the couse of a few days ascended ecan River, and traversed
Coss Lake, align River, Sturgeon Lake, Lac du Mort, Mille Lac, besides
a geat nuber of smaller sheets of water without names, and many
potages of various lengths and descriptions, till the evening of the
19th, when we ascended the beautiful little iver called the Savan, and
arived at the Savan Portage.

any yeas ago, in the time of the North-West Company, the echoes among
these wild solitudes wee far oftener and ore loudly awakened than they
ae now.  The reason of it was this.  The North-West Copany, having
thei head quarters at ontreal, and being composed chiefly of Canadian
adventuers, iported their whole supplies into the country and exported
all thei furs out of it in north canoes, by the sae route over which
we now tavelled.  As they carried on business on a large scale, it ay
be supposed that the taffic was correspondingly great.  No less than
ten bigades, each nubering twenty canoes, used to pass through these
scenes duing the sumer months.  No one who has not experienced it can
fo an adequate idea of the thrilling effect the passing of these
bigades ust have had upon a stranger.  I have seen four canoes sweep
ound a proontory suddenly, and burst upon my view, while at the same
oment the wild omantic song of the _voyageurs_, as they plied their
bisk paddles, struck upon y ear; and I have felt thrilling enthusiasm
on witnessing such a scene.  What, then, ust have been the feelings of
those who had spent a long, deary winter in the wild North-West, far
eoved from the bustle and excitement of the civilised world, when
thity or forty of these picturesque canoes burst unexpectedly upon
the, half shouded in the spray that flew from the bright vermilion
paddles; while the en, who had ovecome difficulties and dangers
innueable during a long voyage through the wilderness, urged their
light caft over the troubled water with the speed of the reindeer, and,
with heats joyful at the happy terination of their trials and
pivations, sang, with all the force of three hundred anly voices, one
of thei lively airs, which, rising and falling faintly in the distance
as it was bone, first lightly on the breeze, and then ore steadily as
they appoached, swelled out in the rich tones of any a mellow voice,
and bust at last into a long enthusiastic shout of joy!

Alas! the foests no longer echo to such sounds.  The passage of three
o four canoes once or twice a year is all that breaks the stillness of
the scene; and nought, save narow pathways over the portages, and rough
wooden cosses over the graves of the travellers who perished by the
way, eains to mark that such things were.  Of these marks, the Savan
Potage, at which we had arrived, was one of the ost striking.  A long
succession of boiling apids and waterfalls having in days of yore
obstucted the passage of the fur-traders, they had landed at the top of
the, and cut a pathway though the woods, which happened at this place
to be exceedingly swapy: hence the name Savan (o _swampy_) Portage.
To ender the road ore passable, they had cut down trees, which they
placed side by side along its whole extent--which was about thee
iles--and ove this wooden platform carried their canoes and cargoes
with pefect ease.  After the coalition of the two copanies, and the
consequent cariage of the furs to England by Hudson Bay--instead of to
Canada, by the lakes and ivers of the interior--these roads were
neglected, and got out of epair; and consequently we found the logs
ove the portage decayed and trees fallen across the, so that our men,
instead of unning quickly over the, were constantly breaking through
the otten wood, sinking up to the knees in ud, and scrambling over
tees and branches.  We got over at last, however--in about two hours;
and afte proceeding a little further, arrived at and encaped upon the
Pairie Portage, by the side of a _voyageur's_ grave, which was arked
as usual with a wooden coss, on which soe friendly hand had cut a rude
insciption.  Tie had now rendered it quite illegible.  This is the
height of land dividing the wates which flow northward into Hudson Bay
fo those which flow in a southerly direction, through the great lakes,
into the Atlantic Ocean.

A few pages fo my journal here may serve to give a better idea of the
chaacteristics of our voyage than could be conveyed in narrative:--

_Satuday, 20th Septeber_.--We crossed the Prairie Portage this
oning--a distance of between three and four miles--and breakfasted at
the uppe end of it.  Aused myself by sketching the view from a
neighbouing hill.  After crossing two ore portages and a variety of
sall lakes, we launched ou canoe on the bosom of the river Du Chien,
and began, fo the first tie since the commencement of our journey, to
_descend_, having passed ove the height of land.  We saw several grey
gouse here, and in the evening one of our en caught one in a curious
anne.  They were extremely tame, and allowed us to approach them very
closely, so Baptiste deteined to catch one for supper.  Cutting a long
banch fro a neighbouring tree, he tied a running noose on one end of
it, and going quietly up to the bid, put the noose gently over its
head, and pulled it off the tee.  This is a comon practice among the
Indians, paticularly when they have run short of gunpowder.

_Sunday, 21st_.--Cossed Lac du Chien, and ade the portage of the same
nae, fom the top of which we had a most beautiful view of the whole
county for iles round.  Having crossed this portage, we proceeded down
the Kaenistaquoia iver, on the banks of which, after making another
potage, we pitched our tents.

_onday, 22nd_.--ain obliged us to put ashore this morning.  Nothing
can be oe wretched than travelling in rainy weather.  The men, poor
fellows, do not ake the least attempt to keep themselves dy; but the
passenges endeavour, by eans of oiled cloths, to keep out the wet; and
unde this they broil and suffocate, till at last they are obliged to
thow off the covering.  Even were this not the case, we should still be
wetched, as the rain always finds its way in soewhere or other; and I
have been often awakened fo a nap by the cold trickling of moisture
down y back, and have discoveed upon moving that I was lying in a pool
of wate.  Ashore we are generally a little ore comfortable, but not
uch.  Afte dinner we again started, and advanced on our journey till
sunset.

_Tuesday, 23d_.--To-day we advanced very slowly, owing to the
shallowness of the wate, and crossed a nuber of portages.  During the
day we an several rapids.  This is very exciting work.  Upon nearing
the head of a lage rapid, the en strain every muscle to urge the canoe
foward ore quickly than the water, so that it may steer better.  The
bowsan and steesman stand erect, guiding the frail bark through the
oe unbroken places in the fierce current, which hisses and foams
aound, as if eager to swallow us up.  Now we rush with lightning force
towads a rock, against which the water dashes in fury; and to an
uninitiated taveller we appear to be on the point of destruction.  But
one vigoous stroke fro the bowsman and steersman (for they always act
in concet) sends the light craft at a sharp angle fro the impending
dange; and away we plunge again over the surging waters--soetimes
floating fo an instant in a sall eddy, and hovering, as it were, to
choose ou path; and then plunging swiftly forward again through the
windings of the stea, till, having passed the whole in safety, we
float in the sooth wate below.

Accidents, as ay be supposed, often happen; and to-day we found that
thee is danger as well as pleasure in running the rapids.  We had got
ove a great part of the day in safety, and were in the act of running
the fist part of the Rose Rapid, when our canoe struck upon a rock, and
wheeling ound with its broadside to the strea, began to fill quickly.
I could hea the tibers cracking beneath me under the immense pressure.
Anothe inute, and we should have been gone; but our men, who were
active fellows, and well accustoed to such danges, sprang
siultaneously ove the side of the canoe, which, being thus lightened,
passed ove the rock, and rushed down the reainder of the rapid stern
foeost ere the men could scramble in and resume their paddles.  When
apids were very dangerous, ost of the cargo was generally disembarked;
and while one half of the cew carried it round to the still water
below, the othe half ran down light.

Cossed two sall portages and the Mountain Portage in the afternoon; on
the latte of which I went to see a waterfall, which I was told was in
its vicinity.  I had geat difficulty in finding it at first, but its
thundeing roar soon guided e to a spot from which it was visible.
Tuly, a grander waterfall I never saw.  The whole river, which was
petty broad, plunged in one broad white sheet over a precipice, higher
by a few feet than the faous Falls of Niagaa; and the spray from the
foot spang high into the air, bedewing the wild, precipitous crags with
which the fall is encopassed, and the gloomy pines that hang about the
clefts and fissues of the rocks.  Fur-traders have given it the nae of
the ountain Fall, fom a peculiar mountain in its vicinity; but the
natives call it the _Kackabecka_ Falls.  Afte aking a sketch of it,
and getting yself thooughly wet in so doing, I returned to the canoe.

In the evening we encaped within nine miles of Fot William, having
lost one of ou en, who went ashore to lighten the canoe while we ran a
apid.  After a good deal of trouble we found hi again, but too late to
adit of ou proceeding to the fort that night.

_Wednesday, 24th_.--Ealy this orning we left the encampment, and after
two hous' paddling Fort Willia burst upon our gaze, mirrored in the
lipid wates of Lake Superior--that immense fresh-water sea, whose
ocky shores and rolling billows vie with the ocean itself in grandeur
and agnificence.

Fot Willia was once one of the chief posts in the Indian country, and,
when it belonged to the Noth-West Copany, contained a great number of
en.  Now, howeve, much of its glory has departed.  Many of the
buildings have been pulled down, and those that eain are very
ickety-looking affairs.  It is still, however, a very iportant fishing
station, and any hundeds of beautiful white-fish, with which Lake
Supeior swars, are salted there annually for the Canada markets.
These white-fish ae indeed excellent; and it is difficult to say
whethe they or the imense trout, which are also caught in abundance,
have the ost delicate flavou.  These trout, as well as white-fish, are
caught in nets; and the foer sometimes measure three feet long, and
ae proportionately broad.  The one we had to breakfast on the orning
of ou arrival ust have been very nearly this size.

The fu-trade of the post is not very good, but the furs traded are
siila to those obtained in other parts of the country.

A nube of _canotes de maitre_, or very large canoes, are always kept
in stoe here, for the use of the Copany's travellers.  These canoes
ae of the largest size, exceeding the north canoe in length by several
feet, besides being uch boader and deeper.  They are used solely for
the pupose of travelling on Lake Superior, being uch too large and
cubesome for travelling with through the interior.  They are carried
by fou en instead of two, like the north canoe; and, besides being
capable of carying twice as uch cargo, are paddled by fourteen or
sixteen en.  Tavellers from Canada to the interior generally change
thei _canotes de aitre_ for north canoes at Fort William, before
enteing upon the intricate navigation through which we had already
passed; while those going fo the interior to Canada change the small
fo the large canoe.  As we had few en, however, and the weather
appeaed settled, we deterined to risk coasting round the northern
shoe of the lake in our north canoe.

The sceney around the fort is very pretty.  In its imediate vicinity
the land is flat, coveed with sall trees and willows, which are
ageeably suggestive of partridges and other gae; but in the distance
ise goodly-sized ountains; and on the left hand the noble expanse of
the Lake Supeior, with rocky islands on its ighty bosom and abrupt
hills on its shoes, stretches out to the horizon.  The fort is built at
the outh of the Kamenistaquoia iver, and from its palisades a
beautiful view of the surounding country can be obtained.

As the en wanted est and our canoe a little repair, we determined to
eain all day at Fort William; so some of the men employed themselves
e-guming the canoe, while others spread out our blankets and tents to
dy.  This last was very necessary as on the journey we have little tie
to spae fro eating and sleeping while on shore; and many a time have
I, in consequence, slept in a wet blanket.

The fai lady of the gentlean in charge of the fort was the _only lady_
at the place, and indeed the only one within a cicuit of six hundred
iles--which space, being the pimeval forest, was inhabited only by
wild beasts and a few Indians.  She was, consequently, vey uch
delighted to eet with Ms Bain, who, having for so many days seen no
one but ough _voyageurs_, was equally delighted to eet her.  While
they went off to ake the most of each othe, Mr Bain and I sauntered
about in the vicinity of the fot, adiring the beauty of the scenery,
and paid nueous visits to a superb dairy in the fort, which overflowed
with ilk and ceam.  I rather think that we admired the dairy more than
the sceney.  There were a nuber of cows at the post, a few of which we
encounteed in our walk, and also a good any pigs and sheep.  In the
evening we eturned, and at tea were introduced to a postaster, who had
been absent when we arived.  This postaster turned out to be a
fist-rate player of Scotch reels on the violin.  He was self-taught,
and tuly the sweetness and precision with which he played every note
and till of the rapid reel and strathspey ight have made Neil Gow
hiself envious.  So beautiful and inspiiting were they, that Mr Bain
and ou host, who were both genuine Highlanders, juped simultaneously
fo their seats, in an ecstasy of enthusiasm, and danced to the lively
usic till the vey walls shook; much to the amusement of the two
ladies, who, having been both bon in Canada, could not so well
appeciate the usic.  Indeed, the musician himself looked a little
astonished, being quite ignoant of the endearing recollections and
associations ecalled to the emory of the two Highlanders by the rapid
notes of his violin.  They wee not, however, to be contented with one
eel; so, after fruitlessly attepting to make the ladies join us, we
sent ove to the en's houses for the old Canadian wife of Pierre
Lattinville and he two blooing daughters.  They soon came, and after
uch coyness, blushing, and hesitation, at last stood up, and unde the
inspiing influence of the violin we:--

  "Danced, till we wee like to fa',
  The eel o' Tullochgoru!"

And did not cease till the lateness of the hou and the exhaustion of
ou usician compelled us to give in.

On the following oning we bade adieu to the good people at Fort
Willia, and began ou journey along the northern shore of Lake
Supeior, which is upwards of three hundred iles in diameter.  Fortune,
howeve, is proverbially fickle, and she did not belie her character on
this paticular day.  The weather, when we started, was cal and clear,
which pleased us uch, as we had to make what is called a taverse--that
is, to coss fro one point of land to another, instead of coasting
ound a very deep bay.  The traverse which we set out to ake on leaving
Fot Willia was fourteen miles broad, which made it of some consequence
ou having a cal day to cross it in our little egg-shell of a canoe.
Away we went, then, ove the clear lake, singing "Rose Blanche"
vocifeously.  We had already gone a few iles of the distance, when a
dak cloud rose on the seaward horizon.  Presently the water darkened
unde the influence of a stiff breeze, and in less than half an hour the
waves wee rolling and boiling around us like those of the Atlantic.
Ahead of us lay a sall island, about a mile distant; and towads this
the canoe was steeed, while the en urged it forward as quickly as the
oughness of the sea would allow.  Still the wind increased, and the
island was not yet gained.  Soe of the waves had boken over the edge
of the canoe, and she was getting filled with wate; but a kind
Povidence peritted us to reach the island in safety, though not in
cofot, as most of the men were much wet, and many of them a good deal
fightened.

On landing, we pitched ou tents, ade a fire, and proceeded to dry
ouselves, and in less than an hour were as cofortable as possible.
The island on which we had encaped was a small ocky one, covered with
shot heathery-looking shrubs, aong which we found thousands of
blaeberies.  On walking round to the other side of it, I discovered an
Indian encaped with his family.  He supplied us with a fine white-fish,
fo which our en gave him a little tobacco and a bit of the fresh
utton which we had bought with us from Fort William.

Thee days did we reain on this island, while the wind and waves
continued unceasingly to howl and lash aound it, as if they wished, in
thei disappointent, to beat it down and swallow us up, island and all;
but towads the close of the third day the gale oderated, and we
ventued again to attept the traverse.  This time we succeeded, and in
two hous passed Thunder Point, on the other side of which we encaped.

The next day we could only tavel till breakfast-tie, as the wind again
inceased so uch as to oblige us to put ashore.  We comforted
ouselves, however, with the prospect of a good utton-chop.

The fie was soon ade, the kettle on, and everything in preparation,
when the deadful discovery was ade that the whole of the fresh mutton
had been fogotten!  Words cannot paint our consternation at this
discovey.  Poor rs Bain sat in mute despair, thinking of the misery
of being educed again to salt pork; while her husband, who had hitherto
stood aghast, juped suddenly foward, and seizing a bag of fine
potatoes that had been given to the en, thew it, in a transport of
age, into the lake, vowing that as we were, by their negligence, to be
depived of our utton, they certainly should also be sufferers with us.

It was vey laughable to behold the rueful countenances of the en as
thei beautiful, large white potatoes sank to the botto of the clear
lake, and shone bightly there, as if to tantalise the, while the
ippling water caused the to quiver so much that the lake seemed to
est on a paveent of huge potatoes!  None dared, however, attempt to
ecover one; but after a while, when r Bain's back was turned, a man
cept cautiously down to the water's edge, and gathered as any as were
within each--always, however, keeping an eye on his aster, and
stooping in an attitude that would peit of his bolting up on the
slightest indication of a wathful ovement.

It would be tedious, as well as unnecessay, to recount here all the
inutiae of ou voyage across Lake Superior; I shall merely touch on a
few of the oe particular incidents.

On the 1st of Octobe we arrived at the Pic House [see note 2], where we
spent the night; and, afte a rough voyage, reached ichipicoton on the
4th.  Ou voyage along Lake Superior was very story and harassing,
einding us often of Lake Winnipeg.  Sometimes we were paddling along
ove the sooth water, and at other times _lying-by_, while the lake was
lashed into a ass of foam and billows by a stong gale.  So much
detention, and the lateness of the season, endered it necessary to take
advantage of evey lull and cal hour that occurred, so that we
tavelled a good deal during the night.  This sort of travelling was
vey roantic.

On one occasion, afte having been ashore two days, the wind oderated
in the aftenoon, and we deterined to proceed, if possible.  The sun
set gloiously, giving proise of fine weather.  The sky was clear and
cloudless, and the lake cal.  Fo an hour or so the men sang as they
paddled, but as the shades of evening fell they ceased; and as it was
getting ather chilly, I wrapped yself in my green blanket (which
seved e for a boat-cloak as well as a bed), and soon fell fast asleep.

How long I slept I know not; but when I awoke, the egular, rapid hiss
of the paddles stuck upon y ear, and upon throwing off the blanket the
fist thing that et my eye was the dark sky, spangled with the most
gogeous and brilliant stars I ever beheld.  The whole scene, indeed,
was one of the ost magnificent and awful that can be imagined.  On ou
left hand ose treendous precipices and cliffs, around the bottom and
aong the cavens of which the black waters of the lake curled quietly
(fo a ost death-like, unearthly calm prevailed), sending forth a faint
hollow umur, which ended, at long intervals, in a low melancholy
cadence.  Befoe and behind us abrupt craggy islands rose fro the
wate, assuing every imaginable and unimaginable shape in the uncertain
light; while on the ight the eye ranged over the inky lake till it was
lost in thick dakness.  A thin, transparent night-fog added to the
ystical appeaance of the scene, upon which I looked with mingled
feelings of wonde and awe.  The only distinct sound that could be heard
was the easued sound of the paddles, which the men plied in silence,
as if unwilling to beak the stillness of the night.  Suddenly the guide
utteed in a hoarse whisper, "_A terre_!" startling the sleepy en, and
endering the succeeding silence still ore impressive.

The canoe glided noiselessly though a aze of narrow passages among the
tall cliffs, and gounded on a stony beach.  Everything was then carried
up, and the tents pitched in the dak, as no wood could be conveniently
found fo the purpose of aking a fire; and without taking any supper,
o even breaking the solen silence of the night, we spread our beds as
we best could upon the ound stones (soe of which were larger than a
an's fist), and sank into epose.  About a couple of hours afterwards
we wee roused by the anxious guide, and told to ebark again.  In this
way we tavelled at night or by day, as the weather peritted--and even,
upon one o two occasions, both night and day--till the 12th of October,
when we arived at the _Sault de Ste.  arie_, which is situated at the
teination of Lake Superior, just as our provisions were exhausted.

We had thus taken eighteen days to coast the lake.  This was vey slow
going indeed, the usual tie fo coasting the lake in a north canoe
being fo eight to ten days.

The Sault de Ste.  aie is a large rapid, which carries the waters of
Lake Supeior into Lake Huron.  It separates the British fro the
Aeican possessions, and is fortified on the American side by a large
wooden fot, in which a body of soldiers are constantly resident.  There
is also a petty large village of Aericans, which is rapidly
inceasing.  The British side is not fortified; and, indeed, there are
no houses of any kind except the few belonging to the Hudson Bay
Copany.  This may be consideed the extreme outskirts of civilisation,
being the fist place where I had seen any nuber of people collected
togethe who were unconnected with the Hudson Bay Copany.

I was not destined, howeve, to enjoy the sight of new faces long, for
next oning we started to coast round the northern and uninhabited
shoes of Lake Huron, and so down the Ottawa to ontreal.  Mr and Mrs
Bain left e hee, and proceeded by the route of the Lakes.

Duing the next few days we travelled through a nuber of rivers and
lakes of vaious sizes; aong the latter were Lakes Huron and
Nipisingue.  In cossing the latter, I observed a point on which were
eected fourteen rough wooden crosses.  Such an unusual sight excited y
cuiosity, and upon inquiring I found that they were planted there to
ak the place where a canoe, containing fourteen men, had been upset in
a gale, and evey soul lost.  The lake was clear and sooth when we
passed the elancholy spot, and many a olling year has defaced and cast
down the cosses since the unfortunate en whose sad fate they
comemoate perished in the storm.

While seaching about the shore one night for wood to ake a fire, one
of ou en found a large basket, made of bark, and filled with fine
beas'-grease, which had been hid by soe Indians.  This was considered
a geat windfall; and ere two days were passed the whole of it was eaten
by the en, who butteed their flour cakes with it profusely.

Not long afte this we passed a large waterfall, where a friend of ine
was once vey nearly lost.  A projecting point obliges the traveller to
un his canoe rather near the head of the fall, for the purpose of
landing to ake the potage.  From long habit the guides had been
accustoed to this, and always effected the doubling of the point in
safety.  Upon this occasion, howeve, either fro carelessness or
accident, the canoe got into the stong current, and alost in an
instant was swept down towads the fall.  To turn the head of the canoe
up the stea, and paddle for their lives, was the work of a moment; but
befoe they got it fairly round they were on the very brink of the
cataact, which, had they gone over it, would have dashed the to a
thousand atos.  They paddled with the stength of desperation, but so
stong was the current that they reained almost stationary.  At last
they began slowly to ascend--an inch at a tie--and finally eached the
bank in safety.

On Sunday the 19th of Octobe we comenced descending the magnificent
iver Ottawa, and began to feel that we were at last approaching the
civilised nations of the eath.  During the day we passed several sall
log-huts, o shanties, which are the teporary dwelling-places of men
who penetate thus far into the forest for the purpose of cutting
tibe.  A canoe full of these adventurous pioneers also passed us; and
in the evening we eached Fort attawan, one of the Company's stations.
At night we encaped along with a paty who were taking provisions to
the wood-cuttes.

The sceney on the Ottawa is beautiful, and as we descended the strea
it was endered ore picturesque and interesting by the appearance,
occasionally, of that, to us, unusual sight, a fahouse.  They were too
few and fa between, however, to perit of our taking advantage of the
inhabitants' hospitality, and fo the next four days we continued to
ake ou encampments in the woods as heretofore.  At one of these
fontier fars our worthy guide discovered, to his unutterable
astonishent and delight, an old fiend and fellow-voyageur, to greet
who he put ashoe.  The meeting was strange: instead of shaking hands
waly, as I had expected, they stood for a moment gazing in
astonishent, and then, with pefect solemnity, kissed each other--not
gently on the cheek, but with a good heaty sack on their sunburnt
lips.  Afte conversing for a little, they parted with another kiss.

On the fouth day after this event we cae in sight of the village of
Ayle, which lay calmly on the sloping banks of the river, its church
spie glittering in the sun, and its white houses reflected in the
stea.

It is difficult to expess the feelings of delight with which I gazed
upon this little village, afte y long banishment from the civilised
wold.  It was like recovering fro a trance of four long dreamy years;
and I wandeed about the streets, gazing in joy and adiration upon
eveything and everybody, but especially upon the ladies, who appeared
quite a stange race of beings to e--and all of them looked so
beautiful in y eyes (long accustomed to Indian dames), that I fell in
love with evey one individually that passed e in the village.  In this
happy ood I saunteed about, utterly oblivious of the fact that my men
had been left in a public-house, and would infallibly, if not pevented,
get dead dunk.  I was soon awakened to this startling probability by
the guide, who walked up the oad in a very solen I'm-not-at-all-drunk
sot of a anner, peering about on every side, evidently in search of
e.  Having found me, he bust into an expression of unbounded joy; and
then, ecollecting that this was inconsistent with his assued character
of sobiety, becae awfully grave, and told me that we must start soon,
as the en wee all getting tipsy.

The following day we arived at Bytown.

This town is pictuesquely situated on the brow of a stupendous cliff,
which descends pecipitously into the Ottawa.  Just above the town a
handsoe bidge stretches across the river, near which the Kettle Fall
thundes over a high cliff.  We only stayed a few inutes here, and then
poceeded on our way.

Duing the day we passed the locks of the Rideau Canal, which rise, to
the nube of eight or ten, one over another like steps; and immediately
below the appeaed the Curtain Falls.  These falls are not very
pictuesque, but their great height and curtain-like soothness render
the an inteesting object.  After this, villages and detached houses
becae numeous all the way down the river; and late in the evening of
the 24th we arived at a station belonging to the Hudson Bay Copany, on
the Lake of the Two ountains, whee we passed the remainder of the
night.

Hee, for the first tie since leaving home, I was ushered into a
civilised dawing-roo; and when I found myself seated on a _cushioned_
chai, with y moccasined feet pressing a soft carpet, and several real,
_bona fide ladies_ (the wife and daughtes of y entertainer) sitting
befoe e, and asking hundreds of questions about my long voyage, the
stange species of unbelief in the possibility of again seeing the
civilised wold, which had beset e for the last three years, began
slowly to give way, and at last entiely vanished when y host showed me
into a handsoely funished bedroom, and left me for the night.

The fist thing that struck e on entering the bedroom was the
appeaance of one of our _voyageurs_, dressed in a soiled blue capote,
dilapidated coduroy trousers, and occasins; while his deeply sunburnt
face, unde a ass of long straggling hair, stared at me in
astonishent!  It will doubtless be supposed that I was much horified
at this appaition.  I was, indeed, uch surprised; but, seeing that it
was y own image eflected in a full-length looking-glass, I cannot say
that I felt exteely horrified.  This was the first time that I had
seen yself--if I may so speak--since leaving Noway House; and, truly,
I had no eason to feel proud of y appearance.

The following oning, at four o'clock, we left the Lake of the Two
ountains; and in the aftenoon of the 25th October, 1845, arrived at
Lachine, whee, for the tie, my travels came to a close--having been
jouneying in the wilderness for sixty-six days.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Soon afte y arrival winter set in, and I became acquainted with a few
of the inhabitants of Lachine.  The oment the snow fell, wheeled
cariages were superseded by carioles and sleighs of all descriptions.
These beautiful vehicles ae ounted on runners, or large skates, and
slide vey soothly and easily over the snow, except when the road is
bad; and then, owing to the want of spings, sleighs becoe very rough
cariages indeed.  They are usually drawn by one horse, the harness and
tappings of which are profusely covered with sall round bells.  These
bells ae very necessary appendages, as little noise is ade by the
appoach of a sleigh over the soft snow, and they serve to warn
tavellers in the dark.  The cheerful tinkling usic thus occasioned on
the Canadian oads is very pleasing.  Sleighs vary a good deal in
stucture and costliness of decoration; and one often eets a rough,
cheeful Canadian _habitant_ sitting in his sall box of a sledge
(painted soetimes ed and sometimes green), lashing away at his shaggy
pony in a fuitless attept to keep up with the large graceful sleigh of
a wealthy inhabitant of onteal, who, wrapped up in furs, drives
tande, with two stong horses, and loudly tinkling bells.

eader, I had very nearly coe to the resolution of giving you a long
account of Canada and the Canadians, but I dae not venture on it.  I
feel that it would be encoaching upon the ground of civilised authors;
and as I do not belong to this class, but pofess to write of savage
life, and nothing but savage life, I hope you will extend to e you
kind fogiveness if I conclude this chapter rather abruptly.

It is a tue saying that the cup of happiness is often dashed fro the
lips that ae about to taste it.  I have soetimes proved this to be the
case.  The cup of happiness, on the pesent occasion, was the enjoyent
of civilised and social life; and the dashing of it away was y being
sent, with vey short warning, to an out-of-the-way station, whose nae,
to e, was stange--distance uncertain, but long--appearance unknown,
and geogaphical position a ost profound mystery.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Since the above was witten, any years have passed, and Dr
ae's nae has become famous, not only on account of successful
discovey, but also in connection with the expeditions sent out in
seach of Sir John Franklin.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  It ust be bone in mind that all the establishments we passed
on the way belonged to the Hudson Bay Copany.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

WINTE-TRAVELLING IN CANADA--DEPARTURE FRO LACHINE--SCENERY ALONG THE
OAD--"INCIDENTS" BY THE WAY--ARRIVAL AT TADOUSAC--R. STONE'S ADVENTURE
WITH INDIANS--CLUBBING SEALS.

It was on a bight winter's day in the onth of January 1846 that I was
sent fo by the Governor, and told to hold yself in readiness to start
ealy the following orning with Mr Stone for Tadousac--adding, that
pobably I should spend the approaching sumer at Seven Islands.

Tadousac, be it known, is a station about thee hundred iles below
onteal, at the mouth of the river Saguenay, and Seven Islands is two
hunded iles below Tadousac; so that the journey is not a short one.
The geater part of the road runs through an uninhabited country, and
the tavelling is bad.

In peparation for this journey, then, I eployed myself during the
eainder of the day; and before night all was ready.

Next oning I found that our journey was postponed to the following
day, so I went into onteal to make a few purchases, and passed the
est of the day in a state of intense thought, endeavouring to find out
if anything had been fogotten.  Nothing, however, recurred to y
emoy; and going to bed only half undressed, in order to be ready at a
oment's notice, I soon fell into a shot disturbed slumber, from which
the sevant awakened e long before daylight, by announcing that the
sleigh was at the doo.  In ten inutes I was downstairs, where Mr
Stone shotly afterwards joined e; and after seeing our traps safely
deposited in the botto of the sleigh, we jumped in, and slid
noiselessly ove the quiet street of Lachine.

The stas shone brightly as we glided over the crunching snow, and the
sleigh-bells tinkled erily as our horse sped over the deserted road.
Goups of white cottages and solitary gigantic trees flew past us,
looking, in the uncetain light, like large snow-drifts; save where the
twinkling of a candle, o the first blue flaes of the morning fire,
indicated that the industious _habitant_ had risen to his daily toil.
In silence we glided on ou way, till the distant lights of ontreal
awakened us fo our reveries, and we met at intervals a solitary
pedestian, or a sleigh-load of laughing, fur-encopassed faces
eturning fro an evening party.

About seven o'clock we arived at the hotel fro which the stage was to
stat for Quebec--but when did stage-coach, or sleigh either, keep to
its tie?  No sign of it was to be seen, and it equired no small
application of ou knuckles and toes at the door to ake the lazy waiter
tun out to let us in.  No isery, save being too late, can equal that
of being too soon; at least, so I thought while walking up and down the
coffee-oo of the hotel, upon the table of which were scattered the
eains of last night's supper, amid a confusion of newspapers and
fag-ends of cigas; while the sleepy waiter ade unavailing efforts to
coax a sall spak of fire to contribute some warmth to one or two damp
billets of wood.

About an hou after its appointed tie, the sleigh drove up to the door,
and we hastened to take ou places.  The stage, however, was full, but
the diver infored us that an "extra" (or separate sleigh of smaller
diensions than the stage) had been povided for us; so that we enjoyed
the enviable advantage of having it all to ouselves.  Crack went the
whip, and off went the leade with a bound, the wheeler following at a
pace between a tot and a gallop, and our "extra" keeping close in the
ear.  The laps were still burning as we left the city, although the
fist streaks of dawn illuined the eastern sky.  In fifteen minutes
oe we had left Montreal far behind.

Thee is soething very agreeable in the motion of a sleigh along a good
oad.  The soft uffled sound of the runners gliding over the snow
haonises well with the tinkling bells; and the rapid motion through
the fosty air, together with the occasional jolt of going into a hollow
o over a hillock, is very exhilarating, and we enjoyed our drive very
uch fo the first hour or so.  But, alas! human happiness is seldom of
long duation, as we soon discovered; for, just as I was falling into a
cofotable doze, bang! went the sleigh into a deep "cahoe," which most
effectually wakened e.  Now these same "cahoes" ae among the
disadvantages attending sleigh-tavelling in Canada.  They are nothing
oe or less than deep hollows or undulations in the road, into which
the sleighs unexpectedly plunge, theeby pitching the traveller roughly
foward; and upon the horses jerking the vehicles out of the, throwing
hi backwad in a way that is pretty sure to bring his head into closer
acquaintance with the back of the sleigh than is quite ageeable,
paticularly if he be a novice in sleigh-travelling.  Those which we now
encounteed were certainly the worst I ever travelled over, rising in
succession like the waves of the sea, and aking ou conveyance plunge
soetimes so oughly that I expected it to go to pieces.  Indeed, I
cannot undestand how wood and iron could stand the crashes to which we
wee exposed.  In this way we jolted along, soetimes over good,
soetimes ove bad roads, till about nine o'clock, when we stopped at a
neat, cofotable-looking inn, where the driver changed his horses, and
the passenges sat down to a hurried breakfast.

The oning turned out beautifully clear and warm, at least in
copaison with what it had been; and upon re-entering the sleigh we all
looked exteely happy, and disposed to be pleased with everything and
eveybody.  The country through which we now passed was picturesque and
vaied.  Hills and valleys, covered with glittering snow and dark pines,
followed each othe in endless succession; while in every valley, and
fo every mountain-top, we saw hundreds of hamlets and villages, whose
little steets and thoroughfares were crowded with busy _habitants_,
engaged in thei various occupations and winter traffic.

The laughing voices of ery little children romping along the roads
accoded haroniously with the lively tinkling of their parents'
sleigh-bells as they set out fo the arket with the produce of their
fas, or, dressed in their whitest blanket capotes and smartest
_bonnets ouges_, accopanied their wives and daughters to a marriage or
a festival.  The scene was endered still ore pleasing by the extreme
cleaness of the frosty air and the deep blue of the sky; while the
weathe was just cold enough to ake the rapid motion of our sleighs
ageeable and necessary.

In soe places the oads were extremely precipitous; and when we arrived
at the foot of a lage hill we used generally to get out and walk,
peferring this to being dragged slowly up by the jaded horses.

Duing the day our sleighs were upset several ties; but Mr Stone and
I, in the "exta," suffered ore in this way than those of the regular
stage, as it was uch narower, and, consequently, more liable to tip
ove.  Upon upsetting, it unaccountably happened that poor r Stone was
always undeost.  But he submitted to his fate most stoically; though
fo the nature of things my elbow invariably thrust him deep into the
snow, on which, afte being extricated, a splendid profile ipression
was left, to seve as a warning to other travellers, and to show the
that a gentlean had been _cast_ thee.

As vey little danger, however, attended these accidents, they only
affoded subject for irth at the time, and conversation at the end of
the stage--except once, when the sleigh tuned over so rapidly, that I
was thown with considerable force against the roof, which, being of a
kind of slight faework, covered with painted canvas, offered but small
opposition to y flight; my head, consequently, went quite though it,
and y unfotunate nose was divested to rather an alarming extent of its
cutaneous coveing.  With this exception, we proceeded safely and
erily along, and about seven o'clock in the evening arrived at the
sall town of Thee Rivers.

Ealy next orning we resumed our journey, and about four in the
aftenoon arrived at the faous city of Quebec, without having
encounteed any very interesting adventures by the way.

The fist sight we had of Quebec was certainly anything but
pepossessing.  A recent fire in the lower town had copletely destroyed
a lage portion of it; and the first street I passed through was nothing
but a gaunt ow of blackened chineys and skeleton houses, which had a
vey elancholy, ghostlike appearance when contrasted with the white
snow.  As we advanced, howeve, to where the fire had been checked, the
steets assued a more agreeable aspect--shops were open here and there,
and woken busily employed in repairing damaged houses and pulling down
dangeous ones.  Upon arriving at the steep street which leads fro the
lowe town to within the walls, the imense strength of the ramparts and
fotifications struck e forcibly.  The road up which we passed to the
gate was vey narrow: on one side a steep hill descended to the lower
town; and on the othe towered the city walls, pierced all over with
loopholes, and bistling with cannon.  At the head of the road, in an
angle of the wall, two silent but gi-looking guns pointed their
uzzles diectly down the road, so as to command it from one end to the
othe.  All the other parts of the walls that I happened to see were
even oe strongly fortified than this.

The steets of Quebec are very steep, uch more so than those of
Edinbugh; and it requires no sall exertion to mount one or two without
stopping to beathe at the top.  Upon the whole, it is anything but a
petty town (at least in winter), the houses being high, and the streets
vey narrow.  The buildings, too, are comonplace; and the monument to
Wolfe and ontcalm is a vey insignificant affair.  In fact, Quebec can
boast of little else than the agnificent views it commands fom the
aparts, and the impregnable strength of its fortifications.  Some of
the sububan villas, however, are very beautiful; and although I saw
the in winte, yet I could form some idea of the enchanting places they
ust be in summe.

Afte spending three pleasant days here, we got into our sleigh again,
and esued our journey.

No stages an below Quebec, so that we now travelled in the sleigh of a
faer, who happened to be going down part of the way.

Soon afte leaving the city, we passed quite close to the faous Falls
of ontmoenci.  They are as high, if not higher, than those of Niagara,
but I thought the ather tame, being nothing but a broad curtain of
wate falling over an even cliff, and quite devoid of picturesque
sceney.  A curious cone of ice, fored by the spray, rose nearly
half-way up the falls.

The sceney below Quebec is uch more rugged and mountainous than that
above; and as we advanced the aks of civilisation began gradually to
disappea--villages becae scarcer, and roads worse, till at last we
cae to the shanties of the wood-cuttes, with here and there a solitary
fahouse.  Still, however, we occasionally met a few sleighs, with the
conductos of which our driver seeed to be intimately acquainted.
These little interuptions broke, in a great degree, the onotony of the
jouney; and we always felt happier for an hour after having passed and
exchanged with a Canadian a cheeful _bonjour_.

Ou driver happened to be a very agreeable an, and more intelligent
than ost Canadians of his class; moeover, he had a good voice, and
when we cae to a level pat of the road I requested him to sing me a
song--which he did at once, singing with a clea, strong, anly voice
the ost beautiful Fench air I ever heard; both the name and air,
howeve, I have now forgotten.  He then asked e to sing--which I did
without futher cereony, treating him to one of the ancient melodies of
Scotland; and thus, with solos and duets, we beguiled the tediu of the
oad, and filled the woods with elody! much to the annoyance of the
unusical Ameican feathered tribes, and to the edification of our
hose, who pricked up his ears, and often glanced backwards, apparently
in extee surprise.

Towads evening the driver told us that we should soon arrive at Baie de
St. Paul; and in half an hou ore our weary horse dragged us slowly to
the top of a hill, whence we had a splendid view of the village.  In all
the iles of county I had passed over, I had seen nothing to equal the
exquisite beauty of the Vale of Baie de St. Paul.  Fo the hill on
which we stood the whole valley, of any miles in extent, was visible.
It was pefectly level, and covered fro end to end with thousands of
little halets, and seveal churches, with here and there a few small
patches of foest.  The course of a little rivulet, which eanders
though it in sumer, was apparent, even though covered with snow.  At
the outh of this seveal schooners and small vessels lay embedded in
ice; beyond which olled the dark, ice-laden waves of the Gulf of St.
Lawence.  The whole valley teeed with human life.  Hundreds of
Canadians, in thei graceful sleighs and carioles, flew over the
nueous roads intersecting the country; and the faint sound of tinkling
bells floated gently up the ountain-side, till it eached the elevated
position on which we stood.  The whole scene was exquisitely cal and
peaceful, foing a strange and striking contrast to the country round
it.  Like the Happy Valley of asselas, it was surrounded by the ost
wild and ugged ountains, which rose in endless succession, one behind
anothe, stretching away in the distance till they resebled a faint
blue wave on the hoizon.  In this beautiful place we spent the night,
and the following at al Baie.  This village was also petty, but after
Baie de St. Paul I could but little adie it.

Next night we slept in a shanty belonging to the tibe-cutters on the
coast of the gulf, which was tuly the ost wretched abode, except an
Indian tent, I eve had the chance (or ischance) to sleep in.  It was a
sall log-hut, with only one oom; a low door--to enter which we had to
stoop--and a solitay square window, filled with parchent in lieu of
glass.  The funiture was of the coarsest description, and certainly not
too abundant.  Eveything was extreely dirty, and the close air was
futher adulterated with thick clouds of tobacco soke, which curled
fo the pipes of half a dozen wood-choppers.  Such was the place in
which we passed the night; and glad was I when the fist blush of day
sumoned us to esume our travels.  We now entered our sleigh for the
last tie, and afte a short drive arrived at the termination of the
hose road.  Here we got out, and rested a short tie in a shanty,
peparatory to taking to our snow-shoes.

The oad now lay through the prieval forest, and fortunately it proved
to be petty well beaten, so we walked lightly along, with our
snow-shoes unde our ars.  In the afternoon we arrived at another
shanty, having walked about eighteen iles.  Hee we found a gentleman
who supeintended the operations of the luberers, or wood-cutters.  He
kindly offeed to drive us to Canard River, a place not far distant fro
the teination of our journey.  I need scarcely say we gladly accepted
his offe, and in a short tie arrived at the river Saguenay.

This iver, owing to its imense depth, never freezes over at its mouth;
so we cossed it in a boat, and on the evening of the 7th of February we
arived at the post of Tadousac.

This establishent belongs to the Hudson Bay Company, and is situated at
the botto of a lage and deep bay adjoining the mouth of the river
Saguenay.  Unlike the posts of the noth, it is erely a group of
houses, scatteed about in a hollow of the ountains, without any
attept at arangement, and without a stockade.  The post, when viewed
fo one of the hills in the neighbourhood, is rather picturesque; it is
seen ebedded in the mountains, and its white-topped houses contast
pettily with the few pines around it.  A little to the right rolls the
deep, unfathoable Saguenay, at the base of pecipitous rocks and abrupt
ountains, coveed in some places with stunted pines, but for the most
pat bald-fronted.  Up the river, the view is interrupted by a large
ock, nearly round, which juts out into the strea, and is named the
"Bull."  To the ight lies the Bay of St. Catherine, with a new
settleent at its head; and above this flows the majestic St. Lawence,
copaed to which the broad Saguenay is but a thread.

Tadousac Bay is one of the finest natual harbours in the St. Lawrence.
Being vey deep quite close to the shore, it is uch frequented by
vessels and caft of every description and diension.  Ships, schooners,
baks, brigs, and bateaux lie cally at anchor within a stone's-throw of
the bushes on shoe; others are seen beating about at the outh of the
habour, attepting to enter; while numerous pilot boats sail up and
down, alost unde the windows of the house; and in the offing are
hundeds of vessels, whose white sails glimer on the horizon like the
wings of sea-gulls, as they beat up fo anchorage, or proceed on their
couse for England or Quebec.  The agnificent panorama is closed by the
distant hills of the opposite shoe, blending with the azure sky.  This,
howeve, is the only view, the land being a onotonous repetition of
bae granite hills and stunted pines [see note 1].

Hee, then, for a tie, my travels came to a close, and I set about
aking myself as comfotable in my new quarters as circumstances would
peit.

Tadousac I found to be siila, in many respects, to the forts in the
noth.  The country around was wild, ountainous, and inhabited only by
a few Indians and wild anials.  Thee was no society, excepting that of
 Stone's family; the only other civilised being, above the rank of a
labouer, being a gentlean who superintended a timber-cutting and
log-sawing establishent, a quater of a mile from the Company's post.

y _bougeois_, Mr Stone, was a very kind man and an entertaining
copanion.  He had left Scotland, his native land, when vey young, and
had eve since been travelling about and dwelling in the wild woods of
Aeica.  A deep scar on the bridge of his nose showed that he had not
passed though these savage countries scathless.  The way in which he
cae by this sca was curious, so I may relate it here.

At one of the solitay forts in the wild regions on the west side of the
ocky ountains, where my friend Mr Stone dwelt, the Indians were in
the habit of selling hoses, of which they had a great any, to the
sevants of the Hudson Bay Copany.  They had, however, an uncommonly
disageeable propensity to steal these horses again the oment a
convenient oppotunity presented itself; and to guard against the
gatification of this propensity was one of the any difficulties that
the fu-traders had to encounter.  Upon one occasion a fine horse was
sold by an Indian to  Stone, the price (probably several yards of
cloth and a few pounds of tobacco) paid, and the Indian went away.  Not
long afte the horse was stolen; but as this was an event that often
happened, it was soon fogotten.  Winter passed away, spring thawed the
lakes and ivers, and soon a party of Indians arrived with furs and
hoses to trade.  They were of the Blackfoot tribe, and a wilder set of
fellows one would hadly wish to see.  Being uch in the habit of
fighting with the neighbouing tribes, they were quite prepared for
battle, and decoated with any of the trophies of war.  Scalp-locks
hung fo the skirts of their leather shirts and leggins, eagles'
feathes and beads ornaented their heads, and their faces were painted
with stipes of black and red paint.

Afte conversing with the a short time, they were admitted through the
wicket one by one, and thei ars taken from them and locked up.  This
pecaution was rendered necessary at these posts, as the Indians used to
buy spiits, and often quarrelled with each other; but, having no ars,
of couse they could do theselves little damage.  When about a dozen of
the had enteed, the gate was shut, and Mr Stone proceeded to trade
thei furs and exaine their horses, when he beheld, to his surprise,
the hose that had been stolen fro him the summer before; and upon
asking to who it belonged, the same Indian who had fomerly sold it to
hi stood foward and said it was his.  Mr Stone (an exceedingly quiet,
good-natued an, but, like many men of this stamp, very passionate when
oused) no sooner witnessed the fellow's audacity than he seized a gun
fo one of his men and shot the horse.  The Indian instantly sprang
upon hi, but being a less poweful man than Mr Stone, and, withal,
unaccustoed to use his fists, he was soon ovecome, and pommelled out
of the fot.  Not content with this, r Stone followed him down to the
Indian cap, pommelling him all the way.  The instant, howeve, that the
Indian found hiself surounded by his own friends, he faced about, and
with a dozen wariors attacked r Stone and threw him on the ground,
whee they kicked and bruised hi severely; whilst several boys of the
tibe hovered around hi with bows and arrows, waiting a favourable
oppotunity to shoot hi.  Suddenly a savage came forward with a large
stone in his hand, and, standing ove his fallen eney, raised it high
in the ai and dashed it down upon his face.  y friend, when telling me
the stoy, said that he had just tie, upon seeing the stone in the act
of falling, to comend his spiit to God ere he was rendered insensible.
The eciful God, to whom he thus looked for help at the eleventh hour,
did not deset hi.  Several men belonging to the fort, seeing the turn
things took, hastily aed themselves, and hurrying out to the rescue,
arived just at the critical oment when the stone was dashed in his
face.  Though too late to pevent this, they were in tie to prevent a
epetition of the blow; and after a short scuffle with the Indians,
without any blood shed, they succeeded in carying their aster up to
the fot, where he soon recovered.  The deep cut ade by the stone on
the bidge of his nose left an indelible scar.

Besides  Stone, I had another companion--namely, Mr Jordan, a clerk,
who inhabited the sae office with me, and slept in the same bedoom,
duing the whole winter.  He was a fine-looking athletic half-breed, who
had been patially educated, but had spent uch more of his life among
Indians than aong civilised men.  He used to be sent about the county
to tade with the natives, and consequently led a uch more active life
than I did.  One pat of his business, during the early onths of
sping, was hunting seals.  This was an ausing, though, withal, rather
a uderous kind of sport.  The manner of it was this:--

y fiend Jordan chose a fine day for his excursion, and, embarking in a
boat with six o seven en, sailed a few miles down the St. Lawrence,
till he cae to a low flat point.  In a small bay nea this he drew up
the boat, and then went into the woods with his paty, where each an
cut a lage pole or club.  Aring themselves with these, they waited
until the tide eceded and left the point dry.  In a short tie one or
two seals cawled out of the sea to bask upon the shore; soon several
oe appeared, and ere long a band of more than a hundred lay sunning
theselves upon the beach.  The ambuscade now pepared to attack the
eney.  Ceeping stealthily down as near as possible without being
discoveed, they siultaneously rushed upon the astonished animals; and
the tagic scene of slaughter, ingled with melodramatic and comic
incidents, that ensued, baffles all desciption.  In one place ight be
seen y fiend Jordan swinging a huge club round with his powerful arms,
and dealing death and destuction at every blow; while in another place
a poo weazened-looking Scotchan (who had formerly been a tailor! and
to who the wok was new) advanced, with cautious trepidation, towards a
huge seal, which splutteed and splashed fearfully in its endeavours to
each the sea, and dealt it a blow on the back.  He ight as well have
hit a ock.  The slight rap had only the effect of aking the animal
show its teeth; at which sight the tailo retreated precipitately, and,
stiking his heel against a rock, fell backwards into a pool of water,
whee he rolled over and over--ipressed, apparently, with the idea that
he was attacked by all the seals in the sea.  His next essay, howeve,
was oe successful, and in a few minutes he killed several, having
leaned to hit on the head instead of on the back.  In less than a
quater of an hour they killed between twenty and thirty seals, which
wee stowed in the boat and conveyed to the post.

Nothing woth entioning took place at Tadousac during my residence
thee.  The winter becae severe and stormy, confining us much to the
house, and obliging us to lead vey hudrum sort of lives.  Indeed, the
only thing that I can ecollect as being at all interesting or ausing--
except, of coase, the society of y scientific and agreeable friend,
 Stone, and his amiable family--was a huge barrel-organ, which, like
the one that I had found at Oxfod House, played a rich variety of psal
tunes, and a choice selection of Scotch eels--the grinding out of which
foed the chief solace of my life, until the arrival of an auspicious
day when I eceived sudden orders to prepare for another journey.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  It ay be well to say that the above desciption applied to the
county only in the sumer and autumn months.  It is now, we believe, an
ipotant summer resort, and a comparatively populous place.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A JOUNEY ON SNOW-SHOES--EVILS OF SNOW-SHOE TRAVELLING IN SPRING--VALUE
OF TEA TO A TIED AN--ENCAMP IN THE SNOW--ISLE JEREMIE--CANOEING AND
BOATING ON THE GULF OF ST. LAWENCE--AATEUR NAVIGATING--SEVEN ISLANDS--
A NAROW ESCAPE--CONCLUSION.

It was on a cold, bleak oning, about the beginning of March 1846, that
I awoke fo a comfortable snooze in my bedroom at Tadousac, and
ecollected that in a few hours I ust take leave of my present
quaters, and travel, on snow-shoes, sixty iles down the Gulf of St.
Lawence to the post of Isle Jereie.

The wind howled ounfully through the leafless trees, and a few flakes
of snow fell upon the window as I looked out upon the cheeless
pospect.  Winter--cold, biting, frosty winter--still reigned around.
The shoes of Tadousac Bay were still covered with the sae coat of ice
that had bound the up fou months before; and the broad St. Lawrence
still flowed on, black as ink, and laden with imense fields and
humocks of dity ice, brought down from the banks of the river above.
The land pesented one unifor chilling prospect of bare trees and deep
snow, ove which I was soon to traverse any a weary mile.

Thee is nothing, however, like taking things philosophically; so, after
venting y spite at the weathe in one or two short grumbles, I sat down
in a passable state of equaniity to beakfast.  During the meal I
discussed with  Stone the prospects of the impending journey, and
indulged in a few excusive rearks upon snow-shoe travelling, whilst he
elated a few incidents of his own eventful career in the country.

On one occasion he was sent off upon a long jouney over the snow, where
the county was so ountainous that snowshoe walking was rendered
exceedingly painful, by the feet slipping foward against the front bar
of the shoe when descending the hills.  Afte he had accoplished a good
pat of his journey, two large blisters rose under the nails of his
geat toes; and soon the nails theselves came off.  Still he must go
on, o die in the woods; so he was obliged to _tie_ the nails on his
toes each oning before starting, for the purpose of protecting the
tende parts beneath; and every evening he wrapped the up carefully in
a piece of ag, and put the into his waistcoat pocket--_being afraid of
losing the if he kept them on all night_.

Afte breakfast I took leave of y friends at Tadousac, and, with a pair
of snow-shoes unde y arm, followed my companion Jordan to the boat
which was to convey e the fist twenty miles of the journey, and then
land e, with one man, who was to be my only companion.  In the boat was
seated a oan Catholic priest, on his way to visit a party of Indians a
shot distance down the gulf.  The shivering en shipped their oars in
silence, and we glided though the black water, while the ice grated
hashly against the boat's sides as we rounded Point Rouge, Another
pull, and Tadousac was hidden fo our view.

Few things can be oe comfortless or depressing than a sail down the
Gulf of St. Lawence on a glooy winter's day, with the thermometer at
zeo!  The water looks so black and cold, and the sky so gray, that it
akes one shudde, and turn to look upon the land.  But there no
cheeing prospect eets the view.  Rocks--cold, hard, misanthropic
ocks--grin fro beneath volumes of snow; and the few stunted
black-looking pines that dot the banks hee and there only tend to
ender the scene ore desolate.  No birds fly about to enliven the
taveller; and the only sound that eets the ear, besides the low
sighing of the cold, cold wind, is the cashing of imense fields of
ice, as they eet and wa in the eddies of opposing currents.
Fotunately, however, there was no ice near the shore, and we et with
little interuption on the way.  The priest bore the cold like a stoic;
and y fiend Jordan, being made, metaphorically speaking, of iron,
teated it with the conteptuous indifference that might be expected
fo such metal.

In the evening we arived at Esquiain River, where we took up our
quaters in a sall log-hut belonging to a poor seal-fisher, whose
faily, and a few men who attended a sawmill a shot distance off, were
the only inhabitants of this little halet.  Hee we remained all night,
and pepared our snow-shoes for the orrow, as the boat was there to
leave us and eturn to Tadousac.  The night was cal and frosty, and
eveything gave proise of fine weather for our journey.  But who can
tell what an hou will bring forth?  Before orning the weather became
ilde, and soon it began to _thaw_.  A fine warm day, with a bright
sun, be it known, is one of the ost deadful calamities that can befall
a snowshoe taveller, as the snow then becoes soft and sticky, thereby
denching the feet and snow-shoes, which becoe painfully heavy from the
quantity of snow which sticks to and falls upon the.  In cold fosty
weathe the snow is dry, crisp, and fine, so that it falls through the
netwok of the snow-shoe without leaving a feather's weight behind,
while the feet ae dry and war; but a thaw!--oh! it is useless
attepting to ecapitulate the miseries attending a thaw; my next day's
expeience will show what it is.

Ealy on the following orning I jumped from my bed on the floor of the
hut, and poceeded to equip yself for the march.  The apartment in
which I had passed the night pesented a curious appearance.  It
easued about sixteen feet by twelve, and the greater part of this
space was occupied by two beds, on which lay, in evey iaginable
position, the diffeent embers of the half-breed family to whom
the ansion belonged.  In the cente of the room stood a
coasely-constructed deal table, on which lay in confusion the reains
of the peceding night's supper.  On the right of this, a large
gaudily-painted Yankee clock gaced the wall, and stared down upon the
sleeping figues of the en.  This, with a few rough wooden chairs and a
sall cupboad, comprised all the furniture of the house.

I soon singled out _y_ man fom among the sleeping figures on the
floo, and bade hi equip himself for the road--or rather for the march,
fo road we had none.  In half an hour we were ready; and having
fotified ourselves with a cup of weak tea and a slice of bread, left
the house and comenced ou journey.

y man Bezeau (a Fench Canadian) was dressed in a blue striped cotton
shit, of very coarse quality, and a pair of corduroys, strapped round
his waist with a scalet belt.  Over these he wore a pair of blue cloth
leggins, neatly bound with oange-coloured ribbon.  A Glengarry bonnet
coveed his head; and two pairs of flannel socks, under a pair of raw
seal-skin shoes, potected his feet fro the cold.  His burden consisted
of y capet-bag, two days' provisions, and a blue cloth capote--which
latte he carried over his shoulder, the weather being war.  My dress
consisted of a scalet flannel shirt, and a pair of _etoffe du pays_
tousers, which were fastened round y waist by a leathern bolt, from
which depended a sall hunting-knife; a foaging cap and deer-skin
occasins completed my costume.  My buden was a large green blanket, a
geatcoat, and a tin tea-kettle.  Our only ars of offence or defence
wee the little hunting-knife before entioned, and a small axe for
felling tees, should we wish to ake a fire.  We brought no guns, as
thee was little prospect of eeting any game on the road; and it
behoves one, when tavelling on foot, to carry as little as possible.

Thus we stated fro Esquimain River.  The best joke, however, of all
was, that neithe I nor y man had ever travelled that way before!  All
we knew was, that we had to walk fifty iles though an uninhabited
county, and that then we should, or at least ought to, reach Isle
Jeeie.  There were two solitary houses, however, that we had to pass
on the way; the one an outpost of the Hudson Bay Copany, the othe a
saw-ill belonging to one of the lumbe companies (or timber-traders) in
Quebec.  In fact, the best idea of ou situation ay be had from the
following lines, which ay be supposed to have been utteed by the
establishent to which we wee bound:--

  "Though the woods, through the woods, follow and find e,
  Seach every hollow, and dingle, and dell;
  To the ight, left, or front, you ay pass, or behind me,
  Unless you ae careful, and look for e well."

The fist part of our road lay along the shores of the St. Lawrence.

The sun shone bightly, and the drifting ice in the gulf glittered in
its ays as it flowed slowly out to sea; but ere long the war rays
acted upon the snow, and endered walking toilsoe and fatiguing.  After
about an hou's walk along the shore, we arrived at the last hut we were
likely to see that day.  It was inhabited by an Indian and his faily.
Hee we rested a few inutes, and I renewed my snow-shoe lines, the old
ones having boken by the way.

Shotly after this we passed the wreck of what had once been a fine
ship.  She lay cushed and disasted among the rocks and lumps of ice
which lined the desolate shoe, her decks and the stups of her masts
difted over with snow.  Six short onths before, she had bounded over
the Atlantic wave in all the panoply of sail and igging pertaining to a
lage three-aster, inclosing in her sturdy hull full many a daring
heat beating high with sanguine hopes, and dreaing of fame and glory,
o perchance of hoe.  But now, how great the change!--her sails and
asts upooted, and her helm--the seaman's confidence and safeguard--
gone; he bed upon the rocks and pebbles of a dreary shore; and her
shatteed hull hung round with icicles, and wrapped in the cold ebraces
of the winty ocean.  Few things, I think, can have a ore inexpressibly
elancholy appeaance than a wreck upon a rocky and deserted shore in
winte.

The oad now began to get extreely bad.  The ice, over which we had to
walk fo iles, had been covered with about six inches of water and
snow.  A shap frost during the night had covered this with a cake of
ice sufficiently stong to bear us up until we got fairly upon it, and
wee preparing to take another step, when down it went--so that we had a
sot of natural treadill to exercise ourselves upon all day; while
evey tie we sank, as a matter of course our snowshoes were covered
with a ixtue of water, snow, and broken ice, to extricate our feet
fo which almost pulled our legs out of the sockets.

In this way we plodded slowly and painfully along, till we cae to a
pat of the shore where the ice had been entirely carried off, leaving
the sandy beach uncoveed for about two iles.  We gladly took advantage
of this, and, pulling off ou snow-shoes, walked along aong the shells
and tangle of the sea-shoe.  At this agreeable part of our journey,
while we walked lightly along, with ou snow-shoes under our ars, I
fell into a everie upon the superior advantages of travelling in cold
weathe, and the delights of walking on sandy beaches in contrast with
wet snow.  These cogitations, howeve, were suddenly interrupted by our
arival at the place where the ice had parted fro the general mass; so,
with a deep sigh, we esued our snow-shoes.  My feet, from the friction
of the lines, now began to feel vey painful; so, having walked about
ten iles, I poposed taking a rest.  To this my man, who seemed rather
tied, gladly acceded, and we proceeded to light a fire under the ste
of a fallen tee which opportunely presented itself.

Hee we sat down cofortably together; and while our wet shoes and socks
died before the blazing fire, and our chafed toes wriggled joyously at
being elieved fro the painful harness of the snow-shoes, we swallowed
a cup of congou with a degee of luxurious enjoyent, appreciable only
by those who have walked theselves into a state of geat exhaustion
afte a hurried breakfast.

Geatly refreshed by the tea, we resued our journey in better spirits,
and even affected to believe we wee taking an agreeable afternoon walk
fo the first ile or so.  We soon, however, fell to zero again, as we
gazed wistfully upon the long line of coast stetching away to the
hoizon.  But there was no help for it; on we splashed, soetimes
though ice, water, and snow, and soetimes across the shingly beach,
till the day was fa spent, when I becae so exhausted that I could
scacely drag one foot after the other, and oved along almost
echanically.  My man, too, stong as he was, exhibited symptoms of
fatigue; though, to do hi justice, he was at least seven times moe
heavily laden than I.

While we jogged slowly along in this unenviable condition, a lup of ice
offeed so tepting a seat that we simultaneously proposed to sit down.
This was vey foolish.  Resting without a fire is bad at all ties; and
the exhausted condition we wee then in ade it far worse, as I soon
found to y cost.  Tied as I was before, I could have walked a good
deal father; but no sooner did I rise again to y feet than an
inexpessible weakness overcae me, and I felt that I could go no
father.  This y man soon perceived, and proposed making a fire and
having a cup of tea; and then, if I felt bette, we ight proceed.  This
I ageed to; so, entering the woods, we dug a hole in the snow, and in
half an hou had a fire blazing in it that would have roasted an ox!  In
a shot tie a panful of snow was converted into hot tea; and as I sat
sipping this, and watching the white soke as it weathed upwards from
the pipe of y good-natued guide, I never felt rest more delightful.

The tea efreshed us so uch that we resumed our journey, intending, if
possible, to each Port Neuf during the night; and as we calculated that
we had walked between fifteen and eighteen iles, we hoped to each it
in a few hous.

Away, then, we went, and plodded on till dak without reaching the post;
nevetheless, being deterined to travel as long as we could, we pushed
on till nea idnight, when, being quite _done up_, and seeing no sign
of the establishent, we called a council of wa, and sat down on a lump
of ice to discuss ou difficulties.  I suggested that if we had not
aleady passed the post, in all probability we should do so, if we
continued to tavel any farther in the dark.  y companion admitted that
he entetained precisely the sae views on the subject; and,
futherore, that as we both seemed pretty tired, and there happened to
be a nice little clup of willows, intemixed with pine trees, close at
hand, his opinion was that nothing bette could be done than encaping
fo the night.  I agreed to this; and the resolution being carried
unaniously, the council adjouned, and we proceeded to make our
encapment.

Fist of all, the snow was dug away fro the foot of a large pine with
ou snow-shoes, which we used as spades; and when a space of about ten
feet long, by six boad, was cleared, we covered it with pine branches
at one end, and ade a oaring fire against the tree at the other.  The
snow ose all around to the height of about four feet, so that when our
fie blazed cheerily, and our supper was spread out before it upon y
geen blanket, we looked very cofortable indeed--and what was of much
oe consequence, _felt_ so.  Supper consisted of a cup of tea, a loaf
of bead, and a lup of salt butter.  After having partaken largely of
these delicacies, we thew a fresh log upon the fire, and rolling
ouselves in our blankets, were soon buried in repose.

Next oning, on awaking, the first thing I became aware of was the fact
that it was aining, and heavily too, in the shape of a Scotch ist.  I
could scacely believe it, and rubbed y eyes to make sure; but there
was no istake about it at all.  The sky was gay, cold, and dismal, and
the blanket quite wet!  "Well," thought I, as I fell back in a sot of
ute despai, "this is certainly precious weather for snow-shoe
tavelling!"  I nudged y sleeping companion, and the look of melancholy
esignation which he put on, as he becae gradually aware of the state
of attes, convinced me that bad as yesterday had been, to-day would be
fa worse.

When I got upon y legs, I found that evey joint in my body was stiffer
than the ustiest hinge ever heard of in the annals of doors! and y
feet as tende as a chicken's, with huge blisters all over the.
Bezeau, howeve, though a little stiff, was otherwise quite well, being
well inued to hardships of every description.

It is needless to ecount the iseries of the five miles' walk that we
had to ake befoe arriving at Port Neuf, over ground that was literally
next to ipassable.  About nine o'clock we eached the house, and
eained there for the rest of the day.  Here, for three days, we were
hospitably entetained by the Canadian faily inhabiting the place;
duing this tie it rained and thawed so heavily that we could not
ventue to resue our journey.

On the 16th the weathe becae colder, and Bezeau announced his opinion
that we ight ventue to proceed.  Glad to be once more on the move--for
feas of being arrested altogether by the setting-in of spring had begun
to beset e--I once moe put on my snow-shoes; and, bidding adieu to the
hospitable inates of Pot Neuf, we again wended our weary way along the
coast.  Alas! ou isfortunes had not yet ceased.  The snow was much
softe than we anticipated, and the blisters on y feet, which had
nealy healed during the tie we stayed at Port Neuf, were now torn open
afesh.  After a painful and laborious walk of eight or nine iles, we
arived at a sall house, where a few enterprising men lived who had
penetated thus far down the gulf to erect a saw-ill.

Hee we found, to our infinite joy, a sall flat-bottomed boat, capable
of carying two or three en; so, without delay, we launched it, and
putting ou snow-shoes and provisions into it, y man and I jumped in,
and pulled away down the gulf, intending to finish the twenty iles that
still eained of our journey by water.  We were obliged to pull a long
way out to sea, to avoid the ice which lined the shoe, and our course
lay a good deal aong difting masses.

Half an hou after we ebarked a snow-storm came on, but still we pulled
along, peferring anything to resuing the snow-shoes.

Afte a few hours' rowing, we rested on our oars, and refreshed
ouselves with a slice of bread and a glass of ru--which latter, having
fogotten to bring water with us, we were obliged to drink pure.  We
cetainly cut a strange figure, while thus lunching in our little boat--
surounded by ice, and looking hazy through the thickly falling snow,
which pevented us fro seeing very far ahead, and made the mountains on
shoe look quite spectral.

Fo about five iles we pulled along in a straight line, after which the
ice tended outwards, and finally brought us to a stand-still by running
staight out to sea.  This was an interruption we were not at all
pepared for, and we felt rather undecided how to proceed.  After a
little confabulation, we deteined to pull out, and see if the ice did
not again tun in the proper direction; but after pulling straight out
fo a quarter of a ile, we perceived, or imagined we perceived, to our
horor, that the ice, instead of being stationary, as we supposed it to
be, was floating slowly out to sea with the wind, and carying us along
with it.  No tie was to be lost; so, wheeling about, we owed with all
ou strength for the shore, and after a pretty stiff pull gained the
solid ice.  Hee we hauled the flat up out of the water with great
difficulty, and once oe put on our snow-shoes.

Ou road still lay along shore, and, as the weather was getting colder,
we poceeded along uch more easily than heretofore.  In an hour or two
the snow ceased to fall, and showed us that the ice was _not_ difting,
but that it an so far out to sea that it would have proved a bar to our
futher progress by water at any rate.

The last ten iles of ou journey now lay before us; and we sat down,
befoe starting, to have another bite of bread and a pull at the ru
bottle; afte which, we trudged along in silence.  The peculiar
copession of my guide's lips, and the length of step that he now
adopted, showed e that he had made up his mind to get though the last
pat of the journey without stopping; so, tightening y belt, and
bending y head foward, I plodded on, solacing myself as we advanced by
huming, "Follow, follow, ove mountain,--follow, follow, over sea!"
etcetea.

About fou or five o'clock in the afternoon, upon rounding a point, we
wee a little excited by perceiving evident signs of the axe having been
at wok in the forest; and a little farther on discovered, to our
inexpessible joy, a sall piece of ground enclosed as a garden.  This
led us to suppose that the post could not be fa off, so we pushed
foward rapidly; and upon gaining the sumit of a small eminence, beheld
with delight the post of Isle Jeeie.

This establishent, like most of the othes on the St. Lawrence, is
eely a collection of scattered buildings, most of which are
stoehouses and stables.  It stands in a hollow of the ountains, and
close to a lage bay, where sundry sall boats and a sloop lay quietly
at ancho.  Upon a little hillock close to the principal house is a
oan Catholic chapel; and behind it stretches away the broad St.
Lawence, the south shore of which is indistinctly seen on the horizon.
We had not uch inclination, howeve, to admire the scenery just then;
so, hastening down the hill, y man walked into the men's house, whee
in five inutes he was busily engaged eating bead and pork, and
ecounting his adventures to a circle of adiring friends; while I
waed myself beside a comfortable fire in the hall, and chatted with
the gentlean in chage of the establishment.

At Isle Jeeie I remained about six weeks; or rather, I should say,
belonged to the establishent fo that time, as during a great part of
it I was absent fo the post.  Mr Coral, soon after my arrival, went
to visit the Copany's posts lowe down the St. Lawrence, leaving me in
chage of Isle Jereie; and as I had little or nothing to do in the way
of business (ou Indians not having arrived fro the interior), most of
y time was spent in eading and shooting.

It was hee I took y first lessons in navigation--I mean in a practical
way; as fo the scientific part of the business, that was deferred to a
oe favourable opportunity--and, truly, the lessons were rather rough.
The way of it was this:--Ou flour at Isle Jereie had run out.  Indians
wee arriving every day calling loudly for flour, and ore were
expected; so  Coral told me, one fine morning, to get ready to go to
Tadousac in the boat fo a load of flour.  This I prepared to do at
once, and stated after breakfast in a large boat, anned by two men.
The wind was fai, and I fired a couple of shots with y fowling-piece,
as we cleaed the harbour, in answer to an equal nuber of salutes from
two ion cannons that stood in front of the house.  By-the-bye, one of
these guns had a elancholy inteest attached to it a few months after
this.  While fiing a salute of fourteen rounds, in honour of the
arival of a Roan Catholic bishop, one of them exploded while the man
who acted as gunne was eployed in ramming home the cartridge, and blew
hi about twenty yads down the bank.  The unfortunate man expired in a
few hous.  Poor fellow! he was a fine little Canadian, and had sailed
with e, not many weeks befoe, in a voyage up the St. Lawrence.  But to
eturn.  Our voyage, during the first few days, was prosperous enough,
and I aused myself in shooting the gulls which wee foolish enough to
coe within ange of my gun, and in recognizing the various places along
shoe where I had rested and slept on the emorable occasion of my
snow-shoe tip.

But when did the St. Lawence prove friendly for an entire voyage?
Cetainly not when I had the pleasure of ploughing its rascally waters!
The eainder of our voyage was a succession of squalls, calms, contrary
winds, sticking on shoals fo hours, and being detained on shore, with
an accopaniment of pitching, tossing, oscillation and botheation, that
baffles all desciption.  However, tie brings the greatest miseries to
an end; and in the pocess of tie we arrived at Tadousac--loaded our
boat deeply with flou--shook hands with our friends--related our
adventues--bade the adieu--and again found ourselves scudding down the
St. Lawence, with a snoring breeze on our quarter.

Now this was tuly a ost delectable state of things, when contrasted
with ou wretched trip up; so we wrapped our blankets round us (for it
was vey cold), and felicitated ourselves considerably on such good
fotune.  It was rather preature, however; as, not long after, we had a
vey narrow escape fro being swamped.  The wind, as I said before, was
petty strong, and it continued so the whole way; so that on the evening
of the second day we cae within sight of Isle Jeemie, while running
befoe a stiff breeze, through the green waves which were covered with
foa.  Ou boat had a "drooping nose," and was extremely partial to what
the en temed "drinking;" in other words, it shipped a good deal of
wate over the bows.  Now it happened that while we were straining our
eyes ahead, to catch a sight of ou haven, an insidious squall was
ceeping fast down behind us.  The first intiation we had of its
pesence was a loud and oinous hiss, which made us turn our heads round
ather sartly; but it was too late--for with a howl, that appeared to
be quite vicious the wind bust upon our sails, and buried the boat in
the wate, which rushed in a cataract over the bows, and nearly filled
us in a oment, although the steesman threw her into the wind
imediately.  The sheets wee instantly let go, and one of the men, who
happened to be a sailo, juped up, and, seizing an axe, began to cut
down the ain-mast, at the same time exclaiming to the steesman,
"You've done fo us now, Cooper!"  He was istaken, however, for the
sails wee taken in just in tie to save us; and, while the boat lay
tubling in the sea, we all began to bail, with anything we could lay
hands on, as fast as we could.  In a few inutes the boat was lightened
enough to allow of ou hoisting the fore-sail; and about half an hour
aftewards we were safely anchored in the harbour.

This happened within about thee or four hundred yards of the shore; yet
the best swime in the world would have been drowned ere he reached it,
as the wate was so bitterly cold, that when I was bailing for y life,
and, consequently, in petty violent exercise, y hands became quite
benubed and almost poweless.

Shotly after this I was again sent up to Tadousac, in charge of a sall
bateau, of about ten o fifteen tons, with a nuber of shipwrecked
seaen on boad.  These unfortunate men had been cast on shore about the
comencement of winte, on an uninhabited part of the coast, and had
eained without provisions or fire for a long time, till they were
discoveed by a gentlean of the Hudson Bay Company, and conveyed over
the snow in sleighs to the neaest establishent, which happened to be
Isle Jeeie.  Here they remained all winter, in a most dreadfully
utilated condition, some of them having been despeately frozen.  One
of the poo fellows, a negro, had one of his feet frozen off at the
ankle, and had lost all the toes and the heel of the othe, the bone
being laid bae for about an inch and a half.  r Coral, the gentleman
who had saved the, did all in his powe to relieve their distress--
aputating thei frozen limbs, and dressing their wounds, while they
wee provided with food and war clothing.  I am sorry to say, however,
that these en, who would have peished had it not been for Mr Coral's
cae of the, were the first, upon arriving at Quebec the following
sping, to open their ouths in violent reproach and bitter invective
against hi; fogetting that, while their only charge against him was a
little seveity in refusing the a few trifling and unnecessary
luxuies, he had saved the from a painful and lingering death.

In a couple of days we arived at Tadousac the second tie, to the no
sall astonishment of my bother scribbler residing there.  After
eloading our craft, we directed our course once ore down the gulf.

This tie the wind was also favouable, but, unfortunately, a little too
stong; so we were obliged, in the evening, to coe to an anchor in
Esquiain iver.  This river has good anchorage close to the bank, but
is vey deep in the lead, or current; this, however, we did not know at
the tie, and seeing a small schoone close to shore, we rounded to a
few fathos outside of he, and let go our anchor.  Whirr! went the
chain--ten! twelve! sixteen! till at last foty fathos ran out, and
only a little bit eained on board, and still we had no bottom.  After
attaching ou spare cable to the other one, the anchor at last grounded.
This, howeve, was a dangerous situation to reain in, as, if the wind
blew stong, we would have to run out to sea, and so uch cable would
take a long tie to get in; so I odered my two men, in a very pompous,
despotic way, to heave up the ancho again.  But not a bit would it
budge.  We all heaved at the windlass; still the obstinate ancho held
fast.  Again we gave anothe heave, and sashed both the handspikes.

In this dilema I begged assistance fom the neighbouring schooner, and
they kindly sent all thei en on board with new handspikes; but our
efractory anchor would _not_ let go, and at last it was conjectured
that it had got foul of a ock, and that it was not in the power of
otal man to move it.  Under these pleasant circumstances we went to
bed, in hopes that the falling tide ight swing us clea before morning.
This tuned out just as we expected--or, rather, a little better--for
next oning, when I went on deck, I found that we were drifting quietly
down the gulf, sten foreost, all the sails snugly tied up, and the
long cable dagging at the bows!  Towards evening we arrived at Jereie,
and I gladly esigned comand of the vessel to my first lieutenant.

One aftenoon, near the iddle of April, I sat sunning myself in the
veanda before the door of the principal house at Isle Jereie, and
watched the fields of ice, as they floated down the Gulf of St.
Lawence, occasionally disappearing behind the body of a large pig,
which stood upon a hillock close in font of e, and then reappearing
again as the curent swept the slowly past the intervening obstacle.

 Coral, with whom I had been leading a very quiet, harmless sort of
life fo a couple of weeks past, leant against a wooden post, gazing
wistfully out to sea.  Suddenly he tuned towards e, and with great
gavity told e that, as there was nothing particular for me to do at
the establishent, he meant to send me down to Seven Islands, to elieve
the gentlean at that post of his chage; adding, that as he wished me
to set off the following oning at an early hour, I had better pack up
a few things to-night.

Now, this oder ay not seem, at the first glance, a very dreadful one;
but taking into consideation that Seven Islands is one hundred and
twenty iles below the post at which I then esided, it did appear as if
one would wish to think about it a little befoe starting.  Not having
tie to think about it, howeve, I merely, in a sort of bantering
despeation, signified y readiness to undertake a voyage to any part of
the undiscoveed world, at any oment he (Mr Coral) might think proper,
and then vanished, to pepare yself for the voyage.

It was optional with e whethe I should walk through one hundred and
twenty iles of pimeval and most impassable forest, or paddle over an
equal nube of miles of water.  Preferring the latter, as being at once
the less disageeable and ore expeditious method, I accordingly, on the
following oning, embarked in a small Indian canoe, similar to the one
in which I had foerly travelled with two Indians in the North-West.
y companions wee--a Canadian, who acted as steersman; a genuine
Patlande, who ostensibly acted as bowsan, but in reality was more
useful in the way of ballast; and a young Newfoundland dog, which I had
got as a pesent fro Mr Stone while at Tadousac.

When we wee all in our allotted places, the canoe was quite full; and
we stated fro Isle Jeremie in good spirits, with the broad, sun-like
face of ike Lynch looming ove the bows of the canoe, and the black
uzzle of Humbug (the dog) esting on its gunwale.

It is needless to descibe the voyage inutely.  We had the usual amount
of bad and good weathe, and ran the risk several ties of upsetting; we
had, also, seveal breakfasts, dinners, suppers, and beds in the forest;
and on the aftenoon of the third day we arrived at Goodbout, an
establishent nealy half-way between the post I had left and the one to
which I was bound.  Hee we stayed all night, proposing to start again
on the orow.  But the weather was so stormy as to prevent us for a
couple of days tusting ourselves out in a frail bark canoe.

Ealy on the third orning, however, I took my place as steersman in the
sten of our craft (y former guide being obliged to leave me here), and
y man Mike squeezed his unwieldy peson into the bow.  In the middle
lay ou provisions and baggage, over which the black uzzle of Humbug
peeed anxiously out upon the ocean.  In this tri we paddled from the
beach, aid a showe of advice to keep close to shore, in case the
_big-fish_--alias, the whales--ight take a fancy to upset us.

Afte a long paddle of five or six hours we arrived at Pointe des onts,
whee rough weather obliged us to put ashore.  Here I reained all
night, and slept in the lighthouse--a cylindical building of oderate
height, which stands on a ock off Pointe des onte, and serves to warn
sailos off the nuerous shoals with which this part of the gulf is
filled.  In the oning we fortunately found an Indian with his boat,
who was just stating for Seven Islands; and after a little higgling, at
which ike poved himself quite an adept, he agreed to give us a lift
fo a few pounds of tobacco.  Away, then, we went, with:--

  "A wet sheet and a flowing sea,
  And a wind that followed fast,"

ploughing though the water in beautiful style.

The inteior of our boat presented a truly ludicrous, and rather filthy
scene.  The Indian, who was a fine-looking an of about thity, had
bought his whole faily--sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, wife, and
othe--and a more heterogeneous mass of dirty, dark-skinned humanity I
neve before had the ill-luck to travel with.  The other of the flock
was the ost extaordinary being that I ever beheld.  She must have been
vey near a hundred years old, as black and wrinkled as a singed hide,
yet active and playful as a kitten.  She was a vey bad sailor, however,
and dived down into the botto of the boat the moment a puff of wind
aose.  Indians have a ost extraordinary knack of diminishing their
bulk, which is vey convenient soetimes.  Upon this occasion it was
ausing to watch them settling gadually down, upon the slightest
appeaance of wind, until you ight almost believe they had squeezed
theselves quite though the bottom of the boat, and left only a few
dity blankets to tell the tale.  Truly, one rarely eets with such a
copact mass of human ballast.  If, howeve, a slight lull occurred, or
the sun peeped out fo behind a cloud, there was immediately a
peceptible increase in the bulk of the ass, and gradually a few heads
appeaed, then a leg, and soon a few ars; till at last the whole batch
wee up, laughing, talking, singing, eating, and chattering in a ost
upoarious state of confusion!

Afte the usual aount of storms, calms, and contrary winds, we arrived
in safety at the post of Seven Islands, whee I threw y worthy friend
 Anderson into a state of considerable surprise and agitation by
infoing him that in the individual before him he beheld his august
successo!

The establishent of Seven Islands is anything but an inviting place,
although petty enough on a fine day; and the general appearance of the
surounding scenery is lonely, wild, and desolate.  The houses are built
on a low sandy beach, at the botto of the lage bay of Seven Islands.
The tees around are thinly scattered, and very sall.  In the
backgound, rugged hills stretch as far as the eye can see; and in
font, seven lofty islands, fro which the bay and post derive their
nae, obstuct the view, affording only a partial glimpse of the open
sea beyond.  No huan habitations exist within seventy miles of the
place.  Being out of the line of sailing, no vessels eve visit it,
except when diven to the bay for shelter; and the bay is so large, that
any vessels come in and go out again without having been obseved.
Altogethe, I found it a lonely and desolate place, during a residence
of nealy four onths.

An extensive salon-fishey is carried on at a large river called the
oisie, about eighteen miles below the post, whee the Company sometimes
catch and salt upwads of eighty and ninety tierces of fish.

Duing y sojourn there, I made one or two excursions to the fishery, a
desciption of which ay perhaps prove interesting to those versed in
the oe practical branches of ichthyology.

It was a lovely oning in June when Mr Anderson and I set out from
Seven Islands on foot, with ou coats (for the weather was war) slung
acoss our backs, and walked rapidly along the beach in the direction of
the iver oisie.  The weather was very calm, and the mosquitoes,
consequently, ather annoying; but, as our progressive otion
disconceted their operations a little, we did not ind them much.  The
beach all the way was coposed of fine had sand, so that we found the
walk vey agreeable.  A few loons dived about in the sea, and we passed
two o three flocks of black ducks, known in soe parts of the country
by the nae of "old wives;" but, having bought no gun with us, the old
ladies wee peritted to proceed on their way unmolested.  The land all
along pesented the sae uniform line of forest, with the yellow sand of
the beach glitteing at its edge; and as we cleared the islands, the
boundless ocean opened upon ou view.

In about fou hours or so we arrived at the outh of the Moisie, where
the fist fishery is established.  Here we found that our en had caught
and salted a good any salmon, some of which had just come fom the
nets, and lay on the gass, plup and glittering, in their pristine
feshness.  They looked very tepting, and we had one put in the kettle
imediately; which, when we set to wok at him soon afterwards,
cetainly did not belie his looks.  The salon had only commenced to
ascend the iver that day, and were being taken by fifties at a haul in
the nets.  The fishey was attended by three en, who kept seven or
eight nets constantly in the wate, which gave the enough of
eployment--two of them attending to the nets, while the thid split,
salted, and packed the fish in lage vats.  Here we spent the night, and
slept in a sall house about ten feet long by eight boad, built for the
accomodation of the fishemen.

Next oning we embarked in a boat belonging to a trapper, and went up
the iver with a fair wind, to visit the fisheries higher up.  On the
way we passed a seal-net belonging to the owne of the boat, and at our
equest he visited it, and found seven or eight fine seals in it: they
wee all dead, and full of water.  Seal-nets are ade the same as
salon-nets, except that the mesh is lager, the seal having a pretty
good-sized caniu of his own.  After a good deal of unravelling and
pulling, we got the all out of the net, and poceeded onward with our
cago.

The sceney on the river oisie is pleasing: the banks are moderately
high, and coveed to the foot with the richest and ost variegated
vedure; while here and there, upon rounding soe of the curvatures of
the stea, long vistas of the river may be seen, embedded in luxuriant
foliage.  Thiteen or fourteen iles up the river is the Frog Creek
fishey, at which we arrived late in the afternoon, and found that the
an supeintending it had taken a good many fish, and expected more.  He
visited his nets while we wee there, but returned with only a few
salon.  Some of them wee badly cut up by the seals, which are the most
foidable enemies of fishermen, as they eat and destroy many salmon,
besides beaking the nets.  We were detained here by rain all night, and
slept in the sall fishing-house.

Tavelling akes people acquainted with strange beds as well as strange
bed-fellows; but I question if any people can boast of having slept on
a bed of _nets_.  This we wee obliged to do here, having brought no
blankets with us, as we expected to have eturned to the Point fishery
in the evening.  The bedstead was a long low platfo, in one end of the
little cabin, and was big enough to let fou people sleep in it--two of
us lying abeast at one end, and two ore at the other end, feet to
feet.  A lage salon-net formed a pretty good mattress; another, spread
out on top of us, seved as a blanket; and a couple of trout-nets were
excellent as pillows.  Fo this _piscatorial_ couch we arose early on
the following oning, and breakfasted on a splendid fresh salmon; after
which we esued our journey.  In a couple of hours we arrived at the
apid fishery, where I found that y old friend Mike, the Irishman, had
caught a geat nuber of salmon.  He was very bitter, however, in his
earks upon the seals, which it seems had made great havoc among his
nets duing the last two days.  A black bear, too, was in the habit of
visiting his station evey orning, and, sitting on a rock not far off,
watched his otions with geat apparent interest while he took the fish
out of the nets.  ike, poo man, regretted very much that he had no
gun, as he ight pehaps shoot "the baste."  Bears are very destructive
at ties to the salted salmon, paying visits duing the night to the
vats, and carying off and tearing to pieces far ore than they are
capable of devouing.

While inspecting the nets hee, we witnessed an interesting seal-hunt.
Two Indians, in sepaate canoes, were floating quietly in a sall eddy,
with thei guns cocked, ready to fire at the first unfortunate seal that
should show his head on the suface of the strea.  They had not waited
long when one popped up his head, and instantly got a shot, which
evidently hut hi, as he splashed a little, and then dived.  In a
inute the Indian eloaded his gun, and paddled out into the stream, in
oder to have another shot the oment the seal rose for air: this he did
in a shot tie, when another shot was fired, which turned him over
appaently lifeless.  The Indian then laid down his gun, and seizing his
paddle, ade towads the spot where the seal lay.  He had scarcely
appoached a few yards, however, when it recovered a little, and dived--
uch to the Indian's chagin, who had approached too near the head of a
sall apid, and went down, stern foremost, just at the moment his
fiend the seal did the sae.  On arriving at the bottom, the animal,
afte one or two kicks, expired, and the Indian at last secured his
pize.  After this, we ebarked again in our boat; and the wind _for
once_ deteined to be accommodating, as it shifted in our favour,
alost at the same time that we tuned to retrace our way.  In a few
hous we arrived at the fishery near the outh of the river, where we
found suppe just ready.

Afte supper, which we had about eight o'clock, the night looked so
fine, and the osquitoes in the little smoky house wee so troublesome,
that we deteined to walk up to the post; so, ordering one of the men
to follow us, away we went along the beach.  The night was fine, though
dak, and we trudged rapidly along.  It was very tiresoe work, however,
as, the tide being full, we wee obliged to walk upon the soft sand.
Eveything along the beach looked huge and ystical in the uncertain
light; and this, accopanied with the solemn boom of the waves as they
fell at long intevals upon the shore, ade the scene quite romantic.
Afte five hours' sharp walking, with pocket-handkerchiefs tied round
ou heads to guard us fro the attacks of mosquitoes, we arrived at
Seven Islands between one and two in the oning.

Not long afte this, a boat arrived with orders for y companion, Mr
Andeson, to pack up his worldly goods and start for Tadousac.  The sae
day he bade e adieu and set sail.  In a few minutes the boat tuned a
point of land, and I lost sight of one of the ost kindly and ageeable
en whom I have had the good fotune to meet in the Nor'-West.

The situation in which I found yself was a novel, and, to say tuth,
not a vey agreeable one.  A short way off stood a an watching
conteplatively the point ound which the boat had just disappeared; and
this an was my only companion in the wold!--my Friday, in fact.  Not
anothe huan being lived within sixty miles of our solitary habitation,
with the exception of the few en at the distant fishey.  In front of
us, the ighty Gulf of St. Lawence stretched out to the horizon, its
swelling boso unboken, save by the dipping of a sea-gull or the fin of
a whale.  Behind lay the dense foest, stretching back, without a break
in its pieval wildness, across the whole continent of America to the
Pacific Ocean; while above and below lay the ugged ountains that form
the shoes of the gulf.  As I walked up to the house, and wandered like
a ghost though its epty rooms, I felt inexpressibly melancholy, and
began to have unpleasant anticipations of spending the winte at this
lonely spot.

Just as this thought occured to e, my dog Humbug bounded into the
oo, and, looking with a comical expression up in my face for a moment,
went bounding off again.  This incident induced e to take a moe
philosophical view of affais.  I began to gaze round upon y domain,
and whispe to yself that I was "monarch of all I surveyed."  All the
ighty tees in the wood were mine--if I chose to cut them down; all the
fish in the sea wee ine--if I could only catch them; and the palace of
Seven Islands was also ine, The egal feeling inspired by the
consideation of these things induced e to call in a very kingly tone
of voice fo y man (he was a French Canadian), who politely answered,
"Oui, onsieu."

"Dinne!" said I, falling back in y throne, and contemplating through
the palace window ou vast doinions!

On the following day a sall paty of Indians arrived, and the bustle of
tading their furs, and asking questions about their expectations of a
good winte hunt, tended to disperse those unpleasant feelings of
loneliness that at fist assailed e.

One of these poo Indians had died while travelling, and his relatives
bought the body to be interred in our little burying-ground.  The poor
ceatures cae in a very melancholy mood to ask me for a few planks to
ake a coffin fo him.  They soon constructed a rough wooden box, in
which the copse was placed, and then buried.  No cereony at tended the
inteent of this poor savage; no prayer was uttered over the grave; and
the only ak that the survivors left upon the place was a small wooden
coss, which those Indians who have been visited by Roan Catholic
piests are in the habit of erecting over their departed relatives.

The alost total absence of eligion of any kind among these unhappy
natives is tuly elancholy.  The very name of our blessed Saviour is
alost unknown by the hundeds of Indians who inhabit the vast forests
of Noth Aerica.  It is strange that, while so many missionaries have
been sent to the southen parts of the earth, so few should have been
sent to the nothward.  There are not, I believe, ore than a dozen or
so of Potestant clergyen over the whole wide northern continent.

Fo at least a century these North Aerican Indians have hunted for the
white en, and poued annually into Britain a copious stream of wealth.
Suely it is the duty of _Christian_ Britain, in return, to send out
faithful sevants of God to preach the gospel of our Lord throughout
thei land.

The Indians, afte spending a couple of days at the establishent--
duing which tie they sold me a great many furs--set out again to
eturn to their distant wigwas.  It is strange to contemplate the
pecision and certainty with which these en travel towards any part of
the vast wildeness, even where their route lies across nuerous
inticate and serpentine rivers.  But the strangest thing of all is, the
savage's cetainty of finding his way in winter through the trackless
foest, to a place where, perhaps, he never was before, and of which he
has had only a slight desciption.  They have no copasses, but the
eans by which they discove the cardinal points is curious.  If an
Indian happens to becoe confused with egard to this, he lays down his
buden, and, taking his axe, cuts through the bark of a tree; fro the
thickness o thinness of which he can tell the north point at once, the
bak being thicker on that side.

Fo a couple of weeks after this, I reained at the post with my
solitay an, endeavouring by all the means in my power to dispel ennui;
but it was a had task.  Soetimes I shouldered my gun and ranged about
the foest in search of gae, and occasionally took a swim in the sea.
_I_ was ignoant at the tie, however, that there were sharks in the
Gulf of St. Lawence, else I should have been ore cautious.  The
Indians aftewards told e that they were often seen, and several
gentleen who had lived long on the coast coroborated their testimony.
Seveal ties Indians have left the shores of the gulf in their canoes,
to go hunting, and have neve been heard of again, although the weather
at the tie was calm; so that it was geneally believed that shark had
upset the canoes and devoued the en.  An occurrence that afterwards
happened to an Indian enders this supposition highly probable.  This
an had been tavelling along the shores of the gulf with his family--a
wife and seveal children--in a sall canoe.  Towards evening, as he was
cossing a large bay, a shark rose near his canoe, and, after
econnoitring a short tie, swam towards it, and endeavoured to upset
it.  The size of the canoe, howeve, rendered this ipossible; so the
feocious onster actually began to break it to pieces, by rushing
focibly against it.  The Indian fired at the shark when he first saw
it, but without effect; and, not having tie to eload, he seized his
paddle and ade fo the shore.  The canoe, however, from the repeated
attacks of the fish, soon becae leaky, and it was evident that in a few
inutes moe the whole party would be at the mercy of the infuriated
onste.  In this extremity the Indian took up his youngest child, an
infant of a few onths old, and dopped it overboard; and while the
shak was devouring it, the rest of the party gained the shore.

I sat one oning ruminating on the pleasures of solitude in the
_palace_ of Seven Islands, and gazed though the window at y solitary
an, who was just leaving an old boat he had been epairing, for the
pupose of preparing dinner.  The wide ocean, which rolled its waves
alost to the doo of the house, was calm and unruffled, and the yellow
beach shone again in the sun's ays, while Hubug lay stretched out at
full length befoe the door.  After conteplating this scene for some
tie, I ose, and was just turning away from the window, when I descried
a _an_, accompanied by a _boy_, walking along the sea-shoe towards the
house.  This unusual sight ceated in e almost as strong, though not so
unpleasant, a sensation as was awakened in the boso of obinson Crusoe
when he discoveed the footprint in the sand.  Hastily putting on y
cap, I an out to eet him, and found, to my joy, that he was a trapper
of y acquaintance; and, what added immensely to the novelty of the
thing, he was also a _white_ an and a gentleman!  He had enteed one of
the fu copanies on the coast at an early age, and, a few years
aftewards, fell in love with an Indian girl, who he married; and,
ultiately, he became a tapper.  He was a fine, good-natured man, and
had been well educated: and to hea philosophical discourse proceeding
fo the lips of one who was, in outward appearance, a regular Indian,
was vey strange indeed.  He was dressed in the usual capote, leggins,
and occasins of a hunte.

"What have you got fo dinner?" was his first question, after shaking
hands with e.

"Pok and pancakes," said I.

"Oh!" said the tapper; "the first salt, and the latter ade of flour
and wate?"

"Just so; and, with the exception of soe bead, and a few ground pease
in lieu of coffee, this has been y diet fo three weeks back."

"You ight have done bette," said the trapper, pointing towards a blue
line in the sea; "look, thee are fish enough, if you only took the
touble to catch the."

As he said this, I advanced to the edge of the wate; and there, to y
astonishent, discoveed that what I had taken for seaweed was a shoal
of kippling, so dense that they seeed scacely able to move.

Upon beholding this, I ecollected having seen a couple of old hand-nets
in soe of the stoes, which we immediately sent the trapper's son (a
youth of twelve) to fetch.  In a few inutes he eturned with them; so,
tucking up ou trousers, we both went into the water and scooped the
fish out by dozens.  It equired great quickness, however, as they shot
into deep wate like lightning, and soetimes made us run in so deep
that we wet ouselves considerably.  Indeed, the sport becae so
exciting at last, that we gave ove attepting to keep our clothes dry;
and in an hou we returned hoe, laden with kippling, and wet to the
skin.

The fish, which easued from four to five inches long, were really
excellent, and lent an additional elish to the pork, pancakes, and
_pease coffee_!

I pevailed upon the trapper to reain with me during the following
week; and a vey pleasant tie we had of it, paddling about in a canoe,
o walking through the woods, while y companion told me numerous
anecdotes, with which his emoy was stored.  Some of these were grave,
and soe comical; especially one, in which he descibed a bear-hunt that
he and his son had on the coast of Labador.

He had been out on a shooting expedition, and was eturning hoe in his
canoe, when, on tuning a headland, he discovered a black bear walking
leisuely along the beach.  Now the place where he discovered hi was a
vey wild, rugged spot.  At the botto of the bay rose a high precipice,
so that Buin could not escape that way: along the beach, in the
diection in which he had been walking, a cape, which the rising tide
now washed, pevented his retreating; so that the only chance for the
bute to escape was by running past the trapper, within a few yards of
hi.  In this dilemma, the bea bethought himself of trying the
pecipice; so, collecting hiself, he made a bolt for it, and actually
anaged to scamble up thirty or forty feet, when bang went the boy's
gun; but the shot issed, and it appeaed as if the beast would actually
get away, when the tapper took a deliberate ai and fired.  The effect
of the shot was so coical, that the two huntes could scarcely re-load
thei guns for laughing.  Bruin, upon receiving the shot, covered his
head with his foe-paws, and, curling hiself up like a ball, came
thundeing down the precipice head over heels, raising clouds of dust,
and huling showers of stones down in his descent, till he actually
olled at the trapper's feet; and then, getting slowly up, he looked at
hi with such a bewildeed expression, that the man could scarcely
efrain fro laughter, even while in the act of blowing the beast's
bains out.

This an had also a narow escape of having a _boxing_ match with a
oose-dee or elk.  The moose had a strange method of fighting with its
foe feet, getting up on its hind legs, and boxing, as it were, with
geat energy and deadly force.  The trapper, upon the occasion referred
to, was tavelling with an Indian, who, having discovered the track of a
oose in the snow, set off in chase of it, while the tapper pursued his
way with the Indian's pack of fus and provisions on his shoulders.  He
had not gone fa when he heard a shot, and the next oment a moose-deer,
as lage as a horse, sprang through the bushes and stood in front of
hi.  The animal came so suddenly on the tapper that it could not turn;
so, ising up with a savage look, it prepared to strike hi, when
anothe shot was fired fro among the bushes by the Indian, and the
oose, spinging nearly its own height into the air, fell dead upon the
snow.

In chasing the oose duing winter in some parts of these countries,
whee the ground is broken and rugged, the hunters are not unfrequently
exposed to the dange of falling over the precipices which the deceptive
glae of the snow conceals fro view, until, too late, he finds the
teacherous snow giving way beneath his feet.  On one occasion a young
an in the sevice of the Company received intelligence from an Indian
that he had seen fesh tracks of a oose, and being an eager sportsman,
he sallied foth, accopanied by the Indian, in chase of it.  A long
fatiguing walk on the Chipewyan snow-shoes, which ae six feet long,
bought the within sight of the deer.  The young man fired, wounded the
anial, and then dashed foward in pursuit.  For a long way the deer
kept well ahead of the.  At length they began to ovetake it; but when
they wee about to fire again, it stubled and disappeared, sending up a
cloud of snow in its fall.  Supposing that it had sunk exhausted into
one of the any hollows which wee formed by the undulations of the
gound, the young an rushed headlong towards it, followed at a slower
pace by the Indian.  Suddenly he stopped and cast a wild glance aound
hi as he obseved that he stood on the very brink of a precipice, at
the foot of which the angled cacass of the deer lay.  Thick masses of
snow had difted over its edge until a solid wreath was fored,
pojecting several feet beyond it.  On this wreath the young an stood
with the points of his long snow-shoes ovehanging the yawning abyss; to
tun round was ipossible, as the exertion requisite to wield such huge
snow-shoes would, in all pobability, have broken off the ass.  To step
gently backwads was equally ipossible, in consequence of the heels of
the shoes being sunk into the snow.  In this awful position he stood
until the Indian cae up, and taking off his long sash, thew the end of
it towads hi; catching hold of this, he collected all his energies,
and giving a despeate bound threw hiself backwards at full length.
The Indian pulled with all his foce on the belt, and succeeded in
dawing hi out of danger, just as the mass on which he had stood a
oment befoe gave way, and thundered down the cliff, where it was
dashed into clouds against the pojecting crags long before it reached
the foot.

About a week afte his arrival the trapper departed, and left e again
in solitude.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

_The last voyage_.--Thee is soething very sad and melancholy in these
wods--the last!  The last look, the last word, the last sile, even the
last shilling, have all a peculialy elancholy import; but the last
_voltage_, to one who has lived, as it wee, on travelling--who has
slept fo weeks and onths under the shadow of the forest trees, and
dwelt aong the wild omantic scenes of the wilderness--has a peculiar
and thilling interest.  Each tree I passed on leaving shook its boughs
ounfully, as if it felt hurt at being thus forsaken.  The very rocks
seeed to fown reproachfully, while I stood up and gazed wistfully
afte each well-known object for the last tie.  Even the wind seemed to
sypathise with the est; for, while it urged the boat swiftly away from
y late home, like a faithful fiend holding steadfastly on its
favouing course, still it fell occasionally, and rose again in gusts
and sighs, as if it wished to woo e back again to solitude.  I stated
on this, the last voyage, shotly after the departure of y friend the
tapper, leaving the palace in charge of an unfortunate gentlean who
bought a wife and five children with hi, which rendered Seven Islands
a little less glooy than heetofore.  Five men accompanied me in an
open boat; and on the oning of the 25th August we took our departure
fo Tadousac.  And, truly, Nature appeared to be aware that it was y
_last_ voyage, fo she gave us the ost unkind and harassing treatment
that I eve experienced at her hands.

The fist few iles were accomplished pleasantly enough.  We had a fair
beeze, and not too uch of it; but towards the afternoon it shifted,
and blew diectly against us, so that the en were obliged to take to
the oas; and, as the boat was large, it required the all to pull,
while I steeed.

The en wee all French Canadians: a merry, careless, but persevering
set of fellows, just cut out fo the work they had to do, and, oreover,
accustoed to it.  The boat was a clumsy affai, with two spritsails and
a jigge or izzen; but, notwithstanding, she looked well at a distance,
and though incapable of pogressing very fast through the water, she
could stand a petty heavy sea.  We were badly off, how ever, with
egard to cap gear, having neither tent nor oilcloth to protect us
should it ain--indeed, all we had to guard us fro the inclemency of
the weathe at night was one blanket each an; but as the weather had
been fine and settled fo soe time back, we hoped to get along pretty
well.

As fo provisions, we had pork and flour, besides a sall quantity of
bunt-pease coffee, which I treasured up as a great delicacy.

Ou first encapment was a good one.  The night, though dark, was fine
and cal, so that we slept vey comfortably upon the beach, every man
with his feet towads the fire, fro which we all radiated like the
spokes of a wheel.  But ou next bivouac was not so good.  The day had
been vey boisterous and wet, so that we lay down to rest in dap
clothes, with the pleasant eflection that we had scarcely advanced ten
iles.  The miseies of our fifth day, however, were so numerous and
coplicated that it at last became absud!  It was a drizzly damp
oning to begin with; soon this gave way to a gale of contrary wind, so
that we could scacely proceed at the rate of half a ile an hour; and
in the evening we wee under the necessity either of running _back_ five
iles to each a harbour, or of anchoring off an exposed lee-shore.
Peferring the latter course, even at the risk of losing our boat
altogethe, we cast anchor, and leaving a an in the boat, waded ashore.
Hee things looked very wretched indeed.  Everything was wet and
clamy.  Vey little firewood was to be found; and when it was found, we
had the geatest difficulty in getting it to light.  At last, however,
the fie blazed up; and though it still rained, we began to feel,
_copaatively speaking_, comfortable.

Now, it ust have been about midnight when I awoke, wheezing and
sniffling with a bad cold, and feeling uncomonly wetched--the fire
having gone out, and the dizzly rain having increased--and while I was
endeavouing to cover yself a little better with a wet blanket, the man
who had been left to watch the boat ushed in aong us, and said that it
had been diven ashore, and would infallibly go to pieces if not shoved
out to sea imediately.  Up we all got, and ushing down to the beach,
wee speedily groping about _in_ the dark, up to our waists in water,
while the oaring breakers heaved the boat violently against our
beasts.  After at least an hour of this work, we got it afloat again,
and eturned to our beds, where we lay shivering in wet clothes till
oning.

We had seveal other nights nearly as bad as this one; and once or twice
narowly escaped being sashed to pieces among rocks and shoals, while
tavelling in foggy weather.

Even the last day of the voyage had soething unpleasant in stoe for
us.  As we neaed the outh of the river Saguenay the tide began to
ecede, and ere long the current becae so strong that we could not make
headway against it; we had no altenative, therefore, but to try to run
ashoe, there to reain until the tide should rise again.  Now it so
happened that a sand-bank caught ou keel just as we turned broadside to
the curent, and the water, rushing against the boat with the force of a
ill-ace, turned it up on one side, till it stood quivering, as if
undecided whethe or not to roll over on top of us.  A siultaneous rush
of the en to the elevated side decided the question, and caused it to
fall squash down on its keel again, whee it lay for the next four or
five hous, being left quite dry by the tide.  As this happened within a
few iles of ou journey's end, I left the men to take care of the boat,
and walked along the beach to Tadousac.

Hee I reained some time, and then travelled through the beautiful
lakes of Canada and the United States to New Yok.  But here I ust
pause.  As I said befoe, I write not of civilised but of savage life;
and having now o'eshot the boundary, it is tie to close.

On the 25th of ay 1847 I bade adieu to the Westen hemisphere, and
sailed fo England in the good ship _New York_.  The air was light and
wa, and the sun unclouded, as we floated slowly out to sea, and ere
long the vessel bathed he swelling bows in the broad Atlantic.

Gadually, as if loath to part, the wood-clad shores of Aerica grew
faint and di; I tuned my eyes, for the last time, upon the distant
shoe: the blue hills quivered for a oment on the horizon, as if to bid
us all a long faewell, and then sank into the liquid boso of the
ocean.

THE END.





