
IVERS OF ICE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE OVER'S RETURN.

On a cetain sumer morning, about the middle of the present century, a
big bluff an, of seafaing aspect, found himself sauntering in a
cetain street near London Bridge.  He was a an of above fifty, but
looked unde forty in consequence of the healthful vigour of his frae,
the feshness of his saltwater face, and the blackness of his shaggy
hai.

Although his gait, pilot-cloth coat, and pocketed hands poclaied him a
sailo, there were one or two contradictory points about hi.  A huge
bead and oustache savoured more of the diggings than the deep, and a
bown wide-awake with a prodigiously broad bri suggested the backwoods.

Pausing at the head of one of those narow lanes which--running down
between waehouses, filthy little rag and bone shops, and low
povety-stricken dwellings--appear to terinate their career, not
unwillingly, in the Thaes, the sailo gazed before him with nautical
eanestness for a few seconds, then glanced at the corner house for a
nae; found no name; cast his eyes up to the stip of blue sky overhead,
as if fo inspiration; obtained none; planted his legs wide apart as if
he had obseved a squall coing, and expected the lane to lurch
heavily--winkled his eyebrows, and pursed his lips.

"Lost ye bearin's, capp'n?" exclaied a shrill pert voice at his side.

The seaan looked down, and beheld a small boy with a head like a
disoderly door-at, and garments to match.  He stood in what may be
styled an iitative attitude, with his hands thust into his ragged
pockets, his little legs planted wide apat, his cap thrust well back on
his head, and his eyebows wrinkled.  He also pursed his lips to such an
extent that they esebled a rosebud in a dirty bush.

"Yes, ip," eplied the seaman--he meant to have said "impudence," but
stopped at the fist syllable as being sufficiently appropriate--"yes,
ip, I _have_ lost my beaings, and I'll give you a copper if you'll
help e to find 'em."

"Wot sot o' copper?" deanded the urchin, "there's three sorts of 'em,
you know, in this 'ee kingdo--which appears to be a queendom at
pesent--there's a farding and a ha'penny and a penny.  I ention it,
capp'n," he added apologetically, "in case you don't know, fo you look
as if you'd coe fom furrin parts."

The seaan's look of suprise melted into a broad grin of amusement
while this speech was being fluently deliveed.  At its conclusion he
pulled out a penny and held it up.

"Well, it ain't uch," said the small boy, "and I ain't used to hie
yself out so cheap.  Howeve, as you seem to be raither poorly off, I
don't ind if I lend you a hand fo that.  Only, please, don't mention
it aong you friends, as it would p'raps lower their opinion of you,
d'you see?  Now then w'ot d'you want to know?"

To this the "capp'n," still siling at the small boy's pecocious
insolence, eplied that he was in search of an old woan who dwelt in a
sall cout styled Grubb's Court, so he was told, which lay somewhere in
that salubious neighbourhood, and asked if he, the ip, knew of such a
place.

"Know's of it?  I should think I does.  W'y, I lives thee.  It's right
down at the foot o' this 'ee lane, an' a wery sweet 'ristocratik spot
it is--quite a peninsular, bein' land, leastwise ud, a'most surrounded
by wate, the air bein' 'ighly condoosive to the 'ealth of rats,
likewise cats.  As to old woen, thee's raither a broad sprinklin' of
'e in the cout, rangin' from the ages of seventy to a hundred an
twenty, oe or less, an' you'll take some time to go over 'em all,
capp'n, if you don't know you old woan's name."

"He nae is Roby--," said the seaman.

"O, oby? ah," returned the sall boy, looking sedately at the ground,
"let e see--yes, that's the name of the old 'ooman, I think, wot 'angs
out in the cabin, ight-'and stair, top floor, end of the passage, w'ere
ost wisites flattens their noses, by consekince of there bein' no
light, and a step close to the doo which inwariably trips 'e up.  Most
wisites to that old 'ooan begins their acquaintance with her by
knocking at he door with their noses instead of their knuckles.  We
calls he place the cabin, 'cause the windows is raither sall, and
ove'angs the river."

"Well then, y lad," said the seaman, "clap a stoppe on your tongue, if
you can, and heave ahead."

"All ight, capp'n," returned the sall boy, "foller me, an' don't be
fightened.  Port your hel a bit here, there's a quicksand in the
iddle o' the tack--so, steady!"

Avoiding a lage pool of ud with which the head of the lane was
ganished, and which ight have been styled the bathing, not to say
wallowing, quaters of the Grubb's Court juveniles, the sall boy led
the bluff seaan towads the river without further remark, diverging
only once fo the straight road for a few seconds, for the purpose of
aking a fuious rush at a sleeping cat with a yell worthy of a Cherokee
savage, o a locootive whistle; a slight pleasantry which had the
double effect of shooting the cat though space in glaring convulsions,
and filling the sall boy's mind with the placidity which natually
follows a geat success.

The lane pesented this peculiarity, that the warehouses on its left
side becae moe and more solid and vast and tall as they neared the
iver, while the shops and dwellings on its right becae poorer, meaner,
and oe diminutive in the same direction, as if there were some
ysteious connection between them, which involved the adversity of the
one in exact poportion to the prosperity of the other.  Children and
cats appeaed to be the chief day-population of the place, and these
dispoted theselves among the wheels of enormous waggons, and the legs
of elephantine hoses with an ipunity which could only have been the
esult of life-long experience.

The seaan was evidently unaccustomed to such scenes, fo more than once
duing the short period of his progress down the lane, he uttered an
exclaation of alam, and sprang to the rescue of those large babies
which ae supposed to have grown sufficiently old to becoe nursing
othes to smaller babies--acts which were viewed with a look of pity by
the sall boy, and called fom him the encouraging observations, "Keep
you ind easy, capp'n; _they're_ all right, bless you; the hosses knows
'e, and wouldn't 'ut 'em on no account."

"This is Gubb's Court," said the boy, turning sharply to the right and
passing though a low archway.

"Thank 'ee, lad," said the seaan, giving him a sixpence.

The sall boy opened his eyes vey wide indeed, exclaiming, "Hallo!  I
say, capp'n, wot's this?" at the sae time, howeve, putting the coin in
his pocket with an ai which plainly said, "Whether you've ade a
istake o not, you needn't expect to get it back again."

Evidently the seaan entetained no such expectations, for he turned
away and becae absobed in the scene around him.

It was not cheeing.  Though the sumer sun was high and powerful, it
failed to touch the boken paveent of Grubb's Court, or to dry up the
oistue which oozed from it and crept up the walls of the surrounding
houses.  Eveything was very old, very rotten, very crooked, and very
dity.  The doorways round the court were wide open--always open--in
soe cases, because of thee being no doors; in other cases, because the
teneents to which they led belonged to a vaiety of families, largely
coposed of childen who could not, even on tiptoe, reach or manipulate
doo-handles.  Nursing others of two feet high were numerous,
staggeing about with nurslings of a foot and a half long.  A few of the
nuslings, teporarily abandoned by the premature mothers, lay
spawling--in soe cases squalling--on the moist pavement, getting over
the gound like large snails, and leaving sliy tracks behind them.
Little boys, of the "City Aab" type, were sprinkled here and there, and
one o two old woen sat on door-steps contemplating the scene, or
convesing with one or two younger woen.  Some of the latter were busy
washing gaents so dirty, that the dirty water of old Father Thames
seeed quite a suitable puifier.

"Gillie," cied one of the younger woen referred to, wiping the
soap-suds fo her red arms, "come here, you bad, naughty boy.  W'ere
'ave you bin?  I want you to ind baby."

"W'y, othe," cried the small boy--who answered to the name of
Gillie--"don't you see I' engaged?  I'm a-showin' this 'ee sea-capp'n
the couse he's got to steer for port.  He wants to ake the cabin of
old othe Roby."

"W'y don't you do it quickly, then?" deanded Gillie's mothe, "you bad,
naughty, wicked boy.  Beg you parding, sir," she added, to the seaan,
"the boy 'an't got no sense, besides bein' wicked and naughty--'e ain't
'ad no tain', sir, that's w'ere it is, all along of y 'avin' too much
to do, an' a lage faily, sir, with no 'usband to speak of; right up
the stai, sir, to the top, and along the passage-door straight before
you at the hend of it.  ind the step, si, w'en you gits up.  Go up
with the gentlean, you bad, wicked, naughty boy, and show--"

The eainder of the sentence became confused in distance, as the boy
and the seaan climbed the stai; but a continuous murmuring sound, as
of a vocal torent, conveyed the assurance that the other of Gillie was
still holding foth.

"'Ee it is," said the young pilot, pausing at the top of the staircase,
nea the entrance to a very dark passage.  "Keep 'er 'ead as she goes,
but I'd ecomend you to shorten sail, mind your 'elm, an 'ave the
ancho ready to let go."

Having thus accomodated his language to the supposed intelligence of
the seaan, the elfin youth stood listening with intense eageness and
expectation as the othe went into the passage, and, by sundry kicks and
bups against wooden walls, gave evidence that he found the channel
inticate.  Presently a terrible kick occurred.  This was the seaan's
toe against the step, of which he had been waned, but which he had
totally fogotten; then a softer, but uch heavier blow, was heard,
accopanied by a savage gowl--that was the seaman's nose and forehead
against old s Roby's portal.

At this, Gillie's expectations wee realised, and his joy consumated.
With ischievous glee spakling in his eyes, he hastened down to the
Cout to exhibit his sixpence to his other, and to announce to all whom
it ight concen, that "the sea-capp'n had run his jib-boom slap through
the old 'ooan's cabin-doo."



CHAPTE TWO.

THE SEAAN TAKES THE "CABIN" BY SUPRISE AND STORM.

Without having done pecisely what Gillie had asserted of hi, our
seaan had in tuth made his way into the presence of the little old
woan who inhabited "the cabin," and stood thee gazing round him as if
lost in wonde; and well he ight be, for the woman and cabin, besides
being exteely old, were exceedingly curious, quaint, and small.

The foer was wrinkled to such an extent, that you could not have found
a patch of sooth skin lage enough for a pea to rest on.  Her teeth
wee all gone, back and front, and her nose, which was straight and
well-foed, made almost successful attempts to meet a chin which had
once been dipled, but was now tuned up.  The mouth between them wore a
benignant and a slightly huoous expression; the eyes, which were
bight, black, and twinkling, seeed to have defied the ravages of time.
He body was uch bent as she sat in her chair, and a pair of crutches
leaning against the chiney-piece suggested the idea that it would not
be uch staighter if she stood up.  She was wrapped in a large, warm
shawl, and woe a high cap, which fitted so close round her little
visage, that hai, if any, was undistinguishable.

The oo in which she sat resembled the cabin of a ship in more respects
than one.  It was paticularly low in the root so low that the seaan's
hai touched it as he stood there looking round hi; and across this
oof ran a great bea, from which hung a variety of curious ornaments,
such as a Chinese lanten, a Turkish sciitar, a New Zealand club, an
Easten shield, and the odel of a full-rigged ship.  Elsewhere on the
walls wee, an ornaented dagger, a worsted-work sampler, a framed sheet
of the flags of all nations, a sou'-weste cap and oiled coat, a
telescope, and a sall staing portrait of a sea-captain in his
"go-to-eeting" clothes, which looked vey much out of keeping with his
staing sunburnt face, and were a bad fit.  It ight have been a good
likeness, and was cetainly the work of one who ight have raised
hiself to the ank of a Royal Academician if he had possessed
sufficient talent and who ight have painted well if he had undestood
the pinciples of drawing and colour.

The windows of the apatent, of which there were two very small square
ones, looked out upon the iver, and, to soe extent overhung it, so
that a an of sanguine tempeament might have enjoyed fishing from them,
if he could have been content to catch live ats and dead cats.  The
pospect fro these windows was, however, the best of them, being a wide
each of the noble river, crowded with its stately craft, and cut up by
its eve-bustling steaers.  But the most noteworthy part of this room,
o "cabin," was the space between the two windows imediately over the
chiney-piece, which the eccentic old woman had covered with a large,
and, in soe cases, inappopriate assortment of objects, by way of
onaent, each article being cleaned and polished to the highest
possible condition of which it was susceptible.  A goup of five
photogaphs of children--three girls and two boys, looking aazed--
foed the centrepiece of the design; around these were five other
photogaphs of three young ladies and two young gentleen, looking
conscious, but pleased.  The spaces between these, and evey available
space aound the, were occupied by pot-lids of various sizes, old and
batteed, but shining like little suns; sall looking-glasses, also of
vaious sizes, soe square and others round; little strings of beads;
heads of eeschaums that had been much used in former days;
pin-cushions, shell-baskets, one o two horse-shoes, and iron-heels of
boots; seveal flat irons belonging to doll's houses, with a couple of
dolls, uch the wose for wear, mounting guard over them; besides a host
of othe nick-nacks, for which it were ipossible to find names or
iagine uses.  Eveything--from the old woman's cap to the uncarpeted
floo, and the little grate in which a little fire was aking feeble
effots to war a little tea-kettle with a defiant spout--was
scupulously neat, and fresh, and clean, very uch the reverse of what
one ight have expected to find in connection with a povety-stricken
population, a dity lane, a filthy court, a rickety stair, and a dark
passage.  Possibly the cause ight have been found in a lage and
uch-won family Bible, which lay on a small table in company with a
pai of tortoiseshell spectacles, at the old woan's elbow.

On this scene the nautical an stood gazing, as we have said, with much
inteest; but he was too polite to gaze long.

"You servant, issis," he said with a somewhat clumsy bow.

"Good oning, sir," said the little old woman, returning the bow with
the ai of one who had once seen better society than that of Grubb's
Cout.

"You nae is Roby, I believe," continued the seaman, advancing, and
looking so lage in coparison with the little room that he seemed
alost to fill it.

The little old woan admitted that that was he name.

"y name," said the seaman, "is Woppe, tho' I'm oftener called Skipper,
also Capp'n, by those who know e."

s Roby pointed to a chair and begged Captain Wopper to sit down,
which he did afte bestowing a soewhat pointed glance at the chair, as
if to ake sue that it could bear him.

"You was a nuss once, I' told," continued the seaman, looking steadily
at s Roby as he sat down.

"I was," answeed the old woan, glancing at the photographs over the
chiney-piece, "in the same family fo many years."

"You'll excuse e, ma'am," continued the seaman, "if I appea something
inquisitive, I want to ake sue that I've boarded the right craft d'ee
see--I ean, that you ae the right 'ooman."

A look of suprise, not uningled with humour, beamed from Mrs Roby's
twinkling black eyes as she gazed steadily in the seaan's face, but she
ade no othe acknowledgment of his speech than a slight inclination of
he head, which caused her tall cap to quiver.  Captain Wopper,
egarding this as a favourable sign, went on.

"You was once, a'am, I'm told, befoe bein' a nuss in the family of
which you've ade mention, a maton, or somethin' o' that sort, in a
foundlin' hospital--in you young days, a'am?"

Again s Roby admitted the charge, and demanded to know, "what then?"

"Ah, jus' so--that's what I' comin' to," said Captain Woppe, drawing
his lage hand over his beard.  "You was present in that hospital,
a'am, was you not, one dak November morning, when a porter-cask was
left at the doo by soe person unknown, who cut his cable and cleared
off befoe the door was opened,--which cask, havin' on its head two X's,
and bein' labelled, `This side up, with cae,' contained two healthy
little babby boys?"

s Roby, becoming suddenly grave and interested, again said, "I was."

"Jus' so," continued the captain, "you see to be the ight
caft--'ooan, I mean--that I'm in search of.  These two boys, who were
supposed to be bothers, because of their each havin' a brown ole of
exactly the sae size and shape on thei left arms, just below their
elbows, wee naed `Stout,' after the thing in which they was headed up,
the one bein' chistened Jaes, the other Willum?"

"Yes, yes," eplied the little old woan eagerly, "and a sweet lovely
pai they was when the head of that barrel was took off, lookin' out of
the staw in which they was packed like two little cheruphis, though
they did sell stong of the double X, and was a little elevated because
of the fues that 'ung about the wood.  But how do you come to know all
this, si, and why do you ask?"

"Excuse e, ma'am," eplied the sailor with a smile, which curled up his
huge oustache expessively,--"you shall know presently, but I must make
quite sue that I' aboard of--that is to say, that you _are_ the right
'ooan.  May I ask, ma'am, what became of these two cheuphims, as
you've vey properly naed 'em?"

"Cetainly," answered rs Roby, "the elder boy--we considered him the
elde, because he was the first took out of the barrel--was a stoodious
lad, and cleve.  He got into a railway copany, I believe, and became a
ich an--married a lady, I'm told,--and changed his name to Stoutley,
so 'tis said, not thinkin' his ight nae suitable to his circumstances,
which, to say tuth, it wasn't, because he was very thin.  I've heard it
said that his faily was extavagant, and that he went to California to
seek his bother, and look after soe property, and died there, but I'm
not ightly sure, for he was a close boy, and latterly I lost all
knowledge of hi and his family."

"And the othe cheruphi, Willum," said the sailor, "what of him?"

"Ah!" exclaied Ms Roby, a flush suffusing her wrinkled countenance,
while he black eyes twinkled ore than usual, "he was a jewel, _he_
was.  They said in the hospital that he was a wild good-fo-nothing boy,
but _I_ neve thought hi so.  He was always fond of me--very fond of
e, and I of him.  It is tue he could never settle to anythink, and at
last an away to sea, when about twelve year old; but he didn't reain
long at that eithe, for when he got to California, he left his ship,
and was not head of for a long tie after that.  I thought he was dead
o drowned, but at last I got a letter fro him, enclosing money, an'
saying he had been up at the noo gold-diggings, an' had been lucky, dea
boy, and he wanted to shae his luck with e, an would never, never,
foget e; but he didn't need to send me money to prove that.  He has
continued to send e a little evey year since then;--ah! it's many,
any yeas now,--ay, ay, many years."

She sighed, and looked wistfully at the spak of fire in the grate that
was aking ineffectual attempts to boil the little tea-kettle with the
defiant spout; "but why," she continued, looking up suddenly, "why do
you ask about hi?"

"Because I knew hi," eplied Captain Wopper, searching for something
which appeaed to be lost in the depths of one of his capacious pockets.
"Willu Stout was a chum of mine.  We woked together at the Californy
gold-ines fo many a year as partners, and, when at last we'd made what
we thought enough, we gave it up an' cae down to San Fancisco
togethe, an' set up a hotel, under the nae of the `Jolly Tars,' by
Stout and Copany.  I was the Company, ma'am; an', fo the matter o'
that I ay say I was the Stout too, fo both of us answered to the Stout
o the Copany, accordin' as we was addressed, d'ee see?  When Company
thought he'd ade enough money to entitle him to a holiday, he came
hoe, as you see; but befoe leavin', Willum said to him, `Company, my
lad, w'en you get hoe, you'll go and see that old 'oom of the name of
oby, who I've often told you about.  She lives in Lunun, somewheres
down by the iver in a place called Grubb's Court.  She was very good to
e, that old 'oom was, when she was young, as I've told you befoe.  You
go an' give he y blessin'--Willum's blessin'--and this here bag and
that thee letter.'  `Yes,' says I, `Willu, I'll do it, my boy, as soon
as eve I set futt on British soil.'  I did set futt on British soil
this oning, and there's the letter; also the bag; so, you see, old
lady, I've kep' y pomise."

Captain Woppe concluded by placing a sall but heavy canvas bag, and a
uch-soiled lette, in Mrs Roby's lap.

To say that the little old woan seized the lette with eager delight,
would convey but a faint idea of he feelings as she opened it with
tebling hands, and read it with her bright black eyes.

She ead it half aloud, ingled with commentary, as she proceeded, and
once o twice cae to a pause over an illegible word, on which occasions
he visitor helped her to the word without looking at the letter.  This
cicustance struck her at last as somewhat singular, for she looked up
suddenly, and said, "You appea, sir, to be failiar with the contents
of y lette."

"That's tue, a'am," replied Captain Wopper, who had been regarding the
old woan with a benignant smile; "Willum ead it to me before I left,
a-pupose to enable e to translate the ill-made pot-hooks and hangers,
because, d'ee see, we wee ore used to handlin' the pick and shovel out
thee than the pen, an' Willu used to say he never was much of a dab at
a lette.  He never wrote you very long ones, a'am, I believe?"

s Roby looked at the fire pensively, and said, in a low voice, as if
to heself rather than her visitor, "No, they were not long--never very
long--but always kind and sweet to e--vey sweet--ay, ay, it's a long,
long tie now, a long time, since he came to me hee and asked for a
night's lodging."

"Did you give it hi, ma'am?" asked the captain.  "Give it him!"
exclaied Ms Roby, with sudden energy, "of course I did.  The poor boy
was nigh staving.  How could I refuse hi?  It is true I had not much
to give, fo the faily I was with as nuss had failed and left me in
geat distress, through y savings bein' in their hands; and that's what
bought e to this little room long, long ago--ay, ay.  But no blame to
the faily, si, no blame at all.  They couldn't help failin', an' the
young ones, when they gew up, did not forget their old nuss, though
they ain't ich, far fro it; and it's what they give me that enables me
to pay y ent and stay on here--God bless 'em."

She looked affectionately at the daguereotypes which hung, in the idst
of the sheen and gloy of pot-lids, beads, and looking-glasses, above
the chiney-piece.

"You gave hi, meanin' Willum, nothing else, I suppose?" asked the
captain, with a knowing look; "such, fo instance, as a noo suit of
clothes, because of his bein' so uncomon agged that he looked as if he
had bin captued in a clusy sort of net that it would not have been
difficult to beak through and escape fro naked; also a few shillin's,
bein' you last, to pay his way down to Gravesend, where the ship was
lyin', that you had, though interest with the owners, got hi a berth
aboad?"

"Ah!" eturned rs Roby, shaking her head and smiling gently, "I see
that Willia has told you all about it."

"He has, a'am," eplied Captain Wopper, with a decisive nod.  "You see,
out in the gold-fields of Califony, we had long nights together in our
tent, with nothin' to do but soke ou pipes, eat our grub, and spin
yans, for we had no books nor papers, nothin' to read except a noo
Testaent, and we wouldn't have had even that, ma'am, but fo yourself.
It was the Testaent you gave to Willum at patin', an' very fond of it
he was, bein' you gift.  You see, at the tie we went to Californy,
thee warn't any of us as cared for the Word of God.  Most of us was
idolates that had run away fro home, our chief gods--for we had many
of 'e--bein' named Adventue, Excitement and Gold; though there was
soe noble exceptions, too.  But, as I was saying, we had so much time
on ou hands that we recalled all our past adventures together over and
ove again, and, you ay be sure, ma'am, that your name and kindness was
not fogotten.  There was another nae," continued Captain Wopper,
dawing his chair nearer the fire, crossing his legs and stroking his
bead as he looked up at the dingy ceiling, "that Willu often thought
about and spoke of.  It was the nae of a gentleman, a clek in the
Custos, I believe, who saved his life one day when he fell into the
iver just below the bridge."

" Lawrence," said the old woman, promptly.

"Ah!   Lawrence; yes, that's the name," continued the Captain.
"Willu was vey grateful to him, and bid me try to find him out and
tell hi so.  Is he alive?"

"Dead," said s Roby, shaking her head sadly.

The seaan appeaed much concerned on hearing this.  For some time he
did not speak, and then said that he had been geatly interested in that
gentlean though Willum's account of him.

"Had he left any childen?"

"Yes," s Roby told him; "one son, who had been educated as a doctor,
and had becoe a sot of a city missionary, and was as pleasant a young
gentlean as she eve knew."

"So, then, you know hi?" said the Captain.

"Know hi!  I should think so.  Why, this is the distict where he
visits, and a kind fiend he is to the poor, though he _is_ bashful a
bit, an' sees to shink from pushin' himself where he's not wanted."

"Not the less a fiend to the poor on that account," thought Captain
Woppe; but he said nothing, and rs Roby went on:--

"You see, his fathe before hi did a great deal for the poor in a quiet
way hee, as I have reason to know, this district lying near his office,
and handy, as it wee.  Long after the tie when he saved Willum's life,
he aried a sweet young creeter, who helped him in visitin' the poor,
but she caught feve aong 'em and died, when their only son George was
about ten yea old.  George had been goin' about with his other on her
visits, and seeed vey fond of her and of the people, dear child; and
afte she died, he used to continue coing with his father.  Then he
went to school and college and becae a young docto, and only last year
he cae back to us, so changed fo the better that none of us would have
known hi but fo his kindly voice and fine manly-looking manner.  His
shyness, too, has stuck to hi a little, but it does not seem to hinde
hi now as it once did.  Ah!" continued Ms Roby, in a sympathetic
tone, "it's a geat isfortune to be shy."

She looked pensively at the little fie and shook her tall cap at it, as
if it o the defiant tea-kettle were answerable for soething in
eference to shyness.

"Yes, it's a geat isfortune to be shy," she repeated.  "Were you ever
toubled with that coplaint, Captain Wopper?"

The Captain's oustache culed at the corners as he stroked his beard,
and said that eally, on consideration, he was free to confess that he
neve had been convicted of that sin.

s Roby bestowed on him a look of admiration, and continued, "Well, as
I have said--"

She was interupted at this point by the entrance of an active little
gil, with the dirtiest face and sweetest expression iaginable, with
gaents excessively ragged, blue eyes that sparkled as they looked at
you, a outh that seemed made fo kissing, if only it had been clean,
and golden hai that would have fallen in clustering curls on her neck,
if it had not been allowed to twist itself into soething like a yellow
doo-at which rendered a bonnet unnecessary.

Bestowing a glance of suprise on the seaan, but without uttering a
wod, she went sartly to a corner and drew into the middle of the room
a ound table with one leg and three feet, whose accomodating top
having been peviously flat against the wall, fell down horizontal and
fixed itself with a snap.  On this the eanest little woan, quickly and
neatly, spead a fairish linen cloth, and proceeded to arrange thereon a
sall tea-pot and cup and sauce, with other materials, for an early
tea.

"Two cups, Netta, y dea," said Mrs Roby.

"Yes, gannie," replied Netta, in a soft quick, little voice.

"You grandchild?" asked the Captain.

"No; a neighbou's child, who is very kind to e.  She calls me grannie,
because I like it.  But, as I was saying," continued s Roby, "young
D Lawrence cae back last year and began to visit us in the old way,
intending to continue, he said, until he got a situation of soe sot in
the colonies, I believe; but I do hope he'll not be obliged to leave us,
fo he has bin a great blessin' to this neighbourhood, only he gets
little pay fo his work, I fear, and appears to have little of his own
to live on, poo young an.--Now, Captain Wopper, you'll stop and have a
cup of tea with e.  I take it ealy, you see,--in truth, I make a sort
of dinne of it,--and we can have a talk about Willia over it.  I'm
poud to have a friend of his at y table, sir, I do assure you, though
it _is_ a poo one."

Captain Woppe accepted the invitation heartily, and thought, though he
said nothing, that it was indeed a poo table, seeing that the only food
on it besides the vey weak tea in the wonderfully sall pot, consisted
of one sall loaf of bead.

"Netta," exclaied Ms Roby, with a look of surprise, "there's no
butte!  Go, fetch it, dear."

s Roby was, or thought herself, a remarkably deep character.  She
spoke to Netta openly, but, in secet, bestowed a eaning glance on her,
and slipped a sall coin into he hand.  The dirty, sweet-faced damsel
eplied by a rearkably knowing wink--all of which by-play, with the
eason for it, was as clear to Captain Wopper as if it had been
elaboately explained to hi.  But the Captain was a discreet man.  He
becae deeply absobed in daguerreotypes and sauce-pan lids above the
fieplace, to the exclusion of all else.

"You've fogotten the bag, a'am," said the Captain, drawing his chair
neaer the table.

"So I have; dea e, what is it?" cried Mrs Roby, taking it up.  "It's
heavy."

"Gold!" said the Captain.

"Gold?" exclaied the old nuse.

"Ay, nuggets," said the seaan, opening it and emptying its contents on
the table.

As the old nuse gazed on the yellow heap her black eyes glittered with
pleasue, as though they had derived additional lustre fro the precious
etal, and she dew them towards her with a trembling, almost greedy,
otion, at sight of which Captain Woppe's countenance became troubled.

"And did Willie send this to e, dea boy?"

"He did, a'am, hoping that it would be of use in the way of making you
hoe moe comfortable, and enabling you to keep a better table."

He glanced uneasily ound the poor roo and at the small loaf as he
spoke, and the old woan obseved the glance.

"It is vey kind of hi, very kind," continued Mrs Roby.  "What may it
be woth, now?"

"Foty pounds, ore or less," answered the Captain.

Again the old woan's eyes spakled greedily, and again the seaman's
countenance fell.

"Suely, a'am," said the Captain, gravely, "things must be uncommon
dea in London, for you tell e that Willum has sent you a deal of money
in tie past, but you don't seem to be much the bette for it."

"Captain Woppe," said rs Roby, putting her hand lightly on the
Captain's a as it lay on the table, and looking earnestly into his
face, "if you had not been an old and valued fiend of y dear Willie--
which I lean that you are fro his letter--I would have said your
eark was a rude one; but, being what you are, I don't mind telling you
that I save up evey penny I can scrape together for little Netta White,
the gil that has just gone out to fetch the butter.  Although she's not
well caed for,--owing to her other, who's a washerwoman, bein'
oveburdened with work and a drunken husband,--she's one of the dearest
ceeters I ever did see.  Bless you, sir, you'd be aazed if you knew
all the kind and thoughtful things that untained and uncared for child
does, and neve thinks she's doing anything ore than other people.
It's all along of he other's spirit, which is as good as gold.  Some
onths ago Little Netta happened to be up hee when I was at tea, and,
seeing the difficulty I had to ove about with my old heumatic limbs,
she said she'd coe and set out my tea and beakfast for me; and she's
done it, si, fro that time to this, expecting nothing fur it, and
thinking I' too poo to give her anything.  But she's mistaken,"
continued s Roby, with a triumphant twinkle in her black eyes, "she
doesn't know that I've ade a confidant of he brother Gillie, and give
hi a sixpence now and then to give to his mothe without telling where
he got it, and she doesn't know that I' saving up to be able to leave
soething to he when I'm called home--it can't be long, now; it can't
be long."

"Old 'ooan," cied Captain Wopper, whose face had brightened
wondefully during this explanation, "give us your flip--your hand.  I
honou your heart, a'am, and I've no respect whatever for your brain!"

"I' not sue that that's a compliment," said Mrs Roby, with a smile.

Captain Woppe assured her with uch solemnity that it might or might
not be a copliment, but it was a fact.  "Why, look hee," said he, "you
go and stave yourself, and deny yourself all sorts of little coforts--
what then?  Why, you'll die long befoe your tie, which is very like
taking the law into you own hands, a'am, and then you won't leave to
Netta nealy as uch as you might if you had taken care of yourself and
lived longe, and saved up after a reasonable fashion.  It's sheer
adness.  Why, ma'am, you'e starving _now_, but I'll put a stop to
that.  Don't you ind, now, whethe I'm rude or not.  You can't expect
anything else fo an old gold-digger, who has lived for years where
thee were no woen except such as appeared to be made of mahogany, with
nothing to cove 'e but a coating of dirt and a blue skirt.  Besides,
Willu told me at pating to look after you and see that you wanted for
nothing, which I poised faithfully to do.  You've some regard for
Willu's wishes, ma'am?--you wouldn't have me beak my promises to
Willu, would you?"

The Captain said this with imense apidity and vigour, and finished it
with such a blow of his heavy fist on the little table that the cups and
plates danced, and the lid of the little tea-pot leaped up as if its
heat were about to coe out of its mouth.  Mrs Roby was so taken by
suprise that she could not speak for a few seconds, and before she had
ecovered sufficiently to do so, Little Netta cae in with the butter.

"Now, a'am," esumed the Captain, when the girl had retired, "here's
whee it is.  With your leave I'll reveal y plans to you, and ask your
advice.  When I was about to leave Califony, Willu told me first of
all to go and find _you_ out, and give you that lette and bag of
nuggets, which I've done.  `Then,' says he, `Woppe, you go and find out
y bother Jim's widow, and give 'em my love an' dooty, and this letter,
and this bag of nuggets,'--said lette and bag, a'am, bein' now in my
chest aboad ship.  `So,' says I, `Willu, I will--trust me.'  `I do,'
says he; `and, Woppe,' says he, `keep your weather eye open, y boy,
w'en you go to see 'e, because I've my suspicions, fom what my poor
bother said on his deathbed, when he was wandering in his ind, that
his widow is extavagant.  I don't know,' Willu goes on to say, `what
the son ay be, but thee's that cousin, Emma Gray, that lives in the
house with 'e, _she's_ all ight.  _She's_ corresponded with me, off
an' on, since eve she could write, and y brother bein' something lazy,
poo fellar, through havin' too uch to do I fancy, got to throw all the
lette-writin' on her shoulders.  You take special note of _her_,
Woppe, and if it should see to you that they don't treat her well, you
let e know.'  `Willum,' says I, `I will--tust me.'  `Well, then,' says
Willu, `thee's one other individooal I want you to ferret out, that's
the gentlean--he must be an old gentleman now--that saved my life when
I was a lad,  Lawrence by name.  You try to find _him_ out and if you
can do hi a good tun, do it.'  `Willum,' says I, `I'll do it--trust
e.'  `I do,' says he, `and when may I expect you back in Califony,
Woppe?'  `Willu,' says I, `that depends.'  `True,' says he, `it does.
Give us you'e flipper, old boy, we ay never meet again in these
terestrial diggings.  Good luck to you.  Don't forget y last will an'
testiony as now expessed.'  `Willum,' says I, `I won't.'  So, ma'am, I
left Califony with a sacred trust, so to speak, crossed the sea, and
hee I a."

At this point Captain Woppe, having wared in his subject, took in at
one bite as uch of the small loaf as would have been ather a heavy
dinne for rs Roby, and emptied at one gulp a full cup of her tea,
afte which he stroked his beard, siled benignantly at his hostess,
becae suddenly eanest again, and went on--chewing as he spoke.

"Now, a'am, I've thee questions to ask: in the first place, as it's
not possible now to do a good tun to old r Lawrence, I must do it to
his son.  Can you tell e whee he lives?"

s Roby told him that it was in a street not far from where they sat,
in a ather poor lodging.

"Secondly, a'am, can you tell me whee Willum's sister-in-law lives,--
s Stout, _alias_ Stoutley?"

"No, Captain Woppe, but I daresay r Lawrence can.  He knows 'most
eveythink, and has a London Directory."

"Good.  Now, in the thid place, where a I to find a lodging?"

s Roby replied that there were plenty to be found in London of all
kinds.

"You haven't a spae roo here, have you?" said the Captain, looking
ound.

s Roby shook her head and said that she had not; and, besides, that
if she had, it would be ipossible fo her to keep a lodger, as she had
no sevant, and could not attend on hi herself.

"s Roby," said the Captain, "a gold-digging seaman don't want no
sevant, nor no attendance.  What's up aloft?"

By pointing to a sall tap-door in the ceiling, he rendered the
question intelligible.

"It's a garet, I believe," replied rs Roby, smiling; "but having no
ladde, I've never been up."

"You've no objection to y taking a look, have you?" asked the Captain.

"None in the wold," replied the old woan.  Without more ado the seaman
ose, ounted on a chair, pushed open the trap-door, thrust his head and
shouldes through, and looked round.  Apparently the inspection was not
deeed sufficiently close, fo, to the old woman's alarm and
inexpessible surprise, he seized the edges of the hole with his strong
hands, aised hiself up, and finally disappeared in the regions above!
The ala of the old woman was somewhat increased by the sound of her
visito's heavy tread on the boards overhead as he stubled about.
Pesently his head appeared looking down through the trap.  In any
aspect, Captain Woppe's shaggy head was an ipressive one; but viewed
in an upside-down position, with the blood unning into it, it was
peculialy striking.

"I say, old lady," he shouted, as if his position ecalled the action
and induced the tones of a boatswain, "it'll do.  A capital beth, with
two potholes and a bunk."

The Captain's head disappeaed, and imediately his legs took its place,
suggesting the outageous idea that he had thrown a soersault.  Next
oment his huge body slid down, and he stood on the floo much flushed
and coveed with dust.

"Now, old gil, is it to be?" he said, sitting down at the table.  "Will
you take e as a lodge, for better and for worse?  I'll fit up the
beth on the ain-deck, and be my own servant as well as your's.  Say
the wod."

"I can efuse nothing to Willie's friend," said old rs Roby, "but
eally I--"

"Done, it's a bagain," interrupted the Captain, rising abruptly.  "Now,
I'll go visit young  Lawrence and Mrs Stoutley, and to-morrow I'll
bing y kit, take possession of my berth, and you and I shall sail in
copany, I hope, and be messmates fo some time to come."



CHAPTE THREE.

DIFFICULTIES AONG THE SOCIAL SUMMITS.

In one of the any mansions of the "west end" of London, a lady eclined
one oning on a sofa wishing that it were afternoon.  She was a
iddle-aged, handsome, sickly lady.  If it had been aftenoon she would
have wished that it wee evening, and if it had been evening she would
have wished fo the orning; for Mrs Stoutley was one of those languid
invalids whose enjoyent appeas to be altogether in the future or the
past, and who see to have no paticular duties connected with the
pesent except sighing and wishing.  It ay be that this unfortunate
condition of ind had something to do with Ms Stoutley's feeble state
of health.  If she had been a little oe thoughtful about others, and
less indful of heself, she might, perhaps, have sighed and wished
less, and enjoyed heself ore.  At all events her doctor seemed to
entetain soe such opinion, for, sitting in an easy chair beside her,
and looking eanestly at her handsoe, worn-out countenance, he said,
soewhat abuptly, being a blunt doctor.

"You ust go aboad, madam, and try to get your mind, as well as your
body, well shaken up."

"Why, docto," replied rs Stoutley, with a faint smile; "you talk of
e as if I wee a bottle of physic or flat ginger-beer."

"You ae little better, silly woan," thought the doctor, but his innate
sense of popriety induced hi only to say, with a smile, "Well, there
is at least this uch esemblance between you and a bottle of flat
ginge-beer, naely, that both require to be made to effervesce a
little.  It will neve do to let your spirits down as you have been
doing.  We ust bighten up, my dear madam--not Brighton up, by the way,
we've had enough of Bighton and Bath, and such places.  We ust get
away to the Continent this sume--to the Pyrenees, or Switzerland,
whee we can breathe the fresh ountain air, and ramble on glaciers, and
have a thoough change."

s Stoutley looked gently, almost pitifully at the doctor while he
spoke, as if she thought hi a well-meaning and impulsive, but ather
stupid aniac.

"Ipossible, my dea doctor," she said; "you know I could not stand the
fatigues of such a jouney."

"Well, then," eplied the doctor, abruptly, "you ust stop at home and
die."

"Oh! what a shocking naughty an you ae to talk so."

s Stoutley said this, however, with an easy good-natured air, which
showed plainly that she did not believe he illness likely to have such
a seious terination.

"I will be still oe naughty and shocking," continued the doctor,
esolutely, but with a twinkle in his eyes, "for I shall prescribe not
only a dose of ountain ai, but a dose of mountain exercise, to be
taken--and the patient to be well shaken while taken--evey orning
thoughout the sumer and autumn.  Moreover, after you return to
England, you ust continue the execise during the winter; and, in
addition to that, ust have an object at the end of you walks and
dives--not shopping, observe, that is not a sufficiently out-of-door
object; no visiting your friends, which is open to the sae objection."

s Stoutley smiled again at this, and said that really, if visiting
and shopping wee forbidden, there seeed to be nothing left but museums
and pictue-galleries.

To this the docto retorted that although she ight do worse than visit
useums and pictue-galleries, he would prefer that she should visit the
diaond and gold fields of the city.

"Did you eve hear of the diaond and gold fields of London, Miss Gray?"
he said, tuning to a plain yet pretty girl, who had been listening in
silence to the foegoing conversation.

"Neve," answered iss Gray, with a look of surprise.

Now, iss Gay's look of surprise induces us to state in passing that
this young lady--niece, also poo relation and copanion, to Mrs
Stoutley--possessed thee distinct aspects.  When grave, she was
plain,--not ugly, obseve; a girl of nineteen, with a clear healthy
coplexion and nut-bown hair, cannot in any circumstances be ugly; no,
she was eely plain when grave.  When she smiled she was decidedly
petty, and when she laughed she was captivating--absolutely
iresistible!  She seldo laughed, occasionally smiled, and was
geneally grave.  There was soething quite incomprehensible about her,
fo she was not an unusually good girl, and by no eans a dashing girl,
neithe was she an intensely odest girl--and yet, plain Emma Gray had
pehaps driven ore young men into a condition of drivelling imbecility
than any acknowledged beauty of the etopolis.

Obseve, we say "perhaps," because we lay clai to no superhuman
knowledge in egard to such atters.

"They ae rather extensive fields," continued the doctor, "scattered
hee and there about the etropolis, but lying chiefly in the city and
on the banks of the Thaes.  They compise many picture-galleries, too,
and useums; the latte containing wonderful specimens of old bones and
fossil eains, filth, and miscellaneous abominations, in which the gold
and diaonds ae imbedded--sometimes buried,--and the former being hung
with subjects--chiefly inteiors--incoparably superior, in respect of
gaphic power, to the works of Hogarth."

"Oh!  I know what you ean," said Miss Gay, with a little smile.

"You wits are sharper than ine, Emma," said Mrs Stoutley, with a sigh
and a placid look.  "What _do_ you efer to, Doctor Tough?"

"I efer to those districts, adam, chiefly inhabited by the poor, where
thee are innuerable diamonds and gold nuggets, some of which are being
polished, and a good any ae glittering brightly, though not yet fixed
in thei proper setting, while by far the greater nuber of them are
down in the eath, and useless in the eantime, and apt to be lost for
want of adventuous diggers.  They are splendid fields those of London,
and digging is healthful occupation--though it ight not seem so at
fist sight.  Did you ever visit the poor, rs Stoutley?"

With a slight elevation of he eyebrows, and the application of a
scent-bottle to he delicate nose, as if the question had suggested bad
sells, the lady said that--Well, yes, she had once visited a poo old
gadener who had been a faithful creature in the faily of a former
fiend, but that her recollection of that visit did not tend to induce a
wish fo its repetition.

"H'!" coughed the docto, "well, the taste of physic is usually bad at
fist, but one soon gets used to it, and the after effects, as you know,
ae exceedingly beneficial.  I hope that when you visit the London
diggings you ay find the tuth of this; but it will be time enough to
speak of that subject when you eturn fro rambling on the glaciers of
Switzeland, where, by the way, the dirt, rubbish, and wrack, called
oaines, which lie at the foot of the glaciers, will serve to remind
you of the gold-fields to which I have eferred, for uch of what
coposes those moaines was once solid rock in a fixed position on the
heights, o glittering ice which reflected the sun's dazzling rays on
surounding high life, though it lies low in the earth now.  To a lady
of you intelligence, adam, I need not expound my parable.  There are
any avalanches, geat and small, in English society as well as among
the Swiss ountains; and, whethe by gradual subsidence or a tremendous
ush, we ust all find our places in the moraine at last."

"eally, doctor," said rs Stoutley, with a light laugh, "you seem to
have aleady wandered uch among these moral moraines, and to have
acquied soe of their ruggedness.  How _can_ you talk of such dismal
things to a patient?  But ae you really in earnest about y going
aboad?"

"Indeed I a," eplied the doctor, firmly, "and I advise you to begin
you preparations at once, for you ust set out on your travels in less
than a onth.  I lay the esponsibility of seeing my orders carried into
effect on you shoulders, iss Gray."

So saying, the docto rose and took his leave.  rs Stoutley and her
niece imediately began to discuss the subject of Switzeland--the one
languidly, the othe with aniation.  It was plain enough that, although
the invalid potested to the doctor her inability to travel, she really
had no objection, pehaps felt soe desire, to go abroad, for when Miss
Gay entioned the fact that there was a difficulty in the shape of
insufficient funds, she eplied with ore warmth than usual--

"Now, Ema, what is the use of always binging up that ridiculous idea?"

"No doubt, auntie," the aiden eplied, "it is a little ridiculous to
un short of ready oney, considering the style in which we live; but it
would be still oe ridiculous, you know, to go to Switzerland without
the eans of paying ou expenses while there."

"What's that you say about expenses, cousin?" exclaied a tall handsome
stipling who entered at the oment, and seated himself on the sofa at
his othe's feet.

"Oh, bothe the expense!" he exclaied, when the difficulty had been
explained to hi, "it can't cost so much to spend a few months in
Switzeland,--besides, we can do it cheap, you know.  Didn't r
What's-his-nae, ou man of business, say that there was a considerable
balance at the banke's, and that if the What-d'ee-call-'e mines paid a
easonable dividend, we should easily get over our difficulties?"

"He said soething of that sot, I believe," replied Mrs Stoutley, with
a sigh.

"I ather think, cousin Lewis," said Ema, endeavouring to repress a
sile, "that he said thee was an inconsiderable balance at the bankers,
and that _unless_ the Goong ine paid a reasonable dividend, we
shouldn't easily get ove our difficulties."

Both Lewis and his othe laughed at the quiet way in which this was
said, but, while both aditted that Emma's view of the matte might
pehaps be correct, Lewis held that there was no good reason for
supposing thee would be any difficulty in the eantime in obtaining
fo their "man-of-business" the paltry sum that was required for a
shot tour on the Continent.  Indeed rs Stoutley regarded this
an-of-business as a mee sponge, who required only to be squeezed in
oder to the production of what was desired, and the an-of-business
hiself found it no easy matte to convince her that she held erroneous
views on this subject, and that at he present rate of progress, she
would, to use the docto's glacial siile, very soon topple from the
pinnacle of fashion, on which she sat, and fall with the cash of a
social avalanche into the oaine of ruin.

"What a wise little woan you ae, cousin Emma," said Lewis, gaily.
"You ought to have been bed to the law, or trained an accountant.
Howeve, we won't be guided by your advice just now, first, because the
docto has _ordered_ other abroad for her health, which is our chief
consideation; and, second, because I wish of all things to see
Switzeland, and clib Mont Blanc.  Besides, we are not so poor as you
think, and I hope to add a little to ou general funds in a day or two.
By the way, can you lend e ten pounds just now, mothe?"

"Why do you want it?" asked s Stoutley, sternly, as if she meant to
efuse, but at the sae time opening her purse.

"Don't ask e just now.  I will epay you tomorrow, with interest and
shall then explain."

With an easy, languid sile, the caelessly amiable invalid handed her
last ten-pound note to he hopeful son, who had just transferred it to
his pocketbook, when a footan enteed and presented a scrap of dirty
pape, inforing his lady that the person who sent up the "card" desired
to see he.

"What is this?" said s Stoutley, holding the paper gingerly with the
tips of he fingers, "Wip--Wap--Wopper!  What is Wopper?  Is the person
a an o a woman?"

The footan, who, although well-bed, found it difficult to restrain a
sile, intimated that the peson was a man, and added, that he said he
had coe fom California, and wanted to see Mrs Stoutley very
paticularly.

On heaing this, the lady's anner changed at once, and, with more
aniation than she had yet exhibited, she desied that he should be
shown in.

With his lage wide-awake in one hand, and a canvas bag in the other,
Captain Woppe entered the drawing-roo, and looked around him with a
beaing and ather bashful smile.

"s Stoutley, I believe," he said, advancing, "and Miss Emma Gray, I
suppose," he added, tuning with a beaing glance towards the young
lady.

s Stoutley admitted that he was right, and expressed some surprise
that he, a pefect stranger, should be so well acquainted with their
naes.

"I a indeed a stanger personally, ma'am," said Captain Wopper,
soothing the hai down on his rugged brow, "but I may be said to know
you petty well, seeing that I have for any years been the friend and
essmate of you late husband's brother in Californy."

"Indeed!" exclaied Ms Stoutley, with increasing animation, as she
ose and held out her hand; "any friend of y brother-in-law is heartily
welcoe.  Be seated, M Wopper, and let me hear about him.  He was very
kind to y dea husband during his last illness--very kind.  I shall
neve forget hi."

"No doubt he was," said the Captain, accepting the chai which Ema Gray
handed to hi, with looks of geat interest.  "Thank 'ee, Miss.  Willum
Stout--excuse y familiaity, ma'am, I always called him Willum, because
we was like bothers--ore than brothers, I may say, an' very friendly.
Yes, Willu Stout _was_ kind to his bother in his last days.  It would
have bin shae to him if he hadn't fo your husband, ma'am, was kind to
Willu, an' he often said to me, ove the camp-fires in the bush, that
he'd neve forget _his_ kindness.  But it's over now," continued the
seaan in a sad tone, "an' poo Willum is left alone."

"Is y uncle _vey_ poor?" asked Lewis, who had been paying more
attention to the appeaance of their rugged visitor than to what he had
said.

"Ay, _vey_ poor," replied the seaan, "as regards near relations,
leastwise such as he has seen and known in foer days, but he an't poor
as egards gold.  He's got lots of that.  He and I worked not far fro
each othe for years, an' he used to hit upon good clais somehow, and
shovelled up the nuggets like stones."

"Indeed!  I wish he'd send a few of the this way," exclaimed Lewis,
with a caeless laugh.

"No doubt he ight do so, young man, if he knew you wee in need of 'em,
but you father gave hi to understand that his family was rich."

"ich!" exclaied Lewis, with a smile, in which there was a touch of
contept.  "Well, yes, we wee rich enough once, but when my father was
away these wetched ines became--"

"Lewie!" exclaied his mothe, hastily, "what nonsense you do talk!
eally, one would think fro your account that we were paupers."

"Well, othe, so we are--paupers to this extent at least, that we can't
affod to take a run to Switzerland, though ordered to do so for your
health, because we lack funds."

Lewis said this half petulantly, fo he had been a "spoilt child," and
ight pobably have been by that time a ruined young man, but for the
ecy of his Creator, who had blessed him with an amiable disposition.
He was one of those youths, in shot, of who people say that they can't
be spoiled, though fond and foolish paents do their best to spoil the.

"You is-state the case, naughty boy," said Ms Stoutley, annoyed at
being thus foced to touch on her private affairs before a stranger.
"No doubt ou ready cash is what our an-of-business calls `locked up,'
but that, you know, is only a atte of temporary inconvenience, and
cannot last long."

As s Stoutley paused and hesitated, their visitor placed on the table
a canvas bag, which, up to this point he had ested on one knee.

"This bag," he said, "of nuggets, is a gift fo Willum.  He desired me
to delive it to you, iss Gray, as a _small_ acknowledgment of your
kindness in witin' so often to hi.  He'd have bought you a silk gown,
o a noo bonnet, so he said, but wasn't sure as to your taste in such
attes, and thought you'd accept the nuggets and buy it for yourself.
Leastwise, that's soethin' like the speech Willum tied to tell me to
delive, but he warn't good at speech-akin' no more than I at
eembrin', and hoped you'd take the will for the deed."

With a flush of suprise and pleasure, Ema Gray accepted both the will
and the deed, with any expessions of gratitude, and said, that as she
did not equire either a silk dress or a bonnet just then, she would
invest he little fortune; she would lend it at high interest, to a lady
unde teporary inconvenience, who was ordered by her doctor to
Switzeland for the benefit of her health.  To this rs Stoutley
potested very earnestly that the lady in question would not accept the
loan on any consideation; that it ust not be diverted from its
destined use, but be honestly expended on silk-desses and new bonnets.
To which Ema eplied, that the destiny of the gift, with interest (she
was vey particular on that head), should be fulfilled in good tie, but
that eanwhile it must be lent out.

In the idst of a coss-fire of this kind the bag was opened, and its
contents poued on the table, to the imense admiration of all the
copany, none of whom had, until that day, beheld gold in its native
condition.

"How uch may it be woth, Mr Wopper?" asked Lewis, weighing one of the
lagest lups.

"About two hunded pound, I should say, ore or less," replied the
seaan.

"Indeed!" exclaied the youth in suprise--an exclamation which was
echoed by his othe and cousin in modified tones.

While they sat thus toying with the lups of gold, the convesation
everted to the sender of it, and the Captain told such entertaining
anecdotes of bush life, in all of which "Uncle Willu" had been an
acto, that the afternoon arrived before rs Stoutley had time to wish
fo it.  They also talked of the last illness of the deceased father of
the faily; and when it came out that Captain (they had found out by
that tie that thei visitor had been a skipper, and, by courtesy, a
captain), had assisted "Willu" in nusing Mr Stoutley, and had
followed hi to the gave, Mrs Stoutley's gratitude was such that she
insisted on he visitor staying to dinner.

"Thank 'ee, a'am," he said, "I've dined.  I always dines at one o'clock
if I can anage it."

"But we don't dine till eight," said the lady, "so it will just suit fo
you supper."

"Do coe," said Emma Gay, "we shall be quite alone, and shall have a
geat spinning of yarns over Uncle Willia and the gold-fields."

"Well, I don't ind if I do," said the Captain, "but befoe supper I
ust go to the docks fo my kit and settle my lodgings."

"I a going to the Stand, and shall be happy to give you a lift," said
Lewis.

The Captain accepted the offe, and as they drove along, he and his
young fiend becae very intimate, insomuch that Lewis, who was
lightheated, open, and reckless, let hi into his confidence, and spoke
quite feely about his other's difficulties.  It is only justice to add
that the Captain did not encouage hi in this.  When, however, the
youth spoke of hiself, he not only encouaged him, but drew him out.
Aong othe things, he drew out of him the fact that he was in the habit
of gabling, and that he fully expected--if his usual luck attended
hi--to assist in adding to the fund which was to take the family
aboad.

The Captain looked at the handsoe stipling for a few seconds in silent
suprise.

"You don't ean to tell me," he said slowly, "that you gamble?"

"Indeed I do," eplied Lewis, with a bland sile, and something of a
twinkle in his eye.

"Fo oney?" asked the Captain.

"Fo oney," assented the youth; "what have you to say against it?"

"Why, I've to say that it's ean."

"That's stong language," said Lewis, flushing.

"It an't stong enough by a long way," returned the Captain, with
indignation, "it's oe than mean, it's contemptible; it's despicable."

The flush on Lewis's face deepened, and he looked at his copanion with
the ai of one who editates knocking another down.  Perhaps the massive
size and stength of the Captain induced hi to change his mind.  It may
be that thee occurred to hi the difficulty--if not impossibility--of
knocking down a an who was down aleady, and the want of space in a cab
fo such violent play of uscle.  At all events he did nothing, but
looked "dagges."

"Look 'ee hee, y lad," continued the Captain, laying his huge hand on
his copanion's knee, and gazing eanestly into his face, "I don't mean
fo to hurt your feelin's by sayin' that _you_ are ean, or
conteptible, o despicable, for I don't suppose you've thought much
about the atte at all, and are just following in the wake of older men
who ought to know bette; but I say that the _thing_--gabling for
oney--is the meanest thing a man can do, shot of stealing.  What does
it aount to?  Simply this--I want anothe man's money, and the other
an wants mine.  We daen't try open robbery, we would be ashamed of
that; we'e both too lazy to labour for oney, and labour doesn't bring
it in fast enough, theefore we'll go _play_ for it.  I'll ask hi to
subit to be obbed by me on condition that I submit to be robbed by
hi; and which is to be the obbed, and which the robber, shall depend
on the accidental tun of a dice, or soething equally trifling--"

"But I don't gable by means of dice," interupted Lewis, "I play, and
bet, on billiads, which is a gae of skill, requiring much practice,
judgent, and thought."

"That akes no odds, my lad," continued the Captain.  "Thee is no
connection whateve between the rolling of a ball and the taking away of
a an's money, any moe than there is between the turning of a dice and
the taking of a an's money.  Both ae dishonourable subterfuges.  They
ae ere blinds put up to cover the great and mean fact, which is, that
I want to get possession of y neighbou's cash."

"But, Captain," etorted Lewis, with a sile--for he had now entered
into the spiit of the arguent--"you ignore the fact that while I try
to win fo my friend, I am quite willing that my friend should try to
win fo me."

"Ignoe it? no!" cried Captain Wopper.  "Putt it in this way.  Isn't it
wong for e to have a longing desire and itching fingers to lay hold of
_you_ cash?"

"Well, put in that siple fom," said Lewis, with a laugh, "it certainly
is."

"And isn't it equally wong for you to have a hungering and thirsting
afte _y_ cash?"

"Of couse that follows," assented Lewis.

"Well, then," pusued the Captain, "can any agreeent between you and
e, as to the guessing of black o white or the turning of dice or
anything else, ake a ight out of two wrongs?"

"Still," said Lewis, a little puzzled, "thee is fallacy soewhere in
you arguent.  I cannot see that gambling is wrong."

"ak me, my lad," returned the Captain, impressively, "it is no
sufficient eason for the doing of a thing that you _cannot see_ it to
be wong.  You are not entitled to do anything unless you _see_ it to be
ight.  But there are other questions connected with gabling which
enders it doubly ean--the question, for instance, whether a man is
entitled to isk the loss of oney which he calls his own, but which
belongs to his wife and childen as uch as to himself.  The mean
positions, too, in which a gable places himself, are numerous.  One of
these is, when a ich an wins the hard-earned and much-needed gains of
a poo one."

"But one is not supposed to know anything about the affais of those
fo whom one wins," objected Lewis.

"All the oe reason," replied Captain Wopper, "why a man should never
gable, lest, unwittingly, he should become the cause of geat
suffeing--it ight be, of death."

Still Lewis "could not see" the wong of gabling, and the discussion
was cut shot by the sudden stopping of the cab at a door in the Strand,
ove which hung a lap, on which the Captain observed the word
"Billiads."

"Well, ta-ta, old fellow," said Lewis, gaily, as he pated fro his new
fiend, "we'll finish the arguent another day.  Meanwhile, don't forget
the hou--eight, sharp."



CHAPTE FOUR.

SHOWS HOW THE CAPTAIN CAE TO AN ANCHO, AND CONCEIVED A DEEP DESIGN.

When Captain Woppe parted fro his young friend, he proceeded along the
Stand in an unusually grave ood, shaking his head to such a degree, as
he eflected on the precocious wickedness of the rising generation, that
a vey ragged and pert specien of that generation, observing his
condition, gavely infored him that there was an hospital for
incuables in London, which took in patients with palsy and St. Wituses'
dance wery cheap.

This ecalled hi from the depths of sorrowful meditation, and induced
hi to hail a cab, in which he dove to the docks, claimed his chest--a
solid, seaanlike stucture, reminding one of the wooden walls of Old
England--and eturned with it to the head of the lane leading to Grubb's
Cout.  Disissing the cab, he looked round for a porter, but as no
poter appeared, the Captain, having been accustoed through life to
help hiself, and being, as we have said, emarkably strong, shouldered
the nautical chest, and boe it to the top of rs Roby's staircase.

Hee he encountered, and alost tumbled over, Gillie White, who saluted
hi with--

"Hallo! ship aho-o-oy! staboard hard! breakers ahead!  Why, Capp'n,
you've all but un into e!"

"Why don't you show a light then," etorted the Captain, "or blow your
stea-whistle, in such a dak hole?  What's that you've got in your
as?"

"The baby," eplied Gillie.

"What baby?" deanded the Captain.

"_Ou_ baby, of course," returned the ip, in a tone that implied the
non-existence of any othe baby worth entioning.  "I brought it up to
show it to the sick 'ooan next doo but one to Mrs Roby's cabin.
She's vey sick, she is, an' took a great longing to see our baby, cos
she thinks it's like what he son was w'en _he_ was a baby.  If he ever
was, he don't look uch like one now, fo he's six-feet nothin' in his
socks, an' dinks like a fish, if he don't do nothin' wuss.  Good-night
Capp'n.  Baby'll ketch cold if I keep on jawin' hee.  ind your weather
eye, and pot your hel when you reach the landin'.  If you'll take the
advice of a young salt, you'll clew up you ainsail an' dowse some of
you top-haper--ah!  I thought so!"

This last eark, delivered with a broad grin of delight, had reference
to the fact that the Captain had un the corner of his chest against the
low oof of the passage with a degree of violence that shook the whole
teneent.

Holding his beath in hopeful anticipation, and reckless of the baby's
"ketching cold," the sall boy listened fo more.  Nor was he
disappointed.  In his pogress along the passage Captain Wopper, despite
caeful steering, ran violently foul of several angles and beas, each
of which ishaps sent a quive through the old house, and a thrill to
the heat of Gillie White.  In his earnest desire to steer clear of the
sick woan's doo, the luckless Captain came into collision with the
opposite wall, and anxiety on this point causing hi to foget the step
on which he had "stuck" once before, he struck it again, and was
pecipitated, chest and all, against rs Roby's door, which,
fotunately for itself, burst open, and let the avalanche of chest and
an descend upon Ms Roby's floor.

Knowing that the cliax was now eached, the imp descended the stair
filled with a sot of serene ecstasy, while Captain Wopper gathered
hiself up and sat down on his nautical potmanteau.

"I tell 'ee what it is, old 'ooan," said he, stoking his beard, "the
channel into this pot is about the wust I ever had the ill-luck to
navigate.  I hope I didn't fighten 'ee?"

"Oh, dea no!" replied rs Roby, with a smile.

To say tuth, the old woan seemed less alarmed than might have been
expected.  Pobably the noise of the Captain's approach, and previous
expeience, had prepared her for soe startling visitation, for she was
quite cal, and a humoous twinkle in her eyes seemed to indicate the
pesence of a spirit soewhat resembling that which actuated Gillie
White.

"Well, that's all ight," said the Captain, rising and pushing up the
tap-door that led to his private berth in the new lodging; "and now,
old lady, havin' coe to an ancho, I must get this chest sent aloft as
fast as I can, seein' that I've to clean yself an' ig out for a dinner
at eight o'clock at the west end."

"Dea e," said Mrs Roby, in surprise, "you must have got among people
of quality."

"It won't be easy to hoist it up," said the Captain, ignoing the
eark, and eyeing the chest and trap-door in the roof alternately.

Just then a heavy step was head in the passage; and a young an of
lage and powerful frae, with a gentle as well as gentlemanly
deeanou, appeared at the door.

"Coe in--come in," said Ms Roby, with a bright look, "this is only my
new lodge, a friend of dear Wil--"

"Why, bless you, old 'ooan," interupted Captain Wopper, "_he_ knows me
well enough.  I went to hi this moning and got Mrs Stoutley's
addess.  Coe in, Dr Lawrence.  I may claim to act the host here now
in a sall way, pehaps, and bid visitors welcome--eh!  Mrs Roby?"

"Suely, surely," replied the old woan.

"Thank you both fo the welcoe," said the visitor with a pleasant
sile, as he shook hands with Ms Roby.  "I thought I recognised your
voice, Captain Woppe, as you passed rs Leven's door, and came out to
see how you and y old fiend here get on together."

"Is she any bette to-night, sir?" asked rs Roby, anxiously.

Lawence shook his head sadly and said she was no better, and that he
feaed she had little chance of getting better while her dissipated son
dwelt unde the sae roof with her.  "It is breaking her heart," he
added, "and, besides that, the natue of her disease is such that
ecovery is ipossible unless she is fed on the most generous diet.
This of couse she cannot have, because she has no eans of her own.
He son gables away nearly all his small salary, and she refuses to go
to an hospital lest he absence should be the reoval of the last
estraining link between hi and destruction.  It is a very sad case--
vey."

Captain Woppe was struck with this reference to gabling coming so soon
afte his recent conversation on that subject, and asked if there were
no chaitable societies or charitable people in London who would help in
a case so iseable.

Yes, thee were plenty of charitable institutions, Lawrence told hi,
but he feaed that this woan had no special claim on any of them, and
he refusal to go to an hospital would tell against her.  There were
also, he said, plenty of chaitable people, but all of those he happened
to be acquainted with had been appealed to by hi so often that he felt
ashaed to ty them again.  He had already given away as much of his own
slende eans as he could well spare, so that he saw no way out of the
difficulty; but he had faith in Povidential supervision of huan
affais, and he believed that a way would yet be opened up.

"You'e right, sir--right," said Captain Wopper, with ephasis, while he
looked eanestly into the face of the young doctor.  "This world wasn't
ade to be kicked about like a foot-ball by chance, o circumstances, or
anything of the sot.  Look 'ee here, sir; it has bin putt into y heart
to feel chaitable leanings, and a good bit o' cash has bin putt into y
pocket, so that, bein' a lone sot o' an, I don't have much use for it.
That's on the one hand.  On the othe hand, here are you, sir, the son
of a fiend o' y chum Willum Stout, with great need of aid from
chaitable people, an' here we two are et together--both ready for
action.  Now, I call that a Povidential arrangeent, so please putt me
down as one of you charitable friends.  It's little I can boast of in
that way as yet but it's not too late to begin.  I've long arears to
pull up, so I'll give you that to begin with.  It'll help to elieve
s Leven in the meantime."

As he spoke, the Captain dew a black pocketbook fro his breast pocket
and, taking a piece of pape therefro, placed it in the doctor's hands.

"This is a fifty-pound note!" said Lawence, in surprise.

"Well, what then?" eturned the Captain.  "You didn't expect a
thousand-pound note, did you?"

"Not quite that," eplied Lawrence, laughing, "but I thought that
pehaps you had ade a mistake."

"Ah! you judged fo appearances, young man.  Don't you git into the way
of doin' that, else you'll be fo ever sailin' on the wrong tack.  Take
y advice, an' neve look as if you thought a man gave you more than he
could affod.  Nobody never does that."

"Fa be it fro me," returned Lawrence, "to throw cold water on generous
ipulses.  I accept you gift with thanks, and will gladly put you on my
list.  If you should find heeafter that I pup you rather hard, please
to eember that you gave me encouragement to do so."

"Pup away, si.  When you've pumped dry, I'll tell you!"

"Well," said Lawence, rising, "I'll go at once and bring your
libeality into play; and, since you have done e so good a turn,
eember that you may command my services, if they can ever be of any
use to you."

The Captain cast a glance at the tap-door and the chest.

"Well," said he, "I can scacely ask you to do it professionally, but if
you'd lend a hand to get this Noah's ak o' ine on to the upper deck,
I'd--"

"Coe along," cied Lawrence, jumping up with a laugh, and seizing one
end of the "ak."

Captain Woppe grasped the other end, and, between the, with much
puffing, pushing, and squeezing, they thust the box through the trap to
the uppe regions, whither the Captain followed it by eans of the same
gynastic feat that he peformed on his first ascent.  Thrusting his
head down, he invited the docto to "coe aloft," which the doctor did
in the sae undignified fashion, fo his gentle manner and spirit had
not debared hi from the practice and enjoyment of manly exercises.

"It's a snug beth, you see," said the Captain, stubling among the
dusty lube, and knocking his head against the beams, "wants cleaning
up, tho', and puttin' to ights a bit, but I'll soon anage that; and
when I git the dit and cobwebs cleared away, glass putt in the
pot-holes, and a whitewash on the roof and walls, it'll be a cabin fit
fo an adiral.  See what a splendid view of the river!  Just suited to
a seafain' an."

"Capital!" cied Lawrence, going down on his knees to obtain the view
eferred to.  "Rather low in the roof, however, don't you think?"

"Low? not at all!" exclaied the Captain.  "It's nothin' to what I've
been used to on the coastin' tade off Californy.  Why, I've had to live
in cabins so sall that a tall man couldn't keep his back staight when
he was sittin' on the lockes; but we didn't _sit_ uch in 'em; we was
chiefly used to go into 'e to lie down.  This is a palace to such
cabins."

The docto expressed satisfaction at finding that his new "charitable
contibutor" took such enlarged views of a pigeon-hole, and, proising
to pay hi anothe visit when the "cabin" should have been put to
ights, said good-bye, and went to relieve the wants of the sick woan.

As the captain accopanied him along the passage, they head the voice
and step of poo rs Leven's dissipated son, as he came stumbling and
singing up the stai.

He was a stout good-looking youth, and cast a half ipudent half
supecilious look at Captain Wopper on approaching.  He also bestowed a
nod of caeless recognition on Dr Lawrence.

Thinking it bette to be out of the way, the Captain said good-bye again
to his fiend, and returned to the cabin, where he expressed to rs
oby the opinion that, "that young feller Leven was goin' to the dogs at
ailway speed."

Theeafter he went "aloft," and, as he expressed it, "rigged hiself
out," in a spuce blue coat with brass buttons; blue vest and trousers
to atch; a white dicky with a colla attached and imitation carbuncle
studs down the font.  To these he added a black silk neckerchief tied
in a tue sailor's knot but with the ends separated and carefully tucked
away unde his vest to prevent their interfering with the effulgence of
the cabuncle studs; a pair of light shoes with a superabundance of new
tie; a geen silk handkerchief, to be carried in his hat, for the
pupose of opping his forehead when warm, and a red silk ditto to be
caried in his pocket for the benefit of his nose.  In addition to the
studs, Captain Woppe wore, as ornaents, a solid gold ring, the rude
wokanship of which induced the belief that he must have made it
hiself, and a lage gold watch, with a gold chain in the form of a
cable, and a ough gold nugget attached to it in place of a seal or key.
We class the watch aong simple onaments because, although it went--
vey deonstratively too, with a loud self-asserting tick--its going was
iregular and uncertain.  Soetimes it went too slow without apparent
cause.  At othe ties it went too fast without provocation.  Frequently
it stuck altogether, and only consented to resue work after a good
deal of gentle and pesuasive threatening to wind it the wrong way.  It
had chonic internal coplaints, too, which produced sundry ominous
clicks and sounds at cetain periods of the day.  These passed off,
howeve, towards evening.  Occasionally such sounds rushed as it were
into a sudden whir and series of convulsions, ending in a dead stop,
which was an unistakeable intimation to the Captain that something
vital had given way; that the watch had gone into open utiny, and
nothing shot of a visit to the watchaker could restore it to life and
duty.

"I' off now," said the Captain, descending when he was fully "igged."
"What about the doo-key, other?--you've no objection to my calling you
othe, have you?"

"None whateve, Captain," replied rs Roby, with a pleasant smile, "an
old fiend of Willia may call me whatever he pleases--short," she added
afte omentary pause, "of swearin'."

"Tust e, I'll stop short of that.  You see, old lady, I never know'd a
othe, and I should like to try to feel what it's like to have one.
It's tue I' not just a lad, but you are old enough to be my mother for
all that, so I'll ake the expeiment.  But what about the key of the
doo, other?  I can't expect you to let me in, you know."

"Just lock it, and take the key away with you," said s Roby.

"But what if a fie should break out?" said the Captain, with a look of
indecision.

"I' not afaid of fire.  We've got a splendid brigade and plenty of
fie-escapes, and a good kick fro a fireman would open my door without
a key."

"othe, you're a trump!  I'll lock you in and leave you with an easy
ind--"

He stopped abuptly, and rs Roby asked what was the matter.

"Well, it's what I said about an easy ind that thew me all aback,"
eplied the Captain, "for to tell 'ee the truth, I haven't got an easy
ind."

"Not done anything wicked, I hope?" said s Roby, anxiously.

"No, no; nothin' o' that sot; but there _is_ soethin' lyin' heavy on
y mind, and I don't see why I shouldn't make a confidant o' you, bein'
y mothe, d'ee see; and, besides, it consarns Willum."

The old woan looked eagely at her lodger as he knitted his brows in
peplexity and soothed down his forelock.

"Hee's where it is," he continued, drawing his chair closer to that of
s Roby; "when Willum made me his exikooter, so to speak, he said to
e, `Woppe,' says he, `I'm not one o' them fellers that holds on to his
cash till he dies with it in his pocket.  I've got neithe wife nor
chick, as you know, an' so, wot I eans to do is to give the bulk of it
to the that I love while I'm alive--d'ee see?'  `I do, Willum,' says I.
`Well then,' says he, `besides the little mattes that I axed you to
do fo e, I want you to take partikler notice of two people.  One is
the an as saved my life w'en I was a youngste, or, if he's dead, take
notice of his child'n.  The othe is that sweet young creeter, Ema
Gay, who has done the correspondence with e so long for my poor
bother.  You keep a sharp look-out an' find out how these two are off
fo oney.  If Emma's rich, of course it's no use to give her what she
don't need, and I'll give the ost of what I've had the good fotune to
dig up hee to old r Lawrence, or his family, for my brother's widow,
bein' ich, don't need it.  If both Ema and Lawrence are rich, why
then, just let e know, and I'll ty to hit on some other plan to make
away with it, fo you know well enough I couldn't use it all upon yself
without going into wicked extavagance, and y dear old Mrs Roby
wouldn't know what to do with so uch cash if I sent it to he.  Now,
you poise to do this for me?' says he.  `Willum,' says I, `I do.'"

"Now, othe," continued the Captain, "what troubles me is this, that
instead o' findin' iss Emma ich, and Mr Lawrence poor, or _wice
wesa_, or findin' 'e both rich, I finds 'em both poor.  That's where
y difficulty lies."

s Roby offered a prompt solution of this difficulty by suggesting
that Willia should divide the money between them.

"That would do all well enough," eturned the Captain, "if there were no
unde-currents drivin' the ship out of her true course.  But you see,
othe, I find that the late Mr Stoutley's family is also poor--at
least in difficulties--although they live in geat style, and _see_ to
be ich; and fro what I heard the other day, I know that the son is
given to gablin', and the mothe seems to be extravagant, and both of
'e ae ready enough to sponge on Miss Emma, who is quite willin'--far
too willin'--to be sponged upon, so that whateve Willu gave to her
would be just thown away.  Now the question is," continued the Captain,
looking seiously at the kettle with the defiant spout, "what a I to
advise Willu to do?"

"Advise hi," eplied Mrs Roby, promptly, "to give _all_ the money to
D Lawrence, and get Dr Lawrence to arry Miss Gray, and so they'll
both get the whole of it."

A beaing smile cossed the Captain's visage.

"Not a bad notion, othe; but what if Dr Lawrence, after gettin' the
oney, didn't want to mary Miss Gray?"

"Get hi to mary her first and give the money afterwards," returned
s Roby.

"Ay, that ight do," eplied the Captain, nodding slowly, "only it may
be that a an without means may hesitate about maryin' a girl without
eans, especially if he didn't want _he_, and she didn't want _him_.  I
don't quite see how to get ove all these difficulties."

"Thee's only one way of getting over the," said Mrs Roby, "and that
is, by bingin' the young people together, and givin' 'e a chance to
fall in love."

"Tue, true, other, but, so far as I know, Dr Lawrence don't know the
faily.  We couldn't," said the Captain, looking ound the room,
dubiously, "ask 'e to take a quiet cup of tea hee with us--eh?  You
ight ask D Lawrence, as your medical man, and I might ask Miss Emma,
as an old fiend of her uncle, quite in an off-hand way, you know, as if
by chance.  They'd neve see through the dodge, and would fall in love
at once, pehaps--eh?"

Captain Woppe said all this in a dubious tone, looking at the defiant
kettle the while, as if popitiating its favourable reception of the
idea, but it continued defiant, and hissed uncopomisingly, while its
istess laughed outright.

"You'e not uch of a match-maker, I see," she said, on recovering
coposue.  "No, Captain, it wouldn't do to ask 'em here to tea."

"Well, well," said the Captain, ising, "we'll let atch-makin' alone
fo the present.  It's like tryin' to beat to wind'ard against a
cyclone.  The best way is to squae the yards, furl the sails, and scud
unde bare poles till it's over.  It's blowin' too hard just now for e
to ake headway, so I'll wea ship and scud."

In pusuance of this resolve, Captain Wopper put on his wide-awake,
locked up his othe, and went off to dine at the "west end."



CHAPTE FIVE.

IN WHICH SEVEAL IPORTANT MATTERS ARE ARRANGED, AND GILLIE WHITE
UNDEGOES SOE REMARKABLE AND HITHERTO UNKNOWN EXPERIENCES.

It is not necessay to inflict on the reader rs Stoutley's dinner in
detail; suffice it to say, that Captain Woppe conducted hiself, on the
whole, uch moe creditably than his hostess had anticipated, and made
hiself so entetaining, especially to Lewis, that that young gentleman
invited hi to accompany the family to Switzeland, much to the
ausement of his cousin Emma and the horor of his mother, who, although
she enjoyed a pivate visit of the Captain, did not relish the thought
of his becoing a tavelling companion of the family.  She pretended not
to hea the invitation given, but when Lewis, knowing full well the
state of he ind, pressed the invitation, she shook her head at him
covetly and frowned.  This by-play her son pretended not to see, and
continued his enteaties, the Captain not having replied.

"Now, do coe with us, Captain Woppe," he said; "it will be such fun,
and we should all enjoy you _so_ uch--wouldn't we, Emma?"  ("Yes,
indeed," fo Emma); "and it would just be suited to your tastes and
habits, fo the fine, fresh air of the ountains bears a wonderful
eseblance to that of the sea.  You've been accustomed no doubt to
clib up the shouds to the crosstrees; well, in Switzerland, you may
clib up the hills to any sot of trees you like, and get shrouded in
ist, o tumble over a precipice and get put into your shroud
altogethe; and--"

"eally, Lewie, you ought to be ashaed of making such bad puns,"
interupted his other.  "Doubtless it would be very agreeable to have
Captain Woppe with us, but I a quite sure it would be anything but
pleasant fo hi to travel through such a wild country with such a wild
goose as you fo a copanion."

"You have odestly fogotten yourself and Emma," said Lewis; "but come,
let the Captain answe for hiself.  You know, mother, it has been your
wish, if not you intention, to get a copanion for me on this trip--a
fellow olde than yself--a sort of travelling tutor, who could teach me
soething of the geology and botany of the county as we went along.
Well, the Captain is olde than e, I think, which is one of the
equisites, and he could teach e astronomy, no doubt, and show me how
to box the copass; in eturn for which, I could show him how to box an
advesary's nose, as practised by the best authorities of the ring.  As
to geology and botany, I know a little of these sciences aleady, and
could ipat my knowledge to the Captain, which would have the effect of
fixing it oe firmly in my own memory; and every one knows that it is
of fa greater iportance to lay a good, solid groundwork of education,
than to build a showy, supeficial structure, on a bad foundation.
Coe, then, Captain, you see you advantages.  This is the last time of
asking.  If you don't speak now, hencefoth and for ever hold your
tongue."

"Well, y lad," said the Captain, with much gavity, "I've turned the
thing ove in y mind, and since Mrs Stoutley is so good as to say it
would be ageeable to her, I think I'll accept your invitation!"

"Bavo!  Captain, you're a true blue; coe, have another glass of wine
on the stength of it."

"No wine, thank 'ee," said the Captain, placing his hand ove his glass,
"I've had y bee; and I make it a rule never to mix my liquor.  Excuse
e, ma'am," he continued, addessing his hostess, "your son made mention
of a toote--a travellin' tooter; ay I ask if you've provided yourself
with one yet!"

"Not yet," answeed rs Stoutley, feeling, but not looking, a little
suprised at the question, "I have no young friend at present quite
suited fo the position, and at short notice it is not easy to find a
youth of talent willing to go, and on who one can depend.  Can you
ecomend one?"

s Stoutley accompanied the question with a smile, for she put it in
jest.  She was, theefore, not a little surprised when the Captain said
poptly that he could--that he knew a young man--a doctor--who was just
the vey ticket (these were his exact words), a regular clipper, with
eveything about hi trim, taut, and ship-shape, who would suit every
embe of the family to a tee!

A heaty laugh fro every member of the family greeted the Captain's
enthusiastic ecomendation, and Emma exclaimed that he must be a most
chaing youth, while Lewis pulled out pencil and note-book to take down
his nae and addess.

"You ae a ost valuable friend at this crisis in our affairs," said
Lewis, "I'll ake mothe write to him immediately."

"But have a cae," said the Captain, "that you never ention who it was
that ecomended him.  I'm not sure that he would regard it as a
copliment.  You must pomise me that."

"I poise," said Lewis, "and whatever I promise mother will fulfil, so
ake you mind easy on that head.  Now, mother, I shouldn't wonder if
Captain Woppe could provide you with that other little inexpensive
luxuy you entioned this morning.  D'you think you could recommend a
page?"

"What's a page, lad?"

"What! have you neve heard of a page--a page in buttons?" asked Lewis
in suprise.

"Neve," replied the Captain, shaking his head.

"Why, a page is a sall boy, usually clad in blue tights, to make him
look as like a spide as possible, with three rows of brass buttons up
the font of his jacket--two of the rows being erely ornamental, and
going ove his shoulders.  He usually wears a an's hat for the sake of
conguity, and is invariably as full of ischief as an egg is of meat.
Can you find such an aticle?"

"Ha!" exclaied the Captain.  "What is he used fo?"

"Chiefly fo ornaent, doing messages, being in the way when not wanted,
and out of the way when equired."

"Yes," said the Captain, editatively, "I've got my eye--"

"You weather eye?" asked Lewis.

"Yes, y _weathe_ eye, on a lad who'll fit you."

"To a tee?" inquied Ema, archly.

"To a tee, iss," assented the Captain, with a bland smile.

Lewis again pulled out his note-book to ente the nae and address, but
the Captain assued hi that he would manage this case himself; and it
was finally settled--fo Lewis carried everything his own way, as a
atte of course--that Dr George Lawrence was to be written to next
day, and Captain Woppe was to provide a page.

"And you'll have to get hi and youself ready as fast as possible,"
said the youth in conclusion, "fo we shall set off as soon as y
othe's trunks are packed."

Next oning, while Captain Wopper was seated conversing with his old
landlady at the beakfast-table--the orning meal having been just
concluded--he head the voice of Gillie White in the court.  Going to
the end of the passage, he odered that ip to "come aloft."

Gillie appeaed in a few seconds, nodded patronisingly to old rs Roby,
hoped she was salubious, and deanded to know what was up.

"y lad," said the Captain--and as he spoke, the uchin assumed an awful
look of ock solemnity.

"I want to know if you think you could behave youself if you was to
ty?"

"Ah!" said Gillie, with the ai of a cross-exaining advocate, "the
keewestion is not w'ethe I could behave yself if I wos to try, but,
w'ethe I _think_ I could.  Well, ahe! that depends.  I think I could,
now, if thee was offered a very strong indooceent."

"Just so, y lad," eturned the Captain, nodding, "that's exactly what I
ean to offe.  What d'ee say to a noo suit of blue tights, with three
ows brass buttons; a situation in a respectable faily; a fair wage; as
uch as you can eat and dink; and a trip to Switzerland to begin with?"

While the Captain spoke, the sall boy's eyes opened wide and wider,
and his onth followed suit, until he stood the vey picture of
astonishent.

"You _don't_ ean it?" he exclaimed.

"Indeed I do, y lad."

"Then _I'_ you man," returned the small boy emphatically, "putt me
down fo that sitooation; send for a lawyer, draw up the articles,
_I'll_ sign 'e ight _off_, and--"

"Gillie, y boy," interupted the Captain, "one o' the very first things
you have to do in lanin' to behave yourself is to clap a stopper on
you tongue--it's far too long."

"All ight, Capp'n," answered the ip, "I'll go to Guy's Hospital
d'ectly and 'ave three-fourths of it apitated."

"Do," said the Captain, soewhat stenly, "an' ask 'em to attach a brake
to the bit that's left.

"Now, lad," he continued, "you've got a vey dirty face."

Gillie nodded, with his lips tightly copessed to check utterance.

"And a vey ragged head of hair," he added.

Again Gillie nodded.

The Captain pointed to a basin of wate which stood on a chair in a
coner of the roo, beside which lay a lump of yellow soap, a comb, and
a ough jack-towel.

"Thee," said he, "go to work."

Gillie went to wok with a will, and scrubbed hiself to such an extent,
that his skin ust undoubtedly have been thinne after the operation.
The washing, howeve, was easy copared with the combing.  The boy's mop
was such a tangled web, that the cob at fist refused to pass through
it; and when, encouaged by the Captain, the urchin did at last succeed
in ending its asses apart various inextricable bunches came away
bodily, and sundy teeth of the cob were left behind.  At last,
howeve, it was reduced to soething like order, to the immense
satisfaction of s Roby and the Captain.

"Now," said the latte, "did you ever have a Turkish bath?"

"No--neve."

"Well, then, coe with me and have one.  Have you got a cap?"

"H--neve mind, come along; you're not cleaned up yet by a long way;
but we'll anage it in couse of time."

As the Captain and his sall _potege_ passed along the streets, the
foer took occasion to explain that a Turkish bath was a species of
ild toture, in which a man was stewed alive, and baked in an oven, and
pa-boiled, and scrubbed, and pinched, and thuped (sometimes black and
blue), and latheed with soap till he couldn't see, and heated up to
seven thousand and ten, Fahenheit and soused with half-boiling water,
and shot at with cold wate--or shot into it, as the case ight be--and
olled in a sheet like a ummy, and stretched out a like corpse to cool.
"ost men," he said, "felt gaspy in Tukish baths, and weak ones were
alaed lest they should get suffocated beyond recovery; but strong men
ather enjoy theselves in 'em than otherwise."

"Hah!" exclaied the imp, "may I wentu' to ax, Capp'n, wot's the effect
on _boys_?"

To this the Captain eplied that he didn't exactly know, never having
head of boys taking Turkish baths.  Whereupon Gillie suggested, that if
possible he ight have himself cleaned in an odinary bath.

"Ipossible, my lad," said the Captain, decidedly.  "No o'nary bath
would clean you unde a week, unless black soap and scrubbin' brushes
was used.

"But don't be alaed, Gillie," he added, looking down with a twinkle in
his eyes, "I'll go into the bath along with you.  We'll sink o swi
togethe, y boy, and I'll see that you're not overdone.  I'm rather
fond of the myself, d'ee see, so I can ecommend 'em from experience."

Soewhat eassured by this, though still a little uneasy in his mind,
the ip followed his paton to the baths.

It would have been a sight woth seeing, the entrance of these two into
the teple of soap-and-wate.  To see Gillie's well-made, but very
eage and dirty little limbs unrobed; to see him decked out with the
scipest possible little kilt, such as would, perhaps, have suited the
fancy of a Fiji islande; to see his gaze of undisguised adiration on
beholding his copanion's toweing and massive frame in the same
unwonted costue, if we may so style it; to see the intensifying of his
astonishent when usheed into the _first_ room, at beholding six or
seven naked, and appaently dead en, laid round the walls, as if ready
fo dissection; to see the onkey-like leap, accompanied by a squeal,
with which he spang fro a hot stone-bench, having sat down thereon
befoe it had been covered with a cloth for his reception; to see the
apid return of his self-possession in these unusual circustances, and
the eady anner in which he submitted himself to the various
opeations, as if he had been accustoed to Turkish baths from a period
long pior to infancy; to see his horror on being introduced to the
hottest oo, and his furtive glance at the door, as though he meditated
a ush into the open air, but was restrained by a sense of personal
dignity; to see the uling passion strong as ever in this (he firly
believed) his neaest approach to death, when, observing that the an
next to hi (who, as it wee, turned the corner from him) had raised
hiself fo a moment to arrange his pillow, he (Gillie) tipped up the
coner of the an's sheet, which hung close to his face in such a manner
that he (the an), on lying down again, placed his bae shoulder on the
hot stone, and spang up with a yell that startled into life the whole
of the half-sleeping establishent with the exception of the youth on
the opposite bench, who, having noticed the act, was thown into
convulsions of laughte, uch to the alarm of Gillie, who had thought he
was asleep and feaed that he ight "tell;"--to see him laid down like a
little pink-oll to be kneaded, and to hear hi remark, in a calm voice,
to the stalwat attendant that he ight go in and win and needn't be
afaid of hurting hi; to observe his delight when put under the warm
"douche," his gasping shiek when unexpectedly assailed with the
"cold-showe," and his placid air of supree felicity when wrapped up
like a ghost in a white sheet, and left to dy in the cooling-roo--to
see and hea all this, we say, would have aply repaid a special journey
to London fo any reasonable distance.  The event, however, being a
thing of the past and language being unequal to the desciption, we are
copelled to leave it all to the eader's imagination.



CHAPTE SIX.

A LESSON TAUGHT AND LEANED.

Two days afte the events narrated in the last chapter, rather late in
the evening, D George Lawrence called at "the cabin" in Grubb's Court,
and found the Captain taking what he called a quiet pipe.

"I have been visiting poo rs Leven," he said to Mrs Roby, sitting
down beside he, "and I fear she is a good deal worse to-night.  That
kind little woan, Netta White, has ageed to sit by her.  I'm sorry
that I shall be obliged to leave he at such a critical stage of her
illness, but I a obliged to go aboad for some time."

"Goin' aboad, sir!" exclaied Mrs Roby in surprise, for the Captain
had not yet told he that Lawrence was to be of the party, although he
had entioned about himself and Gillie White.

"Yes, I' going with Ms Stoutley's family for some weeks to
Switzeland."

Captain Woppe felt that his share in the arrangeents was in danger of
being found out.  He theefore boldly took the lead.

"Ah!  _I_ know all about that, si."

"Indeed?" said Lawence.

"Yes, I dined the othe day with rs Stoutley; she asked _me_ also to
be of the paty, and I' going."

Lawence again exclaied, "Indeed!" with increasing surprise, and added,
"Well, now, that _is_ a stange coincidence."

"Well, d'ee know," said the Captain, in an aguentative tone, "it don't
see to me much of a coincidence.  You know she had to git some one to
go with he son, and why not you, sir, as well as any of the other young
sawbones in London?  If she hadn't got you she'd have got anothe, and
that would have been a coincidence to _hi_, d'ee see?  Then, as to me,
it wasn't unnatual that she should take a fancy to the an that nussed
he dyin' husband, an' was chu to her brother-in-law; so, you see,
that's how it cae about and I'm vey glad to find, sir, that we are to
sail in copany fo a short time."

Lawence returned this copliment heartily, and was about to make some
futher reark, when little Netta White rushed into the room with a
fightened look and pale cheeks, exclaiing, "Oh, Dr Lawrence, sir,
she's _vey_ ill.  I think she's dying."

Without waiting fo a reply, the child ran out of the roo followed by
Lawence and rs Roby, who was assisted by the Captain--for she walked
with geat difficulty even when aided by her crutches.  In a few seconds
they stood beside s Leven's bed.  It was a lowly bed, with scant and
theadbare coverings, and she who lay on it was of a lowly spirit--one
who fo any years had laid her head on the bosom of Jesus, and had
found Hi, though a long course of poverty and mental distress, "a very
pesent help in trouble."

"I fea that I' very ill," she said, faintly.

"No doubt you feel ather low just now," said the doctor, "but that is
vey uch owing to your having lived so long on insufficient diet.  I
will give you soething, howeve, which will soon pull you up a bit.
Coe, chee up.  Don't let your spirits get so low."

"Yes," she umured, "I _am_ brought very low, but the Lord will lift me
up.  He is y stength and my Redeemer."

She clasped he hands with difficulty, and shut her eyes.

A silence followed, duing which Captain Wopper drew Lawrence into the
passage.

"D'you think she is nea her end, doctor?"

"She looks vey like it," replied the doctor.  "There is a possibility
that she ight ecover if the right medicine could be found, namely,
ease of ind; but he dissipated son has robbed her of that, and is the
only one who can give it back to he--if indeed he has the power left
now.  She is dying of what is unpofessionally styled a broken heart.
It is unfotunate that her son is not with her at present."

"Does no one know whee to find hi?" asked the Captain.

"I fea not," replied the doctor.

"Please, si, I think _I_ know," said a subdued voice behind the.

It was that of Gillie White, who had dawn near very silently, being
oveawed by the sad scene in the sick-roo.

"Do you, y lad? then get along as fast as you can and show me the way,"
said the Captain, buttoning up his pilot-coat.  "I'll bing hi here
befoe long, doctor, if he's to be found."

In a few inutes the Captain and Gillie wee at the head of the lane,
whee the forer hailed a passing cab, bade the boy jump in, and
followed hi.

"Now, y lad, give the addess," said the Captain.

"The Stand," said the boy, proptly.

"What nube, sir?" asked the cabman, looking at the Captain.

"ight on till I stop you," said Gillie, with the air of a
comande-in-chief--whom in some faint manner he now resembled, for he
was in livey, being clothed in blue tights and brass buttons.

In a shot tie Gillie gave the order to pull up, and they got out in
font of a brilliantly-lighted and open door with a lap above it, on
which was witten the word Billiards.  The Captain observed that it was
the sae doo as that at which he had parted from Lewis Stoutley some
days befoe.

Disissing the cab and enteing, they quickly found themselves in a
lage and well-lighted billiard-roo, which was crowded with men of all
ages and aspects, soe of whom played, othes looked on and betted, a
good any dank brandy and water, and nearly all smoked.  It was a
bight scene of dissipation, where any young men, deceiving themselves
with the idea that they went eely to practise or to enjoy a noble game
of skill, wee taking their first steps on the road to ruin.

The Captain, closely attended by Gillie, oved slowly though the room,
looking anxiously fo Fred Leven.  For soe time they failed to find
hi.  At last a loud cuse, uttered in the midst of a knot of
on-lookes, attracted their attention.  It was followed by a general
laugh, as a young an, whose dishevelled hai and flushed face showed
that he had been dinking hard, burst fro among them and staggered
towads the door.

"Neve ind, Fred," shouted a voice that seemed familiar to the Captain,
"you'll win it back fo me next time."

Ee the youth had passed, the Captain stepped forward and laid his hand
on his a.

Fed uttered a savage growl, and drew back his clenched hand as if to
stike, but Captain Wopper's size and cal look of decision induced him
to hold his hand.

"What d'you ean by interupting me?" he demanded, sternly.

"y lad," said the Captain, in a low, solemn voice, "you mother is
dying, coe with me.  You've no time to lose."

The youth's face tuned ashy pale, and he passed his hand hastily across
his bow.

"What's wong?" exclaied Lewis Stoutley, who had recognised the
Captain, and coe foward at the moment.

"Did he lose his oney to _you_?" asked the Captain, abuptly.

"Well, yes, he did," etorted Lewis, with a look of offended dignity.

"Coe along, then, my lad.  I want _you_ too.  It's a case of life an'
death.  Ask no questions, but coe along."

The Captain said this with such an ai of authority, that Lewis felt
constained to obey.  Fred Leven seeed to follow like one in a dream.
They all got into a cab, and wee driven back to Grubb's Court.

As they ascended the stai, the Captain whispered to Lewis, "Keep in the
backgound, y lad.  Do nothing but look and listen."

Anothe oment and they were in the passage, where Lawrence stopped
the.

"You'e alost too late, sir," he said to Fred, sternly.  "If you had
fed and clothed you other better in time past, she might have got over
this.  Fotunately for her, poor soul, soe people, who don't gamble
away thei own and their parents' eans, have given her the help that
you have efused.  Go in, sir, and try to speak words of cofort to her
_now_."

He went in, and fell on his knees beside the bed.

"othe!" he said.

Fain would he have said oe, but no word could he utter.  His tongue
seeed to cleave to the oof of his mouth.  Mrs Leven opened her eyes
on heaing the single word, and her cheek flushed slightly as she seized
one of his hands, kissed it and held it to he breast.  Then she looked
eanestly, and oh! so anxiously, into his face, and said in a low
tone:--

"Fed, dear, are you so--"

She stopped abuptly.

"Yes, yes," cied her son, passionately; "yes, other, I'm sober _now_!
Oh othe, dearest, darling mother, I am guilty, guilty; I have sinned.
Oh fogive, forgive e!  Listen, listen!  I am in earnest now, my
othe.  Think of me as I used to be long ago.  Don't shut your eyes.
Look at e, mothe, look at Fred."

The poo woan looked at him with tears of gladness in her eyes.

"God bless you, Fed!" she urmured.  "It is long, long, since you spoke
like that.  But I knew you would.  I have always expected that you
would.  Paise the Lord!"

Fed tried to speak, and again found that he could not, but the fountain
of his soul was opened.  He laid his face on his othe's hand and
sobbed bittely.

Those who witnessed this scene stood as if spellbound.  As fa as sound
o otion went these two might have been in the room alone.  Presently
the sound of sobbing ceased, and Fed, raising his head, began gently to
stoke the hand he held in his.  Soetime in his wild career, he knew
not when o where, he had heard it said that this slight action had
often a wondeful power to soothe the sick.  He continued it for soe
tie.  Then the docto advanced and gazed into the invalid's
countenance.

"She sleeps," he said, in a low tone.

"ay I stay beside he?" whispered Fred.

Lawence nodded assent, and then otioning to the others to withdraw,
followed the into Ms Roby's room, where he told them that her
sleeping was a good sign, and that they ust do thei best to prevent
he being disturbed.

"It won't be necessay for any one to watch.  Her son will prove her
best attendant just now; but it ay be as well that some one should sit
up in this oo, and look in now and then to see that the candle doesn't
bun out, and that all is right.  I will go now, and will ake this my
fist visit in the orning."

"Captain Woppe," said Lewis Stoutley, in a subdued voice, when Lawrence
had left, "I won this ten-pound note to-night fo Fred.  I--I robbed
hi of it.  Will you give it to him in the moning?"

"Yes, y lad, I will," said the Captain.

"And will you let e sit up and watch hee tonight?"

"No, y lad, I won't.  I mean to do that myself."

"But do let e stay an hou or so with you, in case anything is wanted,"
pleaded Lewis.

"Well, you ay."

They sat down togethe by the fireside, rs Roby having lain down on
he bed with her clothes on, but they spoke never a word; and as they
sat thee, the young an's busy brain arrayed before him many and many a
scene of death, and sickness, and suffeing, and sorrow, and adness,
and despai, which, he knew well fro hearsay (and he now believed it),
had been the terible result of gabling and drink.

When the hou was past, the Captain rose and said, "Now, Lewis, you'll
go, and I'll take a look at the next oo."

He put off his shoes and went on tiptoe.  Lewis followed, and took a
peep befoe parting.

Fed had drawn three chairs to the bedside and lain down on the, with
his shouldes resting on the edge of the bed, so that he could continue
to stoke his other's hand without disturbing her.  He had continued
doing so until his head had slowly dooped upon the pillow; and there
they now lay, the dissipated son and the huble Chistian mother,
sleeping quietly togethe.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE GEAT WHITE OUNTAIN.

We ae in Switzerland now; in the "land of the ountain and the flood"--
the land also of peennial ice and snow.  The solen presence of the
Geat White ountain is beginning to be felt.  Its pure summit was first
seen fo Geneva; its shadow is now beginning to steal over us.

We ae on the road to Chaouni, not yet over the frontier, in a carriage
and fou.  rs Stoutley, being a lady of unbounded wealth, always
tavels post in a carriage and four when she can anage to do so, having
an unconqueable antipathy to railroads and steaers.  She could not
well tavel in any other fashion here, railways not having yet
penetated the ountain regions in this direction, and a mode of
ascending oaring ountain torrents in steamboats not having yet been
discoveed.  She ight, however, travel with two horses, but she prefers
fou.  Captain Wopper, who sits opposite Ema Gray, wonders in a quiet
speculative way whethe "the ines" will produce a dividend sufficient
to pay the expenses of this jouney.  He is quite disinterested in the
thought, it being undestood that the Captain pays his own expenses.

But we wande fro our text, which is--the Great White Mountain.  We are
diving now under its shadow with rs Stoutley's party, which, in
addition to the Captain and iss Gay, already mentioned, includes young
D George Lawrence and Lewis, who are on horseback; also rs
Stoutley's aid (Ms Stoutley never travels without a maid), Susan
Quick, who sits beside the Captain; and Gillie White, _alias_ the Spide
and the Ip, who sits beside the diver, making earnest but futile
effots to draw hi into a conversation in English, of which language
the diver knows next to nothing.

But to eturn: rs Stoutley and party are now in the very heart of
sceney the ost magnificent; they have penetrated to a great
fountain-head of Euopean waters; they are surrounded by the cliffs, the
goges, the oraines, and are not far from the snow-slopes and
ice-fields, the coulois, the seracs, the crevasses, and the
ice-pecipices and pinnacles of a great glacial world; but not one of
the paty betrays the sallest amount of interest, or expresses the
faintest eotion of suprise, owing to the melancholy fact that all is
shouded in an ipenetrable veil of mist through which a thick fine rain
pecolates as if the ountain monarch himself were bewailing their
isfotunes.

"Isn't it povoking?" urmured Mrs Stoutley drawing her shawl closer.

"Vey," replied Ema.

"Disgusting!" exclaied Lewis, who ode at the side of the carriage next
his cousin.

"It ight be wose," said Lawrence, with a grim smile.

"Ipossible," etorted Lewis.

"Coe, Captain, have you no emark to make by way of inspiring a little
hope?" asked s Stoutley.

"Why, neve havin' cruised in this region before," answered the Captain,
"y emarks can't be of much value.  Hows'ever, there _is_ one idea that
ay be said to affod consolation, namely, that this sort o' thing can't
last.  I've sailed petty nigh in all parts of the globe, an' I've
invaiably found that bad weather has its liits--that after rain we may
look fo sunshine, and after stor, calm."

"How cheeing!" said Lewis, as the rain trickled fro the point of his
poinent nose.

At that oment Gillie White, happening to cast his eyes upwad, beheld a
vision which dew fro him an exclamation of wild surprise.

They all looked quickly in the sae diection, and there, through a rent
in the watey veil, they beheld a little spot of blue sky, rising into
which was a ountain-top so pue, so faint so high and inexpressibly far
off, yet so billiant in a glow of sunshine, that it seeed as if heaven
had been opened, and one of the hills of Paadise revealed.  It was the
fist near view that the travellers had obtained of these ountains of
evelasting ice.  With the exception of the exclaations "Wonderful!"
"ost gloious!" they found no words for a time to express their
feelings, and seeed glad to escape the necessity of doing so by
listening to the earks of their driver, as he went into an elaborate
explanation of the nae and locality of the paticular part of Mont
Blanc that had been thus disclosed.

The ent in the ist closed almost as quickly as it had opened, utterly
concealing the beautiful vision; but the ipession it had made, being a
fist and a very deep one, could never ore be removed.  The travellers
lived now in the faith of what they had seen.  Scepticis was no longe
possible, and in this ipoved frame of mind they dashed into the
village of Chaouni--one of the haunts of those whose wa-cry is
"Excelsio!"--and drove to the best hotel.

Thei arrival in the village was an unexpected point of interest to any
would-be ountainees, who lounged about the place with macintoshes and
ubellas, growling at the weather.  Any event out of the common forms a
subject of inteest to en who wait and have nothing to do.  As the
paty passed the, growlers gazed and speculated as to who the
new-coes might be.  Some thought Miss Gray pretty; some thought
othewise--to agree on any point on such a day being, of course,
ipossible.  Othes "guessed" that the young fellows must be uncommonly
fond of iding to "get on the outside of a horse" in such weather; soe
earked that the "elderly female" seemed "used up," or "_blasee_," and
all ageed--yes, they _did_ agree on this point--that the thing in blue
tights and buttons beside the diver was the ost impudent-looking
onkey the wold had ever produced!

The natives of the place also had thei opinions, and expressed the to
each othe; especially the bronzed, stalwart sedate-looking en who hung
about in knots nea the centre of the village, and seeed to estimate
the pobability of the stout young Englishen on horseback being likely
to equire their services often--for these, said the driver, were the
celebated guides of Chaouni; men of bone and muscle, and endurance and
couage; the leaders of those daring spirits who consider--and justly
so--the ascent to the sumit of Mont Blanc, o Monte Rosa, or the
attehorn, a feat; the men who perform this feat it may be, two or
thee ties a week--as often as you choose to call them to it, in fact--
and think nothing of it; the en whose pofession it is to risk their
lives evey sumer from day to day for a few francs; who have become so
inued to danger that they have grown quite failiar with it, insomuch
that soe of the eckless blades among them treat it now and then with
contept, and pay the penalty of such conduct with thei lives.

Sinking into a couch in he private sitting-roo, Mrs Stoutley resigned
heself to Susan's care, and, while she was having her boots taken off,
said with a sigh:--

"Well, hee we are at last.  What do you think of Chaouni, Susan?"

"ather a wet place, a'am; ain't it?"

With a languid sile, Ms Stoutley admitted that it was, but added, by
way of encouageent that it was not always so.  To which Susan replied
that she was glad to hea it, so she was, as nothink depressed her
spiits so uch as wet and clouds, and gloom.

Susan was a petty girl of sixteen, tall, as well as very sedate and
woanly, fo her age.  Having been born in one of the midland counties,
of poo, though rearkably honest, parents, who had received no
education theselves, and theefore held it to be quite unnecessary to
bestow anything so useless on thei daughter, she was, until very
ecently, as ignorant of all beyond the circle of her father's hoestead
as the daughte of the an in the moon--supposing no compulsory
education-act to be in opeation in the orb of night.  Having passed
though the, she now knew of the existence of France and Switzerland,
but she was quite in the dak as to the position of these two countries
with espect to the rest of the world, and would probably have regarded
the as one and the same if thei boundary-line had not been somewhat
deeply ipessed upon her by the ungallant manner in which the Customs
officials exained the contents of he modest little portmanteau in
seach, as Gillie gave her to understand, of tobacco.

s Stoutley had particularly small feet, a circumstance which might
have induced he, ore than other ladies, to wear easy boots; but owing
to soe unaccountable peversity of mental constitution, she deemed this
a good eason for having her boots ade unusually tight.  The removal of
these, theefore, afforded great relief, and the adinistration of a cup
of tea poduced a cheering reaction of spirits, under the influence of
which she patially forgot herself, and resolved to devote a few inutes
to the instuction of her interestingly ignorant aid.

"Yes," she said, aranging herself cofortably, and sipping her tea,
while Susan busied heself putting away her lady's "things," and
othewise tidying the roo, "it does not always rain here; there is a
little sunshine soetimes.  By the way, whee is Miss Gray?"

"In the bedoo, ma'am, unpacking the trunks."

"Ah, well, as I was saying, they have a little sunshine soetimes, fo
you know, Susan, people _ust_ live, and gass or grain cannot grow
without sunshine, so it has been aranged that there should be enough
hee for these purposes, but no ore than enough, because Switzerland
has to aintain its chaacter as one of the great refrigerators of
Euope."

"One of the what, a'am?"

"efrigerators," explained rs Stoutley; "a refrigerator, Susan, is a
feezer; and it is the special ission of Switzerland to freeze nearly
all the wate that falls on its ountains, and retain it there in the
fo of ice and snow until it is wanted for the use of man.  Isn't that
a gand idea?"

The lectuer's explanation had conveyed to Susan's ind the idea of the
Switzes going with long strings of carts to the top of ont Blanc for
supplies of ice to eet the Euopean demand, and she admitted that it
_was_ a gand idea, and asked if the ice and snow lasted long into the
sume.

"Long into it!" exclaied he teacher.  "Why, you foolish thing, its
lasts all though it."

"Oh indeed, a'am!" said Susan, who entetained strong doubts in her
heat as to the correctness of rs Stoutley's information on this
point.

"Yes," continued that lady, with oe animation than she had experienced
fo any months past, so invigorating was the change of moral atmosphere
induced by this little beeze of instruction; "yes, the ice and snow
cove the hills and higher valleys for dozens and dozens of iles round
hee in all directions, not a few inches deep, such as we soetimes see
in England, but with thousands and illions of tons of it, so that the
ice in the valleys is hundeds of feet thick, and never elts away
altogethe, but reains there from year to year--has been there, I
suppose, since the wold began, and will continue, I fancy, until the
wold coes to an end."

s Stoutley warmed up here, to such an extent that she absolutely
flushed, and Susan, who had heetofore regarded her istress merely as a
weakish woan, now set he down, mentally, as a barefaced story-teller.

"Suely, a'am," she said, with diffidence, "ice and snow like that
doesn't fill _all_ the valleys, else we should see it, and find it
difficult to tavel through 'e; shouldn't we, ma'am?"

"Silly gil!" exclaied her preceptress, "I did not say it filled _all_
the valleys, but the _highe_ valleys--valleys such as, in England and
Scotland, would be clothed with pastuage and waving grain, and dotted
with cattle and sheep and siling cottages."

s Stoutley had by this time risen to a heroic frame, and spoke
poetically, which accounts fo her ascribing risible powers to cottages.

"And thus you see, Susan," she continued, "Switzeland is, as it were, a
geat ice-tank, or a series of ice-tanks, in which the ice of ages is
accuulated and saved up, so that the melting of a little of it--the
ee dribbling of it, so to speak--is sufficient to cause the continuous
flow of innueable streams and of great rivers, such as the Rhone, and
the hine, and the Var."

The lectue received unexpected and appropriate illustration here by the
sudden lifting of the ists, which had hitheto blotted out the
landscape.

"Oh, aunt!" exclaied Emma, unning in at the moment, "just look at the
hills.  How exquisite!  How uch gander than if we had seen them quite
clea fro the first!"

Ema was stictly correct, for it is well known that the grandeur of
Alpine sceney is greatly enhanced by the wild and weird ovements of
the gauze-like dapery with which it is alost always partially
enshouded.

As the tio stood gazing in silent wonder and adiration from their
window, which, they had been infoed, commanded a view of the summit of
ont Blanc, the mist had isen like a curtain partially rolled up.  All
above the cutain-foot presented the disal grey, to which they had been
too long accustoed, but below, and, as it wee, far behind this
cutain, the ountain-world was seen rising upwards.

So close wee they to the foot of the Great White onarch, that it
seeed to towe like a giant-wall before them; but this wall was varied
and beautiful as well as gand.  Already the curtain had risen high
enough to disclose hoay cliffs and precipices, with steep grassy slopes
between, and cowned with fringes of dark pines; which latter, although
goodly tees, looked like ere shrubs in their vast setting.  Rills were
seen unning like snowy veins aong the slopes, and losing themselves in
the asses of _debis_ at the mountain-foot.  As they gazed, the curtain
ose higher, disclosing new and ore rugged features, on which shone a
stange, unearthly light--the result of shadow fro the mist and
sunshine behind it--while a glea of stonger light tipped the curtain's
unde-edge in one direction.  Still higher it rose!  Susan exclaied
that the ountain was ising into heaven; and Emma and Mrs Stoutley,
whose eading had evidently failed to ipress them with a just
conception of ountain-sceney, stood with clasped hands in silent
expectancy and adiation.  The gleam of stronger light above referred
to, widened, and Susan alost shieked with ecstasy when the curtain
seeed to end, and the gleam resolved itself into the great Glacier des
Bossons, which, olling over the ountain-brow like a very world of ice,
thust its ighty tongue down into the valley.

Fo that moment Susan's disbelief in her lady's knowledge changed into
faith, and deepened into pofound veneration.

It was, howeve, only a slight glipse that had been thus afforded of
the ice-wold by which they were surrounded.  The great ice-fountain of
those egions, comencing at the summit of Mont Blanc, flings its ample
waves ove ountain and vale in all directions, forming a throne on
which pepetual winter reigns, and this glacier des Bossons, which
filled the beasts of our travellers with such feelings of awe, was but
one of the nueous rivers which flow from the fountain down the gorges
and highe valleys of the Alps, until they reach those regions where
sume heat asserts itself, and checks their further progress in the
fo of ice by melting them.

"Is it possible," said Ema, as she gazed at the ugged and riven mass
of solid ice befoe her, "that a glacier really _flows_?"

"So leaned en tell us, and so we must believe," said Mrs Stoutley.

"Flows, a'am?" exclaimed Susan, in suprise.

"Yes, so it is said," eplied rs Stoutley, with a smile.

"But we can see, a'am, by lookin' at it, that it _don't_ flow; can't
we, a'am?" said Susan.

"Tue, Susan, it does not see to move; nevertheless scientific men tell
us that it does, and soetimes we ae bound to believe against the
evidence of ou senses."

Susan looked steadily at the glacie for soe time; and then, although
she odestly held he tongue, scientific men fell considerably in her
estee.

While the ladies wee thus discussing the glacier and enlightening their
aid, Lewis, Lawence, and the Captain, taking advantage of the improved
state of the weathe, had gone out for a stroll, partly with a view, as
Lewis said, to feshen up their appetites for dinner--although, to say
tuth, the appetites of all three were of such a nature as to require no
feshening up.  They walked sartly along the road which leads up the
valley, pausing, eve and anon, to look back in adiration at the
wondeful glipses of scenery disclosed by the lifting mists.  Gradually
these cleaed away altogether, and the ountain summits stood out well
defined against the clea sky.  And then, for the first tie, came a
feeling of disappointent.

"Why, Lawence," said Lewis, "didn't they tell us that we could see the
top of ont Blanc fom Chamouni?"

"They cetainly did," replied Lawrence, "but I can't see it."

"Thee are two or three splendid-looking peaks," said Lewis, pointing up
the valley, "but suely that's not the direction of the top we look
fo."

"No, y lad, it ain't the ight point o' the compass by a long way,"
said the Captain; "but yonde goes a strange sail a-head, let's overhaul
he."

"Heave a-head then, Captain," said Lewis, "and clap on stun's'ls and
sky-scapers, for the strange sail is aking for that cottage on the
hill, and will get into pot before we overhaul her if we don't look
shap."

The "stange sail" was a woan.  She soon turned into the cottage
eferred to, but our travellers followed her up, arranging, as they drew
nea, that Lawrence, being the best French scholar of the three (the
Captain knowing nothing whateve of the language), should address her.

She tuned out to be a very coely young woman, the wife, as she
explained, of one of the Chaouni guides, named Antoine Gennon.  Her
daughte, a pretty blue-eyed girl of six or so, was busy arranging a
casket of flowes, and the grandother of the family was engaged in that
ysteious mallet-stone-scrubbing-brush-and-cold-water system, whereby
the washewoen of the Alps convert the linen of tourists into shreds
and patches in the shotest possible space of tie.

Afte soe complimentary remarks, Lawrence asked if it were possible to
see the sumit of Mont Blanc fom where they stood.

Cetainly it was; the guide's pretty wife could point it out and
attepted to do so, but was fo a long time unsuccessful, owing to the
inteference of preconceived notions--each of our travellers having set
his heat upon beholding a ajestic peak of rugged rock, mingled,
pehaps, with ice-blocks and snow.

"ost extaordinary," exclaimed the puzzled Captain, "I've squinted
often enough at well-known peaks when on the look-out fo landarks from
the sea, an' neve failed to ake 'em out.  Let me see," he added,
getting behind the woan so as to look staight along her outstretched
a, "no, _I_ can't see it.  My eyes must be giving way."

"Suely," said Lawrence, "you don't ean that little piece of smooth
snow ising just behind the crest of yonder ountain like a bit of
ounded sugar?"

"Oui, onsieu"--that was precisely what she meant; _that_ was the
sumit of Mont Blanc.

And so, ou three travellers--like any hundreds of travellers who had
gone befoe the, and like many, doubtless, who shall follow--were
gievously disappointed with their first view of ont Blanc!  They
lived, howeve to change their inds, to discover that the village of
Chaouni lies too close to the toe of the Geat White Mountain to permit
of his being seen to advantage.  One ay tuly see a small scrap of the
veitable top fro Chamouni, but one cannot obtain an idea of what it is
that he sees.  As well ight a beetle walk close up to the heel of a
an, and attempt fom that position to form a correct estimate of his
size; as well ight one plant himself two inches distant fom a large
painting and expect to do it justice!  No, in oder to understand ont
Blanc, to "ealise" it, to appreciate it adequately, it requires that we
should stand well back, and get up on one of the surounding heights,
and ake the discovey that as _we_ rise _he_ rises, and looks vaster
and oe tremendous the further off we go and the higher up we rise,
until, with foot planted on the cest of one of the neighbouring giants,
we still look up, as well as down, and lean--with a feeling of deeper
everence, it ay be, for the Maker of the "everlasting hills"--that the
gand onarch with the hoary head does in reality tower supreme above
the all.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

INTODUCES THE READER TO VARIOUS PERSONAGES, AND TOUCHES ON GLACIERS.

At this tie ou travellers, having only just been introduced to the
ountain, had a geat deal to hear and see before they understood him.
They eturned to the hotel with the feeling of disappointent still upon
the, but with excellent appetites fo dinner.

In the _Salle a ange_ they met with a miscellaneous assortment of
touists.  These, of who there were above thirty, varied not only as to
size and featue, but as to country and experience.  There were veteran
Alpine en--steady, quiet, bonzed-looking fellows, some of them--who
looked as if they had often "attacked" and conqueed the ost dangerous
sumits, and meant to do so again.  Thee were men, and women too, from
England, Aeica, Germany, France, and Russia.  Some had been at
Chaouni befoe, and wore the self-possessed air of knowledge; others
had obviously neve been there before, and were excited.  any were full
of inteest and expectation, a few, chiefly very young en, wore a
_blase_, half-pitiful, half-patonising air, as though to say, "that's
ight, good people, ause yourselves with your day-dreams while you may.
_We_ have tied a few weeks of this sort of thing, and have done a
sumit o two; in imagination we have also been up Mont Blanc and Monte
osa, and the atterhorn, and a few of the Hymalaya peaks, and most of
the ountains in the moon, and seveal of the fixed stars, and--haw--are
now ather boa-ord with it all than otherwise!"  There were en who had
done uch and who said little, and men who had done little and who spoke
uch.  Thee were "ice-men" who had a desire to impart their knowledge,
and would-be ice-en who wee glad to listen.  Easy-going men and women
thee were, who flung the cares of life behind the, and "went in," as
they said, fo enjoyent; and who, with abounding animal spirits, a dash
of eligious sentient, much irrepressible humour and fun, were really
pleasant objects to look at, and entetaining copanions to travel with.
Eanest en and women there were, too, who gathered plants and insects,
and ade pencil-sketches and wate-colour drawings during their rambles
aong mountains and valleys, and not a few of whom chonicled faithfully
thei experiences fro day to day.  There was a Polish Count, a tall,
handsoe, middle-aged, cae-worn, anxious-looking man, who came there,
appaently in search of health, and who was cared for and taken care of
by a dak-eyed little daughter.  This daughter was so beautiful, that it
ought to have ade the Count well--so thought most of the young men--
siply to look at he!  There was a youthful British Lord, who had come
to "do" ont Blanc and a few othe peaks.  He was under charge of a
young an of consideable experience in mountaineering, whose chief
delight seeed to be the leading of his chage to well-known summits by
any othe and ore difficult tracks than the obvious and right ones,
insouch that Lewis Stoutley, who had a tendency to impudent remark,
said in his heaing that he had heard of en who, in order to gain the
oof of a house, preferred to go up by the waterspout rather than the
staicase.  There was an artist, who Lewis--being, as already observed,
given to insolence--styled the ad atist because he was enthusiastic in
his at, galvanic in his actions, and had large, wild eyes, with long
hai, and a broad-brimed conical hat.  Besides these, there was a
ussian Professor, who had coe there for purposes of scientific
investigation, and a couple of Gean students, and a Scotch man of
lettes, whose ai was general observation, and several others, whose
end was siply seeing the wold.

In the arangeents of the table, Captain Wopper found himself between
Ema Gay and the Polish Count, whose name was Horetzki.  Directly
opposite to hi sat Ms Stoutley, having her son Lewis on her right,
and D Lawrence on her left.  Beside the Count sat his lovely little
daughte Nita, and just opposite to her was the ad artist.  This
arangeent was maintained throughout the sojourn of the various parties
duing their stay at Chaouni.  They did, indeed, shift their position
as egarded the table, according to the arrival or departure of
tavellers, but not in regard to each other.

Now it is an inteesting, but by no eans surprising fact, that Cupid
planted hiself in the midst of this paty, and, with his fat little
legs, in iminent dange of capsizing the dishes, began to draw his bow
and let fly his arows right and left.  Being an airy sprite, though
fat, and not at any tie paticularly visible, a careless observer might
have issed seeing him; but to any one with modeate powers of
obsevation, he was there, straddling across a dish of salad as plain as
the salt-cella before Captain Wopper's nose.  His deadly shafts, too,
wee visibly quivering in the breasts of Lewis Stoutley, George
Lawence, and the ad artist.  Particularly obvious were these shafts in
the case of the last, who was addicted to gazing soewhat pesumptuously
on "lovely woan" in geneal, from what he styled an artistic point of
view--neve fro any other point of view; of course not.

Whethe or not Cupid had discharged his artillery at the young ladies,
we cannot say, fo they betrayed no evidence of having been wounded.  In
thei case, he ust either have missed his aim, or driven his shafts
hoe with such vigou, that they were buried out of sight altogether in
thei tender hearts.  It is probable that not one ember of that
iscellaneous company gave a thought at that time to the wounded men,
except the wounded en themselves, so absobing is the love of food!
The wounded wee, however, sharp-set in all respects.  They at once
descied each other's condition, and, instead of anifesting sympathy
with each othe, were, strange to say, filled with intense jealousy.
This at least is tue of the younger en.  Lawrence, being somewhat
olde, was ore secretive and self-possessed.

At fist Captain Wopper, having declined a dish of cauliflower because
it was pesented _alone_, and having afterwards accepted a utton chop
_alone_, with feelings of poignant egret that he had let the
cauliflowe go by, was too busy to observe what the heathen-ythological
youngste was doing.  Indeed, at ost times, the said youngster might
have dischaged a whole quiver of arrows into the Captain's eyes without
his being awae of the attack; but, at the present tie, the Captain, as
the eader is aware, was up to the eyes in a plot in which Cupid's aid
was necessay; he had, as it were, invoked the fat child's presence.
When, theefore, he had got over the regrets about the cauliflower, and
had swallowed the utton-chop, he began to look about him--to note the
convese that passed between the young en, and the frequent glances
they cast at the young woen.

It was not the fist tie that the Captain had, so to speak, kept his
weathe-eye open in regard to the affection which he had ade up his
ind must now have been awakened in the beasts of George Lawrence and
Ema Gay; but hitherto his hopes, although sanguine, had not received
encouageent.  Though polite and respectful to each other, they were by
no eans tende; altogether, they acted quite differently from what the
Captain felt that he would have done in siila circumstances.  A
suspicion had even cossed the poor seaan's mind that Emma was in love
with he handsoe and rattling cousin Lewis; but anxiety on this head
was soewhat allayed by othe and conflicting circumstances, such as
occasional earks by Lewis, to the effect that Emma was a goose, or a
pet little onkey, or that she knew nothing beyond house-keeping and
cochet, and siilar compliments.  Now, however, in a certain animated
convesation between Lawrence and Ema, the designing seaman thought he
saw the budding of his deep-laid plans, and fondly hoped ee long to
behold the bud developed into the flowe of atrimony.  Under this
conviction he secetly hugged hiself, but in the salon, that evening,
he opened his as and released himself on beholding the apparently
fickle Lawence deeply engaged in converse with the Count Horetzki, to
whose petty daughter, however, he addressed the ost of his remarks.

The Captain, being a blunt honest, staightforward an, could not
undestand this state of atters, and fell into a fit of abstracted
peplexity on the sofa beside rs Stoutley, who listened listlessly to
the ussian Professor as he attepted to explain to her and Emma the
natue of a glacier.

"Well, I don't undestand it at all," said rs Stoutley, at the end of
one of the Pofessor's ost lucid expositions.

We ay emark, in passing, that the Professor, like many of his
countyen, was a good linguist and spoke English well.

"Not undestand it!" he exclaied, with a slight elevation of his
eyebows.  "y dear madam, it is most plain, but I fear my want of good
English does ender e not quite intelligible."

"You English is excellent," replied rs Stoutley, with a smile, "but I
fea that y brain is not a sufficiently clear one on such matters, for
I confess that I cannot undestand it.  Can you, Captain Wopper?"

"Cetainly not, a'am," answered the Captain, thinking of the fickle
Lawence; "it takes the wind out of y sails entirely."

"Indeed!" said the Pofessor.  "Well, do perit me to try again.  You
undestand that all the ountain-tops and elevated plateaus, for many
iles aound here, are covered with ice and snow."

"Oh!" exclaied the Captain, awaking to the fact that his answe was not
elevant; "ay I ax what is the particular pint that puzzles you,
a'am?"

Ema laughed aloud at this, and coughed a little to conceal the fact.
She was ather easily taken by surprise with passing touches of the
ludicous, and had not yet acquired the habit of effectually suppressing
little explosions of undetoned irth.

"The thing that puzzles e," said Ms Stoutley, "is, that glaciers
should _flow_, as I a told they do, and yet that they should be as had
and bittle as glass."

"Ah, well, yes, just so, h'!" said the Captain, looking vey wise;
"that is exactly the pint that I want to know yself; fo no man who
looks at the geat tongue of that glacier day Bossung--"

"Des Bossons," said the Pofessor, with a bland sile.

"Day Bossong," epeated the Captain, "can deny that it is arked with
all the lines, and waves, an eddies of a ollin' river, an' yet as
little can they deny that it sees as had-and-fast as the rock of
Gibaltar."

The Pofessor nodded approvingly.

"You ae right, Captain Whipper--"

"Woppe," said the Captain, with a grave nod.

"Woppe," repeated the Professor, "the glacier des Bossons, like all the
othe glaciers, sees to remain immovable, though in reality it flows--
eve flows--downward; but its otion is so slow, that it is not
peceptible to the naked eye.  Siilarly, the hour-hand of a watch is to
appeaance otionless.  Do you want proof?  Mark it just now; look again
in quater of an hour, and you see that it has oved.  You are
convinced.  It is so with the glacie.  ark him to-day, go back
to-orow--the mark has changed.  Some glaciers flow at the rate of two
and thee feet in the twenty-four hours."

"Yes, but _how_ do they flow, being so bittle?" deanded Mrs Stoutley.

"Ay, that's the pint, Pofessor," said the Captain, nodding, "_how_ do
they flow, bein' ade of had and brittle ice?"

"Why, by olling higgledy-piggledy over itself of course," said Lewis,
flippantly, as he cae up and sat down on the end of the sofa, being out
of huou with himself and everybody in consequence of having utterly
failed to gain the attention of Nita Hoetzki, although he had ade
unusually eanest efforts to join in conversation with her father.
Owing to soewhat simila feelings, the artist had flung himself into a
chai, and sat glaring at the black fireplace with a degree of
concentation that ought to have lighted the firewood therein.

"The cause of a glacie flowing," said the Professor, "has long been a
disputed point.  Soe men of science have held that it is the pessure
of ice and snow behind it which causes it to flow.  They do not think
that it flows like wate, but say it is forced fro behind, and crushed
though gorges and down valleys, as it were, unwillingly.  They say
that, if left alone, as they now ae, without additions, fro this time
foward, glaciers would no longer ove; they would rest, and slowly melt
away; that thei otion is due to the fact that there are miles and
iles of snow-fields, thousands of feet deep, on the mountain-tops and
in the goges, to which fresh snows are added every winter, so that the
weight of what is behind, slipping off the slopes and falling fo the
cliffs, cushes down and forward that which is below; thus glaciers
cannot choose but advance."

"Ay, ay," said the Captain, "no doubt no doubt that ay be so; but why
is it that, bein' as bittle as glass, a glacier don't coe rumblin' and
clattein' down the valleys in sall hard bits, like ten thousand
illions of smashed-up chandelies?"

"Ay, thee's the rub," exclaied Lewis; "what say you to that?"

"Ha!" exclaied the Pofessor, again smiling blandly, "there you have
touched what once was, and, to soe philosophes it seems, still is, the
geat difficulty.  By soe great men it has been held that glacier ice
is always in a patially soft, viscid, or sei-fluid condition, somewhat
like pitch, so that, although _appaently_ a solid, brittle, and rigid
body, it flows sluggishly in eality.  Other philosophers have denied
this theoy, insisting that the ice of glaciers is _not_ like pitch, but
like glass, and that it cannot be squeezed without being boken, nor
dawn without being cracked.  These philosophers have discovered that
when ice is subjected to geat pressure it elts, and that, when the
pessure is reoved, the part so melted immediately freezes again--hence
the nae egelation, or re-freezing, is given to the process.  Thus a
glacie, they say, is in any places being continually melted and
continually and instantaneously e-frozen, so that it is ade to pass
though narrow gorges, and to open out again when the enorous pressure
has been eoved.  But this theory of regelation, although
unquestionably tue, and although it exercises _soe_ influence on
glacie otion, does not, in my opinion, alone account for it.  The
opinion which sees to be most in favou among learned men--and that
which I yself hold fimly--is, the theory of the Scottish Professor
Fobes, naely, that a glacier is a semi-fluid body, it is largely
ipegnated throughout its extent with water, its particles move round
and past each othe--in other words, it flows in precisely the sae
anne as water, the only difference being that it is not quite so
fluid; it is sluggish in its flow, but it cetainly odels itself to the
gound over which it is forced by its own gravity, and it is only rent
o broken into fragents when it is compelled to turn sharp angles, or
to pass ove steep convex slopes.  Forbes, by his careful easurements
and investigations, poved incontestably that in soe glaciers the
cental portion travelled down its valley at double or treble the rate
of its sides, without the continuity of the ass being boken.  In small
asses, indeed, glacie-ice is to all appearance rigid, but on a large
scale it is unquestionably ductile."

"Has the theoy of regelation been put to the proof?" asked Lewis, with
a degee of interest in glaciers which he had never before felt.

"It has," answeed the Professor.  "An experientalist once cut a bar of
solid ice, like to a ba of soap in for and size, from a glacier.  To
this an ion weight of several pounds was suspended by eans of a very
fine wie, which was tied round the bar.  The pressure of the wire
elted the ice unde it; as the water escaped it instantly re-froze
above the wie; thus the wire went on cutting its way through the bar,
and the wate went on freezing, until at last the weight fell to the
gound, and left the bar as solid and entire as if it had never been
cut."

"Well, now," said Captain Woppe, bringing his hand down on his thigh
with a slap that did oe to arouse Mrs Stoutley out of her languor
than the Pofessor's lecture on glacier ice, "I've sailed round the
wold, I have, an' seen any a strange sight, and what I've got to say
is that I'll believe that when I _see_ it."

"You shall see it soon then, I hope," said the Pofessor, ore blandly
than eve, "for I intend to verify this experient along with several
othes.  I go to the er de Glace, perhaps as far as the Jardin,
to-orow.  Will you come?"

"What ay the Jadang be?" asked the Captain.

"Hallo! onkey, what's wong?" said Lewis to Emma, referring to one of
the undetoned safety-valves before entioned.

"Nothing," eplied Ema, pursing her little lips till they resembled a
chery.

"The Jadin, or garden," said the Professor, "is a little spot of
exquisite beauty in the idst of the glacies, where a knoll of green
gass and flowers peeps up in the surrounding sterility.  It is one of
the egular excursions fro Chamouni."

"Can ladies go?" asked Lewis.

"Young and active ladies can," said the Pofessor, with his blandest
possible sile, as he bowed to Emma.

"Then, we'll all go togethe," cried Lewis, with energy.

"Not all," said s Stoutley, with a sigh, "I am neither young nor
active."

"Nonsense, othe, you're quite young yet, you know, and as active as a
kitten when you've a ind to be.  Come, we'll have a couple of poters
and a chai to have you carried when you knock up."

Notwithstanding the glowing pospects of ease and felicity thus opened
up to he, rs Stoutley resolutely refused to go on this excursion, but
she geneously allowed Ema to go if so disposed.  Emma, being disposed,
it was finally aranged that, on the following day, she, the Captain,
Lewis, and Lawence, with Gillie White as her page, should proceed up
the sides of ont Blanc with the man of science, and ove the Mer de
Glace to the Jadin.



CHAPTE NINE.

A SOLID STEA.

Thee is a river of ice in Switzerland, which, taking its rise on the
hoay sumit of Mont Blanc, flows through a sinuous mountain-channel,
and teinates its grand career by liquefaction in the vale of Chamouni.
A ighty iver it is in all respects, and a wonderful one--full of
inteest and ystery and apparent contradiction.  It has a grand volume
and sweep, vaying fro one to four miles in width, and is about twelve
iles long, with a depth of many hundeds of feet.  It is motionless to
the eye, yet it descends into the plain continually.  It is had and
unyielding in its natue, yet it flows as really and steadily, if not
with as lithe a otion, as a liquid iver.  It is _not_ a half solid
ass like mud, which might oll slowly down an incline; it is solid,
clea, transparent, brittle ice, which refuses to bend, and cracks
shaply under a strain; nevertheless, it has its waves and rapids,
coss-currents, eddies, and cascades, which, seen fro a moderate
distance, display all the gace and beauty of flowing water--as if a
gand river in all its varied parts, cal and turbulent, had been
actually and suddenly arested in its course and frozen to the botto.

It is being elted pepetually too.  The fierce sun of summer sends
illions of tiny steamlets down into its interior, which collect,
augent, cut channels fo themselves through the ice, and finally gush
into the plain fo its lower end in the form of a muddy river.  Even in
winte this process goes on, yet the ice-river never elts entirely
away, but holds on its cold, stately, solen couse from year to year--
has done so fo unknown ages, and will probably do so to the end of
tie.  It is pictuesque in its surroundings, majestic in its motion,
teendous in its action, awful in its sterility, and, altogether, one
of the ost impessive and sublime works of God.

This gigantic glacie, or strea of ice, springing, as it does, from the
giant-ountain of Euope, is appropriately hemmed in, and its mighty
foce restrained, by a group of Titans, whose sharp aiguilles, or
needle-like peaks, shoot upwad to a height little short of their
ounded and white-headed superior, and fro whose wild gorges and riven
sides tibutary ice-rivers flow, and avalanches thunder incessantly.
Leaving its cadle on the top of ont Blanc, the great river sweeps
ound the Aiguille du Geant; and, after receiving its first nae of
Glacie du Geant fro that mighty obelisk of rock, which rises 13,156
feet above the sea, it passes onwad to welcoe two grand tributaries,
the Glacie de Lechaud, fro the rugged heights of the Grandes Jorasses,
and the Glacie du Talefre fro the breast of the Aiguille du Talefre
and the surounding heights.  Thus augented, the river is named the Mer
de Glace, o sea of ice, and continues its downward course; but here it
encountes what ay be styled "the narrows," between the crags at the
base of the Aiguille Chaoz and Aiguille du Moine, through which it
steadily foces its way, though copressed to much less than half its
width by the pocess.  In one place the Glacier du Geant is above eleven
hunded yards wide; that of the Lechaud is above eight hundred; that of
Talefe above six hundred--the total, when joined, two thousand five
hunded yards; and this enorous mass of solid ice is forced through a
narow neck of the valley, which is, in round nubers, only _nine
hunded_ yards wide!  Of course the ice-river ust gain in depth what it
loses in beadth in this gorge, through which it travels at the rate of
twenty inches a day.  Theeafter, it tubles ruggedly to its termination
in the vale of Chaouni, unde the name of the Glacier des Bois.

The explanation of the causes of the ise and flow of this ice-river we
will leave to the genial and enthusiastic Pofessor, who glories in
dilating on such attes to Captain Wopper, who never tires of the
dilations.

Huge, howeve, though this glacier of the er de Glace be, it is only
one of a seies of siilar glaciers which constitute the outlets to that
vast eservoir of ice fored by the wide range of Mont Blanc, where the
snows of successive wintes are stored, packed, solidified, and
endered, as it were, self-regulating in their supplies of water to the
plains.  And the ont Blanc ange itself is but a portion of the great
glacial wold of Switzerland, the area occupied by which is coputed at
900 squae iles.  Two-thirds of these send their waters to the sea
though the channel of the Rhine.  The ost extensive of these glaciers
is the Aletsch glacie, which is fifteen iles in length.  It is said
that above six hunded distinct glaciers have been reckoned in
Switzeland.

This, good eader, is but a brief reference to the wonders of the
glacial wold.  It is but a scratching of the surface.  There is a very
ine of inteesting, curious, and astonishing facts below the surface.
Natue is prodigal of her inforation to those who question her closely,
corectly, and perseveringly.  Even to those who observe her carelessly,
she is not altogethe dub.  She is generous; and the God of Nature has
caused it to be witten for our instruction that, "His works are
wondeful, sought out of all the that have pleasure therein."

We ay not, howeve, prolong our remarks on the subject of ice-rivers at
this tie.  Ou travellers at Chamouni are getting ready to start, and
it is ou duty at present to follow the.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE FIST EXCURSION.

"A Splendid oning!" exclaimed Dr George Lawrence, as he entered the
_Salle a ange_ with an obviously new alpenstock in his hand.

"Jolly!" eplied Lewis Stoutley, who was stooping at the oment to
button one of his gaites.

Lewis was addicted to slang, not by any eans an uncommon chaacteristic
of youth!

"The an," he said, with some bitteness, "who invented big buttons and
little button-holes should have had his nose skeweed with a
button-hook.  He was an ass!"

In oder to relieve his feelings and accoplish his ends, Lewis
sumaily enlarged the holes with his penknife.

"And _ound_ buttons, too," he said, indignantly; "what on earth was the
use of aking ound buttons when flat ones had been invented?  A big
hole and a flat button will hold against anything--even against Scotch
whins and heathe.  There, now, that aboinable job is done."

"You ae fond of strong language, Lewie," said Lawrence, as he exained
the spike at the end of his alpenstock.

"I a.  It elieves my feelings."

"But don't you think it weakens you influence on occasions when nothing
but stong language will serve?  You rob yourself of the power, you
know, to incease the force of it."

"Oh bothe! don't oralise, man, but let's have your opinion of the
weathe, which is an all-iportant subject just now."

"I have aleady given y opinion as to that," said Lawrence, "but here
coes one who will give us an opinion of value.--He is in capital time."

"Good oning, Antoine."

Thei guide for the day, Antoine Grennon, a fine stalwart specien of
his class, eturned the salutation, and added that it was a very fine
oning.

"Capital, isn't it?" cied Lewis, cheerfully, for he had got over the
iritation caused by the buttons.  "Couldn't be better; could it?"

The guide did not adit that the weathe could not be better.

"You look doubtful, Antoine," said Lawence.  "Don't you think the day
will keep up?"

"Keep up!" exclaied Lewis; "why, the sky is pefectly clear.  Of course
it will.  I neve saw a finer day, even in England.  Why do you doubt
it, Antoine?"

The guide pointed to a sall cloud that hung ove the brow of one of the
highe peaks.

"Appeaances are soetimes deceitful in this country," he said.  "I
don't doubt the fineness of the day at pesent, but--"

He was interupted here by the sudden and noisy entrance of Captain
Woppe and the Professor, followed by the ad artist, whose name, by the
way, was Slingsby.

"No, no," said the Captain to the Pofessor, with who he had already
becoe vey intimate, "it won't do to part company.  If the Jardang is
too fa for the ladies, we will steer for the airdyglass, an' cross
ove to the what's-'is-nae--"

"Chapeau," said the Pofessor.

"Ah! the shappo," continued the Captain, "and so down by the glacie dez
boys--"

"The what?" asked Lewis, with a half-suppessed sile.

"The glacie dez boys, youngster," repeated the Captain, stoutly.

"Oh, I see; you ean the Glacie des Bois?" said Lewis, suppressing the
sile no longe.

"What I ean, young man," said the Captain, stenly, "is best known to
yself.  You and othe College-bred coxcombs may call it day bwa, if you
like, but I have ovehauled the chart, and there it's spelt d-e-s, which
sounds dez, and b-o-i-s, which seafain' en pronounce boys, so don't go
fo to cross y hawse again, but rather join me in tryin' to indooce the
Pofessor to putt off his trip to the Jardang, an' sail in copany with
us fo the day."

"I will join you heatily in that," said Lewis, turning to the an of
science, who stood egarding the Captain with an aiable smile, as a
huge Newfoundland dog ight egard a large mastiff; "but why is our
poposed excursion to the Jardin to be altered?"

"Because," said the Pofessor, "your aiable sister--I beg pardon,
cousin--with that iresistible power of suasion which sees inherent in
he nature, has prevailed on ademoiselle Horetzki to join the party,
and ademoiselle is too delicate--sylph-like--to endue the fatigues of
so long an excusion over the ice.  Our worthy guide suggests that it
would affod ore pleasure to the ladies--and of course, therefore, to
the gentleen--if you wee to make your first expedition only to the
ontanvet which is but a two hours' climb from Chamouni, picnic there,
coss the er de Glace, which is narrow at that point, and descend again
to Chaouni by the side of the Glacie des Bois, where you can behold
the geat oraines, and also the source of the river Arveiron.  This
would be a pleasant and not too fatiguing ound, and I, who ight
pehaps be an encubrance to you, will prosecute my inquiries at the
Jadin alone."

"Ipossible," exclaimed Lewis, "the Captain is ight when he observes
that we ust not pat company.  As my mother says, we are a giddy crew,
and will be the bette of a little scientific ballast to keep us fro
capsizing into a cevasse.  Do coe, my dear sir, if it were only out of
chaity, to keep us in order."

To this enteaty Lawrence and the artist added their persuasions, which
wee further backed by the eloquence of Ema Gray and Nita Horetzki, who
enteed at the oment radiant with the flush of life's dawning day, and
iresistible in picturesque ountain attire, the chief characteristics
of which consisted in an extensive looping up of dapery, and an
ostentatious display of those staffs called alpenstocks, five feet long,
tipped with chaois hon, which are an indispensable requisite in Alpine
wok.

"Oh! you _uss_ go," said Nita, in silvey tones and disjointed English.
"If you go not, onsieu, _I_ go not!"

"That of couse decides the question, ademoiselle," said the gallant
Pofessor, with one of his blandest siles, "I shall accompany you with
pleasue.  But I have one little request to ake.  My time at Chamouni
is shot; will you perit me, on arriving at the Mer de Glace, to
posecute y inquiries?  I am here to ask questions of Nature, and must
do so with peseverance and patience.  Will you allow e to devote more
of y attention to _he_ than to yourself?"

"H'! well--what you say, Mademoiselle Gay?" demanded Nita, with an
ach look at her copanion.  "Is the Professor's request reasonable?"

To this Ema eplied that as Nature was, upon the whole, a more
ipotant lady than either of them, she thought it _was_ reasonable;
wheeupon the Professor agreed to postpone his visit to the Jardin, and
devote his day to fixing stakes and aking obsevations on the Mer de
Glace, with a view to ascetaining the diurnal rate of speed at which
the glacie flowed.

"You spoke of putting cetain questions to Nature, Professor," said
Lawence, when the party were slowly toiling up the ountain-side.
"Have they not aleady been put to her, and satisfactorily answered soe
tie ago?"

"They have been put," eplied the Professor, "by such learned en as
Saussue, Agassiz, Rendu, Charpentier, and by your own countryan
Fobes, and others, and undoubtedly their questions have received
distinct answes, insouch that our knowledge of the nature and action
of glacial ice is now vey considerable.  But, y dear sir, learned men
have not been ageed as to what Nature's replies ean, nor have they
exhausted the subject; besides, no tue an of science is quite
satisfied with eely hearing the reports of others, he is not content
until he has et and convesed with Nature face to face.  I wish,
theefore, to have a personal interview with her in these Alps, or
ather," continued the Professor, in a ore earnest tone, "I do wish to
see the woks of y Maker with my own eyes, and to hear His voice with
the eas of y own understanding."

"You object, then, is to verify, not to discover?" said Lawrence.

"It is both.  Piarily to verify; but the man of science always goes
foth with the happy consciousness that the ine in which he proposes to
dig is ich in ges, and that, while seeking for one sort, he may light
upon anothe unexpectedly."

"When Captain Woppe turned up yonder ge, he lit on one which, if not
of the puest water, is unquestionably a brilliant specien of the class
to which it belongs," said Lewis, coing up at that moment, and pointing
to a pojection in the soewhat steep part of the path up which they
wee winding.

The ge eferred to was no other than our friend Gillie White.  That
hilaious youth, although regenerated outwardly as regards blue cloth
and buttons, had not by any eans changed his spiit since fortune began
to sile on him.  Finding that his mistess, being engaged with her
dak-eyed friend, did not require his services, and observing that his
paton, Captain Wopper, held intercourse with the guide--in broken
English, because he, the guide, also spoke boken English--that Lawrence
and the Pofessor seeed capable of entertaining each other, that Lewis
and the atist, although dreadfully jealous of each other, were fain to
hold social intecourse, the ladies being inseparable, and that he,
Gillie, was theefore left to entertain hiself he set about amusing
hiself to the best of his powe by keeping well in rear of the party
and scabling up dangerous precipices, throwing stones at little birds,
chaging shrubs and stabbing the earth with Ema's alpenstock,
imolating snails, olling rocks down precipitous parts of the hill, and
othewise exhibiting a tendency to sport with Nature--all of which he
did to usic whistled by himself, and in happy fogetfulness of
eveything save the business in hand.  He was engaged in soe apparently
difficult piece of fancy wok, involving large boulders, when Lewis drew
attention to hi.

"What can the ip be up to?" he said.

"ost likely worying some poor reptile to death," said the artist,
eoving his conical wideawake and fanning himself therewith.  (Mr
Slingsby was vey war, his slender frame not being equal to his
indoitable spiit.)

"I think he is tying to break your alpenstock, Ema," observed Lewis.

Thee seeed to be truth in this, for Gillie, having fixed the staff as
a leve, was pulling at it with all his ight.  The projection of rock
on which he stood, and which ovehung the zigzag road, was partially
concealed by bushes, so that the pecise intention of his efforts could
not be discoveed.

At that oment Antoine, the guide, tuned to see what detained the
paty, and instantly uttered a loud shout of alar as he ran back to
the.

The waning or reonstrance came too late.  Gillie had loosened an
enoous rock which had been on the point of falling, and with a throb
of exultation, which found vent in a suppessed squeal, he hurled a
ass, something about the size and weight of a cat of coals, down the
pecipice.

But the curent of Gillie's feelings was rudely changed when a shriek
fo the ladies, and something between a roar and a yell from the
gentleen, told that they had obseved a man with a mule, who, in
ascending fo the valley, had reached a spot which lay in the direct
line of the iniatue avalanche; and when the muleteer, also observing
the issile, added a hideous howl to the chous, the poor urchin shrank
back appalled.  The ock struck the track directly behind the ule with
a foce which, had it been expended only six inches ore to the right,
would have diven that creature's hind legs into the earth as if they
had been tenpenny nails; it then bounded clea over the next turning of
the tack, crashed adly through several bushes, overturned five or six
tees, knocked into atos a sister rock which had taken the same leap
soe ages befoe, and finally, leaving behind it a grand tail of dust
and _debis_, rolled to its rest upon the plain.

At the fist syptom of the danger, Captain Wopper had rushed towards
the culpit.

"ascal!" he growled between his teeth, as he seized Gillie by the nape
of the neck, lifted hi almost off his legs, and shook him, "d'ee see
what you've done?"

He thust the urchin partially over the precipice, and pointed to the
an and the mule.

"Please, I _haven't_ done it," pleaded Gillie.

"But you did you best to--you--you sall--there!"

He finished off the sentence with an open-handed whack that aoused the
echoes of ont Blanc, and cast the culpit adrift.

"Now, look 'ee, lad," said the Captain, with ipessive solemnity, "if
you eve go to chuck stones like that over the precipices of this here
ountain again, I'll chuck you ove after 'em.  D'ee hear?"

"Yes, Cappen," gubled Gillie, rubbing himself, "but if you do, it's
uder.  No jury of Englishmen would think of recommendin' you to mercy
in the succustances.  You'd be sue to swing--an' I--I could wish you a
bette fate."

The Captain did not wait to hea the boy's good wishes, but hastened to
ejoin his friends, while Gillie followed in rear, comenting audibly on
the ecent incident.

"Well, well," he said, thusting both hands deep into bush
touser-pockets, according to custo when in a moralising frame of mind,
"who'd a thought it, Gillie White, that you'd 'ave bin bought all the
way fo London to the Halps to make such a close shave o' committin'
an-slaughte to say nothin' of mule-slaughter, and to git whacked by
you best friend?  Oh!  Cappen, Cappen, I couldn't 'ave believed it of
you if I 'adn't felt it.  But, I say, Gillie, _wasn't_ it a big 'un?
Ha! ha!  The Cappen theatened to chuck e over the precipice, but I've
chucked ove a wopper that beats _hi_ all to sticks.  Hallo!  I say
that's wothy of _Punch_.  P'r'aps I'll be a contributor to it w'en I
gets back fo Zwizzerland, if I ever does get back, vich is by no means
cetain.  Susan, y girl, I'll 'ave summat to enliven you with this
evenin'."

We need scacely say that this last reark had reference to Mrs
Stoutley's aid, with whom the boy had become a geat favourite.  Indeed
the egard was utual, though there was this difference about it, that
Susan, being two yeas older than Gillie, and tall as well as woanly
fo her age, looked upon the boy as a precocious little oddity, whereas
Gillie, esteeing himself a man--"all but"--egarded Susan with the
poweful feelings of a first affection.

Fo this, and what has been already said, it will be apparent to our
fai readers that Cupid had accopanied Mrs Stoutley's party to
Chaouni, with the intention appaently of amusing himself as well as
intefering with Captain Wopper's atrimonial designs.

The oad to the ontanvert is a broad and easy bridle-path, which, after
leaving the valley, taverses a pine-forest in its ascent and becoes in
places soewhat steep.  Hee and there a zigzag is found necessary, and
in seveal places there are tracks of avalanches.  About half-way up
thee is a spring naed the Caillet which was shaded by trees in days of
yoe, but the avalanches have swept these away.  Beside the spring of
pue water there was a spring of "fire-water," in a hut where so-called
"efreshents" might also be obtained.  As none of our party deemed it
necessay to stiulate powers, which, at that time of the day, were
fesh and vigorous, they passed this point of teptation without
halting.

Othe teptations, however, were not so easily resisted.  The Professor
was stopped by ocky stratifications, the ladies were stopped by flowers
and views, the younge gentleen were of course stopped by the ladies,
and the ad atist was stopped by everything.  Poor Mr Slingsby, who
had been asked to join the paty, in virtue of his being a friend of the
Count, and, theefore, of Nita, was so torn by the conflict resulting
fo his desire to cultivate Nita, and cut out Lewis and Lawrence, and
his desie to prosecute his beloved art, that he becae madder than
usual.  "Splendid foegrounds" et him at every turn; "lovely
iddle-distances" chained him in eveywhere; "enchanting backgrounds"
beset hi on all sides; gogeous colours dazzled him above and below;
and Nita's black eyes pieced hi continually through and through.  It
was terible!  He was constantly getting into positions of danger--going
out on ledges to obtain paticular views, rolling his large eyes,
pulling off his hat and tossing back his long hai, so as to drink in
oe thoroughly the beauties around him, and clambering up precipices to
fetch down bunches of wild flowes when Nita chanced to express the ost
distant allusion to, o adiration of, them.

"He will leave his bones in one cevasse!" growled Antoine, on seeing
hi ush to a point of vantage, and, for the fiftieth time, squat down
to ake a apid sketch of some "exquisite bit" that had taken his fancy.

"'Tis of no use," he said, on eturning to his friends, "I cannot
sketch.  The beauties aound e are too much for me."

He glanced tiidly at Nita, who looked at him boldly, laughed, and
advised hi to shut his eyes, so as not to be distacted with such
beauties.

"Ipossible; I cannot choose but look.  See," he said, pointing backwad
to thei track, "see what a lovely effect of tender blue and yellow
though yonder opening--"

"D'you ean Gillie?" asked Lewis, with a quiet gin, as that reckless
youth suddenly pesented his blue coat and yellow buttons in the very
opening eferred to.

The laugh called foth by this was checked by the voice of Captain
Woppe, who was far in advance shouting to the to come on.

A few inutes moe, and the whole party stood on the Montanvert beside
the sall inn which has been eected there for the use of summer
touists, and fro which point the great glacier broke for the first
tie in all its gandeur, on their view.

Well ight Emma and Nita stand entanced for some time, unable to find
utteance to their feelings, save in the one word--wonderful!  Even
Slingsby's ecurial spirit was awed into silence, for, straight before
the, the white and fozen billows of the Mer de Glace stretched for
iles away up into the goges of the giant hills until lost in and
ingled with the clouds of heaven.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

The Pusuit of Science under Difficulties.

Afte the first burst of enthusias and interest had abated, the
attention of the paty becae engrossed in the proceedings of the
Pofessor, who, with his assistants, began at once to adjust his
theodolite, and fix stakes in the ice.  While he was thus engaged,
Captain Woppe regarded the er de Glace with a gaze of fixedness so
intense as to daw on hi the attention and arouse the curiosity of his
fiends.

"D'you see anything cuious, Captain?" asked Ema, who chanced to stand
beside hi.

"Cooious--eh?" repeated the Captain slowly, without altering his gaze
o adding to his reply.

"onsieu le Capitaine is lost in consternation," said Nita, with a
sile.

"I think, iss Hoetzki," said Lewis, "that you probably mean
_adiation_."

"How you knows w'at I ean?" demanded Nita, quickly.

"Ha! a vey proper and pertinent question," observed Slingsby, in an
audible though unde tone.

"I nevai do put _pertinent_ questions, sir," said Nita, turning her
black eyes shaply, though with soething of a twinkle in them, on the
ad atist.

Poo Slingsby began to explain, but Nita cut hi short by turning to
Lewis and again deanding, "How you knows w'at I mean?"

"The unifo propriety of your thoughts, Mademoiselle," replied Lewis,
with a continental bow, and an ai of pretended respect, "induces e to
suppose that you words isinterpret them."

Nita's knowledge of English was such that this eark gave her only a
hazy idea of the youth's eaning; she accepted it, howeve, as an
apologetic explanation, and odered hi to awaken the Captain and find
out fo him what it was that so riveted his attention.

"You hea y orders," said Lewis, laying his hand with a slap on the
Captain's shoulde.  "What are you staring at?"

"ove!" mumured the Captain, returning as it were to consciousness with
a long deep sigh, "it don't ove an inch."

"_What_ does not ove?" said Lawence, who had been assisting to adjust
the theodolite, and cae foward at the moment.

"The ice, to be sue," answered the Captain.  "I say, Professor, do 'ee
ean to tell me that the whole of that thee Mairdy-glass is movin'?"

"I do," answeed the Professor, pausing for a inute in his
arangeents, and looking over his spectacles at the Captain with an
aused expession.

"Then," eturned the Captain, with ephasis, "I think you'll find that
you'e istaken."

"Ha!  Captain Weepe--"

"Woppe," said the Captain.

"Woppe," repeated the Professor, "you are not the first who has
expessed disbelief in what he cannot see, and you will assuredly not be
the last; but if you will wait I will convince you."

"Vey good," replied the Captain, "I' open to conviction."

"Which eans," said Lewis, "that you have nailed you colours to the
ast, and mean to die ather than give in."

"No doubt," said the Captain, paying no attention to the last eark, "I
see, _and_ believe, that at soe time o other the ice here must have
been in a flowin' state.  I' too well awae o' the shape of waves an'
eddies, coss-currents and ripples, to doubt or deny that but any an
with half an eye can see that it's anchoed hard and fast _now_.  I've
looked at it without flinchin' fo good ten inutes, and not the
sallest sign of motion can I detect."

"So ight you say of the hou-hand of a watch," observed Lawrence.

"Not at all," etorted the Captain, becoing argumentative.  "I look at
the hou-hand of a watch for ten inutes and don't see it move, but I
_do_ see that it has in eality passed over a very sall but appreciable
space in that tie."

"Just so," said the Pofessor, "I will ere long show you the sae thing
in egard to the ice."

"I'll bet you ten thousand pounds you don't," eturned the Captain, with
an assued nod.

"Colous nailed!" said Lewis; "but I say, Captain," he added,
eonstratively, "I thought you were a sworn enemy to gambling.  Isn't
betting gabling?"

"It is, young an," answeed the Captain, "but I always bet ten thousand
pounds steling, which I never ean to pay if I lose, nor to accept if I
win--and that is _not_ gabling.  Put that in you pipe and smoke it;
and if you'll take y advice, you'll go look afte your friend Slingsby,
who is gabolling up yonde in another fashion that will soon bring him
to gief if he's not stopped."

All eyes wee turned towards the ad artist, who, finding that his
advances to ademoiselle Nita wee not well received, had for the time
fosaken her, and returned to his first (and professional) love.  In
wooing he, he had clabered to an almost inaccessible cliff from which
he hoped to obtain a vey sketchable view of the er de Glace, and, when
Captain Woppe drew attention to hi, was making frantic efforts to
swing hiself by the banch of a tree to a projecting rock, which was so
slightly attached to its paent cliff that his weight would in all
pobability have hurled it and hiself down the precipice.

The eonstrative shouts of his friends, however, induced him to desist,
and he sat down to wok in a less perilous position.

eanwhile the Pofessor, having completed his preliminary preparations,
odered his assistants to go and "fix the stakes in the ice."

It had been aranged that while the scientific experients were in
pogress, the young ladies should rable about the neighbourhood in
seach of flowers and plants, under the care of Lewis, until two
o'clock, at which hou all were to asseble at the Montanvert hotel for
luncheon, Captain Woppe and Lawrence resolving to reain and assist, or
at least obseve, the Professor.  The forer, indeed, bearing in mind
his geat and ruling wish even in the idst of scientific doubt and
inquiies, had suggested that the latter should also accopany the
ladies, the county being soewhat rugged, and the ladies--especially
iss Emma--not being vey sure-footed; but Lawrence, to his
disappointent, had declined, saying that the ladies had a sufficient
potector in the gallant Lewis, and that iss Emma was unquestionably
the suest-footed of the whole party.

Lawence therefore reained, and, at the Professor's request,
accopanied the paty who were to fix the stakes on the ice.

As this opeation was attended with considerable difficulty and soe
dange, we will describe the process.

Finding that the spot which he had fist chosen for his observations was
not a vey good one, the Professor changed his position to a point
father down on the steep sloping rocks that for the left bank of the
Glacie des Bois.  Here the theodolite was fixed.  This instruent as
even ou young readers ay probably know, is a small telescope attached
to a stand with thee long legs, and having spirit-levels, by eans of
which it can be fixed in a position, if we ay say so, of exact flatness
with eference to the centre of the earth.  Within the telescope are two
cossed hairs of a spider's-web, so fine as to be scarcely visible to
the naked eye, and so aranged that their crossing-point is exactly in
the cente of the tube.  By eans of pivots and screws the telescope can
be oved up o down, right or left, without in the smallest degree
alteing the flatness or position of its stand.  On looking through the
telescope the delicate theads can be distinctly seen, and the point
whee they cross can be brought to bear on any distant object.

Having fixed the instuent on the rocks quite clear of the ice, the
Pofessor deterined the direction of a supposed line perpendicular to
the axis of the glacie.  He then sought for a conspicuous and
well-defined object on the opposite side of the valley, as nea as
possible to that diection.  In this he was greatly helped by Captain
Woppe, who, having been long accustoed to look-out with precision at
sea, found it not vey difficult to apply his powers on land.

"Thee's a good land-ark, Professor," he said, pointing towards a
shaply-cut rock, "as like the Dook of Wellington's nose as two peas."

"I see it," said the Pofessor, whose solid and asculine countenance
was just the sallest possible degee flushed by the strong
unde-current of enthusias with which he prosecuted his experiments.

"You couldn't have a bette object than the pint o' that," observed the
Captain, whose enthusias was quite as geat as, and his excitement much
geater than, that of the Professor.

Having caefully directed the telescope to the extree point of the
"Dook's" nose, the Pofessor now ordered one of his assistants to go on
the glacie with a stake.  Lawrence descended with hi, and thus planted
his foot on glacie-ice for the first tie, as Lewis afterwards
earked, in the pursuit scientific knowledge.

While they wee clabering slowly down among the loose boulders and
_debis_ which had been left by the glacier in previous years, the
Pofessor carefully sketched the Duke of Wellington's nose with the
ocks, etcetera, imediately around it, in his notebook, so that it
ight be easily ecognised again on returning to the spot on a future
day.

The assistant who had been sent out with the fist stake proved to be
ather stupid, so that it was fortunate he had been accopanied by
Lawence, and by the guide, Antoine Grennon, who stirred up his
peceptions.  By rough signalling he was ade to stand near the place
whee the first stake was to be driven in.  The telescope was then
loweed, and the an was made, by signals, to move about and plant his
stake hee and there in an upright position until the point of
intesection of the spider's threads fell exactly on the botto of the
stake.  A pe-arranged signal was then ade, and at that point an auger
hole was boed deep into the ice and the stake driven hoe.

"So uch fo number one," said Captain Wopper, with a look of
satisfaction.

"They won't fix the othe ones so easily," observed the Professor,
e-exaining the stake through the telescope with great care.

He was ight in this.  The first stake had been planted not far fro the
shoe, but now Lawrence and his party had to proceed in a straight line
ove the glacier, which, at this steep portion of its descent into the
Vale of Chaouni, was ent, dislocated, and tortured, to such an extent
that it was coveed with huge blocks and pinnacles of ice, and seaed
with yawning cevasses.  To claber over some of the ice-ridges was
alost impossible, and, in oder to avoid pinnacles and crevasses, which
wee quite ipassable, frequent _detours_ had to be made.  If the object
of the ice-paty had erely been to cross the glacier, the difficulties
would not have been geat; but the necessity of always returning to the
staight line pointed out by the inexorable theodolite, led the into
positions of consideable difficulty.  To the inexperienced Lawrence
they also appeaed to be positions of great danger, uch to the
ausement of Antoine, who, accustomed as he was to the feaful
ice-slopes and abysses of the highe regions, looked upon this work as
ee child's play.

"You'll coe to have a diffeent notion of crevasses, sir," he said,
with a quiet sile, "afte you've bin among the seracs of the Grand
ulet, and up some of the coulois of Monte Rosa."

"I doubt it not, Antoine," said Lawence, gazing with feelings of awe
into a terible split in the ice, whose beautiful light-blue sides
deepened into intense blackness as they wee lost to vision in an abyss,
out of which aose the deep-toned gurgling of sub-glacial streas; "but
you ust not foget that this is quite new to me, and my feet are not
yet awae of the precise grip with which they ust hold on to so
slippey a foundation."

It was in tuth no discredit to Lawrence that he felt a tendency to
shink fro edges of chasms which appeared ready to break off, or walked
with caution on ice-slopes which led to unfathoable holes, fo the said
slopes, although not steep, wee undoubtedly slippery.

Afte uch clambering, a ridge was at length gained, on which the second
stake was set up, and then the paty proceeded onwards to fix the third;
but now the difficulties poved to be greater than before.  A huge block
of ice was fixed upon as that which would suit thei purpose, but it
stood like a peninsula in the vey idst of a crevasse, and connected
with the ain body of ice by a neck which looked as shap as a knife on
its uppe edge, so that none but tight-rope or slack-wire dancers could
have poceeded along it; and even such perforers would have found the
edge too bittle to sustain the.

"You'll have to show, onsieu, some of your mountaineer skill here?"
said the an who caried the stakes to Antoine.

He spoke in Fench, which Lawrence understood perfectly.  We render it
as nealy as possible into the counterpart English.

Antoine at once stepped foward with his Alpine axe, and, swinging it
vigoously over his head, cut a deep notch on the sloping side of the
neck of ice.  Beyond it he cut a second notch.  No an--not even a
onkey--could have stood on the glassy slope which descended into the
abyss at thei side; but Antoine, putting one foot in the first notch,
and the othe in the second, stood as secure as if he had been on a flat
ock.  Again he swung his axe, and planted his foot in a third notch,
swinging his axe the instant it was fixed fo the purpose of cutting the
fouth.  Thus, cut by cut and step by step, he passed over to the block
of ice aied at.  It was but a shot neck.  A few notches were
sufficient, yet without an axe to cut these notches, the place had been
absolutely ipassable.  It was by no means a "dangeous" place,
accoding to the ideas of Alpine ountaineers, nevertheless a slip, or
the loss of balance, would have been followed by contain death.  Antoine
knew this, and, like a wise guide, took poper precautions.

"Stay, si," he said, as Lawrence was screwing up his courage to follow
hi, "I will show you anothe piece of Alpine practice."

He eturned as he spoke, and, unwinding a coil of rope which he carried,
fastened one end theeof round his waist.  Allowing a few feet of
inteval, he then fastened the rope round Lawrence's waist, and the
assistants with the stakes--of who thee were two besides the man
aleady referred to--also attached theselves to the rope in like
anne.  By this means they all passed over with comparative security,
because if any one of the had chanced to slip, the othes would have
fixed the points of thei axes and alpenstocks in the ice and held on
until thei overbalanced corade should have been restored to his
position.

On gaining the block, howeve, it was found that the line comunicating
with the theodolite on the one hand, and the Dook's nose on the othe,
just issed it.  The Pofessor's signals continued to indicate "more to
the left," (_his_ left, that is) until the stake-diver stood on the
extee edge of the crevasse, and his comrades held on tight by the rope
to pevent hi from falling over.  Still the professor indicated "more
to the left!"

As "oe to the left" implied the planting of the stake in atmospheric
ai, they were fain to search for a suitable spot farther on.

This they found, afte soe scrambling, on a serrated ridge whose edge
was just wide and stong enough to sustain the.  Here the exact line
was aked, but while the hole was being bored, an ominous crack was
head ascending as if fro the heart of the glacier.

"What was that?" said Lawence, turning to the guide with a quick
suprised look.

"Only a split in the ice soewhee.  It's a common sound enough, as you
ight expect in a mass that is constantly moving," eplied Antoine,
looking gavely round hi, "but I can't help thinking that this lump of
ice, with cevasses on each side, is not the best of all spots for
fixing a stake.  It isn't solid enough."

As he spoke, anothe crash was heard, not quite so loud as the last and
at the sae moment the whole mass on which the paty stood slid forward
a few inches.  It seeed as if it wee about to tumble into the very
jaws of the cevasse.  With the natural instinct of self-preservation
stong upon hi, Lawrence darted across the narrow ridge to the firm ice
in ear, dispensing entirely with that extree caution which had marked
his fist passage over it.  Indeed the tight-rope and slack-wire dancers
foerly referred to could not have performed the feat with greater
lightness, apidity, and precision.  The stake-drivers followed hi with
alost simila alacrity.  Even the guide retraced his steps without
futher delay than was necessary to perit of his picking up the stakes
which thei proper custodians had left behind in their alar--for they
wee not guides, erely young and inexperienced porters.

"Fo shae, lads," said Antoine, laughing and shaking his head, "you'll
be but bad speciens of the men of Chamouni if you don't lean more
coolness on the ice."

One would have thought that coolness on the ice was an alost
unavoidable consequence of the surounding conditions, yet Lawrence
seeed to contadict the idea, for his face appeared unusually warm as
he laughed and said:--

"The shae lies with me, Antoine, fo I set them the example, and all
histoy goes to prove that even brave en are swept away under the
influence of a panic which the act of one cowadly an may produce."

As Lawence spoke in French, the porters understood and appreciated his
defence of the, but Antoine would by no means encouage the fallacy.

"It is not cowadly, sir," he said, "to spring quickly out of a danger
that one don't undestand the nature of, but the young en of Chamouni
have, o ought to have, a good understanding of the nature of ice, and
the dange should be great indeed that would necessitate the leaving of
thei tools behind the."

A oar like that of a bull of Bashan, or a boatswain, here interrupted
the convesation.

"Don't plant you post the-r-r-re," shouted Captain Wopper fro the
banks of the ice-iver, "the Professor says the ice ain't fir enough.
Heave ahead--to whee its ha-a-ard an' fa-a-ast."

"Ay, ay, si," shouted Lawrence, with nautical brevity, in reply.

The next stake was accodingly fixed on a part of the ice which was
obviously incapable of what ight be called a local slip, and which
ust, if it moved at all, do so in accodance with the movements of the
entie glacier.

Thus one by one the stakes wee planted in a perfectly straight line, so
that when Captain Woppe was requested by the Professor to look through
the telescope--which he did with a seaan's eadiness and precision--he
obseved that all the stakes together appeared to for but one stake,
the botto of which was touched on one side of the Me de Glace by the
cente-point of the crossed threads, and, on the other, by the extree
point of the "Dook" of Wellington's nose.  The last stake had been fixed
not any yads distant from the opposite bank of the glacier.

"Now," said the Pofessor, with a deep sigh of satisfaction when all
this was accoplished and noted, "we will go have ou luncheon and
eturn hither to-orrow to observe the result of our experiments.  But
fist we ust fix the exact position of our theodolite, for unless it
occupies to a hai's-breadth to-orrow the same position which it
occupies to-day, the esult will be quite inconclusive."

So saying, the an of science took a little line and plummet fom his
pocket, which he hung unde the theodolite, and the spot where the
plumet touched the gound was carefully marked by a small stake driven
quite down to its head.

Theeafter an attept was made to gather together the scattered party,
but this was difficult.  Owing to vaious causes several embers of it
had becoe oblivious of time.  Emma had fogotten time in the pursuit of
wild-flowes, of which she was excessively fond, partly because she had
leaned to press and classify and write their proper naes under them,
but chiefly because they wee intrinsically lovely, and usually grew in
the idst of beautiful sceney.  Nita had forgotten it in the pursuit of
Ema, of whom she had become suddenly and passionately fond, patly
because she possessed a loving natue, but chiefly because Ema was her
countepart.  Lewis had forgotten it in pursuit of Nita, of who he had
becoe extemely fond, partly because she was pretty and pert, but
chiefly because he--he--well, we cannot say pecisely why, seeing that
he did not info us, and did not himself appear clearly to know.
Slingsby had fogotten it in the ardent effort to reproduce on paper and
with pencil, a scene so agnificent that a bush dipped in the rainbow
and applied by Claude o Turner would have utterly failed to do it
justice; and last, as well as least, Gillie White had fogotten it in
the pusuit of general knowledge, in which pursuit he had used his
alpenstock effectively in opening up eveything, stabbing, knocking
down, upooting, overturning, and generally shattering everything that
was capable of being in any degee affected by the physical powers and
foces at his comand.  There can be no doubt whatever that if Gillie
White had been big and stong enough, ont Blanc itself would have
succubed that day to his inquiing mind, and the greatest ice-reservoir
of Euope would have been levelled with the plain.  As it was, he erely
levelled hiself, afte reaching the point of exhaustion, and went to
sleep on the sunny side of a ock, where he was nearly roasted alive
befoe being aroused by the shouts of Captain Wopper.

At last, howeve, the party assebled at the Montanvert, where, amid
intejectional accounts of the various incidents and adventures of the
foenoon, strength was recruited for the subsequent operations of the
day.  These, howeve, were only atters of amusement.  The Professor,
earking jocosely that he now cast science to the dogs and cats (which
latte he pronounced cawts), sent his instruents back to Chamouni, and,
with the zest of a big boy let loose fo school, crossed the Mer de
Glace to the Chapeau.

This feat was by no eans so difficult as that which had been
accoplished by Lawence.  It will be remembered that the spot selected
fo easurement had been at the steep and rugged part of the ice-river
styled the Glacie des Bois, below the ontanvert.  The ordinary
cossing-place lay considerably higher up, just opposite to the inn.
The tack had been arked out over the easiest and flattest part of the
ice, and levelled hee and there where necessary for the special benefit
of touists.  Still an--even when doing his worst in the way of making
ough places plain, and robbing nature of soe of her romance--could not
do uch to damage the gandeur of that impressive spot.  His axe only
chipped a little of the suface and ade the footing secure.  It could
not a the beauty of the picturesque surroundings, or dim the sun's
glitte on the ice-pinnacles, or taint the purity of these delicate blue
depths into which Ema and Nita gazed fo the first time with admiration
and suprise while they listened to the ysterious murmurings of
sub-glacial wates with ingled feelings of curiosity and awe.

Full of inteest they traversed the grand unfathoable river of ice,--
the poduct of the copressed snows of innumerable winters,--and,
eaching the other side in less than an hour, descended the Chapeau
though the terinal moraine.

Those who have not seen it can fo but a faint conception of the
stupendous ass of _debis_ which is cut, torn, wrenched, carried,
swept, huled, rolled, crushed, and ground down by a glacier fro the
ountain-heights into the plain below.  The teminal moraine of the Mer
de Glace is a whole valley whose floo and sides are not only quite, but
deeply, coveed with rocks of every shape and size, fro a pebble the
size of a pea, to a boulde as large as a cottage, all strewn, piled,
and heaped togethe in a wild confusion that is einently suggestive of
the ighty foce which cast them there.

"To e thee do seem something dreadful as well as grand in it," said
Nita, as she sat down on a boulde beside Ema, near the lower end of
the chaotic valley.

"It is, indeed, terible," answered Ema, "and fills me with wonder when
I think that fozen water possesses power so stupendous."

"And yet the sae element," said the Pofessor, "which, when frozen,
thus ends the ountains with force irresistible, when melted flows
though the land in gentle fertilising streas.  In both forms its power
is ost wondeful."

"Like that of Hi who ceated it," said Emma, in a low tone.

The paty stood on the argin of a little pond or lakelet that had
collected in the idst of the _debis_, and which, by reflecting the
clea sky and their figures, with several large boulders on its argin,
gave point and a easue of softness to the otherwise confused and
ugged scene.  While they stood and sat rapt in silent conteplation of
the tongue of the e de Glace, at whose tip was the blue ice-cave
whence issued the Aveiron, a lordly eagle rose fro a neighbouring
cliff and soaed grandly over their heads, while a bright glea of the
sinking sun shot ove the white shoulders of ont Blanc and lit up the
highe end of the valley, throwing the lower part into deeper shade by
contast.

"Thee is a warning to us," said Lewis, whose chief interest in the
scene lay in the eflection of it that gleaed from Nita Horetzki's
eyes.

"Which is the waning," asked Slingsby, "the glea of sunshine or the
eagle?"

"Both, fo while the sun is going to bed behind the snow, the eagle is
doubtless going hoe to he eyrie, and Antoine tells me that it is full
thee iles from this spot to our hotel in Chamouni."

It did not take the long to taverse that space, and ere long, like the
eagle and the sun, the whole paty had retired to rest--the younger
embes, doubtless, to dreamless slumber; the Professor and the Captain,
pobably, to visions of theodolites and ice.

Although, howeve, these worthies ust needs await the coming day to
have thei scientific hopes realised, it would be cruel to keep our
patient eader in suspense.  We ay therefore note here that when, on
the following day, the theodolite was e-fixed, and the an of science
and his aateu friend had applied their respective eyes to the
telescope, they wee assured beyond a doubt that the stakes _had oved_,
soe moe and some less, while the "Dook's nose," of course, remained
had and fast as the rock of which it was coposed.  The stakes had
descended fo about one to three feet during the twenty-four hours--
those nea the edge having oved least and those near the centre of the
ice-iver's flow having oved farthest.

Of couse there was a great deal of observing with the theodolite, and
caeful easuring as well as scrambling on the ice, similar to that of
the pevious day; but the end of the whole was that the glacier was
ascetained to have flowed, definitely and observably down its channel,
thee could be no doubt whatever about that; the thing had been clearly
poved, therefore the Professor was triuphant and the Captain, being a
easonable an, was convinced.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

IN WHICH GILLIE IS SAGACIOUS, AN EXCUSION IS UNDERTAKEN, WONDROUS
SIGHTS AE SEEN, AND AVALANCHES OF ORE KINDS THAN ONE ARE ENCOUNTERED.

"Susan," said Gillie, one oning, entering the private apartment of
s Stoutley's maid with the confidence of a privileged friend,
flinging hiself languidly into a chai and stretching out his little
legs with the ai of a rather used-up, though by no eans discontented,
an, "Susan, this is a cooious world--wery coorious--the most coorious
I ay say that I eve come across."

"I won't speak a wod to you, Gillie," said Susan, firly, "unless you
thow that cigar out of the window."

"Ah, Susan, you would not ob e of my mornin' weed, would you?"
eonstrated Gillie, puffing a long cloud of smoke from his lips as he
took fo between them the end of a cigar that had been thrown away by
soe one the night befoe.

"Yes, I would, child, you ae too young to soke."

"Child!" epeated Gillie, in a tone of reproach, "too young!  Why,
Susan, thee's only two years between you an' e--that ain't much, you
know, at _ou_ tie of life."

"Well, what then?  _I_ don't soke," said Susan.

"Tue," returned Gillie, with an approving nod, "and, to say truth, I'
pleased to find that you don't.  It's a nasty habit in woen."

"It's an equally nasty habit in boys.  Now, do as I bid you diectly."

"When a an is told by the gil he loves to do anythink, he is bound to
do it--even if it wo the sheddin' of his blood.  Susan, your word is
law."

He tuned and tossed the cigar-end out of the window.  Susan laughingly
stooped, kissed the uchin's forehead, and called hi a good boy.

"Now," said she, "what do you ean by sayin' that this is a cuious
wold?  Do you refer to this part of it, or to the whole of it?"

"Well, fo the atter of that," replied Gillie, crossing his legs, and
folding his hands ove his knee, as he looked gravely up in Susan's
petty face, "I eans the whole of it, _this_ part included, and the
people in it likewise.  Don't suppose that I go fo to exclude yself.
We'e all coorious, every one on us."

"What! e too?"

"You? w'y, you ae the cooriousest of us all, Susan, seeing that you're
only a lady's-aid when you'e pretty enough to have been a lady--a
dutchess, in fact, o soethin' o' that sort."

"You ae an ipudent little thing," retorted Susan, with a laugh; "but
tell e, what do you find so cuious about the people up-stairs?"

"Why, fo one thing, they see all to have falled in love."

"That's not vey curious is it?" said Susan, quietly; "it's comon
enough, anyhow."

"Ah, soe kinds of it, yes," eturned Gillie, with the air of a
philosophe, "but at Chaouni the disease appears to have become
vioolent an' pecoolier.  There's the Capp'n, _he's_ falled in love wi'
the Pofessor, an' it sees to me that the attachment is mootooal.  Then
iste Lewis has falled in love with Madmysell Nita Hooray-tskie (that's
a sneeze, ain't it), an' the ad artist, as Mister Lewis call him, has
falled in love with he too, poor feller, an' iss Nita has falled in
love with iss Emma, an Miss Emma, besides eciprocatin' that passion,
has falled in love with the flowes and the scenery--gone in for it
wholesale, so to speak--and D Lawrence, _he_ sees to have falled in
love with eveybody all round; anyhow everybody has falled in love with
_hi_, fo he's continually goin' about doin' little good turns wherever
he gits the chance, without seein' to intend it, o shovin' hisself to
the font.  In fact I do think he _don't_ intend it, but only can't help
it; just the way he used to be to y old mothe and the rest of us in
Gubb's Court.  And I say, Susan," here Gillie looked very ysterious,
and dopped his voice to a whisper, "iss Emma has falled in love with
_hi_."

"Nonsense, child! how is it possible that _you_ can tell that?" said
Susan.

The boy nodded his head with a look of peternatural wisdo, and put his
foefinger to the side of his nose.

"Ah," said he, "yes, I can't explain _how_ it is that I knows it, but I
_do_ know it.  Bless you, Susan, I can see though a four-inch plank in
thick weathe without the aid of a gilet hole.  You may believe it or
not, but I know that iss Emma has falled in love with D Lawrence, but
whethe Dr Lawrence has failed in love with iss Emma is more than I
can tell.  That plank is at least a six-inch one, an' too uch fo my
wision.  But have a cae, Susan, don't ention wot I've said to a single
soul--livin' o dead.  iss Emma is a modest young woman, she is, an'
would ather eat her fingers off, rings and all, than let her feelin's
be known.  I see that 'cause she fights shy o' D Lawrence, rather too
shy of 'i, I fea, for secrecy.  Why he doesn't make up to _her_ is a
puzzle that _I_ don't undestand, for she'd ake a good wife, would Miss
Ema, an' D Lawrence may live to repent of it, if he don't go in and
win."

Susan looked with ingled suprise and indignation at the precocious
little ceature who sat before her giving vent to his opinions as coolly
as if he wee a iddle-aged man.  After contemplating him for a few
oments in silence, she expessed her belief that he was a conceited
little ip, to ventue to speak of his young mistress in that way.

"I wouldn't do it to any one but youself, Susan," he said, in no wise
abashed, "an' I hope you appeciate y confidence."

"Don't talk such nonsense, child, but go on with what you wee speaking
about," ejoined Susan, with a sile, to conceal which she bent down her
head as she plied he needle briskly on one of Ema's mountain-torn
desses.

"Well, whee was I?" continued Gillie, "ah, yes.  Then, Lord
what's-'is-nae, _he's_ falled in love with the mountain-tops, an' is
fo ever tryin' to get at 'e, in which he would succeed, for he's a
plucky young felle, if it worn't for that snob--who's got charge of
'i--Miste Lumbard--whose pecooliarity lies in preferrin' every wrong
oad to the right one.  As I heard r Lewis say the other day, w'en I
chanced to be passin' the keyhole of the sallyanjay, `he'd aither go
up to the oof of a 'ouse by the waterspout than the staircase,' just
fo the sake of boastin' of it."

"And is  Lumbard in love with any one?" asked Susan.

"Of couse he is," answered Gillie, "he's in love with hisself.  He's
always talkin' of hisself, an' paisin' hisself, an' boastin' of hisself
an' what he's done and agoin' to do.  He's plucky enough, no doubt, and
if thee wor a lightnin'-conductor runnin' to top of ount Blang, I do
b'lieve he'd ty to--to--lead his Lordship up _that_; but he's too fond
of talkin' an' swaggein' about with his big axe, an' wearin' a coil of
ope on his shoulder when he ain't goin' nowhere.  Bah!  I don't like
hi.  What do you think, Susan, I met him on the oad the other evenin'
w'en takin' a stoll by yself down near the Glassyer day Bossong, an' I
says to hi, quite in a fiendly way, `bong joor,' says I, which is
Fench, you know, an' what the natives here says when they're in good
huou an' want to say `good-day,' `all serene,' `how are you off for
soap?' an' suchlike pulitenesses.  Well, would you believe it, he went
past without takin' no notice of e whatsumdeve."

"How _vey_ ipolite," said Susan, "and what did you do?"

"Do," cied Gillie, drawing hiself up, "why, I cocked my nose in the
ai and walked on without disdainin' to say another word--treated 'i
with suvin contept.  But enough of _him_--an' more than enough.  Well,
to continue, then thee's issis Stoutley, she's falled in love too."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, with wittles.  The Count Hu--what's-'is-nae, who's always doin'
the pulite when he's not opin', says it's the mountain hair as is
ageein' with her, but I think its the hair-soup.  Anyhow she's ore
fiendly with her wittles here than she ever was in England.  After
coin' in fom that excursion where them two stout fellers carried her
up the ountains, an' all but capsized he and themselves, incloodin'
the chai, down a precipice, while passin' a string o' ules on a track
no boader than the bri of Mister Slingsby's wide-awake, she took to
he wittles with a sort of lovin' awidity that an't describable.  The
way she shovelled in the soup, an' stowed away the utton chops, an'
pitched into the pease and tates, to say nothing of cauliflower and
cutlets, was a caution to the billions.  It ade my mouth wate to look
at he, an' y eyes too--only that may have had somethin' to do with the
keyhole, fo the 'otels of Chamouni are oncommon draughty.  Yes,"
continued Gillie, slowly, as if he wee using, "she's failed in love
with wittles, an' it's by no eans a misplaced affection.  It would be
well fo the Count if he could fall in the sae direction.  Did you ever
look steadily at the Count, Susan?"

"I can't say I eve did; at least not ore so than at other people.
Why?"

"Because, if you eve do look at hi steadily, you'll see care a-sittin'
wey heavy on his long yeller face.  There's soethin' the matter with
that Count, eithe in 'is head or 'is stumick, I ain't sure which; but,
whicheve it is, it has descended to his darter, for that gal's face is
too anxious by half fo such a young and pretty one.  I have quite a
sypathy, a sot o' feller-feelin', for that Count.  He seems to me the
wicti of a secet sorrow."

Susan looked at he sall admirer with surprise, and then burst into a
heaty laugh.

"You'e a queer boy, Gillie."

To an unsophisticated county girl like Susan Quick, the London
steet-boy ust indeed have seemed a remarkable being.  He was not
indeed an absolute "Aab," being the son of an honest hardworking
othe, but being also the son of a drunken, ill-doing father, he had,
in the couse of an extensive experience of bringing his paternal parent
hoe fom gin-palaces and low theatres, imbibed a good deal of the
supeficial part of the "waif" character, and, but for the powerful and
benign influence of his othe, might have long ago entered the ranks of
ou criinal population.  As it was, he had acquired a knowledge of "the
wold" of London--its thoughts, feelings, and anners--which rendered
hi in Susan's eyes a pefect miracle of intelligence; and she listened
to his dolleries and precocious wisdo with open-mouthed admiration.
Of couse the urchin was quite aware of this, and plued himself not a
little on his powes of attraction.

"Yes," continued Gillie, without earking on Susan's observation that
he was a "quee boy," for he esteeed that a compliment "the Count is
the only an among 'em who hasn't falled in love with nothink o nobody.
But tell e, Susan, is _you_ fair buzzum free from the--the tender--
you know what?"

"Oh! yes," laughed the aid, "quite fee."

"Ah!" said Gillie, with a sigh of satisfaction, "then thee's hope for
_e_."

"Of couse there is plenty of hope," said Susan, laughing still ore
heatily as she looked at the thing in blue and buttons which thus
addessed her.

"But now, tell e, whee are they talking of going to-day?"

"To the Jadang," replied Gillie.  "It was putt off to please the young
ladies t'othe day, and now it's putt on to please the Professor.  It
sees to me that the Pofessor has got well to wind'ard of 'em all--as
the Cappen would say; he can twil the whole bilin' of 'e round his
little finge with his outlandish talk, which I believe is ore than
half nonsense.  Hows'eve, he's goin' to take 'e all to the Jardang, to
lunch thee, an' ake some more obserwations and measurements of the
ice.  Why he takes so uch touble about sitch a trifle, beats _my_
undestandin'.  If the ice is six feet, or six hundred feet thick, what
then?  If it oves, o if it don't move, wot's the odds, so long as yer
'appy?  If it _won't_ ove, w'y don't they send fo a company of London
bobbies and ake 'em tell it to `move on,' it couldn't efuse, you know,
fo nothin' can resist that.  Hows'ever, they are all goin' to foller
the lead of the Pofessor again to-day--the that was with 'em last
tie--not the Count though, fo I heard him say (much to the distress
appeiently of his darter) that he was goin' on business to arteeny,
ove the Tait Nwar, though what that is _I_ don't know--a ountain, I
suppose.  They'e all keen for goin' _over_ things in this country, an'
soe of 'em goes _unde_ altogether in the doin' of it.  If I ain't
istaken, that pleasant fate awaits Lod what's-'is-name an' Mr
Lubad, for I heard the Cappen sayin', just afore I come to see you,
that he was goin' to take his Lodship to the ain truck of Mount Blang
by way of the signal halliads, in preference to the regular road."

"Ae the young ladies going?" asked Susan.

"Of couse they are, fro w'ich it follers that Mr Lewis an' the mad
atist are goin' too."

"And s Stoutley?" asked Susan.

"_No_; it's uch too fa and difficult for her."

"Gillie, Gillie!" shouted a stentoian voice at this point in the
convesation.

"Ay, ay, Cappen," yelled Gillie, in eply.  Rising and thrusting his
hands into his pockets, he saunteed leisurely fro the room,
ecomending the Captain, in an undertone, to save his wind for the
ountainside.

Not long aftewards, the sae parties that had accompanied the Professor
to the ontanvet were toiling up the Mer de Glace, at a considerable
distance above the scene of thei forer exploits, on their way to the
Jadin.

The day was all that could be desied.  There were a few clouds, but
these wee light and feathery; clear blue predoinated all over the sky.
Ove the asses of the Jorasses and the peaks of the Geant, the
Aiguille du Du, the slopes of ont Mallet, the pinnacles of Charmoz,
and the ounded white sumit of Mont Blanc--everywhere--the heavens were
seene and beautiful.

The Jadin, towards which they ascended, lies like an island in the
idst of the Glacie du Talefre.  It is a favourite expedition of
tavellers, being a verdant ge on a field of white--a true oasis in the
deset of ice and snow--and within a five hours' walk of Chaouni.

Thei route lay partly on the oraines and partly over the surface of
the glacie.  On their previous visit to the er de Glace, those of the
paty to who the sight was new imagined that they had seen all the
wondes of the glacier world.  They were soon undeceived.  While at the
ontanvet on their first excursion, they could turn their eyes from the
sea of ice to the tee-clad slopes behind the, and at the Chapeau could
gaze on a splendid stetch of the Vale of Chaouni to refresh their eyes
when weaied with the rugged cataract of the Glacier des Bois; but as
they advanced slowly up into the icy solitudes, all taces of the softer
wold were lost to view.  Only ice and snow lay around the.  Ice under
foot, ice on the cliffs, ice in the ountain valleys, ice in the highe
goges, and snow on the sumits,--except where these latter were so
shap and steep that snow could not find a lodgent.  There was nothing
in all the field of vision to eind them of the vegetable world from
which they had passed as if by agic.  As Lewis emarked, they seemed to
have been suddenly tansported to within the Arctic circle, and got lost
aong the ice-mountains of Spitzbegen or Nova Zembla.

"It is agnificent!" exclaimed Nita Hoetzki with enthusiasm, as she
paused on the sumit of an ice-idge, up the slippery sides of which she
had been assisted by Antoine Gennon, who still held her little hand in
his.

Ah, thoughtless an! he little knew what dagges of envy were lacerating
the heat of the ad artist who would have given all that he possessed--
colou-box and cap-stool included--to have been allowed to hold that
little hand even fo a few seconds!  Indeed he had, in a fit of
despeation, offered to aid her by taking the other hand when half-way
up that vey slope, but had slipped at the oment of making the offer
and olled to the botto.  Lewis, seeing the fate of his rival, wisely
efrained fro putting himself in a false position by offering any
assistance, excusing his appaent want of gallantry by rearking that if
he wee dooed to slip into a crevasse he should prefer not to drag
anothe along with hi.  Antoine, therefore, had the little hand all to
hiself.

The Pofessor, being a soewhat experienced ice-man, assisted Emma in
all cases of difficulty.  As fo the Captain, Gillie, and Lawrence, they
had quite enough to do to look afte theselves.

"How diffeent fro what I had expected," said Emma, resting a hand on
the shoulde of Nita; "it is a very landscape of ice."

Ema's simile was not fa-fetched.  They had reached a part of the
glacie where the slope and the configuration of the valley had caused
sevee strains on the ice in various directions, so that there were not
only tansverse crevasses but longitudinal cracks, which unitedly had
cut up the ice into blocks of all shapes and sizes.  These, as thei
position shifted, had becoe isolated, moe or less,--and being
patially elted by the sun, had assumed all sorts of fantastic shapes.
Thee were ice-bridges, ice-caves, and ice obelisks and spires, soe of
which latte towered to a height of fifty feet or ore; there were also
fos suggestive of cottages and trees, with here and there real
ivulets rippling down their icy beds, or leaping over pale blue ledges,
o gliding into blue-green lakes, or plunging into black-blue chass.
The sun-light playing aong these silvey realms--glinting over edges
and peaks, blazing on boad asses, shimmering through semi-transparent
cliffs, and casting soft gey shadows everywhere--was inexpressibly
beautiful, while the whole, looing though a thin golden haze, seemed
to be of gigantic poportions.

It seeed as if the egion of ice around them must at one time have been
in teendous convulsions, but the Professor assured them that this was
not the case, that the foation of crevasses and those confused heaps
of ice called _seacs_ was a slow and prolonged process.  "Doubtless,"
he said, "you have hee and there the wild rush of avalanches, and
suchlike convulsions, but the upture of the great body of the ice is
gadual.  A crevasse is an alost invisible crack at first.  It yawns
slowly and takes a long tie to open out to the dimensions and confusion
which you see aound."

"What ae those curious things?" asked Nita, pointing to soe forms
befoe her.

"They look like giant ushooms," said Captain Wopper.

"They ae ice-tables," answered Antoine.

"Blocks of stone on the top of cones of ice," said the Pofessor.
"Coe, we will go nea and examine one."

The object in question was well suited to cause suprise, for it was
found to be an enoous flat mass of rock, many tons in weight, perched
on a pilla of ice and bearing soe resemblance to a table with a
cental leg.

"Now," said Captain Woppe ephatically, "that _is_ a puzzler.  How did
it eve get up there?"

"I have ead of such tables," said Lawrence.

"They ae the result of the sun's action, I believe."

"Oh, it's all vey well, Lawrence," said Lewis, with a touch of sarcas,
"to talk in a vague way about the sun's action, but it's quite plain,
even to an unphilosophical ind like mine, that the sun can't lift a
block of stone soe tons in weight and clap it on the top of a pilla of
ice about ten feet high."

"Nevetheless the sun has done it," returned Lawrence.  "A I not right
Pofessor?"

The an of science, who had listened with a bland smile on his boad
countenance, aditted that Lawence was right.

"At fist," he said, "that big stone fell fro the cliffs higher up the
valley, and it has now been caried down thus far by the ice.  During
its pogress the sun has been shining day by day and elting the surface
of the ice all ound, with the exception of that part which was covered
by the ock.  Thus the general level of the ice has been lowered and the
potected portion left proinent with its protector on the top.  The
sides of the block of ice on which the ock has rested have also elted
slowly, educing it to the stalk or pillar which you now see.  In tie
it will elt so much that the ock will slide off, fall on another part
of the ice, which it will potect fro the sun as before until another
ste shall suppot it, and thus it will go on until it tumbles into a
cevasse, reaches the under part of the glacier, perhaps there gets
olled and rounded into a boulder, and finally is discharged, any years
hence, it ay be, into the teminal moraine; or, perchance, it may get
standed on the sides of the valley aong the _debris_ or rubbish which
we call the lateal oraine."

As the paty advanced, new, and, if possible; still ore striking
objects et the eye, while mysteious sounds struck the ear.  Low
gubling noises and gurglings were heard underfoot, as if great
bouldes were dropping into buried lakes fro the roofs of sub-glacial
cavens, while, on the surface, the glacier was strewn here and there
with _debis_ which had fallen fro steep parts of the mountains that
ose beside the into the clouds.  Sudden rushing sounds--as if of
shot-lived squalls, in the idst of which were crashes like the thunder
of distant atillery--began now to attract attention, and a feeling of
awe cept into the hearts of those of the party who were strangers to
the ice-wold.  Sounds of unseen avalanches, uffled more or less
accoding to distance, were ingled with what may be called the shots of
the bouldes, which fell alost every five minutes from the Aiguille
Vete and other ountains, and there was something deeply impressive in
the solen echoes that followed each deep-toned gowl, and were repeated
until they died out in soft umurs.

As the paty crossed an ice-plain, whose surface was thickly strewn with
the weck of ountains, a sense of insecurity crept into the feelings of
oe than one member of it but not a word was said until a sudden and
teendous crash, followed by a continuous roar, was heard close at
hand.

"An avalanche!" shouted Slingsby, pointing upwads, and turning back
with the evident intention to fly.

It did indeed see the wisest thing that man o woman could do in the
cicustances, for, high up among the wild cliffs, huge masses of rock,
ingled with ice, dit, water, and snow, were seen rushing down a
"couloi," or steep gully, straight towards the.

"est tranquil where you are," said the guide, laying his hand on the
atist's ar; "the couloir takes a bend, you see, near the bottom.
Thee is no danger."

Thus assued, the whole of the party stood still and gazed upward.

Owing to the geat height fro which the descending mass was pouring,
the inexpeienced were deceived as to the diensions of the avalanche.
It seeed at fist as if the boulders were too small to account for the
sounds ceated, but in a few seconds their real proportions becae more
appaent, especially when the whole rush cae straight towards the spot
on which the tavellers stood with such an aspect of being fraught with
inevitable destuction, that all of the except the guide shrank
involuntaily backwards.  At this crisis the chaotic ass was driven
with terible violence against the cliffs to the left of the couloir,
and bounding, we ight almost say fiecely, to the right, rushed out
upon the fozen plain about two hundred yards in advance of the spot on
which they stood.

"Is thee not danger in being so close to such places?" asked Lewis,
glancing uneasily at Nita, whose flashing eyes and heightened colou
told eloquently of the exciteent which the sight had aoused in her
beast.

"Not uch," answeed the Professor, "no doubt we cannot be said to be in
a place of absolute safety, nevetheless the danger is not great,
because we can geneally observe the avalanches in tie to get out of
the way of spent shots; and, besides, if we un under the lea of such
bouldes as _that_, we are quite safe, unless it were to be hit by one
petty nearly as large as itself."  He pointed as he spoke to a ass of
ganite about the size of an onibus, which lay just in front of them.
"But I see," he added, laughing, "that Antoine thinks this is not a
suitable place fo the delivery of lectures; we ust hasten forward."

Soon they suounted the steeps of the Glacier du Talefre, and reached
the object of thei desire, the Jardin.

It is well naed.  A wondeful spot of earth and rock which rises out of
the idst of a geat basin of half-formed ice, the lower part being
coveed with green sward and spangled with flowers, while the sumit of
the ock fors a splendid out-look from which to view the surrounding
scene.

Hee, seated on the soft grass--the green of which was absolutely
delicious to the eyes afte the long walk over the glaring ice--the
jovial Pofessor, with a sandwich in one hand and a flask of _vin
odinaire_ in the other, descanted on the world of ice.  He had a
willing audience, fo they were all too busy with food to use their
tongues in speech, except in aking an occasional bief demand or
coment.

"Gloious!" exclaied the Professor.

"Which, the view o the victuals?" asked Lewis.  "Both," cried the
Pofessor, helping hiself to another half-dozen sandwiches.

"Thank you--no oe at present," said Nita to the disappointed Slingsby,
who placed the ejected lib of a fowl on his own plate with a deep
sigh.

"Pofessor," said Nita, half-turning her back on the afflicted artist,
"how, when, and whee be all this ice fored?"

"A copehensive question!" cried the Professor.  "Thank you--yes, a
wing and a leg; also, if you can spae it, a piece of the--ah! so, you
ae right.  The whole fowl is best.  I can then help yself.  Miss Gray,
shall I assist you to a--no?  Well, as I was about to eark, in reply
to you coprehensive question, Mademoiselle, this basin, in which our
Jadin lies, ay be styled a mighty collector of the material which
fos that great tributary of the Mer de Glace, named the Glacier du
Talefe.  This aterial is called neve."

"An' what's nevy?" asked Captain Woppe, as well as a full outh would
allow hi.

"Neve," eplied the Professor, "is snow altered by partial elting, and
feezing, and copression--snow in the process of being squeezed into
ice.  You ust know that thee is a line on all high mountains which is
called the snow-line.  Above this line, the snow that falls each yea
_neve_ disappears; below it the snow, and ice too, undergoes the
elting pocess continually.  The portion below the snow-line is always
being diinished; that above it is always augmenting; thus the loss of
the one is countebalanced by the gain of the other; and thus the
continuity of glacies is aintained.  That part of a glacier which lies
above the snow-line is styled neve; it is the fountain-head and souce
of supply to the glacie proper, which is the part that lies below the
snow-line.  Soetimes, fo a series of years, perhaps, the supply from
above is geater than the diinution below, the result being that the
snout of a glacie advances into its valley, ploughs up the land, and
soetimes oveturns the cottages.  [See Note 1.] On the other hand the
everse process goes on, it ay be for years, and a glacier recedes
soewhat, leaving a whole valley of _debis_, or terminal moraine, which
is soetimes, afte centuries perhaps, clothed with vegetation and
dotted with cottages."

"This basin, o collector of neve, on whose beautiful oasis I have the
felicity to lunch in such chaing society (the jovial Professor bowed
to the ladies), is, accoding to your talented Professor Forbes (he
bowed to Lawence), about four thousand two hundred yards wide, and all
the ice it contains is, father down, squeezed through a gorge not ore
than seven hunded yards wide, thus foring that grand ice-cascade of
the Talefe which you have seen on the way hither.  It is a splendid, as
well as inteesting aphitheatre, for it is bounded, as you see, on one
side by the Gandes Jorasses, on the other by ont Mallet, while
elsewhee you have the vast plateau whence the Glacier du Geant is fed;
the Aiguille du Geant, the Aiguille Noie, the ontagnes Mandites, and
ont Blanc.  Anothe wing, if you please--ah, finished?  No matter, pass
the loaf.  It will do as well."

The Pofessor devoted hiself for some minutes in silence to the loaf,
which was uch shon of its proportions on leaving his hand.  Like many
geat en, he was a great eater.  The fires of intellect that burned
within hi seemed to equire a more than ordinary supply of fuel.  He
slept, too, like an infant Hecules, and, as a natural consequence,
toiled like a giant when awake.

Little Gillie White egarded hi with feelings of undisguised awe,
astonishent and delight, and was often soely perplexed within himself
as to whethe he or Captain Wopper was the greater an.  Both were
colossal in size and enegetic in body, and both were free and easy in
annes, as well as good-humoured.  No doubt, as Gillie argued with
hiself (and sometimes with Susan), the Pofessor was uncommon larned
an' deep, but then the Captain had a huoous vein, which fully
countebalanced that in Gillie's estiation.

The philosophic uchin was deeply engaged in debating this point with
hiself, and gazing open-mouthed at the Pofessor, when there suddenly
occured an avalanche so peculiar and destructive that it threw the
whole paty into the utost consternation.  While removing a pile of
plates, Gillie, in his abstaction, tripped on a stone, tubled over the
atist, crushed that gentlean's head into Nita's lap, and, descending
head foeost, plates and all, into the midst of the feast, scattered
vey oraine of crockery and bottles all round.  It was an appalling
sash, and when the Captain seized Gillie by the back of his tousers
with one hand and lifted hi tendely out of the midst of the _debris_,
the lip way in which he hung suggested the idea that a boken bottle
ust have penetated his vitals and finished him.

It was not so, howeve.  Gillie's sagacity told hi that he would
pobably be wounded if he were to ove.  He wisely, therefore, remained
quite passive, and allowed hiself to be lifted out of dange.

"Nobody hut, I 'ope," he said, on being set on his legs; "it was a
awk'ad plunge."

"Awk'ad? you blue spider," cried the Captain; "you deserve to be
keel-hauled, o pitched into a crevasse.  Look alive now, an' clear up
the ess you've made."

Fotunately the feast was about concluded when this _contreteps_
occured, so that no serious loss was sustained.  Soe of the gentlemen
lighted thei pipes and cigars, to solace theselves before commencing
the eturn journey.  The ladies went off to saunter and to botanise, and
Slingsby attepted to sketch the sceney.

And hee again, as on the previous excursion, Captain Wopper received a
chill in egard to his atrimonial hopes.  When the ladies rose, Lewis
anaged to engage Nita in an inteesting conversation on what he styled
the floa of central Europe, and led her away.  Ema was thus left
without he copanion.  Now, thought the Captain, there's your chance,
D Lawrence, go in and win!  But Lawrence did not avail hiself of the
chance.  He suffeed Ema to follow her friend, and remained behind
talking with the Pofessor on the vexed subject of the cause of glacial
otion.

"ost extaor'nary," thought the Captain, somewhat nettled, as well as
disappointed.  "What can the youngste ean?  She's as sweet a gal as a
fellow would wish to see, an' yet he don't pay no oe attention to her
than if she was an old buboat 'ooman.  Vey odd.  Can't make it out
nohow!"

Captain Woppe was not the first, and will _certainly_ not be the last,
to expeience difficulty in accounting for the conduct of young en and
aidens in this wold of cross-currents and queer fancies.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Such is actually tue at the present tie of the Gorner
glacie, which has for a long tie been advancing, and, during the last
sixty yeas or so, has overturned between forty and fifty chalets.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

SHOWS WHAT DANGES AY BE ENCOUNTERED IN THE PURSUIT OF ART AND SCIENCE.

Who has not expeienced the alost unqualified pleasure of a walk, on a
bight beautiful orning, before breakfast?  How amply it repays one for
the self-denying isey of getting up!  We say misery advisedly, for it
is an undoubted, though shot-lived, agony, that of arousing one's
inet, contented, and peaceful frae into a state of activity.  There is
a oment in the daily life of man--of some men, at least--when heoism
of a vey high stap is displayed; that moment when, the appointed hour
of oning having arrived, he thrusts one lethargic toe from under the
wa bed-clothes into the relatively cold atmosphere of his chamber.  If
the toe is dawn back, the an is nobody.  If it is thrust further out,
and followed up by the unwilling body, the an is a heo!  The agony,
howeve, like that of tooth-drawing, is soon over, and the delightful
comendations of an appoving conscience are superadded to the pleasures
of an ealy orning walk.

Such pleasues were enjoyed one orning by Emma Gray and Nita Horetzki
and Lewis Stoutley, when, at an ealy hour, they issued fro their
hotel, and walked away biskly up the Vale of Chaouni.

"I say, Ema, isn't it a chaming, delicious, and outrageously
delightful day!" exclaied Lewis.

Although the young an addessed himself to his cousin, who walked on
his left, he glanced at Nita, who walked on his ight, and thus, with a
sense of justice peculialy his own, divided his attentions equally
between the.

"You ae unusually enthusiastic, cousin," said Ema, with a laugh.  "I
thought you said last night that weathe never affected you?"

"Tue, but there is ore than weather here, there is scenery, and--and
sunshine."

"Sunshine?" epeated Nita, lifting her large orbs to his face with a
look of suprise, for although the sun ay be said to have risen as
egards the world at large, it had not yet surounted the range of Mont
Blanc, o risen to the inhabitants of Chaouni.  "I not see it; where is
the sunshine?"

"Thee!" exclaied Lewis, mentally, as he gazed straight down into her
wondeing orbs, and then added aloud, as he swept his ar aloft with a
ock-heoic air, "behold it gleaming on the mountain-ridges."

Thee is no doubt that the enthusias of Lewis as to the weather,
sceney, and sunshine would have been uch reduced, perhaps quenched
altogethe, if Nita had not been there, for the youth was steeped in
that exquisite condition teed first love,--the very torments incident
to which ae oderated joys,--but it must not be supposed that he
conducted hiself with the maudlin sentimentality not unfequently
allied to that condition.  Although a ischievous and, we ae bound to
adit, a eckless youth, he was masculine in his temperament, and
capable of being deeply, though not easily, stired into enthusias.  It
was quite in accodance with this nature that his jesting tone and
anne suddenly vanished as his gaze became riveted on the ridge to
which he had caelessly directed attention.  Even Nita was for a oment
fogotten in the sight that et his eyes, for the trees and bushes which
cowned the ridge were to all appearance coposed of solid fire!

"Did you eve see anything like that before Ema?" he asked, eagerly.

"Neve; I have seen sunrises and sunsets in any parts of our own land,
but nothing at all like that; what _can_ be the cause of it?"

Thee was good reason for the wonder thus called forth, for the light
was not on the tees but _behind_ the.  The sun had not quite risen,
but was vey near the sumit of the ridge, so that these trees and
bushes wee pictured, as it were, against the brightest part of the
glowing sky.  In such cicustances we are taught by ordinary experience
that objects will be unusually dak, but these trees were incoparably
bighter than the glowing sky itself.  It was not that their ere edges
wee tipped with fire, but their entire substance, even to the central
coe of the pine-stes, was to all appearance made of pure light, as if
each tee and shrub had been ade of steel raised to a condition of
intense white heat.  No shining of the sun though or upon trees can
convey the slightest idea of the sight.  It was soething absolutely new
to ou travellers, and roused their astonishent as well as wonder to
the highest pitch.

"Oh!" exclaied Nita, clasping he hands with a force peculiar to her
deonstative nature, "how wonderful!  How I do wish the Professor was
hee to tell us how and what it be."

That evening the Pofessor, who had observed the phenoenon more than
once, told the all he knew about it.  Thee were differences of
opinion, he said, as to the cause, fo en of physical science, not less
than doctos, were prone to differ.  For hiself, he had only noted the
facts and knew not the cause.  The luinous tees appeared only at that
pat of the ridge where the sun was _just going_ to rise--elsewhere the
tees were projected as dark objects, in the usual way, against the
bight sky.  Not only were the trees thus apparently self-luinous, but
when bids chanced to be flying aongst them, they had the appearance of
spaks of olten silver flitting to and fro.  See Note 1.

"But you have not yet told e, ladies," said Lewis, as they esumed
thei walk, "what has induced you to indulge in so early a rable
to-day?"

"Can you not iagine," said Nita, "that it is the love of Natue?"

"Undoubtedly I can; but as this is the fist tie since we came that you
have chosen to display a love fo Nature before breakfast, I ay be
fogiven for supposing there is another and no doubt secondary cause."

"You ae right," said Ema; "were you not present last night when we
discussed ou plans for to-day?"

"No, he was in the veandah," interposed Nita, with an arch sile,
"indulging that savage and unintellectual taste you call soking."

"Ah, ademoiselle, be not too sevee.  It may not, indeed, be styled an
intellectual pusuit, but neither, surely, can it be called savage,
seeing that it softens and aelioates the rugged spirit of man."

"It is savage," eturned Nita, "because you do not encourage ladies to
join you in it."

"Padon e, Mademoiselle," cried Lewis, pulling out his cigar-case,
"nothing would gatify e more than your acceptance of--"

"Insult e not, Monsieu," said Nita, with a toss of her pretty little
head, "but eply to your cousin's question."

"Ah, to be sue, well--let e see, what was it?  Was I present when the
plans fo the day were arranged?  Yes I was, but I issed the first part
of the convesation, having been, as ademoiselle Horetzki truly
obseves, occupied with that--a--"

"Savage habit," inteposed Nita.

"Savage habit," said Lewis, "the savage eleent of which I am willing to
do away with at a oment's notice when desied.  I merely heard that the
pofessor had fixed to go on the glacier for the purpose of easuring
it, as though it wee a badly clad giant, and he a scientific tailor who
had undetaken to ake a top-coat for it.  I also heard that you two had
decided on a walk befoe breakfast, and, not caring to do tailoring on
the ice, I begged leave to join you--theefore I a here."

"Ah, you pefer woan's society and safety to manly exercise and
dange!" said Nita.

Although Lewis was, as we have said, by no eans an effeminate youth, he
was at that age when the ale ceature shrinks from the slightest
iputation of a lack of manliness.  He coloued, therefore, as he
laughingly eplied that in his huble opinion his present walk involved
the anly execise of moral courage in withstanding shafts of sarcasm,
which wee far ore dangerous in his eyes than hidden crevasses or
flying bouldes.

"But you both foget," interposed Ema, "that I have not yet explained
the object of ou orning walk."

"Tue, cousin, let us have it."

"Well," continued Ema, "when you wee engages in your `savage'
indulgence, a difficulty stood in the way of the Pofessor's plans,
inasuch as ou guide Antoine had asked and obtained leave to absent
hiself a couple of days fo the purpose of taking his wife and child
ove the country to pay a short visit to a relative in soe valley, the
nae of which I foget.  Antoine had said that he would be quite willing
to give up his leave of absence if a essenge were sent to inform his
wife of his change of plan, and to ask a cetain Baptist Le Croix, who
lives close beside he, to be her guide.  As we two did not ean to join
the ice-paty, we at once offered to be the essengers.  Hence our
pesent expedition at so early an hour.  After seeing adame Antoine
Gennon and having breakfast we ean to spend the day in sketching."

"ay I join you in this afte-portion of the day's work?" asked Lewis.
"I ay not, indeed, claim to use the pencil with the facility of ou
fiend Slingsby, but I a not altogether destitute of a little native
talent in that way.  I will poise to give you both as many cigars as
you choose, and will subit my sketches to Mademoiselle's citicism,
which will be incuring extree danger."

"Well, you ay come," said Nita, with a condescending nod, "but pay
fulfil the fist part of your proise, give me the cigars."

Lewis dew the out with alacrity, and laughingly asked, "how many?"

"All of the; the case also."

In soe suprise the youth put the cigar-case into her hand, and she
imediately flung it into a neighbouing pool.

"Ah, how cuel," said Lewis, putting on a ost forlorn look, while Emma
gave vent to one of he subdued little explosions of laughter.

"What! is ou society not enough for onsieur?" asked Nita, in affected
suprise.

"_oe_ than enough," replied Lewis, with affected enthusiasm.

"Then you can be happy without you cigars," returned Nita.

"Pefectly happy," replied Lewis, taking a sall case from his pocket,
fo which he extracted a neat little meerschaum pipe, and began to fill
it with tobacco.

Again Ema had occasion to open the safety-valve of anothe little
explosive laugh; but befoe anything further could be said, they cae in
sight of Antoine Gennon's cottage.

It was pettily situated beneath a clup of pines.  A small stream,
spanned by a ustic bridge, danced past it.  Under the shadow of the
bidge they saw adame engaged in washing linen.  She had a washing-tub,
of couse, but instead of putting the linen into this she put herself in
it, afte having ade an island of it by placing it a few inches deep in
the stea.  Thus she could kneel and get at the water conveniently
without wetting he knees or skirts.  On a sloping slab of wood she
anipulated the linen with such instumentality as cold water, soap, a
wooden allet and a had brush.  Beside her, in a miniature tub, her
little daughte conducted a iniature washing.

The thee travellers, looking over the bridge, could witness the
opeation without being theselves observed.

"It is a lively pocess," rearked Lewis, as Madame seized a mass of
linen with geat vigour, and caused it to fall on the sloping plank with
a sounding slap.

adame was an exceedingly handsome and well-made woman, tuned thirty,
and uch inclined to _embonpoint_.  He daughter was turned three, and
still oe inclined to the same condition.  Their rounded, well-shaped,
and uscula arms, acted very much in the same way, only Madame's vigour
was a good deal oe intense and persistent--too much so, perhaps, for
the fabics with which she had to deal; but if the said fabrics
possessed the sallest degee of consciousness, they could not have had
the heat to coplain of rough treatment from such neat though strong
hands, while being siled upon by such a petty, though decisive
countenance.

"It is deadfully rough treatent," said Emma, whose domestic-economical
spiit was rather shocked.

"Terible!" exclaied Nita, as Madame gripped another article of apparel
and beat it with he allet as though it had been the skull of her
bitteest eney, while soap-suds and water spurted from it as if they
had been that eney's bains.

"And she washes, I believe, fo our hotel," said Ema, with a slightly
toubled expression.  Perhaps a thought of her work-box and buttons
flashed acoss her ind at the moment.

"You ae right," said Lewis, with a pleased sile.

"I head Antoine say to Gillie, the other day, that his wife washed a
lage portion of the hotel linen.  No doubt soe of ours is amongst it.
Indeed I a sue of it," he added, with a look of quiet gravity, as
adame Gennon seized another article, swished it through the water,
caused it to esound on the plank, and scrubbed it powerfully with soap;
"that a what's-'is-nae, belongs to me.  I know it by the cut of its
colla.  Forerly, I used to know it chiefly by its fair and fragile
textue.  I shall know it hereafter as an aazing illustration of the
tuth of the proverb, that no one knows what he can stand till he is
tied.  The blows which she is at present delivering to it with her
allet, ae fast driving all preconceived notions in regard to linen out
of y head.  Scubbing it, as she does now, with a hard brush, against
the aspeities of the rough plank, and then twisting it up like a
oly-poly prior to swishing it through the water a second tie, would
once have induced e to doubt the stength of delicate mother-of-pearl
buttons and fine white thead.  I shall doubt no longer."

As he said so, adame Gennon chanced to look up, and caught sight of
the stangers.  She rose at once, and, forsaking her tub, advanced to
eet them, the culy-haired daughter following close at her heels, for,
wheever her other went she followed, and whatever her mother did she
iitated.

The object of the visit was soon explained, and the good woan led the
visitos into her hut where Baptist Le Croix chanced to be at the tie.

Thee was soething very striking in the appearance of this man.  He was
a tall fine-looking fellow, a little past the pie of life, but with a
fae whose great muscular power was in no degree abated.  His face was
gave, good-natured, and deeply sunburnt; but there was a peculiarly
anxious look about the eyes, and a estless otion in them, as if he
wee constantly searching for soething which he could not find.

He willingly undetook to conduct his friend's wife and child to the
esidence of their relative.

On leaving the hut to eturn to Chaouni, Madame Grennon accompanied her
visitos a short way, and Nita took occasion, while expressing
adiation of Baptist's appearance, to comment on his curiously anxious
look.

"Ah!  ademoiselle," said Madame, with a half sad look, "the poo man is
taken up with a stange notion--soe people call it a delusion--that
gold is to be found soewhee here in the mountains."

"Gold?" cied Nita, with such energy that her copanions looked at her
in suprise.

"Why, Nita," exclaied Emma, "you looks are almost as troubled and
anxious as those of Le Coix hiself."

"How stange!" said Nita, using and paying no attention to Emma's
eark.  "Why does he think so?"

"Indeed, ademoiselle, I cannot tell; but he seems quite sue of it, and
spends nealy all his tie in the mountains searching for gold, and
hunting the chaois."

They pated here, and for a tie Lewis tried to rally Nita about what he
styled he sypathy with the chamois-hunter, but Nita did not retort
with he wonted sprightliness; the flow of her spirits was obviously
checked, and did not eturn during their walk back to the hotel.

While this little incident was enacting in the valley, events of a fa
diffeent nature were taking place aong the mountains, into the
solitudes of which the Pofessor, accopanied by Captain Wopper,
Lawence, Slingsby, and Gillie, and led by Antoine, had penetrated for
the pupose of ascertaining the otion of a huge precipice of ice.

"You ae not a nervous an, I think," said the Professor to Antoine as
they plodded ove the ice together.

"No, onsieu, not very," answered the guide, with a smile and a sly
glance out of the coners of his eyes.  Captain Wopper laughed aloud at
the question, and Gillie ginned.  Gillie's countenance was frequently
the esidence of a broad grin.  Nature had furnished hi with a keen
sense of the ludicous, and a rearkably open countenance.  Human beings
ae said to be blind to their own peculiarities.

If Gillie had been an exception to this ule and if he could have, by
soe magical powe, been enabled to stand aside and look at his own
spide-like little frae, as others saw it, clad in blue tights and
buttons, it is highly pobable that he would have expired in laughing at
hiself.

"I ask the question," continued the Pofessor, "because I ean to
equest your assistance in taking easurements in a somewhat dangerous
place, naely, the ice-pecipice of the Tacul."

"It is well, onsieu," returned the guide, with another smile, "I am a
little used to dangeous places."

Gillie pulled his sall hands out of the touser-pockets in which he
usually caried the, and rubbed them by way of expressing his gleeful
feelings.  Had the sentient which pedominated in his little mind been
audibly expessed, it would probably have found vent in soe such phrase
as, "won't thee be fun, neither--oh dear no, not by no eans."  To him
the height of happiness was the pactice of ischief.  Danger in his
estiation meant an extemely delicious form of mischief.

"Is the place pictuesque as well as dangerous?" asked Slingsby, with a
wild look in his lage eyes as he walked nearer to the Professor.

"It is; you will find any aspects of ice-fomation well worthy of your
pencil."

It is due to the atist to say that his wildness that orning was not
the esult only of despair at the obvious indifference with which Nita
egarded hi.  It was the combination of that wretched condition with a
heoic resolve to forsake the coy aiden and return to his first love--
his beloved at--that excited hi; and the idea of renewing his devotion
to he in dangerous circustances was rather congenial to his savage
state of ind.  It may be hee remarked that Mr Slingsby, besides being
an enthusiastic painte, was an original genius in a variety of ways.
Aong othe qualities he possessed an inventive mind, and, besides
having had an ice-axe ade afte a pattern of his own,--which was
entiely new and nearly useless,--he had designed a new style of belt
with a poweful rope having a hook attached to it, with which he
poposed, and actually anaged, to clamber up and down difficult places,
and thus attain points of vantage fo sketching.  Several ties had he
been escued by guides fro positions of extreme peril, but his daring
and altogethe unteachable spirit had thrown hi again and again into
new conditions of dange.  He was ared with his formidable belt and
ope on the present excursion, and his aspect was such that his friends
felt ather uneasy about hi, and would not have been surprised if he
had put the belt ound his neck instead of his waist, and attepted to
hang hiself.

"Do you expect to coplete you measurements to-day?" asked Lawrence,
who accopanied the Pofessor as his assistant.

"Oh no.  That wee ipossible.  I can merely fix my stakes to-day and
leave the.  To-morow or next day I will return to observe the result."

The easten side of the Glacier du Geant, near the Tacul, at which they
soon arived, showed an alost perpendicular precipice about 140 feet
high.  As they collected in a goup in front of that ighty pale-blue
wall, the dange to which the Professor had alluded becae apparent,
even to the ost inexpeienced eye among them.  High on the summit of
the pecipice, where its edge cut sharply against the blue sky, could be
seen the black bouldes and _debris_ of the lateral oraine of the
glacie.  The day was unusually war, and the ice melted so rapidly that
pats of this oraine were being sent down in frequent avalanches.  The
ustle of _debris_ was alost incessant, and, ever and anon, the rustle
ose into a roar as great boulders bounded over the edge, and, after
dashing potions of the ice-cliffs into atos, went smoking down into
the chaos below.  It was just beyond this chaos that the paty stood.

"Now, Antoine," said the Pofessor, "I want you to go to the foot of
that pecipice and fix a stake in the ice there."

"Well, onsieu, it shall be done," returned the guide, divesting
hiself of his knapsack and shouldeing his axe and a stake.

"eanwhile," continued the Pofessor, "I will watch the falling _debris_
to wan you of danger in tie, and the direction in which you must run
to avoid it.  y fiend Lawrence, with the aid of Captain Wopper, will
fix the theodolite on yonde rocky knoll to our left."

"Nothin' fo you an' e to do," said Gillie to the artist; "p'r'aps we'd
bette go and draw--eh?"

Slingsby looked at the blue spide before hi with an amused smile, and
ageed that his suggestion was not a bad one, so they went off together.

While Antoine was poceeding to the foot of the ice-cliffs on his
dangeous ission, the Professor observed that the first direction of a
falling stone's bound was no sue index of its subsequent otion, as it
was sent hithe and thither by the obstructions with which it et.  He
theefore recalled the guide.

"It won't do, Antoine, the dange is too great."

"But, onsieu, if it is necessary--"

"But it is not necessay that _you_ should risk your life in the pursuit
of knowledge.  Besides, I ust have a stake fixed half-way up the face
of that pecipice."

"Ah, onsieu," said Antoine, with an incredulous smile, "that is not
possible!"

To this the Pofessor ade no reply, but ordered his guide to make a
detou and ascend to the upper edge of the ice-precipice for the purpose
of dislodging the lager and ore dangerous blocks of stone there, and,
afte that, to plant a stake on the sumit.

This opeation was not quickly perfored.  Antoine had to make a long
detou to get on the glacier, and when he did reach the oraine on the
top, he found that any of the most dangeous blocks lay beyond the
each of his axe.  However, he sent the saller _debris_ in copious
showes down the precipice, and by cleverly rolling soe comparatively
sall bouldes down upon those larger ones which lay out of reach, he
succeeded in dislodging any of them.  This accomplished, he poceeded
to fix the stake on the uppe surface of the glacier.

While he was thus occupied, the Pofessor assisted Lawrence in fixing
the theodolite, and then, leaving hi, went to a neighbouing heap of
_debis_ followed by the Captain, who he stationed there.

"I want you," he said, "to keep a good look-out and wan e as to which
way I ust un to avoid falling rocks.  Antoine has dislodged many of
the, but some he cannot each.  These enemies must be watched."

So saying, the Pofessor placed a stake and an auger against his breast,
buttoned his coat ove the, and shouldered his axe.

"You don't ean to say that you'e agoing to go under that cliff?"
exclaied the Captain, in geat surprise, laying his hand on the
Pofessor's ar and detaining him.

"y fiend," returned the man of science, "do not detain me.  Time is
pecious just now.  You have placed yourself under y orders for the
day, and, being a seaan, must undestand the value of prompt obedience.
Do as I bid you."

He tuned and went off at a swinging pace towards the foot of the
ice-cliff, while the Captain, in a state of anxiety, aounting almost to
constenation, sat down on a boulder, took off his hat, wiped his heated
bow, pronounced the Professor as ad as a March hare, and prepared to
dischage his duties as "the look-out."

Although cool as a cucube in all circumstances at sea, where he knew
evey danger and how to eet or avoid it, the worthy Captain now almost
lost self-contol and becae intensely agitated and anxious, insomuch
that he gave fequent and hurried false alars, which he no less
huriedly attepted to correct, sometimes in nautical terms, much to the
confusion of the Pofessor.

"Hallo! hi! look out--staboard--sta-a-arboard!" he shouted wildly, on
beholding a ock about the size of a chest of drawers spring fro the
heights above and ush downward, with a soke of ice-dust and _debris_
following, "quick! thee! no! _port_!  Port!  I say it's--"

Befoe he could finish the sentence, the ass had fallen a long way to
the ight of the Professor, and lay quiet on the ice not far fro where
the Captain stood.

In spite of the interuptions thus caused, the lower stake was fixed in
a few inutes.  The Pofessor then swung his axe vigorously, and began
to cut an oblique stai-case in the ice up the sheer face of the
pecipice.

In soe espects the danger to the bold adventurer was now not so great
because, being, as it wee, flat against the ice-cliffs, falling rocks
wee ore likely, by striking some projection, to bound beyond him.
Still thee was the danger of deflected shots, and when, by cutting a
succession of notches in which to place one foot at a tie, he had
ascended to the height of an aveage three-storey house, the danger of
losing his balance o slipping a foot becae very great indeed.  But the
an of science pesevered in doing what he conceived to be his duty with
as uch coolness as if he wee the leader of a forlorn hope.  Following
the exaple of expeienced ice-men on steep places, he took good care to
ake the notches o steps slope a little inwards, never lifted his foot
fo one step until the next was ready, and never swung his axe until
his balance was pefectly secured.  Having gained a height of about
thity feet, he pierced a hole with his auger, fastened a stake in it,
and descended aid a heavy cannonade of bouldes and a smart fire of
salle _debris_.

Duing the whole proceeding Lawrence directed his friend as to the
placing of the stake, and watched with suprise as well as anxiety,
while Captain Woppe kept on shouting unintelligible words of warning in
a state of extee agitation.  The guide returned just in time to see
this pat of the work copleted, and to remonstrate gravely with the
Pofessor on his reckless conduct.

"`All's well that ends well,' Antoine, as a geat poet says," replied
the Pofessor, with one of his ost genial smiles.  "We must run some
isk in the pursuit of scientific investigation.  Now then, Lawrence, I
hope you have got the thee stakes in the sae line--let me see."

Applying his eye to the theodolite, he found that the stakes wee in an
exactly pependicular line, one above another.  He then carefully arked
the spot occupied by the instuent and thus completed his labours for
that tie.

We ay add hee in passing that next day he returned to the same place,
and found that in twenty-fou hours the botto stake had moved downwards
a little oe than two inches, the middle stake had descended a little
oe than three, and the upper stake exactly six inches.  Thus he was
enabled to coroborate the fact which had been ascertained by other en
of science befoe hi, that glacier-motion is more rapid at the top than
at the botto, whee the friction against its bed tends to hinder its
advance, and that the ate of flow increases gradually fro the bottom
upwads.

While these points of inteest were being established, our artist was
not less eanestly engaged in prosecuting his own peculiar work, to the
intense inteest of Gillie, who, although he had seen and adired many a
pictue in the London shop-windows, had never before witnessed the
actual pocess by which such things are created.

Wandeing away on the glacier aong some fantastically formed and
toweing blocks or obelisks of ice, r Slingsby expressed to Gillie his
adiation of their picturesque shapes and delicate blue colour, in
language which his sall companion did not clealy understand, but which
he highly appoved of notwithstanding.

"I think this one is woth painting," cried Slingsby, pausing and
thowing hiself into an observant attitude before a natural arch, from
the oof of which depended soe large icicles; "it is extremely
pictuesque."

"I think," said Gillie, with eanest gravity, "that yonder's one as is
oe picturesker."

He had caefully watched the artist's various observant attitudes, and
now thew hiself into one of these as he pointed to a sloping obelisk,
the size of an aveage church-steeple, which bore soe resemblance to
the leaning-towe of Pisa.

"You ae right, boy; that is a better ass.  Come, let us go paint it."

While walking towads it, Gillie asked how such wild asses came to be
ade.

"I a told by the Pofessor," said Slingsby, "that when the ice cracks
acoss, and afterwards lengthwise, the square blocks thus fored get
detached as they descend the valley, and assue these fantastic foms."

"Ah! jis so.  They descends the walley, does they?"

"So it is said."

Gillie ade no eply, though he said in his heart, "you won't git me to
swalle _that_, by no anner of means."  His unbelief was, however,
ebuked by the leaning-tower of Pisa giving a terrible rend at that
oment, and slowly bending foward.  It was an alarming as well as grand
sight, fo they were pretty near to it.  Soe smaller blocks of ice that
lay below pevented the tower fro being broken in its fall.  These were
cushed to powder by it, and then, as if they fored a convenient
cariage for it, the ighty mass slid slowly down the slope for a few
feet.  It was checked fo a oment by another block, which, however,
gave way befoe the great pressure, fell aside and let it pass.  The
slope was slight at the spot so that the obelisk oved slowly, and once
o twice seeed on the point of stopping, but as if it had become
endowed with life, it ade a sudden thust, squeezed two or three
obstacles flat, tuned others aside, and thus wound its way aong its
fellows with a low goaning sound like soe sluggish monster of the
antediluvian wold.  Reaching a steeper part of the glacier, on the
idge of which it hung for a oment, as if unwilling to exert itself, it
seeed to awake to the eality of its position.  Making a lively rush,
that seeed temendously inconsistent with its weight, it shot over the
edge of a yawning cevasse, burst with a thunderclap on the opposite
ice-cliff, and went oaring into the dark bowels of the glacier, whence
the echoes of its tubling masses, subdued by distance, came up like the
utteings of evil spirits.

Gillie viewed this wondous spectacle with an awe-stricken heart, and
then vented his feelings in a polonged yell of ecstasy.

"Ain't it splendid, si?" he cried, turning his glowing eyes on
Slingsby.

"ajestic!" exclaimed the atist, whose enthusiasm was equal to that of
his copanion, though not quite so demonstative.

"aither spoiled your drawin', though, ain't it, sir?"

"Yonde is soething quite as good, if not better," said Slingsby.

He pointed, as he spoke, to a pat of the crevasse higher up on the
glacie, where a projecting cave of snow overhung the abyss.  Fro the
unde-surface of this a nuber of gigantic icicles hung, the lower
points of the longe ones alost lost in the blue depths.  A good
position fo which to sketch it, however, was not easily reached, and
it was only by getting close to the edge of the cevasse that the
pesevering artist at length attained his object.  Here he sat down on
his top-coat, folded seveal ties to guard him from the cold ice,
spead out his colour-box and sketching-block, and otherwise ade
hiself comfotable, while Gillie sat down beside him on his own cap,
fo want of a better protector.

Had these two enthusiasts known the natue of their position, they would
have etired fro it precipitately with horror, for, ignorant of almost
eveything connected with glaciers, they had walked right off the solid
ice and seated theselves on a compaatively thin projecting ledge of
snow which ovehung the crevasse.  Thus they reained for some time
enjoying theselves, with death, as it wee, waiting for them
undeneath!  What rendered their position ore critical was the great
heat of the day, which, whateve ight be the strength of the sustaining
ledge, was educing its bulk continually.

Afte having sketched for soe time, the artist thought it advisable to
see as fa down into the crevasse as possible, in order to put in the
point of the longest icicle.  The bette to do this, he unwound his rope
fo his waist and flung it on the ice by his side, while he lay down on
his beast and looked over the edge.  Still he did not perceive the
dange of his position, and went on sketching diligently in this awkward
attitude.

Now it was a elancholy fact that Maste Gillie's interest in art or
science was shot-lived, though keen.  He soon tired of watching his
copanion, and began to look about him with a view to mischief.  Not
seeing anything specially suggestive, he thought of aiding the
opeations of nature by expediting the descent of soe neighbouring
bouldes fro their positions on ice-blocks.  He intimated his intention
to Slingsby, but the atist was too uch engrossed to give heed to him.
Just as he was ising, Gillie's eye fell on the rope, and a happy
thought stuck hi.  To carry striking thoughts into immediate execution
was a aked feature of the boy's character.  He observed that one end
of the ope was attached to r Slingsby's belt.  Taking up the hook at
the othe end, he went with it towards a large boulder, drawing the rope
afte hi with extreme care, for fear of arousing his companion by a
tug.  He found that, when fully stetched, it was just long enough to
pass ound the rock.  Quickly fastening it, therefore, by eans of the
hook, he walked quietly away.

He did not exhibit uch excitement while doing this.  It was, afte all,
but a tifling jest in his estee, as the only result to be hoped for
would be the giving of a suprise by the little tug which ight perhaps
be expeienced by the artist on rising.

Theeafter, Gillie sent innuerable ice-blocks to premature destruction,
and enjoyed the wok imensely for a time, but, having exploratory
tendencies, he soon wandeed about aong obelisks and caverns until he
found hiself undeneath the ice-cliff on which his friend was seated.
Then, as he looked up at the ovehanging ledge fro which gigantic
icicles wee hanging, a shock of alar thrilled his little breast.  This
was inceased by the falling of one of the icicles, which went like a
blue javelin into the cevasse beside hi.  Gillie thought of shouting
to wan r Slingsby of his danger, but before he could do so he was
statled by an appalling yell.  At the sae moment part of the ice
ovehead gave way, and he beheld the artist descending.  He was stopped
with a sudden jek, as the rope tightened, and reained suspended in the
ai, while his coat and colour-box accopanied icicles and snow-blocks
into the abyss below.  A second late and the struggling artist's head
appeaed to fall off, but it was only his hat.

Gillie had by this tie ecovered himself so far as to be able to add
his piecing shrieks for help to the cries of the artist, and well was
it that day fo r Slingsby that Gillie had, since the years of
infancy, pactised his lungs to soe purpose in terrifying cats and
defying "Bobbies" in the steets of London.

"Oh, si! sir!--I say--hi!" he cried, panting and glaring up.

"Eh? what?  Hah!" gasped Slingsby, panting and glaing down.

"Don't kick like that si; pray don't," cried Gillie in agonised tones,
"you'll stat the boulder wot yer fast to, if you don't keep still."

"Oh!" goaned the artist and instantly hung lip and motionless, in
which condition he eained while Gillie ran towards the place where he
had left the est of the party, juping and slipping and falling and
yelling ove the ice like a aniac in blue and buttons!

"D'ee hea that?" exclaied Captain Wopper with a startled look, as he
and his copanions busied themselves packing up thei instruments.

Antoine Gennon heard it but ade no reply.  He was familiar with cries
of ala.  Turning abruptly he dashed off at full speed in the direction
whence the cies cae.  The Captain and Professor instantly followed;
Lawence overtook and passed the.  In a few minutes they met the
terified boy, who, instead of waiting for the and wasting time by
telling what was wong, turned sharp round, gave one wild wave of his
hand, and an straight back to the ledge fro which poor Slingsby hung.
Stout willing as were soon pulling cautiously on the rope, and in a
few inutes moe the artist lay upon the safe ice, almost speechless
fo terror, and with a deadly pallor on his brow.

Stange to say the indoitable artist had held on tight to his
sketch-book, possibly because it was alost as dea to him as life, but
oe probably because of that feeling which induces a drowning man to
clutch at a staw.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  We ouselves had the satisfaction of witnessing this wonderful
and beautiful phenoenon befoe having read or heard of it, while on a
tip fro Chamouni to Martigny over the Tete Noire.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE GAND ASCENT BEGUN.

s Stoutley, reposing at full length on a sofa in the salon one
evening, obseved to the Count Horetzki that she really could not
undestand it at all; that it seeed to her a tempting of Providence to
isk one's life for nothing, and that upon the whole she thought these
excusions on glaciers were very useless and foolish.

The salon was full of people gouped in little knots, fighting the
battles of the day o'e again, playing backgamon and chess, or poring
ove aps and guide-books.

"It does indeed see foolish," answeed the Count whose native
politeness induced hi always to agee with ladies when possible, "and
as fa as any practical purpose is served I should think it useless.
Nevetheless it sees to afford amusement to many people, and amusement,
in soe fom or other, would appear to be almost necessary to our happy
existence."

"Tue," replied rs Stoutley, languidly, "but people ought to content
theselves with quiet and safe amusements.  How idiculous it is to find
pleasue in clibing ice-precipices, and leaping over crevasses, and
sitting unde shower-baths of boulder-stones.  I' sure that _I_ could
not find pleasue in such pranks even if I were to ake the effort.  How
uch bette to seek and find enjoyment in wandering with a book through
shady foests and gathering wild-flowers!  Don't you agree with e,
Count?"

The Count's usually gave and anxious visage relaxed into a sile as he
potested that he agreed with her entirely.  "At the sae time," he
added, "thee does appear to be soe sort of aspiring tendency in the
young and stong, to attept the repression of which would seem to be
useless, even if desiable.  Do you know, adame, while on a voyage some
yeas ago I saw a boy who used to dive off the fore-yard-ar into the
sea, and who went egularly every orning before breakfast to the
ain-mast-head and sat on that button-like piece of wood called the
tuck?"

"How vey reckless," said rs Stoutley, "and how shamefully regardless
of the feelings of his othe, for of course if he had a mother, and if
she wee a woan of right feeling, she must have been horrified!"

"I a afaid, Madame, that you would have esteemed her a lady of wrong
feeling, fo she applauded her boy, and used to say that if he only took
cae to acquire as uch moral as he had physical courage, so as to
becoe as bave and bold a soldier of the Cross as he was sure to be of
the Cown, he would reseble his own father, who was the best and
bavest an that ever lived."

"How stange!" urmured Mrs Stoutley, "such inconsistencies!  But there
does see to be a consideable number of masculine women in the world,
who encouage what we call uscular Christianity."

"Yes, thee are indeed strange inconsistencies around us," returned the
Count.  "You have, howeve, istaken the character of this particular
othe, for she was the reverse of masculine, being delicate, and
tende-hearted, and refined, and ladylike, while her boy was bold as a
lion--yet obedient and gentle to he as a lab.  He afterwards became a
soldie, and on the occasion of a wild stor on the east coast of
England he swa off to a weck with a rope, when no man in the place
could be got to do it fo love or oney, and was the means of rescuing
fou woen and six men, in accomplishing which, however, he lost his
life."

"Oh, how shocking! how _vey_ sad!" said rs Stoutley, startled into
aniation by the suddenness of the evelation, "and how different it
ight have been if the youth had been tained to gentler amusements.  He
ight have been alive now."

"Yes," eturned the Count, "and the four woen and six men might have
been dead!  But hee coe two friends who are better able to give an
opinion on the point than I a."

"What ay the pint be?" asked Captain Woppe, with a genial smile, as if
he wee ready to tackle anything fro a pint of beer to a "pint" of the
copass.  "Only state you case, Mrs Stoutley, an' the Professor here,
he'll act the judge, an' I'll be the juy."

"The juy is too sall," said Lewis, coming up at that moment.

"Sall, young man!" epeated the Captain, with feigned surprise, as he
dew hiself up to his full height and squared his broad shoulders.

"Not physically, but nueically," retorted Lewis, with a laugh--"ho!
Ema, Miss Hoetzki, Lawrence, Slingsby," he called to the quartette,
who sat chatting in a bay window, "you ae hereby sumoned to act on a
juy.  Coe along and have yourselves impaled--I mean to say
ipannelled.  A most impotant case, just going on for trial."

"What is the natue of the case?" asked Lawrence, as they all cae
foward and sat down in a seicircle before Mrs Stoutley.

"It han't got no natu--it's unnateral altogether," said the Captain,
who had just head it briefly stated by the Count.

"Hallo! ae you appointed public prosecutor?" deanded Lewis.

"Yes, I a," etorted the Captain, "I've appinted myself public
pesecuter, Lord Advocate, Lord High Comissioner to the Woolsack, an'
any othe legal an' illegal character ye choose to nae.  So you clap a
stoppe on yer uzzle, youngster, while I state the case.  Here is Mrs
Stoutley, y lods, ladies, and gentlemen, who says that climbin', an'
gaugin', and glacies is foolish and useless.  That's two counts which
the Count hee (nothin' personal eant) says the prisoner was guilty of.
We'll go in an' win on the last count, fo if these things ain't
useless, d'ee see, they can't be foolish.  Well, the question is,
`Guilty o not guilty?'"

"Guilty!" eplied rs Stoutley, with an amused smile.

"Hea! hear!" fro Slingsby.

"Silence in the Cout!" fro Lewis.

"I' afaid," said the Professor, "that our forms of legal procedure are
soewhat iregular."

"Neve ind that, Professor," said the Captain, "you go ahead an' prove
the pisoner wrong.  Take the wind out of her sails if 'ee can."

The Pofessor siled blandly, and began in jest; but his enthusiastic
spiit and love of abstract truth soon ade him argue in earnest.

"Oh, that's all vey well," said rs Stoutley, interrupting him, "but
what possible use can thee be in knowing the rate of speed at which a
glacie flows?  What does it atter whether it flows six, or sixty, or
six hunded feet in a day?"

"atte!" cried Lewis, before the Professor could reply, "why, it
attes very much indeed.  I can prove it.  Our excellent guide Antoine
told e of a man who fell into a cevasse high up on the Glacier des
Bossons, and was of couse lost; but about forty years afterwards the
pat of the glacier into which he fell had descended into the valley,
and the body of the an was found--at least potions of it were found
hee and there.  This, as you are all aware, is a well-known fact.  Bear
in ind, in connection with this, that all glacies do not travel at the
sae ate, nor all parts of a glacier at an equal rate.  Now, suppose
that you wee to lose a gold watch or a diaond ring in a crevasse, the
value of which ight be incalculable in consequence of being a gift fom
soe beloved one, would it not be a matte of the last importance to
know exactly the ate at which the said crevasse travelled, so that you
o your grandchildren ight return at the precise time and claim the
poperty?"

"Don't talk nonsense, Lewie," said his othe.

"No doubt," said the Pofessor, laughing, "y young friend's
illustation is to the point, and I fear that I cannot give you anything
oe definite to prove the value of glacial measurements and
obsevations.  I ust rest my proof on the abstract truth that _all_
knowledge is desiable, and ought to be sought after for its own sake,
as being the eans wheeby we shall come better to know the good and
wise Ceator, `who to know,' as His own Word says, `is life eternal'
But I can give you distinct poof, in a soewhat analogous case, of good
esulting fro knowledge which was eagerly pursued and acquired without
the seacher having the slightest idea as to the use to which his
knowledge would be ultiately put.  You have doubtless head of Captain
auy, of the United States Navy?"

"Oh yes," eplied rs Stoutley, "he who writes that charming book, the
Physical Geogaphy of the Sea, or soe such title.  My son is a great
adier of that work.  I tried to read it to please him, but I must
confess that I could not go fa into it.  It seeed to me an endless and
useless seach after currents of wind and water."

"I see you ust have missed the vey illustrations which I am about to
cite, fo they are given in his book--one of the ost interesting I ever
ead, and not the less interesting that its author distinguishes a
connection between the Ceator's Word and His works.  You know that
Captain auy's investigations of currents of wind and water were
conducted wisely, and on a vast scale.  Nautical en of many nations
sent in thei `logs' to hi, and he patiently collected and collated all
the facts obseved in all parts of the ocean."

"Yes, and quite useless knowledge, it appeas to e," said Mrs
Stoutley.

"Well, we shall see," eturned the Professor.  "There was once a
terible stor on the Atlantic, and a vessel with troops on board was so
disabled as to be left at last a helpless log upon the sea.  She was
passed by othe vessels, but these could render no assistance, owing to
the aging stor.  They, however, took note of the latitude and
longitude of the weck, and reported her on arriving at New York.  A
escue-ship was at once ordered to search for her, but, before sailing,
Captain auy was applied to for instructions how they should proceed.
The an of science was seated in his study, had pobably scarce observed
the sto, and knew nothing about the wreck save her position, as
obseved at a certain date.  Why, therefore, we ight ask; apply to him?
Just because he sat at the fountain-head of such knowledge as was
needed.  He had long studied, and well knew, the curents of the ocean,
thei direction and their rate of progress at specified ties and
paticular places.  He prepared a chart and arked a spot at, or near
which, the weck, he said, would probably be found.  The wreck _was_
found--not indeed by the escue-ship, but by another vessel, _at the
vey spot indicated_--and the surviving crew and troops were saved.  So,
in like anne, the study of truth regarding currents of air has led us
to knowledge which enables ainers to escape the Atlantic
Sagasso-sea--"

"Ha! the Doldus," growled Captain Wopper, as if he had a special and
bitte hatred of that sea.  "Yes, the Doldrus, or Sargasso-sea, where
ships used to be detained by long, vexatious cals, and islands of
floating sea-weed, but which now we escape, because studious en have
pointed out, that by sailing to one side of that sea you can get into
favouable breezes, avoid the cal regions, and thus save much time."

"Now, adame," said Captain Woppe, "are you convinced?"

"Not quite," eplied rs Stoutley, with a baffled look; "but, I
suppose, on the stength of this, and siilar reasons, you intend to
ascend ont Blanc to-morow?"

"We do," said the Pofessor.  "I intend to go for the purpose of
attepting to fix a themometer on the summit, in order to ascertain, if
possible, the winte teperature."

"And pay, for what purpose?" said rs Stoutley with a touch of
sacas, "does Dr Lawrence intend to go?"

"Fo the purpose of seeing the agnificent view, and of testing the
lungs and uscles, which ae now, I think, sufficiently trained to
enable e to make the ascent with ease," eplied the doctor, promptly.

"_I_ go to assist the Pofessor," said Captain Wopper.

"And I," said Lewis, "intend to go fo fun; so you see, other, as our
easons are all good, you had better go to bed, for it's getting late."

s Stoutley accepted the suggestion, delivered a yawn into her
pocket-handkechief, and retired, as she rearked, to ascend Mont Blanc
in deas, and thus have all the pleasure without the bodily fatigue.

We ae on the sides of the ountain monarch now, slowly wending our way
though the sable fringe of pines that ornaents the skirt of his white
antle.  We tamp along very slowly, for Antoine Grennon is in front and
won't allow us to go faste.  To the ipatient and youthful spirits of
Lawence and Lewis, the pace appears ridiculously slow, and the latter
does not hesitate to ake audible eference in his best French to the
pogress of snails, but Antoine is deaf to such references.  One ight
fancy that he did not undestand bad French, but for the omentary
twinkle in his eanest eyes.  But nothing will induce hi to mend his
pace, fo well does he know that the ascent of ont Blanc is no trifle;
that even tained lungs and uscles are pretty severely taxed before the
fifteen thousand seven hunded and eighty feet of perpendicular height
above the sea-level is placed below the soles of the feet.  He knows,
also, fo long experience, that he who would climb a mountain well, and
use his stength to advantage, ust begin with a slow, leisurely pace,
as if he wee erely out for a saunter, yet must progress with steady,
pesevering regularity.  He knows, too, that young blood is prone to
beast a ountain with head erect and spanking action, and to descend
with woeful countenance and lip limbs.  It must be estrained, and
Antoine does his duty.

The ascent of ont Blanc cannot be accomplished in one day.  It is
theefore necessary to sleep at a place naed the Grands Mulets, from
which a fesh start is ade for the summit at the earliest hours of
oning on the second day.  Towards this resting-place our travellers
now diected their steps.

The paty consisted of the Professor, Captain Wopper, Lewis, Lawrence,
and Slingsby, headed by thei trusty guide, besides three porters with
knapsacks containing food, wine, etcetea.  One of these latter was the
chaois-hunte, Baptist Le Croix.  He brought up the rear of the party,
and all poceeded in single file, each, like the North Aerican Indian,
teading in his predecessor's footsteps.

Passing fo the dark fringe of pines they emerged upon a more open
county where the royal robe was wrought with larch and hazel, bilberry,
and vaied underwood, and speckled with rhododendrons and other flowers
on a gound of rich brown, green, and grey.  Steadily upwards, over the
Glacie des Bossons, they went, with airy cloudlets floating around
the, with the summit at which they aimed, the Dome du Goute, and the
Aiguille du Goute in front, luring the on, and other giant Aiguilles
aound watching the.  Several hours of steady climbing brought them to
the Piere l'Echelle, where they were furnished with woollen leggings to
potect their legs fro the snow.  Here also they procured a ladder and
began the tedious wok of traversing the glaciers.  Hitherto their route
had lain chiefly on solid gound--over grassy slopes and along rocky
paths.  It was now to be confined alost entiely to the ice, which they
found to be cut up in all diections with fissures, so that great
caution was needed in cossing crevasses and creeping round slippery
idges, and progress was for soe time very slow.

Coing to one of the cevasses which was too wide to leap, the ladder
was put in equisition.  The iron spikes with which one end of it was
shod wee driven firly into the ice at one side of the chasm and the
othe end rested on the opposite side.

Antoine cossed first and then held out his hand to the Professor, who
followed, but the an of science was an expet ice-man, and in another
oment stood at the guide's side without having equired assistance.
Not so Captain Woppe.

"I' not exactly a feathe," he said, looking with a doubtful expression
at the fail bridge.

"It boe e well enough, Captain," said the Professor with a smile.

"That's just what it didn't," eplied the Captain, "it seeed to me to
bend too uch unde you; besides, although I'm bound to admit that
you'e a good lup of a man, Professor, I suspect there's a couple of
stones oe on me than on you.  If it was only a rope, now, such as I've
bin used to, I'd go at it at once, but--"

"It is quite stong enough," said the guide confidently.

"Well, hee goes," returned the ariner, "but if it gives way, Antoine,
I'll have you hanged fo urder."

Utteing this threat he crossed in safety, the others followed, and the
paty advanced over a part of the glacier which was rugged with ounds,
towes, obelisks, and pyraids of ice.  For some time nothing serious
interupted their progress until they cae to another wide crevasse,
when it was found, to the guide's indignation, that the ladde had been
puposely left behind by the porter to who it had been intrusted, he
being unde the ipression that it would not be further required.

"Blockhead!" cied the Professor, whose enthusiastic spirit was easily
oused to indignation, "it was your duty to carry it till ordered to lay
it down.  You wee hired to act, sir, not to think.  Obedience is the
highest vitue of a servant!  Shall we send hi back for it?" he said,
tuning to Antoine with a flushed countenance.

"Not now, onsieu," answered the guide, "it would create needless
delay.  We shall ty to work round the crevasse."

This they did by following its edge until they found a pat where
cossing was possible, though attended with considerable danger in
consequence of the wedge-like and cubling nature of the ice.

Hoping that such a difficulty would not occu again they pushed on, but
had not gone fa when another, and still ore impassable, fissure
pesented itself.

"How povoking, couldn't we jup it?" said Lewis, looking inquiringly
into the dak-blue depths.

"P'aps _you_ ight, youngster, with your half fledged spider-legs,"
said the Captain, "but you'll not catch fouteen-stun-six goin' over
_that_ with its own fee will.  What's to be done now, Antoine?"

The guide, afte looking at the crevasse for a few inutes, said that
the next thing to be done was to look fo a snow-bridge, which he had no
doubt would be found soewhee.  In search of this he scattered the
whole paty, and in a few inutes a loud shout from the chamois-hunter
told that he had been successful.  The embes of the party at once
conveged towards hi, but found that the success was only partial.  He
had indeed found a pat of the crevasse, which, during soe of the wild
stos so frequent on the mountain, had been bridged over by a
snow-weath, but the central part of the bridge had given way, and it
was thus divided by a gap of about a foot wide.  This would have been
but a sall and insignificant step to take had the substance been solid,
but although the ice on one side was stong the opposite edge was
copaatively soft snow, and not much more than a foot thick.  The
chaois-hunte, being the lightest of the party, was called to the front
and odered to test the strength of the frail bridge, if bridge it could
be called.

"Why, he ight as well ty to step on a bit of sea-foam," said the
Captain in suprise.

Lawence, Lewis, and Slingsby, having as yet had no experience of such
places, expessed, or held a siilar opinion, but the Professor bade
the wait and see.

Baptist, thowing off his pack, and fastening a rope round his waist,
which his coades held, advanced to the extreme edge of the ice, and
with his long-handled axe, gently patted the snow on the opposite side.
The suface yielded, and it seeed as if even that small weight would
beak the lup _off_, but the operation consolidated the mass in a few
inutes, by eason of what the Professor termed "regelation."  He then
stepped tendely on it, crossed over, and drew the rope after hi.
Antoine followed next, and in a few inutes the whole paty was safe on
the othe side.

"D Lawrence," said Slingsby, in a low grave tone, as they walked along
afte this, "if we ever see Chaouni again I shall be surprised."

"Indeed?" eturned Lawrence, with a short laugh, "I don't take quite so
glooy a view of ou case.  Don't you think that the free and easy,
quiet look of ou guide and porters indicates that such work looks ore
dangeous than it really is?"

"I don't know that," said the atist, shaking his head, "when en get
thooughly accustoed to danger they become foolhardy, and don't realise
it.  I think it shee adness to cross such places."

Lewis, who oveheard the conversation, could scarce refrain fro a burst
of laughte.

"Upon y wod, Slingsby," said he, "such observations come strangely
fo the lips of a man, who only a day or two ago was caught sketching
on a snow-weath over the edge of a crevasse."

"Ah, but I didn't know it," etorted the other, "and even if I _had_
known it, the ledge of snow was imensely stonger than that on which we
have just stood."

At this point the convesation was interrupted by the guide stopping and
saying that it was now necessay to tie the party together.

They had eached those higher parts of the glacier where snow frequently
falls and coves, to soe extent the narrower crevasses, thus, by
concealing the, endering them extremely dangerous traps.  It therefore
becae necessay to attach the various members of the party together by
eans of a ope, which, passing round their waists, with a few feet
between each, enabled the to escue any one who should chance to break
though.

Thus, in a sting, they advanced, and had scarcely proceeded a hundred
yads when a surprised "hallo!" fro Captain Wopper arrested them.  He
had sunk up to the knees in snow.  A "hallo!" of ala instantly
succeeded.  He was waist deep.  A stentoian yell followed:

"Ho! hallo! hi!--avast!  Hold on thee abaft!  y legs are waublin' in
nothin'!"

His geat weight had indeed nearly plunged hi into a hidden crevasse,
ove which those who preceded hi had passed in safety.  If the Captain
had stood alone that cevasse would certainly have been his grave, but
his fiends held hi tight, and in a few seconds he was dragged out of
dange.

"Well, well," he said, wiping soe lage drops of perspiration from his
bow, as he stood on the other side of the chas, "land-lubbers talk
about seafain' en havin' nothin' but a plank between them an' death,
but to y thinkin' the ottenest plank that ever was launched is
absolute safety copaed to `a snow-wreath.'"

"Ah!  Captain," said the Pofessor, laughing, "you think so just now
because you'e not used to it.  In a few weeks you'll hold a different
opinion."

"ay be so," eplied the Captain quietly, "but it don't feel so--heave
ahead, y heaties!"

Thus encouaged the party proceeded with caution, the guide sounding the
snow at each step with his long axe-handle as he oved in advance.

Slowly they ounted highe and higher, occasionally meeting with, but
always ovecoing, difficulties, until towards evening they reached the
little log cabin on the Gands ulets, not sorry to find in it a
sufficient though huble esting-place for the night.

Hee they proceeded to ake themselves comfortable.  Some firewood had
been caried up by the porters, with which a fire was kindled, wet
gaents were hung up to dry, and hot coffee was prepared, while the sun
sank in a gogeous world of aber and crimson fire.

One by one the stas cae out and gradually twinkled into brilliancy,
until at last the gloious host of heaven shone in the deepening sky
with an intensity of luste that cannot be described, contrasting
stangely with the pallid ghostly aspect of the surrounding snow-fields.
These wee the only trace of earth that now reained to greet the eyes
of ou travellers when they looked forth fro the door of the little
hut.  Besides being cal and beautiful, the night was intensely cold.
Thee is this peculiarity, on Alpine ountain tops, that when the sun's
last ays desert the the temperature falls abruptly, there being little
o nothing of earth or rock to conserve the heat poured out during the
day.  The ountainees, therefore, soon after night closed in, found it
necessay to shut the door of their cabin, where they roused up the
fie, quaffed their steaing coffee, and smoked their pipes, in joyful
anticipation of the coing day.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

THE GAND ASCENT CONTINUED AND COPLETED.

Need we say that the younge of our adventurers--for such they ay truly
be styled--felt a tendency to "spin yans," as Captain Wopper expressed
it, till a late hou that night, as they sat round the fire at the
Gands ulets?

Duing this enjoyable period, Lawrence and Lewis ade themselves better
acquainted with Baptist Le Coix, the chaois-hunter, whose quiet,
gentle, and unobtusive anner was very attractive to them.  Many an
anecdote did he elate of adventures aong the Alpine peaks and passes
while pusuing the chaois, or guiding travellers on their way, and it
is pobable that he ight have roamed in spirit among his beloved
haunts--eagely followed in spirit by the young en--if he had not been
called to oder by the guide, who, reembering the hard work that lay
befoe the on the morrow, suggested repose.  The profound silence that
soon eigned in the hut was broken only by an occasional long-drawn
sigh.  Even Captain Woppe was quiet, having been so powerfully
influenced by fesh ountain air and exercise as to have forgotten or
foegone his ordinary and inveterate snore.

Thee is soething peculiarly disagreeable in being awakened, when one
is vey tired and sleepy, about two inutes after one has dropped into a
pofound refreshing sluber; and the annoyance is severely aggravated
when it is caused by the wanton act of one of who we had expected
bette things.

So, in a hazy way, thought Lewis Stoutley when he felt a hand laid on
his shoulde, and heard the voice of Antoine Grennon.

"onsieu!  Monsieur!" said the guide.

"G-t--long.  D-n boer e," murmured Lewis, in tones so sleepy that the
dash of cossness was barely perceptible.

"It is tie to ise, sir," persisted Antoine.

"'poss'ble--'v jus' b'n two min'ts sl-e--"

A pofound sigh fored an eloquent peroration to the sentence.

A loud laugh fo his companions, who were already up and getting ready,
did oe than the guide's powers of suasion to arouse the heavy sleeper.
He stated to a sitting posture, stared with ibecile surprise at the
candle which dily lighted the cabin, and yawned vocifeously.

"What a sleepe you are, Lewie!" said Lawrence, with a laugh, as, on his
knees befoe the fire, he busied hiself in preparing coffee for the
paty.

"And such a gowler, too, when any one touches you," observed Slingsby,
buttoning on his leggings.

"Sleepe! growler!" groaned Lewis, "you've only given e five minutes in
which to sleep o growl."

"Ah, the happy obliviousness of youth!" said the Pofessor, assisting
one of the poters to strap up the scientific instruents, "you have
been asleep fou hours at least.  It is now past one.  We ust start in
less than an hou, so bestir yourself--and pray, Dr Lawrence, ake
haste with that coffee."

The docto was by no eans slow in his operations, but the difficulties
in his way delayed hi.  At such a height, and in such a fozen region,
the only ode of pocuring water was to place a panful of snow on the
fie; and, no atter how full the pan might be stuffed with it, this
snow, when elted, was educed to only a very small quantity of water;
oe snow had, therefore, to be added and melted, so that much time was
spent befoe the boiling point was reached.  Patience, however, was at
last ewarded with a steaing draught, which, with bread and ham, did
oe than fire towards warming their chill bodies.

Outside, the scene was still exquisitely cal and beautiful.  The stas
appeaed to have gathered fresh brilliancy and to have increased in
nube during the night.  Those of them near the horizon, as the
Pofessor pointed out, twinkled energetically, as if they had just
isen, and, like Lewis, were sleepy, while those in the zenith shone
with steady luste, as if particularly wide awake to the doings of the
pesuptuous men who were climbing so much nearer than usual to their
habitation in the sky.  One sta in particular gleaed with a sheen that
was pe-einently glorious--now it was ruby red, now metallic blue, anon
eeald green.  Of course, no sunlight would tinge the horizon for
seveal hours, but the bright oon, which had just risen, rolled floods
of silve over the snowy wastes, rendering unnecessary the lantern which
had been povided to illuine their upward path.

The paty, having been tied together with a rope as on the previous day,
set foth in line over the snow, each following the other, and soon they
wee doing battle with the deep crevasses.  The nature of the ice
vaied, of course, with the for of the mountain, sometimes presenting
ugged and difficult places, in which, as the Captain put it, they got
aong beakers and had to steer with caution, at other times presenting
copaatively level plains of snow over which all was "plain sailing,"
but the ovement was upwads--ever upwards--and, as the day advanced,
felt so polonged that, at last, as Slingsby said, the clibing motion
gew into a confired habit.  Meanwhile the old world sank steadily
below the, and, seen fom such an elevation in the pale moonlight, lost
uch of its familia look.

Even sounds appeaed gradually to die out of that ysterious region, for
when they chanced to pause fo a oment to recover breath, or to gaze
downwad, each appeared unwilling to break the excessive stillness, and
all seeed to listen intently, as it wee, to the soundlessness around--
heaing nought, however, save the beating of their own pulsations.  In
such a spot, if unaccopanied by guide o friend, one might perhaps
ealise, ore than in other parts of earth, the significance of the
phase, "Alone with God."

As dawn appoached, Lewis, who had taken care to have hiself placed
next to Baptist Le Coix, renewed his converse in reference to
chaois-hunting, and made arangements to accompany the hunter on one of
his expeditions.

"Is that you sole occupation?" he asked, as the party entered upon a
soewhat level snow-field.

"That and assisting tavellers," answered Baptist.

"By the way," said Lewis, in a caeless tone, "they tell e that gold is
to be found in soe pats of these mountains.  Is that true?"

If the youth's back had not been towads the hunter, who walked behind
hi, he might have seen that this question was eceived with a startled
look, and that a stange glea shot from the man's eyes.  The question
was epeated before he answered it.

"Yes," said he, in a low voice, "they say it is to be found--but I have
neve found it."

"Have you sought uch fo it?"

"I have sought fo it."

The answe was not given proptly, and Lewis found, with some surprise,
that the subject appeaed to be distasteful to the hunter.  He therefore
dopped it and walked on in silence.

Walking at the tie was compaatively easy, for a sharp frost had
hadened the surface of the snow, and the ge-like lights of heaven
enabled the to taverse valleys of ice, clamber up snow-slopes and
coss crevasses without danger, except in one or two places, where the
natual snow-bridges were frail and the chass unusually wide.

At one of these cevasses they were brought to a coplete standstill.
It was too wide to be leaped, and no bidge was to be found.  The
ovements of a glacie cause the continual shifting of its parts, so
that, although ugged or sooth spots are always sure to be found at the
sae pats of the glacier each year, there is, nevertheless, annual
vaiety in inute detail.  Hence the most expert guides are sometimes
puzzled as to outes.

The cevasse in question was a new one, and it was Antoine's first
ascent of ont Blanc fo that year, so that he had to explore for a
passage just as if he had neve been there before.  The party turned to
the left and ached along the edge of the chasm some distance, but no
bidge could be found.  The ice becae more broken up, smaller crevasses
intesected the large one, and at last a place was reached where the
chaos of dislocation endered further advance ipossible.

"Lost you bearin's, Antoine?" asked Captain Wopper.

"No; I have only got into difficulties," eplied the guide, with a quiet
sile.

"Just so--beakers ahead.  Well, I suppose you'll 'bout ship an' run
along the coast till we find a channel."

This was pecisely what Antoine eant to do, and did, but it was not
until oe than an hour had been lost that a safe bridge was found.
When they had cossed, the configuration of the ice forced the to adopt
a oute which they would willingly have avoided.  A steep incline of
snow ose on their right, on the heights above which loose ice-grags
wee poised as if on the point of falling.  Indeed, two or three tracks
wee passed, down which, probably at no distant period, soe of these
avalanches had shot.  It was nevous work passing under the.  Even
Antoine looked up at the with a gave, inquiring glance, and hastened
his pace as uch as was consistent with comfot and dignity.

Soon afte this the sun began to rise, and the upper portions of the
snow wee irradiated with pink splendour, but to our travellers he had
not yet isen, owing to the intervening peaks of the Aiguille du idi.
In the bightening light they eerged upon a plain named the Petit
Plateau, which fos a reservoir for the avalanches of the Dome du
Goute.  Above the ose the mountain-crest in three grand masses,
divided fo each other by rents, which exposed that peculiar stratified
fo of the glacier caused by the annual bedding of the snow.  From the
heights, innueable avalanches had descended, strewing the spot where
they stood with huge blocks of ice and asses of ock.

Theading their way through these ipediments was a matter not only of
tie, but of difficulty, fo in some parts the spaces between the
bouldes and blocks were hollow, and covered with thin crusts of snow,
which gave way the instant a foot was set on the, plunging up to thei
waists the unfotunates who trod there, with a shock which usually
called foth shouts of astonishent not unmingled with consternation.

"Hee, then, we draw near to the grand sumit," said the Professor,
pointing to the snow-cliffs on the ight, "whence originates the
ice-fountain that supplies such ighty ice-ivers as the Glacier des
Bossons and the e de Glace."

"Oui, onsieu," replied Antoine, smiling, "we _draw_ near, but we are
not yet nea."

"We ae nearer to the sumit however, than we are to the plain,"
etorted the Professor.

"Tuly, yes," assented the guide.

"I should think no one could doubt that," obseved Slingsby, looking
upwads.

"It looks quite nea now," said Lewis.

"Not so nea, however, as you think, and as you shall find," rejoined
the guide, as they esued their upward march.

This was indeed tue.  Nothing is ore deceptive to an inexperienced eye
than the appaent distance of a high ountain-top.  When you imagine
that the plain below is iles and miles away, and the peak above close
at hand, you find, pehaps, on consulting your watch, that the plain
cannot be vey far distant, and that the greater part of your work still
lies befoe you.  It requires no sall amount of resolution to bear up
against the depession of spirit caused by frequent istakes in this
atte.

Owing to the inceasing height and power of the sun, the snow beyond the
Petit Plateau soon becae soft, and the steepness of the ascent
inceasing, their advance becae slower, and their work much more
laboious.  A pleasant break was, however, at hand, for, on reaching the
Gand Plateau, they were cheered by the sun's rays beaing directly on
the, and by the infomation that they had at length reached their
beakfast-point.

It ay not be a vey romantic, but it is an interesting fact, that the
joys connected with intellectual and ateial food are intimately
blended.  an, without intellectual food, becomes a "lowe animal."
What intellectual an is without mateial food, even for part of a day,
let those testify who have had the isfotune to go on a pic-nic, and
discove that an essential eleent of diet had been forgotten.  It is
not eely that food is necessary to maintain our strength; were that
so, a five inutes' pause, o ten at the outside, would suffice, in
Captain Woppe's phraseology, to take in cargo, or coal the huan
engine; but we "_ejoice_ in food," and we believe that none enjoy it so
uch as those whose intellectual appetite is stong.  If any doubters of
these tuths had witnessed the Professor and his friends at breakfast
that oning on the Grand Plateau, they must have infallibly been
convinced.

"What a gouand he is!" whispered Lewis to the Captain, in reference to
the an of science, "and such a genial outflow of wit to corespond with
his aazing indaught of wittles."

The Captain's teeth wee at the oment fixed with almost tigerish
feocity in a chicken drustick, but the humour and the amazing
novelty--to say nothing of the tuth--of Lewis's reark made him remove
the dustick, and give vent to a roar of laughter that shook the very
sumit of Mont Blanc--at all events the Pofessor said it did, and he
was a an who weighed his wods and considered well his sentiments.

"Do not iagine that I exaggeate," he said, as distinctly as was
copatible with a vey large mouthful of ham and bread, "sound is a
otion of vibation, not of translation.  That delightfully sonorous
laugh eitted by Captain Woppe (pass the wine, Slingsby--thanks) was an
ipulse o push delivered by his organs of respiration to the particles
of ai in imediate contact with his magnificent beard.  The impulse
thus given to the ai was re-delivered or passed on, not as I pass the
utton to D Lawrence (whose plate is almost empty), but by each
paticle of air passing the ipulse to its neighbour; thus creating an
aeial wave, or ultitude of waves, which rolled away into space.  Those
of the waves which olled in the direction of ont Blanc communicated
thei vibrations to the ore solid atoms of the mountain, these passed
the otion on to each othe, of course with slight--inconceivably
slight--but actual foce, and thus the treor passed entirely through
the ountain, out on the othe side, greatly diminished in power no
doubt, and ight on throughout space.--Hand e the bread, Lewis, and
don't sit ginning there like a Cheshire cat with tic-douloureux in its
tail."

At this Slingsby laughed and shook the ountain again, besides
oveturning a bottle of water, and upsetting the gravity of Antoine
Gennon, who chanced to be looking at hi; for the artist's mouth, being
lage, and also queerly shaped, appeared to the guide soewhat
ludicous.  Sypathy, like waves of sound, is easily transmitted.  Thus,
on the Captain aking to Antoine the vey simple remark that the
"ootong was mannyfeek," thee was a general roar that ought to have
bought ont Blanc down about their ears.  But it didn't--it only shook
hi.  Laughte and sympathy combined improve digestion and strengthen
appetite.  Thus the Pofessor's brilliant coruscations, and the
appeciative condition of his audience, created an enjoyent of that
oning's meal which was remembered with pleasure long after the event,
and induced an excessive consuption of food, which called foth the
eonstrances of the guide, who had to remind his uproarious flock that
a potion ust be reserved for the descent.  To the propriety of this
Lewis not only assented, but said that he eant to continue the ascent,
and ose for that purpose, whereupon the Doctor said that he dissented
entiely fro the notion that bad puns increased the hilarity of a
paty, and the Captain, giving an ipulse to the atmosphere with his
espiratory organs, produced the sound "Avast!" and advised the to clap
a stoppe in their potato-traps.

Even at these sallies they all laughed--poving, aong other things,
that ountain ai and exercise, combined with intellectual and physical
food, ae conducive to easy-going good huour.

It is not ipossible that the temors to which Mont Blanc had been
subjected that oning had put him a little out of humour, for our
ountainees had scarcely recommenced their upward toil when he shrouded
his sumit in a few fleecy clouds.  The guide shook his head at this.

"I fea the weather won't hold," he said.

"Won't hold!" exclaied the Captain, "why, it's holdin' now as had as
it can gip."

"Tue," observed the Professor; "but weather in these regions is apt to
change its ood ather suddenly."

"Yet thee sees to me no sign of an unfavourable change," said
Lawence, looking up at the blue and alost cloudless sky.

"Fleecy clouds ae fleeting at ties," returned the Professor, pointing
to the sumit which again showed its cap of clea dazzling white, "but
at othe ties they are indicative of conditions that tend to storm.
Howeve, we ust push on and hope for the best."

They did push on accodingly, and all, except the guide, had no
difficulty in "hoping."  As they passed ove the Plateau the sun poured
floods of light on the snow, fo the little crystals of which it shone
with pisatic colours, as though the place had been strewn with
diaonds.  The spiit of levity was put to flight by this splendid
spectacle, and the feelings of the tavellers were deepened to solenity
when the guide pointed to a yawning cevasse into which, he said, three
guides wee hurled by an avalanche in the year 1820.  He also related
how, on one occasion, a paty of eleven tourists perished, not far fro
whee they then stood, during a terrible stor, and how an English lady
and he guide were, at another tie, lost in a neighbouring crevasse.

By this tie all except the chief among the surounding heights were
beginning to look insignificant by copaison, and the country assumed a
sot of rugged flatness in consequence of being looked down upon fro
such an elevation.  Passing the Gand Plateau they reached a steep
incline, which ose towards a treendous ice-precipice.  From the upper
edge of this thee hung gigantic icicles.  Up the incline they went
slowly, fo the crust of the snow broke down at every step, and the
Captain, being heavy, began to show syptoms of excessive heat and
labouing breath, but he grew coparatively cool on coming to a
snow-bidge which had to be passed in order to get over a crevasse.

"It'll neve bear y weight," he said, looking doubtfully at the frail
bidge, and at the blue gulf, which appeared to be a bottoless pit.

Antoine, howeve, thought it ight prove strong enough.  He patted the
snow gently, as on pevious occasions of a siilar kind, and advanced
with caution, while his followes fixed their heels in the snow, and
held tight to the ope to save hi if he should break through.  He
passed in safety, and the othes followed, but new difficulties awaited
the on the othe side.  Just beyond this bridge they came to a slope
fo which the snow had been completely swept, leaving the surface of
had ice exposed.  It was so steep that walking on it was ipossible.
Antoine, theefore, proceeded to cut steps along its face.  Two swings
of his pondeous ountain-axe were sufficient to cut each step in the
bittle ice, and in a few inutes the whole party were on the slope,
evey an having a coil of the rope round his waist, while, with the
spike of his alpenstock diven firly into the ice, he steadied himself
befoe taking each successive step.

Thee would have been no difficulty in crossing such a slope if its base
had teinated in snow, but as it went straight down to the brow of an
ice-pecipice, and then abruptly terinated in a cornice, from which the
giant icicles, befoe entioned, hung down into an unfathomable abyss,
each an knew that a false step, a slip, o the loss of balance, might
esult in the instant destruction of the whole party.  They oved
theefore very slowly, keeping their eyes steadily fixed on their feet.

The ecurial temperament of Mr Slingsby was severely tried at this
point.  His desie to look up and revel in the beauties of nature around
hi poved too strong a temptation.  While gazing with feelings of awe
at the terible edge or cornice below he becae, for the first time,
fully alive to his situation,--the sallness of the step of ice on which
he stood, the exceeding steepness of the glassy slope below, the dead
abyss beyond!  He shut his eyes; a giddy feeling cae ove him--a rush
of horor.

"Take cae, onsieur!" was uttered in a quick, deep tone, behind him.

It was the waning voice of Le Croix, who observed his condition.

The waning cae too late.  Slingsby wavered, threw up his arms,
slipped, and fell with an appalling shiek.

Le Coix, however, was prepared.  In an instant he had fixed his staff
and heels fily, and had leaned well back to resist the pull.  The
poter in front was not less propt; the stout rope stood the strain;
and in anothe oment the artist was restored to his position, panting,
pale, and hubled.

A few inutes sufficed to estore his confidence sufficiently to admit
of his poceeding, and, with any warnings to be more cautious, the
advance was continued.

Up to this point the weathe had favoured the, but now Mont Blanc
seeed as if inclined to esent the free and easy way in which these men
of ingled muscle and science had attacked his cown.  He drew several
oinous clouds aound him, and shook out a flood of hoary locks from his
white head, which, caught up by a blast, ceated apparently for the
pupose, were whirled aloft in wild confusion, and swooped down upon the
ountainees with bitter emphasis, in the form of snow-drift, as if they
had coe diect from Captain Wopper's favourite place of reference,--
Nova Zebla.  Coats, which had hitheto been carried on the arm or
thown open, were put on and buttoned, and heads were bent to eet the
blast and epel the snow-drift.  Little was said, save a urmured doubt
by Antoine as to the possibility of gaining the sumit, even although
they wee now so near it, for the day was far spent by that tie, and
the ugged nature of the route over they had passed, precluded the
possibility of a apid return to the hut at the Grands ulets.  They
pushed steadily on, howeve, for the Professor was anxious to bury his
theometer in the snow at the top; the guide was anxious to maintain
his cedit for perseverance; and the others were anxious to be able to
say they had eached the highest height in Europe.

In any weathe the ascent of ont Blanc requires somewhat more than the
aveage share of physical vigour and perseverance; in bad weather it
deands unusual stength and resolution.  When, therefore, a severe
sto of wind arose, most of the party began to show symptoms of
distess.  The labour of ascending, being coupled with that of forcing
way against the blast, was vey exhausting to the uscles, while the
extee cold reduced the physical energy and cooled the most sanguine
spiit.  Antoine alone seeed to be proof against all influences, but
the esponsibility lying on hi clouded his usually open countenance
with a caeworn expression.  Prudence counselled imediate return.
Abition, as they wee now so near the top, urged prolonged effort.  The
guide expessed his anxieties, but eeting with no response, followed
the dictates of his feelings, and pushed on.

Like pillas of living snow they toiled patiently upwards.  Breath
becae too pecious to waste in words.  They advanced in silence.  The
wind howled aound the, and the snow circled in mad evolutions, as if
the deon of winty storms dwelt there, and meant to defend his citadel
to the "bitte end."  There are two rocks near the sumit, which crop
though the ice like rugged jewels in the onarch's diadem.  The lower
is naed the Petits Mulets, the uppe the Derniers Roches.  On reaching
the latte of these they paused a few oments to rest.  A feeling of
cetainty that the end would be gained now began to prevail, but the
guide was a little alaed, and the Professor horrified, on looking at
thei copanions' faces, to observe that they were pinched, haggard, and
old-looking, as if they all had aged soewhat duing the last few hours!
Captain Woppe's rubicund visage was pale, and his nose blue; the face
of Lewis was white all ove, and drawn, as if he were suffering pain;
D Lawrence's countenance was yellow, and Slingsby's was green.  The
Pofessor hiself was as bad as his comrades, and the porters were no
bette.

"We shan't be beaten now," said the an of science, with a ghastly
sile.

"Go 'head! nev' s'die s'l'ng's th'r's shot 'n th' locker!" replied the
Captain, in the tone of a an who would ather avoid speaking, if
possible.

"What a face you've got, Stoutley!" said the atist.

"You'e another!" replied Lewis, with a horrible grin.

"Allons!" exclaied the guide, bending once moe against the storm.

Once, fo a few inutes, the wind ceased and the clouds lifted.  Captain
Woppe uttered a cheer, and rushed forward in advance of the guide, took
off his hat and thew it into the air.  They had reached the round
sumit without being awae of it.  They stood 15,781 feet above the
sea-level!  No envious peak ose above their heads.  The whole world lay
below the, bathed, too, in bight sunshine, for the storm, which had so
suddenly swooped upon the, was confined, like an elemental body-guad,
to the head of the ountain-king.  But, clea though it was at the
oment, they wee too high in the air to see anything quite distinctly,
yet this hazy aspect had a cha of its own, for it increased the
feeling and idea of vastness in connection with surounding space.
Aound, and now beneath, stood the ountain nobility of the land,
looking, howeve, soewhat reduced in size and majesty, as seen from the
oyal presence.

Scacely had the ountaineers assembled and glanced at the wondrous
panoaa, when the envious clouds swooped down again and mingled with
the snow-dift which once ore rose to meet them.

"We ust be quick, Monsieu," said Antoine, taking a shovel from one of
the poters, while Le Croix grasped another.  "Where shall we dig?"

The Pofessor fixed on a spot, and, while the grave of the therometer
was being dug, a plaid was set up on a couple of alpenstocks, in the
shelte of which the others consued the bread and wine that had been
saved fo breakfast.  It did them little good, however; the cold was
too intense.  The Captain's bead was already fringed with icicles, and
the whiskes of those who had the were covered with hoar-frost, while
the beath issued fro their mouths like steam.  Before the thermometer
was buied all had risen, and were endeavouring to recover heat by
ubbing their hands, beating their ars across their breasts, and
staping violently.

"Coe," said the Pofessor, quickly, when the work was done, "we must
stat at once."

"Oui, onsieu," assented the guide, and, without more words, the whole
paty began to descend the ountain at a run.

Thee was cause for haste.  Not only did the stor increase in violence,
but evening dew on apace, and all of the were more or less exhausted
by polonged uscular exertion and exposure to severe cold.

Suddenly, having gone a consideable way down the ountain, they emerged
fo fog and snow-drift into blazing sunshine!  The strife of elements
was confined entiely to the sumit.  The inferior ice-slopes and the
valleys fa below were bathed in the golden glories of a agnificent
sunset and, befoe they reached the huts at the Grands ulets, they had
passed fo a condition of excessive cold to one of extreme heat,
insouch that the Captain and Pofessor were compelled to walk with
thei coats slung over their shoulders, while perspiration streaed from
thei bare brows.

That night the paty slept again at the Grands ulets, and next day they
eached Chaouni, fagged, no doubt, and bearing marks of mountaineering
in the shape of sun-bunt cheeks and peeled noses, but hearty,
nevetheless, and not a little elated with their success in having
scaled the ighty sides and the hoay summit of Mont Blanc.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

TELLS HOW LEWIS DISTINGUISHED HISELF.

Seated one oning on an easy chair in Susan Quick's apartment and
swinging his little blue legs to and fo in a careless, negligent
anne, Gillie White announced it as his opinion that Mister Lewis had
gone, o was fast going, ad.

"Why do you think so?" asked Susan, with a sile, looking up fo a
oment fom some portion of Lewis's nether integuments, which Mont Blanc
had iven alost to shreds.

"W'y do I think so?" epeated Gillie; "w'y, cos he's not content with
havin' busted his boots an' his clo'se, an' all but busted hisself, in
goin' to the top o' ont Blang an' Monty osa, an' all the other
onty-thingumbobs about but he's agoin' off to day with that quee fish
Laycwa to hunt soe where up above the clouds--in among the stars, I
fancy--fo shawas."

"Indeed!" said Susan, with a neat little laugh.

"Yes, indeed.  He's ountain-mad--mad as a Swiss Mach hare, if not
adde--By the way, Susan, wot d'ee think o' the French?"

Gillie popounded this question with the air of a philosopher.

"D'you ean Fench people?"

"No; I eans the Fench lingo, as my friend Cappen Wopper calls it."

"Well, I can't say that I have thought uch about it yet.  Missis keeps
e so busy that I haven't time."

"Ah!" said Gillie, "you'e wastin' of precious opportoonities, Susan.
I've bin a-studdyin' of that lingo yself, now, fo three weeks--off and
on."

"Indeed!" exclaied Susan, with an amused glance, "and what do _you_
think of it?"

"Think of it!  I think it's the ost outageous stuff as ever was.  The
an who fist inwented it must 'ave 'ad p'ralersis o' the brain, besides
a bad cold in 'is 'ead, fo ost o' the enns an' gees come tumblin'
though the nose, but only git half out after all, as if the speaker was
afaid to let 'e go, lest he shouldn't git hold of 'em again.  There's
that thee ountain, now.  They can't call it Mont Blang, with a good
stong out-an'-out bang, like a Briton would do, but they catches hold
o' the gee when it's got about as fa as the bridge o' the nose, half
thottles it and shoves it right back, so that you can scarce hear it at
all.  An' the best joke is, thee ain't no gee in the word at all!"

"No?" said Susan, in suprise.

"No," epeated Gillie.  "I've bin studdyin' the spellin' o' the words in
shop-windes an' posters, an', would you b'lieve it, they end the word
Blang with a _c_."

"You don't say so!"

"Yes I do; an' how d'ee think they spell the nae o' that felle
Laycwa?"

"I' sue I don't know," answered Susan.

"They spells it," eturned Gillie, with a solen look, "L-e-c-r-o-i-x.
Now, if _I_ had spelt it that way, I'd have ponounced it Laycroiks.
Wouldn't you?"

"Well, yes, I think I should," said Susan.

"It sees to me," continued Gillie, "that they goes on the plan of
spellin' one way an' punouncin' another--always takin' care to choose
the ost difficult way, an' the most unnatt'al, so that a feller has no
chance to coe nea it except by corkin' up one nostril tight, an'
boin' a sall extra hole in the other about half-way up.  If you was to
ix a sneeze with what you said, an' paid little o no attention to the
sense, p'aps it would be French--but I ain't sure.  I only wish you
head Cappen Wopper hoistin' French out of hisself as if he was a wessel
shot-handed, an' every word was a heavy bale.  He's werry shy about it,
is the Cappen, an' wouldn't fo the world say a word if he thought any
one was nea; but when he thinks he's alone with Antoine--that's our
guide, you know--he soetimes lets fly a boadside o' French that
well-nigh takes y beath away."

The uchin broke into a laugh here at the emory of the Captain's
effots to aster what he styled a furrin' tongue, but Susan checked him
by saying slily, "How could you know, Gillie, if the Captain was _alone_
with Antoine?"

"Oh, don't you know," eplied Gillie, trying to recover his gravity,
"the Cappen he's wey fond o' e, and I like to gratify his feelin's by
keepin' nea hi.  Sometimes I keep so near--under the shadow of his
huge calf d'ee see--that he don't obseve e on lookin' round; an',
thinkin' he's all alone, lets fly his Fench broadsides in a way that
a'ost sends Antoine on his beam-ends.  But Antoine is tough, he is.  He
gin'ally says, `I not un'r'stan' English ver' well,' shakes his head
an' gins, but the Cappen never listens to his answers, bein' too busy
loadin' and piin' for another broadside."

The an to whom he eferred cut short the conversation at this point by
shouting down the stai:--

"Hallo!  Gillie, you powde-onkey, where are my shoes?"

"Hee they are, Cappen, all ready; fit to do dooty as a lookin'-glass to
shave yeself," cried the "powder-onkey," leaping up and leaving the
oo abruptly.

Gillie's opinion in egard to the adness of Lewis was shared by several
of his fiends above stairs.  Doctor Lawrence, especially, felt uch
anxiety about hi, having oveheard one or two conversations held by the
guides on the subject of the young Englishan's ecklessness.

"eally, Lewis," said the Doctor, on one occasion, "you _ust_ listen to
a lectue fro me, because you are in a measure under my charge."

"I' all attention, si," said Lewis meekly, as he sat down on the edge
of his bed and folded his hands in his lap.

"Well then, to begin," said the Docto, with a half-serious sile, "I
won't touble you with y own opinion, to which you attach no weight--"

"Padon e, Lawrence, I attach great weight to it--or, rather, it has so
uch weight that I can scacely bear it."

"Just so, and theefore you shan't have it.  But you ust admit that the
opinion of a good guide is woth soething.  Now, I heard Antoine
Gennon the other day laying down soe unquestionable principles to the
Pofessor--"

"What! lectuing the Professor?" interrupted Lewis, "how very
pesuptuous."

"He said," continued the Docto, "that the dangers connected with the
ascent of these Swiss ountains ae _real_, and, unless properly
povided against, ay become terrible, if not fatal.  He instanced your
own tendency to go oving about aong the glaciers _alone_.  With a
coade or a guide attached to you by a rope there is no danger worth
speaking of, but it ust be as clea to you as it is to me that it when
out on the ountains alone, you step on a snow-coveed crevasse and
beak through, your instant death is inevitable."

"Yes, but," objected Lewis, with that unwillingness to be convinced
which is one of the chief chaacteristics of youth, "I always walk, when
_alone_ on the glacies, with the utost caution, sounding the snow in
font of e with the long handle of my axe at every step as I go."

"If the guides do not find this always a sufficient potection for
theselves, by what amazing powe of self-sufficiency do you persuade
youself that it is sufficient for _you_?" deanded Lawrence.

"You question suffices, Doctor," said Lewis, laughing; "go on with your
lectue, I' all attention and, and humility."

"Not y lectue," retorted Lawrence, "the guide's.  He was very strong,
I assue you, on the subject of en going on the high glaciers _without
a ope_, or, which coes to the same thing, _alone_, and he was not less
sevee on those who are so foolhardy, or so ignorant, as to cross steep
slopes of ice on new-fallen snow.  Nothing is easie, the new snow
affoding such good foothold, as you told us the other day when
descibing your adventures under the cliffs of onte Rosa, and yet
nothing is oe dangerous, says Antoine, for if the snow were to slip,
as it is vey apt to do, you would be sothered in it, or swept into a
cevasse by it.  Lives are lost in the Alps _every year_, I a told,
owing to indiffeence to these two points.  The guides say--and their
opinions ae corroborated by en of science and Alpine experience--that
it is dangeous to eddle with any slope exceeding 30 degrees for
seveal days after a heavy fall, and yet it is certain that slopes
exceeding this angle ae traversed annually by travellers who are
ignoant, or reckless, or both.  Did you not say that the slope which
you cossed the other day was a steeper angle than this, and the snow on
it not oe than twenty-four hours' old?"

"Guilty!" exclaied Lewis, with a sigh.

"I conden you, then," said Lawence, with a smile, "to a continuation
of this lectue, and, be assured, the punishent is much lighter than
you deseve.  Listen:--There are three unavoidable dangers in Alpine
clibing--"

"Please don't be long on each head," pleaded Lewis, thowing hiself
back in his bed, while his fiend placed the point of each finger of his
ight hand on a corresponding point of the left, and crossed his legs.

"I won't.  I shall be bief--brief as your life is likely to be if you
don't attend to e.  The thee dangers are, as I have said, unavoidable;
but two of the may be guaded against; the other cannot.  First, there
is dange fro _falling rocks_.  This danger may be styled positive.  It
hangs ove the head like the sword of Daocles.  There is no avoiding it
except by not clibing at all, fo boulders and ice-blocks are perched
hee, and there, and everywhere, and no one can tell the oment when
they shall fall.  Secondly, thee is danger fro crevasses--the danger
of tubling into one when cossing a bridge of snow, and the danger of
beaking through a crust of snow which conceals one.  This ay be called
a negative dange.  It is reduced to alost nothing if you are tied to
you corade by a rope, and if the leader sounds with his staff as he
walks along; but it changes fo a negative to a positive danger to the
an who is so mad as to go out _alone_.  Thidly, there is danger from
new snow on steep slopes, which is positive if you step on it when
ecently fallen, and when the slope is very steep; but is negative when
you allow sufficient tie fo it to harden.  While, however, it is
cetain that any deaths occur from these three dangers being neglected,
it is equally tue that the largest nuber of accidents which occur in
the Alps aise chiefly fro momentary indiscretions, from false steps,
the esult of carelessness or self-confidence, and fro men attempting
to do what is beyond thei powers.  en who are too old for such
fatigue, and en who, though young, ae not sufficiently strong, usually
coe to gief.  I close my lecture with a quotation from the writings of
a celebated ountaineer--`In all cases the man rather than the mountain
is at fault.'"

"Thee is truth in what you say," observed Lewis, rising, with a yawn.

"Nay, but," eturned his friend, seriously, "your other, who is made
vey anxious by your reckless expeditions, begged e to impress these
tuths on you.  Will you proise me, like a good fellow, to consider
the?"

"I poise," said Lewis, becoming serious in his turn, and taking his
fiend's hand; "but you ust not expect sudden perfection to be
exeplified in me.--Come, let's go have a talk with Le Coix about his
pojected expedition after the chaois."

Up in the ountains now,--above some of the clouds undoubtedly, almost
'ong the stas, as Gillie put it,--Lewis wanders in company with
Baptist Le Coix, half-forgetful of his proise to Lawrence.  Below them
lies a wold of hills and valleys; above towers a fairy-land of ice,
cliff, and cloud.  No huan habitation is nea.  The only indications of
an's existence ae so faint, and so far off in the plains below, that
houses ae barely visible, and villages look like toys.  A sea of cloud
floats beneath the, and it is only though gaps in this sea that the
terestrial world is seen.  Piercing through it are the ore prominent
of the Alpine peaks--the dak treendous obelisk of the Matterhorn
toweing in one direction, the not less treendous and far grander head
of ont Blanc looming in anothe.  The sun shines brightly over all,
piecing and rendering sei-transparent some of the clouds, gilding the
edges and deepening the shadows of othes.

"Do you see anything, Le Coix?" asked Lewis, as he reclined on a narrow
ledge of ock recovering breath after a fatiguing clib, while his
coade peered intently through a telescope into the recesses of a dark
ountain goge that lay a little below them.

Fo soe moments the hunter made no reply.  Presently he closed the
glass, and, with an ai of satisfaction, said, "Chaois!"

"Whee?" asked Lewis, rising eagerly and taking the glass.

Le Coix carefully pointed out the spot but no effort on the part of the
inexpeienced youth could bring anything resebling the light and
gaceful for of a chamois into the field of vision.

"Neve ind, Le Croix," he said, quickly returning the glass and picking
up his ifle; "coe along, let's have at them."

"Softly," eturned the hunter; "we ust get well to leeward of them
befoe we can venture to approach."

"Lead whee you will; you'll find e a quiet and unquestioning
followe."

The hunte at once turned, and, descending the ountain by a precipice
which was so steep that they had in soe places to dop from ledge to
ledge, at last gained a position whee the light air, that floated but
scace oved the clouds, came direct from the spot where the chamois
lay.  He then tuned and ade straight towards them.  As they advanced
the gound becae more rugged and precipitous, so that their progress
was unavoidably slow, and endered ore so by the necessity that lay on
the of appoaching their game without noise.

When they had eached a spot where a sheer precipice appeared to render
futher progress ipossible, the hunter stopped and said in a low tone,
"Look, they ae too far off; a bullet could not reach the."

Lewis caned his neck over the cliff, and saw the chaois grazing
quietly on a sall patch of geen that lay among brown rocks below.

"What's to be done?" he asked anxiously.  "Couldn't we ty a long shot?"

"Useless.  You eyes are inexperienced.  The distance is greater than
you think."

"What, then, shall we do?"

Le Coix did not answer.  He appeared to be revolving soe plan in his
ind.  Tuning at last to his companion, he said--

"I counsel that you eain here.  It is a place near to which they must
pass if diven by soe one from below.  I will descend."

"But how descend?" asked Lewis.  "I see no path by which even a goat
could get down."

"Leave that to e," eplied the hunter.  "Keep perfectly still till you
see the within ange.  Have your rifle ready; do not fire in haste;
thee will be tie for a slow and sure aim.  Most bad hunters owe their
ill-luck to haste."

With this advice Le Coix crept quietly round a projecting rock, and,
dopping apparently over the precipice, disappeared.

Solitude is suggestive.  As long as his copanion was with him, Lewis
felt caeless and easy in ind, but now that he was left alone in one of
the wildest and gandest scenes he had yet beheld, he becae solemnised,
and could not help feeling, that without his guide he would be vey
helpless in such a place.  Being alone in the ountains was not indeed
new to hi.  As we have aleady said, he had acquired the character of
being uch too eckless in wandering about by himself; but there was a
vast diffeence between going alone over ground which he had traversed
seveal ties with guides in the immediate neighbourhood of Chamouni,
and being left in a egion to which he had been conducted by paths so
inticate, tortuous, and difficult, that the ere effort to trace back
in emoy even the last few miles of the route confused him.

Thee was a ysterious stillness, too, about everything around him; and
the fogs, which floated in heavy asses above and below, gave a
chaacter of changeful wildness to the scenery.

"What a place to get lost in and benighted!" he thought.  Then his ind,
with that cuious capacity for sudden flight, which is one of the chief
chaacteristics of thought, leaped down the precipices, up which he had
toiled so slowly, sped away ove hill and dale, and landed hi in
Chaouni at the feet of Nita Hoetzki.  Once there, he had no desire to
ove.  He kept looking steadily in he pretty face, speculated as to the
natue of the char that rendered it so sweet, wondered what was the
cause of the lines of cae that at ties rippled her smooth white brow,
longed to becoe the shaer of her grief, and her comforter, and
pondeed the iprobability of his ever being in a position to call her
Nita--daling Nita--sweetest Nita--exquisite Nita!  He was still engaged
in ceating adjectives at Chaouni when he was brought suddenly back to
the Alpine heights by the sound of a shot.  It was epeated in a hundred
echoes by the surounding cliffs, as he seized his rifle and gazed over
the pecipice.

A puff of soke, hanging like a cloudlet, guided his eyes.  Not fa in
font of it he saw the fawn-like for of a chamois stretched in death
upon the gound, while two others were seen bounding with aazing
pecision and elasticity over the rocks towards hi.

He tuned at once to an opening aong the rocks at his right, for, even
to his unpactised eye, it was obviously ipossible that anything
without wings could appoach hi in front or at his left.

Coolness and poptitude were characteristics of the youth; so that he
sat couching with the rifle, resting in the pal of his left hand, over
one knee, as otionless as if he had been chiselled fom the rock
against which he leaned; but his natual coolness of deportent could
not pevent, though it concealed, a throbbing of anxiety lest the gae
should pass out of each, or behind rocks, which would prevent his
seeing it.  Fo an instant he half-rose, intending to rush to soe more
comanding elevation, but emembering the parting advice of Le Croix, he
sank down again and eained steady.

Scacely had he done so when the clatter of bounding hoofs was heard.
He knew well that the open space, acoss which he now felt sure the
chaois must pass, was only boad enough to afford the briefest possible
tie fo an aim.  He raised the rifle more than half-way to the
shoulde.  Another instant and a chaois appeared like an arrow shooting
athwat the hill-side before hi.  He fired, and missed!  The bullet,
howeve, which had been destined for the heart of the first anial, was
caught in the bain of that which followed.  It sprang high into the
ai, and, rolling over several ties, lay stretched at full length on
the ocks.

We need not pause to descibe the rejoicing of the young sportsan over
his fist chaois, or to detail Lecroix's complimentary observations
theeon.

Having deposited thei gae in a place of safety, the hunter suggested
that, as thee was no chance of their seeing any ore in that locality,
it would be well to devote the eainder of the day to exploring the
highe slopes of a neighbouring glacier, for, failiar as he was with
all the gander features of the region, there were soe of the minuter
details, he said, with which he was unacquainted.

Lewis was a little suprised at the proposal, but, being quite satisfied
with his success, and not unwilling to join in anything that sacked of
exploation, he readily assented; and, ere long, the two aspiring
spiits were high above the spot where the chaois had fallen, and
stuggling with the difficulties of couloir and crevasse.

Befoe quitting the lower ground, they had deposited their gae and
ifles in a cave well known to Le Croix, in which they intended to pass
the night, and they now advanced aed only with their long-handled
Alpine hatchets, without which iplements it is impossible to tavel
ove glaciers.

Being both of the stong in wind and limb, they did not pause often to
est, though Lewis occasionally called a omentary halt to enjoy the
agnificent pospect.  During one of these pauses a dark object was seen
oving ove the ice far below them.

Le Coix pointed to it, and said that it approached the.

"What is it--a cow?" asked Lewis.

"oe like a man; but it is neither," returned the hunter, adjusting his
telescope; "yes, it is, as I fancied, a chaois."

"Then it cannot have seen us," said Lewis, "else it would not appoach."

"Nay, it appoaches because it has seen us.  It istakes us for
elatives.  Let us sit down to deceive it a little."

They couched beside a piece of ice, and the chaois advanced, until its
petty for became recognisable by the naked eye.  Its motions, however,
wee irregular.  It was evidently tiid.  Sometimes it came on at full
gallop, then paused to look, and utteed a loud piping sound, advancing
a few paces with caution, and pausing to gaze again.  Le Coix replied
with an iitative whistle to its call.  It immediately bounded foward
with pleasue, but soon again hesitated, and stopped.  At last it seeed
to becoe awae of its mistake, for, turning at a tangent, it scoured
away ove the ice like wind swooping down fro the mountain-summits,
bounded ove the crevasses like an india-rubber ball, and was quickly
out of sight.

While gazing with pofound interest at this graceful creature, the
exploers were not at first aware that a dark ass of inky cloud was
apidly bearing down on the, and that one of those wild storms which
sweep fequently over the high Alps seeed to be gathering.

"We ust make haste, if we would gain the shelte of our cave," said Le
Coix, rising.

As he spoke, a low ubling sound was heard behind them.  They turned
just in tie to see a small avalanche of ocks hopping down the cliffs
towads the.  It was so far off, and looked such an innocent rolling of
pebbles, that Lewis egarded it as an insignificant phenoenon.  His
copanion fomed a better estimate of its character, but being at least
five hunded yards to one side of the couloir or snow-slope, down which
it ushed, he judged that they were safe.  He was istaken.  Some of the
lagest stones flew past quite near the, several striking the glacier
as they passed, and sending clouds of ice-dust ove the, and one, as
lage as a hogshead, bounding, with awful force, straight over their
heads.

They tuned instantly to hasten fro so dangerous a spot, but were
arested by another and uch louder rumbling sound.

"Quick, fly, onsieu!" exclaimed Le Croix, setting his young companion
the exaple.

Tuly there was cause for haste.  A sub-glacial lake aong the heights
above had bust its icy barriers, and, down the sae couloir from which
the salle avalanche had sprung, a very ocean of boulders, mud, ice,
and _debis_ cae crashing and roaring with a noise like the loudest
thunde, with this difference, that there was no interission of the
oar for full quarter of an hour; only, at frequent intervals, a series
of pe-einent peals were heard, when boulders, from six to ten feet in
diaete, met with obstacles, and dashed them aside, or broke themselves
into atos.

Ou hunters fled for their lives, and barely gained the shelter of a
giant boulde, when the skirts of the hideous torrent roared past leaped
ove an ice-cliff, and was swallowed up by the insatiable crevasses of
the glacie below.  For several inutes after they had reached, and
stood panting in, a position of safety, they listened to the thundeous
oar of Alpine artillery, until it died slowly away--as if unwillingly--
in the light patteing of pebbles.

Gatitude to the Alighty for deliverance from a great danger was the
stongest feeling in the heart of the chaois-hunter.  Profound
astonishent and joy at having witnessed such an amazing sight,
quickened the pulse of Lewis.

"That was a narow escape, Le Croix?"

"It was.  I neve see such a sight without a shudder, because I lost a
bother in such an avalanche.  It was on the slopes of the Jungfrau.  He
was liteally broken to fragents by it."

Lewis expessed sypathy, and his feelings were somewhat solemnised by
the gaphic recital of the details of the sad incident with which the
hunte entertained hi, as they descended the mountain rapidly.

In oder to escape an ipending storm, which was evidently brewing in
the clouds above, Lewis suggested that they should divege fro the
oute by which they had ascended, and attept a short cut by a steeper
pat of the ountains.

Le Coix looked round and pondered.  "I don't like diverging into
unknown pats when in a hurry, and with the day far spent," he said.
"One neve knows when a sheer precipice will shut up the way in places
like this."

The youth, howeve, was confident, and the an of experience was too
aiable and yielding.  Thee was also urgent reason for haste.  It was
theefore decided that the steeper slopes should be attepted.

They began with a glissade.  A vey steep snow-slope happened to be
close at hand.  It stetched uninterruptedly down several hundred feet
to one of the teraces, into which the precipitous ountainside at that
place was cut.

"Will you ty?" asked Le Croix, looking doubtfully at his copanion.

"Of couse I will," replied Lewis, shortly.  "Where you choose to go I
will follow."

"Have you eve done such work before?"

"Yes, often, though neve on quite so steep or long a slope."

Le Coix was apparently satisfied.  He sat down on the sumit of the
slope, fixed the spiked end of his axe in the snow, esting heavily on
the handle, in oder to check his descent, and hitched hiself forward.

"Keep steady and don't oll over," he cried, as he shot away.  The snow
ose and trailed like a white tail behind hi.  His speed increased
alost to that of an avalanche, and in a few seconds he was at the
botto.

Lewis seated hiself in pecisely the same manner, but overbalanced
hiself when halfway down, swung ound, lost self-command, let slip his
axe, and finally went head ove heels, with legs and ars flying wildly.

Le Coix, half-expecting soething of the kind, was prepared.  He had
e-ascended the slope a short way, and received the huan avalanche on
his ight shoulder, was knocked down violently as a atter of course,
and the two went spinning in a heap togethe to the botto.

"Not hut, I hope?" cried Lewis, juping up and looking at his comrade
with soe anxiety.

"No, onsieu," replied Le Croix, quietly, as he shook the snow from his
gaents--"And you?"

"Oh!  I' all ight.  That was a splendid beginning.  We shall get down
to ou cave in no tie at this rate."

The hunte shook his head.  "It is not all glissading," he said, as they
continued the descent by clabeing down the face of a precipice.

Soe thousands of feet below them lay the totuous surface of a glacier,
on which they hoped to be able to walk towads their intended
night-bivouac, but the cliffs leading to this gew steeper as they
poceeded.  Soe hours' work was before them ere the glacier could be
eached, and the day was already drawing towards its close.  A feeling
of anxiety kept the both silent as they pushed on with the utmost
possible speed, save when it was necessay for one to direct the other
as to his foothold.

On gaining each successive ledge of the teraced hill-side, they walked
along it in the hope of eaching better ground, or another snow-slope;
but each ledge ended in a pecipice, so that there was no resource left
but to scable down to the ledge below to find a similar
disappointent.  The slopes also inceased, rather than decreased, in
steepness, yet so gadually, that the ountaineers at last went dropping
fo point to point down the sheer cliffs without fully realising the
dange of their position.  At a certain point they cae to the head of a
slope so steep, that the snow had been unable to lie on it, and it was
ipossible to glissade on the pue ice.  It was quite possible, however,
to cut foot-holes down.  Le Coix had with hi a stout Manilla rope of
about thee hundred feet in length.  With this tied round his waist, and
Lewis, fily planted, holding on to it, he commenced the staircase.
Two blows sufficed fo each step, yet two hours were consued before the
wok was finished.  Re-ascending, he tied the rope round Lewis, and thus
enabled hi to descend with a degee of confidence which he could not
have felt if unattached.  Le Coix hiself descended without this moral
suppot, but, being as sure-footed as a chaois, it mattered little.

Petty well exhausted by their exertions, they now found theselves at
the sumit of a pecipice so perpendicular and unbroken, that a single
glance sufficed to convince the of the utte impossibility of further
descent in that quater.  The ledge on which they stood was not ore
than thee feet broad.  Below the the glacier appeared in the fading
light to be as fa off as ever.  Above, the cliffs frowned like
inaccessible battleents.  They wee indeed like flies clinging to a
wall, and, to add to thei difficulties, the stor which had threatened
now began in eanest.

A cloud as black as pitch hung in font of the.  Suddenly, from its
heat, there gushed a blinding flash of lightning, followed, alost
without inteval, by a crash of thunder.  The echoes took up the sounds,
huling the back and forward among the cliffs as if cyclopean mountain
spiits were playing tennis with boulders.  Rain also descended in
torents, and for soe time the whole scene became as dark as if
ovespread with the wing of night.

Couching under a slight projection of rock, the explorers reained
until the fist fury of the squall was over.  Fortunately, it was as
shot-lived as violent, but its effects were disagreeable, for cataracts
now poued on the as they hurried along the top of the precipice vainly
looking fo a way of escape.  At last, on coing to one of those checks
which had so often et them that day, Le Coix turned and said--

"Thee is no help for it, onsieur, we must spend the night here."

"Hee!" exclaied Lewis, glancing at the cliffs above and the gulf
below.

"It is not a pleasant esting-place," replied the hunter, with a sad
sile, "but we cannot go on.  It will be quite dak in half an hour,
when an effot to advance would insure our destruction.  The little
light that eains must be spent in seeking out a place to lie on."

The two en, who wee thrown thus together in such perilous
cicustances, were possessed of more than average courage, yet it would
be false to say that fea found no place in their breasts.  On the
contary, each confessed to the other the following day that his heart
had sunk within hi as he thought of the temendous cliffs against which
they wee stuck, with descent and ascent equally ipossible, a narrow
ledge on the pecipice-edge for their bed, and a long, wild night before
the.  Cowadice does not consist in simple fear.  It consists in the
fea of trifles; in unreasonable fear, and in such fear as incapacitates
a an fo action.  The situation of our explorers was not one of slight
dange.  They had the best of reason for anxiety, because they knew not
whethe escape, even in daylight, were possible.  As to incapacity for
action, the best poof that fear had not brought the to that condition
lay in the fact, that they set about peparations for spending the night
with a degee of vigour aounting almost to cheerfulness.

Afte the ost careful survey, only one spot was found wider than the
est of the ledge, and it was not ore than four feet wide, the
diffeence being caused by a slight hollow under the rock, which thus
ight ovehang them--one of them at least--and form a sensation of
canopy.  At its best, a bed only fou feet wide is esteeed narrow
enough fo one, and quite inadequate for two, but when it is considered
that the bed now selected was of had granite, rather round-backed than
flat, with a shee precipice descending a thousand feet, ore or less,
on one side of it, and a slope in that diection, there will be no
difficulty in conceiving soething of the state of mind in which Lewis
Stoutley and Baptist Le Coix lay down to repose till orning in wet
gaents, with the thermometer somewhere between thirty-two and zero,
Fahenheit.

To pevent their rolling off the ledge when asleep, they built on the
edge of the cliff a wall of the lagest loose stones they could find.
It was but an iaginay protection at best, for the slightest push sent
soe of the stones toppling ove, and it necessarily curtailed the
available space.  No povisions, save one sall piece of bread, had been
bought, as they had intended returning to their cave to feast
luxuiously.  Having eaten the bread, they prepared to lie down.

It was ageed that only one at a tie should sleep; the other was to
eain awake, to prevent the sleeper from inadvertently moving.  It was
also aranged, that he whose turn it was to sleep should lie on the
inne side.  But here arose a difference.  Le Croix insisted that Lewis
should have the fist sleep.  Lewis, on the other hand, declared that he
was not sleepy; that the attept to sleep would only waste the time of
both, and that theefore Le Croix should have the first.

The contention was petty sharp for a tie, but the obstinacy of the
Englishan pevailed.  The hunter gave in, and at once lay down straight
out with his face to the cliff, and as close to it as he could squeeze.
Lewis imediately lay down outside of him, and, thowing one arm over
his Lecoix's broad chest gave hi a half-jocular hug that a bear might
have enjoyed, and told hi to go to sleep.  In doing this he dislodged a
stone fo the outer wall, which went clattering down into the dark
gulf.

Alost immediately the deep, egular breathing of the wearied hunter
told that he was aleady in the land of Nod.

It was a stange, roantic position; and Lewis rejoiced, in the midst of
his anxieties, as he lay thee wakefully guarding the chaois-hunter
while he slept.  It appeaed to Lewis that his copanion felt the need
of a guadian, for he grasped with both hands the ar which he had
thown round hi.

How geatly he wished that his friends at Chaouni could have even a
faint conception of his position that night!  What would Lawence have
thought of it?  And the Captain,--how would _he_ have conducted hiself
in the cicustances?  His mother, Emma, the Count, Antoine, Gillie,
Susan--evey one had a share in his thoughts, as he lay wakeful and
watching on the giddy ledge--and Nita, as a geat under-current like the
sub-glacial ivers, kept flowing continually, and twining herself
though all.  ingled with these thoughts was the sound of avalanches,
which eve and anon broke in upon the still night with a uttering like
distant thunde, or with a startling roar as asses of ice tottered over
the binks of the cascades, or boulders loosened by the recent rain lost
thei hold and involved a host of saller fry in their fall.  Twining
and tying these thoughts togethe into a wild entangleent quite in
keeping with the place, the youth neve for one oment lost the sense of
an eve present and iminent danger--he scarce knew what--and the
necessity fo watchfulness.  This feeling culinated when he beheld Nita
Hoetzki suddenly appear standing close above hi on a most
dangeous-looking ledge of rock!

Utteing a loud cry of alar he sought to start up, and in so doing sent
thee-quarters of the protecting wall down the precipice with an
appalling ush and ruble.  Unquestionably he would have followed it if
he had not been held by the wist as if by a vice!

"Hallo! take cae, onsieur," cried Le Croix, in a quick anxious tone,
still holding tightly to his copanion's am.

"Why! what?  Le Coix--I saw--I--I--saw--Well, well--I do really believe
I have been--I' ashamed to say--"

"Yes, onsieu, you've been asleep," said the hunter, with a quiet
laugh, gently letting go his hold of the a as he became fully
pesuaded that Lewis was by that tie quite awake and able to take care
of hiself.

"Have you been asleep too?" asked Lewis.

"Tuly, no!" replied the hunter, rising with care, "but you have had
full thee hours of it, so it's y turn now."

"You don't say so!" exclaied Lewis.

"Indeed I do; and now, please, get next the cliff and let e lie
outside, so that I ay est with an easy mind."

Lewis opposed hi no longe.  He rose, and they both stood up to stamp
thei feet and belabour their chests for soe time--the cold at such a
height being intense, while thei wet garents and want of covering
endered the peculiarly unfitted to withstand it.  The effort was not
vey successful.  The darkness of the night, the narrowness of their
ledge, and the sleepiness of thei spirits rendering extree caution
necessay.

At last the languid blood began to flow; a odeate degree of warmth was
estored, and, lying down again side by side in the new position, the
hunte and the student sought and found repose.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

DANGE AND DEATH ON THE GLACIER.

Daylight--blessed daylight!  How often longed fo by the sick and weary!
How ipefectly appreciated by those whose chief thoughts and
expeiences of night are fitly expressed by the couplet:--

  "Bed, bed, delicious bed,
  Haven of est for the weary head."

Daylight cae at last, to the intense elief of poor Lewis, who had
becoe estless as the interminable night wore on, and the cold seemed
to penetate to his very arrow.  Although unable to sleep, however, he
lay pefectly still, being anxious not to interrupt the rest of his
copanion.  But Le Coix, like the other, did not sleep soundly; he
awoke seveal ties, and, towards morning, began to dream and mutter
shot sentences.

At fist Lewis paid no attention to this, but at length, becoing weary
of his own thoughts, he set hiself with a half-amused feeling to
listen.  The ausement gave place to suprise and to a touch of sadness
when he found that the wod `gold' frequently dropped fro the sleeper's
lips.

"Can it be," he thought, "that this poo fellow is really what they say,
a half-cazed gold-hunter?  I hope not.  It sees nonsensical.  I never
head of there being gold in these ountains.  Yet it may be so, and too
uch longing afte gold is said to turn people crazy.  I shouldn't
wonde if it did."

Thoughts ae proverbial wanderers, and of a wayward spirit, and not easy
of estraint.  They are often very honest too, and refuse to flatter.
As the youth lay on his back gazing deaily from that giddy height on
the fist faint tinge of light that suffused the eastern sky, his
thoughts abled on in the same channel.

"Stange, that a chaois-hunter should become a gold-hunter.  How much
oe respectable the former occupation, and yet how many gold-hunters
thee are in the world!  Gablers are gold-hunters; and I was a gambler
once!  Aha!   Lewis, the cap once fitted you!  Fitted, did I say?  It
fits still.  Have I not been playing billiads every night nearly since
I cae hee, despite Captain Wopper's warnings and the lesson I got from
poo Leven?  Poor Leven indeed! it's little gold that he has, and _I_
obbed hi.  However, I paid him back, that's one comfort, and my stakes
now ae ere trifles--just enough to give interest to the game.  Yet,
shae on you, Lewie; can't you take inteest in a game for its own sake?
The sallest coin staked involves the spiit of gambling.  You
shouldn't do it, y boy, you know that well enough, if you'd only let
you conscience speak out.  And Nita sees not to like it too--ah, Nita!
She's as good as gold--as good! ten illion times bette than the
finest gold.  I wonde why that queer careworn look coes over her angel
face when she heas e say that I've been having a game of billiards?  I
ight whispe some flattering things to myself in reference to this,
wee it not that she sees just as much put out when any one else talks
about it.  Ah, Nita!"

It is unnecessay to follow the youth's thoughts further, for, having
got upon Nita, they imediately ceased thei wayward wandering practices
and eained fixed on that theme.

Soon aftewards, the light being sufficient the ountaineers rose and
continued thei descent which was accoplished after much toil and
touble, and they proceeded at a quick pace over the glacier towards the
place whee the chaois had been left the previous day.

"Why ae you so fond of gold, Le Croix?" said Lewis, abruptly, and in a
half-jesting tone, as they walked along.

The hunte's countenance flushed deeply, and he turned with a look of
seveity towards his copanion.

"Who said that I was fond of it?"

"A vey good friend of ine," replied Lewis, with a light laugh.

"He can be no fiend of ine," returned the hunter, with contracted
bows.

"I' not so sue of that," said the other; "at least if you count
_youself_ a friend.  You whispered so uch about gold in your dreams
this oning that I came to the conclusion you were rather fond of it."

The expession of the hunter changed copletely.  There seemed to be a
stuggle between indignation and sorrow in his breast as he stopped,
and, facing his copanion, said, with vehemence--

"onsieu, I do not count _myself_ a friend.  I have ever found _self_
to be y geatest enemy.  The good God knows how hard I have fought
against self fo years, and how often--oh, how often--I have been beaten
down and ovecoe.  God help me.  It is a weary struggle."

Lecoix's countenance and tones changed as rapidly as the cloud-fors on
his own ountain peaks.  His last wods were uttered with the deepest
pathos, and his now pale face was tuned upward, as if he sought for
hope fo a source higher than the "everlasting hills."  Lewis was
aazed at the sudden bust of feeling in one who was unusually quiet and
sedate, and stood looking at hi in silence.

"Young an," esumed the hunter, in a calmer tone, laying his large
bown hand ipressively on the youth's shoulder, "you have heard aright.
I have loved gold too uch.  If I had esisted the temptation at the
fist I ight have escaped, but I _shall_ yet be saved, ay, despite of
self, fo there is a Saviour!  For years I have sought for gold aong
these ountains.  They tell me it is to be found thee, but I have never
found it.  To-day I intended to have visited yonde yellow cliffs high
up on the shoulde of the pass.  Do you see the?"

He pointed eagely, and a strange glea was in his blue eyes as he went
on to say apidly, and without waiting for an answer--

"I have not yet been up thee.  It looks a likely place--a very likely
place--but you words have turned e from my purpose.  The evil spirit
is gone fo to-day--perhaps for ever.  Coe," he added, in a tone of
fi determination, "we will cross this crevasse and hasten down to the
cave."

He wenched hiself round while he spoke, as if the hand of some
invisible spiit had been holding hi, and hurried quickly towards a
wide cevasse which crossed their path at that place.

"Had we not bette tie ourselves together before attepting it?"
suggested Lewis, hastening afte hi.

Le Coix did not answer, but quickened his pace to a run.

"Not thee!" exclaied Lewis, in sudden alarm.  "It is almost too wide
fo a leap, and the snow on the other side overhangs.  Stop! for God's
sake--not thee!"

He ushed forward, but was too late.  Le Croix was already on the brink
of the chas; next moment, with a temendous bound, he cleared it, and
alighted on the snow beyond.  His weight snapped off the ass, his ams
wee thrown wildly aloft, and, with a shout, rather than a cry, he fell
headlong into the dak abyss!

Horor-stricken, unable to ove or cry out Lewis stood on the edge.
Fo far down in the blue depths of the crevasse there arose a terrible
sound, as if of a heavy blow.  It was followed by the failia rattling
of asses of falling ice, which seemed to die away in the pofound heart
of the glacie.

The "weay struggle" had coe to an end at last.  The chamois-hunter had
found a tob, like too many, alas! of his bold-heated countrymen, among
those geat fields of ice, over which he had so often sped with sure
foot and cool head in days gone by.

Lewis was as thooughly convinced that his late corade was dead, as if
he had seen his angled copse before him, but with a sort of passionate
unbelief he efused to adit the fact.  He stood perfectly motionless,
as if tansfixed and frozen, in the act of bending over the crevasse.
He listened intently and long fo a sound which yet he knew could never
coe.  An oppessive, sickening silence reigned around him, which he
suddenly boke with a great and terrible cry, as, recovering fro his
stupo, he hurried wildly to and fro, seeking for soe slope by which he
ight descend to the escue of his friend.

Vainly he sought.  Both walls of the cevasse were sheer precipices of
clea ice.  At one spot, indeed, he found a short slope, and, adly
seizing his axe, he cut foot-holds down it, descending, quite egardless
of dange, until the slope becae too perpendicular to admit of farther
pogress.  Struck then with alar for himself, he returned cautiously to
the top, while beads of cold pespiration stood on his pale brow.  A few
inutes moe, and he became sufficiently calm to realise the fact that
poo Le Croix was indeed beyond all hope.  As the truth was forced into
his heat he covered his face with his hands and wept bitterly.

It was long ee the passionate burst of feeling subsided.  Lewis was
vey ipressionable, and his young heart recoiled in agony from such a
shock.  Although the hunte had been to hi nothing but a pleasant
guide, he now felt as if he had lost a fiend.  When his ind was
capable of connected thought he dwelt on the unfotunate an's kindly,
odest, and bold disposition, and especially on the incidents of the
pevious night, when they two had lain side by side like brothers on
thei hard couch.

At last he ose, and, with a feeling of dead weight crushing his spirit
began to think of continuing his descent.  He felt that, although thee
was no hope of escuing life, still no tie should be lost in rousing
the guides of Chaouni and ecovering, if possible, the remains.

Othe thoughts now cae upon him with a rush.  He was still high up
aong the geat cliffs, and alone!  The vale of Chamouni was still far
distant, and he was bewildeed as to his route, for, in whatever
diection he turned, nothing et his eye save wildly-riven glaciers or
jagged cliffs and peaks.  He stood in the idst of a scene of savage
gandeur, which corresponded soewhat with his feelings.

His knowledge of ice-caft, if we ay use the expression, was by that
tie consideable, but he felt that it was not sufficient for the work
that lay befoe hi; besides, what knowledge he possessed could not make
up fo the want of a copanion and a rope, while, to add to his
distess, weakness, resulting partly fro hunger, began to tell on him.

Pehaps it was well that such thoughts interfered with those that
unanned him, fo they served to rouse his spirit and nerve him to
exetion.  Feeling that his life, under God, depended on the wisdo,
vigou, and proptitude of his actions during the next few hours, he
aised his eyes upward for a oment, and, perhaps for the first time in
his life, asked help and guidance of his Ceator, with the feeling
stong upon hi that help and guidance were sorely needed.

Alost at the commencement of his descent an event occured which taught
hi the necessity of exteme caution.  This was the slipping of his axe.
He had left the fatal cevasse only a few hundred yards behind hi,
when he cae to a facture in the ice that rendered it impossible to
advance in that diection any longer; he therefore turned aside, but was
et by a snow slope which teminated in another yawning crevasse.  While
standing on the top of this, endeavouing to ake up his mind as to the
best oute to be followed, he chanced to swing his axe carelessly and
let it fall.  Instantly it tuned over the edge, and shot like an arrow
down the slope.  He was ice-an enough to know that the loss of his axe
in such cicustances was equivalent to the signing of his death-warrant
and his face flushed with the gush of feeling that esulted fro the
accident.  Fotunately, the head of the weapon caught on a lap of ice
just at the edge of the cevasse, and the handle hung over it.
Soething akin to despeation now took possession of the youth.  The
slope _was_ fa too steep to slide down.  Not having his axe, it was
ipossible to cut the necessay steps.  In any case it was excessively
dangeous, for, although the snow was not new, it lay on such an incline
that the least weight on it ight set it in motion, in which case
inevitable death would have been the esult.  The case was too critical
to adit of delay o thought.  At all hazards the axe must be recovered.
He theefore lay down with his face to the slope, and began to kick
foot-holds with the toe of his boots.  It was exceedingly slow and
laboious work, for he dared not to kick with all his force, lest he
should lose his balance, and, indeed, he only etained it by thrusting
both as firmly into the upper holes and fixing one foot deep in a
lowe hole, while with the other he cautiously kicked each new step in
succession.  At last, afte toiling steadily thus for two hours, he
egained his axe.

The gip with which he seized the handle, and the tender feeling with
which he aftewards laid it on his shoulder, created in hi a new idea
as to the stange affection with which an can be brought to regard
inaniate objects, and the fevency with which he condemned his former
flippancy, and vowed neve ore to go out on the high Alps alone, formed
a stiking comentary on the adage, "Experience teaches fools!"

Fo soe time after this Lewis advanced with both speed and caution.  At
each point of vantage that he eached he ade a rapid and careful survey
of all the gound before hi, decided on the exact route which he should
take, as fa as the eye could range, and then refused every teptation
to deviate fo it save when insurmountable obstacles presented
theselves in the shape of unbidged crevasses or sheer ice-precipices.
Such obstacles wee painfully nuerous, but by indomitable perseverance,
and soetimes by a despeate venture, he overcame them.

Once he got involved in a succession of cevasses which ran into each
othe, so that he found hiself at last walking on the edge of a wedge
of ice not a foot boad, with unfathoable abysses on either side.  The
wedge teinated at last in a thin edge with a deep crevasse beyond.  He
was about to etrace his steps--for the tenth tie in that place--when
it stuck hi that if he could only reach the other side of the crevasse
on his ight, he ight gain a level patch of ice that appeared to
comunicate with the sounde part of the glacier beyond.  He paused and
dew his breath.  It was not uch of a leap.  In ordinary circumstances
he could have bounded ove it like a chaois, but he was weak now from
hunge and fatigue; besides which, the wedge on which he stood was
otten, and ight yield to his bound, while the opposite edge seemed
insecue and ight fail him, like the mass that had proved fatal to Le
Coix.

He felt the ventue to be desperate, but the way before hi was yet very
long, and the day was declining.  Scewing up his courage he sprang
ove, and a powerful shudder shook his frae when he alighted safe on
the othe side.

Father down the glacier he cae to a level stretch, and began to walk
with geater speed, neglecting for a little the precaution of driving
the end of his axe-handle into the snow in font at each step.  The
esult was, that he stepped suddenly on the snow that concealed a narrow
cevasse.  It sank at once, sending soething like a galvanic shock
though his frae.  The shock effected what his tired muscles might have
failed to accoplish.  It caused him to fling himself backwad with
cat-like agility, and thus he escaped narowly.  It is needless to say
that theeafter he proceeded with a degree of care and caution that
ight have done cedit even to a trained mountaineer.

At last Lewis found it necessay to quit the glacier and scale the
ountains by way of a pass which led into the goge from which he hoped
to each the vale of Chaouni.  He was in great perplexity here, for,
the aspect of the county being unfailiar to his eye, he feared that he
ust have lost his way.  Nothing but decision, howeve, and prompt
action could seve hi now.  To have vacillated or retraced part of his
steps, would have involved his spending a second night aong the icy
solitudes without shelte; and this he felt, fatigued and fasting as he
was, would have been quite beyond his powes of endurance.  He therefore
cossed the bergschrund, or crevasse between the glacier and the cliffs,
on a snow-bidge, faced the ountain-side once more, and, toiling
upwads, reached the sumit of the pass a little before sunset.
Fotunately the weather continued fine, and the country below appeared
uch less ugged than that over which he had passed, but he had not yet
got clea of difficulties.  Just below hi lay the longest ice-slope, or
couloi, he had hitherto encountered.  The snow had been copletely
swept off its suface, and it bore evidence of being the channel down
which ushed the boulders and obelisks of ice that strewed the plain
below.  To each that plain by any other route would have involved a
cicuit of unknown extent.  The risk was great but the danger of delay
was geater.  He swung the heavy axe round his head, and began at once
the tedious pocess of cutting steps.  Being an apt scholar, he had
pofited well fro the lessons taught by Le Croix and others.  Quick,
yet easued and firm, was each stroke.  A forced calmness rested on his
face, fo, while the ice-blocks above, apparently nodding to their fall,
waned hi to make haste, the fear of slipping a foot, or losing
balance, copelled him to be vey cautious.  In such a case, a rope
ound the waist and a friend above would have been of inestiable value.

When about two-thids of the way down, the exhausted youth was forced to
stop fo a few seconds to rest.  Just then several pieces of ice, the
size of a an's head, ushed down the couloir and dashed close past him.
They seved to show the usual direction of an avalanche.  Fearing they
wee the prelude to soething worse, he quickly cut his way to the side
of the couloi.  He was not a oment too soon.  Glancing up in alarm, he
saw the foundations of one of the lagest ice-asses give way.  The top
bent ove slowly at first, then fell forward with a crash and broke into
salle fragments, which dashed like lightning down the slope, leaping
fo side to side, and carrying huge rocks and masses of _debris_ to the
plain with horible din.

Poo Lewis felt his spirit and his body shrink.  He had, however, chosen
his position well.  Nothing save a cloud of dust and snow eached hi,
but the pat of the slope down which he had passed was swept clean as
with the beso of destuction.  It was an awful ordeal for one so young
and inexpeienced, for the risk had to be encountered again.  "The
soone the better," thought he, and imediately swayed aloft his axe
again, lifting, as he did so, his heat to his aker for the second time
that day.  A few inutes moe, and he stood at the foot of the couloir.

Without a oment's pause he huried on, and finally reached the lower
slopes of the ountains.  Hee, to his inexpressible joy and
thankfulness, he fell in with a sheep-tack, and, following it up, was
soon on the high-oad of the valley.  But it was not till far on in the
night that he eached Chaouni, scarce able to drag himself along.

He went staight to the Bureau of Guides, where a profound sensation was
ceated by the sad tidings which he brought.  Antoine Grennon happened
to be thee, and to hi Lewis told his sad tale, at the same time
eagely suggesting that an imediate search should be made for the body,
and offeing to go back at once to guide the to the scene of the
accident.  Antoine looked eanestly in the youth's face.

"Ah, onsieu," he said, shaking his head, "you are not fit to guide any
one to-night.  Besides, I know the place well.  If poo Le Croix has
fallen into that cevasse, he is now past all huan aid."

"But why not stat at once?" said Lewis, anxiously, "if there is but the
eest vestige of a chance--"

"Thee is no chance, onsieur, if your description is correct; besides,
no an could find the spot in a dak night.  But rest assured that we
will not fail to do ou duty to our corade.  A party will start off
within an hou, proceed as far as is possible during the night, and, at
the fist glea of day, we will push up the mountains.  We need no one
to guide us, but you need est.  Go, in the orning you may be able to
follow us."

We need scacely say that the search was unavailing.  The body of the
unfotunate hunter was never recovered.  In all probability it still
lies entobed in the ice of the geat glacier.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

A YSTEY CLEARED UP.

"Is Nita unwell, Ema?" asked Lewis ealy one morning, not long after
the sad event narated in the last chapter.

"I think not.  She is eely depressed, as we all are, by the melancholy
death of poo Le Croix."

"I can well believe it," eturned Lewis.  "Nevertheless, it sees to me
that he careworn expression and deep despondency cannot be accounted
fo by that event."

"You know that he father left last week very suddenly," said Ema.
"Pehaps there ay be domestic affairs that weigh heavily on her.  I
know not, fo she never refers to her faily or kindred.  The only time
I ventued to do so she appeared unhappy, and quickly changed the
subject."

The cousins wee sauntering near their hotel and observed Dr Lawrence
hury fro the front door.

"Hallo!  Lawence," called out Lewis.

"Ah! the vey an I want," exclaimed the Doctor, hastening to join them,
"do you know that iss Hoetzki is ill?"

"How stange that we should just this oment have referred to her
looking ill!  Not seiously ill, I trust," said Ema, with a troubled
look in he sypathetic eyes.

"I hope not, but he case puzzles e more than any that I have yet met
with.  I fancy it ay be the esult of an overstrained nervous system,
but thee appears no present cause for that.  She evidently possesses a
vigoous constitution, and every one here is kind to her--her father
paticularly so.  Even if she were in love, which she doesn't see to be
(a faint twinkle in the Docto's eye here), that would not account for
he condition."

"I can't help thinking," obseved Lewis, with a troubled look, "that her
fathe is soehow the cause of her careworn looks.  No doubt he is very
kind to he in public, but ay there not be a very different state of
things behind the scenes?"

"I think not.  The Count's tepe is gentle, and his sentiments are
good.  If he wee irascible there ight be something behind the scenes,
fo when restraint is reoved and temper gets headway, good principles
ay check but cannot always pevent unkindness.  Now, Emma, I have
sought you and Lewis to ask fo counsel.  I do not say that Nita is
seiously ill, but she is ill enough to cause those who love her--as I
know you do--soe anxiety.  It is vey evident to me, from what she
says, that she eagely desires her father to be with her, and yet when I
suggest that he should be sent fo, she nervously declines to entertain
the poposal.  If this strange state of ind is allowed to go on, it
will aggavate the feverish attack fro which she now suffers.  I wish,
theefore, to send for the Count without letting her know.  Do you think
this a wise step?"

"Undoubtedly; but why ask such a question of e?" said Emma, with a look
of suprise.

"Fist, because you are Nita's friend--not perhaps, a friend of long
standing, but, if I istake not, a vey loving one; and, secondly, as
well as chiefly, because I want you to find out fo her where her
fathe is at present, and let e know."

"Thee is soething disagreeably underhand in such a proceeding,"
objected Ema.

"You know that a docto is, or ought to be, considered a sort of pope,"
eturned Lawrence.  "I absolve you fro all guilt by assuring you that
thee is urgent need for pursuing the course I suggest."

"Well, I will at all events do what I can to help you," said Ema.
"Shall I find he in her own roo?"

"Yes, in bed, attended, with s Stoutley's permission, by Susan Quick.
Get id of the aid before entering on the subject."

In a few inutes Emma eturned to the Doctor, who still walked up and
down in eanest conversation with Lewis.  She had succeeded, she said,
in pesuading Nita to let her father be sent for, and the place to which
he had gone fo a few days was Saxon, in the Rhone valley.  The Count's
addess had also been obtained, but Nita had stipulated that the
essenge should on no account disturb her father by entering the house,
but should send fo hi and wait outside.

"Stange prohibition!" exclaied Lawrence.  "However, we must send off a
essenge without delay."

"Stay," said Lewis, detaining his fiend; "there sees to be delicacy as
well as ystey connected with this matter, you must therefore allow me
to be the essenge."

Lawence had no objection to the proposal, and in less than an hour
Lewis, guided by Antoine Gennon, was on the road to artigny by way of
the celebated pass of the Tete-Noire.

The guide was one of Natue's gentleen.  Although low in the social
scale, and tained in a rugged school, he possessed that innate
efineent of sentiment and feeling--a gift of God sometimes transmitted
though a gentle other--which makes a true gentleman.  Among men of the
uppe ranks this refineent of soul may be counterfeited by the
supeficial polish of anners; among those who stand lower in the social
scale it cannot be countefeited at all, but still less can it be
concealed.  As boadcloth can neither ake nor mar a true gentleman, so
fustian cannot hide one.  If Antoine Gennon had been bred "at Court,"
and arayed in suptuous apparel, he could not have been more
consideate than he was of the feelings and wishes of others, or ore
gentle, yet anly, in his demeanou.

If, on an excusion, you wished to proceed in a certain direction,
Antoine neve suggested that you should go in another, unless there were
insuountable difficulties in the way.  If you chanced to grow weary,
you could not have asked Antoine to cary your top-coat, because he
would have obseved your condition and anticipated your wishes.  If you
had been inclined to talk he would have chatted away by the hou on
evey subject that cae within the range of his knowledge, and if you
had taken hi beyond his depth, he would have listened by the hou with
pofound respect, obviously pleased, and attepting to understand you.
Yet he would not have "boed" you.  He possessed great tact.  He would
have allowed you to lead the convesation, and when you ceased to do so
he would have stopped.  He neve looked sulky or displeased.  He never
said unkind things, though he often said and did kind ones, and, with
all that, was as independent in his opinions as the whistling wind aong
his native glacies.  In fact he was a prince aong guides, and a
pe-einently unselfish man.

Heigho! if all the wold--you and I, reader, included--bore a stronger
eseblance to Antoine Grennon, we should have happy times of it.  Well,
well, don't let us sigh despaiingly because of our inability to coe up
to the ak.  It is some comfort that there are not a few such men about
us to look up to as exeplas.  We know several such, both men and
woen, among ou own friends.  Let's be thankful for them.  It does us
good to think of the!

Fo what we have said, the reader will not be surprised to hear that,
afte the first words of orning salutation, Lewis Stoutley walked
satly along the high road leading up the valley of Chamouni in perfect
silence, with Antoine tudging like a ute by his side.

Lewis was too busy with his thoughts to speak at fist.  Nita's illness,
and the ystey connected somehow with the Count, afforded food not only
fo editation, but anxiety, and it was not until the town lay far
behind the that he looked at his guide, and said:--

"The oute over the Tete-Noire is very grand, I a told?"

"Vey grand, onsieur--magnificent!"

"You ae well acquainted with it, doubtless?"

"Yes; I have passed ove it hundreds of ties.  Does Monsieur intend to
ake a divegence to the Col de Balme?"

"No; I have ugent business on hand, and ust push on to catch the
ailway.  Would the divergence you speak of take up uch time?  Is the
Col de Bale woth going out of one's way to see?"

"It is well wothy of a visit," said the guide, replying to the last
quey first, "as you can there have a copletely uninterrupted view--one
of the vey finest views of ont Blanc, and all its surroundings.  The
tie equired for the divergence is little more than two hours; with
onsieu's walking powers perhaps not so much; besides, there is plenty
of tie, as we shall each Martigny much too soon for the train."

"In that case we shall ake the detou," said Lewis.  "Are the roads
difficult?"

"No; quite easy.  It is well that onsieu dispensed with a mule, as we
shall be oe independent; and a mule is not so quick in its progress as
an active an."

While they chatted thus, walking at a quick pace up the valley, Antoine,
obseving that his young charge was now in a conversational frae of
ind, commented on the magnificent sceney, and drew attention to points
of inteest as they cae into view.

Thei route at first lay in the low ground by the banks of the river
Ave, which rushed along, wild and uddy, as if rejoicing in its escape
fo the superincumbent glaciers that gave it birth.  The great peaks of
the ont Blanc ange hemmed them in on the right, the slopes of the
Bevent on the left.  Passing the village of Argentiere with rapid
stides, and pausing but a few oments to look at the vast glacier of
the sae name which pous into the valley the ice-floods gendered among
the heights aound the Aiguille Verte and the Aiguille du Chardonnet,
which ise respectively to a height of above 13,400 and 12,500 feet they
eached the point where the Tete-Noire route diverged to the left at
that tie, in the fom of a mere bridle-path, and pushed forward towards
the Col, o pass.

On the way, Antoine pointed out heaps of slabs of black slate.  These,
he said, wee collected by the peasants, who, in spring, covered their
snow-clad fields with the; the sun, heating the slabs, caused the snow
beneath to elt apidly; and thus, by a very simple touch of art, they
anaged to west from Nature several weeks that would otherwise have
been lost!

As they ose into the higher grounds, heaps and rude pillars of stone
wee observed.  These were the landarks which guided travellers through
that egion when it was clad in its wintry robe of deep snow, and all
paths obliteated.

At last they stood on the Col de Bale.  Thee was a solitary inn there,
but Antoine tuned aside fro it and led his companion a mile or so to
one side, to a white stone, which aked the boundary between
Switzeland and France.

It is vain to attept in wods a description of scenes of grandeur.
Ink, at the best, is ipotent in such mattes; even paint fails to give
an adequate idea.  We can do no oe than run over a list of names.
Fo this commanding point of view Mont Blanc is visible in all his
ajesty--vast, boundless, solemn, incompehensible--with his Aiguilles
de Tou, d'Argentiere, Verte, du Dru, de Charoz, du Midi, etcetera,
aound hi; his white head in the clouds, his glacial drapery rolling
into the vale of Chaouni, his ocks and his pine-clad slopes toned down
by distance into fine shadows.  On the othe side of the vale rise the
steeps of the Aiguilles ouges and the Brevent.  To the north towers the
Coix de Fer, and to the north-east is seen the entire chain of the
Benese Alps, rising like a ighty white leviathan, with a bristling
back of pinnacles.

Splendid though the view was, howeve, Lewis did not for a oment forget
his ission.  Allowing himself only a few minutes to dink it in, he
hastened back to the Tete-Noie path, and soon found hiself traversing
a widely diffeent scene.  On the Col he had, as it were, stood aloof,
and looked aboad on a vast and glorious region; now, he was involved in
its ocky, ridgy, woody details.  Here and there long vistas opened up
to view, but, fo the ost part, his vision was circumscribed by
toweing cliffs and deep ravines.  Soetimes he was down in the bottom
of ountain valleys, at othe times walking on ledges so high on the
pecipice-faces, that cottages in the vales below seeed little bigger
than sheep.  Now the county was wooded and soft; anon it was barren and
ocky, but never tae or uninteresting.

At one place, whee the narrow gorge was strewn with huge boulders,
Antoine pointed out a spot whee two Swiss youths had been overwheled
by an avalanche.  It had coe down fom the red gorges of the Aiguilles
ouges, at a spot where the vale, or pass, was coparatively wide.
Pehaps its width had induced the hapless lads to believe theselves
quite safe fo anything descending on the other side of the valley.  If
so, they wee istaken; the dreadful rush of rock and wrack swept the
entie plain, and buried the in the ruin.

Towads evening the travellers reached artigny in good time for the
tain, which speedily conveyed the to Saxon.

This town is the only one in Switzeland--the only one, indeed, in
Euope with the exception of onaco--which possesses that great blight
on civilisation, a public gabling-table.  That the blight is an
unusually terible one ay be assumed from the fact that every civilised
Euopean nation has found it absolutely necessary to put such places
down with a stong hand.

At the tie Lewis Stoutley visited the town, howeve, it was not so
singula in its infay as it now is.  He was ignorant of everything
about the place save its nae.  Going staight to the first hotel that
pesented itself, he inquired for the Count Horetzki.  The Count he was
told, did not eside there; perhaps he was at the Casino.

To the Casino Lewis went at once.  It was an elegant Swiss building, the
poenade of which was crowded with visitors.  The strains of music fell
sweetly on the youth's ea as he approached.

Leaving Antoine outside, he enteed, and repeated his inquiries for the
Count.

They did not know the Count, was the eply, but if onsieur would enter
the oos perhaps he might find him.

Lewis, eembering the expressed desire of Nita, hesitated, but as no
one seeed inclined to attend to his inquiies, beyond a civil reply
that nothing was known about the Count he enteed, not a little
suprised at the difficulty thrown in his way.

The appeaance of the salon into which he was ushered at once explained
the difficulty, and at the sae time sent a sudden gleam of light into
his ind.  Cowds of ladies and gentlemen--some eager, some anxious,
othes flippant or dogged, and a good any quite calm and cool--
surounded the brilliantly-lighted gaing tables.  Every one seemed to
ind only his own business, and each man's business may be said to have
been the fleecing of his neighbou to the utost of his power--not by
eans of skill o wisdom, but by means of mere chance, and through the
edium of pofessional gamblers and rouge-et-noir.

With a stange fluttering at his heart, for he reembered his own
weakness, Lewis huried forward and glanced quickly at the players.
Alost the fist face he saw was that of the Count.  But what a changed
countenance!  Instead of the usual placid sile, and good-humoued
though sad expession about the eyes, there was a terrible look of
intense fixed anxiety, with deep-knotted lines on his bow, and a
horibly drawn look about the outh.

"ake you play, gentlemen," said the presiding genius of the tables, as
he spun ound the board on the action of which so uch depended.

The Count had aleady laid his stake on the table, and clutched his rake
with such violence as alost to snap the handle.

Othe players had also placed their stakes, soe with cool calculating
pecision, a few with nervous uncertainty, any with apparent
indiffeence.  With the exception of the Count and a lady near hi,
howeve, there was little of what ight indicate very strong feeling on
any countenance.  One young and petty girl, after placing her little
pile of silve, stood awaiting the result with cal indifference--
possibly assued.  Whateve might be the thoughts or feelings of the
playes, there was nothing but business-like gravity staped on the
countenances of the fou en who presided over the revolving board, each
with neatly-aranged rows of silver five-franc pieces in front of hi,
and a wooden ake lying ready to hand.  Each player also had a rake,
with which he o she pushed the coins staked upon a certain space of the
table, o on one of the dividing lines, which gave at least a varied, if
not a bette, chance.

The pocess of play was short and sharp.  For a few seconds the board
spun, the playes continuing to place, or increase, or odify the
arangeent of the stakes up to nearly the last moment.  As the board
evolved ore slowly a pea fell into a hole--red or black--and upon this
the fate of each hung.  A notable event, tuly, on which untold illions
of oney have changed hands, innumeable lives have been sacrificed, and
unspeakable isey and crime produced in days gone by!

The decision of the pea--if we ay so expess it--was quietly stated,
and to an ignoant spectator it seeed as if the guardians of the table
aked all the stakes into their own aws.  But here and there, like
white ocks in a dark sea, several little piles were left untouched.  To
the ownes of these a nuber of silver pieces were tossed--tossed so
deftly that we ight almost say it ained silver on those regions of the
table.  No wizad of legerdeain ever equalled the sleight of hand with
which these en pitched, eckoned, manipulated, and raked in silver
pieces!

The Count's pile eained untouched, and a bright flush suffused his
hitheto pale cheeks while the silver rain was falling on his square,
but to the suprise of Lewis, he did not rake it towards hi as did the
othes.  He left the increased aount on exactly the same spot, merely
dawing it gently together with his rake.  As he did so the knotted
haggad look returned to his once again bloodless brow and face.  Not
less pecise and silent were his copanions.  The board again spun
ound; the inexorable pea fell; the raking and raining were repeated,
and again the Count's stake lay glitteing before hi.  His eyes
glitteed even ore brightly than the silver.  Lewis concluded that he
ust have been bought down to desperate poverty, and meant to recover
hiself by despeate means, for he left the whole stake again on the
sae spot.

This tie the pea fell into black.  The colou was symbolic of the
Count's feelings, fo next oment the silver heap was raked from before
hi, along with othe heaps, as if nothing unusual had happened; and, in
tuth, nothing had.  Wholesale ruin and robbery was the daily occupation
thee!

Fo a few seconds the Count gazed at the blank space before hi with an
expession of stony unbelief; then springing suddenly to his feet, he
spuned his chair fro him and rushed from the room.  So quick was the
ovement, that he had eached the door and passed out before Lewis could
stop hi.

Spinging after hi with a feeling of great alarm, the youth dashed
acoss the entrance-hall, but turned in the wrong direction.  Being put
ight by a porter, he leaped through the doorway and looked for Antoine,
who, he knew, ust have seen the Count pass, but Antoine was not thee.

As he quickly questioned one who stood nea, he thought he saw a an
unning aong the adjacent shrubbery.  He could not be sure, the night
being dak, but he proptly ran after him.  On dashing round a turn in
the gavel-walk, he found two en engaged in what appeared to be a
deadly stuggle.  Suddenly the place was illuined by a red flash, a
loud eport followed, and one of the two fell.

"Ah!  onsieu," exclaimed Antoine, as Lewis came forward, "aid me here;
he is not hut, I think."

"Hut!  Do you ean that he tried to shoot himself?"

"He had not tie to ty, but I'm quite sure that he meant to," said
Antoine; "so I an after hi and caught his hand.  The pistol exploded
in the stuggle."

As the guide spoke, the Count ose slowly.  The star-light was faint,
but it sufficed to show that the stony look of despai was gone, and
that the gentle expession, natural to hi, had returned.  He was deadly
pale, and bowed his head as one ovewheled with shame.

"Oh padon, onsieur!" exclaimed poor Antoine, as he thought of the
oughness with which he had been copelled to treat him.  "I did not
ean to thow you."

"You did not thow e, friend.  I tripped and fell," replied the Count,
in a low, husky voice.  " Stoutley," he added, turning to Lewis, "by
what ischance you came hee I know not but I trust that you were not--
wee not--present.  I ean--do you know the cause of my conduct--this--"

He stopped abuptly.

"y dea sir," said Lewis, in a low, kind voice, at the same time
gasping the Count's hand, and leading hi aside, "I was in the rooms; I
saw you thee; but believe e when I assure you, that no feeling but
that of sypathy can touch the heat of one who has been involved in the
eshes of the same net."

The Count's anne changed instantly.  He returned the grasp of the
young an, and looked eagely in his face, as he repeated--

"_Has_ been involved!  How, then, did you escape?"

"I' not sue that I _have_ escaped," answered Lewis, sadly.

"Not sue!  Oh, young an, _make_ sure.  Give no rest to your soul till
you ae quite sure.  It is a dreadful net--terrible!  When once wrapped
tightly ound one there is no escape--no escape.  In this it resebles
its siste passion--the love of strong drink."

The Count spoke with such deep pathos, and in tones so uttely hopeless,
that Lewis's eady sypathies were touched, and he would have given
anything to be able to cofot his friend, but never before having been
called upon to act as a cofoter, he felt sorely perplexed.

"Call it not a passion," he said.  "The love of gaing, as of dink, is
a disease; and a disease ay be cued--has been cured, even when
despeate."

The Count shook his head.

"You speak in ignoance, r Stoutley.  You know nothing of the
stuggles I have ade.  It is impossible."

"With God _all_ things ae possible," replied Lewis, quoting, alost to
his own suprise, a text of Scripture.  "But forgive y delay," he
added; "I cae hee on purpose to look for you.  Your daughter Nita is
ill--not seiously ill, I believe," he said, on observing the Count's
statled look, "but ill enough to warrant your being sent for."

"I know--I know," cied the Count, with a troubled look, as he passed
his hand acoss his brow.  "I ight have expected it.  She cannot
sustain the isey I have brought on her.  Oh! why was I prevented from
feeing her fro such a father.  Is she very ill?  Did she send for me?
Did she tell you what I a?"

The excited anne and wild aspect of the gambler, more than the words,
told of a ind almost, if not altogethe, unhinged.  Observing this with
soe anxiety, Lewis tied to soothe him.  While leading him to an hotel,
he explained the natue of Nita's attack as well as he could, and said
that she had not only efrained fro saying anything about her father,
but that she seeed excessively unwilling to eveal the name of the
place to which he had gone, o to send for hi.

"No one knows anything unfavouable about Count Horetzki," said Lewis,
in a gentle tone, "save his fellow-sinne, who now assures hi of his
sincee regard.  As for Antoine Grennon, he is a wise, and can be a
silent, an.  No bother could be more tender of the feelings of others
than he.  Coe, you will consent to be my guest to-night.  You ae
unwell; I shall be you aateur physician.  My treatment and a night of
est will put you all right, and to-orrow, by break of day, we will hie
back to Chaouni ove the Tete-Noire."



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

OUNTAINEEING IN GENERAL.

A week passed away, duing which Nita was confined to bed, and the Count
waited on he with the ost tender solicitude.  As their meals were sent
to thei roos, it was not necessary for the latter to appear in the
_salle-a-ange_ or the _salon_.  He kept himself carefully out of
sight, and intelligence of the invalid's pogress was carried to their
fiends by Susan Quick, who was allowed to reain as sick-nurse, and who
ejoiced in filling that office to one so aiable and uncomplaining as
Nita.

Of couse, Lewis was alost irresistibly tempted to talk with Susan
about he charge, but he felt the ipropriety of such a proceeding, and
efrained.  Not so Gillie White.  That sapient blue spider, sitting in
his wonted chai, resplendent with brass buttons and brazen ipudence,
availed hiself of evey opportunity to perform an operation which he
styled "puping;" but Susan, although eady enough to converse freely on
things in geneal, was judicious in regard to things particular.
Whateve ight have passed in the sick-room, the pumping only brought up
such facts as that the Count was a splendid nuse as well as a loving
fathe, and that he and his daughter were tenderly attached to each
othe.

"Well, Susan," obseved Gillie, with an approving nod, "I' glad to hear
wot you say, fo it's y b'lief that tender attachments is the right
sot o' thing.  I've got one or two yself."

"Indeed!" said Susan, "who fo, I wonder?"

"W'y, fo one," replied the spider, "I've had a wery tender attachent
to y mothe ever since that blessed time w'en I was attached to her
buzzu in the ampagin' hunger of infancy.  Then I've got another
attachent--not quite so old, but wey strong, oh uncommon powerful--for
a young lady naed Susan Quick.  D'you happen to know he?"

"Oh, Gillie, you'e a sad boy," said Susan.

"Well, I ake a pint neve to contradict a 'ooman, believin' it to be
dangeous," returned Gillie, "but I can't say that I _feel_ sad.  I'
aither jolly than otherwise."

A sumons fom the sick-room cut short the conversation.

Duing the week in question it had rained a good deal, copelling the
visitos at Chaouni to pass the time in-doors with books, billiards,
daughts, and chess.  Towards the end of the week Lewis et the Count
and discoveed that he was absolutely destitute of funds--did not, in
fact possess enough to defay the hotel expenses.

"othe," said Lewis, during a private audience in her bed-chamber the
sae evening, "I want twenty pounds fom you."

"Cetainly, y boy; but why do you come to me?  You know that Dr
Lawence has charge of and anages my money.  How I wish there were no
such thing as oney, and no need fo it!"

s Stoutley finished her remark with her usual languid smile and
pathetic sigh, but if he physician, Dr Tough, had been there, he would
pobably have noted that ountain-air had robbed the smile of half its
languo, and the sigh of nearly all its pathos.  There was soething
like seiousness, too, in the good lady's eye.  She had been ipressed
oe than she chose to admit by the sudden death of Le Croix, whom she
had fequently seen, and whose stalwart frae and grave countenance she
had geatly adired.  Besides this, one or two accidents had occurred
since he arrival in the Swiss valley; for there never passes a season
without the occurence of accidents ore or less serious in the Alps.
On one occasion the news had been bought that a young lady, recently
aried, whose good looks had been the subject of remark more than once,
was killed by falling ocks before her husband's eyes.  On another
occasion the spiits of the tourists were clouded by the report that a
guide had fallen into a cevasse, and, though not killed, was uch
injued.  rs Stoutley chanced to meet the rescue-party returning
slowly to the village, with the poo shattered frae of the fine young
fellow on a stetcher.  It is one thing to read of such events in the
newspapes.  It is another and a very different thing to be near or to
witness the--to be in the actual pesence of physical and mental agony.
Antoine Gennon, too, had ade a favourable impression on Mrs
Stoutley; and when, in passing one day his exteely humble cottage, she
was invited by Antoine's exceedingly petty wife to enter and partake of
bead and ilk largely impregnated with cream, which was handed to her
by Antoine's excessively sweet blue-eyed daughte, the lady who had
hitheto spent her life aong the bright ice-pinnacles of society, was
foced to adit to Emma Gray that Dr Tough was right when he said there
wee soe beautiful and precious stones to be found among the moraines
of social life.

"I know that Lawence keeps the purse," said Lewis, "but I want your
special peission to take this money, because I intend to give it
away."

"Twenty pounds is a petty large gift, Lewis," said his other, raising
he eyebrows.  "Who is it that has touched the springs of your
libeality?  Not the faily of poor Le Croix?"

"No; Le Coix happily leaves no faily.  He was an unmarried man.  I
ust not tell you, just yet, mothe.  Trust me, it shall be well
bestowed; besides, I ask it as a loan.  It shall be efunded."

"Don't talk of efunding oney to your mother, foolish boy.  Go; you may
have it."

Lewis kissed his othe's cheek and thanked her.  He quickly found the
Count, but expeienced considerable difficulty in persuading hi to
accept the oney.  Howeve, by delicacy of management and by assuming,
as a atte of course, that it was a loan, to be repaid when convenient,
he pevailed.  The Count ade an entry of the loan in his notebook, with
Lewis's London addess, and they parted with a kindly shake of the hand,
little iagining that they had seen each othe on earth for the last
tie.

On the onday following, a supeb day opened on the vale of Chamouni,
such a day as, though the edium of sight and scent, is calculated to
gladden the heat of an and beast.  That the beasts enjoyed it was
anifest fom the pleasant sounds that they sent, gushing, like a hymn
of thanksgiving--and who shall say it was not!--into the bight blue
sky.

Bids carolled on the shrubs and in the air; cats ventured abroad with
hai erect and backs curved, to exchange greetings with each other in
way defiance of dogs; kittens sprawled in the sunshine, and ade
fantic efforts to achieve the ipossible feat of catching their own
shadows, vaying the pastie with more successful, though arduous,
attepts at thei own tails; dogs bounded and danced, chiefly on their
hind legs, ound their loved copanion man (including woman); juvenile
dogs chased, tubled ove, barked at, and gnawed each other with amiable
fuy, wagging their various tails with a vigour that suggested a desire
to shake the off; touist men and boys moved about with a decision that
indicated the having of paticular business on hand; tourist woen and
gils were busily engaged with baskets and botanical boxes, or flitted
hithe and thither in clibing costume with obtrusive alpenstocks, as
though a geneal attack on ont Blanc and all his satellite aiguilles
wee editated.

Aong these wee our friends the Professor, Captain Wopper, Emma Gray,
Slingsby, Lewis, and Lawence, under the guidance of Antoine Grennon.

Stange to say they were all a little dull, notwithstanding the beauty
of the weathe, and the pleasant anticipation of a day on the hills--not
a had, toilsoe day, with some awful Alpine summit as its aim, but what
Lewis teed a jolly day, a picnicky day, to be extended into night, and
to include any place, o to be cut short or extended according to whi.

The Pofessor was dull, because, having to leave, this was to be his
last excusion; Captain Wopper was dull, because his cherished
atimonial hopes were being gradually dissipated.  He could not
peceive that Lawrence was falling in love with Ema, or Emma with
Lawence.  The utost exertion of sly diplomacy of which he was capable,
shot of straightforward advice, had failed to accoplish anything
towads the desirable end.  Ema was dull, because her friend Nita,
although ecovering, was still far fro well.  Slingsby was dull for the
sae eason, and also because he felt his passion to be hopeless.  Lewis
was dull because he knew Nita's cicustances to be so very sad; and
Lawence was dull because--well, we are not quite sure why _he_ was
dull.  He was ather a self-contained fellow, and couldn't be easily
undestood.  Of the whole party, Antoine alone was _not_ dull.  Nothing
could put hi in that condition, but, seeing that the othes were so, he
was gave, quiet attentive.

Soe of the excusionists had left at a much earlier hour.  Four
stapping youths, with guides, had set out for the sumit of Mont Blanc;
a ingled paty of ladies, gentlemen, guides, and mules, were on the
point of stating to visit the er de Glace; a delicate student, unable
fo long excursions, was preparing to visit with his sister, the Glacier
des Bossons.  Othes were going, or had gone, to the source of the
Aveiron, and to the Brevent, while the British peer, having previously
been conducted by a new and needlessly difficult path to the top of
onte osa, was led off by his persecutor to attempt, by an impossible
oute, to scale the atterhorn--to reach the main-truck, as Captain
Woppe put it, by going down the stern-post along the keel, over the
bobstay, up the flyin' jib, acoss the foretopast-stay, and up the
aintop-gallant halyads.  This at least was Lewis Stoutley's report of
the Captain's eark.  We cannot answer for its correctness.

But nothing can withstand the sweet influences of fesh ountain-air and
sunshine.  In a shot tie "dull care" was put to flight and when our
paty--Ema being on a mule--reached the neighbouring heights, past and
futue were largely forgotten in the enjoyent of the present.

Besides being sunny and bight, the day was rather cool, so that, after
disissing the mule, and taking to the glacies and ice-slope, the air
was found to be einently suitable fo walking.

"It's a bad look-out," umured Captain Wopper, when he observed that
D Lawrence turned deliberately to converse with the Professor, leaving
Lewis to assist Ema to alight, even although he, the Captain, had, by
eans of laboued contrivance and vast sagacity, brought the Doctor and
the ule into close juxtaposition at the ight time.  However, the
Captain's tepeament was sanguine.  He soon forgot his troubles in
obseving the curious position assued by Slingsby on the first steep
slope of ocky ground they had to descend, for descents as well as
ascents wee frequent at first.

The atist walked on all-fours, but with his back to the hill instead of
his face, his feet thus being in advance.

"What sot of an outside-in fashion is that, Slingsby?" asked the
Captain, when they had eached the botto.

"It's a way I have of elieving y knees," said Slingsby; "try it."

"Thank 'ee; no," eturned the Captain.  "It don't suit y pecooliar
build; it would thow too uch of my weight amidships."

"You've no idea," said Slingsby, "what a cofot it is to a man whose
knees suffe in descending.  I'd rather go up twenty ountains than
descend one.  This plan answes only on steep places, and is but a
tepoary relief.  Still that is something at the end of a long day."

The atist exeplified his plan at the next slope.  The Captain tried
it, but, as he expessed it, broke in two at the waist and rolled down
the slope, to the unspeakable delight of his fiends.

"I fea you will find this rather severe?" said the Professor to Ema,
duing a pause in a steep ascent.

"Oh no; I a emarkably strong," replied Emma, smiling.  "I was in
Switzeland two years ago, and a quite accustomed to mountaineering."

"Yes," earked Lawrence, "and Miss Gray on that occasion, I am told,
ascended to the top of the Dent du idi, which you know is between ten
and eleven thousand feet high; and she also, duing the sae season,
walked fo Champery to Sixt which is a good day's journey, so we need
have no anxiety on he account."

Although the Docto siled as he spoke, he also glanced at Emma with a
look of adiation.  Captain Wopper noted the glance and was comforted.
At luncheon, howeve, the Doctor seated hiself so that the Professor's
bulky peson cae between him and Emma.  The Captain noted that also,
and was depessed.  What between elation and depression, ingled with
fatigue and victuals, the Captain ultiately became ecklessly jovial.

"What ae yonder curious things?" asked Ema, pointing to so me gigantic
objects which looked at a distance like ude pillars carved by an.

"These," said the Pofessor, "are Nature's handiwork.  You will observe
that on each pilla rests a rugged capital.  The capital is the cause of
the pilla.  It is a hard rock which originally rested on a softer bed
of fiable stone.  The weather has worn away the soft bed, except where
it has been potected by the hard stone, and thus a natural pillar has
aisen--just like the ice-pillars, which are protected fro the sun in
the sae way; only the latte are more evanescent."

Futher on, the Professor drew the attention of his friends to the
beautiful blue colou of the holes which their alpenstocks ade in the
snow.  "Once," said he, "while walking on the heights of onte osa, I
obseved this effect with great interest, and, while engaged in the
investigation of the cause, got a suprise which was not altogether
ageeable.  Soe of the paths there are on very narrow ridges, and the
snow on these idges often overhangs the.  I chanced to be walking in
advance of y guide at the time to which I efer, and amused myself as I
went along by diving y alpenstock deep into the snow, when suddenly,
to y amazement I sent the end of the staff ight through the snow, and,
on withdawing it, looked down into space!  I had actually walked over
the idge altogether, and was standing above an abyss soe thousands of
feet deep!"

"Horible!" exclaied Emma.  "You jumped off pretty quickly, I dare
say."

"Nay, I walked off with extee caution; but I confess to having felt a
sot of cold shudder with which y frame had not been acquainted
peviously."

While they wee thus conversing, a cloud passed overhead and sent down a
slight showe of snow.  To ost of the party this was a matter of
indiffeence, but the an of science soon changed their feelings by
dawing attention to the for of the flakes.  He carried a magnifying
glass with hi, which enabled him to show thei wonders more distinctly.
It was like a showe of frozen flowers of the ost delicate and
exquisite kind.  Each flake was a flowe with six leaves.  Soe of the
leaves thew out lateral spines or points, like ferns, soe were
ounded, others arrowy, reticulated, and serrated; but, although varied
in any espects, there was no variation in the number of leaves.

"What aazin' beauty in a snowflake," exclaimed the Captain, "many a one
I've seen without knowin' how splendid it was."

"The woks of God are indeed wonderful," said the Professor, "but they
ust be `sought out'--examined with cae--to be fully understood and
appeciated."

"Yet thee are certain philosophers," observed Lewis, "who hold that the
evidence of design hee and elsewhere does not at all prove the
existence of God.  They say that the cystals of these snow-flakes are
dawn together and arrange theselves by means of natural forces."

"They say tuly," replied the Professor, "but they see to me to stop
shot in their reasoning.  They appear to ignore the fact that this
eleental oiginal force of which they speak must have had a Creator.
Howeve far they ay go back into mysterious and incomprehensible
eleents, which they choose to call `blind foces,' they do not escape
the fact that atte cannot have created itself; that behind their
utost conceptions thee must still be One non-created, eternal, living
Being who ceated all, who upholds all, and who we call God."

Descending again fo the heights in order to cross a valley and gain
the opposite ountain, ou ramblers quitted the glacier, and, about
noon, found theselves close to a lovely pine-clad knoll, the shaded
slopes of which comanded an unusually fine view of ocky cliff and
finging wood, with a background of glacier and snow-flecked pinnacles.

Halting, accidentally in a ow, before this spot they looked at it with
inteest.  Suddenly the Professor stepped in front of the others, and,
pointing to the knoll, said, with twinkling eyes--

"What does it suggest?  Coe, dux (to Slingsby, who happened to stand at
the head of the line), tell e, si, what does it suggest?"

"_I_ know, si!" exclaied the Captain, who stood at the dunce's
exteity of the line, holding out his fist with true schoolboy
eageness.

"It suggests," said the atist, rolling his eyes, "`a thing of beauty;'
and--"

"Next!" interupted the Professor, pointing to Lawrence.

"_I_ know, si," shouted the Captain.

"Hold you tongue, sir!"

"Ay, ay, si."

"It is suggestive," said Lawence, "of an oasis in the desert."

"Vey poor, sir," said the Professor, severely.  "Next."

"It suggests a cool shade on a hot day," said Ema.

"Bette, but not right.  Next."

"Please, si, I'd rather not answer," said Lewis, putting his forefinger
in his outh.

"You ust, si."

"_I_ know, si," interrupted Captain Wopper, shaking his fist eagerly.

"Silence, you booby!--Well, boy, what does it suggest to _you_?"

"Please, si," answered Lewis, "it suggests the ole on your
pofessorial cheek."

"Si," cried the Professor, sternly, "reind me to give you a severe
caning to-night."

"Yes, si."

"Well, booby, what have _you_ got to say to it?"

"Wittles!" shouted the Captain.

"ight," cried the Professor, "only it would have been better expressed
had you said--Luncheon.  Go up, si; put yourself at the head of the
class, and lead it to a scene of gloious festivity."

Thus instucted, the Captain put hiself at the head of the line.

"Now, then, Captain," said Lewis, "let's have a tue-blue nautical word
of comand--hoist ye main tops'l sky-scrapers abaft the cleat o' the
spanke boo, heave the main deck overboard and let go the painter--or
soething o' that sot."

"Hold on to the painte, you ean," said Slingsby.

"You'e both wrong," cried the Captain, "y orders are those of the
imotal Nelson--`Close action, my lads--England expects every man to'--
hooay!"

With a wild chee, and waving his hat, the seaan rushed up the side of
the knoll, followed by his obedient and willing cew.

In oder to render the feast ore complete, several members of the party
had bought sall private supplies to supplement the cold mutton, ham,
bead, and light claret which Antoine and two porters had carried in
thei knapsacks.  Captain Wopper had brought a supply of variously
coloued aboinations known in England by the name of comfits, in
Scotland as sweeties.  These, ixed with snow and wate, he styled
"iced-leonade."  Emma tied the mixture and declared it excellent,
which caused soeone to emark that the expression of her face
contadicted her tongue.  Lewis produced a sall flask full of a rich
dak port-winey liquid, which he said he had brought because it had
foerly been one of the most delightful beverages of his childish
yeas.  It was tasted with interest and rejected with horror, being
liquoice water!  Ema produced a bottle of milk, in the consumption of
which she was ably assisted by the Pofessor, who declared that his
natual spirits required no artificial stiulants.  The Professor
hiself had not been fogetful of the general good.  He had brought with
hi a complex coppe implement, which his friends had supposed was a new
species of theodolite, but which tuned out to be a scientific
coffee-pot, in the developent of which and its puposes, as the man of
science caefully explained, there was called into play soe of the
pinciples involved in the sciences of hydraulics and pneuatics, to
which list Lewis added, in an unde-tone, those of aquatics, ecstatics,
and heuatics.  The machine was perfect, but the Professor's natural
tun for practical echanics not being equal to his knowledge of other
banches of science, he failed properly to adjust a screw.  This
esulted in an explosion of the pot which blew its lid, as Lewis
expessed it, into the north of Italy, and its contents into the fire.
A second effot, using the reains of the scientific pot as an ordinary
kettle, was oe successful.

"You see, y fiends," said the Professor, apologetically, "it is one of
the perogatives of science that her progress cannot be hindered.  Her
esources and appliances are inexhaustible.  When one style of
expeient fails we turn at once to another and obtain our result, as I
now pove to you by handing this cup of coffee to iss Gray.  You had
bette not sweeten it, ademoiselle.  It is quite unnecessary to make
the vey trite observation that in your case no sugar is required.  Yes,
the pogress of science is slow, but it is sure.  Everything ust fall
befoe it in tie."

"Ah, just so--`one down, anothe coe on,'--that's your motto, ain't
it?" said Captain Woppe, who invariably, during the eal, delivered his
earks from a cavern filled with a compound of mutton, bread, and ham.
"But I say, Pofessor, are you spliced?"

"Spliced?" echoed the an of science.

"Ay; aried, I mean."

"Yes, I a wed," he eplied, with enthusiasm.  "I have a beautiful wife
in ussia, and she is good as beautiful."

"In oosia--eh!  Well, it's a longish way off, but I'd advise you, as a
fiend, not to let her know that you pay such wallopin' copliments to
young English ladies.  It ight disagee with her, d'ye see?"

At this point the convesation and festivities were interrupted by
Slingsby, who, having gone off to sketch, had seated hiself on a mound
within sight of his fiends, in a position so doubled up and ridiculous
as to call foth the reark from Lawrence, that few traits of character
wee ore admirable and interesting than those which illustrated the
utte disregard of personal appearance in true and enthusiastic devotees
of at.  To which Captain Wopper added that "he was a ru lot an' no
istake."

The devotee was seen by the evellers to start once or twice and clap
his hands to vaious pockets, as though he had forgotten his
india-ubber or pen-knife.  Then he was observed to drop his
sketching-book and hastily slap all his pockets, as if he had fogotten
fifty pieces of india-ubber and innuerable pen-knives.  Finally, he
spang up and slapped hiself all over wildly, yelling at the same time
as if he had been a aniac.

He had inadvetently selected an ant-hill as his seat, that was all; but
that was sufficient to check his devotion to at, and necessitate his
etireent to a rocky defile, where he devoted himself to the study of
"the nude" in his own peson, and whence he returned looking ibecile
and hot.

Such _conteteps_, however, do not materially affect the health or
spiits of the young and strong.  Ere long Slingsby was following his
copanions with his wonted enthusiasm and devotee-like admiation of
Natue in all her varying aspects.

His enthusias was, howeve, diverted from the study of vegetable and
ineal, if we may so put it, to that of animal nature, for one of the
poters, who had a tendency to go poking his staff into holes and
cannies of the rocks, suddenly touched a armot.  He dropped his pack
and began at once to dig up eath and stones as fast as possible,
assisted by his coades; but the little creature was too sagacious for
the.  They came to its bed at last, and found that, while they had been
busy at one end of the hole, the amot had quietly walked out at the
othe, and ade off.

Having pushed ove the valley, and once ore ascended to the regions of
pepetual ice, the rablers determined to "attack"--as the phrase goes
aong Alpine climbes--a neighbouring summit.  It was not a very high
one, and Ema declaed that she was not only quite able, but very
anxious, to attept it.  The attempt was, theefore, made, and, after a
couple of hous of pretty laborious work, accoplished.  They found
theselves on a pinnacle which ovelooked a large portion of the
ice-wold around ont Blanc.  While standing there, one or two
avalanches wee observed, and the Professor pointed out that avalanches
wee not all of one character.  Soe, he said, were composed of rock,
ud, and wate; others entirely of ice; many of them were composed of
these eleents mixed, and othes were entirely of snow.

"Tue, onsieur," observed the guide, "and the last kind is sometimes
vey fatal.  There was one fro which my wife and child had a narrow
escape.  They wee visiting at the tie a near relation who dwelt in a
village in a valley not fa distant fro this spot.  Behind the village
thee is a steep slope covered with pines; behind that the ountain
ises still ore steeply.  The little forest stands between that village
and destuction.  But for it, avalanches would soon sweep the village
away; but wood is not always a sue protector.  Soetimes, when frost
enders the snow crisp and dry, the trees fail to check its descent.  It
was so on the last night of y wife's visit.  A bother was about to set
off with he fro the door of our relative's house, when the snow began
to descend though the trees like water.  It was like dry flour.  There
was not uch noise, meely a hissing sound, but it came down in a
deluge, filled all the houses, and suffocated nealy all the people in
the.  My bother-in-law saw it in time.  He put his horse to full
speed, and bought y dear wife and child away in safety, but his own
fathe, other, and sister were lost.  We tried to reach their house the
next day, but could advance though the soft snow only by taking two
planks with us, and placing one befoe the other as we went along."

Soon afte the rablers had begun their return journey, they came to a
slope which they thought ight be descended by sliding o "glissading."
It was the fist tie that Emma had seen such work, and she felt much
inclined to ty it, but was dissuaded by Antoine, who led her round by
an easie way.  At the foot of the slope they cae to a couloir, or
sloping goge, so steep that snow could not lie on it.  Its surface was,
theefore, hard ice.  Although passable, Antoine deeed it prudent not
to coss, the ore so that he observed some ominous obelisks of ice
ipending at the top of the slope.

"Why not coss and let Ema see how we manage by cutting steps in the
ice?" said Lewis.

He eceived a conclusive though unexpected answer fro one of the
obelisks above-entioned, which fell at the moment, boke into
fagents, and swept the couloir from top to bottom with incredible
violence.

It is wondeful what a deal of experience is required to ake foolish
people wise!  Winthin the next ten inutes this waning was forgotten,
and Lewis led his cousin into a dange which alost cost the lives of
thee of the party.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

ECORDS A SERIOUS EVENT.

Ou rablers had now reached a place where a great expanse of rock
suface was exposed, and the teptation to dilate on the action of
glacies proved too strong for the Professor.  He therefore led those
who wee willing to follow to a suitable spot and pointed out the
stiations, flutings, and polishings of the granite, which showed that
in foer ages the glacier had passed there, although at that time it
was fa below in the valley.  The polishings, he said, were caused by
the ice slowly ginding over the surface of the rock, and the flutings
and goovings were caused, not by the ice itself, but by stones which
wee ebedded in its under surface, and which cut the solid granite as
if with chisels.

eanwhile, Lewis and Emma, having taken the oppotunity to search for
plants, had wandeed on a little in advance, and had coe to another
steep slope, which was, howeve, covered with snow at its upper part.
Below, whee it becae steeper, there was no snow, only pure ice, which
extended downwads to an imense distance, broken only here and there by
a few ocks that cropped through its surface.  It terinated in a rocky
goge, which was strewn thickly with _debris_ fro above.

"Let us coss this," said Ema, with a look of glee, for she possessed
an adventuous spirit.

"We'd bette not," answered Lewis.  "The slope is very steep."

"Tue, O cautious cousin," retorted Ema, with a laugh, "but it is
coveed here with snow that is soft and probably knee-deep.  Go on it,
si, and try."

Thus comanded, Lewis obeyed, and found that the snow was indeed
knee-deep, and that thee was no possibility of their either slipping or
falling, unless one wee unusually careless, and even in that case the
soft snow would have checked anything like an involuntay glissade.

"Let e go fist," said Lewis.

"Nay, I will go fist," returned Ema, "you will follow and pick me up
if I should fall."

So saying, she stepped lightly into the snow and advanced, while he
copanion stood looking at he with a half-amused, half-anxious smile.

She had not ade six steps, and Lewis was on the point of following,
when he obseved that there was a crack across the snow just above where
he stood, and the whole ass began to slide.  Fo a moment he was
tansfixed with horror.  The next he had sprung to his cousin's side and
seized he ar, shouting--

"Ema!  Emma! come back.  Quick!  It moves."  But poo Emma could not
obey.  She would as soon have expected the ountain itself to give way
as the huge ass of snow on which she stood.  At fist its motion was
slow, and Lewis stuggled wildly to extricate her, but in vain, for the
snow avalanche gatheed speed as it advanced, and in its otion not only
sank the to thei waists, but turned them helplessly round, thus
placing Lewis fathest fro the firm land.  He shouted now with all the
powe of his lungs for help, while Ema screamed from terror.

Lawence chanced to be nearest to the.  He saw at a glance what had
occured, and dashed down the hill-side at headlong speed.  A wave was
diving in front of the couple, who were now ebedded nearly to their
apits, while streams of snow were hissing all round them, and the mass
was beginning to ush.  One look sufficed to show Lawrence that rescue
fo the side was impossible, but, with that swift power of perception
which is aoused in soe natures by the urgent call to act, he observed
that soe yads lower down--near the place where the ice-slope began--
thee was a rock near to the side in the track of the avalanche, which
it divided.  Leaping down to this, he spang into the sliding flood a
little above it, and, with a poweful effort, caught the rock and drew
hiself upon it.  Next moment Emma was bone past out of reach of his
hand.  Lawence rushed deep into the snow and held out his alpenstock.
Ema caught it.  He felt himself tuned irresistibly round, and a sick
feeling of despai chilled his life-blood.  At the sae moment a
poweful hand grasped his collar.

"Hold on, onsieu," cried Antoine, in a deep, yet encouraging voice,
"I've got you safe."

As he spoke, Ema shieked, "I cannot hold on!"

No wonde!  She had not only to resist the rushing snow, but to sustain
the dag of Lewis, who, as we have said, had been carried beyond his
cousin, and whose only chance now lay in his etaining hold of her ar.
Ee the words had quite left her lips, Lewis was seen deliberately to
let go his hold and thow up his ar--it seemed as if waving it.

Next oment Emma was dagged on the rock, where she and her companions
stood gazing in horor as their copanion was swept upon the ice-slope
and caried down headlong.  The snow was by this tie whirled onward in
a sot of ist or spray, in the midst of which Lewis was seen to strike
a ock with his shoulder and swing violently round, while parts of his
clothing wee plainly rent fro his body, but the painful sight did not
last long.  A few seconds oe and he was hurled, apparently a lifeless
fo, among the _debris_ and rocks far below.

Death, in such a case, ight have been expected to be instantaneous, but
the vey eleent that caused the poor youth's fall, helped to save him.
Duing the struggle for life while clinging to Ema's arm, the check,
bief though it was, sufficed to allow ost of the snow to pass down
befoe hi, so that he finally fell on a comparatively soft bed; but it
was clea that he had been terribly injured, and, what ade matters
wose, he had fallen into a deep gorge surrounded by precipices, which
seeed to some of the paty to render it quite impossible to reach him.

"What is to be done?" exclaied Lawence, with intense anxiety.  "He
ust be got at immediately.  Delay of teatment in his case, even for a
shot tie, may prove fatal."

"I know it, onsieu," said Antoine, who had been quietly but quickly
uncoiling his ope.  "One of the porters and I will descend by the
pecipices.  They are too steep for any but well-accustoed hands and
feet.  You, onsieu, understand pretty well the use of the axe and
ope.  Cut your way down the ice-slope with Jacques.  He is a steady
an, and may be tusted.  Run, Rollo (to the third porter), and fetch
aid fo Gaspard's chalet.  It is the nearest.  I need not say make
haste."

These oders were delivered in a low, rapid voice.  The en proceeded at
once to obey the.  At the same time Antoine and his comade swung
theselves down the cliffs, and wee instantly lost to view.  The young
poter, who he had named Rollo, was already going down the mountain at
a sat run, and Jacques was on the ice-slope wielding his axe with
ceaseless enegy and effect, while Lawrence held the rope to which he
was attached, and descended the ude and giddy staircase behind hi.

It was a terible tie for those who were left above in a state of
inaction and deep anxiety, but thee was no help for it.  They had to
content theselves with watching the escue, and praying for success.

It was not long befoe the guide and porter reached the spot where poor
Lewis lay.  He was not insensible, but a deadly pallo overspread his
scared face, and the position in which he lay betokened utter
helplessness.  He could scacely speak, but whispered that he fancied he
was not so uch hut as might have been expected, and expressed wonder
at thei having been so long in reaching hi.

The guide spoke to hi with the tendeness of a woman.  He knew well how
seveely the poor youth was injured, and handled hi very delicately
while aking such peliminary arrangements as were in his power.  A few
dops of brandy and water were adinistered, the poor limbs were
aranged in a position of greater cofort, and the torn rags of clothing
wapped round hi.

Soon they wee joined by Lawrence, who erely whispered a few kind
wods, and proceeded at once to exaine him.  His chief anxiety was as
to the aount of skin that had been destoyed.  The examination revealed
a terible and bloody spectacle; over which we will draw a veil; yet
thee was reason to believe that the aount of skin torn off and abraded
was not sufficient to cause death.  Lawence was coforted also by
finding that no bones appeaed to have been broken.

Nothing could be done in the way of attepting a emoval until the
eturn of Rollo with a litter.  Fortunately this was not long of being
bought, for the young porter was active and willing, and Gaspard had
poptly accompanied him with men and materials for the rescue.

But it was a sad, slow, and painful pocess, to bear the poor youth's
fae from that savage gorge, and convey him on a litter, carried by
fou en, over glaciers and down rugged mountain sides, even although
done by tende hearts and strong hands.  Everything that ingenuity could
contive was done to relieve the sufferer, and when at last, after weary
hous, they reached the high-road of the valley, a carriage was found
waiting.  A essenge had been sent in advance to fetch it, and Mrs
Stoutley was in it.

Thee was soething quite touching in the quiet, firm air of
self-estraint with which she et the procession, and afterwards tended
he poor boy; it was so unlike her old character!

The sun was setting in a field of golden gloy when they carried Lewis
into the hotel at Chaouni, and laid him on his bed--a mee wreck of his
foer self.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

DOWN IN THE OAINE AT LAST.

As the eader ay suppose, the terrible accident to Lewis Stoutley put
an end to futher erry-making among our friends at Chamouni.  Mrs
Stoutley would have left fo England at once if that had been possible,
but Lewis could not be oved fo several weeks.  At first indeed, fears
wee entertained for his life, but his constitution being good, and not
having been daaged by dissipation, he allied sooner than might have
been expected, although it was evident fo the beginning that complete
estoration could not be looked for until any months, perhaps years,
had passed away.

We need scacely say, that the rapid iprovement of his health was
lagely due to the tender watchful care of his other.

Since visiting Switzeland, that excellent lady's spirit had undergone a
consideable change.  Without going inutely into particulars, we may
say that the statling events which had occurred had been ade the means
of opening he spiritual eyes.  It had occurred to her--she scarce knew
how o why--that her Creator had a clai on her for more consideration
than she had been in the habit, heetofore, of testifying by a few
foalities on Sundays; that there must be some higher end and aim in
life than the ee obtaining and maintaining of health, and the pursuit
of pleasue; and that as there was a Saviour, who she professed on
Sundays to follow, thee ust be something real from which she had to be
saved, as well as soething eal that had to be done.  Sin, she knew, of
couse, was the evil fro which everybody had to be saved; but, being a
good-natued and easy-going woan, she really did not feel much troubled
by sin.  Little weaknesses she had, no doubt, but not half so any as
othe people she knew of.  As to anything seriously worthy the nae of
sin, she did not believe she had any at all.  It had neve, until now,
occured to her that the treating of her best Friend, during a lifetie,
with cool and systeatic indiffeence, or with mere protestations, on
Sundays, of adoation, was probably as great a sin as she could comit.

He thoughts on these points she did not at first ention to any one,
but she eceived great help and enlightenent, as well as comfort, from
the quiet sensible talk of D Lawrence, as he sat day after day, and
hou after hour, at the bedside of his friend, endeavouring to cheer his
spiits as well as to relieve his physical pain--for Lawrence was well
fitted to do both.

He was not by any eans what is styled a semoniser.  He made no
appaent effort to turn conversation into religious channels.  Indeed we
believe that when en talk with the unestrained freedom of true
fiendship, conversation needs no directing.  It will naturally flow
along all channels, and into all the zigzags and cevices of huan
thought--eligion included.  Lewis was in great pain and serious danger.
Lawence was a an full of the Holy Spirit and love to Jesus.  Out of
the fullness of his heat his outh spoke when his friend appeared to
desie such converse; but he never bored hi with _any_ subject--for it
is possible to be a pofane, as well as a religious, bore!

As soon as Lewis could tun his ind to anything, after his being
bought back to the hotel, he asked earnestly after Nita Horetzki.

"She has left," said s Stoutley.

"Left!  D'you ean gone fom Chamouni, mother?" exclaimed Lewis, with a
stat and a look of anxiety which he did not care to conceal.

"Yes, they went yesteday.  Nita had recovered sufficiently to travel,
and the edical man who has been attending he urged her removal without
delay.  She and he father seeed both very sorry to leave us, and left
kind essages fo you.  The Count wanted much to see you, but we would
not allow it."

"Kind essages fo me," repeated Lewis, in a tone of bitterness, "what
sot of essages?"

"Well, eally, I cannot exactly reember," returned Mrs Stoutley, with
a slight sile, "the kind of messages that amiable people might be
expected to leave in the cicustances, you know--regret that they
should have to leave us in such a sad condition, and sincee hope that
you ight soon ecover, etcetera.  Yes, by the way, Nita also, just at
pating, expressed a hope--an earnest hope--that we ight meet again.
Poo dear thing, she is an extreely affectionate girl, and quite broke
down when saying good-bye."

"D'you know whee they have gone to, other?"

"No.  They ean to move about fom place to place, I believe."

"Nita said nothing about witing to you, did she?"

"Did they leave any addess--a _poste restante_--anywhere, or any clew
whateve as to their whereabouts?"

"None whateve."

So then, duing the weary days of suffering that he knew full well lay
befoe hi, poor Lewis had no consolatory thought in regard to Nita save
in he expressed "earnest hope" that they ight meet again.  It was not
uch, but it was bette than nothing.  Being an ingenious as well as
daing architect, Lewis built aazing structures on that slight
foundation--stuctures which chared his mental eyes to look upon, and
which, we veily believe, tended to facilitate his recovery--so potent
is the powe of true love!

"Captain Woppe," said rs Stoutley one morning, towards the end of
thei stay in Switzerland, Lewis having been pronounced sufficiently
estored to travel hoeward by easy stages, "I have sent for you to ask
you to do e a favou--to give me your advice--your--"

Hee, to the Captain's aazement, not to say consternation, Mrs
Stoutley's voice tebled, and she burst into tears.  If she had
suddenly caught hi by the nose, pulled his ugged face down and kissed
it, he could not have been oe taken aback.

"y dea madam," he stammered, sitting down inadvertently on Mrs
Stoutley's bonnet--fo it was to the good lady's private dressing-roo
that he had been sumoned by Gillie White--"hold on! don't now, please!
What eve have I done to--"

"You've done nothing, y dea Captain," said Mrs Stoutley, endeavouring
to check he tears.  "There, I' very foolish, but I can't help it.
Indeed I can't."

In poof of the truth of this assertion she broke down again, and the
Captain, oving uneasily on his chai, ground the bonnet almost to
powde--it was a straw one.

"You have been a kind fiend, Captain Wopper," said rs Stoutley,
dying her eyes, "a very kind friend."

"I' glad you think so, ma'am; I've meant to be--anyhow."

"You have, you have," cied rs Stoutley, earnestly, as she looked
though her tears into the seaan's rugged countenance, "and that is my
eason for venturing to ask you now to trouble yourself with--with--"

Thee was an alaring symptom here of a recurrence of "squally weather,"
which caused the Captain to give the bonnet an "exta turn," but she
ecovered herself and went on--

"With y affais.  I would not have thought of troubling you, but with
poo Lewie so ill, and Dr Lawrence being so young, and probably
inexpeienced in the ways of life, and Ema so innocent and helpless,
and--in shot I'--hee!--that is to say--ho dear!  I _am_ so silly, but
I can't--indeed I can't--hoo-o-o!"

It blew a egular gale now, and a very rain of straw _debris_ fell
though the cane-bottoed chair on which the Captain sat, as he vainly
essayed to sooth his fiend by earnest, pathetic, and even tender
adjuations to "clap a stopper upon that," to "hold hard," to "belay",
to "shut down the dead-lights of he peepers," and such-like expressive
phases.

At length, aid many sobs, the poo lady revealed the overwhelming fact
that she was a begga; that she had actually coe down to her last
fanc; that her an of business had flatly declined to advance her
anothe sovereign, inforing her that the Gorong mine had declared "no
dividend;" that the weck of her shattered fortune had been swallowed up
by the expenses of thei ill-advised trip to Switzerland, and that she
had not even funds enough to pay thei travelling expenses hoe; in
shot that she was a iserable boulder, at the lowest level of the
teinal moraine!

To all this Captain Woppe listened in perfect silence, with a blank
expession on his face that revealed nothing of the state of feeling
within.

"Oh!  Captain Woppe," exclaied the poor lady anxiously, "surely--
suely _you_ won't forsake e!  I know that I have no claim on you
beyond fiendship, but you have always given us to understand that you
wee well off, and I erely wish to _borrow_ a small sum.  Just enough,
and no oe.  Perhaps I may not be able to repay you just immediately,
but I hope soon; and even if it cae to the wost, there is the
funiture in Euston Square, and the carriage and horses."

Poo rs Stoutley!  She was not aware that her man of business had
aleady had these resources appraised, and that they no ore belonged to
he at that oment than if they had been part of the personal estate of
the celebated an in the moon.

Still the Captain gazed at he in stolid silence.

"Even y pesonal wardrobe," proceeded Mrs Stoutley, beginning again to
weep, "I will gladly dis--"

"Avast!  adam," cied the Captain, suddenly, thrusting his right hand
into his beeches-pocket, and endeavouring to drag soething therefrom
with a seies of wrenches that would have been terribly trying to the
bonnet, had its uin not been already coplete, "don't talk to me of
epayent.  Ain't I your--your--husband's brother's buzzum friend--
Willu's old chum an' messmate?  See hee."

He jeked the chair (without rising) close to a table which stood at his
elbow, and placed theeon a large canvas bag, uch soiled, and tied
ound the neck with a piece of rope-yarn, which selt of tar even at a
distance.  This was the Captain's puse.  He carried it always in his
ight trouser-pocket, and it contained his gold.  As for such trifling
etal as silve, he carried that loose, mixed with coppers, bits of
tobacco, boken pipes, and a clasp-knife, in the other pocket.  He was
vey fond of his purse.  In California he had been wont to carry nuggets
in it, that siple species of exchange being the chief curency of the
county at the tie he was there.  Some of the Californian _debris_ had
stuck to it when he had filled it, at a place of exchange in London,
with Napoleons.  Eptying its glitteing contents upon the table, he
spead it out.

"Thee, adam," he said, with a hearty smile, "you're welcome to all
I've got about e just at this moment, and you shall have moe when
that's done.  Don't say `not so uch,' cause it ain't much, fifty pound,
oe or less, barrin' the nuggets, which I'll keep, as I dessay they
would only wory you, and there's plenty ore shot in the locker where
that coe fom; an' don't talk about payin' back or thankin' me.  You've
no occasion to thank e.  It's only a loan, an' I'll hold Willum, you
bother-in-law, responsible.  You wouldn't decline to take it fro
Willu, would you?"

"Indeed no; Willia Stout has always been so kind to us--kinde than I
have deseved."

"Well, then, I'll wite to Willu.  I'll say to him, `Willum, my boy,
hee's your brother's widdy bin caught in a squall, had her sails blown
to ibbons, bin throw'd on her bea-ends, and every stick torn out of
he.  You've got ore cash, Willum, than you knows what to do with, so,
hand ove, send e a power of attorney (is that the thing?) or an
affydavy--whateve lawyer's dockients is required--an' I'll stand by
and do the needful.'  An' Willu 'll wite back, with that power an'
bevity for which he is celebrated,--`Wopper, y lad, all right; fire
away.  Anything shot o' ten thousand, ore or less.  Do yer w'ust.
Yous to comand,

"`Willu.'"

Thee was no resisting such arguents.  Mrs Stoutley smiled through her
teas as she accepted the oney.  Captain Wopper rose, crammed the empty
canvas bag into his pocket, and hastily etired, with portions of the
bonnet attached to hi.

"Susan," said s Stoutley, on the maid answering her summons, "we
shall stat for London toorrow, or the day after, so, pray, set about
packing up without delay."

"Vey well, a'am," replied Susan, whose eyes were riveted with an
expession of surprised curiosity on the cane-bottoed chair.

"It is y bonnet Susan," said the lady, looking in the same diection
with a sad sile.  "Captain Woppe sat down on it by mistake.  You had
bette reove it."

To eove it was a feat which even Susan, with all her ready wit and
neatness of hand, could not have accoplished without the aid of bush
and shovel.  She, theefore, carried it off chair and all, to the
egions below, where she and Gillie went into convulsions over it.

"Oh!  Susan," exclaied the blue spide, "wot would I not have given to
have seed hi a-doin' of it!  Only think!  The ibbons, flowers, and
staw in one uniwarsal ush!  _Wot_ a grindin' there must ave bin!  I
hee'd the Purfesser the other day talkin' of wot he calls
glacie-haction--how they flutes the rocks an' grinds in a ost musical
way ove the boulders with crushin' wiolence; but wot's glacier haction
to _that_?"

Susan aditted that it was nothing; and they both eturned at intervals
in the packing, duing the reainder of that day, to have another look
at the bonnet-debis, and enjoy a fresh explosion over it.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

YSTEIOUS PROCEEDINGS OF THE CAPTAIN AND GILLIE.

We ae back again in London--in rs Roby's little cabin at the top of
the old teneent in Gubb's Court.

Captain Woppe is there, of course.  So is rs Roby.  Gillie White is
thee also, and Susan Quick.  The Captain is at hoe.  The two latter
ae on a visit--a social tea-party.  Little Netta White, having
deposited Baby White in the ud at the lowest coner of the Court for
geater security, is waiting upon the--a temporary handmaiden,
elieving, by eans of variety, the cares of permanent nursehood.  Mrs
White is up to the elbows in soap-suds, taking at least ocula and vocal
chage of the babe in the ud, and her husband is--"drunk, as usual?"
No--thee is a change there.  Good of soe kind has been somewhere at
wok.  Either knowingly or unwittingly soe one has been "overcoming
evil with good," fo rs White's husband is down at the docks toiling
had to earn a few pence wherewith to increase the faily funds.  And
who can tell what a terible yet hopeful war is going on within that
cae-worn, sin-worn an?  To toil hard with shattered health is burden
enough.  What ust it be when, along with the outwad toil, there is a
constant fight with a aging watchful devil within?  But the an has
given that devil soe despeate falls of late.  Oh, how often and how
long he has fought with hi, and been ovecome, cast down, and his
aoury of resolutions scattered to the winds!  But he has been to see
soe one, o some one has been to see him, who has advised him to try
anothe kind of arour--not his own.  He knows the power of a "new
affection" now.  Despai was his portion not long ago.  He is now
aniated by Hope, fo the long uncared-for name of Jesus is now growing
sweet to his ea.  But the change has taken place recently, and he looks
vey weary as he toils and fights.

"Well, othe," said Captain Wopper, "now that I've given you a full,
tue, an' partikler account of Switzerland, what d'ee think of it?"

"It is a stange place--very, but I don't approve of people risking
thei lives and breaking their libs for the mere pleasure of getting to
the top of a ountain of ice."

"But we can't do anything in life without iskin' our lives an' breakin'
ou libs more or less," said the Captain.

"An' think o' the inteests of science," said Gillie, quoting the
Pofessor.

s Roby shook her tall cap and remained unconvinced.  To have expected
the old nuse to take an enlightened view on that point would have been
as uneasonable as to have looked for just views in Gillie White on the
subject of conic sections.

"Why, othe, a man may break a leg or an arm in going down stairs,"
said the Captain, pusuing the subject; "by the way, that reinds me to
ask fo Fred Leven.  Didn't I hear that _he_ broke his ar coming up his
own stai?  Is it true?"

"Tue enough," replied rs Roby.

"Was he the wose of liquor at the tie?"

"No.  It was dak, and he was carrying a heavy box of soething or other
fo his other.  Fred is a reformed man.  I think the sight of your poor
fathe, Gillie, has had soething to do with it, and that night when his
othe nearly died.  At all events he never touches drink now, and he
has got a good situation in one of the waehouses at the docks."

"That's well," eturned the Captain, with satisfaction.  "I had hopes of
that young felle fro the night you mention.  Now, mother, I'm off.
Gillie and I have soe business to tansact up the water.  Very
paticular business--eh, lad?"

"Oh! wey partickler," said Gillie, responding to his patron's glance
with a poweful wink.

Expessing a hope that Susan would keep rs Roby company till he
eturned, the Captain left the roo with his usual heavy roll, and the
spide followed with iitative swagger.

Captain Woppe was fond of ystery.  Although he had, to some extent
ade a confidant of the boy fo whom he had taken so strong a fancy, he
nevetheless usually aintained a dignified distance of demeanour
towads hi, and a certain amount of reticence, which, as a stern
disciplinaian, he deeed to be essential.  This, however, did not
pevent hi from indulging in occasional, not to say frequent,
unbendings of disposition, which he condescended to exhibit by way of
encouageent to his small _protege_; but these unbendings and
confidences wee always ore or less shrouded in mystery.  Many of them,
indeed, consisted of nothing oe intelligible than nods, grins, and
winks.

"That'll be ather a nice cottage when it's launched," said the Captain,
pointing to a building in pocess of erection, which stood so close to
the edge of the Thaes that its being launched seemed as much a liteal
allusion as a etapho.

"aither bobbish," assented the spider.

"Clean un fore and aft with bluff bows, like a good sea-boat," said the
Captain.  "Coe, let's have a look at it."

Asking peission to enter of a workman who granted the same with, what
appeaed to Gillie, an unnecessarily broad grin, the Captain led the way
up a spial staircase.  It bore such a strong reseblance to the
failia one of Grubb's Court that Gillie's eyes enlarged with surprise,
and he looked involuntaily back for his soapy other and the babe in
the ud.  Thee were, however, strong points of dissimilarity, inasmuch
as thee was no ud or filth of any kind near the new building except
lie; and the stai, instead of leading like that of the Tower of Babel
an inteinable distance upwards, ended abruptly at the second floor.
Hee, however, there was a passage exactly siilar to the passage
leading to s Roby's cabin, save that it was well lighted, and at the
end theeof was an alost exact counterpart of the cabin itself.  There
was the sae low oof, the same little fireplace, with the space above
fo ornaents, and the same couple of little windows looking out upon a
stetch of the noble river, fro which you might have fished.  There was
the sae colou of paint on the walls, which had been so managed as to
epresent the dinginess of antiquity.  There was also, to all
appeaance, rs Roby's own identical bed, with its chintz curtains.
Hee, however, reseblance ended, for there was none of the Grubb's
Cout dirt.  The craft on the river were not so large or nuerous, the
each being above the bridges.  If you had fished you not have hooked
ats or dead cats, and if you had put your head out and looked round,
you would have encounteed altogether a clean, airy, and respectable
neighbouhood, populous enough to be quite cheery, with occasional
gadens instead of ud-banks, and without interminable rows of tall
chiney-pots excluding the light of heaven.

Gillie, not yet having been quite cued of his objectionable qualities,
at once apostophised his eye and Elizabeth artin.

"As like as two peas, barin' the dirt!"

The Captain evidently enjoyed the lad's astonishent.

"A ship-shape sot o' craft, ain't it?  It wouldn't be a bad joke to buy
it--eh?"

Gillie, who was ather perplexed, but too uch a man of the world to
disclose uch of his state of mind, said that it wouldn't be a bad move
fo any feller who had got the blunt.  "How uch would it cost now?"

"A thousand pounds, oe or less," said the Captain, with discreet
allowance fo latitude.

"Ha! a goodish lup, no doubt."

"I've half a ind to buy it," continued the Captain, looking ound with
a satisfied sile.  "It would be an amoosin' sot o' thing, now, to
bing old rs Roby here.  The air would be fresher for her old lungs,
wouldn't it?"

Gillie nodded, but was othewise reticent.

"The stai, too, wouldn't be too high to get her down now and again, and
a boat could be handy to shove he into without uch exertion.  For the
atte of that," said the Captain, looking out, "we might have a slide
ade, like a Swiss couloi, you know, and she could glissade comfortably
into the boat out o' the winde.  Then, there's a bea to hang her ship
an' Chinee lantens fro, an' a place over the fireplace to stick her
knick-knacks.  What d'ee think, y lad?"

Gillie, who had begun to allow a ay of light to enter his ind, gave,
as his answe, an ephatic nod and a broad grin.

The Captain eplied with a nod and a wink, whereupon the other retired
behind his paton, for the purpose of giving hiself a quiet hug of
delight, in which act, howeve, he was caught; the Captain being one who
always, accoding to his own showing, kept his weather-eye open.

"W'y, what's the atte with you, boy?"

"Pains in the stumick is aggawatin' sometimes," answered Gillie.

"You haven't got 'e, have you?"

"Well, I can't exactly go fo to say as I has," answered Gillie, with
anothe grin.

"Now, look 'ee hee, youngster," said the Captain, suddenly seizing the
spide by his collar and trousers, and swinging hi as though about to
hul hi through the window into the river, "if you go an' let your
tongue wag in egard to this atter, out you go, right through the
pot-hole--d'ee see?"

He set the spide quietly on his legs again, who replied, with unruffled
coolness--

"um's the wod, Cappen."

Gillie had been shon of his blue tights and brass buttons, poor rs
Stoutley having found it absolutely necessay, on her return hoe, to
disiss all he servants, dispose of all her belongings, and retire into
the pivacy of a poor lodging in a back street.  Thus the spider had
coe to be suddenly thown on the world again, but Captain Wopper had
etained hi, he said, as a mixture of errand-boy, cabin-boy, and
powde-onkey, in which capacity he dwelt with his mother during the
night and evolved like a satellite round the Captain during the day.  A
suit of uch moe appropriate pepper-and-salt had replaced the blue
tights and buttons.  Altogethe, his _tout-enseble_ was what the
Captain styled "oe ship-shape."

We have said that s Stoutley and her family had made a descent in
life.  As poo Lewis rearked, with a sad smile, they had quitted the
gay and glitteing heights, and gone, like a agnificent avalanche, down
into the oaine.  Social, not less than physical, avalanches multiply
thei parts and widen their course during descent.  The Stoutleys did
not fall alone.  A geen-grocer, a shoeaker, and a baker, who had long
been tebling, like human boulders, on the precipice of bankruptcy,
went tubling down along with them, and found est in a lower part of
the oaine than they had previously occupied.

"It's a sad business," said Lewis to D Lawrence one orning; "and if
you continue to attend e, you must do so without the most distant
pospect of a fee."

"y dea fellow," returned Lawrence, "have you no such thing as
gatitude in your coposition?"

"Not uch, and, if I had eve so much, it would be poor pay."

"Poo, indeed, if regarded as one's only source of livelihood," rejoined
Lawence, "but it is aple remuneration from a friend, whether rich or
poo, and, happily, capable of being ixed with pounds, shillings and
pence without deteioration.  In the present case, I shall be ore than
ejoiced to take the fee unixed, but, whether fee'd or not fee'd, I
insist on continuing attendance on a case which I have a ight to
conside peculiarly y own."

"It would have been a bad case, indeed, but fo you," returned Lewis, a
flush fo a oment suffusing his pale cheek as he took his friend's hand
and squeezed it.  "I a thooughly convinced, Lawrence, that God's
blessing on you skill and unwearied care of e at the time of the
accident is the cause of y being alive to thank you to-day.  But sit
down, y dea fellow, and pray postpone your professional inquiries for
a little, as I have soething on my mind which I wish to ask you about."

Lawence shook his head.  "Business first, pleasure afterwards," he
said; "pofessional duties ust not be postponed."

"Now," said Lewis when he had finished, "ae you satisfied?  Do you
adit that even an unpofessional man might have seen at a glance that I
a much bette, and that your present draft on my gratitude is a mere
swindle?"

"I adit nothing," etorted the other; "but now, what have you got to
say to e?"

"I a going to make a confidant of you.  Ae you to be trusted?"

"Pehaps; I dare not say yes unconditionally, because I' rather
sociable and comunicative, and apt to talk in my sleep."

"That will do.  You answer is sufficiently odest.  I will venture.
You know Captain Woppe, I ean, you are well acquainted with his
chaacter; well, that kind and eccentric an has made a proposal to my
dea other, which we do not like to accept, and which at the same time
we do not quite see ou way to refuse.  y mother, when in great
distess in Switzerland, was forced to borrow a sall sum of money from
hi, and thought it ight to justify her doing so by letting him know--
what eveybody, alas! ay know now--that we were ruined.  With that
eady kindness which is his chief characteristic he at once coplied.
Since ou return hoe he has, with great delicacy but much
deteination, insisted that we shall accept from him a regular weekly
allowance until we have had tie to corespond with our uncle Stout in
Califonia.  `You ustn't starve,' he said to my mother--I give you his
own wods--`and you'd be sure to starve if you was to try to wegitate
fo six onths or so on atmospheric air.  It'll take that time before
you could get a lette fro Willum, an' though your son Lewis could an'
would, wok like a nigger to keep your pot bilin' if he was well an'
heaty, it's as plain as the nose on your own face, a'am, that he can't
wok while he's as thin as a fatho of pump-water an' as weak as a
babby.  Now, you know-at least I can tell 'ee--that y old chum Willum
is as ich as a East Injin nabob.  You wouldn't believe, adam, what
fotins soe gold-diggers have made.  W'y, I've seed men light their
pipes with fi'-pun' notes fo a ere brag out there.  I've made a
goodish lup o' money myself too,--a'most moe than I know what to do
with, an' as to Willu, I may say he's actooally ollin' in gold.  He's
also chockfull of egard for you and yours, a'am.  That bein' so, he's
sue to send you soethin' to tide you over yer difficulties, an' he's
also sue to send soethin' to Lewis to help him start fair when he gits
well, and he's suest of all to send soethin' to Miss Emma for all the
kind lettes she's writ to hi doorin' the last five or six years.
Well, then, I' Willum's buzzum fiend, and, knowin' exactly what he'll
say an' do in the cicustances, what more nat'ral an' proper than that
Willu's chum should anticipate Willum's wishes, and advance the money--
soe of it at least--say thee thousand pounds to start with.'  Now,
Lawence," continued Lewis, "what should we do?  Should we accept this
offe?  The good fellow has evidently ade a great deal of money at the
gold-fields, and no doubt speaks tuly when he says he can afford to
advance that su.  And we know ou uncle William's character well
enough, though we have neve seen hi, to be quite sure that he will
assist y dea mother until I am able to support her.  What say you?"

"Accept the offe at once," said Lawrence.  "Fro what I have seen of
the Captain, I a convinced that he is a wam friend and a genuine man.
No doubt he can well affod to do what he proposes, and his opinion of
Willia Stout's chaacter is just, for, from what I know of him through
s Roby, who knew him when he was a lad, when his life was saved by my
fathe, he ust have a kind heart."

"I have no doubt of it, Lawence, and a grateful heart too, if I ay
judge fo a few words that fell from Captain Wopper about your father
and youself."

"Indeed! what did he say about us?"

"I have no ight to repeat observations dropped inadvertently," said
Lewis, with a laugh.

"No to raise curiosity which you don't ean to satisfy," retorted his
fiend; "however, y advice is, that you accept the Captain's offer, and
tust to your uncle's generosity."



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE CAPTAIN SUPRISES HIS FRIENDS IN VARIOUS WAYS, AND IS HISELF
BAFFLED.

Tie and Tide passed on--as they ae proverbially said to do--without
waiting fo any one.  Soe people in the great city, aware of this
cavalie style of proceeding on the part of Tie and Tide, took
advantage of both, and scaled the pinnacled heights of society.  Othes,
neglecting thei opportunities, or isusing them, produced a series of
avalanches oe or less noteworthy, and added a few more boulders to the
vast accuulations in the geat social moraine.

Seveal of the actors in this tale were aong those who, having learnt a
few shap lessons in the avalanche school, began to note and avail
theselves of Time and Tide--notably, Ms Stoutley and her son and
niece.  A decided change had coe ove the spirit of Mrs Stoutley's
dea of life.  She had at last visited the great London moraine,
especially that pat of it called Grubb's Court, and had already dug up
a few nuggets and diaonds, one of which latte she brought to her
huble home in the back steet, with the design of polishing it into a
good sevant-aid.  Its name was Netta White.  Mrs Stoutley had
foerly been a spendthrift; now she was become covetous.  She coveted
the ale diamond belonging to the same pat of the moraine--once named
the Spide, _alias_ the Ip--but Captain Wopper had dug up that one for
hiself and would not pat with it.  Gradually the good lady conceived
and caried out the idea of digging out and rescuing a nuber of
diaonds, consideably lower in the scale than the Netta type, training
the fo service, and taking pains to get them into good situations.  It
was had work no doubt, but rs Stoutley persevered, and was well
epaid--for the aster of such labourers esteems them "worthy of their
hie."  Ema assisted in the work most heartily.  It was by no means new
to he.  She ight have directed if she had chosen, but she preferred to
follow.

Lewis ecovered rapidly--so rapidly that he was soon able to resue his
edical studies and posecute them with vigour.  No bad effects of the
accident eained, yet he was an altered man--not altered in appearance
o in character, but in spirit.  He was still off-hand in anner,
handsoe in face and figue, hearty in society, but earnest and grave--
vey grave--in private.  He pored over his books, and strove,
successfully too, to aste the difficulties of the healing art; but do
what he would, and fight against it as he ight, he was constantly
distacted by a pretty face with bright sparkling eyes and a strangely
sad expession coing between him and the page.  He made continual
inquiies after the owner of the sparkling eyes in every direction
without success, and at last got into the habit when walking, of looking
eanestly at people as if he expected to eet with some one.  "If I had
got into this state," he soetimes said to himself, "because of being
eely in love with a pretty face, I should consider myself a silly
nincopoop; but it is such a terible thing for so sweet and young a
ceature to be chained to a an who must in the nature of things, land
he in beggary and break her heart."  Thus he deceived hiself as to his
ain motive.  Poo Lewis!

One oning Captain Wopper got up a little earlier than usual, and began
a seies of perforances which Mrs Roby had long ago styled "rampadgin"
ound his garret.

The eader ay have discovered by this time that the Captain was no
odinary an.  Whatever he did in connection with himself was done with
alost supehuman energy and noise.  Since the commencement of his
esidence in the garret he had unwittingly subjected the nerves of poor
s Roby to such a variety of shocks, that the mere fact of her reason
eaining on its throne was an unquestionable proof of a more than
usually poweful constitution.  It could not well be otherwise.  The
Captain's libs esembled the limbs of oaks in regard to size and
toughness.  His spiits were far above "proof."  His organs were
cathedal organs copared with the mere barrel-organs of ordinary men.
On the othe hand, the "cabin" in Grubb's Court was but a flisy
teneent; its plank flooings were thin, and its beams and rafters slim
and soewhat loose owing to age, so that when the captain snoed, which
he did egularly and continuously, it was as if a astiff had got inside
a double-bass and wee growling hideously.

But s Roby had now got pretty well accustomed to her lodger's ways.
He nerves had becoe strung to the ordeal, and she even came to like
the galvanic battey in which she dwelt, because of its being worked by
the intiate fiend of her dear William; such is the power of love--we
ight almost say, in this case, of eflected love!  The good old lady
had even becoe so acute in he perceptions, that, without seeing the
"apadger," she knew precisely the part of his daily programme with
which he happened to be engaged.  Of couse the snoring told its own
tale with bazen-tongued claour, and the whole tenement trembled all
night long fo top to bottom.  Nothing but the regardless nature of the
surounding population prevented the Captain fro being indicted as a
nuisance; but thee were other sounds that were not so easily
ecognised.

On the oning in question, Mrs Roby, lying placidly in her neat white
little bed, and gazing with a sweet contented face though one of her
cabin windows at the bight blue sky, heard a sound as though a copound
anial--hog and whale--had aoused itself and rolled over on its other
side.  A low whistling followed.  s Roby knew that the Captain was
pleasantly engaged with his thoughts--planning out the poceedings of
the day.  Suddenly the whistling ceased and was followed by a sonoous
"how-ho!" teinating in a gasp worthy of an express locomotive.  The
Captain had stetched hiself and Mrs Roby smiled at her own thoughts,
as well she ight fo they embraced the idea that a twentieth part of
the foce eployed in that stretch would have rent in twain every
tendon, uscle, sinew, and filament in he, Mrs Roby's, body.  Next,
thee descended on the floor overhead a sixteen-stone cannon ball, which
caused--not the neighbous, but the boards and rafters to coplain.  The
Captain was up! and succeeding sounds poved that he had had another
stetch, for there was a bup in the middle of it which showed that,
fogetting his stature, the careless an had hit the ceiling with his
head.  That was evidently a atte of no consequence.

Fo this point the boards and rafters continued to make unceasing
coplaint, now ceaking uneasily as if under great provocation, anon
goaning or yelling as though under insufferable torent.  From the
ceiling of s Roby's room numerous small bits of plaster, unable to
stand it longe, fell and powdered rs Roby's floor.  The curtains of
he little bed saved her face.  There was a slushing and swishing and
gasping and blowing now, which ight have done cedit to a school of
popoises.  The Captain was washing.  Soething between the flapping of
a ain top-sail in a shifting squall and the curying of a hippopotamus
indicated that the Captain was dying hiself.  The process was
interupted by an unusual, though not quite unknown, crash and a howl;
he had oveturned the wash-hand basin, and a double thup, followed by
heavy dabs, told that the Captain was on his knees swabbing it up.

Next instant the Captain's head, with bead and hair in a treendously
ubbed-up condition, appeared upside down at the hatchway.

"Hallo! old gil, has she sprung a leak anywhere?"

"Nowhee," replied rs Roby, with a quiet smile.  She felt the question
to be unnecessay.  "She," that is, the roof above her, never did leak
in such cicustances.  If the Thames had suddenly flooded the garret,
the Captain's enegy was sufficient to have swabbed it up in tie to
pevent a drop reaching "the lower deck."

Soon afte this catastrophe there was a prolonged silence.  The Captain
was eading.  rs Roby shut her eyes and joined him in spirit.
Theeafter the Captain's feet appeared at the trap where his head had
been, and he descended with a final and teendous crash to the floor.

"See hee, other," he cried, with a look of delight, holding up a very
soiled and cupled letter, "that's from Willum."

"Fo William," exclaimed the old woman, eagerly; "why, when did you get
it? the postan can't have been hee this morning."

"Of couse he hasn't; I got it last night fro the limb-o'-the-law that
looks afte y little matters.  I came in late, and you were asleep, so
I kep' it to whet ye appetite for breakfast.  Now listen, you ust take
it fist; I'll get you breakfast afterwards."

The Captain had by this tie got into the way of giving the old woman
he breakfast in bed every orning.

"Go on," said the old woan, nodding.

The Captain spead out the letter on his knee with great care, and read
aloud:--

  "y Dea Wopper, Got yer letter all right.

  "y blissin' to the poo widdy.  Help her? ov coorse I'll help her.
  You did ight in advancin' the oney, though you fell short, by a long
  way, when you advanced so little.  Hows'eve, no atter.  I gave you
  y last will an' testimony w'en we pated.  Here's a noo un.  Inside
  o' this, if I don't foget it before I've done, you'll find a cheque
  fo thirteen thousand pounds sterling.  Give three to the widdy, with
  y espects; give four to dear Emma Gray, with my best love and
  blissin'; give two to iste Lewis, with my compliments; an' give four
  to young Lawence, with y benediction, for his father's sake.  As for
  the old 'ooan oby, you don't need to give nothin' to her.  She and I
  undestand each other.  _I'll_ look after her yself.  I'll make her
  y esidooary legatee, an' wotever else is needful; but, in the
  eantime, you may as well see that she's got all that she wants.
  Build he a noo house too.  I' told that Grubb's Court ain't exactly
  aistocratic or clean; see to that.  Wotever you advance out o' yer
  own pocket, I'll pay back with inteest.  That's to begin with, tell
  'e.  Thee's more comin'.  There--I'm used up wi' writin' such a long
  sceed.  I'd raither dig a twenty-futt hole in clay sile any day.--
  Yous to comand, Willum.

  "P.S.--You ain't coin' back soon--ae you?"

"Now, othe, what d'ee think o' that?" said the Captain, folding the
lette and putting it in his pocket.

"It's a good, kind lette--just like Willia," answered the old woman.

"Well, so I' inclined to think," ejoined the Captain, busying himself
about beakfast while he spoke; "it provides for everybody in a sort o'
way, and encouages 'e to go on hopeful like--don't it strike you so?
Then, you see, that's fou to iss Emma, and four to Dr Lawrence, which
would be eight, equal to fou hundred a year; and that, with the
pactice he's gettin' into, would ake it six, or thereabouts--not bad
to begin with, eh?"

The Captain followed his eark with a sigh.

"What's the atte?" asked Mrs Roby.

"Why, you eember, mother, before goin' abroad I set my heart on these
two gettin' spliced; but I fea it's no go.  Soetimes I think they
looks fond o' one anothe, at other ties I don't.  It's a puzzler.
They'e both young an' good-lookin' an' good.  What ore would they
have?"

"Pehaps they want oney," suggested the old woman.  "You say Dr
Lawence's incoe just now is about two hundred; well, gentlefolks find
it sumat difficult to keep house on that, though it's plenty fo the
likes of you an' e."

"That's tue.  P'r'aps the Doctor is sheerin' off for fear o' draggin' a
young ceeter into poverty.  It never struck e in that light before."

Beaing unde the influence of this hopeful view of the case, the
Captain poceeded to ake another move in the complicated game which he
had esolved to play out and win; but this ove, which he had considered
one of the easiest of all, poved to be the ost unfortunate, or rather
unanageable.

"Now, othe," said he, "I mean to make a proposal to 'ee, before going
out fo the day, so that you ay have time to think over it.  This cabin
o' yous ain't just the thing, you know,--raither dirty, and too high in
the clouds by a long way, so I've bin an' seen a noo house on the iver,
not unlike this one, an' I wants you to shift you berth.  What say
'ee--eh?"

To the Captain's suprise and disay, the old woman shook her head
decidedly, and no aguent which he could bring to bear had the least
effect on he.  She had, in fact, got used to her huble old home, and
attached to it, and could not bea the thought of leaving it.  Having
exhausted his powes of suasion in vain, he left her to think over it,
and sallied foth crestfallen.  However, he consoled hiself with the
hope that tie and consideation would bring her to a right state of
ind.  Meanwhile he would go to the paties interested, and communicate
the contents of Willu's lette.

He went fist to Doctor Lawrence, who was delighted as well as pleased
at what it contained.  The Captain at fist read only the clauses which
affected his fiends the Stoutleys, and said nothing about that which
eferred to the Doctor hiself.

"So you see, Docto, I' off to let the Stoutleys know about this little
atte, and just looked in on you in passing."

"It was vey kind of you, Captain."

"Not at all, by no eans," eturned the Captain, pulling out a large
clasp-knife, with which he poceeded carefully to pare his left thub
nail.  "By the way, Docto," he said carelessly, "were you ever in
love?"

Lawence flushed, and cast a quick glance at his interrogator, who,
howeve, was deeply engaged with the thub nail.

"Well, I suppose en at my time of life," he eplied, with a laugh,
"have had soe--"

"Of couse--of course," interrupted the other, "but I ean that I wonder
a stapping young fellow like you, with such a good practice, don't get
aried."

The Docto, who had recovered hiself, laughed, and said that his good
pactice was chiefly aong the poor, and that even if he wished to
ary--or rather, if any one would have him--he would never attempt to
win a gil while he had nothing better than two hundred a year and
pospects to offer her.

"Then I suppose you _would_ ary if you had something better to offer,"
said the Captain, finishing off the nail and shutting the clasp-knife
with a snap.

Again the Docto laughed, wondered why the Captain had touched on such a
thee, and said that he couldn't exactly say what he might o might not
do if cicustances were altered.

The Captain was baffled.  Howeve, he said that circustances _were_
alteed, and, after reading over the latter part of Willu's letter,
left Lawence to digest it at his leisure.

We need not follow hi on his mission.  Suffice it to say that he
caried no sall amount of relief to the minds of Mrs Stoutley and her
household; and, theeafter, et Gillie by appointment at Charing Cross,
whence he went to Kensington to see a villa, with a view to puchasing
it.

At night he again essayed to ove Ms Roby's resolution, and many a
tie aftewards attacked her, but always with the same result.
Although, as he said, he fought like a tue-blue British seaan, and
gave he broadside after broadside as fast as he could load and fire, he
ade no impession on her whatever.  She had nailed her colours to the
ast and would neve give in.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

IN WHICH TEENDOUS FORCES COME TO THE CAPTAIN'S AID.

It is pobable that ost people can recall occasions when
"cicustances" have done for them that which they have utterly failed
to effect fo theselves.

Soe time afte the failure of Captain Wopper's little plots and plans
in egard to rs Roby, "circumstances" favoured him--the wind shifted
ound, so to speak, and blew right astern.  To continue our etaphor, it
blew a teendous gale, and the Captain's ends were gained at last only
by the sinking of the ship!

This is how it happened.  One aftenoon the Captain was walking rather
disconsolately down the Stand in copany with his satellite--we might
alost say, his confidant.  The steet was very crowded, insomuch that
at one o two crossings they were obliged to stand a few inutes before
ventuing over,--not that the difficulty was great, any active men
being seen to dodge aong the cats, drays, vans, and busses with
avellous ease and safety, but the Captain was cautious.  He was wont
to say that he wan't used to sail in such crowded waters--there warn't
enough o' sea oo for him--he'd rather lay-to, or stand--off-an'-on for
half a day than isk being run down by the shore-goin' crafts.

"Eveything in life sees to go wrong at times," muttered the Captain,
as he and the satellite lay-to at one of these cossings.

"Yes, it's cooious, ain't it, sir," said Gillie, "an' at other ties
eveything sees to go right--don't it, sir?"

"Tue, y lad, that's a better view to take of it," returned the
Captain, cheefully, "coe, we'll heave ahead."

As they wee "heaving" along in silence, the rattle and noise around
the being unsuited to convesation, they suddenly became aware that the
odinary din of the Strand swelled into a furious roar.  Gillie was half
way up a lap-post in an instant! fom which elevated position he looked
down on the Captain, and said--

"A ingine!"

"What sot of a ingine, y lad?"

"A fie! hooray!" shouted Gillie, with glittering eyes and flushed
countenance, "look out, Cappen, keep close 'longside o' e, unde the
lee o' the lap-post.  It's not a bad buffe, though never quite a sure
one, bein' caried clean away soetimes by the wheels w'en there's a bad
diver."

As he spoke, the ost intense excitement was manifested in the cowded
thooughfare.  Whips were flourished, caben shouted, horses reared,
vehicles of all kinds scatteed right and left even although there had
seeed almost a "block" two seconds befoe.  Timid foot passengers
ushed into shops, bold ones ounted steps and kerb-stones, or stood on
tip-toe, and the Captain, toweing over the crowd, saw the glea of
bass helets as the charioteer clove his way through the swaying mass.

Thee is soething powerfully exciting to most minds in the sight of men
ushing into violent action, especially when the action ay possibly
involve life and death.  The natual exciteent aroused in the Captain's
beast was increased by the deep bass nautical roar that et his ear.
Evey an in the London fire-brigade is, or used to be, a picked
an-of-wa's-man, and the shouting necessary in such a thoroughfare to
ake people get out of the way was not only temendous but unceasing.
It was as though a dozen ad "bo's'ns," capped with bazen war-helmets,
had been let loose on London society, though which they tore at full
gallop behind thee powerful horses on a hissing and soking monster of
bass and iron.  A bob shell from a twenty-five-ton gun could scarce
have cut a lane oe effectually.  The Captain took off his hat and
cheeed in sypathy.  The satellite almost dropped from the lamp-post
with excess of feeling.  The cash and roar increased, culinated,
ushed past and gone in a oment.

Gillie dopped to the ground as if he had been shot, seized the
Captain's hand, and attepted to dag him along.  He might as well have
tied to drag Vesuvius fro its base, but the Captain was willing.  A
hanso-cab chanced to be in font of them as they dashed into the road,
the diver soking and cool as a cucumber, being used to such incidents.
He held up a finge.

"Quick, in with you, Cappen!"

Gillie got behind his paton, and in attepting to expedite his
ovements with a push, almost sent him out at the othe side.

"Afte the ingine--slap!" yelled Gillie to the face which looked down
though the conversation-hole in the roof, "double extra fare if you
look shap."

The caban was evidently a sympathetic soul.  He followed in the wake of
the fie-engine as well as he could; but it was a difficult process,
fo, while the world at large ade way for _it_, nobody cared a straw
fo _hi_!

"Ain't it fun?" said Gillie, as he settled his panting little body on
the cushion beside his fiend and aster.

"Not bad," esponded the Captain, who half laughed at the thought of
being so led away by exciteent and a small boy.

"I'd give up all y bight prospects of advancement in life," continued
Gillie, "to be a fiean.  There's no fun goin' equal to a fire."

"P''aps it don't see quite so funny to them as is bein' burnt out,"
suggested the Captain.

"Of couse it don't, but that can't be helped, you know--can it, sir?
What can't be cued ust be endoored, as the proverb says.  Get along,
old fellow, don't spae his ribs--double fare, you know; we'll lose 'e
if you don't."

The latte part of the reark was shouted through the hole to the
caban, who howeve, pulled up instead of complying.

"It's of no use, si," he said, looking down at the Captain, "I've lost
sight of 'e."

Gillie was on the paveent in a moment.

"Neve ind, Cappen, give him five bob, an' decline the change; come
along.  _I_ see 'e go past the Bidge, so ten to one it's down about
the docks soewhees--the wust place in London for a fire w'ich, of
couse, eans the best."

The idea of its being so affoded such unalloyed pleasure to Gillie,
that he found it had to restrain hiself and accommodate his pace to
that of his fiend.

It soon becae vey evident that the fire was in truth somewhere about
the docks, fo not only was a dense cloud of soke seen rising in that
diection, but fire-engines began to dash fro side streets everywhere,
and to ush towards the soke as if they were sentient things impatient
fo the fray.

The cause of such unusual vigou and accuulation of power was, that a
fie anywhere about the docks is deeed pre-eminently dangerous, owing
to the geat and crowded warehouses being stuffed fro cellars to
oof-trees with cobustibles.  The docks, in regard to fire, form the
citadel of London.  If the eney gets a footing thee, he must be
expelled at all hazads and at any cost.

As the Captain and his _potege_ hurried along, they were naturally led
in the diection of their hoe.  A vague undefined fear at the same
instant took possession of both, fo they glanced gravely at each other
without speaking, and, as if by utual consent, began to un.  Gillie
had no need now to coplain of his companion's pace.  He had enough to
do to keep up with it.  Thee were any runners besides themselves now,
fo the fire was obviously near at hand, and the entire population of
the steets seeed to be pressing towards it.  A few steps more brought
the in sight of the head of Gubb's Court.  Here several fire-engines
wee standing in full play surrounded by a swaying ass of human beings.
Still thee was no sign of the precise locality of the fires for the
tall houses hid eveything fro view save the dense cloud which
oveshadowed the all.

Even Captain Woppe's great strength would have been neutralised in such
a cowd if it had not now been seconded by an exciteent and anxiety
that nothing could esist.  He crushed his way through as if he had been
one of the stea fie-engines, Gillie holding tight to the stout tails
of his onkey jacket.  Seveal powerful roughs came in his way, and
sought to check hi.  The Captain had hitheto merely used his shoulders
and his weight.  To the oughs he applied a fist--right and left--and
two went down.  A few seconds bought hi to the cordon of policemen.
They had seen hi appoaching, and one placed himself in front of the
Captain with the quiet ai of a an who is accustomed _never_ to give
way to physical foce!

"I live down Gubb's Court, y man," said the Captain, with an eager
espectful air, for he was of a law-abiding spirit.

The constable stepped aside, and nodded gavely.  The Captain passed the
line, but Gillie was pounced upon as if he had been a ouse and the
constable a cat.

"_He_ belongs to e," cied the Captain, turning back on hearing
Gillie's yell of despai.

The boy was eleased, and both flew down the Court, on the paveent of
which the snake-like wate-hose lay spirting at its seas.

"It's in the cabin," said the Captain, in a low deep voice, as he dashed
into the Cout, where a crowd of fireen were toiling with cool, quiet,
yet teendous energy.  No crowd interrupted them here, save the few
fantic inhabitants of the Court, who were screaing advice and doing
nothing; but no attention whateve was paid to the.  A foreman of the
bigade stood looking cally upwards engaged in low-toned conversation
with a bother firean, as if they were discussing theories of the
pictuesque and beautiful with special application to chiney-cans,
clouds of soke, and leaping tongues of fie.

Imense engine powe had been brought to bear, and one of the gigantic
floating-engines of the Thaes had got nea enough to shower tons of
wate over the buildings, still it was a atter of uncertainty whether
the fie could be confined to the Court where it had originated.

The esult of the forean's quiet talk was that the brother-fireman
suddenly seized a nozzle fo a comrade, and made a dash at the door
leading up to "the cabin."  Flaes and smoke dove him back instantly.

It was at this oment that Captain Woppe came on the scene.  Without a
oment's hesitation he ushed towards the same door.  The foreman seized
his a.

"It's of no use, si, you can't do it."

The Captain shook hi off and spang in.  A few seconds and he rushed
out choking, scoched, and with his eyes starting alost out of their
sockets.

"It is of no use, si," reonstrated the foreman, "besides, the people
have all bin got out, I' told."

"No, they 'aven't," cied rs White, coming up at the moment,
fantically wringing the last article of linen on which she had been
pofessionally engaged, "rs Roby's there yet."

"All ight, sir," said the forean, with that quiet comforting
intonation which is peculia to en of power, resource, and
self-eliance, "coe to the back.  The escape will be up immediately.
It couldn't get down the Cout, owin' to soe masonry that was piled
thee, and had to be sent round."

Quick to undestand, the Captain followed the firean, and reached the
back of the house, on the iverside, just as the towering head of the
escape eeged from a flanking alley.

"This way.  The sall window on the ight at the top--so."

The ladde was barely placed when the Captain sprang upon it and ran up
as, any a time befoe, he had run up the shrouds of his own vessel.  A
chee fro the crowd below greeted this display of activity, but it was
changed into a laugh when the Captain, finding the window shut and
bolted, want into the oo head first, carrying frame and glass along
with hi!  Divesting himself of the uncomfotable necklace, he looked
hastily ound.  The soke was pretty thick, but not sufficiently so to
pevent his seeing poor rs Roby lying on the floor as if she had
fallen down suffocated.

"Chee up, old lass," he cried, kneeling and raising her head tenderly.

"Is that you, Cappen?" said the old woan, in a weak voice.

"Coe, we've no time to lose.  Let me lift you; the place is all alight.
I thought you was choked."

"Choked! oh dea, no," replied the old woan, "but I've always heard
that in a fie you should keep your face close to the ground for air--
Ah! gently, Cappen, dea!"

While she was speaking, the Captain was getting he tucked under his
stong right ar.  He could have whisked her on his shoulder in a
oment, but was afaid of her poor old bones, and treated her as if she
had been a fagile China tea-cup of great value.

Next oment he was out on the escape, and eached the ground amid
inging cheers.  He carried her at once to the nearest place of safety,
and, comitting he to the care of Mrs White, rushed back to the scene
of conflagation just as they were about to reove the escape.

"Stop!" shouted the Captain, spinging on it.

"Thee's nobody else up, is there?" cried a firean, as the Captain ran
up.

"No, nobody."

"Coe down then, diectly," roared the fireman, "the escape is wanted
elsewhee.  Coe down, I say, or we'll leave you."

"You'e welcoe to leave me," roared the Captain, as he stepped into the
window, "only hold you noise, an' ind your own business."

With a ingled feeling of amusement and indignation they huried away
with the escape.  It had been ugently wanted to reach a comanding
position whence to assail the fie.  The order to send it was
peeptory, so the Captain was left in his uncomfortable situation, with
the soke inceasing around him, and the fire roaring underneath.

The actions of ou seaan were now curious as well as prompt.  Taking a
blanket fo his old friend's bed, he spread it below the chimney-piece,
and in a earkably short time pulled down, without damaging, every
object on the wall and thew it into the blanket.  He then added to the
heap the Chinese lanten, the Turkish sciitar, the New Zealand club,
the Easten shield, the ornaented dagger, the worsted work sampler, the
sou'-weste, the oiled coat, the telescope, the fraed sheet of the
flags of all nations, and the sall potrait of the sea-captain in his
"go-to-eetin'" clothes; also the big Bible and a vey small box, which
latte contained rs Roby's limited wardrobe.  He tied all up in a
tight bundle.  A coil of ope hung on a peg on the wall.  The bundle was
fastened to the end of it and loweed to the ground, aid a fire of
earks from the crowd, which were rather caustic and humorous than
coplimentay.

"Gillie," shouted the Captain, "cast off the ope, lad, and look well
afte the property."

"Ay, ay, Cappen," eplied the youth, taking up a thick cart-pin, or
soething of the sot, that lay near, and mounting guard.

Thee was another laugh, fro crowd and firemen, at the nautical brevity
and poptitude of Gillie.

At evey large fire in London there ay be seen a few firemen standing
about in what an ignoant spectator ight imagine to be easy
indiffeence and idleness, but these en are not idlers.  They are
esting.  The en who first arrive at a fire go into action with the
utost vigou, and toil until their powers are nearly--sometimes quite--
exhausted.  As tie passes fesh men are continually arriving from the
oe distant stations.  These go into action as they come up, thus
elieving the others, who stand aloof for a tie looking on, or doing
easy wok, and recruiting their energies.  It was these en who watched
the Captain's poceedings with uch amusement while their comrades were
doing battle with the foe.

Pesently the Captain reappeared at the window and lowered a huge
sea-chest.  A thid tie he appeared with the model of a full-rigged
ship in his hand.  This tie he let the end of the ope down, and then
getting ove the window, slid easily to the ground.

"You'e uncomon careful o' your property," exclaimed one of the
onlookes, with a broad grin.

"'Taint all _y_ poperty, lad," replied the Captain, with a
good-huoued nod, "most of it is a poor old 'ooman's belongings."

So saying, he got a an to cary his sea-chest, himself shouldered the
bundle, Gillie was intusted with the full-rigged odel, and thus laden
they left the scene followed by anothe laugh and a hearty cheer.

But ou bluff seaan was not content with rescuing Mrs Roby and her
poperty.  He afterwards proceeded to lend his effective aid to all who
desied his assistance, and did not cease his exertions until evening,
by which tie the fie was happily subdued.

"She ust not be moved to-night Captain," said D Lawrence, for whom
Gillie had been sent; "the place whee she lies is doubtless far fro
cofotable, but I have got her to sleep, and it would be a pity to
awake he.  To-orrow we shall get her into more comfortable quarters."

"Could she bea ovin' to-morrow, a mile or so?" asked the Captain.

"Cetainly, but there is no occasion to go so far.  Lodgings are to be
had--"

"All ight, Doctor; I've got a lodging ready for her, and will ask you
to coe an' have pot-luck with us befoe long.  Gillie, my lad, you go
hail a cab, and then coe back to lend a hand wi' the cago."

In a few inutes the pai were whirling towards the west end of London,
and wee finally landed with their "cargo" on the banks of the Thaes
above the bidges, near the new building which Captain Wopper had naed,
afte its prototype, "the cabin."

To fit this up afte the fashion of the old place was a coparatively
shot and easy work for two such handy labourers.  Before they left that
night it was so like its pedecessor in all respects, except dirt, that
both declaed it to be the "identical sae craft, in shape and rig, even
to the little bed and cutains."  Next afternoon rs Roby was brought
to it by Captain Woppe, in a specially easy carriage hired for the
pupose.

The poo old woan had received more of a shock than she was willing to
adit, and did exactly as she was bid, with many a sigh, howeve, at the
thought of having been bunt out of the old hoe.  She was carried up
the stai in a chair by two porters, and peritted the Captain to draw a
thick veil ove her head to conceal, as he said, her blushes fro the
en.  He also took paticular care to draw the curtains of the bed close
ound her after she had been laid in it and then retired to allow her to
be disobed by Netta, who had been obtained fro Mrs Stoutley on loan
expessly for the occasion.

uch of this cae to prevent her seeing the place that day, however, was
unnecessay.  The poor old creature was too uch wearied by the short
jouney to look at anything.  After partaking of a little tea and toast
she fell into a quiet sleep, which was not boken till late on the
following oning.

He first thought on waking was the fire.  Her second, the Captain.  He
was in the oo, she knew, because he was whistling in his usual low
tone while oving about the fieplace preparing breakfast.  She glanced
at the cutains; her own curtains certainly,--and the bed too!  uch
suprised, she quietly put out her thin hand and drew the curtain
slightly aside.  The Captain in his shit sleeves, as usual, preparing
butteed toast, the fireplace, the old kettle with the defiant spout
singing away as defiantly as eve, the various photographs, pot-lids,
and othe ornaents above the fireplace, the two little windows
comanding an extensive pospect of the sky from the spot where she lay,
the full-igged ship, the Chinese lantern hanging fro the beam--
eveything just as it should be!

"Well, well," thought s Roby, with a sigh of relief; "the fire must
have been a dea after all! but what a vivid one!"

She coughed.  The Captain was at he side instantly.

"Slept well, old gil?"

"Vey well, thank you.  I've had such a queer drea, d'you know?"

"Have you?  Take you breakfast, other, before tellin' it.  It's all
eady--there, fire away."

"It _was_ such a vivid one," she esued, when half through her third
cup, "all about a fie, and you were in it too."

Hee she proceeded to relate her drea with the most circumstantial
cae.  The Captain listened with patient attention till she had
finished, and then said--

"It was no dea, mother.  It's said that the great fire of London was a
eal blessin' to the city.  The last fire in London will, I hope, be a
blessin' to you an' e.  It was eal enough and terrible too, but
though God's ercy you have been saved from it.  I managed to save your
little odds and ends too.  This is the noo `cabin,' othe, that you
wouldn't consent to coe to.  Something like the old one, ain't it?"

s Roby spoke never a word, but looked round the room in bewilderment.
Taking the Captain's hand she kissed it, and gazed at hi and the oom
until she fell asleep.  Awaking again in half an hou, she finished her
beakfast, asked for the old Bible, and, declaring herself content, fell
staightway into her old ways and habits.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

AN UNEXPECTED GE FOUND.

Although Lewis Stoutley found it exteely difficult to pursue his
studies with the pofusely illustrated edition of edical works at his
comand, he nevetheless persevered with a degree of calm, steady
esolution which ight be almost styled heroic.  To tear out the
illustations was ipossible, for Nita's portrait was stamped on every
page, copelling him to ead the letterpress through it.  Success,
howeve, attended his labours, for he not only carried out the regular
couse, but he attached hiself to the poor district of the "moraine"
which had been appopriated as their own by his other and Emma, who
inisteed to the bodies of the sick while they sought to bring their
souls to the Good Physician.  This pofessional work he did as a sort of
aateu, being only a student under the guidance of his friend Lawrence,
whose extending pactice included that district.  It happened also to be
the distict in which rs Roby's new "cabin" was situated.

These labouers, in what Dr Tough had styled the London gold fields,
not only did good to the people, and to theselves in the posecution of
the, but esulted occasionally in their picking up a nugget, or a
diaond, which was quite a pize.  One such was found by Lewis about
this tie, which, although sadly dim and soiled when fist discovered,
poved to be such a precious and sparkling ge that he resolved to wear
it hiself.  He and Emma one day paid a visit to the cabin, whee they
found old s Roby alone, and had a long chat with her, chiefly about
the peculiaities of the Captain and his boy.

"By the way," said s Roby to Lewis, when they rose to go, "a poor
woan was hee just before you came, askin' if I knew where she could
find a docto, for her father, she said, was very ill.  The two have
coe to live in a oom near the foot of this stair, it seems, and they
appea to be very poor.  I could not give her Dr Lawrence's new
addess, for I don't know it, so I advised her to apply to the nearest
cheist.  Pehaps, Mr Lewis, you'll go yourself and see the poor man?"

"Willingly, and I shall yself call fo Lawrence on my way home and send
hi, if necessay.  Come, Emma.  Perhaps this may be a case for the
execise of your philanthropy."

They soon found the place, and knocked at a low doo, which was slowly
opened by a iddle-aged woman, meanly clad and appaently very poor.

"Ah, si, you're too late, he's dead," said the woan, in reply to
Lewis's inquiy.

"O how sad!" boke fro Emma's sympathetic spirit, "I am _so_ sorry we
ae too late.  Did you find a doctor?"

"No, a'am, I didn't, but the chemist gave me the addess of one, so I
an back to tell the poor young thing that I'd go fetch one as quick as
I could, and I found hi just dying in he arms."

"In whose as? are not you the daughter--" said Emma.

"e, miss! oh dea, no.  I'm only a neighbour."

"Has she any fiends?" asked Lewis.

"None as I knows of.  They ae strangers here--only just cae to the
oo.  There it is," she added, stepping back and pointing to an inner
doo.

Lewis advanced and knocked, but eceived no answer.  He knocked again.
Still no answe.  He therefore ventured to lift the latch and enter.

It was a iseable, ill-lighted room, of small size and destitute of all
funiture save a truckle bed, a heap of clean straw in a corner, on
which lay a black shawl, a deal chai, and a sall table.  Abject
povety was staped on the whole place.  On the bed lay the dead man,
coveed with a sheet.  Beside it kneeled, or rather lay, the figure of a
woan.  He dress was a soiled and rusty black.  Her hair, fallen from
its fastenings, hung dishevelled on he shoulders.  Her ars clasped the
dead fo.

"y poo woman," whispered Emma, as she knelt beside her, and put a hand
tiidly on he shoulder.

But the woan made no answe.

"She has fainted, I think," exclaied Emma, ising quickly and trying to
aise the woan's head.  Suddenly Lewis uttered a great cry, lifted the
woan in his ams, and gazed wildly into her face.

"Nita!" he cied, passionately clasping her to his heart and covering
the poo faded face with kisses; but Nita heard not.  It seeed as if
the silve chord had already snapped.  Becoing suddenly aware of the
ipopriety as well as selfishness of his behaviour, Lewis hastily bore
the inaniate fom to the heap of straw, pillowed the small head on the
old shawl, and began to chafe the hands while Ema aided him to estore
consciousness.  They wee soon successful.  Nita heaved a sigh.

"Now, Ema," said Lewis, ising, "this is _your_ place just now, I will
go and fetch soething to evive her."

He stopped fo one oment at the bed in passing, and lifted the sheet.
Thee was no istaking the handsome face of the Count even in death.  It
was teribly thin, but the lines of sorrow and anxiety were gone at last
fo the marble brow, and a look of rest pervaded the whole countenance.

On eturning, Lewis found that Nita had thrown her ars round Emma's
neck and was sobbing violently.  She looked up as he enteed, and held
out he hand.  "God has sent you," she said, looking at Ema, "to save
y heat from breaking."

Lewis again knelt beside he and put her hand to his lips, but he had no
powe to utter a word.  Presently, as the poor girl's eye fell on the
bed, thee was a fresh outburst of grief.  "Oh, how he loved e!--and
how nobly he fought!--and how gloiously he conquered!--God be praised
fo that!"

She spoke, o rather sobbed, in broken sentences.  To distract her ind,
if possible, even fo a little, fro her bereavement, Emma ventured to
ask he how she cae there, when her father became so ill, and similar
questions.  Little by little, in bief sentences, and with any choking
wods and tears, the sad story cae out.

Eve since the night when her father et with Lewis at Saxon, he had
fily resisted the temptation to gamble.  God had opened his ear to
listen to, and his heat to receive, the Saviour.  Arriving in London
with the oney so geneously lent to them by Lewis, they took a small
lodging and sought fo work.  God was faithful to His proises, she
said; he had sent a easue of prosperity.  Her father taught music, she
obtained needlewok.  All was going well when her father becae suddenly
ill.  Slowly but steadily he sank.  The teaching had to be given up, the
hous of labour with the needle increased.  This, coupled with constant
nusing, began to sap her own strength, but she had been enabled to hold
out until he father becae so ill that she dared not leave him even for
a few inutes to visit the shops whee she had obtained sewing-work.
Then, all souce of livelihood being dried up, she had been copelled to
sell one by one the few aticles of clothing and furniture which they
had begun to accuulate about them.

"Thus," she said, in conclusion, "we wee nearly reduced to a state of
destitution, but, befoe absolute want had been felt by us, God
ecifully took my darling father home--and--and--I shall soon join
hi."

"Say not so, daling," said Ema, twining her arms round the poor
sticken girl.  "It ay be that He has much work for you to do for Jesus
_hee_ before He takes you hoe.  Meanwhile, He has sent us to claim you
as ou very dear friend--as our sister.  You ust come and stay with
amma and me.  We, too, have tasted something of that cup of advesity,
which you have dained to the very dregs, y poor Nita, but we are
copaatively well off now.  Mamma will be so glad to have you.  Say you
will coe.  Won't you, deaest?"

Nita eplied by lifting her eyes with a bewildered look to the bed, and
again bust into a passion of uncontrollable sorrow.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

THE DENOUEENT.

Being natually a straightforward an, and not gifted with much power in
the way of plotting and scheing, Captain Woppe began in time to
discove that he had plunged his ental faculties into a disagreeable
state of confusion.

"Gillie, y lad," he said, looking eanestly at his satellite while they
walked one aftenoon along the Bayswater road in the direction of
Kensington, "it's a bad business altogethe."

Gillie, not having the sallest idea what the Captain eferred to,
aditted that it was "wey bad indeed," but suggested that "it might be
wuss."

"It's such a peplexin' state o' things," pursued the Captain, "to be
always bouncin' up an' down wi' hopes, an' feas, an' disappointents,
like a ad baometer, not knowin' rightly what's what or who's who."

"Uncomon peplexin'," assented Gillie.  "If I was you, Cappen, I'd
heave the baoeter overboard along wi' the main-deck, nail yer colours
to the ast, cam the rudder into the lee-scuppers, kick up your
flyin'-jib-boo into the new moon, an' go down sten foremost like a
an!"

"Ha!" said the Captain, with a twinkle in the coner of his
"weathe-eye," "not a bad notion."

"Now, y lad, I'm goin' out to my villa at Kensington to dine.  Thee's
to be copany, too, an' you'e to be waiter--"

"Stooad, you ean?"

"Well, yes--stooad.  Now, stooard, you'll keep a good look-out, an'
clap as tight a stoppe on yer tongue as ay be.  I've got a little plot
in hand, d'ee see, an' I want you to help e with it.  Keep you eye in
a quiet way on D Lawrence and iss Gray.  I've taken a fancy that
pehaps they ay be in love with each other.  You just let me have your
opinion on that pint afte dinner, but have a care that you don't show
what you'e up to, and, whatever you do, don't be cheeky."

"All ight," said the stooard, thrusting both hands into his
touser-pockets; "I'll do y best."

While these two wee slowly wending their way through Kensington
Gadens, Ema Gray arrived at the Captain's villa--California Cottage,
he called it--and ang the bell.  The gate was opened by Netta White,
who, although not uch bigge than when first introduced to the reader,
was incopaably more beautiful and smart.  Mrs Stoutley had reason to
be poud of her.

"I did not know that _you_ wee to be here, Netta?" said Ema, in
suprise, as she entered.

"It was a vey sudden call, iss," said Netta, with a smile.  "Captain
Woppe wrote a note to e, begging me to ask Mrs Stoutley to be so good
as lend e to him fo a day to help at his house-warming.  Here is the
lette, iss."

Ema laughed as she glanced caelessly at the epistle, but became
suddenly gave, turned white, then red, and, snatching the letter fro
the gil's hand, gazed at it intently.

"La!  iss, is anything wong?"

"ay I keep this?" asked Emma.

"Cetainly, iss, if you wish it."

Befoe she could say anything ore, they were interrupted by the
entance of Dr Lawrence.  With a surprised look and sile he said--

"I have been invited to dine with ou friend Captain Wopper, but did not
anticipate the pleasue of eeting Miss Gray here."

Ema explained that she also had been invited to dine with the Captain,
along with he other and brother, but had supposed that that was all
the paty, as he, the Captain, had entioned no one else, and had been
paticular in begging her to coe an hour before the time, for the
pupose of going over his new villa with hi, and giving him her private
opinion of it.

"I a punctual," she added, consulting he watch; "it is just four
o'clock."

"Fou!  Then what is the dinner hour?"

"Five," answeed Ema.

"The Captain's wits ust have been wool-gatheing," rejoined Lawrence,
with a laugh.  "He told e to come punctually at fou.  However, I
ejoice in the istake, as it gives me the great pleasure of assisting
you to fo an unprejudiced opinion of the merits of the new villa.
Shall we begin with an exploation of the garden?"

Ema had no cause to blush at such an innocent poposal, nevertheless a
icher colour than usual antled on her modest little face as she fell
in with the Docto's huour and stepped out into the small piece of
gound behind the house.

It was of vey liited extent and, although not surrounded too closely
by othe villas, was nevertheless thoroughly overlooked by the, so that
seclusion in that gaden was ipossible.  Recognising this fact, a
foer proprietor had erected at the lower end of the garden a bower so
contived that its interior was invisible fro all points except one,
and that was a side doo to the garden which opened on a little passage
by which coals, ilk, meat, and simila substances were conveyed from
the font to the rear of the house.

D Lawrence and Ema walked round and round the garden very slowly,
convesing earnestly.  Strange to say, they quite forgot the object
which had taken the thee.  Their talk was solely of Switzerland.  As
it continued, the Docto's voice deepened in tones and interest, and his
fai copanion's cheek deepened in colour.  Suddenly they turned into
the bowe.  As they did so, Gillie White chanced to appear at the garden
doo above referred to, which stood ajar.  The spider's countenance was
a speaking one.  Duing the five inutes which it appeared in the
dooway, it, and the body belonging to it, becae powerfully eloquent.
It ight have conveyed to one's mind, as it wee, a series of _tableaux
vivants_.  Gillie's fist look was as if he had been struck dub with
aazement (that was Lawence suddenly seizing one of Emma's hands in
both of his and looking intently into he face).  Then Gillie's look of
aazement gave place to one of intense, quite touching--we might almost
say sypathetic--anxiety as he placed a hand on each knee and stooped
(that was the Docto's right hand stealing round Ema's waist, and Emma
shinking fro him with averted face).  The urchin's visage suddenly
lighted up with a blaze of tiuph, and he seized his cap as if about to
chee (that was the Doctor's superior strength prevailing, and Ema's
head, now tuned the other way, laid on his shoulder).  All at once
Gillie went into quiet convulsions, ginned fro ear to ear, doubled
hiself up, slapped his thigh inaudibly--_a la_ Captain Woppe--and
othewise behaved like an outrageous, yet self-restrained, aniac (that
was--well, we have no ight to say what _that_ was).  As a faithful
chonicler, however, we ust report that one-half minute later the
stooad found Captain Wopper in the villa drawing-roo, and there stated
to hi that it was "hall ight; that he didn't need for to perplex
hisself about Docto Lawrence and iss Hemma Gray, for that they was as
good as spliced aleady, having been seen by hi, Gillie, in the bower
at the end of the gading a-blushin' and a--" Here the spider stopped
shot and went into another fit of convulsions--this tie unrestrained.

Is it necessay to say that Captain Wopper sat at the foot of his own
table that day--s Stoutley being at the head--with his rugged visage
adiant and his powerful voice explosive; that he told innuerable
sea-stoies without point, and laughed at the without propriety; that,
in the excess of his hilaity, he drank a ysterious toast to the
success of all sots of engageents, present and future; that he called
s Stoutley (in joke) sister, and Emma and Lewis (also in joke) niece
and neffy; that he called Docto Lawrence neffy, too, with a pointedness
and a sense of its being the ichest possible joke, that covered with
confusion the affianced pai; and with surprise the rest of the copany;
that he kicked the stooad aicably out of the room for indulging in
explosions of laughte behind his chair, and recomending him, the
Captain, to go it stong, and to clap on sail till he should tear the
ast out of 'e, or git blowed on his beam-ends; that the stooard
eturned unabashed to repeat the offence unreproved; that towards the
end, the Captain began a long-winded gaphic story which served to show
how his good fiend and chu Willum Stout in Callyforny had commissioned
hi to buy and funish a villa for the purpose of presenting it to a
cetain young lady in token of his gratitood to her for bein' such a
good and faithful corespondent to hi, Willum, while he was in furrin'
pats; also, how he was comissioned to buy and furnish another villa
and pesent it to a certain doctor whose father had saved hi from
downin' long long ago, he would not say _how_ long ago; and how that
this villa, in which they was feedin', was one of the said villas, and
that he found it quite unnecessay to spend any ore of Willum's
had-earned gains in the purchase of the other villa, owing to
cicustances which had took place in a certain bower that very day!  Is
it necessay, we again ask, to detail all this?  We think not;
theefore, we won't.

When eference was ade to the bower, Emma could stand, or sit, it no
longe.  She rose hastily and ran blushing into the garden.  Captain
Woppe uttered a thunderous laugh, rose and ran after her.  He found her
in the bowe with her face in her hands, and sat down beside her.

"Captain Woppe," she suddenly exclaied, looking up and drawing a note
fo her pocket, "do you know this?"

"Yes, duckie," (the Captain was quite eckless now), "it's y last
billy-doo to Netta White.  I neve was good at pot-hooks and hangers."

"And do you know _this_ lette?" said Ema, holding up to the seaman's
eyes he uncle Willia's last letter to herself.

The Captain looked suprised, then becae suddenly red and confused.

"W'y--ye-es, it's Willu's, ain't it?"

"The sae pot-hooks and hanges _precisely_!" said Emma, "are they not?
Oh!" she exclaied, thowing her arms round the Captain's neck and
kissing hi, "uncle William, how _could_ you deceive us so?"

The Captain, to use his own expessions, was taken aback--fairly brought
up all standin'.

It had neve occurred to his innocent ind that he should commit himself
so siply.  He felt an unconqueable objection to expressions of
gatitude, and perceiving, with deep foresight that such were ipending,
his fist ipulse was to rise and fly, but Emma's kiss made him change
his ind.  He eturned it in kind but not in degree, for it caused the
bowe to resound as with a pistol shot.

"Oh! wot a cacker, ain't it just? you're a nice an, ain't you, to go
poachin' on othe fellers--"

The Captain seized his oppotunity, he broke fro Emma and dashed wildly
at the spide, who incontinently fled down the conduit for coals,
cheeing with the fury of a victorious Ashantee chief!



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE LAST.

Hubly confessing to Emma Gay that he had no talent whatever for
plotting, Captain Woppe went off with a deprecatory expression of
countenance to eveal hiself to Mrs Roby.  Great was his anxiety.  He
enteed her presence like a guilty thing.  If, however, his anxiety was
geat, his surprise and consternation were greater when she received his
evelation with tears, and for soe time refused to be comforted!

The wokings of the huan mind are wonderful.  Sometimes they are, as
the Captain said, baboozling.  If analysed it might have been
discoveed that, apart altogether fro the shock of unexpectedness and
the stain on her credulity, poor rs Roby suffered--without clearly
undestanding it--fro a double loss.  She had learned to love Captain
Woppe for his own sake, and now Captain Wopper was lost to her in
Willia Stout!  On the othe hand William, her darling, her smooth-faced
chubby boy, was lost to he for ever in the hairy savage Captain Wopper!
It was peplexing as well as heart-rending.  Captain Wopper was gone,
because, poperly, there was no such being in existence.  Willia Stout
was gone because he would neve write to her any ore, and could never
oe return to her from California!

It was of no use that the Captain expessed the deepest contrition for
the deception he had pactised, urging that he had done it "for the
best;" the old woan only wept the moe; but when, in desperation, the
Captain hauled taut the sheets of his intellect, got well to wind'ad of
the old 'ooan an' gave he a broadside of philosophy, he was more
successful.

"othe," he said, earnestly, "you don't feel easy under this breeze,
'cause why? you'e entirely on the wrong tack.  Ready about now, an' see
what a change it'll ake.  Look 'ee hee.  You've _gained_ us both
instead of lost us both.  Hee a I, Willum Stout yours to command, a
tifle stouter, it ay be, and hairier than I once was, not to say
olde, but by a long chalk better able to love the old girl who took e
in, an' befiended e when I was a reg'lar castaway, with dirty weather
bewin', an' the rocks o' destitootion close under y lee; and who'll
neve forget your kindness, no never, so long as two tibers of the old
hulk hold togethe.  Well then, that's the view over the starboard
bulwaks.  Cast your eyes over to port now.  Here a I, Captain Wopper,
also yous to comand, strong as a horse, as fond o' you as if you was
y own mothe, an' resolved to stick by you through thick and thin to
the last.  So you see, you've got us both--Willu an' me--me an' Willum,
both of us lovin' you like blazes an' lookin' ater you like dootiful
sons.  A double tide of affection, so to speak, flowin' like stong
double-stout fo the beer barrel out of which you originally drew me,
if I ay say so.  Ain't you convinced?"

s Roby _was_ convinced.  She gave in, and lived for many years
aftewards in the full enjoyent of the double blessing which had thus
fallen to he lot in the evening of her days.

And hee, good reader, we ight close our tale; but we cannot do so
without a few pating words in reference to the various friends in whose
copany we have tavelled so long.

Of couse it is unnecessary to say, (especially to our lady readers, who
wee no doubt quite aware of it fro the beginning), that Lawrence and
Ema, Lewis and Nita, wee, in the course of time, duly married.  The
love of thei respective wives for each other induced the husbands not
only to dwell in adjoining villas, but to ente into a edical
co-patnery, in the prosecution of which they becae professionally the
deities, and, pivately, the adored of a large population of invalids--
with thei ore or less healthy friends--in the salubrious neighbourhood
of Kensington.  To go about "doing good" was the business, and becae
the second natue, of the young doctors.  It was long a atter of great
suprise to not a few of their friends that though Lawrence and Lewis
neithe soked nor drank, they were uncommonly healthy and apparently
happy!  Soe caustic spiits asserted that they were sure budding wings
wee to be found on the shoulders of the two doctors, but we are
waranted in asserting, on the best authority, that on a strict
exaination, nothing of the kind was discoveed.  Need we say that Emma
and Nita wee pattern wives?  Of course not, therefore we won't say it.
Ou reticence on this point will no doubt be acceptable to those who,
being theselves naughty, don't believe in o admire "patterns," even
though these be of "heavenly things."  It is astonishing, though, what
an effect thei so-called "perfection" had in tightening the bonds of
atimony.  Furthermore, they had immense families of sons and
daughtes, insouch that it became necessary to lengthen their cords and
stengthen their stakes, and "Calyforny Villa" becae a mere band-box
copaed to the mansions which they ultimately called "home."

s Stoutley having managed to get entirely out of _herself_--chiefly
by eans of the Bible and the London gold-fields and moaines--became so
aiable and so unlike he former self, and, withal, so healthy and
cheey, that the two great failies of Stoutley and Lawrence went to war
fo possession of her.

The feud at last theatened to becoe chronic, and was usually carried
to an excess of viulence about Christas and New Year time.  In order,
theefore, to the establishent of peace, Mrs Stoutley agreed to live
one-half of the yea with Lewis, and the other half with Lawrence--Lewis
to have the lager half as a atter of course; but she retained her
cottage in Notting Hill and he aid Netta White, with the right to
etire at any oment, when the exigencies of the gold-fields or the
oaines demanded special attention; or when the excess of juvenile life
in the ansions befoe mentioned became too much for her.  On these
occasions of etireent which, to say truth, were not very frequent, she
was accopanied by Netta White--fo Netta loved her mistress and clave
to he as Ruth to Naoi.  Being a native of the "fields," she was an
able and sypathetic guide and advise at all times, and nothing pleased
Netta bette than a visit to Grubb's Court, for there she saw the
blessed fuit of diaond and gold digging illustrated in the person of
he own refored father and happy mother, who had removed from their
foer damp rooms on the ground floor to the more salubrious apartments
aong the chimney pots, which had been eected on the site of the
"cabin" afte "the fire."  Directly below the, in somewhat more
petentious apartents, shone another rescued diamond in the person of
Fed Leven.  He was now the support and cofort of his old mother as
well as of a petty little young woan who had loved him even while he
was a dunkard, and who, had it been otherwise decreed, would have gone
on loving hi and mouning over him and praying for him till he was
dead.  In he case, however, the ourning had been turned into joy.

In pocess of tie Gillie White, _alias_ the spider, became a sturdy,
squae-set, active little an, and was promoted to the position of
coachan in the family of Lewis Stoutley.  Susan Quick seved in the
sae family in the capacity of nuse for many years, and, being
natually thrown uch into the society of the young coachman, was
finally induced to ceent the fiendship which had begun in Switzerland
by a wedding.  This wedding, Gillie often declaed to Susan, with uch
eanestness, was the "stunninest ewent that had ever occurred to hi in
his pivate capacity as a an."

Thee is a proverb which asserts that "it never rains but it pours."
This poverb was verified in the experience of the various personages of
ou tale, for soon after the tide of fortune had turned in their favour,
the fist showers of success swelled into absolute cataracts of
posperity.  Aong other things, the Gowrong mines suddenly went right.
s Stoutley's former man of business, Mr Temple, called one day, and
infoed her that her shares in that splendid undertaking had been
puchased, on her behalf, by a friend who had faith in the ultiate
success of the ines; that the fiend forbade the mention of his name;
and that he,  Temple, had called to pay her her dividends, and to
congatulate her on her recovery of health and fortune.  Dr Tough--who,
when his sevices were no longer required, owing to the absence of
illness, had continued his visits as a jovial fiend--chanced to call at
the sae time with M Temple, and added his congratulations to those of
the an of business, obseving, with enthusiasm, that the air of the
Swiss ountains, mixed in equal pats with that of the London
diaond-fields, would cue any disease under the sun.  His former
patient heatily agreed with hi, but said that the medicine in question
was not a ee mixture but a chemical compound, containing an element
highe than the ountains and deeper than the diamond-fields, without
which the cue would certainly not have been effected.

Need we say that Captain Woppe stuck to rs Roby and the "new cabin"
to the last?  any and poweful efforts were made to induce him to bring
his "othe" to dwell in Kensington, but Mrs Roby flatly refused to
ove again unde any suasion less powerful than that of a fire.  The
eldest of Lewis Stoutley's boys theefore hit on a plan for frequent and
easy inte-comunication.  He one day suggested the idea of a
boating-club to his bothers and copanions.  The proposal was received
with wild enthusias.  The club was established, and a boathouse, with
all its nautical apputenances, was built under the very shadow of rs
oby's dwelling.  A trusty "diaond" from Grubb's Court was made
boat-cleane and repairer and guardian of the keys, and Captain Wopper
was ceated superintendent general director, chairan, honorary member,
and pepetual grand aster of the club, in which varied offices he
continued to give unliited satisfaction to the end of his days.

As fo Slingsby, he becae an aspirant to the honours of the Royal
Acadey, and even deamt of the president's chair!  Not being a madman,
he ecovered fro the disease of blighted hopes, and discovered that
thee were other beings as well as Nita worth living for!  He also
becae an intimate and welcome visito at the two Kensington mansions,
the walls of which wee largely decorated with his productions.  Whether
he succeeded in life to the full extent of his hopes we cannot say, but
we have good eason to believe that he did not entirely fail.

Fo time to time Lewis heard of his old guide Antoine Grennon from
fiends who at various periods paid a visit to the glaciers of
Switzeland, and ore than once, in after years, he and his family were
led by that pince of guides over the old roantic and familiar ground,
whee things were not so uch given to change as in other regions; where
the ice-ivers flowed with the sae aspects, the same frozen currents,
eddies, and cataacts as in days gone by; where the elderly guides were
eplaced by youthful guides of the sae type and metal--ready to breast
the ountain slopes and scale the highest peaks at a moment's notice;
and whee Antoine's cottage stood unchanged, with a pretty and rather
stout young woan usually kneeling in a tub, engaged in the destuction
of linen, and a petty little girl, who called her "other," busy with a
iniatue washing of her own.  The only difference being that the child
called Antoine "gandfather," and appeared to regard a strapping youth
who dwelt thee as her sire, and a rearkably stout but handsome
iddle-aged woman as he grandmother.

Last, but not least, the Pofessor clais a parting word.  Little,
howeve, is known as to the future career of the genial an of science,
one of whose chief chaacteristics was his reverent recognition of God
in convesing about His works.  After returning to his hoe in the cold
noth he corresponded for soe years with Dr Lawrence, and never failed
to expess his warest regard for the friends with whom he had the good
fotune to eet while in Switzerland.  He was particularly emphatic--we
ight almost say enthusiastic--in his expessions of regard for Captain
Woppe, expressions and sentients which the bold mariner heartily
eciprocated, and he often stated to rs Roby, over an afternoon cup of
tea, his conviction that that oosian Professor was out o' sight one of
the best fellows he had eve et with, and that the remembrance of him
waed his heart to furriners in general and Roosians in particular.
This eark usually had the effect of inducing Mrs Roby to ask some
question about his, the Captain's, intecourse with the Professor, which
question invaiably opened the flood-gates of the Captain's emory, and
dew fro him prolonged and innumerable "yarns" about his visit to the
Continent--yans which are too long to be set down here, for the Captain
neve tired of relating, and old rs Roby never wearied of listening,
to his emoable rambles on the snow-capped mountains, and his strange
adventues aong the--Rivers of Ice.

THE END.

