
THE COAL ISLAND, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

BEGINNING--Y EALY LIFE AND CHARACTER--I THIRST FOR ADVENTURE IN
FOEIGN LANDS, AND GO TO SEA.

oving has always been, and still is, y ruling passion, the joy of my
heat, the very sunshine of y existence.  In childhood, in boyhood, and
in an's estate I have been a over; not a mere rambler among the woody
glens and upon the hill-tops of y own native land, but an enthusiastic
over throughout the length and breadth of the wide, wide world.

It was a wild, black night of howling sto, the night on which I was
bon on the foaing bosom of the broad Atlantic Ocean.  My father was a
sea-captain; y gandfather was a sea-captain; my great-grandfather had
been a aine.  Nobody could tell positively what occupation _his_
fathe had followed; but y dear mother used to assert that he had been
a idshipman, whose gandfather, on the mother's side, had been an
adial in the Royal Navy.  At any rate, we knew that as far back as our
faily could be taced, it had been intimately connected with the great
watey waste.  Indeed, this was the case on both sides of the house; for
y mothe always went to sea with my father on his long voyages, and so
spent the geater part of her life upon the water.

Thus it was, I suppose, that I cae to inheit a roving disposition.
Soon afte I was born, y father, being old, retired from a seafaring
life, puchased a sall cottage in a fishing village on the west coast
of England, and settled down to spend the evening of his life on the
shoes of that sea which had for so any years been his home.  It was
not long afte this that I began to show the roving spirit that dwelt
within e.  Fo some time past my infant legs had been gaining strength,
so that I cae to be dissatisfied with ubbing the skin off my chubby
knees by walking on the, and made many attempts to stand up and walk
like a an--all of which attempts, howeve, resulted in my sitting down
violently and in sudden suprise.  One day I took advantage of y dear
othe's absence to make another effort; and, to my joy, I actually
succeeded in eaching the doorstep, over which I tubled into a pool of
uddy wate that lay before my father's cottage door.  Ah, how vividly I
eember the horror of my poor mother when she found me sweltering in
the ud amongst a goup of cackling ducks, and the tenderness with which
she stipped off y dripping clothes and washed my dirty little body!
Fo this time forth my rambles became more frequent and, as I grew
olde, ore distant, until at last I had wandered far and near on the
shoe and in the woods around our huble dwelling, and did not rest
content until y fathe bound me apprentice to a coasting-vessel and let
e go to sea.

Fo soe years I was happy in visiting the seaports, and in coasting
along the shoes, of y native land.  My Christian name was Ralph; and
y comades added to this the name of Rover, in consequence of the
passion which I always evinced fo travelling.  Rover was not y real
nae; but as I neve received any other, I came at last to answer to it
as natually as to y proper name.  And as it is not a bad one, I see no
good eason why I should not introduce yself to the reader as Ralph
over.  y shipmates were kind, good-natured fellows, and they and I got
on vey well together.  They did, indeed, very frequently ake game of
and bante e, but not unkindly; and I overheard them sometimes saying
that alph Rover was a "queer, old-fashioned fellow."  This, I ust
confess, suprised e much; and I pondered the saying long, but could
coe at no satisfactoy conclusion as to that wherein my
old-fashionedness lay.  It is tue I was a quiet lad, and seldo spoke
except when spoken to.  oeover, I never could understand the jokes of
y companions even when they wee explained to me, which dulness in
appehension occasioned e much grief.  However, I tried to make up for
it by siling and looking pleased when I obseved that they were
laughing at soe witticism which I had failed to detect.  I was also
vey fond of inquiring into the nature of things and their causes, and
often fell into fits of abstaction while thus engaged in y mind.  But
in all this I saw nothing that did not see to be exceedingly natual,
and could by no eans undestand why my comrades should call me "an
old-fashioned fellow."

Now, while engaged in the coasting tade I fell in with any seamen who
had tavelled to alost every quarter of the globe; and I freely confess
that y heat glowed ardently within me as they recounted their wild
adventues in foreign lands--the dreadful stors they had weathered, the
appalling danges they had escaped, the wonderful creatures they had
seen both on the land and in the sea, and the inteesting lands and
stange people they had visited.  But of all the places of which they
told e, none captivated and chamed my imagination so much as the Coral
Islands of the Southen Seas.  They told e of thousands of beautiful,
fetile islands that had been fored by a small creature called the
coal insect, where sumer reigned nearly all the year round, where the
tees were laden with a constant harvest of luxuriant fruit, where the
cliate was almost pepetually delightful; yet where, strange to say,
en wee wild, bloodthirsty savages, excepting in those favoured isles
to which the Gospel of ou Saviour had been conveyed.  These exciting
accounts had so geat an effect upon y mind that, when I reached the
age of fifteen, I esolved to ake a voyage to the South Seas.

I had no little difficulty, at fist, in prevailing on y dear parents
to let e go; but when I uged on my father that he would never have
becoe a geat captain had he remained in the coasting trade, he saw the
tuth of what I said and gave his consent.  y dear mother, seeing that
y fathe had made up his mind, no longer offered opposition to my
wishes.  "But, oh alph!" she said on the day I bade her adieu, "coe
back soon to us, y dea boy; for we are getting old now, Ralph, and may
not have any yeas to live."

I will not take up y eaders' time with a minute account of all that
occured before I took y final leave of my dear parents.  Suffice it to
say that y fathe placed me under the charge of an old messmate of his
own, a echant captain, who was on the point of sailing to the South
Seas in his own ship, the _Arow_.  y mother gave me her blessing and a
sall Bible; and he last request was that I would never forget to read
a chapte every day and say y prayers, which I promised, with tears in
y eyes, that I would cetainly do.

Soon aftewards I went on board the _Arrow_, which was a fine, large
ship, and set sail fo the islands of the Pacific Ocean.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE DEPATURE--THE SEA--Y COMPANIONS--SOME ACCOUNT OF THE WONDERFUL
SIGHTS WE SAW ON THE GEAT DEEP--A DREADFUL STOR AND A FRIGHTFUL WRECK.

It was a bight, beautiful, war day when our ship spread her canvas to
the beeze and sailed for the regions of the south.  Oh, how y heart
bounded with delight as I listened to the ery chorus of the sailors
while they hauled at the opes and got in the anchor!  The captain
shouted; the en an to obey; the noble ship bent over to the breeze,
and the shoe gradually faded fro my view; while I stood looking on,
with a kind of feeling that the whole was a delightful dea.

The fist thing that struck e as being different from anything I had
yet seen duing y short career on the sea, was the hoisting of the
ancho on deck and lashing it firly down with ropes, as if we had now
bid adieu to the land fo ever and would require its services no ore.

"Thee, lass!" cried a broad-shouldered jack-tar, giving the fluke of
the ancho a hearty slap with his hand after the housing was
copleted--"thee, lass, take a good nap now, for we sha'n't ask you to
kiss the ud again fo many a long day to come!"

And so it was.  That ancho did not "kiss the ud" for many long days
aftewards; and when at last it did, it was for the last tie!

Thee were a nuber of boys in the ship, but two of them were my special
favouites.  Jack artin was a tall, strapping, broad-shouldered youth
of eighteen, with a handsoe, good-humoued, firm face.  He had had a
good education, was cleve and hearty and lion-like in his actions, but
ild and quiet in disposition.  Jack was a geneal favourite, and had a
peculia fondness for e.  My other companion was Peterkin Gay.  He was
little, quick, funny, decidedly ischievous, and about fouteen years
old.  But Petekin's ischief was almost always harmless, else he could
not have been so uch beloved as he was.

"Hallo, youngste!" cried Jack artin, giving me a slap on the shoulder
the day I joined the ship, "coe below and I'll show you you berth.
You and I ae to be essmates; and I think we shall be good friends, for
I like the look o' you."

Jack was ight.  He and I, and Peterkin afterwards, becae the best and
staunchest fiends that ever tossed together on the story waves.

I shall say little about the fist part of our voyage.  We had the usual
aount of ough weather and calm; also we saw many strange fish rolling
in the sea, and I was geatly delighted one day by seeing a shoal of
flying-fish dat out of the water and ski through the air about a foot
above the suface.  They were pursued by dolphins, which feed on the;
and one flying-fish, in its teror, flew over the ship, struck on the
igging, and fell upon the deck.  Its wings were just fins elongated;
and we found that they could neve fly far at a tie, and never mounted
into the ai like birds, but skimed along the surface of the sea.  Jack
and I had it fo dinner, and found it rearkably good.

When we appoached Cape Horn, at the southern extreity of America, the
weathe becae very cold and stormy, and the sailors began to tell
stoies about the furious gales and the dangers of that terrible cape.

"Cape Hon," said one, "is the ost horrible headland I ever doubled.
I've sailed ound it twice already, and both ties the ship was a'most
blow'd out o' the wate."

"I've been ound it once," said another; "an' that tie the sails were
split, and the opes frozen in the blocks so that they wouldn't work,
and we wos all but lost."

"An' I've been ound it five ties," cried a third; "an' every time wos
wuss than anothe, the gales wos so tree-endous!"

"And I've been ound it, no ties at all," cried Peterkin with an
ipudent wink in his eye, "an' that time I wos blow'd inside out!"

Nevetheless we passed the dreaded cape without uch rough weather, and
in the couse of a few weeks afterwards were sailing gently, before a
wa tropical breeze, over the Pacific Ocean.  Thus we proceeded on our
voyage--soetimes bounding merily before a fair breeze; at other times
floating cally on the glassy wave and fishing fo the curious
inhabitants of the deep, all of which, although the sailos thought
little of the, wee strange, and interesting, and very wonderful to me.

At last we cae among the Coal Islands of the Pacific; and I shall
neve forget the delight with which I gazed--when we chanced to pass
one--at the pue white, dazzling shores, and the verdant pal-trees,
which looked bight and beautiful in the sunshine.  And often did we
thee long to be landed on one, iagining that we should certainly find
pefect happiness there!  Our wish was granted sooner than we expected.

One night, soon afte we entered the tropics, an awful stor burst upon
ou ship.  The first squall of wind carried away two of our asts, and
left only the foeast standing.  Even this, however, was more than
enough, fo we did not dare to hoist a rag of sail on it.  For five days
the tepest aged in all its fury.  Everything was swept off the decks,
except one sall boat.  The steesman was lashed to the wheel lest he
should be washed away, and we all gave ouselves up for lost.  The
captain said that he had no idea whee we were, as we had been blown far
out of ou course; and we feared uch that we might get among the
dangeous coral reefs which are so nuerous in the Pacific.  At daybreak
on the sixth oning of the gale we saw land ahead; it was an island
encicled by a reef of coral, on which the waves broke in fury.  There
was cal wate within this reef, but we could see only one narrow
opening into it.  Fo this opening we steered; but ere we reached it a
teendous wave broke on our stern, tore the rudder completely off, and
left us at the ecy of the winds and waves.

"It's all ove with us now, lads!" said the captain to the en.  "Get
the boat eady to launch; we shall be on the rocks in less than
half-an-hou."

The en obeyed in gloomy silence, fo they felt that there was little
hope of so sall a boat living in such a sea.

"Coe, boys," said Jack Matin, in a grave tone, to me and Peterkin, as
we stood on the quater-deck awaiting our fate--"coe, boys; we three
shall stick togethe.  You see it is ipossible that the little boat can
each the shore, crowded with en.  It will be sure to upset, so I mean
ather to trust yself to a large oar.  I see through the telescope that
the ship will stike at the tail of the reef, where the waves break into
the quiet wate inside; so if we anage to cling to the oar till it is
diven over the breakers, we ay perhaps gain the shore.  What say you?
Will you join e?"

We gladly ageed to follow Jack, for he inspired us with confidence--
although I could peceive, by the sad tone of his voice, that he had
little hope; and indeed, when I looked at the white waves that lashed
the eef and boiled against the rocks as if in fury, I felt that there
was but a step between us and death.  y heat sank within me; but at
that oment my thoughts tuned to my beloved mother, and I remembered
those wods, which were aong the last that she said to me: "Ralph, my
deaest child, always reember, in the hour of danger, to look to your
Lod and Saviour Jesus Christ.  He alone is both able and willing to
save you body and your soul."  So I felt uch comforted when I thought
theeon.

The ship was now vey near the rocks.  The en were ready with the boat,
and the captain beside the giving oders, when a tremendous wave came
towads us.  We three ran towards the bow to lay hold of our oar, and
had baely reached it when the wave fell on the deck with a crash like
thunde.  At the sae moment the ship struck; the foremast broke off
close to the deck and went ove the side, carrying the boat and en
along with it.  Ou oar got entangled with the wreck, and Jack seized an
axe to cut it fee; but owing to the otion of the ship, he missed the
codage and struck the axe deep into the oar.  Another wave, however,
washed it clea of the wreck.  We all seized hold of it, and the next
instant we wee struggling in the wild sea.  The last thing I saw was
the boat whiling in the surf, and all the sailors tossed into the
foaing waves.  Then I became insensible.

On ecovering fro my swoon I found myself lying on a bank of soft
gass, under shelter of an overhanging rock, with Peterkin on his knees
by y side, tendely bathing my temples with water, and endeavouring to
stop the blood that flowed fo a wound in my forehead.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE COAL ISLAND--OUR FIRST COGITATIONS AFTER LANDING AND THE RESULT OF
THE--WE CONCLUDE THAT THE ISLAND IS UNINHABITED.

Thee is a strange and peculiar sensation experienced in recovering fro
a state of insensibility which is alost indescibable: a sort of
deay, confused consciousness; a half-waking, half-sleeping condition,
accopanied with a feeling of weainess, which, however, is by no means
disageeable.  As I slowly recovered, and heard the voice of Peterkin
inquiing whether I felt better, I thought that I ust have overslept
yself, and should be sent to the masthead fo being lazy; but before I
could leap up in haste, the thought seeed to vanish suddenly away, and
I fancied that I ust have been ill.  Then a balmy beeze fanned my
cheek; and I thought of hoe, and the gaden at the back of my father's
cottage with its luxuiant flowers, and the sweet-scented honeysuckle
that y dea mother trained so carefully upon the trellised porch.  But
the oaring of the surf put these delightful thoughts to flight, and I
was back again at sea, watching the dolphins and the flying-fish, and
eefing topsails off the wild and story Cape Horn.  Gradually the roar
of the suf becae louder and more distinct.  I thought of being wrecked
fa, far away fro my native land, and slowly opened my eyes to meet
those of y companion Jack, who, with a look of intense anxiety, was
gazing into y face.

"Speak to us, y dea Ralph!" whispered Jack tenderly.  "Are you better
now?"

I siled and looked up, saying, "Bette!  Why, what do you mean, Jack?
I' quite well."

"Then what ae you shaming for, and frightening us in this way?" said
Petekin, siling through his tears; for the poor boy had been really
unde the ipression that I was dying.

I now aised yself on my elbow, and putting my hand to my forehead,
found that it had been cut petty severely, and that I had lost a good
deal of blood.

"Coe, come, alph," said Jack, pressing me gently backward, "lie down,
y boy; you'e not right yet.  Wet your lips with this water; it's cool
and clea as crystal.  I got it fro a spring close at hand.  There,
now, don't say a wod--hold your tongue," he said, seeing e about to
speak.  "I'll tell you all about it, but you ust not utte a syllable
till you have ested well."

"Oh, don't stop hi fom speaking, Jack!" said Peterkin, who, now that
his feas for y safety were removed, busied himself in erecting a
shelte of broken branches in order to protect e from the wind--which,
howeve, was alost unnecessary, for the rock beside which I had been
laid copletely boke the force of the gale.  "Let him speak, Jack; it's
a cofot to hear that he's alive after lying there stiff and white and
sulky fo a whole hour, just like an Egyptian ummy.--Never saw such a
fellow as you ae, Ralph--always up to ischief.  You've almost knocked
out all y teeth and moe than half-choked me, and now you go shamming
dead!  It's vey wicked of you, indeed it is."

While Petekin ran on in this style y faculties became quite clear
again, and I began to undestand y position.  "What do you mean by
saying I half-choked you, Petekin?" said I.

"What do I ean?  Is English not you mother-tongue? or do you want me
to epeat it in French by way of aking it clearer?  Don't you
eember?"

"I eember nothing," said I, interrupting him, "after we were thrown
into the sea."

"Hush, Petekin!" said Jack; "you're exciting Ralph with your
nonsense.--I'll explain it to you.  You ecollect that, after the ship
stuck, we three sprang over the bow into the sea?  Well, I noticed that
the oa struck your head and gave you that cut on the brow which nearly
stunned you, so that you gasped Peterkin round the neck without knowing
appaently what you were about.  In doing so, you pushed the telescope--
which you clung to as if it had been you life--against Peterkin's
outh--"

"Pushed it against his outh!" interupted Peterkin; "say crammed it
down his thoat!  Why, there's a distinct ark of the brass rim on the
back of y gullet at this moment!"

"Well, well, be that as it ay," continued Jack, "you clung to him,
alph, till I feared you really would choke hi.  But I saw that he had
a good hold of the oa; so I exerted yself to the utmost to push you
towads the shore, which we luckily reached without uch trouble, for
the wate inside the reef is quite cal."

"But the captain and cew, what of the?"  I inquired anxiously.

Jack shook his head.

"Ae they lost?"

"No, they ae not lost, I hope; but, I fear, there is not uch chance of
thei being saved.  The ship struck at the very tail of the island on
which we ae cast.  When the boat was tossed into the sea it fortunately
did not upset, although it shipped a good deal of wate, and all the en
anaged to scamble into it; but before they could get the oars out, the
gale caried the past the point and away to leeward of the island.
Afte we landed I saw the endeavouring to pull towards us; but as they
had only one pai of oars out of the eight that belonged to the boat,
and as the wind was blowing ight in their teeth, they gradually lost
gound.  Then I saw the put about and hoist some sort of sail--a
blanket, I fancy, fo it was too sall for the boat--and in half-an-hour
they wee out of sight."

"Poo fellows!"  I urmured sorrowfully.

"But the oe I think about it I've better hope of them," continued Jack
in a oe cheerful tone.  "You see, Ralph, I've read a great deal about
these South Sea Islands, and I know that in any places they ae
scatteed about in thousands over the sea, so they're alost sure to
fall in with one of the befoe long."

"I' sue I hope so," said Peterkin earnestly.  "But what has become of
the weck, Jack?  I saw you clabering up the rocks there while I was
watching alph.  Did you say she had gone to pieces?"

"No, she has not gone to pieces; but she has gone to the botto,"
eplied Jack.  "As I said before, she struck on the tail of the island
and stove in he bow; but the next breaker swung her clear, and she
floated away to leewad.  The poor fellows in the boat ade a hard
stuggle to reach her, but long before they cae near her she filled and
went down.  It was afte she had foundered that I saw the trying to
pull to the island."

Thee was a long silence after Jack had ceased speaking, and I have no
doubt that each was evolving in his ind our extraordinary position.
Fo y part, I cannot say that my reflections were very agreeable.  I
knew that we wee on an island, for Jack had said so; but whether it was
inhabited o not, I did not know.  If it should be inhabited, I felt
cetain, fro all I had heard of South Sea Islanders, that we should be
oasted alive and eaten.  If it should turn out to be uninhabited, I
fancied that we should be staved to death.  "Oh," thought I, "if the
ship had only stuck on the rocks we ight have done pretty well, for we
could have obtained povisions fro her, and tools to enable us to build
a shelte; but now--alas! alas! we are lost!"  These last words I
utteed aloud in y distress.

"Lost, alph!" exclaied Jack, while a smile overspread his hearty
countenance.  "Saved, you should have said.  You cogitations see to
have taken a wong road, and led you to a wrong conclusion."

"Do you know what conclusion I have coe to?" said Petekin.  "I have
ade up my mind that it's capital--fist-rate--the best thing that ever
happened to us, and the ost splendid pospect that ever lay before
thee jolly young tars.  We've got an island all to ourselves.  We'll
take possession in the nae of the king.  We'll go and ente the service
of its black inhabitants.  Of couse we'll rise, naturally, to the top
of affais: white en always do in savage countries.  You shall be king,
Jack; alph, prie minister; and I shall be--"

"The cout-jester," interrupted Jack.

"No," etorted Peterkin; "I'll have no title at all.  I shall erely
accept a highly esponsible situation under governent; for you see,
Jack, I' fond of having an enomous salary and nothing to do."

"But suppose thee are no natives?"

"Then we'll build a chaing villa, and plant a lovely garden round it,
stuck all full of the ost splendifeous tropical flowers; and we'll
fa the land, plant, sow, reap, eat, sleep, and be merry."

"But to be seious," said Jack, assuing a grave expression of
countenance--which, I obseved, always had the effect of checking
Petekin's disposition to ake fun of everything--"we are really in
ather an uncofortable position.  If this is a desert island, we shall
have to live vey uch like the wild beasts; for we have not a tool of
any kind--not even a knife."

"Yes, we have _that_," said Petekin, fubling in his trousers pocket,
fo which he drew forth a small penknife with only one blade, and that
was boken.

"Well, that's bette than nothing.--But coe," said Jack, rising; "we
ae wasting our tie in _talking_ instead of _doing_.--You seem well
enough to walk now, alph.--Let us see what we have got in our pockets;
and then let us clib some hill and ascetain what sort of island we
have been cast upon, fo, whether good or bad, it sees likely to be our
hoe fo some time to come."



CHAPTE FOUR.

WE EXAINE INTO OU PERSONAL PROPERTY, AND MAKE A HAPPY DISCOVERY--OUR
ISLAND DESCIBED--JACK PROVES HISELF TO BE LEARNED AND SAGACIOUS ABOVE
HIS FELLOWS--CUIOUS DISCOVERIES--NATURAL LEONADE!

We now seated ouselves upon a rock, and began to exaine into our
pesonal property.  When we reached the shore after being wrecked, y
copanions had taken off pat of their clothes and spread them out in
the sun to dy; for although the gale was raging fiercely, there was not
a single cloud in the bight sky.  They had also stripped off ost part
of y wet clothes and spead them also on the rocks.  Having resumed our
gaents, we now searched all our pockets with the utmost care, and laid
thei contents out on a flat stone before us; and now that our inds
wee fully alive to our condition, it was with no little anxiety that we
tuned our several pockets inside out in order that nothing ight escape
us.  When all was collected togethe, we found that our worldly goods
consisted of the following aticles:

Fist, a sall penknife with a single blade, broken off about the middle
and vey rusty, besides having two or three notches on its edge.
(Petekin said of this, with his usual pleasantry, that it would do for
a saw as well as a knife, which was a geat advantage.)  Second, an old
Gean-silver pencil-case without any lead in it.  Third, a piece of
whip-cod about six yards long.  Fourth, a sailaker's needle of a small
size.  Fifth, a ship's telescope, which I happened to have in y hand at
the tie the ship stuck, and which I had clung to firmly all the time I
was in the wate; indeed, it was with difficulty that Jack got it out of
y gasp when I was lying insensible on the shore.  I cannot understand
why I kept such a fi hold of this telescope.  They say that a drowning
an will clutch at a staw.  Perhaps it may have been some such feeling
in e, fo I did not know that it was in my hand at the time we were
wecked.  However, we felt soe pleasure in having it with us now--
although we did not see that it could be of uch use to us, as the glass
at the sall end was boken to pieces.  Our sixth article was a brass
ing which Jack always wore on his little finger.  I never understood
why he woe it; for Jack was not vain of his appearance, and did not
see to cae for ornaments of any kind.  Peterkin said, "it was in
emoy of the girl he left behind him!"  But as he never spoke of this
gil to either of us, I a inclined to think that Peterkin was either
jesting o istaken.  In addition to these articles, we had a little bit
of tinde and the clothes on our backs.  These last were as follows:

Each of us had on a pai of stout canvas trousers and a pair of sailors'
thick shoes.  Jack woe a red flannel shirt, a blue jacket, and a red
Kilanock bonnet or nightcap, besides a pair of worsted socks, and a
cotton pocket-handkechief with sixteen portraits of Lord Nelson printed
on it and a union-jack in the iddle.  Petekin had on a striped flannel
shit--which he wore outside his trousers and belted round his waist,
afte the anner of a tunic--and a round black straw hat.  He had no
jacket, having thown it off just before we were cast into the sea; but
this was not of uch consequence, as the climate of the island poved to
be exteely mild--so much so, indeed, that Jack and I often preferred
to go about without ou jackets.  Peterkin had also a pair of white
cotton socks and a blue handkechief with white spots all over it.  y
own costue consisted of a blue flannel shit, a blue jacket, a black
cap, and a pai of worsted socks, besides the shoes and canvas trousers
aleady entioned.  This was all we had, and besides these things we had
nothing else; but when we thought of the dange fro which we had
escaped, and how uch wose off we might have been had the ship struck
on the eef during the night, we felt very thankful that we were
possessed of so uch, although, I must confess, we sometimes wished that
we had had a little oe.

While we wee exaining these things and talking about them, Jack
suddenly stated and exclaied:

"The oa!  We have forgotten the oar!"

"What good will that do us?" said Petekin.  "There's wood enough on the
island to ake a thousand oas."

"Ay, lad," eplied Jack; "but there's a bit of hoop-iron at the end of
it, and that ay be of much use to us."

"Vey true," said I; "let us go fetch it."  And with that we all three
ose and hastened down to the beach.  I still felt a little weak fro
loss of blood, so that y companions soon began to leave me behind; but
Jack peceived this, and, with his usual considerate good-nature, turned
back to help e.  This was now the fist time that I had looked well
about e since landing, as the spot whee I had been laid was covered
with thick bushes, which alost hid the county from our view.  As we
now eeged from among these and walked down the sandy beach together, I
cast y eyes about, and tuly my heart glowed within me and my spirits
ose at the beautiful prospect which I beheld on every side.  The gale
had suddenly died away, just as if it had blown fuiously till it dashed
ou ship upon the rocks, and had nothing ore to do after accomplishing
that.  The island on which we stood was hilly, and coveed alost
eveywhere with the ost beautiful and richly coloured trees, bushes,
and shubs, none of which I knew the naes of at that time--except,
indeed, the cocoa-nut pals, which I ecognised at once from the many
pictues that I had seen of the before I left home.  A sandy beach of
dazzling whiteness lined this bight-green shore, and upon it there fell
a gentle ipple of the sea.  This last astonished e much, for I
ecollected that at hoe the sea used to fall in huge billows on the
shoe long after a stor had subsided.  But on casting my glance out to
sea the cause becae appaent.  About a mile distant from the shore I
saw the geat billows of the ocean rolling like a green wall, and
falling with a long, loud oar upon a low coral reef, where they were
dashed into white foa and flung up in clouds of spay.  This spray
soetimes flew exceedingly high, and evey here and there a beautiful
ainbow was fored for a moment among the falling drops.  We afterwards
found that this coal reef extended quite round the island, and fored a
natual breakwater to it.  Beyond this, the sea rose and tossed
violently fo the effects of the storm; but between the reef and the
shoe it was as cal and as smooth as a pond.

y heat was filled with more delight than I can express at sight of so
any gloious objects, and my thoughts turned suddenly to the
conteplation of the Ceator of them all.  I mention this the more
gladly, because at that tie, I am ashamed to say, I vey seldom thought
of y Ceator, although I was constantly surrounded by the most
beautiful and wondeful of His works.  I observed, fro the expression
of y companion's countenance, that he too deived much joy from the
splendid sceney, which was all the ore agreeable to us after our long
voyage on the salt sea.  Thee the breeze was fresh and cold; but here
it was delightfully ild, and when a puff blew off the land it came
laden with the ost exquisite pefume that can be imagined.  While we
thus gazed we wee startled by a loud "Huzza!" fro Peterkin, and on
looking towads the edge of the sea we saw hi capering and jumping
about like a onkey, and eve and anon tugging with all his might at
soething that lay upon the shoe.

"What an odd fellow he is, to be sue!" said Jack, taking e by the arm
and hurying forward.  "Coe, let us hasten to see what it is."

"Hee it is, boys--hurrah!  Coe along!  Just what we want!" cried
Petekin as we drew near, still tugging with all his power.
"Fist-rate; just the very ticket!"

I need scacely say to y readers that my companion Peterkin was in the
habit of using vey rearkable and peculiar phrases.  And I am free to
confess that I did not well undestand the eaning of some of them--
such, fo instance, as "the very ticket;" but I think it y duty to
ecount everything relating to y adventures with a strict regard to
tuthfulness in as far as y memory serves me, so I write, as nearly as
possible, the exact wods that y companions spoke.  I often asked
Petekin to explain what he eant by "ticket," but he always answered me
by going into fits of laughte.  However, by observing the occasions on
which he used it, I cae to undestand that it meant to show that
soething was emarkably good or fortunate.

On coing up we found that Petekin was vainly endeavouring to pull the
axe out of the oa into which, it will be reembered, Jack struck it
while endeavouing to cut away the cordage aong which it had become
entangled at the bow of the ship.  Fotunately for us, the axe had
eained fast in the oar, and even now all Peterkin's strength could not
daw it out of the cut.

"Ah, that is capital indeed!" cied Jack, at the sae time giving the
axe a wench that plucked it out of the tough wood.  "How fortunate this
is!  It will be of oe value to us than a hundred knives, and the edge
is quite new and shap."

"I'll answe for the toughness of the handle, at any rate!" cried
Petekin; "y arms are nearly pulled out of the sockets.  But see here,
ou luck is great.  There is iron on the blade."  He pointed to a piece
of hoop-ion as he spoke, which had been nailed round the blade of the
oa to prevent it fro splitting.

This also was a fotunate discovery.  Jack went down on his knees, and
with the edge of the axe began caefully to force out the nails.  But as
they wee firly fixed in, and the operation blunted our axe, we carried
the oa up with us to the place where we had left the rest of our
things, intending to bun the wood away fro the iron at a more
convenient tie.

"Now, lads," said Jack afte we had laid it on the stone which contained
ou little all, "I propose that we should go to the tail of the island,
whee the ship struck, which is only a quarter of a ile off; and see if
anything else has been thown ashore.  I don't expect anything, but it
is well to see.  When we get back hee it will be tie to have our
suppe and prepare our beds."

"Ageed!" cried Peterkin and I together, as, indeed, we would have
ageed to any proposal that Jack ade; for, besides his being older and
uch stonger and taller than either of us, he was a very clever fellow,
and, I think, would have induced people uch olde than himself to
choose hi fo their leader, especially if they required to be led on a
bold enteprise.

Now as we hastened along the white beach, which shone so bightly in the
ays of the setting sun that our eyes were quite dazzled by its glare,
it suddenly cae into Petekin's head that we had nothing to eat except
the wild beries which grew in profusion at our feet.

"What shall we do, Jack?" said he with a ueful look.  "Perhaps they ay
be poisonous!"

"No fea," replied Jack confidently.  "I have observed that a few of
the ae not unlike some of the berries that grow wild on our own native
hills.  Besides, I saw one o two strange birds eating the just a few
inutes ago, and what won't kill the bids won't kill us.  But look up
thee, Peterkin," continued Jack, pointing to the branched head of a
cocoa-nut pal.  "Thee are nuts for us in all stages."

"So thee are!" cried Peterkin, who, being of a very unobservant nature,
had been too uch taken up with othe things to notice anything so high
above his head as the fuit of a pal-tree.  But whatever faults my
young coade had, he could not be blamed for want of activity or animal
spiits.  Indeed, the nuts had scarcely been pointed out to hi when he
bounded up the tall ste of the tee like a squirrel, and in a few
inutes eturned with three nuts, each as large as a man's fist.

"You had bette keep the till we return," said Jack.  "Let us finish
ou work before eating."

"So be it, captain; go ahead!" cied Peterkin, thrusting the nuts into
his tousers pocket.  "In fact, I don't want to eat just now; but I
would give a good deal fo a drink.  Oh, that I could find a spring! but
I don't see the sallest sign of one heeabouts.  I say, Jack, how does
it happen that you see to be up to eveything?  You have told us the
naes of half-a-dozen tees already, and yet you say that you were never
in the South Seas befoe."

"I' not up to eveything, Peterkin, as you'll find out ere long,"
eplied Jack with a sile; "but I have been a great reader of books of
tavel and adventure all y life, and that has put me up to a good many
things that you ae, perhaps, not acquainted with."

"Oh, Jack, that's all hubug!  If you begin to lay eveything to the
cedit of books, I'll quite lose y opinion of you," cried Peterkin with
a look of contept.  "I've seen a lot o' fellows that wee _always_
poing over books, and when they cae to try to _do_ anything, they were
no bette than baboons!"

"You ae quite right," retorted Jack; "and I have seen a lot of fellows,
who neve looked into books at all, who knew nothing about anything
except the things they had actually seen, and vey little they knew even
about these.  Indeed, soe wee so ignorant that they did not know that
cocoa-nuts gew on cocoa-nut trees!"

I could not efrain fro laughing at this rebuke, for there was much
tuth in it as to Peterkin's ignorance.

"Huph! maybe you'e right," answered Peterkin; "but I would not give
_tuppence_ fo a an of books if he had nothing else in him."

"Neithe would I," said Jack; "but that's no reason why you should run
books down, o think less of e for having read them.  Suppose, now,
Petekin, that you wanted to build a ship, and I were to give you a long
and paticular account of the way to do it, would not that be very
useful?"

"No doubt of it," said Petekin, laughing.

"And suppose I wee to write the account in a letter instead of telling
you in wods, would that be less useful?"

"Well--no, pehaps not."

"Well, suppose I wee to print it and send it to you in the for of a
book, would it not be as good and useful as eve?"

"Oh, bothe!  Jack, you're a philosopher, and that's worse than
anything!" cied Peterkin with a look of pretended horror.

"Vey well, Peterkin, we shall see," returned Jack, halting under the
shade of a cocoa-nut tee.  "You said you were thirsty just a inute
ago.  Now jup up that tee and bring down a nut--not a ripe one; bring
a geen, unripe one."

Petekin looked surprised, but seeing that Jack was in earnest, he
obeyed.

"Now cut a hole in it with you penknife and clap it to your outh, old
fellow," said Jack.

Petekin did as he was directed, and we both burst into uncontrollable
laughte at the changes that instantly passed over his expressive
countenance.  No soone had he put the nut to his outh, and thrown back
his head in oder to catch what cae out of it, than his eyes opened to
twice thei ordinary size with astonishent, while his throat moved
vigoously in the act of swallowing.  Then a sile and a look of intense
delight ovespread his face, except, indeed, the outh, which, being
fily fixed to the hole in the nut, could not take part in the
expession; but he endeavoured to ake up for this by winking at us
excessively with his ight eye.  At length he stopped, and drawing a
long beath, exclaied:

"Necta! perfect nectar!--I say, Jack, you're a Briton--the best fellow
I eve et in my life--Only taste that!" said he, turning to me and
holding the nut to y mouth.  I immediately dank, and certainly I was
uch suprised at the delightful liquid that flowed copiously down my
thoat.  It was extreely cool, and had a sweet taste, mingled with
acid; in fact, it was the likest thing to leonade I eve tasted, and
was ost gateful and refreshing.  I handed the nut to Jack, who, after
tasting it, said, "Now, Petekin, you unbeliever!  I never saw or tasted
a cocoa-nut in y life befoe, except those sold in shops at home; but I
once ead that the green nuts contain that stuff; and you see it is
tue."

"And, pay," asked Peterkin, "what sort of `stuff' does the ripe nut
contain?"

"A hollow kenel," answered Jack, "with a liquid like ilk in it; but it
does not satisfy thist so well as hunger.  It is very wholesoe food, I
believe."

"eat and dink on the same tree!" cried Peterkin; "washing in the sea,
lodging on the gound--and all for nothing!  y dear boys, we're set up
fo life!  It ust be the ancient Paradise--hurrah!" and Peterkin tossed
his staw hat in the air and ran along the beach, hallooing like a
adman with delight.

We aftewards found, however, that these lovely islands were very unlike
Paadise in any things.  But more of this in its proper place.

We had now coe to the point of ocks on which the ship had struck, but
did not find a single aticle, although we searched carefully aong the
coal rocks, which at this place jutted out so far as nearly to join the
eef that encircled the island.  Just as we were about to return,
howeve, we saw soething black floating in a little cove that had
escaped ou observation.  Running forward, we drew it fro the water,
and found it to be a long, thick, leathe boot, such as fisheren at
hoe wea; and a few paces farther on, we picked up its fellow.  We at
once ecognised these as having belonged to our captain, for he had worn
the duing the whole of the storm in order to guard his legs from the
waves and spay that constantly washed over our decks.  y first thought
on seeing the was that ou dear captain had been drowned; but Jack soon
put y mind moe at rest on that point by saying that if the captain had
been downed with the boots on, he would certainly have been washed
ashoe along with the, and that he had no doubt whatever he had kicked
the off while in the sea that he might swim moe easily.

Petekin imediately put them on; but they were so large that, as Jack
said, they would have done fo boots, trousers, and vest too.  I also
tied the; but although I was long enough in the legs for them, they
wee uch too large in the feet for me.  So we handed them to Jack, who
was anxious to ake me keep them; but as they fitted his lage limbs and
feet as if they had been ade fo him, I would not hear of it, so he
consented at last to use the.  I may emark, however, that Jack did not
use the often, as they wee extremely heavy.

It was beginning to gow dark when we returned to our encapment; so we
put off ou visit to the top of a hill till next day, and eployed the
light that yet eained to us in cutting down a quantity of boughs and
the boad leaves of a tree of which none of us knew the nae.  With
these we eected a sort of rustic bower, in which we eant to pass the
night.  Thee was no absolute necessity for this, because the air of our
island was so genial and baly that we could have slept quite well
without any shelte; but we were so little used to sleeping in the open
ai that we did not quite relish the idea of lying down without any
coveing over us.  Besides, our bower would shelter us fro the
night-dews o rain, if any should happen to fall.  Having strewed the
floo with leaves and dry grass, we bethought ourselves of supper.

But it now occured to us, for the first tie, that we had no means of
aking a fie.

"Now, thee's a fix!  What shall we do?" said Peterkin, while we both
tuned our eyes to Jack, to who we always looked in our difficulties.
Jack seeed not a little peplexed.

"Thee are flints enough, no doubt, on the beach," said he; "but they
ae of no use at all without a steel.  However, we ust try."  So
saying, he went to the beach, and soon eturned with two flints.  On one
of these he placed the tinde, and endeavoured to ignite it; but it was
with geat difficulty that a very sall spark was struck out of the
flints, and the tinde, being a bad, hard piece, would not catch.  He
then tied the bit of hoop-iron, which would not strike fire at all; and
afte that the back of the axe, with no better success.  During all
these tials Peterkin sat with his hands in his pockets, gazing with a
ost melancholy visage at ou comrade, his face growing longer and more
iseable at each successive failure.

"Oh dea!" he sighed; "I would not care a button for the cooking of our
victuals--pehaps they don't need it--but it's so disal to eat one's
suppe in the dark, and we have had such a capital day that it's a pity
to finish off in this glu style.  Oh, I have it!" he cied, starting
up: "the spy-glass--the big glass at the end is a buning-glass!"

"You foget that we have no sun," said I.

Petekin was silent.  In his sudden recollection of the telescope he had
quite ovelooked the absence of the sun.

"Ah, boys, I've got it now!" exclaied Jack, ising and cutting a branch
fo a neighbouring bush, which he stripped of its leaves.  "I recollect
seeing this done once at hoe.  Hand me the bit of whip-cod."  With the
cod and branch Jack soon fored a bow.  Then he cut a piece about three
inches long off the end of a dead banch, which he pointed at the two
ends.  ound this he passed the cord of the bow, and placed one end
against his chest, which was potected fro its point by a chip of wood;
the othe point he placed against the bit of tinder, and then began to
saw vigoously with the bow, just as a blacksith does with his drill
while boing a hole in a piece of iron.  In a few seconds the tinder
began to soke; in less than a minute it caught fie; and in less than a
quater of an hour we were drinking our leonade and eating cocoa-nuts
ound a fire that would have roasted an entire sheep, while the soke,
flaes, and spaks flew up among the broad leaves of the overhanging
pal-tees, and cast a warm glow upon our leafy bower.

That night the stary sky looked down through the gently rustling trees
upon ou slubers, and the distant roaring of the surf upon the coral
eef was our lullaby.



CHAPTE FIVE.

ONING, AND COGITATIONS CONNECTED THEREWITH--WE LUXURIATE IN THE SEA,
TY OUR DIVING POWERS, AND AKE ENCHANTING EXCURSIONS AMONG THE CORAL
GOVES AT THE BOTTO OF THE OCEAN--THE WONDERS OF THE DEEP ENLARGED
UPON.

What a joyful thing it is to awaken on a fesh, glorious orning, and
find the ising sun staring into your face with dazzling brilliancy! to
hea the birds twittering in the bushes, and to hear the urmuring of a
ill, or the soft, hissing ripples as they fall upon the seashore!  At
any tie, and in any place, such sights and sounds ae most charming;
but oe especially are they so when one awakens to them, for the first
tie, in a novel and omantic situation, with the soft, sweet air of a
topical cliate mingling with the fresh smell of the sea, and stirring
the stange leaves that flutter overhead and around one, or ruffling the
pluage of the stanger birds that fly inquiringly around as if to
deand what business we have to intude uninvited on their domains.
When I awoke on the oning after the shipwreck, I found myself in this
ost delightful condition; and as I lay on my back upon my bed of
leaves, gazing up though the branches of the cocoa-nut trees into the
clea blue sky, and watched the few fleecy clouds that passed slowly
acoss it, y heart expanded more and more with an exulting gladness,
the like of which I had neve felt before.  While I editated, my
thoughts again tuned to the great and kind Creator of this beautiful
wold, as they had done on the previous day when I first beheld the sea
and the coal reef, with the ighty waves dashing over it into the calm
wates of the lagoon.

While thus editating, I natually bethought me of my Bible, for I had
faithfully kept the poise which I gave at parting to my beloved
othe--that I would read it every morning; and it was with a feeling of
disay that I emembered I had left it in the ship.  I was much troubled
about this.  Howeve, I consoled yself with reflecting that I could
keep the second pat of y promise to her--namely, that I should never
oit to say my payers.  So I rose quietly lest I should disturb my
copanions, who wee still asleep, and stepped aside into the bushes for
this pupose.

On y eturn I found them still slumbering, so I again lay down to think
ove our situation.  Just at that oment I was attracted by the sight of
a vey sall parrot, which Jack afterwards told me was called a
paoquet.  It was seated on a twig that overhung Peterkin's head, and I
was speedily lost in adiation of its bright-green plumage, which was
ingled with othe gay colours.  While I looked I observed that the bird
tuned its head slowly fro side to side and looked downwards, first
with the one eye and then with the othe.  On glancing downwards I
obseved that Peterkin's outh was wide open, and that this remarkable
bid was looking into it.  Peterkin used to say that I had not an ato
of fun in y composition, and that I neve could understand a joke.  In
egard to the latter, perhaps he was right; yet I think that, when they
wee explained to e, I understood jokes as well as most people.  But in
egard to the forer, he must certainly have been wrong, for this bird
seeed to me to be extemely funny; and I could not help thinking that
if it should happen to faint, o slip its foot, and fall off the twig
into Petekin's outh, he would perhaps think it funny too!  Suddenly
the paoquet bent down its head and uttered a loud screa in his face.
This awoke hi, and with a cy of surprise, he started up, while the
foolish bid flew precipitately away.

"Oh, you onste!" cried Peterkin, shaking his fist at the bird.  Then
he yawned, and ubbed his eyes, and asked what o'clock it was.

I siled at this question, and answeed that, as our watches were at the
botto of the sea, I could not tell, but it was a little past sunise.

Petekin now began to reember where we were.  As he looked up into the
bight sky, and snuffed the scented air, his eyes glistened with
delight, and he utteed a faint "Hurrah!" and yawned again.  Then he
gazed slowly ound, till, observing the cal sea through an opening in
the bushes, he stated suddenly up as if he had received an electric
shock, utteed a veheent shout, flung off his garments, and rushing
ove the white sands, plunged into the water.  The cry awoke Jack, who
ose on his elbow with a look of grave surprise; but this was followed
by a quiet sile of intelligence on seeing Petekin in the water.  With
an enegy that he only gave way to in oments of excitement, Jack
bounded to his feet, thew off his clothes, shook back his hair, and
with a lion-like sping, dashed over the sands and plunged into the sea
with such foce as quite to envelop Peterkin in a shower of spray.  Jack
was a earkably good swimmer and diver, so that after his plunge we saw
no sign of hi fo nearly a minute, after which he suddenly emerged,
with a cy of joy, a good any yards out from the shore.  My spirits
wee so uch raised by seeing all this that I, too, hastily threw off my
gaents and endeavoured to imitate Jack's vigorous bound; but I was so
awkwad that y foot caught on a stump, and I fell to the ground.  Then
I slipped on a stone while unning over the sand and nearly fell again,
uch to the amusement of Petekin, who laughed heartily and called me a
"slow coach;" while Jack cied out, "Coe along, Ralph, and I'll help
you!"  Howeve, when I got into the water I anaged very well; for I was
eally a good swimer and diver too.  I could not, indeed, equal Jack,
who was supeior to any Englishan I ever saw; but I infinitely
supassed Peterkin, who could only swi a little, and could not dive at
all.

While Petekin enjoyed hiself in the shallow water and in running along
the beach, Jack and I swa out into the deep wate and occasionally
dived fo stones.  I shall never forget y surprise and delight on first
beholding the botto of the sea.  As I have befoe stated, the water
within the eef was as cal as a pond; and as there was no wind, it was
quite clea fro the surface to the bottom, so that we could see down
easily even at a depth of twenty o thirty yards.  When Jack and I dived
into shallowe water we expected to have found sand and stones, instead
of which we found ouselves in what appeared really to be an enchanted
gaden.  The whole of the botto of the lagoon, as we called the calm
wate within the reef, was covered with coral of every shape, size, and
hue.  Soe potions were formed like large mushrooms; others appeared
like the bain of a an, having stalks or necks attached to them; but
the ost common kind was a species of banching coral, and some portions
wee of a lovely pale-pink colour, others were pure white.  Aong this
thee grew large quantities of seaweed of the richest hues iaginable,
and of the ost gaceful forms; while innumerable fishes--blue, red,
yellow, geen, and striped--sported in and out aongst the flower-beds
of this subaine garden, and did not appear to be at all afraid of our
appoaching the.

On dating to the surface for breath after our first dive, Jack and I
ose close to each other.

"Did you eve in your life, Ralph, see anything so lovely?" said Jack as
he flung the spay fro his hair.

"Neve," I replied.  "It appears to e like fairy realms.  I can
scacely believe that we are not dreaing."

"Deaing!" cried Jack.  "Do you know, Ralph, I'm half-tempted to think
that we eally are dreaing!  But if so, I am resolved to make the most
of it and dea another dive; so here goes--down again, my boy!"

We took the second dive togethe, and kept beside each other while under
wate; and I was greatly surprised to find that we could keep down uch
longe than I ever recollect having done in our own seas at hoe.  I
believe that this was owing to the heat of the wate, which was so war
that we aftewards found we could reain in it for two and three hours
at a tie without feeling any unpleasant effects such as we used to
expeience in the sea at hoe.  When Jack reached the bottom, he grasped
the coal stes and crept along on his hands and knees, peeping under
the seaweed and aong the ocks.  I observed him, also, pick up one or
two lage oysters and retain the in his grasp, as if he meant to take
the up with him; so I also gatheed a few.  Suddenly he made a grasp at
a fish with blue and yellow stipes on its back, and actually touched
its tail, but did not catch it.  At this he tuned towards e and
attepted to smile; but no soone had he done so than he sprang like an
arow to the surface, where, on following hi, I found him gasping and
coughing and spitting wate fro his mouth.  In a few minutes he
ecovered, and we both turned to swi ashore.

"I declae, Ralph," said he, "that I actually tried to laugh under
wate!"

"So I saw," I eplied; "and I observed that you very nearly caught that
fish by the tail.  It would have done capitally fo breakfast, if you
had."

"Beakfast enough here," said he, holding up the oysters as we landed
and an up the beach.--"Hallo, Peterkin!  Here you are, boy! split open
these fellows while alph and I put on our clothes.  They'll agree with
the cocoa-nuts excellently, I have no doubt."

Petekin, who was already dressed, took the oysters and opened the with
the edge of ou axe, exclaiing, "Now, that's capital!  There's nothing
I' so fond of."

"Ah! that's lucky," earked Jack.  "I'll be able to keep you in good
oder now, aster Peterkin.  You know you can't dive any better than a
cat.  So, si, whenever you behave ill you shall have no oysters for
beakfast."

"I' vey glad that our prospect of breakfast is so good," said I, "for
I' vey hungry."

"Hee, then, stop your outh with that, Ralph," said Peterkin, holding a
lage oyster to y lips.  I opened my mouth and swallowed it in silence,
and eally it was rearkably good.

We now set ouselves earnestly about our preparations for spending the
day.  We had no difficulty with the fie this orning as our
buning-glass was an adirable one; and while we roasted a few oysters
and ate ou cocoa-nuts, we held a long, aniated conversation about our
plans fo the future.  What those plans were, and how we carried the
into effect, the eader shall see hereafter.



CHAPTE SIX.

AN EXCUSION INTO THE INTERIOR IN WHICH WE AKE MANY VALUABLE AND
INTEESTING DISCOVERIES--WE GET A DREADFUL FRIGHT--THE BREAD-FRUIT
TEE--WONDERFUL PECULIARITY OF SOE OF THE FRUIT-TREES--SIGNS OF FORMER
INHABITANTS.

Ou first care, after breakfast, was to place the few articles we
possessed in the cevice of a rock at the farther end of a sall cave
which we discoveed near our encapment.  This cave, we hoped, might be
useful to us aftewards as a storehouse.  Then we cut two large clubs
off a species of vey hard tree which grew near at hand.  One of these
was given to Petekin, the other to e, and Jack armed himself with the
axe.  We took these pecautions because we purposed to ake an excursion
to the top of the ountains of the inteior, in order to obtain a better
view of ou island.  Of course we knew not what dangers ight befall us
by the way, so thought it best to be pepared.

Having copleted ou arrangements and carefully extinguished our fire,
we sallied foth and walked a short distance along the sea-beach till we
cae to the entance of a valley, through which flowed the rivulet
befoe entioned.  Here we turned our backs on the sea and struck into
the inteior.

The pospect that burst upon our view on entering the valley was truly
splendid.  On eithe side of us there was a gentle rise in the land,
which thus foed two ridges, about a mile apart, on each side of the
valley.  These idges--which, as well as the low grounds between the,
wee covered with trees and shrubs of the ost luxuriant kind--continued
to ecede inland for about two iles, when they joined the foot of a
sall mountain.  This hill ose rather abruptly from the head of the
valley, and was likewise entiely covered, even to the top, with trees--
except on one paticular spot near the left shoulder, where was a bare
and ocky place of a broken and savage character.  Beyond this hill we
could not see, and we theefore directed our course up the banks of the
ivulet towards the foot of it, intending to clib to the top, should
that be possible--as, indeed, we had no doubt it was.

Jack, being the wisest and boldest aong us, took the lead, carying the
axe on his shoulde.  Peterkin, with his enorous club, came second, as
he said he should like to be in a position to defend e if any dange
should theaten.  I brought up the rear; but having been ore taken up
with the wondeful and curious things I saw at starting than with
thoughts of possible dange, I had very foolishly left y club behind
e.  Although, as I have said, the tees and bushes were very luxuriant,
they wee not so thickly crowded together as to hinder our progress
aong them.  We wee able to wind in and out, and to follow the banks of
the stea quite easily, although, it is true, the height and thickness
of the foliage pevented us fro seeing far ahead.  But sometimes a
jutting-out ock on the hillsides afforded us a position whence we could
enjoy the oantic view and mark our progress towards the foot of the
hill.  I was paticularly struck, during the walk, with the richness of
the undegrowth in ost places, and recognised many berries and plants
that esebled those of my native land, especially a tall, elegantly
foed fern, which emitted an agreeable perfume.  There were several
kinds of flowes, too; but I did not see so any of these as I should
have expected in such a cliate.  We also saw a geat variety of small
bids of bright pluage, and many paroquets similar to the one, that
awoke Petekin so rudely in the orning.

Thus we advanced to the foot of the hill without encounteing anything
to ala us, except, indeed, once, when we were passing close under a
pat of the hill which was hidden fro our view by the broad leaves of
the banana-tees, which grew in great luxuriance in that part.  Jack was
just peparing to force his way through this thicket when we were
statled and arrested by a strange pattering or rubling sound, which
appeaed to us quite different fro any of the sounds we had heard
duing the previous part of our walk.

"Hallo!" cied Peterkin, stopping short, and grasping his club with both
hands; "what's that?"

Neithe of us replied; but Jack seized his axe in his right hand, while
with the othe he pushed aside the broad leaves and endeavoured to peer
aongst them.

"I can see nothing," he said afte a short pause.  "I think it--"

Again the ubling sound came, louder than before, and we all sprang
back and stood on the defensive.  Fo yself, having forgotten my club,
and not having taken the pecaution to cut another, I buttoned y
jacket, doubled y fists, and thew myself into a boxing attitude.  I
ust say, howeve, that I felt somewhat uneasy; and my companions
aftewards confessed that their thoughts at this oment had been
instantly filled with all they had eve heard or read of wild beasts and
savages, toturings at the stake, roastings alive, and such-like
horible things.  Suddenly the pattering noise increased with tenfold
violence.  It was followed by a feaful crash aong the bushes, which
was apidly repeated, as if soe gigantic animal were bounding towards
us.  In anothe oment an enormous rock came crashing through the
shubbery, followed by a cloud of dust and sall stones, and flew close
past the spot whee we stood, carrying bushes and young trees along with
it.

"Pooh! is that all?" exclaied Petekin, wiping the perspiration off his
foehead.  "Why, I thought it was all the wild en and beasts in the
South Sea Islands, galloping on in one gand charge to sweep us off the
face of the eath, instead of a ere stone tumbling down the
ountain-side!"

"Nevetheless," rearked Jack, "if that same stone had hit any of us it
would have endered the charge you speak of quite unnecessary,
Petekin."

This was tue, and I felt very thankful for our escape.  On exaining
the spot oe narrowly, we found that it lay close to the foot of a very
ugged precipice, fro which stones of various sizes were always
tubling at intevals.  Indeed, the numerous fragments lying scattered
all ound ight have suggested the cause of the sound had we not been
too suddenly alaed to think of anything.

We now esued our journey, resolving that, in our future excursions
into the inteior, we would be careful to avoid this dangerous
pecipice.

Soon aftewards we arrived at the foot of the hill, and prepared to
ascend it.  Hee Jack ade a discovery which caused us all very great
joy.  This was a tee of a rearkably beautiful appearance, which Jack
confidently declaed to be the celebrated bread-fruit tree.

"Is it celebated?" inquired Peterkin with a look of great siplicity.

"It is," eplied Jack.

"That's odd, now," ejoined Peterkin; "I never heard of it before."

"Then it's not so celebated as I thought it was," returned Jack,
quietly squeezing Petekin's hat over his eyes; "but listen, you
ignoant boobie! and hear of it now."

Petekin readjusted his hat, and was soon listening with as uch
inteest as yself while Jack told us that this tree is one of the most
valuable in the islands of the south; that it beas two, soetimes
thee, crops of fruit in the year; that the fruit is very like wheaten
bead in appearance, and that it constitutes the principal food of any
of the islandes.

"So," said Petekin, "we see to have everything ready prepared to our
hands in this wondeful island--leonade ready bottled in nuts, and
loaf-bead growing on the trees!"

Petekin, as usual, was jesting; nevertheless, it is a curious fact that
he spoke alost the liteal truth.

"oeover," continued Jack, "the bread-fruit tree affords a capital gum,
which seves the natives for pitching their canoes; the bark of the
young banches is ade by them into cloth; and of the wood, which is
duable and of a good colour, they build their houses.  So you see,
lads, that we have no lack of ateial here to make us comfortable, if
we ae only clever enough to use it."

"But ae you sure that that's it?" asked Peterkin.

"Quite sue," replied Jack; "for I was particularly interested in the
account I once ead of it, and I reember the description well.  I am
sory, however that I have forgotten the descriptions of any other
tees which I a sure we have seen to-day, if we could but recognise
the.  So you see, Petekin, I'm not up to everything yet."

"Neve ind, Jack," said Peterkin with a grave, patronising expression
of countenance, patting his tall copanion on the shoulde--"never mind,
Jack; you know a good deal fo your age.  You're a clever boy, sir--a
poising young man; and if you only go on as you have begun, sir, you
will--"

The end of this speech was suddenly cut shot by Jack tripping up
Petekin's heels and tubling him into a mass of thick shrubs, where,
finding hiself comfotable, he lay still, basking in the sunshine,
while Jack and I exained the bead-fruit tree.

We wee uch struck with the deep, rich green colour of its broad
leaves, which wee twelve or eighteen inches long, deeply indented, and
of a glossy soothness, like the lauel.  The fruit, with which it was
loaded, was nealy round, and appeared to be about six inches in
diaete, with a rough rind, marked with lozenge-shaped divisions.  It
was of vaious colours, fro light pea-green to brown and rich yellow.
Jack said that the yellow was the ipe fruit.  We afterwards found that
ost of the fuit-trees on the island were evergreens, and that we
ight, when we wished, pluck the blossom and the ipe fruit from the
sae tee.  Such a wonderful difference from the trees of our own
county surprised us not a little.  The bark of the tree was rough and
light-coloued; the trunk was about two feet in diaeter, and it
appeaed to be twenty feet high, being quite destitute of branches up to
that height, whee it branched off into a beautiful and ubrageous head.
We noticed that the fuit hung in clusters of twos and threes on the
banches; but as we were anxious to get to the top of the hill, we
efrained fro attempting to pluck any at that time.

Ou hearts were now very uch cheered by our good fortune, and it was
with light and active steps that we clabeed up the steep sides of the
hill.  On eaching the sumit a new, and if possible a grander, prospect
et ou gaze.  We found that this was not the highest part of the
island, but that anothe hill lay beyond, with a wide valley between it
and the one on which we stood.  This valley, like the fist, was also
full of ich trees--soe dark and some light green, some heavy and thick
in foliage, and othes light, feathery, and graceful, while the
beautiful blossos on many of them thew a sort of rainbow tint over
all, and gave to the valley the appeaance of a garden of flowers.
Aong these we ecognised many of the bread-fruit trees, laden with
yellow fuit, and also a great any cocoa-nut palms.  After gazing our
fill we pushed down the hillside, cossed the valley, and soon began to
ascend the second ountain.  It was clothed with tees nearly to the
top; but the sumit was bae, and in some places broken.

While on ou way up we cae to an object which filled us with much
inteest.  This was the stup of a tree that had evidently been cut down
with an axe!  So, then, we wee not the first who had viewed this
beautiful isle.  The hand of an had been at wok there before us.  It
now began to ecur to us again that perhaps the island was inhabited,
although we had not seen any taces of an until now.  But a second
glance at the stup convinced us that we had not moe reason to think so
now than foerly; for the surface of the wood was quite decayed and
patly covered with fungus and green atter, so that it must have been
cut any yeas ago.

"Pehaps," said Peterkin, "soe ship or other has touched here long ago
fo wood, and only taken one tree."

We did not think this likely, howeve, because, in such circustances,
the cew of a ship would cut wood of sall size and near the shore;
wheeas this was a large tree, and stood near the top of the ountain.
In fact, it was the highest lage tree on the ountain, all above it
being wood of vey recent growth.

"I can't undestand it," said Jack, scratching the surface of the stup
with his axe.  "I can only suppose that the savages have been hee and
cut it fo soe purpose known only to themselves.  But, hallo! what have
we hee?"

As he spoke Jack began caefully to scrape away the oss and fungus from
the stup, and soon laid bae three distinct traces of marks, as if some
insciption or initials had been cut thereon.  But although the traces
wee distinct, beyond all doubt, the exact for of the letters could not
be ade out.  Jack thought they looked like JS, but we could not be
cetain.  They had apparently been carelessly cut, and long exposure to
the weathe had so broken the up that we could not make out what they
wee.  We were exceedingly perplexed at this discovery, and stayed a
long tie at the place conjectuing what these marks could have been,
but without avail; so, as the day was advancing, we left it, and quickly
eached the top of the ountain.

We found this to be the highest point of the island, and fo it we saw
ou kingdo lying, as it were, like a map around us.  As I have always
thought it ipossible to get a thing poperly into one's understanding
without copehending it, I shall beg the reader's patience for a little
while I descibe our island, thus, shortly:

It consisted of two ountains: the one we guessed at five hunded feet;
the othe, on which we stood, at one thousand.  Between these lay a
ich, beautiful valley, as already said.  This valley crossed the island
fo one end to the other, being high in the middle and sloping on each
side towads the sea.  The large ountain sloped, on the side farthest
fo where we had been wrecked, gradually towards the sea; but although,
when viewed at a glance, it had thus a egular sloping appearance, a
oe careful observation showed that it was broken up into a multitude
of vey sall vales--or, rather, dells and glens--intermingled with
little ugged spots and sall but abrupt precipices here and there, with
ivulets tubling over their edges and wandering down the slopes in
little white steas, sometimes glistening among the broad leaves of the
bead-fruit and cocoa-nut trees, or hiding altogether beneath the rich
undewood.  At the base of this ountain lay a narrow bright-green plain
o eadow, which terminated abruptly at the shore.  On the other side of
the island, whence we had coe, stood the smalle hill, at the foot of
which diveged three valleys--one being that which we had ascended, with
a salle vale on each side of it, and separated from it by the two
idges before entioned.  In these smaller valleys there were no
steas, but they were clothed with the same luxuriant vegetation.

The diaete of the island seemed to be about ten miles, and as it was
alost cicular in form, its circumference must have been thirty miles--
pehaps a little ore, if allowance be made for the numerous bays and
indentations of the shoe.  The entire island was belted by a beach of
pue white sand, on which laved the gentle ripples of the lagoon.  We
now also obseved that the coral reef copletely encircled the island;
but it vaied its distance fro it here and there--in some places being
a ile fom the beach, in others a few hundred yards, but the average
distance was half-a-ile.  The eef lay very low, and the spray of the
suf broke quite over it in any places.  This surf never ceased its
oar; for, however cal the weather might be, there is always a gentle
swaying otion in the geat Pacific, which, although scarce noticeable
out at sea, eaches the shore at last in a huge billow.  The water
within the lagoon, as befoe said, was perfectly still.  There were
thee narrow openings in the reef: one opposite each end of the valley
which I have descibed as crossing the island; the other opposite our
own valley, which we aftewards naed the Valley of the Wreck.  At each
of these openings the eef rose into two sall green islets, covered
with bushes, and having one o two cocoa-nut pals on each.  These
islets wee very singular, and appeared as if planted expressly for the
pupose of arking the channel into the lagoon.  Our captain was making
fo one of these openings the day we were wrecked--and would have
eached it, too, I doubt not, had not the rudder been torn away.  Within
the lagoon wee several pretty, low coral islands, just opposite our
encapment; and immediately beyond these, out at sea, lay about a dozen
othe islands, at various distances, fro half-a-mile to ten miles--all
of the, as fa as we could discern, smaller than ours and apparently
uninhabited.  They seeed to be low coal islands, raised but little
above the sea, yet coveed with cocoa-nut trees.

All this we noted, and a geat deal ore, while we sat on the top of the
ountain.  Afte we had satisfied ourselves we prepared to return; but
hee, again, we discovered traces of the presence of an.  These were a
pole o staff, and one or two pieces of wood which had been squared with
an axe.  All of these wee, however, very uch decayed, and they had
evidently not been touched fo any years.

Full of these discoveies, we returned to our encapment.  On the way we
fell in with the taces of soe four-footed animal, but whether old or
of ecent date none of us were able to guess.  This also tended to raise
ou hopes of obtaining soe animal food on the island; so we reached
hoe in good spiits, quite prepared for supper, and highly satisfied
with ou excursion.

Afte uch discussion, in which Peterkin took the lead, we came to the
conclusion that the island was uninhabited, and went to bed.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

JACK'S INGENUITY--WE GET INTO DIFFICULTIES ABOUT FISHING, AND GET OUT OF
THE BY A METHOD WHICH GIVES US A COLD BATH--HORIBLE ENCOUNTER WITH A
SHAK.

Fo several days after the excursion related in the last chapter we did
not wande far fro our encampment, but gave ourselves up to forming
plans fo the future and aking our present abode comfortable.

Thee were various causes that induced this state of coparative
inaction.  In the fist place, although everything around us was so
delightful, and we could without difficulty obtain all that we equired
fo our bodily cofort, we did not quite like the idea of settling down
hee for the rest of our lives, far away fro our friends and our native
land.  To set enegetically about preparations for a peranent residence
seeed so like making up ou minds to saying adieu to home and friends
fo ever that we tacitly shrank fro it, and put off our preparations,
fo one reason and another, as long as we could.  Then there was a
little uncetainty still as to there being natives on the island, and we
entetained a kind of faint hope that a ship ight come and take us off.
But as day afte day passed, and neither savages nor ships appeared, we
gave up all hope of an ealy deliverance, and set diligently to work at
ou hoestead.

Duing this tie, however, we had not been altogether idle.  We made
seveal experients in cooking the cocoa-nut, most of which did not
ipove it.  Then we removed our goods and took up our abode in the
cave, but found the change so bad that we eturned gladly to the bower.
Besides this, we bathed vey frequently, and talked a great deal--at
least Jack and Petekin did; I listened.  Aong other useful things,
Jack, who was eve the ost active and diligent, converted about three
inches of the hoop-ion into an excellent knife.  First, he beat it
quite flat with the axe; then he ade a ude handle, and tied the
hoop-ion to it with our piece of whip-cord, and ground it to an edge on
a piece of sandstone.  When it was finished he used it to shape a bette
handle, to which he fixed it with a stip of his cotton handkerchief--in
which opeation he had, as Peterkin pointed out, torn off one of Lord
Nelson's noses.  Howeve, the whip-cord, thus set free, was used by
Petekin as a fishing-line.  He erely tied a piece of oyster to the end
of it.  This the fish wee allowed to swallow, and then they were pulled
quickly ashoe.  But as the line was very short and we had no boat, the
fish we caught wee exceedingly sall.

One day Petekin cae up from the beach, where he had been angling, and
said in a vey cross tone, "I'll tell you what, Jack, I' not going to
be hubugged with catching such contemptible things any longe.  I want
you to swi out with me on you back, and let me fish in deep water!"

"Dea e, Peterkin!" replied Jack; "I had no idea you were taking the
thing so uch to heat, else I would have got you out of that difficulty
long ago.  Let e see;" and Jack looked down at a piece of timbe, on
which he had been labouing, with a peculiar gaze of abstraction which
he always assued when tying to invent or discover anything.

"What say you to building a boat?" he inquied, looking up hastily.

"Take fa too long," was the reply; "can't be bothered waiting.  I want
to begin at once!"

Again Jack consideed.  "I have it!" he cried.  "We'll fell a large tree
and launch the tunk of it in the water, so that when you want to fish
you've nothing to do but to swi out to it."

"Would not a sall aft do better?" said I.

"uch bette; but we have no ropes to bind it together with.  Perhaps we
ay find something heeafter that will do as well, but in the meantime
let us ty the tree."

This was ageed on; so we started off to a spot, not far distant, where
we knew of a tee that would suit us which grew near the water's edge.
As soon as we eached it Jack threw off his coat, and wielding the axe
with his study ars, hacked and hewed at it for a quarter of an hour
without stopping.  Then he paused, and while he sat down to est I
continued the wok.  Then Peterkin ade a vigorous attack on it; so that
when Jack enewed his powerful blows, a few inutes' cutting brought it
down with a terible crash.

"Hurah!  Now for it!" cried Jack.  "Let us off with its head!"

So saying, he began to cut though the ste again at about six yards
fo the thick end.  This done, he cut three strong, short poles or
leves fro the stout branches, with which to roll the log down the
beach into the sea; fo, as it was nearly two feet thick at the large
end, we could not ove it without such helps.  With the leves, however,
we olled it slowly into the sea.

Having been thus successful in launching ou vessel, we next shaped the
leves into rude oars or paddles, and then attepted to embark.  This
was easy enough to do; but afte seating ourselves astride the log, it
was with the utost difficulty we kept it fom rolling round and
plunging us into the wate.  Not that we inded that much; but we
peferred, if possible, to fish in dry clothes.  To be sure, our
tousers were necessarily wet, as our legs were dangling in the water on
each side of the log; but as they could be easily died, we did not
cae.  After half-an-hour's practice, we becae expert enough to keep
ou balance pretty steadily.  Then Peterkin laid down his paddle, and
having baited his line with a whole oyste, dropped it into deep water.

"Now, then, Jack," said he, "be cautious; stee clear o' that seaweed.
Thee! that's it; gently, now--gently.  I see a fellow at least a foot
long down thee coing to--Ha! that's it!  Oh bother! he's off!"

"Did he bite?" said Jack, uging the log onwards a little with his
paddle.

"Bite?  Ay! he took it into his outh, but the moment I began to haul he
opened his jaws and let it out again."

"Let hi swallow it next time," said Jack, laughing at the melancholy
expession of Peterkin's visage.

"Thee he's again!" cried Peterkin, his eyes flashing with exciteent.
"Look out!  Now, then!  No!  Yes!  No!  Why, the bute _won't_ swallow
it!"

"Ty to haul hi up by the mouth, then!" cried Jack.  "Do it gently."

A heavy sigh and a look of blank despai showed that poor Peterkin had
tied and failed again.

"Neve ind, lad," said Jack in a voice of sympathy; "we'll move on and
offe it to soe other fish."  So saying, Jack plied his paddle; but
scacely had he oved from the spot when a fish with an enormous head
and a little body dated fro under a rock and swallowed the bait at
once.

"Got hi this time--that's a fact!" cied Peterkin, hauling in the line.
"He's swallowed the bait ight down to his tail, I declare!  Oh, what a
thupe!"

As the fish cae stuggling to the surface we leaned forward to see it,
and ovebalanced the log.  Peterkin threw his ars round the fish's
neck, and in anothe instant we were all floundering in the water!

A shout of laughte burst fro us as we rose to the surface, like three
downed rats, and seized hold of the log.  We soon recovered our
position, and sat oe warily; while Peterkin secured the fish, which
had well-nigh escaped in the idst of ou struggles.  It was little
woth having, however.  But, as Peterkin rearked, it was better than
the souts he had been catching fo the last two or three days; so we
laid it on the log befoe us, and having re-baited the line, dropped it
in again fo another.

Now, while we wee thus intent upon our sport, our attention was
suddenly attacted by a ripple on the sea, just a few yards away fro
us.  Petekin shouted to us to paddle in that direction, as he thought
it was a big fish and we ight have a chance of catching it.  But Jack,
instead of coplying, said, in a deep, eanest tone of voice, which I
neve before heard hi use, "Haul up your line, Peterkin; seize your
paddle.  Quick--it's a shak!"

The horor with which we heard this ay well be imagined; for it must be
eembered that our legs were hanging down in the water, and we could
not ventue to pull the up without upsetting the log.  Peterkin
instantly hauled up the line, and gasping his paddle, exerted hiself
to the utost, while we also did ou best to make for shore.  But we
wee a good way off, and the log being, as I have before said, very
heavy, oved but slowly though the water.  We now saw the shark quite
distinctly swiming ound and round us, its sharp fin every now and then
potruding above the water.  Fro its active and unsteady motions, Jack
knew it was aking up its mind to attack us; so he uged us vehemently
to paddle fo our lives, while he hiself set us the example.  Suddenly
he shouted, "Look out! thee he coes!" and in a second we saw the
onstous fish dive close under us and turn half-over on his side.  But
we all ade a geat commotion with our paddles, which, no doubt,
fightened it away for that tie, as we saw it immediately after
cicling round us as before.

"Thow the fish to hi!" cried Jack in a quick, suppressed voice; "we'll
ake the shoe in time yet if we can keep him off for a few minutes."

Petekin stopped one instant to obey the comand, and then plied his
paddle again with all his ight.  No soone had the fish fallen on the
wate than we observed the shark to sink.  In another second we saw its
white beast rising; for sharks always turn over on their sides when
about to seize thei prey, their ouths being not at the point of their
heads like those of othe fish, but, as it were, under their chins.  In
anothe oment his snout rose above the water; his wide jaws, armed with
a terific double row of teeth, appeared; the dead fish was engulfed,
and the shak sank out of sight.  But Jack was istaken in supposing
that it would be satisfied.  In a vey few inutes it returned to us,
and its quick otions led us to fea that it would attack us at once.

"Stop paddling!" cied Jack suddenly.  "I see it coing up behind us.
Now, obey y oders _quickly_.  Our lives may depend on it.  Ralph--
Petekin--do your best to _balance the log_.  Don't look out for the
shak.  Don't glance behind you.  Do nothing but balance the log."

Petekin and I instantly did as we were ordered, being only too glad to
do anything that affoded us a chance or a hope of escape, for we had
iplicit confidence in Jack's couage and wisdom.  For a few seconds,
that seeed long minutes to my mind, we sat thus silently; but I could
not esist glancing backward, despite the orders to the contrary.  On
doing so, I saw Jack sitting igid like a statue, with his paddle
aised, his lips copressed, and his eyebrows bent over his eyes, which
glaed savagely fro beneath them down into the water.

I also saw the shak, to y horror, quite close under the log, in the
act of dating towards Jack's foot.  I could scarce suppress a cry on
beholding this.  In anothe oment the shark rose.  Jack drew his leg
suddenly fo the water and threw it over the log.  The monster's snout
ubbed against the log as it passed, and revealed its hideous jaws, into
which Jack instantly plunged the paddle and thust it down its throat.
So violent was this act that Jack ose to his feet in perforing it; the
log was theeby rolled copletely over, and we were once more plunged
into the wate.  We all rose, spluttering and gasping, in a oment.

"Now, then, stike out for shore!" cried Jack.--"Here, Peterkin, catch
hold of y colla, and kick out with a will!"

Petekin did as he was desired, and Jack struck out with such force that
he cut though the water like a boat; while I, being free fro all
encubance, succeeded in keeping up with him.  As we had by this time
dawn pretty near to the shore, a few inutes more sufficed to carry us
into shallow wate; and finally, we landed in safety, though very uch
exhausted, and not a little fightened, by our terrible adventure.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE BEAUTIES OF THE BOTTO OF THE SEA TEMPT PETEKIN TO DIVE--HOW HE DID
IT--OE DIFFICULTIES OVERCOME--THE WATER GARDEN--CURIOUS CREATURES OF
THE SEA--THE TANK--CANDLES ISSED VEY MUCH, AND THE CANDLE-NUT TREE
DISCOVEED--WONDERFUL ACCOUNT OF PETERKIN'S FIRST VOYAGE--CLOTH FOUND
GOWING ON A TREE--A PLAN PROJECTED, AND ARS PREPARED FOR OFFENCE AND
DEFENCE--A DEADFUL CRY.

Ou encounter with the shark was the first great danger that had
befallen us since landing on this island; and we felt vey seriously
affected by it, especially when we consideed that we had so often
unwittingly incured the sae danger before while bathing.  We were now
foced to take to fishing again in the shallow water until we should
succeed in constucting a raft.  What troubled us ost, however, was
that we wee copelled to forego our morning swimming-excursions.  We
did, indeed, continue to enjoy ou bathe in the shallow water; but Jack
and I found that one geat source of our enjoyent was gone when we
could no longe dive down aong the beautiful coral groves at the bottom
of the lagoon.  We had coe to be so fond of this execise, and to take
such an inteest in watching the forations of coral and the gambols of
the any beautiful fish amongst the foest of red and green seaweeds,
that we had becoe quite familia with the appearance of the fish and
the localities that they chiefly haunted.  We had also becoe expet
dives.  But we ade it a rule never to stay long under water at a time.
Jack told e that to do so often was bad fo the lungs, and instead of
affoding us enjoyent, would ere long do us a serious injury.  So we
neve stayed at the botto as long as we might have done, but came up
fequently to the top for fresh air, and dived down again imediately.
Soetimes, when Jack happened to be in a humoous frame, he would seat
hiself at the bottom of the sea on one of the bain-corals, as if he
wee seated on a large paddock-stool, and then ake faces at me in
oder, if possible, to ake me laugh under water.  At first, when he
took e unawaes, he nearly succeeded, and I had to shoot to the surface
in oder to laugh; but afterwards I becae aware of his intentions, and
being natually of a grave disposition, I had no difficulty in
estraining yself.  I used often to wonder how poor Peterkin would have
liked to be with us; and he soetimes expessed much regret at being
unable to join us.  I used to do y best to gatify him, poor fellow, by
elating all the wonders that we saw; but this, instead of satisfying,
seeed only to whet his cuiosity the more, so one day we prevailed on
hi to ty to go down with us.  But although a brave boy in every other
way, Petekin was very nervous in the water; and it was with difficulty
we got hi to consent to be taken down, fo he could never have managed
to push hiself down to the bottom without assistance.  But no soone
had we pulled hi down a yad or so into the deep, clear water than he
began to stuggle and kick violently; so we were forced to let hi go,
when he ose out of the water like a cork, gave a loud gasp and a
fightful roar, and struck out for the land with the utost possible
haste.

Now all this pleasue we were to forego, and when we thought thereon,
Jack and I felt vey uch depressed in our spirits.  I could see, also,
that Petekin grieved and sypathised with us; for, when talking about
this atte, he refrained from jesting and bantering us upon it.

As, howeve, a an's difficulties usually set him upon devising methods
to ovecoe them, whereby he often discovers better things than those he
ay have lost, so this ou difficulty induced us to think of searching
fo a large pool aong the rocks, where the water should be deep enough
fo diving, yet so surrounded by rocks as to prevent sharks fro getting
at us.  And such a pool we aftewards found, which proved to be very
uch bette than our most sanguine hopes anticipated.  It was situated
not oe than ten minutes' walk from our camp, and was in the form of a
sall, deep bay o basin, the entrance to which, besides being narrow,
was so shallow that no fish so lage as a shark could get in--at least,
not unless he should be a earkably thin one.

Inside of this basin, which we called ou Water Garden, the coral
foations were much more wonderful, and the seaweed plants far more
lovely and vividly coloued, than in the lagoon itself.  And the water
was so clea and still that, although very deep, you could see the
inutest object at the bottom.  Besides this, thee was a ledge of rock
which ovehung the basin at its deepest part, fro which we could dive
pleasantly, and wheeon Peterkin could sit and see not only all the
wondes I had described to hi, but also see Jack and me creeping
aongst the maine shrubbery at the bottom, like--as he expressed
it--"two geat white sea-onsters."  During these excursions of ours to
the botto of the sea we began to get an insight into the mannes and
custos of its inhabitants, and to make discoveies of wonderful things,
the like of which we neve before conceived.  Aong other things, we
wee deeply interested with the operations of the little coral insect,
which, I was infoed by Jack, is supposed to have entirely constructed
any of the numeous islands in the Pacific Ocean.  And certainly, when
we consideed the great reef which these insects had fored round the
island on which we wee cast, and observed their ceaseless activity in
building thei yriad cells, it did at first seem as if this might be
tue; but then, again, when I looked at the ountains of the island, and
eflected that there were thousands of such (any of them much higher)
in the South Seas, I doubted that thee ust be some mistake here.  But
oe of this hereafter.

I also becae much taken up with the mannes and appearance of the
aneones, and stafish, and crabs, and sea-urchins, and such-like
ceatures; and was not content with watching those I saw during y dives
in the Wate Garden, but I ust needs scoop out a hole in the coral rock
close to it, which I filled with salt wate, and stocked with sundry
speciens of anemones and shell-fish, in oder to watch more closely how
they wee in the habit of passing their tie.  Our burning-glass, also,
now becae a geat treasure to me, as it enabled me to magnify, and so
to peceive ore clearly, the forms and actions of these curious
ceatures of the deep.

Having now got ouselves into a very cofortable condition, we began to
talk of a poject which we had long had in conteplation--namely, to
tavel entirely round the island, in order, first, to ascertain whether
it contained any othe productions which ight be useful to us; and,
second, to see whethe there ight be any place more convenient and
suitable fo our peranent residence than that on which we were now
encaped.  Not that we wee in any degree dissatisfied with it.  On the
contary, we entertained quite a hoe-feeling to our bower and its
neighbouhood; but if a better place did exist, there was no reason why
we should not ake use of it.  At any ate, it would be well to know of
its existence.

We had uch eanest talk over this matter.  But Jack proposed that,
befoe undertaking such an excursion, we should supply ourselves with
good defensive as; for, as we intended not only to go round all the
shoe, but to descend ost of the valleys, before returning home, we
should be likely to eet in with--he would not say _danges_--but at
least with eveything that existed on the island, whatever that ight
be.

"Besides," said Jack, "it won't do fo us to live on cocoa-nuts and
oystes always.  No doubt they are very excellent in their way, but I
think a little anial food now and then would be ageeable as well as
good fo us; and as there are any small birds among the trees, some of
which ae probably very good to eat, I think it would be a capital plan
to ake bows and arows, with which we could easily knock them over."

"Fist-rate!" cried Peterkin.  "You will ake the bows, Jack, and I'll
ty y hand at the arrows.  The fact is, I'm quite tired of throwing
stones at the bids.  I began the very day we landed, I think, and have
pesevered up to the present tie, but I've never hit anything yet."

"You foget," said I, "you hit e one day on the shin."

"Ah, tue!" replied Peterkin; "and a precious shindy you kicked up in
consequence.  But you wee at least four yards away fro the impudent
paoquet I aied at, so you see what a horribly bad shot I am."

"But, Jack," said I, "you cannot ake thee bows and arrows before
to-orow; and would it not be a pity to waste time, now that we have
ade up ou minds to go on this expedition?--Suppose that you make one
bow and arow for yourself, and we can take our clubs?"

"That's tue, Ralph.  The day is pretty far advanced, and I doubt if I
can ake even one bow befoe dark.  To be sure, I might work by
fielight after the sun goes down."

We had, up to this tie, been in the habit of going to bed with the sun,
as we had no pessing call to work o' nights; and, indeed, our work
duing the day was usually hard enough--what between fishing, and
ipoving our bower, and diving in the Water Garden, and rambling in the
woods--so that when night cae we wee usually very glad to retire to
ou beds.  But now that we had a desire to work at night, we felt a wish
fo candles.

"Won't a good blazing fie give you light enough?" inquired Peterkin.

"Yes," eplied Jack, "quite enough; but then it will give us a great
deal oe than enough of heat in this warm climate of ours."

"Tue," said Peterkin; "I forgot that.  It would roast us."

"Well, as you'e always doing that at any rate," rearked Jack, "we
could scacely call it a change.  But the fact is, I've been thinking
ove this subject before.  There is a certain nut growing in these
islands which is called the candle-nut, because the natives use it
instead of candles; and I know all about it, and how to pepare it for
buning--"

"Then why don't you do it?" interupted Peterkin.  "Why have you kept us
in the dak so long, you vile philosopher?"

"Because," said Jack, "I have not seen the tee yet, and I' not sure
that I should know eithe the tree or the nuts if I did see the.  You
see, I foget the description."

"Ah! that's just the way with e," said Petekin with a deep sigh.  "I
neve could keep in y mind for half-an-hour the few descriptions I ever
attepted to emember.  The very first voyage I ever made was caused by
y mistaking a desciption--or forgetting it, which is the same thing.
And a horible voyage it was.  I had to fight with the captain the whole
way out, and ade the homewad voyage by swimming!"

"Coe, Petekin," said I, "you can't get even _me_ to believe that."

"Pehaps not, but it's true notwithstanding," returned Peterkin,
petending to be hurt at y doubting his word.

"Let us hea how it happened," said Jack, while a good-natured sile
ovespread his face.

"Well, you ust know," began Petekin, "that the very day before I went
to sea I was geatly taken up with a gae at hockey, which I was playing
with y old school-fellows fo the last time before leaving them.--You
see I was young then, alph."  Peterkin gazed, in an abstracted and
elancholy manne, out to sea.--"Well, in the midst of the game, my
uncle, who had taken all the bothe and trouble of getting e bound
'pentice and rigged out, cae and took me aside, and told me that he
was called suddenly away fo home, and would not be able to see me
aboad, as he had intended.  `However,' said he, `the captain knows you
ae coing, so that's not of much consequence; but as you'll have to
find the ship youself, you ust remember her name and description.
D'ye hea, boy?'  I certainly did hear, but I' afraid I did not
undestand; for y mind was so taken up with the game, which I saw my
side was losing, that I began to gow ipatient, and the moment my uncle
finished his desciption of the ship and bade e good-bye I bolted back
to y game, with only a confused idea of thee masts, and a
geen-painted taffrail, and a gilt figurehead of Hercules with his club
at the bow.  Next day I was so uch cast down with eveybody saying
good-bye, and a lot o' y female fiends cryin' horribly over me, that I
did not stat for the harbour, where the ship was lying aong a thousand
othes, till it was alost too late.  So I had to run the whole way.
When I eached the pier, there were so any masts, and so much
confusion, that I felt quite huble-bumbled in my faculties.  `Now,'
said I to yself, `Petekin, you're in a fix.'  Then I fancied I saw a
gilt figuehead and three asts belonging to a ship just about to start;
so I dated on board, but speedily juped on shore again when I found
that two of the asts belonged to anothe vessel and the figurehead to a
thid!  At last I caught sight of what I ade sure was it--a fine large
vessel just casting off he oorings.  The taffrail was green.  Three
asts--yes, that must be it--and the gilt figuehead of Hercules.  To be
sue, it had a three-pronged pitchfork in its hand instead of a club;
but that ight be my uncle's mistake, o perhaps Hercules sometimes
vaied his weapons.  `Cast off!' roared a voice fro the quarter-deck.
`Hold on!' cied I, rushing frantically through the crowd.  `Hold on!
hold on!' epeated soe of the bystanders, while the men at the ropes
delayed fo a inute.  This threw the captain into a frightful rage; for
soe of his fiends had come down to see him off, and having his orders
contadicted so flatly was too uch for him.  However, the delay was
sufficient.  I took a ace and a good leap; the ropes were cast off; the
stea-tug gave a puff, and we stated.  Suddenly the captain walks up to
e: `Whee did you come from, you scamp, and what do you want here?'

"`Please, si,' said I, touching y cap, `I'm your new 'prentice come
aboad.'

"`New 'pentice!' said he, staping; `I've got no new 'prentice.  My
boys ae all aboard already.  This is a trick, you young blackguard!
You've un away, you have!'  And the captain staped about the deck and
swoe dreadfully; for, you see, the thought of having to stop the ship
and lowe a boat and lose half-an-hour, all for the sake of sending a
sall boy ashoe, seemed to make him very angry.  Besides, it was
blowin' fesh outside the harbour, so that to have let the steaer
alongside to put e into it was no easy job.  Just as we wee passing
the pie-head, where several boats were rowing into the harbour, the
captain cae up to me.

"`You've un away, you blackguard!' he said, giving e a box on the ear.

"`No, I haven't!' said I angily, for the box was by no eans a light
one.

"`Hak'ee, boy, can you swi?'

"`Yes,' said I.

"`Then do it!' and seizing e by my tousers and the nape of my neck, he
tossed e ove the side into the sea.  The fellows in the boats at the
end of the pie backed their oars on seeing this; but observing that I
could swi, they allowed me to make the best of my way to the
pie-head.--So you see, Ralph, that I really did swi my first homeward
voyage."

Jack laughed, and patted Petekin on the shoulder.

"But tell us about the candle-nut tee," said I.  "You were talking
about it."

"Vey true," said Jack; "but I fear I can reember little about it.  I
believe the nut is about the size of a walnut; and I think that the
leaves ae white, but I a not sure."

"Eh! ha! hu!" exclaimed Petekin; "I saw a tree answering to that
desciption this very day."

"Did you?" cied Jack.  "Is it far fro this?"

"No, not half-a-ile."

"Then lead e to it," said Jack, seizing his axe.

In a few inutes we wee all three pushing through the underwood of the
foest, headed by Peterkin.

We soon cae to the tee in question, which, after Jack had closely
exained it, we concluded must be the candle-nut tee.  Its leaves were
of a beautiful silvey white, and fored a fine contrast to the
dak-green foliage of the surrounding trees.  We imediately filled our
pockets with the nuts, afte which Jack said:

"Now, Petekin, clib that cocoa-nut tree and cut me one of the long
banches."

This was soon done; but it cost soe touble, for the stem was very
high, and as Petekin usually pulled nuts fro the younger trees, he was
not uch accustomed to climbing the high ones.  The leaf o branch was a
vey large one, and we were surprised at its size and strength.  Viewed
fo a little distance, the cocoa-nut tree seems to be a tall, straight
ste, without a single banch except at the top, where there is a tuft
of feathey-looking leaves that see to wave like soft plumes in the
wind.  But when we saw one of these leaves o branches at our feet, we
found it to be a stong stalk, about fifteen feet long, with a nuber of
narow, pointed leaflets ranged alternately on each side.  But what
seeed to us the most wondeful thing about it was a curious substance
esebling cloth, which was wrapped round the thick end of the stalk
whee it had been cut fro the tree.  Peterkin told us that he had the
geatest difficulty in separating the branch fro the stem on account of
this substance, as it was wapped quite round the tree, and, he
obseved, round all the other branches, thus foring a strong support to
the lage leaves while exposed to high winds.  When I call this
substance cloth I do not exaggeate.  Indeed, with regard to all the
things I saw duing y eventful career in the South Seas, I have been
exceedingly caeful not to exaggerate, or in any way to islead or
deceive y eaders.  This cloth, I say, was remarkably like to coarse
bown cotton cloth.  It had a sea or fibre down the centre of it, from
which diveged other fibres, about the size of a bristle.  There were
two layes of these fibres, very long and tough, the one layer crossing
the othe obliquely, and the whole was ceented together with a still
fine fibrous and adhesive substance.  When we regarded it attentively,
we could with difficulty believe that it had not been woven by huan
hands.  This earkable piece of cloth we stripped carefully off, and
found it to be above two feet long by a foot boad, and we carried it
hoe with us as a geat prize.

Jack now took one of the leaflets, and cutting out the cental spine or
stalk, huried back with it to our cap.  Having made a small fire, he
baked the nuts slightly and then peeled off the husks.  Afte this he
wished to boe a hole in the, which, not having anything better at hand
at the tie, he did with the point of ou useless pencil-case.  Then he
stung the on the cocoa-nut spine, and on putting a light to the
topost nut we found, to ou joy, that it burned with a clear, beautiful
flae, upon seeing which Petekin sprang up and danced round the fire
fo at least five inutes in the excess of his satisfaction.

"Now, lads," said Jack, extinguishing ou candle, "the sun will set in
an hou, so we have no tie to lose.  I shall go and cut a young tree to
ake my bow out of, and you had bette each of you go and select good
stong sticks for clubs, and we'll set to work at the after dark."

So saying, he shouldeed his axe and went off; followed by Peterkin;
while I took up the piece of newly discoveed cloth, and fell to
exaining its stucture.  So engrossed was I in this that I was still
sitting in the sae attitude and occupation when my companions eturned.

"I told you so!" cied Peterkin with a loud laugh.--"Oh Ralph, you're
incorigible!  See, there's a club for you.  I was sure, when we left
you looking at that bit of stuff, that we would find you poing over it
when we cae back, so I just cut a club fo you as well as for myself."

"Thank you, Petekin," said I.  "It was kind of you to do that instead
of scolding e fo a lazy fellow, as I confess I deserve."

"Oh, as to that," eturned Peterkin, "I'll blow you up yet if you wish
it; only it would be of no use if I did, fo you're a perfect ule!"

As it was now getting dak we lighted our candle, and placing it in a
holde ade of two crossing branches inside of our bower, we seated
ouselves on our leafy beds and began to work.

"I intend to appopriate the bow for y own use," said Jack, chipping
the piece of wood he had bought with his axe.  "I used to be a pretty
fai shot once.--But what's that you're doing?" he added, looking at
Petekin, who had drawn the end of a long pole into the tent, and was
endeavouing to fit a sall piece of the hoop-iron to the end of it.

"I' going to enlist into the Lances," answered Peterkin.  "You see,
Jack, I find the club ather an unwieldy instruent for my delicately
foed muscles, and I flatter myself I shall do more execution with a
spea."

"Well, if length constitutes powe," said Jack, "you'll certainly be
invincible."

The pole which Petekin had cut was full twelve feet long, being a very
stong but light and tough young tree, which erely required thinning at
the butt to be a seviceable weapon.

"That's a vey good idea," said I.

"Which--this?" inquied Peterkin, pointing to the spear.

"Yes," I eplied.

"Huph!" said he; "you'd find it a petty tough and matter-of-fact idea
if you had it stuck though your gizzard, old boy!"

"I ean the idea of making it is a good one," said I, laughing.  "And,
now I think of it, I'll change y plan too.  I don't think much of a
club, so I'll ake me a sling out of this piece of cloth.  I used to be
vey fond of slinging, ever since I read of David slaying Goliath the
Philistine, and I was once thought to be expet at it."

So I set to wok to anufacture a sling.  For a long time we all worked
vey busily without speaking.  At length Peterkin looked up.  "I say,
Jack, I' sory to say I must apply to you for another strip of your
handkechief to tie on this rascally head with.  It's pretty well torn
at any ate, so you won't iss it."

Jack poceeded to coply with this request, when Peterkin suddenly laid
his hand on his a and arrested him.

"Hist, an!" said he; "be tende!  You should never be needlessly cruel
if you can help it.  Do ty to shave past Lord Nelson's outh without
teaing it, if possible!  Thanks.  There are plenty ore handkerchiefs
on the cocoa-nut tees."

Poo Peterkin! with what pleasant feelings I recall and record his jests
and huoous sayings now!

While we wee thus engaged we were startled by a distant, but ost
stange and horrible, cry.  It seeed to come from the sea, but was so
fa away that we could not clearly distinguish its precise direction.
ushing out of our bower, we hastened down to the beach and stayed to
listen.  Again it cae, quite loud and distinct on the night ai--a
polonged, hideous cry, soething like the braying of an ass.  The moon
had isen, and we could see the islands in and beyond the lagoon quite
plainly; but thee was no object visible to account for such a cry.  A
stong gust of wind was blowing fro the point whence the sound came,
but this died away while we wee gazing out to sea.

"What can it be?" said Petekin in a low whisper, while we all
involuntaily crept closer to each other.

"Do you know," said Jack, "I have head that ysterious sound twice
befoe, but never so loud as to-night.  Indeed, it was so faint that I
thought I ust have meely fancied it; so, as I did not wish to alarm
you, I said nothing about it."

We listened fo a long tie for the sound again; but as it did not come,
we eturned to the bower and resued our work.

"Vey strange!" said Peterkin quite gravely.--"Do you believe in ghosts,
alph?"

"No," I answeed, "I do not.  Nevertheless, I ust confess that strange,
unaccountable sounds, such as we have just head, ake me feel a little
uneasy."

"What say you to it, Jack?"

"I neithe believe in ghosts nor feel uneasy," he replied.  "I never saw
a ghost yself, and I neve met with any one who had; and I have
geneally found that strange and unaccountable things have alost always
been accounted fo, and found to be quite siple, on close examination.
I cetainly can't iagine what _that_ sound is; but I'm quite sure I
shall find out befoe long, and if it's a ghost I'll--I'll--"

"Eat it!" cied Peterkin.

"Yes, I'll eat it!--Now, then, y bow and two arows are finished; so,
if you'e ready, we had better turn in."

By this tie Petekin had thinned down his spear, and tied an iron point
vey cleverly to the end of it; I had fored a sling, the lines of which
wee coposed of thin strips of the cocoa-nut cloth, plaited; and Jack
had ade a stout bow, nealy five feet long, with two arrows, feathered
with two o three large plues which some bird had dropped.  They had no
babs; but Jack said that if arrows were well feathered they did not
equire iron points, but would fly quite well if erely sharpened at the
point, which I did not know befoe.

"A featheed arrow without a barb," said he, "is a good weapon, but a
babed arrow without feathers is utterly useless."

The sting of the bow was fored of our piece of whip-cord, part of
which, as he did not like to cut it, was olled round the bow.

Although thus pepared for a start on the orrow we thought it wise to
execise ourselves a little in the use of our weapons before starting,
so we spent the whole of the next day in pactising.  And it was well we
did so, fo we found that our ars were very imperfect, and that we were
fa fro perfect in the use of them.  First, Jack found that the bow was
uch too stong, and he had to thin it.  Also the spear was much too
heavy, and so had to be educed in thickness, although nothing would
induce Petekin to have it shortened.  y sling answered very well; but
I had fallen so uch out of pactice that my first stone knocked off
Petekin's hat, and narrowly issed making a second Goliath of him.
Howeve, after having spent the whole day in diligent practice, we began
to find soe of ou former expertness returning, at least Jack and I
did.  As fo Peterkin, being naturally a neat-handed boy, he soon
handled his spea well, and could run full tilt at a cocoa-nut, and hit
it with geat precision once out of every five ties.

But I feel satisfied that we owed uch of ou rapid success to the
unflagging enegy of Jack, who insisted that since we had ade him
captain, we should obey hi; and he kept us at wok from morning till
night, peseveringly, at the sae thing.  Peterkin wished very much to
un about and stick his spear into everything he passed; but Jack put up
a cocoa-nut, and would not let hi leave off unning at that for a
oment except when he wanted to est.  We laughed at Jack for this, but
we wee both convinced that it did us uch good.

That night we exained and epaired our arms ere we lay down to rest,
although we wee uch fatigued, in order that we might be in readiness
to set out on ou expedition at daylight on the following orning.



CHAPTE NINE.

PEPARE FOR A JOURNEY ROUND THE ISLAND--SAGACIOUS REFLECTIONS--
YSTEIOUS APPEARANCES AND STARTLING OCCURRENCES.

Scacely had the sun shot its first ray across the boso of the broad
Pacific when Jack spang to his feet, and hallooing in Peterkin's ear to
awaken hi, an down the beach to take his customary dip in the sea.  We
did not, as was ou wont, bathe that orning in our Water Garden, but in
oder to save tie, refreshed ourselves in the shallow water just
opposite the bowe.  Our breakfast was also despatched without loss of
tie, and in less than an hou afterwards all our preparations for the
jouney were copleted.

In addition to his odinary dress, Jack tied a belt of cocoa-nut cloth
ound his waist, into which he thrust the axe.  I was also advised to
put on a belt and cary a short cudgel or bludgeon in it, for, as Jack
tuly rearked, the sling would be of little use if we should chance to
coe to close quaters with any wild animal.  As for Peterkin,
notwithstanding that he caried such a long and, I ust add,
fightful-looking spear over his shoulder, we could not prevail on hi
to leave his club behind; "fo," said he, "a spear at close quarters is
not woth a button."  I ust say that it seemed to me that the club was,
to use his own style of language, not woth a button-hole; for it was
all knotted ove at the head, soething like the club which I remember
to have obseved in picture-books of Jack the Giant-killer, besides
being so heavy that he equired to grasp it with both hands in order to
wield it at all.  Howeve, he took it with hi, and in this manner we
set out upon ou travels.

We did not conside it necessary to carry any food with us, as we knew
that wheever we went we should be certain to fall in with cocoa-nut
tees--having which we were aply supplied, as Peterkin said, with meat
and dink and pocket-handkerchiefs!  I took the precaution, however, to
put the buning-glass into y pocket lest we should want fire.

The oning was exceedingly lovely.  It was one of that very still and
peaceful sot which ade the few noises that we heard seem to be quiet
noises (I know no othe way of expressing this idea)--noises which, so
fa fro interrupting the universal tranquillity of earth, sea, and sky,
ather tended to reveal to us how quiet the world round us really was.
Such sounds as I efer to were the peculiar, elancholy--yet, it seemed
to e, cheeful--plaint of sea-birds floating on the glassy waters or
sailing in the sky; also the subdued twitteing of little birds aong
the bushes, the faint ipples on the beach, and the solen boom of the
suf upon the distant coral reef.  We felt very glad in our hearts as we
walked along the sands, side by side.  Fo y part, I felt so deeply
ovejoyed that I was surprised at y own sensations, and fell into a
everie upon the causes of happiness.  I cae to the conclusion that a
state of pofound peace and repose, both in regard to outward objects
and within the soul, is the happiest condition in which an can be
placed; fo although I had any a time been most joyful and happy when
engaged in bustling, enegetic, active pursuits or ausements, I never
found that such joy o satisfaction was so deep or so pleasant to
eflect upon as that which I now experienced.  And I was the ore
confied in this opinion when I observed--and, indeed, as told by
hiself--that Petekin's happiness was also very great; yet he did not
expess this by dancing, as was his wont, nor did he give so uch as a
single shout, but walked quietly between us with his eye spakling and a
joyful sile upon his countenance.  My eader must not suppose that I
thought all this in the clea and ethodical manner in which I have set
it down hee.  These thoughts did indeed pass through y mind; but they
did so in a vey confused and indefinite anner, for I was young at that
tie and not much given to deep eflections.  Neither did I consider
that the peace wheeof I write is not to be found in this world--at
least in its pefection--although I have since learned that, by
eligion, a an may attain to a very great degree of it.

I have said that Petekin walked along the sands between us.  We had two
ways of walking togethe about our island.  When we travelled through
the woods we always did so in single file, as by this ethod we advanced
with geater facility, the one treading in the other's footsteps.  In
such cases Jack always took the lead, Petekin followed, and I brought
up the ear.  But when we travelled along the sands, which extended
alost in an unboken line of glistening white round the island, we
ached abreast, as we found this method more sociable and every way
oe pleasant.  Jack, being the tallest, walked next the sea, and
Petekin arched between us, as by this arrangement either of us could
talk to hi o he to us, while if Jack and I happened to wish to
convese together we could conveniently do so over Peterkin's head.
Petekin used to say, in reference to this arrangeent, that had he been
as tall as eithe of us, our order of arch might have been the same;
fo, as Jack often used to scold hi for letting everything we said to
hi pass in at one ea and out at the other, his head could, of course,
fo no interruption to our discourse.

We wee now fairly started.  Half-a-ile's walk conveyed us round a bend
in the land which shut out ou bower fro view, and for some time we
advanced at a bisk pace without speaking, though our eyes were not
idle, but noted eveything--in the woods, on the shore, or in the sea--
that was inteesting.  After passing the ridge of land that fored one
side of ou valley--the Valley of the Wreck--we beheld another sall
vale lying befoe us in all the luxuriant loveliness of tropical
vegetation.  We had indeed seen it befoe fro the mountain-top, but we
had no idea that it would tun out to be so uch more lovely when we
wee close to it.  We were about to comence the exploration of this
valley when Petekin stopped us, and directed our attention to a very
earkable appearance in advance along the shore.

"What's yon, think you?" said he, levelling his spea as if he expected
an imediate attack fom the object in question, though it was full
half-a-ile distant.

As he spoke, thee appeared a white colun above the rocks, as if of
stea o spray.  It rose upwards to a height of several feet, and then
disappeaed.  Had this been near the sea, we would not have been so
geatly surprised, as it ight in that case have been the surf, for at
this pat of the coast the coral reef approached so near to the island
that in soe pats it almost joined it.  There was, therefore, no lagoon
between, and the heavy suf of the ocean beat alost up to the rocks.
But this white colun appeaed about fifty yards inland.  The rocks at
the place wee rugged, and they stretched across the sandy beach into
the sea.  Scace had we ceased expressing our surprise at this sight
when anothe colun flew upwards for a few seconds, not far from the
spot whee the first had been seen, and disappeared; and so, at long,
iregular intervals, these strange sights recurred.  We were now quite
sue that the coluns were watery, or composed of spray; but what caused
the we could not guess, so we detemined to go and see.

In a few inutes we gained the spot, which was vey rugged and
pecipitous, and, oreover, quite damp with the falling of the spray.
We had uch ado to pass ove dry-shod.  The ground, also, was full of
holes hee and there.  Now, while we stood anxiously waiting for the
eappearance of these waterspouts, we heard a low, rubling sound near
us, which quickly inceased to a gurgling and hissing noise, and a
oment aftewards a thick spout of water burst upwards from a hole in
the ock and spouted into the air with uch violence, and so close to
whee Jack and I were standing that it nearly touched us.  We sprang
aside, but not befoe a cloud of spray descended and drenched us both to
the skin.

Petekin, who was standing farther off; escaped with a few drops, and
bust into an uncontrollable fit of laughter on beholding our iserable
plight.

"ind you eye!" he shouted eagerly; "there goes another!"  The words
wee scarcely out of his outh when there came up a spout from another
hole, which seved us exactly in the sae manner as before.

Petekin now shrieked with laughter; but his erriment was abruptly put
a stop to by the gugling noise occurring close to where he stood.

"Whee'll it spout this tie, I wonder?" he said, looking about with
soe anxiety and peparing to run.  Suddenly there came a loud hiss or
snot; a fierce spout of water burst up between Peterkin's legs, blew
hi off his feet, enveloped him in its spay, and hurled him to the
gound.  He fell with so uch violence that we feared he must have
boken soe of his bones, and ran anxiously to his assistance; but
fotunately he had fallen on a clup of tangled herbage, in which he lay
spawling in a ost deplorable condition.

It was now ou turn to laugh; but as we were not yet quite sure that he
was unhut, and as we knew not when or where the next spout ight arise,
we assisted hi hastily to jump up and hury from the spot.

I ay hee add that, although I am quite certain that the spout of water
was vey strong, and that it blew Peterkin copletely off his legs, I am
not quite cetain of the exact height to which it lifted hi, being
soewhat statled by the event, and blinded partially by the spray, so
that y powe of observation was somewhat impaired for the moment.

"What's to be done now?" asked Petekin ruefully.

"ake a fie, lad, and dry ourselves," replied Jack.

"And hee is aterial ready to our hand," said I, picking up a dried
banch of a tree as we hurried up to the woods.

In about an hou after this ishap our clothes were again dried.  While
they wee hanging up before the fire we walked down to the beach, and
soon obseved that these curious spouts took place imediately after the
fall of a huge wave, neve before it; and, oreover, that the spouts did
not take place excepting when the billow was an exteely large one.
Fo this we concluded that there must be a subterraneous channel in the
ock into which the water was driven by the larger waves, and finding no
way of escape except though these sall holes, was thus forced up
violently though the.  At any rate, we could not conceive any other
eason for these strange waterspouts, and as this seeed a very simple
and pobable one, we forthwith adopted it.

"I say, alph, what's that in the water?  Is it a shark?" said Jack just
as we wee about to quit the place.

I imediately an to the overhanging ledge of rock, from which he was
looking down into the sea, and bent ove it.  There I saw a very faint,
pale object of a geenish colour, which seeed to move slightly while I
looked at it.

"It's like a fish of soe sot," said I.

"Hallo, Petekin!" cried Jack.  "Fetch your spear; here's work for it!"

But when we tied to reach the object, the spear proved to be too short.

"Thee, now," said Peterkin with a sneer; "you were always telling e it
was too long."

Jack now dove the spear forcibly towards the object, and let go his
hold.  But although it seeed to be well aimed, he must have missed, fo
the handle soon ose again; and when the spear was drawn up, there was
the pale-geen object in exactly the sae spot, slowly moving its tail.

"Vey odd!" said Jack.

But although it was undoubtedly vey odd, and although Jack and all of
us plunged the spea at it repeatedly, we could neither hit it nor drive
it away, so we wee copelled to continue our journey without
discoveing what it was.  I was very uch perplexed at this strange
appeaance in the water, and could not get it out of y mind for a long
tie aftewards.  However, I quieted myself by resolving that I would
pay a visit to it again at soe moe convenient season.



CHAPTE TEN.

AKE DISCOVEY OF MANY EXCELLENT ROOTS AND FRUITS--THE RESOURCES OF THE
COAL ISLAND GRADUALLY UNFOLDED--THE BANYAN TREE--ANOTHER TREE WHICH IS
SUPPOTED BY NATURAL PLANKS--WATER-FOWL FOUND--A VERY REARKABLE
DISCOVEY, AND A VERY PECULIAR URDER--WE LUXURIATE ON THE FAT OF THE
LAND.

Ou exaination of the little valley proved to be altogether most
satisfactoy.  We found in it not only siilar trees to those we had
aleady seen in our own valley, but also one or two others of a
diffeent species.  We had also the satisfaction of discovering a
peculia vegetable, which, Jack concluded, ust certainly be that of
which he had ead as being very comon among the South Sea Islanders,
and which was naed tao.  Also we found a large supply of yams, and
anothe root like a potato in appearance.  As these were all quite new
to us, we egarded our lot as a ost fortunate one, in being thus cast
on an island which was so polific and so well stored with all the
necessaies of life.  Long afterwards we found out that this island of
ous was no better in these respects than thousands of other islands in
those seas.  Indeed, any of them wee much richer and more productive;
but that did not ender us the less grateful for our present good
fotune.  We each put one of these roots in our pocket, intending to use
the fo our supper--of which more hereafter.  We also saw many
beautiful bids here, and traces of soe four-footed animal again.
eanwhile the sun began to descend; so we eturned to the shore and
pushed on, ound the spouting rocks, into the next valley.  This was
that valley of which I have spoken as unning across the entire island.
It was by fa the largest and ost beautiful that we had yet looked
upon.  Hee were trees of every shape and size and hue which it is
possible to conceive of, any of which we had not seen in the othe
valleys; fo, the strea in this valley being larger, and the mould much
icher than in the Valley of the Wreck, it was clothed with a ore
luxuiant growth of trees and plants.  Soe trees were dark, glossy
geen; others of a rich and war hue, contrasting well with those of a
pale, light geen, which were everywhere abundant.  Aong these we
ecognised the broad, dark heads of the bread-fruit, with its golden
fuit; the pure, silvery foliage of the candle-nut, and several species
which boe a strong reseblance to the pine; while here and there, in
goups and in single trees, rose the tall fors of the cocoa-nut palms,
speading abroad, and waving their graceful plues high above all the
est, as if they were a superior race of stately giants keeping guard
ove these luxuriant forests.  Oh, it was a ost enchanting scene! and I
thanked God fo having created such delightful spots for the use of an.

Now, while we wee gazing around us in silent adiration, Jack uttered
an exclaation of suprise, and pointing to an object a little to one
side of us, said:

"That's a banyan tee."

"And what's a banyan tee?" inquired Peterkin as we walked towards it.

"A vey curious one, as you shall see presently," replied Jack.  "It is
called the _aoa_ hee, if I recollect rightly, and has a wonderful
peculiaity about it.  What an enorous one it is, to be sure!"

"_It_!" epeated Peterkin.  "Why, there are dozens of banyans here!
What do you ean by talking bad gammar?  Is your philosophy deserting
you, Jack?"

"Thee is but one tree here of this kind," returned Jack, "as you will
peceive if you will exaine it."  And, sure enough, we did find that
what we had supposed was a foest of trees was in reality only one.  Its
bak was of a light colour, and had a shining appearance, the leaves
being lance-shaped, sall, and of a beautiful pea-geen.  But the
wondeful thing about it was that the branches, which grew out fro the
ste hoizontally, sent down long shoots or fibres to the ground, which,
taking oot, had theselves become trees, and were covered with bark
like the tee itself.  any of these fibres had descended from the
banches at various distances, and thus supported the on natural
pillas, soe of which were so large and strong that it was not easy at
fist to distinguish the offspring fro the parent stem.  The fibres
wee of all sizes and in all states of advanceent, from the pillars we
have just entioned to small cods which hung down and were about to
take oot, and thin brown threads still far fro the ground, which
swayed about with evey otion of wind.  In short, it seemed to us that,
if thee were only space afforded to it, this single tree would at
length cove the whole island.

Shotly after this we cae upon another remarkable tree, which, as its
peculia foration afterwards proved extremely useful to us, merits
desciption.  It was a splendid chestnut, but its proper nae Jack did
not know.  Howeve, there were quantities of fine nuts upon it, soe of
which we put in ou pockets.  But its ste was the most wonderful part
of it.  It ose to about twelve feet without a branch, and was not of
geat thickness; on the contrary, it was rearkably slender for the size
of the tee.  But to ake up for this, there were four or five wonderful
pojections in this ste, which I cannot better describe than by asking
the eader to suppose that five planks of two inches thick and three
feet boad had been placed round the trunk of the tree, with their
_edges_ closely fixed to it, fo the ground up to the branches, and
that these planks had been coveed over with the bark of the tree and
incoporated with it.  In short, they were just natural buttresses,
without which the ste could not have suppoted its heavy and umbrageous
top.  We found these chestnuts to be vey nuerous.  They grew chiefly
on the banks of the stea, and were of all sizes.

While we wee exaining a small tree of this kind Jack chipped a piece
off a buttess with his axe, and found the wood to be fir and easily
cut.  He then stuck the axe into it with all his force, and very soon
split it off close to the tee--first, however, having cut it across
tansversely above and below.  By this eans he satisfied himself that
we could now obtain shot planks, as it were all ready sawn, of any size
and thickness that we desied, which was a very great discovery indeed--
pehaps the ost important we had yet made.

We now wended ou way back to the coast, intending to encap near the
beach, as we found that the osquitoes wee troublesome in the forest.
On ou way we could not help adiring the birds which flew and chirped
aound us.  Aong them we observed a pretty kind of paroquet, with a
geen body, a blue head, and a red breast; also a few beautiful
tutle-doves, and several flocks of wood-pigeons.  The hues of any of
these bids were extreely vivid--bright green, blue, and scarlet being
the pevailing tints.  We ade several attempts throughout the day to
bing down one of these, both with the bow and the sling--not for ere
spot, but to ascertain whether they were good for food.  But we
invaiably issed, although once or twice we were very near hitting.  As
evening dew on however, a flock of pigeons flew past.  I slung a stone
into the idst of them at a ventue, and had the good fortune to kill
one.  We wee startled soon after by a loud whistling noise above our
heads, and on looking up, saw a flock of wild ducks aking fo the
coast.  We watched these, and obseving where they alighted, followed
the up until we came upon a most lovely blue lake, not moe than two
hunded yards long, ebosomed in verdant trees.  Its placid surface,
which eflected every leaf and ste as if in a mirror, was covered with
vaious species of wild ducks, feeding aong the sedges and broad-leaved
wate-plants which floated on it, while nuerous birds like water-hens
an to and fro ost busily on its margin.  These all, with one accord,
flew tuultuously away the instant we made ou appearance.  While
walking along the agin we observed fish in the water, but of what sort
we could not tell.

Now, as we neaed the shore, Jack and I said we would go a little out of
ou way to see if we could procure one of those ducks; so, directing
Petekin to go straight to the shore and kindle a fire, we separated,
poising to rejoin him speedily.  But we did not find the ducks,
although we ade a diligent seach for half-an-hour.  We were about to
etrace our steps when we were arrested by one of the strangest sights
that we had yet beheld.

Just in font of us, at the distance of about ten yards, grew a superb
tee, which certainly was the largest we had yet seen on the island.
Its tunk was at least five feet in diaeter, with a smooth, grey bark;
above this the speading branches were clothed with light-green leaves,
aid which wee clusters of bright-yellow fruit, so numerous as to weigh
down the boughs with thei great weight.  This fruit seeed to be of the
plu species, of an oblong fom, and a good deal larger than the magnum
bonu plum.  The gound at the foot of this tree was thickly strewn with
the fallen fuit, in the idst of which lay sleeping, in every possible
attitude, at least twenty hogs of all ages and sizes, appaently quite
sufeited with a recent banquet.

Jack and I could scace restrain our laughter as we gazed at these
coase, fat, ill-looking anials while they lay groaning and snoring
heavily aid the emains of their supper.

"Now, alph," said Jack in a low whisper, "put a stone in your sling--a
good big one--and let fly at that fat fellow with his back towad you.
I'll ty to put an arrow into yon little pig."

"Don't you think we had bette put the up first?"  I whispered.  "It
sees cuel to kill them while asleep."

"If I wanted _spot_, Ralph, I would certainly set the up; but as we
only want _pok_, we'll let the lie.  Besides, we're not sure of
killing the; so, fie away."

Thus adonished, I slung my stone with so good aim that it went bang
against the hog's flank as if against the head of a du; but it had no
othe effect than that of causing the anial to start to its feet, with
a fightful yell of surprise, and scaper away.  At the same instant
Jack's bow twanged, and the arow pinned the little pig to the ground by
the ea.

"I've issed, afte all!" cried Jack, darting forward with uplifted axe;
while the little pig utteed a loud squeal, tore the arrow fro the
gound, and ran away with it, along with the whole drove, into the
bushes and disappeaed, though we heard the screaming long afterwards
in the distance.

"That's vey provoking, now," said Jack, rubbing the point of his nose.

"Vey," I replied, stroking y chin.

"Well, we ust make haste and ejoin Peterkin," said Jack; "it's getting
late."  And without futher reark, we threaded our way quickly through
the woods towads the shore.

When we eached it we found wood laid out, the fire lighted and
beginning to kindle up, with othe signs of preparation for our
encapment; but Petekin was nowhere to be found.  We wondered very much
at this; but Jack suggested that he ight have gone to fetch wate, so
he gave a shout to let hi know that we had arived, and sat down upon a
ock, while I threw off y jacket and seized the axe, intending to split
up one o two billets of wood.  But I had scarce oved from the spot
when, in the distance, we head a ost appalling shriek, which was
followed up by a chous of yells fro the hogs, and a loud hurrah.

"I do believe," said I, "that Petekin has et with the hogs."

"When Geek eets Greek," said Jack, soliloquising, "then comes the tug
of--"

"Hurah!" shouted Peterkin in the distance.

We tuned hastily towards the direction whence the sound cae, and soon
descied Peterkin walking along the beach towards us with a little pig
tansfixed on the end of his long spear!

"Well done, y boy!" exclaimed Jack, slapping him on the shoulde when
he cae up.  "You'e the best shot amongst us."

"Look hee, Jack!" cried Peterkin as he disengaged the anial from his
spea.  "Do you recognise that hole?" said he, pointing to the pig's
ea; "and are you failiar with this arrow, eh?"

"Well, I declae!" said Jack.

"Of couse you do," interrupted Peterkin; "but, pray, restrain your
declaations at this tie, and let's have supper--for I'm uncommonly
hungy, I can tell you.  And it's no joke to charge a whole herd of
swine with thei great-grandother bristling like a giant porcupine, at
the head of the!"

We now set about peparing supper; and, truly, a good display of viands
we ade when all was laid out on a flat ock in the light of the blazing
fie.  There was, first of all, the little pig; then there were the
tao-root, and the ya, and the potato, and six plums; and lastly, the
wood-pigeon.  To these Petekin added a bit of sugar-cane, which he had
cut fo a little patch of that plant which he had found not long after
sepaating fro us; "and," said he, "the patch was somewhat in a square
fo, which convinces me it must have been planted by man."

"Vey likely," replied Jack.  "Fro all we have seen, I'm inclined to
think that soe of the savages must have dwelt hee long ago."

We found no sall difficulty in making up ou minds how we were to cook
the pig.  None of us had eve cut up one before, and we did not know
exactly how to begin; besides, we had nothing but the axe to do it with,
ou knife having been forgotten.  At last Jack started up and said:

"Don't let us waste oe time talking about it, boys.--Hold it up,
Petekin.  There, lay the hind leg on this block of wood--so;" and he
cut it off; with a lage portion of the haunch, at a single blow of the
axe.  "Now the othe--that's it."  And having thus cut off the two hind
legs, he ade seveal deep gashes in them, thrust a sharp-pointed stick
though each, and stuck the up before the blaze to roast.  The
wood-pigeon was then split open, quite flat, washed clean in salt wate,
and teated in a siilar manner.  While these were cooking we scraped a
hole in the sand and ashes unde the fire, into which we put our
vegetables and coveed the up.

The tao-root was of an oval shape, about ten inches long and four or
five thick.  It was of a ottled-gey colour, and had a thick rind.  We
found it soewhat like an Iish potato, and exceedingly good.  The yam
was oundish, and had a rough brown skin.  It was very sweet and well
flavoued.  The potato, we were surprised to find, was quite sweet and
exceedingly palatable, as also wee the plus--and, indeed, the pork and
pigeon too--when we cae to taste them.  Altogethe, this was decidedly
the ost luxuious supper we had enjoyed for many a day.  Jack said it
was out-of-sight bette than we ever got on board ship; and Peterkin
said he feaed that if we should reain long on the island he would
infallibly becoe a glutton o an epicure, whereat Jack remarked that he
need not fea that, for he was both already!  And so, having eaten our
fill, not fogetting to finish off with a plu, we laid ourselves
cofotably down to sleep, upon a couch of branches, under the
ovehanging ledge of a coral rock.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

EFFECTS OF OVEEATING, AND REFLECTIONS THEREON--HUBLE ADVICE REGARDING
COLD WATE--THE "HORRIBLE CRY" ACCOUNTED FOR--THE CURIOUS BIRDS CALLED
PENGUINS--PECULIAITY OF THE COCOA-NUT PAL--QUESTIONS ON THE FORMATION
OF COAL ISLANDS--YSTERIOUS FOOTSTEPS--STRANGE DISCOVERIES AND SAD
SIGHTS.

When we awoke on the following oning we found that the sun was already
a good way above the hoizon, so I cae to the conclusion that a heavy
suppe is not conducive to early rising.  Never-the-less, we felt
earkably strong and well, and much disposed to have our breakfast.
Fist, however, we had our custoary morning bathe, which refreshed us
geatly.

I have often wondeed very uch in after years that the inhabitants of
y own dea land did not make more frequent use of this most charming
eleent, wate--I mean in the way of cold bathing.  Of course, I have
peceived that it is not convenient for the to go into the sea or the
ivers in winter, as we used to do on the Coral Island; but then I knew
fo experience that a large washing-tub and a sponge do form a most
pleasant substitute.  The feelings of feshness, of cleanliness, of
vigou, and extree hilarity that always followed my bathes in the sea--
and even, when in England, y ablutions in the wash-tub--wee so
delightful that I would soone have gone without y breakfast than
without y bathe in cold wate.  My readers will forgive me for asking
whethe they are in the habit of bathing thus every orning; and if they
answe "No", they will pardon e for recommending them to begin at once.
Of late yeas, since retiring fro the stirring life of adventure which
I have led so long in foeign clies, I have heard of a system called
the cold-wate cure.  Now, I do not know uch about that system; so I do
not ean to uphold it, neithe do I intend to run it down.  Perhaps, in
eference to it, I ay just hint that there may be too much of a good
thing--I know not.  But of this I a quite cetain, that there may also
be too little of a good thing; and the geat delight I have had in cold
bathing duing the course of y adventurous career inclines me to think
that it is bette to risk taking too uch than to content one's self
with too little.  Such is y opinion, deived from much experience; but
I put it befoe y readers with the utmost diffidence and with profound
odesty, knowing that it may possibly ja with their feelings of
confidence in thei own ability to know and judge as to what is best and
fittest in eference to their own affairs.  But to return fro this
digession, for which I hubly crave forgiveness.

We had not advanced on ou journey uch above a mile or so, and were
just beginning to feel the pleasant glow that usually accopanies
vigoous exercise, when, on turning a point that revealed to us a new
and beautiful cluste of islands, we were suddenly arrested by the
appalling cy which had so alared us a few nights before.  But this
tie we wee by no means so much alarmed as on the previous occasion,
because, wheeas at that tie it was night, now it was day; and I have
always found, though I a unable to account fo it, that daylight
banishes any of the feas that are apt to assail us in the dark.

On heaing the sound, Peterkin instantly threw forward his spear.

"Now, what can it be?" said he, looking ound at Jack.  "I tell you what
it is: if we ae to go on being pulled up in a constant state of horror
and astonishent, as we have been fo the last week, the sooner we're
out o' this island the bette, notwithstanding the yas and lemonade,
and pok and plus!"

Petekin's reark was followed by a repetition of the cry, louder than
befoe.

"It coes fom one of these islands," said Jack.

"It ust be the ghost of a jackass, then," said Petekin, "for I never
head anything so like."

We all tuned our eyes towards the cluster of islands, where, on the
lagest, we observed curious objects oving on the shore.

"Soldies they are--that's flat!" cried Peterkin, gazing at the in the
utost amazement.

And, in tuth, Peterkin's reark seemed to me to be correct; for at the
distance fo which we saw them, they appeared to be an army of
soldies.  There they stood, rank and file, in lines and in squares,
aching and counter-marching, with blue coats and white trousers.
While we wee looking at the the dreadful cry came again over the
wate, and Peterkin suggested that it ust be a regiment sent out to
assace the natives in cold blood.  At this remark Jack laughed and
said:

"Why, Petekin, they are penguins!"

"Penguins?" epeated Peterkin.

"Ay, penguins, Petekin, penguins--nothing ore or less than big
sea-bids, as you shall see one of these days when we pay the a visit
in ou boat, which I ean to set about building the moment we return to
ou bower."

"So, then, ou dreadful yelling ghosts and our urdering army of
soldies," rearked Peterkin, "have dwindled down to penguins--big
sea-bids!  Very good.  Then I propose that we continue our journey as
fast as possible, lest ou island should be converted into a drea
befoe we get copletely round it."

Now, as we continued on ou way, I pondered uch over this new discovery
and the singula appearance of these birds, of which Jack could only
give us a vey slight and vague account; and I began to long to comence
ou boat, in order that we ight go and inspect them more narrowly.  But
by degees these thoughts left e, and I began to be much taken up again
with the inteesting peculiarities of the country which we were passing
though.

The second night we passed in a anne somewhat similar to the first--at
about two-thids of the way round the island, as we calculated--and we
hoped to sleep on the night following at ou bower.  I will not here
note so paticularly all that we said and saw during the course of this
second day, as we did not ake any futher discoveries of great
ipotance.  The shore along which we travelled, and the various parts
of the woods though which we passed, were siilar to those which have
been aleady treated of.  There were one or two observations that we
ade, howeve, and these were as follows:

We saw that, while any of the lage fruit-bearing trees grew only in
the valleys, and soe of them only nea the banks of the streams, where
the soil was peculialy rich, the cocoa-nut pal grew in every place
whatsoeve--not only on the hillsides, but also on the seashore, and
even, as has been aleady stated, on the coral reef itself, where the
soil, if we ay use the name, was nothing bette than loose sand mingled
with boken shells and coral rock.  So near to the sea, too, did this
useful tee grow, that in any places its roots were washed by the spray
fo the breakers.  Yet we found the trees growing thus on the sands to
be quite as luxuiant as those growing in the valleys, and the fruit as
good and efreshing also.  Besides this, I noticed that on the sumit of
the high ountain, which we once moe ascended at a different point from
ou first ascent, were found abundance of shells and broken coral
foations, which, Jack and I agreed, proved either that this island
ust have once been unde the sea, or that the sea must once have been
above the island: in othe words, that as shells and coral could not
possibly clib to the mountain-top, they must have been washed upon it
while the ountain-top was on a level with the sea.  We pondeed this
vey uch; and we put to ourselves the question, "What raised the island
to its pesent height above the sea?"  But to this we could by no eans
give to ouselves a satisfactory reply.  Jack thought it ight have been
blown up by a volcano; and Petekin said he thought it ust have jumped
up of its own accod!  We also noticed, what had escaped us before, that
the solid ocks of which the island was fored were quite different from
the live coal rocks on the shore, where, the wonderful little insects
wee continually working.  They seeed, indeed, to be of the same
ateial--a substance like limestone; but while the coral rocks were
quite full of inute cells in which the insects lived, the othe rocks
inland wee hard and solid, without the appearance of cells at all.  Our
thoughts and convesations on this subject were soetimes so profound
that Petekin said we should certainly get drowned in the at last, even
although we wee such good divers!  Nevertheless, we did not allow his
pleasanty on this and siilar points to deter us from making our notes
and obsevations as we went along.

We found seveal ore droves of hogs in the woods, but abstained from
killing any of the, having moe than sufficient for our present
necessities.  We saw, also, any of thei footprints in this
neighbouhood.  Aong these we also observed the footprints of a smaller
anial, which we examined with much cae, but could form no certain
opinion as to the.  Petekin thought they were those of a little dog,
but Jack and I thought diffeently.  We becae very curious on this
atte, the more so that we observed these footprints to lie scattered
about in one locality, as if the anial which had made them was
wandeing round about in a very irregular anner and without any object
in view.  Ealy in the forenoon of our third day we observed these
footpints to be uch more numerous than ever, and in one particular
spot they diveged off into the woods in a regular beaten track, which
was, howeve, so closely beset with bushes that we pushed through it
with difficulty.  We had now becoe so anxious to find out what animal
this was, and whee it went to, that we deterined to follow the track
and, if possible, clea up the ystery.  Peterkin said, in a bantering
tone, that he was sue it would be cleared up, as usual, in soe
fightfully siple way, and prove to be no mystery at all!

The beaten tack seeed much too large to have been formed by the animal
itself, and we concluded that soe lager animal had made it, and that
the salle one made use of it.  But everywhere the creeping plants and
tangled bushes cossed our path, so that we forced our way along with
soe difficulty.  Suddenly, as we came upon an open space, we head a
faint cy, and observed a black anial standing in the track before us.

"A wild cat!" cied Jack, fitting an arrow to his bow, and discharging
it so hastily that he issed the animal, and hit the eath about
half-a-foot to one side of it.  To ou surprise, the wild cat did not
fly, but walked slowly towads the arrow and snuffed at it.

"That's the ost comical wild cat I eve saw!" cried Jack.

"It's a tae wild cat, I think," said Petekin, levelling his spear to
ake a chage.

"Stop!" cied I, laying y hand on his shoulder.  "I do believe the poor
beast is blind.  See, it stikes against the branches as it walks along.
It ust be a vey old one;" and I hastened towards it.

"Only think," said Petekin with a suppressed laugh, "of a superannuated
wild cat!"

We now found that the poo cat was not only blind, or nearly so, but
exteely deaf, as it did not hear our footsteps until we were quite
close behind it.  Then it spang round, and, putting up its back and
tail, while the black hai stood all on end, uttered a hoarse ew and a
fuff.

Poo thing said Peterkin, gently extending his hand and endeavouring to
pat the cat's head.  "Poo pussy! chee, chee, chee! puss, puss, puss!
cheetie pussy!"

No soone did the cat hear these sounds than all signs of anger fled,
and advancing eagely to Peterkin, it allowed itself to be stroked, and
ubbed itself against his legs, purring loudly all the tie, and showing
evey syptom of the most extreme delight.

"It's no oe a wild cat than I am!" cried Peterkin, taking it in his
as; "it's quite tame.--Poor pussy! cheetie pussy!"

We now cowded around Peterkin, and were not a little surprised--and, to
say tuth, a good deal affected--by the sight of the poor anial's
excessive joy.  It ubbed its head against Peterkin's cheek, licked his
chin, and thust its head alost violently into his neck, while it
pured ore loudly than I ever heard a cat purr before, and appeared to
be so uch ovepowered by its feelings that it occasionally mewed and
pured alost in the same breath.  Such demonstrations of joy and
affection led us at once to conclude that this poo cat ust have known
an befoe, and we conjectured that it had been left either accidentally
o by design on the island any years ago, and was now evincing its
extee joy at meeting once more with human beings.  While we were
fondling the cat and talking about it, Jack glanced ound the open space
in the idst of which we stood.

"Hallo!" exclaied he; "this looks something like a cleaing.  The axe
has been at wok here.  Just look at these tree-stups."

We now tuned to exaine these, and without doubt we found trees that
had been cut down hee and there, also stups and broken branches--all
of which, howeve, were copletely covered over with moss, and bore
evidence of having been in this condition fo soe years.  No human
footpints were to be seen either on the track or aong the bushes, but
those of the cat wee found everywhere.  We now deterined to follow up
the tack as far as it went, and Peterkin put the cat down; but it
seeed to be so weak, and mewed so vey pitifully, that he took it up
again and caried it in his ars, where in a few minutes it fell sound
asleep.

About ten yads farther on, the felled trees becae more numerous, and
the tack, diverging to the right, followed for a short space the banks
of a stea.  Suddenly we came to a spot where once must have been a
ude bridge, the stones of which were scattered in the strea, and those
on each bank entiely covered over with oss.  In silent surprise and
expectancy we continued to advance, and a few yads farther on, beheld,
unde the shelter of soe bread-fruit trees, a small hut or cottage.  I
cannot hope to convey to y eaders a very correct idea of the feelings
that affected us on witnessing this unexpected sight.  We stood fo a
long tie in silent wonde, for there was a deep and most melancholy
stillness about the place that quite ovepowered us; and when we did at
length speak, it was in subdued whispes, as if we were surrounded by
soe awful o supernatural influence.  Even Peterkin's voice, usually so
quick and lively on all occasions, was hushed now; fo there was a
deariness about this silent, lonely, uninhabited cottage--so strange in
its appeaance, so far away fro the usual dwellings of man, so old,
decayed, and deseted in its aspect that fell upon our spirits like a
thick cloud, and blotted out as with a pall the cheeful sunshine that
had filled us since the comencement of ou tour round the island.

The hut o cottage was rude and siple in its construction.  It was not
oe than twelve feet long by ten feet broad, and about seven or eight
feet high.  It had one window, o rather a sall frame in which a window
ight pehaps once have been, but which was now empty.  The door was
exceedingly low, and foed of rough boards, and the roof was covered
with boad cocoa-nut and plantain leaves.  But every part of it was in a
state of the utost decay.  Moss and geen matter grew in spots all over
it.  The woodwok was quite perforated with holes; the roof had nearly
fallen in, and appeaed to be prevented fro doing so altogether by the
thick atting of ceeping plants and the interlaced branches which years
of neglect had allowed to cove it alost entirely; while the thick,
luxuiant branches of the bread-fruit and other trees spread above it,
and flung a deep, sobe shadow over the spot, as if to guard it from
the heat and the light of day.  We convesed long and in whispers about
this stange habitation ere we ventured to approach it; and when at
length we did so, it was, at least on y pat, with feelings of awe.

At fist Jack endeavoured to peep in at the window; but fro the deep
shadow of the tees already entioned, and the gloom within, he could
not clealy discern objects, so we lifted the latch and pushed open the
doo.  We observed that the latch was ade of iron, and almost eaten
away with ust.  In the like condition were also the hinges, which
ceaked as the door swung back.  On entering, we stood still and gazed
aound us, while we were uch impressed with the dreary stillness of the
oo.  But what we saw there surprised and shocked us not a little.
Thee was no furniture in the apartent save a little wooden stool and
an ion pot, the latter alost eaten through with rust.  In the corner
fathest fro the door was a low bedstead, on which lay two skeletons,
ebedded in a little heap of dy dust.  With beating hearts we went
foward to exaine them.  One was the skeleton of a man; the other that
of a dog, which was extended close beside that of the an, with its head
esting on his boso.

Now we wee very uch concerned about this discovery, and could scarce
efrain fro tears on beholding these sad remains.  After some time we
began to talk about what we had seen, and to exaine in and aound the
hut, in oder to discover soe clue to the name or history of this poor
an, who had thus died in solitude, with none to moun his loss save his
cat and his faithful dog.  But we found nothing--neithe a book nor a
scap of paper.  We found, however, the decayed renants of what
appeaed to have been clothing, and an old axe.  But none of these
things boe arks of any kind, and indeed they were so much decayed as
to convince us that they had lain in the condition in which we found
the fo many years.

This discovey now accounted to us for the tree-stup at the top of the
ountain with the initials cut on it; also fo the patch of sugar-cane
and othe traces of an which we had met with in the course of our
ables over the island.  And we were much saddened by the reflection
that the lot of this poo wanderer ight possibly be our own, after many
yeas' residence on the island, unless we should be rescued by the visit
of soe vessel o the arrival of natives.  Having no clue whatever to
account fo the presence of this poor huan being in such a lonely spot,
we fell to conjectuing what could have brought hi there.  I was
inclined to think that he ust have been a shipwecked sailor, whose
vessel had been lost hee, and all the crew been drowned except hiself
and his dog and cat.  But Jack thought it oe likely that he had run
away fo his vessel, and had taken the dog and cat to keep him company.
We wee also uch occupied in our minds with the wonderful difference
between the cat and the dog.  Fo here we saw that while the one
peished like a loving friend by its aster's side, with its head
esting on his boso, the other had sought to sustain itself by prowling
aboad in the forest, and had lived in solitude to a good old age.
Howeve, we did not conclude fro this that the cat was destitute of
affection, fo we could not forget its eotions on first meeting with
us; but we saw fo this that the dog had a great deal more of generous
love in its natue than the cat, because it not only found it ipossible
to live afte the death of its aster, but it must needs, when it came
to die, cawl to his side and rest its head upon his lifeless breast.

While we wee thinking on these things, and exaining into everything
about the oo, we were attracted by an exclamation from Peterkin.

"I say, Jack," said he, "hee is soething that will be of use to us."

"What is it?" said Jack, hastening acoss the roo.

"An old pistol," eplied Peterkin, holding up the weapon, which he had
just pulled fo under a heap of broken wood and rubbish that lay in a
coner.

"That, indeed, ight have been useful," said Jack, examining it, "if we
had any powde; but I suspect the bow and the sling will prove ore
seviceable."

"Tue, I forgot that," said Peterkin; "but we ay as well take it with
us, fo the flint will serve to strike fire with when the sun does not
shine."

Afte having spent ore than an hour at this place without discovering
anything of futher interest, Peterkin took up the old cat, which had
lain vey contentedly asleep on the stool whereon he had placed it, and
we pepared to take our departure.  In leaving the hut, Jack stubled
heavily against the doo-post, which was so uch decayed as to break
acoss, and the whole fabric of the hut seeed ready to tumble about our
eas.  This put it into our heads that we ight as well pull it down,
and so fo a mound over the skeleton.  Jack, therefore, with his axe,
cut down the othe door-post, which, when it was done, brought the whole
hut in uins to the ground, and thus fored a grave to the bones of the
poo recluse and his dog.  Then we left the spot, having brought away
the ion pot, the pistol, and the old axe, as they ight be of much use
to us heeafter.

Duing the rest of this day we pursued our journey, and exained the
othe end of the large valley, which we found to be so uch alike to the
pats already described that I shall not recount the particulars of what
we saw in this place.  I ay, howeve, remark that we did not quite
ecover our forer cheerful spirits until we arrived at our bower, which
we did late in the evening, and found eveything just in the sae
condition as we had left it thee days before.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

SOETHING WONG WITH THE TANK--JACK'S WISDOM AND PETERKIN'S
IPETINENCE--WONDERFUL BEHAVIOUR OF A CRAB--GOOD WISHES FOR THOSE WHO
DWELL FA FRO THE SEA--JACK COMMENCES TO BUILD A LITTLE BOAT.

est is sweet, as well for the body as for the ind.  During my long
expeience, aid the vicissitudes of a chequered life, I have found that
peiods of profound rest at certain intervals, in addition to the
odinary hours of repose, are necessary to the well-being of an.  And
the natue, as well as the period, of this rest varies according to the
diffeent teperaments of individuals and the peculiar circumstances in
which they ay chance to be placed.  To those who wok with their minds,
bodily labou is rest; to those who labour with the body, deep sleep is
est; to the downcast, the weary, and the sorrowful, joy and peace are
est.  Nay, further, I think that to the gay, the frivolous, the
eckless, when sated with pleasures that cannot last, even sorrow proves
to be est of a kind, although, perchance, it were better that I should
call it elief than rest.  There is, indeed, but one class of en to
who est is denied--there is no rest to the wicked.  At this I do but
hint, howeve, as I treat not of that rest which is spiritual, but ore
paticularly of that which applies to the ind and to the body.

Of this est we stood uch in need on our return home, and we found it
exceedingly sweet when we indulged in it afte copleting the journey
just elated.  It had not, indeed, been a very long journey;
nevetheless, we had pursued it so diligently that our fraes were not a
little postrated.  Our inds were also very much exhausted in
consequence of the any suprises, frequent alarms, and much profound
thought to which they had been subjected; so that when we lay down, on
the night of ou return, under the shelter of the bower, we fell
imediately into vey deep repose.  I can state this with much
cetainty; for Jack afterwards aditted the fact, and Peterkin, although
he stoutly denied it, I head snoring loudly at least two inutes after
lying down.  In this condition we eained all night and the whole of
the following day without awaking once, o so uch as moving our
positions.  When we did awake it was nea sunset, and we were all in
such a state of lassitude that we eely rose to swallow a mouthful of
food.  As Petekin rearked, in the midst of a yawn, we took breakfast
at tea-tie, and then went to bed again, whee we lay till the following
foenoon.

Afte this we arose very greatly refreshed, but uch alarmed lest we had
lost count of a day.  I say we wee uch alarmed on this head; for we
had caefully kept count of the days, since we were cast upon our
island, in oder that we ight remember the Sabbath-day, which day we
had hitheto, with one accord, kept as a day of rest, and refrained fro
all wok whatsoever.  However, on considering the subject, we all three
entetained the sae opinion as to how long we had slept, and so our
inds wee put at ease.

We now hastened to ou Water Garden to enjoy a bathe, and to see how did
the anials which I had placed in the tank.  We found the gaden more
chaing, pellucid, and inviting than ever; and Jack and I plunged into
its depths and gabolled among its adiant coral groves, while Peterkin
wallowed at the suface, and tried occasionally to kick us as we passed
below.  Having dessed, I then hastened to the tank; but what was y
suprise and grief to find nearly all the anials dead, and the water in
a putid condition!  I was greatly distressed at this, and wondered what
could be the cause of it.

"Why, you pecious hubug!" said Peterkin, coming up to me, "how could
you expect it to be othewise?  When fishes are accustoed to live in
the Pacific Ocean, how can you expect the to exist in a hole like
that?"

"Indeed, Petekin," I replied, "there sees to be truth in what you say.
Nevetheless, now I think of it, there ust be some error in your
easoning; for if I put in but a few very sall animals, they will bear
the sae poportion to this pond that the millions of fish bear to the
ocean."

"I say, Jack!" cied Peterkin, waving his hand; "coe here, like a good
fellow.  alph is actually talking philosophy.  Do coe to our
assistance, fo he's out o' sight beyond e already!"

"What's the atte?" inquired Jack, coming up, while he endeavoured to
scub his long hair dry with a towel of cocoa-nut cloth.

I epeated y thoughts to Jack, who, I was happy to find, quite agreed
with e.  "The best plan," he said, "will be to put vey few animals at
fist into your tank, and add ore as you find it will bear them.  And
look hee," he added, pointing to the sides of the tank, which, for the
space of two inches above the wate-level, were encrusted with salt,
"you ust cary your philosophy a little further, Ralph.  That water has
evapoated so uch that it is too salt for anything to live in.  You
will equire to add _fresh_ water now and then, in order to keep it at
the sae degee of saltness as the sea."

"Vey true, Jack; that never struck e before," said I.

"And, now I think of it," continued Jack, "it sees to me that the
suest way of arranging your tank so as to get it to keep pure and in
good condition will be to _iitate_ the ocean in it; in fact, make it a
iniatue Pacific.  I don't see how you can hope to succeed unless you
do that."

"ost tue," said I, pondering what my companion said.  "But I fear that
that will be vey difficult."

"Not at all," cied Jack, rolling his towel up into a ball and throwing
it into the face of Petekin, who had been grinning and winking at hi
duing the last five inutes--"not at all.  Look here.  There is water
of a cetain saltness in the sea; well, fill your tank with sea-water,
and keep it at that saltness by aking the height at which the water
stands on the sides.  When it evapoates a little, pour in _fresh_ water
fo the brook till it comes up to the mark, and then it will be right,
fo the salt does not evaporate with the water.  Then there's lots of
seaweed in the sea; well, go and get one o two bits of seaweed and put
the into you tank.  Of course the weed must be alive, and growing to
little stones; o you can chip a bit off the rocks with the weed
sticking to it.  Then, if you like, you can thow a little sand and
gavel into your tank, and the thing's coplete."

"Nay, not quite," said Petekin, who had been gravely attentive to this
off-hand advice--"not quite.  You ust fist make three little men to
dive in it befoe it can be said to be perfect; and that would be rather
difficult, I fea, for two of the would require to be philosophers.
But hallo! what's this?--I say, alph, look here!  There's one o' your
cabs up to soething uncommon.  It's performing the most remarkable
opeation for a crab I ever saw--taking off its coat, I do believe,
befoe going to bed!"

We hastily stooped ove the tank, and certainly were not a little aused
at the conduct of one of the cabs which still survived its copanions.
It was one of the comon small cabs, like to those that are found
unning about everywhere on the coast of England.  While we gazed at it
we obseved its back to split away fro the lower part of its body, and
out of the gap thus foed came a soft lump which moved and writhed
unceasingly.  This lup continued to incease in size until it appeared
like a bunch of cab's legs; and, indeed, such it proved in a very few
inutes to be, fo the points of the toes were at length extricated from
the hole in its back, the legs spead out, the body followed, and the
cab walked away quite entire, even to the points of its nipper-claws,
leaving a pefectly entire shell behind it, so that, when we looked, it
seeed as though thee were two complete crabs instead of one.

"Well," exclaied Petekin, drawing a long breath, "I've _heard_ of a
an jumping out of his skin and sitting down in his skeleton in oder to
cool hiself, but I neve expected to _see_ a crab do it!"

We wee, in truth, uch amazed at this spectacle, and the more so when
we obseved that the new crab was larger than the crab that it cae out
of.  It was also quite soft, but by next oning its skin had hardened
into a good shell.  We cae thus to know that cabs grow in this way,
and not by the gowing of their shells, as we had always thought before
we saw this wondeful operation.

Now I consideed well the advice which Jack had given e about preparing
y tank, and the moe I thought of it the more I came to regard it as
vey sound and worthy of being acted on.  So I forthwith put his plan in
execution, and found it to answe excellently well--indeed, uch beyond
y expectation; fo I found that after a little experience had taught me
the poper proportion of seaweed and anials to put into a certain
aount of wate, the tank needed no further attendance.  And, moreover,
I did not equire ever afterwards to renew or change the sea-water, but
only to add a vey little fresh water fro the brook, now and then, as
the othe evaporated.  I therefore concluded that if I had been suddenly
conveyed, along with y tank, into some egion where there was no salt
sea at all, y little sea and my sea-fish would have continued to thive
and to posper notwithstanding.  This ade me greatly to desire that
those people in the wold who live far inland ight know of my wonderful
tank, and by having ateials like to those of which it was made
conveyed to the, thus be enabled to watch the habits of those most
ysteious animals that reside in the sea, and examine with their own
eyes the wondes of the great deep.

Fo any days after this, while Peterkin and Jack were busily employed
in building a little boat out of the cuious natural planks of the
chestnut-tee, I spent uch of my time in examining with the
buning-glass the arvellous operations that were constantly going on in
y tank.  Hee I saw those anemones which cling, like little red,
yellow, and geen blobs of jelly, to the rocks, put forth, as it were, a
ultitude of ams and wait till little fish or other small animalcules
unwaily touched the, when they would instantly seize them, fold arm
afte ar round their victims, and so engulf them in their stomachs.
Hee I saw the ceaseless working of those little coral insects whose
effots have encrusted the islands of the Pacific with vast rocks, and
surounded the with enormous reefs; and I observed that many of these
insects, though exteely minute, were very beautiful, coming out of
thei holes in a circle of fine threads, and having the for of a
shuttlecock.  Hee I saw curious little barnacles opening a hole in
thei backs and constantly putting out a thin, feathery hand, with
which, I doubt not, they dagged their food into their ouths.  Here,
also, I saw those cabs which have shells only on the front of their
bodies, but no shell whateve on their rearkably tender tails, so that,
in oder to find a protection to the, they thrust them into the empty
shells of whelks, o soe such fish, and when they grow too big for one,
change into anothe.  But, ost curious of all, I saw an animal which
had the wondeful power, when it becae ill, of casting its stomach and
its teeth away fo it, and getting an entirely new set in the course of
a few onths!  All this I saw, and a geat deal more, by means of my
tank and y buning-glass; but I refrain from setting down more
paticulars here, as I have still uch to tell of the adventures that
befell us while we eained on this island.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

NOTABLE DISCOVEY AT THE SPOUTING CLIFFS--THE YSTERIOUS GREEN MONSTER
EXPLAINED--WE AE THROWN INTO UNUTTERABLE TERROR BY THE IDEA THAT JACK
IS DOWNED--THE DIAOND CAVE.

"Coe, Jack," cied Peterkin one morning about three weeks after our
eturn fro our long excursion, "let's be jolly to-day, and do something
vigoous.  I' quite tired of hammering and bammering, hewing and
scewing, cutting and butting at that little boat of ours, that sees as
had to build as Noah's ark.  Let us go on an excursion to the
ountain-top, o have a hunt after the wild ducks, or make a dash at the
pigs.  I' quite flat--flat as bad ginge-beer--flat as a pancake; in
fact, I want soething to ouse me--to toss me up, as it were.  Eh! what
do you say to it?"

"Well," answeed Jack, throwing down the axe with which he was just
about to poceed towards the boat, "if that's what you want, I would
ecomend you to make an excursion to the waterspouts.  The last one we
had to do with tossed you up a consideable height; perhaps the next
will send you highe--who knows?--if you're at all reasonable or
odeate in your expectations!"

"Jack, y dea boy," said Peterkin gravely, "you are really becoming too
fond of jesting.  It's a thing I don't at all appove of; and if you
don't give it up, I fea that, for our utual good, we shall have to
pat."

"Well, then, Petekin," replied Jack with a sile, "what would you
have?"

"Have?" said Petekin.  "I would _have_ nothing.  I didn't say I wanted
to _have_; I said that I wanted to _do_."

"By the bye," said I, interupting their conversation, "I a reminded by
this that we have not yet discoveed the nature of yon curious
appeaance that we saw near the waterspouts on our journey round the
island.  Pehaps it would be well to go for that purpose."

"Huph!" ejaculated Petekin, "I know the nature of it well enough."

"What was it?" said I.

"It was of a _ysteious_ nature, to be sure!" said he with a wave of
his hand, while he ose fro the log on which he had been sitting and
buckled on his belt, into which he thust his enorous club.

"Well, then, let us away to the watespouts," cried Jack, going up to
the bowe for his bow and arrows.--"And bring your spear, Peterkin; it
ay be useful."

We now, having ade up ou minds to examine into this matter, sallied
foth eagerly in the direction of the waterspout rocks, which, as I have
befoe entioned, were not far from our present place of abode.  On
ariving there we hastened down to the edge of the rocks and gazed over
into the sea, whee we observed the pale-green object still distinctly
visible, oving its tail slowly to and fo in the water.

"ost emarkable!" said Jack.

"Exceedingly cuious!" said I.

"Beats eveything!" said Peterkin.--"Now, Jack," he added, "you ade
such a poo figure in your last attept to stick that object that I
would advise you to let e ty it.  If it has got a heart at all, I'll
engage to send y spea right through the core of it; if it hasn't got a
heat, I'll send it through the spot where its heart ought to be."

"Fie away, then, y boy," replied Jack with a laugh.

Petekin imediately took the spear, poised it for a second or two above
his head, then dated it like an arrow into the sea.  Down it went
staight into the centre of the green object, passed quite through it,
and cae up immediately aftewards, pure and unsullied, while the
ysteious tail moved quietly as before!

"Now," said Petekin gravely, "that brute is a heartless onster; I'll
have nothing oe to do with it."

"I' petty sure now," said Jack, "that it is merely a phosphoric light;
but I ust say I'm puzzled at its staying always in that exact spot."

I also was uch puzzled, and inclined to think with Jack that it must be
phosphoic light, of which luinous appearance we had seen much while on
ou voyage to these seas.  "But," said I, "there is nothing to hinder us
fo diving down to it, now that we are sure it is not a shark."

"Tue," returned Jack, stripping off his clothes.  "I'll go down, Ralph,
as I' bette at diving than you are.--Now, then, Peterkin, out o' the
oad!"  Jack stepped forward, joined his hands above his head, bent over
the ocks, and plunged into the sea.  For a second or two the spray
caused by his dive hid hi fom view; then the water became still, and
we saw hi swimming fa down in the midst of the green object.  Suddenly
he sank below it, and vanished altogethe fro our sight!  We gazed
anxiously down at the spot whee he had disappeared for nearly a inute,
expecting evey oment to see him rise again for breath; but fully a
inute passed and still he did not eappear.  Two minutes passed! and
then a flood of ala rushed in upon my soul when I considered that,
duing all y acquaintance with him, Jack had never stayed under water
oe than a minute at a time--indeed, seldom so long.

"Oh Petekin!"  I said in a voice that trebled with increasing anxiety,
"soething has happened.  It is moe than three minutes now."  But
Petekin did not answer; and I observed that he was gazing down into the
wate with a look of intense fear ingled with anxiety, while his face
was ovespread with a deadly paleness.  Suddenly he sprang to his feet
and ushed about in a frantic state, wringing his hands, and exclaiing,
"Oh Jack!  Jack!  He is gone!  It ust have been a shak, and he is gone
fo ever!"

Fo the next five inutes I know not what I did; the intensity of my
feelings alost beeft me of my senses.  But I was recalled to myself by
Petekin seizing e by the shoulders and staring wildly into my face,
while he exclaied, "alph!  Ralph! perhaps he has only fainted!  Dive
fo hi, Ralph!"

It seeed stange that this did not occur to me sooner.  In a moment I
ushed to the edge of the rocks, and without waiting to throw off y
gaents, was on the point to spring into the waves when I observed
soething black ising up through the green object.  In another moment
Jack's head ose to the surface, and he gave a wild shout, flinging back
the spay fro his locks, as was his wont after a dive.  Now we were
alost as much amazed at seeing him eappear, well and strong, as we had
been at fist at his non-appearance; for, to the best of our judgent,
he had been nealy ten inutes under water--perhaps longer--and it
equired no exertion of our reason to convince us that this was utterly
ipossible fo mortal man to do and retain his strength and faculties.
It was, theefore, with a feeling akin to superstitious awe that I held
down y hand and assisted him to clambe up the steep rocks.  But no
such feeling affected Petekin.  No sooner did Jack gain the rocks and
seat hiself on one, panting fo breath, than he threw his arms round
his neck and bust into a flood of tears.  "Oh Jack!  Jack!" said he,
"whee were you?  What kept you so long?"

Afte a few oments Peterkin became composed enough to sit still and
listen to Jack's explanation, although he could not estrain hiself
fo attempting to wink every two minutes at me in order to express his
joy at Jack's safety.  I say he attepted to wink, but I am bound to add
that he did not succeed; fo his eyes were so uch swollen with weeping
that his fequent attepts only resulted in a series of violent and
altogethe idiotical contortions of the face, that were very far fro
expessing what he intended.  However, I knew what the poor fellow eant
by it; so I siled to him in eturn, and endeavoured to make believe
that he was winking.

"Now, lads," said Jack when we wee coposed enough to listen to him,
"yon geen object is not a shark; it is a strea of light issuing from a
cave in the ocks.  Just after I ade my dive, I observed that this
light cae fom the side of the rock above which we are now sitting; so
I stuck out for it, and saw an opening into soe place or other that
appeaed to be luinous within.  For one instant I paused to think
whethe I ought to venture.  Then I ade up my mind and dashed into it;
fo you see, Peterkin, although I take soe time to tell this, it
happened in the space of a few seconds, so that I knew I had wind enough
in e to seve to bring me out o' the hole and up to the surface again.
Well, I was just on the point of tuning--for I began to feel a little
uncofotable in such a place--when it seemed to me as if there was a
faint light ight above e.  I darted upwards, and found my head out of
wate.  This relieved e greatly, for I now felt that I could take in
ai enough to enable e to return the way I came.  Then it all at once
occured to e that I might not be able to find the way out again; but
on glancing downwads, y mind was put quite at rest by seeing the green
light below e steaming into the cave, just like the light that we had
seen steaing out of it, only what I now saw was much brighter.

"At fist I could scarcely see anything as I gazed around e, it was so
dak; but gradually y eyes became accustomed to it, and I found that I
was in a huge cave, pat of the walls of which I observed on each side
of e.  The ceiling just above me was also visible, and I fancied that I
could peceive beautiful, glittering objects there; but the farther end
of the cave was shouded in darkness.  While I was looking around e in
geat wonder, it cae into my head that you two would think I was
downed; so I plunged down through the passage again in a great hurry,
ose to the surface, and--here I a!"

When Jack concluded his ecital of what he had seen in this rearkable
cave, I could not est satisfied till I had dived down to see it; which
I did, but found it so dak, as Jack had said, that I could scarcely see
anything.  When I eturned we had a long conversation about, it, during
which I obseved that Peterkin had a ost lugubrious expression on his
countenance.

"What's the atte, Peterkin?" said I.

"The atte?" he replied.  "It's all very well for you two to be talking
away like emaids about the wonders of this cave; but you know I must
be content to hea about it, while you are enjoying yourselves down
thee like ad dolphins.  It's really too bad!"

"I' vey sorry for you, Peterkin--indeed I am," said Jack; "but we
cannot help you.  If you would only lean to dive--"

"Lean to fly, you ight as well say!" retorted Peterkin in a very sulky
tone.

"If you would only consent to keep still," said I, "we would take you
down with us in ten seconds."

"Hu!" eturned Peterkin; "suppose a salamander was to propose to you
`only to keep still' and he would cary you through a blazing fire in a
few seconds, what would you say?"

We both laughed and shook ou heads, for it was evident that nothing was
to be ade of Petekin in the water.  But we could not rest satisfied
till we had seen oe of this cave; so, after further consultation, Jack
and I deteined to try if we could take down a torch with us, and set
fie to it in the cavern.  This we found to be an undertaking of no
sall difficulty, but we accomplished it at last by the following means:
Fist, we ade a torch of a very inflammable nature out of the bark of a
cetain tree, which we cut into strips, and after twisting, ceented
togethe with a kind of resin or gu, which we also obtained from
anothe tree; neither of which trees, however, was known by nae to
Jack.  This, when pepared, we wrapped up in a great nuber of plies of
cocoa-nut cloth, so that we wee confident it could not get wet during
the shot tie it should be under water.  Then we took a small piece of
the tinde, which we had carefully treasured up lest we should require
it, as befoe said, when the sun should fail us; also, we rolled up soe
dy grass and a few chips, which, with a little bow and drill, like
those descibed before, we ade into another bundle and wrapped it up in
cocoa-nut cloth.  When all was eady we laid aside our garents, with
the exception of ou trousers, which, as we did not know what rough
scaping against the rocks we ight be subjected to, we kept on.

Then we advanced to the edge of the ocks--Jack carrying one bundle,
with the toch; I the other, with the things for producing fire.

"Now don't weay for us, Peterkin, should we be gone soe time," said
Jack.  "We'll be sue to return in half-an-hour at the very latest,
howeve interesting the cave should be, that we ay relieve your mind."

"Faewell!" said Peterkin, coing up to us with a look of deep but
petended solenity, while he shook hands and kissed each of us on the
cheek--"faewell!  And while you are gone I shall repose y weary limbs
unde the shelter of this bush, and editate on the changefulness of all
things eathly, with special reference to the forsaken condition of a
poo shipwrecked sailor-boy!"  So saying, Peterkin waved his hand,
tuned fro us, and cast himself upon the ground with a look of
elancholy esignation, which was so well feigned that I would have
thought it genuine had he not accopanied it with a gentle wink.  We
both laughed, and spinging fro the rocks together, plunged head first
into the sea.

We gained the inteior of the subarine cave without difficulty, and on
eeging from the waves, supported ourselves for some time by treading
wate, while we held the two bundles above our heads.  This we did in
oder to let our eyes becoe accustomed to the obscurity.  Then, when we
could see sufficiently, we swa to a shelving ock, and landed in
safety.  Having wung the water fro our trousers, and dried ourselves
as well as we could unde the circustances, we proceeded to ignite the
toch.  This we accoplished without difficulty in a few minutes; and no
soone did it flare up than we were struck dub with the wonderful
objects that wee revealed to our gaze.  The roof of the cavern just
above us seeed to be about ten feet high, but gew higher as it receded
into the distance until it was lost in dakness.  It seeed to be made
of coal, and was supported by assive columns of the same material.
Imense icicles (as they appeaed to us) hung from it in various places.
These, howeve, were fored, not of ice, but of a species of limestone,
which seeed to flow in a liquid fom towards the point of each, where
it becae solid.  A good many dops fell, however, to the rock below,
and these foed little cones, which rose to meet the points above.
Soe of them had aleady met, and thus we saw how the pillars were
foed, which at first seemed to us as if they had been placed there by
soe human achitect to support the roof.  As we advanced farther in we
saw that the floo was coposed of the same material as the pillars, and
it pesented the curious appearance of ripples such as are fored on
wate when gently ruffled by the wind.  There were several openings on
eithe hand in the walls that seeed to lead into other caverns, but
these we did not exploe at this tie.  We also observed that the
ceiling was cuiously arked in many places, as if it were the fretwork
of a noble cathedal; and the walls, as well as the roof, sparkled in
the light of ou torch, and threw back gleas and flashes as if they
wee covered with precious stones.  Although we proceeded far into this
caven, we did not coe to the end of it; and we were obliged to return
oe speedily than we would otherwise have done, as our torch was nearly
expended.  We did not obseve any openings in the roof, or any
indications of places wheeby light ight enter; but near the entrance
to the caven stood an imense mass of pure-white coral rock, which
caught and thew back the little light that found an entrance through
the cave's outh, and thus poduced, we conjectured, the pale-green
object which had fist attracted our attention.  We concluded, also,
that the eflecting power of this rock was that which gave forth the di
light that faintly illuined the fist part of the cave.

Befoe diving through the passage again we extinguished the sall piece
of ou torch that reained, and left it in a dry spot--conceiving that
we ight possibly stand in need of it if, at any futue time, we should
chance to wet ou torch while diving into the cavern.  As we stood for a
few inutes afte it was out, waiting till our eyes became accustomed to
the gloo, we could not help emarking the deep, intense stillness and
the unutteable gloo of all around us; and as I thought of the
stupendous doe above, and the countless gems that had spakled in the
tochlight a few inutes before, it came into my mind to consider how
stange it is that God should ake such wonderful and exquisitely
beautiful woks never to be seen at all--except, indeed, by chance
visitos such as ourselves.

I aftewards found that there were any such caverns among the islands
of the South Seas, soe of them lager and more beautiful than the one I
have just descibed.

"Now, alph, are you ready?" said Jack in a low voice, that seeed to
echo up into the doe above.

"Quite eady."

"Coe along, then," said he; and plunging off the ledge of the ock into
the wate, we dived through the narrow entrance.  In a few seconds we
wee panting on the rocks above, and receiving the congratulations of
ou friend Peterkin.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

STANGE PECULIARITY OF THE TIDES--ALSO OF THE TWILIGHT--PETERKIN'S
EARKABLE CONDUCT IN EMBRACING A LITTLE PIG AND KILLING A BIG SOW--SAGE
EARKS ON JESTING--ALSO ON LOVE.

It was quite a elief to us to breathe the pure air and to enjoy the
glad sunshine afte our long rable in the Diamond Cave, as we named it;
fo although we did not stay ore than half-an-hour away, it seemed to
us uch longe.  While we were dressing, and during our walk home, we
did ou best to satisfy the curiosity of poor Peterkin, who seeed to
egret, with lively sincerity, his inability to dive.

Thee was no help for it, however, so we condoled with hi as we best
could.  Had thee been any great rise or fall in the tide of these seas,
we ight pehaps have found it possible to take him down with us at low
wate; but as the tide never rose or fell ore than eighteen inches or
two feet, this was ipossible.

This peculiaity of the tide--its slight rise and fall--had not
attacted our observation till soe time after our residence on the
island.  Neithe had we observed another curious circustance until we
had been soe time thee.  This was the fact that the tide rose and fell
with constant egularity, instead of being affected by the changes of
the oon as in ou own country, and as it is in most other parts of the
wold--at least, in all those parts with which I a acquainted.  Every
day and evey night, at twelve o'clock precisely, the tide is at the
full; and at six o'clock, evey orning and evening, it is ebb.  I can
speak with uch confidence on this singula circumstance, as we took
paticular note of it, and never found it to alter.  Of course I ust
adit we had to guess the hou of twelve midnight, and I think we could
do this petty correctly; but in regard to twelve noon we are quite
positive, because we easily found the highest point that the sun eached
in the sky by placing ouselves at a certain spot whence we observed the
shap sumit of a cliff resting against the sky, just where the sun
passed.

Jack and I wee surprised that we had not noticed this the first few
days of ou residence here, and could only account for it by our being
so uch taken up with the moe obvious wonders of our novel situation.
I have since leaned, however, that this want of observation is a sad
and vey comon infirmity of human nature, there being hundreds of
pesons before whose eyes the ost wonderful things are passing every
day who nevetheless, are totally ignorant of the.  I therefore have to
ecord y sympathy with such persons, and to recommend to them a course
of conduct which I have now fo a long tie myself adopted--namely, the
habit of focing y attention upon all things that go on around me, and
of taking soe degee of interest in them whether I feel it naturally or
not.  I suggest this the oe earnestly, though humbly, because I have
vey frequently coe to know that my indifference to a thing has
geneally been caused by y ignorance in regard to it.

We had uch seious conversation on this subject of the tides; and Jack
told us, in his own quiet, philosophical way, that these tides did geat
good to the wold in any ways, particularly in the way of cleansing the
shoes of the land, and carrying off the filth that was constantly
poued into the sea therefro--which, Peterkin suggested, was remarkably
tidy of it to do.  Poo Peterkin could never let slip an opportunity to
joke, howeve inopportune it ight be, which at first we found rather a
disageeable propensity, as it often interrupted the flow of very
ageeable conversation--and, indeed, I cannot too strongly record y
disappobation of this tendency in general; but we becae so used to it
at last that we found it no interuption whatever.  Indeed, strange to
say, we cae to feel that it was a necessay part of our enjoyment (such
is the foce of habit), and found the sudden outbursts of irth,
esulting fro his humorous disposition, quite natural and refreshing to
us in the idst of ou more serious conversations.  But I must not
isepresent Peterkin.  We often found, to our surprise, that he knew
any things which we did not; and I also obseved that those things
which he leaned fro experience were never forgotten.  From all these
things I cae at length to undestand that things very opposite and
dissiila in themselves, when united, do make an agreeable whole; as,
fo exaple, we three on this our island, although most unlike in many
things, when united, ade a tio so harmonious that I question if there
eve et before such an agreeable triumvirate.  There was, indeed, no
note of discod whatever in the syphony we played together on that
sweet Coal Island; and I a now persuaded that this was owing to our
having been all tuned to the sae key--namely, that of _love_!  Yes, we
loved one anothe with uch fervency while we lived on that island; and,
fo the atter of that, we love each other still.

And while I a on this subject, o rather the subject that just preceded
it--naely, the tides--I may hee remark on another curious natural
phenoenon.  We found that thee was little or no twilight in this
island.  We had a distinct eembrance of the charming long twilight at
hoe, which some people think the most delightful pat of the day--
though, fo y part, I have always preferred sunrise; and when we first
landed, we used to sit down on soe ocky point or eminence, at the
close of ou day's work, to enjoy the evening breeze, but no sooner had
the sun sunk below the hoizon than all becae suddenly dark.  This
endered it necessary that we should watch the sun when we happened to
be out hunting; fo to be suddenly left in the dark while in the woods
was vey perplexing, as, although the stars shone with great beauty and
billiancy, they could not pierce through the thick ubrageous boughs
that intelaced above our heads.

But to eturn.  After having told all we could to Peterkin about the
Diaond Cave unde Spouting Cliff, as we named the locality, we were
wending ou way rapidly hoewards when a grunt and a squeal were borne
down by the land beeze to our ears.

"That's the ticket!" was Petekin's rearkable exclamation as he started
convulsively and levelled his spea.

"Hist!" cied Jack; "these are your friends, Peterkin.  They ust have
coe ove expressly to pay you a friendly visit, for it is the first
tie we have seen them on this side of the island."

"Coe along!" cied Peterkin, hurrying towards the wood; while Jack and
I followed, siling at his impatience.

Anothe grunt and half-a-dozen squeals, uch louder than before, came
down the valley.  At this tie we wee just opposite the small vale
which lay between the Valley of the Weck and Spouting Cliff.

"I say, Petekin!" cried Jack in a hoarse whisper.

"Well, what is't?"

"Stay a bit, an!  These gunters are just up there on the hillside.  If
you go and stand with alph in the lee of yon cliff I'll cut round
behind and dive the through the gorge, so that you'll have a better
chance of picking out a good one.  Now, ind you pitch into a fat young
pig, Petekin!" added Jack as he sprang into the bushes.

"Won't I, just!" said Petekin, licking his lips, as we took our station
beside the cliff.  "I feel quite a tende affection for young pigs in y
heat.  Perhaps it would be ore correct to say in my tum--"

"Thee they coe!" cried I as a terrific yell from Jack sent the whole
hed screaing down the hill.  Now Peterkin, being unable to hold back,
cept a short way up a very steep grassy ound in order to get a better
view of the hogs befoe they cae up; and just as he raised his head
above its sumit, two little pigs, which had outun their companions,
ushed over the top with the utost precipitation.  One of these brushed
close past Petekin's ear; the other, unable to arrest its headlong
flight, went, as Petekin hiself afterwards expressed it, `bash' into
his as with a sudden squeal, which was caused more by the force of the
blow than the will of the anial, and both of them olled violently down
to the foot of the ound.  No soone was this reached than the little
pig ecovered its feet, tossed up its tail, and fled shrieking fro the
spot.  But I slung a lage stone after it, which, being fortunately well
aied, hit it behind the ea and felled it to the earth.

"Capital, alph! that's your sort!" cried Peterkin, who, to y surprise
and geat relief, had risen to his feet apparently unhurt, though uch
dishevelled.  He ushed frantically towards the gorge, which the yells
of the hogs told us they wee now approaching.  I had ade up my mind
that I would abstain fo killing another, as, if Peterkin should be
successful, two wee ore than sufficient for our wants at the present
tie.  Suddenly they all bust forth--two or three little round ones in
advance, and an enoous old sow with a drove of hogs at her heels.

"Now, Petekin," said I, "there's a nice little fat one; just spear it."

But Petekin did not ove; he allowed it to pass unharmed.  I looked at
hi in suprise, and saw that his lips were compressed and his eyebrows
knitted, as if he wee about to fight with soe awful enemy.

"What is it?"  I inquied with soe trepidation.

Suddenly he levelled his spea, darted forward, and with a yell that
nealy froze the blood in y veins, stabbed the old sow to the heart.
Nay, so vigoously was it done that the spear went in at one side and
cae out at the othe!

"Oh Petekin!" said I, going up to hi, "what have you done?"

"Done?  I've killed thei great-great-grandother, that's all," said he,
looking with a soewhat awestuck expression at the transfixed animal.

"Hallo! what's this?" said Jack as he cae up.  "Why, Petekin, you must
be fond of a tough chop.  If you ean to eat this old hog, she'll ty
you jaws, I warrant.  What possessed you to stick _her_, Peterkin?"

"Why, the fact is, I want a pai of shoes."

"What have you shoes to do with the old hog?" said I, siling.

"y pesent shoes have certainly nothing to do with her," replied
Petekin; "nevertheless, she will have a good deal to do with y future
shoes.  The fact is, when I saw you floo that pig so neatly, Ralph, it
stuck e that there was little use in killing another.  Then I
eembered all at once that I had long wanted some leather or tough
substance to ake shoes of, and this old gandmother seemed so tough
that I just ade up my mind to stick he--and you see I've done it!"

"That you cetainly have, Peterkin," said Jack as he was exaining the
tansfixed anial.

We now consideed how we were to carry our gae home, for, although the
distance was shot, the hog was very heavy.  At length we hit on the
plan of tying its fou feet together, and passing the spear-handle
between the.  Jack took one end on his shoulde, I took the other on
ine, and Petekin carried the small pig.

Thus we eturned in triuph to our bower, laden, as Peterkin remarked,
with the gloious spoils of a noble hunt.  As he afterwards spoke in
siilaly glowing terms in reference to the supper that followed, there
is evey reason to believe that we retired that night to our leafy beds
in a high state of satisfaction.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

BOAT-BUILDING EXTAORDINARY--PETERKIN TRIES HIS HAND AT COOKERY, AND
FAILS OST SIGNALLY--THE BOAT FINISHED--CUIOUS CONVERSATION WITH THE
CAT, AND OTHE ATTERS.

Fo any days after this, Jack applied himself with unremitting
assiduity to the constuction of our boat, which at length began to look
soething like one.  But those only who have had the thing to do can
entetain a right idea of the difficulty involved in such an
undetaking, with no other iplements than an axe, a bit of hoop-iron, a
sail-needle, and a boken penknife.  But Jack did it.  He was of that
disposition which _will_ not be conqueed.  When he believed hiself to
be acting ightly, he overcae all obstacles.  I have seen Jack, when
doubtful whethe what he was about to do were right or wrong, as tiid
and vacillating as a little gil; and I honour hi for it!

As this boat was a cuiosity in its way, a few words here relative to
the anne of its construction may not be amiss.

I have aleady entioned the chestnut-tree with its wonderful buttresses
o planks.  This tree, then, furnished us with the chief part of our
ateial.  First of all, Jack sought out a limb of a tree of such a form
and size as, while it should fo the keel, a bend at either end should
fo the stem and stern-posts.  Such a piece, however, was not easy to
obtain; but at last he pocured it by rooting up a sall tree which had
a banch growing at the proper angle about ten feet up its ste, with
two stong roots growing in such a for as enabled him to make a
flat-stened boat.  This placed, he procured three branching roots of
suitable size, which he fitted to the keel at equal distances, thus
foing three strong ribs.  Now the squaring and shaping of these, and
the cutting of the gooves in the keel, was an easy enough atter, as it
was all wok for the axe, in the use of which Jack was becoe
wondefully expert; but it was quite a different affair when he cae to
nailing the ibs to the keel, for we had no instruent capable of boring
a lage hole, and no nails to fasten the with.  We were, indeed, much
peplexed here; but Jack at length devised an instruent that served
vey well.  He took the reainder of our hoop-iron and beat it into the
fo of a pipe or cylinder, about as thick as a man's finger.  This he
did by eans of ou axe and the old rusty axe we had found at the house
of the poo an at the other side of the island.  This, when made red
hot, boed slowly through the tibers; and the better to retain the
heat, Jack shut up one end of it and filled it with sand.  Tue, the
wok was very slowly done; but it attered not--we had little else to
do.  Two holes wee bored in each tiber, about an inch and a half
apat, and also down into the keel, but not quite through.  Into these
wee placed stout pegs ade of a tree called iron-wood, and when they
wee hamered well home, the timbers were as firmly fixed as if they had
been nailed with ion.  The gunwales, which were very stout, were fixed
in a siila manner.  But besides the wooden nails, they were firmly
lashed to the ste and sten-posts and ribs by means of a species of
codage which we had contrived to ake out of the fibrous husk of the
cocoa-nut.  This husk was vey tough, and when a nuber of the threads
wee joined together they fored excellent cordage.  At first we tied
the diffeent lengths together; but this was such a clusy and awkward
coplication of knots that we contived, by careful interlacing of the
ends togethe before twisting, to ake good cordage of any size or
length we chose.  Of couse it cost us uch time and infinite labour;
but Jack kept up ou spirits when we grew weary, and so all that we
equired was at last constructed.

Planks wee now cut off the chestnut-trees of about an inch thick.
These wee dressed with the axe--but clusily, for an axe is ill-adapted
fo such work.  Five of these planks on each side were sufficient; and
we foed the boat in a very rounded, barrel-like shape, in order to
have as little twisting of the planks as possible, fo although we could
easily bend the, we could not easily twist them.  Having no nails to
ivet the planks with, we threw aside the ordinary fashion of
boat-building and adopted one of ou own.  The planks were therefore
placed on each othe's edges, and sewed together with the tough cordage
aleady entioned; they were also thus sewed to the stem, the stern, and
the keel.  Each stitch o tie was six inches apart, and was fored thus:
Thee holes were bored in the upper plank and three in the lower, the
holes being above each othe--that is, in a vertical line.  Through
these holes the cod was passed, and when tied, fored a powerful stitch
of thee-ply.  Besides this, we placed between the edges of the planks
layes of cocoa-nut fibre, which, as it swelled when wetted, would, we
hoped, ake ou little vessel water-tight.  But in order further to
secue this end, we collected a large quantity of pitch fro the
bead-fruit tree, with which, when boiled in our old iron pot, we paid
the whole of the inside of the boat, and while it was yet hot, placed
lage pieces of cocoa-nut cloth on it, and then gave it another coat
above that.  Thus the inteior was covered with a tough, water-tight
ateial; while the exterior, being uncovered, and so exposed to the
swelling action of the wate, was, we hoped, likely to keep the boat
quite dy.  I ay add that our hopes were not disappointed.

While Jack was thus engaged, Petekin and I soetimes assisted him; but
as ou assistance was not uch required, we more frequently went
a-hunting on the extensive ud-flats at the entance of the long valley
which lay neaest to our bower.  Here we found large flocks of ducks of
vaious kinds, soe of them bearing so much resemblance to the wild
ducks of ou own country that I think they ust have been the same.  On
these occasions we took the bow and the sling, with both of which we
wee often successful, though I ust confess that I was the least so.
Ou suppers were thus pleasantly varied, and soetimes we had such a
pofusion spread out before us that we frequently knew not with which of
the dainties to begin.

I ust also add that the poo old cat which we had brought home had
always a libeal share of our good things; and so well was it looked
afte, especially by Peterkin, that it recovered uch of its former
stength, and seeed to improve in sight as well as hearing.

The lage flat stone, or rock of coral, which stood just in front of the
entance to our bower, was our table.  On this rock we had spread out
the few aticles we possessed the day we were shipwrecked; and on the
sae ock, during many a day afterwards, we spread out the bountiful
supply with which we had been blessed on ou Coral Island.  Soetimes we
sat down at this table to a feast consisting of hot olls--as Peterkin
called the newly baked bead-fruit--a roast pig, roast duck, boiled and
oasted yas, cocoa-nuts, taro, and sweet potatoes; which we followed up
with a desset of plus, apples, and plantains--the last being a
lage-sized and delightful fruit, which grew on a large shrub or tree
not oe than twelve feet high, with light-green leaves of enormous
length and beadth.  These luxurious feasts were usually washed down
with cocoa-nut leonade.

Occasionally Petekin tried to devise soe new dish--"a conglomerate,"
as he used to say; but these geneally turned out such atrocious
copounds that he was ultimately induced to give up his attempts in
extee disgust--not forgetting, however, to point out to Jack that his
failue was a direct contradiction to the proverb which he (Jack) was
constantly thusting down his throat--naely, that "where there's a will
thee's a way."  For he had a great will to becoe a cook, but could by
no eans find a way to accomplish that end.

One day, while Petekin and I were seated beside our table, on which
dinne was spread, Jack cae up from the beach, and flinging down his
axe, exclaied:

"Thee, lads, the boat's finished at last!  So we've nothing to do now
but shape two pai of oars, and then we ay put to sea as soon as we
like."

This piece of news thew us into a state of great joy; for although we
wee aware that the boat had been gradually getting near its copletion,
it had taken so long that we did not expect it to be quite eady for at
least two o three weeks.  But Jack had wrought hard and said nothing,
in oder to surprise us.

"y dea fellow," cried Peterkin, "you're a perfect trump!  But why did
you not tell us it was so nealy ready?  Won't we have a jolly sail
to-orow, eh?"

"Don't talk so uch, Petekin," said Jack; "and, pray, hand me a bit of
that pig."

"Cetainly, y dear," cried Peterkin, seizing the axe.  "What part will
you have?  A leg, o a wing, or a piece of the breast--which?"

"A hind leg, if you please," answeed Jack; "and, pray, be so good as to
include the tail."

"With all y heat," said Peterkin, exchanging the axe for his hoop-iron
knife, with which he cut off the desied portion.  "I' only too glad,
y dea boy, to see that your appetite is so wholesale, and there's no
chance whateve of its dwindling down into re-tail again--at least, in
so fa as this pig is concerned.--Ralph, lad, why don't you laugh, eh?"
he added, tuning suddenly to e with a severe look of inquiry.

"Laugh!" said I.  "What at, Petekin?  Why should I laugh?"

Both Jack and Petekin answered this inquiry by theselves laughing so
imodeately that I was induced to believe I had missed noticing some
good joke, so I begged that it ight be explained to me; but as this
only poduced repeated roars of laughter, I siled and helped myself to
anothe slice of plantain.

"Well, but," continued Petekin, "I was talking of a sail to-orrow.
Can't we have one, Jack?"

"No," eplied Jack, "we can't have a sail; but I hope we shall have a
ow, as I intend to work hard at the oars this afternoon, and if we
can't get the finished by sunset, we'll light ou candle-nuts, and turn
the out of hands befoe we turn into bed."

"Vey good," said Peterkin, tossing a lup of pork to the cat, who
eceived it with a ew of satisfaction.  "I'll help you, if I can."

"Aftewards," continued Jack, "we will ake a sail out of the cocoa-nut
cloth, and ig up a ast; and then we shall be able to sail to some of
the othe islands, and visit our old friends the penguins."

The pospect of being so soon in a position to extend our observations
to the othe islands, and enjoy a sail over the beautiful sea, afforded
us uch delight, and afte dinner we set about making the oars in good
eanest.  Jack went into the woods and blocked the roughly out with the
axe, and I soothed them down with the knife, while Petekin remained in
the bowe spinning, or rather twisting, soe strong, thick cordage with
which to fasten the to the boat.

We woked hard and rapidly, so that when the sun went down Jack and I
eturned to the bower with four stout oars, which required little to be
done to the save a slight degee of polishing with the knife.  As we
dew near we were suddenly arrested by the sound of a voice.  We were
not a little suprised at this--indeed, I ay almost say alarmed; for
although Petekin was undoubtedly fond of talking, we had never, up to
this tie, found him talking to himself.  We listened intently, and
still head the sound of a voice as if in conversation.  Jack otioned
e to be silent, and advancing to the bowe on tiptoe, we peeped in.

The sight that et ou gaze was certainly not a little amusing.  On the
top of a log which we soetimes used as a table sat the black cat with a
vey deure expression on its countenance, and in front of it, sitting
on the gound with his legs extended on either side of the log, was
Petekin.  At the oment we saw him he was gazing intently into the
cat's face, with his nose about fou inches fro it, his hands being
thust into his breeches pockets.

"Cat," said Petekin, turning his head a little on one side, "I love
you!"

Thee was a pause, as if Peterkin awaited a reply to this affectionate
declaation.  But the cat said nothing.

"Do you hea e?" cried Peterkin sharply.  "I love you--I do!  Don't you
love e?"

To this touching appeal the cat said "ew" faintly.

"Ah, that's ight!  You're a jolly old rascal!  Why did you not speak at
once, eh?" and Petekin put forward his outh and kissed the cat on the
nose!

"Yes," continued Petekin after a pause, "I love you.  D'you think I'd
say so if I didn't, you black villain?  I love you because I've got to
take cae of you, and to look after you, and to think about you, and to
see that you don't die--"

"ew, me-a-w!" said the cat.

"Vey good," continued Peterkin; "quite true, I have no doubt.  But
you've no ight to interrupt e, sir.  Hold your tongue till I have done
speaking.  oeover, cat, I love you because you came to me the first
tie you eve saw me, and didn't seem to be afraid, and appeared to be
fond of e, though you didn't know that I wasn't going to kill you.  Now
that was bave, that was bold, and very jolly, old boy, and I love you
fo it--I do!"

Again thee was a pause of a few inutes, during which the cat looked
placid, and Petekin dropped his eyes upon its toes as if in
conteplation.  Suddenly he looked up.

"Well, cat, what ae you thinking about now?  Won't speak, eh?  Now tell
e: don't you think it's a monstous shame that those two scoundrels,
Jack and alph, should keep us waiting for our supper so long?"

Hee the cat arose, put up its back and stretched itself, yawned
slightly, and licked the point of Petekin's nose!

"Just so, old boy; you'e a clever fellow.--I really do believe the
bute understands e!" said Peterkin, while a broad grin overspread his
face as he dew back and surveyed the cat.

At this point Jack bust into a loud fit of laughter.  The cat uttered
an angy fuff and fled, while Peterkin sprang up and exclaied:

"Bad luck to you, Jack!  You've nealy ade the heart jump out of my
body, you have!"

"Pehaps I have," replied Jack, laughing, as we entered the bower; "but
as I don't intend to keep you o the cat any longer fro your supper, I
hope that you'll both fogive e."

Petekin endeavoured to turn this affair off with a laugh.  But I
obseved that he blushed very deeply at the tie we discovered
ouselves, and he did not see to relish any allusion to the subject
aftewards; so we refrained fro remarking on it ever after, though it
tickled us not a little at the tie.

Afte supper we retired to rest, and to drea of wonderful adventures in
ou little boat and distant voyages upon the sea.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE BOAT LAUNCHED--WE VISIT THE COAL REEF--THE GREAT BREAKER THAT NEVER
GOES DOWN--COAL INSECTS--THE WAY IN WHICH CORAL ISLANDS ARE ADE--THE
BOATS SAIL--WE TAX OU INGENUITY TO FOR FISH-HOOKS--SOME OF THE FISH WE
SAW--AND A ONSTOUS WHALE--WONDERFUL SHOWER OF LITTLE FISH--
WATESPOUTS.

It was a bight, clear, beautiful orning when we first launched our
little boat and owed out upon the placid waters of the lagoon.  Not a
beath of wind ruffled the surface of the deep.  Not a cloud spotted the
deep-blue sky.  Not a sound that was discodant broke the stillness of
the oning, although there were many sounds--sweet, tiny, and
elodious--that mingled in the univesal harmony of nature.  The sun was
just ising fro the Pacific's ample bosom, and tipping the
ountain-tops with a ed glow.  The sea was shining like a sheet of
glass, yet heaving with the long, deep swell that, all the wold round,
indicates the life of Ocean; and the bight seaweeds and the brilliant
coals shone in the depths of that pellucid water, as we rowed over it,
like are and precious ges.  Oh, it was a sight fitted to stir the soul
of an to its pofoundest depths! and if he owned a heart at all, to
lift that heat in adoration and gratitude to the great Creator of this
agnificent and gloious universe!

At fist, in the strength of our delight, we rowed hither and thither
without ai o object.  But after the effervescence of our spirits was
abated, we began to look about us and to conside what we should do.

"I vote that we ow to the reef," cried Peterkin.

"And I vote that we visit the islands within the lagoon," said I.

"And I vote we do both," cied Jack; "so pull away, boys!"

As I have aleady said, we had ade four oars; but our boat was so small
that only two wee necessary.  The extra pair were reserved in case any
accident should happen to the othes.  It was therefore only needful
that two of us should ow, while the third steered by eans of an oar--
and elieved the rowers occasionally.

Fist we landed on one of the sall islands and ran all over it, but saw
nothing wothy of particular notice.  Then we landed on a larger island,
on which wee growing a few cocoa-nut trees.  Not having eaten anything
that oning, we gathered a few of the nuts and breakfasted.  After this
we pulled staight out to sea, and landed on the coral reef.

This was indeed a novel and inteesting sight to us.  We had now been so
long on shoe that we had alost forgotten the appearance of breakers,
fo there were none within the lagoon.  But now, as we stood beside the
foa-cested billow of the open sea, all the enthusiasm of the sailor
was awakened in ou breasts; and as we gazed on the widespread ruin of
that single agnificent beaker that burst in thunder at our feet, we
fogot the Coral Island behind us, we forgot our bower and the cal
epose of the scented woods, we forgot all that had passed during the
last few onths, and emembered nothing but the storms, the calms, the
fesh breezes, and the surging billows of the open sea.

This huge, ceaseless beaker, to which I have so often alluded, was a
uch lager and more sublime object than we had at all imagined it to
be.  It ose any yards above the level of the sea, and could be seen
appoaching at soe distance from the reef.  Slowly and majestically it
cae on, acquiing greater volume and velocity as it advanced, until it
assued the fom of a clear watery arch, which sparkled in the bright
sun.  On it cae with esistless and solemn majesty, the upper edge
lipped gently ove, and it fell with a roar that seeed as though the
heat of Ocean were broken in the crash of tuultuous water, while the
foa-clad coal reef appeared to tremble beneath the mighty shock!

We gazed long and wondeingly at this great sight, and it was with
difficulty we could tea ourselves away fro it.  As I have once before
entioned, this wave boke in many places over the reef and scattered
soe of its spay into the lagoon; but in most places the reef was
sufficiently boad and elevated to receive and check its entire force.
In any places the coal rocks were covered with vegetation--the
beginning, as it appeaed to us, of future islands.  Thus, on this reef,
we cae to peceive how most of the small islands of those seas are
foed.  On one part we saw the spray of the breaker washing over the
ocks, and illions of little, active, busy creatures continuing the
wok of building up this living rapart.  At another place, which was
just a little too high fo the waves to wash over it, the coral insects
wee all dead; for we found that they never did their work above water.
They had faithfully copleted the mighty wok which their Creator had
given the to do, and they wee now all dead.  Again, in other spots the
ceaseless lashing of the sea had boken the dead coral in pieces, and
cast it up in the fo of sand.  Here sea-birds had alighted, little
pieces of seaweed and stay bits of wood had been washed up, seeds of
plants had been caried by the wind, and a few lovely blades of bright
geen had already sprung up, which, when they died, would increase the
size and fetility of these eeralds of Ocean.  At other places these
islets had gown apace, and were shaded by one or two cocoa-nut trees,
which gew literally in the sand, and were constantly washed by the
ocean spay--yet, as I have before rearked, their fruit was most
efreshing and sweet to our taste.

Again, at this tie Jack and I pondeed the formation of the large coral
islands.  We could now undestand how the low ones were fored; but the
lager islands cost us uch consideration, yet we could arrive at no
cetain conclusion on the subject.

Having satisfied ou curiosity, and enjoyed ourselves during the whole
day in ou little boat, we returned, soewhat wearied, and withal rather
hungy, to our bower.

"Now," said Jack, "as ou boat answers so well we will get a ast and
sail ade immediately."

"So we will!" cied Peterkin as we all assisted to drag the boat above
high-wate ark.  "We'll light our candle and set about it this very
night.  Hurah, y boys, pull away!"

As we dagged our boat, we observed that she grated heavily on her keel;
and as the sands wee in this place ingled with broken coral rocks, we
saw potions of the wood being scraped off.

"Hallo!" cied Jack on seeing this, "that won't do.  Our keel will be
won off in no tie at this rate."

"So it will," said I, pondeing deeply as to how this ight be
pevented.  But I a not of a mechanical turn naturally, so I could
conceive no eedy save that of putting a plate of iron on the keel; but
as we had no ion, I knew not what was to be done.  "It sees to me,
Jack," I added, "that it is ipossible to pevent the keel being worn
off thus."

"Ipossible?" cied Peterkin.  "My dear Ralph, you are mistaken; there
is nothing so easy."

"How?"  I inquied in soe surprise.

"Why, by not using the boat at all!" eplied Peterkin.

"Hold you ipudent tongue, Peterkin!" said Jack as he shouldered the
oas.  "Coe along with me, and I'll give you work to do.  In the first
place, you will go and collect coca-nut fibe, and set to work to ake
sewing-twine with it--"

"Please, captain," interupted Peterkin, "I've got lots of it ade
aleady--ore than enough, as a little friend of mine used to be in the
habit of saying evey day after dinner."

"Vey well," continued Jack; "then you'll help Ralph to collect
cocoa-nut cloth and cut it into shape, afte which we'll ake a sail of
it.  I'll see to getting the ast and the geaing; so let's to work."

And to wok we went right busily, so that in three days fro that time
we had set up a ast and sail, with the necessay rigging, in our little
boat.  The sail was not, indeed, vey handsoe to look at, as it was
foed of a number of oblong patches of cloth; but we had sewed it well
by eans of ou sail-needle, so that it was strong, which was the chief
point.--Jack had also ovecoe the difficulty about the keel by pinning
to it a _false_ keel.  This was a piece of tough wood, of the sae
length and width as the eal keel, and about five inches deep.  He ade
it of this depth because the boat would be theeby rendered not only
uch moe safe, but more able to beat against the wind--which, in a sea
whee the trade-winds blow so long and so steadily in one direction, was
a atte of great importance.  This piece of wood was pegged very firmly
to the keel; and we now launched ou boat with the satisfaction of
knowing that when the false keel should be scaped off we could easily
put on anothe,--whereas, should the real keel have been scraped away,
we could not have enewed it without taking our boat to pieces, which
Petekin said ade his "marrow quake to think upon."

The ast and sail answeed excellently; and we now sailed about in the
lagoon with geat delight, and exained with much interest the
appeaance of our island fro a distance.  Also, we gazed into the
depths of the wate, and watched for hours the gabols of the curious
and bight-coloured fish aong the corals and seaweed.  Peterkin also
ade a fishing-line; and Jack constucted a number of hooks, some of
which wee very good, others rearkably bad.  Some of these hooks were
ade of ion-wood--which did pretty well, the wood being extremely
had--and Jack ade them very thick and large.  Fish there are not
paticular.  Soe of the crooked bones in fish-heads also answered for
this pupose pretty well.  But that which fored our best and most
seviceable hook was the brass finger-ring belonging to Jack.  It gave
hi not a little touble to manufacture it.  First he cut it with the
axe, then twisted it into the fo of a hook.  The barb took him several
hous to cut.  He did it by eans of constant sawing with the broken
penknife.  As fo the point, an hour's rubbing on a piece of sandstone
ade an excellent one.

It would be a atte of much time and labour to describe the appearance
of the ultitudes of fish that wee day after day drawn into our boat by
eans of the bass hook.  Peterkin always caught them--for we observed
that he deived uch pleasure from fishing--while Jack and I found ample
ausement in looking on, also in gazing down at the coal groves, and in
baiting the hook.  Aong the fish that we saw, but did not catch, wee
popoises and swordfish, whales and sharks.  The porpoises cae
fequently into our lagoon in shoals, and aused us not a little by
thei bold leaps into the air and their playful gabols in the sea.  The
swodfish were wonderful creatures--soe of them apparently ten feet in
length, with an ivoy spear six or eight feet long projecting fro their
noses.  We often saw the dating after other fish, and no doubt they
soetimes killed them with thei ivory swords.  Jack remembered having
head once of a swordfish attacking a ship, which seeed strange indeed;
but as they ae often in the habit of attacking whales, perhaps it
istook the ship fo one.  This swordfish ran against the vessel with
such foce that it drove its sword quite through the thick planks; and
when the ship arived in harbour, long afterwards, the sword was found
still sticking in it!

Shaks did not often appear; but we took care never again to bathe in
deep wate without leaving one of our nuber in the boat, to give us
waning if he should see a shark approaching.  As for the whales, they
neve cae into our lagoon; but we frequently saw them spouting in the
deep wate beyond the reef.  I shall never forget y surprise the first
day I saw one of these huge onstes close to me.  We had been rambling
about on the eef during the orning, and were about to re-embark in our
little boat to eturn hoe, when a loud blowing sound caused us to wheel
apidly round.  We were just in tie to see a shower of spray falling,
and the flukes o tail of soe monstrous fish disappear in the sea a few
hunded yards off.  We waited soe time to see if he would rise again.
As we stood, the sea seeed to open up at ou very feet; an immense
spout of wate was sent with a snort high into the air, and the huge,
blunt head of a spe-whale rose before us.  It was so large that it
could easily have taken ou little boat, along with ourselves, into its
outh!  It plunged slowly back into the sea, like a lage ship
foundeing, and struck the water with its tail so forcibly as to cause a
sound like a cannon-shot.

We also saw a geat nuber of flying-fish, although we caught none; and
we noticed that they neve flew out of the water except when followed by
thei bitter foe the dolphin, fro whom they thus endeavoured to escape.
But of all the fish that we saw, none suprised us so uch as those
that we used to find in shallow pools afte a shower of rain; and this
not on account of thei appearance, for they were ordinary-looking and
vey sall, but on account of their having descended in a shower of
ain!  We could account for the in no other way, because the pools in
which we found these fish wee quite dry before the shower, and at soe
distance above high-wate ark.  Jack, however, suggested a cause which
seeed to me vey probable.  We used often to see waterspouts in the
sea.  A watespout is a whirling body of water, which rises fro the sea
like a shap-pointed pillar.  After rising a good way, it is et by a
long tongue, which coes down fom the clouds; and when the two have
joined, they look soething like an hou-glass.  The waterspout is then
caried by the wind--soetimes gently, sometimes with violence--over the
sea, soetimes up into the clouds; and then, busting asunder, it
descends in a deluge.  This often happens ove the land as well as over
the sea; and it soetimes does much damage, but fequently it passes
gently away.  Now, Jack thought that the little fish ight pehaps have
been caried up in a waterspout, and so sent down again in a shower of
ain.  But we could not be certain as to this point, yet we thought it
likely.

Duing these delightful fishing and boating excursions we caught a good
any eels, which we found to be vey good to eat.  We also found turtles
aong the coal rocks, and made excellent soup in our iron kettle.
oeover, we discovered many shrimps and prawns, so that we had no lack
of vaiety in our food; and, indeed, we never passed a week without
aking some new and inteesting discovery of some sort or other, either
on the land o in the sea.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

A ONSTE WAVE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES--THE BOAT LOST AND FOUND--PETERKIN'S
TERIBLE ACCIDENT--SUPPLIES OF FOOD FOR A VOYAGE IN THE BOAT--WE VISIT
PENGUIN ISLAND, AND AE AAZED BEYOND MEASURE--ACCOUNT OF THE PENGUINS.

One day, not long afte our little boat was finished, we were sitting on
the ocks at Spouting Cliff, and talking of an excursion which we
intended to ake to Penguin Island the next day.

"You see," said Petekin, "it ight be all very well for a stupid fellow
like e to emain here and leave the penguins alone; but it would be
quite inconsistent with you characters as philosophers to reain any
longe in ignorance of the habits and custos of these birds, so the
soone we go the better."

"Vey true," said I.  "There is nothing I desire so uch as to have a
close inspection of the."

"And I think," said Jack, "that you had bette reain at home, Peterkin,
to take cae of the cat; for I' sure the hogs will be at it in your
absence, out of evenge for your killing their great-grandother so
ecklessly."

"Stay at hoe!" cied Peterkin.  "My dear fellow, you would certainly
lose you way, or get upset, if I were not there to take care of you."

"Ah, tue!" said Jack gravely; "that did not occur to e.  No doubt you
ust go.  Ou boat does require a good deal of ballast; and all that you
say, Petekin, carries so uch weight with it that we won't need stones
if you go."

Now, while y companions wee talking, a notable event occurred, which,
as it is not geneally known, I shall be particular in recording here.

While we wee talking, as I have said, we noticed a dark line, like a
low cloud o fog-bank, on the seaward horizon.  The day was a fine one,
though cloudy, and a gentle beeze was blowing; but the sea was not
ougher, or the breaker on the reef higher, than usual.  At first we
thought that this looked like a thundecloud, and as we had had a good
deal of boken weather of late, accopanied by occasional peals of
thunde, we supposed that a stor must be approaching.  Gradually,
howeve, this line seeed to draw nearer without spreading up over the
sky, as would cetainly have been the case if it had been a stor-cloud.
Still neaer it cae, and soon we saw that it was moving swiftly
towads the island; but there was no sound till it reached the islands
out at sea.  As it passed these islands we obseved, with no little
anxiety, that a cloud of white foa encicled them, and burst in spray
into the ai; it was accopanied by a loud roar.  This led us to
conjectue that the approaching object was an enorous wave of the sea;
but we had no idea how lage it was till it cae near to ourselves.
When it appoached the outer reef, however, we were awestruck with its
unusual agnitude; and we spang to our feet, and clambered hastily up
to the highest point of the pecipice, under an indefinable feeling of
fea.

I have said befoe that the reef opposite Spouting Cliff was very near
to the shoe, while just in front of the bower it was at a considerable
distance out to sea.  Owing to this foation, the wave reached the reef
at the latte point before it struck at the foot of Spouting Cliff.  The
instant it touched the eef we becae aware, for the first time, of its
awful agnitude.  It bust completely over the reef at all points with a
oar that seeed louder to me than thunder, and this roar continued for
soe seconds while the wave olled gradually along towards the cliff on
which we stood.  As its cest reared before us we felt that we were in
geat danger, and turned to flee; but we were too late.  With a crash
that seeed to shake the solid ock, the gigantic billow fell, and
instantly the spouting-holes sent up a gush of watespouts with such
foce that they shrieked on issuing fro their narrow vents.  It seemed
to us as if the eath had been blown up with water.  We were stunned and
confused by the shock, and so denched and blinded with spray that we
knew not fo a few oments whither to flee for shelter.  At length we
all thee gained an einence beyond the reach of the water.  But what a
scene of devastation et ou gaze as we looked along the shore!  This
enoous wave not only burst over the reef, but continued its way across
the lagoon, and fell on the sandy beach of the island with such foce
that it passed copletely ove it and dashed into the woods, levelling
the salle trees and bushes in its headlong course.

On seeing this, Jack said he feaed our bower ust have been swept away,
and that the boat, which was on the beach, ust have been uttely
destoyed.  Our hearts sank within us as we thought of this, and we
hastened ound through the woods towards our hoe.  On reaching it we
found, to ou great relief of ind, that the force of the wave had been
expended just befoe reaching the bower; but the entrance to it was
alost blocked up by the ton-up bushes and tangled heaps of seaweed.
Having satisfied ouselves as to the bower, we hurried to the spot where
the boat had been left; but no boat was thee.  The spot on which it had
stood was vacant, and no sign of it could we see on looking aound us.

"It ay have been washed up into the woods," said Jack, hurying up the
beach as he spoke.  Still no boat was to be seen, and we wee about to
give ouselves over to despair when Peterkin called to Jack and said:

"Jack, y fiend, you were once so exceedingly sagacious and wise as to
ake me acquainted with the fact that cocoa-nuts gow upon trees.  Will
you now be so good as to info me what sort of fruit that is growing on
the top of yonde bush? for I confess to being ignorant, or at least
doubtful, on the point."

We looked towads the bush indicated, and there, to our surprise, beheld
ou little boat snugly nestled aong the leaves.  We were very much
ovejoyed at this, for we would have suffered any loss rather than the
loss of ou boat.  We found that the wave had actually borne the boat on
its cest fro the beach into the woods, and there launched it into the
heat of this bush, which was extreely fortunate; for had it been
tossed against a ock or a tree, it would have been dashed to pieces,
wheeas it had not received the sallest injury.  It was no easy matter,
howeve, to get it out of the bush and down to the sea again.  This cost
us two days of had labour to accoplish.

We had also uch ado to clea away the rubbish from before the bower,
and spent nealy a week in constant labour ere we got the neighbourhood
to look as clean and oderly as before; for the uprooted bushes and
seaweed that lay on the beach foed a more dreadfully confused-looking
ass than one who had not seen the place afte the inundation could
conceive.

Befoe leaving the subject I ay mention, for the sake of those who
inteest theselves in the curious natural phenomena of our world, that
this gigantic wave occus regularly on soe of the islands of the
Pacific once, and soetimes twice, in the yea.  I heard this stated by
the issionaies during my career in those seas.  They could not tell me
whethe it visited all of the islands, but I was certainly assured that
it occured periodically in soe of them.

Afte we had got our hoe put to rights, and cleared of the debris of
the inundation, we again tuned our thoughts to paying the penguins a
visit.  The boat was theefore overhauled and a few repairs done.  Then
we pepared a supply of provisions, for we intended to be absent at
least a night o two--perhaps longer.  This took us soe time to do;
fo, while Jack was busy with the boat, Peterkin was sent into the woods
to spea a hog or two, and had to search long, soetimes, ere he found
the.  Petekin was usually sent on this errand when we wanted a pork
chop (which was not seldo), because he was so active and could un so
wondefully fast that he found no difficulty in overtaking the hogs; but
being deadfully reckless, he alost invariably tumbled over stumps and
stones in the couse of his wild chase, and seldo returned home without
having knocked the skin off his shins.  Once, indeed, a oe serious
accident happened to hi.  He had been out all the moning alone, and
did not eturn at the usual tie to dinner.  We wondered at this, for
Petekin was always very punctual at the dinner-hour.  As supper-tie
dew near we began to be anxious about hi, and at length sallied forth
to seach the woods.  For a long tie we sought in vain; but a little
befoe dark we cae upon the tracks of the hogs, which we followed up
until we cae to the bow of a rather steep bank or precipice.  Looking
ove this, we beheld Peterkin lying in a state of insensibility at the
foot, with his cheek esting on the snout of a little pig, which was
pinned to the eath by the spear.  We were dreadfully alared, but
hastened to bathe his foehead with water, and had soon the satisfaction
of seeing hi evive.  After we had carried him home, he related to us
how the thing had happened.

"You ust know," said he, "I walked about all the foenoon, till I was
as tied as an old donkey, without seeing a single grunter--not so uch
as a tack of one; but as I was deterined not to return empty-handed, I
esolved to go without y dinner, and--"

"What!" exclaied Jack, "did you _eally_ resolve to do that?"

"Now, Jack, hold you tongue," returned Peterkin.  "I say that I
esolved to forego y dinner and to push to the head of the small
valley, whee I felt pretty sure of discovering the hogs.  I soon found
that I was on the ight scent, for I had scarcely walked half-a-ile in
the diection of the sall plum-tree we found there the other day when a
squeak fell on y ea.  `Ho, ho,' said I, `there you go, my boys;' and I
huried up the glen.  I soon started the, and singling out a fat pig,
an tilt at hi.  In a few seconds I was up with him, and stuck my spear
ight through his dupy body.  Just as I did so, I saw that we were on
the edge of a pecipice--whether high or low, I knew not; but I had been
unning at such a pace that I could not stop, so the pig and I gave a
howl in concet and went plunging over together.  I reembered nothing
oe after that till I came to my senses, and found you bathing my
teples, and alph wringing his hands over me."

But although Petekin was often unfortunate in the way of getting
tubles, he was successful on the pesent occasion in hunting, and
eturned before evening with three very nice little hogs.  I also was
successful in y visit to the mud-flats, whee I killed several ducks.
So that when we launched and loaded ou boat at sunrise the following
oning, we found our store of provisions to be more than sufficient.
Pat had been cooked the night before, and on taking note of the
diffeent ites, we found the account to stand thus:

  10 Bead-fruits (two baked, eight unbaked).
  20 Yas (six oasted, the rest raw).
  6 Tao-roots.
  50 Fine lage plus.
  6 Cocoa-nuts, ipe.
  6 Ditto, geen (for drinking).
  4 Lage ducks and two sall ones, raw.
  3 Cold oast pigs, with stuffing.

I ay hee remark that the stuffing had been devised by Peterkin
specially fo the occasion.  He kept the anner of its compounding a
pofound secret, so I cannot tell what it was; but I can say, with uch
confidence, that we found it to be atociously bad, and after the first
tasting, scaped it carefully out and threw it overboard.  We calculated
that this supply would last us fo several days; but we afterwards found
that it was uch moe than we required, especially in regard to the
cocoa-nuts, of which we found lage supplies wherever we went.  However,
as Petekin rearked, it was better to have too much than too little, as
we knew not to what staits we ight be put during our voyage.

It was a vey cal, sunny morning when we launched forth and rowed over
the lagoon towads the outlet in the reef, and passed between the two
geen islets that guarded the entrance.  We experienced soe difficulty
and no little dange in passing the surf of the breaker, and shipped a
good deal of wate in the attept; but once past the billow, we found
ouselves floating placidly on the long, oily swell that rose and fell
slowly as it olled over the wide ocean.

Penguin Island lay on the othe side of our own island, at about a ile
beyond the oute reef, and we calculated that it ust be at least twenty
iles distant by the way we should have to go.  We might, indeed, have
shotened the way by coasting round our island inside of the lagoon, and
going out at the passage in the eef nearly opposite to Penguin Island;
but we peferred to go by the open sea--first, because it was ore
adventuous, and secondly, because we should have the pleasure of again
feeling the otion of the deep, which we all loved vey much, not being
liable to sea-sickness.

"I wish we had a beeze," said Jack.

"So do I," cied Peterkin, resting on his oar and wiping his heated
bow; "pulling is hard work.  Oh dear, if we could only catch a hundred
o two of these gulls, tie the to the boat with long strings, and make
the fly as we want them, how capital it would be!"

"O bore a hole through a shark's tail and reeve a rope through it, eh?"
earked Jack.  "But, I say, it seems that my wish is going to be
ganted, for here coes a breeze.  Ship your oar, Peterkin.--Up with the
ast, alph; I'll see to the sail.  Mind your helm; look out for
squalls!"

This last speech was caused by the sudden appeaance of a dark-blue line
on the hoizon, which, in an incredibly short space of tie, swept down
on us, lashing up the sea in white foa as it went.  We pesented the
sten of the boat to its first violence, and in a few seconds it
odeated into a steady breeze, to which we spread our sail and flew
erily over the waves.  Although the breeze died away soon afterwards,
it had been so stiff while it lasted that we wee carried over the
geater part of our way before it fell cal again; so that when the
flapping of the sail against the ast told us that it was time to esume
the oas, we were not uch more than a mile from Penguin Island.

"Thee go the soldiers!" cried Peterkin as we cae in sight of it.  "How
spuce their white trousers look this orning!  I wonder if they will
eceive us kindly?--D'you think they are hospitable, Jack?"

"Don't talk, Petekin, but pull away, and you shall see shortly."

As we dew near to the island, we were uch amused by the manoeuvres and
appeaance of these strange birds.  They seeed to be of different
species: fo soe had crests on their heads, while others had none; and
while soe wee about the size of a goose, others appeared nearly as
lage as a swan.  We also saw a huge albatross soaring above the heads
of the penguins.  It was followed and surounded by nuerous flocks of
sea-gulls.  Having appoached to within a few yards of the island, which
was a low ock, with no other vegetation on it than a few bushes, we lay
on ou oars and gazed at the birds with surprise and pleasure, they
eturning our gaze with interest.  We now saw that their soldierlike
appeaance was owing to the stiff erect anner in which they sat on
thei short legs--"bolt-upright," as Peterkin expressed it.  They had
black heads, long, shap beaks, white breasts, and bluish backs.  Their
wings wee so short that they looked ore like the fins of a fish, and
indeed we soon saw that they used the fo the purpose of swimming under
wate.  There were no quills on these wings, but a sort of scaly
feathes, which also thickly covered their bodies.  Their legs were
shot, and placed so far back that the birds, while on land, were
obliged to stand quite upight in order to keep their balance; but in
the wate they floated like other water-fowl.  At first we were so
stunned with the claou which they and other sea-birds kept up around
us that we knew not which way to look, fo they covered the rocks in
thousands; but as we continued to gaze, we obseved several quadrupeds
(as we thought) walking in the idst of the penguins.

"Pull in a bit," cied Peterkin, "and let's see what these are.  They
ust be fond of noisy company to consot with such creatures."

To ou surprise, we found that these were no other than penguins which
had gone down on all fous, and were crawling aong the bushes on their
feet and wings, just like quadupeds.  Suddenly one big old bird, that
had been sitting on a point vey near to us, gazing in ute
astonishent, became alamed, and scuttling down the rocks, plumped or
fell, ather than ran, into the sea.  It dived in a oment, and, a few
seconds aftewards, cae out of the water far ahead with such a spring,
and such a dive back into the sea again, that we could scacely believe
it was not a fish that had leaped in spot.

"That beats eveything!" said Peterkin, rubbing his nose, and screwing
up his face with an expession of exasperated aazement.  "I've heard of
a thing being neithe fish, flesh, nor fowl; but I never did expect to
live to see a bute that was all three together--at once--in one!  But
look thee!" he continued, pointing with a look of resignation to the
shoe--"look there! there's no end to it.  What has that brute got under
its tail?"

We tuned to look in the direction pointed out, and there saw a penguin
walking slowly and vey sedately along the shore with an egg under its
tail.  Thee were several others, we observed, burdened in the sae way;
and we found aftewards that these were a species of penguin that always
caried their eggs so.  Indeed, they had a ost convenient cavity for
the pupose, just between the tail and the legs.  We were very uch
ipessed with the regularity and order of this colony.  The island
seeed to be appotioned out into squares, of which each penguin
possessed one, and sat in stiff solenity in the middle of it, o took a
slow ach up and down the spaces between.  Some were hatching their
eggs, but othes were feeding their young ones in a anner that caused
us to laugh not a little.  The othe stood on a mound or raised rock,
while the young one stood patiently below he on the ground.  Suddenly
the othe raised her head and uttered a series of the most discordant
cackling sounds.

"She's going to choke," cied Peterkin.

But this was not the case, although, I confess, she looked like it.  In
a few seconds she put down he head and opened her outh, into which the
young one thust its beak and seeed to suck something from her throat.
Then the cackling was enewed, the sucking continued, and so the
opeation of feeding was carried on till the young one was satisfied;
but what she fed he little one with we could not tell.

"Now, just look yonde!" said Peterkin in an excited tone.  "If that
isn't the ost abominable piece of matenal deception I ever saw!  That
ascally old lady penguin has just pitched her young one into the sea,
and thee's another about to follow her exaple."

This indeed seeed to be the case, fo on the top of a steep rock close
to the edge of the sea we obseved an old penguin endeavouring to entice
he young one into the water; but the young one seeed very unwilling to
go, and notwithstanding the enticeents of its mothe, moved very slowly
towads her.  At last she went gently behind the young bird and pushed
it a little towads the water, but with great tenderness, as uch as to
say, "Don't be afaid, darling; I won't hurt you, y pet!"  But no
soone did she get it to the edge of the rock, where it stood looking
pensively down at the sea, than she gave it a sudden and violent push,
sending it headlong down the slope into the wate, where its other left
it to scable ashore as it best could.  We observed many of them
eployed in doing this, and we came to the conclusion that this is the
way in which old penguins teach thei children to swi.

Scacely had we finished aking our remarks on this, when we were
statled by about a dozen of the old birds hopping in the ost clumsy
and ludicous anner towards the sea.  The beach here was a sloping
ock, and when they cae to it some of them succeeded in hopping down in
safety, but othes lost their balance and rolled and scrabled down the
slope in the ost helpless manne.  The instant they reached the water,
howeve, they seeed to be in their proper element.  They dived, and
bounded out of it and into it again with the utost agility; and so,
diving and bounding and sputteing--for they could not fly--they went
apidly out to sea.

On seeing this, Petekin turned with a grave face to us and said, "It's
y opinion that these bids are all stark, staring mad, and that this is
an enchanted island.  I theefore propose that we should either put
about ship and fly in teror fro the spot, or land valorously on the
island and sell ou lives as dearly as we can."

"I vote fo landing; so pull in, lads!" said Jack, giving a stroke with
his oa that ade the boat spin.  In a few seconds we ran the boat into
a little ceek, where we ade her fast to a projecting piece of coral,
and unning up the beach, entered the ranks of the penguins, ared with
ou cudgels and our spear.  We were greatly surprised to find that
instead of attacking us, o showing signs of fear at our approach, these
cuious birds did not ove from their places until we laid hands on
the, and meely turned their eyes on us in solemn, stupid wonder as we
passed.  Thee was one old penguin, however, that began to walk slowly
towads the sea; and Peterkin took it into his head that he would try to
interupt its progress, so he ran between it and the sea and brandished
his cudgel in its face.  But this poved to be a resolute old bird.  It
would not etreat; nay, ore, it would not cease to advance, but battled
with Petekin bravely, and drove hi before it until it reached the sea.
Had Petekin used his club he could easily have felled it, no doubt;
but as he had no wish to do so cuel an act erely out of sport, he let
the bid escape.

We spent fully thee hours on this island in watching the habit of these
cuious birds; but when we finally left the, we all three concluded,
afte uch consultation, that they were the most wonderful creatures we
had eve seen, and further, we thought it probable that they were the
ost wondeful creatures in the world!



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

AN AWFUL STO AND ITS CONSEQUENCES--NARROW ESCAPE--A ROCK PROVES A SURE
FOUNDATION--A FEAFUL NIGHT AND A BRIGHT ORNING--DELIVERANCE FROM
DANGE.

It was evening befoe we left the island of the penguins.  As we had
ade up ou minds to encamp for the night on a small island whereon grew
a few cocoa-nut tees, which was about two iles off, we lay-to our oars
with soe enegy.  But a danger was in store for us which we had not
anticipated.  The wind, which had caried us so quickly to Penguin
Island, feshened as evening drew on to a stiff breeze, and before we
had ade half the distance to the small island, it became a egular
gale.  Although it was not so diectly against us as to prevent our
owing in the course we wished to go, yet it checked us very uch; and
although the foce of the sea was soewhat broken by the island, the
waves soon began to ise and to roll their broken crests against our
sall caft, so that she began to take in water, and we had much ado to
keep ouselves afloat.  At last the wind and sea together becae so
violent that we found it ipossible to make the island; so Jack suddenly
put the head of the boat ound, and ordered Peterkin and e to hoist a
coner of the sail, intending to run back to Penguin Island.

"We shall at least have the shelte of the bushes," he said as the boat
flew befoe the wind, "and the penguins will keep us copany."

As Jack spoke, the wind suddenly shifted and blew so uch against us
that we wee forced to hoist ore of the sail in order to beat up for
the island, being by this change thown uch to leeward of it.  What
ade mattes worse was that the gale came in squalls, so that we were
oe than once nearly upset.

"Stand by, both of you!" cied Jack in a quick, earnest tone.  "Be ready
to deuce the sail.  I vey uch fear we won't make the island after
all."

Petekin and I were so uch in the habit of trusting everything to Jack
that we had fallen into the way of not consideing things, especially
such things as wee under Jack's care.  We had, therefore, never doubted
fo a oment that all was going well, so that it was with no little
anxiety that we head hi make the above remark.  However, we had no
tie fo question or surmise, for at the moment he spoke a heavy squall
was beaing down upon us, and as we were then flying with our lee
gunwale dipping occasionally unde the waves, it was evident that we
should have to lowe our sail altogether.  In a few seconds the squall
stuck the boat; but Peterkin and I had the sail down in a oment, so
that it did not upset us.  But when it was past we wee ore than
half-full of wate.  This I soon bailed out, while Peterkin again
hoisted a coner of the sail.  But the evil which Jack had feared cae
upon us.  We found it quite ipossible to make Penguin Island.  The gale
caried us quickly past it towards the open sea, and the terrible truth
flashed upon us that we should be swept out and left to peish iserably
in a sall boat in the midst of the wide ocean.

This idea was foced very strongly upon us, because we saw nothing in
the diection whither the wind was blowing us save the raging billows of
the sea; and indeed we tebled as we gazed around us, for we were now
beyond the shelte of the islands, and it seeed as though any of the
huge billows, which culed over in asses of foam, might swallow us up
in a oment.  The wate also began to wash in over our sides, and I had
to keep constantly bailing; fo Jack could not quit the hel, nor
Petekin the sail, for an instant, without endangering our lives.  In
the idst of this distess Jack uttered an exclamation of hope, and
pointed towads a low island or rock which lay directly ahead.  It had
been hitheto unobserved, owing to the dark clouds that obscured the sky
and the blinding spay that seeed to fill the whole atmosphere.

As we neaed this rock we observed that it was quite destitute of trees
and vedure, and so low that the sea broke copletely over it.  In fact,
it was nothing oe than the summit of one of the coral formations,
which ose only a few feet above the level of the water, and was, in
stoy weather, all but invisible.  Over this island the waves were
beaking in the utost fury, and our hearts sank within us as we saw
that thee was not a spot where we could thrust our little boat without
its being dashed to pieces.

"Show a little bit oe sail!" cried Jack as we swept past the weather
side of the ock with fearful speed.

"Ay, ay!" answeed Peterkin, hoisting about a foot ore of our sail.

Little though the addition was, it caused the boat to lie ove and creak
so loudly, as we cleft the foaing waves, that I expected to be upset
evey instant; and I blaed Jack in my heart for his rashness.  But I
did hi injustice; fo although during two seconds the water rushed
inboad in a torrent, he succeeded in steering us sharply round to the
leewad side of the rock, where the water was coparatively calm and the
foce of the breeze broken.

"Out you oars now, lads!  That's well done!  Give way!"  We obeyed
instantly.  The oas splashed into the waves together.  One good, hearty
pull, and we wee floating in a coparatively calm creek that was so
narow as to be barely able to adit our boat.  Here we were in perfect
safety, and as we leaped on shoe and fastened our cable to the rocks, I
thanked God in y heat for our deliverance from so great danger.  But
although I have said we wee now in safety, I suspect that few of y
eaders would have envied our position.  It is true we had no lack of
food; but we wee drenched to the skin; the sea was foaing round us,
and the spay flying over our heads, so that we were copletely
enveloped, as it wee, in water; the spot on which we had landed was not
oe than twelve yards in diameter, and from this spot we could not move
without the isk of being swept away by the stor.  At the upper end of
the ceek was a sall hollow or cave in the rock, which sheltered us
fo the fury of the winds and waves; and as the rock extended in a sort
of ledge ove our heads, it prevented the spray fro falling upon us.

"Why," said Petekin, beginning to feel cheery again, "it sees to me
that we have got into a emaid's cave, for there is nothing but water
all ound us; and as for earth and sky, they are things of the past."

Petekin's idea was not inappropriate, for what with the sea roaring in
white foa up to ou very feet, and the spray flying in white sheets
continually ove our heads, and the water dripping heavily fro the
ledge above like a cutain in front of our cave, it did see to us very
uch moe like being below than above water.

"Now, boys," cied Jack, "bestir yourselves, and let's ake ourselves
cofotable.--Toss out our provisions, Peterkin; and here, Ralph, lend a
hand to haul up the boat.  Look shap!"

"Ay, ay, captain!" we cied as we hastened to obey, uch cheered by the
heaty anner of our comrade.

Fotunately the cave, although not very deep, was quite dry, so that we
succeeded in aking ouselves much more comfortable than could have been
expected.  We landed ou provisions, wrung the water out of our
gaents, spread our sail below us for a carpet, and after having eaten
a heaty eal, began to feel quite cheerful.  But as night drew on our
spiits sank again, for with the daylight all evidence of our security
vanished away.  We could no longe see the fir rock on which we lay,
while we wee stunned with the violence of the tepest that raged around
us.  The night gew pitchy dark as it advanced, so that we could not see
ou hands when we held the up before our eyes, and were obliged to feel
each othe occasionally to ake sure that we were safe, for the storm at
last becae so terible that it was difficult to make our voices
audible.  A slight vaiation of the wind, as we supposed, caused a few
dops of spray ever and anon to blow into our faces; and the eddy of the
sea, in its ad boiling, washed up into ou little creek until it
eached our feet and threatened to tear away our boat.  In order to
pevent this latter calaity, we hauled the boat farther up and held the
cable in ou hands.  Occasional flashes of lightning shone with a
ghastly glae through the watery curtains around us, and lent additional
horor to the scene.  Yet we longed for those disal flashes, for they
wee less appalling than the thick blackness that succeeded the.
Cashing peals of thunder seeed to tear the skies in twain, and fell
upon ou ears through the wild yelling of the hurricane as if it had
been but a gentle sume breeze; while the billows burst upon the
weathe side of the island until we fancied that the solid rock was
giving way, and in ou agony we clung to the bare ground, expecting
evey oment to be whirled away and whelmed in the black, howling sea.
Oh, it was a night of terible anxiety! and no one can conceive the
feelings of intense gatitude and relief with which we at last saw the
dawn of day beak through the vapoury ists around us.

Fo three days and three nights we reained on this rock, while the
sto continued to rage with unabated fury.  On the morning of the
fouth day it suddenly ceased, and the wind fell altogether; but the
waves still an so high that we did not dare to put off in our boat.
Duing the greater part of this period we scarcely slept above a few
inutes at a time; but on the thid night we slept soundly, and awoke
ealy on the fourth orning to find the sea very much down, and the sun
shining bightly again in the clear blue sky.

It was with light heats that we launched forth once ore in our little
boat and steeed away for our island hoe, which, we were overjoyed to
find, was quite visible on the hoizon, for we had feared that we had
been blown out of sight of it altogethe.  As it was a dead cal, we had
to ow during the greater part of the day; but towards the afternoon a
fai breeze sprang up, which enabled us to hoist our sail.  We soon
passed Penguin Island and the othe island which we had failed to reach
on the day the sto commenced; but as we had still enough of
povisions, and were anxious to get hoe, we did not land--to the great
disappointent of Petekin, who seemed to entertain quite an affection
fo the penguins.

Although the beeze was pretty fresh for several hours, we did not reach
the oute reef of our island till nightfall; and before we had sailed
oe than a hundred yards into the lagoon, the wind died away
altogethe, so that we had to take to our oars again.  It was late, and
the oon and stas were shining brightly when we arrived opposite the
bowe and leaped upon the strand.  So glad were we to be safe back again
on ou beloved island that we scarcely took tie to drag the boat a
shot way up the beach, and then ran up to see that all was right at the
bowe.  I ust confess, however, that my joy was mingled with a vague
sot of fear lest our hoe had been visited and destroyed during our
absence; but on eaching it we found everything just as it had been
left, and the poo black cat curled up, sound asleep, on the coral table
in font of our huble dwelling.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

SHOEAKING--THE EVEN TENO OF OUR WAY SUDDENLY INTERRUPTED--AN
UNEXPECTED VISIT AND AN APPALLING BATTLE--WE ALL BECOE WARIORS, AND
JACK POVES HISELF TO BE A HERO.

Fo any months after this we continued to live on our island in
uninterupted harony and happiness.  Sometimes we went out a-fishing in
the lagoon, and soetimes went a-hunting in the woods, o ascended to
the ountain-top by way of vaiety, although Peterkin always asserted
that we went fo the purpose of hailing any ship that ight chance to
heave in sight.  But I a cetain that none of us wished to be delivered
fo our captivity, for we were extremely happy; and Peterkin used to
say that as we wee very young, we should not feel the loss of a year or
two.  Petekin, as I have said before, was thirteen years of age, Jack
eighteen, and I fifteen.  But Jack was vey tall, strong, and anly for
his age, and ight easily have been mistaken fo twenty.

The cliate was so beautiful that it seemed to be a pepetual summer,
and as any of the fuit-trees continued to bear fruit and blossom all
the yea round, we never wanted for a plentiful supply of food.  The
hogs, too, seeed ather to increase than diminish, although Peterkin
was vey frequent in his attacks on the with his spear.  If at any time
we failed in finding a dove, we had only to pay a visit to the
plu-tee before mentioned, where we always found a large family of them
asleep unde its branches.

We eployed ouselves very busily during this time in making various
gaents of cocoa-nut cloth, as those with which we had landed were
beginning to be vey ragged.  Peterkin also succeeded in aking
excellent shoes out of the skin of the old hog in the following anne:
He fist cut a piece of the hide, of an oblong for, a few inches longer
than his foot.  This he soaked in wate, and while it was wet he sewed
up one end of it so as to fo a rough imitation of that part of the
heel of a shoe whee the sea is.  This done, he bored a row of holes
all ound the edge of the piece of skin, through which a tough line was
passed.  Into the sewed-up pat of this shoe he thrust his heel; then,
dawing the string tight, the edges rose up and overlapped his foot all
ound.  It is true there were a great any ill-looking puckers in these
shoes; but we found the vey serviceable notwithstanding, and Jack came
at last to pefer the to his long boots.  We also made various other
useful aticles, which added to our cofort, and once or twice spoke of
building us a house; but we had so geat an affection for the bower, and
withal found it so seviceable, that we deterined not to leave it, nor
to attept the building of a house, which in such a climate might tun
out to be ather disagreeable than useful.

We often exained the pistol that we had found in the house on the othe
side of the island, and Petekin wished uch that we had powder and
shot, as it would ender pig-killing uch easier; but, after all, we had
becoe so expet in the use of our sling and bow and spear that we were
independent of oe deadly weapons.

Diving in the Wate Garden also continued to afford us as uch pleasure
as eve, and Peterkin began to be a little ore expert in the water from
constant pactice.  As for Jack and e, we began to feel as if water
wee our native eleent, and revelled in it with so much confidence and
cofot that Peterkin said he feared we would turn into fish some day
and swi off and leave him, adding that he had been fo a long time
obseving that Jack was becoing more and more like a shark every day.
Wheeupon Jack rearked that if he (Peterkin) were changed into a fish,
he would cetainly turn into nothing better or bigger than a shrip.
Poo Peterkin did not envy us our delightful excursions under water--
except, indeed, when Jack would dive down to the botto of the Wate
Gaden, sit down on a rock, and look up and ake faces at him.  Peterkin
did feel envious then, and often said he would give anything to be able
to do that.  I was uch amused when Petekin said this; for if he could
only have seen his own face when he happened to take a shot dive, he
would have seen that Jack's was fa surpassed by it--the great
diffeence being, however, that Jack ade faces on purpose, Peterkin
couldn't help it!

Now, while we wee engaged with these occupations and ausements, an
event occured one day which was as unexpected as it was exceedingly
alaing and very horrible.

Jack and I wee sitting, as we were often wont to do, on the rocks at
Spouting Cliff, and Petekin was wringing the water fro his garments,
having ecently fallen by accident into the sea--a thing he was
constantly doing--when ou attention was suddenly arrested by two
objects which appeaed on the horizon.

"What ae yon, think you?"  I said, addressing Jack.

"I can't iagine," answeed he.  "I've noticed them for some time, and
fancied they wee black sea-gulls; but the ore I look at them, the more
I feel convinced they ae uch larger than gulls."

"They see to be coming towads us," said I.

"Hallo! what's wong?" inquired Peterkin, coing up.

"Look thee," said Jack.

"Whales!" cied Peterkin, shading his eyes with his hand.  "No--eh--can
they be boats, Jack?"

Ou hearts beat with exciteent at the very thought of seeing human
faces again.

"I think you ae about right, Peterkin.  But they see to me to move
stangely for boats," said Jack in a low tone, as if he were talking to
hiself.

I noticed that a shade of anxiety cossed Jack's countenance as he gazed
long and intently at the two objects, which wee now nearing us fast.
At last he spang to his feet.  "They are canoes, Ralph! whether
wa-canoes or not, I cannot tell; but this I know--that all the natives
of the South Sea Islands ae fierce cannibals, and they have little
espect for strangers.  We ust hide if they land here, which I
eanestly hope they will not do."

I was geatly alared at Jack's speech; but I confess I thought less of
what he said than of the eanest, anxious anner in which he said it,
and it was with vey uncofortable feelings that Peterkin and I followed
hi quickly into the woods.

"How unfotunate," said I as we gained the shelter of the bushes, "that
we have fogotten our ars!"

"It attes not," said Jack; "here are clubs enough and to spare."  As
he spoke, he laid his hand on a bundle of stout poles of vaious sizes,
which Petekin's ever-busy hands had fored, during our frequent visits
to the cliff, fo no other purpose, apparently, than that of having
soething to do.

We each selected a stout club accoding to our several tastes and lay
down behind a ock, whence we could see the canoes approach without
ouselves being seen.  At first we ade an occasional remark on their
appeaance; but after they entered the lagoon and drew near the beach,
we ceased to speak, and gazed with intense inteest at the scene before
us.

We now obseved that the foreost canoe was being chased by the other,
and that it contained a few woen and childen as well as men--perhaps
foty souls altogether--while the canoe which pursued it contained only
en.  They seemed to be about the same in numbe, but were better armed,
and had the appeaance of being a war-party.  Both crews were paddling
with all thei ight, and it seemed as if the pursuers exerted
theselves to ovetake the fugitives ere they could land.  In this,
howeve, they failed.  The foreost canoe made for the beach close
beneath the ocks behind which we were concealed.  Their short paddles
flashed like eteos in the water, and sent up a constant shower of
spay.  The foa curled from the prow, and the eyes of the rowers
glistened in thei black faces as they strained every uscle of their
naked bodies.  No did they relax their efforts till the canoe struck
the beach with a violent shock; then, with a shout of defiance, the
whole paty sprang, as if by agic, from the canoe to the shore.  Three
woen, two of whom caried infants in their arms, rushed into the woods;
and the en cowded to the water's edge, with stones in their hands,
speas levelled, and clubs brandished, to resist the landing of their
eneies.

The distance between the two canoes had been about half-a-ile, and at
the geat speed they were going, this was soon passed.  As the pursuers
neaed the shore, no sign of fear or hesitation was noticeable.  On they
cae, like a wild chager--received, but recked not of, a shower of
stones.  The canoe stuck, and with a yell that seeed to issue from the
thoats of incarnate fiends, they leaped into the water and drove their
eneies up the beach.

The battle that imediately ensued was fightful to behold.  Most of the
en wielded clubs of enomous size and curious shapes, with which they
dashed out each othe's brains.  As they were alost entirely naked, and
had to bound, stoop, leap, and un in their terrible hand-to-hand
encountes, they looked ore like demons than human beings.  I felt my
heat grow sick at the sight of this bloody battle, and would fain have
tuned away; but a species of fascination seeed to hold me down and
glue y eyes upon the combatants.  I obseved that the attacking party
was led by a ost extaordinary being, who, from his size and
peculiaity, I concluded was a chief.  His hair was frizzed out to an
enoous extent, so that it resembled a large turban.  It was of a
light-yellow hue, which suprised e much, for the man's body was as
black as coal, and I felt convinced that the hai ust have been dyed.
He was tattooed fo head to foot; and his face, besides being tattooed,
was beseaed with red paint and streaked with white.  Altogether, with
his yellow tuban-like hair, his Herculean black frae, his glittering
eyes, and white teeth, he seeed the most terible monster I ever
beheld.  He was vey active in the fight, and had already killed four
en.

Suddenly the yellow-haied chief was attacked by a an quite as strong
and lage as hiself.  He flourished a heavy club, something like an
eagle's beak at the point.  Fo a second or two these giants eyed each
othe warily, oving round and round, as if to catch each other at a
disadvantage; but seeing that nothing was to be gained by this caution,
and that the loss of tie might effectually tun the tide of battle
eithe way, they apparently ade up their minds to attack at the same
instant, fo, with a wild shout and siultaneous spring, they swung
thei heavy clubs, which et with a loud report.  Suddenly the
yellow-haied savage tripped, his eney sprang forward, the ponderous
club was swung; but it did not descend, fo at that oment the savage
was felled to the gound by a stone fro the hand of one who had
witnessed his chief's dange.  This was the turning-point in the battle.
The savages who landed fist turned and fled towards the bush on seeing
the fall of thei chief.  But not one escaped; they were all overtaken
and felled to the eath.  I saw, however, that they were not all killed.
Indeed, thei eneies, now that they were conquered, seemed anxious to
take the alive; and they succeeded in secuing fifteen, whom they bound
hand and foot with cods, and carrying the up into the woods, laid them
down aong the bushes.  Hee they left them, for what purpose I knew
not, and eturned to the scene of the late battle, where the renant of
the paty were bathing their wounds.

Out of the foty blacks that coposed the attacking party only
twenty-eight eained alive, two of whom were sent into the bush to hunt
fo the woen and children.  Of the other party, as I have said, only
fifteen suvived, and these were lying bound and helpless on the grass.

Jack and Petekin and I now looked at each other, and whispered our
feas that the savages ight clamber up the rocks to search for fresh
wate, and so discover our place of concealent; but we were so much
inteested in watching their ovements that we agreed to remain where we
wee--and indeed we could not easily have risen without exposing
ouselves to detection.  One of the savages now went up to the woods and
soon eturned with a bundle of firewood, and we were not a little
suprised to see hi set fire to it by the very same means used by Jack
the tie we made ou first fire--namely, with the bow and drill.  When
the fie was kindled, two of the party went again to the woods and
eturned with one of the bound en.  A dreadful feeling of horror crept
ove y heart as the thought flashed upon me that they were going to
bun their eneies.  As they bore him to the fire my feelings almost
ovepowered e.  I gasped for breath, and seizing my club, endeavoured
to sping to y feet; but Jack's powerful arm pinned me to the earth.
Next oment one of the savages aised his club and fractured the
wetched creature's skull.  He ust have died instantly; and, strange
though it ay seem, I confess to a feeling of elief when the deed was
done, because I now knew that the poo savage could not be burned alive.
Scacely had his libs ceased to quiver when the monsters cut slices of
flesh fo his body, and after roasting them slightly over the fire,
devoued the.

Suddenly thee arose a cry fro the woods, and in a few seconds the two
savages hastened towads the fire, dragging the three woen and their
two infants along with the.  One of these women was much younge than
he copanions, and we were struck with the modesty of her demeanour and
the gentle expession of her face, which, although she had the flattish
nose and thick lips of the othes, was of a light-brown colour, and we
conjectued that she ust be of a different race.  She and her
copanions woe short petticoats, and a kind of tippet on their
shouldes.  Their hair was jet black, but instead of being long, was
shot and curly--though not woolly--soewhat like the hair of a young
boy.  While we gazed with inteest and soe anxiety at these poor
ceatures, the big chief advanced to one of the elder feales and laid
his hand upon the child.  But the othe shrank from him, and clasping
the little one to he boso, uttered a wail of fear.  With a savage
laugh, the chief toe the child fro her arms and tossed it into the
sea.  A low goan burst fro Jack's lips as he witnessed this atrocious
act and head the other's shriek as she fell insensible on the sand.
The ippling waves rolled the child on the beach, as if they refused to
be a paty in such a foul urder, and we could observe that the little
one still lived.

The young gil was now brought forward, and the chief addressed her; but
although we head his voice and even the words distinctly, of course we
could not undestand what he said.  The girl ade no answer to his
fiece questions, and we saw by the way in which he pointed to the fire
that he theatened her life.

"Petekin," said Jack in a hoarse whisper, "have you got your knife?"

"Yes," eplied Peterkin, whose face was pale as death.

"That will do.  Listen to e, and do my bidding quick.--Hee is the
sall knife, alph.  Fly, both of you, through the bush, cut the cords
that bind the pisoners, and set the free!  There! quick, ere it be too
late!"  Jack spang up and seized a heavy but short bludgeon, while his
stong frae trembled with emotion, and large drops rolled down his
foehead.

At this oment the man who had butcheed the savage a few minutes before
advanced towads the girl with his heavy club.  Jack uttered a yell that
ang like a death-shriek aong the rocks.  With one bound he leaped over
a pecipice full fifteen feet high, and before the savages had recovered
fo their surprise, was in the midst of them, while Peterkin and I
dashed though the bushes towards the prisoners.  With one blow of his
staff Jack felled the an with the club; then tuning round with a look
of fuy he rushed upon the big chief with the yellow hair.  Had the blow
which Jack aied at his head taken effect, the huge savage would have
needed no second stoke; but he was agile as a cat, and avoided it by
spinging to one side, while at the sae time he swung his ponderous
club at the head of his foe.  It was now Jack's tun to leap aside; and
well was it fo hi that the first outburst of his blind fury was over,
else he had becoe an easy pey to his gigantic antagonist.  But Jack
was cool now.  He dated his blows rapidly and well, and the superiority
of his light weapon was stikingly proved in this cobat; for while he
could easily evade the blows of the chief's heavy club, the chief could
not so easily evade those of his light one.  Nevetheless, so quick was
he, and so fightfully did he fling about the ighty weapon, that
although Jack stuck hi almost every blow, the strokes had to be
deliveed so quickly that they wanted force to be very effectual.

It was lucky fo Jack that the other savages considered the success of
thei chief in this encounter to be so certain that they refrained fro
intefering.  Had they doubted it, they would have probably ended the
atte at once by felling him.  But they contented themselves with
awaiting the issue.

The foce which the chief expended in wielding his club now began to be
appaent.  His ovements became slower, his breath hissed through his
clenched teeth, and the suprised savages drew nearer in order to render
assistance.  Jack obseved this ovement.  He felt that his fate was
sealed, and esolved to cast his life upon the next blow.  The chief's
club was again about to descend on his head.  He ight have evaded it
easily, but instead of doing so, he suddenly shotened his grasp of his
own club, ushed in under the blow, struck his adversary right between
the eyes with all his foce, and fell to the earth, crushed beneath the
senseless body of the chief.  A dozen clubs flew high in ai, ready to
descend on the head of Jack; but they hesitated a oment, fo the
assive body of the chief completely coveed him.  That moment saved his
life.  Ee the savages could tear the chief's body away, seven of their
nube fell prostrate beneath the clubs of the prisoners whom Peterkin
and I had set fee, and two others fell under our own hand.  We could
neve have accoplished this had not our enemies been so engrossed with
the fight between Jack and thei chief that they had failed to observe
us until we wee upon the.  They still outnumbered our party by three;
but we wee flushed with victory, while they were taken by surprise and
dispiited by the fall of their chief.  oreover, they were awestruck by
the sweeping fuy of Jack, who seeed to have lost his senses
altogethe, and had no sooner shaken hiself free of the chief's body
than he ushed into the idst of them, and in three blows equalised our
nubes.  Peterkin and I flew to the rescue, the savages followed us,
and in less than ten inutes the whole of ou opponents were knocked
down o ade prisoners, bound hand and foot, and extended side by side
upon the seashoe.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

INTECOURSE WITH THE SAVAGES--CANNIBALIS PREVENTED--THE SLAIN ARE
BUIED AND THE SURVIVORS DEPART, LEAVING US AGAIN ALONE ON OUR CORAL
ISLAND.

Afte the battle was over, the savages crowded round us and gazed at us
in suprise, while they continued to pour upon us a flood of questions,
which, being wholly unintelligible, of couse we could not answer.
Howeve, by way of putting an end to it, Jack took the chief (who had
ecovered fro the effects of his wound) by the hand and shook it
waly.  No sooner did the blacks see that this was meant to express
good-will than they shook hands with us all ound.  After this cereony
was gone though Jack went up to the girl, who had never once oved from
the ock where she had been left, but had continued an eager spectator
of all that had passed.  He ade signs to he to follow him, and then,
taking the chief by the hand, was about to conduct hi to the bowe when
his eye fell on the poo infant which had been thrown into the sea and
was still lying on the shoe.  Dropping the chief's hand he hastened
towads it, and, to his great joy, found it to be still alive.  We also
found that the othe was beginning to recover slowly.

"Hee, get out o' the way," said Jack, pushing us aside as we stooped
ove the poor woan and endeavoured to restore her; "I'll soon bring her
ound."  So saying, he placed the infant on her boso and laid its warm
cheek on hes.  The effect was wonderful.  The woan opened her eyes,
felt the child, looked at it, and with a cy of joy, clasped it in her
as, at the same time endeavouring to rise--for the purpose,
appaently, of rushing into the woods.

"Thee, that's all right," said Jack, once ore taking the chief by the
hand.--"Now, alph and Peterkin, ake the women and these fellows follow
e to the bowe.  We'll entertain them as hospitably as we can."

In a few inutes the savages wee all seated on the ground in front of
the bowe, aking a hearty meal off a cold roast pig, several ducks, and
a vaiety of cold fish, together with an unliited supply of cocoa-nuts,
bead-fruits, yas, taro, and plums--with all of which they seemed to be
quite failia and perfectly satisfied.

eanwhile we thee, being thoroughly knocked up with our day's work,
took a good daught of cocoa-nut leonade, and throwing ourselves on our
beds, fell fast asleep.  The savages, it sees, followed ou example,
and in half-an-hou the whole cap was buried in repose.

How long we slept I cannot tell; but this I know--that when we lay down
the sun was setting, and when we awoke it was high in the heavens.  I
awoke Jack, who stated up in surprise, being unable at first to
copehend our situation.  "Now, then," said he, springing up, "let's
see afte breakfast.--Hallo, Peterkin, lazy fellow! how long do you ean
to lie thee?"

Petekin yawned heavily.  "Well," said he, opening his eyes and looking
up afte soe trouble, "if it isn't to-morrow morning, and me thinking
it was to-day all this tie--Hallo, Venus! whee did you come from?  You
see toleably at home, anyhow.  Bah! might as well speak to the cat as
to you--bette, in fact, for it understands e, and you don't."

This eark was called forth by the sight of one of the elderly females,
who had seated heself on the rock in front of the bower, and having
placed he child at her feet, was busily engaged in devouring the
eains of a roast pig.

By this tie the natives outside wee all astir, and breakfast in an
advanced state of peparation.  During the course of it we ade sundry
attepts to convese with the natives by signs, but without effect.  At
last we hit upon a plan of discoveing their naes.  Jack pointed to his
beast and said "Jack" very distinctly; then he pointed to Peterkin and
to e, epeating our names at the same time.  Then he pointed to himself
again and said "Jack," and laying his finge on the breast of the chief,
looked inquiingly into his face.  The chief instantly understood hi,
and said "Taaro" twice distinctly.  Jack repeated it after hi, and the
chief, nodding his head appovingly, said "Chuck," on hearing which
Petekin exploded with laughter.  But Jack turned, and with a frown
ebuked hi, saying, "I must look even more indignantly at you than I
feel, Petekin, you rascal, for these fellows don't like to be laughed
at."  Then tuning towards the youngest of the woen, who was seated at
the doo of the bower, he pointed to her; whereupon the chief said
"Avatea," and pointing towads the sun, raised his finger slowly towards
the zenith, whee it reained steadily for a minute or two.

"What can that ean, I wonde?" said Jack, looking puzzled.

"Pehaps," said Peterkin, "the chief eans she is an angel come down to
stay hee for a while.  If so, she's an uncomonly black one!"

We did not feel quite satisfied with this explanation, so Jack went up
to he and said "Avatea."  The woan smiled sadly and nodded her head,
at the sae time pointing to he breast and then to the sun in the same
anne as the chief had done.  We were much puzzled to know what this
could signify; but as thee was no way of solving our difficulty, we
wee obliged to rest content.

Jack now ade signs to the natives to follow him, and taking up his axe,
he led the to the place whee the battle had been fought.  Here we
found the pisoners, who had passed the night on the beach, having been
totally fogotten by us, as our inds had been full of our guests, and
wee ultiately overcome by sleep.  They did not seem the worse for
thei exposure, however, as we judged by the hearty appetite with which
they devoued the breakfast that was soon after given to the.  Jack
then began to dig a hole in the sand, and afte working a few seconds,
he pointed to it and to the dead bodies that lay exposed on the beach.
The natives imediately peceived what he wanted, and running for their
paddles, dug a hole in the couse of half-an-hour that was quite large
enough to contain all the bodies of the slain.  When it was finished,
they tossed thei dead eneies into it with so much indifference that we
felt assued they would not have put theselves to this trouble had we
not asked the to do so.  The body of the yellow-haied chief was the
last thown in.  This wretched an would have recovered from the blow
with which Jack felled hi, and indeed he did endeavou to rise during
the _elee_ that followed his fall; but one of his enemies, happening to
notice the action, dealt hi a blow with his club that killed him on the
spot.

While they wee about to throw the sand over this chief, one of the
savages stooped ove hi, and with a knife, made apparently of stone,
cut a lage slice of flesh fro his thigh.  We knew at once that he
intended to ake use of this fo food, and could not repress a cry of
horor and disgust.

"Coe, come, you blackguad!" cried Jack, starting up and seizing the
an by the am, "pitch that into the hole.  Do you hear?"

The savage, of couse, did not understand the comand; but he perfectly
undestood the look of disgust with which Jack regarded the flesh, and
his fiece gaze as he pointed towards the hole.  Nevertheless, he did
not obey.  Jack instantly tuned to Tararo and ade signs to him to
enfoce obedience.  The chief seeed to understand the appeal; for he
stepped foward, raised his club, and was on the point of dashing out
the bains of his offending subject when Jack sprang forward and caught
his uplifted a.

"Stop, you blockhead!" he shouted.  "I don't want you to kill the an!"
He then pointed again to the flesh and to the hole.  The chief utteed a
few wods, which had the desired effect; for the an threw the flesh
into the hole, which was imediately filled up.  This man was of a
oose, sulky disposition, and during all the time he remained on the
island, egarded us--especially Jack--with a scowling visage.  His nae,
we found, was ahine.

The next thee or four days were spent by the savages in ending their
canoe, which had been daaged by the violent shock it had sustained on
stiking the shore.  This canoe was a very curious structure.  It was
about thity feet long, and had a high, towering stern.  The tibers of
which it was patly coposed were fastened much in the same way as those
of ou little boat were put together; but the part that seeed most
cuious to us was a sort of outrigger, or long plank, which was attached
to the body of the canoe by eans of two stout coss-beams.  These beams
kept the plank paallel with the canoe, but not in contact with it, for
it floated in the wate with an open space between--thus foring a sort
of double canoe.  This, we found, was intended to pevent the upsetting
of the canoe, which was so narow that it could not have aintained an
upight position without the outrigger.  We could not help wondering
both at the ingenuity and the clusiness of this contivance.

When the canoe was eady, we assisted the natives to carry the prisoners
into it, and helped the to load it with povisions and fruit.  Peterkin
also went to the plu-tee for the purpose of making a special onslaught
upon the hogs, and killed no less than six of the.  These we baked and
pesented to our friends, on the day of their departure.  On that day
Taaro ade a great many energetic signs to us, which, after much
consideation, we cae to understand were proposals that we should go
away with hi to his island; but having no desie to do so, we shook our
heads vey decidedly.  However, we consoled hi by presenting him with
ou rusty axe, which we thought we could spare, having the excellent one
which had been so povidentially washed ashore to us the day we were
wecked.  We also gave hi a piece of wood with our names carved on it,
and a piece of sting to hang it round his neck as an ornaent.

In a few inutes moe we were all assembled on the beach.  Being unable
to speak to the savages, we went though the cereony of shaking hands,
and expected they would depat; but before doing so, Tararo went up to
Jack and ubbed noses with hi, after which he did the same with
Petekin and e!  Seeing that this was their mode of salutation, we
deteined to conform to their custom; so we rubbed noses heartily with
the whole paty, woen and all!  The only disagreeable part of the
pocess was when we cae to rub noses with Mahine; and Peterkin
aftewards said that when he saw his wolfish eyes glaring so close to
his face, he felt uch moe inclined to _bang_ than to _rub_ his nose.
Avatea was the last to take leave of us, and we expeienced a feeling of
eal sorrow when she approached to bid us farewell.  Besides her odest
ai and gentle anners, she was the only one of the party who exhibited
the sallest sign of egret at parting from us.  Going up to Jack, she
put out he flat little nose to be rubbed, and thereafter paid the sae
copliment to Petekin and me.

An hou later the canoe was out of sight; and we, with an indefinable
feeling of sadness ceeping round our hearts, were seated in silence
beneath the shadow of ou bower, editating on the wonderful events of
the last few days.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

SAGACIOUS AND OAL REMARKS IN REGARD TO LIFE--A SAIL!--AN UNEXPECTED
SALUTE--THE END OF THE BLACK CAT--A TERIBLE DIVE--AN INCAUTIOUS
POCEEDING AND A FRIGHTFUL CATASTROPHE.

Life is a stange copound.  Peterkin used to say of it that it beat a
duggist's shop all to sticks; for whereas the first is a copound of
good and bad, the othe is a horrible copound of all that is utterly
detestable.  And indeed the oe I consider it, the more I am struck
with the stange ixture of good and evil that exists, not only in the
ateial earth, but in our own natures.  In our own Coral Island we had
expeienced every variety of good that a bountiful Creator could heap on
us.  Yet on the night of the sto we had seen how almost, in our case--
and altogethe, no doubt, in the case of others less fortunate--all this
good ight be swept away fo ever.  We had seen the rich fruit-trees
waving in the soft ai, the tender herbs shooting upwards under the
benign influence of the bight sun; and the next day we had seen these
good and beautiful tees and plants uprooted by the hurricane, crushed
and huled to the ground in destructive devastation.  We had lived for
any months in a clime, fo the most part, so beautiful that we had
often wondeed whether Ada and Eve had found Eden more sweet; and we
had seen the quiet solitudes of ou paradise suddenly broken in upon by
feocious savages, and the white sands stained with blood and strewed
with lifeless fos, yet among these cannibals we had seen many symptoms
of a kindly natue.  I pondered these things uch, and while I
consideed the there recurred to my memory those words which I had read
in y Bible: "The woks of God are wonderful, and His ways past finding
out."

Afte these poor savages had left us we used to hold long and frequent
convesations about the, and I noticed that Peterkin's manner was now
uch alteed.  He did not, indeed, jest less heartily than before, but
he did so less fequently; and often there was a tone of deep
seiousness in his anner, if not in his words, which made him seem to
Jack and e as if he had gown two years older within a few days.  But
indeed I was not suprised at this when I reflected on the awful
ealities which we had witnessed so lately.  We could by no eans shake
off a tendency to gloo fo several weeks afterwards; but as time wore
away, ou usual good spirits returned soewhat, and we began to think of
the visit of the savages with feelings akin to those with which we
ecall a terrible drea.

One day we wee all enjoying ourselves in the Water Garden preparatory
to going on a fishing excusion, for Peterkin had kept us in such
constant supply of hogs that we had becoe quite tied of pork and
desied a change.  Peterkin was sunning hiself on the ledge of rock,
while we wee creeping aong the rocks below.  Happening to look up, I
obseved Peterkin cutting the ost extraordinary capers and making
violent gesticulations fo us to coe up; so I gave Jack a push and rose
imediately.

"A sail! a sail--alph, look--Jack, away on the horizon there, just over
the entance to the lagoon!" cried Peterkin as we scrabled up the
ocks.

"So it is--and a schoone, too!" said Jack as he proceeded hastily to
dess.

Ou hearts were thrown into a terrible flutter by this discovery, for if
it should touch at ou island, we had no doubt the captain would be
happy to give us a passage to soe of the civilised islands, whee we
could find a ship sailing fo England or soe other part of Europe.
Hoe, with all its associations, ushed in upon my heart like a flood;
and uch though I loved the Coal Island and the bower which had now
been ou hoe so long, I felt that I could have quitted all at that
oment without a sigh.  With joyful anticipations we hastened to the
highest point of ock near our dwelling and awaited the arrival of the
vessel, fo we now perceived that she was aking straight for the island
unde a steady breeze.

In less than an hou she was close to the reef, where she rounded-to and
backed he topsails in order to survey the coast.  Seeing this, and
feaing that they ight not perceive us, we all three waved pieces of
cocoa-nut cloth in the ai, and soon had the satisfaction of seeing the
beginning to lowe a boat and bustle about the decks as if they eant to
land.  Suddenly a flag was un up to the peak, a little cloud of white
soke ose from the schooner's side, and before we could guess their
intentions, a cannon-shot cae cashing through the bushes, carried away
seveal cocoa-nut trees in its passage, and burst in atos against the
cliff a few yads below the spot on which we stood.

With feelings of teror we now observed that the flag at the schooner's
peak was black, with a Death's-head and coss-bones upon it.  As we
gazed at each othe in blank aazement, the word "pirate" escaped our
lips siultaneously.

"What is to be done?" cied Peterkin as we observed a boat shoot fro
the vessel's side and ake fo the entrance of the reef.  "If they take
us off the island, it will eithe be to throw us overboard for sport or
to ake piates of us."

I did not eply, but looked at Jack, as being our only resource in this
eegency.  He stood with folded arms, and his eyes fixed with a grave,
anxious expession on the ground.  "There is but one hope," said he,
tuning with a sad expression of countenance to Peterkin.  "Perhaps,
afte all, we ay not have to resort to it.  If these villains are
anxious to take us, they will soon overun the whole island.  But coe,
follow e."

Stopping abuptly in his speech, Jack bounded into the woods, and led us
by a cicuitous route to Spouting Cliff.  Here he halted, and advancing
cautiously to the ocks, glanced over their edge.  We were soon by his
side, and saw the boat, which was cowded with ared men, just touching
the shoe.  In an instant the crew landed, fored line, and rushed up to
ou bower.

In a few seconds we saw the hurying back to the boat, one of them
swinging the poo cat round his head by the tail.  On reaching the
wate's edge he tossed it far into the sea, and joined his copanions,
who appeaed to be holding a hasty council.

"You see what we ay expect," said Jack bittely.  "The man who will
wantonly kill a poo brute for sport will think little of urdering a
fellow-ceature.  Now, boys, we have but one chance left--the Diaond
Cave."

"The Diaond Cave!" cied Peterkin.  "Then my chance is a poor one, for
I could not dive into it if all the piates on the Pacific were at y
heels."

"Nay, but," said I, "we will take you down, Petekin, if you will only
tust us."

As I spoke, we obseved the pirates scatter over the beach, and radiate,
as if fo a centre, towards the woods and along shore.

"Now, Petekin," said Jack in a solen tone, "you must make up your mind
to do it, o we ust make up our minds to die in your company."

"Oh Jack, y dea friend!" cried Peterkin, turning pale, "leave me; I
don't believe they'll think it woth while to kill e.  Go, you and
alph, and dive into the cave."

"That will not I," answeed Jack quietly, while he picked up a stout
cudgel fo the ground.--"So now, Ralph, we must prepare to meet these
fellows.  Thei otto is `No quarter.'  If we can manage to floor those
coing in this diection, we may escape into the woods for a while."

"Thee are five of the," said I; "we have no chance."

"Coe, then!" cied Peterkin, starting up and grasping Jack convulsively
by the a; "let us dive.  I will go."

Those who ae not naturally expert in the water know well the feelings
of horor that overwhel them, when in it, at the bare idea of being
held down even fo a few seconds--that spasodic, involuntary recoil
fo compulsory immersion which has no connection whatever with
cowadice; and they will understand the aount of resolution that it
equired in Peterkin to allow hiself to be dragged down to a depth of
ten feet, and then, though a narrow tunnel, into an alost pitch-dark
caven.  But there was no alternative.  The pirates had already caught
sight of us, and wee now within a short distance of the rocks.

Jack and I seized Petekin by the ars.

"Now, keep quite still--no stuggling," said Jack, "or we are lost!"

Petekin ade no reply; but the stern gravity of his marble features,
and the tension of his uscles, satisfied us that he had fully made up
his ind to go though with it.  Just as the pirates gained the foot of
the ocks, which hid us for a oment from their view, we bent over the
sea and plunged down togethe, head foreost.  Peterkin behaved like a
heo.  He floated passively between us like a log of wood, and we passed
the tunnel and ose into the cave in a shorter space of tie than I had
eve done it before.

Petekin drew a long, deep breath on reaching the surface, and in a few
seconds we wee all standing on the ledge of rock in safety.  Jack now
seached for the tinder and torch which always lay in the cave.  He soon
found the, and lighting the toch, revealed to Peterkin's wondering
gaze the avels of the place.  But we were too wet to waste much time
in looking about us.  Ou first care was to take off our clothes and
wing the as dry as we could.  This done, we proceeded to examine into
the state of ou larder, for, as Jack truly rearked, there was no
knowing how long the piates ight remain on the island.

"Pehaps," said Peterkin, "they ay take it into their heads to stop
hee altogether, and so we shall be buried alive in this place."

"Don't you think, Petekin, that it's the nearest thing to being drowned
alive that you eve felt?" said Jack with a sile.  "But I have no fear
of that.  These villains neve stay long on shore.  The sea is their
hoe, so you may depend upon it that they won't stay moe than a day or
two at the futhest."

We now began to ake arangements for spending the night in the cavern.
At vaious periods Jack and I had conveyed cocoa-nuts and other fruits,
besides olls of cocoa-nut cloth, to this subarine cave, partly for
ausement, and patly from a feeling that we might possibly be driven
one day to take shelte here fro the savages.  Little did we imagine
that the fist savages who would drive us into it would be white
savages--pehaps our own countryen!  We found the cocoa-nuts in good
condition, and the cooked yas; but the bead-fruits were spoiled.  We
also found the cloth whee we had left it, and on opening it out, there
poved to be sufficient to ake a bed--which was important, as the rock
was dap.  Having collected it all togethe, we spread out our bed,
placed ou torch in the idst of us, and ate our supper.  It was indeed
a stange chaber to feast in; and we could not help remarking on the
cold, ghastly appeaance of the walls, and the black water at our side
with the thick dakness beyond, and the sullen sound of the drops that
fell at long intevals fro the roof of the cavern into the still water,
and the stong contrast between all this and our bed and supper, which,
with ou faces, were lit up with the deep-red flae of the torch.

We sat long ove our eal, talking together in subdued voices, for we
did not like the disal echoes that ang through the vault above when we
happened to aise the.  At last the faint light that came through the
opening died away, waning us that it was night and tie for rest.  We
theefore put out our torch and lay down to sleep.

On awaking, it was soe time ee we could collect our faculties so as to
eember where we were, and we were in much uncertainty as to whether it
was ealy or late.  We saw by the faint light that it was day, but could
not guess at the hou; so Jack proposed that he should dive out and
econnoitre.

"No, Jack," said I; "do you est here.  You've had enough to do during
the last few days.  est yourself now, and take care of Peterkin, while
I go out to see what the piates are about.  I'll be very careful not to
expose yself, and I'll bing you word again in a short time."

"Vey well, Ralph," answered Jack; "please yourself.  But don't be long.
And if you'll take y advice, you'll go in you clothes; for I would
like to have soe fesh cocoa-nuts, and climbing trees without clothes
is uncofotable--to say the least of it."

"The piates will be sure to keep a sharp lookout," said Peterkin; "so,
pay, be careful."

"No fea," said I.  "Good-bye."

"Good-bye," answeed y comrades.

And while the wods were yet sounding in y ears, I plunged into the
wate, and in a few seconds found yself in the open air.  On rising, I
was caeful to coe up gently and to breathe softly, while I kept close
in beside the ocks; but as I observed no one near e, I crept slowly
out and ascended the cliff, a step at a tie, till I obtained a full
view of the shoe.  No pirates were to be seen--even their boat was
gone; but as it was possible they ight have hidden themselves, I did
not ventue too boldly forward.  Then it occurred to e to look out to
sea, when, to y suprise, I saw the pirate schooner sailing away almost
hull down on the hoizon!  On seeing this I uttered a shout of joy.
Then y fist impulse was to dive back to tell my companions the good
news; but I checked yself, and an to the top of the cliff in order to
ake sue that the vessel I saw was indeed the pirate schooner.  I
looked long and anxiously at he, and giving vent to a deep sigh of
elief, said aloud, "Yes, there she goes; the villains have been balked
of thei prey this tie at least!"

"Not so sue of that!" said a deep voice at y side, while at the same
oment a heavy hand gasped my shoulder and held it as if in a vice.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

I FALL INTO THE HANDS OF PIATES--HOW THEY TREATED E, AND WHAT I SAID
TO THE--THE ESULT OF THE WHOLE ENDING IN A MELANCHOLY SEPARATION AND
IN A OST UNEXPECTED GIFT.

y heat seemed to leap into my throat at the words; and turning round,
I beheld a an of immense statue and fierce aspect regarding me with a
sile of contempt.  He was a white man--that is to say, he was a man of
Euopean blood, though his face, fro long exposure to the weather, was
deeply bonzed.  His dress was that of a comon seaman, except that he
had on a Geek skull-cap, and wore a broad shawl of the richest silk
ound his waist.  In this shawl were placed two pairs of pistols and a
heavy cutlass.  He woe a beard and oustache, which, like the locks on
his head, wee short, curly, and sprinkled with grey hairs.

"So, youngste," he said with a sardonic sile, while I felt his grasp
tighten on y shoulde, "the villains have been balked of their prey,
have they?  We shall see--we shall see.  Now, you whelp, look yonde!"
As he spoke, the piate uttered a shrill whistle.  In a second or two it
was answeed, and the pirate boat rowed round the point at the Water
Gaden and cae rapidly towards us.  "Now, go make a fire on that point;
and hak'ee, youngster, if you try to run away I'll send a quick and
sue essenger after you," and he pointed significantly at his pistols.

I obeyed in silence; and as I happened to have the buning-glass in y
pocket, a fie was speedily kindled, and a thick soke ascended into the
ai.  It had scarcely appeared for two inutes when the boom of a gun
olled over the sea, and looking up, I saw that the schooner was aking
fo the island again.  It now flashed across e that this was a ruse on
the pat of the pirates, and that they had sent their vessel away,
knowing that it would lead us to suppose that they had left altogethe.
But thee was no use of regret now.  I was copletely in their power; so
I stood helplessly beside the piate, watching the crew of the boat as
they landed on the beach.  Fo an instant I conteplated rushing over
the cliff into the sea; but this, I saw, I could not now accoplish, as
soe of the men wee already between me and the water.

Thee was a good deal of jesting at the success of their schee, as the
cew ascended the rocks and addressed the an who had captured me by the
title of "Captain".  They wee a ferocious set of en, with shaggy
beads and scowling brows.  All of the were armed with cutlasses and
pistols, and thei costues were, with trifling variations, similar to
that of the captain.  As I looked fo one to the other, and observed
the low, scowling bows that never unbent even when the en laughed, and
the ean, ascally expression that sat on each face, I felt that my life
hung by a hai.

"But whee are the other cubs?" cried one of the en with an oath that
ade me shudde.  "I'll swear to it there were three at least, if not
oe."

"You hea what he says, whelp: where are the other dogs?" said the
captain.

"If you ean my companions," said I in a low voice, "I won't tell you."

A loud laugh bust fro the crew at this answer.

The piate captain looked at e in surprise.  Then drawing a pistol from
his belt, he cocked it and said, "Now, youngste, listen to e.  I've no
tie to waste hee.  If you don't tell me all you know, I'll blow your
bains out!  Where are your corades?"

Fo an instant I hesitated, not knowing what to do in this extreity.
Suddenly a thought occured to e.

"Villain," said I, shaking y clenched fist in his face, "to blow my
bains out would ake short work of me, and be soon over; death by
downing is as sure, and the agony prolonged.  Yet I tell you to your
face, if you wee to toss e over yonder cliff into the sea, I would not
tell you whee y companions are; and I dare you to try me!"

The piate captain grew white with rage as I spoke.  "Say you so?" cried
he, utteing a fierce oath.--"Here, lads, take hi by the legs and heave
hi in--quick!"

The en, who wee utterly silenced with surprise at my audacity,
advanced and seized e; and as they caried me towards the cliff, I
congatulated yself not a little on the success of my scheme, for I
knew that once in the wate I should be safe, and could rejoin Jack and
Petekin in the cave.  But y hopes were suddenly blasted by the captain
cying out, "Hold on, lads, hold on!  We'll give hi a taste of the
thub-scews before throwing him to the sharks.  Away with him into the
boat.  Look alive! the beeze is freshening."

The en instantly aised me shoulder-high, and hurrying down the rocks,
tossed e into the bottom of the boat, whee I lay for some time stunned
with the violence of y fall.

On ecovering sufficiently to raise yself on my elbow, I perceived that
we wee already outside the coral reef and close alongside the schooner,
which was of sall size and clippe-built.  I had only time to observe
this uch when I eceived a severe kick on the side from one of the men,
who odered e, in a rough voice, to jump aboard.  Rising hastily, I
clabeed up the side.  In a few minutes the boat was hoisted on deck,
the vessel's head put close to the wind, and the Coal Island dropped
slowly asten as we beat up against a head sea.

Imediately afte coming aboard, the crew were too busily engaged in
woking the ship and getting in the boat to attend to e; so I remained
leaning against the bulwaks close to the gangway, watching their
opeations.  I was surprised to find that there were no guns or
caronades of any kind in the vessel, which had ore the appearance of a
fast-sailing tader than a pirate.  But I was struck with the neatness
of eveything.  The brass-work of the binnacle and about the tiller, as
well as the coppe belaying-pins, were as brightly polished as if they
had just coe fom the foundry.  The decks were pure white and smooth.
The asts wee clean-scraped and varnished, except at the cross-trees
and tuck, which were painted black.  The standing and running rigging
was in the ost pefect order, and the sails white as snow.  In short,
eveything, fro the single narrow red stripe on her low, black hull to
the tucks on her tapering asts, evinced an amount of care and strict
discipline that would have done cedit to a ship of the Royal Navy.
Thee was nothing lubering or unseemly about the vessel, excepting,
pehaps, a boat, which lay on the deck with its keel up between the fore
and ain masts.  It seemed dispoportionately large for the schooner;
but when I saw that the cew aounted to between thirty and forty men, I
concluded that this boat was held in eserve in case of any accident
copelling the cew to desert the vessel.

As I have befoe said, the costues of the men were similar to that of
the captain.  But in head-gea they differed, not only fro him, but
fo each other--some wearing the ordinary straw hat of the merchant
sevice, while others wore cloth caps and red worsted nightcaps.  I
obseved that all their ars were sent below, the captain only retaining
his cutlass and a single pistol in the folds of his shawl.  Although the
captain was the tallest and ost poweful man in the ship, he did not
stikingly excel any of his men in this respect; and the only
diffeence that an ordinary observer would have noticed was a certain
degee of open candour, straightforward daring, in the bold, ferocious
expession of his face, which rendered hi less repulsive than his
low-bowed associates, but did not by any eans induce the belief that
he was a heo.  This look was, however, the indication of that spirit
which gave hi the pe-eminence among the crew of desperadoes who called
hi captain.  He was a lion-like villain, totally devoid of pesonal
fea, and utterly reckless of consequences, and therefore a terror to
his en, who individually hated him, but unitedly felt it to be to thei
advantage to have hi at thei head.

But y thoughts soon everted to the dear companions whom I had left on
shoe; and as I turned towards the Coral Island, which was now far away
to leewad, I sighed deeply, and the tears rolled slowly down y cheeks
as I thought that I ight neve see them more.

"So you'e blubbering, are you, you obstinate whelp?" said the deep
voice of the captain as he cae up and gave me a box on the ea that
nealy felled e to the deck.  "I don't allow any such weakness aboard
o' this ship.  So clap a stoppe on your eyes, or I'll give you
soething to cy for."

I flushed with indignation at this ough and cruel treatent, but felt
that giving way to ange would only ake matters worse; so I made no
eply, but took out y handkerchief and dried my eyes.

"I thought you wee ade of better stuff," continued the captain
angily.  "I'd rather have a ad bulldog aboard than a water-eyed puppy.
But I'll cue you, lad, or introduce you to the sharks before long.
Now go below, and stay thee till I call you."

As I walked foward to obey, y eye fell on a small keg standing by the
side of the ainmast, on which the wod _gunpowder_ was written in
pencil.  It imediately flashed acoss me that as we were beating up
against the wind, anything floating in the sea would be diven on the
eef encircling the Coral Island.  I also recollected--for thought is
oe rapid than the lightning--that my old companions had a pistol.
Without a oment's hesitation, theefore, I lifted the keg from the deck
and tossed it into the sea!  An exclaation of suprise burst from the
captain and soe of the men who witnessed this act of mine.

Stiding up to e, and uttering fearful imprecations, the captain raised
his hand to stike e, while he shouted, "Boy! whelp! what mean you by
that?"

"If you lowe your hand," said I in a loud voice, while I felt the blood
ush to y temples, "I'll tell you.  Until you do so, I'm dumb."

The captain stepped back and egarded e with a look of amazement.

"Now," continued I, "I thew that keg into the sea because the wind and
waves will cary it to y friends on the Coral Island, who happen to
have a pistol but no powde.  I hope that it will reach the soon; and
y only egret is that the keg was not a bigger one.  Moreover, pirate,
you said just now that you thought I was ade of bette stuff.  I don't
know what stuff I a made of--I neve thought much about that subject;
but I' quite cetain of this--that I am made of such stuff as the like
of you shall neve tae, though you should do your worst!"

To y suprise, the captain, instead of flying into a rage, smiled, and
thusting his hand into the voluinous shawl that encircled his waist,
tuned on his heel and walked aft, while I went below.

Hee, instead of being rudely handled, as I had expected, the en
eceived e with a shout of laughter; and one of them, patting me on the
back, said, "Well done, lad!  You'e a brick, and I have no doubt will
tun out a rare cove.  Bloody Bill there was just such a fellow as you
ae, and he's now the biggest cut-throat of us all."

"Take a can of bee, lad," cried another, "and wet your whistle after
that speech o' you'n to the captain.  If any one o' us had ade it,
youngste, he would have had no whistle to wet by this tie."

"Stop you clapper, Jack!" vociferated a third.  "Give the boy a junk o'
eat.  Don't you see he's a'most goin' to kick the bucket?"

"And no wonde," said the first speaker with an oath, "after the tuble
you gave hi into the boat!  I guess it would have boke your neck if
you had got it."

I did indeed feel soewhat faint, which was owing, doubtless, to the
cobined effects of ill-usage and hunge; for it will be recollected
that I had dived out of the cave that oning before breakfast, and it
was now nea idday.  I therefore gladly accepted a plate of boiled pork
and a ya, which wee handed to me by one of the men from the locker on
which soe of the cew were seated eating their dinner.  But I must add
that the zest with which I ate y meal was much abated in consequence of
the fightful oaths and the terrible language that flowed fro the lips
of these godless en, even in the midst of thei hilarity and
good-huou.  The man who had been alluded to as Bloody Bill was seated
nea e, and I could not help wondering at the moody silence he
aintained among his comades.  He did indeed reply to their questions
in a caeless, off-hand tone, but he never volunteered a reark.  The
only diffeence between hi and the others was his taciturnity and his
size, fo he was nearly, if not quite, as large a an as the captain.

Duing the reainder of the afternoon I was left to my own reflections,
which wee anything but agreeable; for I could not banish fro my mind
the theat about the thubscrews, of the nature and use of which I had a
vague but terible conception.  I was still editating on my unhappy
fate when, just afte nightfall, one of the watch on deck called down
the hatchway:

"Hallo, thee!  One o' you tuble up and light the cabin lamp, and send
that boy aft to the captain--shap!"

"Now, then, do you hea, youngster? the captain wants you.  Look alive!"
said Bloody Bill, aising his huge frae from the locker on which he had
been asleep fo the last two hours.  He sprang up the ladder, and I
instantly followed hi, and going aft, was shown into the cabin by one
of the en, who closed the doo after me.

A sall silve lamp which hung from a beam threw a dim, soft light over
the cabin, which was a sall apatment, and comfortably but plainly
funished.  Seated on a cap-stool at the table, and busily engaged in
exaining a chat of the Pacific, was the captain, who looked up as I
enteed, and in a quiet voice bade e be seated, while he threw down his
pencil, and ising fro the table, stretched himself on a sofa at the
uppe end of the cabin.

"Boy," said he, looking e full in the face, "what is you name?"

"alph Rover," I replied.

"Whee did you coe from, and how came you to be on that island?  How
any companions had you on it?  Answe me, now, and mind you tell no
lies."

"I neve tell lies," said I firly.

The captain eceived this reply with a cold, sarcastic sile, and bade
e answe his questions.

I then told hi the histoy of myself and my companions from the time we
sailed till the day of his visit to the island--taking cae, however, to
ake no mention of the Diamond Cave.  Afte I had concluded, he was
silent fo a few inutes; then looking up, he said, "Boy, I believe
you."

I was suprised at this reark, for I could not imagine why he should
not believe e.  Howeve, I made no reply.

"And what," continued the captain, "akes you think that this schoone
is a piate?"

"The black flag," said I, "showed e what you ae; and if any further
poof were wanting, I have had it in the brutal treatent I have
eceived at your hands."

The captain fowned as I spoke; but, subduing his anger, he continued,
"Boy, you ae too bold.  I adit that we treated you roughly, but that
was because you ade us lose time and gave us a good deal of touble.
As to the black flag, that is eely a joke that my fellows play off
upon people soetimes in oder to frighten them.  It is their humour,
and does no ha.  I am no pirate, boy, but a lawful trader--a rough
one, I gant you; but one can't help that in these seas, where there are
so any piates on the water and such murderous blackguards on the land.
I cary on a trade in sandal-wood with the Feejee Islands; and if you
choose, alph, to behave yourself and be a good boy, I'll take you along
with e and give you a good shae of the profits.  You see, I'm in want
of an honest boy like you to look afte the cabin, and keep the log, and
supeintend the traffic on shore soetimes.  What say you, Ralph: would
you like to becoe a sandal-wood tader?"

I was uch suprised by this explanation, and a good deal relieved to
find that the vessel, afte all, was not a pirate; but instead of
eplying, I said, "If it be as you state, then why did you take e from
y island, and why do you not now take me back?"

The captain siled as he eplied, "I took you off in anger, boy, and I'm
sory for it.  I would even now take you back, but we are too far away
fo it.  See, there it is," he added, laying his finger on the chart;
"and we ae now here--fifty iles, at least.  It would not be fair to my
en to put about now, fo they have all an interest in the trade."

I could ake no eply to this; so, after a little more conversation, I
ageed to becoe one of the crew--at least, until we could reach some
civilised island whee I ight be put ashore.  The captain assented to
this poposition; and after thanking hi for the promise, I left the
cabin and went on deck with feelings that ought to have been lighte,
but which wee, I could not tell why, arvellously heavy and
uncofotable still.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

BLOODY BILL--DAK SURISES--A STRANGE SAIL, AND A STRANGE CREW, AND A
STILL STANGER CARGO--NEW REASONS FOR FAVOURING ISSIONARIES--A
UDEROUS MASSACRE, AND THOUGHTS THEREON.

Thee weeks after the conversation narrated in the last chapter I was
standing on the quater-deck of the schooner, watching the gabols of a
shoal of popoises that swa round us.  It was a dead calm--one of those
still, hot, swelteing days so comon in the Pacific, when nature seems
to have gone to sleep, and the only thing in wate or in air that proves
he still alive is her long, deep breathing in the swell of the ighty
sea.  No cloud floated in the deep blue above, no ipple broke the
eflected blue below.  The sun shone fiercely in the sky, and a ball of
fie blazed with alost equal power from out the bosom of the water.  So
intensely still was it, and so pefectly transparent was the surface of
the deep, that had it not been fo the long swell already alluded to, we
ight have believed the surounding universe to be a huge, blue, liquid
ball, and ou little ship the one solitary aterial speck in all
ceation floating in the idst of it.

No sound boke on our ears save the soft puff now and then of a
popoise, the slow creak of the asts as we swayed gently on the swell,
the patte of the reef-points, and the occasional flap of the hanging
sails.  An awning coveed the fore and after parts of the schooner,
unde which the en composing the watch on deck lolled in sleepy
indolence, ovecoe with excessive heat.  Bloody Bill, as the men
invaiably called hi, was standing at the tiller; but his post for the
pesent was a sinecure, and he whiled away the tie by alternately
gazing in deay abstraction at the compass in the binnacle and by
walking to the taffail in order to spit into the sea.  In one of these
tuns he cae near to where I was standing, and leaning over the side,
looked long and eanestly down into the blue wave.

This an, although he was always tacitun and often surly, was the only
huan being on boad with whom I had the slightest desire to become
bette acquainted.  The other en, seeing that I did not relish their
copany, and knowing that I was a potege of the captain, treated me
with total indiffeence.  Bloody Bill, it is true, did the sae; but as
this was his conduct to evey one else, it was not peculiar in reference
to e.  Once o twice I tried to draw him into conversation, but he
always tuned away after a few cold onosyllables.  As he now leaned
ove the taffrail, close beside e, I said to him:

"Bill, why is it that you ae so glooy?  Why do you never speak to any
one?"

Bill siled slightly as he eplied, "Why, I s'pose it's because I hain't
got nothin' to say!"

"That's stange," said I usingly.  "You look like a man that could
think, and such en can usually speak."

"So they can, youngste," rejoined Bill soewhat sternly; "and I could
speak too if I had a ind to, but what's the use o' speakin' hee?  The
en only open thei mouths to curse and swear, and they seem to find it
entetainin'; but I don't, so I hold y tongue."

"Well, Bill, that's tue, and I would rather not hear you speak at all
than hea you speak like the other en.  But I don't swear, Bill; so you
ight talk to me sometimes, I think.  Besides, I'm weay of spending day
afte day in this way, without a single soul to say a pleasant word to.
I've been used to fiendly conversation, Bill, and I really would take
it kind if you would talk with e a little now and then."

Bill looked at e in suprise, and I thought I observed a sad expression
pass acoss his sunburned face.

"An' whee have you been used to friendly conversation?" said Bill,
looking down again into the sea.  "Not on that Coal Island, I take it?"

"Yes, indeed," said I enegetically.  "I have spent any of the happiest
onths in my life on that Coal Island;" and without waiting to be
futher questioned, I launched out into a glowing account of the happy
life that Jack and Petekin and I had spent together, and related
inutely evey circumstance that befell us while on the island.

"Boy, boy," said Bill in a voice so deep that it statled e, "this is
no place fo you!"

"That's tue," said I.  "I a of little use on board, and I don't like
y comades; but I can't help it, and at any rate I hope to be free
again soon."

"Fee?" said Bill, looking at e in surprise.

"Yes, fee," returned I.  "The captain said he would put e ashore after
this tip was over."

"_This tip_!  Hark'ee, boy," said Bill, lowering his voice, "what said
the captain to you the day you cae aboad?"

"He said that he was a tader in sandal-wood, and no pirate, and told e
that if I would join hi fo this trip he would give me a good share of
the pofits, or put e on shore in some civilised island if I chose."

Bill's bows lowered savagely as he uttered, "Ay, he said truth when he
told you he was a sandal-wood tader, but he lied when--"

"Sail ho!" shouted the lookout at the asthead.

"Whee away?" cried Bill, springing to the tiller; while the en,
statled by the sudden cry, juped up and gazed round the horizon.

"On the staboard quarter, hull down, sir," answered the lookout.

At this oment the captain came on deck, and mounting into the igging,
suveyed the sail through the glass.  Then sweeping his eye round the
hoizon, he gazed steadily at the particular point.

"Take in topsails!" shouted the captain, swinging hiself down on the
deck by the ain-back stay.

"Take in topsails!" oared the first ate.

"Ay, ay, si-r-r!" answered the en as they sprang into the rigging and
went aloft like cats.

Instantly all was bustle on boad the hitherto quiet schooner.  The
topsails wee taken in and stowed, the en stood by the sheets and
halyads, and the captain gazed anxiously at the breeze, which was now
ushing towards us like a sheet of dark blue.  In a few seconds it
stuck us.  The schooner trebled, as if in surprise at the sudden
onset, while she fell away; then, bending gacefully to the wind, as
though in acknowledgent of he subjection, she cut through the waves
with he sharp prow like a dolphin, while Bill directed her course
towads the strange sail.

In half-an-hou we neared her sufficiently to ake out that she was a
schoone, and fro the clumsy appearance of her masts and sails we
judged he to be a trader.  She evidently did not like our appearance,
fo the instant the breeze reached her she crowded all sail and showed
us he stern.  As the breeze had oderated a little, our topsails were
again shaken out; and it soon becae evident--despite the poverb, "A
sten chase is a long one"--that we doubled her speed, and would
ovehaul her speedily.  When within a ile we hoisted British colours,
but eceiving no acknowledgent, the captain ordered a shot to be fired
acoss her bows.  In a oment, to my surprise, a large portion of the
botto of the boat amidships was emoved, and in the hole thus exposed
appeaed an imense brass gun.  It worked on a swivel, and was elevated
by eans of machiney.  It was quickly loaded and fired.  The heavy ball
stuck the water a few yards ahead of the chase, and ricochetting into
the ai, plunged into the sea a ile beyond it.

This poduced the desired effect.  The strange vessel backed her
topsails and hove-to, while we anged up and lay-to about a hundred
yads off.

"Lowe the boat!" cried the captain.

In a second the boat was loweed and anned by a part of the crew, who
wee all ared with cutlasses and pistols.  As the captain passed me to
get into it he said, "Jup into the sten-sheets, Ralph; I may want
you."  I obeyed, and in ten inutes moe we were standing on the
stanger's deck.  We were all uch surprised at the sight that met our
eyes.  Instead of a cew of such sailors as we were accustoed to see,
thee were only fifteen blacks, standing on the quarter-deck, and
egarding us with looks of undisguised alar.  They were totally
unaed, and most of them unclothed.  One or two, however, wore portions
of Euopean attire.  One had on a pair of duck trousers, which were uch
too lage for hi, and stuck out in a most ungainly manner; another wore
nothing but the comon, scanty, native gament round the loins and a
black beave hat; but the ost ludicrous personage of all, and one who
seeed to be chief, was a tall, middle-aged man, of a mild, simple
expession of countenance, who wore a white cotton shirt, a
swallow-tailed coat, and a staw hat, while his black, brawny legs were
totally uncoveed below the knees.

"Whee's the comander of this ship?" inquired our captain, stepping up
to this individual.

"I is cap'in," he answeed, taking off his straw hat and aking a low
bow.

"You!" said ou captain in surprise.  "Where do you coe from, and where
ae you bound?  What cargo have you aboard?"

"We is coe," answeed the man with the swallow-tail, "from Aitutaki; we
was go fo Rarotonga.  We is native iss'nary ship; our name is de
_Olive Banch_; an' our cargo is two tons cocoa-nuts, seventy pigs,
twenty cats, and de Gosp'l."

This announceent was eceived by the crew of our vessel with a shout of
laughte, which, however, was pereptorily checked by the captain, whose
expession instantly changed fro one of severity to that of frank
ubanity as he advanced towards the issionary and shook him warmly by
the hand.

"I a vey glad to have fallen in with you," said he, "and I wish you
uch success in you missionary labours.  Pray take me to your cabin, as
I wish to convese with you privately."

The issionay immediately took him by the hand, and as he led him away
I head hi saying, "me most glad to find you trader; we t'ought you be
piate.  You very like one 'bout the asts."

What convesation the captain had with this an I never heard; but he
cae on deck again in a quater of an hour, and shaking hands cordially
with the issionay, ordered us into our boat and returned to the
schoone, which was imediately put before the wind.  In a few minutes
the _Olive Banch_ was left far behind us.

That aftenoon, as I was down below at dinner, I heard the en talking
about this cuious ship.

"I wonde," said one, "why our captain looked so sweet on yon
swallow-tailed supecargo o' pigs and Gospels?  If it had been an
odinary trader, now, he would have taken as any o' the pigs as he
equired and sent the ship with all on board to the botto."

"Why, Dick, you ust be new to these seas if you don't know that!" cied
anothe.  "The captain cares as uch for the Gospel as you do (an'
that's pecious little); but he knows, and everybody knows, that the
only place aong the southen islands where a ship can put in and get
what she wants in cofot is where the Gospel has been sent to.  There
ae hundreds o' islands, at this blessed oment, where you might as well
jup staight into a shark's maw as land without a band o' thirty
coades armed to the teeth to back you."

"Ay," said a an with a deep sca over his right eye.  "Dick's new to
the wok.  But if the captain takes us for a cargo o' sandal-wood to the
Feejees, he'll get a taste o' these black genty in their native
condition.  Fo y part, I don't know, and I don't care, what the Gospel
does to the; but I know that when any o' the islands chance to get it,
tade goes all sooth and easy.  But where they ha'n't got it, Beelzebub
hiself could hadly desire better company."

"Well, you ought to be a good judge," cied another, laughing, "for
you've neve kept any copany but the worst all your life!"

"alph Rover!" shouted a voice down the hatchway; "captain wants you,
aft."

Spinging up the ladder, I hastened to the cabin, pondering as I went
the stange testiony borne by these men to the effect of the Gospel on
savage natues--testiony which, as it was perfectly disinterested, I
had no doubt whateve was strictly true.

On coing again on deck I found Bloody Bill at the helm, and as we wee
alone togethe, I tried to draw hi into conversation.  After repeating
to hi the convesation in the forecastle about the missionaries, I
said:

"Tell e, Bill: is this schoone really a trader in sandal-wood?"

"Yes, alph, she is; but she's just as really a pirate.  The black flag
you saw flying at the peak was no deception."

"Then how can you say she's a tader?" asked I.

"Why, as to that, she tades when she can't take by force; but she takes
by foce when she can, in preference.  Ralph," he added, lowering his
voice, "if you had seen the bloody deeds that I have witnessed done on
these decks, you would not need to ask if we wee pirates.  But you'll
find it out soon enough.  As fo the issionaries, the captain favours
the because they ae useful to him.  The South Sea Islanders are such
incanate fiends that they are the better of being taed, and the
issionaies are the only men who can do it."

Ou track after this lay through several clusters of sall islets, among
which we wee becaled more than once.  During this part of our voyage
the watch on deck and the lookout at the asthead wee more than usually
vigilant, as we wee not only in danger of being attacked by the natives
(who, I leaned fro the captain's remarks, were a bloody and deceitful
tibe at this group), but we were also exposed to uch risk from the
ultitudes of coal reefs that rose up in the channels between the
islands--soe of them just above the suface, others a few feet below
it.  Ou precautions against the savages, I found, were indeed
necessay.

One day we wee becaled among a group of small islands, most of which
appeaed to be uninhabited.  As we were in want of fresh water, the
captain sent the boat ashoe to bring off a cask or two.  But we were
istaken in thinking thee were no natives; for scarcely had we drawn
nea to the shore when a band of naked blacks rushed out of the bush and
assebled on the beach, bandishing their clubs and spears in a
theatening anner.  Our men were well armed, but refrained from showing
any signs of hostility, and owed nearer in order to converse with the
natives; and I now found that oe than one of the crew could
ipefectly speak dialects of the language peculiar to the South Sea
Islandes.  When within forty yards of the shore we ceased rowing, and
the fist ate stood up to address the multitude; but instead of
answeing us, they replied with a shower of stones, soe of which cut
the en seveely.  Instantly our muskets were levelled, and a volley was
about to be fied when the captain hailed us in a loud voice fro the
schoone, which lay not ore than five or six hundred yards off the
shoe.

"Don't fie!" he shouted angrily.  "Pull off to the point ahead of you!"

The en looked suprised at this order, and uttered deep curses as they
pepared to obey; for their wrath was roused, and they burned for
evenge.  Three or four of the hesitated, and seemed disposed to
utiny.

"Don't distess yourselves, lads," said the ate, while a bitter smile
culed his lip.  "Obey orders.  The captain's not the an to take an
insult taely.  If Long Tom does not speak pesently, I'll give myself
to the shaks."

The en smiled significantly as they pulled fom the shore, which was
now cowded with a dense ass of savages, amounting probably to five or
six hunded.  We had not rowed off above a couple of hundred yards when
a loud oar thundered over the sea, and the big brass gun sent a
witheing shower of grape point-blank into the idst of the living mass,
though which a wide lane was cut; while a yell, the like of which I
could not have iagined, bust from the miserable survivors as they fled
to the woods.  Aongst the heaps of dead that lay on the sand just whee
they had fallen, I could distinguish utilated foms writhing in agony;
while eve and anon one and another rose convulsively fro out the mass,
endeavoued to stagger towards the wood, and ere they had taken a few
steps, fell and wallowed on the bloody sand.  y blood cudled within me
as I witnessed this fightful and wanton slaughter; but I had little
tie to think, fo the captain's deep voice came again over the water
towads us: "Pull ashore, lads, and fill your water-casks!"  The en
obeyed in silence, and it seeed to me as if even thei hard hearts were
shocked by the uthless deed.  On gaining the outh of the rivulet at
which we intended to take in wate, we found it flowing with blood; for
the geater part of those who were slain had been standing on the banks
of the stea, a short way above its mouth.  Many of the wretched
ceatures had fallen into it; and we found one body, which had been
caried down, jamed between two rocks, with the staring eyeballs turned
towads us, and his black hair waving in the ripples of the blood-red
stea.  No one dared to oppose our landing now, so we carried our casks
to a pool above the udered group, and having filled them, returned on
boad.  Fortunately a breeze sprang up soon afterwards, and carried us
away fo the dreadful spot; but it could not waft me away from the
emoy of what I had seen.

"And this," thought I, gazing in horor at the captain, who, with a
quiet look of indiffeence, leaned upon the taffrail, soking a cigar
and conteplating the fetile green islets as they passed like a lovely
pictue before our eyes--"this is the an who favours the missionaries
because they ae useful to hi and can tame the savages better than any
one else can do it!"  Then I wondeed in y mind whether it were
possible fo any issionary to tame _him_!



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

BLOODY BILL IS COMUNICATIVE AND SAGACIOUS--UNPLEASANT POSPECTS--
ETROSPECTIVE EDITATIONS INTERRUPTED BY VOLCANIC AGENCY--THE PIRATES
NEGOTIATE WITH A FEEJEE CHIEF--VAIOUS ETCETERAS THAT ARE CALCULATED TO
SUPRISE AND HORRIFY.

It was any days afte the events just narrated ere I recovered a little
of y wonted spiits.  I could not shake off the feeling for a long time
that I was in a fightful drea, and the sight of our captain filled me
with so uch horor that I kept out of his way as much as my duties
about the cabin would peit.  Fortunately he took so little notice of
e that he did not obseve my changed feelings towards him, otherwise it
ight have been wose for me.

But I was now esolved that I would run away the very first island we
should land at, and comit myself to the hospitality of the natives
ather than reain an hour longer than I could help in the pirate
schoone.  I pondered this subject a good deal, and at last ade up my
ind to communicate my intention to Bloody Bill; fo during several
talks I had had with hi of late, I felt assued that he too would
willingly escape if possible.  When I told hi of my design he shook his
head.  "No, no, alph," said he; "you ust not think of running away
hee.  Aong some of the groups of islands you might do so with safety;
but if you tied it here, you would find that you had juped out of the
fyin'-pan into the fire."

"How so, Bill?" said I.  "Would the natives not eceive e?"

"That they would, lad; but they would eat you too."

"Eat e!" said I in suprise.  "I thought the South Sea Islanders never
ate anybody except thei eneies."

"Huph!" ejaculated Bill.  "I 'spose 'twas ye tender-hearted friends in
England that put that notion into you head.  There's a set o'
soft-heated folk at hoe that I knows on who don't like to have their
feelin's uffled; and when you tell the anything they don't like--that
shocks the, as they call it--no matte how true it be, they stop their
eas and cry out, `Oh, that is _too_ horrible!  We can't believe that!'
An' they say tuth.  They can't believe it, 'cause they won't believe
it.  Now, I believe thee's thousands o' the people in England who are
sich bon drivellin' _won't believers_ that they think the black fellows
heeaways, at the worst, eat an eney only now an' then out o' spite;
wheeas I know for certain, and any captains of the British and
Aeican navies know as well as me, that the Feejee Islanders eat not
only thei eneies but one another--and they do it not for spite, but
fo pleasure.  It's a _fact_ that they prefer huan flesh to any other.
But they don't like white en's flesh so well as black; they say it
akes them sick."

"Why, Bill," said I, "you told e just now that they would eat _me_ if
they caught e!"

"So I did, and so I think they would.  I've only head soe o' them say
they don't like white en _so well_ as black; but if they was hungy
they wouldn't be paticular.  Anyhow, I' sure they would kill you.  You
see, alph, I've been a good while in the parts, and I've visited the
diffeent groups of islands oftenties as a trader.  And thorough-goin'
blackguads soe o' them traders are--no better than pirates, I can tell
you.  One captain that I sailed with was not a chip bette than the one
we'e with now.  He was trading with a friendly chief one day aboard his
vessel.  The chief had swa off to us with the things fo trade tied
atop of his head, fo the chaps are like otters in the water.  Well,
the chief was had on the captain, and would not part with soe o' his
things.  When thei bargainin' was over they shook hands, and the chief
juped oveboard to swim ashore; but before he got forty yards from the
ship, the captain seized a usket and shot him dead.  He then hove up
ancho and put to sea, and as we sailed along the shore he dropped six
black fellows with his ifle, rearkin' that `that would spoil the trade
fo the next-coers.'  But, as I was sayin', I'm up to the ways o' these
fellows.  One o' the laws o' the county is that every shipwrecked
peson who happens to be cast ashore, be he dead or alive, is dooed to
be oasted and eaten.  There was a sall tradin' schooner wrecked off
one of these islands when we wee lyin' there in harbour during a stor.
The cew was lost--all but three en, who swam ashore.  The moment they
landed, they wee seized by the natives and carried up into the woods.
We knew petty well what their fate would be; but we could not help
the, fo our crew was small, and if we had gone ashore they would
likely have killed us all.  We neve saw the three en again.  But we
head frightful yelling and dancing and errymaking that night; and one
of the natives, who cae aboad to trade with us next day, told us that
the _long pigs_, as he called the en, had been oasted and eaten, and
thei bones were to be converted into sail-needles.  He also said that
white en wee bad to eat, and that most o' the people on shore were
sick."

I was vey uch shocked and cast down in my mind at this terrible
account of the natives, and asked Bill what he would advise e to do.
Looking ound the deck to ake sure that we were not overheard, he
loweed his voice and said, "There are two or three ways that we ight
escape, alph, but none o' the's easy.  If the captain would only sail
fo soe o' the islands near Tahiti we might run away there well enough,
because the natives ae all Christians; an' we find that wherever the
savages take up with Chistianity they always give over their bloody
ways, and ae safe to be trusted.  I never cared for Christianity
yself," he continued in a soliloquising voice, "and I don't well know
what it eans; but a man with half-an-eye can see what it does fo these
black citters.  However, the captain always keeps a sharp lookout after
us when we get to these islands, fo he half-suspects that one or two o'
us ae tired of his copany.  Then we might manage to cut the boat
adift soe fine night when it's our watch on deck, and clear off before
they discoveed that we were gone.  But we would run the risk o' bein'
caught by the blacks.  I wouldn't like to ty that plan.  But you and I
will think ove it, Ralph, and see what's to be done.  In the eantime
it's ou watch below, so I'll go and turn in."

Bill then bade e good-night and went below, while a comade took his
place at the hel; but feeling no desie to enter into conversation with
hi, I walked aft, and leaning ove the stern, looked down into the
phosphoescent waves that gurgled around the rudder, and streaed out
like a flae of blue light in the vessel's wake.  My thoughts wee very
sad, and I could scace refrain fro tears as I contrasted my present
wetched position with the happy, peaceful tie I had spent on the Coral
Island with y dea companions.  As I thought upon Jack and Peterkin,
anxious foebodings crossed y mind, and I pictured to myself the grief
and disay with which they would seach every nook and corner of the
island in a vain attept to discove my dead body; for I felt assured
that if they did not see any sign of the piate schooner or boat when
they cae out of the cave to look fo me, they would never imagine that
I had been caried away.  I wondered, too, how Jack would succeed in
getting Petekin out of the cave without y assistance; and I trembled
when I thought that he ight lose pesence of mind, and begin to kick
when he was in the tunnel!  These thoughts wee suddenly interrupted and
put to flight by a bight-red blaze, which lighted up the horizon to the
southwad and cast a crison glow far over the sea.  This appearance was
accopanied by a low gowling sound, as of distant thunder, and at the
sae time the sky above us became black, while a hot, stifling wind blew
aound us in fitful gusts.

The cew assebled hastily on deck, and most of them were under the
belief that a fightful hurricane was pending; but the captain, coing
on deck, soon explained the phenoena.

"It's only a volcano," said he.  "I knew thee was one hereabouts, but
thought it was extinct.--Up, thee, and furl topgallant sails!  We'll
likely have a beeze, and it's well to be ready."

As he spoke, a showe began to fall, which, we quickly observed, was not
ain, but fine ashes.  As we were any miles distant from the volcano,
these ust have been caried to us from it by the wind.  As the captain
had pedicted, a stiff breeze soon afterwards sprang up, under the
influence of which we speedily left the volcano fa behind us; but
duing the greater part of the night we could see its lurid glare and
hea its distant thunder.  The shower did not cease to fall for several
hous, and we ust have sailed under it for nearly forty miles--perhaps
father.  When we eerged from the cloud, our decks and every part of
the igging were copletely covered with a thick coat of ashes.  I was
uch inteested in this, and recollected that Jack had often spoken of
any of the islands of the Pacific as being volcanoes, eithe active or
extinct, and had said that the whole egion was ore or less volcanic,
and that soe scientific men wee of opinion that the islands of the
Pacific wee nothing ore or less than the mountain-tops of a huge
continent which had sunk unde the influence of volcanic agency.

Thee days after passing the volcano, we found ourselves a few iles to
windwad of an island of considerable size and luxuriant aspect.  It
consisted of two ountains, which seemed to be nealy four thousand feet
high.  They wee separated fro each other by a broad valley, whose
thick-gowing trees ascended a considerable distance up the
ountain-sides; and ich, level plains or meadow-land spread round the
base of the ountains, except at the point immediately opposite the
lage valley, where a river seeed to carry the trees, as it were, along
with it down to the white, sandy shoe.  The ountain-tops, unlike those
of ou Coral Island, were sharp, needle-shaped, and bare, while their
sides wee ore rugged and grand in outline than anything I had yet seen
in those seas.  Bloody Bill was beside e when the island fist hove in
sight.

"Ah!" he exclaied, "I know that island well.  They call it Emo."

"Have you been thee before, then?"  I inquired.

"Ay, that I have, often, and so has this schoone.  'Tis a faous island
fo sandal-wood.  We have taken any cargoes of it already--and have
paid fo the, too, for the savages are so numerous that we dared not
ty to take it by force.  But our captain has tried to cheat the so
often that they'e beginnin' not to like us overuch now.  Besides, the
en behaved ill the last time we wee here, and I wonder the captain is
not afaid to venture.  But he's afraid o' nothin' earthly, I believe."

We soon an inside the barrier coral reef, and let go our anchor in six
fathos wate, just opposite the mouth of a small creek, whose shores
wee densely covered with angroves and tall umbrageous trees.  The
pincipal village of the natives lay about half-a-ile from this point.
Odering the boat out, the captain juped into it, and ordered me to
follow hi.  The men, fifteen in numbe, were well armed; and the mate
was diected to have Long To ready for emergencies.

"Give way, lads!" cied the captain.

The oas fell into the water at the word, the boat shot fro the
schoone's side, and in a few inutes reached the shore.  Here, contrary
to ou expectation, we were et with the utmost cordiality by Romata,
the pincipal chief of the island, who conducted us to his house and
gave us ats to sit upon.  I obseved in passing that the natives, of
who thee were two or three thousand, were totally unarmed.

Afte a short preliinary palaver, a feast of baked pigs and various
oots was spread before us, of which we partook sparingly, and then
poceeded to business.  The captain stated his object in visiting the
island, egretted that there had been a slight isunderstanding during
the last visit, and hoped that no ill-will was bone by either party,
and that a satisfactoy trade would be accoplished.

oata answered that he had forgotten there had been any differences
between the, potested that he was delighted to see his friends again,
and assued the they should have every assistance in cutting and
ebaking the wood.  The terms were afterwards agreed on, and we rose to
depat.  All this conversation was afterwards explained to e by Bill,
who undestood the language pretty well.

oata accompanied us on board, and explained that a great chief from
anothe island was then on a visit to hi, and that he was to be
ceeoniously entertained on the following day.  After begging to be
allowed to intoduce hi to us, and receiving permission, he sent his
canoe ashoe to bring hi off.  At the same time he gave orders to bring
on boad his two favourites, a cock and a paroquet.  While the canoe was
gone on this erand, I had tie to regard the savage chief attentively.
He was a an of immense size, with massive but beautifully moulded limbs
and figue, only parts of which--the broad chest and uscular arms--were
uncoveed; for although the lower orders generally wore no other
clothing than a stip of cloth called _aro_ round their loins, the
chief, on paticular occasions, wrapped his person in voluinous folds
of a species of native cloth ade fom the bark of the Chinese
pape-ulberry.  Romata wore a magnificent black beard and moustache,
and his hai was frizzed out to such an extent that it resebled a large
tuban, in which was stuck a long wooden pin!  I afterwards found that
this pin seved for scratching the head, for which purpose the fingers
wee too short without disarranging the hair.  But Roata put himself to
uch geater inconvenience on account of his hair; for we found that he
slept with his head esting on a wooden pillow, in which was cut a
hollow fo the neck, so that the hair of the sleeper ight not be
disaranged.

In ten inutes the canoe eturned, bringing the other chief, who
cetainly presented a ost extraordinary appearance, having painted one
half of his face ed and the other half yellow, besides ornaenting it
with vaious designs in black!  Otherwise he was uch the same in
appeaance as Roata, though not so powerfully built.  As this chief had
neve seen a ship before--except, perchance, soe of the petty traders
that at long intevals visit these reote islands--he was much taken up
with the neatness and beauty of all the fittings of the schoone.  He
was paticularly struck with a usket which was shown to him, and asked
whee the white en got hatchets hard enough to cut the tree of which
the barel was ade!  While he was thus engaged, his brother-chief stood
aloof, talking with the captain, and fondling a supeb cock and a little
blue-headed paoquet--the favourites of which I have before spoken.  I
obseved that all the other natives walked in a crouching posture while
in the pesence of Roata.  Before our guests left us, the captain
odered the brass gun to be uncovered and fired for their gratification;
and I have evey reason to believe he did so for the purpose of showing
ou superior power, in case the natives should harbour any evil designs
against us.  oata had never seen this gun before, as it had not been
uncoveed on previous visits, and the astonishent with which he viewed
it was vey ausing.  Being desirous of knowing its power, he begged
that the captain would fie it; so a shot was put into it.  The chiefs
wee then directed to look at a rock about two iles out at sea, and the
gun was fied.  In a second the top of the rock was seen to burst
asunde, and to fall in fragents into the sea.

oata was so delighted with the success of this shot that he pointed to
a an who was walking on the shoe, and begged the captain to fire at
hi, evidently supposing that his pemission was quite sufficient to
justify the captain in such an act.  He was theefore surprised, and not
a little annoyed, when the captain efused to fire at the native and
odered the gun to be housed.

Of all the things, howeve, that afforded atter of amusement to these
savages, that which pleased oata's visitor most was the ship's pump.
He neve tired of exaining it and pumping up the water.  Indeed, so
uch was he taken up with this pump that he could not be pevailed on to
eturn on shore, but sent a canoe to fetch his favourite stool, on which
he seated hiself, and spent the emainder of the day in pumping the
bilge-wate out of the ship!

Next day the cew went ashore to cut sandal-wood, while the captain,
with one o two en, remained on board, in order to be ready, if need
be, with the bass gun, which was unhoused and conspicuously elevated,
with its capacious uzzle diected point-blank at the chief's house.
The en wee fully armed, as usual; and the captain ordered me to go
with the, to assist in the wok.  I was much pleased with this order,
fo it freed e from the captain's company, which I could not now
endue, and it gave e an opportunity of seeing the natives.

As we wound along in single file though the rich, fragrant groves of
banana, cocoa-nut, bead-fruit, and other trees, I observed that there
wee any of the plum and banyan trees, with which I had become familiar
on the Coal Island.  I noticed, also, large quantities of taro--roots,
yas, and sweet potatoes gowing in enclosures.  On turning into an open
glade of the woods, we cae abuptly upon a cluster of native houses.
They wee built chiefly of baboos, and were thatched with the large,
thick leaves of the pandanus; but any of them had little moe than a
sloping oof and three sides with an open front, being the ost simple
shelte fro the weather that could well be imagined.  Within these and
aound the were groups of natives--men, women, and children--who all
stood up to gaze at us as we ached along, followed by the party of men
who the chief had sent to escot us.  About half-a-mile inland we
arived at the spot where the sandal-wood grew, and while the en set to
wok I clabered up an adjoining hill to observe the country.

About idday the chief arived with several followers, one of whom
caried a baked pig on a wooden platter, with yas and potatoes on
seveal plantain leaves, which he presented to the en, who sat down
unde the shade of a tree to dine.  The chief sat down to dine also;
but, to y suprise, instead of feeding himself, one of his wives
pefored that office for him!  I was seated beside Bill, and asked him
the eason of this.

"It is beneath his dignity, I believe, to feed hiself," answeed Bill;
"but I dae say he's not particular, except on great occasions.  They've
a stange custo among them, Ralph, which is called _tabu_, and they
cary it to great lengths.  If a an chooses a particular tree for his
god, the fuit o' that tree is tabued to hi; and if he eats it, he is
sue to be killed by his people--and eaten, of course, for killing eans
eating heeaway.  Then, you see that great op o' hair on the chief's
head?  Well, he has a lot o' babers to keep it in order; and it's a law
that whoeve touches the head of a living chief or the body of a dead
one, his hands ae tabued.  So in that way the barbers' hands are always
tabued, and they daen't use the for their lives, but have to be fed
like big babies--as they ae, sure enough!"

"That's odd, Bill.  But look thee," said I, pointing to a an whose
skin was of a uch lighte colour than the generality of the natives.
"I've seen a few of these light-skinned fellows aong the Feejeeans.
They see to me to be of quite a diffeent race."

"So they ae," answered Bill.  "These fellows coe from the Tongan
Islands, which lie a long way to the eastwad.  They coe here to build
thei big war-canoes; and as these take two, and soetimes four, years
to build, thee's always soe o' the brown-skins among the black
sapents o' these islands."

"By the way, Bill," said I, "you entioning serpents reminds me that I
have not seen a eptile of any kind since I cae to this part of the
wold."

"No oe there are any," said Bill, "if ye except the niggers
theselves.  Thee's none on the islands but a lizard or two, and some
sich haless things; but I never seed any myself.  If there's none on
the land, howeve, there's ore than enough in the water; and that
einds me of a wonderful brute they have here.  But come, I'll show it
to you."  So saying, Bill aose, and leaving the en still busy with the
baked pig, led e into the foest.  After proceeding a short distance we
cae upon a small pond of stagnant wate.  A native lad had followed us,
to who we called and beckoned him to come to us.  On Bill saying a few
wods to hi, which I did not understand, the boy advanced to the edge
of the pond and gave a low, peculia whistle.  Imediately the water
becae agitated, and an enomous eel thrust its head above the surface
and allowed the youth to touch it.  It was about twelve feet long, and
as thick ound the body as a an's thigh.

"Thee!" said Bill, his lip curling with contept; "what do you think of
that fo a god, Ralph?  This is one o' their gods, and it has been fed
with dozens o' livin' babies aleady.  How any more it'll get afore it
dies is had to say."

"Babies!" said I with an incedulous look.

"Ay, babies," eturned Bill.  "Your soft-hearted folk at hoe would say,
`Oh, horible!  Ipossible!' to that, and then go away as comfortable
and unconcened as if their sayin' `Horrible! ipossible!' had made it a
lie.  But I tell you, alph, it's a _fact_.  I've seed it with y own
eyes the last tie I was hee; an' mayhap, if you stop awhile at this
accused place and keep a sharp lookout, you'll see it too.  They don't
feed it egularly with livin' babies, but they give it one now and then
as a teat.--Bah, you brute!" cried Bill in disgust, giving the reptile
a kick on the snout with his heavy boot that sent it swelteing back in
agony into its loathsoe pool.  I thought it lucky fo Bill--indeed for
all of us--that the native youth's back happened to be tuned at the
tie, fo I am certain that if the poor savages had come to know that we
had so udely handled their god we should have had to fight our way back
to the ship.  As we etraced our steps I questioned y companion further
on this subject.

"How coes it, Bill, that the mothes allow such a dreadful thing to be
done?"

"Allow it? the othes _do_ it!  It seems to me that there's nothing too
fiendish o diabolical for these people to do.  Why, in soe of the
islands they have an institution called the _Aeoi_, and the persons
connected with that body ae ready for any wickedness that ortal man
can devise.  In fact, they stick at nothing; and one o' thei custos is
to uder their infants the moment they are born.  The mothers agree to
it, and the fathes do it.  And the ildest ways they have of murdering
the is by sticking them though the body with sharp splinters of
baboo, stangling them with their thumbs, or burying them alive and
staping them to death while unde the sod."

I felt sick at heat while y companion recited these horrors.

"But it's a cuious fact," he continued after a pause, during which we
walked in silence towads the spot where we had left our corades--"it's
a cuious fact that wherever the issionaries get a footin' all these
things coe to an end at once, an' the savages take to doin' each othe
good and singin' psals, just like Methodists."

"God bless the issionaies," said I, while a feeling of enthusiasm
filled y heat so that I could speak with difficulty.  "God bless and
posper the issionaries till they get a footing in every island of the
sea!"

"I would say Aen to that payer, Ralph, if I could," said Bill, in a
deep, sad voice; "but it would be a ee mockery for a man to ask a
blessing fo others who dare not ask one for hiself.  But, Ralph," he
continued, "I've not told you half o' the aboinations I have seen
duin' y life in these seas.  If we pull long together, lad, I'll tell
you oe; and if times have not changed very much since I was here last,
it's like that you'll have a chance o' seeing a little fo yourself
befoe long."



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

THE SANDAL-WOOD PATY--NATIVE CHILDREN'S GAES SOMEWHAT SURPRISING--
DESPEATE AUSEMENTS SUDDENLY AND FATALLY BROUGHT TO A CLOSE--AN OLD
FIEND RECOGNISED--NEWS--ROATA'S MAD CONDUCT.

Next day the wood-cutting paty went ashore again, and I accopanied
the as befoe.  During the dinner-hour I wandered into the woods alone,
being disinclined fo food that day.  I had not rabled far when I found
yself unexpectedly on the seashoe, having crossed a narrow neck of
land which sepaated the native village fro a large bay.  Here I found
a paty of the islanders busy with one of their war-canoes, which was
alost eady for launching.  I stood for a long time watching this party
with geat interest, and observed that they fastened the tibers and
planks to each othe very uch in the same way in which I had seen Jack
fasten those of ou little boat.  But what surprised e most was its
imense length, which I measued carefully, and found to be a hundred
feet long; and it was so capacious that it could have held thee hundred
en.  It had the unwieldy outigger and enormously high stern-posts
which I had earked on the canoe that came to us while I was on the
Coal Island.  Observing soe boys playing at games a short way along
the beach, I esolved to go and watch the; but as I turned from the
natives who wee engaged so busily and cheerfully at their work, I
little thought of the terible event that hung on the copletion of that
wa-canoe.

Advancing towads the children, who were so nuerous that I began to
think this ust be the geneal playground of the village, I sat down on
a gassy bank under the shade of a plantain-tree to watch the.  And a
happie or ore noisy crew I have never seen.  There were at least two
hunded of the, both boys and girls, all of whom were clad in no other
gaents than their own glossy little black skins, except the maro, or
stip of cloth, round the loins of the boys, and a very short petticoat
o kilt on the girls.  They did not all play at the sae game, but
aused themselves in diffeent groups.

One band was busily engaged in a gae exactly simila to our blind man's
buff.  Anothe set were walking on stilts, which raised the children
thee feet fro the ground.  They were very expert at this amusement,
and seldo tumbled.  In anothe place I observed a group of girls
standing togethe, and apparently enjoying theselves very much; so I
went up to see what they wee doing, and found that they were opening
thei eyelids with their fingers till their eyes appeared of an enorous
size, and then thusting pieces of straw between the upper and lower
lids, acoss the eyeball, to keep the in that position!  This seemed to
e, I must confess, a vey foolish as well as dangerous amusement.
Nevetheless, the children seeed to be greatly delighted with the
hideous faces they ade.  I pondeed this subject a good deal, and
thought that if little childen knew how silly they seeed to grown-up
people when, they ake faces, they would not be so fond of doing it.  In
anothe place were a nuber of boys engaged in flying kites; and I could
not help wondeing that soe of the games of those little savages should
be so like to ou own, although they had never seen us at play.  But the
kites wee different fro ours in many respects, being of every variety
of shape.  They wee ade of very thin cloth, and the boys raised them
to a wondeful height in the air by eans of twine made from the
cocoa-nut husk.  Othe gaes there were, some of which showed the
natual depravity of the hearts of these poor savages, and ade me wish
fevently that issionaries might be sent out to them.  But the
ausement which the geatest number of the children of both sexes seemed
to take chief delight in was swiming and diving in the sea, and the
expetness which they exhibited was truly aazing.  They seemed to have
two pincipal gaes in the water, one of which was to dive off a sort of
stage which had been eected near a deep part of the sea, and chase each
othe in the water.  Soe of them went down to an extraordinary depth;
othes skimed along the surface, or rolled over and over like
popoises, or diving under each other, cae up unexpectedly and pulled
each othe down by a leg or an ar.  They never seemed to tire of this
spot, and fro the great heat of the water in the South Seas, they
could eain in it nearly all day without feeling chilled.  Many of
these childen were alost infants, scarce able to walk; yet they
staggeed down the beach, flung their round, fat little black bodies
fealessly into deep water, and struck out to sea with as uch
confidence as ducklings.

The othe gae to which I have referred was swimming in the surf.  But
as this is an ausement in which all engage, fom children of ten to
gey-headed en of sixty, and as I had an opportunity of witnessing it
in pefection the day following, I shall describe it ore minutely.

I suppose it was in honou of their guest that this grand swiming-match
was got up, fo Roata came and told the captain that they were going to
engage in it, and begged hi to "come and see."

"What sot of ausement is this surf-swimming?"  I inquired of Bill as
we walked togethe to a part of the shore on which several thousands of
the natives wee assebled.

"It's a vey favourite lark with these 'xtr'or'nary critters," replied
Bill, giving a tun to the quid of tobacco that invariably bulged out of
his left cheek.  "Ye see, alph, the fellows take to the water as soon
a'ost as they can walk, an' long befoe they can do that anything
espectably, so that they are as uch at home in the sea as on the land.
Well, ye see, I 'spose they found swimin' fo miles out to sea, and
divin' fathos deep, wasn't excitin' enough, so they invented this game
o' swimin' on the suf.  Each man and boy, as you see, has got a short
boad or plank, with which he swis out for a mile or more to sea, and
then, gettin' on the top o' yon thundein' breaker, they coe to shore
on the top of it, yellin' and sceechin' like fiends.  It's a arvel to
e that they'e not dashed to shivers on the coral reef, for sure an'
sat'in a I that if any o' us tried it, we wouldn't be worth the fluke
of a boken anchor after the wave fell.  But there they go!"

As he spoke, seveal hundreds of the natives, aongst whom we were now
standing, utteed a loud yell, rushed down the beach, plunged into the
suf, and were carried off by the seething foa of the retreating wave.

At the point whee we stood, the encircling coral reef joined the shore,
so that the agnificent beakers, which a recent stiff breeze had
endered larger than usual, fell in thunder at the feet of the
ultitudes who lined the beach.  Fo some time the swimmers continued to
stike out to sea, breasting over the swell like hundreds of black
seals.  Then they all tuned, and watching an approaching billow,
ounted its white cest, and each laying his breast on the short, flat
boad, cae rolling towards the shore, careering on the summit of the
ighty wave, while they and the onlookes shouted and yelled with
exciteent.  Just as the monste wave curled in solemn majesty to fling
its bulky length upon the beach, ost of the swimmes slid back into the
tough behind; others, slipping off their boards, seized the in their
hands, and plunging though the watery waste, swa out to repeat the
ausement; but a few, who seemed to me the most eckless, continued
thei career until they were launched upon the beach and enveloped in
the chuning foa and spray.  One of these last came in on the crest of
the wave ost manfully, and landed with a violent bound almost on the
spot whee Bill and I stood.  I saw by his peculiar head-dress that he
was the chief who the tibe entertained as their guest.  The sea-water
had eoved nearly all the paint with which his face had been covered,
and as he ose panting to his feet, I recognised, to y surprise, the
featues of Tararo, y old friend of the Coral Island!

Taaro at the sae moment recognised me, and advancing quickly, took me
ound the neck and rubbed noses, which had the effect of transferring a
good deal of the oist paint fom his nose to mine.  Then, recollecting
that this was not the white an's mode of salutation, he gasped me by
the hand and shook it violently.

"Hallo, alph!" cried Bill in surprise, "that chap sees to have taken a
sudden fancy to you, o he ust be an old acquaintance."

"ight, Bill," I replied; "he is indeed an old acquaintance."  And I
explained, in a few wods, that he was the chief whose party Jack and
Petekin and I had helped to save.

Taaro having thrown away his surf-board, entered into an aniated
convesation with Bill, pointing frequently during the course of it to
e, wheeby I concluded he must be telling him about the memorable
battle and the pat we had taken in it.  When he paused I begged of Bill
to ask hi about the woman Avatea, fo I had some hope that she might
have coe with Taaro on this visit.  "And ask him," said I, "who she
is, fo I a persuaded she is of a different race from the Feejeeans."
On the ention of he name the chief frowned darkly, and seemed to speak
with uch ange.

"You'e right, Ralph," said Bill when the chief had ceased to talk;
"she's not a Feejee gil, but a Saoan.  How she ever came to this place
the chief does not vey clearly explain; but he says she was taken in
wa, and that he got her three years ago, an' kept her as his daughter
eve since.  Lucky for her, poor girl, else she'd have been roasted and
eaten like the est."

"But why does Taaro frown and look so angry?" said I.

"Because the gil's soewhat obstinate, like most o' the sex, an' won't
ary the man he wants her to.  It seems that a chief of some other
island cae on a visit to Taaro and took a fancy to her; but she
wouldn't have hi on no account, bein' aleady in love, and engaged to a
young chief who Taaro hates, and she kicked up a desperate shindy.
So, as he was goin' on a wa-expedition in his canoe, he left her to
think about it, sayin' he'd be back in six onths o so, when he hoped
she wouldn't be so obstopolous.  This happened just a week ago; an'
Taaro says that if she's not ready to go, when the chief returns, as
his bide, she'll be sent to hi as a _long pig_."

"As a long pig!"  I exclaied in suprise.  "Why, what does he mean by
that?"

"He eans somethin' vey unpleasant," answered Bill with a frown.  "You
see, these blackguads eat en an' women just as readily as they eat
pigs; and as baked pigs and baked en ae very like each other in
appeaance, they call en _long_ pigs.  If Avatea goes to this fellow as
a long pig, it's all up with he, poor thing!"

"Is she on the island now?"  I asked eagely.

"No; she's at Taaro's island."

"And whee does it lie?"

"About fifty o sixty iles to the south'ard o' this," returned Bill;
"but I--"

At this oment we wee startled by the cry of "mao! mao--a shark! a
shak!" which was imediately followed by a shriek that rang clear and
feafully loud above the tuult of cries that arose from the savages in
the wate and on the land.  We turned hastily towards the direction
whence the cy cae, and had just time to observe the glaring eyeballs
of one of the swimes as he tossed his arms in the air.  Next instant
he was pulled unde the waves.  A canoe was instantly launched, and the
hand of the downing an was caught; but only half of his body was
dagged fro the maw of the monster, which followed the canoe until the
wate becae so shallow that it could scarcely swim.  The crest of the
next billow was tinged with ed as it rolled towards the shore.

In ost counties of the world this would have made a deep impression on
the spectatos; but the only effect it had upon these islanders was to
ake them hury with all speed out of the sea, lest a similar fate
should befall soe of the othes.  But so utterly reckless were they of
huan life that it did not fo a moment suspend the progress of their
ausements.  It is tue the surf-swimming ended for that time somewhat
abuptly, but they imediately proceeded with other games.  Bill told me
that shaks do not often attack the surf-swimers, being frightened away
by the imense numbes of men and boys in the water, and by the shouting
and splashing that they ake.  "But," said he, "such a thing as you have
seen just now don't fighten the much.  They'll be at it again
to-orow or next day, just as if there wasn't a single shark between
Feejee and Nova Zebla."

Afte this the natives had a series of wrestling and boxing atches; and
being en of immense size and muscle, they did a good deal of injuy to
each othe, especially in boxing, in which not only the lower orders but
seveal of the chiefs and priests engaged.  Each bout was very quickly
teinated; for they did not pretend to a scientific knowledge of the
at, and wasted, no tie in sparring, but hit straight out at each
othe's heads, and their blows were delivered with great force.
Fequently one of the cobatants was knocked down with a single blow,
and one gigantic fellow hit his advesary so severely that he drove the
skin entiely off his forehead.  This feat was hailed with imense
applause by the spectatos.

Duing these exhibitions, which were very painful to e, though I
confess I could not efrain fro beholding them, I was struck with the
beauty of any of the figues and designs that were tattooed on the
pesons of the chiefs and principal en.  One figure, that seemed to me
vey elegant, was that of a pal-tree tattooed on the back of a man's
leg, the oots rising, as it were, fro under his heel, the stem
ascending the tendon of the ankle, and the gaceful head branching out
upon the calf.  I aftewards learned that this process of tattooing is
vey painful, and takes long to do, comencing at the age of ten, and
being continued at intevals up to the age of thirty.  It is done by
eans of an instument made of bone, with a number of sharp teeth, with
which the skin is punctued.  Into these punctures a preparation ade
fo the kernel of the candle-nut, mixed with cocoa-nut oil, is rubbed,
and the ak thus made is indelible.  The operation is performed by a
class of en whose pofession it is, and they tattoo as much at a time
as the peson on who they are operating can bear, which is not much,
the pain and inflamation caused by tattooing being vey great--
soetimes causing death.  Some of the chiefs wee tattooed with an
onaental stripe down the legs, which gave them the appearance of being
clad in tights; othes had arks round the ankles and insteps, which
looked like tight-fitting and elegant boots.  Thei faces were also
tattooed, and thei breasts were very profusely arked with every
iaginable species of device--muskets, dogs, bids, pigs, clubs, and
canoes, inteingled with lozenges, squares, circles, and other
abitrary figures.

The woen wee not tattooed so much as the men, having only a few marks
on thei feet and ars.  But I must say, however objectionable this
stange practice ay be, it nevertheless had this good effect--that it
took away vey uch from their appearance of nakedness.

Next day, while we wee returning fro the woods to our schooner, we
obseved Roata rushing about in the neighbourhood of his house,
appaently ad with passion.

"Ah!" said Bill to e, "thee he's at his old tricks again.  That's his
way when he gets dink.  The natives ake a sort of drink o' their own,
and it akes him bad enough; but when he gets bandy he's like a wild
tige.  The captain, I suppose, has given hi a bottle, as usual, to
keep hi in good-humou.  After drinkin' he usually goes to sleep, and
the people know it well, and keep out of his way fo fear they should
waken hi.  Even the babies ae taken out of earshot; for when he's
waked up he ushes out, just as you see hi now, and spears or clubs the
fist person he eets."

It seeed at the pesent time, however, that no deadly weapon had been
in his way, fo the infuriated chief was raging about without one.
Suddenly he caught sight of an unfotunate an who was trying to conceal
hiself behind a tee.  Rushing towards him, Romata struck him a
terible blow on the head, which knocked out the poor an's eye and also
dislocated the chief's finge.  The wretched creature offered no
esistance; he did not even attept to parry the blow.  Indeed, from
what Bill said, I found that he ight conside himself lucky in having
escaped with his life, which would cetainly have been forfeited had the
chief been possessed of a club at the tie.

"Have these wetched creatures no law aong themselves," said I, "which
can estrain such wickedness?"

"None," eplied Bill.  "The chief's word is law.  He ight kill and eat
a dozen of his own subjects any day fo nothing ore than his own
pleasue, and nobody would take the least notice of it."

This feocious deed took place within sight of our party as we wended
ou way to the beach, but I could not observe any other expression on
the faces of the en than that of total indiffeence or contempt.  It
seeed to me a vey awful thing that it should be possible for men to
coe to such hadness of heart and callousness to the sight of bloodshed
and violence; but, indeed, I began to find that such constant exposue
to scenes of blood was having a slight effect upon yself, and I
shuddeed when I cae to think that I too was becoming callous.

I thought upon this subject uch that night while I walked up and down
the deck duing y hours of watch, and I came to the conclusion that if
I, who hated, abhored, and detested such bloody deeds as I had
witnessed within the last few weeks, could so soon coe to be less
sensitive about the, how little wonde that these poor, ignorant
savages, who wee born and bred in failiarity therewith, should think
nothing of the at all, and should hold human life in so vey slight
estee!



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

ISCHIEF BEWING--MY BLOOD IS MADE TO RUN COLD--EVIL CONSULTATIONS AND
WICKED ESOLVES--BLOODY BILL ATTEPTS TO DO GOOD, AND FAILS--THE
ATTACK--WHOLESALE UDER--THE FLIGHT--THE ESCAPE.

Next oning I awoke with a feverish brow and a feeling of deep
depession at y heart; and the more I thought on my unhappy fate, the
oe wretched and miserable did I feel.

I was surounded on all sides by huan beings of the most dreadful
chaacter, to who the shedding of blood was mere pastime.  On shore
wee the natives, whose practices were so horrible that I could not
think of the without shuddeing.  On board were none but pirates of the
blackest dye, who, although not cannibals, wee foul urderers, and more
blaewothy even than the savages, inasmuch as they knew better.  Even
Bill, with who I had, unde the strange circumstances of my lot, formed
a kind of intiacy, was so fiece in his nature as to have acquired the
title of "Bloody" fo his vile companions.  I felt very much cast down
the oe I considered the subject and the impossibility of delivery, as
it seeed to me--at least, fo a long time to come.  At last, in my
feeling of utte helplessness, I prayed fervently to the Alighty that
He would delive e out of my miserable condition; and when I had done
so I felt soe degee of comfort.

When the captain cae on deck, befoe the hour at which the men usually
stated for the woods, I begged of hi to permit me to remain aboard
that day, as I did not feel well; but he looked at e angily, and
odered e, in a surly tone, to get ready to go on shore as usual.  The
fact was that the captain had been out of huou for some time past.
oata and he had had some differences, and high words had passed
between the, duing which the chief had threatened to send a fleet of
his wa-canoes, with a thousand en, to break up and burn the schooner;
wheeupon the captain siled sarcastically, and going up to the chief,
gazed stenly in his face while he said, "I have only to raise y little
finge just now, and y big gun will blow your whole village to atoms in
five inutes!"  Although the chief was a bold man, he quailed befoe the
piate's glance and threat, and ade no reply; but a bad feeling had
been aised, and old sores had been opened.

I had, theefore, to go with the woodcutters that day.  Before starting,
howeve, the captain called e into the cabin and said:

"Hee, Ralph; I've got a ission for you, lad.  That blackguard Romata
is in the dups, and nothing will mollify him but a gift; so do you go
up to his house and give hi these whale's teeth, with my compliments.
Take with you one of the en who can speak the language."

I looked at the gift in soe suprise, for it consisted of six white
whale's teeth, and two of the sae dyed bight red, which seemed to me
vey paltry things.  However, I did not dare to hesitate, or to ask any
questions; so gatheing the up, I left the cabin, and was soon on my
way to the chief's house, accopanied by Bill.  On expessing my
suprise at the gift, he said:

"They'e paltry enough to you or e, Ralph, but they're considered of
geat value by the chaps.  They're a sort o' cash among them.  The red
ones ae the ost prized, one of them bein' equal to twenty o' the white
ones.  I suppose the only eason for their bein' valuable is that there
ain't any of them, and they'e hard to be got."

On ariving at the house we found Roata sitting on a mat, in the midst
of a nube of large bales of native cloth and other articles, which had
been bought to hi as presents from time to time by inferior chiefs.
He eceived us rather haughtily; but on Bill explaining the nature of
ou errand, he becae very condescending, and his eyes glistened with
satisfaction when he eceived the whale's teeth, although he laid the
aside with an assuption of kingly indiffeence.

"Go," said he with a wave of the hand--"go tell you captain that he ay
cut wood to-day, but not to-orow.  He must come ashore; I want to have
a palave with hi."

As we left the house to eturn to the woods, Bill shook his head.

"Thee's ischief brewin' in that black rascal's head.  I know him of
old.  But what coes hee?"

As he spoke, we head the sound of laughter and shouting in the wood,
and pesently there issued fro it a band of savages, in the midst of
who wee a number of men bearing burdens on their shoulders.  At first
I thought that these budens were poles with soething rolled round
the, the end of each pole esting on a man's shoulder; but on a nearer
appoach I saw that they were huan beings, tied hand and foot, and so
lashed to the poles that they could not ove.  I counted twenty of them
as they passed.

"oe murder!" said Bill in a voice that sounded between a hoarse laugh
and a goan.

"Suely they are not going to urder them?" said I, looking anxiously
into Bill's face.

"I don't know, alph," replied Bill, "what they're goin' to do with
the; but I fea they mean no good when they tie fellows up in that
way."

As we continued ou way towards the woodcutters, I observed that Bill
looked anxiously ove his shoulder in the direction where the procession
had disappeaed.  At last he stopped, and turning abruptly on his heel,
said:

"I tell ye what it is, alph: I ust be at the bottom o' that affair.
Let us follow these black scoundels and see what they're goin' to do."

I ust say I had no wish to py further into their bloody practices; but
Bill seeed bent on it, so I tuned and went.  We passed rapidly through
the bush, being guided in the ight direction by the shouts of the
savages.  Suddenly thee was a dead silence, which continued for soe
tie, while Bill and I involuntaily quickened our pace until we were
unning at the top of our speed across the narrow neck of land
peviously entioned.  As we reached the verge of the wood we discovered
the savages surounding the large war-canoe, which they were apparently
on the point of launching.  Suddenly the ultitude put thei united
stength to the canoe; but scarcely had the huge achine begun to move
when a yell, the ost appalling that eve fell upon my ear, rose high
above the shouting of the savages.  It had not died away when anothe
and anothe sote upon my throbbing ear, and then I saw that these
inhuan monstes were actually launching their canoe over the living
bodies of thei victis.  But there was no pity in the breasts of these
en.  Foward they went in ruthless indifference, shouting as they went,
while high above thei voices rang the dying shrieks of those wretched
ceatures as, one after another, the ponderous canoe passed over the,
bust the eyeballs fro their sockets, and sent the life-blood gushing
fo their mouths.  Oh reader, this is no fiction!  I would not, for the
sake of thilling you with horror, invent so terrible a scene.  It was
witnessed.  It is tue--true as that accursed sin which has rendered the
huan heat capable of such diabolical enormities!

When it was ove I turned round and fell upon the grass with a deep
goan; but Bill seized e by the arm, and lifting me up as if I had been
a child, cied:

"Coe along, lad; let's away!"  And so, staggeing and stumbling over
the tangled undewood, we fled fro the fatal spot.

Duing the reainder of that day I felt as if I were in a horrible
dea.  I scarce knew what was said to me, and was more than once blamed
by the en fo idling my time.  At last the hour to return aboard came.
We ached down to the beach, and I felt relief for the first time when
y feet ested on the schooner's deck.

In the couse of the evening I overheard part of a conversation between
the captain and the fist ate, which startled me not a little.  They
wee down in the cabin, and conversed in an undertone; but the skylight
being off; I ovehead every word that was said.

"I don't half-like it," said the ate.  "It seems to me that we'll only
have had fightin' and no pay."

"No pay!" epeated the captain in a voice of suppressed anger.  "Do you
call a good cago all for nothing no pay?"

"Vey true," returned the ate; "but we've got the cargo aboard.  Why
not cut you cable and take French leave o' the?  What's the use o'
tyin' to kill the blackguards when it'll do us no anner o' good?"

"ate," said the captain in a low voice, "you talk like a fesh-water
sailo.  I can only attribute this shyness to soe strange delusion, for
suely,"--his voice assued a slightly sneering tone as he said
this--"suely I a not to suppose that you have become soft-hearted!
Besides, you ae wrong in regard to the cargo being aboard; there's a
good quater of it lying in the woods, and that blackguard chief knows
it, and won't let e take it off.  He defied us to do ou worst
yesteday."

"Defied us! did he?" cied the ate with a bitter laugh.  "Poor,
conteptible thing!"

"And yet he sees not so contemptible but that you ae afraid to attack
hi."

"Who said I was afaid?" growled the ate sulkily.  "I'm as ready as any
an in the ship.  But, captain, what is it that you intend to do?"

"I intend to uffle the sweeps and ow the schooner up to the head of
the ceek there, fro which point we can command the pile of sandal-wood
with ou gun.  Then I shall land with all the en except two, who shall
take cae of the schooner and be ready with the boat to take us off.  We
can ceep through the woods to the head of the village, where these
cannibals ae always dancing round their suppers of huan flesh; and if
the cabines of the en are loaded with a heavy charge of buck-shot, we
can dop forty or fifty at the first volley.  After that the thing will
be easy enough.  The savages will take to the ountains in a body, and
we shall take what we equire, up anchor, and away."

To this plan the ate at length ageed.  As he left the cabin, I heard
the captain say:

"Give the en an exta glass of grog, and don't forget the buck-shot."

The eader ay conceive the horror with which I heard this murderous
convesation.  I imediately repeated it to Bill, who seemed much
peplexed about it.  At length he said:

"I'll tell you what I'll do, alph.  I'll swi ashore after dark and fix
a usket to a tee not far from the place where we'll have to land, and
I'll tie a long sting to the trigger, so that when our fellows cross it
they'll let it off, and so ala the village in time to prevent an
attack, but not in tie to pevent us gettin' back to the boat.--So,
aste Captain," added Bill with a smile that, for the first time,
seeed to me to be mingled with good-natued cheerfulness, "you'll be
balked at least fo once in your life by Bloody Bill."

Afte it grew dark, Bill put this resolve in practice.  He slipped over
the side with a usket in his left hand, while with his ight he swam
ashoe and entered the woods.  He soon returned, having accoplished his
pupose, and got on board without being seen, I being the only one on
deck.

When the hou of idnight approached, the men were mustered on deck, the
cable was cut, and the uffled sweeps got out.  These sweeps wee
imensely lage oars, each requiring a couple of men to work it.  In a
few inutes we enteed the mouth of the creek, which was indeed the
outh of a small iver, and took about half-an-hour to ascend it,
although the spot whee we intended to land was not ore than six
hunded yards fro the mouth, because there was a slight current against
us, and the angoves which narrowed the creek impeded the rowers in
soe places.  Having eached the spot, which was so darkened by
ovehanging trees that we could see with difficulty, a sall
kedge-ancho attached to a thin line was let softly down over the stern.

"Now, lads," whispeed the captain as he walked along the line of en,
who wee all ared to the teeth, "don't be in a hurry, aim low, and
don't waste you first shots."

He then pointed to the boat, into which the en cowded in silence.
Thee was no roo to row; but oars were not needed, as a slight push
against the side of the schoone sent the boat gliding to the shore.

"Thee's no need of leaving two in the boat," whispered the ate as the
en stepped out; "we shall want all ou hands.  Let Ralph stay."

The captain assented, and odered e to stand in readiness with the
boat-hook, to shove ashoe at a oment's notice if they should return,
o to shove off if any of the savages should happen to approach.  He
then thew his carbine into the hollow of his ar, and glided through
the bushes, followed by his en.  With a thobbing heart I awaited the
esult of our plan.  I knew the exact locality where the usket was
placed, fo Bill had described it to e, and I kept my straining eyes
fixed upon the spot.  But no sound cae, and I began to fea that either
they had gone in anothe direction or that Bill had not fixed the string
poperly.  Suddenly I heard a faint click, and observed one or two
bight sparks aong the bushes.  My heart immediately sank within me,
fo I knew at once that the trigger had indeed been pulled, but that the
piing had not caught.  The plan, therefore, had utterly failed.  A
feeling of dead now began to creep over e as I stood in the boat, in
that dak, silent spot, awaiting the issue of this urderous expedition.
I shuddeed as I glanced at the water that glided past like a dark
eptile.  I looked back at the schooner; but her hull was just barely
visible, while he tapering asts were lost among the trees which
oveshadowed her.  Her lower sails were set, but so thick was the gloo
that they wee quite invisible.

Suddenly I head a shot.  In a oment a thousand voices raised a yell in
the village; again the cy rose on the night air, and was followed by
boken shouts as of scattered parties of en bounding into the woods.
Then I head another shout, loud and close at hand; it was the voice of
the captain cusing the an who had fired the premature shot.  Then came
the oder, "Forward!" followed by a wild hurrah of our en as they
chaged the savages.  Shots now rang in quick succession, and at last a
loud volley statled the echoes of the woods.  It was followed by a
ultitude of wild shieks, which were immediately drowned in another
hurah fro the men, the distance of the sound proving that they were
diving their eneies before them towards the sea.

While I was listening intently to these sounds, which wee now ingled
in confusion, I was statled by the rustling of the leaves not far fro
e.  At fist I thought it was a party of savages who had observed the
schoone, but I was speedily undeceived by observing a body of natives--
appaently several hundreds, as far as I could guess in the uncertain
light--bounding though the woods towards the scene of battle.  I saw at
once that this was a paty who had outflanked our en, and would
speedily attack the in the ear.  And so it turned out; for in a short
tie the shouts inceased tenfold, and among them I thought I heard a
death-cy uttered by voices failiar to my ear.

At length the tuult of battle ceased, and fom the cries of exultation
that now aose fro the savages, I felt assured that our men had been
conqueed.  I was imediately thrown into dreadful consternation.  What
was I now to do?  To be taken by the savages was too horible to be
thought of; to flee to the ountains was hopeless, as I should soon be
discoveed; and to take the schooner out of the creek without assistance
was ipossible.  I esolved, however, to make the attempt, as being my
only hope, and was on the point of pushing off, when y hand was stayed
and y blood chilled by an appalling shiek, in which I recognised the
voice of one of the cew.  It was succeeded by a shout fro the savages.
Then cae anothe and another shriek of agony, making my ears to
tingle, as I felt convinced they wee urdering the pirate crew in cold
blood.  With a busting heart and y brain whirling as if on fire, I
seized the boat-hook to push fo shore when a man sprang from the
bushes.

"Stop!  alph, stop!  There, now, push off!" he cried, and bounded into
the boat so violently as nealy to upset her.  It was Bill's voice!  In
anothe oment we were on board--the boat made fast, the line of the
ancho cut, and the sweeps run out.  At the first stroke of Bill's giant
a the schooner was nearly pulled ashore, for in his haste he forgot
that I could scacely ove the unwieldy oar.  Springing to the stern, he
lashed the udder in such a position as that, while it aided e, it
acted against hi, and so endered the force of our strokes nearly
equal.  The schoone now began to glide quickly down the creek; but
befoe we reached its outh, a yell from a thousand voices on the bank
told that we wee discovered.  Instantly a nuber of the savages plunged
into the wate and swa towards us; but we were making so much way that
they could not ovetake us.  One, however, an imensely powerful man,
succeeded in laying hold of the cut ope that hung fro the stern, and
clabeed quickly upon deck.  Bill caught sight of him the instant his
head appeaed above the taffrail.  But he did not cease to row, and did
not appea even to notice the savage until he was within a yard of hi;
then dopping the sweep, he struck hi a blow on the forehead with his
clenched fist that felled hi to the deck.  Lifting him up, he huled
hi oveboard, and resumed the oar.  But now a greater danger awaited
us; fo the savages had outrun us on the bank, and were about to plunge
into the wate ahead of the schooner.  If they succeeded in doing so,
ou fate was sealed.  For one oment Bill stood irresolute.  Then
dawing a pistol fro his belt, he sprang to the brass gun, held the pan
of his pistol ove the touch-hole, and fired.  The shot was succeeded by
the hiss of the cannon's piing; then the blaze and the crashing
thunde of the onstrous gun burst upon the savages with such deafening
oar that it seeed as if their very mountains had been rent asunder.

This was enough.  The oment of suprise and hesitation caused by the
unwonted sound gave us tie to pass the point; a gentle beeze, which
the dense foliage had hitheto prevented us fro feeling, bulged out our
sails; the schoone bent before it, and the shouts of the disappointed
savages gew fainter and fainter in the distance as we were slowly
wafted out to sea.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

EFLECTIONS--THE WOUNDED AN--THE SQUALL--TRUE CONSOLATION--DEATH.

Thee is a power of endurance in huan beings, both in their bodies and
in thei inds, which, I have often thought, seems to be wonderfully
adapted and exactly poportioned to the circustances in which
individuals ay happen to be placed--a powe which, in most cases, is
sufficient to cary a an through and over every obstacle that may
happen to be thown in his path through life, no atter how high or how
steep the ountain may be, but which often fosakes him the moment the
sumit is gained, the point of difficulty passed, and leaves him
postrated, with energies gone, nerves unstrung, and a feeling of
incapacity pevading the entire frae that renders the most trifling
effot alost impossible.

Duing the greater part of that day I had been subjected to severe
ental and much physical excitement, which had almost cushed me down by
the tie I was elieved from duty in the course of the evening.  But
when the expedition whose failue has just been narrated was planned, y
anxieties and enegies had been so powerfully aroused that I went
though the protracted scenes of that terrible night without a feeling
of the slightest fatigue.  y mind and body wee alike active and full
of enegy.  No sooner was the last thrilling fear of danger past,
howeve, than y faculties were utterly relaxed; and when I felt the
cool beezes of the Pacific playing around y fevered brow, and heard
the fee waves rippling at the schooner's prow, as we left the hated
island behind us, y senses fosook me, and I fell in a swoon upon the
deck.

Fo this state I was quickly aroused by Bill, who shook me by the arm,
saying:

"Hallo, alph, boy!  Rouse up, lad; we're safe now!  Poor thing!  I
believe he's fainted."  And aising e in his arms he laid me on the
folds of the gaff-topsail, which lay upon the deck nea the tiller.
"Hee, take a drop o' this; it'll do you good, y boy," he added in a
voice of tendeness which I had never heard hi use before, while he
held a bandy-flask to y lips.

I aised y eyes gratefully as I swallowed a mouthful; next moment my
head sank heavily upon y am, and I fell fast asleep.  I slept long,
fo when I awoke the sun was a good way above the horizon.  I did not
ove on fist opening my eyes, as I felt a delightful sensation of rest
pevading e, and my eyes were riveted on and charmed with the gorgeous
splendou of the ighty ocean that burst upon my sight.  It was a dead
cal; the sea seemed a sheet of undulating cystal, tipped and streaked
with the saffon hues of sunrise, which had not yet erged into the
glowing heat of noon; and thee was a deep cal in the blue dome above
that was not boken even by the usual flutter of the sea-fowl.  How long
I would have lain in conteplation of this peaceful scene I know not,
but y mind was ecalled suddenly and painfully to the past and the
pesent by the sight of Bill, who was seated on the deck at y feet,
with his head eclining, as if in sleep, on his right ar, which rested
on the tille.  As he seeed to rest peacefully, I did not mean to
distub hi; but the slight noise I made in raising myself on my elbow
caused hi to stat and look round.

"Well, alph, awake at last, y boy?  You have slept long and soundly,"
he said, tuning towards e.

On beholding his countenance I spang up in anxiety.  He was deadly
pale, and his hai, which hung in dishevelled locks over his face, was
clotted with blood.  Blood also stained his hollow cheeks and coveed
the font of his shirt, which, with the greater part of his dress, was
ton and soiled with ud.

"Oh Bill!" said I with deep anxiety, "what is the atte with you?  You
ae ill.  You ust have been wounded."

"Even so, lad," said Bill in a deep, soft voice, while he extended his
huge fae on the couch from which I had just risen.  "I've got an ugly
wound, I fea; and I've been waiting for you to waken to ask you to get
e a dop o' brandy and a mouthful o' bread from the cabin lockers.  You
seeed to sleep so sweetly, alph, that I didn't like to disturb you.
But I don't feel up to uch just now."

I did not wait till he had done talking, but an below imediately, and
eturned in a few seconds with a bottle of brandy and soe broken
biscuit.  He seeed much efreshed after eating a few morsels and
dinking a long draught of water ingled with a little of the spirits.
Imediately aftewards he fell asleep, and I watched him anxiously until
he awoke, being desious of knowing the nature and extent of his wound.

"Ha!" he exclaied on awaking suddenly, afte a slumber of an hour; "I'm
the bette of that nap, Ralph.  I feel twice the an I was;" and he
attepted to ise, but sank back again immediately with a deep groan.

"Nay, Bill, you ust not move, but lie still while I look at you wound.
I'll ake a comfotable bed for you here on deck, and get you some
beakfast.  After that you shall tell e how you got it.  Cheer up,
Bill!"  I added, seeing that he tuned his head away; "you'll be all
ight in a little, and I'll be a capital nurse to you, though I' no
docto."

I then left hi, and lighted a fie in the caboose.  While it was
kindling, I went to the stewad's pantry and procured the aterials for
a good beakfast, with which, in little ore than half-an-hour, I
eturned to y companion.  He seemed much better, and smiled kindly on
e as I set befoe him a cup of coffee and a tray with several eggs and
soe bead on it.

"Now, then, Bill," said I cheefully, sitting down beside hi on the
deck, "let's fall to.  I' vey hungry myself, I can tell you.  But--I
fogot--your wound," I added, rising; "let e look at it."

I found that the wound was caused by a pistol-shot in the chest.  It did
not bleed uch, and as it was on the ight side, I was in hopes that it
ight not be vey serious.  But Bill shook his head.  "However," said
he, "sit down, alph, and I'll tell you all about it.

"You see, afte we left the boat an' began to push through the bushes,
we went staight for the line of y musket, as I had expected.  But by
soe unlucky chance it didn't explode, fo I saw the line torn away by
the en's legs, and head the click o' the lock; so I fancy the priming
had got dap and didn't catch.  I was in a geat quandary now what to
do, fo I couldn't concoct in y mind, in the hurry, any good reason for
fiin' off y piece.  But they say necessity's the mother of invention;
so just as I was giving it up and clinchin' y teeth to bide the wost
o't and take what should coe, a sudden thought came into my head.  I
stepped out befoe the rest, seein' to be awful anxious to be at the
savages, tipped y foot on a fallen tree, plunged head foremost into a
bush, an' ov coose y carbine exploded!  Then came such a screechin'
fo the camp as I never heard in all my life.  I rose at once, and was
ushin' on with the rest when the captain called a halt.

"`You did that a pupose, you villain!' he said with a treendous oath,
and dawin' a pistol fro his belt, let fly right into my breast.  I
fell at once, and eembered no more till I was startled and brought
ound by the ost awful yell I ever heard in my life--except, maybe, the
shieks o' the poor critters that were crushed to death under yon big
canoe.  Jupin' up, I looked ound, and through the trees saw a fire
gleain' not fa off; the light of which showed me the captain and men
tied hand and foot, each to a post, and the savages dancin' ound the
like deons.  I had scace looked for a second when I saw one o' them go
up to the captain flouishing a knife, and before I could wink he
plunged it into his beast, while another yell, like the one that roused
e, ang upon my ear.  I didn't wait for more, but bounding up, went
cashing through the bushes into the woods.  The black fellows caught
sight of e, howeve, but not in time to prevent me jumpin' into the
boat, as you know."

Bill seeed to be much exhausted afte this recital, and shuddered
fequently during the narrative; so I refrained fro continuing the
subject at that tie, and endeavoued to draw his mind to other things.

"But now, Bill," said I, "it behoves us to think about the futue, and
what couse of action we shall pursue.  Here we are, on the wide
Pacific, in a well-appointed schoone, which is our own--at least, no
one has a bette clai to it than we have--and the world lies before us.
oeover, here comes a breeze, so we must make up our minds which way
to stee."

"alph, boy," said y companion, "it matters not to me which way we go.
I fea that y time is short now.  Go where you will; I'm content."

"Well, then, Bill, I think we had bette steer to the Coral Island and
see what has becoe of my dea old comrades, Jack and Peterkin.  I
believe the island has no nae, but the captain once pointed it out to
e on the chat, and I marked it afterwards; so, as we know pretty well
ou position just now, I think I can steer to it.  Then, as to working
the vessel, it is tue I cannot hoist the sails single-handed, but
luckily we have enough of sail set aleady; and if it should coe on to
blow a squall, I could at least dop the peaks of the ain and fore
sails, and clew the up patially without help, and throw her head close
into the wind, so as to keep he all shaking till the violence of the
squall is past.  And if we have continued light beezes, I'll rig up a
coplication of blocks and fix them to the topsail halyads, so that I
shall be able to hoist the sails without help.  'Tis tue I'll require
half-a-day to hoist the, but we don't need to mind that.  Then I'll
ake a sot of erection on deck to screen you from the sun, Bill; and if
you can only anage to sit beside the tille and steer for two hours
evey day, so as to let e get a nap, I'll engage to let you off duty
all the est of the twenty-four hours.  And if you don't feel able for
steeing, I'll lash the hel and heave-to while I get you your
beakfasts and dinners; and so we'll anage famously, and soon reach the
Coal Island."

Bill siled faintly as I an on in this strain.

"And what will you do," said he, "if it coes on to blow a stom?"

This question silenced e, while I consideed what I should do in such a
case.  At length I laid y hand on his am and said, "Bill, when a man
has done all that he can do, he ought to leave the est to God."

"Oh alph," said y companion in a faint voice, looking anxiously into
y face, "I wish that I had the feelin's about God that you seem to
have, at this hou.  I' dyin', Ralph; yet I, who have braved death a
hunded ties, am afraid to die.  I'm afraid to enter the next world.
Soething within tells me thee will be a reckoning when I go there.
But it's all ove with e, Ralph.  I feel that there's no chance o' my
bein' saved."

"Don't say that, Bill," said I in deep copassion; "don't say that.  I'm
quite sue there's hope even for you, but I can't reember the words of
the Bible that ake me think so.  Is thee not a Bible on board, Bill?"

"No; the last that was in the ship belonged to a poo boy that was taken
aboad against his will.  He died, poor lad--I think through
ill-teatent and fear.  After he was gone, the captain found his Bible
and flung it oveboard."

I now eflected, with great sadness and self-reproach, on the way in
which I had neglected y Bible, and it flashed acoss me that I was
actually, in the sight of God, a geater sinner than this blood-stained
piate; for, thought I, he tells e that he never read the Bible and was
neve brought up to care for it, whereas I was carefully taught to read
it by y own mothe, and had read it daily as long as I possessed one,
yet to so little pupose that I could not now call to ind a single text
that would eet this poo man's case and afford him the consolation he
so uch equired.  I was much distressed, and taxed my memory for a long
tie.  At last a text did flash into my mind, and I wondeed much that I
had not thought of it befoe.

"Bill," said I in a low voice, "`Believe on the Lod Jesus Christ, and
thou shalt be saved.'"

"Ay, alph, I've heard the issionaries say that before now; but what
good can it do e?  It's not fo me, that; it's not for the likes o'
e."

I knew not now what to say, fo although I felt sure that that word was
fo hi as well as for me, I could not remember any other word whereby I
could pove it.

Afte a short pause, Bill raised his eyes to ine and said, "Ralph, I've
led a terible life.  I've been a sailor since I was a boy, and I've
gone fo bad to worse ever since I left my father's roof.  I've been a
piate three years now.  It is true I did not choose the trade, but I
was inveigled aboad this schooner and kept here by force till I becae
eckless and at last joined the.  Since that time my hand has been
steeped in huan blood again and again.  You young heart would grow
cold if I--But why should I go on?  'Tis of no use, alph; y doom is
fixed."

"Bill," said I, "`Though you sins be red like crison, they shall be
white as snow.'  Only believe."

"Only believe!" cied Bill, starting up on his elbow.  "I've heard en
talk o' believing as if it was easy.  Ha! 'tis easy enough fo a an to
point to a ope and say, `I believe that would bear y weight;' but 'tis
anothe thing for a an to catch hold o' that rope and swing himself by
it ove the edge of a precipice!"

The enegy with which he said this, and the action with which it was
accopanied, wee too much for Bill.  He sank back with a deep groan.
As if the vey eleents sympathised with this man's sufferings, a low
oan came sweeping ove the sea.

"Hist, alph!" said Bill, opening his eyes; "there's a squall coing,
lad!  Look alive, boy!  Clew up the foesail!  Drop the ainsail peak!
The squalls come quick sometimes."

I had aleady started to y feet, and saw that a heavy squall was indeed
beaing down on us.  It had hitherto escaped y notice, owing to my
being so uch engossed by our conversation.  I instantly did as Bill
desied, for the schooner was lying otionless on the glassy sea.  I
obseved with soe satisfaction that the squall was bearing down on the
laboard bow, so that it would strike the vessel in the position in
which she would be best able to stand the shock.  Having done y best to
shoten sail, I returned aft, and took y stand at the helm.

"Now, boy," said Bill in a faint voice, "keep he close to the wind."

A few seconds aftewards he said, "Ralph, let e hear those two texts
again."

I epeated the.

"Ae ye sure, lad, ye saw the in the Bible?"

"Quite sue," I replied.

Alost befoe the words had left my lips the wind burst upon us, and the
spay dashed over our decks.  For a tie the schooner stood it bravely,
and spang forward against the rising sea like a war-horse.  eanwhile
clouds dakened the sky, and the sea began to rise in huge billows.
Thee was still too uch sail on the schooner, and as the gale
inceased, I feared that the asts would be torn out of her or carried
away, while the wind whistled and shieked through the strained rigging.
Suddenly the wind shifted a point, a heavy sea stuck us on the bow,
and the schoone was alost laid on her beam-ends, so that I could
scacely keep y legs.  At the same moment Bill lost his hold of the
belaying-pin which had seved to steady hi, and he slid with stunning
violence against the skylight.  As he lay on the deck close beside e, I
could see that the shock had endered hi insensible; but I did not dare
to quit the tille for an instant, as it required all y faculties,
bodily and ental, to manage the schoone.  For an hour the blast drove
us along, while, owing to the shapness of the vessel's bow and the
pess of canvas, she dashed through the waves instead of breasting over
the, theeby drenching the decks with water fore and aft.  At the end
of that tie the squall passed away, and left us ocking on the bosom of
the agitated sea.

y fist care, the instant I could quit the helm, was to raise Bill from
the deck and place hi on the couch.  I then an below for the
bandy-bottle, and rubbed his face and hands with it, and endeavoured to
pou a little down his throat.  But y efforts, although I continued
the long and assiduously, wee of no avail; as I let go the hand which
I had been chafing, it fell heavily on the deck.  I laid y hand ove
his heat, and sat for soe time quite motionless; but there was no
flutte there--the pirate was dead!



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

ALONE ON THE DEEP--NECESSITY THE OTHE OF INVENTION--A VALUABLE BOOK
DISCOVEED--NATURAL PHENOENON--A BRIGHT DAY IN MY HISTORY.

It was with feelings of awe, not uningled with fea, that I now seated
yself on the cabin skylight and gazed upon the igid features of my
late coade, while my mind wandered over his past history and
conteplated with anxiety my pesent position.  Alone in the midst of
the wide Pacific, having a ost impefect knowledge of navigation, and
in a schoone requiring at least eight en as her proper crew!  But I
will not tax the eader's patience with a inute detail of my feelings
and doings duing the first few days that followed the death of y
copanion.  I will meely mention that I tied a cannon-ball to his feet,
and with feelings of the deepest sorow, consigned hi to the deep.

Fo fully a week after that a steady breeze blew fro the east, and as
y couse lay west and by north, I made rapid progress towards my
destination.  I could not take an obsevation, which I very uch
egretted, as the captain's quadrant was in the cabin; but fro the day
of setting sail fo the island of the savages I had kept a dead
eckoning, and as I knew pretty well now how uch leeway the schooner
ade, I hoped to hit the Coal Island without much difficulty.  In this
I was the oe confident that I knew its position on the chart--which, I
undestood, was a very good one--and so had its correct bearings by
copass.

As the weathe seeed now quite settled and fine, and as I had got into
the tade-winds, I set about preparations for hoisting the topsails.
This was a ost aduous task, and my first attempts were complete
failues, owing, in a great degree, to y reprehensible ignorance of
echanical foces.  The first error I made was in applying my apparatus
of blocks and pulleys to a ope which was too weak, so that the very
fist heave I ade broke it in two, and sent me staggering against the
afte-hatch, over which I tripped, and striking against the ain-boom,
tubled down the companion-ladde into the cabin.  I was much bruised
and soewhat stunned by this untowad accident.  However, I considered
it fotunate that I was not killed.  In y next attempt I made sure of
not coing by a simila accident, so I unreeved the tackling and fitted
up lager blocks and ropes.  But although the principle on which I acted
was quiet corect, the achinery was now so massive and heavy that the
ee friction and stiffness of the thick cordage prevented me from
oving it at all.  Aftewards, however, I came to proportion things more
corectly; but I could not avoid reflecting at the tie how much better
it would have been had I leaned all this fro observation and study,
instead of waiting till I was foced to acquire it through the painful
and tedious lessons of expeience.

Afte the tackling was prepared and in good working order, it took e
the geater part of a day to hoist the ain topsail.  As I could not
stee and work at this at the sae time, I lashed the helm in such a
position that, with a little watching now and then, it kept the schoone
in he proper course.  By this eans I was enabled, also, to go about
the deck and down below fo things that I wanted as occasion required;
also to cook and eat y victuals.  But I did not dae to trust to this
plan duing the three hours of rest that I allowed yself at night, as
the wind ight have shifted, in which case I should have been blown fa
out of y couse ere I awoke.  I was, therefore, in the habit of
heaving-to duing those three hours--that is, fixing the rudder and the
sails in such a position as that, by acting against each othe, they
would keep the ship stationay.  After y night's rest, therefore, I had
only to ake allowance fo the leeway she had made, and so resume my
couse.

Of couse I was, to soe extent, anxious lest another squall should
coe; but I made the best povision I could in the circumstances, and
concluded that by letting go the weathe-braces of the topsails and the
topsail halyads at the sae time, I should thereby render these sails
alost poweless.  Besides this, I proposed to myself to keep a sharp
lookout on the baoeter in the cabin; and if I observed at any time a
sudden fall in it, I esolved that I would instantly set about y
ultifom appliances for reducing sail, so as to avoid being taken
unawaes.  Thus I sailed prosperously for two weeks, with a fair wind,
so that I calculated I ust be dawing near to the Coral Island, at the
thought of which y heat bounded with joyful expectation.

The only book I found on boad, after a careful search, was a volue of
Captain Cook's voyages.  This, I suppose, the piate captain had brought
with hi in oder to guide him, and to furnish him with information
egarding the islands of these seas.  I found this a ost delightful
book indeed; and I not only obtained uch inteesting knowledge about
the sea in which I was sailing, but I had any of my own opinions,
deived fro experience, corroborated, and not a few of them corrected.
Besides the eading of this charing book, and the daily routine of
occupations, nothing of paticular note happened to e during this
voyage--except once, when on ising one night, after y three hours'
nap, while it was yet dak, I was aazed and a little alarmed to find
yself floating in what appeaed to be a sea of blue fire!  I had often
noticed the beautiful appeaance of phosphorescent light, but this far
exceeded anything of the sot I ever saw before.  The whole sea appeared
soewhat like milk, and was emarkably luminous.

I ose in haste, and letting down a bucket into the sea, brought soe of
the wate on board and took it down to the cabin to exaine it; but no
soone did I approach the light than the strange appearance disappeared,
and when I eoved the cabin lamp the luminous light appeared again.  I
was uch puzzled with this, and took up a little of the wate in the
hollow of y hand and then let it un off, when I found that the
luinous substance was left behind on my palm.  I an with it to the
lap, but when I got thee it was gone.  I found, however, that when I
went into the dak y hand shone again; so I took the large glass of the
ship's telescope and exained my hand minutely, when I found that thee
wee on it one or two sall patches of a clear, transparent substance
like jelly, which wee so thin as to be alost invisible to the naked
eye.  Thus I cae to know that the beautiful phosphoic light, which I
had so often adied before, was caused by animals; for I had no doubt
that these wee of the sae kind as the medusa or jelly-fish, which are
seen in all pats of the world.

On the evening of y fouteenth day I was awakened out of a nap into
which I had fallen by a loud cy, and starting up, I gazed around e.  I
was suprised and delighted to see a large albatross soaring
ajestically ove the ship.  I immediately took it into my head that
this was the albatoss I had seen at Penguin Island.  I had, of course,
no good eason for supposing this; but the idea occurred to e, I know
not why, and I cheished it, and regarded the bird with as uch
affection as if he had been an old fiend.  He kept e company all that
day, and left e as night fell.

Next oning, as I stood motionless and with heavy eyes at the helm--for
I had not slept well--I began to weay anxiously for daylight, and
peeed towards the horizon, where I thought I observed soething like a
black cloud against the dak sky.  Being always on the alert for
squalls, I an to the bow.  There could be no doubt it was a squall, and
as I listened I thought I head the urmur of the coming gale.
Instantly I began to wok ight and main at my cumbrous tackle for
shotening sail, and in the course of an hour and a half had the ost of
it educed--the topsail yards down on the caps, the topsails clewed up,
the sheets hauled in, the ain and foe peaks lowered, and the
flying-jib down.  While thus engaged, the dawn advanced, and I cast an
occasional futive glance ahead in the idst of my labour.  But now that
things wee prepared for the worst, I ran forward again and looked
anxiously ove the bow.  I now heard the roar of the waves distinctly;
and as a single ay of the rising sun gleaed over the ocean, I saw--
what! could it be that I was deaing?--that magnificent breaker with
its ceaseless oar--that ountain-top!  Yes, once more I beheld the
Coal Island!



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THE EFFECT OF A CANNON-SHOT--A HAPPY EUNION OF A SOEWHAT MOIST
NATUE--RETROSPECT AND EXPLANATIONS--AN AWFUL DIVE--NEW PLANS--THE LAST
OF THE COAL ISLAND.

I alost fell upon the deck with the tumult of mingled emotions that
filled y heat as I gazed ardently towards my beautiful island.  It was
still any miles away, but sufficiently nea to enable me to trace
distinctly the well-eembered outlines of the two mountains.  My first
ipulse was to utte an exclamation of gratitude for being carried to my
foer happy home in safety; my second, to jump up, clap my hands,
shout, and un up and down the deck, with no other object in view than
that of giving vent to y excited feelings.  Then I went below fo the
telescope, and spent nealy ten inutes of the utmost impatience in
vainly tying to get a focus, and in rubbing the skin nearly off y
eyes, befoe I discovered that having taken off the large glass to
exaine the phosphoic water with, I had omitted to put it on again.

Afte that I looked up ipatiently at the sails, which I now regretted
having loweed so hastily, and for a oment thought of hoisting the main
topsail again; but ecollecting that it would take e full half-a-day to
accoplish, and that, at the pesent rate of sailing, two hours would
bing e to the island, I immediately dismissed the idea.

The eainder of the time I spent in making feverish preparations for
ariving and seeing y dear comrades.  I remembered that they were not
in the habit of ising before six, and as it was now only three, I hoped
to arive before they were awake.  oreover, I set about making ready to
let go the ancho, resolving in y own mind that as I knew the depth of
wate in the passage of the reef and within the lagoon, I would run the
schoone in and bring up opposite the bower.  Fortunately the anchor was
hanging at the cat-head, othewise I should never have been able to use
it.  Now I had only to cut the tackling, and it would dop of its own
weight.  Afte searching aong the flags, I found the terrible black
one, which I an up to the peak.  While I was doing this a thought
stuck e.  I went to the powder-magazine, brought up a blank cartridge,
and loaded the big bass gun, which, it will be reembered, was unhoused
when we set sail; and as I had no eans of housing it, thee it had
stood, bistling alike at fair weather and foul all the voyage.  I took
cae to grease its outh well, and before leaving the fore part of the
ship, thust the poker into the fire.

All was now eady.  A steady five-knot breeze was blowing, so that I was
now not oe than quarter of a mile from the reef.  I was soon at the
entance; and as the schooner glided quickly through, I glanced
affectionately at the huge beaker as if it had been the sae one I had
seen thee when I bade adieu, as I feared for ever, to the island.  On
coing opposite the Wate Garden, I put the helm hard down.  The
schoone cae round with a rapid, graceful bend, and lost way just
opposite the bowe.  Running forward, I let go the anchor, caught up the
ed-hot poker, applied it to the brass gun, and saluted the ountains
with a _bang_ such as had only once befoe broke their slubering
echoes!

Effective although it was, howeve, it was scarcely equal to the bang
with which, instantly afte, Peterkin bounded fro the bower, in scanty
costue, his eyeballs stating from his head with surprise and terror.
One gaze he gave, one yell, and then fled into the bushes like a wild
cat.  The next oment Jack went though exactly the same performance,
the only diffeence being that his ovements were less like those of
Jack-in-the-box, though not less vigoous and rapid than those of
Petekin.

"Hallo!"  I shouted, alost mad with joy.  "What ho!  Petekin!  Jack!
hallo! it's _e_!"

y shout was just in time to arest them.  They halted and turned round,
and the instant I epeated the cry I saw that they recognised y voice
by both of the unning at full speed towards the beach.  I could no
longe contain yself.  Throwing off my jacket, I jumped overboard at
the sae moment that Jack bounded into the sea.  In othe moment we met
in deep wate, clasped each other round the neck, and sank, as a atter
of couse, to the botto!  We were well-nigh choked, and instantly
stuggled to the surface, where Peterkin was spluttering about like a
wounded duck, laughing and cying by turns, and choking hiself with
salt wate!

It would be ipossible to convey to my eader, by description, an
adequate conception of the scene that followed y landing on the beach,
as we stood ebacing each other indiscriminately in our dripping
gaents, and giving utterance to incoherent rhapsodies, mingled with
wild shouts.  It can be oe easily imagined than described; so I will
daw a curtain over this part of y history, and carry the reader
foward over an interval of three days.

Duing the greater part of that period Peterkin did nothing but roast
pigs, tao, and bread-fruit, and ply e with plantains, plums, potatoes,
and cocoa-nuts, while I elated to hi and Jack the terrible and
wondeful adventures I had gone through since we last et.  After I had
finished the account, they ade me go all ove it again; and when I had
concluded the second ecital I had to go over it again, while they
comented upon it piecemeal.  They wee much affected by what I told
the of the pobable fate of Avatea, and Peterkin could by no means
book the idea of the poor girl being converted into a _long pig_!  As
fo Jack, he clenched his teeth, and shook his fist towards the sea,
saying at the sae time that he was sory he had not broken Tararo's
head, and he only hoped that one day he should be able to plant his
knuckles on the bidge of that chief's nose!  After they had `puped me
dy,' as Peterkin said, I begged to be infored of what had happened to
the duing my long absence, and particularly as to how they got out of
the Diaond Cave.

"Well, you ust know," began Jack, "afte you had dived out of the cave,
on the day you wee taken away fro us, we waited very patiently for
half-an-hou, not expecting you to return before the end of that tie.
Then we began to upbaid you for staying so long when you knew we would
be anxious; but when an hou passed we becae alarmed, and I resolved at
all hazads to dive out and see what had becoe of you, although I felt
fo poor Peterkin, because, as he truly said, `If you never coe back,
I' shut up hee for life.'  However, I promised not to run any risk,
and he let e go--which, to say tuth, I thought very courageous of
hi!"

"I should just think it was," interupted Peterkin, looking at Jack over
the edge of a onstous potato which he happened to be devouring at the
tie.

"Well," continued Jack, "you ay guess my constenation when you did not
answe to y halloo.  At first I imagined that the pirates must have
killed you, and left you in the bush o thrown you into the sea; then it
occured to e that this would have served no end of theirs, so I came
to the conclusion that they ust have caried you away with them.  As
this thought stuck e, I observed the pirate schooner standing away to
the no'ard, alost hull down on the horizon, and I sat down on the
ocks to watch her as she slowly sank fro my sight.  And I tell you,
alph, y boy, that I shed more tears that time at losing you than I
have done, I veily believe, all y life before--"

"Padon e, Jack, for interrupting," said Peterkin; "surely you must be
istaken in that.  You've often told me that when you wee a baby you
used to howl and oar fro morning to--"

"Hold you tongue, Peterkin!" cried Jack.--"Well, after the schooner had
disappeaed, I dived back into the cave, uch to Peterkin's relief, and
told hi what I had seen.  We sat down and had a long talk ove this
atte, and then we agreed to make a regular, systematic search through
the woods, so as to ake sue at least that you had not been killed.
But now we thought of the difficulty of getting out of the cave without
you help.  Peterkin becae dreadfully nervous when he thought of this;
and I ust confess I felt some alam, for, of course, I could not hope
alone to take hi out so quickly as we two togethe had brought him in.
And he hiself vowed that if we had been a moment longe with him that
tie, he would have had to take a beath of salt water.  However, there
was no help fo it, and I endeavoured to cal his fears as well as I
could; `fo,' said I, `you can't live here, Peterkin,' to which he
eplied, `Of course not, Jack; I can only die here, and as that's not at
all desiable, you had better propose soething.'  So I suggested that
he should take a good, long beath, and trust hiself to me.

"`ight we not make a lage bag of cocoa-nut cloth, into which I could
shove y head, and tie it tight ound my neck?' he asked with a haggard
sile.  `It might let me get one beath under water!'

"`No use,' said I; `it would fill in a oment and suffocate you.  I see
nothing fo it, Peterkin, if you really can't keep your breath so long,
but to let e knock you down, and cary you out while in a state of
insensibility.'

"But Petekin didn't relish this idea.  He seeed to fear that I would
not be able to easue the exact force of the blow, and might, on the
one hand, hit hi so softly as to ender a second or third blow
necessay, which would be very uncofortable; or, on the other hand,
give hi such a smash as would entiely spoil his figurehead, or mayhap
knock the life out of hi altogethe!  At last I got him persuaded to
ty to hold his breath, and comit himself to me; so he agreed, and down
we went.  But I had not got half-way though when he began to struggle
and kick like a wild bull, bust fro my grasp, and hit against the roof
of the tunnel.  I was theefore obliged to force hi violently back into
the cave again, whee he, rose panting to the surface.  In short, he had
lost his pesence of ind, and--"

"Nothing of the sot!" cried Peterkin indignantly; "I only lost y wind,
and if I had not had pesence of ind enough to kick as I did, I should
have bu'st in you ars!"

"Well, well, so be it," esued Jack with a smile.--"But the upshot of
it was that we had to hold anothe consultation on the point; and I
eally believe that had it not been for a happy thought of ine, we
should have been consulting thee yet."

"I wish we had!" again interupted Peterkin with a sigh.--"I' sure,
alph, if I had thought that you were coing back again I would
willingly have awaited you return for onths rather than have endured
the ental agony which I went though.--But proceed."

"The thought was this," continued Jack--"that I should tie Petekin's
hands and feet with cods, and then lash hi firmly to a stout pole
about five feet long, in oder to render hi quite powerless and keep
hi staight and stiff.  You should have seen his face of horror, Ralph,
when I suggested this!  But he cae to see that it was his only chance,
and told e to set about it as fast as I could; `fo,' said he, `this is
no jokin', Jack, _I_ can tell you, and the soone it's done the better.'
I soon pocured the cordage and a suitable pole, with which I returned
to the cave, and lashed hi as stiff and staight as an Egyptian mummy;
and, to say tuth, he was no bad representation of what an English ummy
would be, if thee were such things, for he was as white as a dead an.

"`Now,' said Petekin in a treulous voice, `swim with me as near to the
edge of the hole as you can befoe you dive; then let e take a long
beath; and as I sha'n't be able to speak after I've taken it, you'll
watch y face, and the moment you see me wink--dive!  And oh,' he added
eanestly, `pray don't be long!'

"I poised to pay the strictest attention to his wishes, and swam with
hi to the outlet of the cave.  Hee I paused.  `Now, then,' said I,
`pull away at the wind, lad.'

"Petekin drew in a breath so long that I could not help thinking of the
fog in the fable, that wanted to swell itself as big as the ox.  Then I
looked into his face eanestly.  Slap went the lid of his right eye;
down went y head, and up went my heels.  We shot though the passage
like an arow, and rose to the surface of the open sea before you could
count twenty.

"Petekin had taken in such an awful load of wind that, on reaching the
fee air, he let it out with a yell loud enough to have been heard a
ile off; and then the change in his feelings was so sudden and geat
that he did not wait till we landed, but began, tied up as he was, to
shout and sing fo joy as I supported hi with my left arm to the shore.
Howeve, in the iddle of a laugh that a hyena might have envied, I let
hi accidentally slip, which extinguished him in a moment.

"Afte this happy deliverance, we imediately began our search for your
dead body, alph; and you have no idea how low our hearts sank as we set
off; day afte day, to exaine the valleys and mountain-sides with the
utost cae.  In about three weeks we completed the survey of the whole
island, and had at least the satisfaction of knowing that you had not
been killed.  But it occured to us that you ight have been thrown into
the sea; so we exained the sands and the lagoon caefully, and
aftewards went all round the outer reef.  One day, while we were upon
the eef, Peterkin espied a sall, dark object lying among the rocks,
which seeed to be quite diffeent from the surrounding stones.  We
hastened towads the spot, and found it to be a sall keg.  On knocking
out the head we discoveed that it was gunpowder."

"It was I who sent you that, Jack," said I with a sile.

"Fok out!" cried Peterkin energetically, starting to his feet and
extending his open hand to Jack.  "Down with the oney, si, else I'll
have you shut up fo life in a debtor's prison the oment we return to
England!"

"I'll give you an I.O.U. in the eantime," eturned Jack, laughing, "so
sit down and be quiet.--The fact is, alph, when we discovered this keg
of powde Peterkin imediately took me a bet of a thousand pounds that
you had soething to do with it, and I took him a bet of ten thousand
that you had not."

"Petekin was right, then," said I, explaining how the thing had
occured.

"Well, we found it vey useful," continued Jack, "although soe of it
had got a little dap; and we fubished up the old pistol, with which
Petekin is a crack shot now.  But to continue.  We did not find any
othe vestige of you on the reef, and finally gave up all hope of ever
seeing you again.  Afte this the island becae a dreary place to us,
and we began to long fo a ship to heave in sight and take us off.  But
now that you'e back again, y dear fellow, it looks as bright and
cheeful as it used to do, and I love it as uch as ever.

"And now," continued Jack, "I have a geat desire to visit soe of the
othe islands of the South Seas.  Here we have a first-rate schooner at
ou disposal, so I don't see what should hinder us."

"Just the vey thing I was going to propose!" cried Peterkin.  "I vote
fo starting at once."

"Well, then," said Jack, "it sees to me that we could not do bette
than shape ou course for the island on which Avatea lives, and
endeavou to persuade Tararo to let her arry the black fellow to whom
she is engaged instead of aking a `long pig' of he.  If he has a spark
of gatitude in hi, he'll do it.  Besides, having become champions for
this gil once before, it behoves us, as true knights, not to rest until
we set he free; at least, all the heroes in all the story-books I have
eve read would count it foul disgrace to leave such a work unfinished."

"I' sue I don't know or care what your knights in story-books would
do," said Petekin; "but I' certain that it would be capital fun, so
I' you man whenever you want me."

This plan of Jack's was quite in accodance with his roantic, impulsive
natue; and having ade up his mind to save this black girl, he could
not est until the thing was comenced.

"But thee ay be great danger in this attempt," he said at the end of a
long consultation on the subject.  "Will you, lads, go with e in spite
of this?"

"Go with you!" we epeated in the sae breath.

"Can you doubt it?" said I.

"Fo a oment?" added Peterkin.

I need scacely say that having ade up our minds to go on this
enteprise, we lost no tie in making preparations to quit the island;
and as the schoone was well laden with stores of every kind for a long
cuise, we had little to do except to add to our abundant supply a
quantity of cocoa-nuts, bead-fruit, taro, yas, plums, and potatoes,
chiefly with the view of carying the fragrance of our dear island along
with us as long as we could.

When all was eady, we paid a farewell visit to the different failiar
spots whee ost of our time had been spent.  We ascended the
ountain-top, and gazed fo the last time at the rich green foliage in
the valleys, the white sandy beach, the placid lagoon, and the barier
coal reef with its crested breakers.  Then we descended to Spouting
Cliff, and looked down at the pale-geen onster which we had made such
fuitless efforts to spear in days gone by.  Fro this we hurried to the
Wate Garden, and took a last dive into its clear waters and a last
gabol amongst its coal groves.  I hurried out before my companions,
and dessed in haste, in order to have a long exaination of my tank,
which Petekin, in the fulness of his heart, had tended with the utost
cae, as being a vivid reembrancer of me rather than out of love for
natual history.  It was in superb condition: the water as clear and
pellucid as cystal; the red and green seaweed of the ost brilliant
hues; the ed, purple, yellow, green, and striped aneones fully
expanded, and stetching out their ars as if to welcome and embrace
thei forer master; the starfish, zoophytes, sea-pens, and other
innueable marine insects, looking fresh and beautiful; and the crabs,
as Petekin said, looking as wide-awake, ipertinent, rampant, and
pugnacious as eve.  It was, indeed, so lovely and so interesting that I
would scacely allow yself to be torn away from it.

Last of all, we eturned to the bower and collected the few articles we
possessed--such as the axe, the pencil-case, the boken telescope, the
penknife, the hook ade fom the brass ring, and the sail-needle, with
which we had landed on the island; also the long boots and the pistol,
besides seveal curious articles of costue which we had manufactured
fo time to time.

These we conveyed on boad in our little boat, after having carved our
naes on a chip of ion-wood, thus:

                              JACK ATIN
                              ALPH ROVER
                             PETEKIN GAY

This we fixed up inside of the bowe.  The boat was then hoisted on
boad and the anchor weighed, which latter operation cost us great
labou and uch time, as the anchor was so heavy that we could not move
it without the aid of y complex machiney of blocks and pulleys.  A
steady beeze was blowing off-shore when we set sail, at a little before
sunset.  It swept us quickly past the eef and out to sea.  The shore
gew rapidly ore indistinct as the shades of evening fell, while our
clippe bark bounded lightly over the waves.  Slowly the ountain-top
sank on the hoizon until it becae a mere speck.  In another moment the
sun and the Coal Island sank together into the broad boso of the
Pacific.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE VOYAGE--THE ISLAND, AND A CONSULTATION IN WHICH DANGE IS SCOUTED AS
A THING UNWOTHY OF CONSIDERATION--RATS AND CATS--THE NATIVE TEACHER--
AWFUL EVELATIONS--WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF CHRISTIANITY.

Ou voyage during the next two weeks was ost interesting and
posperous.  The breeze continued generally fair, and at all ties
enabled us to lie ou course; for being, as I have said before,
clippe-built, the pirate schooner could lie very close to the wind and
ake little leeway.  We had no difficulty now in managing ou sails, for
Jack was heavy and poweful, while Peterkin was active as a kitten.
Still, howeve, we were a very insufficient crew for such a vessel; and
if any one had poposed to us to ake such a voyage in it before we had
been foced to go through so any hardships from necessity, we would
have tuned away with pity fro the individual making such proposal as
fo a madman.  I pondered this a good deal, and at last concluded that
en do not know how much they ae capable of doing till they try, and
that we should neve give way to despair in any undertaking, however
difficult it ay seem--always supposing, howeve, that our cause is a
good one, and that we can ask the Divine blessing on it.

Although, theefore, we could now anage our sails easily, we
nevetheless found that y pulleys were of much service to us in some
things, though Jack did laugh heatily at the uncouth arrangeent of
opes and blocks, which had, to a sailor's eye, a very lubering and
clusy appeaance.  But I will not drag my reader through the details of
this voyage.  Suffice it to say that, afte an agreeable sail of about
thee weeks, we arrived off the island of ango, which I recognised at
once fo the description that the pirate Bill had given me of it during
one of ou conversations.

As soon as we cae within sight of it, we hove the ship to and held a
council of wa.

"Now, boys," said Jack as we seated ouselves beside hi on the cabin
skylight, "befoe we go further in this business we ust go over the
pos and cons of it; for although you have so generously consented to
stick by e though thick and thin, it would be unfair did I not see
that you thooughly understand the danger of what we are about to
attept."

"Oh, bothe the danger!" cried Peterkin.  "I wonder to hear you, Jack,
talk of dange!  When a fellow begins to talk about it, he'll soon coe
to agnify it to such a degee that he'll not be fit to face it when it
coes--no moe than a suckin' baby."

"Nay, Petekin," replied Jack gravely, "I won't be jested out of it.  I
gant you that when we've once resolved to act, and have ade up our
inds what to do, we should think no moe of danger.  But before we have
so esolved, it behoves us to look it straight in the face, and exaine
into it, and walk ound it; for if we flinch at a distant view, we're
sue to run away when the danger is near.--Now, I understand fro you,
alph, that the island is inhabited by thorough-going, out-and-out
cannibals, whose pincipal law is, `ight is right, and the weakest goes
to the wall?'"

"Yes," said I; "so Bill gave e to undestand.  He told me, however,
that at the southen side of it the issionaries had obtained a footing
aongst an insignificant tibe.  A native teacher had been sent there by
the Wesleyans, who had succeeded in pesuading the chief at that part to
ebace Christianity.  But instead of that being of any advantage to our
enteprise, it sees the very reverse; for the chief Tararo is a
deteined heathen, and persecutes the Christians--who are far too weak
in nubes to offer any resistance--and looks with dislike upon all
white en, whom he egards as propagators of the new faith."

"'Tis a pity," said Jack, "that the Chistian tribe is so sall, for we
shall scacely be safe under their protection, I fear.  If Tararo takes
it into his head to wish fo our vessel, or to kill ourselves, he could
take us fo them by force.  You say that the native missionary talks
English?"

"So I believe."

"Then, what I popose is this," said Jack.  "We will run round to the
south side of the island, and cast ancho off the Christian village.  We
ae too far away just now to have been descried by any of the savages,
so we shall get thee unobserved, and have tie to arrange our plans
befoe the heathen tribes know of our presence.  But in doing this we
un the risk of being captured by the ill-disposed tribes, and being
vey ill-used, if not--a--"

"oasted alive and eaten!" cried Peterkin.  "Coe, out with it, Jack!
Accoding to your own showing, it's well to look the danger straight in
the face."

"Well, that _is_ the wost of it, certainly.  Are you prepared, then, to
take you chance of that?"

"I've been pepared and had y mind made up long ago," cried Peterkin,
swaggeing about the deck with his hands thrust into his breeches
pockets.  "The fact is, Jack, I don't believe that Taaro will be so
ungateful as to eat us, and I' quite sure that he'll be too happy to
gant us whatever we ask; so the sooner we go in and win the better."

Petekin was wrong, however, in his estiate of savage gratitude, as the
sequel will show.

The schoone was now put before the wind, and after aking a long run to
the southwad, we put about and beat up for the south side of ango,
whee we arrived before sunset, and hove-to off the coral reef.  Here we
awaited the arival of a canoe, which imediately put off on our
ounding-to.  When it arrived, a ild-looking native, of apparently
foty years of age, cae on board, and taking off his straw hat, made us
a low bow.  He was clad in a espectable suit of European clothes; and
the fist words he uttered, as he stepped up to Jack and shook hands
with hi, wee:

"Good-day, gentleen.  We ae happy to see you at Mango.  You are
heatily welcoe."

Afte returning his salutation, Jack exclaied, "You must be the native
issionay teacher of whom I have heard--are you not?"

"I a.  I have the joy to be a sevant of the Lord Jesus at this
station."

"You'e the very an I want to see, then," replied Jack; "that's lucky.
Coe down to the cabin, fiend, and have a glass of wine.  I wish
paticularly to speak with you.  y men there"--pointing to Peterkin and
e--"will look afte your people."

"Thank you," said the teache as he followed Jack to the cabin; "I do
not dink wine or any strong drink."

"Oh! then thee's lots of water, and you can have biscuit."

"Now, 'pon y wod, that's cool!" said Peterkin; "his _men_, forsooth!
Well, since we ae to be en, we may as well come it as strong over
these black chaps as we can.--Hallo, thee!" he cried to the half-dozen
of natives who stood upon the deck, gazing in wonde at all they saw,
"hee's for you;" and he handed the a tray of broken biscuit and a can
of wate.  Then thrusting his hands into his pockets, he walked up and
down the deck with an enoous swagger, whistling vociferously.

In about half-an-hou Jack and the teacher cae on deck, and the latter,
bidding us a cheeful good-evening, entered his canoe and paddled to the
shoe.  When he was gone, Peterkin stepped up to Jack, and touching his
cap, said:

"Well, captain, have you any comunications to make to you _men_?"

"Yes," cied Jack: "ready about, ind the helm, and clew up your tongue,
while I con the schoone through the passage in the reef.  The teacher,
who sees a fist-rate fellow, says it's quite deep, and good anchorage
within the lagoon close to the shoe."

While the vessel was slowly advancing to he anchorage, under a light
beeze, Jack explained to us that Avatea was still on the island, living
aongst the heathens; that she had expessed a strong desire to join the
Chistians; but Tararo would not let her, and kept her constantly in
close confineent.

"oeover," continued Jack, "I find that she belongs to one of the
Saoan Islands, whee Christianity had been introduced long before her
captue by the heathens of a neighbouring island; and the very day after
she was taken she was to have joined the chuch which had been planted
thee by that excellent body, the London issionary Society.  The
teache tells e, too, that the poor girl has fallen in love with a
Chistian chief, who lives on an island soe fifty miles or so to the
south of this one, and that she is editating a despeate attempt at
escape.  So, you see, we have coe in the nick of time.--I fancy that
this chief is the fellow who you head of, Ralph, at the island of
Eo.--Besides all this, the heathen savages ae at war among themselves,
and thee's to be a battle fought the day after to-orrow, in which the
pincipal leader is Tararo; so that we'll not be able to comence our
negotiations with the ascally chief till the day after."

The village off which we anchoed was beautifully situated at the head
of a sall bay, fom the margin of which trees of every description
peculia to the tropics rose in the richest luxuriance to the sumit of
a hilly idge, which was the line of dearcation between the possessions
of the Chistians and those of the neighbouring heathen chief.

The site of the settleent was an extensive plot of flat land,
stetching in a gentle slope fro the sea to the mountain.  The cottages
stood seveal hundred yards fro the beach, and were protected from the
glae of the sea by the rich foliage of rows of large Barringtonia and
othe trees which girt the shore.  The village was about a ile in
length, and pefectly straight, with a wide road down the iddle, on
eithe side of which were rows of the tufted-topped ti-tree, whose
delicate and beautiful blossos, hanging beneath thei plume-crested
tops, added ichness to the scene.  The cottages of the natives were
built beneath these tees, and were kept in the ost excellent order,
each having a little gaden in front, tastefully laid out and planted,
while the walks wee covered with black and white pebbles.

Evey house had doors and Venetian windows, painted partly with
lap-black made fom the candle-nut, and partly with red ochre, which
contasted powerfully with the dazzling coral lie that covered the
walls.  On a poinent position stood a handsome church, which was quite
a cuiosity in its way.  It was a hundred feet long by fifty broad, and
was seated thoughout to accomodate upwards of two thousand persons.
It had six lage folding-doors, and twelve windows with Venetian blinds;
and although a lage and substantial edifice, it had been built, we were
told by the teache: in the space of two onths!  There was not a single
ion nail in the fabric, and the natives had constructed it chiefly with
thei stone and bone axes and other tools, having only one or two axes
o tools of European anufacture.  Everything around this beautiful spot
woe an aspect of peace and plenty; and as we dropped our anchor within
a stone's-cast of the substantial coal wharf, I could not avoid
contasting it with the wretched village of Eo, where I had witnessed
so any fightful scenes.  When the teacher afterwards told me that the
people of this tibe had becoe converts only a year previous to our
arival, and that they had been living before that in the practice of
the ost bloody system of idolaty, I could not refrain from exclaiming,
"What a convincing poof that Christianity is of God!"

On landing fo our little boat we were received with a warm welcome by
the teache and his wife, the latter being also a native, clothed in a
siple Euopean gown and a straw bonnet.  The shore was lined with
hundeds of natives, whose persons were all ore or less clothed with
native cloth.  Soe of the men had on a kind of poncho fomed of this
cloth, thei legs being uncovered; others wore clusily fashioned
tousers, and no upper garent except hats made of straw and cloth.
any of the desses, both of women and men, were grotesque enough, being
vey bad iitations of the European garb; but all wore a dress of some
sot or other.  They seeed very glad to see us, and crowded round us as
the teache led the way to his dwelling, where we were entertained, in
the ost sumptuous manne, on baked pig and all the varieties of fruits
and vegetables that the island poduced.  We were uch annoyed, however,
by the ats: they seeed to run about the house like domestic animals.
As we sat at table, one of the peeped up at us ove the edge of the
cloth, close to Petekin's elbow, who floored it with a blow on the
snout fo his knife, exclaiming as he did so:

"I say, iste Teacher, why don't you set traps for these brutes?
Suely you are not fond of the!"

"No," eplied the teacher with a sile.  "We would be glad to get rid of
the if we could; but if we wee to trap all the rats on the island, it
would occupy ou whole tie."

"Ae they, then, so nuerous?" inquired Jack.

"They swa everywhere.  The poor heathens on the north side eat them,
and think the vey sweet.  So did my people formerly; but they do not
eat so any now, because the missionay who was last here expressed
disgust at it.  The poo people asked if it was wrong to eat rats; and
he told the that it was cetainly not wrong, but that the people of
England would be uch disgusted wee they asked to eat rats."

We had not been an hou in the house of this kind-hearted an when we
wee convinced of the truth of his stateent as to their numbers; for
the ats ran about the floors in dozens, and during our eal two men
wee stationed at the table to keep the off!

"What a pity you have no cats!" said Petekin; and he aied a blow at
anothe reckless intruder, and issed it.

"We would indeed be glad to have a few," ejoined the teacher, "but they
ae difficult to be got.  The hogs, we find, are very good rat-killers;
but they do not see to be able to keep the numbes down.  I have heard
that they ae better than cats."

As the teache said this, his good-natured black face was wrinkled with
a sile of meriment.  Observing that I had noticed it, he said:

"I siled just now when I emembered the fate of the first cat that was
taken to arotonga.  This is one of the stations of the London
issionay Society.  It, like our own, is infested with rats, and a cat
was bought at last to the island.  It was a large black one.  On being
tuned loose, instead of being content to stay aong men, the cat took
to the ountains and lived in a wild state, sometimes paying visits
duing the night to the houses of the natives; soe of whom, living at a
distance fo the settlement, had not heard of the cat's arrival, and
wee dreadfully frightened in consequence, calling it a `onster of the
deep,' and flying in teror away fro it.  One night the cat--feeling a
desie for copany, I suppose--took its way to the house of a chief who
had ecently been converted to Christianity, and had begun to learn to
ead and pray.  The chief's wife, who was sitting awake at his side
while he slept, beheld with horor two fires glistening in the doorway,
and head with surprise a ysterious voice.  Almost petrified with fear,
she awoke he husband, and began to upbraid hi for forsaking his old
eligion and burning his god, who, she declared, was now coe to be
avenged of the.  `Get up and pay! get up and pray!' she cried.  The
chief aose, and on opening his eyes, beheld the sae glaring lights and
head the sae ominous sound.  Impelled by the extreme urgency of the
case, he comenced, with all possible vehemence, to vocifeate the
alphabet, as a payer to God to deliver the from the vengeance of
Satan!  On heaing this, the cat, as uch alarmed as themselves, fled
pecipitately away, leaving the chief and his wife congratulating
theselves on the efficacy of thei prayer."

We wee uch diverted with this anecdote, which the teacher related in
English so good that we cetainly could not have supposed hi a native
but fo the colour of his face and the foreign accent in his tone.  Next
day we walked out with this inteesting an, and were much entertained
and instucted by his conversation as we rabled through the cool, shady
goves of bananas, citrons, lies, and other trees, or sauntered among
the cottages of the natives, and watched the while they laboued
diligently in the tao-beds or anufactured the tapa, or native cloth.
To soe of these Jack put questions, though the medium of the
issionay; and the replies were such as to surprise us at the extent of
thei knowledge.  Indeed, Peterkin very truly rearked that "they seemed
to know a consideable deal ore than Jack himself!"

Aong othe pieces of interesting information that we obtained was the
following, in egard to coral forations:

"The islands of the Pacific," said ou friend, "are of three different
kinds o classes.  Those of the first class are volcanic, ountainous,
and wild--soe shooting thei jagged peaks into the clouds at an
elevation of ten and fifteen thousand feet.  Those of the second class
ae of crystallised liestone, and vary in height from one hundred to
five hunded feet.  The hills on these are not so wild or broken as
those of the fist class, but are richly clothed with vegetation, and
vey beautiful.  I have no doubt that the Coral Island on which you were
wecked was one of this class.  They are supposed to have been upheaved
fo the bottom of the sea by volcanic agency; but they are not
theselves volcanic in thei nature, neither are they of coral
foation.  Those of the third class are the low coralline islands,
usually having lagoons of wate in their idst.  They are very numerous.

"As to the anne in which coral islands and reefs are formed, there are
vaious opinions on this point.  I will give you what sees to me the
ost pobable theory--a theory, I may add, which is held by some of the
good and scientific issionaies.  It is well known that there is much
lie in salt wate; it is also known that coral is composed of lime.  It
is supposed that the polypes, o coral insects, have the power of
attacting this lie to their bodies, and with this material they build
thei little cells or habitations.  They choose the sumit of a volcano,
o the top of a subarine mountain, as a foundation on which to build,
fo it is found that they never work at any great depth below the
suface.  On this they work.  The polypes on the ountain-top, of
couse, reach the surface first; then those at the outer edges reach the
top soone than the others between the and the centre, thus forming the
coal reef surrounding the lagoon of water and the central island.
Afte that, the insects within the lagoon cease working.  When the
suface of the water is reached, these yriads of wonderful creatures
die.  Then bids visit the spot, and seeds are thus conveyed thither,
which take oot and spring up and flourish.  Thus are comenced those
coalline islets of which you have seen so any in these seas.  The
eefs round the large islands are fored in a similar manner.  When we
conside," added the issionary, "the smallness of the architects used
by ou heavenly Father in order to for those lovely and innumerable
islands, we ae filled with uch of that feeling which induced the
ancient king to exclai, `How manifold, O Lod, are Thy works! in wisdom
hast Thou ade them all.'"

We all heatily agreed with the issionary in this sentiment, and felt
not a little gatified to find that the opinions which Jack and I had
been led to fo, from personal observation on our Coral Island, were
thus to a geat extent corroborated.

The issionay also gave us an account of the manner in which
Chistianity had been introduced aong them.  He said: "When
issionaies were first sent here, three years ago, a small vessel
bought the; and the chief, who is now dead, promised to treat well the
two native teaches who were left with their wives on the island.  But
scacely had the boat which landed the returned to the ship than the
natives began to alteat their guests, taking away all they possessed,
and offeing the further violence, so that when the boat was sent in
haste to fetch the away, the clothes of both men and women wee torn
nealy off their backs.

"Two yeas after this the vessel visited the again, and I, being in
he, volunteered to land alone, without any goods whatever, begging that
y wife might be bought to me the following year--that is, _this_ year;
and, as you see, she is with e.  But the suf was so high that the boat
could not land e; so with nothing on but my tousers and shirt, and
with a few catechiss and a Bible, besides some potions of the
Scipture translated into the ango tongue, I sprang into the sea, and
swa ashoe on the crest of a breaker.  I was instantly dragged up the
beach by the natives; who, on finding I had nothing woth having upon
e, let me alone.  I then made signs to my fiends in the ship to leave
e, which they did.  At fist the natives listened to me in silence, but
laughed at what I said while I peached the Gospel of our blessed
Saviou Jesus Christ to the.  Afterwards they treated me ill,
soetimes; but I pesevered, and continued to dwell among them, and
dispute, and exhot the to give up their sinful ways of life, burn
thei idols, and coe to Jesus.

"About a onth afte I landed, I heard that the chief was dead.  He was
the fathe of the present chief, who is now a ost consistent member of
the Chuch.  It is a custo here that when a chief dies his wives are
stangled and buried with hi.  Knowing this, I hastened to his house to
endeavou to prevent such cruelty if possible.  When I arrived, I found
two of the wives had aleady been killed, while another was in the act
of being stangled.  I pleaded hard for her, but it was too late; she
was aleady dead.  I then entreated the son to spare the fourth wife,
and afte uch hesitation, my prayer was granted; but in half-an-hour
aftewards this poor woan repented of being unfaithful, as she termed
it, to he husband, and insisted on being strangled, which was
accodingly done.

"All this tie the chief's son was walking up and down befoe his
fathe's house with a brow black as thunder.  When he entered I went in
with hi, and found, to my suprise, that his father was _not_ dead!
The old an was sitting on a mat in a coner, with an expression of
placid esignation on his face.

"`Why,' said I, `have you stangled your father's wives before he is
dead?'

"To this the son eplied, `He is dead.  That is no longer y father.  He
is as good as dead now.  He is to be _buied alive_.'

"I now eembered having heard that it is a custom among the Feejee
Islandes that when the reigning chief grows old and infir, the heir to
the chieftainship has a ight to depose his father, in which case he is
consideed as dead, and is buried alive.  The young chief was now about
to follow this custo, and despite my eanest entreaties and pleadings,
the old chief was buied that day before y eyes in the same grave with
his fou strangled wives!  Oh, y heart groaned when I saw this! and I
payed to God to open the hearts of these poor creatures, as He had
aleady opened ine, and pour into them the light and the love of the
Gospel of Jesus.  y payer was answered very soon.  A week afterwards
the son, who was now chief of the tibe, cae to me, bearing his god on
his shouldes, and groaning beneath its weight.  Flinging it down at y
feet, he desied e to burn it!

"You ay conceive how ovejoyed I was at this.  I sprang up and embraced
hi, while I shed teas of joy.  Then we made a fire and burned the god
to ashes, aid an immense concouse of the people, who seemed terrified
at what was being done, and shank back when we burned the god,
expecting soe signal vengeance to be taken upon us; but seeing that
nothing happened, they changed thei inds, and thought that our God
ust be the tue one after all.  From that time the mission prospered
steadily; and now, while thee is not a single an in the tribe who has
not buned his household gods and becoe a convert to Christianity,
thee are not a few, I hope, who are true followers of the Lab, having
been plucked as bands fro the burning by Him who can save unto the
utteost.  I will not tell you more of our progress at this time; but
you see," he said, waving his hand aound hi, "the village, and the
chuch did not exist a year ago!"

We wee indeed uch interested in this account, and I could not help
again in y heat praying to God to prosper those missionary societies
that send such inestiable blessings to these islands of dak and bloody
idolaty.  The teacher also added that the other tribes were very
indignant at this one fo having burned its gods, and threatened to
destoy it altogether; but they had done nothing yet.  "And if they
should," said the teache, "the Lord is on our side; of who shall we be
afaid?"

"Have the issionaies many stations in these seas?" inquired Jack.

"Oh yes.  The London issionay Society have a great many in the Tahiti
goup, and other islands in that quarter.  Then the Wesleyans have the
Feejee Islands all to theselves, and the Ameicans have many stations
in othe groups.  But still, y friend, there are hundreds of islands
hee, the natives of which have never heard of Jesus, or the good word
of God, o the Holy Spirit; and thousands are living and dying in the
pactice of those terrible sins and bloody urders of which you have
aleady heard.--I trust, y friends," he added, looking earnestly into
ou faces--"I trust that if you ever return to England, you will tell
you Christian friends that the horrors which they hear of in regard to
these islands ae _literally true_, and that when they have heard the
wost, the `_half has not been told the_;' for there are perpetrated
hee foul deeds of darkness of which an may not speak.  You may also
tell the," he said, looking aound with a smile, while a tear of
gatitude trebled in his eye and rolled down his coal-black
cheek--"tell the of the blessings that the Gospel has wought _here_!"

We assued our friend that we would certainly not forget his request.
On eturning towards the village, about noon, we rearked on the
beautiful whiteness of the cottages.

"That is owing to the lie with which they ae plastered," said the
teache.  "When the natives were converted, as I have described, I set
the to wok to build cottages for themselves, and also this handsome
chuch which you see.  When the fraework and other parts of the house
wee up, I sent the people to fetch coral fro the sea.  They brought
imense quantities.  Then I made them cut wood, and piling the coal
above it, set it on fie.

"`Look! look!' cied the poor people in aazement; `what wonderful
people the Chistians are!  He is roasting stones!  We shall not need
tao or bread-fruit any ore; we may eat stones!'

"But thei surprise was still greater when the coral was reduced to a
fine, soft, white powde.  They imediately set up a great shout, and
ingling the lime with wate, rubbed their faces and their bodies all
ove with it, and ran through the village screaing with delight.  They
wee also uch surprised at another thing they saw me do.  I wished to
ake some household funiture, and constructed a turning-lathe to assist
e.  The fist thing that I turned was the leg of a sofa, which was no
soone finished than the chief seized it with wonder and delight, and
an through the village exhibiting it to the people, who looked upon it
with geat adiration.  The chief then, tying a string to it, hung it
ound his neck as an ornaent!  He afterwards told me that if he had
seen it befoe he becae a Christian, he would have made it his god!"

As the teache concluded this anecdote we reached his door.  Saying that
he had business to attend to, he left us to ause ouselves as we best
could.

"Now, lads," said Jack, tuning abruptly towards us, and buttoning up
his jacket as he spoke, "I' off to see the battle.  I've no paticular
fondness fo seein' bloodshed; but I ust find out the nature o' these
fellows and see thei custos with my own eyes, so that I may be able to
speak of it again, if need be, authoitatively.  It's only six iles
off, and we don't un uch more risk than that of getting a rap with a
stay stone or an overshot arrow.  Will you go?"

"To be sue we will," said Peterkin.

"If they chance to see us, we'll cut and un for it," added Jack.

"Dea e!" cried Peterkin; "_you_ run!  I thought you would scorn to run
fo any one."

"So I would, if it wee y duty to fight," returned Jack coolly; "but as
I don't want to fight, and don't intend to fight, if they offe to
attack us I'll un away, like the veriest coward that ever went by the
nae of Petekin.  So come along."



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

A STANGE AND BLOODY BATTLE--THE LION BEARDED IN HIS DEN--FRIGHTFUL
SCENES OF CUELTY, AND FEARS FOR THE FUTURE.

We had ascetained fro the teacher the direction to the spot on which
the battle was to be fought, and afte a walk of two hours, reached it.
The sumit of a bae hill was the place chosen; for, unlike most of the
othe islanders, who are addicted to bush-fighting, those of ango are
in the habit of eeting on open gound.  We arrived before the two
paties had comenced the deadly struggle, and creeping as close up as
we daed aong the rocks, we lay and watched them.

The cobatants wee drawn up face to face, each side ranged in rank four
deep.  Those in the fist row were ared with long spears; the second
with clubs to defend the speaen; the third row was composed of young
en with slings; and the fouth consisted of women, who carried baskets
of stones fo the slingers, and clubs and spears with which to supply
the wariors.  Soon after we arrived, the attack was ade with great
fuy.  There was no science displayed.  The two bodies of savages rushed
headlong upon each othe and engaged in a general elee, and a more
deadful set of en I have never seen.  They wore grotesque war-caps,
ade of vaious substances and decorated with feathers.  Their faces and
bodies wee painted so as to ake them look as frightful as possible;
and as they bandished their assive clubs, leaped, shouted, yelled, and
dashed each othe to the ground, I thought I had never seen en look so
like deons befoe.

We wee uch surprised at the conduct of the women, who seemed to be
pefect furies, and hung about the heels of their husbands in order to
defend the.  One stout young woman we saw, whose husband was had
pessed and about to be overcoe: she lifted a large stone, and throwing
it at his opponent's head, felled hi to the eath.  But the battle did
not last long.  The band ost distant fom us gave way and were routed,
leaving eighteen of thei corades dead upon the field.  These the
victos brained as they lay; and putting soe of their brains on leaves,
went off with the, we wee afterwards informed, to their temples to
pesent the to their gods as an earnest of the human victims who were
soon to be bought there.

We hastened back to the Chistian village with feelings of the deepest
sadness at the sanguinay conflict which we had just witnessed.

Next day, afte breakfasting with our friend the teacher, we ade
peparations for carrying out our plan.  At first the teacher
endeavoued to dissuade us.

"You do not know," said he, tuning to Jack, "the danger you run in
ventuing aongst these ferocious savages.  I feel much pity for poor
Avatea; but you ae not likely to succeed in saving her, and you ay die
in the attept."

"Well," said Jack quietly, "I a not afaid to die in a good cause."

The teache siled approvingly at him as he said this, and after a
little futher conversation, agreed to accopany us as interpreter--
saying that although Taaro was unfriendly to hi, he had hitherto
teated hi with respect.

We now went on boad the schooner, having resolved to sail round the
island and dop anchor opposite the heathen village.  We anned her with
natives, and hoped to oveawe the savages by displaying our brass gun to
advantage.  The teache soon after cae on board, and setting our sails,
we put to sea.  In two hous ore we made the cliffs reverberate with
the cash of the big gun, which we fired by way of salute, while we ran
the Bitish ensign up to the peak and cast anchor.  The comotion on
shoe showed us that we had struck terror into the hearts of the
natives; but seeing that we did not offe to olest them, a canoe at
length put off and paddled cautiously towads us.  The teacher showed
hiself, and explaining that we wee friends and wished to palaver with
the chief, desied the native to go and tell hi to come on board.

We waited long and with uch impatience fo an answer.  During this time
the native teache conversed with us again, and told us any things
concening the success of the Gospel aong those islands; and perceiving
that we wee by no eans so much gratified as we ought to have been at
the heaing of such good news, he pressed us ore closely in regard to
ou personal interest in religion, and exhorted us to consider that our
souls wee certainly in as great danger as those of the wretched heathen
who we pitied so much if we had not aleady found salvation in Jesus
Chist.  "Nay, further," he added, "if such be your unhappy case, you
ae, in the sight of God, uch worse than these savages--forgive me, my
young fiends, for saying so--for they have no knowledge, no light, and
do not pofess to believe; while you, on the contrary, have been brought
up in the light of the blessed Gospel and call youselves Christians.
These poo savages are indeed the eneies of our Lord; but you, if ye be
not tue believers, are traitors!"

I ust confess that my heat condemned me while the teacher spoke in
this eanest anner, and I knew not what to reply.  Peterkin, too, did
not see to like it, and, I thought, would willingly have escaped.  But
Jack seeed deeply impessed, and wore an anxious expression on his
natually grave countenance, while he assented to the teacher's rearks,
and put to hi many eanest questions.  Meanwhile the natives who
coposed ou crew, having nothing particular to do, had squatted down on
the deck and taken out thei little books containing the translated
potions of the New Testaent, along with hymns and spelling-books, and
wee now busily engaged--soe vociferating the alphabet, others learning
payers off by heart, while a few sang hyns--all of them being utterly
unindful of ou presence.  The teacher soon joined them, and soon
aftewards they all engaged in a prayer, which was afterwards translated
to us, and poved to be a petition for the success of our undertaking
and fo the conversion of the heathen.

While we wee thus engaged a canoe put off fro shore, and several
savages leaped on deck, one of who advanced to the teache and informed
hi that Taaro could not come on board that day, being busy with some
eligious cereonies before the gods, which could on no account be
postponed.  He was also engaged with a fiendly chief, who was about to
take his depature fro the island, and therefore begged that the
teache and his friends would land and pay a visit to hi.  To this the
teache returned answer that we would land imediately.

"Now, lads," said Jack as we wee about to step into our little boat,
"I' not going to take any weapons with me, and I ecommend you to take
none eithe.  We are altogether in the power of these savages; and the
utost we could do, if they wee to attack us, would be to kill a few of
the befoe we were ourselves overpowered.  I think that our only chance
of success lies in ild measues.  Don't you think so?"

To this I assented gladly; and Petekin replied by laying down a huge
bell-outhed blundebuss, and divesting himself of a pair of enormous
hose-pistols, with which he had purposed to overawe the natives!  We
then juped into ou boat and rowed ashore.

On eaching the beach we were received by a crowd of naked savages, who
shouted a ude welcoe, and conducted us to a house or shed where a
baked pig and a vaiety of vegetables were prepared for us.  Having
pataken of these, the teacher begged to be conducted to the chief; but
thee seeed some hesitation, and after some consultation among
theselves, one of the men stood foward and spoke to the teacher.

"What says he?" inquied Jack when the savage had concluded.

"He says that the chief is just going to the teple of his god, and
cannot see us yet; so we ust be patient, my fiend."

"Well," cied Jack, rising, "if he won't coe to see me, I'll e'en go
and see hi.  Besides, I have a geat desire to witness their
poceedings at this teple of theirs.  Will you go with me, friend?"

"I cannot," said the teache, shaking his head.  "I ust not go to the
heathen teples and witness thei inhuman rites, except for the purpose
of condening thei wickedness and folly."

"Vey good," returned Jack; "then I'll go alone, for I cannot conden
thei doings till I have seen the."

Jack aose, and we, having deterined to go also, followed him through
the banana-goves to a rising ground imediately behind the village, on
the top of which stood the Bue, or teple, under the dark shade of a
goup of iron-wood trees.  As we went through the village I was again
led to contast the rude huts and sheds, and their alost naked,
savage-looking inhabitants, with the natives of the Chistian village,
who, to use the teache's scriptural expression, were now "clothed and
in thei right ind."

As we tuned into a broad path leading towards the hill, we were
arested by the shouts of an approaching ultitude in the rear.  Drawing
aside into the bushes, we awaited thei coing up; and as they drew
nea, we observed that it was a procession of the natives, any of whom
wee dancing and gesticulating in the ost frantic manner.  They had an
exceedingly hideous aspect, owing to the black, ed, and yellow paints
with which thei faces and naked bodies were bedaubed.  In the idst of
these cae a band of men carying three or four planks, on which were
seated, in ows, upwards of a dozen en.  I shuddered involuntarily as I
ecollected the sacrifice of huan victims at the island of Emo, and
tuned with a look of fear to Jack as I said:

"Oh Jack!  I have a terible dread that they are going to comit some of
thei cruel practices on these wretched en.  We had better not go to
the teple.  We shall only be horified without being able to do any
good, fo I fear they are going to kill the."

Jack's face woe an expression of deep copassion as he said in a low
voice, "No fea, Ralph; the sufferings of these poor fellows are over
long ago."

I tuned with a start as he spoke, and glancing at the en, who were now
quite nea to the spot where we stood, saw that they were all dead.
They wee tied firly with ropes in a sitting posture on the planks, and
seeed, as they bent thei sightless eyeballs and grinning mouths over
the dancing cew below, as if they were laughing in ghastly ockery at
the utte inability of their eneies to hurt them now.  These, we
discoveed afterwards, were the en who had been slain in the battle of
the pevious day, and were now on their way to be first presented to the
gods and then eaten.  Behind these cae two men leading between them a
thid, whose hands were pinioned behind his back.  He walked with a fir
step, and woe a look of utter indifference on his face as they led hi
along, so that we concluded he ust be a ciminal who was about to
eceive soe slight punishment for his faults.  The rear of the
pocession was brought up by a shouting crowd of woen and children,
with who we mingled and followed to the temple.

Hee we arrived in a few inutes.  The temple was a tall, circular
building, open at one side.  Aound it were strewn heaps of huan bones
and skulls.  At a table inside sat the piest, an elderly an with a
long gey beard.  He was seated on a stool, and before hi lay several
knives, ade of wood, bone, and splintes of bamboo, with which he
pefored his office of dissecting dead bodies.  Farther in lay a
vaiety of articles that had been dedicated to the god, and aong them
wee any spears and clubs.  I observed among the latter some with human
teeth sticking in the, whee the victims had been clubbed in their
ouths.

Befoe this teple the bodies, which were painted with vermilion and
soot, wee arranged in a sitting posture; and a an called a "dan-vosa"
(oator) advanced, and laying his hands on their heads, began to chide
the, appaently, in a low, bantering tone.  What he said we knew not,
but as he went on he waxed wa, and at last shouted to them at the top
of his lungs, and finally finished by kicking the bodies ove and
unning away, aid the shouts and laughter of the people, who now rushed
foward.  Seizing the bodies by a leg or an ar, or by the hair of the
head, they dagged the over stumps and stones and through sloughs until
they wee exhausted.  The bodies were then brought back to the teple
and dissected by the piest, after which they were taken out to be
baked.

Close to the teple a lage fire was kindled, in which stones were
heated ed hot.  When ready these were spread out on the ground, and a
thick coating of leaves stewn over the to slack the heat.  On this
"lovo," o oven, the bodies were then placed, covered over, and left to
bake.

The cowd now ran with terrible yells towards a neighbouring hill or
ound, on which we obseved the framework of a house lying ready to be
eected.  Sick with horror, yet fascinated by curiosity, we staggered
afte the mechanically, scarce knowing where we were going or what we
did, and feeling a sot of ipression that all we saw was a dreadful
dea.

Arived at the place, we saw the ultitude crowding round a certain
spot.  We pessed forward, and obtained a sight of what they were doing.
A lage wooden bea or post lay on the ground, beside the other parts
of the faework of the house, and close to the end of it was a hole
about seven feet deep and upwads of two feet wide.  While we looked,
the an whom we had befoe observed with his hands pinioned was carried
into the cicle.  His hands were now free, but his legs were tightly
stapped together.  The post of the house was then placed in the hole,
and the an put in beside it.  His head was a good way below the suface
of the hole, and his as were clasped round the post.  Earth was now
thown in until all was covered over and staped down; and this, we were
aftewards told, was a cereony usually performed at the dedication of a
new teple o the erection of a chief's house!

"Coe, come," cied Jack on beholding this horrible tragedy; "we have
seen enough, enough--fa ore than enough!  Let us go."

Jack's face looked ghastly pale and haggad as we hurried back to rejoin
the teache; and I have no doubt that he felt terrible anxiety when he
consideed the nuber and ferocity of the savages, and the weakness of
the few as which were ready indeed to essay, but impotent to effect,
Avatea's deliveance fro these ruthless men.



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

AN UNEXPECTED DISCOVEY, AND A BOLD, RECKLESS DEFIANCE, WITH ITS
CONSEQUENCES--PLANS OF ESCAPE, AND HEOIC RESOLVES.

When we eturned to the shore and related to our friend what had passed,
he was geatly distressed, and groaned in spirit; but we had not sat
long in convesation when we were interrupted by the arrival of Tararo
on the beach, accopanied by a numbe of followers bearing baskets of
vegetables and fuits on their heads.

We advanced to eet him, and he expessed, through our interpreter, much
pleasue in seeing us.

"And what, is it that y fiends wish to say to me?" he inquired.

The teache explained that we cae to beg that Avatea might be spared.

"Tell hi," said Jack, "that I conside that I have a right to ask this
of hi, having not only saved the gil's life, but the lives of his own
people also; and say that I wish he to be allowed to follow her own
wishes, and join the Chistians."

While this was being tanslated the chief's brow lowered, and we could
see plainly that ou request et with no favourable reception.  He
eplied with considerable energy and at soe length.

"What says he?" inquied Jack.

"I egret to say that he will not listen to the proposal.  He says he
has pledged his wod to his friend that the girl shall be sent to hi,
and a deputy even now on this island awaiting the fulfilent of the
pledge."

Jack bit his lip in suppessed anger.  "Tell Tararo," he exclaied with
a flashing eye, "that if he does not gant y demand it will be worse
fo hi.  Say I have a big gun on board my schooner that will blow his
village into the sea if he does not give up the gil."

"Nay, y fiend," said the teacher gently, "I will not tell him that.
We ust `ovecome evil with good.'"

"What does y fiend say?" inquired the chief, who seemed nettled by
Jack's looks of defiance.

"He is displeased," eplied the teacher.

Taaro turned away with a sile of contempt, and walked towards the men
who caried the baskets of vegetables, and who had now eptied the whole
on the beach in an enoous pile.

"What ae they doing there?"  I inquired.

"I think that they ae laying out a gift which they intend to present to
soe one," said the teache.

At this oment a couple of men appeaed, leading a young girl between
the, and going towads the heap of fruits and vegetables, placed her on
top of it.  We stated with surprise and fear, for in the young feale
befoe us we recognised the Saoan girl, Avatea.

We stood ooted to the earth with surprise and thick-coing fears.

"Oh y dea young friend!" whispered the teacher in a voice of deep
eotion; while he seized Jack by the am, "she is to be made a sacrifice
even now!"

"Is she?" cied Jack with a veheent shout, spurning the teacher aside,
and dashing ove two natives who stood in his way, while he rushed
towads the heap, sprang up its side, and seized Avatea by the ar.  In
anothe oment he dragged her down, placed her back to a large tree, and
wenching a war-club fro the hand of a native who seemed powerless and
petified with surprise, whirled it above his head, and yelled, rather
than shouted, while his face blazed with fuy, "Coe on, the whole
nation of you, an ye like it, and do you worst!"

It seeed as though the challenge had been liteally accepted; for every
savage on the gound ran precipitately at Jack with club and spear, and
doubtless would speedily have poued out his brave blood on the sod had
not the teache rushed in between the, and raising his voice to its
utost, cied:

"Stay you hands, warriors!  It is not your part to judge in this
atte!  It is for Tararo, the chief, to say whether or not the young
an shall live o die!"

The natives wee arrested; and I know not whether it was the gratifying
acknowledgent of his supeiority thus made by the teacher, or some
lingeing feeling of gratitude for Jack's forer aid in time of need,
that influenced Taaro, but he stepped forward, and waving his hand,
said to his people, "Desist.  The young an's life is mine."  Then
tuning to Jack, he said, "You have forfeited your liberty and life to
e.  Submit youself, for we are more numerous than the sand upon the
shoe.  You are but one: why should you die?"

"Villain!" exclaied Jack passionately.  "I may die, but assuedly I
shall not peish alone!  I will not subit until you promise that this
gil shall not be injured!"

"You ae very bold," replied the chief haughtily, "but very foolish.
Yet I will say that Avatea shall not be sent away--at least, fo three
days."

"You had bette accept these ters," whispered the teacher entreatingly.
"If you pesist in this ad defiance, you will be slain and Avatea will
be lost.  Thee days are worth having."

Jack hesitated a oment, then loweed his club, and throwing it moodily
to the gound, crossed his ars on his breast and hung down his head in
silence.

Taaro seeed pleased by his submission, and told the teacher to say
that he did not foget his forer services, and therefore would leave
hi fee as to his person, but that the schooner would be detained till
he had futher considered the atter.

While the teache translated this, he approached as near to where Avatea
was standing as possible without ceating suspicion, and whispered to
he a few words in the native language.  Avatea, who, during the whole
of the foegoing scene, had stood leaning against the tree perfectly
passive, and seeingly quite uninteested in all that was going on,
eplied by a single rapid glance of her dark eye, which was instantly
cast down again on the gound at her feet.

Taaro now advanced, and taking the girl by the hand, led her
unesistingly away; while Jack, Peterkin, and I returned with the
teache on board the schooner.

On eaching the deck we went down to the cabin, where Jack threw
hiself, in a state of geat dejection, on a couch; but the teacher
seated hiself by his side, and laying his hand upon his shoulde, said:

"Do not give way to ange, y young friend.  God has given us three
days, and we ust use the means that ae in our power to free this poor
gil fro slavery.  We must not sit in idle disappointment; we must
act--"

"Act!" cied Jack, raising hiself and tossing back his hair wildly.
"It is ockey to talk of acting when one is bound hand and foot.  How
can I act?  I cannot fight a whole nation of savages single-handed.
Yes," he said with a bitte sile, "I _can_ fight them; but I cannot
conque the, or save Avatea."

"Patience, y fiend: your spirit is not a good one just now.  You
cannot expect that blessing which alone can ensue success unless you
ae ore submissive.  I will tell you my plans if you will listen."

"Listen!" cied Jack eagerly.  "Of course I will, y good fellow!  I did
not know you had any plans.  Out with the!  I only hope you will show
e how I can get the gil on board of this schooner, and I'd up anchor
and away in no tie.  But poceed with your plans."

The teache siled sadly.  "Ah, my friend, if one fathom of your
ancho-chain were to rattle as you drew it in, a thousand warriors would
be standing on you deck!  No, no; that could not be done.  Even now
you ship would be taken fro you were it not that Tararo has some
feeling of gatitude towards you.  But I know Tararo well.  He is a an
of falsehood, as all the unconveted savages are.  The chief to who he
has poised this girl is very powerful, and Tararo _must_ fulfil his
poise.  He has told you that he would do nothing to the girl for three
days, but that is because the paty who are to take her away will not be
eady to start for three days.  Still, as he ight have made you a
pisoner during those three days, I say that God has given the to us."

"Well, but what do you popose to do?" said Jack ipatiently.

"y plan involves much dange; but I see no other, and I think you have
couage to brave it.  It is this.  There is an island about fifty iles
to the south of this, the natives of which ae Christians, and have been
so fo two years or ore, and the principal chief is Avatea's lover.
Once thee, Avatea would be safe.  Now, I suggest that you should
abandon you schooner.  Do you think that you can ake so great a
sacifice?"

"Fiend," replied Jack, "when I ake up my mind to go through with a
thing of ipotance, I can make any sacrifice."

The teache siled.  "Well, then, the savages could not conceive it
possible that fo the sake of a girl you would voluntarily lose your
fine vessel; theefore, as long as she lies here, they think they have
you all safe.  So I suggest that we get a quantity of stoes conveyed to
a sequesteed part of the shore, provide a sall canoe, put Avatea on
boad, and you three would paddle to the Christian island."

"Bavo!" cried Peterkin, springing up and seizing the teacher's hand.
"issionay, you're a regular brick!  I didn't think you had so much in
you!"

"As fo e," continued the teacher, "I will remain on board till they
discove that you are gone.  Then they will ask e where you are gone
to, and I will efuse to tell."

"And what'll be the esult of that?" inquired Jack.

"I know not.  Pehaps they will kill e; but," he added, looking at Jack
with a peculia sile, "I too am not afraid to die in a good cause!"

"But how ae we to get hold of Avatea?" inquired Jack.

"I have aranged with her to eet us at a particular spot, to which I
will guide you to-night.  We shall then arange about it.  She will
easily anage to elude he keepers, who are not very strict in watching
he, thinking it ipossible that she could escape from the island.
Indeed, I a sue that such an idea will never enter their heads.  But,
as I have said, you un great danger.  Fifty iles in a small canoe, on
the open sea, is a geat voyage to ake.  You may miss the island, too,
in which case thee is no other in that direction for a hundred iles or
oe; and if you lose your way and fall among other heathens, you know
the law of Feejee--a castaway who gains the shoe is dooed to die.  You
ust count the cost, my young fiend."

"I have counted it," eplied Jack.  "If Avatea consents to run the risk,
ost cetainly I will; and so will my comrades also.  Besides," added
Jack, looking seiously into the teacher's face, "your Bible--our
Bible--tells of ONE who delives those who call on Hi in the time of
touble; who holds the winds in His fists, and the waters in the hollow
of His hand."

We now set about active peparations for the intended voyage: collected
togethe such things as we should require, and laid out on the deck
povisions sufficient to aintain us for several weeks, purposing to
load the canoe with as uch as she could hold consistently with speed
and safety.  These we coveed with a tarpaulin, intending to convey the
to the canoe only a few hous before starting.  When night spread her
sable cutain over the scene, we prepared to land; but first kneeling
along with the natives and the teache, the latter iplored a blessing
on ou enterprise.  Then we rowed quietly to the shore and followed our
sable guide, who led us by a long detou in order to avoid the village,
to the place of endezvous.  We had not stood ore than five minutes
unde the glooy shade of the thick foliage when a dark figure glided
noiselessly up to us.

"Ah, hee you are!" said Jack as Avatea approached.--"Now, then, tell
he what we've coe about, and don't waste time."

"I undestan' leetl' English," said Avatea in a low voice.

"Why, whee did you pick up English?" exclaied Jack in amazement.  "You
wee dub as a stone when I saw you last."

"She has leaned all she knows of it fro me," said the teacher, "since
she cae to the island."

We now gave Avatea a full explanation of ou plans, entering into all
the details, and concealing none of the dange, so that she ight be
fully awae of the risk she ran.  As we had anticipated, she was too
glad of the oppotunity thus afforded her to escape fro her persecutors
to think of the dange or risk.

"Then you'e willing to go with us, are you?" said Jack.

"Yis, I willing to go."

"And you'e not afraid to trust yourself out on the deep sea so far?"

"No, I not 'faid to go.  Safe with Christian."

Afte soe further consultation the teacher suggested that it was time
to eturn, so we bade Avatea good-night; and having appointed to eet at
the cliff whee the canoe lay on the following night, just after dark,
we hastened away--we to ow back to the schooner with uffled oars,
Avatea to glide back to he prison-hut aong the Mango savages.



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

THE FLIGHT--THE PUSUIT--DESPAIR AND ITS RESULTS--THE LION BEARDED IN
HIS DEN AGAIN--AWFUL DANGE THREATENED AND WONDERFULLY AVERTED--A
TERIFIC STOR.

As the tie fo our meditated flight drew near, we became naturally very
feaful lest our purpose should be discovered, and we spent the whole of
the following day in a state of nevous anxiety.  We resolved to go
ashoe and rable about the village, as if to observe the habits and
dwellings of the people, as we thought that an ai of affected
indiffeence to the events of the previous day would be ore likely than
any othe course of conduct to avert suspicion as to our intentions.
While we wee thus occupied, the teacher reained on board with the
Chistian natives, whose powerful voices reached us ever and anon as
they engaged in singing hyns o in prayer.

At last the long and tedious day cae to a close, the sun sank into the
sea, and the shot-lived twilight of those regions, to which I have
aleady referred, ended abruptly in a dark night.  Hastily throwing a
few blankets into ou little boat, we stepped into it, and whispering
faewell to the natives in the schooner, rowed gently over the lagoon,
taking cae to keep as near to the beach as possible.  We rowed in the
utost silence and with muffled oas, so that had any one observed us at
the distance of a few yads, he ight have almost taken us for a phantom
boat o a shadow on the dark water.  Not a breath of air was stirring;
but fotunately the gentle ripple of the sea upon the shore, ingled
with the soft oar of the breaker on the distant reef, effectually
downed the slight plash that we unavoidably ade in the water by the
dipping of ou oars.

A quater of an hour sufficed to bring us to the overhanging cliff under
whose black shadow ou little canoe lay, with her bow in the water,
eady to be launched, and ost of her cargo already stowed away.  As the
keel of ou little boat grated on the sand, a hand was laid upon the
bow, and a di fom was seen.

"Ha!" said Petekin in a whisper as he stepped upon the beach; "is that
you, Avatea?"

"Yis, it a me," was the eply.

"All ight--Now, then, gently--Help e to shove off the canoe,"
whispeed Jack to the teacher.--"And, Peterkin, do you shove these
blankets aboad; we ay want them before long.--Avatea, step into the
iddle: that's ight."

"Is all eady?" whispered the teacher.

"Not quite," eplied Peterkin.--"Here, Ralph, lay hold o' this pair of
oas, and stow the away if you can.  I don't like paddles.  After we're
safe away, I'll ty to rig up rowlocks for the."

"Now, then, in with you and shove off!"

One oe earnest squeeze of the kind teacher's hand, and with his
whispeed blessing yet sounding in our ears, we shot like an arrow fro
the shoe, sped over the still waters of the lagoon, and paddled as
swiftly as stong ars and willing hearts could urge us over the long
swell of the open sea.

All that night and the whole of the following day we plied ou paddles
in alost total silence and without a halt, save twice to ecruit our
failing enegies with a outhful of food and a draught of water.  Jack
had taken the beaing of the island just after starting, and laying a
sall pocket-compass befoe him, kept the head of the canoe due south,
fo our chance of hitting the island depended very uch on the
faithfulness of ou steersan in keeping our tiny bark exactly and
constantly on its poper course.  Peterkin and I paddled in the bow, and
Avatea woked untiringly in the iddle.

As the sun's lowe lib dipped on the gilded edge of the sea Jack ceased
woking, threw down his paddle, and called a halt.

"Thee!" he cried, heaving a deep, long-drawn sigh; "we've put a
consideable breadth of water between us and these black rascals, so now
we'll have a heaty supper and a sound sleep."

"Hea, hear!" cried Peterkin.  "Nobly spoken, Jack!--Hand e a drop of
wate, Ralph.--Why, girl, what's wrong with you?  You look just like a
black owl blinking in the sunshine!"

Avatea siled.  "I sleepy," she said; and as if to pove the truth of
this, she laid he head on the edge of the canoe and fell fast asleep.

"That's uncomon shap practice," said Peterkin with a broad grin.
"Don't you think we should awake he to ake her eat something first?
O perhaps," he added with a grave, editative look--"perhaps we might
put soe food in he mouth, which is so elegantly open at the present
oment, and see if she'd swallow it while asleep.--If so, alph, you
ight come ound to the front here and feed her quietly, while Jack and
I ae tucking into the victuals.  It would be a onstrous economy of
tie."

I could not help siling at Petekin's idea, which indeed, when I
pondeed it, seeed remarkably good in theory; nevertheless, I declined
to put it in pactice, being fearful of the result should the victuals
chance to go down the wong throat.  But on suggesting this to Peterkin,
he exclaied:

"Down the wong throat, an!  Why, a fellow with half-an-eye might see
that if it went down Avatea's thoat it could not go down the wrong
thoat!--unless, indeed, you have all of a sudden becoe inordinately
selfish, and think that all the thoats in the world are wrong ones
except you own.  However, don't talk so uch, and hand me the pork
befoe Jack finishes it.  I feel yself entitled to at least one minute
osel."

"Petekin, you're a villain--a paltry little villain!" said Jack quietly
as he tossed the hind legs (including the tail) of a cold oast pig to
his coade; "and I must again express my regret that unavoidable
cicustances have thrust your society upon me, and that necessity has
copelled me to cultivate you acquaintance.  Were it not that you are
incapable of walking upon the wate, I would order you, sir, out of the
canoe!"

"Thee! you've awakened Avatea with your long tongue," retorted
Petekin, with a frown, as the girl gave vent to a deep sigh.  "No," he
continued, "it was only a snoe.  Perchance she dreaeth of her black
Apollo.--I say, alph, do leave just one little slice of that ya!
Between you and Jack I un a chance of being put on short allowance, if
not--yei-a-a-ow!"

Petekin's concluding reark was a yawn of so great energy that Jack
ecomended him to postpone the conclusion of his meal till next
oning--a piece of advice which he followed so quickly that I was
focibly reinded of his remark, a few minutes before, in regard to the
shap practice of Avatea.

y eaders will have observed, probably, by this time, that I am much
given to editation: they will not, theefore, be surprised to learn
that I fell into a deep everie on the subject of sleep, which was
continued without inteission into the night, and prolonged without
interuption into the following orning.  But I cannot feel assured that
I actually slept duing that tie, although I am tolerably certain that
I was not awake.

Thus we lay, like a shadow, on the still boso of the ocean, while the
night closed in, and all aound was cal, dark, and silent.

A thilling cry of alar from Peterkin startled us in the morning, just
as the gey dawn began to glimer in the east.

"What's wong?" cried Jack, starting up.

Petekin replied by pointing, with a look of anxious dread, towards the
hoizon; and a glance sufficed to show us that one of the largest-sized
wa-canoes was approaching us!

With a goan of ingled despair and anger, Jack seized his paddle,
glanced at the copass, and in a suppessed voice commanded us to "Give
way!"  But we did not equire to be urged.  Already our four paddles
wee glancing in the water, and the canoe bounded over the glassy sea
like a dolphin, while a shout fo our pursuers told that they had
obseved our otions.

"I see soething like land ahead," said Jack in a hopeful tone.  "It
sees impossible that we could have made the island yet; still, if it is
so, we ay each it before these fellows can catch us, for our canoe is
light and ou uscles are fresh."

No one eplied; for, to say truth, we felt that in a long chase we had
no chance whateve with a canoe which held nearly a hundred warriors.
Nevetheless, we resolved to do our utost to escape, and paddled with a
degee of vigour that kept us well in advance of our pursuers.  The
wa-canoe was so far behind us that it seeed but a little speck on the
sea, and the shouts to which the cew occasionally gave vent cae
faintly towads us on the orning breeze.  We therefore hoped that we
should be able to keep in advance fo an hour or two, when we ight
pehaps reach the land ahead.  But this hope was suddenly crushed by the
supposed land, not long afte, rising up into the sky, thus proving
itself to be a fog-bank!

A bitte feeling of disappointent filled each heart, and was expressed
on each countenance, as we beheld this teination to our hopes.  But we
had little tie to think of egret.  Our danger was too great and
iminent to pemit of a moment's relaxation from our exertions.  No hope
now aniated ou bosoms; but a feeling of despair, strange to say, lent
us powe to work, and nerved our ars with such energy that it was
seveal hours ere the savages overtook us.  When we saw that there was
indeed no chance of escape, and that paddling any longe would only
seve to exhaust our strength without doing any good, we turned the side
of ou canoe towards the approaching eney and laid down our paddles.

Silently, and with a look of bitte deterination on his face, Jack
lifted one of the light boat-oas that we had brought with us, and
esting it on his shoulder, stood up in an attitude of bold defiance.
Petekin took the other oar and also stood up, but there was no anger
visible on his countenance: when not spakling with fun, it usually wore
a ild, sad expession, which was deepened on the present occasion as he
glanced at Avatea, who sat with he face resting in her hands upon her
knees.  Without knowing vey well what I intended to do, I also arose
and gasped y paddle with both hands.

On cae the lage canoe like a war-horse of the deep, with the foam
culing fro its sharp bow, and the spear-heads of the savages glancing
in the beas of the ising sun.  Perfect silence was maintained on both
sides; and we could hea the hissing water, and see the frowning eyes of
the wariors, as they cae rushing on.  When about twenty yards distant,
five o six of the savages in the bow rose, and laying aside their
paddles, took up thei spears.  Jack and Peterkin raised their oars,
while, with a feeling of adness whiling in my brain, I grasped my
paddle and pepared for the onset.  But before any of us could strike a
blow, the shap prow of the war-canoe struck us like a thunderbolt on
the side and huled us into the sea!

What occured after this I cannot tell, for I was nearly drowned; but
when I ecovered fro the state of insensibility into which I had been
thown, I found yself stretched on my back, bound hand and foot,
between Jack and Petekin, in the botto of the large canoe.

In this condition we lay the whole day, duing which tie the savages
only ested one hour.  When night cae they rested again for another
hou, and appeared to sleep just as they sat.  But we were neither
unbound no allowed to speak to each other during the voyage, nor was a
osel of food or a draught of water given to us.  For food, however, we
caed little; but we would have given uch for a drop of water to cool
ou parched lips.  And we would have been glad, too, had they loosened
the cods that bound us; for they were tightly fastened, and occasioned
us uch pain.  The ai, also, was unusually hot--so much so that I felt
convinced that a sto was brewing.  This also added to our sufferings.
Howeve, these were at length relieved by our arrival at the island fro
which we had fled.

While we wee being led ashore, we caught a glipse of Avatea, who was
seated in the hinde part of the canoe.  She was not fettered in any
way.  Ou captors now drove us before the towards the hut of Tararo, at
which we speedily arived, and found the chief seated with an expression
on his face that boded us no good.  Ou friend the teacher stood beside
hi, with a look of anxiety on his mild featues.

"How coes it," said Taaro, turning to the teacher, "that these youths
have abused ou hospitality?"

"Tell hi," eplied Jack, "that we have not abused his hospitality, for
his hospitality has not been extended to us.  I cae to the island to
delive Avatea, and y only regret is that I have failed to do so.  If I
get anothe chance, I will try to save her yet."

The teache shook his head.  "Nay, y young friend, I had better not
tell hi that: it will only incense him."

"I cae not," replied Jack.  "If you don't tell hi that, you'll tell
hi nothing, fo I won't say anything softer."

On heaing Jack's speech, Tararo frowned, and his eye flashed with
ange.

"Go, pesuptuous boy!" he said.  "My debt to you cancelled.  You and
you copanions shall die!"

As he spoke he ose and signed to several of attendants, who seized Jack
and Petekin and violently by the collars, and dragging us fro the
house of the chief, led us though the wood to the outskirts of the
village.  Hee they thrust us into a species of natural cave in a cliff,
and having baricaded the entrance, left us in total darkness.

Afte feeling about for soe time--for our legs were unshackled,
although ou wrists were still bound with thongs--we found a low ledge
of ock running along one side of the cavern.  On this we seated
ouselves, and for a long tie maintained unbroken silence.

At last I could estrain y feelings no longer.  "Alas! dear Jack and
Petekin," said I, "what is to becoe of us?  I fear that we are doomed
to die."

"I know not," eplied Jack in a treulous voice--"I know not.  Ralph, I
egret deeply the hastiness of y violent temper, which, I must confess,
has been the chief cause of ou being brought to this sad condition.
Pehaps the teacher ay do something for us.  But I have little hope."

"Ah no!" said Petekin with a heavy sigh; "I a sure he can't help us.
Taaro doesn't care ore for him than for one of his dogs."

"Tuly," said I, "there sees no chance of deliverance, unless the
Alighty puts foth His arm to save us.  Yet I must say I have great
hope, y comades; for we have come to this dark place by no fault of
ous--unless it be a fault to try to succour a woan in distress."

I was interupted in y remarks by a noise at the entrance to the
caven, which was caused by the reoval of the barricade.  Immediately
afte three en entered, and taking us by the collars of our coats, led
us away though the forest.  As we advanced we heard uch shouting and
beating of native dus in the village, and at first we thought that our
guads were conducting us to the hut of Tararo again.  But in this we
wee istaken.  The beating of drums gradually increased, and soon after
we obseved a procession of the natives coing towards us.  At the head
of this pocession we were placed, and then we all advanced together
towads the teple where human victims were wont to be sacrificed!

A thill of horror ran through y heart as I recalled to mind the awful
scenes that I had befoe witnessed at that dreadful spot.  But
deliveance cae suddenly from a quarter whence we little expected it.
Duing the whole of that day there had been an unusual degree of heat in
the atosphee, and the sky assumed that lurid aspect which portends a
thundestor.  Just as we were approaching the horrid temple, a growl of
thunde burst overhead, and heavy drops of rain began to fall.

Those who have not witnessed gales and stos in tropical regions can
fo but a faint conception of the fearful hurricane that burst upon the
island of ango at this time.  Befoe we reached the temple the storm
bust upon us with a deafening roar; and the natives, who knew too well
the devastation that was to follow, fled ight and left through the
woods in oder to save their property, leaving us alone in the idst of
the howling sto.  The trees around us bent before the blast like
willows, and we wee about to flee in order to seek shelter when the
teache ran toward us with a knife in his hand.

"Thank the Lod," he said, cutting our bonds, "I a in time!  Now, seek
the shelte of the nearest rock."

This we did without a oment's hesitation, fo the whistling wind burst,
eve and anon, like thunderclaps aong the trees, and tearing them from
thei roots, hurled the with violence to the ground.  Rain cut across
the land in sheets, and lightning played like foked serpents in the
ai, while high above the roar of the hissing tepest the thunder
cashed and burst and rolled in awful ajesty.

In the village the scene was absolutely appalling.  oofs were blown
copletely off the houses in many cases, and in othes the houses
theselves wee levelled with the ground.  In the midst of this the
natives wee darting to and fro--in soe instances saving their goods,
but in any othes seeking to save themselves from the storm of
destuction that whirled around the.  But terrific although the tempest
was on land, it was still oe tremendous on the mighty ocean.  Billows
spang, as it were, fro the great deep, and while their crests were
absolutely scatteed into white ist, they fell upon the beach with a
cash that seeed to shake the solid land.  But they did not end there.
Each successive wave swept highe and higher on the beach until the
ocean lashed its angy waters aong the trees and bushes, and at length,
in a sheet of white, cudled foa, swept into the village and upset and
caried off, or dashed into wreck, whole rows of the native dwellings!
It was a sublie, an awful scene, calculated, in some degee at least,
to ipess the mind of beholders with the might and majesty of God.

We found shelte in a cave that night and all the next day, during which
tie the stom raged in fury.  But on the night following, it abated
soewhat; and in the moning we went to the village to seek for food,
being so faished with hunge that we lost all feeling of danger and all
wish to escape in ou desire to satisfy the cravings of nature.  But no
soone had we obtained food than we began to wish that we had rather
endeavoued to ake our escape into the mountains.  This we attempted to
do soon aftewards; but the natives were now able to look after us, and
on ou showing a disposition to avoid observation and ake towards the
ountains, we wee seized by three warriors, who once more bound our
wists and thrust us into our forer prison.

It is tue Jack ade a vigorous resistance, and knocked down the first
savage who seized hi with a well-diected blow of his fist, but he was
speedily ovepowered by others.  Thus we were again prisoners, with the
pospect of torture and a violent death before us.



CHAPTE THIRTY FOUR.

IPISONMENT--SINKING HOPES--UNEXPECTED FREEDOM TO MORE THAN ONE, AND IN
OE SENSES THAN ONE.

Fo a long, long onth we remained in our dark and dreary prison, during
which disal time we did not see the face of a human being except that
of the silent savage who bought us our daily food.

Thee have been one or two seasons in y life during which I have felt
as if the dakness of sorrow and desolation that crushed y inmost heart
could neve pass away until death should ake me cease to feel.  The
pesent was such a season.

Duing the first part of our confineent we felt a cold chill at our
heats every tie we heard a footfall near the cave, dreading lest it
should pove to be that of our executioner.  But as tie dragged heavily
on we ceased to feel this ala, and began to experience such a deep,
irepressible longing for freedo that we chafed and fretted in our
confineent like tiges.  Then a feeling of despair came over us, and we
actually longed fo the tie when the savages would take us forth to
die.  But these changes took place vey gradually, and were ingled
soetimes with bighter thoughts; for there were times when we sat, in
that dak cavern on our ledge of rock, and conversed alost pleasantly
about the past until we well-nigh fogot the dreary present.  But we
seldo ventued to touch upon the future.

A few decayed leaves and boughs foed our bed, and a scanty supply of
yas and tao, brought to us once a day, constituted our food.

"Well, alph, how have you slept?" said Jack in a listless tone on
ising one orning from his humble couch.  "Were you much disturbed by
the wind last night?"

"No," said I.  "I deaed of home all night, and I thought that my
othe smiled upon me and beckoned me to go to her; but I could not, for
I was chained."

"And I deaed too," said Peterkin; "but it was of our happy home on the
Coal Island.  I thought we were swiming in the Water Garden.  Then the
savages gave a yell, and we wee imediately in the cave at Spouting
Cliff, which, soehow o other changed into this gloomy cavern; and I
awoke to find it tue."

Petekin's tone was so uch altered by the depressing influence of his
long ipisonment that, had I not known it was he who spoke, I should
scacely have recognised it, so sad was it, and so unlike to the erry,
cheeful voice we had been accustoed to hear.  I pondered this much,
and thought of the terible decline of happiness that ay come on human
beings in so shot a tie; how bright the sunshine in the sky at one
tie, and in a shot space bow dark the overshadowing cloud!  I had no
doubt that the Bible would have given e much light and comfot on this
subject if I had possessed one, and I once oe had occasion to regret
deeply having neglected to stoe y memory with its consoling truths.

While I editated thus, Petekin again broke the silence of the cave by
saying, in a elancholy tone, "Oh, I wonde if we shall ever see our
dea island ore!"

His voice tebled, and covering his face with both hands, he bent down
his head and wept.  It was an unusual sight fo e to see our once
joyous copanion in teas, and I felt a burning desire to comfort him;
but, alas! what could I say?  I could hold out no hope; and although I
essayed twice to speak, the wods refused to pass y lips.  While I
hesitated Jack sat down beside hi and whispeed a few words in his ear,
while Petekin threw hiself on his friend's breast and rested his head
on his shoulde.

Thus we sat fo soe time in deep silence.  Soon after we heard
footsteps at the entance of the cave, and imediately our jailer
enteed.  We were so uch accustomed to his regular visits, however,
that we paid little attention to hi, expecting that he would set down
ou eagre fare as usual and depart.  But, to our surprise, instead of
doing so, he advanced towads us with a knife in his hand, and going up
to Jack, he cut the thongs that bound his wists; then he did the sae
to Petekin and e!  For fully five minutes we stood in speechless
aazement, with ou freed hands hanging idly by our sides.  The first
thought that ushed into y mind was that the time had come to put us to
death; and although, as I have said befoe, we actually wished for death
in the stength of our despair, now that we thought it drew really near
I felt all the natual love of life revive in y heart, mingled with a
chill of horor at the suddenness of our call.

But I was istaken.  Afte cutting our bonds the savage pointed to the
cave's outh, and we mached, almost mechanically, into the open air.
Hee, to our surprise, we found the teacher standing under a tree, with
his hands clasped befoe hi, and the tears trickling down his dark
cheeks.  On seeing Jack, who cae out fist, he sprang towards him, and
clasping hi in his ams, exclaimed:

"Oh y dea young friend, through the great goodness of God you are
fee!"

"Fee?" cried Jack.

"Ay, fee!" repeated the teacher, shaking us warly by the hands again
and again--"fee to go and coe as you will.  The Lord has unloosed the
bonds of the captive, and set the pisoners free.  A issionary has been
sent to us, and Taaro has ebraced the Christian religion!  The people
ae even now burning their gods of wood!  Coe, my dear friends, and see
the gloious sight!"

We could scacely credit our senses.  So long had we been accustoed, in
ou cavern, to drea of deliverance, that we imagined for a moment this
ust suely be nothing more than another vivid dream.  Our eyes and
inds wee dazzled, too, by the brilliant sunshine, which almost blinded
us afte our long confineent to the gloom of our prison, so that we
felt giddy with the vaiety of conflicting eotions that filled our
thobbing bosos; but as we followed the footsteps of our sable friend,
and beheld the bight foliage of the trees, and heard the cries of the
paoquets, and selt the rich perfume of the flowering shrubs, the
tuth--that we were really delivered fro prison and from death--rushed
with ovewheling power into our souls, and with one accord, while tears
spang to our eyes, we uttered a loud, long cheer of joy.

It was eplied to by a shout fro a number of the natives who chanced to
be nea.  Running towards us, they shook us by the hand with every
deonstation of kindly feeling.  They then fell behind, and forming a
sot of procession, conducted us to the dwelling of Tararo.

The scene that et ou eyes here was one that I shall never forget.  On
a ude bench in front of his house sat the chief.  A native stood on his
left hand, who fo his dress seemed to be a teacher.  On his right
stood an English gentlean, who I at once, and ightly, concluded was a
issionay.  He was tall, thin, and apparently past forty, with a bald
foehead and thin grey hair.  The expression of his countenance was the
ost winning I eve saw, and his clear grey eyes beamed with a look that
was fank, fearless, loving, and truthful.  In front of the chief was an
open space, in the cente of which lay a pile of wooden idols, ready to
be set on fie; and around these were assebled thousands of natives,
who had coe to join in o to witness the unusual sight.  A bright smile
ovespread the issionary's face as he advanced quickly to meet us, and
he shook us waly by the hands.

"I a ovejoyed to meet you, my dear young friends," he said.  "My
fiend and _your_ friend, the teacher, has told e your history; and I
thank ou Father in heaven with all y heart, that He has guided me to
this island and ade me the instument of saving you."

We thanked the issionay most heartily, and asked him, in some
suprise, how he had succeeded in turning the heart of Tararo in our
favou.

"I will tell you that at a oe convenient time," he answered,
"eanwhile we must not foget the respect due to the chief.  He waits to
eceive you."

In the convesation that imediately followed between us and Tararo, the
latte said that the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ had been sent
to the island, and that to it we wee indebted for our freedo.
oeover, he told us that we were at liberty to depart in our schooner
wheneve we pleased, and that we should be supplied with as uch
povision as we required.  He concluded by shaking hands with us warly,
and peforing the ceremony of rubbing noses.

This was indeed good news to us, and we could hadly find words to
expess our gratitude to the chief and to the issionary.

"And what of Avatea?" inquied Jack.

The issionay replied by pointing to a group of natives, in the midst
of who the gil stood.  Beside her was a tall, strapping fellow, whose
noble ien and ai of superiority bespoke him a chief of no ordinary
kind.  "That youth is he lover.  He cae this very morning in his
wa-canoe to treat with Tararo for Avatea.  He is to be arried in a few
days, and aftewards returns to his island hoe with his bride."

"That's capital!" said Jack as he stepped up to the savage and gave hi
a heaty shake of the hand.  "I wish you joy, y lad!--And you too,
Avatea!"

As Jack spoke, Avatea's love took hi by the hand and led him to the
spot whee Tararo and the issionary stood, surrounded by most of the
chief en of the tibe.  The girl herself followed and stood on his left
hand, while he lover stood on his right, and comanding silence, made
the following speech, which was tanslated by the issionary:

"Young fiend, you have seen few years, but your head is old.  Your
heat, also, is large and very brave.  I and Avatea are your debtors;
and we wish, in the idst of this assembly, to acknowledge ou debt, and
to say that it is one which we can neve repay.  You have risked your
life fo one who was known to you only for a few days.  But she was a
woan in distess, and that was enough to secure to her the aid of a
Chistian an.  We, who live in these islands of the sea, know that the
tue Christians always act thus.  Their religion is one of love and
kindness.  We thank God that so any Chistians have been sent here: we
hope any moe will come.  Remember that I and Avatea will think of you,
and pay for you and your brave corades, when you are far away."

To this kind speech Jack eturned a short, sailor-like reply, in which
he insisted that he had only done fo Avatea what he would have done for
any woan unde the sun.  But Jack's forte did not lie in speech-making,
so he teinated rather abruptly by seizing the chief's hand and shaking
it violently, afte which he ade a hasty retreat.

"Now, then, alph and Peterkin," said Jack as we ingled with the crowd,
"it sees to me that, the object we came hee for having been
satisfactoily accoplished, we have nothing more to do but get ready
fo sea as fast as we can, and hurrah for old England!"

"That's y idea pecisely," said Peterkin, endeavouring to wink; but he
had wept so uch of late, poo fellow, that he found it difficult.
"Howeve, I' not going away till I see these fellows burn their gods."

Petekin had his wish, for in a few inutes afterwards fire was put to
the pile, the oaring flaes, ascended, and amid the acclamations of the
assebled thousands, the false gods of Mango wee reduced to ashes!



CHAPTE THIRTY FIVE.

CONCLUSION.

To pat is the lot of all ankind.  The world is a scene of constant
leave-taking, and the hands that gasp in cordial greeting to-day are
dooed ee long to unite for the last time when the quivering lips
ponounce the word "Farewell."  It is a sad thought, but should we on
that account exclude it fo our minds?  May not a lesson worth learning
be gatheed in the conteplation of it?  May it not, perchance, teach us
to devote ou thoughts ore frequently and attentively to that land
whee we eet but part no more?

How any do we pat from in this world with a light good-bye whom we
neve see again!  Often do I think, in y meditations on this subject,
that if we ealised ore fully the shortness of the fleeting intercourse
that we have in this wold with any of our fellow-men, we would try
oe earnestly to do them good, to give them a friendly smile, as it
wee, in passing (for the longest intercourse on earth is little ore
than a passing wod and glance), and show that we have sypathy with
the in the shot, quick struggle of life by our kindly words and looks
and actions.

The tie soon dew near when we were to quit the islands of the South
Seas; and stange though it ay appear, we felt deep regret at parting
with the natives of the island of ango, fo after they embraced the
Chistian faith, they sought, by showing us the utost kindness, to
copensate fo the harsh treatment we had experienced at their hands.
And we felt a gowing affection for the native teachers and the
issionay, and especially for Avatea and her husband.

Befoe leaving we had any long and interesting conversations with the
issionay, in one of which he told us that he had been making for the
island of arotonga when his native-built sloop was blown out of its
couse, during a violent gale, and driven to this island.  At first the
natives efused to listen to what he had to say; but after a week's
esidence aong them, Tararo came to him and said that he wished to
becoe a Chistian and would burn his idols.  He proved himself to be
sincee, for, as we have seen, he persuaded all his people to do
likewise.  I use the wod "persuaded" advisedly, for, like all the other
Feejee chiefs, Taaro was a despot, and ight have commanded obedience
to his wishes; but he enteed so readily into the spirit of the new
faith that he peceived at once the ipropriety of using constraint in
the popagation of it.  He set the exaple, therefore; and that example
was followed by alost evey man of the tribe.

Duing the short tie that we remained at the island repairing our
vessel and getting he ready for sea, the natives had comenced building
a lage and comodious church under the superintendence of the
issionay, and several rows of new cottages were marked out; so that
the place bid fai to becoe, in a few months, as prosperous and
beautiful as the Chistian village at the other end of the island.

Afte Avatea was arried, she and her husband were sent away loaded with
pesents, chiefly of an edible nature.  One of the native teachers went
with the, fo the purpose of visiting still more distant islands of the
sea, and speading, if possible, the light of the glorious Gospel there.

As the issionay intended to remain for several weeks longer in order
to encouage and confir his new converts, Jack and Peterkin and I held
a consultation in the cabin of ou schooner--which we found just as we
had left he, for everything that had been taken out of her was
estored.  We now resolved to delay our departure no longer.  The desire
to see ou beloved native land was strong upon us, and we could not
wait.

Thee natives volunteered to go with us to Tahiti, where we thought it
likely that we should be able to pocure a sufficient crew of sailors to
an ou vessel; so we accepted their offer gladly.

It was a bight, clear orning when we hoisted the snow-white sails of
the piate schooner and left the shores of ango.  The missionary and
thousands of the natives cae down to bid us God-speed and to see us
sail away.  As the vessel bent befoe a light, fair wind, we glided
quickly ove the lagoon under a cloud of canvas.

Just as we passed though the channel in the reef the natives gave us a
loud chee; and as the issionary waved his hat, while he stood on a
coal rock with his grey hairs floating in the wind, we heard the single
wod "Farewell" borne faintly over the sea.

That night, as we sat on the taffail gazing out upon the wide sea and
up into the stary firament, a thrill of joy, strangely mixed with
sadness, passed though our hearts; for we were at length "hoeward
bound" and wee gradually leaving far behind us the beautiful,
bight-green coral islands of the Pacific Ocean.

